

The Bulletin
i ■ v
i. j ’ . , i • ■■ . '


'<2
*
\
pl
<
*>
(
A
m
91
th
Alice is pictured in a wonderland of toys from Driclad Tty. Lt
The toys (and even today’s raincoats) are based on Geon.
takes Alice through wonderland
When she floats on water, hugs her doll or bounces a ball, Geon is her playmate. Film made from Geon, in a
wide range of applications, opens up a wonderland to manufacturers of plastic toys. Soft and pliable, it brings
life-like quality to cuddlesome toys. Waterproof and colour-fast, it’s a safety factor in swimming aids, makes any
toy brighter ... to stay that way. Resistant to wear and tear, it stands up to daily adventures in any Alice’s
or Johnny’s wonderland. In almost any industry, Geon can improve products or help evolve new ones. Have
you a product which we can help you improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich - C. S. R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited
MSS23S


National Notebook
Top Museum
The scaffolding all being down from
the new wing of Sydney’s Australian
Museum, we called on director Dr
j W. Evans for a progress report.
Obviously proud of his domain’s new
look, Dr Evans told us the opening date
has not yet been set, but is expected to
be within the next few months. Staff are
already occupying the lower administra-
tive floors.
Completion of the new wing results
from a decision taken in 1911 when the
trustees announced expansion plans at
the ready. He is sanguine about the
delay and points out that it will still be
some time before all the new galleries
are stocked and open to the public. But
the roof cafeteria will be in operation
reasonably soon and will feature eating
from one of the finest views in Sydney.
Top-of-the-museum might yet rival San
Francisco’s “Top-of-the-Mark.”
Dr Evans has made changes in the
museum and the new galleries will help
further. “We’re using
modern display methods,”
he told us and the idea
is to capture interest.
The new displays are
categorised as dioramas,
systematic exhibits and
descriptive exhibits. The
first aims at “aesthetic stimulation,” the
second highlights the variations between
related mammals and the third uses
models, photos and specimens to point
up such things as mammals’ diagnostic
features or the comparative life histories
of marsupials.
Dr Evans said he had been asked by
UNESCO to visit Thailand this year to
direct the development of Bangkok’s
natural history museum.
He considers Sydney’s museum im-
portant in the world scheme of such
places and far ahead of those in other
State capitals. On a recent tour he
found Perth’s museum smaller but with
modern developments, Adelaide’s small
and rather static, Hobart’s a mixed
museum that might improve when it
moves into a promised new building,
Melbourne’s pretty good with plenty of
dioramas— but not as many as Sydney’s
"■old Brisbane’s pitifully small and
rather old fashioned.
In the bag
hear that the Duke of Norfolk’s
men recently took to the Duke of
Edinburgh’s kangaroos. Four MCC play-
ers Freddie Trueman, Ken Barring-
ton, David Larter and Len Coldwell
We nt kangaroo shooting while at Port
Lincoln for a match against an SA
Country XI.
The party bagged four kangaroos and
15 rabbits, and reckoned it was the best
night of the tour. Speedster Larter took
the best catch of the night. He chased
a rabbit that was darting about in the
glare of a spotlight and scooped it up.
Holiday
schoolboy Rei Asi
from Barakau. near Port Moresby,
is in Sydney for the school-holidays. We
met him in a Narrabeen beachside flat
where he is staying with his teacher,
Tony Repin, who brought him to the
mainland. Handsome, healthy, Poly-
nesian-tinged Rei is obviously having a
wonderful time.
We asked him what does he like best
here? Well, everything, but particularly
surfboard riding, steaks and milk. Every-
body had been very nice to him, he
said.
The pilots on the plane had shown
him the cockpit. The landlady’s son
was teaching him to ride a
bicycle. He helped Tony
cook (and Repin said that
Rei could make spaghetti
to perfection).
Rei told us that his
father, who was a car-
penter, died of tuberculo-
sis in a Port Moresby hotel last year. His
uncle is now his guardian and when he
left on his holiday all his relatives pressed
on him to “do the right thing.” Which
he certainly is doing. He is very obedient
and his manners are perfect.
Homesick? No, he is not homesick
but he likes playing Motu songs on a
tape-recorder. His small brown hands
push the right buttons at the right
moments.
Anyone here seen Kelly?
\ Kew man claimed last week that he
had seen schoolboys looting the
bones of Ned Kelly after the bush-
ranger’s grave was ripped open by a
mechanical excavator in 1937. The
publicity given to his claim that Kelly’s
bones were souvenired as late as 1937
was surprising in view of the furore
which took place at the time which
was April, 1929, not 1937.
Kelly’s remains, and those of several
other executed criminals, were buried in
quicklime in the grounds of the old Mel-
bourne Gaol, adjacent to the then Work-
ing Man’s College which now has the
status and title of the Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology. In 1929, part
of the old gaol was demolished to pre-
M. 11. ELLIS
Australia’s First Fortnight Page 11
•
The Busy Fascists 6
Three Sydney Women Novelists . 14
Edgar Bergen and Charlie Mc-
Carthy 15
Cricket and TV 17
In the Mould short story by
M. E. Upward ... 19
My 19 Days as Prime Minister
by Sir Earle Page 22
Hugh Gaitskell 29
That Vietnam Fiasco 31
Botany Bay without Shame 36
An Anzac Muster —by Leon Gellert 37
Irrigation Dangers on Snowy 40
The Fate of the Common Market 41
Government’s Role as Activator.. 44
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
AROUND MELROURNE ... 10
OUT AND AROUT 14
OVERSEAS 29
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS . 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF RUSINESS ... 41
FEIFFER 54
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St, Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4328


pare the ground for the erection or a
new engineering school for the college.
The contractors noticed the name “E.
Kelly” carved on a stone in the wall,
together with a broad arrow, and as the
steam shovel did its work, a watch was
kept for the coffin. About six feet below
the depth of the wall, the edge of the
shovel ripped off the lid of a redgum
coffin, revealing a skeleton within.
The more outspoken daily journalism
of the day pulled no punches in describ-
ing the “disgraceful desecration” and
the “ghoulish scramble” which followed.
“As soon as this gruesome discovery was
made,” said “The Argus”, “a crowd of
boys who had been standing round ex-
pectantly while eating their luncheons
rush forward and seized the bones. The
workmen intervened, but in the scramble
portions of the skeleton were carried off,
including even the teeth.”
The Premier, Sir William McPherson,
ordered an inquiry into the episode, and
after police activity some of the bones
were recovered from the souvenir
hunters. The Catholic Archbishop, Dr
Mannix, was among those who joined in
the public protests against the theft of
Kelly’s bones.
Worse followed, however, when the
steam shovel uncovered the grave of
William Demming, the poisoner. The
grave was left unguarded during the
weekend and women and children were
seen fishing out bones from the water-
filled coffin. “All day,” said “The Age,”
“the site of the official grave yard was
thronged by people, while young street
urchins conducted mock executions from
the beams uncovered by the work of
demolition.”
The incident at least shattered the
belief in official quarters that quicklime
reduced bones to powder. Kelly’s execu-
tion took place in 1880, but almost 50
years later the skeleton was in a good
state of preservation. This led to some
agitation that the bodies of executed
criminals should be cremated, but
nothing came of it. The bones which
were recovered were re-interred at Pent-
ridge Gaol, but only after strong pro-
tests from the Coburg Council.
Meanwhile, one of the 1929 demo-
lition contractors, Mr H. Lee, took
possession of what he claimed to be
Kelly’s skull, and announced that he
intended handing it to the police for the
medical school at Melbourne University.
For the time being, Mr Lee took it home
with him.
The question of the whereabouts of
the skull came up in 1952 when an
Elsternwick man claimed he had it in
his garage. He was contradicted by the
operator of the steam shovel, Mr W.
Jell, who said it was really the skull of
the murderess Martha Needle. Mr Jell
said he had taken Ned’s skull home to
show his family, but it later disappeared.
Another workman who was on the site
in 1929 said three skulls were thrown
up by the shovel and it was a three-to-
once chance that the Elsternwick one
was really Ned’s.
Later in the same year the curator
of the Australian Institute of Anatomy
in Canberra, Mr R. P. Stone, said that
the Kelly skull was in the Institute's base-
ment. He claimed that it was J
from Kelly’s body at the time
hanging and kept in the ViJ
Penal Department until the first dji
of the Institute, Sir Colin MacJ
took it to Canberra for research in"
Over the years, Canberra’s claim!
become generally accepted—i n I
Kelly’s skull and Phar Lap’s heart)
are the more popular glories oil
Institute.
Rum Jungle paeks up
Tt is 12 years now since an ole v
A ern Territory prospector named;
White found Rum Jungle—first of
tralia's great uranium strikes. He
hunting up a wallaby for supper i
he stumbled on a strange-lookinjj
crop. Assayists in the south recoJ
a specimen as the then “wonder ij
and the rush was on. The Govern
paid White £25,000. It backed com;
development which won undisci
wealth —probably more than £5O mi
worth —from the rocky scrub.
In the years since there have 1
many other finds, in many parts oi
world. The “wonder metal,” no lo
rare, has lost much of its gloss.
United Kingdom Atomic h
Authority has wound up its contract
the end of this month the big opei
operation ends and with it about
workers—a third of the population-
leave the area.
For Batchelor, a modern town s(
ally built to house and serve mint!
'ln matters of Defence
France refuses to let anyone ...


the Jungle, the future is cloudy. Huge
Quantities of ore await treatment and this
will keep the plant going for a long time.
But there is no market. The concentrate
will have to be stockpiled in the hope
that “something may turn up.” There is
talk of NT Administration taking over
the town. But unless it is to become a
un ique bush retreat for clerks and
“experts”— and, in the Territory, this is
by no means an impossible solution-
some industry will have to be found to
justify the expense.
The Bureau of Mineral Resources is
investigating phosphate deposits in the
area. First indications are that they go
about 12 per cent —well below the
tremendously rich but dwindling supply
on Nauru, but better than the average
for American phosphate mines. There
are copper, iron and tin “shows” with-
in reasonable distances of Batchelor,
but no one has ever made much money
out of them. Pockets of arable land
could be worth development for farm-
ing, if prospects on the Adelaide and
Daly rivers did not appear so much more
attractive.
Our Cover
This week’s cover gives artist Tanner’s
idea of a latter-day Foundation Day.
Mr Malcolm Ellis, who resolutely refers
to January 26 as Foundation Day and
not as Anniversary of Australia Day,
writes on page 11 about the first land-
ing. On page 3 above our index is
artist Bob Dickerson’s view of Mr.
Ellis.
Tanner
lead her by
the nose."
PLAIN ENGLISH
DE GAULLE AND US
npHERE are four possible outcomes of the current Common Market
-®- negotiations. The first is that Britain will finally go in on President
de Gaulle’s conditions. This would be a small disaster for Australia (and
a big one for New Zealand). It would take us at least five years to find
the markets that we would lose in Britain, especially for our meat, metals,
grains and dairy products, or to reorganise our export industries, particu-
larly the inefficient ones such as the dairy producers that would not have
survived as long as they have if they had already had to face the chill
winds of unsubsidised free competition. These reshuffles may be
inevitable in any case, but it is obviously in our interests to minimise their
suddenness.
The second possibility is that Britain will go in on less severe terms
than those demanded by de Gaulle, but without an eight year transition
period during which the Commonwealth would dismantle its preference
system. This would clearly be better for us than the first possibility,
though it would only ease the pains of the inevitable reshuffle.
The third possibility is that Britain will give up the current negotiations
and defer its entry to the Common Market for some years. The British
may decide that although nearly all the European opposition depends on
President de Gaulle, he cannot remain President forever. They can use
the years while they wait for his change of mind or political defeat to
dismantle the imperial preference system more slowly than has yet been
considered and to prepare themselves to meet European demands when
they make their next application for Membership of the European
Economic Community.
This is probably the best possible outcome of the current negotiations
from Australia’s point of view. It would give us a certain basic protection
while we find new markets and join in the free trade world.
The fourth possibility is that Britain will abandon all idea of entering
the European Economic Community and revert to the idea of a tight
Commonwealth Union. This may be good for Australian interests in the
short run, but would be the worst possible outcome for us in the long
run. It would place us out on a limb in an expanding free trade world,
tie us to an international economy that is maintained by unenterprising
and uneconomic systems of protection, and to a political organisation—
the British Commonwealth—that, whether we like it or not, seems
destined to disintegrate more and more each year.
There would also be little future in it since, apart from anything else,
one must ask how long the United States will put up with French
opposition to Britain’s entry. The Common Market industrialists need
American markets and America needs European markets for its food
surpluses, but, as is pointed out in the “World of Business on page 41,
President Kennedy, under the Trade Expansion Bill, is only able to
lower tariffs on imports which account for 80 per cent, of world trade.
He therefore needs Britain in the Market to bring total European imports
up to the 80 per cent, figure. Otherwise the Trade Expansion Bill will
be of little use at all.
There is one other point that needs to be borne in mind if we are to
get the whole ‘affair in perspective: while the Europeans negotiate in
Brussels there are other negotiations going on in the Pacific that are
even more important to Australia in the long run—the Australian-Japanese
trade talks. Potentially Japan is more important to us than the whole of
the Common Market countries put together. /


THIS AUSTRALIA
IMMIGRATION
THE BUSY FASCISTS
OF AUSTRALIA
A matter for the Catholic Church, the
Immigration Department and the Security Service
A. R. DOWNER
A new problem
i”|ursiDE Sydney’s Chevron Hilton
” Hotel is not the best place to bash
one’s political opponents, but, then, the
rump remnant of Croatia’s quisling
Government, who form a small propor-
tion of Croatian migrants in Australia,
has never been noted for a refined sense
of location. Two fractured ribs and ex-
tensive bruising to face and body in-
flicted on Mr Marigan Jurjevic outside
the Chevron by Croatian Fascists on the
evening of the first Saturday of the new
year testify to this.
Mr Jurjevic, who w ; as born in Croatia
has been in Australia 14 years. He left
Yugoslavia in 1941 and served in the
Free Yugoslav navy under British com-
mand during the war. A socialist, anti-
Fascist and anti-Communist, he works in
the Navy Department in Melbourne and
is a committee member of the Melbourne
division of the Naval Association.
Like a number of fellow-Croatian
migrants, Mr Jurjevic has for some time
been disturbed by the activities of a
Fascist group in his community. This
Fascist group works through three or-
ganisations: the Croatian Liberation
Movement, the Croatian National Coun-
cil and the Cardinal Stepinac Society.
The oldest of these, the Croatian
Liberation Movement, was formed in
Italy in 1929. Its leaders W'ere trained
to lead a puppet government in Croatia
in preparation for the Axis invasion of
the Balkans. Pavelic, the leader of the
movement, was duly set up as head of
state of the Croatian quisling Govern-.-
ment in 1941 after arriving with the con-
quering Italian armoured divisions. The
slave labor camps of the Pavelic Gov-
ernment, which were filled with anti-
Nazis, were as infamous as any in
Europe. After the liberation of Yugo-
slavia the surviving quislings set up
headquarters in Argentina again and
from this source they spread their doc-
trines of nationalism, anti-Semitism and
national socialism to Croatian communi-
ties throughout the world.
In 1948 the movement organised a
guerrilla invasion of Croatia. All of these
invaders were captured and liquidated
with the exception of one who now lives
in Melbourne. The present aims of the
movement are to separate Croatia from
Yugoslavia, to set up a Fascist govern-
ment in this “liberated” Croatia, to or-
ganise all Croatian migrants throughout
the world into militant communities ready
to return to the fatherland.
The second of these groups, the Croa-
tian National Council, formed in 1962,
split from the Croatian Liberation Move-
ment as a result of disputes between
Peron and the Catholic Church in Ar-
gentina. In Australia, however, there is
no real division between the two. The
National Council has been set up by the
Liberation Movement in an attempt to
bring all Australian Croatian clubs and
societies under one central authority.
The National Council is a broad “front”
organisation. The Cardinal Stepinac
Society, the third group, is a small
“front” organisation of the Fascists set
up to draw the religious under the aegis
of the Croatian Liberation Movement
(95 p.c. of Croats are Catholics) and to
cash in on the name of this Croatian
hero.
Two years ago the Liberation Move-
ment pulled off its cleverest political
manoeuvre: it had the Melbourne Catho-
lic archdiocese accept its offer (made
through the Cardinal Stepinac Society) to
bring from Italy a chaplain for the Croa-
tian communities of Victoria and Tas-
mania, the Reverend Josic Kasic. Nearly
50 years of age, Father Kasic was born
the son of an independent farmer in the
province of Herzegovina. During the
Croatian quisling regime he was in the
Travnik seminary. He served as a priest
under the Communists, was sentenced to
6 years’ gaol in Serbia for political acti-
vities and then went to Italy for a num-
ber of years. He is now resident at the
Melbourne inner suburb of Clifton Hill.
In Melbourne Fr Kasic soon be-
came a phenomenon. Fr Kasic soon
no doubt about his political persuasion
“You are here in Australia only tojj
exploited by the capitalists and §
Jews” he is reported to have stated]
an early sermon to his Croatian migra t
flock. Soon after he launched a stroj
attack on Serbs and on those Croats
had betrayed the cause by becomiJ
naturalised Australians.
Fr Kasic took over a parish magazine
“Croatia Home”, which ran a campaig
to invite to Australia the notori#
Croatian Fascist priest, Dr K. DraJ
novic. Dr Draganovic was appointed oj
of the administrators of the affairs of ft!
quisling Government in Rome in 19(1
He was proclaimed as a war criminalci
1946 and is remembered by Croatia
migrants here for his keen interest in 1
Jasenoviac Concentration Camp whit!
specialised in the maltreatment of Jew
Socialists, Communists and army officer
(Thousands were executed in this camp
The entry of Draganovic into Aim
lia was stopped mainly because of op-
tions made by Croats who were imj
prisoned by him during the quisling rule.
rpHE extent of the entwinement of tl*
Fascist Liberation Movement andft
religious aims of Fr Kasic was ag»
revealed at the Eucharistic Cong®'
staged by the Melbourne archdioceses:
Sunbury last year. Fr Kasic and nieiir
bers of the Liberation Movemei:
marched as representatives of the Vic-
torian Croatian Community under tit
banner of the Croatian quisling Gove®
ment wearing red caps with the symbc
“U” on them. (Red caps were part of tit
uniform of Croatia’s war-time Nazis.)
Being opposed to these operation:
Marigan Jurjevic was surprised to®
ceive an invitation to attend a meeti®
of the Croatian National Council ®
January 5 at the Chevron Holt!
in Sydney. Shortly before this meet®
he was informed that the invitation*
sent out by mistake; however, being®
executive member of Croatian society
which the National Council was attempt
ing to bring “under one banner,” hei
cided to attend.
In the street outside Mr Jurje'i
found himself surrounded by unkno"
Croats and he says he heard one $
“We’ll fix him in that lane”. Mr Jurje'
immediately tried to turn back towa®
the hotel entrance but was set upon t
eight men who punched him until
crowd gathered; they then ran off. ®
punches were accompanied, according)
Mr Jurjevic, by such remarks as “Tto l
for opposing Draganovic; that’s forW
a bloody anglophile; that’s for being


jew-lover; you will not leave Sydney
alive.” . J . - -
The Sydney police arrived when Mr
Jurjevic’s abrasions were being treated
at a nearby cafe; they interviewed Fr
ICasic and some members of the Council,
but none of the men brought before Mr
Jurjevic was one of his assailants so the
police dropped the matter after urging
Mr Jurjevic to change taxis a few times
on his way to the airport.
Since, he says, a number of threats
have been made against him.
The main cause of concern of the anti-
fascist Croats in Melbourne is not the
possibility of physical violence but the
fact that Fr Kasic’s political creed is
turning many Croat migrants away from
the Church. Most Croats cannot see any
possibility of their assisting the “libera-
tion” of their fatherland; they want to
become Australian citizens and not
homesick Europeans; they don’t want a
philosophy of national socialism preached
to them from the pulpit. They also want
their community free of any Mafia-type
terrorist organisation. They did not come
to Australia to be cursed by their pastors
for not joining in the wildest schemes
of the quislings of the Croatian Libera-
tion Movement. Many Croats have al-
ready sworn that they will never go to
any church in which Fr Kasic preaches.
As well as the Catholic Church, Mr
Downer’s Immigration authorities and
Security should have some interest in the
affairs of the Liberation Movement.
Is there, as is alleged to be, a secret army
training ground for Liberation Movement
members at Wodonga, Victoria? Security
should also be concerned at the assurance
which Mr Jurjevic and his friends have
that there are a number of Communist
agents working in the Croatian Fascist
movement for their own ends.
Immigration officials ought to know
that there are some leading Croatian
migrants who are organised to stop their
countrymen becoming naturalised Aus-
tralians. Fr Kasic, in sermons, has ac-
cused those Croatians who have become
naturalised of being “anglophiles” and
traitors”. In a “Handbook for Engaged
Couples” which Fr Kasic published last
year (with an Imprimatur from the Mel-
bourne archdiocese) he wrote:
As a golden rule all the Croatian girls
and boys should be conscious, in the
omeland and abroad, that the most ideal
marriage will be achieved amongst them-
se ves within their own nation. We have
ln OUr migrant community men who
married foreigners: a foreigner remains
a oreigner and nothing else forever.
ey live for years in marriage but al-
i a y s str angers ... A foreigner may
nc) w m e language of his spouse fluently
• • • ut they don’t communicate with the
nguage alone but with the feelings
h are different amongst all nations.”
BUSINESS
THE POLITICS
OF RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES
The technique of silence
SIR G. BARWICK
Hard to beat
As I see it
/"Vn December
” 6 last, In-
terior Minister
Gordon Freeth on behalf of Attorney-
General Sir Garfield Barwick flung into
the Parliamentary pool a very big stone
carrying the formal inscription “Pro-
posals for the Control of Restrictive
Trade Practices in Australia.”
It was flung in to produce ripples.
Barwick publicly invited “discussion and
representation.” So far there has been
remarkably little and political strategists
are wondering why.
The Barwick proposals cover 19 fools-
cap pages. They provide for the com-
pulsory registration with a Registrar of
certain specified restrictive trade prac-
tices. Once registered, the practices will
be lawful unless and until found con-
tary to public interest and deregistered.
It will be an offence to continue a dereg-
istered practice. The Registrar has the
duty of initiating action before a Tri-
bunal presided over by a Judge with
two or four lay colleagues for deregistra-
tion of a practice he considers contrary
to public interest. Before he can ap-
proach the Tribunal, the Registrar must
get agreement for his approach from a
Commission consisting of himself and
laymen. Besides the Registrar, the
Attorney-General, or any citizen, may be
given leave to approach the Tribunal.
The unusual thing is that, by this stage
normally, there would be screams against
the proposals from one end of Australia
to the other. The Associated Chambers
of Manufactures have commented “There
are major features (of the proposals),
which give cause for concern. In due
course appropriate representations will be
made.” Outside this, there has been
little commercial or industrial reaction.
The silence is interesting. From Bar-
wick’s viewpoint it could be ominous.
As I see it, the weakness in the Bar-
wick proposals is that the successful
establishment and operation of the
machinery he proposes depend upon
State co-operation—always difficult to
secure when the effect would be to
strengthen Commonwealth powers.
South Australia’s Liberal Premier Sir
Thomas Playford is authoritatively re-
ported to be the reverse of co-operative.
Playford is credited with anticipating
benefits for his State if he holds out
and refuses to allow the Barwick pro-
posals to operate in SA. If the Bar-
wick proposals prove irksome and re-
strictive, industry will be looking for
locations where they do not operate.
South Australia could be that location.
Western Australia, also Liberal gov-
erned, is reported to be showing nil
enthusiasm for the Barwick proposals,
though its attitude is described as less
inflexible than Playford’s.
But as 1963 progresses the “wise boys’*
think that Barwick could find himself in
real trouble. Getting agreement from
State Attorneys is one thing. Getting
legislation of this particular type through
a State Parliament is a different matter.
There are upper houses in every Aus-
tralian State but Queensland and the
upper houses in Victoria, Tasmania and
Western Australia are not fond of
radical, new ideas.
Barwick, shrewdly, has left himself
with considerable room for manoeuvre.
He is using with these proposals the
technique he pioneered with his Divorce,
Marriage and Patents Bills. In those
bills, he tied himself to nothing. He an-
nounced his ideas and that he was open
to argument. He listened to argument.
When the Divorce Bill finally secured
Parliamentary approval, it had been
amended so much. and often that the
original draft must have looked like a
pak-a-pu ticket.
Possibly this is why opposition to Bar-
wick’s proposals in their present form
is so slow in manifesting itself. The
potential opponents are probably aware
that if the bill is attacked piecemeal,
Barwick could do what he did in the case
of the critics of the Divorce Bill—draw
his critics’ teeth by adopting or adapting
many of their suggestions.
This Barwick-developed technique is
a new one as far as Australian politics
are concerned. On his experiences with
the Divorce and Marriage Bills—both
contentious pieces of legislation—it is a
pretty effective technique for neutralising
what might be effective opposition.
ALAN REID


BOHEMIA
THE MEMBERS OF "THE PUSH"
The Lane Cove poisoning case may mean finding a new pub
Recently Sydney journalists covering
the Lane Cove double-death poison-
ing case invaded what they called a Syd-
ney “beatnik” hotel when they learnt
that one of its occasional patrons had
attended the same Chatswood party as
the dead couple.
Despite the offer of free beer and
money to some of the pub's regulars,
they learnt nothing. All that they were
able to offer for their pains was a rather
cryptic news report that: “Police inves-
tigating the Lane Cove National Park
deaths have questioned the patrons of a
city hotel frequented by bohemians and
beatniks.” Once again “The Push,” as
the inhabitants describe themselves, had
successfully drawn the curtain of silence
against outsiders.
The pub itself is in Sussex Street, at
the end of one of the streets which runs
sharply into Sydney’s docks area. The
headquarters of “The Push” is a bare
back room with wooden tables and
chairs, and a w'all which was once cov-
ered by a mural by Sydney artist Robert
Hughes and since painted over in duck-
egg blue. A sign at the window-end
reads: “Keep out Alfs”—a warning to
those “oafish proletarians,” some of
whom have occasionally belted up mem-
bers of “The Push” (who all believe in
non-violence).
“The Push” is made up largely of
public servants, nurses, schoolteachers,
students, University philosophers and
psychologists, a couple of wharfies, some
educated laborers, semi-professional
punters and one or two mental cases,
There are crypto-Fascists, ex-Commu-
n^sts anc * ex-Catholics. (Some Push
members say that about 40 per cent are
ex-Catholics; certainly ex-convent girls
are eas >'y recognisable.) They despise
success and are reconciled to being
considered as bums. In conversation, the
Lady Chatterly four-letter word is
probably the most-used swear word or
t er ™ of endearment—both sexes use it as
freely as most Australians use bloody .
But dirty jokes and sniggering are
definitely out.
In their community life members of
“The Push” lend and borrow money
freely from each other, buy beers for
members who are broke, share their
windfalls. One of the easiest things to
borrow money for is the occasional
abortion, which is never done by ama-
teurs or by the couple of doctor mem-
bers of “The Push ”
With hardly any beards, arty-crafties
or homosexuals among them, this section
of Sydney’s bohemia distinguishes itself
from others by its concern for “ideas" —
its mixture of Marx, Freud and anarchism
organised around the slogan of “p erc]
nent Protest” against all authorities,
right and centre, religious or unreligj ot
The New Left, the nuclear disanJi
and the Trotskyites generally despj
them for their lack of
their “Permanent Protest” (though t
one occasion an article in a “Communi;
Review” temperately praised them).
If “The Push” can be said to have at
definite origin it was in the late 19f
in the vaguely “anarchistic” circles (
Sydney University, where disgruntle;
Labor Club left-wingers and half-Ande
sonians mixed. (Needless to say, bet
the Labor Club and the faithful ft
lowers of the late Professor John Andet
son regarded them as unworthy (
notice.) They called themselves “Libs
tarians” and their chief claim to not
riety, in most of the public’s eyes, lies |
their belief in free love, or what son)
1920’s Americans (from whom man; .■
their ideas derive) called Trial Mis
riage.
When their former pubs, the Tudcj
and Assembly, closed down in Phil
Street, and made way for insurant
buildings, one of the Grand Old MenoJ
“The Push,” a lecturer in Philosophy \
Sydney University, negotiated with tl(
publican and arranged for "The Push's
move to their present location, sometim
in 1956.
I
“The Push” has no geography
boundaries. It includes like-mini
“anarchists” from Melbourne, Brisbasj
and Adelaide. In Melbourne some c|
“The Push” go to Tattersall’s Hole
about 150 yards from Russell Stree:
police station. Their original Me
bourne hang-out was the Family Swat
ston Hotel and when this was close
with an appropriate dirge, they move
further up town. But there are dife
ences. Whereas the Sydney members i
“The Push” would scorn anything n
motely resembling Zen-Buddhism, 4
Melbourne group would almost certain::
have some devotees. The Sydnt,
“Push” also despises nearly all literati!
and art, and nearly all social theor
psychology and philosophy. (The old
ones however favour gambling —racii
poker or snooker.)
“The Push” claims it has been irritate
by “tourists” who come to their pub
look at what they regard as an excitit
bohemian, free-love way of life.
The main result of recent Press pb
licity is that the Lane Cove deaths ha 1
attracted far too many tourists a!
gether. “The Push” is now trying to ft
another publican willing to open up
special backroom for the exercise 1
Permanent Protest.
PERTER KEE[?]
BORDER DISPUTE
ffiffaulletCn
January 27, 1883
The Premiers of South Australia
and Victoria are disputing, over
an insignificant strip of land. When
the Border line between the two
colonies was first agreed upon, the
boundary was supposed to be settled
at the 141st meridian. Subsequent
surveys showed that a mistake had
primarily been made in Victoria’s
favor. In consequence of some tech-
nicality, this land cannot be taken
over forcibly by South Australia,
Victoria, for its part, won’t willingly
part with it. South Australia, having
any quantity—rather too much—of
territory, is not at all covetous of the
strip in question; but the obstacles
continually thrown in the way of a
settlement by Victoria have even pre-
vented its cession to that colony by
South Australia. Victoria won’t take
as a favor what it regards as a right.
Legally considered, this strip of
country is, therefore, a No-Man’s
Land. A lawyer will tell you that,
if a man committed murder within
its limits neither Victoria nor South
Australia would legally have jurisdic-
tion over him, and that, if the proper
machinery of the law were put into
motion, the murderer must escape the
consequences of his crime. When
Charles Mann, QC, was Treasurer of
that colony, and W. H. Bundey, QC,
was Attorney-General, it was actually
seriously suggested that an agent
should be employed to start an illicit
whisky still in No-Man’s Land, so as
to provoke prosecution on the part of
the Victorian Government. The
South Australian Government was
then to supply the funds necessary to
carry the case to the Privy Council,
so as to get the matter decided once
for all. The suggestion was not
adopted because it was considered too
undignified for a Government to play
the part of sly-grog manufacturers.'


"Stone cold!"
UNIONS
HOW TO LOSE A SHIPPING INDUSTRY
... and a supply of jobs
The Australian-built Kangaroo is the
pride of the State Shipping Service
in WA. She was designed to overcome
the delays in loading and the poor cargo
space that have helped to run the ser-
vice into an annual debt close to
,000,000 in recent times. Last week
|!“Jr "*“ roo lhr ;‘ e days late when
those ,hr T M the north-west.but
lesson „ ho „ T|„ Pr ° V t a " ¥
lesson in how to lose a sh.pptng tndus-
Her sailing delay, which cost the ser-
vice almost £3OOO in harbor dues, was
not officially a dispute, but it required
e presence of Mr Justice Gallagher, of
e Commonwealth Conciliation and
r itration Commission. It was simply
at the Seamen’s Union wanted to put
1 s own nominees into the crew, and
some of them were unsatisfactory to the
•P s master, Captain H. Evans.
e row began when the Kangaroo
e urned from her first voyage to the
r Captain Evans discharged 10 of
her crew because he considered them
unsatisfactory and three more resigned.
A series of pick-ups filled seven of the
13 vacancies, but the union declined to
supply the last six, including the bosun,
unless one or more of the men rejected
by the captain were included.
Though the union has never publicly
conceded that this was its attitude> ils re .
fusal to allow two qualified British sea-
men the made it look very
.
muc 1e 1 .
C)ne °f the seamen, Mr W. R. Win-
Chester, recounted his experience in this
way: “When Mr Kent and I went to the
union office in Fremantle we showed
our papers and asked to join the union,
but Mr Dans (the union secretary)
would not entertain the idea. He said:
‘You won’t get on that ship’ and waved
us away. I know there are other quali-
fied seamen walking around who would
like to sign on, but the union is stand-
ing in the way. I thought a union was
to protect a man’s livelihood, not to
take it away.”
Though the dispute was finally settled
when Mr Justice Gallagher nominated a
bosun who was suitable to both parties,
it highlights the stranglehold the Sea-
men's Union has on the coastal shipping
trade.
Only members of the union can man
Australian ships, and no ship can sail
unless she has the required crew mem-
bers in all categories. If the union puts
the word around that a certain ship Js
not to sail, she will not get enough vol-
unteers.
Though the shipping service won out
in this dispute by refusing to accept as
crew members those union members
who had already been discharged, there
is no guarantee that the union will not
apply such delaying tactics again.
If they are applied, it can only mean
that the service will go further into the
red. The more southern centres on the
north-west shipping route are already
switching to road transport for their
cattle and further delays in schedules
can only increase this trend. Under
these circumstances, the £3O a week and
keep earned by seamen on the north-
west run might dwindle and finally dis-
appear altogether along with the ship-
ping service. ,


Around Melbourne
UNDER THE KING STREET BRIDGE
Ourely you must be intrigued by
the news that Whelan the
Wrecker has won the contract to
wreck our famous King’s Bridge.
True, he won’t be wrecking the whole
bridge, just one 60-ft span and two
20-ft spans under the £2OOO contract.
Yet it is a most interesting exercise
for all Melburnians. Few of us have
ever lived long enough to see the one
bridge being fully built then later
wrecked. Now here is the whole pro-
cess being carried out most compactly
in less than two years. The wrecking
started last Monday and the job
should last for four weeks. The
eventual cost of making the bridge as
good as new will be close on
£350,000.
The Whelans already have an-
nounced that before they depart they
will erect on the bridge their famous
sign: “WHELAN THE WRECKER
WAS HERE.” It is not one of their
biggest jobs, but undoubtedly it is one
of their most satisfying. Rarely does a
wrecker get a fine, new, £4,100,000
bridge to work upon. The Whelan
firm is as well known around here as
. . . er . . . Princes Bridge. For the
past 60 years it has done 95 per cent
of our wrecking. Indeed, just lately
the Whelans have been doing so well
they have opened a branch in Sydney.
What’s more we take a communal
joy in this. There is real pleasure to
be had in the thought that a Mel-
bourne firm now has the job of
wrecking Sydney. The Sydney mem-
ber of the family is young Mr Myles
Whelan. Maybe you saw his Christ-
mas card. It depicted the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, all freshly wrecked.
The pylons were left standing, no-
thing else, and the Whelan sign was
out. The caption read: “OUR AMBI-
TION.” So, seeing that they are al-
ready busy on King’s Bridge in Mel-
bourne, you Sydney gentlemen would
be well advised to observe Myles
Whelan’s activities.
The founder of the firm was old
Jim Whelan, the son of an Irish-
man. He stood 6ft 3E inches and he
wore a bowler hat stuffed with cotton
wool as insurance against falling
bricks.
Over the years he was involved
in 13 accidents and that was the only
form of insurance he could get. The
business got under way in 1891 after
the bursting of the land boom. In
Brunswick there were whole streets of
houses that had been built by the
housing societies during the boom
and never occupied. They would be
worth £4OOO today but Old Jim
bought them up for £5 each (repeat
£5 each), wrecked them and sold
them for the materials.
Even now the selling of the
wrecked materials is a big part of the
business. They have a remarkable
dump out at Brunswick which is like
a car wrecker’s lot, except this one
has the relics of everything used by
mankind. You wouldn’t believe the
trade they are doing now in marble
fireplaces, twiddlely bits of cast-iron
and dear, old gas lamps for the
garden.
As for the famous sign, that started
in 1914. They were pulling down a
building in Swanston Street. They
came across a black-walled photo-
grapher’s darkroom. Just for fun
during the lunch hour one of the
workmen hacked the immortal words
into the wall with a tomahawk. The
sign stayed put and ever since they
have needed no other advertising
beyond those words: WHELAN THE
WRECKER WAS HERE.
Jim died in 1938 at 73. Now
the firm employs more than 160
and there are three sons and three
grandsons. The leader is Young Jim,
a man of 65 years. He is a curious
mixture. He has a genuine love for
these buildings that he pulls down.
For example, it hurt him terribly to
pull down the lovely old Melbourne
Mansions in Collins Street. And for
this reason he is rather contemptuous
of the tall glass houses that take their
place. One time I asked him if it
would be difficult to wreck the lofty,
antiseptic ICI building. Jim’s kindly
face immediately brightened with
enthusiasm. “No trouble at all,” he
said. “It’d be very easy”. He went on
to explain how he would put a big
crane on the top, use air-compressor
drills and work down, floor by floor.
My goodness, he would have had
that ICI building down in a jiffy. Un-
questionably nobody knows more
about old Melbourne than Young Jint
he has wrecked it all. He can tell
you about Melbourne’s first slaughter-
house which stood on the site of
Myer's Lonsdale St. store. The
slaughter house came down in 1910
He can talk of Coles Arcade with its
monkey house on the first floor. It
was where Coles Store now stands in
Bourke St. He remembers, too, the
old Horse Bazaar on the corner of
Bourke and Hardware Streets.
The workmen have had a few
finds. They found 80 sovereigns in a
former dentist’s surgery, in an old
pub they found a stock of ancient
fluted-type bottles of champagne.
When they were opened they gave off
a great cloud of mist and nobody was
game to drink it. Then back in 1905
Old Jim found 12 bell toppers be-
tween the roof and ceiling of the
Paddington Hotel in Russell St. They
had been stolen from a touring Eng-
land cricket team. For a time the
workmen very proudly wore them
on the job.
You would think they would make
a bit out of foundation stones. Not
so. Young Jim said in the old days
sovereigns would be placed in posi-
tion at 12 noon and the foundation
stone laid with great ceremony. Then
when the official party had gone the
workmen would raise that stone again,
just for a second, say, at 5.10 p.m.
Drinks for everybody.
Yes, they have found coins, trin-
kets, jewellery. Tom, Jim’s brother,
even found a diamond-studded watch
under some floor-boards. He wound
it up and it still went.
However, it is not anticipated that
the Whelans will find any treasures
in the wrecking of the cracked spans
of the King’s Bridge. Yet the ill-wind
hasn't been entirely harmful. The
King’s Bridge inquiry is now in its
12th week. It adjourned on Decem-
ber 19 and will resume again on
January 21. Many a famous Q.C. has
taken part and, according to one esti-
mate, counsel’s fees have mounted
to 900 guineas a day.
Furthermore, let us not forget
Hawthorn City Council. The Com-
missioners have been sitting in the
Council Chambers and the fee for
this is £lO a day. No doubt the Coun-
cillors think very kindly about the
King’s Bridge.
—BATMAN


THE FIRST
FORTNIGHT
From Foundation Day to the landing of the women
By M. H. ELLIS
By Foundation Day, 1788, the com-
plement and passengers of the
First Fleet had been beside or on
Australian soil for about a week. After a
seven-month voyage during which half
of them had not been allowed to go
ashore at the main ports at which they
had called, they saw their destination
with relief and joy. Here at least was
dry land.
When, however, they had seen it at
close quarters they found little joy in it.
The wide Botany Bay was full of wind.
Its shores were like the Yorkshire moors
or mangrove and swamp. Naked blacks
wandered its beaches and smelt strong
even to noses inured to the odors of con-
fined ship-barracks, like miniature cattle-
pens, where the bilge water had “risen
to so great a height that the panels of
the cabin and buttons on the clothes of
the officers were turned nearly black by
the noxious effluvia.”
Botany Bay had shown them no hos-
pitality. Most of them viewed it only
from the ships, and continued to look on
it, after they had settled down at the
shores of Port Jackson, as a foreign
harbor encountered on the way to the
Territory of New South Wales.
Phillip had sailed into Botany Bay in
the Supply (170 tons) two days ahead
of the rest of the Fleet on January 18,
and it had taken him very little time to
realise that an attempt to settle there
would end in disaster. So on January
22 he had set off northward for Broken
Bay, which his intuition had told him
was probably the estuary of a great river
on the banks of which there would be
rich agricultural land and deep water.
When, however, he reached the mouth
of Port Jackson he turned in and found
the finest harbor in the world, in which
a thousand sail of the line may ride in
the most perfect security.”
That evening he and his party slept at
amp Cove, near Watson’s Bay, before
exploring the harbor waters “with all
Possible expedition.” They went to
ar >ly, named it from “the confident
and manly behavior” of the natives
ere ’ but rejected it as a site for settle-
ment. And it was not till they had gone
U P six miles past the shoal of the Sow
an Pigs that Phillip decided to make
camp in a cove indented into the
southern shore, sheltered from the north
easterly by a long point of land, a little
bay fed by “the best spring of water,
and in which ships can anchor so close
to the shore that at a very small expence
quays may be made at which the largest
ships may unload.”
Phillip hurried back to Botany Bay to
bring his fleet to this cove, which he had
“honored by the name of Sydney.” He
arrived to find the French ships of La
Perouse, dimly seen and as yet uniden-
tified, in the mist far out at sea. He
hastily raised the British flag near the
grave of Forby Sutherland, the seaman
of the Endeavour who earned immor-
tality by being the first Briton buried
on the eastern shore of the Australian
continent. And then, on January 24, he
prepared to move the Fleet to Port Jack-
son.
It was intended that the whole Fleet
should follow the Supply on the same
day. But even the Supply could not get
out immediately when she hoisted sail at
daylight, and she had to wait for the
ebb tide around noon. Then she sailed
out over the bar, leaving behind the
Sirius, which had given the signal to
weigh to her flock of merchantmen and
storeships at 6 a.m., but had been com-
pelled to anchor again and remain till
next day.
Thus, the only vessel to lie in the
shelter of the mouth of Sydney Cove,
which she reached about seven in the
evening on January 25, was the
Supply, the first ship to ride the waters
of Sydney Harbor.
Next morning, January 26, the rest
of the Fleet put to sea, making an un-
dignified progress out of shelter under
the eyes of the French ships. The
breeze blew strong. The Charlotte, a
transport, nearly went on the rocks. The
Friendship fouled the Prince of Wales;
the Charlotte fouled the Friendship,
losing much of her stern carving in the
process, and nearly ran over the Lady
Penrhyn with her load of women
convicts.
But at dusk on January 26 they were
all anchored safely, well inside Sydney
Cove, with the Sirius out in the stream
standing guard over them.
A gash in the timber, where Mac-
quarie Place now is, proved that Phillip
and his men had not been idle. They
had gone ashore after daylight on the
rising tide and landed at the point which
today is marked by the rear of the Ship
Inn. Where Loftus Street joins Mac-
quarie Place they had erected a flagstaff,
and on it they had unfurled the Union
Jack in a ceremony at which the new
Governor took possession of the eastern
half of the country and the adjacent
islands in the Pacific Ocean. Toasts to
the King and the Royal Family were
drunk in wine and porter. A volley was
fired by members of the guard. Phillip’s
“empire” had been founded.
Only the guard and the workers under
it slept ashore on Foundation Night. But
the ships were warped in close to the
beach and all waited in excitement for
the dawn of the next day. When it came
all began to go ashore, a slow stream of
men and tents and equipment and
stores.
One observer, Lieutenant Ralph
Clark, straining his eyes from the decks
of the Friendship, was “much charmed”
by the scene at the head of the Cove to
the east of the Tank Stream, and wrote
to his distant wife about it: —
Oh, that if you was only here and our
dear hoy, ray Alicia, I should not wish to
come home, if the place agreed with our
health. . . . The tents look pretty among
the trees; I hope to be ashore tomorrow.
Four days later he found himself
camped ashore and was very uncomfort-
able: “remarkably hott here I am, my
beloved Alicia, with all my farm stock
consisting of two hens and one piggs.”
“What a terrible night it was,” he added,
“of thunder, lightning and rain. Was
obliged to get out of my tent with noth-
ing on but my shirt to slacking (sic) the
tent poles.” And the worst he had to say
was matched by Surgeon-General John
White, who noted that all they had to
sleep on was some fresh-cut grass on the
“hard cold ground,” which they shared
with “spiders, ants and every vermin you
can think of.” And, the surgeon added,
not a comfort or convenience to be got
for the sick.
The only happy people in and around
Sydney Cove the second week seem to
have been the captains and crews of the


GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
Dl DP
mm
ON MY
PROPERTY!
V
V
V
v
&
hr
c
>s.
V- :
■
• ■■' ■«'ll
jg
-V
\ »
f m
■*•—
■
'V::'
m:.
m
0 No other pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures and that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents. Its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe cost* lets. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe a
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pipe,
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL PIPE
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
ASA.3.**


IS PROUD OF HAVING
FURNISHED FOR TENANTS
OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
im fm >m v
m
suppufcc^T^mr
of course!
OFFICE CONTRACT FURNISHERS
SYD/93 YORK ST.* MELB/21 ALFRED PL.
vessels of the Fleet. All, perhaps,
except one: Seaman John Fawley had
been selected for the doubtful honor of
providing a back on which to inaugurate
Sydney Cove's celebrated system of
condign punishment —12 lashes for
being “insolent and disobedient.”
The Reverend Mr Johnson preached
his first sermon “on the grass” on Feb-
ruary 3 at a service from which it was
enjoined that no man, military or con-
vict, be “absent on any account what-
ever.” He preached from the text of the
21st verse of Psalm 116: “What shall I
render unto the Lord, for all his benefits
towards me?”
Thus all was prepared and sanctified
for the great day —the great day for
the crews in the Fleet, at least—Febru-
ary 5, when the women convicts should
be landed.
They came to their homes of canvas,
wattle and daub much as they had come
across the ocean, unshamed by naked-
ness or unceasing debauchery and stern
punishment. Some had been flogged
with ropes at the capstan, or lost their
hair to the punishment shears, or been
put on bread and water and generally
suppressed by every device known for
the control of unco-operative members of
the weaker sex. Yet their heads were
not bowed even by the swarm of un-
seemly inhabitants in their locks. The
Commissary was forced to issue slop
clothing to those on the women’s ship,
the horrible Lady Penrhyti. He did it
under solid guard, but even then had
trouble.
The frst batches were put into the
long boats only “after a strict search
had been made to try if any of the many
things they had stolen on board could be
found, but their artifice eluded the most
strict search.” The disappointment of
the searchers was buried in “the long-
wished-for pleasure of seeing the last of
them leave the ships . . . dressed in gen-
eral very clean and some few amongst
them who could be said to be well-
dressed.”
The Commissary showed displeasure
at the behavior of the worst of them by
throwing her slops on the deck for her
to clean up, but she proved still defiant
and went off with the rest to the beach,
on which all the convict population that
could evade the eyes of officers awaited
them.
As Lieutenant Bowes of the Pen-
rhyn put it succinctly in his journal,
the men convicts got to them soon after
hey landed, and it is beyond my abili-
les t 0 a just description of the
scene of debauchery and riot that ensued
that night.”
Whereupon the wrath of God seemed
to manifest itself in a fresh and
Vl °! e « t st:orm of thunder and lightning,
w tch came up before there was time
even to Pitch tents for them. A large
tree in the centre of the camp was struck
and split to pieces, and five sheep and
a pig under it killed. A mob of sailors
ashore, well-furnished with liquid re-
freshment, joined in the fun which had
been started with the landing of the
women.
The whole stage was occupied by a
sort of witches’ frolic full of shameless
women and drunken mariners who were
useless for duty on ships which were
literally shaking with the thunder.
Powerless to do anything, officers shiv-
ered in their soaked tents, among them
the Lieutenant-Governor, who spent
the dawn of February 6 wondering if he
would be the next victim of the elements
after the sentry outside his door had
been bowled over by a fireball.
There was a sick and sorry sobering
up in the wet landscape next day, Feb-
ruary 7. The soldiery marched to the
parade ground with beat of drum and
squeal of fife. Colors were lowered to
salute the Governor, who came in blue
and gold with his retinue to stand, in the
centre of the ground, before a camp
table, on which rested his Commission
and that of the Judge Advocate, together
with other vital documents, all housed
in a red box. The convicts, prudently
surrounded with fixed bayonets and
scarlet and white uniforms, were there
to a man and woman, nursing their
headaches.
The Judge Advocate read the Com-
mission and other founding documents.
The Governor and others took the ap-
propriate oaths. Volleys were fired. The
Governor mordantly addressed the con-
victry, telling them that he believed
many of them incorrigible and promising
that they should suffer the severity which
he believed to be the only thing likely to
have any effect on them.
He promised those who did not work
should not eat; that the most trivial
crime, which deprived the colony of so
much as a chicken, would be punished
with death—he hanged one of them a
few days later to prove that he was in
earnest.
He then went off to a large tent, where
he entertained officers only (ignoring the
masters of merchant ships) to a cold col-
lation of “mutton which had been killed
yesterday morning,” but which “was full
of maggots.”
Next day dawned with all the ap-
panages of law and order —Government,
courts, police patrols—operative under
the Union Jack. And with a little drama,
too, as a sailor tested the regulations
about visiting the women and found
himself “drummed out of the camp with
his hands fastened behind him, and fife
and drum marching before him playing
the ‘Rogue’s March.’ ”
Time was beginning to march on
towards the days when tourists on the
roof of the stately AMP Building would
look down on the sites where the first
ship anchored in Port Jackson, the first
British landing was made, the first
British flag flown, the first Australian
dwellings built behind the first wharf.
They would look, too, on the point
adorned with its glass houses and its half-
finished five acres of opera house only a
little more than 170 years after its illus-
trious native tenant, Bennelong, had to
be deterred, with some show of force,
from publicly beheading his beloved
among its rocky fastnesses.
The material which formed the work-
ing party to establish the colonisation of
Australia and lay the foundations of the
“empire” of Phillip’s dreams is not very
savory to observe in retrospect. But that
it was not all bad or lazy is shown by
the number of eminent and historic citi-
zens who were bred even in the first and
second Australian generations from
among its humanity. Dozens of the con-
victs became solid tradesmen, rich
traders, adventurous pioneers. Dozens
of the much maligned convict women
showed themselves good mothers of
sturdy and sober children, and good
wives.
Hardship and opportunity washed out
the gold from the pay-dirt; and the
human gold assay was very high, very
payable in the net return.


OUT AND ABOUT
NOVEL SITUATION
All for "a couple of hundred pounds"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Just before Christmas, a little late to
send copies to friends overseas, and
certainly too late to take part in the
celebrations, or whatever they were, of
Book Week, Angus and Robertson pub-
lished three novels “The Well Dressed
Explorer,” by Thea Astley, “The Leap-
ing Flame,” by Helen Heney and “In
My Lady’s Chamber,” by Juliet Rol-
leston.
The novels were launched modestly
in publisher’s sherry, after which, in the
mysterious way of publishing, they
appear to have sunk almost without
trace. They were, of course, spasmodic-
ally reviewed. Sidney Baker in “The
Sydney Morning Herald” acclaimed
“The Well Dressed Explorer,” Miss
Heney’s plot was too complicated for
some, Miss Rolleston’s basic situation
appeared “tasteless” to others. The books
were not promoted in any extravagant
way. (The photograph of Miss Astley
which the publisher supplied was taken
by her 16-years-old baby-sitter in the
garden with a box Brownie).
The books may finally net their
authors “a couple of hundred pounds.”
“That is if my edition sells out,” Miss
Astley added. “Angus and Robertson say
I don’t sell well for them.”
This rather limp result can lead only
to one of those interminable discussions
on the problems of the Australian novel
-—• “Where are the novel-readers?
Watching TV?” and so on to one of
those interminable grizzles about Angus
and Robertson, to solemn intoning of
the name of Patrick White, to some
sharp side-thrusts at Morris West. In
short, nowhere.
The problems of the Australian nove-
list are perhaps a little more immediate
and interesting
In spite of what seems to Miss Astley
to be the “light years” which elapse be-
tween the writing of a book and its
publication both she and Miss Heney
are at work again. Miss Heney, whose
“The Leaping Flame” was her sixth book,
is at work on one or two projects, but
said that delays were often not along her
production line but her publisher’s. Miss
Astley, after intensive preliminary
working-out, last week began writing
what may become her fourth published
novel (a novella remains unpublished).
It has, she says a “conventual” setting.
Miss Rolleston, who has just finished
her teaching diploma course, will con-
centrate on her new occupations of mar-
riage and teaching and let novel-writing
wait until she “gets a really good idea to
work on.” There was a lapse of four
years between Miss Rolleston’s first
book, written at the age of 16, and
her second, “In My Lady’s Chamber.”
Miss Astley, Miss Heney and Miss
Rolleston seem to have been linked in
their publisher’s mind not as novelists,
not as women, but by the tenuous link
of schoolteaching.
Teaching has traditionally been a pro-
fession which, with short hours and long
holidays, gave time for other pursuits.
Changed methods have brought longer
hours and more paper-work. However,
Miss Heney and Miss Astley enjoy it,
although they find it demanding in some
ways. “When I was Juliet’s age I hated
it,” Miss Astley said. Miss Heney finds
that being a published author adds to
her prestige in front of a class. “I fie!
that I can Criticise a history text-bool
soundly and get away with it,” she said
Miss Heney teaches at Hornsby Girls'
High School. She was formerly an A
moner and served with UNRRA in
Europe in the early postwar years. Mis
Astley teaches English at Cheltenham
Girls’ High School.
Miss Rolleston’s reasons for choosing
teaching seem extremely practical. (Bill
Miss Heney who has recently dispose!
of a class of Leaving Certificate history
students and faces another within a few
weeks, said that “most girls are like that
these days”).
“I always knew I would get married,’
Miss Rolleston said. “And teaching is a
job you can go back to later. Even if
you have children you can teach because
you have 10 weeks’ holiday a year. 01
course, in journalism, or other things,
you might be able to get a job again,
but with teaching you are sure.” Ha
husband is a pharmacist, so wouldn’U
have been handy if she had do*
pharmacy, too, so that the long hone
could be shared? “But there aren’t H
weeks’ holiday a year and the ho®
are very long.” And what about writ®
as a full-time occupation? “There p
isn’t any money in it, you know.”
Writing is at first a matter of organ®
ation. For Miss Heney writing means*
very early dinner perhaps two nights*
week then a couple of hours at W
desk. The physical descriptions of
characters, sketches of the house tM
live in, are at hand. “If I manage P
words at a sitting, and it goes well
am on top of the world,” she said.


m
IS PROUD OF HAVING
FURNISHED FOR THE AMP
SOCIETY
t;iin
SUPPLY CO. PTY. LTD.
of course!
OFFICE CONTRACT FURNISHERS
SYD/93 YORK ST.* MELS/21 ALFRED PL
Miss Astley had a Commonwealth
Literary Fund grant to help her through
the work on “The Well Dressed Explo-
rer.” She writes first in longhand. She
finds that transferring this, rewriting as
she goes along, to typescript is the really
back-breaking part of the job.
Miss Rolleston divides her book into
sections, her time perhaps the Uni-
versity vacation into units and keeps
to a strict schedule.
Miss Heney has a firm idea that she is
writing what she calls “women's books.”
“Think of the 10 authors you yourself
would take to a desert island,” she com-
manded. “I think you will find that
most of them are by women.” She her-
self would put Elizabeth Bowen at the
top of her list, which would, of course,
include lane Austen.
Miss Heney suspects that in her ex-
periences as an almoner and in UNRRA
lies the material for best-selling novels.
But she will not write them. “A novelist
cannot go outside his climate,” she said.
“1 discovered that for myself when I
did a biography of Strzelecki. I realised
when I was working on it that he was
a second-rate person, but I kept going.
I should have abandoned it there and
then because he no longer interested
me.”
Miss Heney feels that when the urge,
or the capacity to write fiction leaves her
she will turn to history.
“I feel that in Macquarie, Macarthur,
some of our early people, we have stories
which are so engrossing that you simply
should not be able to put them down,
she said. “Yes, I know. But I find that
I can put Malcolm Ellis down. Quite
often. Another thing that interests me
is why did so many of those people go
mad?”
If Miss Astley were going to the
peace and quiet of a desert island, she
might have Nabakov at the top of her
reading list. "Currently I am very much
interested in him,” she said. “And
Durrell, although a lot of Durrell is
pretentious rubbish. But 10 years ago it
might have been Graham Greene. Even
Virginia Woolf. Perhaps I could still
read A Room of One’s Own’ once a
year, but I couldn’t read ‘The Voyage
Out’ now.”
Miss Astley was poet before novelist,
ut no longer writes poetry. “But
1 t intens ely interested in style,” she
said. “I am not interested just in what
appens, but in how the novelist sees
| ■ dislike those loe-meets-Mary, loe-
mves-Mary sort of Australian novels.
f ° U .. now > the old Vance Palmer sort
or thing.
Wmf , rei^ em ber first reading Patrick
on/ Tree °f Man.’ I had read
y e first page when I said to myself
nere ls someone who cares’.”
THE STRAIGHT MAN
IN THE TEAM
"People don't laugh as easily as they used to"
By CHARLES SRIBER
I found Edgar Bergen at the Chevron
Hilton Hotel, surrounded by his
creations, which sometimes seem to
have become better known than their
creator. Sitting on a suitcase on the
floor was Charlie McCarthy, the doll
whose wisecracks and frankly insulting
comments delighted me and millions like
me during the war. Mortimer Snerd,
that deceptive rustic with the moronic
expression and cheerful tolerance of life,
was curled up opposite. Effie Klinker
was visible only as a bundle of out-
rageous dress material in a third case.
Edgar Bergen doesn’t make so many
appearances these days. He doesn’t need
to. Real estate investments have set him
up nicely. What, then, had brought him
to Sydney?
“It was a challenge,” he said. “I’ve
enjoyed making people laugh for years.
I'm still doing it. Yes, it has become
harder. Twenty years ago, during the
war, people laughed more easily. Nowa-
days they don't seem to have the fun
they used to.” He conceded times might
be just a little more wearing, but main-
tained there was plenty to laugh about.
“People should be able to laugh at them-
selves,” he said, “when you can’t do that
it’s bad.”
He doesn't stop at making them laugh.
I asked him about the Bergen Founda-
tion. “It’s a foundation to help student
nurses get through their courses,” he
said. “I advance them the money pro-
vided they are qualified to attend a col-
lege and can’t make it financially.
“It all began one night years ago
when I was asked to play at a very elab-
orate charity dinner-dance in Holly-
wood. It was for a milk-for-babies fund
as I remember. After the show I asked
the secretary of the younger set organis-
ing it how they had made out. She told
me she was delighted they had broken
better than even.”
A distrust of charity affairs that spent
more money than they made led him to
consider direct action. “A young nurse
I knew had been given a heifer by her
family to finance her way through col-
lege,” Bergen said. “The heifer died and
the girl came to me in tears. I advanced
her the money and she got through her
studies and paid me back. I thought:
‘Why not set up a foundation to loan
money without interest to nursing stu-
dents?’ That’s what I did and more
than 400 have gone through, as well as
a few doctors.”
As he tells it, Edgar Bergen’s story is
pretty much that of any stage-struck lad
who persevered and made good. His
parents came from Sweden as young-
sters and operated a dairy in Chicago,
moving to Decatur, Michigan, when
young Edgar was in fourth grade. When
he had reached seventh grade he had
begun giving his classmates bird sounds
and imitations of unusual voices. He
later took a job playing the piano as
background to silent films. Like many
a boy he was intrigued by ventriloquism.
Unlike others he persevered and began
sketching pictures of his proposed first
dummy. He modelled him on a young
Irish newsboy who shouted the head-
lines and had a cheeky answer for any-
one who spoke to him.
Edgar Bergen and Charlie McCarthy
plunged into that bygone colorful world
of vaudeville, played all over the United
States, Britain and Sweden, where he did
his act in Swedish. He first became a
“name” in America at one of Elsa Max-
well’s parties in the mid-’thirties.
Through Charlie McCarthy he heckled


the aloof Noel Coward and that was the
beginning of his success.
“I’m always asked,” Bergen said,
“whether I actually throw my voice.
People think I use the dummy to dis-
tract attention and then it’s simply a
matter of speaking without moving the
lips.
“Well, I prefer to call what I do voice
diffusion. You know the term ventrilo-
quist comes from the word ‘venter’ or
belly.” He began to talk with a low-
pitched but perfectly intelligible voice
that emanate'd approximately from his
stomach. “Now Charlie’s voice is
higher,” he added, showing how.
“Animals practise this voice diffusion.
Take the chickadee, that’s a bird you
can never spot from the sound he makes.
It seems to come from several places.
There are other birds and animals who
use it. Canada has a rabbit which prac-
tises sound diffusion.
“I’d never studied much about ven-
triloquism and then the ‘Encyclopaedia
Britannica’ people asked me to write a
chapter on it. I began to look into it
and found it’s been used as far back as
ancient Greek times. The priests used to
throw their voices with the aid of tubes
so that it appeared as though the stone
gods in the temples were talking.”
TURNING THE TOURIST TIDE
More than a trickle for America
By KATHERINE RANDERSON
14 recent months a strong attempt
has been made to divert the tide
of Australians which each year
flows in the direction of Europe so that
more than a trickle of them gets to
North America. The prime mover in
this is, of course, the year-old United
States Travel Service, but shipping com-
panies, such as P and O-Orient (gamely
surviving such mishaps as their ships
coming into collision with aircraft-
carriers and catching fire at sea) and
Qantas. These companies also want to
get more people to cross the Pacific, but
not, of course, at the expense of their
European traffic.
It seems an optimistic undertaking to
get all those young girls sitting over
seafood cocktails at Prince’s or Romano’s
to talk about Mount Rushmore instead
of the Spanish Steps, to get middle-aged
mums and dads enthusiastic about the
prospect of going across 48 states by
Greyhound bus in 99 days for 99 dol-
lars, instead of through 14 countries of
Europe in four weeks by Global.
The Americans are by no means the
only ones trying to lure the Australian
tourist. Until about a year ago the
United Kingdom with its British Holiday
and Travel Association was the only
country with an office in this country
entirely devoted to persuading people
to go there.
Then President Kennedy authorised
the US Travel Service as a Government-
level project and one of the first appoint-
ments was Mr Charles McGee to Syd-
ney. Since then India, Japan, Hong
Kong, France and South Africa have
all set up travel offices here (all in Syd-
ney, except India, which chose Mel-
bourne) or have appointed someone to
promote tourism in their countries on
an official level. It has also been strongly
suggested that the Russians intend to set
up an office of Intourist here, but no-
thing has happened yet.
Mr McGee is at present in Washing-
ton, with other directors of the service’s
bureaux, presenting his first annual re-
port. He said before he left for America
that the Australian response to the
bureau’s first publicity campaign had been
“overwhelming,” although not, of course
greater than the bureau had hoped for.
The bureau had so far discovered that
what most Australians wanted to see in
America was Los Angeles, which meant
only Hollywood and Disneyland, the
Grand Canyon, Niagara Falls and the
Rockies. The Rockies, however, were
the Canadian Rockies. “The Canadians
have done such a good job publicising
their Rockies that no one will believe
we even have any,” he said.
Mr McGee said that many tourists
had little idea of the distances involved
and sometimes expected to see the West
Coast, the Grand Canyon and Niagara
Falls in, say, three days.
The first part of the bureau’s job is to
keep the trade informed of what is hap-
pening in the United States of interest to
tourists. Then the bureau makes a public
approach, by direct advertising, lectures
and talks to various groups. Businessmen
who are already going to the United
States are the first target and the travel
service modestly hopes to persuade them
to stay longer, see more and perhaps
take their family with them as well.
After that, the service hopes to get
through to the “younger people” and, if
time and money stretch far enough,
right down to the schoolchildren.
Although the United States wants to
attract “younger people” Mr McGee
said there may be some slight apprehen-
sion in official circles about enterprising
young Australians, particularly girls,
who have over the past generation man-
aged to organise for themselves working
holidays in practically every civilised
country. “Fortunately it is not my
worry”, he said, “the immigration autho-
rities will have to look after that one
The general plan for most of the pel
travel bureaux, which are in Frankf™
Paris, London, Tokio, as well as Sydney |
is much the same. However, Australia!
has yet another source of tourists mj
tapped the large numbers of Austral
lians already in Europe, most of who®
do eventually return home. The Ameri-
cans hope to persuade as many of these
as possible to return home via America;
It is here that the US Travel Services
endeavors are slightly at variance will
P and O-Orient’s campaign. P and 0-
Orient went into the Pacific a couple
of years ago. It has now an averages
one sailing a month from Sydney to the
West Coast of the US. However, its
loadings are pretty consistently better
from the United States to Australia than
in the opposite direction. The P and 04
Orient, then, is more anxious to tali'
people into going to Europe via Amer-j
ica, or going to America anyhow, than;
it is in persuading them to come home
that way.
The development of the North Ame-'
rican trade has placed P and O-Orient
in the position of being in a buyer’s!
market pretty well for the first time
since the war. In the past 20 years the
company has regularly replaced ships
and brought its methods up to date inj
various ways, but there is no doubt that;
in the back of its mind was a fairly strong
belief that the supply of Australians;
wanting to go to Europe and the supplyj
of people from Europe wanting to come*
and live in Australia might never dry up,t
The P and O-Orient has recently!
finished its “American Adventure,” a
pilot campaign conducted in NSW. Com-
pany representatives visited a number of
country centres where they spoke to
hundreds of possible tourists to the
United States. They emphasised the
points about the United States that the;
US Travel Service emphasises that it*
is now easier to get visas, dollars and
inexpensive internal travel there hut
stressed that P and O-Orient itself offers
a wide variety of fares and that the com-
pany’s ships in the Pacific service ha« (
a total capacity of about 12,000 first
and tourist class passengers.
So far, most P and O-Orient travel toy
the United States has involved only cer-
tain classes of travellers. These were
often nurses, teachers and secretaries,
who generally went to Canada to wort
and later visited the United States a*;
tourists and scholars. The flow ofi
scholars is seasonal. Some are university
people on sabbatical leave and other*
are younger students taking up scholar
ships in the United States.
“American Adventure” was an at-
tempt to get out among the W
“general” type of tourists —the honey
mooner, the retired couple and W
persuade them to cross the Pacific, j


FOR ALL. TRAVEL
CONSULT . . .
MACDONALD HAMILTON t CO. PTY. LTD.
Accredited Agents for:
• The major shipping companies of the world.
• All airlines—domestic and international.
• The leading motor tour companies in Australia, New
Zealand, North America, United Kingdom and Europe.
• Hotels throughout Australia and the world.
We offer expert advice and assistance for passports and
other formalities and deliver tickets within the city area.
These services are entirely free of charge.
N.S.W.: 4 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone 25 1901. QLD.: 193 Mary Street, Brisbane. Telephone
31 0221. 279 Kent Street, Maryborough. Telephone 2497. Quay Street, Bundaberg. Telephone 34.
VIC.: 311 Collins Street, Melbourne. Telephone 62 3281.
SPORTING NOTIONS
WHO WANTS
"CLASSIC" CRICKET?
The critics can stay in the 19305, the
public like cricket as it is
By DISCUS
I hope the Fourth Test will be as good
as the Third was, and that just as
many people will ignore the moaning
and caterwauling of the critics and enjoy
the game. Because, for heaven’s sake,
that’s what it is.
To hear about the Third Test, especi-
ally on and after the second day, you’d
have been sure it was one of the dullest
ever played. If so, the 50,000 people
who went to the Cricket Ground on the
Saturday, and the 40,000 who ignored
the critics on the Monday and spent
seven hours at the game, were all fools.
So were the 20,000 who went on the final
day, although they knew it would be a
very short session.
According to their professional men-
tors it was not Test standard cricket, it
was slow and dreary, all the batsmen
except Simpson were hopeless, Titmus
would have been belted to the fence by
any of the great batsmen, the scoring
rate was pure murder, Sir Donald Brad-
man was making the Australians nervous
—and generally it was not like old times.
Neither will the Fourth Test be, or the
Fifth.
I watched some of the Third Test from
the SCG “outer” and some from the
stands, and most of the spectators were
far too young to remember old times.
They were watching an England-Aus-
tralia Test in their time, and enjoying it.
Could be that the commentators have be-
come too old and reminiscent for their
present readers, listeners and viewers.
Could be they are no longer mentors but
tormentors.
It is now nearly 25 years since the
“golden age” of the ’3os, 16 years since
Sid Barnes and Donald Bradman top-
scored with 234 each in a Test, and 12
years since the best days of Arthur
Morris and Keith Miller. Similar ratios
apply to the legendary bowlers. And the
haze descends, and only the wonders of
the past shine through.
Gt riflemen, if you want to reminisce,
it was pretty damn boring to watch the
batsmen pile up some of those record
partnerships of the glory days, watching
“never get ’em out” bowlers working
tirelessly, or hopelessly, according to
their degree of heart, until time or the
pitch or the light got the batsmen out.
One-sided cricket can be sheer hell to
watch.
No one ever seems to have suggested
that it may have been then that the public
began to get sick and tired of the game,
even if the later period of trench-warfare
cricket finally crippled the patient. The
people who know their classic cricket
do not necessarily know their public,
which may not be as concerned about
the scoring rate as about the adventure
and excitement, or lack of them, which
mean the success or failure of any spec-
tator sport.
All that anyone can say, really, is that
something was killing cricket before and
until that magic potion from the West
Indies arrived. It could have been the
dour play of the 19505, or the fact that
a new generation of Australians saw
only four Test series in 10 years, with
a four-year gap between the 1954 and
1958 tours.
Two years later the West Indies played
the famous Brisbane Test against Aus-
tralia. In round figures, the WI team had
450, first innings, and Australia 500.
Then in the visitors’ second innings
Hunte, Smith, Sobers and Kanhai went
for 127, and now, please, switch your
mind to the recent Third Test.
If the West Indies batting collapse had
continued, their second innings would
have been a small one, and Australia
would have demolished them. No blaze
of glory, no excitement, no record crowds
for subsequent Tests. But Worrell and
Solomon dug in, and finally Australia
went in to bat with 310 minutes to make
the necessary 253 runs to win.
You may remember that it was a tie,
the first in Test history, and one of the
most exciting of all Tests. The big differ-
ences between it and the Third Test were
England’s lack of a Worrell or Solomon,
whereas Australia had had a Shepherd,
and the much chancier batting of the
West Indians. That’s the way they play
cricket, and the fact—in fact the chance
—that England had no gap stoppers in
that innings to compare with the West
Indies pair is the difference between the
critics’ praise and their condemnation.
It’s a thin line. That’s sport.
The 1963 Third Test was exciting
sport, for the spectators if not the experts,
with nothing certain during the first three
days. The experts should ask what does
the crowd want, and be answered—the
crowd wants sport. It no longer wants
classic cricket, if it ever did. It has never


demanded a run a minute. The Third
Test's .75 runs a minute will do, if the
game has some drama and balance and
wickets fall.
This may explain to some of our be-
mused Cassandras why “one of the
poorest teams England has sent to Aus-
tralia’’ managed to clear tour expenses by
the end of the Second Test and will be
crying all the way to the bank through
the other three.
As the series goes, this Fourth Test in
Adelaide can only add to the excitement,
and may bring the two teams back to
Sydney for the decider. The critics will
advise the customers that it hardly
matters who wins. And the Sydney
Cricket Ground will be jammed.
If that kind of thing continues in
cricket, all the Tests allotted to Sydney
will have to be played in Melbourne,
because suddenly the SCG is too small
and out of date. It’s an uncomfortable
place at 50,000 and intolerable at 60,000.
It has nowhere to grow but up, and its
Trust is not the kind likely to embrace
any modern ideas. It will close its eyes
and hope that “great” cricket will return,
with respectable crowds of 20,000 or so.
11/fEANWHiLE, I suggest the Trust should
realise that television has made Syd-
ney people aware of the sad deficiencies
of their scoreboard compared with Mel-
bourne s, which gives just about every
detail except the color of the bowler's
eyes. At the Sydney ground you cannot
tell how many overs he has bowled. If not
rolling in money from big gates and large
radio and television fees, the SCG Trust
surely has enough in hand to afford a
new scoreboard as well as new drinking
and lounging facilities for its members.
Television, strangely enough, is send-
ing people to cricket rather than keeping
them away. This cannot be blamed en-
tirely on the “last two hours of play” re-
striction, or the commentators who seem
unable to shut up and let the camera do
most of the work.
To quote my own experience, I was
dubious about the sports value of the
Third Test, thanks to newspaper com-
ment. An hour's television at the end of
the first day convinced me that I wanted
to see the game. I listened to an hour of it
on radio, the second day, and almost lost
interest. Heads were being shaken about
Neil Harvey’s batting (he was a young
contemporary of Morris and Miller, and
it's splendid to see him still capable of
making 64, however he does it), and the
bowlers were being written off as a
pussy-footed lot.
Reason won, and I went to the ground,
stayed till Harvey was out, after tea —and
incidentally after belting Trueman’s
bowling in the first over after tea so
hard that Trueman was immediately
taken off—and then hurried home to see
the rest on television and compare. No
comparison.
Television is much better than radio,
if you are at home and able to stand
still, for keeping up with the general
trend of the game. It can and often does
take you right to the crease for the bats-
man's stroke, but then it’s apt to lose the
ball and any quick action to retrieve it. I
heard from people who had merely seen
it on TV a repetition of the canard that
Sheppard “dropped” a catch from Harvey.
Watching from the “outer” a few yards
from the scene, we saw that Sheppard
misjudged the distance of the ball, and
was not sufficiently agile to recover his
mistake. He was a good 10 yards from
the ball when it hit the ground. Tele-
vision also provides such horrible ex-
periences as bearing with a set of three
advertisements and then finding the cam-
eras showing Norman O'Neill walking;:
back to the pavilion.
But the commercials are minor,
hazards. Televised cricket is limited inj
movement and you feel constantly aware,
of its two-dimensional properties. Worst;;
of all, you miss the crowd, and unless[
you happen to be a misanthrope you
miss much. One of the Third Test’s critics:
described how little he enjoyed watch-
ing it from the Sheridan Stand apron,
surrounded by elderly drunks whose coni'
ments and curses troubled him.
This was not my experience. I was ;
surrounded by spectators mostly aged be-
tween 18 and 25, many wearing district;
club caps, and mostly keenly aware of
what was happening on the ground, and
appreciative of every touch that added to:
the value of the game, as a game. A ft"'
a very few, carried and listened to tran-
sistor radios, mostly for laughs.
I enjoyed the Third Test. So, I
lieve, did the other 170,000 who sa"
parts of it on various days. I’m sorry f°l
the experts who found it such a sau
occasion. j


IN THE
MOULD
A SHORT STORY
BY M. E. UPWARD
Bedville had, as he called it,
mellowed with the years . . .
A week after Bedville’s fiftieth
birthday his wife Norah went
on a holiday and now, nine
months later, people tactfully had
stopped asking when she would be
home. It was accepted that the Bed-
villes had parted. This happened to be
true in a curious way—there had been no
mutual withdrawal, no agreement —you
might almost say no disagreement.
In any case, no words. Bedville stayed
static while his wife packed her best
clothes and, under the pretext of going to
visit her sister, drove off in the bigger
car. She then wrote that she was not
coming back.
It was as though the fiftieth anniversary
had triggered her off with the reminder
that soon she, too, would be fifty and
then—well God knows what!
After sulking a while Bedville was re-
lieved. He was bored with his wife’s con-
versation and also her sullen silences. He
was bored with her looks, her clothes,
her smell, her cooking, her music (she
liked modern classics) and, more than
anything else, he was bored by her
critical outlook which was intellectual,
perfectionist, extreme. Once Bedville
himself had been hypercritical but had,
as he called it, mellowed with the years.
The constant exchange of analysis, defini-
tion and judgment began to make him
uneasy, then sour. After twenty years
it made him sick.
Letting his home and moving into an
hotel suite, Bedville revelled in the plea-
sure of working unquestioned any hour
°f the night, the quietness, and the ex-
cellent valet service. But after a few
months he began to sense certain loose
ends. He found himself often summon-
ing junior executives for conference in
his sitting-room at night. Sensitive
er| ough, he recognised this for the ex-
pedient it was and sometimes felt resent-
ment in the air. The men whom socially
e knew were married and family men.
n analysis it seemed that a man in his
position needed one or more women
riends. He was not thinking nonsense
a . out s ex, for which he had almost lost
e habit. If the big double bed in his
room suggested anything at all it was a
vague recollection of inert maternal
warmth. To feel a warm arm beneath
his hand, to pay little courtesies to a
woman were all he needed to round out
an otherwise satisfactory routine.
He began to look around and, since
he orbited mainly between his work and
the hotel, Miss Ellis took his eye.
Miss Ellis, the only woman accountant
in his firm, was clever, capable and
serene. She wore varied, well-cut suits,
removing the jacket at work to disclose
an embloused bosom beautifully girlish
for her age, which was forty. She had
rich hair, purplish brown, and a warm-
tinted hairless skin. Her wry little one-
sided smile was curiously intimate. She
was aware of him, he knew. Just lately,
for instance, she had taken to wearing
embroidery on her blouses and was care-
less (though still refined) when she
leant across his desk. Bedville was not
hurrying but he had Miss Ellis in mind.
Bedville had multiple interests and
the companies he directed in lesser or
larger degree were grouped in one seven-
storey building his own firm owned. One
day Bedville went down to the fifth
floor for a private word with a colleague,
but found him out. The office, in fact,
was given over to a party which was
both Christmas party, he learned, and a
farewell party to the secretary who was
leaving to be married.
Bedville hung in the doorway dazzled
by the unexpected scene —the Christmas
tree, tinsel decorations, bottles of liquor
and the girls’ legs, long and silky, hang-
ing from office desks. Coatless, his silk
shirt-sleeves rolled up and his tie loosen-
ed in the informality of a hot day, Bed-
ville appeared unusually approachable.
A daring young woman invited him in
and a minute later he was sitting on the
reception couch sipping beer beside a
fair girl whom, with one quick glance, he
identified as the most beautiful he had
ever seep.
Bedville had never before been so
close, or spoken to, this kind of girl.
He had passed them in the street, seen
them across hotel lounges, observed
their photographs in magazines. He had
noted, amused, the masks now worn
made of black lines on eyelids and
strange pale paint on their mouths, mys-
terious, alluring. When the girl turned
her face to him he felt a shock of de-
light in the clearness of pale green eyes
shining from the mask. The face was
angelic, the skin absolutely pure.
“I’m so glad you came to our party,”
she said in a social, slightly nasal voice.
Her name was Sharon, she said.
“I’d forgotten about Christmas,” Bed-
ville said.
“Oh, now!” Her remarkable eyes were
full of disbelief.
“It’s a fact.” He put himself in her
place and added, “But I suppose you’re
looking forward to a break.”
“I’ll say!” She leant back luxuriously,
crossed her legs and balanced a glass on
both hands just under her chin.
With children you asked
they were in what they wanted to do
when they grew up. Bedville fought off
an impulse to ask about her work for
obviously the exquisite creature fitted
somehow into the office framework. Her
hands, he noticed, were stained and had
Mandarin nails.
“What are you going to do?” she
asked.
“Do?” Bedville gave the question
serious thought. “I think I’ll just have
a good rest.”
“That’s nice,” she said politely. She
looked at him. He was old, of course,


but not bad; rather distinguished in those
big horn-rims; tall and thin; an elegant
dresser too.
“What about you? What are you
going to do?”
“Oh swimming and driving around,
you know—nothing special.”
Ves, he could see her in a swimsuit,
a bikini no doubt, her young loose-
jointed hips and coltish legs cavorting
about on,the sand. Or in an open car
with her silver hair streaming back from
her lovely face in the sun and wind.
“There’s a movie I’m dying to see,
with Brigitte Bardot. Have you seen that
yet?”
“No, I haven’t. Isn’t she the . . . ?”
“That's right. Italian. But the movie's
in English, thank goodness I can’t stand
those foreign films.”
“Neither can I,” said Bedville. This
was true.
“And I'll lay in every morning with
a book,” she said, looking suddenly
serious.
“Are you fond of reading?”
“Oh yes, I am.”
This was better. Bedville knew about
books although for some time he had
read mainly the reviews He felt on the
verge of ease and intimacy, prepared to
understand the charm for her of books
he probably would despise.
“What’s your favorite reading?”
“Oh, I like Vogue and Movie Life,
and the stories in the Women’s Weekly
are sometimes very good.”
“Oh.” Bedville felt momentarily de-
pressed because lately he had invested
in a run-down publishing business.
“But I don't know about Christmas
Day.” The girl frowned. “That might
be pretty dull.”
“Why?”
“Well you know how it is on Christ-
mas Day. Everyone's got somewhere to
go, the old folks at home and all that
stuff. It makes things dull.”
He looked at her questioningly.
“My family’s way up in the bush,
the back of beyond,” she explained. She
described to him what Christmas was
like in the bush—the dust and heat and
flies; and really nothing to do but eat
and sleep.
“I have a room with a girl-friend.
She wanted me to go home with her
but I'd just as soon not bother. It’s way
out somewhere, you have to go by train
and it’s really no fun out there.”
Bedville was silent. The girl’s insist-
ence on fun appealed to him. Too many
people accepted the humdrum and
dreary as a matter of course. He won-
dered whether he could ask her to have
dinner with him at the hotel, in the pub-
lic dining-room of course—and whether
that would fit into her category of fun.
The question filled him with an almost
sickening agitation.
On the other hand he wanted (and
here was the chance) to break out of
the mould of his twenty years’ marriage
the mould , of refinement, discrimina-
tion and intellectual taboos. Thoughts on
the fitness of things, dangerous ages and
of pop-eyed lechers in “Esquire” came
to mind and he grimaced. Tags and
images, the curse of a self-conscious era,
were all part of the mould. Clearly the
breaking of it needed an act of faith.
“Why don’t you come and have
Christmas dinner with me at my hotel?”
“Really?” She turned right around
from the hips and appraised him
thoroughly. Then her lips curved in a
radiant smile. “Gee, that would be
lovely. Look, have another beer. Take
mine I really don't like it, you know.”
Bedville accepted humbly this gesture
of acceptance and emptied the glass. He
had a sudden wish to reach out and
stroke gently the cream velvet cheek;
almost the confidence too.
HThe Christmas carols had stopped and
A now a lively tune burst from the
transistor on a desk. “Little Baby,” sang
the vocalist, “da, da, dee dum.” The girl
became vibrant.
“Oh, lovely, that’s the Ding-Dongers,”
she cried.
“Do you like jazz?” asked Bedville
indulgently.
She made a comical face. “That old
stuff!”
“Oh, now. But you must.”
“Why?”
“I don’t know—l thought you all did
—all you bright young things.”
“Well I don't. It's old-fashioned. Be-
sides, what can you do to it? That’s what
I always say.”
Bedville shrugged, confused.
A young man in excessively narrow
trousers and a thin purple tie came up
and grabbed the girl’s hands.
“Come on, Shar,” he commanded.
She sprang up laughing and in a
minute the pair were twirling and twist-
ing and bending frantically in the few
square yards of space. Her brief skirt
bellied out above her knees. Her face
was solemn, tranced.
Bedville watched with amazement. He
was also embarrassed for the girl, show-
ing her loveliness (as he thought) to
such disadvantage. Then gradually he
became conscious of his peculiar position
alone on the couch in a strange office
among a lot of rollicking youngsters,
experiencing the sensations of a wall-
flower.
He rose and, smiling stiffly, handed his
glass to a fat girl who shrugged and
tipsily rolled her eyes. Making doddery
little patting motions in the air designed
to soften his exit with benediction he
eased himself out the door. Going up
in the lift he had this image of himself
—deprecating, elderly, benign. He p ass I
ed into his washroom, washed with slow
thoroughness, settled his glasses hard t
back on the bridge of his nose, fixed his I
tie, put on his coat which, expensiveM
tailored, fitted perfectly his thin rounded
shoulders, glanced at himself severely in
the mirror and walked into the corridor
Simultaneously Miss Eilis popped out
of her office. She transferred the pinf
towel she carried into her left hand and
advanced with her right hand out-
stretched.
“Merry Christmas, Mr. 8.,” she said,
smiling.
He grasped her hand and looked into I
her face. It was a pleasing face, noli
beautiful but “pretty enough,” in the;
words that sometimes long ago he had
used to reassure his wife. Miss Ellin
today wore a double-chiffon pale grey
blouse with a ruffle standing up around
the throat and edging the cuffs. It was
elegant, discreet. Miss Ellis’s smile, too,
struck just the right note of friendly
sophistication. He realised he was hold-
ing Miss Ellis's hand rather too long,
almost clinging in fact.
“Wait, there’s something 1 wanted to
ask you,” Bedville said in a serious tone,
“What about the old folks at home?"
“Why, what do you mean, Mr. B?"
“Christmas and all that. I mean, what
are you doing for Christmas?”
“Oh that!”
A tiny spiral of smoke then appeared
above Miss Ellis's head —at least it
should have appeared, for in a twinkling
she had made a burnt sacrifice of her
most devoted friend who (possibly at
that very moment) was out buying the
broiler chicken for their little festive
feast.
“It’s just too unlucky. 1 was to spend
the day with my friends at Vaucluse but
their kiddies, poor pets, have all come
down with measles so the party's off.
I think I shall just go to bed and stay
there all day.”
“Oh, no! Look, my dear, why dont
you give me the pleasure of your com-
pany at my hotel?”
It was said and he was at ease: even
rather happy.
Miss Ellis now wore a new expression.
which, at the same time, seemed
vaguely familiar. The downcast eyes,
faint smile, and the forefinger smoothing
one eyebrow reminded him of his
concealing the intensity of her pleasure
in meeting someone whom greatly she
admired.
And when in persuasion he grasped
her arm just above the elbow, his finge fS
remembered too.
Miss Ellis’s name was Elaine.
must keep that in mind —for goodness
sake not go calling her Norah!


N x
iu
1
H
M
" *£ %
V*
I ? 9sm
m
1
%
v. i
m
r 'r'*<■■!* ** '
Mi
y y
m
SBMmHi
:.e:i
<r
Eyecatching and practical
new packaging is helping to
win big export markets for
many Australian manufac-
our export sales!
turers ... new markets from
Colombo to Covent Garden
.. . from Brazil to Bangkok.
A.P.M. is playing a vital part
in this expansion. This true
Australian company not only
supplies the quality paper-
board that's needed, but also
offers up-to-the-minute know-
how and new ideas needed to
create sales-winning protec-
tive packaging.
m
%
AUSTRALIAN PAPER
MANUFACTURERS LTD
OWNED BY A USTRALIANS
lArsato!


THE PAGE MEMOIRS
MY 19 DAYS AS PRIME MINISTER
This second instalment of the late Sir Earle Page's forthcoming
political memoirs, "Truant Surgeon", deals with his period as Prime
Minister after the death of J. A. Lyons, his attempts to prevent
R. G. Menzies becoming Prime Minister, his unsuccessful negotiations
to bring S. M. Bruce back to Australia as leader of a National Govern-
ment, and the formation of the first Menzies Government.
By SIR EARLE PAGE
Those nineteen days in April, 1939,
were packed with interest and ex-
citement, imposing great nervous
strain on all concerned. They were also
days of intense political activity behind
the scenes.
My own position was difficult. Should
Menzies be elected leader of the UAP,
I could not recommend the Country
Party to place itself in pawn with the
Prime Minister who, I felt, would not
achieve that stability in government ne-
cessary for an effective approach to the
pressing problems of approaching war.
My view was that the death of Lyons
presented an opportune time to secure a
National Government. My conviction
that such a Government was necessary
dated from my return from London in
October, 1938, and I was certain it
would emerge, as it was to emerge in
Britain. About a week before his death
Lyons had, in fact, made tentative
suggestions for a ministerial combina-
tion from all parties. Though he had
my support, Curtin rejected the over-
tures.
However, as we left Lyons’s graveside
after the funeral in Devonport, Tas-
mania, Curtin told me he was prepared
to support a Government led by me till
the effluxion of that Parliament, which
had some eighteen months to run. His
only condition w'as that I should not
introduce conscription. I replied that I
would think the matter over but that I
had an instinctive aversion to being
either the head or any part of a Govern-
ment which lacked its own majority in
Parliament. Such a Government W'ould
be entirely at the mercy of its outside
support and might be subjected to in-
tolerable demands for specific action by
pressure groups. Curtin replied that, in
his own opinion, the only thing worse
than a Government composed of two
parties was one composed of three.
Nevertheless, as I was completely con-
vinced of the necessity of a National
Government I determined to seek a
leader who could weld political forces
together and marshal Australian re-
sources and opinion in a unified ap-
proach to those problems. My thoughts
inevitably turned to S. M. Bruce, whose
wide political experience as Prime
Minister, Resident Minister in London
and High Commissioner to the United
Kingdom, qualified him for national
leadership in the current crisis. His
intimate knowledge of Empire affairs,
his extensive personal contacts with
leaders of thought in Britain and other
Earle Page
From The Bulletin, October 9, 1929.
parts of the Empire, his experience of
politics, industry, and commerce, and
the fact that he was removed from the
bickerings and disputes of the Aus-
tralian parliamentary scene, naturally
suggested him as the ideal figure to
fulfil this exacting role.
Bruce had recently been in Australia
conferring with the Lyons Government
and was then on his way to London via
America to resume his duties as High
Commissioner. I therefore announced
publicly that I would be prepared to
resign from my own seat of Cowper
to facilitate his re-entry into the ParliJ
ment. On 12th April, 1939, I cablj
Bruce at Los Angeles in the follow®
terms:
As you can understand Lyons
sudden death has left political com
plications which in my opinion shonli
be solved, if a solution is practicable
at the earliest possible date.
I think that the only way in whit!
an election can be avoided is for ytl
to return to Australian politics i|
UAP ranks. No need to stress to yc-J
how important it is to have in porn
Government which has confidence d
whole people and co-operating whole
heartedly with Britain.
Personally, I would be prepared!
resign from Cowper to enable y#
enter Parliament immediately. GW
urgent advice your ideas and whethe:
proposal acceptable to you. Regards
In reply Bruce cabled:
Greatly appreciate offer but I wouli
not entertain the suggested resignatiot
Following are my views. I am no
prepared to return to politics
member of any political party.
Seriousness of situation and news
sity for united nation if you and Case;
after necessary consultation decide
could materially assist this and safe
seat available to which I could t
elected immediately as independent;
would be prepared to return Austral*
and enter Parliament. This decision
dependent on you and Casey bei'i
prepared join me in that event of®!
having to form Government and u
your being satisfied in such an event!
would have the support of y c *
respective parties.
R. G. Casey was fully in accord will
my point of view. He consented to j Ol
me in a radio-telephone conversant
with Bruce on the morning of $
April, the day on which decisive
Lngs of both the Country Party and It
United Australia Party were schedule
Because of the political and history
interest of this and subsequent convex
tions, and the speculation that has s’*
rounded these events, the transcript


the conversation, taken by a steno-
grapher, are quoted in full.
The conversation of 18th April was as
follows:
Bruce: My point is that I am not
prepared to come back and go into
party politics. If there is a real
demand from the people and all
parties, I would be prepared to form
a Government on the basis that, in
the national crisis, I am asked for by
all parties. That I should be in a
position to ask the Labor Party or
anyone I wished to work in my Gov-
ernment and it would not cut across
any particular section.
Casey: I had not up to the present
thought of anything but a straight-
forward invitation from the UAP and
Country Party for you to return to
Australia and re-enter politics, and
that there had been a demand from
both parties that you come back to
help the Government, and that
preparations were in hand for you to
contest a seat and immediately assume
office.
Bruce: I do not know that it would
be wise to commit yourself as to how
it is all going to be done at the
moment. 1 think we might keep to
this point. That you and Page have
been in touch with me, you have put
the question up to me, and I would be
prepared to return to Australia and
go into politics, and that I have said
I would be prepared, but that 1 am
not prepared to affix myself to any
party.
Casey: Just what does that mean
exactly?
Bruce: I am not prepared to come
back and say I would be coming back
as a member of the UAP. If there is
a national crisis and there is a demand
for me to help, I would be prepared
to come back, and if the people elect
me I am prepared to go into Parlia-
ment, and 1 am prepared, if it so falls
necessary, to form a Government, but
1 am not prepared to accept the
position where there has to be a
certain number of seats allotted to a
particular party. I am not prepared
to accept the idea of my followers
meeting in separate parties. If the
Country Party likes to meet on its
own, they can do so in their own
room, but when they meet me, I
would insist that my followers have to
meet me. I absolutely won’t look at
the thing on the basis of coming back
3s the leader of any particular section.
I am quite prepared to come back if
a seat is found for me in Parliament,
and I am prepared to do this only on
he basis that I appeal for support to
anybody to come into mv Govern-
ment. That is the thing that is the
a solute condition of my coming back.
Page: With regard to this last
position, which really is, I think, the
crux of the whole position, do I
nderstand that you would be pre-
pared to come back if there were an
absolutely safe seat found for you
immediately and that you would to
some extent take your chance of later
being able to form a Government on
the lines you suggest? We could not
commit so far ahead in that way. We
could not say now that under those
conditions we could absolutely cer-
tainly ensure that you would form a
Government. I think it would be a
million to one chance that the public
would demand it, and I am satisfied
we can find a seat for you under those
conditions, but personally I think that
the attitude you take of being willing
to take a chance in that connection
would strengthen your hold on the
people, would strengthen the possibil-
ity of getting the whole nation behind
you
Bruce: That is my attitude, Page.
That I would be prepared to come
back and that I am prepared to say
I will come back and go into politics
if a seat can be found that will accept
me without my pledging myself as a
R. G. Menzies
From THE BULLETIN, May 28, 1941
supporter of any party. As to what
the future may hold, I do not ask for
any guarantee or anything else.
Page: Under those circumstances,
it seems to me that the right course
would be to proceed along the lines
of electing the leader of the UAP, but
to have in mind that such a leader
would be prepared to accept the con-
ditions that you laid down now. I
myself unreservedly accept them as
leader of the Country Party. It seems
to me that in the UAP room a leader
ought to be chosen there who would
be prepared to act likewise. At any
rate, they ought to be given an
opportunity of electing a leader of
that character.
Bruce: It boils down to this, that
at the moment I am the High Com-
missioner in London. You told me
of all that. I said, “Yes, I am pre-
pared if I am acceptable to any
electorate to return to Australian
politics,” and because of that my plans
have been altered. I am returning to
Australia. I am still High Com-
missioner and if it works out that a
seat can be found, I am prepared to
accept it, but it would have to be
entirely dependent on how the situa-
tion works out.
Page: We will have to think this
thing out. I think the right course will
be for the UAP to have the matter
before them and postpone the election
of a leader until they have had time to
consider this. Where will you be in
the next two or three days and when
are you reaching America?
Bruce: I can get a cabin on the
same boat I came over in, which
leaves on the 25th April and I get to
Australia on 15th May. It is
imperative that I see the President in
Washington and I am leaving here for
there tomorrow night [Tuesday night
10 p.m. Los Angeles time eighteen
hours behind Sydney time]. Until
then you can ring me at the Biltmore
Hotel, Los Angeles.
Casey: We have our party meeting
in an hour or so this morning. I
would propose to read them out a
summary of what we have been say-
ing this morning. It is essential that
there is no possibility of doubt in any-
one’s mind as to the position. Page
can answer now presumably for his
party, but nobody can answer for our
party until after our meeting today.
Then we will have to decide whether
we will elect a leader of the UAP in
the interim, and it would seem to me
that, if the party accept, as I would
tremendously hope they would, what
you have suggested, that the Govern-
ment should be carried on by Page in
the meantime. It is no good our
going through the mumbo-jumbo of
getting a UAP Prime Minister for six
weeks. Don't you think that is the
best thing to do?
Bruce: Yes, I think so. You can
go to your party and tell them that
you have been talking to me and that
if there is a feeling in Australia that
they want me to come back and lend
a hand, I am prepared to come back
and give any help to Australia in the
political arena, provided that I am
not hampered or hindered by being
tied to any semblance of party
politics.
Casey: You come back to be Prime
Minister if you come back at all?
Bruce: I do not make that a con-
dition. I have been told that I am
wanted to come back as a leader and
I am prepared to do that purely on
the terms that I am elected to a seat
not as a member of any party but as
a member of the National Parlia-
ment.
Casey: That point has got to be
cleared up. That will be cleared up,
presumably today, tomorrow or the
next day *—within three days.
From the above it is clear that Bruce
was prepared to return, but only on the


distinct understanding that he would be
free to seek the formation of a National
Government representative of all parties.
The Parliamentary Country Party met
at Canberra on the afternoon on 18th
April, immediately following the con-
versation with Bruce. In view of hostile
comment at the time and the garbled
versions published then and sub-
sequently, it is desirable to refer to the
actual minutes of the meeting and the
official accounts of decisions reached by
Country Party organisations in the days
which followed.
rpHERE was a full attendance. In addi-
tion to myself, Thorby, Hunter, Mc-
Ewen, Gregory, Paterson, Prowse,
Anthony, Badman, Thompson, Collins,
Fadden, and Nock were present from
the House of Representatives, with
Abbott and Cooper from the Senate.
After we had resolved to send a letter
of sympathy to Dame Enid Lyons, I
outlined the position which arose at the
Prime Minister’s death and the circum-
stances under which the Governor-
General issued to me a commission to
form a Government. I also gave the
Party an account of the negotiations
with Bruce following my offer to vacate
Cowper, with an intimation that Bruce,
while willing to return on specific con-
ditions, was unwilling to contest my seat.
As a result of the discussion that
followed, the meeting carried the unani-
mous resolution: “That in view of the
international position and the need for
a united national effort for defence and
development the Country Party unani-
mously approve of the suggestion for
Mr Bruce to return to Australia to form
a government with a Cabinet drawn
from all parties or members who are
willing to co-operate to that end.”
Prowse, Hunter, Paterson, Anthony,
Gregory, and Abbott expressed support
for the action taken in opening negotia-
tions with Bruce. Fadden, while agree-
ing to the motion, opposed my resigna-
tion from Cowper.
The following further resolution was
carried with the agreement of all: “That
in spite of past harmonious co-operation
in government with the United Australia
Party and a willingness to continue
similar co-operation to maintain stable
government, the Party is definitely un-
able to co-operate in a government with
the Hon. R. G. Menzies, KC, as its
Prime Minister; nor is it willing to give
any undertaking to support such a gov-
ernment if it be formed.”
The United Australia Party met the
same day to discuss the leadership.
Casey reported the proposals made to
Bruce and the High Commissioner’s
reaction. The party decided, none the
less, to proceed with the election of a
leader. W. M. Hughes was a strong con-
tender. R. G. Casey and T. W. White
were also contestants, but dropped out
from the ballot early. The first round
narrowed the field to Hughes and
Menzies. In the next count the majority
of the House of Representatives votes
went to Hughes, while Menzies secured
a majority from the Senators. In the
third ballot, Menzies defeated Hughes
by a narrow majority.
When the meeting ended Menzies
came to interview me about Country
Party co-operation. He specified that in
forming the Cabinet he desired the right
to pick his Country Party colleagues,
instead of accepting those nominated by
the Country Party leader. Menzies said
that he was not enthusiastic about
Bruce’s return, but would be willing to
give consideration to Country Party
R. G. Casey
From THE BULLETIN, March 25, 1942.
view-points on other matters of policy.
He also said that he was prepared to
defer National Insurance pending an in-
vestigation of the various parties and
bodies interested.
At this interview I told Menzies
categorically that neither I nor the
Country Party would serve under him.
That evening I reported Menzies’s
election and my discussions with him to
the reassembled meeting of the Country
Party. The minutes of the meeting
recorded that “the attitude of members
present was that we should not alter
the decision arrived at in the resolution
carried that afternoon.” These minutes
were confirmed on 19th April, 1939.
In a further conversation with Bruce
on 19th April, I reported progress. The
transcript follows:
Page: Yesterday at the UAP meet-
ing Menzies was chosen leader after
three ballots. He narrowly defeated
Hughes, and Casey and White dropped
out early. Subsequently they discussed
this question, which Casey put befor
them, but they failed to show mJ
enthusiasm. When Menzies came t 0
see me last night, I had already p Ut j (
to my own party, which was u nail j,
mously in favor of it —not a dissent
ing voice. I asked Menzies where hj
stood in regard to this matter of y oltt
return and although he did not m\
the thing out of court altogether,
was not at all enthusiastic. I believe
they were going to throw the thine
out in the UAP meeting, but ]
persuaded Casey to get the thing d e .
ferred; but I am sure within a
days there will be an irresistible
increase in the demand from the
public.
I told Menzies, of course, that I
won’t serve under him. I told him the
Country Party was unanimous in that
regard. This, of course, is an added
reason that I wish you to return,
I told the members of the Cabinet
before the meeting that that was the
position of the Country Party and that
it ought to be conveyed to Menzies
before the election of leader. I did
not wish to say it myself, because it
might seem as if I were wishing to
dictate to them who their leader
should be. There is now a move to
try and secure an election of the
leader of the Government by a vote
of the combined parties, in which it is
quite possible that some other mao
than Menzies would be chosen as the
head of the Government, which
would really conform more or less to
the type of Government which yon
were contemplating yourself.
Bruce: Whose suggestion was that!
Page: It had come from Casey and
is in Cameron’s mind and it has been
put to quite a number of people like
Spender. It is being canvassed today.
My party went rather far in their
statement when they carried a resolu-
tion regarding their refusal to co-
operate in a Government with
Menzies they also added that they
would not support a Government
which was led by him as UAP leader,
That is going to make Menziess
position rather difficult with the
Governor-General.
Bruce: Yes, it is. He really cannot
carry on. I am not clear about the
attitude of the UAP.
Page: I do not know that very
clearly. Casey can tell you better. 1
think the way Menzies had put it to
them is that, if they have to get a mao
who is not in Parliament, they are
admitting they are bankrupt of states-
manship, which is perhaps the truth
Bruce: Yes, I am very surprised
at the attitude. It does not seem to
me to be very clever.
Page: I agree. Though I refused to
join them, I am saying that I am pr e '
pared to accept a Government of this
sort. Not that I would be a candidate
I wouldn’t think of putting my s ®
up but it would give a semblanc 1


of a National Government and would
make possible what was in our minds.
Bruce: They are going to get them-
selves in wrong with public opinion.
Page: Yes, I do not see myself how
they are going to avoid that, because
I made it clear that you were only
coming on the non-party basis.
Bruce then asked for a radiogram of
the Country Party statement on 18th
April, and I read the statement to him.
Bruce: I entirely accept that.
Page: It is what was said to the
UAP. We had what you said taken
down by a shorthand-writer and Casey
had the exact terms read to the party
and I read it to mine.
Bruce: Then the attitude of Men-
zies and Hughes was really “Oh, to
hell with this”?
Page: No, I think Hughes might
possibly be right on this, but there is
no question about Menzies’s end. But
the position now is that Menzies has
been elected, although he has not got
a majority support in the party. It
took him three ballots to win and
there is no question in my mind that
he will lead everyone to political
suicide. The feeling of my fellows is
that they must take to the raft at once
rather than sink in the same boat
with him.
Bruce: Yes, I think you are right.
It is a most extraordinary position.
Page: If I were you, I would go
over to see the President.
Bruce: Well, Page, the position is
that I cannot see the President until
next Tuesday. If I go over then, I
shall not be able to get back for the
boat on the 25th. So what I am going
to do is to stay on this side until you
clear this thing up and then I will
either go to England and see the
President on my way or stay here and
take the boat back on the 25th.
Page: That is a very good thing,
because the rank and file of the UAP
are swinging about. You stay there
and we will get in touch with you
from time to time.
Bruce: I am going up to San
Prancisco to see that Fair. I will keep
you advised where you can get me on
the telephone.
The call was then switched over to
Mr Casey’s home.
I had already indicated to my fellow
misters and my Party that I would
re sign the Prime Ministership as soon
as UAP elected a leader. My
preference was to resign as Prime
mister and make a statement in
arhament in my capacity of Country
arty leader. The Country Party even-
lng meeting of 18th April supported this
procedure without dissent. But Curtin,
aiVe to the political possibilities of a
rst 'dass clash on the floor of the
House, declined to sanction an adjourn-
ment of Parliament to permit me to
discuss my resignation with the Gov-
ernor-General, without a full statement
of my reasons for the course 1 proposed.
I had no option but to move the
adjournment of the House on 20th April,
and state my reasons, as Prime Minister.
I was at pains to emphasize in my
speech that the change in the leadership
of the United Australia Party had
resulted in a change in the relationship
of the two Parties composing the
Government. Reviewing my experience
in composite Governments with both
Bruce and Lyons, I pointed out that a
governmental partnership must be based
on the fundamentals of loyalty to each
other, judgment and courage.
I then went on to the real basis of
Stanley M. Bruce
From THE BULLETIN, October 9, 1929
the trouble as it then seemed to me to
be, namely, whether Menzies’s public
record qualified him for the arduous
office of Prime Minister.
I made it clear that I was not wedded
to the selection of any individual as the
future leader of the Government. “As
leader of my own party,” I said, “I make
this offer on the floor of the House; if
the leaders of the three parties can agree
upon the choice of a national leader,
either from inside or outside Parlia-
ment, I shall be willing to serve under
him, and my party will be prepared to
co-operate in the administration of this
country under these conditions.” 1
This suggestion, however, was em-
phatically rejected by Curtin.
After the adjournment of the House
I waited on the Governor-General and
handed in my commission. I told him
that, as Curtin was leader of the largest
1. H. of R. Deb., vol. 159, pp. 16-17.
party numerically, the Governor-General
should see him, but that Menzies,
having been elected leader of the larger
non-Labour party, should be asked to
form a Government.
I carried on the Government until
the Menzies Ministry was sworn in on
26th April, 1939.
But in the interval I had not aban-
doned hope that Bruce would return to
Australia. I discussed the situation with
him further on 21st April relating briefly
the speeches in Parliament.
An extract of the transcript of this
conversation records:
Page: The papers have tried to
make a tremendous fuss about this
thing. My own feeling is that before
many weeks a very definite demand
will be made that Menzies and I
should resign from the leadership otS
our parties to enable a new man to
come along. My own feeling was to
avoid this thing being done. I dis-
cussed the question with the UAP
Ministers and told them exactly what
would happen before the election of
leader took place. There was only
one place I could give my reasons
publicly where they could be
answered.
Bruce: What was Menzies’s reply?
Page: He said on National Insurance
that it was a matter of principle on
which he resigned. He did not explain
what he is going to say when he has
to bring it before the House. He had
made no real attack on Lyons and had
explained the matter to Lyons at a
special party meeting which had been
called for that purpose.
Bruce: The UAP are so far apart.
Will Menzies be able to carry on?
Page: When 1 saw the Governor-
General I told him the position which
was then known to everybody. My
opinion was in the circumstances that
Menzies, having been elected leader,
was entitled to an opportunity to form
a Government, because if a UAP man
had been there on Mr Lyons’s death
he would have had a chance to name
the successor. I suggested the Gover-
nor-General should see Mr Curtin, as
he had the largest party numerically in
the House, and he should be allowed
to consider the position. I also told
him that the Country Party was pre-
pared to serve under another member
of the UAP, if necessary. I do not
know on what terms Menzies was given
the Commission as Cabinet will not be
sworn until next Wednesday. It seems
to me that the elements of trouble will
be tremendous. I would not like to be
in his position because the UAP have
only twenty-six members, one more
than a quorum.
Bruce: What is Mr Casey doing?
Page: He is just sitting back . . .
I have a personal regard for Menzies.
(Continued on page 27)


mm.
mmim
Wmmm
WmlM
m
m
i»Sillil i*i
mm
H|
TO
■
ggS&®£f»®SBSS!B^
m
SHI
■v-v
SWi
<3
•6
H
■■■
•••■'•■.
mmmi
\ m.
m «
: V;
*«s
?;&'£v§;£/
%<h \' : 1 ;■
;
m
mmmmmmts
P
Revolutionary” is the word for UNICHRQME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrorae
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
uni chrome


unichrome
Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Mandemar Avenue,
Home bush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
western Australia
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
NEW ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221 ucs
SATIN FINISH
EMBOSSED EFFECT
MULTI-COLOUR MOTTLE
SPATTER FINISH
I felt it had to be done and the only
straight and courageous thing to do was
to put it beyond any dispute.
The Government will be sworn in
on Wednesday and will be a UAP
Government. Menzies says that he will
co-operate with the Country Party
despite my speech.
Bruce: Was my name dragged into
it at all?
Page: I just mentioned that the
offer had been made by me, but you
were not discussed at all.
Bruce: I will go on to
and then to London.
Page: If the other people want you
they will have to get in touch with
you. I will tell Casey of this conversa-
tion and that you can be communi-
cated with if they want you. When will
you go on to Washington and London?
I wouldn’t let the berth go for a few
days because these people will not be
in before that.
Bruce: The boat sails next Tuesday,
but 1 could not go by then.
Page: You should start on your
way. I am sorry you are having such
a very worrying time. We should have
kept you while you were here. The
only reason why it has taken place is
because of the manner in which the
election ran and that was after three
exhaustive ballots, with no great dif-
ference between the voting for the
candidates.
Bruce: Well, I do not think there
is anything we can do in the matter.
I think your statement admirable and
understand perfectly what the position
was.
The rapidity with which these events
occurred and the complexity of the
cross-currents of politics frustrated our
plans. Bruce continued on his way to
London, there to perform distinguished
wartime services for Australia and the
Empire, which earned him entry to the
House of Lords as a royal recognition
of his work.
Menzies formed his Ministry and, as
I had prophesied, there followed a
period of turbulence, uncertainty, and
instability, which termined in the
election by Parliament in 1941 of a
Labor Government voted in with a
majority of one. At the following
general election of 1943, however. Labor
was returned with a substantial, clear
parliamentary majority which it held for
six years, covering in all eight years of
continuous office.
NEXT WEEK:
The Fall of Singapore and
the withdrawal of the AIF
to the Pacific


MOTORING
THE BIG
RACES
Motor racing has become the largest spectator
sport in the world
By BOADICEA
The Australian International Grand
Prix at Sydney’s Warwick Farm
circuit on February 10 is the
first of four big meetings to be held in the
Eastern States between February and
March.
Following Warwick Farm there is the
Lakeside International on the short undu-
lating course just north of Brisbane. Two
weeks later the venue is 1500 miles south
across the Bass Strait at Longford, out of
Launceston, where the racers bowl along
the smooth bitumen at 170 mph in the
South Pacific Championship. The final
event is on the weekend of March 10
at Melbourne’s Sandown Park, in con-
junction with that city's Moomba festi-
vities.
Motor racing has blossomed into the
largest spectator sport in the world;
250,000 people trek to Le Mans every
year for the 24-hour classic, and in Syd-
ney Warwick Farm draws bigger crowds
than cricket. Melbourne’s Albert Park
once had over 100,000 —more than a
football final crowd.
In Australia, where better than one in
four people own a motor car, there is a
ready-made pool of spectators. For what
motorist doesn't, at some time or other,
imagine himself a devil-may-care driver,
winning the race, the bullion and the
blonde? The introduction of the big inter-
national stars to Sydney by Warwick
Farm’s English entrepreneur, Geoffrey
Sykes, has given an impetus long lacking
to the sport in Australia.
Australia has racing stars of its own,
but with a few exceptions they are
normal, everyday citizens and only part-
time daredevils. The public has grown
accustomed to their names and faces,
which have dominated our motor racing
for the past decade partly because of
their skills but mainly through their
apparently bottomless purses.
A long bank account or access to one
is perhaps the first essential in car racing,
whether it be grand prix style or mini-
racing. This year the internationals
come with a string of exotic new mach-
ines. Jack Brabham, Australia’s ex-world
champion, brings an intercontinental car
of his own design, which he has devel-
oped in conjunction with the world-wide
Australian organisation of Repco. The
current world champion, London’s
Graham Hill, is without his usual BRM
and has the experimental four-wheel drive
Ferguson.
The finance-company-backed team of
Bowmaker-Lola have sent two small pro-
jectiles under veteran Reg Parnell's
management for ex-world champion
motorcyclist John Surtees and South
African Tony Maggs to drive.
New Zealand's international star,
Bruce McLaren, No. 1 driver for the
small Cooper works, has a specially built
Intercontinental Cooper. This “intercon-
tinental” nomenclature is not a pun on
ballistic missiles, even though some of the
machines do look deadly enough. It is a
hangover from the “intercontinental
formula,” which was to preserve the big
capacity racing cars when the small 1.5
engines became the Formula 1 under
which world championship events are
conducted. These cars are really Formula
1 chassis with big-form cylinder 2.7 litre
Climax engines tucked rather uncomfort-
ably into them. Whereas the Formula 1
V 8 1.5 litre engines have less than 200
horsepower, the 2.7 litre engines develop
over 250bhp.
rpHE intercontinental machines weigh 10
cwt on the starting line, so their
drivers have power-weight ratios in excess
of 500 horsepower per ton to control—
roughly like having a Holden with seven
engines.
This immense power calls for skill out
of the ordinary, and allows the expert to
exploit his powers to advantage. The
internationals like the Australasian tour
for the reason that they feel they are
really motor racing again, as opposed to
driving the less powerful Formula 1 cars,
which are similar to the Formula Junior
machines in many ways. And there is the
money, too. Starting money is calcula-
ted in sterling and averages about £lOOO
a meeting. For those who own their cars
there is a little cream to be added by
unloading the equipment on to the
locals. So with eight meetings between
New Zealand and Australia the winter
cruise can be highly profitable, though
hurried and exhausting.
This year Australia will miss the spec-
tacle of Stirling Moss at work. The great
English driver is unlikely ever to race
again following his inexplicable Good-
wood accident last April. Moss has
agreed to start the Australian Grand
Prix on February 10, and is certain to
be the centre of attraction for the public,'
who remember him as the last exemplai
of the great motor-racing era of the post-
war years. With his disappearance from
the race tracks of the world the link is
broken. So many have died; Ascari
(Monza), Castellotti (Modena), Musso
(Rheims), Collins (Nurburgring), Haw-
thorn (Guildford by-pass), Behra (Avus),
Schell (Silverstone), Whitehead (Tour de
France), Bonetto (Mexico), Rosien
(Montlhery), Wharton (Ardmore),
Lewis Evans (Casablanca), Levegh (Le
Mans), Marinon (Nurburgring), von
Trips (Monza).
Those two all-time greats Fangio and
Farina retired gracefully. England's
Brooks had the stamp of greatness on
him, and retired when he was at his
best. The little French mayor and
vigneron, Trintignant, hero of France,
has all but faded from the scene, though
he won the Grand Prix at Pau early
in 1962.
Until his accident only Moss re-
mained, the supreme master of motor-
ing, at home in any make or model, and
always just that split second faster than
anyone else. And who can take his
place? It is unlikely anyone could wearj
his particular for conditions,
have changed and the sport has given
rise to a new type of driver: the young,
articulate, cool-headed man, part driver,
part mechanic, part business man, in-
conspicuous in a crowd in manner and
dress.
Perhaps the Scottish farmer, Jin>j
Clark, will develop into a driver apj
proaching Moss’s standard. Clark has 1
the car, the Lotus 25, which is at present
superior to anything on four tyres, and
he is developing into something of a
legend in his short career. Lie is small
• like Moss neat, athletic, and has
that rubber-ball resilience about his
manner and walk. But it is possible that,
like Moss, he may never have the luck
to win a World Championship.


m
#
STft NDARD
/i
NO EXTRA
COST
MSI
STANDARn
0 I *
nun
fllWffi
f
r : yvV:
I
-
F
Sr
— _ * ......ml t. .
-
71 j
ii
x ••■■ Ji
I4r m 3
HHc, \
I
■
.
-
K
I
■
HIGHLIGHTS
FROM THE
AJMIMUAL. REPORT
/\IVlF»OI_ PETROLEUM LIIVIITED


In a changing oil industry
Ampol remains Australian Owned
Nowadays, in one way or another, just about
everyone is a customer of the Australian petroleum
industry.
About one in four adult Australians own motor
cars and the ratio increases fractionally each week.
On top of this, week by week, there is increasing
industrial use of petroleum powered vehicles and
machines.
All this means that the Australian market for
petroleum products is constantly increasing. This
year, for example, overall sales of petrol will
probably be up nearly 6 per cent.
It is pertinent, therefore, that average Australians
whose custom forms the bulk of these sales
should recognise the importance of the service
rendered by an Australian-owned Oil Company.
In spite of entry of two American-owned com-
panies Ampol Petroleum Limited remains, as it
has been for 26 years, an Australian-owned company,
responsible to the 73,500 Australians who own it
and its subsidiary and the millions of Australians
who support it —an Australian company whose
profits remain in Australia.
Because of the breadth of its Australian owner-
ship, Ampol, therefore, for the second successive
year, presents its Annual Report, not only to its
stockowners, but to Australia as a whole —to the
people whose custom it strives to merit in a changing
industry.
In face of increased competition in 1962, Ampol
lifted its net profit to £2,363,019 of which £2,110,391
goes as dividends to its stockowners. It increased
its sales in excess of the overall market increase
due, we believe, to the loyalty of our customers
and to our efforts to give better value than our
competitors in quality of product and of service.
This has been Ampol’s policy since a handful of
Australians founded it in 1936. Ampol, for example
first introduced electric pumps and high octane
petrol. It broke petrol rationing in 1949 and led the
way, a few years later, in the building of spacious
service stations designed for the convenience and
comfort of motorists.
Ampol will strive in the coming year to give even
better value in product and service. An instance
of this was the recent introduction of BORON
standard - grade petrol at no increase in price,
Already sales indicate that motorists appreciate this
improvement just as much as they appreciated
Ampol’s introduction of BORON premium grade,
with its remarkable qualities, in 1959, and its
subsequent improvement to Super BORON.
Above all, Ampol will continue to be wholly
Australian in outlook. In recent weeks it com-
missioned its Australian-built super tanker P. J,
Adams, the only tanker and the largest ship ever
built in Australia.
It is pushing ahead more vigorously than ever
with the task of finding oil in Australia to which it
has been doggedly dedicated since 1947. It remains
a partner in WAPET, which is prosecuting, in West
Australia, a search which Ampol inspired 15 years
ago. In addition, this year, its subsidiary, Ampol
Exploration (Q’ld) Ltd., began to explore for oil
over some 37,000 square miles along the Queensland
coast from north of Rockhampton to north of
Townsville.
Ampol faces the future, therefore, with a twofold
goal: first to give second to none service to the
Australians who own and support it; secondly to
serve Australia by seeking, with all the resources
at its command, to share in more discoveries of
Australian oil.
Highlights of Ampol’s progress in 1962
This Year Last Year Increase % Up
Sales and Other Revenue £37,964,850 £36,584,814 £1,380,036 3.77
Income Tax Provision £1,167,858 £937,939 £229,919 24.51
Net Profit (after tax) £2,363,019 £2,273,324 £89,695 3.95
Earning Rate on Average
Paid-up Ordinary Stock 15.76% 19.02% -3.25
Stockowners’ Funds £29,472,957 £26 612,735 £2,860,222 10.75
Number of Stock/Share
Note and Option Owners 64,470 57,100 7,370 12.91
Dividends Paid £2,110,391 £1 24.03
Total Assets £55,961,400 £52,251,207 £3,710,193 7.10
Paid to Staff (including
Retirement Benefits) £2,846,116 £2,560,264 £285,852 lM*
Number of Employees 2,050 2,052 -
Sales Gallonage 246,000,000 234,850,000 11,150,000 4.75


fIMPOL’S
in abbreviated form
1962
balance Sheet
in
Simplified
Form
LIABILITIES
£55,961,400
How the
Ampol Pound
was
Spent
Suppliers of products B.4fd.
Government for duty 5.2fd.
Services and overhead 2.3 id.
Salaries and wages 1.6 d.
Provision for depreciation 9 d.
Income Tax 7id.
Ampol Stock/Shareowners 1.1-id.
Facilities and working capital lid.
Who owns
Ampol?
"Nie Ampol subsidiary, Ampol Explora-
'°n Limited, has 14,508 Stockowners.
any of Ampol securities own
rnor e than one type of security and
our records reveal that there are over
. ,50 ° individuals who have an
ln 6res * * n Ampol or its subsidiary
company.


Ampol Activities in 1962
AMPOL BUILDS AUSTRALIA'S FIRST TANKER. The pride of Ampol’s fleet, the
33,180-ton super tanker “P. J. ADAMS” was built at Whyalla, South Australia, and
proves conclusively Australian shipyards can build big ships as well as any nation.
She is a symbol of Ampol’s remarkable growth in only 26 years.
AMPOL CO-SPONSORS "GRETEL". Ampol [?]
the major sponsors of “Gretel”, the Amer[?]
Challenger. Above: Ampol Managing Dire[?]
W. G. Walkley, discussing the race with[?]
captain, Jock Sturrock, and Mr. Noel [?]
W. D. & H. O. Wills.
B. F. GOODRICH LIFTS OUTPUT. Ampol’s partner,
B. F. Goodrich Aust. Pty. Ltd., now commands in
excess of 10 per cent of the car and truck tyre market,
Goodrich’s parent Company of Akron, Ohio, are sole
suppliers of space suits for American astronauts.
SHARE HANDLING SERVICES EXPANDED. To fully capitalise on the facilities
Stocks and Share Department, Ampol converted it into Security Share Services
Ltd., and expanded it to handle registers of other outside public companies.
No cue has tried harder than Ampol to find oil in Australia.
Fift een years ago Ampol pioneered the search in West Australia
and is now extending the search, through its subsidiary Ampol
Exploration (Q’ld) Ltd., to two areas totalling 37,000 sq. miles
along the Queensland coast.
ampol’s
East-West Effort
to find oil
in Australia


OVERSEAS
HUGH GAITSKELL
The Hampstead Set reformers
In historical perspective Hugh
(“Gaiters”) Gaitskell who died last
weekend will be seen to have done as
much to modernise and revitalise the
British Labor Party as Harold Macmillan
did for the Conservative Party. On him
fell the task of steering his party away
from the old shibboleths of nationalisa-
tion and disarmament and reshaping it
as a modern radical reforming party
committed to an American alliance and
the retention of American bases in
Britain.
In 1945 when he first entered the
House of Commons he gave little sign
what lay ahead. Some of the Labor old
guard, noting with disapproval the refin-
ed accent, the white handkerchief in the
breast pocket, reached the verdict:
another damn intellectual.” Others were
Pleased by the apparent diffidence of his
wanner: here was a nice young man,
1 ey decided, ready to learn and be
friendly.
His background was respectable. Win-
ester and New College, lecturing for
e Workers’ Educational Association, a
as head of the Department of Poli-
lca Economy at University College,
London, and, in war, a civil servant
who became Dr Dalton’s adviser and
right-hand man —there the landmarks of
his career up to 1945.
Although his receding chin was popu-
larly thought to denote weakness, in fact
his strength has astonished everybody.
He was able to conduct political con-
flicts with extraordinary detachment. Dis-
cussing these early struggles against the
leftist Bevanites he once remarked (as if
he were appraising some one else’s tac-
tics): “No I can’t see that I made any
mistakes” —and it seems to have been
correct. What made him doubly strong
was that his detachment also made him
unafraid to admit his faults and errors.
He was never the “desiccated calcu-
lating machine” of Mr Bevan’s imagina-
tion. He knew a good wine, was no
prude, and he loved parties. He was a
passionate golfer at Oxford and vainly
tried to get a “blue” for it, he was a close
friend of the poet, John Betjeman, enjoy-
ed evenings on the dance floor. Those
who first saw him merely as an econom-
ist, getting his daily nourishment from
Blue Books and statistics, overlooked that
he could be highly emotional. He once
burst into tears when addressing a min-
ers’ meeting and at some Labor Party
Conference was able to rouse the dele-
gates to ecstasy. More recently he was
the leader of the “Hampstead Set” of
Labor intellectuals whose interests in-
cluded not only politics but literature and
art and whose ideas were reflected in the
Congress for Cultural Freedom journal
“Encounter.”
T ike Lord Attlee he had a strong sense
of being the public servant. His
family’s tradition was the Indian Civil
Service and his elder brother Arthur
Gaitskell, one of Britain’s outstanding
colonial administrators of the day, exem-
plified this tradition at its best. Hugh
turned to politics and chose socialism,
prompted, it seems, by his high degree of
intellectual curiosity as v/ell as his reac-
tion to the times.
When Hugh Gaitskell was an under-
graduate, the crisis of the General Strike
of 1926 broke on Britain: it was the
nearest point that Britain reached to the
violent civil strife that marked many
countries in the 1920 s and 19305. When
many undergraduates went off to drive
the trains and buses abandoned by the
strikers, Gaitskell quietly and undrama-
tically went to the local strike committee
to offer his services. His Socialist opin-
ions were confirmed by study under Dr
G. D. H. Cole, and his mental toughness
shown by his independence of his
teacher’s outlook.
The truly formative period came in the
early 1930 s when with a few other young
economists he set out to rethink socialist
policies in post-Marxist terms. They con-
stituted the New Fabian Research
Bureau, an independent body set up by
the new party leadership after the break-
away of Ramsay MacDonald and the
collapse of the second Labor Govern-
ment. Throughout the 19305, while
other British Labor intellectuals got
caught up in the left-wing blind alleys of
the Socialist League and the Popular
Front, this group quitely went on with its
work for a new programme.
Gaitskell’s years with the Workers’
Educational Association gave him some
first-hand experience of working-class
ways of thought. When war broke out
he gained an even more intimate'know-
ledge of the thought processes of civil
servants, among whose ranks he served
for four years. His assurance in dealing
with both workers and bureaucrats only
seemed surprising to those who thought
of him as a cloistered don.
Temperament and experience made
him a first-rate administrator. His politi-
cal faith was never the Utopian vision of
the older generation of Socialist doctrin-
aires of the new generations of unilateral


Your money is safe
while it earns most
bank interest on‘Rural’
SHORT TERM DEPOSITS
4% p.a. (12 to 15 months)
3 £% P-a. (3 to 11 months)
An Authorised Trustee investment
Get the most for yourself through the
aOIVfc.
. 4
II
LJ J
x
HEAD OFFICE: MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
FOR EVERY CLASS OF TRADING BANK BUSINESS
/?
X
&
&
Q~
&8832/Bdc
disarmers. What shocked him about capi-
talism was its waste and muddle. Nor was
he the least ashamed of being middle
class: if revolution or Utopia is ruled
out, he argued, the success of popular
movements depends on the acceptance of
middle-class leadership and ideas.
But what were the circumstances that
brought Gaitskell so rapidly forward in
the Labor Government after the war? He
first surprised the critics when he took
over the Ministry of Fuel and Power
from the party veteran Emanuel Shin-
well after a muddled fuel crisis. He acted
so firmly that he earned Shinwell’s hostili-
ties. He showed that this did not worry
him at all, and he later put his sterner
policy across to coal miners’ leaders.
When he became party leader in 1945 he
handled his leftist critics with an impres-
sive lack of fear and venom.
His first major struggle was with the
Bevanites: he won that and had the uni-
fied party heading for social reform with-
out the old illusions of nationalisation
and non-alignment—though he could not
get the party to renounce Clause I
which commits it to nationalisation I
Then Frank Cousins emerged—an J
more dangerous rival than Bevan-J
at the Party Conference in Octob
1960, led a successful attack on q,
skell’s defence policy and had a reso
tion passed that Britain should goitafc
and ban the H-Bomb. Gaitskell ce-
mented: “I know there are people*
would like to see the Americans out |
they were glad enough to see them
1942. There are some of us who*
fight and fight and fight again to bn
back sanity and honesty and dignity;
that our party—with its great past-
may retain its glory and its greatnes
He did fight and when Cousins stood
at the 1961 Conference to renew f
1960 resolution he was booed down*
his motion overwhelmingly defeated
Thanks more to Gaitskell than j;
other British Labor leader, his party*
a better chance of winning the n;
General Election than at any other tii
during the past 12 years in the wild
ness.
S. America and the
A Town Like Bovril
By J. Halco Ferguson
T ast week’s talks about Britain’s enl
into the European Common Mari
were followed with interest by mil
nations in Latin America.
Argentina and Uruguay, in particull
are in almost the same predicament I
Australia and New Zealand, as fail
their exports are concerned.
The largest consumer of Argentii (
beef, her principal product, is Brits
a situation underlined by the fact i
she actually has a railway static
called Bovril, named after the estam
which among other activities is respos
sible for that very British product.
Uruguay's main revenue is deri;
from sheep, which also makes her i
pendent upon Britain, since no (®
large market is addicted to mutton. *
When the Latin American Free Tr*
Area was set up in Montevideo in 1-
1961, Senor Victor Haedo, the tl
President of the Uruguayan Council
Government, said bluntly in his opw
speech:— I
“The formation of a European 0
mon Market and EFTA constitutes
state of near-war against Ibero-AmerM
exports. Therefore we must reply to?
integration with another r >ne; to (
increase of acquisitive power by > nteli
enrichment of another.” The Ce" 1
American countries, by setting U P
Common Market of their own,
obviously been following the same
of reasoning.


On time...
every time
Y '• v. ;■
S:
«-•
r ,
* *'
%
X
h
* /’ : ‘
J%** 4
mm*®!*
% &
i + W
' :%■<)
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICK LESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY'MELBOURNE'BRISBANE’PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCJ.STON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all maifi centres.
3
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
THAT VIETNAM FIASCO
For half a million dollars a day
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
The recent fiasco at Apbac, the village
near Saigon at which Vietcong
ouerrillas inflicted a humiliating defeat
on President Ngodinhdiem’s national
army, appears at first glance to have
been torn out of the balance sheet of
successes and failures in the war against
Communist insurgents in South Vietnam,
and over-dramatised as a major disaster.
President Kennedy has ordered an
inquiry. Admiral Harry D. Felt, C.-in-C.
United States Forces in the Pacific, paid
a quick two-day visit to Saigon.
More than 65 Vietnamese soldiers
were killed and 100 wounded in the
battle, and there were nine casualties
among American advisers and support-
ing personnel, three of them fatal.
Eleven American helicopters were dam-
aged by enemy groundfire.
General Paul Harkins, who commands
United States Assistance forces in South
Vietnam, has hastened to put the setback
into perspective with a statement point-
ing out that in 1962 Government troops
suffered about 10,000 casualties but
caused three times as many among the
enemy. For the Americans the Apbac
affair nevertheless constitutes an un-
nerving reverse.
It is estimated that the hit-and-run
war against some 20,000 hardcore Com-
munist guerrillas, who are backed in their
struggle for mastery of South Vietnam’s
upland jungles and delta swamps by the
resources of Communist North Vietnam
just across the Seventeenth Parallel,
costs Washington more than half a
million dollars a day in military aid.
The United States has not only poured
weapons into the country but also set up
the elaborate command of General
Harkins, which administers at least
15,000 American officers and men. In
addition to manning transport aircraft,
troop-carrying “flying bananas” and
escort helicopters equipped with rockets,
Americans instruct in army schools, are
posted to Vietnamese combat units down
to company level, and will shortly be
attached to platoons. Above all, the
Americans have been the principal
authors of the tactics whose efficacy is
now being questioned.
The enemy is often equipped with
captured modern weapons and, out of
uniform, is indistinguishable from the
harmless peasants around him. Oper-
ating in semi-dependent companies, he
can assemble hard-hitting forces of
battalion strength or more for a quick
strike, fading back into the paddyfields
and rain forests before he can be
counter-attacked. He is supported, fed,
hidden and informed by an army of
active sympathisers or intimidated
peasants, perhaps 200,000 in number,
and he now co-ordinates his attacks by
field radio.
To move fast against this will-o’-the-
wisp adversary, the Americans have
developed the helicopter technique,
launching troops swiftly into the attack
before the Vietcong can disperse. At
Apbac, four waves, each of 15 heli-
copters, carried more than 400 men
into battle.
Vietnamese infantry are also con-
tinuously passing through two com-
mando schools at which American in-
structors teach them how to combat
guerrillas with their own methods. A
small British mission steeped in the
know-how of the war against Communist
terrorists in Malaya where police in-
telligence, regrouping the population,
and food-denial campaigns went far
towards defeating the guerrillas —is
established in Saigon. There are Aus-
tralian advisers elsewhere in the country.
Meanwhile, the Jungle Warfare School
in Malaya is training successive intakes
of selected Vietnamese officers as in-
structors and leaders.
British experience in Malaya, adapted
to local conditions by American and
Vietnamese experts, has also inspired the
static defence pattern of “strategic
hamlets” which complements the new
mobility and striking power of the
armed forces. More than 3000 strategic
hamlets have already been created. If
the announced target is reached, virtually
the entire rural population of South
Vietnam will by next year be contained
within these complexes in an interlock-
ing security system extending across the
country.
This is the blueprint for victory.
Apbac was a taste of the reality, in which
military intelligence is badly co-ordin-
ated, psychological warfare is weak,
security organisation suspect.
Moreover, after five years of con-
tinuous fighting against his seemingly
indestructible enemy, the Vietnamese
soldier is frequently canny rather than
aggressive. Tough and courageous as he
often is, he appears to face war without
end.
The mood in Saigon is unstable,
foreign observers wavering between
optimism and pessimism. Before Apbac
many believed that a method had at
last been found for systematically de-
troying the Vietcong, even if the main
struggle still lay ahead.
The key to the situation is the
peasant, but he remains uncommitted
except where very firmly protected.
Meanwhile, the reserves of the Viet-
cong seem inexhaustible. General Har-
kins’s headquarters says 30,000 were
eliminated in 1962. But there are still
some 23,000 regular and regional Viet-
cong in the field rather more than
there were 12 months ago.


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
liMgfef'
OMBMM
t“»\uunA
<1 \ II tT
ViNT.Ct I*s*
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* "Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in France)
Is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product o', the winegrower's own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
CIIN S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
POETS NEED MONEY TOO
Sir,
Having been away overseas (i.e. on
Kangaroo Island) I have only just read
Vincent Buckley’s report (Bulletin,
December 12, 1962) on the state of
Australian poetry in 1962. He notes that
there has been quite a boom in poetry
publication, but continues, in a tone of
characteristic Melbourne gloom: “Yet I,
for one, get the impression that the
poetry-reading public is no bigger than
it was, and that the poets themselves are
not so intoxicated with their own acti-
vity as one might have expected. There
is little of the genuine excitement, the
sense of poetry as a communal venture
and achievement, which existed a few
years ago.”
Vincent Buckley blames the poets for
failing to enlarge their public. In
some respects the failure to connect is
the poets’ fault; we should all get out
more into our world and write about it,
like Yevtushenko. But poets also need the
sort of financial help, publicity and
backing that artists, novelists or play-
wrights get. Artists have so many prizes
available that they scarcely bother to go
in for them, while hardly a scrap falls
to the poet. Of course this has the ad-
vantage of keeping poets incorruptible,
but the publicity given to such prizes has
helped to make art fashionable in Aus-
tralia, and the connecting links between
fashion and genuine taste are too subtle
and important to be neglected. Those
who have money to give away might
find the poets and the public would
respond to a crumb or two.
GEOFFREY DUTTON
Adelaide.
THE WAIFS OF KURE
Sir,
My attention was only recently drawn
to the above article by Peter Coleman
(Bulletin, December 22).
After the departure of the last Aus-
tralian Commander-in-Chief (Lt. Gen.
Bierwirth), I was appointed Commander
with the task of closing the Australian
Base in Kure, disposing of equipment and
of returning the various components of
the force to their respective countries.
Towards the end of our stay in Japan
some of the Army chaplains made a de-
termined effort to locate them. The chap-
lains’ enquiries were limited to the Kure
area, and the result was that they could
find no more than a dozen. Undoub-
tedly many of the remainder had scat-
tered throughout Japan. As Peter Cole-
man rightly points out the Kure area
was one of great unemployment. Having
located at least some of the children, we
had hoped that we might be able to ar-
range for their immigration to Australia.
However in every case, and this is the
important point, the mothers of the
children refused to let them go.
One of my main concerns was, and
still is, with the reputation of the Aus-
tralian soldier. It must be remembered
that we were in Japan for nearly eleven
years and although one cannot condone
the misbehaviour of a few, the force did
leave Japan with the goodwill of both
officials and people of Japan. This I
know from statements made to me by
the Governor of Hiroshima Prefecture
and the Mayor of Kure.
L. J. BRUTON, BRIGADIER (Retd.)
Mount Waverley {Victoria).
THE TAIT CASE
Sir,
Our committee (The Anti-Hanging
Committee, Victoria) is renewing its ap-
peal for funds to complete paying the
costs in the Tait case. We incurred
heavy costs in sponsoring both Dap
Scott’s and Tait’s own actions.
Preparing the appeals in the Tait cat
led to expensive research into aspe t
of criminal and medical law never nJ
viously before the courts. Our act%
were fought originally before Mr Justk
Gowans, then before the full Victor!
Supreme Court, later before Mr Ju st j.
Dean, and finally before the full Hi«
Court of Australia in Melbourne andi-
Sydney.
Although much legal assistance %
given free, our total costs were in ei ,
cess of £2500. We appealed for fund
through the Press, and in a week fid
was contributed. However, when Taj,
death sentence was commuted on %
vember 5, the volume of press public!
and donations fell off sharply.
By November 30 we had paid mors
than £lOOO in legal costs and needed
another £l5OO to cover all our remain®!
liabilities. In December we appealed fo
funds by letter and received £6OO itl
three weeks.
However, we still need £9OO to med
all our commitments and appeal urgent!'
for your readers’ help. We feel that oil
success in inducing the Government!
commute Tait’s sentence marks an eni
to capital punishment in Victoria. ?i
would be grateful for your assistance!
publicising our committee's debt.
BARRY JONE
Secretary Anti-Hanging Committa
417 St Kilda Rd, Victoria.
DINGO BITCHES
Sir,
Mr Lamond (Bulletin, Decemk
29, ignore the sentence in my letta
(Bulletin, December 15) which state
that I use no prepared lure, so therefon
I really have no formula unknown ti
Western trappers.
No doubt there are plenty of dingoej
here, but I am sure Mr Lamond i
joking when he says they must be crow
ing one another into our traps.
I am aware that professional trapp®
make big money in the sheep count!’
(just how much I have no idea), W
large bonuses are as scarce as to
teeth in the cattle country.
Incidentally my observations, aftfl
having caught many aged females that
had never had pups, lead me to beW
that a very small percentage of bitcte
actually breed.
LOUIS O. BANORO[?]
Eidsvold ( Queensland ).
SOVIET EMBASSY CHALLENGED
sir ’ J
I now have four volumes eaciu
nearly 200 pages consisting of pM 1 ’
static reproductions from the recfflj
Soviet press relating to the Jewish
tion. I am, therefore, extending an invi|
tion to Mr Gamazeishchikov *
Soviet Press Attache or if Mr Gm
zeishchikov should prefer it, to Mr
Waten, to peruse this material in ll
presence of witnesses.
ISI LEIBL
Caulfield (Victoria).


REVI EWS
FILMS
WATER IN THE BILGE
By JACK DAVIES
Mutiny on the Bounty. St James.
Sydney.
Tarita does a wicked dance, Trevor
Howard adds majesty to tyranny,
and Brando just about bursts with good
effort. But you can’t beat the elements,
and the poor old HMS Bounty loses its
wind two-thirds of the way along its 179
minutes. One must guess that a dozen
writers, two directors (Carol Reed and
Lewis Milestone), and some 20-odd
million dollars are enough to jinx any
ship.
The surprise is that everything goes
so well for so long. To the actual mutiny
progress is fast and nimble. Howard out-
does his predecessor, Charles Laughton,
in giving Captain Bligh a viciousness with
a vengeance—no longer a sponge-like
sadism. It is rather a religious matter, a
witch trial of the will. And Brando adds
dimensions to Lieutenant Christian that
Gable, his predecessor, never even
thought of. The solid citizen is now an
aristocrat, with all the aristocrat’s good
and bad points. Brando overdoes this
on occasion, but is generally in fine dis-
harmony with Howard’s Bligh.
But after the mutiny, nothing could
keep the thing afloat. When the charac-
ters break down, when Brando and
Howard separate, the film collapses.
Scene is piled upon scene—the mutineers
u P° n their island, Brando’s realisation of
their ruin, Bligh’s exoneration (qualified)
e f°re a naval court, etc. But nothing
Works. The whole thing loses meaning.
The flaw lies in a serious muddling of
e two aspects of mutiny—as a necessary
correction of evil, or as a destruction of
e order essential to establishing and
retaining the reforms initially desired. In
other words, the film fails to portray ade-
quately or answer why revolution usu-
ally breeds only further revolution, with
great cost of life. It is all very well to
let us know that Captain William Bligh
wouldn’t give a drink of water to a dying
crew-member on an April morning in
1789, but he may just as well have kicked
the ship’s cat if the consequences of the
resultant mutiny don’t follow with
clarity. Of course the 12 navigators and
two captains behind the film may explain
its difficulty in carrying out such a diffi-
cult and subtle tack.
Aside from its disastrously crooked
wake, however, “Bounty” is not really a
bad film. Indeed, for anyone who likes
ships and generally good acting, it is
almost all right. Robert Surtee's color
photography is better than most and the
sound track is inoffensive. But even the
best parts are marred by the leaky
ending.
A LONG WAY FROM WHEREVER
wit whose name escapes me once
nominated as the greatest disadvan-
tage of living in Perth the fact that it
is so far away from Australia. For film-
loving sandgropers another related draw-
back is the frustrating wait, usually
many months and sometimes years, for
a particular interesting film, be it made
in America, Britain or Wherever (but
especially Wherever) to be shown here
after the first tantalising reviews have
appeared in the Eastern States Press.
Consequently for the few summery
weeks of the Festival of Perth we could
almost be part of Australia. The feast
of rich cinematic fare is almost indigest-
ible after the 11-month famine. We
even get to see a few films that haven't
yet played the East.
The first night of “Mondo Cane”
(“A Dog’s Life”), the Italian film which
opened the 11th festival’s film season,
was touted as the “English Speaking-
World Premiere.” In fact, the film ran
at London’s New Arts Theatre Club last
November. Nevertheless, Perth did see
“Mondo Cane” before it was shown in
Australia.
“Mondo Cane” is composed of a se-
quence of documentary episodes by
which director Gualtiero Jacopetti tries
to put the thesis that human beings re-
gardless of race or culture are no better
than animals, bestially crude, sensual
and stupid. The total impression is not
one of uplift; the more bizarre scenes
(an ox beheaded at a single blow by a
Ghurka soldier, a woman suckling a pig-
let, the inmates of a Singapore Chinese
death house) leave one with a feeling of
queasy despair. Yet there is much to
laugh or snigger at and quite a lot to
admire.
Beginning with the unveiling of a
memorial to Rudolph Valentino in his
inbred Italian home town, whose young
men try desperately to look sullenly like
their famous distant relative, the film
hops from New York to France, to Mel-
anesia, to Bikini Atoll to Malaya and
even to the pine fringed beach at Manly.
Jacopetti is sometimes downright dis-
honest, despite the claim in the credits
that his film is unsweetened truth. An
artificial flavor, not of saccharine, but of
bitters, is at times clearly evident. At
least one, probably more, of the
sequences centres around incidents obvi-
ously staged for the film. Several of the
most effective episodes have scant relev-
ance to Jacopetti’s purported theme.
For all its dubious claims to anthro-
pological significance, “Mondo Cane” is
chiefly interesting (and exceptionally so)
as a masterpiece of the art, or technique,
of film-making. Unpretentious camera
angles, restrained Technicolor, superb
editing and notably effective use of the
crtical depth of field of long telescopic
lenses make the visual images unflag-
gingly interesting. Most effective of all
is the wittily ironic commentary, written
and spoken in unhesitating English by
Jacopetti himself in perfect synchronisa-
tion with the visual images for maxi-
mum joint impact. Never slick, but


never lapsing into the pretentious dul-
ness of the self-conscious “art” short, this
perfect harmony of word and picture
makes “Mondo Cane” constantly enter-
taining, no matter what one thinks is its
value or validity.
As for substance, the telescopic peep
into the lives of Papua-New Guinea
cave-dwellers and the final scenes con-
trasting native mission communicants
with cargo cultists waiting high on a
mountain near Port Moresby make
“Mondo Cane” worthy of anyone’s
attention.
GEOFFREY HALL
ART
WITTY AND SERIOUS
rjpHis group of 27 collages, mostly small-
scaled and precise, show interesting
developments in James Sharp’s world of
small forms. For some time his talent
has furthered investigation into the gently
assertive statement which culminates
from an overall vibrancy of pattern. Be-
ginning with aims roughly similar to
Klee's, Sharp has cornered a place for
himself among those artists whose sen-
sitivity and contemplative values remain
uppermost.
On first glance one is not aware that
these patterns will begin to rotate, to des-
cribe spirals and the movement of an
ellipse. It is witty and serious at one and
the same time with oblique references to
the work of the cubists in the twenties
as well as providing a range of free struc-
tures which belong very much to our
own time.
Impressions of transparency animate
others like “Abyss” or “Shadows” but
the more tightly controlled, partly sur-
real “Sentinel” or “Timepiece” work
mainly in near monochrome. As a
medium, collage has been raised from the
architectual pursuits of cubism through
Dada to Abstract Expressionism. Painters
find its ready made, often very subtle,
tones a useful adjunct to paint.
Sharp discloses his background as a
painter and it will be interesting to see
how these collage experiments, which
have given a new freedom, will react on
his painting.
JOHN HENSHAW
ARTIST ABROAD
Melville Haysom. Finney’s Audito-
rium, Brisbane.
ly/fR. Haysom, one of the honored old
guard of Queensland Art, is a m
ful teacher of long standing of drawing
and painting who commands a redoubt,
able technical equipment. In all his forma
work he used balance, rhythm, drawing,
perspective most effectively but to ng
his palette was too narrow, he hunt
around too much in the middle of tht
spectrum among the greens and yellows
giving his work an aura of unreality. But
in this show he has reached out into
rarer heights and broader and subtle!
tones. It consists mainly of landscapes in
Spain, France and Britain.
They are entirely authentic. This
is quite remarkable in an artist who has
spent most of his artistic life in the grey-
green colors of Southern Queensland
Buvelot and Martens painted English
landscape in Australia but Haysom has
acquired the chromatic idiom of the
places he saw abroad. This is vividly
illustrated when a former work done in
Brisbane is compared with the foreign
work. The former is stiff, posed and un-
imaginative though free enough in color.
In this landscape show there are some
unforgettable things: notably “Rain in
Spain’’, a steep, towering mountain peal
"We're too late - They've forgotten it!"


WORLD-WIDE
Btoi.
K 246
100% British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
tight on one filling
pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
1092 MT. ALEXANDER ROAD, ESSENDON, W. 5. AUSTRALIA
**•
ns
Unsett Freight Express
...
EVERYTHING GOES . .
ANSSTT3FRESGHT
■XPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
Daily scheduled services to all capital cities.
Co-ordinated road, rail, sea and air transportation.
★ Flexi-van system between Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. ★ ‘Piggy-back’
and container van services between Adelaide-Perth. ★ Container Van
service between Brisbane and Darwin via Mt. Isa. ★ Sea-road to Tasmania.
★ Operates the Australia-wide system of the Cargoclippers.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS HANDLES ALL TYPES OF COMMODITIES
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 OS4I • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
0 f bare crystalline stone dwarfing into
infinitesimal proportions a peasant dwel-
ling in white and red tile roof shrinking
timidly un4er the massive mountain,
whose bare surfaces reflect a wide spec-
trum of brilliant color.
He also shows some fantasy versions
of some of Kipling’s “So-So stories”. One
in particular, the story about the shark,
is delicious in a superb swirling twist of
what looks like a grey-blue shark in
cool deep green water full of pale yellow
bubbles.
J. V. DUHIG
TELEVISION
THE DOY DAYS
When older English was used, a period
in January used to be known locally
as the “dog days”, and in newer lan-
guage there have been some “dogs” on
television this month. Old series have
been returned and, to make it worse,
sotne very old, tired commercials have
been shown so often that the reasonably
sensitive viewer finds it hard to suppress
a scream when they flash on. There has
been a distinct shortage of new, fresh
television.
For this reason, it was such a pleasure
to encounter a fine piece of Australian
film on the ABC’s “Weekend Magazine”
last Sunday night. The usual run cf
film and commentary in this supposed
news programme is cute enough to in-
duce mild nausea, and on this occasion it
had its sprinkling of that a piece
about a rock python who makes a cute
pet, and, novelty of novelties, a dog
who hauls a small girl in a cart.
But smack in the middle of it was
this good piece about the picnic races at
Hanging Rock, some 50 miles from Mel-
bourne. It began as a routine item, but
soon established an atmosphere of shirt
sleeves, station wagons, weather-beaten
cld timers yarning, kids running, jump-
ing and being pulled along; with some
good, quick-cut shots which gave pace to
a scene that could have been so dull,
until the rain came.
Nature weighed in with two inches of
rain in 40 minutes, and the cameraman
missed nothing in the scamper for shel-
ter, and the final scenes of the Cup being
run in a downpour, soaked jockeys com-
ing back to scale. And the commentary
was sparse, direct and ever cute.
Surprises of this kind make “Week-
end Magazine” worth the effort of watch-
ing- Once in a while it contains an item,
Uc h as the one under review, or the
ungaroo-shooting film some months
ac .k ~ the beginning of a controversy
Vt f ch is still raging that makes the
viewer feel thankful for the ABC’s mild
encouragement of “stringers” with free-
ance cameras in many parts of Australia.
FRANK ROBERTS


to
hang or
not to
hang?
■
THE TftlT CASE
by Creighton Burns
Insane or not insane? Where does executive power
end? Where does the authority of the courts begin?
Argued with emotion at the time, these vital issues
are now documented and discussed by a leading
political scientist.
At all booksellers 15/- (postage 10d.)
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
THE RED PAGE
BOTANY BAY WITHOUT SHAME
"I more ashamed of this type of historian"
By M. H. ELLIS
Early Australia with Shame Remem-
bered. Bill Beatty. Cassell. 30s.
Qtill they come the cannibal feasts
off the bones of dead Australian
“historical” writings served up with
garnishings of horror and indignation.
The sampling this week is Mr Bill
Beatty’s bit of shame for our origins, pur-
veyed in the spirit of “believe-it-or-not”.
This time we don’t believe a great deal
of it culled from exercises in old-time
spite and convict libel. Even Mr Beatty
himself apparently has doubts about
some of it and found the conflicts ap-
parent among his source-authors distur-
bing; but he assures us that his budget
of shameful memories, done up in sack-
cloth, “deals so much with the seamy
side of the Australian story “that the
pages that follow concern a particular
picture of the country’s . . . early
history.”
Mr Beatty, believe it or not, thinks
“that the British Government’s only
interest in the country during its first
years was as a dumping ground for
prisoners is shown by the fact that no
definite legal provisions were made for
civil government.” This is nonsense. The
basic statute and commission provided
for the establishment of “a colony and a
civil government” over the whole of
Eastern Australia and far out into the
Pacific Ocean. English law was taken to
run on Australian soil from the very
moment there was anybody present to
administer it. Provision was made to
establish criminal and civil law - ad-
ministrators, higher courts, magistrates,
constables.
Everybody from the Governor down-
wards, as in every British colony of the
time, was subject to the laws of England.
Governors themselves could be prose-
cuted in England in matters in which
they exceeded their authority, even for
murder, as Governor Wall learned to
his cost on the end of a rope almost
exactly 14 years to the day after Aus-
tralia was founded. And much of the
trouble with free settlers such as
John Macarthur arose from their in-
sistence on the maintenance of their
civil rights as Englishmen. Even so early
as the days of Lieutenant-Governor
Grose in 1793, the fact that he with-
drew the authority of those pillars of
English administration and the law, the
justices of the peace, was held up gener-
ally as an outrage, though, in fact, his
actions affected only the prisoners.
However, the keynote of Mr Beatty’s
literary Madame Tussaud’s is contained
in his summary of the purposes for
which he believes the colony was
founded: “Let us face facts. There never
was any glorious empire-building idea
of colonising this country. England
merely ridded herself of many occu-
pants of her embarrassingly overcrowded
prisons.”
Thus, Phillip’s idea expressed in 1786
that he was setting out to found an
“empire” was a blind, the inclusion of
half Australia and the Pacific islands in
the colony mere futility, the aspiration
of the Colonial Office expressed in the
plan to replace Asia by Australia as the
source of many vitally essential raw
materials for British industry mere eye-
wash.
If the objective was merely to estab-
lish a jail, why did Phillip talk of empire
and Erasmus Darwin sing at the outset:
There ray’d from cities o’er the cultured land
Shall bright canals, and solid roads expand over
the “rising Realms” of the Australian continent?
The convicts were not an end in
themselves, but part of the normal
machinery to achieve the end of colon!
sation, just as in war they were part ot
the machinery to achieve victory. ][ j
an interesting speculation whether there
would have been any colonisation 0 (
Australia if there had been a war in
being in 1786 which called for the re-
cruiting of prisoners in large numbers
Actually, transportation to Australis
shrank during the French wars and the
convict population between 1792 and
1800 dwindled annually and possibly
would have nearly disappeared if it hail
not been for the obligingly rebellions
Irish.
Never at any time was Australia re-
garded as a mere dumping ground. In
the earliest days it was dumping with
the visionary purpose of reform and re-
settlement of suitable prisoners, complete
with womenfolk to provide later gener-
ations of useful population.
Hence the plan which entitled each
prisoner to his 30 acres on release, a
system which began so soon as land was
available. The idea of reform was in-
herent throughout even at the end
of 1791 there were already 72 emanci-
pist or pardoned settlers on the land.
I certainly do not remember our
foundations with shame, either as an
Australian or as a descendant of British
stock. The experiment was the first of
its kind, differing in essentials from
transportation to the slave colonies of
America in its basic (though later some-
times perverted) recognitions of the abi-
lity of man to redeem himself; in its
objective to found a colony in which (as
Macquarie put it) “every emancipated
convict who deserves it" might ‘'make
for himself a home, and a happy home
. . . on a footing of equality with the
general population.”
If the community established on this
basis produced a few men debauched
and cruel, a few beasts in human form,
a leaven of drunkenness and vice, so
does every community and every age
Even in our advanced and universalis
prosperous civilisation there are kid-
nappers and murderers of little boys,
drunkards, avaricious exploiters, bad
administrators and soulless bureaucrats
who pervert benign policy.
Personally, I think the results of the
Botany Bay experiment are a matter to
pride both to its originators and to A us '
tralians in general. A prisoner comm ll
nity which did not reach a level pop ula '
tion of 8,500 convicts and emancipi®
and their offspring until it was near-
-25 years old and which threw up its
great constitutionalist founding
devoted exploring parties, the father
Australian architecture, its own first r
landed settler, one of its first Cabw e
Ministers, founders of the sheep stll


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street. Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray
Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S; Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE B 263
■ dustry, our first naval officer and basic
[ Vnators of Australian commerce and
Manufacture, certainly is not a matter
for shame.
I I am more ashamed of the Beatty
class of historian than I am of the fore-
bears of hundreds of prominent descen-
dants of the transported influxes of
earliest Australia who stud Australian
life like plums in a pudding.
WOODEN ANZACS
An Anzac Muster. William Bayle-
bridge; Author’s revised text, edited
by P. R- Stephensen. Angus &
Robertson. 30s.
r m et William Baylebridge only once,
[1 shortly after the first World War
in a city lift as I was hurrying to
keep an appointment. He was simmer-
ing with pent-up resentment which, in
the brevity of the interview, I interpreted
as abomination of contemporary jour-
nalism coupled with contempt for the
[common mind. I parted from him (I
regret to say quickly) with the impres-
sion of an imposing personality per-
petually gnawed by bitterness.
Other Australian poets of the period,
like Christopher Brennan, were quite
aware that they had no chance of com-
peting with such circulation winners as
The Sentimental Bloke but they ac-
cepted the situation with wisdom and
good grace. George Robertson of
Angus & Robertson frequently pub-
lished their works knowing full well
that they would show a complete loss,
) and it is a wonder that those of Bayle-
[ bridge were never included.
The bulk of his work was printed
privately in dignified and very limited
editions. Occasionally his verses ap-
peared in various periodicals, and I
recall that A. G. Stephens gave him
considerable encouragement in the early
numbers of The Bookfellow. However,
the private printed editions, carefully
distributed in the right quarters, fell on
fertile ground. Their scarcity, assisted
by the encomiums of privileged owners,
has given rise to a lot of second-hand
adulation. The parrot cry of “neglected
genius repeatedly crops up among
People who have never read a line of
'Bavlebridge.
The opinions of those who have
genuinely studied his achievements
VaTy f rorn outright eulogy to the
suggestion that he naively sought to
in fitting language ideas which
e mistakenly assumed were profound.
u f as is usual, most of the critics,
aving cautiously elaborated on a col-
teh C ;°" kindly generalisations, declare
a the final judgment must come from
Posterity.
tor! erS ° * mistrust posterity. His-
sho -Paniorrlariy recent history has
wn that the generations of every age
for t^ Ua^y c kf e , and I see no reason
that those of Time Future
be more reliable than those of
Time Present. Revivals and vogues
succeed each other so fast in the game
of follow-my-leader that what we
urgently need to hear is an occasional
uninhibited voice loudly proclaiming
which of the applauded emperors are
wearing no clothes.
I am quite unfamiliar with William
Baylebridge’s literary output except for
a book of his prose which has just come
to hand. Entitled An Anzac Muster , it
is the second volume of a proposed
memorial edition of his complete works,
and is edited by P. R. Stephensen. It
was originally issued in 1921 as a
private edition of one hundred copies,
but much of the text was revised in 1932
for possible republication. Now, twenty
years after his death it is available to
the general public. As an example of
good typography it is well worth the
attention of bibliophiles.
In an admirable foreword, Mr
Stephensen pays gallant tribute to the
author both as a man and as a writer.
He explains that these stories of the
Gallipoli campaign are deliberately told
in what might be called the classical
manner to counteract the loutish legends
of Anzac.
I am all for abolishing the popular
misconception that Australian soldiers
were a horde of lantern-jawed larrikins,
but I like to think that they were at
least alive. Baylebridge’s narrative fol-
lows the pattern set by Boccaccio’s
Decameron. Nine Australian ex-service-
men meet as civilians after the war and
under the chairmanship of their former
colonel agree to tell three stories each
about their experiences at the front. The
intervals between stories are bridged by
group discussions, and the descriptive
passages in some of these “links” are
really fine. But no classical characters
of fiction are as wooden as Baylebridge’s
Anzacs. Those nine characters are as
animated as clothes pegs.
And the stories they tell are either
pretty pointless or of the purest corn.
And when I speak of the purest corn
I am talking of 1914-1918 values. Not
one of those yarns but would have
earned a deafening chorus of raspberries
from any company of good-natured
diggers. And yet in Baylebridge’s book,
audiences burst into hilarious applause
or are reduced to goggle-eyed wonder.
In the matter of style, I am convinced
that the author, being a poet, would
have been more at home had he adopted
the verse form of dramatization used so
effectively by Douglas Stewart. As it is,
he falls between two stools, often to the
embarrassment of the reader.
Incidentally, I remember Fritz Hart,
the composer, telling me: “You can
make the dullest prose-libretto on earth
sound attractive. All you have to do is
put it into pseudo-Irish.”
The most astonishing portions of An
Anzac Muster are the Author's Preface
and the Author’s Protest. The Preface,
which appeared in the original edition,
included extracts from an appreciative
letter allegedly written by “a friend.”
Mr Stephensen takes the view that they
were not actually by Baylebridge him-
self. But they so rang with praises that
they evoked accusations of vanity from
critics.
Incensed by these indictments, Bayle-
bridge prepared an additional chapter
entitled the Author’s Protest, flooding it
with further extracts of an even more
flattering nature which he claimed to
have omitted out of sheer modesty.
This piece of whimsy, as Mr Stephen-
sen classes it, only serves to emphasise
his prodigious self-esteem which I, for
one, don’t begrudge him.
But I hope that Volume 111 of the
Memorial Edition gives me more
pleasure than An Anzac Muster.
LEON GELLERT


SENIOR ADVERTISING
Copywriter
(Male or Female)
An opportunity exists for a senior,
well-experienced writer to work on a
group of large national accounts
mostly in the food and fashion fields.
This is a senior position in status
and responsibility and as such car-
ries a top salary.
Apply in writing, giving brief resume
of past history to:
Staff Director
U.S.P-Benson Pty. Ltd.
16-18 Kavanagh Street
South Melbourne
A TAIT SCRAP-BOOK
The Tait Case. Creighton Burns.
Melbourne University Press. 15s.
/An Monday, August 6, 1962, the
Bolte Government announced that
38-years-old Robert Peter Tait would
be hanged for the brutal Hawthorn
vicarage murder the first Victorian
execution to be ordered since the triple
hanging of Jean Lee, Robert Clayton
and Norman Andrews in February,
1951.
On Monday, sth November, after
three months of a uniquely intensive
campaign Mr Bolte reluctantly reprieved
Tait, who was sent to the asylum for the
criminal insane at Ararat.
/
Faced with the problem of publishing
a book on the Tait case which could
catch the pre-Christmas market (not
altogether successfully, as relatively few
shops had it before Christmas Eve),
Creighton Burns has used his scissors
and glue to assemble a book of news-
paper cuttings.
While it is convenient for those
intimately involved in the campaign
against hanging to have a neatly printed
scrap-book, this compilation does less
than justice to the major legal, political,
criminological and sociological issues
involved.
There are no revelations in “The Tait
Case” and only a little material
previously unpublished apart from
some unsubstantiated speculations at the
end. After describing the murder, there
follows a condensation of relevant parts
of the trial transcript dealing with Tait’s
family and medical history and the
forensic treatment of the sanity issue,
and the announcement, twelve months
after the murder and nine months after
the trial, of the Government’s intention
to hang him.
The next 98 pages faithfully recount
what the “Sun”, “Age” and “Herald”
wrote in the ensuing months. Then,
after a chapter or two of Mr Burns’s
views on the problem of capital punish-
ment, “The Tait Case” concludes with a
valuable transcript of the High Court
proceedings in Melbourne on October
31—the day before Tait was to have
been hanged and in Sydney on the
day after the reprieve.
The errors and omissions in “The
Tait Case”, while not as egregious as
those in his earlier “Politics and People”,
are understandable considering its short
gestation. Slips which could have been
picked up by competent proof-reading
are minor matters but the main
criticism is that Mr Burns was satisfied
only to report reportage.
Much documentary and oral material
was available for Mr Burns if he had
cared to collect, processes and use it
even if it involved a short delay in
publication. The book only describes
who said what, and when, and ignores
the complex questions of why and how
the campaign was organised and co-
ordinated.
“The Tait Case” suffers heavily in
comparison with Dr Ken Inglis’s “The
Stuart Case” which probed masterfully
into the political and sociological h
ground.
Accordingly, Mr Burns’s attempts,
explain why Tait was hand-picked f
the gallows, and why, after three mom!
of digging into foxholes of obscurants
and intransigence, Messrs Bolte a i
Petty should have reprieved him
jejune and unsatisfying.
Many important questions— -not dealt
with here—arose out of the case. %
pays for cases like the High Con
action on Tait’s insanity—if the ph SOn J
is a poor man and if the community,
not altruistic enough to organise
campaign and pay the bill? Why did tk (
press attitude change so drastically aft e ,
1951? Did injustice arise from the fact
that the Victorian Attorney -General
(who must exercise a quasi - judicial
function at times) was also Chief Sec.
retary (i.e., Minister for Police, and tic
hangman’s employer)? What was the
role of the Crown Solicitor in all this!
The story of the lawyers who were
torn between conscience and the hope
of preferment and the students who
threw academic success into jeopardy
still remains to be hold.
It is to be hoped that the premature
publication of Mr Burns’s book will nol
prevent a supplementary work by his or
other hands being prepared in the near
future.
BARRY O. JONES
NAMATJIRA, THE NEW PHAR LAP?
Namatjira of the Aranda. Rigby and
Co.
HThere was Les Darcy, there was Phar
Lap, and now there is Albert
Namatjira. For the Australian public
to adopt such a myth image there needs
be a dark sense of grievance about the
subject's death:—“Look what they did
to him.” Without this neither Ned
Kelly nor Phar Lap would have achieved
quite the nimbus which surrounds each
of them, and this is also the case with
Namatjira.
In “Namatjira of the Aranda” Mr
V. C. Hall does his best to show that
everyone, the small police force, the
Hermannsburg Mission, the magistrate,
did all they could to prevent Namatjira
destroying himself once he had become
a citizen. Some medical opinion as to
the cause of his death would be more
illuminating than “a broken heart.”
Namatjira was a great eater of fats and
sugar, and he was drinking at a pace
that a hardened alcoholic would attain
only after about thirty years’ practice.
The average drinker is limited by lack
of funds. In his last year Namatjira
earned £7,000 and was suddenly in a
position to obtain unlimited alcohol
Alcohol will one day be declared i
poison the drive is at present a
nicotine but the fantastic figures of
otherwise normal citizens who cannol
touch alcohol with impunity would
present a strong case if we faced il
honestly. To date we are allowed to
poison ourselves provided we do it ii
moderation. The muddle that tripped
Namatjira is the concept of citizenship
for aborigines being linked with the
right to drink.
Of course to stress that Namatjira
could have done so much to benefit his
people if he had stayed quietly paintins
at the mission is beside the point. U
Ned Kelly had only given up horse steal
ing he might have become a prosperous
farmer. Mr Hall says: “Australia has
taken no heed of the warning tM
aborigines cannot drink” and of th' l
Albert Namatjira is the horrible exampl £
But neither can many white men,
very few immoderately.
His other conclusion that
attempt to bridge the gulf between
aborigines and the Europeans wai
doomed from the start” is more question'
able if he intends it as the premise


ping generalisation. There are too
aS ", cases of aborigines who have
hi,led and are bridging that gulf. One
Cr concede that to project an individual
1 an alien society can do the greatest
r m a nd changes must be made
lowly, Hut Mr Hall’s attitude smacks a
m|e of his years in the Northern Ter-
;Ly Mounted Police. He is anxious
Live due credit to Namatjira’s teacher,”
Re x Battarbee, but there is a hint of
patronage in the reiteration that Namat-
J ra > s paintings are flat and unimagina-
[jve. They have “no mystery — no sign
3 f softness they might have been
camera slides.” He adds, very fairly:
«j wondered if my judgment was not
colored by envy.”
For the city people what appealed as
wich as Namatjira’s paintings was his
ioiidity, his chunkiness, his immobility.
Je was like a rock in one of his own
landscapes, part of the country. The
long beautiful hands which fashioned
the clear, still lonely landscapes for the
suburban living room were attached to
a body capable of great endurance and
covered with good saddle leather. From
the myth fancier’s point of view his end
was magnificent. He was arrested,
publicly shamed and died because he
darkly wished to die, having reached an
impasse of social inequality in which he
could only despair.
Mr Hall deplores it all but somehow
he is just talking around and about.
Unlike Dr Strehlow’s account of the
same tragedy, his has nothing construc-
tive to offer. His point of view is that of
the old Territorian. Namatjira did not
keep his place, he turned truculent and
unbiddable and went to pieces. So now
there is no profit in him save in the
fake Namatjiras bding turned out with
great industry, Mr Hall hints, like
boomerangs for the tourist trade. He
might have continued to be a good
advertisement for Australia, but some-
how he didn’t want to be; and after
reading the guarded chapter on this
phase one doesn't blame him.
The myth fanciers should buy and
read “Namatjira of the Aranda.” As
literature it doesn’t exist (“the squalid
humpy of the aging painter threw a
shadow of impending doom on the
parched earth”) but it is an honest,
rambling, discursive collection of facts
about Namatjira put together by a man
who knew him and his background. It
has material enough for many an
argument.
At the end of the book are three
excellent reproductions of Namatjira
paintings and photographs which could
not be better. It is a pity that these,
probably for reasons of economy, could
not have been interspersed in the text.
KYLIE TENNANT
THE HEROIC AGE OF AVIATORS
Solo. The Bert Hinkler Story. R. D.
Mackenzie. Jacaranda Press. 255.
The Friendless Sky. Alexander Mc-
Kee. Souvenir Press 375. 3d.
The life of a pilot in World War One
tended to be short. Bert Hinkler
probably owed his survival to the fact
that he did not complete his pilot’s
course until July, 1918, and was then
posted to the Italian front where human
opposition was slight but flying condi-
tions were severe. Before the end of the
war he was making plans to fly home
from England to Australia, an ambition
oe was not to realise until 1928.
Ho was one of many long-distance
an( l stunt flyers who barnstormed their
way about the world in the twenties and
'dies. Some, like Kingsford Smith and
an Cobham, did very good work and
ma de a success of their careers bar-
dog accidents but only if their skill
as Phots and navigators was backed by a
er I'in degree of business acumen.
■, ers Had their brief hour of fame and
' er sank into obscurity or killed them-
Hinkl' * s w hat happened to Bert
inkier seems to have had some en-
gineering aptitude, and Mr Mackenzie
dwells at some length on an aircraft
the Ibis of which he was co-designer.
Since both the de Havilland Puss Moth
and Nevil Shute’s Courier were designed
at about the same period and were a
success, it is clear that the Ibis was
obsolescent while it was still on the
drawing board, and would have been
both expensive to build and disappoin-
ting in performance. So Bert Hinkler
must stand or fall on his reputation as a
long-distance record-breaking pilot.
And this record, judged by world
standards, is just not good enough and
was not enhanced by his affectation of
despising the public. His first three
records London/Turin, Sydney/Bun-
daberg, and London/Riga, in 1920,
1921, and 1927 respectively were too
unimportant, and too far apart in space
and time to keep his reputation bright,
and he only became well-known after
his London/Darwin flight in 1928. He
was then 36, which is getting on in years
for that kind of life, and from then on
he fought a losing battle with time,
trying to find a backer for the Ibis,
trying to start up an air-charter firm, and
finally trying to beat the London/Dar-
win record again. He took off from
England in January, 1933, and was killed
when his aircraft crashed in the Italian
Alps. He was 41 years of age.
The picture that emerges from Mr
Mackenzie’s biography is that of an
unhappy and frustrated man, always
striving for security and throwing it
away when it is within his grasp.
I liked Mr McKee's “Friendless Sky”
very much and it can be read in two ways.
The young, swamped with books about
flying in World War 11, can learn from
it how advanced aviation had become by
1918 from its primitive state in 1914.
In these pages they will meet the
men and machines which flew in
knightly combat above the battle-
lines in Europe and other fronts, and
they will meet men like Robert Strasser,
the German Zeppelin commander, who
took his bomb-load back to base rather
than risk dropping it on a civilian target.
There were few like these in World War
11, when the business of killing and
destruction had become a much more
ruthless affair.
It can also be read as a message of
hope. The author produces facts which
show that strategic bombing has failed in
its object in two world wars, and gives
his reasons why it may be no more
successful in a third, in spite of the in-
creased range and power of the weapons
available. Both the student of military
affairs and the airminded who grew up
too late to read Bert Hall, Elliot White
Springs, or Cecil Lewis 30 years ago will
enjoy this book. It is well illustrated with
a selection of contemporary photographs.
E. M. PENNAGE
Distinctly Odd
Chateau Bonheur. Philippe Jullian.
Macdonald. 20s.
“/Chateau Bonheur” is a distinctly odd
book to come out of the country
where the anti-novel originated. Leisure-
ly and mannered, it might have been
written by someone who had been sold
about Jane Austen but had never read
her. Philippe Jullian’s narrator is a young
man, a member of France’s Good Pro-
testant Society. He visits wealthy rela-
tives near Biarritz and is much im-
pressed by their talk of music, books
and Moral Rearmament. He is also im-
pressed by their wealth and hopes to
marry one or other daughter of the
house. He loses one to the Catholic
Church and the other to an artist. Des-
pite these setbacks he is still able to
keep up his end of the conversation,
which goes on and on and on.


THE
MAN
OO THAN
LAND
SIREX WASPS AND PARSIMONY
THREATEN PINE FORESTS
By MARIEL LEE
"JV/fuCH benefit to be expected
from the Victorian Forest Commis-
sion’s vigorous annual extension of pine
plantations may vanish unless the Com-
mission can solve two big problems.
One, the threatened spread of the im-
ported Sirex wood wasp, calls for im-
mediate and urgent measures; the other,
lack of funds for silviculture, or care of
growing trees, is a threat of more funda-
mental and far-reaching loss.
The Sirex wood wasp, native to Eur-
ope, arrived about 60 years ago in New
Zealand, where it caused enormous
damage to plantations and shelter belts.
In an unusually dry 1946, the wasps in-
creased so greatly that, in one plantation
11 out of every 12 trees were killed.
In 1952. Sirex wasps were found in
Tasmanian pine plantations at Pittwater,
and infestation later spread to planta-
tions at Cressy and Hagley.
Victoria was thought wasp-free until,
on December 20, 1961, male and female
wasps were found in a flitch being re-
sawn for case-making in Nunawading
Fruit Packing Association’s saw-mill.
The infested flitch was traced back to a
small Pinus radiata plantation at Woori
Yallock, in which, on Jaunary 4, 1962,
wasps were found.
By May 1962, further infestations
were found in areas near Melbourne and
in Gippsland. Strict policing has not yet
found wasps in Ballarat, Western Dis-
trict and Grampians plantations where
there are over 320,000 acres of State
and privately owned plantations worth
£l5O million. Any wasp infestation here
would seriously affect a great saw-milling
industry.
What are the wasps like? From three-
eighths to one-and-a-half inches long,
with steel-blue antennae one-third of
their body length, both male and female
are similar in size and shape, but differ
in coloring. The female has a steel-blue
body, chestnut-brown wings and legs.
The male has a predominantly steel-blue
body, with five abdominal sections,
wings and two pairs of legs chestnut
brown, but steel-blue rear legs.
The wasps attack both green and dry
wood, but apparently can complete their
life cycle (of at least 12 months in Vic-
toria) only in dry wood, ensured by
fungus killing the infested branch or
even the whole tree.
Wasps found when timber is milled
can be destroyed by heat or fumigation.
The cost of field search for infestation,
felling and burning all pines dead, dying
or with dead branches, is met by a
special National Sirex Fund, to which the
Commonwealth contributed £lOO,OOO,
and the States another £lOO,OOO in pro-
portion to their acreage of Sirex-suscep-
tible softwood plantations.
Unfortunately, there is no such fund
for silviculture, neglect of which must
even more deplete forest resources al-
ready inadequate to meet the severe
world shortage which experts (because
consumption of wood and wood pro-
ducts is increasing rather faster than
world population) predict by 2000 A.D.,
when no country may have an export-
able surplus.
The £120,000 now allocated for Vic-
toria’s western division, an area one-third
of the State, says Divisional Forester Mr
C. H. G. Pavey, of Horsham, barely
covers new plantings, firefighting
jects, and the building and maintenf
of 1200 miles of roads, most of w)/!
though extensively used by toumt, '
still below standard.
In view of the predicted world short,
age, the consequent neglect of silyk'
ture seriously threatens future forest
sources in Victoria, which now im po !
one-third of her timber needs.
That same lack of funds prevent
sufficient replacement of the nativ,
forests of unsurpased hardwoods to
which, up to now, Australia’s build#
industry has been based. Years of ft!
damage, notably in 1926-32 and in lj|
—when much of Victoria’s matured k
niture and joinery timber was destroyed
—and short-sighted logging practice,
have left scantling quality forests clti|.
tered with unprofitable cull trees.
For some years to come, too, ®
timber worth milling can be logged in
burnt-over forest areas; yet with funds
for forestry so parsimoniously doled out,
useless culls and damaged re-growti
cannot be weeded out, leaving good
quality trees or replacements the fret
dom and space necessary for their ful
development.
Shire Councils in western Victoria,
parts of which must get timber fro®
faraway Gippsland, as well as the Wit
mera Regional Committee, are alarmed
by authoritative reports of this neglect
of silviculture, but can do no more than
press Premier Bolte for more generous
forestry allocations, especially for sucl
soil and other research as will brio;
Victorian plantations to the standard ol
South Australia’s. That once tree-less
State now supplies timber to Victorian
cities.
Meanwhile, the Forest Commission
offers every possible help to those
minded to establish private plantations
as a sound long-term investment.
IRRIGATION CAN BE DANGER
IVr Hugh McL. Gordon, of the Mc-
Master Animal Health Laboratory,
has taken a long, sober look at water
irrigation water. In a recent issue of
“Outlook on Agriculture” he describes
some of his misgivings about the effect
of the Snowy Mountains Scheme on
animal health.
The changes in the ecology of the
region will lead to higher rates of stock-
ing and, consequently, easier spread of
disease between the animals, he says.
Certain metabolic diseases, such as bloat,
will become common as a result of
changes in the composition of the
pasture.
Forms of animal life new to the area
will come with the water, as they did
when Lake Alexandrina became fresh.
Among these will be various snails,
many of which serve as intermediate
hosts for flukes. Of these the most
important will be Lymnaea, the carrier
of Liver fluke and the Planorbiis
(Ram’s Florn Snails), hosts of Parara-
phistome flukes. Certain Clostridial
diseases, and the Black disease, oft®
associated with Liver fluke injury,
also become prevalent.
Water fleas (Cyclops) will
spread through irrigation ditches. Th®
are intermediate hosts of a group o !
tape worm parasites of man and li®
stock. Water-birds and mosquitoes W
gether may cause the spread of Murray
River Encephalitis. Nodule worms #
cattle and sheep may spread soutb'
wards from areas of summer rainfall
These and other troubles are f° re '
cast by Dr Gordon.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
The Fate of the Common Market
That widely vaunted clarity and logicality of which the
French themselves often sound so boastful certainly seems
capable of pushing many matters to a ruthless and un-
reasonable conclusion. Hence it need not be too surprising
that firm differences of opinion on the future of pigmeat can
\ be used for the rationalisation of narrowing intuitions about
I the definition of Europe.
[ “An exquisitely civilised Frenchman” (in Mr Walter Lipp-
mann’s honeyed words), General de Gaulle is playing for
hpynotically convincing stakes in his attempt to banish Britain,
even if only temporarily, from the European Economic Com-
munity. At a climactic point in the most recent talks, when the
technical conditions of British entry appeared closer to solution,
French leadership, French independence and not least Gaullist
domination are tossed into the battle to force exclusion.
| Those motives, of course, constitute political counters and
stratagems. It was almost inevitable that they should at last
come out into the open before the Common Market might
I attain further completion by U.K. admission and then, perhaps,
| a procession of applications from the remaining EFTA
I countries.
Until the Ministers meet again next Monday, we shall not
i know if the French have cast a successful die that is, from
their own point of view and neglecting the fate of a grander
conception of Europe. But in the interval, while waiting for a
final decision, economic considerations will not go entirely to
the wall.
Whatever their political alignments, Germany, Italy, Belgium
and the Netherlands have reached a deep conviction that
Britain can add to the financial and industrial effectiveness of
acommunity enlarged beyond the bounds of the original Treaty
of Rome. There can be little doubt that, with Mr Heath’s
evident co-operation, the differences over agriculture may be
resolved. No wonder need be occasioned by these agricultural
difficulties, for they continue to be quite a snag among the
Six themselves.
Indeed, many observers are not entirely convinced that
, General de Gaulle will necessarily carry his own farmers with
fe. The last year has seen some representatives of French
forming begin to look upon Britain as another market for
ex Ports. As well, the Brussels talks might lead to world com-
ity agreements giving higher prices for cereals and other
produce. •
So we must not assume that all Frenchmen desire a closed
ond tight little Europe.
But one further and preponderant factor has been left out
niost attempts to assess the de Gaulle bombshell. In all the
■plomatic and executive flurry of the last week, the hand of
mer ica has not been newly declared. Again on purely eco-
nomic grounds, and avoiding political considerations, America
as every reason to be disturbed at this European situation and
0 Join in efforts to influence the views of the Six.
On the very day that General de Gaulle let loose his tirade,
res, dent Kennedy made his State-of-the-Union address. It
a l_ n °t all tax-cuts and NATO.
" e President is deeply concerned to widen, not narrow, the
channels of world trade. Any limitation, especially if dictated
by a power game and economic selfishness, would be abhorrent
to him. Listen to a key passage from this address, and remem-
ber that Europe also must listen:
“The next most pressing concern is our common economic
goals of trade and growth. This nation continues to be con-
cerned about its balance of payments deficit, which, despite its
decline, remains a stubborn and troublesome problem. We
believe, moreover, that closer economic ties among all free
nations are essential for prosperity and peace.
“And neither we nor the members of the Common Market
are so affluent that we can long afford to shelter high cost
farms or factories from the winds of foreign competition, or to
restrict the channels of trade with other nations of the Free
World.
“If the Common Market should now move toward protection-
ism and restrictionism, it would undermine its own basic
principles. This Government means to use the authority con-
ferred on it last year by the Congress to encourage trade
expansion on both sides of the Atlantic and around the world.’’
These are not idle words. So, somewhere or other, America
must try to condition the latest Brussels contretemps to face
this braver design for world trade.
Australia, too, might be learning from them. The general
alternatives we may have to meet, as a consequence of Euro-
pean chess moves, are outlined in “Plain English” on Page
5 of this issue. As is made quite clear there, nothing that may
happen in respect of Britain and Europe can absolve us from
pursuing a full-fledged and cost-sensible exports drive.
General de Gaulle may be beating into the void when he
declares that “the British agricultural system —cheap food
imports from the Americas and the Dominions and big subsi-
dies to the British farmers —is incompatible with the system of
the Six.” He won’t be the only one to determine that.
But to us is given no solace or resting places in assured
and comfortable markets. Whatever happens in Europe, and
whenever it happens, we have to remember Sir John Crawford’s
wise words that there is no natural bloc into which we can now
fit.
Our trading destiny, naturally, lies closer to a batcff of
Asian countries in the immediate years ahead. Yet we must
gird ourselves to go out and chase business wherever we can
find it.
WOOL CHEQUE THIS YEAR
COULD BE LARGER
\ year ago, 64’s average wool brought 104 d. a lb. under the
hammer at Australian auctions. Last week the same
quality was being knocked down at 123 d. a lb.
So, wool is again in the ascendancy. It is 10 years since
we have seen such keen demand for the staple.
It began with the Cuban crisis. Wool was in better demand
after that furore although it was difficult to imagine why,


except that speculators may have anticipated any struggle
emanating from Cuba becoming world-wide.
With H-bombs and the like, though, wool seems hardly
the war material that it was.
Nevertheless, it was Cuba that set the ball rolling. India
followed with defence purchases for its war in the cold climes
of the Himalayas.
Japan, too, expanding its textile front, became more active,
and last week was bidding keenly at Newcastle.
Clearing of stocks at mills, in warehouses and on retail
floors in Europe and the USA, has put wool into a strong
statistical position.
It looks good for a better wool cheque, for the rest of this
year, anyhow.
MONEY, MONEY EVERYWHERE,
BUT NOT A DROP IS SPENT
Pack in the relative calm of Australia’s internal economy,
an odd pattern of prosperity is emerging. Wool is poised
for what looks to be a solid rise in prices; production continues
apace; money is cheapening by the very weight of the flow of
it; and costs have held remarkably steady.
Yet there is little to suggest that the whole nation is pushing
forward on the grand scale that the current situation would
normally entail.
Investment in all but the most assured form is slack, in
both public and corporate fields.
The situation in the trading banks is a reflection of this
stagnation.
In December, for instance, deposits with the eight major
trading banks rose £40.6 million to lift the amount left in banks
to a record of £1915.7 million. Savings bank figures un-
available as yet are expected to show much the same trend.
This rise is far higher than we have come to expect for
December. The normal increase in bank deposits reflecting
bigger spending on retail goods and the consequent run dowm
of warehouse and factory stocks, is augmented lately by a
cautious approach to investment by those in a position to
invest. Money is staying in the bank.
The “wait and see” policy adopted by many in early 1962
has became fashionable to an overprudent degree. Govern-
ment measures designed to stimulate demand (and spending)
by freeing money into the pipelines (see Economics Anonym-
ous, page 44) have fallen on ground not in the least prepared
for them.
At The Bulletin, the view has been held that the quantity
control of the money flow' as practised by all Governments
to date, is not the complete answer to the problem of economic
activity control. Today, w’e have evidence that availability of
money is not the prime factor in stimulating (or, for that
matter, dampening) the economy.
Psychological resistance to any great degree of expansion
—despite the ready availability of the wherewithal to expand
is visible in most industries. The motor industry, fortunately,
is an exception here, taking up a good deal of the national
slack. It is worth pondering the employment situation of
today if the motor trade was not functioning at near-record
levels; it is, after all, the largest private employer.
The sluggish use of bank advances is further evidence of
this dose of stagnation current in most of the economy. The
banks are approving new loans and increasing old limits at the
rate of £10.7 million a week as December ended; but actual
drawings on overdraft have been at a much slower rate than
this. Indeed, at the end of 1962, the eight banks had com-
mitted themselves to overdrafts totalling, £1770.9 million, but
actual drawings amounted to only £1052.1 million less
than 60 per cent of the absolute.
Institutional and corporate investment, then, is awaiting
something to happen before any commitment is underti
That “something” will have to be of a dynamic natur
shake this private sector of the community out of jj,
inspired fence-sitting.
Understandably, the general public is feeling j{ s >
investment-wise. Savings are being directed more to« s *
banks, bonds and life policies than they have ever been
The professional investor (despite his entreaties that this
the time to buy) is not being followed into equity 4
Maybe this shyness is a direct consequence of the fall i ns |,
prices from November 1960; but more likely it stems front!
shattering experiences of more than 150,000 “little” invest
in Reid Murray, Latec and the Stanhill group.
Certainly, the wariness to some of the corporate debenti
offerings would support this view.
The thrifty, lethargic private sector of the economy, hj
ever, could well be spurred by happenings on the home set'
later in the year. A placid boom can be expected to folio
the upward movement in commodity prices, particularly woi
that can be confidently anticipated in the short haul.
JAPAN LOOKING FOR
MORE EXPORTS
Tapan continues to look outwards and to a vigorously pursu
** exports policy in order to re-establish growth prospet
after the somewhat uncertain 1962 year. Business can contei;
plate a relaxation of recent tight money restrictions (the easii t
actually began last October), yet some experts still believe lit
relative stagnation may hold until the second half of 1963 f
However, Mr I wane Hamaguchi. president of the Long Ten
Credit Bank, feels optimistic enough to forecast a slow upswi
during the current year’s first half. Some of this prediction
based upon the chances of higher consumer spending ai
Government investment.
But to complete the recovery a good deal of emphasis ■
be placed upon exports and many sections of the Japan?
economy are thoroughly aware of this. Mr Hamaguchi "sa
merit” in hopes that exports may be lifted 7-8 p.c. in 151
yet also adds that the rate could go to over 10 p.c.
He urges that real progress depends on the effectivenessi
exports promotion and “upon the efforts of the Organise
for Economic Co-operation for a minimum 4 p.c. growth inti
economy.” Excessively stretched efforts, though, should noil
made merely to reach a proclaimed goal, since that kindi
programme has led to the famous “overheating” and the shtj
necessity for business adjustment.
In spite of this, the Japanese business world need not fej
the demands of trade and currency liberalisation. It is doul
interesting to hear Mr Hamaguchi preach the virtues of M
trade. )
“The industrial world should realise that these are li
demands of world economy and face liberalisation
determination,” he argues. “The Government should co-open l
with private enterprises and take steps necessary for cushion®
the effects of liberalisation. The growth <3f the economy’
depend ultimately on the growth of exports.”
Japan's Economic Planning Agency in a recent white paf
adds to the stress upon exports and uses the opportunity 1
chide some backsliding foreigners. “What must be noted
particular from the standpoint of trade liberalisation is
there still remain touches of protectionism in the EEC p^ l
and the US Trade Expansion Act, despite the fa ct
realignment of the world trade structure is being carried®
under the principle of free trade,” the white paper mentions
From discussion of this kind of principles and the sta
of the Australia-Japan trade treaty talks our own tight-!#'
Government is benevolently preserving us!


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED TIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
□
□
:
D
D
P.A.
FOR
12
MONTHS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
0
o
o
P.A.
FOR
6
YEARS
ss
o
a
I
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
CORPORATION LIMITED
(. Registered 19 th December, 1929 )
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
SILVER CAPERS
ahead
' dullion dealers on both sides of the
' V Atlantic seem largely in agreement
, {the price of silver will continue to
r ise throughout 1963. The latest con-
firmation stems from Handy and Har-
inall) W ell-known New York refiners and
fabricators of precious metals.
They, indeed, hazard a guess that the
[ rate “could well approach the so-called
monetary price of 1.29 dollars an
ounce.”
The US coin with the highest silver
content values its metal at that particu-
lar price. Current market sales are
being made around 1.25 dollars in
America and 106 d. sterling in London.
Previously pegged prices were un-
shackled in November, 1961, when the
US Treasury suspended direct sales to
industrial users. Since then the price
has jumped about 30 p.c.
The recent advances became most ob-
vious about September, though last year
did not see any of the great pressure of
forward buying which distinguished
1961. Nevertheless, both industrial and
coinage demands look like being high
for some considerable time. And indus-
trial requirements are unable yet to be
1 satisfied from new output alone.
! Handy and Harman, however, hold
out hopes that world necessities this year
may be met by market supplies, without
recourse to Treasury monetised stocks.
That could mean a further push on
prices.
Australian Barrier companies must
certainly take some benefit from the
situation as well as Mount Isa, the big-
gest local producer. In this country
silver principally occurs in association
with lead-zinc ores. The Barriers are
going full steam ahead here, since inter-
national proposals for restriction broke
down early in 1962.
Industrial consumption of silver in
U 62 reached about 110 million ounces, a
p.c. increase on 1961. Handy and
Harman believe that demand above new
production this year can come from
speculative holdings (quickly liquidated
1 prices keep on rising), surplus stocks,
and US Treasury stocks for defence
needs.
Red China, whose big sales held prices
° Wn through 1961, could possibly start
* e l‘ng again. The world’s largest pro-
l'cer, Mexico, has lately been selling
SlVer bought early in 1962 to support
P ric es after a drop followed the first
Positive rises.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
GOVERNMENT'S ROLE AS ACTIVATOR
Government’s main economic
A problem last year was to gauge the
extent to which it needed to use its own
official channels of income generation to
stimulate the economy. It was awak-
ened to the need for stimulants by the
election results of December, 1961, after
a year in which it relied too heavily on
natural forces of recovery to lift the
economy from recession.
The idea last year was that new tax
concessions and higher public invest-
ment expenditure would boost money
circulation, free the pipelines of indus-
try and set the industrial and commer-
cial stages for a revival in expectations
on the future profitability of new capital
investment. _ The theory was that private
investment would take over the running
set by official income stimulants, and
that by not forcing the pace of the latter
it would be possible to achieve the object
without impairing price stability, imped-
ing the export drive and straining the
balance of payments.
This approach has worked fairly well,
although the pace of the upswing has
not been as fast as it could have been
with more energetic measures, and it is
still problematical whether private in-
vestment has grasped the nettle firmly
enough to allow an easing off of new in-
come generation from official sources.
By general consent, economics wise
the most disheartening feature of 1962
was that for all the whipping up of
spending power contrived by Govern-
ment stimulants and higher public in-
vestment, private investment remained
subdued. If the official statistics are not
exactly conclusive about this, the
lethargy of share markets and the pau-
city of new ordinary share issues leave
little doubt about it.
'This is certainly the main reason why,
as 1963 gets under way, the labor ab-
sorption capacity of the economy is be-
low the pitch necessary to achieve a
rapid assimilation of school-leavers in
the next few months, though not of a
much higher intake of adult migrants,
especially those with industrial skills, for
whom there is already an unfilled de-
mand in the labor market.
The general economic line of the
Government now appears to be that spon-
taneous forces are strong enough to get
the economy into a state of full employ-
ment without at this stage stepping up
income generation through its own
channels of spending and investment.
This is not to say that the Govern-
ment expects its own income generating
will necessarily be neutral in the situa-
tion, even if through the medium of the
continued high inflow of investment
funds into the loan market it looks to be
pretty much that way at the present
time, and if, as may be judged by the
settled summer silences in official
monetary quarters, the authorities are
not expecting any radical change in the
direction of investment flows.
Indeed, although the strong flow of
savings into the loan market has obvi-
ated the massive recourse to Treasury
Bill finance expected when the Govern-
ment set an £ 1 18T million cash deficit
for the current financial year and has
thus denied the economy much of the
budgeted-for boost to income generation
through pump priming, the influence of
the Government’s outlay of loan funds
on income generation is of high import-
ance. As the Government’s own in-
vestment programmes gather momentum
—as they are doing—the overall effect
on national income will become progres-
sively greater.
Tn this way the Government can be ex-
A pected to make up at least for some
of the failure of private investment to
play a bigger role in income generation
and job creation. Whether it will be suf-
ficient to make up for the full shortfall
in private investment compared with the
level required for full employment is
another matter. So far the recovery in
private investment has been mostly in
stocks. Fixed private investment has
moved up much more slowly.
With private investment still far from
buoyant and Treasury Bills being used
sparingly to finance Government expen-
diture, the question is Whether new in-
come is getting sufficient boost from
Government quarters. One of the
PM’s ideas, expressed a few months
ago—admittedly off the cuff, —is appar-
ently that the net effect of public in-
vestment on income generation and job
creation is not so very different from
that of private investment, that a £ of
one is as good as a £ of the other in the
task of promoting full employment.
Thinking on this tack in framing eco-
nomic policies for full employment in a
free enterprise economy could be pushed
beyond bounds, however. By weighting
the dice in favor of investment in Gov-
ernment securities, either by keeping the
bond rate too high or by virtually com-
pelling the big institutions to put a high
proportion of the funds into bonds, a
Government could starve the private sec-
tor of funds.
It may even be that a combination of
high bond rate and the 20/30 rule is
even now continuing to operate as alts
pressant on private investment i n s i
struggle to grasp the nettle of eXp: d
sion in the face of still considerable'p
cess industrial capacity in the econoit "
However, if this is the case the effeci d
being produced more by the enfopti
ment through the pressure of too hi? d
bond rate of unnecessarily high nttn '
rates in the private sector than in #
actual shortage of funds for either I-
public or the private sector. c
s
4 gain, it could be that the Governmei !
is now clinging too avaricious/
to its dearly-won hegemony in the® 1
tal market, albeit it may be wonderii [
very seriously when, if at all, in theft ‘
of continuing incentives and enfott*
ments to invest in bonds, the rani ‘
heralded swing from bonds into indi (
trial investments is going to take pk
after all.
On the other hand, it would be ratli
too much of a good thing if the Goverl
ment had grown so confident of its m
on the market that the PM should thil
it about time he propounded a newvitj
putting public investment on all fora
with private investment in this free til
terprise economy. That would beam
post of despair along the road to fulleu
ployment.
Few people, and certainly not I
PM, have yet called into serious qua
tion that the underlying modus opti
andi of the Australian economy is pr
vate enterprise, or that the role i
public investment is more than the din
one of ensuring the provision of bass
community services on the one hand aa
acting as a balancing factor in securii
the optimum level of total investmei
on the other.
The question whether public inves
ment is a better or worse income genera
tor and job creator than private invest
ment may be debatable, though since*
least part of public investment funds ar
derived from taxation and another pi
from virtual compulsion on institute
and funds, economically it would see
that overall private investment has t
edge in a free enterprise economy.
tainly, considering private enterprise
the main motive force in the econo®!
this is no time to be sitting pat ofl>
imbalance of forces in the cap®
market which loads the dice against f
vate investment.
It is all very well for the Govern® 8
to sit back in the box seat in the mat®
culling in funds some of which could
better employed in the private sec#
Continued Page 45


and certainly would be used there if in-
terest rates on commercial loans were
more competitive with bonds.
While interest rates may not tell the
whole story of the continued weighting
of investment in favor of Government se-
curities, the over-supply of funds to the
public sector not only puts a premium
°n Government activity and employ-
ment a t a time when the main need is
*° create more job opportunities in in-
jwstry, but also denies the economy the
u ‘l benefit of its most spontaneous in-
Come generator.
Nonetheless, the time could be ap-
P’oaching when, after perhaps a little
more P Us h from Government spending
an d investment, the stage will be set for
a m °re full-blooded response by private
Vestment.
should keep alive to
e Possibility of this happening some-
before the Budget in August, and
j e re ady to dampen down its own
COme "generating activities accordingly.
STATUS OF AMPOL PETROLEUM
| j s f a irly usual at this stage of a
neW year, the sharemarkets have
r a uttle time out to evaluate the
3| r ation after the first flush of resumed
" i lings. That still remains the best ex-
-1 nation of most of last week’s some-
!*t apprehensive trading among in-
dustrials, for the bulk of observers con-
(jnlie to adhere to predictions for a
I decided accretion to share prices during
1-1963. , . , t
“ It is only right to point out, though,
S 'hat the traditional breathing spell coin-
cided with a sudden need to reckon with
som e disturbing outside influences and
these may exercise a longish carry-over.
* fhe Common Market hiatus and a Com-
'i m onwealth loan failure may spread
Uipples for a week or two yet. There
™ are also a few quite intriguing local
problems whether BHP stays under
® selling fire, for instance,
ud gut Friday last came along with one
d« of the most fascinating of purely invest-
la ment questions: the future status of Am-
pol Petroleum. Only 18 months or so
ft ago, there were not wanting comrnen-
tators to decide that this once glamorous
?! stock was slowly and surely moving into
“ a tame middle age, when expansion
i f might be less exciting than of yore.
II The market, in recent months, tended
5 to adopt such an estimation, since, after
all, eroded earning rates did bump closer
•dto that sacred 14 p.c. dividend. There
could also have been doubts about a cap-
acity to extend the past high rate of
capital spending, especially with one or
two big ventures still not profit-bearing.
Then, almost out of the blue, arrives
news of a great Brisbane refinery project
and, what should not be lost sight of, a
call for new money to finance the service
station programme and “to maintain liqui-
dity”. The older problems may remain in
some form, yet they have certainly been
given a new start.
Investors should be glad to hear that
the company does not consider necessary
the slightest slackening on its distribut-
ing side, that expansion is still the order
of the day here. The £2.5 million un-
secured nonconvertible notes earmarked
for these specific purposes will not be
difficult to raise.
For the rest of the plans divulged to
the annual meeting, shareholders and
others could make a quick connection
between the Brisbane refinery and Moonie
oil. The race goes to the swift; some
masterly negotiators probably beat
Amoco and others to the prize of Aus-
tralian oil marketing; a local company’s
pumps patriotically filled with a locally
won and refined crude.
Shareholders may also have felt relief
that the old Port Alma scheme would
be dropped. Apart from aiding “sub-
stantially in the development of Central
Queensland”, a lofty enough ambition, it
had hung fire too long.
It is to be hoped, however, that any
ambiguities surrounding the new projects
will be resolved as quickly as possible.
Presumably an assurance that Moonie
definitely will feed Brisbane can be
reasonably forthcoming. All we have so
far is: “The discovery of oil in Queens-
land and the decision to build the pipe-
line terminating at Brisbane has neces-
sitated a change of location.”
A similar speedy assurance is required
as well on the financial arrangements.
Perhaps the hand of the Bechtel Corpora-
tion on pipeline, terminal and refinery
guarantees a favourable solution in this
matter. Union-Kern itself may not be
far away, either.
It is plain that Ampol itself cannot
afford too much strain in parent partici-
pation. Fortunately, the previously an-
nounced device of development com-
panies, of separate public flotations to
finance new ventures, stands ready. What
interest Ampol can decide to keep in any
temporarily unproductive enterprise
should soon be stated so far as the Bris-
bane refinery is concerned.
Intending Australian investors and
Ampol shareholders looking towards a
measure of priority will be keen to get
this information. They are more and
more being convinced that the oil com-
plex generally is moving away from
sheer speculation into investment. It is
merely the beginning when Ampol chair-
man, Mr. L. J. Thompson, comforts his
annual meeting: “Regarding the anticip-
ated earning rate for the current year
during which little is expected from these
development projects, your board is of
the opinion that, subject to unforeseen
the world of business
"Your share of the annual profit of the Mothers' Club investment
syndicate runs into four figures eleven and tenpence."


LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
58 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2701 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
circumstances, earnings will be adequate
to maintain the current rate of dividend.”
A coming conversion of the May 1963
unsecured notes thrown in, that’s not a
bad reassurance, though.
Sargood checkmate
TAirectors of Sydney softgoods whole.-
saler Sargood Gardiner Ltd probably
feel they have moved their pieces very
cleverly in the takeover game with F. W.
Williams Holdings. “Pieces” rather looks
the correct word, after Sargood’s sorry
handling of its affairs this last year or so.
At any rate, the veteran warehouse-
men did not appear nearly so reluctant
to fall into the hands of a “large retailer”.
The name of Myer was quite artfully
planted. That appears a far cry from the
sturdy and vociferous resistance offered
to the Williams bid, which, in all fairness
it must be said, held out possibilities of
dismemberment of activities and termina-
tion of “ services of any director who is
an executive and any service agreements
which may be in existence.”
Not all the mighty assets backing of
645. lOd. for each Sargood 20s. ordinary
would yield full gold on a breaking up.
And a large retailer would know best
what to do with the available, yet rather
moribund warehousing facilities.
Shareholders gave no particular evi-
dence of being in a hurry to be grasped
by the Williams claw. Williams’ direc-
tors themselves regard acceptances so
far as not significant about 20 p.c.,
with the bid expiring at the end of this
month. Even more inconclusively, they
showed no signs of a wish to counter-bid.
Price of the ordinaries has been pushed
up from 265. 3d. to 295. since prospects
of a further offer were disclosed. Some-
one awaits more than the “substantial
recoveries” promised by Sargood direc-
tors. Reconstructions can also come in
more ways than one!
An “open-and-shut” job
HThose who thought the A. J. Benja-
min Ltd annual meeting called for
January 17 would be an open-and-shut
affair did not realise how literally true
that would be.
A first loss, of over £200,000, was
bound to disturb some of the 5000 share-
holders, and 50 or 60 attended the meet-
ing. One of a dissentient group moved
that the meeting was invalid because
shareholders had not been given suffi-
cient notice in accordance with the
articles of association.
The Companies Act requires share-
holders be given at least 7 days’ notice of
a meeting or such longer period as is pro-
vided in the articles. (Quite a number of
companies are failing to comply with
the regulations in this regard.)
The chairman (Mr John Benjamin)
said at the meeting that the Stock Ex-
change had been notified concerning the
annual meeting on December 12, and that
annual reports were mailed to share-
holders on January 8 or 9.
Rather than risk invalidation of pro-
ceedings, he adjourned the meeting to a
date to be fixed. He described the hitch
as a “technical discrepancy.”
The reversal of trading fortunes was
ascribed in the annual report to compe-
tition (Grace Bros at Chatswood and
Farmer’s new store at Gordon would
detract from the original Benjamin store
at Chatswood), to bad debts in the build-
; n» trade (builders’ hardware was a signi-
ficant part of the business) and to over-
statement of past profits of the Broken
Hill store.
The ss. shares are now trailing around
2s. Bd. Rather incongruously, the options
to take up shares at par in November,
1967, were still bringing 6d.
Minster's Performance
remarkable company, Minster
JL Ltd, has reported higher sales for
the December half-year than in the pre-
vious corresponding period. Strong de-
mand for the group’s products is con-
tinuing, according to directors.
Although profits of the last two years
did not equal that of 1959-60, they did
not sag as badly as one might expect
considering the body-blows dealt to the
building industry in November 1960.
Although the rubber-bonded carpet
made by Minster was first used in the
motor industry, Minster primarily pro-
duces floor-coverings for homes
commercial buildings. Perhaps the C j
tinued activity in commercial buildj
and the rubber dispersions p rotec , (
Minster from a more severe downtu tl
A fourth carpet-making machine %
recently installed at the Dander
plant.
Present price of around 71s. for
10s. shares (yield 2.8 p.c.) is way beb
peak for 1962 of 88s. and seems sure)
improve.
Registration fall no surprise
/Considering the rush to register»
companies in the months immei
ately before the new Victorian Compi
nies Act came into force on July ] \ n
it is perhaps not so surprising that in tbs
ensuing half year new registrations \wit,
only 1,300, compared with 1,664 in 4
same six months of 1961.
As usual, proprietaries dominate
registrations and it was also these I
naturally registered the biggest drop
from 1,498 to 1,132. “Foreign” corn
panies registered fell from 126 to 11
and public companies were little change
at 20 compared with 21.
Against these drops the number tl
business names registered in the State
in the latest half year rose to 3,676 fron
3,511 in the final six months of 1961.
At December 31 there were 38,1
extant companies operating in Victor
of which 36.082 were Victorian proprie-
taries and public companies and 2,62!
“foreign.”
Shock for Sharebrokers
T>rokers were rather shocked to sti
in an article in the current issued
the monthly journal of the Institute o
Chartered Accountants in Australia:
suggestion that their commissions I*
milked to help find finance to run;
Securities Exchange Commission on tk
model of the US one to safeguard tin
interests of investors in Australia.
Whatever may be said of the desirabi-
lity of setting up such a body, it
rough on brokers, many of whom a*
scraping the barrel now what with hi?
overheads, only moderate broker®:
turnovers and very little business in W
issues, to expect them both to sponso
and help pay for it. Surely if investor
seriously want more protection from l "
pitfalls of investment they should P-
for it themselves or get the Governs®
to do it. (Trade unions please note!)
This, of course, doesn't absol'
brokers from the obligation to be a
more helpful to investors who want j
deal through them, especially to
investors who too often get advice nd
from brokers’ underlings.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
6mths....6Va-
12mths..7^p. a -
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications toi these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH 7th Floor, 8f St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any ot the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
Not recommended
n a, Brierley Investments Ltd,
K Wellington (NZ), floated last year
but its issue was not entirely filled. In
the prospectus, the managing director,
u r R. A- Brierley, who is still in his
ties and describes himself as one of
New Zealand’s “leading authorities on
company finance”, forecast an initial
dividend of 10 p.c. for the first year.
It is difficult to see how the young
company is going to achieve this aim.
p or this “corporate raider”, as Mr
Brierley calls his company, was unsuc-
cessful in the several takeover bids it
has made.
Capital may now be in the vicinity of
£50,000, following the purchase, for
shares, of units in the First New Zealand
Unit Trust reputedly worth about £BOOO.
The 5s shares, which were refused
listing by the New Zealand stock ex-
changes, have lately been selling unoffici-
ally at around 3s. 9d. In view of the
inexperience of its directors and the
nature of its activities, investment in this
company is not recommended at this
stage.
End of an anomaly
Always something of an anomaly on
Melbourne ’Change, McCracken’s
City Brewery Ltd Trust is likely to be
wound up if CUB's one-for-two bonus
issue of ordinary shares goes through.
The Trust was formed as a result of
the takeover of McCracken's City
Brewery Ltd by the CUB in 1907 in
exchange for CUB ordinaries which
were not transferable by the company.
When the CUB’s one-for-two bonus
of ordinaries is made and “Z” shares
acquire the same rights as the ordinaries,
the ordinary CUB shares held by the
Trust will become transferable and dis-
tributable among shareholders.
Gerrard troubles over
ptE 10s. ordinary shares of the Mel-
bourne steel and wire firm, Gerrard
Co. of Australasia Ltd, made a strong
come-back after the announcement that
a troublesome subsidiary, Daniel Harvey
Holdings Pty Ltd, had been sold to
Horwood Bagshaw Ltd for cash.
Daniel Harvey, an old - established
agricultural implement maker, was
acquired by Gerrard in 1960, but it was
discovered a great expansion of sales
" as necessary, and this entailed adding
|° toe product range. Directors felt the
Un ds would be better directed to ex-
Panding the group’s well-established and
m ° re profitable enterprises.
, The shares, which have been vacillat-
ln§ between 17s. and 17s. 9d. for
months, then spurted to over the pound
mark, on heavy turnover.
Official advice from the company
that sales in the first half of this year
have been “most satisfactory and a very
good profit result for the year is ex-
pected” suggest the shares are still not
fully priced.
The company had an excellent
record of high earning rates until the
last two years. Directors said in their
last annual report for 1961-62 that
results were not materially affected by
items of an abnormal nature, except the
losses sustained by subsidiaries associ-
ated with the automotive and agricultural
industries.
With the agricultural business disposed
of, and the return of buoyant con-
ditions to the automotive industry,
Gerrard should be restored to its early
high market rating.


HARDWARE
Term ended June 30. 1957
HOLDINGS LTD
£,000
1958 1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
743
718
1018
913
1023
1262
Less current liabilities
349
401
541
395
378
588
Net working capital
394
317
477
518
645
674
Fixed assets
261
355
398
406
439
592
Investments
—
—
11
8
7
6
Intangibles
4
4
5
—
—
88
Total capital
659
676
891
932
1091
1360
Represented by:
Loan capital
123
120
139
134
129
> 153
Minority interests
27
28
50
15
16
17
Ordinary capital
355
355
419
431
540
640
Reserves
154
173
283
352
406
550
Estimated operating income
125
127
178
231
204
258
Earnings
66
64
79
117
107
132
Dividends
44
44
48
54
54
80
Surplus
22
20
31
63
53
52
Dividend yield % (a)
7.5
8.3
5.4
4.8
6.3
5.0
Earnings yield % (a)
11.1
12.0
8.0
10.3
8.4
8.2
(a) based on last sale in month accounts presented.
Positions Vacant
LIBRARIAN
MARIST BROTHERS
HIGH SCHOOL,
KOGARAH, NSW
Qualified Librarian or Teacher-Librarian
to take charge of new Library.
If no suitable applicant for full-time
duties is forthcoming, consideration will be
given to the employment of several part-
time librarians.
Immediate task: to catalogue and index
3,000 new books.
Apply in writing giving details of
qualifications and experience to The Acting
Librarian.
ATTRACTIVE HARDWARE STOCK
By “SECURITY”
npHERE are, no doubt, some smaller
listed companies which have been
growing rapidly and yet appear to have
missed market recognition. Although
Hardware Holdings Ltd may not be an
outstanding performer, the shares at the
present market price show a dividend
yield of nearly 5 p.c. covered over 1.6
times by the 1961-62 earnings; and un-
der to-day’s conditions this seems to be a
reasonably attractive investment.
Over the last six years, paid capital has
increased by just over 80 p.c. and ordin-
ary shareholders’ funds by 145 p.c. yet
earnings per share during this period of
fairly rapid expansion have shown an
increase of 10 p.c.
The annual report for the year ended
June 30, 1962 indicates that this was the
43rd year of the company’s history.
Hardware Holdings Ltd was, in fact,
incorporated in December 1950 to ac-
quire the bulk of the issued capital of
Hardware Company of Australia Pty
Ltd, and it is this latter company whose
origins reach back to 1919. Before
World War 11, the company had devel-
oped its activities around the sawmilling
and quarrying industries and in 1940
entered the field of prefabrication engin-
eering, electric welding and general
blacksmith operations.
About seven years after World War II
H. A. Barnard Pty Ltd, a steel mer-
chant, was acquired and during 1957-8 a
new steel bulk store was erected at Port
Melbourne to handle many different
types of steel for the building and many
other industries.
The Dorf group of companies, manu-
facturers of household taps, was acquired
between December 1958 and September
1959, and in August 1961 Prefect In-
dustries Pty Ltd and Pradco Industries
Pty Ltd, manufacturers and distributors
of industrial brassware, were acquired.
From this brief history, nothing at all
dramatic emerges. The company has
evidently concentrated mainly on the
supply of builders’ hardware, although
in the 1960 report it was indicated pic-
torially that Scott outboard motors were
being distributed. This is the only re-
port of the last four issued which has
carried any graphic description of the
group’s lines.
Despite the difficult conditions of the
last two years, the company has man-
aged to maintain its 12i p.c. dividend
rate, despite an increase of over 50 p.c.
in paid capital arising from a l-for-4
rights issue in June 1961, followed by
the acquisition of the Prefect group in
July 1961.
Looking at the record of earnings
since just before the acquisition of H. A.
Barnard Pty Ltd when earnings had
increased to 28 p.c. on paid capital, it
would seem that this particular acquisi-
tion was rather a drag on earnings for
the two years following. On the other
hand, the Dorf group of companies
seems to have benefited the group earn-
ings quite materially, as for the years
ended June 30, 1959, 1960 and 1961 it
could be demonstrated that earnings re-
presented 25 p.c. on paid capital or
better, after making suitable adjustments.
Despite the fall in earnings as a per-
centage of capital during the 1961-62
year, it is possible to demonstrate that,
on average, this percentage has been
increasing over the last six years at the
annual compound rate of nearly 9 p.c.
although dividend pay-out has increased
at a much lower rate (roughly 2 p.c.)
and this increase in dividend income
is due solely to the bonus element in the
l-for-4 cash issue at par in June 1961
since the 12i p.c. dividend rate h a
remained unchanged.
Since 1957, gearing has increased
in the 1962 annual report long-tern,
borrowings were shown at just over
£138,000, which is still only a vert
small percentage of the total capital em.
ployed. The return of this capital has
varied over the last six years, and ij
anything shows a tendency to decline
However, even allowing for this decline at
the rate of 1 p.c. per annum, it is still
possible to see a 30 p.c. increase i»
earnings over the next five years. Un-
fortunately this does not necessarily I
mean that investors will automatically
see an improvement in the return from
their investments.
The dividend rate has remained at 12
p.c. for the last eight years, although
before that it increased at bi-annual in-
tervals from 8 p.c. to 10 p.c. to 121 pc,
The company certainly has the ability to
increase the dividend pay-out by bonus
issue if necessary, for not only is there
a share premium reserve of over
£138,000 (sufficient for a l-for-5 bonus
issue) but freehold property has not been
revalued since listing in 1951.
Any decision as to the appropriate
price for Hardware Holdings shares be-
comes a matter of personal opinion and
judgment. If it is felt that dividend in-
come is unlikely to increase at a greater
rate than 2 p.c. per annum compound,
i.e. the rate of increase in recent years,
then the shares are fully priced at pre-
sent. If, on the other hand, it is felt
that dividend income could increase at
the rate of say 5 p.c., i.e. the rate sug-
gested for earnings growth, then the
shares would be good buying up to
about 27/-.


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
L oME of those commuting gentlemen I
p was mentioning last week should fit
that “top men” bracket. If so, they
; uld all have carefully noted that very
elaborate financial journal’s main Janu-
rv recommendation, LNC. Glad to see
that it approves of one of the diary’s
holding 8 '
L as t week some of those readers who
managed to finish the diary must have
wondered about all the action on the oil
front. Out had gone AOG and Alliance
and in had come Farmouts. The AOG
sale simply proved my impatient tem-
perament. If Moonie No. 12 does
not come in, any subsequent fall in the
Jmarket price of the shares will provide an
opportunity of re-entry. The Alliance
Oil sale was a case of just another stag
getting out of the opening market with
a reasonable profit. The Farmout pur-
chase was prompted by two factors.
First, the market price of Is. 7d. for
the 2s. paid shares at that time. Secondly
: the two wells Amaroo and Mt Jack in
[ which Farmout has an interest both being
scheduled for drilling. With this current
I activity, the shares could well rise to their
| paid-up value.
' Passing from extreme speculation to
[ultra-conservatism in investment, I took
'acloser look at my CSR shares and then
j the sugar industry in general. Like some
people carefully watch the Dow Jones
index, I have recently got into the habit
of watching the London commodity price
of sugar. Now at £45 a ton it is more
than double the price of £21 one year
ago, Although CSR should rise slowly
over the next year, I felt there must be
a quicker short-term alternative in the
sugar industry. Fairymead Sugar looked
as though it was the one I was after. The
company is a sugar planter and mill
operator.
Like other primary industry, sugar
orops are heavily dependent on climatic
conditions. This was only too well illus-
kated in the 1957 drought when profits
collapsed from £201,000 to £9000. An
extensive spray system has since been
developed. With a bumper crop in 1962
and another record crop expected this
year, it does not look as though the irri-
gation system is getting much use now.
furthermore, Fairymead has paved the
% toward mechanical harvesting, about
Pc. of last year’s crop being harves-
ted in this way. What better combination
can you get than record crops and high
su §ar prices!
. thrown in for good measure is
f s SUc cessful grazing activities at Bunda-
er §, the Fitzroy area and Mittagong. It
ls not fair to assess the 20s. shares simply
on the 1961 earnings rate of 12 p.c. 1
used the proceeds of my CSR sale to buy
200 Fairymead at 40s.
Another company switch within the
one industry was David Jones for Marcus
Clark. Those national retail figures are
already shaping up into a promising
current picture. Marcus Clark had served
me well. So well, in fact, I cleared a
profit of £230. When this is added to the
CSR profit of £37, no wonder I feel
that this game has possibilities. Judging
by the earnings yield of almost 8 p.c.,
David Jones has been neglected when
compared with Myers whose earning
yield is only 5 p.c. Despite its rapid
expansion, especially in recent years, the
earning rate has never dropped below 20
p.c.
Profits will be augmented this year by
the full year's operation of the stores at
Parramatta and Adelaide. Next year it
will be the Canberra and Brookvale stores
both opening in March contributing to the
profits for the first time. Steady profit
growth and greater recognition of this
growth seems assured. At the time of
buying, the notes at 17s. 3d. cum interest
looked the better proposition than the
rights at 9s. lid. with Bs. to pay on
them.
Transactions for the week are:—
SOLD
100 CSR at 58s. £286
300 Marcus Clark Notes at 445. £650
BOUGHT
200 Fairymead at 40s £4OB
600 David Jones
Notes at 17s. 3d £530
The portfolio is shaping up reasonably
well in the New Year. Still breathing a
sigh of relief at selling those Kauri
Timber at 6s. 6d. in December.
My portfolio now is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name ot Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 25/-
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/9
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/3
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/2
400 Wancol 11/10/62 12/8 13/-
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/3
400 Functional 2/11/62 7/7 6/7
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 16/
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 17/6
2,000 LNC ctg. 23/11/62 2/8 3/8
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
300 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 37/- 44/-
200 ICI ctg. . 7/1/63 33/- 34/-
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 61/3
1,000 Tasman Dry
Cleaners rts. 7/1/63 2d. Id.
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/3
1,000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/3
1,000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1 No
current
price
1,000 Farmouts 14/1/63 1/7 1/9
200 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 40/6
600 David Jones Notes 21/1/63 17/3 17/9
ONE TO BUY
THIESS FOR
INCOME
AND GROWTH
"Decent announcement that the big
Japanese trading group Mitsui and
Co. had bought 20 p.c. of the capital
in Thiess Peabody Coal Co. Pty Ltd
focusses investment attention once more
on the Australian company in that
venture, Thiess Holdings Ltd.
The Bulletin is convinced that the
merits of this company are not fully
recognised.
The coal company will henceforth be
known as Thiess Peabody Mitsui Coal
Pty Ltd. It is developing the 350 square
mile Moura-Kianga coalfield under ex-
clusive franchise from the Queensland
Government, at a total cost estimated
at <£ 15 million.
The Government requires the com-
pany to produce at least 500.000 tons of
coal a year for export, and to build a
railway 120 miles to the port of Glad-
stone. The field will produce that
quantity of coal this year, and later pro-
duction will increase to 600,000 tons,
being as much as the existing railway
can handle. The new railway is in the
planning stage. Eventually, production
will be at the annual rate of 2 million
tons.
Mitsui has taken up £400,000 in shares
of the £2 million capital, in exchange for
loan funds. Presumably this reduces Pea-
body's equity to 30 p.c., leaving the
Thiess equity at 50 p.c.
Already the company has firm con-
tracts to export to the Japanese steel
industry 3.4 million tons of coking coal
worth £l4 million over the next
seven years.
The coal company must have dramatic
effects on Thiess profits within the
next five years or so. With a paid
capital of just under £2 million itself,
Thiess last year earned almost £300,000,
or 15 p.c. on capital.
Tts original business of civil engineer-
ing is undiminished. Contracts worth
£l9 million were secured during 1961-
62 for work in the Snowy Mountains,
estimated to take four years. At June
30, 1962, total contracts amounted to
£27 million.
Present income return on Thiess
shares is 5.8 p.c., and earnings yield is
7 p.c. The earnings yield should improve
this year, although the dividend rate is
not expected to vary from 124 p.c. The
shares are currently listed only in Bris-
bane and Sydney.
For income and potential growth,
Thiess shares appear outstandingly
attractive.


ANALYSIS SUMMARY (£'000)
1958
1959
1960
1961 1961
Capital
£
354
534
664
798 798
Reserves
£
135
269
300
568 61)
Shareholders'
Funds
£
489
623
964
1366 1478
Index
100
127.2
196.8
279 3)1
Total Investments
£
513
623
992
1642 1711
Index
100
121.5
193.6
3 2 0 334.1
Working Capital
£
75
133
234
504 546
Index
100
177.5
312
671.5 711
Investments
£
66
3
26
15 11
Land & Buildings
£
144
161
186
416 511
Plant, etc.
£
205
322
545
715 63!
Depreciation
£
55
80
120
197 H!
Tax Provision
£
60
60
59
129 71
Net Profit
£
98
166
172'
175 17)
Index
100
169.4
175.5
178.8 111
Dividend %
10
10
10
10 1)
£
29
35
64
73 1)
Undistrib. Profit
/o
71.1
78.9
62.8
58.3 55.J
Percentage profit to:—
26.68
23.97 22.4!
Av. Ord. Capital
33.07
47
Shareholders' Funds
20
26.66
17.85
12.82 12.11
Total Investments
19.1
26.66
17.34
10.65 10,44
NTA
20
26.75
17.85
12.9 12.11
Leverage
NTA
1.05
1
1.03
1.2 HI
8s 7d 9s M
per 5s. share
6s lid 8s 9d
7s 3d
Asset Backing
218.4 233.1
Unsecured Notes (£100)
Share Prices —High
8s 3d
20s 3d 19s 3d
16s 9d
—Low
6s 2d
8s 3d 12s 3d
13s 3d
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
FOR A LONG-TERM INVESTMENT
f|N formation 49,517 shares were issued
” to acquire all the issued capital of
McDonald Constructions Pty Ltd,
which was £19,807 in 20s. shares. At
the same time 20,483 shares were offered
to the public at par.
In March 1950 35,000 shares were
issued to shareholders on a one-for-two
basis. In December 1950 a further one-
for-two issue was made (52,500 shares)
and in May 1951 a like issue was made
at 2s. 6d. premium, involving 78,750
shares.
The issued capital of McDonald Con-
structions Pty Ltd was increased to
£219,807 by issue of £lOO,OOO in £1 ord.
shares to McDonald Industries Ltd and
£lOO,OOO in £1 cum. pref. shares to a
financial institution. McDonald Indus-
tries Ltd has since acquired these shares.
Bonus issues on a one-for-two basis
were made in November 1957 and Oc-
tober, 1959. Atlas Construction Pty Ltd
was acquired from Email Ltd in Oc-
tober, 1959, for 140,000 ss. ord. shares
and at the same time Stabilisers Ltd was
acquired for 230,150 shares. Later
Email acquired 160,000 shares at 7s. 6d.
premium and in 1961 E. A. Marr In-
dustries Ltd and its subsidiaries were
taken over on a one McDonald share
for every two Marr shares basis, involv-
ing the issue of 536,654 McDonald
shares, and issued capital became
£798,264 in 3,193,054 ss. shares.
During its life the company has taken
part in several large constructions or
projects and currently has several large
projects in hand.
Examination of the profit rise since
1958 shows a large rise in 1959, then
very small increases every year since. In
fact, comparison of the 1961 and 1962
figures shows that although net profit
rose by £3500, trading profit before taxa-
tion was down £53,500. The increase in
net profit was brought about by less
£58,000 tax provision; while depreciation
was £48,000 less, thus trading profit be-
fore tax and depreciation was £500,618
in 1961 and £399,232 in 1962, a fall of
£101,386.
Whilst examining this profit fall men-
tion may be made of work in progress.
The company’s balance sheet states this
figure is “at cost, PLUS ESTIMATED
PROFIT TO DATE or at realisable
value, less payments received on ac-
count.” It is noted that this figure is
not stated to be the lowest of these two
alternatives as is stated for stores, etc.,
which are lowest of cost, realisable value
or replacement price. Usually work in
progress is taken at lowest of cost or
market (realisable) value without profit.
The taking of profit on incomplete
contracts can lead to complications,
especially if a contract on which a profit
has been taken goes sour and ultimately
shows a loss, or the estimated p ro |\
taken is too high.
Although profits have shown small
increases these have not kept pace will
the increases in capital, shareholders'
funds or total investments, but dividends
at a static 10 p.c. are well covered.
At present dividend rates the current
market price of 13s. 3d. earns a yield of
3.7 p.c. and has an earnings yield of
8.1 p.c. Reserves and liquidity are ex-
cellent and another good year could see
an increased dividend or even a bonus
issue.
At about 13s. the shares are worthy of
note for long-term investment, so long|
as the profit rate is maintained. The I
full picture would be much clearer if
the amount of profit included in the con-
tracts in progress was known.
MCDONALD INDUSTRIES LTD.
Incorporated: December 2, 1948, in
Canberra.
Directors: W. D. McDonald, chair-
man (Director of Commonwealth
Banking Corp.; 1CIANZ), R.
Crighton-Brown (Director of Security
Life Assurance Ltd., Whale Industries
Ltd.), C. H. D. Harper, C. H. Doyle,
A. Burton-Taylor (Director of Com-
monwealth Banking Corp., Email
Ltd., Country Television Services
Ltd.), C. H. Monk, T. D. Vaughan.
Nature of Business: Holding Com-
pany (Civil and Mechanical Engineer-
ing).
Capital Authorised: £2,500,000 in
5s. shares.
Subsidiaries: McDonald Construc-
tions Pty. Ltd., McDonald Construc-
tions (Port Kembla) Pty. Ltd., Mc-
Donald Constructions (Queensland)
Pty. Ltd., E. A. Marr Industries Ltd.,
E. A. Marr & Sons Pty. Ltd., E. A.
Marr (Contracting) Pty. Ltd., E. Marr
Engineering Services Pty. Ltd., Chas.
1. Duncan Pty. Ltd., Basco Gate and
Fence Co. Pty. Ltd., Sovereign
Industries Pty. Ltd., Stabilisers Pty.
Ltd., Stabilisers (Victoria) Pty. Ltd.,
Stabilisers (South Australia) Ltd., Sta-
bilisers (Q’land) Pty. Ltd., Atlas Con-
struction Pty. Ltd., Davis Plant and
Tool Hire Pty. Ltd., Sealers (Aust.)
Pty. Ltd., Castlereagh Metal and
Gravel Pty. Ltd., Brighton Court Pty.
Ltd., Corrimal Gardens Pty. Ltd.
H. G. PALMER (CONSOL.) LTD
PUBLIC CONFIDENCE MAINTAINED
VJSJhen other firms were white-anting
"" public confidence by defaulting on
fixed interest obligations late last year,
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd came
under suspicion. Directors found it
necessary to stop the rot by reporting
on profits since June 30.
They declared that group profit
before tax was £160,514 for the period
July 1 to September 25, 1962, com-
paring very favorably with the same
quarter in other years. Profit since that
date “is satisfactory.”
As the company was filing a debenture
prospectus for £500,000 on January 9,
directors also stated that the financial
position was sound, and it had not been
necessary to make use of the £1 million
stand-by arrangement with one of the
life companies, nor to draw on the
£450,000 bank overdraft accommoda-
tion.
The rates of interest now offered on
debenture stock of 12 months and over
is a shade lower than for the previous
issue made in July, 1962. This is
indicative of the company’s highe [
borrowing status and the falling trend in
interest rates.
The year to June 30, 1962, was a
record one for turnover and profits, but
the striking advances of earlier y
were not evident. Although directors di
not mention that trading conditions were
more difficult than in former y earS|
they obviously were, and to hold earn
ings at the levels existing in the t« 0
previous years was an excellent
Directors attribute the companj*
success in meeting competition in


ACCOUNTS
June 30 1 958
Current
assets 6,090
bis current
liabilities 647
SUMMARY (£'000)
1959 1960 1961
10,826 15,718 18,902
780 1,142 1,148
1962
23,038
9,234
Working
capital
5,443
10,046
14,576
17,754
13,804
Investments
89
124
138
131
132
Fixed assets
1,660
2,845
4,529
4,976
6,294
Intangible
assets
411
495
509
511
522
7,603
13,510
19,752
23,372
20,752
Deferred
liabilities
6,148
11,103
16,235
19,657
16,821
Minority
interests
16
17
3
2
2
Preference
capital
330
580
830
830
830
Ordinary
capital
359
990
994
994
994
Reserves
750
820
1,690
1,889
2,105
7,603
13,510
19,752
23,372
20,752
Depreciation c
amortisation
taxation
™ profit
Net profit
xnd
50
92
125
163
165
153
174
290
305
300
250
301
413
422
429
w ords.
Dividends
Surplus
j; ar . n j n 9s p.c.
!:S
225
"249
339
339
346
36
85
124
124
124
189
164
215
215
222
50.7
36.8
34.2
34.6
34.8
10
m
12i
m
12i
Pr . yie 'd (a)
rriCe /eaminas
4.1
4.8
4.9
4.2
4.2
C“ Ib)
4.8
7.1
7.5
8.7
8.6
C ite ' b >
17/6
13/4
18/9
16/9
19/6
. Price (b)
l Dnd of N
Calendar
7/6
10/6
11/6
10/-
14/9
’ovember, month
year.
accounts presented.
dioand electrical industry to the policy
f developing, designing and producing
° Quality merchandise at reasonable
and to the after-sales service
► which they describe as “unique.”
The group ' s the lar B est dis-
tributor of radio, television and elec-
tlical appliances in Australia.
j n 1961-62 the number of branches
was increased from 70 to 92, of which
45 are in NSW, 26 in Victoria, 14 in
Queensland, six in SA and one in ACT.
Eleven more showrooms are proposed.
The group's early progress —it was
formed in 1949 —was dramatic, and it
had many imitators. But it would be
foolish not to recognise the exceptionally
favorable circumstances of that ascent.
Sales will now be primarily dependent
on the rate of new home formation,
rather than increasing penetration of
'domestic appliances into old homes.
Ordinary capital has not been in-
creased since 1959. A relatively high
earning rate was possible by enlarging
preference capital to £830,000, against
ordinary capital of £994,082 in 1960, at
which figures capital remains today.
The time could be ripe soon for an
injection of ordinary capital.
Amounts outstanding at balance date
on time payment, hire purchase and
television maintenance agreements had
risen from £21.6 million in 1961 to
£25.6 million in 1962, and after pro-
viding £3.5 million for unearned tele-
vision maintenance and £3.5 million for
unearned interest, left a net figure of
£18.5 million in the consolidated balance
sheet,
At June 30, the group had £2.6
million in debentures and £2.6 million
in deposit notes repayable within the
year. In the communication of mid-
December, directors said collections were
in excess of £1.4 million monthly, and
that notes and debentures at call were
no more than £200,000, giving no cause
for anxiety on the score of liquidity.
The big margin of earnings over pay-
out explains the low income return of
3.8 p.c. on the ss. shares now priced at
16s. 6d. Judging by peak prices of
previous years, and the possibility of an
issue, the shares could still be a reason-
able purchase for the medium term.
Opening of 22 stores in 1961-62 must
have entailed considerable expenditure
which could be recouped this year in
stronger earnings.
For the longer-term, however, the
company does not appear to have excep-
tional growth potential.
GROWTH AND INCOME POTENTIAL
HThe company was formed to acquire
all the 3400 10s. 15 p.c. cum. pref
shares and 853,413 10s. ord. shares in
Tancred Bros. Pty Ltd, the ord. shares
including 520,413 shares issued as bonus
shares in December 1955 from assets
revaluation reserve. Authorised capital in
the new company was £2,500,000 of
which 6002 10s. ord. shares were issued
to the subscribers to the memorandum,
1.100,000 to the vendors as part con-
sideration and 593,998 were offered to
the public. Issued capital was thus
£850,000.
The vendors actually received for
their original holding of £168,200 shares
valued £550,000 plus an additional
£350,000 in cash; £50,000 of this cash
consideration was part of the £181,605
dividend from Tancred Bros Pty Ltd. It
will thus be seen that prior to the bonus
issue profits were over 100 p.c. on
capital.
It is of interest to note that after pay-
ment of the £50,000 and setting aside
£lB,OOO for preliminary expenses, the
balance of this dividend (£113,605) was
reinvested in the subsidiary as money on
deposit.
In October 1961 the company made a
ss. return of capital, making the shares
ss. paid, and reducing authorised capital
to £2,075,000.
This return of capital was due to large
surplus funds brought about by sale of
assets. The strength and liquidity of the
company may be judged from these two
sets of figures—
-1961 1962
Investments £ 69,474 £ 58,738
Cash 64,246 31,237
Deposits 500,000
Debtors 295,524 206,221
Trade deposits 749 456
Stock 406,270 697,778
Current assets 1,336,262 994,439
Current
liabilities 203,894 211,624
Given equivalent figures for 1963 the
company can —
a. Pay an increased dividend, with
reserves continuing at the present high.
b. Pay the same dividend and in-
crease reserves.
c. Increase issued capital and pay
the same dividend.
With the figures available it is not
unreasonable to expect the latter course,
if not this year then in the near future.
With this in mind the shares at 17s 3d
(yield 4.3 p.c., earnings 8.8 p.c.) are well
worth buying, for even if the bonus is
not made, the yield is high and the com-
pany very solid —definitely a growth
stock with income potential.
TANCRED BROS INDUSTRIES LTD
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Capital £B5O 850 850 850 425
Reserves £748 910 941 1047 1125
Shareholders' _
funds £1598 1760 1791 1897 1550
Index 100 110.1 112.2 118.8 97
investments £1598 1918 1791 1897 1550
Index 100 120 112.2 118.8 97
Working
capital £387 797 859 1063 725
Index 100 206.2 222 275.1 187.4
Investments £320 105 87 69 59
Land and _
buildings £631 606 602 520 529
Plant £260 242 243 244 228
Depreciation £4l 38 35 33 35
Taxation £ll3 113 79 74 85
Profit £193 186 113 118 130
Index 100 96.5 58.6 61 1 67.25
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 10 15
£B5 85 85 85 64
SU profft p.c 56 54.25 24.8 28 50.75
Percentage profit to — ,
Ord. capital 22.8 21.9 13.29 13.95 30.6
Shareholders , „ ,
funds 12.1 10.55 6.3 6.22 8.39
Total investments 12.1 9.71 6.3 6.22 8.39
N.T.A. 12.1 10.55 6.3 6.22 8.39
Leverage 1 1 -09 1 1 *
N iha're Pef 18/10* 20/8* 21/1* 22/4* 18/1
Sh High PnCeS 24/6* 29/4|* 22/9 22/0
Low 20/0* 20/0* 14/0 12/9
* Per 10s. share: 5s repaid in Oct. 1961 and
share value was ss.
TANCRED BROS
INDUSTRIES LTD
Incorporated: January 9, 1956, in
Sydney.
Directors: A. J. Tancred (chair-
man), J. L. Tancred, H. J. Tancred,
G. O. Tancred, F. R. McConville,
O. F. Tancred, B. T. Tancred, W. R.
McConville, G. A. Flynn, J. C.
O'Dea.
Nature of Business: Holding Com-
pany (wholesale butchers & meat ex-
porters).
Capital: Authorised: £2,075,000 in
ss. shares.
Subsidiaries: Tancred Bros Ptv Ltd.,
Bourke Butchering Co. Pty Ltd.


INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
T>eaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
all the year round. Donations:
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 200^
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
tor publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Would you give me your opinion of
the possibility of Pacific Acceptance
Co.’s 9 p.c. 1964 notes being redeemed
at face value? Would you advise selling
at the present low price, or holding on
until the notes mature?
What do you think of Australian Silk-
nit? What is their future now they have
given up manufacturing garments? The
company appears to have large assets
backing the shares. — H. J. B. ( Rabaul).
Pacific Acceptance reported in early
December a sizeable loss (from trading
and write-offs) for the year to June 30,
1962. At the annual meeting, the chair-
man spoke of a plan to write down the
ss. shares to the extent of losses incurred
(perhaps 2s. or 2s. 6d. a share) so that
the company could resume dividend pay-
ments in 1963-64 without the necessity
for first recovering the losses. This
seems to indicate that management is
confident of redeeming the £265,200 in
registered unsecured notes (small in
relation to the present capital of
£1,286,667) on the due date. The
company would not be able to pay a
dividend to shareholders without re-
deeming the notes. If this capital plan
is instituted, you should have every
chance of receiving all of your capital
back.
Another comforting thought is the
statement that directors held more shares
in December, 1962, than in June, 1961,
thus indicating their faith in a recovery.
We are undecided from your letter
whether you already hold shares in
Australia Silknit Ltd or if you are con-
sidering buying into that company. But
the week before Christmas the com-
pany reported that the parent, Silknit
Ltd of Canada, was negotiating with an
anonymous overseas group that wished
to acquire Silknit’s shares in the Aus-
tralian company for an undetermined
price. If such a deal went through, it
should have a strong influence on the
shares held by the Australian public.
Already the ss. shares (which we agree
are heavily backed by 15s. 2d. worth of
assets) which sold around par at the end
of November have steamed up to 7s. 6d.
Without further information as to the
identity of the bidder, from which we
might deduce the direction of the com-
pany’s movements, it is impossible to say
whether 7s. 6d. is a good buying or
selling price. There is not likely to be
a very active market for the shares until
a firm announcement is made. The
company, of course, is continuing to
make fabrics.
★ ★ ★
I am 85, and have £5OOO to invest in
ordinary shares whose fortunes l can
watch, with a chance of seeing them
appreciate a few shillings, and giving a
present return of around 6 p.c. 1 had in
mind APM, Motor Credits, John Brown
Industries, Felt & Textiles. What do you
think?—W.L.T., Claremont {Tas.)
We approve of the suggestions but
John Brown Industries is a subsidiary
of Yarra Falls, and as one textiler is
enough in a limited portfolio, we wo®
leave it alone.
Present prices of these shares arf
APM 20s. shares 265. 6d. to yield
p.c.; Motor Credits ss. shares Bs. 6d j
yield 5.9 p.c.; Felt & Textiles ss. shares
9s. 2d. to yield 5.4 p.c.
You might also consider Ampol \
shares at 11s. 2d. to yield 6.3 p c
Email ss. shares at 7s. 7d. to yield (j(
p.c.; Thiess ss. shares at 10s. 6d. to yield
6.0 p.c.
The latter three would give yoi
interests in petrol distribution, rubbei
tyres and tubes, and oil exploration,
electrical equipment and appliances,
civil engineering and coal.
A portion of the funds could fo
invested in fixed interest securities-
preferably debentures of first-class in-
dustrial (or finance) companies, which
offer up to 8 p.c. for 5 years. This
higher return would compensate for the
lower yields on the first-class equities,
★ ★ ★
1 have £BOO to invest for capili
appreciation. My present investments art
£4OO in Ansett notes, £9OO in Custom
Credit debentures, £4OO in lAC notq
1200 55. units in AFT Industrial Develop
ment Fund, and 400 45. 9 d. units in
AFT Flexible Trust. — l. McP., Myrtk
ford {Vic.)
As you already have £2lOO invested
in fixed interest securities and unit
trusts, the time is ripe to most
cautiously into ordinary shares of i
couple of well-diversified industrial com-
panies. We particularly recommend at
current prices: CSR 20s. shares at
575. 9d. (yield 3.3 p.c.); and Conzinc
Riotinto (CRA) ss. shares at 17s. 3d,
(yield 3.5 p.c.). We have featured these
stocks in recent issues as “One To Buy.'
Purchase of 100 CSRs and 600 CRAi
would require just a little over £W
and should afford capital appreciation
within the short and long term.
Such allocation of your funds would
give you an interest in sugar, buildfflj
materials, chemicals, oil exploration
aluminium mining, smelting and
fining; timber, bricks, lead, zinc, iron
uranium, beach sands, coal, and quart)''
in g-
Incidentally the 12 p.c. dividend*
from CRA (which is listed under minin? 1
so far as they derive from Mary Kat
leen uranium are tax free to the share-
holder. This can increase their effectiw
yield to you substantially if you are*
a high tax bracket.


FOR SALE
Caravans, Camping Equipment
CARAVAN:
A mobile residence ideal for the Construction
Manager on site or travelling Contractors. Contains
one double and three single bunks; bathroom in-
cluding stainless steel bath, wash basin and pedestal,
washing machine and laundry facilities; hot water
system, kitchen and dinette with gas stove, refrigera-
tion, work bench with sink and ample cupboard and
storage space; own lighting plant or town supply;
water tanks.
The whole unit comprises a WHITE PETROL PRIME
MOVER with trailer—overall length 44 ft. 11 in. It
has been completely renovated, painted inside and
outside and is in excellent condition.
PRICE £4,500
offered for sale by
ROY L. PEGLER & CO. Chartered Accountants,
Agents for Trustee of Estate in Bankruptcy,
Telephone 61-9323
235/7 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
All Souls' School, Charters Towers
Wanted: Master to teach Senior Physics
an a Middle School Mathematics, com-
January, 1963, resident or non-
[raiaent. a ward salary, superannuation
scneme For particulars apnly Head-
master.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
INFORMATION
&
PUBLICITY OFFICER
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company wishes to engage an officer to
assist in the work of communicating general and semi-technical information
to the company's staff and to people outside the company.
The work consists, broadly, of the following main activities:
• collecting and collating facts, data and ideas;
• arranging them in a coherent order for ease of comprehension;
• presenting facts and ideas in the form of printed matter; this in
many instances will be illustrated with photographs, graphs and
diagrams.
The work requires care and close attention in collecting information;
logical thinking and appreciation of principles in its arranging; and, in its
presentation, imagination and the aptitudes of the teacher. Drive and deter-
mination are needed to carry work through to completion.
The Company is seeking a man between the ages of 28 and 35 years, who
possesses a good general education and wide intellectual interests; who enjoys
dealing with concepts and is at home at fairly high levels of abstraction, and
who is capable of clear verbal and written communication.
Some experience in business or industry would be helpful or a background
of law, teaching, banking, the Public Service or economics. A university
degree would be an advantage.
The position offers opportunity for advancement, a salary from £2,000
per annum, superannuation and help with home ownership.
Applications for the position should be made without delay. They will
be treated in strict confidence, and should be addressed to:
The Chief Staff Officer,
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited,
1-7 O'Connell Street,
Sydney.
TOP RANKING
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
•
FOR A SENIOR MAN POSSESSING A UNIVERSITY DEGREE, OR DIPLOMA
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING OR MEMBERSHIP OF THE INSTITUTION
OF ENGINEERS, A VACANCY EXISTS ON THE SENIOR STAFF OF EASTERN
MINING & METALS CO. LTD., MALAYA, OPERATING TIN AND IRON ORE
MINES ON A LARGE SCALE.
•
THE POSITION HAS THE FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES:—
Salary £A5,000 p.a. or better.
Comparatively low taxation.
An interesting change of environment with comfortable climatic conditions.
Free appropriate housing.
Free local schooling (Australian teachers and curriculum) for children up to 12
years; thereafter basic fees for education of those over this age in Australia paid
by the Company.
Free medical attention. ... _
Six weeks’ home leave per year, return fares for self and family payable by Company.
The position will be on a three-year contractual basis and involves supervision of a large
fleet of earthmoving equipment. Ore processing plant and Powerhouse and Plant construction
and design.
It is unlikely that many men in Australia will qualify by experience and status for this
position but for those who consider they can meet our requirements it should be well worth-
while outlining qualifications with a view to discussing matters.
In the first instance write to:—
E. H. Turner,
C/o. Scott & English (A'sia) Pty. Ltd.,
Box 7009, G.P.0., Sydney.
Marketing
"INQUIRY INTO TV FILMS
FOR ADVERTISING
A Government committee sitting in
Canberra this week is inquiring into
aspects of TV film production in Aus-
tralia, especially in regard to the pro-
duction of advertising material.
The committee hopes to find out how
closely the film industry meets the needs
of advertisers, whether it needs to ex-
pand to meet advertisers’ needs, or
whether it has shortcomings which
should be eliminated.
Another aspect is the production of
Australian film material for entertain-
ment, and the committee will take evi-
dence from advertisers on whether Aus-
tralian enterprises can be expected to
produce material as features in associa-
tion with advertising.
The Australian Association of Natio-
nal Advertisers will be represented by
Mr T. Kelso and Mr John Bowden.
Nicholas-Vincent seek
African expansion
Mr Geoff Houston and Mr Russell
Probert, senior executives of the
Nicholas Aspro and Vincents APC or-
ganisations, are making a three-months’
tour of Mauritius, Tanganyika, Kenya
and Rhodesia to investigate the possibi-
lities of expanding the non-restricted
pharmaceutical products market.
Prior to Nicholas and Vincents merg-
ing their export activities a few months
ago, Mr Probert had visited parts of East
Africa and found a new and ready
market for Vincents’ chemical products.
This has led the joint organisation to
push ahead more intensely with export
plans, especially as Nicholas has a large
manufacturing plant at Bombay, so near
the East African market,
The executives will also concentrate
on negotiating group and long-term
sales of lines now sold on this market on
the odd-lot basis and introducing pro-
ducts not yet marketed in Africa, includ-
ing agricultural and veterinary lines.


Feiffer
owce there wap a rich merchant who hap
THREE HAUPEOME HOLM? 50U$. TO WHOM HP
M m msemv a sift of three eows
AMP THREE arrows.
’EACH OF W MU SHOOT A SIMPLE &&&*_
lIOSTRUCTEP THE FATHER "IM THE
pirectiow ■ That . arrow?
FLM THERE MU AOU FIUP
HOUR FORU'ME'S."-
THE ELPEST EOM F OLLOWEP HIS ARROW TO-
- MARRIED A BEAUTIFUL PROCESS
AMP BECAME A BELOVED RULER. APMIREP
FOR.THE MANNER IK) WHICH HE SOOERT
WORIO PEACE AMP SEMT TROOPS TO A SIER.
THE MIDDLE BROTHER FOLLOWED HIS ARROW TO
iOAEHINSTOIO, MARRIEP A BEAUTIFUL PRINCESS
AMP BECAME-A LEGAL SCHOLAR, A FRIEUD OF
MINORITIES AMP AM ADVOCATE OF A WIRE TAP Be
Tne uoomtr brother marr ied a beautiful princes
Amp just hums kmw for awhile. He was Too poomo'
to puap wm bows amp arrows. his older brothers
CRIED COM TO WASHINGTON / TOME TO WASHINGTON/*
"BUT i CAIOT WORM THIS DARN THIMSf"
6AIO THE HOON66R BROTHER STILL
■TOO UNCOORDINATED- TO RUT THE
ARROW TO THE &OU);'
''W£ CAU’t HELP LfO0“ EM THE OLO6F BROTHER.
PIACIU6 THE ARROW fU m' HAfJP.
"LfOU MUST PO IT HOUREELF ■ SA(R THE MfPPtE
BROTHER PLAEIW6 THE BOU) fid THE PROPER POEITIOO,
IT'S UP TO W'EA/P BOTH BROTHERS AS
6HOT THE BOU), THE ARROW AUE THE
C(OUfJ6ER BROTHER ALE THE
(HAM TO WASHIR&TOO
Moral; mo mat ter who mou are
ITS mice TO HA % EJEFMTHW6.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 729
ACROSS
I—Needlework talked with a pain in the side. (11)
7—Pull in two. (3)
9 A type of plant barker between identical printer’s
measures. (7)
10— Led up into double. (5)
11— RAF in motion. (Anagram) (11)
12— Parent’s step. (3)
14— Women with shattered ideals. (6)
15— A current on some American prosecutor is a
serpent. (8)
17—Who ravishes Cesario Mountain? (8) i
20—Expressed pleasure some dis-
tance inside South Dakota. (6)
24 A right angle that is a wrong.
(3)
25 Timidity before an audience
involved in great fights. (5-6)
26 The lady will attack with
heavy ammunition. (5)
27 David of Wales has a rest
with such journals. (7)
28— Used to be cut back. (3)
29 Marching without advancing
shortly after the examination.
(7, 4)
DOWN
1— -Bricklaying’s assisted by this
astral plane. (6, 5)
2 Surfeited bowling to a three-
note musical theme. (7)
3 Write on the back of no reeds
(broken) (7)
4 Label prank of students what
may go with the bobtail. (6)
5 Sonnet is edited with strained
conditions. (8)
6 He put on one hundred, be-
lieving in pleasure as the
highest good. (7)
7 It makes a ball go straight
through to a corresponding
afterthought with haber-
dashery. (7)
8— You and I make a start with-
in the minute. (3)
13—Put up with a playful tormen-
tor in drill instruction. (5, 2,4)
16—Who puts a little business on
the wharf kitchenware? (8)
18— Nothing yours truly allows in
egg dishes. (7)
19— Mab also confused David’s
boy. (7)
21— Spoil majesty evaluating an
exam paper. (7)
22 Limb poisoner and lin one of
the largest Philippines. (7)
23 Stone in one heavenly pair
named Castor and Pollux. (6)
26—Spotted cutter. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 728


people everywhere are talking about the new look bulletin
llllitfflli
• • • • THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
f • • • ABOUT TANNER. BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • •
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES. LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
... >
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
| f f • ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0.. Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (V) whichever method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct subscription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/-,
post free. British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year,
£2/12/-,- i year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques


m
t
"How to achieve conviction
and a point of view
in troubled times”
Adlai E. Stevenson, United States Representative to the United Nations
Member, Board of Directors, Encyclopaedia Britannica
“When I visited Dr. Albert Schweitzer in his primitive jungle
hospital in French Equatorial Africa, he told me he considered this the
most dangerous period in history —not just modern history,
but all human history. Why? Because, he said, heretofore nature
has controlled man, but now man has learned to control elemental
forces—before he has learned to control himself.
“Striving to understand how our mastery of elemental forces can be
made to serve humanity in these troubled times, we instinctively
turn to the sources of Western thought, to the searchings
of great and immortal minds on the origins of government, the
tenets of philosophy, and the nature of man. For man can control
himself only if he understands both himself and the civilization he has
created out of his longing for justice and peace.
“Here, in the great books, is the mainspring of our civilization
the collective conscience which makes it run. In the pages
of these beautiful volumes truth stands out ready to
guide anyone concerned with where our world is going.”
Published by the
Encyclopaedia Britannica
in collaboration with
the University of Chicago
M mum
ft
GREAT
it Go
Now available direct from the
publisher with great new
SYNTOPICON
A mind is filled and enriched by a new concept
only if the concept is fully understood. And
only a scholar with long years of disciplined study
behind him can ordinarily stick to the task of
absorbing the great abstract ideas without an
instructor Guidance, interpretation and discussion
THE SYNTOPICON
are usually necessary to
give these great ideas
meaning and application
to one’s own life. That is
why this Private Library
Edition of the great
books was published.
The key to its enormous
value is the “teacher” it
provides—the amazing
syntopicon pictured here.
The syntopicon is a new concept in self-education.
It is the product of 400,000 man-hours of research
by 100 scholars over a period of eight years. It is
quite literally a great “teacher” living in your home
. . . always at your disposal to interpret to you the
great ideas contained in the great books.
As you begin to absorb and understand these great
ideas by which man has survived and progressed,
you will begin to reflect theirgf i @ , own
ability speak, and act with new and
impressive weight. You will have sounder judgment
on political and economic issues as the.
who conceived and contributed law' and justtec*
make the whole great idea of government clear to
you. You will develop a sounder philosophy of
life as your mind is illuminated by the great minds
of the ages.
Where there are children, the great ideas
programme is most essential. Nothing can so
help and inspire the enquiring,child than reading
and discussing Great Books at home from an
Even in your own personal life, a knowledge ol
mankind through century on century can guide you
to the decisions and actions which have eternally
resulted in the greatest success and contentment.
Don't miss this opportunity to learn all the
details of this handsome Private Library Edition
of the great books. Mail the coupon tor a tree
descriptive booklet. It will explain how you can
find new understanding of yourself arid the world
through the great ideas which have engrossed men
since the written record of man began. It iS in
this way that one stetches mind and soul. It ls
in this way that one grows in wisdom.
GRKM
BOOKS
GREAT BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD G.B. C 5
257 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and without obligation, your- colourful Preview Book c
which pictures and describes the latest edition of GREAT BOOKS OF *
WESTERN WORLD—and also complete information on how I may obtain t
magnificent set, direct from the publisher.
