

The Bulletin
Australia IN»w ZoeJand 2/-, Malaysia
AN AUSTRALIAN jf—WUIL Ul AND Qf^TOiliyf^eq
EARLE PAGE'S MEMOIRS
• TREVOR HOWARD • ASIA'S BORDER DISPUTES • THE ABC OF MODERN POISONING


■DEE-[M2@
SUPERANNUATION
from
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.’s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
GUARANTEED by A.M.P.
assets of almost £6OO million.
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
N.S.W.: Box 2527, Sydney. Victoria: Box 2458, Melbourne. Queensland: Box
1404 R, Brisbane. South Australia: Box 407 C, Adelaide. Western
Australia: Box 881, Perth. Tasmania: Box 312 C, Hobart.
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by assets of
almost £ 600,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the
greatest benefit to members.


National Notebook
" Yabba's " voice drowned
During the Third Test, Keith Miller
declared that Sydney’s “Hill” had
lost its voice, because no leather-lunged
“Yabba” bellowed “Git a bag!” when
Sheppard failed to get under a lofted
ball from Harvey, “Hit it, you mug!”
when Simpson poked uncertainly at
Titmus’s spinners, and similar hoary
endearments.
“The Hill’s voice not lost,” our man
at the Sydney Cricket Ground reported
to us on both sides of a piece of card-
board labelled Flag Ale, “merely sub-
merged in flood of amber fluid under
circumstances unknown in great Yabba’s
day.”
Sufficiently hoary himself to remem-
ber the Prince of Barrackers, our man
proceeded to compare those times with
these, in a style dictated by the nature
of his writing material.
“Arrived SCG noon on fateful Satur-
day. Standing room only but undismayed
as my 5’ 10” always tall
enough to secure view
in past. Found close
ranks of young six-
footers, many with one
brawny hand resting
gently on shoulder of
five - ten girl friend,
other clasped tenderly around glass can
or tin can.
“Unable see play, decided use eyes
and ears to observe crowd. Immediately
noticed this mob consisted not of
individuals or pairs of mates as in old
days, but carloads of five to six persons
grouped around items known as auto ice
boxes, each containing couple dozen
beer cans. Wonderful idea on scorch-
ing day. Never had those of yore. Best
could do was carry in two long bottles,
one of which either exploded or spoiled
in heat before you could drink it.
“Gathered from comment around me
play very dull. Occasional oo’s and ah’s
from crowd, but mostly silence broken
only by gurgling noises and sounds of
empty beer cans rolling on to asphalt.
Question, would great Yabba have been
so persistently and loudly critical if he’d
had auto ice box full of cold beer
between his knees, and constant supply
°f cold cans to suck on and pacify?
Good question.
“Feel sociologists should also note
how auto ice box has enabled Aus-
tralians go anywhere and take their beer
w ith them. Certain to affect Saturday
sports attendances, number of women
w ho actually see their men Saturdays,
etc., probably next most important in-
vention to automobile.
“Conscious of merchandising battle
between glass can and tin can, kept
progress score of empties piling around
feet. By tea adjournment was standing
among 17 tin cans, only 3 glass cans.
Latter seemed fatter, probably fit fewer
in auto ice box.
“Sudden big oo from crowd. Asked
giant youth in front who out. Replied,
“Freddy Trueman, glug, making signs,
glug, to show he’d, glug, like a beer too,
glug.” Then dropped empty on my
foot. Glass can. Heavy. Hobbled to
bar near entrance. Feeling sorry for
breweries’ competitors, asked for Pepsi
like Davo in TV ads. Barman got very
red in face. Told him if no Pepsi, let’s
crack bottle of milk. Barman roared
“Gidout!” and Harvey’s wicket fell
immediately. Not wishing cause further
damage to Australia, settled for glass
glass.
“Returned to ground and was im-
mediately struck by flying tin can.
Suddenly air full of flying tin cans and
running policemen de-
termined to emulate
cricket selectors and
eliminate chuck ers.
When order restored,
got up from ground
and went home.
Decided modern cricket
too exciting. Passed gatekeeper remark-
ing to another gatekeeper that ground
seemed packed yet 50,000 crowd smaller
than Friday’s 54,000. Easy to explain.
Sydney Cricket Ground can only hold
50,000 people and 10,000 auto ice
boxes.
Who's for pulpy kidney?
\ correspondent set out this week to
get a “Keep-’em-quiet” line for the
children over the holidays. Naturally
he expected to get a good Ludo set at a
reasonable price. The salesgirl gave a
dry laugh. She hadn’t seen a Ludo game
in 10 years. She could offer me the Ben
Casey Game, the Alfred Hitchcock
Game, the Flintstones Game, the Bon-
anza Game, anything cultural like that.
But fumbling through the boxes, 10,
I came across something Australian,
“Squatter.” I bought it at once and
found it most intriguing. You go round
the board the same way as in Monopoly
but instead of picking up lush properties
like Bond Street and St Pancras Station
you get decent sheep stations in the
Western District. Instead of buying
houses you buy stud rams, for example:
“Stud ram King of Warrnrmbool
£5OO. Stud fee £100.”
As any grazier will tell you life is one
long misery and it’s the same in
SIR EARLE PAGE Page 12
The Last Days of the UAP
9
The Strange Oil Lethargy 6
The ABC of Modern Poisoning 16
Trevor Howard’s Account of
Mutiny on Tahiti 18
Professor Julius Miller; Looking
for Faraday 19
Dinner At Hazaribah 20
The Greek Islands Four
Poems by David McNicoll 21
Asia’s 13 Border Disputes 22
Russia’s “Stop-and-Start” Policy
in the Arts 25
Cuba, India and the Australian
Left 28
Four Books of Poetry A
Review by Ronald McCuaig 36
Montgomery Soldiers On 37
Wool Auctions Going . . .
Going . . . Gone? 40
Gumming Up World Trade? 41
Points for Canberra-Industry
Talks 44
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
AS I SEE IT 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 18
OVERSEAS 22
AROUND MELBOURNE 27
FORUM 28
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER 54
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD
HEAD OFFICE 252 George St.. Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone 82691 Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4327


“Squatter.” Your lovely iam can die
of plant poisoning, you can be hit by a
two-year drought and lose 1000 sheep,
you can lose all your feed in a bushfire,
and the bills, such as “Foot-rot treat-
ment pay cost of £2O a pen” .. .
“Vaccinate for pulpy kidney—pay £2O
a pen.” The kids are intrigued by pulpy
kidney.
Restricted
TTsed as we are to retailers crying havoc
when new restrictions are brought
into force, there was, we felt, some
justice in the complaints of Sydney
chemists who now face the effects of new
closing legislation. Chemists who stay
open Saturday afternoons and Sunday
seem to proliferate in the King’s Cross
area. According to reports they pay rent,
plus a premium of up to £3O or £4O
a week, to do business in this buoyant
neighborhood. Up until now they have
usually doubled their daily takings over
the weekend.
The new liberalised trading laws now
in force in NSW haven't proved liberal
for chemists. In effect, they are limited
to selling only medicines and patent med-
icines at weekends. But even these res-
trictions are not clear. One King’s Cross
pharmacist told us an inspector visiting
his shop had ruled that soap, toothpaste
and combs came under this category.
Others had been told they would suffer
full process of the law if they so much
as sold a bar of soap.
Rents, which have increased 400 per
cent in the past six years, our informant
said, could be paid only because of high
takings for such weekend goods as bath-
ing caps, films and cameras. Now visiting
tourists had better stock up early if they
want to take any snap shots during a
Sydney weekend. Buying a roll of 120
film between noon Saturday and 9 a.m.
Monday morning could cause the
chemist a £IOO fine and presumably in-
volve the customer as an accessory.
The chemists intend to fight back. The
Chamber of Commerce have called a
meeting for this week to decide on future
action.
Sagging at the knees
fl/fELBOURNE’s Moomba (“let’s get to-
gether and have fun”) Festival has
been sagging at the knees since its birth
and it now looks as if even the device
of grafting it onto the coming Royal visit
has failed to resuscitate it.
Moomba, more famous for its recrim-
inations than its revelry, is normally held
in March for 10 days, finishing with a
float procession on the Eight-Hour-Day
public holiday. The Royal visit to Mel-
bourne is on February 23-25, but a few
rearrangements and a little ingenuity
enabled the Moomba organisers to cope
with this discrepancy.
The Royal itinerary, it was learned,
would allow the Queen and Prince
Philip to view a parade of floats follow-
ing a civic reception at the Town Hall
on February 25. At this stage, some
confusion, semantic and otherwise, arose:
was this to be the Moomba procession,
hurriedly dragged on a fortnight earlier?
State Government officials insisted that
the Queen would view a float parade.
but not a Moomba parade. However, tht
Lord Mayor, Sir Maurice Nathan, re-
ferred to the procession as a Moomba
parade. The State Royal Tour Director,
Mr J. Macgibbon, said it was not in-
tended that the parade would be part of
Moomba.
At this stage the Moomba people an-
nounced that the gaiety would start on
February 25 with a parade of floats to
be seen by the Royal couple. Mr Mac-
gibbon admitted that the procession would
be part of a Royally-patronised Moomba,
but partly extricated himself by saying
it would be described in the official pro-
gramme as '‘a procession of floats held
in conjunction with the annual Moomba
Festival.”
Alas, last week the Moomba board
chairman, Mr Pettigrew, confessed that
so far only 25 decorated floats had been
entered. The organisers had hoped to
have a much larger number of entrants,
from which they had intended to select
a field of 35. However, he reported, a
number of new attractions had been
thought up a power-boat race at St,
Kilda for 300 contestants, retriever
trials for Labrador dogs, a tennis tourna-
ment, a soccer match and “professional
boxing at Festival Hall.” Moreover, the
cultural side of Moomba was being
strengthened the joint managing direc-
tor of the Tivoli Circuit, Mr Gordon
Cooper, having consented to join the
Board.
Mr Cooper, however, will not be hav-
ing a hand in arranging the Royal Con-
cert at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. This
is on February 24, missing Moomba by
a day, and in any event the ABC's Vic-
"England! is frying to dominate Common Market negotiations, seeking **Wfco does Macmillan think he is?
special privileges! Concessions!


torian manager, Mr E. A. Whitley, has
said that the programme was being
settled by the ABC and the Premier’s
Department.
Flowing like water
rpHE little town of Great Western near
-*■ Ararat, Victoria, is the very home
of the Australian champagne country.
Indeed at the winery there are 3i miles
of champagne cellars. The local manage-
ment takes a healthy interest in sport.
Last year the Great Western team won
the local football competition and the
victory dinner was something to attend.
Unlike most victory dinners it did not
run crudely with beer, unlimited stocks
of champagne being on hand.
Now your correspondent has just re-
ceived his invitation to the Great West-
ern races for Monday, January 28. Even
if you take only a middling interest in
horses, even if Even Stevens and the
finest horse flesh in the land will not
be there, this meeting has its compensa-
tions. There are bottles of champagne
among the prizes for every race. Then
for the last race, the Champagne Stakes,
there is a whole case of champagne.
This week's cover
Tue cover photograph of the late Sir
Earle Page, the first instalment of
whose memoirs, “Truant Surgeon,”
appears in this issue, was taken by Lady
Page. They were crossing the Orara
River, near Grafton, NSW, during the
Federal election campaign of 1958.
Tanner
"Me?"
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE BIG ENQUIRY
/~\NE of the standard techniques of politicians who want to avoid
a decision is to set up a Royal Commission or an enquiry of some
sort. Later you can shelve the report or say the circumstances have
changed. The first enquiry ever held by the Federal Government in
1901 was into the desirability or otherwise of introducing decimal
currency into Australia: the Committee decided in favor of decimal
currency: and that was all we heard of that for over 60 years. More
recently there has been a variety of enquiries on subjects ranging
from constitutional reform to the dairy industry and gaps in our manu-
facturing industry —as well as another one on decimal currency. They
have all so far suffered the same fate as the 1901 enquiry.
It is essential that the proposed enquiry into Australian economic
resources does not suffer the same fate. It has already suffered enough:
the business men, bankers, public servants all practical men, not such
non-U types as socialists or academics who for months advocated this
enquiry hoped for something more ambitious than what the Federal
Government finally settled on. They wanted a comprehensive enquiry
into our resources and potentials, leading to some sort of “economic
planning” that is, long-range co-ordination between Government and
business planning. They wanted to establish what wages, costs, imports,
exports, capital inflow would be involved in an optimum growth rate, and
what targets should be set for business and Government. They ended
up getting far less than this we are only to have an enquiry to collect
the sort of statistical information about economic growth that advanced
overseas countries have had since the war.
Even this is better than nothing. It could be a first step towards
liberal economic planning; and the Prime Minister acknowledged this
when announcing the enquiry: “Business demands, rightly enough, to
know what the Government is trying to do, what its objectives are
and what its lines of policy will be.”
But since the announcement of the enquiry nothing has happened,
at least up to the time of going to press. One of the problems has been
the difficulty of getting the right men for the job. It is obvious, for
example, that they must be working experts, not mere “representatives” of
various groups—business, unions, etc. Yet the experts will not give up their
time to work on such a committee unless they are sure the work is worth
doing and that something will be done about their report. One of the
great changes in, for example, the business community overseas in recent
years has been this willingness of business men to work with the
Government: the great American plans for the recovery of Europe after
the war were executed not by Government men but business men. This
sort of attitude is now emerging in Australia, but business men need to
be assured first that they will not be wasting their time.
What is really needed to meet this point is either putting teeth back
into the enquiry or better still broadening it into a permanent Standing
Committee on the Economy along the lines of the British National
Economic Development Council.
The position at the moment is that without something of this kind
no one will sit on the committee except non-expert “representatives, and
the whole idea may as well be scrapped. At the same time it is the
closest we have yet come to getting the sort of planning the country
needs, and it must be made to work.


THIS AUSTRALIA
OIL
THE STRANGE OIL
LETHARGY
Pouring cold water on oil
SENATOR SIR W.
SPOONER
Super-caution
As 1 see it <
THhere is a
A strange, in-
explicable
lethargy about the Menzies Govern-
ment’s attitude towards the search for
oil in Australia. Members of the Minis-
try react to each new discovery about as
virilely as dead fish. Politically, I cannot
understand this attitude. The presence of
oil at Moonie has been established to the
extent that the Union-Kern-AOG has
decided to risk the building of a 200-
mile pipeline from Moonie to Brisbane.
The Queensland Mines Minister Mr
Evans has announced that the New As-
sociated Group’s Sunnybank field, near
Roma, where oil has also been found,
has a greater potential than Moonie.
Here is something that stirs public imag-
ination as deeply as the Snowy Moun-
tains Scheme, and in the longterm will
be as, if not more, valuable to Australia.
But the Menzies Government behaves
as though it would sooner not talk about
it. It has injected no sense of urgency
and drama into the search. The
Minister in charge of this particular sector
of Commonwealth activity National
Development Minister Sir William
Spooner, newly knighted in the New
Year’s Honors List appears to be
leaving the companies involved to work
out their own timetables on operations,
and if, as could happen, the discovery
of oil goes down in history as the largest
happening of the Menzies Government’s
term in office it might well appear to the
historian that the magnitude of this hap-
pening went virtually unnoticed by the
Government whose financial sponsorship
helped to bring it about.
As I see it, this super-cautious Gov-
ernment attitude must tend to discourage
Australians from risking their money in
the search for oil which must in its turn
heighten the possibility of overseas spec-
ulators who are prepared to take a risk
finishing up in control of any future
Australian oil industry.
There are doubtlessly laudable motives
actuating Senator Spooner. He told the
Senate last year that a crash programme
to find oil in Australia would be a “sad
error”. “It creates the impression that
we expect an early outcome,” he said.
“The task is not to have a crash pro-
gramme but to have a continuing pro-
gramme based on good advice.” Ob-
viously, Spooner does not want to carry
any responsibility at all for persons who
get their fingers burned as so many
have and will continue to do in risking
capital in the search for oil.
But this is not caution. It is super-
caution. It goes further than warning
Australians of the uncertain nature of
the oil search. It discourages them from
investing in that search. And while these
might be valid arguments against a crash
programme, there are considerable argu-
ments favoring a programme with more
crash in it.
Nobody expects Australia to produce
overnight the £ 100,000,000-odd it pays
out annually for oil and oil derivative
imports (£100,000,000, interestingly,
being about the amount that Trade Min-
ister John McEwen estimates that Aus-
tralia could lose in trade if Britain enters
the European Common Market).
But if Queensland Mines Minister
Evans’ estimate is anywhere right, this
figure is in the process of having a sig-
nificant offset. According to Evans, the
Moonie field on the testing now made
could supply Queensland oil require-
ments of 179 million gallons a year, and
at present is capable of paying £750,000
a year in royalties to the State Govern-
ment. As the royalties are collected on
a 10 per cent basis, this means that he is
anticipating a £7,500,000 yearly output
when the field gets properly going.
Apart altogether from the major fact
that oil output in Australia, whatever it
may be, makes Australia to that extent
less reliant upon its overseas earnings to
maintain employment and its living
standards, these figures even in an ac-
countant’s terms do not represent a bad
investment for the Government. Up to
March 1962, it was estimated that
£81,000,000 had been spent in searching
for oil in Australia, with £74,000,000
coming from private sources and
£7,000,000 from Government. A
£750,000 annual return on a £7,000,000
investment is far from unsatisfactory.
The Canberra Lakes scheme, which is
purely ornamental and will return
nothing in cash, is costing £2,000,000 at
least.
Spooner knocked an awful lot of the
drama out of the search when, while
raising the overall Government subsidy
from £2,500,000 in 1961/62 to
£.5,000,000 in 1962/6.3, he nevertheless
announced that whereas the Government
had met 50 per cent of company costs
on approved oil search projects it would
now only meet 30 per cent. Even
£5,000,000 is not a great lot to spend
in the quest for oil. Senator Dittmer,
Lab. (Q.), told the Senate on March 20
last year and his figures went un-
challenged that the French had spent
£200,000,000 in prospecting alone.
Spooner’s reduction of the proportion
the Commonwealth was prepared to pay
must have discouraged some of the smal-
ler prospectors, as well as the Australian
investor. Yet American “wild-catters”
and their Australian counterparts are
under much tighter control as they have
to get their projects approved by Gov-
ernment to become eligible for a sub-
sidy are credited with the discovery
of fields overseas that the big oil com-
panies failed to identify.
Politically, the discoveries already
made seem to have done the Menzies
Government remarkably little good,
though Government policy and financial
assistance undoubtedly contributed to
these discoveries. Spooner has consist-
ently poured cold water on any enthu-
siasm. He has estimated that the devel-
opment of an oil industry in Australia
may cost anything between £500,000,000
and £1,000,000,000 which are daunting
figures. But Australia already spends
more than £500,000.000 every five year
on oil imports. This amount increases
annually by between 6 and 8 per cent.
If Evans’ estimate is right and Moonie
at present could turn out £7,500,000
worth of oil for a total Government in-
vestment of £7,000,000 (which incident-
ally was spent all over Australia and not
exclusively at Moonie) up to March,
1962, the Government might do well to
consider whether it could not put more
crash into the oil search programme
even if it is not prepared to have a crash
programme.


With a more imaginative approach,
the Menzies Government could well earn
a needed political dividend for itself as
well as hasten the day when Australia
will become less vulnerable to fluctua-
tions in the prices of its exports which
have to earn the exchange to pay for its
present oil imports,
ALAN REID
HOSPITALS
THE HERBERTON
REBELLION
Allegations of wrong diagnoses, "grog
parties", unprofessional conduct
D. J. KEARNEY
Until finished
Staff discontent in a number of
Queensland country hospitals flared
into open rebellion late last year at the
Herberton Hospital with a threat by
trained nursing staff of mass resignations.
Last October the hospital’s matron,
Matron Claire Euler, lodged a written
complaint with the Atherton Hospital’s
Board containing serious allegations
against the Herberton Hospital’s medical
superintendent, Dr G. B. Trebilcock.
[Herberton is on the Atherton Table-
land in far north Queensland, west of
Cairns, and about 1200 miles north of
Brisbane.]
Matron Euler, 24, was appointed
matron at Herberton last May, after
being acting matron for two months. She
had trained at Brisbane General Hospital
since she was 17.
Following her complaints a commis-
sion of inquiry, headed by Toowoomba
Stipendary Magistrate D. J. Kearney,
was appointed to inquire into the hos-
pital’s affairs. Other Commission mem-
bers are Dr G. V. Hickey, representative
of the Australian Medical Association,
and Mrs V. M. Hall, of the Royal Aus-
tralian Nursing Federation.
Matron Euler told the Commission
that, on July 2, 1962, a female patient
was sent by Dr Trebilcock from a clinic
with a note “please admit for curettage.”
The matron said that later that day,
when the patient was under anaesthetic
and after he had examined her, Dr
Trebilcock told her and Sister Byrne
who was assisting that he thought the
patient was pregnant.
She said that Sister Byrne said: “Well,
in that case Doctor you won’t be using
the instruments, will you?” He replied:
“Why not? What is wrong with you, this
is no different to birth control.”
Matron said Sister Byrne replied, “I
don’t believe in that either,” took the
mask off the patient and wheeled her
from the operating theatre.
Next morning the patient had said she
had had an operation and could not have
more children. Matron Euler told the
Commission: “I believe the doctor had
wrongly diagnosed the patient’s condi-
tion, and was contemplating an abor-
tion.”
Other allegations Matron Euler made
against Dr Trebilcock were that he:
• On many occasions was not avail-
able, or refused to attend serious cases.
• Did not write on patients’ charts
but gave nurses orders what to write
which meant that, if the treatment were
given wrongly, the nurses could be held
responsible because it was not in the
doctor’s handwriting.
• Addressed most of the trainee
nurses by their Christian names, embar-
rassing them in front of patients.
• Told a nurse she was putting on
weight and should get new foundation
garments.
• Put some private patients into pub-
lie hospital beds so that the patients
were paying Dr Trebilcock while getting
the hospital facilities free.
• Gave hospital equipment to a pri-
vate doctor.
Matron Euler instanced 13 cases in
which she alleged Dr Trebilcock could
not be contacted to attend serious cases,
or would not come.
The matron said that one night, when
she was in Cairns, Sisters Honeysett and
Cameron had thrown a “grog party” at
the hospital’s sisters’ quarters. When she
later warned them she said they replied:
“What business is it of yours? The
medical superintendent was there.”
On another occasion, the matron said,
she had returned from the cinema about
midnight and found cars parked all over
the hospital grounds. She said that sisters
had told her the doctor’s wife had been
sitting on the stairs outside the sisters’
bedroom “screaming her head off to the
effect that her husband was not behaving
himself.”
Matron Euler, who had been in the
witness box three days, was allowed to
stand down so that evidence could be
taken from Mrs Mary Byrne Tuma
(formerly Sister Byrne at the hospital)
who wanted to return to her home in
Sydney. Mrs Tuma corroborated the
curettage incident referred to by Matron
Euler. She said that on another occa-
sion, she had ’phoned Dr Trebilcock
about 5.45 a.m. and told him that a
serious case of burns had been admitted,
and that the patient (60) was shocked.
She said the doctor gave her some or-
ders and said he would be over, but did
not show up until after 7 a.m.
On Friday the inquiry was adjourned
until Tuesday, January 29, when several
more witnesses will be called. Mr Kear-
ney intimated that he intended to con-
tinue the inquiry from that date until it
was finished.
CRICKET
COLORLESS AND MEDIOCRE
"Kindly include me out"
TVlonday, January 14. Mr Samuel
Goldwyn, the showman who once
said that he was going to get “that
fellow Einstein to make a bust of his
wife's hands,” also once said of a show
that “it’s colossal; it’s stupendous; it's
positively mediocre.”
If he had ever bothered to acquaint
himself with the cricket side of show busi-
ness, he might have so described the
Third Test in Sydney. The crowds and
their expectations were colossal; the gate
takings were stupendous—but the show
itself was mostly so souringly dull that
many a spectator will remember it, per-
haps, as the acid test.
The match, with England already one-
up at its beginning, left little doubt that
this cricket series will be resolved not by
one side being more commandingly bril-
liant and resourceful than the other, but
by one side being fractionally less
mediocre and less unlucky than the other.
Mediocrity has been the flavor of most
of the match, as might well be supposed
from the facts that a merely steady and
serviceable legspinner like Australia’s
Bobby Simpson could bag himself five


wickets for 57, and that an industrious
little offspinner like England's Fred
Titmus could break the back of the Aus-
tralian batting (during one period on the
Saturday afternoon he took four wickets
for five runs). It is difficult to accept
that either of these bowlers is as good
as their figures suggest. Simpson, indeed,
got his wickets without appearing to
trouble his opposition much; the batsmen
seemed, for the most part, to resign their
wickets through indolence and inatten-
tion. Titmus’s effort was a much more
aggressive one—careful control, a nice
curl away in the air and a moderate
breakback—and none of Australia's
front-line batsmen dared to take the stick
to him.
A titmus, according to the dictionaries,
is a chirpy little songbird and the word
has also been used to mean a cheeky
fellow—and, indeed, there seems to be
something of all this in Fred Titmus’s
demeanour in the field; but, when he
bowls, all this perky boyishness drops
from him at once and grim guile becomes
his profession. For a long time last Satur-
day it seemed that, while he had the gift
to keep the Australian batsmen watchful
and subdued, he did not have the thrust
to rout them. Many a time during the
charmless second-wicket partnership of
160 by Simpson (91) and Harvey (64), the
bowler himself must have arrived at this
depressing view.
But Titmus wasn't the man to drop
his bundle; he persevered hour after
hour with skilful variations of flight and
pace, and then, at last, wickets came to
him in a rush. Harvey, quite out of touch,
presented a catch to Barrington at point.
Simpson was bowled in going for the
shot which seems to be the most danger-
ous of all in the batting profession—
the wristy slash behind point. It had
already accounted for the wickets of
Dexter (32) and Cowdrey (85) in Eng-
land's first innings. Minutes after Simp-
son’s departure, Titmus bowled O'Neill
(3) and then saw Booth (16) edge a
well-pitched spinner to leg-slip. Eng-
land’s first innings total of 279, which
had seemed pitifully small when Harvey
and Simpson piled up their 160 partner-
ship for Australia, began to look most
respectable again.
To relieve the over-all colorlessness of
the batting performances by both teams
there were several happenings to encour-
age the crowd not to surrender its belief
that test matches are for players of
prancing mettlesomeness. A screamer
catch at slip by Benaud, the magnificent
dismissal of Australia's Lawry (8) by
wicketkeeper Murray, and the sensa-
tional ferocity of Alan Davidson's
swingers with the second new ball were
of the star-quality which is expected of
players in test matches. Most of the rest,
including some alarmingly poor bowl-
ing by Benaud, was very pedestrian stuff
indeed. So little was there to shout about
that one of the biggest rounds of applause
in the match was given to Queensland’s
Ken Mackay on his'first appearance, as
12th man, with the drinks.
The pitch, a slow and lifeless strip
built for endurance instead of glamor,
deserves some of the blame for the dreari-
ness of the batting. It also made the lot
of the pace bowlers unenviable. True-
man, England’s hero of the jiecond Test
might have supposed in Sydney that
he was hurling his thunderbolts into
kapok instead of turf. So, too, with
Guest, Che Victorian pace man playing in
his first test. Guest leans his head to his
left as he runs up to bowl, the idea being
to build up sufficient counterpoise for
the final lashing sling from the right. But
on this wickedly sedate pitch, Guest’s
head might well have been over to one
side from sheer dejection and wistfulness.
All told, there must have been many
exasperated spirits in the crowd who
were thinking of retiring from test specta-
torship. Next time they are invited to
a test there are more than a few who
will echo Mr Goldwyn's “Gentlemen,
kindly include me out."
LINDSEY BROWNE
YOUNG LOVE
A young man was found lying in a
state of insensibility on the Bulli
road lately. He died shortly after
being removed. They found on his
person a purse containing 3d., a “love
charm,” a lock of brown hair plaited
and tied with blue ribbon, the portrait
of a woman, and a railway ticket,
His story is unsensational because it
is so familiar. He is only one of
hundreds who have died and will die
in a similar way. It is fate. There
are certain men who are doomed
from the day of their birth. They
will fit into no groove, can take up
no part of the common burden that
civilization imposes upon their fel-
lows, but are wanderers all through
their short and cheerless lives. They
are marked out for destruction as
certainly as the other nomads of the
earth. They may have all qualities
of mind and body that heart could
desire —be brilliant of wit and in-
exhaustible of resource but they
fail where other men, whose names
one would not mention in the same
breath with theirs, succeed easily,
What is that talismanic something
that is lacking in them? All we can
do is to close their eyes, throw a stone
on their cairns, sigh “poor devils,”
and leave them to the mysterious
Fates,
rpnE Local Option League have met
A an( j fj-,ey p ro p ose that “it shall
be within the scope of the League
to defend the beneficial clauses in
the existing or any future Licensing
Act and especially the entire closing
of public houses on Sunday.” The
League had better stick to what its
name would suggest!
s*j%ulCetCn
January 20, 1883
REFUGEES
THE STOWAWAY
From one gaol to another?
a young German was taken off
” the Oronsay in Fremantle in hand-
cuffs last week, he looked like just
another stowaway. But there were indi-
cations that he would become another
political problem for the Immigration
Department.
The youth, whose name has not yet
been released, appeared in the Fremantle
Children’s Court charged with having
unlawfully secreted himself aboard the
Oronsay at Penang on December 31. He
told the magistrate that he had escaped
from East Germany 15 months ago, had
travelled 12,000 miles to Australia and
that if he was returned to Germany he
would be shipped over the East Ger-
man border, where his parents lived.
Mr D. Cullen, counsel for the P. and
0.-Orient Line, told the court the Im-
migration Department had informed
him it wanted the boy shipped back to
Penang.
The magistrate placed him in the care
of the Child Welfare Department while
the facts of his case were put before
the Immigration Department.
Outside the court the boy talked to
reporters and added considerably to
his court room story. He said he had
been shot in the foot by East German
guards while escaping into West Ger-
many, had swum three miles with his
wounded foot across the border river
before being pulled exhausted from the
river by West German police.
He had hitch-hiked through Europe
and Britain and then overland through
Asia to Bangkok and Penang, where he
slipped aboard the Oronsay and hid in
the tourist section.
Perhaps mindful of the row that broke


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
OSULUVAN
F \ Jj
i*, X
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PiIOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
over the deportation of several Chinese
stowaways from Sydney last year, the
Immigration Department immediately
granted the youth a temporary permit to
stay six months in Australia, an action
that seemed to conflict with the informa-
tion it gave Mr Cullen before the court
hearing.
Then it announced that it thought
he was 21, not 15. This supposition
threw the lawyers into a tizzy because
if he was 21 the Fremantle Children’s
Court hearing would be automatically
annulled and he would have to appear
before a police court.
Meanwhile, the boy was sent to Royal
Perth Hospital because he said he was
suffering from a blood complaint. There
he refused to talk to reporters or have
his picture taken. He told them he
thought he had said enough already. Then
last weekend he disappeared from the
hospital which some Immigration
officials believed amounted to forfeiting
his chance of remaining in Australia.
Up to that point nobody had suggested
that the Immigration Department should
not grant him a temporary stay, and
there are indications that it is at last be-
coming politically sensitive in its treat-
ment of refugees from Communism.
It had already granted six months’
temporary residence to three Yugoslav
seamen who deserted their ship at Fre-
mantle last year, in Australia.
Some seamen wanting to stay in Aus-
tralia are not so lucky. British subject
Tom Palmer, who left his ship in Fre-
mantle with his captain’s permission to
seek a new life in Australia, was de-
ported on the orders of the Immigration
Department on the grounds of his Asian
appearance.
UNIVERSITY FAILURES
BUTCHERY AT
KENSINGTON
The University of New South Wales takes over
Prof. J. P. BAXTER
Too hard
“Slaughter” and “butchery” are
strong words to use in any context,
but at the national conference of the
Australian Teachers’ Federation in
Sydney last week, a NSW delegate used
them to describe the fate of under-
graduate failures in the degree courses
at the University of NSW.
The delegate, Mr Kavanagh, argued
for the restoration of diploma courses
for many NSW technology students. In
doing so he called into question the
direction and development of technical
education over the last 13 years in the
biggest industrial State of the Com-
monwealth.
Mr Kavanagh bluntly told the other
35 delegates from every State in Aus-
tralia, representing 58,000 teachers, that
not all students who did tertiary training
could be expected to be capable of doing
university degree courses.
On behalf of the NSW Teachers’
Federation, he moved for “technological
and commercial institutes that could
supplement technical and business
college training and, at a higher level,
be parallel to university training but on
more practical lines, and terminate in
the award of a diploma.”
In support of this, Mr Kavanagh sub-
mitted a report from the Technical
Teachers’ Association of NSW, which
strongly criticised the fact that for “an
increasingly large body of students”
there is “no proper form or avenue of
study in keeping with their academic
potential between the two extremes of
degree and certificate training.”
Figures given by the report and Mr
Kavanagh added up to the failure of
the attempt by Professor J. P. Baxter’s
University of New South Wales to pro-
vide a part-time degree course in Science.
It was claimed that only four per cent
of those who began the seven-year part-
time course succeeded.
Of the full-time students for the
course, only 40 per cent were succeed-
ing. In other faculties, such as engineer-
ing, Mr Kavanagh said later that the
part-time figures improved to about 12
per cent.
The report unequivocally defined the
cause by saying that “the new degree
courses (at the University of NSW) have
been pitched at a level beyond the
majority of the student body of the type
engaged in the old diploma courses, who
will now cease to fulfil a vital and
important function in commerce and
industry. . . . Such pressur; is brought
on part-time students that the vast
majority of them will never graduate.”
Under the agreement reached with the
Sydney Technical College, the University
of New South Wales has taken over the
old diploma courses, with few excep-
tions, and they have ceased or “will in
the near future” cease to exist.
The Sydney Technical College has
been left with the primary task of pre-
paring students in trade certificate
courses. But as the Technical Teachers’
report points out, this “leaves no
alternative for the student body of a


mental calibre above that of technician
level, but below that of graduate
capacity,” despite matriculation.
In the absence of an alternative
course, thousands of students have
entered, and will enter, the University
of NSW, heading, according to the
Technical Teachers’ Association, for
almost certain failure. The report did
not add that with the number of school-
leavers rising those who fail courses and
leave have no qualifications to support
them in an increasingly competitive
labor market in their age group.
In a shuffle of amendments from
other States the explicit nature of the
NSW motion was lost. This was not
surprising because the other States have
nothing quite like the University of
NSW. The motion became a general one
supporting Commonwealth aid for “tech-
nical institution and colleges of arts and
sciences” ... in the same way as uni-
versities.”
But as the report had commented
“these young men and women are lost
to the national economy in a manner
that would cause nothing less than a
public enquiry in one of the more
advanced countries of the world.”
RICHARD HALL
LAW
A UNION THAT
DOESN'T EXIST?
One Union, Two Bosses
C. DOLAN
Elected
Ys the NSW branch of Electrical Trades
Union of Australia a legal union? At
the moment there are two men claiming
to be its Secretary. The first is Mr Cliff
Dolan, w'ho was re-elected as Secretary
in a ballot in 1961; and the other is
Mr J. V. Benson, an installation engineer
employed by the Sydney County Council,
who has not been elected but still claims
to be Secretary.
At a meeting one night last week in
the Railways Institute in Sydney (per-
mission having been refused by the con-
trolling body of the Trades and Labor
Council to hold the meeting in the Trades
Hall), Mr Benson urged about 250 mem-
bers to continue the fight for what he
described as the “democratic rights” of
the rank-and-file members of the Elec-
trical Union. He then brought the men
(about 20 of whom were Mr Dolan’s
supporters) up to date on how the battle
for their “democratic rights” was going.
Like all such battles in trade unions
over rules, the members themselves are
confused and the present officials of the
union are spending a lot of their time
in various factories explaining to the
electricians virtually the opposite story to
the one Mr Benson has already told them
on his own visits and in his circulars.
The trouble began back in November,
1959, when the Federal Conference of
the union decided to establish a uniform
set of rules for each of its State branches.
To do this the NSW Secretary, Mr
Dolan, and other officials, found thern-
selves in the peculiar position of having
to persuade the policy-making and con-
trolling body of the union, the Quarterly
Aggregate Meeting, to vote itself out of
existence. Had the move been success-
ful, the State branch of the union would
then have been controlled by an elected
body meeting biennially.
Secretary Dolan and his officials, on
no less than four occasions, April, July,
and September, 1960, and April 1961,
failed to gain the necessary votes at the
meetings to carry out the directions of
the Federal Conference of the Union.
The opposition to this was led by Mr.
Benson, who managed to get the almost
unanimous backing of about 50 of his
fellow-employees at the Sydney County
Council. The Communists and their
supporters in the union, seeing the ad-
vent of Mr Benson’s leadership as a
chance of embarrassing the “right-wing”
officials and a vague chance of gaining
some power in the union, joined Mr
Benson’s cause. (On one occasion, Dolan
and Benson combined at a meeting to
defeat the Communists and their sup-
porters.)
In November, 1961, evidence of the
Communist policy became apparent
when the NSW Executive of the Labor
Party, taking one of its rare disciplinary
measures against Labor Party members
who stand on the same how-to-vote
ticket in union elections with members
of the Communist Party, expelled Mr A.
C. Poole and Mr B. J. Higgs. It also
suspended Mr T. F. Lane for three
months. All were supporters of Mr
Benson.
When Mr Benson was unsuccessful
against Mr Dolan in the election for the
Secretaryship of the anion, he sought to
have the election declared invalid be-
cause the Returning Officer had refused
to show him a copy of the union’s mem-
bership roll. Although he lost the Court
action, Mr Benson was partly vindicated
when the judge said that the Returning
Officer “was extremely unwise and (his
action) indicated partiality.”
Mr Dolan and six other union mem-
bers lodged an application to register a
new NSW Trade and Industrial Union
which they said had been set up on
May 11, 1961. This was an attempt to
circumvent the hostile Quarterly Aggre-
gate Meeting.
Since then there had been a series of
applications and appeals to the Court by
Mr Dolan and Mr Benson: Mr Dolan is
trying to conform to the Federal Con-
ference decision, and Mr Benson is in-
tent on seeing to it that he doesn’t.
Although the NSW branch of the
Union has members working under State
awards, it seems that, legally, at the
present time it has no State members.
Since 1920, when the branch combined
with other States into a Federal Organi-
sation, members who joined the union
have not joined the State branch but the
Federal organisation. Legally, the State
body, which was formed in 1903 as a
Trade and Industrial Union, is now de-
funct. Despite a decision by the NSW
Industrial Registrar on December 19,
1961, that this body is defunct, Mr Ben-
son claims that he is the Secretary of the
original body hence he is the State
Secretary.
The next Court battle will begin on
January 72, when seven members of the
Union, including Mr Dolan, will apply
to have the existing organisation regis-
tered as a trade union in NSW. This no
doubt will be opposed by Mr Benson,
who even as late as December 29 last
made a pilgrimage to Melbourne to en-
list the support of the Federal President
and Victorian State Secretary of the
union, Mr “Jock” Innes. Although poli-
tically a left-wing ALP member, Innes
is opposed to Mr Dolan and the appeal
fell on deaf ears.
One by-product of the Dolan-Benson
battle has been that other unions in
NSW who are members of the Federal
body are wondering whether legally their
State body exists. Like the ETU, many
unions have allowed their State body to
become defunct. If they do find them-
selves in the same legal quandary, other
dissident groups in unions will doubt-
lessly take the opportunity of instituting
legal proceedings to embarrass existing
officials.
MUGGA


■
mrm
m
r m
feaSL* --*6?
VW7513
Volkswagen overdoes it again: four coats of paint
Volkswagens stay in good shape.
We make sure of this by having more
inspectors on the job, each day, than
there are Volkswagens made.
If there’s a flaw, you don’t see it be-
cause our inspectors spot it first. And
back goes the part for replacement.
Painting a Volkswagen is like getting
an athlete in trim.
It starts with a bath in a pool of paint.
Then we bake it and sand it by hand.
Every inch. Next it’s sprayed, inside and
out, baked again, and sanded.
Not just once, but twice, before we
give it the final coat of enamel. (One
bath, three showers, three rub-downs.)
Then we put the car together.
For keeps.
You could take a new Volkswagen
around Australia, not just around the
block, on its first run. VW is put together
to stay that way.
Same with the fittings and finish inside.
VW is made like an expensive car, and
finished like one, inside and out.
Look at a seam in the upholstery.
Straight?
Straight.
Run your finger under the dashboard.
Smooth?
Smooth.
There’s another thing about Volks-
wagen’s finish, and it puzzles our com-
petitors.
Why do we handle it so carefully on
such an inexpensive car?
Well, we like to look after two things
above all else. •
Our reputation.
And you.
VW Sedans from
£849 tax paid (price for
State capital cities).
A product of Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.


EARLE PAGE MEMOIRS EXCLUSIVE
THE BREAK-UP OF THE UAP
in this chapter: The country prepares for war; growing tension between Prime
Minister Lyons and R. G. Menzies leading to Mr Menzies's resignation from
Cabinet; Mr Lyons's death; and Earle Page becomes Prime Minister.
By SIR EARLE PAGE
IN the last months of 1938 not only
were the portents on the interna-
tional front grave and menacing,
but Australia’s domestic politics were
overcast with uncertainty and disaffec-
tion.
A crisis was developing in the United
Australia Party. Indications of a general
dissatisfaction had been apparent for
some time. Seven members who had
previously held office in the Lyons
Government now sat on the back
benches. l Some had been dropped in
Cabinet reorganization, others had re-
signed in consequence of disagreement
amongst individuals. Their criticism of
the Government in the House revealed
an unfortunate trend in the fortunes of
the UAP and gave the Opposition full
scope for sarcastic comment.
The Prime Minister’s health was a
particular cause of concern. From the
beginning of October 1938 I was leading
the Government in his absence. In the
weeks that followed, in anticipation of
the situation that would arise should
Lyons be forced to retire, a contest for
the party leadership developed behind
the scenes and spilled across the pages
of the Press.
The main contestants in this struggle
were R. G. Menzies. Attorney-General
and deputy leader of the UAP, and B. S.
Stevens, the Premier of New South
Wales. Stevens was facing dissension in
his own State Party. He was also at odds
with some of his fellow Premiers. But
his prospective entry into Federal politics
was widely canvassed by the Sydney
Press.
Convinced in my own mind of the
inevitability of war. immediately on my
return from England I began exploring
means of co-ordinating Federal and State
capital expenditure on defence and de-
velopment and of allocating priorities to
indispensable projects.
While Acting Prime Minister, I per-
suaded the Commonwealth Government
to summon a special Premiers’ Confer-
ence for 21st October 1938, to discuss
financial and developmental problems.
It was my proposal that an advisory
committee should be constituted, from
i These included Sir Charles Marr, Sir
Henry Gullett, Sir Frederick Stewart, J. A.
Perkins, and C. A. S. Hawker.
amongst the most practical and expe-
rienced men who could be enlisted, to
determine the relative urgency and ne-
cessity of all Government projects in the
war context. This proposal was enthusias-
tically endorsed by my Cabinet col-
leagues.
I accordingly communicated with
Essington Lewis, Chief General Manager
of the Broken Hill Proprietary Com-
pany, Sir Harold Clapp, Chief Commis-
sioner of the Victorian Railways, his
brother, F. B. Clapp, of the Australian
General Electric Company, and Clive
McPherson, head of a large pastoral
firm, and I sought a financial authority
to complete the panel. These prominent
T'HIS is the first instalment of
four chapters which THE
BULLETIN is publishing from
the late Sir Earle Page's forth-
coming memoirs, "The Truant
Surgeon. Forty Years of Austra-
lian Political Life." Later
chapters to be published in THE
BULLETIN deal with Earle
Page's Nineteen Days as Prime
Minister, the fall of Singapore,
and the controversy over the re-
call of the AIF from the Middle
East to Australia.
"Truant Surgeon" will be
published late this month, by
Angus & Robertson.
and responsible citizens consented to act
on condition that their advice would be
accepted. With this promise of assistance,
I arranged with J. F. Murphy, Secretary
of the Commerce Department, Roland
Wilson, Commonwealth Statistician, and
Stuart McFarlane, Secretary of the
Treasury, to assist me in drafting a
detailed proposal to place before the
Premiers.
Our memorandum proposed a ten-
year plan of Commonwealth and State
co-operative action designed both to
secure the most effective economic utiliz-
ation of our limited financial resources
and to ensure national security and pro-
gress along with the expansion of our
primary and secondary industries. In
this the first steps were to determine
what industries should be initiated or ex-
panded, to plan their location in the least
vulnerable places, and to promote the
best distribution of the population.
On completion the memorandum was
sent to the individual Premiers for their
confidential information, and invitations
issued to the Loan Council meeting on
21st October. On receipt of this, Stevens,
to my great surprise, proceeded to advo-
cate part of the memorandum in a broad-
cast speech on 11th October.
Taking all the political circumstances
into account, I decided that the Prime
Minister, despite the state of his health,
should preside at the Premiers’ Confer-
ence to ensure that he would be at no
disadvantage with his rivals.
As Acting Prime Minister, I requested
Menzies and R. G. Casey, Minister for
Supply and Development, to assist me in
preparing the official speech to be deli-
vered at the Conference. When I told
them that I had arranged for the Broken
Hill Proprietary Company’s plane, The
Silver City, to bring Lyons to the meet-
ing, Menzies threw down his pencil and
declared that he would not write another
word for Lyons to deliver as his own.
Thereupon he left the conclusion of the
speech to Casey and myself. But by the
time the Prime Minister was due to
arrive we had not managed to complete
the task. I left Casey and met Lyons at
the plane.
As we drove to the Conference I ex-
plained the detailed nature of my propo-
sals, the general terms of which Lyons
already knew. With this detail he con-
curred. But in consequence of my ab-
sence only half the speech was ready
when the Conference opened. I advised
the Prime Minister to read the first half
slowly while the remainder was typed
and served up to him page by page as
he proceeded.
The Prime Minister’s speech proposed
that the Commonwealth should retain
responsibility for all matters of a direct
defence significance, but that a meeting
of Commonwealth and State experts be
held at defence headquarters in Mel-
bourne to examine proposals with a civil
as well as defence value, and to prepare


EARLE PAGE
...as modelled by FRITH for The Bulletin.
recommendations on priorities for def-
ence works to be carried out by the
States. It further urged that the Loan
Council appoint an advisory committee
of experts to draft a similar programme
of priority works to be carried out in
the industrial and economic fields, taking
into account strategic considerations,
population distribution, and the relation-
ship of power, water, and transport to
the developmental programme.
At the Conference Menzies adopted an
aloof attitude. The State Premiers were
suspicious of Stevens. The discussions
proceeded well into the night before they
recognized me as the author. Towards
the end of the Conference, the States’
economic advisers, including Professor
Copland and Colin Clark, inquired why
the authorship had not been made clear
at the outset. But by then the scheme
had been so watered down by amend-
ments that it was impossible to reas-
semble the fragments into a recognizable
pattern. Lyons declined to accept the
amendments, and the Conference ended
without practical results.
Most importantly, the Council refused
the proposal to appoint an advisory
council to prepare a planned policy on
the development and extension of in-
dustry and migration. 2
Nor did the Conference contribute
towards softening political asperities.
Indeed, Stevens’s performance, far from
strengthening his prospects of translation
to the Federal scene, accentuated his
lack of sympathy with Commonwealth
finances and his aliena-
tion from his follow
Premiers.
TyjENZiEs’s disaffec-
-1 tion also now pub-
licly manifested itself.
On the 24th October,
three days after the
meeting of the Loan
Council, he took the
opportunity to deliver a
speech to the Constitu-
tional Association in
Sydney, which some of
his Cabinet colleagues
attended, on the sub-
ject of leadership. Since
Menzies was deputy
leader of the UAP, his
speech was interpreted
as a direct attack on
his own leader. Lyons
felt the affront very
keenly. Far from
remedying the situa-
tion in the party, Men-
zies's action aggravated
the mounting tension,
and gave substance to
Opposition sniping.
Curtin himself
moved a censure
motion in the House of Representatives
on 2nd November 1938, directed against
the Government's “lamentable want of
leadership in regard to urgent national
problems” and, therefore, inter alia,
against our failure to implement the
Conference plan.
The Country Party at the time felt in
some doubt whether it could afford to
continue in partnership with a party so
clearly split on so many issues, personal
as well as political. I consequently told
Lyons that my party looked for some
measure of discipline on this. Lyons
replied that he would resolve the diffi-
culty within the UAP itself, and sug-
gested that I might assist him and the
Government if I also made a speech on
leadership in a broadcast scheduled in a
few days’ time.
This I was most ready to do. My own
2 This decision was later modified and
on Ist April, 1939, the Prime Minister issued
a statement that the Commonwealth and
State Governments in conference had
agreed to set up a National Council con-
sisting of the Prime Minister and the
Premiers, whose functions would be to
maintain close and continuous consulta-
tion concerning public works of value to
defence, to study the economic founda-
tions of defence policy, and to consider
developing new industries for defence and
supply. But no advisory body with execu-
tive powers to determine priorities was
established. It was this failure to establish
priorities on the eve of war that later
caused tremendous waste in the war effort
and serious delays in post-war reconstruc-
tion.
respect for Lyons had deepened since
accepting office under his leadership in
1934, and I had a high regard for his
personal and political qualities. In Cabi-
net he displayed special attributes. The
1934 Ministry was composed of many
conflicting elements and his admirable
chairmanship and diplomacy avoided
lethal clashes.
In my broadcast on 31st October 1938
I indicated the qualities I regarded as
indispensable to leadership and expressed
the opinion that they were possessed by
Lyons, quoting as convincing proof his
long term of service as Premier of Tas-
mania and his distinguished contribution
to Federal Governments.
My speech, however, did not convince
Menzies. At the end of the 1938 session
the Government scraped into recess with
very few votes to spare. On my return
to Sydney, Menzies sought to accompany
me in order to have an intimate talk. In
those days no regular plane services
operated and those who could avoid the
tedious train journey travelled by car.
The journey by road occupied some
five hours, which gave Menzies ample
time to seek my personal advice.
He felt that for some reason he was
out of step in the Cabinet, finding him-
self voting frequently in opposition to all
other Ministers. Did I think he should
retire from the Government and from
politics entirely? He said that the op-
portunity had arisen to secure a high
appointment of great distinction for life
and he wished my advice whether he
should accept or remain in politics.
“Menzies must not resign”
T urged him to remain, saying that
there was a dearth of distinguished
professional men entering Parliament. I
instanced that only two doctors of emin-
ence had entered Federal politics during
my term and that since the Parliament
had transferred from Melbourne to Can-
berra in 1927 only four distinguished
lawyers had been elected. If Menzies
retired, having held high office in State
and Federal Parliament, his action would
tend to discourage other political aspi-
rants of like quality.
I suggested that his difficulty seemed
to be that he expected one hundred and
fifty per cent reaction from other people
in politics, whereas one did well to
secure fifty per cent. Sir Austin Chap-
man, after forty years in politics, was
even less generous. He considered him-
self lucky if he got twenty per cent. I
pointed out that every section of the
community was represented by the
various men who comprised the Cabinet.
If they agreed in general, then there was
a good chance that the people would
accept their decisions as sound. If we


were to arrange a dinner to which each
diner contributed something, it woulo be
a good dinner if Lyons brought the roast
beef, 1 brought the vegetable, someone
else the pudding, and Menzies the
champagne. But if everyone brought
champagne it might be a bright party
but could scarcely be regarded as a sus-
taining meal.
Menzies admitted that he had never
thought of Cabinet in that way. He de-
cided to reconsider the whole question
and wire me his decision on Christmas
Eve.
He duly telegraphed me that he would
carry on as a member of the Govern-
ment and remain in Parliament. When,
early in the New Year, Lyons arranged a
Cabinet tour of Tasmania, Menzies ac-
companied the party and worked har-
moniously with his colleagues both on
the tour and in the Cabinet.
Menzies resigns
I>ut this harmony was of short duration.
On 14 March 1939, that fateful
day when Hitler’s troops entered Czecho-
slovakia, Menzies, without warning, re-
signed his portfolio in the Government
and his position as deputy leader of the
UAP. I remonstrated with him, remind-
ing him that we might be at war by the
evening. I urged that it was unthinkable
for the third-ranking man in the Ministry
to resign at such a time. But I could not
shake him. Next morning the story of
Hitler’s coup was published by the
Melbourne “Argus” on the whole of one
page and the resignation of Menzies
dominated another.
His ostensible reason for resignation
was the failure of the Lyons Government
to carry out the UAP pledge to proceed
with National Insurance.
The National Insurance issue had,
indeed, had a troubled history. The
National Insurance Bill, introduced by
me as Treasurer in 1928, was ill-fated.
Though the measure had been drafted
in detail on the comprehensive findings
of a Royal Commission, and brought to
second reading stage, we missed the
psychological moment for its passage in
an attempt to make the legislation all
embracing, and no further opportunity
for discussion arose before our Govern-
ment fell in 1929.
In 1937-8 the Lyons Government re-
newed the prospects of devising a prac-
tical scheme. Sir Ralph Kinnear and Sir
Godfrey Ince, who handled the British
National Insurance scheme, were invited
as advisers to Australia. Kinnear hoped
to sponsor Australian legislation that
would correct all defects and anomalies
found in the British scheme since its in-
troduction before the First World War.
Before my departure for London in
1938 I conferred with Casey and his
British advisers and urged them to avoid
the sort of complications and delays
which had confounded my own efforts
ten years previously. 1 believed that if
the new measure attempted to cover all
the suggestions and safeguards that Kin-
near proposed the Government would be
burdened with a child of such size that
only a Caesarean section would permit
its parliamentary delivery, and both the
offspring and mother might be killed in
the process. My predictions proved exact.
The controversies that surrounded the
proposal created considerable bitterness
among parliamentary members, especi-
ally on the Government side. The second
reading passed by thirty-six votes to
twenty-six. Only one Government mem-
ber, B. H. Corser of the Country Party,
voted against it, but many amendments
were carried against the Government in
committee which seriously emasculated
the Bill. Because of these circumstances
and the financial emergency that attended
the approach of war, Cabinet deferred
the proclamation date of its operation,
which had been fixed for Ist January,
1939.
PRIME MINISTER LYONS
as seen by Norman Lindsay.
THE BULLETIN, March 22, 1939.
In February, however, the Treasurer,
R. G. Casey, arranged for the National
Insurance Commission to meet represen-
tatives of the approved societies and the
British Medical Association, in the belief
that some parts of the scheme should be
implemented at the earliest moment,
especially those sections associated with
sick pay and family medical benefits. I
accompanied Casey to the conference
and we submitted a specific recommenda-
tion to the Cabinet.
In his statement issued on 14th March
1939 Menzies said:
Since last September I have more
than once had the misfortune to find
myself at variance with the majority
of Cabinet on matters of moment,
and in particular upon important
aspects of our defence preparedness.
On each occasion I refrained from
resigning, feeling that at a period like
this a common front should be pre-
served if possible and that the diffi-
culties of the Government, already
great enough, should not be increased.
The Cabinet has decided to repeal
provisions relating to old-age, widows’
and orphans’ pensions and to substi-
tute for the remainder of the Act a
new medical scheme, the details of
which have yet to be worked out, and
which, of course, may or may not be
approved, altered, extended or re-
jected by Parliament.
.1 frankly do not think: we . can
expect to be taken seriously if we
start off again with conferences and
drafting committees at a time when
we have already so notoriously failed
to go on' with an act which represents
two years of labor, a vast amount of
organization, and a considerable ex-
penditure of public and orivate funds.
In effect the decision means the. end
of the important contributory pensions
side of insurance and a precarious
existence for the balance. I have
therefore been forced to the conclu-
sion that Cabinet decision virtually
either cripples or destroys national in-
surance for years, to come . . .
On this matter, unlike some others
on which I have differed with my
colleagues, I had commitments of a
positive kind to my electors, from
which I could not honorably escape.
. . . On January 24 . . . with a view
to answering what I regarded ill-in-
formed criticism, I circularised some
thousands of my electors on the sub-
ject of the National Insurance Act,
explaining and defending the scheme.
In the course of my letter I said:
“Personally I am so utterly convinced
of the essential quality of national in-
surance that I am quite prepared to
incur any temporary unpopularity to
see it made effective. I am not un-
aware of the manner in which certain
interests which would seek to defeat
me or to take my place in the repre-


THE CANBERRA SCENE, according to Ted Scorfield — as John Curtin, F. M. Forde and R. G. Menzies
try to "drop the pilot", Prime Minister J. A. Lyons, with W. M. Hughes looking on smiling.
THE BULLETIN, November 9, 1938.
sentation of Kooyong are using na-
tional insurance against me. Let me
say quite categorically that 1 stand by
national insurance and that a defeat
in defending it would, in my opinion,
be an honorable one.”
It is clear that I cannot with self-
respect deny today what 1 wrote only
a few weeks ago. There is no financial
or political consideration in existence
today which was not known to me
at the date of my letter. It follows
that I am bound not only by my real
belief that the best interests of Aus-
tralia will be served by going on with
the scheme but by my categorical
statements to my constituents, to re-
sent any move calculated to destroy
or mutilate the National Insurance
Act. 3
Lyons’s death
action was inexplicable. The
fact was that only Casey and myself
had shown real interest in the project.
Indeed, Menzies’s unconvincing and con-
tradictory attitude was exposed a few
months later when, as Prime Minister,
he indicated to the House that his own
Government had practically decided to
drop the original national insurance
measure and submit the whole question
afresh to a committee of parliamentary
members. Menzies could not &ven hold
fhe support of his own party for this
Proposal, which was rejected by Parlia-
-3 “Sydney Morning Herald”, 15th March
1939, p. is.
ment by forty-two votes to nineteen. But
while resigning from the Lyons Govern-
ment ostensibly over its failure to bring
in the National Insurance Bill, Menzies
made no attempt to resign when he
failed to implement the measure him-
self.
The irony of fate is that it was left
to me as Minister for Health in the fifties
to bring down and establish a national
plan of voluntary health insurance which
has satisfied the people of ustralia and
is being eagerly studied by those in-
terested in health in other countries.
Less than a month after Menzies’s
startling departure, on 6th April, 1939,
Lyons suffered a sudden heart and brain
attack and died the following day. The
crisis in his political relations and the
severe strain of international events
caused him great mental perturbation
and undoubtedly hastened his end.
Though Lyons was in hospital and
receiving treatment at this time, his
death was completely unexpected, and
allowed him no opportunity to nominate
his successor. Following so soon after
Menzies’s resignation, his death left the
UAP without a leader or a deputy leader.
As Deputy Prime Minister 1 imme-
diately called into consultation those
Ministers available in Sydney, namely,
Hughes, who had succeeded to Menzies’s
portfolio, Casey, Thorby, McEwen, Har-
rison, Thompson, Foil, and MacDonald.
We met at noon on Friday. 7th April
1939, to discuss the consti utional pat-
tern.
Hughes, as Attorney-General, gave his
view that with the Prime Minister’s
demise the commissions of all Ministers
automatically lapsed. The UAP had no
deputy leader. He therefore considered
that the Governor-General should be
advised to call on me to form a Govern-
ment with full authority. Hughes re-
commended this course on the grounds
that a Government with full power was
necessary to deal with the critical inter-
national situation. All Ministers present
concurred with this decision and autho-
rized me to tender that advice to the
Governor-General.
1 accordingly interviewed the Gover-
nor-General and advised him that I
could only accept a commission free of
all undertakings. He agreed, and 1 pro-
ceeded immediately to form a Govern-
ment. The Country Party and the UAP
maintained their alliance, and I made
no changes in the Cabinet.
However, in informing the Cabinet
members that I had accepted the Gover-
nor-General’s Commission on these con-
ditions free of all undertakings, 1 made
two exceptions. The first was that as
soon as the UAP had chosen a leader
I would have no desire to continue as
Prime Minister; the second was that if
Menzies were elected leader I would not
be a member of his Cabinet.
My Government took office on 7th
April 1939, the day of Lyons’s death,
and continued for nineteen days, until
26th April, when Menzies formed his
administration.
NEXT WEEK:
Earle Page's 19 Days as
Prime Minister.


THE ABC OF MODERN POISONING
POISONERS AND LAWYERS
Two Great Cases
By ALWYN KARPIN
On New Year’s Day the bodies of a
man and a woman were discovered
on a bank of the Lane Cove River
in Sydney; the bodies displayed clear
symptoms of poisoning, and yet the most
minute and exhaustive analyses have not
disclosed —at the hour of going to press
—the nature of the poison or of its
administration.
Students of crime, and in particular
students of the classical British trials of
this century and last, will be less sur-
prised at the difficulties of the present
case. What they may not realise, how-
ever, is that many of these trials assisted
in the uneven progress of the science of
toxicology. Two English cases of murder
by poison illustrate this —one, that of
George Chapman, almost unknown; the
other, that of Frederick Henry Seddon,
of great criminological fame.
Chapman was tried and convicted at
the Old Bailey in March, 1903, for the
murder of his de facto wife, Maud
Marsh. His real name was Klosowski,
and he was born in Poland and came
to London as a youth. Several years
later he was living with a woman named
Mary Spink; he had opened a barber
shop in Hastings with her money, and
among his customers was a chemist from
whom Chapman bought an ounce of tar-
tar emetic. Now the main ingredient of
tartar emetic is antimony; and that fact
is the core of the Chapman case. Chap-
man’s purchase contained about 150
grains of antimony; two grains is a fatal
dose.
Mrs Spink died at the end of the year
1897 after severe vomiting attacks and
agonising pain. Chapman was now the
lessee of a public house, and he em-
ployed as a barmaid one Bessie Taylor.
She died early in 1901 after displaying
the same symptoms as Mrs Spink. Chap-
man’s next barmaid was a young wo-
man called Maud Marsh; she died in the
same way in October, 1902. But this
time a post-mortem examination was
held and more than 20 grains of anti-
mony were discovered.
Several factors helped to hang Chap-
man; but the most damning one was a
double-edged combination of law and
fact. Firstly, it was held in court that
evidence might be brought of the deaths
of the two other victims; and, secondly,
it was discovered in the course of in-
vestigations into the case that one extra-
ordinary effect of antimony was that it
preserves the body almost completely.
Thus all three bodies gave up their
secret; the Home Office pathologist said
of Mrs Spink, who had been dead four
years, “the face and head were those
of a woman who might have been cof-
fined that day . . . even the eyes were
unruptured, a very unusual circum-
stance . .
was tried and convicted early in
1912 for the murder* by arsenic of
his lodger, Eliza Barrow. It was the first
time Sir Edward Marshall Hall had de-
fended in a trial for murder by poison,
and he showed himself to be an advo-
cate of brilliance and scholarship.
His main task was to break down the
scientific evidence of the prosecution, as
given by the great analyst, Sir William
Willcox. This was based on the conten-
tion that Miss Barrow had died of acute
arsenical poisoning, that is, a dose ad-
ministered within 24 hours of death. If
Marshall Hall could show that she had
died of chronic poisoning he would save
his client, because then the probability
would be that death had resulted from
aggravation, by prolonged arsenic-tak-
ing, of an epidemic illness from which
Miss Barrow had suffered.
Arsenic is a poison which spreads
rapidly throughout the body and is also
rapidly eliminated by it. So Willcox had
to show that there was within the body
a fatal, or at least large, amount of
arsenic. Because of the wide dispersal of
the poison this could not be done by
normal weighing methods, and Willcox
used a novel test. He extracted a minute
amount of arsenic from a minute por-
tion of an organ and weighed it; he then
multiplied proportionately the portion of
arsenic to the total weight of the organ
from which it was extracted. The result,
for the whole body, was well in excess t
of a fatal dose. )
Marshall Hall, however, drew the
sting of even this evidence. He brought
out the fact that Willcox had used, as a
basis for calculation, the muscle as being
two-fifths of the weight of the whole
body; but the muscle contains a large
proportion of water, and water is the first
substance in a corpse to evaporate;
therefore the weight of the muscle;
would decrease much more quickly than;
any other part of the body. Willcox wasi
forced ta concede this. It was unanswer-
able.
One other matter which Willcox at
first conceded was not, however, unan-
swerable, although Marshall Hall’s bril- j
liance in handling it remains undimmed,,
A small amount of arsenic was found!
in the ends of the hair furthest from the
scalp, and it was conceded that arsenic
will only penetrate so far if taken over
a very considerable period—“more than
a year,” Willcox was forced to agree.
At this stage Marshall Hall seemed
to have saved Seddon’s life. But Willcox
went away and thought about it, and he
hit on what was no doubt the true ex-
planation. The hair had become soaked
in the body’s fluid which contaminated
the coffin, even though it had been care-
fully washed before the test. He repeated
his experiment after similarly soaking
and washing a neutral strand of hair and
returned to the box to give the appro-
priate evidence.
The experiment was, apparently, just
the sort a jury could appreciate. Seddon
was hanged, protesting his innocence,
and despite a petition for reprieve con-
taining 300,000 signatures.
Mrs Seddon was acquitted. She later
remarried and settled in Australia.
TOXICOLOGISTS ARE
HARD TO FOOL, BUT...
The new poisons
By ARTHUR WOODS
Perry Mason disappoints me.
Whenever his innocent client is
accused of poisoning he dives
into a solid citizen s potting shed to
emerge triumphant, with a can of
arsenical weed-killer. But does anyone
nowadays use arsenical weed-killer to
get rid of weeds or a rich relative? There
are better products for both jobs on the
market, and a dose of most modern
herbicides should not cause anything
more than an attack of nausea.
For arsenic compounds have one
serious disadvantage for would-be
murderers they are easily detected in
the body. Moreover, arsenic can be
found in the body several years after
death.
The same holds for most of the other
common metallic poisons. The Reinsch
test, which deposits the metal on a piece
of copper, can be used to detect toxic
amounts of mercury, silver, bismuth


and antimony in stomach contents, liver,
kidney or urine.
It is extremely difficult to fool the
modern toxicologist. Often, however,
the symptoms of poisoning resemble
those of some natural disease; mere
observation of symptoms may arouse
strong suspicions, but hardly constitutes
proof. The toxicologist must provide
scientific evidence of the presence of the
poison to back up the indications given
by the symptoms. If a poison is used
which is toxic at concentrations which
defy analysis, or if some substance
which is normally found in the body is
used as a poison, then the toxicologist
has a very hard task indeed.
Adrenalin, for instance, is a heart
stimulant, similar to a compound called
noradrenalin which occurs naturally in
the body.
New techniques
T>ut methods of analysis have im-
** proved since the days of Sherlock
Holmes. The scientist uses not only
classical chemical methods but also new
techniques of spectroscopy and chro-
matography.
Chromatography enables him to
separate the various components of a
complicated mixture, and thus to apply
very sensitive tests to the substance
which interests him.
In spectroscopy the spectrum from a
prism is passed through a solution of the
mixture. Various poisons absorb certain
wave-lengths of the spectrum and pro-
duce black bands on the image.
Yet another possibility method is to
apply the mixture to living tissues, to
detect characteristic reactions.
But even with these modern tech-
niques some poisons can be detected
only by their symptoms.
The most lethal substance known is
the botulin toxin. It is produced by the
microbe clostridium botulinum, and is
usually the cause of poisoning from
home-canned foods or home-smoked
hams eaten uncooked. Researchers have
found that one-thousandth of a gram of
the pure substance will dispose of one
million mice. It is estimated that a
millionth of a gram would kill a man.
Almost as deadly is the compound
phenyl mercuri - arseni - cyanide. With-
out all the equipment of a modern
laboratory, however, the murderer using
it would be much more likely to kill
himself than his victim.
It seems paradoxical that a chemical
essential to the body, and produced by
the body, should be poisonous, but it
is so. Insulin is a complicated sub-
stance produced in the pancreas of
healthy people; it regulates the con-
centration of the blood sugar. Excess
insulin produced, for example, by the
injection of a massive dose or by a
tumor of the pancreas, will cause
hypoglycaemia a dangerous fall in
blood sugar concentration, which has
profound effects on the brain.
Violent death from the injection of
insulin could easily be undetected, since
the only external evidence would be the
small puncture from the hypodermic
needle. After several suicides and one
murder, toxicologists are wise to this
method and have developed techniques
for detecting undue amounts of insulin
in the blood.
The use and possible abuse of insulin
underlines a fact which is often missed
that most substances, taken in excess,
are poisonous. Nevertheless, it is sur-
prising that at least two vitamins can be
poisonous (though not usually fatally so)
if taken in relatively large quantities.
These are vitamins A and D.
When there was a shortage of hashish
Egyptian peasants turned to nutmeg as
a substitute—in large enough quantities
it produces much the same effect as the
drug. But two nutmegs were found to
be a lethal dose.
Among the drugs that have been
introduced in recent years there are,
unfortunately, many poisons. A par-
ticularly poignant example is thalido-
mide, the cause of phocomelia (seal-
limb) in unborn infants.
The testing of these new drugs
illustrates some of the toxicologist’s
problems. His experiments are re-
stricted to animals; observations of
their effects on man must be confined
to victims of accident, suicide or homi-
cide. He cannot be sure that there will
be no damage to human tissues because
it does not occur in treated animals.
A derivative of primodine was found to
cause severe damage to the livers of
rats but not to those of the dog and
the monkey. It was not tried on man,
despite its possible therapeutic value.
Another difficulty is the differences
between individuals in susceptibility to
a poison. There are records of patients
swallowing 100 barbiturate tablets and
living; there are records of patients swal-
lowing five barbiturate tablets and
dying.
Differences between the reactions of
the two sexes are also common, especi-
ally in animals. Male mice suffer severe
kidney damage from sub-anaesthetic
doses of chloroform, while females re-
cover from deep anaesthesia without per-
manent damage. It is sufficient for a
male mouse to inhale the chloroform
in the breath of a female mouse for kid-
ney damage to occur. Similar, but less
spectacular, examples are found in
humans.
Two poisons acting together sometimes
have a much more serious effect than
would be expected if they were taken
singly. Some barbiturates are particu-
larly dangerous when taken with alcohol.
The ink cap fungi, normally quite edible,
produce distressing symptoms if cooked
in wine, or if alcohol is taken within
twenty-four hours. The face turns bright
pink, except for the tips of the ears and
the nose, which remain a startling white.
T|rug allergies or idiosyncrasies also be-
devil the investigator. The commonest
allergy is of the hives or asthma type;
annoying but rarely dangerous. Some-
times severe reactions occur, such as a
fatal dermatitis or blood disorder. One
patient with such an allergy was killed
by two grams of aspirin.
Morphine is possibly the best known
and most used of the alkaloids. This “one
indispensable drug” is, however, only
one of the 20 or so alkaloids found in
the opium poppy. Small doses relieve
pain and induce sleep. Larger doses are
a depressant to the brain and a stimu-
lant to the spinal cord. Death results
from the effect on the respiratory system.
Children are particularly susceptible. Its
effect on dogs is similar to its effect
on man, but even the smallest doses
excite cats and horses so much that they
can easily injure themselves severely
during their frenzy.
Primitive peoples have long been ex-
pert in the use of poisons, especially
alkaloids and fish poisons. Curare, the
poison of the blow-pipe dart of the
South American Indians, is prepared
from the bark of jungle vines. The
poison rapidly brings paralysis, though
the sensory nerves remain intact. Similar
poisons were elaborated by natives of
Borneo and the Malay Peninsula, who
used an almost identical blow-pipe.
At least one European blow-pipe mur-
der has been planned, if not executed.
Two women and one man were sen-
tenced to terms of five to ten years for
planning to kill Lloyd George in Derby
in 1917 by curare-tipped darts.
An examination of the shelves of the
average house will reveal a number of
poisons, all there with an innocent pur-
pose. Nevertheless the very ease with
which poisons can be obtained gave rise
to what is the first example of the “sick
joke”. This came from post-war Ger-
many. A man walked into a chemist’s
shop and asked for a certain well-known
insecticide which had been widely used
for suicide . . . “Certainly, sir for how
many people?”


OUT AND ABOUT
TREVOR HOWARD’S ACCOUNT
OF "MUTINY" ON TAHITI
A plan for “Taming of the Shrew" in modern dress
By CHARLES HIGHAM
At Sydney’s Kingsford Smith air ter-
minal, Trevor Howard —here for
the Third Test and the screenings
of “Mutiny on the Bounty” in Melbourne
and Sydney seemed far too busy
answering cricket questions to get in-
volved in the more serious topics of
his part in the MGM spectacle, direc-
tors he’d worked with, films he’d made
and wanted to make.
So it seemed wise to tackle him again,
at the Chevron Hilton, where he sat—
almost lay—with his back to the harbor
view, his face intent and his sad, con-
templative eyes fixed almost permanently
on his white slippers. His voice was
extraordinarily quiet —so low, in fact,
that one sometimes had to work hard
to catch the words, although he began
to sparkle after a while. It had been
a long day, the interviewers had been
coming thick and fast, and despite the
charm one knew from so many films—
David Lean’s “Brief Encounter” and
“The Passionate Friends,” Carol Reed’s
“The Third Man,” Jack Cardiff’s “Sons
and Lovers” it was obvious Howard
was under a strain.
For almost an hour he talked quietly
and honestly about his films, and lack
of pretence, of one-upmanship, is a
striking feature of his reminiscences. He
was on the stage before the war; then,
on demobilisation in 1943, he played a
small part in “The Way Ahead,” chiefly
because he had been in uniform and
could wear it more naturally than some
players who hadn't been in the Services.
Noel Coward gave him his first,
important break as the male lead in
“Brief Encounter,” and it was interest-
ing to learn from Howard that the film
which made Lean’s reputation—was
absolutely blueprinted shot by shot by
Noel Coward who had written the one-
act play “Still Life” on which it was
based. “Coward never came near the
set,” Trevor Howard said. “David Lean
was a beginner then and he was very
glad to take orders. It remains the only
film on which I’ve worked that was
followed from a script exactly, without
a single variation during shooting.”
At the other extreme were John
Huston’s “The Roots of Heaven” and
Carol Reed’s and Lewis Milestone’s
“Mutiny on the Bounty,” which were
both written from day to day, so that
it was impossible to pre-plan the per-
formances, to construct the detailed
mosaic of a three-dimensional character
in advance. Which, then, did Howard
prefer, the day-to-day improvisation or
the blueprint method?
Talking about this at great length, he
said he preferred the main outlines of
a performance, of a script, laid down
ahead, but that there should always be
room for an improvisation, for varia-
tions in characterisation, during the
shooting. The day-to-day make-it-up-as-
you-go-along was frustrating, then?
“Yes, it’s rather naughty,” he muttered
significantly, and he had found it frus-
trating both during the Huston film and
“Bounty.”
Romain Gary’s novel “The Roots of
Heaven,” with its passionate plea for
wild-game preservation, Howard had
thought a great book, and had been
eager to play the important part of
Morel, but he was deeply dissatisfied
with the finished result and said: “They
didn’t understand what it was about.”
“They,” obviously, were the producer,
Darryl F. Zanuck, and the director,
John Huston, whose assignment on the
film seemed strange for the central
figure of Peter Viereck’s novel “White
Hunter, Black Heart.” But Howard was
satisfied with “Bounty,” despite the lack
of pre-planning, and had managed to
create a Captain Bligh that was near
enough to his own previous conception
of him.
The question one is bound to ask
sooner or later is what happened in
Tahiti when Reed, after two and a half
months of shooting “Bounty,” left and
Milestone took over? Howard said he
didn’t know, and indeed he’d be glad
to hear, but he believed it was over the
interpretation of Bligh’s character. What
Howard did do (for the first time to my
knowledge) was to specify exactly which
sequences of Reed's had been left in:
the below-decks dinner scene towards
the beginning and a duologue between
him and Brando later on, in which
Bligh tells Christian to take the native
girl as his lover. Howard added wryly:
“And they only left those scenes in
because 1 was in a play in London and
they couldn't get me for retakes.”
Chiefly, he, Reed and Eric Ambler,
who wrote the original script, had
wanted Bligh to continue in the film
until the end, when Bligh would present
a menace to the freedom and happiness
of the mutineers’ life on Pitcairn. But
the way it came out Bligh was missing
from the whole of the last quarter of
the film, and therefore Howard had
known nothing of the celebrated hassles
that went on during the last stages of
the shooting.
There had been films of his Howard
hadn’t particularly liked doing Roy
Boulting’s “Run For The Sun” among
them but on the whole he agreed he
had been very fortunate in having a
long run of profoundly written parts in
films. This had been due to the fact
that he had always had a free hand,
and had been able to play the parts he
liked: his old contract with Rank, before
he turned freelance, had not been an
exclusive one, which meant that there
had been the chance to act for Korda
(“The Third Man”) and others. He had
known Graham Greene for several
years, and had always had a deep
sympathy for his characters Scobie in
“The Heart of the Matter” was his
favorite role and there had been some
discussion of his doing a film version
of “The Living Room,” but it didn’t
come off.
D. H. Lawrence was also a writer
Howard admired, and, one felt, deeply
understood: as Morel in “Sons and
Lovers” the heavy - drinking good-
hearted, confused miner with a son who
is a genius—he gave perhaps the most
deeply-felt performance of his career,
and it was astonishing to learn that he
was only eight days working on it, and
that he nearly didn’t play it because
the producer, Jerry Wald, objected to
his wearing a moustache for the part.


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower's own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
cisnr S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
“Jack Cardiff, who directed the film,
works very quickly,” Howard said. “So
do Lean and Reed, who preplan very
thoroughly and like a minimum of
takes. All three men are very similar —
economical, you know. Going back to
my film with Anthony Asquith years
ago ‘The Way To The Stars’ I
remember waiting five weeks for one
shot to be set up.”
“Film-makers were very incompetent
in those days. They’d take months with
fuss and fiddle-faddle arranging lights
and cameras. Now the shooting
schedules are much shorter. With special
exceptions like ‘Bounty,’ we like to
make things in 10, 12 weeks.”
I asked if he had ever wanted to
direct. At first he said no he hadn’t
found anything he wanted to do, and
then suddenly he seemed to change his
mind, and in a mannerism I had noticed
several times while we were talking he
frowned, tapped his fingers, and then
suddenly broke into a broad, teeth-baring
grin. “Yes, I want to do a ‘Taming of
the Shrew’,” he said. “Of course I’m
too old to play Petruchio now” (he had
done so, at the Old Vic, in the 1947-48
season), “but I want to direct it in
modern dress. In Italy today. It should
be fun. Lots of fun. Don’t you think?
“And I want to do a sophisticated
comedy in England. But we don’t write
them. Farces, yes, things like ‘Carry On
Nurse. . . ” And there he left it, adding
as a final afterthought: “But how can
anyone play a comedy after playing
Captain Bligh?”
LOOKING FOR
A FARADAY
Newton's tomb and "little black
boxes"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
At 8 a.m. last Friday Professor Julius
Sumner Miller had already had
breakfast at the Wentworth Hotel, Syd-
ney, so the problem of whether he
should put his cream in his coffee before
or after the interview did not arise.
Professor Miller was at the end of a
three-day visit to Australia which had
stretched into six weeks.
In those six weeks Professor Miller,
who is a physicist and lecturer at El
Carnino College, California, and a form-
er president of the American Associa-
tion of Physics Teachers, has become a
public personality, getting the sort of
delighted attention, fan mail and re-
quests for autographs which are usually
kept for Royalty or beauty queens. His
lively approach, his homely experiments
with cups of coffee, pieces of wood and
bricks, and his questions—“lf you had
poured hot coffee when the telephone
rang, and you wanted to keep it as hot
as possible, would you put the cream in
before or after answering the phone?”—
without answers have done just what he
had hoped—make the man-in-the-street
think and talk about physics. All this
would appear most unseemly and most
improbable, only it has happened in the
same city that Professor Harry Messel,
never one to undervalue publicity, calls
his home.
Professor Miller at 8 a.m. was wear-
ing his usual outfit of slacks and open-
necked shirt. During his six weeks here
he has generally been either at his hotel,
the School of Physics at Sydney Univer-
sity or one of the television studios, so
he has not run into trouble by his re-
fusal to wear tie or jacket. This refusal
is a matter of strong principle with him.
He believes that unnecessary regulations
and restrictions are what put man “in
harness” and prevent him achieving what
he might otherwise do. “Do you want
to see me or my jacket?” is Professor
Miller’s view. The answer in most Aus-
tralian hotels is definitely “your jacket”,
but that is one lesson which Professor
Miller did not learn here.
Professor Miller is at the end of his
sabbatical year and was returning from
Europe via Australia with his wife
merely to visit a friend. He appeared
on Bob Sanders’s ABC television pro-
gramme, “People”. His unconventional
appearance and approach got a quick
public response and Miller agreed to
make six programmes with Sanders. In
these Professor Miller gets Sanders to
stick his neck out and answer questions
relating to the laws of physics, and then
he promptly bites Sanders’s head off.
Professor Miller then lectured to
science teachers and later over lunch Pro-
fessor Messel, who is head of the
School of Physics at Sydney University,
asked him to give six lectures at the
school’s summer courses in science for
advanced school-pupils. “I didn’t want to
stay,” Professor Miller said. “1 was
tired, and I’d just read about a physicist
being found poisoned in a ditch. 1 said,
This is no place for a physicist,’ but
they persuaded me to stay. Messel said
six lectures. I said four, and in the end
I won. It’s the first time Messel’s been
beaten,” he added, with delight, “al-
though only last night they were still
asking me to stay the extra week. But
I’ve lost six pounds in weight already
this week.
“If the audience at the summer school
had been an array of physicists I don’t
think I would have stayed to lecture for
10,000 dollars, but the chance to talk
to 150 boys and girls—that’s different.
You never know what might be there.
There might be a Faraday or a Ruther-
ford or a Curie somewhere there.”
Professor Miller seemed delighted
with the summer school. And after five
months in Europe during which he dis-
covered that “everyone thinks you need
little black boxes, costing millions of
dollars, to teach physics” he said that
he felt Professor Messel’s plan to con-


centrate on radio astronomy and related
branches of science was “shrewd and
intellectually sound.”
“It is ridiculous for a country like this
to be building massive atom smashers,”
he said. "You can’t afford them and all
that is being done in America anyhow.
You should be doing something that no
one else is doing, something in which
you can set the pace. And you are
doing just that.”
Professor Miller began his sabbatical
in London. “And what do you think
was the first thing I did there?” he
demanded. “I went to see Newton’s
tomb, of course. And later in Florence
I went to Santa Croce to see Galileo’s
tomb.
“Then when I was in Glasgow I met
two physicists. ‘Professor,’ they said,
‘would you like to see our cyclotron?’ So
just to be polite, you know, I said yes
and I had a look at their cyclotron. Why,
it's the sort of thing that we in Cali-
fornia could fit in our pocket. So later
I said. ‘What 1 would really like to see
is some of Kelvin’s apparatus.’ and they
just looked at me. I have a feeling that
they had never even heard of Kelvin.
“in Upsala I gave two lectures. The
first was on demonstration methods.
After that I gave a more sober lecture
to 400 physicists, but my message was
that you don’t need black boxes which
cost millions of Swedish crowns to teach
physics. It was the same in Trondheim,
Oslo. Bologna. I told the Italians they
don’t need black boxes which cost
millions of Italian lire in order to teach
physics.”
Professor Miller admitted with some
sadness that his approach and his tele-
vision appearances in the United States
and Canada had not always been ac-
cepted in a generous spirit by other
physicists. “People have even said I do
not care for physics, because I don’t be-
lieve you need black boxes costing mil-
lions of dollars to teach it,” he said.
“Some colleagues have said, ‘Why, Jul-
ius, you’re better known than we are’.
Imagine them worrying about a thing
like that. There are millions of people
better known than I am, but it doesn’t
worry me. As my wife says, a great
mind doesn’t know it’s great and a small
mind doesn't know it’s small.”
Professor Miller said that he had
The central fact of Professor Miller’s
life as a physicist remains his associa-
tion with Einstein.
“I knew him for 30 years, all my
intellectual life,” he said. “When I first
got the opportunity to go and work with
him I paced the floor night and day for
a fortnight. Would Einstein be a dis-
appointment? How could I possibly stack
up against a man like that? Beside him
I knew absolutely nothing of physics.
Nothing. But I needn’t have worried. It
was wonderful, wonderful.”
DINNER AT HAZARIBAGH
Eternity in twenty minutes
By N. M. DITCHER
R iffling through the pages of a
digest in a dentist's waiting-room
today, I came across a “filler ’
headed “My Worst Half-hour,” in which
an American recounted a harrowing and
pitiable war experience. In spite of
myself, this set me thinking of my own
worst half-hour; it was 20 minutes by the
clock, actually. The recollection made
me so sick and weak that I really felt
the sentiment of deliverance when I was
told the dentist was ready to receive me.
I brought it on myself by wanting to
meet a man called John Henry Knight,
a name that is known, indirectly, to any-
one who has read Guy de Maupassant’s
short stories in the translation of “Jean-
Henri Chevalier”—for that was Knight.
The stories in question are the supposedly
obscene ones, usually omitted from trans-
lation, but much in demand by troops
during the last war. To turn a badly-
needed penny, Knight did them into
English, using a pseudonym to protect his
name.
His name! Not that it was worth much
by then, for Knight had fallen into the
worst disgrace. He was an English
lawyer, from Bath, and was well ad-
vanced on a brilliant career in India
under the Raj when he was tempted
into a shady affair about a falsified will.
A divided family, a large inheritance, an
awkward testament, a young lawyer who
knew how John Company’s men made
their pile—and Knight was struck off the
rolls and forever unable to return to
England. In the midst of his humiliation,
his doctor informed him that he had
consumption and would soon die.
Knight retreated to the Bihar hill sta-
tion of Hazaribagh, where his lungs
would have a better chance. He lingered
on there until a year or two ago, trans-
lating stories, commenting on legal
decisions for the newspapers, and earn-
ing small and illegal fees helping local
bourgeois write their wills and prepare
suits. He had not gone native, if that
includes living with an Indian woman.
He did worse. He seduced the wife of
a British missionary who, in her life of
sin, remained a militant teetotaller,
wowser and Bible-banger. They lived
miserably in an Anglo-Indian boarding-
house on the outskirts of Hazaribagh—•
a name that really means “Hazari’s
garden” but could mean, and is popu-
larly taken to mean, “1000 tigers,” for
the place is infested with the beasts.
I arrived unannounced at the boarding-
house one bright morning in 1953 and
found it to be a filthy den run by two
hideous, black, Anglo-Indian crones who
called themselves the Misses Macdonald.
Knight was not yet up, and the sisters
were unwilling to lodge an apparently
regular Sahib in their hovel. Through a
grass-matting curtain 1 heard one say to
the other, “He’s not English; he doesn’t
talk English. (She had never heard an
Australian accent.) He must be Anglo-
Indian, so it’s all right.” So I got a
room.
I met Knight at lunch, but my en-
counter with the man I know to be the
best talker in India was ruined by the dis-
gusting rubbish that was served to us as
food by the staff of dirty bearers. While
Knight ate the stuff and dazzled the table
(the table? I was perhaps the only one
who knew what he was talking about)
with stories of F. E. Smith, Conan Doyle,
Italian literature and the great trials of
British India, I was leaning back from
my plate to escape the noisome stench of
an unidentifiable dish unknown to
Indians and Englishmen alike, the pro-
duct of that peculiar degradation that
races suffer when they mix in poverty.
Pleading an upset caused by travel, I
managed not to eat any and escaped
immediately after lunch, announcing that
I would not return for dinner.
“But where are you going? There’s
nothing in Hazaribagh and all around
there are tigers.” Still, I said, I was
going for a long walk. I was booked in
for the night and had to stay, but for all
the fascination of Knight’s conversation
I could not face the table again. I soon
confirmed that there was nothing in
Hazaribagh, not even a shop worth the
name, not a bar of chocolate for a
hungry, heaving stomach. I got a lift on
an old lorry to an Indian village off in
the jungle and there in a temple bazaar
I found all a man needs to eat when he
is really hungry. Some oranges, a hand-
ful of clean, uncooked grain, and a coco-
nut freshly cut open for a long, sweetish
drink.
Loitering around the village (it was
near a place of pilgrimage for Jains), I
reflected on the nourishment of poverty.
In India almost no one eats dirtily, since
food is surrounded by dozens of religious
taboos that save Hindus from the laisser-
aller of poor Chinese. The humblest
family is reduced to a bowl of boiled
rice and salt, maybe with some burning


spices to fool the stomach into thinking
it has been fed. But poverty does not
produce the squalid filth that I knew was
awaiting me if I went back to the board-
ing-house before eight o’clock. That
could only happen to poor people
anxious to live a lie, the lie that Euro-
pean habits and Western cooking could
be kept up on a few annas in the middle
of the Indian jungle.
Dark came and the dinner hour passed.
I reckoned it was safe to sneak back to
my room in the boarding-house. But
Knight, the thoughtful English host in
his uttermost misery, and the Misses
Macdonald were waiting for me. “We
were very worried about you, out after
dark. Tigers, you know. But don’t
worry, we’ve kept your supper for you.
We’ve all had ours but you sit down
there and the bearer will serve it warmed
up. There. We'll just sit here to keep
you company, if it doesn’t disturb you,
and Mr Knight will tell us more of his
wonderful stories.”
Making an effort to control a rising
gorge, I sat down before the smoking
oil lamp on the greasy oilclothed table
in the sweltering heat of the early night.
(There is no electricity in Hazaribagh,
no lights, no fans.)
Followed my worst half-hour as 1
forced on a rebellious stomach, through a
spasmodically contracting throat, the most
nauseating food that has ever passed my
lips. It was tepid, insufficiently warmed
up, with the rancid stink of bad beef fat
and the gluey consistency of overcooked
squash-like vegetables. There was
nothing to drink with it save water, in
which one could almost see the amoebae
swimming about. Every forkful was
watched by the wizened Macdonald
harpies, the ebullient Knight, his sour
wife and a couple of pathetic, non-
descript Indians who boarded with the
fallen sahib to show that they were too
good for the rest of the town.
A bad dinner is perhaps an impertinent
contribution to recollections of horrify-
ing experiences, when others can recall
moments of real danger and terror. Yet
I have been in a crowded cinema during
an earthquake, m an airliner lost in bad
weather over hostile territory, on a dis-
abled ship in a tempest, on another ship
in calm weather with a fire in the hold;
in short, the usual catalogue of travel-
lers’ accidents. I would rather face them
all again than eat the Misses Macdonald’s
supper before an audience.
For it is better to feel one’s body be-
come a tingling mass of skin nerves on
which masonry is about to fall, or a
helpless sack about to plummet through
the air or into .he sea, than it is to be-
come a retching alimentary canal about
to vomit out the food offered in kind-
ness by the poor and humiliated.
The Greek Islands
DELOS: the ruins
Four poems by David McNicoll
No rain falls here,
This is an isle of lizards and of stone,
Where walls and columns mark the
ancient town
And shattered temples tell their hap-
less tale.
The tourists potter through the
twisting streets,
Peer at mosaics and erotica;
Laugh as the guide points Out upon
the walls
Four-letter words scrawled before
Christ was born
By Grecian youths, whose spelling
even then
Was, would you note, no better or
no worse
Than youth’s today.
This was their theatre; this the ticket
booth;
Here was the changing room; here the
hotel
Where Thespians from other sunny
isles
Would stay the night.
This was the market place
(What do I mean ‘this was’?
This is the market place: this is
Only the time is gone.) “No, no more
please;
How soon till we can get back to
the ship?”
MYKONOS: the winds
Never such blue the black blue
of the sea;
Never such blue the white blue
of the sky;
Never such white these houses,
one on one
Suspended like gay, antiseptic toys
Between the blues and this is
Mykonos.
The boats toss restlessly beside the
quay
Riding the never-ending summer
winds;
They name their three winds here in
Mykonos
The “tablecloth”, the “chair”, the
“table”: while they blow
The people of this spotless isle hold
fast
To all they have, and let the windmills
spin,
Crazy, above the churches of the
huddling town.
A pelican is mayor of Mykonos,
Peter his name; he struts the water
front
Gladly accepting fish, snapping at
tourist hands,
His pink and yellow eyes a trifle
bored,
Thinking perhaps of flight and far
lagoons
And working for his food but
these he finds
Unworthy thoughts; and waddles on —
New tables, and new tourists, and
more fish.
SANTORINI: the donkeys
Poseidon raised his fingers’ calloused
tips
Above the foam and this was
Santorin.
A tortured, twisted isle; the ruined
town
Rent by the shudders from the un-
known deep,
Perches a thousand feet above the
quay
White-washed and patched, bright in
the summer sun.
A hundred poor, dun donkeys spend
their days
Climbing the zig-zag path from sea
to town,
A-tottering on the slipp’ry, ancient
stones,
Bullied, bedevilled, prodded, full of
sores,
Patient, bewildered in these beasts
they say
Are housed the souls of those in
purgatory.
RHODES: the castles
The deer that guard the harbor mouth
at Rhodes
Killed snakes, they say, and rid the
isle of pests,
And, as reward, became the favored
beasts
Of all that dusty-green, and sun-
soused land.
Beyond the harbor glows the yellow
town
Minaret and dome and fort, each with
a tale
Of changing fortunes, and of certain
death.
This was the home of St John’s fer-
vent knights
Before the violent Turk put them to
flight;
Here in these quiet rooms they nursed
the sick
Who battle-scarred, diseased, had
turned for home
After their holy stint in Palestine.


OVERSEAS
ASIA'S 13 BORDER DISPUTES
A Traveller's Guide
By JACK DAVIES
re-drawing of the map of Asia
since the end of World War II in-
evitably left behind a series of border
disputes some now settled, some not-
so-settled, and some still waiting to be
settled, apparently by guns.
Of all the countries involved, Red
China heads the list with its 9,000 miles
of frontier, 13 neighboring countries,
and expansionist foreign policy. As the
best known case is the basis of the war
with India, the following survey of dis-
putes begins there.
China and India
most important region involved
in the Sino-Indian war centres on
the area along the 1914 MacMahon
Line, especially parts of Assam and the
North East Frontier Agency (NEFA)
vital to the Indians because Assam’s
tea is one of India’s most lucrative ex-
ports and because Red Chinese control
of the Himalayan passes would give it an
enormous strategic advantage, opening
the way into the Indian plains and
Western Asia.
The Indian claim is based on what
they regard as the “natural” Himalayan
frontier, the MacMahon Line, drawn up
in 1914 to mark the boundaries between
Tibet on the one hand and the Indian
province of Assam and Northern Burma
on the other, and on the famous “five
principles of co-existence” agreement
signed with China on April 29, 1954.
One of the most lucid presentations
of the Red Chinese case (though not of
course of the Communist tactics) has
come, strangely enough, from the Na-
tionalist Professor Sha Hsueh-chuen of
Taiwan University in Chiang Kai-shek’s
Formosa. He claims: firstly, that China
did not participate in the 1913 Simia
Conference which paved the way for the
MacMahon Line, and that this line was
never recognised by the Chinese govern-
ment as it runs some 50 to 80 miles
north of the “traditional” boundary;
secondly, that several British atlases
produced since 1914 do not regard the
MacMahon Line as the point of demarc-
ation between China and India; thirdly,
that the inhabitants of most of the area
are Tibetan in origin, Buddhists and not
Hindus, and do not speak an Indian lan-
guage. (He cites about twenty-one place
names of clearly Tibetan origin.)
The second disputed region is Ladakh
in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir.
The main area is a high plain, the Aksai
Chin, of major strategic value to China.
Any passage through the area provides
China with more access to Tibet —either
for further conquest or for the cultiva-
tion of the Western gold fields. India’s
case rests primarily on treaties between
Ladakh and Tibet (of 1684, 1842 and
1852) and, again, on the implicit accep-
tance of these in the 1954 agreement
with Red China. The Chinese claim is
that having already “acquired” Tibet it
has a right to Ladakh because of its
Tibetan character. An added complica-
tion is that either Pakistan or an inde-
pendent Kashmir could also make some
sort of a claim to Ladakh.
China, Burma, Nepal, Outer Mongolia
and Pakistan
I>remier Chou En-lai proudly noted
A last December, at a farewell dinner for
Premier Yumzhagiin Tsenenbal of Outer
Mongolia, that Red China had success-
fully solved its border disputes with
Burma, Pakistan, Nepal, and Outer
Mongolia (thereby isolating India as an
“unreasonable” negotiator).
With Burma, this involved China
in dropping an overwhelming claim to
most of Burma’s northern borderlands
while receiving several villages com-
manding strategic passes in return for
other parcels of previously disputed
border land. In the case of Nepal, no
major concessions were made by either
side, but the general effect may be a step
in China’s plan to dislodge territories
from India’s sphere of influence and
towards its idea of a Confederation of
Himalayan States.
The agreement between Pakistan and
China is still only “in principle,” which
means that the actual surveying of the
territory in the Karakoram Mountains,
between China’s south - western - most
Sinkiang Province and the area of Kash-
mir controlled by Pakistan, has not yet
been begun.
Red China’s biggest success, in terms
of mileage, is its 2,500-mile treaty with
Russian-orientated Outer Mongolia (the
Mongolian People’s Republic). This was
an important ribbon to China’s current
package of border settlements, but,
evidently pleased as he was with the
outcome, Mongolia’s Premier Tsenden-
bal made it clear before leaving Peking
that he remained with Moscow in the
Sino-Soviet ideological conflict. (In 1936,
China declared that Mongolia would


automatically become a part of the
Chinese Federation.)
China and Russia
The 3,500-mile border between Red
China and the Soviet Union is the
longest in the world. At present any dis-
putes over this are largely unspoken, but
contemporary Soviet maps show a pre-
cise frontier line between Russia and
China, whereas maps edited in Peking
indicate the Sino-Soviet boundary as yet
undetermined. The Sino-Outer Mongo-
lian settlement may be a first step to-
wards opening the question on Red
China’s part.
Pakistan and India
The dispute over Kashmir dates from
A 1947 when the India Independence
Act created the separate nations of
India and Pakistan. At that time all of
India’s 562 princedoms, including Kash-
mir, were given the choice of joining
either of the two countries. As 77 per
cent of Kashmir’s 4,200,000 population
was Moslem, it seemed likely that Mos-
lem Pakistan would gain control instead
of India which is predominantly Hindu.
Pakistan’s Hindu maharajah was re-
luctant to join immediately with Pakistan
although several preliminary agreements
had been reached regarding trade and
administration. Soon after large groups
of “volunteer” soldiers from Pakistan
crossed Kashmir's north-west border to
consolidate their claim; then the Kash-
mir maharajah appealed to India for
military aid, India readily responded,
and full-scale war broke out.
India appealed to the United Nations
for a settlement. This resulted in two
major resolutions. The first, of August
13, 1948, set forth a cease-fire line that
gave India two thirds of Kashmir, in-
cluding Ladakh, the rich Vale, and the
Hindu area of Jammu. The second of
January 5, 1949, underlined Nehru’s
promise at the time of the cease-fire that,
‘‘We are prepared, when peace, law and
order have been established, to have a
referendum under some international
auspices like the UN.” Apparently “law
and order” has not yet been established.
In 1953 Nehru created a cause celebre
by jailing Indian Kashmir’s Moslem
ruler, Sheik Abdullah, for sponsoring a
local movement towards independence.
Both India and Pakistan in practice
object to the idea of a referendum. India
is afraid of losing any part of Kashmir
because of the encouragement that might
give to other nationalistic Indian states.
Pakistan fears that regional referendums
would give India Ladakh and Jammu.
Pakistan and Afghanistan
J>akistan’s border dispute with its
north-western neighbor, Afghanistan,
dates from Pakistan's independence in
1947 and involves a demand by the
Government of Afghanistan for Push-
toonistan.
The general terms of this demand are
that the Pathans and Pushto-speaking
tribes of north-western Pakistan should
be allowed to secede and set up their
own state. Afghanistan bases its claim
on a questioning of the 1893 Durand
Line by which the Indo-Afghan boun-
dary was demarked in a treaty between
Britain and Afghanistan. The Afghan
objection to this line is that it was set
up with the British government and is
no longer valid for what is now part of
an independent Pakistan. They also want
their own outlet to the sea as Afghan-
istan is landlocked and their claim ex-
tends somewhat beyond the Durand
Line. Furthermore the Pathan rulers of
Afghanistan may need to strengthen
their position in a country that is only
one-third Pushto-speaking.
Pakistan’s objections to the Afghan
claim are three-fold: that the area de-
manded on Afghan maps includes seve-
ral large segments that are not even in-
habited by Pathans; that the Afghan
government confirmed the Durand Line
in international agreements up to 1930;
and that the various tribes, although
freed from British obligations in 1947,
appear content as part of Pakistan to
which they then transfered their alle-
giances.
The present effect of the dispute is a
worsening of diplomatic relations that
has broader international significance
since Afghanistan is becoming more and
more allied with the Soviet Union.
Japan and Russia
The Russo-Japanese territorial dispute
dates from the end of World War
11. The territories in question are two
islands off the northern tip of Japan,
Kunahiri and Etorofu, currently occu-
pied by Russia.
The Japanese contention is that
whereas, in accordance with Article 2
(c) of the Peace Treaty of San Francisco,
Japan renounced all control over the
Kurile Islands (that is, 18 islands north
of Urup Island), the two islands in ques-
tion are not part of the Kurile Islands
and still belong to Jaoan. Russia claims
the question was clearly settled by the
Allied Declaration of Potsdam.
For the present, this dispute seems to
have subsided, and Russia and Japan
have resumed diplomatic relations. But
the Japanese still insist that the islands
be returned before any treaty is signed
between Russia and Japan.
Japan and the United States
A ny dispute between Japan and the US
over Okinawa (the largest of Ryukyu
Islands) apnears to have been cleared up
on the understanding that Okinawa will
be returned to Japan in the foreseeable
future. By Article 3 of the Peace Treaty
of San Francisco, the United States took
over the administration of Okinawa
while leaving Japan “residual sovereign-
ty” and guaranteeing the eventual di-
solution of US control. Since then, there
has been constant pressure from Japan
and the Okinawans for this to be accom-
plished as soon as possible. The United
States accepts this wish and, in March
of last year, President Kennedy extended
Japan’s co-operative role in the island’s
social and economic development. He
also stated the American intention of
retaining Okinawa as a military base.
Japan, in turn, accepts this intention.
Thailand and Cambodia
Thailand's territorial dispute with
Cambodia over the temple of Preah
Vihear was decided in favor of Cam-
bodia by the International Court of
Justice (World Court) on June 15, 1962.
This would seem to settle the matter ex-
cept for the fact that Thailand only ac-
cepted this decision under strong protest,
carrying their flags and flagpole from
the sight intact and placing them in a
museum, flags still raised.
The Court’s 9-3 decision was based
on events during the 1904-08 Franco-
Siamese border settlement. Although it
is not certain exactly how the survey
then effected the Preah Vihear temple,
there was a map drawn up by the Com-
mission in charge, or at least the French
part of the commission, that placed the
lemple in what is now Cambodia. The
Court, while admitting the shortcomings
of this map, stated that it had been
properly accepted by Thailand prior to
their present claim and that they had
bypassed opportunities to challenge it.
Thailand insists that as it had sovereignty
over the temple until the Court’s decision
it saw no reason to question a map it
deemed invalid in the first place. It also
insists that the boundary was to follow
the watershed line along Dangrek moun-
tain range, as stated roughly in the
original treaty, and thus place the
temple in Thailand’s possession.
Cambodia and South Vietnam
Qince June, 1949, what was formerly
known as the French colony of
Cochin-China has been transferred to
the possession of South Vietnam under
strong protest from Cambodia. Cam-
bodia claims that the transfer was made
unilaterally by France and that France
had accepted Cambodia’s claims as valid
at the time of transfer and thus acted
improperly. Cambodia only accepted the
final declaration of territorial integrity
by the 1954 Geneva conference (on the
future of Indo-China) when a clear
statement of its reservations was in-
cluded.


, r * mu'TM *•
'' mmmmtAm
«“°K
-' 1 S !K L >j \ i
fc'.-OMIiM ■ |IW L/ml'
.'.V ’ ■ ' ;
{u V< * '
1
SHELL
' * ,T H WtXL
m mm? *s**
SVDiVEy
b *isbane
§ll
mr "£ Ad, ice %
mm
mm
A personal kit
of travel aids
covering your tout
With flu-
Pwrx m
m
SHELL
BT62tS


The Cochin-China dispute has recently
been overshadowed by a South Vietnam
claim to seven Cambodian islands in the
Gulf of Siam. Cambodia is particularly
concerned about the island of Phu Quoc
(included by the French in the colony
of Cochin-China and now South Viet-
nam’s hands) which is strategic to the
important Cambodian coastal port of
Sihanoukville. The South Vietnam claim
rests largely on the Cochin-China trans-
fer which Cambodia contests. Cambodia
insists, with some justice, that South
Vietnam is trying to eradicate the
Khmer minority in Cochin-China and
that the loss of its islands endangers its
existence.
The Philippines and Britain
IThe Philippines’ claim to North Borneo
A rests on a contention that the
territory was “leased” and not “ceded”
to a British company by the Sultan of
Sulu whose islands are part of the
Philippines in an 1878 agreement.
They further claim that the rental fixed
(5,000 Malayan dollars each year) was
reduced by pressure on the part of the
British agents and a Spanish expedition-
ary force.
Aside from stating that it would not
matter if the territory were “leased”, as
it was done “in perpetuity” and point-
ing out that the 1878 agreement con-
cerned only a small part of the present
Philippines’ demand, Britain has prima-
rily ignored the claim to North Borneo.
Postscript: Indonesia and the Nether-
lands
i~|N the first of May of this year, the
administration of West New Guinea
(West Irian) will be officially transfered
to Indonesia by the United Nations.
Indonesia is obliged to arrange for a
plebiscite by 1969 in which the 700,000
Papuan population may elect to either
sever or retain ties with Indonesia. It is
assumed they really have no choice, and
will “retain ties” with Indonesia.
Indonesia has stated that it has no
further territorial claims. The Portu-
guese in Timor, the Malayans, and the
Filipinos are not so sure.
RUSSIA'S "STOP-AND-START"
POLICY IN THE ARTS
Praise the Vatican, attack Stalin, but no abstract art!
By ROBERT HINGLEY
Tn 1962 the official Soviet attitude
towards literature became decidedly
more free. At the moment of writing
the illiberals have been driven comple-
tely on the defensive, and there is even
a rumour that one of their main organs,
the newspaper “Literature and Life”,
is about to cease publication.
The main literary event of the year
has been the publication of A. Solzhenit-
syn’s “One Day in the Life of Ivan Deni-
sovich”. This is not merely the first frank
account of Stalin’s concentration camps
to have been published in Russia, and
not merely the best and most creative
example of Soviet prose to have been
published since before the war it also
represents a big technical departure
from the conventional standards of So-
cialist Realism. It revives (and also
creatively develops) the technique of the
Russian skaz narrative conducted in
the name of an imaginary colloquial
speaker. This goes back to the tradition
of Leskov, Remizov and others, rather
than to that of the 19th-century “clas-
sics” more generally imitated.
This was only the most remarkable
among a whole school of new writings,
but one item which has all but escaped
attention is Victor Nekrasov’s travelogue
on Italy, which is to be found in the
same number of “Novy Mir” as that
which contains Solzhenitsyn’s master-
piece.
Here Nekrasov quotes the hostile
criticisms of Italian Communists as a
means of making points against official
Soviet cultural policies. He says that
Italian publishers are much freer to
publish Italian material. He laments the
absence of Russian versions of Faulkner,
Camus, Kafka and even Francoise
Sagan recalling how embarrassed he
had once been when Alberto Moravia
started talking about Kafka to a group
of well-known Soviet writers who had
never heard of him.
Nekrasov also laments the choice of
Western films made by Russian cultural
controllers for showing in Russia. Why
waste money on “Oklahoma” or “The
Count of Monte Cristo” instead of buy-
ing “La Dolce Vita”, “The Bridge over
the River Kwai”, “Citizen Kane” and
so on. More outrageous than this is
Nekrasov’s criticism of Soviet journalists
of the old school who go to America,
and immediately start complaining be-
cause there are no slums or ill-treated
Negroes close to hand, as a result of
which “there’s nothing to write about”.
This may well rate as the year’s most
sophisticated comment to have come out
of the Soviet Union.
Nekrasov also breaks new ground by
praising Roman Catholicism. He finds
the Roman Church a modern, go-ahead
organisation, compared with which the
Russian Orthodox Church is medieval
and obscurantist. The Pope is a suppor-
ter of “peaceful coexistence”.
Similarly, in a story by another Soviet
writer, Benjamin Kaverin, Pope John is
described almost as if he were Khrush-
chev in person: “He jokes, talks to the
people. He’s a democrat.” “We know
nothing of the Vatican,” Kaverin goes
on. “We should study it . . . learn from
it. To control four million subjects . . .
without guns or atomic weapons
that’s a real achievement.” One cannot
help being reminded of Dostoyevsky’s
prediction of nearly a century ago that
the world “Socialist” movement and the
Catholic Church would one day join
hands a combination in which, ac-
cording to Dostoyevsky, the Catholics
were bound to predominate, being so
much the more experienced partner.
Admittedly these examples do not add
up to so very much considered by the
lights of Western countries. But in Soviet
conditions they almost suggest the un-
trammelled roving of the free human
intellect. If the progress towards freedom
'made in 1962 should be continued in an
uninterrupted line, Russia might easily
be as free as Spain by the end of the
century, and even, by about the year
2062, attain something approaching a
civilised level of freedom. However, in
December a cold wind set in.
So far this hardly seems to have been
felt in the literary field. The trouble
started with an exhibition of paintings
held in Moscow, which coincided with
a small, semi-official exhibition of ab-
stract paintings in a hotel near the main
exhibition.
Both exhibitions (if one is correct in
reading between the lines of Soviet news-
papers) were visited by Khrushchev in
person, as well as by a number of other
leading officials. Since the main exhibi-
tion itself contained a number of
“daring” exhibits, the results were pre-
dictable, and inevitably led, as has al-
ways been the case when Khrushchev


• :
#rs
x
■ <
WORLDS
LARGEST GOLD
k PRODUCER j
are you getting your share?
South Africa is, indeed, the world's
largest gold producer one reason for
her prosperity and purchasing power.
Many Australian companies are already
finding lucrative markets in South Africa
(the highly condensed list below indi-
cates the potential). To the export-
conscious, this surely merits 'on the spot'
investigation—particularly as you can be
there overnight, in the superb comfort of S.A.A.'s Springbok service, at a cost of
about £4o* as part of a trip to or from Europe. So here's an item for your next
sales meeting.
A £4o* sidetrip to SOUTH AFRICA
on your next overseas trip could
earn a new EXPORT MARKET!
THESE ARE SOME OF THE ITEMS
AUST. EXPORTS TO STH. AFRICA
Foodstuffs—Paints Hardware
Electrical Goods Motor
Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types—Rubber,
Plastic and Leather Goods—
Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals, Oils—Piece Goods
—Synthetic Yarns
is your product here?
There is a slight fare variation from
the different Australian capital cities
Take your camera, too . . . Once in South
Africa, enjoy the richest sightseeing the world
has to offer. See Kruger National Park, the
diamond mines at Kimberley, Victoria Falls.
Shop for curios in quaint native villages,
explore great cities such as Johannesburg,
Durban and Cape Town. See your travel agent.
FRICAN AIRWAYS
Fly
Choice ot daylight o overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing FQ7 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice ot stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
ano again onward to London.
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS. B O A.C., C.A A. AND E.A.A.
•AASO/fO.ft
has contemplated samples of
graphic art, to a rush of blood to the
vocal chords.
Khrushchev said that some of these
paintings might have been made by a
donkey’s tail, and followed this with a
homily on the need for art to be “close
to the people”, to instil elevated senti-
ments and so on. “Organisational mea-
sures” quickly followed. The President of
the Academy of Art, B. loganson, him-
self hardly a pillar of tolerant liberalism,
was replaced by another painter, V.
Serov who —to judge by a policy state-
ment which he immediately produced
for “Pravda” seems to have taken his
more notorious namesake. General
Serov of the Secret Police, as his model.
The article bears the sinister title “An
Artist is inspired by the deeds and life
of the people” and contains a savage
attack on “formalism”, imitation of the
West in Soviet art and so on. Of all
articles which I have read in the recent
Soviet Press, this is the most Stalinist in
tone.
The official fear of formal experiment
in painting, music and to some extent
—in literature now seems very much
to the fore. It seems to take precedent
over fear of political “subversion” and
to defy rational explanation. In parti-
cular, why this panic fear of abstract
art? It may be said that Soviet authority
always has suspected any activity which
is not in some way geared to politics,
preferring even the anti-Soviet to the
apolitical. But if so, why is the publica-
tion of apolitical stories of personal life,
such as those of Kazakov, Tendryakov
and so on still permitted?
In the musical field Soviet jazz bands
have recently received rough handling in
“Pravda” for slavishly copying American
models it seems that the ideological
shock wave of Benny Goodman's recent
tour of the USSR has not yet entirely
subsided. The claim is made that there
is a specifically Soviet style of light
music as indeed there is, and a pecu-
liarly horrible one too, despite its endor-
sement by an eminent “square”
Dmitry Shostakovich himself in a
recent pronouncement. Backsliders like
a certain I. Weinstein, guilty of copying
American models, have been called to
order.
Altogether the various conflicting cur-
rents suggest a certain disorientation in
official Soviet cultural policy towards
the arts. There is a hysterical note in the
repeated official appeals for decorum
and highmindedness. This suggests a
fear by the Soviet authorities that, if
the valve were unscrewed just a little
bit more, the whole nation might break
out in an orgy of action-painting,
twisting and writing verse in the style of
Ezra Pound’s Cantos. Of any consistent
philosophy of how to treat the arts
scarcely a trace seems to remain.


Around Melbourne
SENATOR KENNELLY AND THE MONSTER
Ocience fiction has always been in-
terested in the all-powerful vora-
cious weed that envelops the com-
munity: the type that grows and grows,
possesses a human mind and does
fearful un-Christian things. There was
a BBC TV show along these lines,
called “The Quatermass Experiment.”
If I remember correctly a capsule re-
turned from outer space. There was
a dying spaceman aboard and he was
possessed by a frightful growth. Well,
this weed growth thing spread and
spread. It consumed whole human be-
ings, all good Londoners, but as it
consumed them their minds and per-
sonalities kept on living m the growth.
They tried everything to get rid of
this weed without success. The grand
climax came when the authorities
made their last bid. They appealed
to the sensible human brains living in
the growth, asking them to destroy
the weed from within.
This they did, an act of self-sacri-
fice, and the great weed shrivelled and
died. I think it was spread over West-
minster Abbey at the time.
Reader, I fear that such a weed has
taken over our Albert Park Lake.
Foolishly the local people are calling
it Canadian Waterweed, or, more
expertly, Elodea Canadensis, but al-
ready it has spread to such propor-
tions that boating is virtually impos-
sible, and . . . the Albert Park Regatta
on Australia Day for the first time
since 1911 has been switched to the
Yarra. Let me explain. Albert Park,
within handy carriage distance of Flin-
ders Street, is one of our glories. It
spreads across 563 acres and it has a
splendid public golf course. If you can
be first in the queue on the tee at
4 a.m., there is a fine day’s hitting
ahead of you.
It was named after Albert the Good,
the Royal Consort of Queen Vic-
toria. (Prince Philip has yet to be
named Philip the Good.) In 1873 the
Colonial Government decided to spend
£6OOO on the construction of a
proper lagoon for “the recreation and
pleasure of the public.” Regattas
would be held, a carriageway would
be built along the water’s edge and the
area would become a sanctuary for
water fowl. And so a steam pump
pumped the water through a 12-inch
porcelain pipe from the Yarra. The
waters burst forth abundantly after
their kind, and every winged fowl
after its kind, and the Public Works
Department saw that it was good.
Anyway when we were little kids
it was a marvellous place for catch-
ing yabbies. In recent years introduced
fish have eaten up all the yabbies and
many people blame the demise of the
yabbies for the spread of the awful
Elodea Canadensis.
Now is the time to introduce our
Knight, our hope for the eventual
triumph over the weed, Senator Pat
Kennedy, the chairman of the Albert
Park Trust. He has fought many a
dragon within and without the Labor
Party, can the Elodea Canadensis be
beyond him?
Over the past five years he has
fought valiantly. He has combed the
world for a solution. He asked an oil
company for a hormone that could
conquer the monster. No success. He
sought a weed-eating fish from Africa
and even a seal-like creature from
America to devour the monster. They
did not come forth. He imported a
weed-cutting boat from England at a
cost of £2500, but the cutting merely
distributed the weed ad about, and
like any sensible science fiction mon-
ster the pieces grew also and the
problem became more dangerous
than ever.
THhe crisis came last spring. No longer
could the speed-boats function.
So Senator Kennedy decided on des-
perate measures. He would tip two and
a half tons of copper sulphate into
the lake. It was perhaps the bravest
act of his career. The “Age” letter
column throbbed with anger. The
chairman of the Fauna Protection
Council, Mr J. H. Quirk, said he had
expert opinion that the copper sul-
phate would kid all the bird life on
the lake. This was the nesting season
for ducks. The ducklings would die.
In the face of all this our Knight
still went ahead. The Senator said
it was true, the fish would die, but
the lake would be restocked. The
ducks and wild life would live on.
Even so a team from the Fisheries
and Wild Life Department came to the
lake and the story goes that they had
a devil of a day netting and catching
five mother ducks and their five little
families.
The speed-boat clubs rallied. Over
30 speed-boats, their Mercury and
Evinrude outboards thrashing the
Elodea Canadensis, went to battle,
each boat tipping loads of copper sul-
phate over the side. At first the whole
operation seemed to be a tremendous
success. Only Mr Quirk sounded a
note of warning. He had seen birds
eating dead fish and he was worried
about the possible after-effects. The
wild life, though, was obviously un-
harmed. Senator Kennedy reported
that he had seen only 12 dead fish.
The cheery optimism continued
until last week. Then the sad news
came out. The battle had been lost
utterly. The monster was on the
move again. The 110 acres of water
were a matted mass of weed. An
“Age” reporter had even been
marooned out there. He couldn’t
move the oars of his boat.
Senator Kennedy, with that sublime
optimism which has always been with
him, came back. He would ask for a
Commonwealth grant to attack the
weed. He would ask the Prime Minis-
ter for a CSIRO investigation.
After ad the Commonwealth Govern-
ment was spending £3 million on a
lake for the mere 70,000 people of
Canberra. How about something for
this lake which served 2,000,000?
Now there has been quite a parade
down to the water’s edge to look at
the monster —Ministers, minor Minis-
ters, university professors. The next
step undoubtedly will be another
assault with copper sulphate, this time
not a mere 23 tons but 10 tons. If
this fails Senator Kennedy has an-
nounced what may be the extreme
step the filling in of the lake and
that is a thought too dreadful to
contemplate.
However I hope that ad citizens are
aware that the Elodea Canadensis
may be, in truth, a growth from outer
space. If this is so it could swallow up
the fancy revolving lakeside restaur-
ant that the Senator is planning to
build. It could also swallow up the
£500,000 Batman Motel on the other
side, complete with its Melba Suite
and wall-to-wall kangaroo skin carpet.
BATMAN


FORUM
CUBA, INDIA AND THE
AUSTRALIAN LEFT
No change of heart in the ALP
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
A FTER Khrushchev s backdown in the Caribbean, and the Chinese
attack on India, the Cold War will never be the same again.
Fundamental postures and some basic assumptions have been irrepar-
ably discredited.
Those who are familiar with the psychological make-up of neutralists
and fellow-travellers have known for a long tune that their apparent
indignation over American “imperialism” does not go skin-deep. The
real, barely disguised motive for their moral and political double-dealing
one set of standards for the West, another for the Communist bloc
is contempt for the effeminate and consumer-oriented democracies, and
admiration for what appears to be a robust, purposive monolith.
President Kennedy’s operation in the
Caribbean has dispelled the Jehovah
aura of the Soviet Government, prob-
ably for ever. When faced with the
naked realities of American power
poised for immediate use Khrushchev
backed down, hastily and ingloriously,
behaving pretty much like any other
politician would have behaved in a
showdown with the stakes against him.
The mirage of the Communist men
of steel, omniscient, diabolical (or
angelic) and so very much superior to
the mere Boltes and Calwells of our
lesser democratic world, has been torn
to bits.
And what emerged is much nearer to
the truth about Communist bosses: skil-
ful and totally unscrupulous manipu-
lators of organisational and propaganda
rackets, better at fraud and police
chicanery than we are but inferior in
everything else.
But it would be imprudent to assume
that the Soviet Government will back
down wherever they are challenged by
American military power or that they are
more craven than our own politicians
in the global power-game. The point
is that they are no better. To show this
up is to win a decisive victory in the
complex game of psychological warfare.
And this victory has been won. Whether
it will be adequately exploited bv the
US Government is not certain.
It seems that an interpretation of
Soviet internal affairs has gained ground
in Washington which sees Khrushchev
as a moderate, fishtina for survival
against a Peking-insnired war partv. If
is therefore in the interest of the West
not to hit him too hard, so as not to
help his opponents who, if victorious,
would bury all prospects of internal
liberalisation and peaceful coexistence.
This interpretation seems to rest on a
mistaken view of Bolshevik faction
politics in which an unchangeable rule
prevails that organisational issues take
precedence over ideological. Through-
out the history of Bolshevism it has
been quite common for victorious party
groups to adopt the policy of the
defeated faction or for warring factions
to switch ideologies in the midst of
battle.
Examples abound; Stalin defeated
Trotsky and adopted his agrarian
policies and his proposed system of
conscripted labor. He defeated the old
Bolshevik Right under Bukharin and
Rykov and used most of their argu-
ments in his famous pamphlet “Dizzy
with Success.”
When Tito broke with the Comin-
form he was a Left-sectarian, a Zhdano-
vite. In the course of the struggle he
became the principal opponent of Right-
wing revisionism.
The main and perhaps the only reason
for such signs of liberalisation and
moderation as can be detected in the
Communist bloc is the existence of splits
and confusions in the top leadership,
and not the emergence of a “liberal”
faction. As long as these splits persist
a full restoration of Stalinist methods
is impossible. If the fissures become
permanent, then, and only then, can one
expect structural changes in the Com-
munist bloc away from totalitarianism
since a disunited oligarchy cannot keep
up totalitarian controls indefinitely.
It is, therefore, not in the interest of
the West to put all its money on the
Khrushchev faction and hold to the
false belief that the ideological orienta-
tion of Bolshevik factions is permanent
and that, if Khrushchev wins, the
“moderates” will be in the saddle and
peaceful coexistence will be safeguarded.
The important thing is to prevent the
victory of any one faction, and to
maximise by all available means internal
dissension in the Communist camp.
This could even mean, in practice, sup-
port for a dissident Chinese faction
inside a Soviet-controlled area such as
Albania. The overwhelming victory of
any one faction, no matter how seem-
ingly “moderate,” would merely create
suitable conditions for a full-scale
“monolithic restoration.”
Whilst a policy of strength was paying
off in the Caribbean the Indian Govern-
ment had to face the bitter consequences
of 15 years of political day-dreaming.
It can be taken for granted that the
Chinese attack on India was not
prompted by Moscow, and that it was
perhaps opposed by Moscow before it
was launched. Yet once it was launched
Moscow threw its full diplomatic weight
behind Peking and against India, trving
to discredit at the same time Chinese
militancy inside the various Communist
parties.
If and when India survives as an in-
dependent power it will manifestly owe
its continued political existence to
Western military and diplomatic aid, and
to the sheer weight of American might
hovering in the background.
The death of neutralism as a seemingly
feasible policy alternative is unlikely
to be followed by the disappearance of
neutralist propaganda. To understand
why it is necessary to realise that, very
roughly speaking, as well as genuine neu-
tralists there are also pseudo-neutralists.
Pseudo-neutralists are either Communist
agents or people who for some reason
oppose resistance to Communist expan-
sion under any circumstances.
Since open advocacy of a policy of
surrender would be imprudent, the
pseudo-neutralist adopts a fake posture
of “not taking sides,” urging us to meet
any Communist demand halfway in the
interest of “peace.” As only the Com-
munist side is on the move, the pre-
dictable and intended outcome of such a
policy would be the gradual disappear-
ance of the non-Communist side.
As against the latently treacherous
pseudo-neutralists, there are the genuine
neutralists who sincerely believe that non-
alignment is a viable policy, consistent
with the maintenance of national inde-
pendence. Their policies are based on
three assumptions:—
(1) Independence can be safeguarded
by balancing between the two rival


power-blocs. Little benefit accrues from
supporting one side against the other.
(2) Neither side is likely to attack a
genuinely neutralist power, particularly
jf it “refrains from Cold War propa-
ganda,” that is, if it avoids sounding off
on the truth about conditions in the
Communist bloc.
(3) The neutralists, most of them
former Afro-Asian colonies of the
Western powers, can form a viable
“third force” capable of concerted dip-
lomatic action in the pursuit of mutual
interests, and capable also of acting as
an “honest broker” to lessen inter-bloc
rivalry.
It is obvious that the belief expressed
in (1) can be upheld only if (2) and (3)
are true. And after the Chinese attack
on India, followed by the pathetic per-
formance of the Afro-Asian neutralists in
Colombo, it is obvious that (2) and (3)
are untenable.
Critics of Nehru’s policies used to
point out that the West threatened no-
body, whereas the Communist bloc was
committed to global subversion and con-
quest which Nehru ignored, and that
India, with other neutrals, owed her in-
dependence to the countervailing influ-
ence of American power, without which
she would share the fate of Tibet.
That this criticism was most appropri-
ate can no longer be doubted
The war in the Himalayas has re-
duced neutralism in Asia and in the
Pacific to only one variant, pseudo-
neutralism, a device to further Commu-
nist imperialism on the sly. This is of
considerable significance to Australia,
since the Left here has advocated for
years, in one way or another, a neutral-
ist foreign policy.
The disappearance of neutralism as a
bona-fide policy alternative—that is, its
reduction to pseudo-neutralism has
now made it possible to form a fairly
accurate estimate of direct Sino-Soviet
influence on the ALP and on the Austra-
lian Left in general. Since the centre of
the neutralist and pro-Communist Left
is in Melbourne it is of some interest to
summarise what has been happening in
Victorian politics since the Indian and
Cuban crises reached their climax.
On October 27 last, at the height of the
Cuban crisis, the Central Executive of
the ALP in Victoria issued a foreign-
policy statement which was widely mis-
reported as anti-Communist when it was
summarised in the Press. When the full
text was released a week later in the
Melbourne “Herald” it became apparent
that the statement was an out-and-out
neutralist document. It condemned all
bases everywhere, it equated the Ameri-
can blockade of Cuba with the Soviet
butchery in Hungary, and it called for
recognition of Red China.
A purely platonic call for the defence
of India which is included did not differ
from a similar call issued by the Indian
Communist Party. It is characteristic of
conditions in Victoria that a neutralist
and objectively pro-Soviet document
should have been regarded as “anti-Com-
munist.” At least three members of the
Central Executive—Messrs McSween,
O’Brien and Crawford, who are among
the four almost completely indistinguish-
able from members of the Communist
Party—voted against the resolution.
Some others did not turn up for the
occasion.
Despite some optimistic reports to the
contrary (e.g., The Bulletin, Dec. 22,
“The Passing of the ‘Peace’ Movements”)
the ALP in Victoria has participated
fully in the current Communist scare
campaign against American bases in Aus-
tralia.
On November 15 Dr Cairns made a
major policy speech in Parliament in
which he charged the Government with
sinister designs to set up secret bases on
Australian soil. Cairns’s speech was
highlighted in the Communist newspaper
“Tribune” (Nov. 2) and printed side
by side with a similar speech by the
WA secretary of the Communist Party.
Mr S. Aarons. A picture of a huge
Soviet rocket was shown on the same
page, presumably to cheer up the com-
rades.
At the same time Dr Cairns has been
conducting a vigorous campaign in the
daily press for a nuclear-free zone in the
Southern Hemisphere. The Victorian
ALP newspaper “Fact” has indicated
some of the practical implications of
that policy, and it quoted a resolution
of the Federal Executive that “Federal
Executive opposes building of bases in
Australia which could be used for the
manufacture, firing or control of any
nuclear missile or vehicle capable of
carrying nuclear warheads.”
This statement, quoted in a leaflet ad-
vertising the Laverton march, clearly
precludes any possible type of military
co-operation with the USA, since almost
any ship or plane is capable of “carrying
nuclear warheads.”
In practice the resolution was mainly
directed against the radio station at Ex-
mouth Gulf, the major target of the
Communist anti - base campaign. Dr
Cairns’s speech on Cuba in the House
of Representatives (Nov. 29) was nothing
but a restatement of the current Com-
munist line, with all the major Com-
munist fabrications carefully included.
Much has been made of the recent
refusal of the Victorian Central Execu-
tive to endorse the Communist-sponsored
march to the non-existent American spy
base at Laverton. Presumably acting on
instructions from the Central Executive,
the Sunshine Town Council withdrew its
offer to make the Sunshine Town Hall
available to the demonstrators, and Dr
Cairns is said to have refused to speak.
Yet nine of the 21 members of the Cen-
tral Executive have given full organisa-
tional support to the Laverton march
through their unions and other organisa-
tions in which they hold key positions.
Most of the others have co-operated in-
directly
The policies of which the Laverton
march was merely a minor expression
enjoy the full support of the Central
Executive. In view of all this the re-
fusal of the Executive and Dr Cairns
tc participate directly in a particularly
ludicrous Communist project, such as the
march, was a minor prudential precaution
calculated to deprive the DLP of a sit-
ting bird. It had no other political
significance, and certainly much less sig-
nificance than a recent article in
“Plumbers’ News,” co-edited by Mr G,
Crawford, a member of the Central
Executive. The article was entitled
“Indian Aggression Must Be Stopped.”
On the old intellectual Left, whose
centre used to be Melbourne University
and which has now branched out into
other States and universities, Cuba and
India have produced no impact whatever.
An Aid India committee launched by a
few members of the ALP Club evoked
barely any response among people other
than students. Dr Cairns refused to
participate on the grounds that the Sino-
Indian conflict was a mere border inci-
dent.
Well-known academics who have
spilled much ink in the past advocating
non-alignment, praising Nehru and plead-
ing the cause of Peking have not yet
found time to comment on the Sino-
Indian conflict.
Speaking on the ABC, Dr John Burton
deplored Nehru’s reluctance to nego-
tiate on Peking’s terms. Mr. Brian
Fitzpatrick used his elite-oriented News-
letter to whip up support for the Com-
munist campaign against American bases.
And accident or design supplied a new
victim of the Security Service just when
a red herring was required. If Press
reports are to be believed, Dr Russo’s
publicly accessible manuscript of a broad-
cast on Cuba was chased by what appear
to be two different intelligence organisa-
tions, one of which seems to have used


a screwdriver to infringe civil liberties.
The case was widely discussed among
progressive intellectuals, the only aspect
of the Cuban crisis that was.
The prominence of the Melbourne Uni-
versity ALP Club, whose present leaders
are anti-Communist, has misled some
people into believing that the old Mel-
bourne Left is no longer totalitarian. This
is not so. The ALP Club and the bearers
of what Professor M. Clark calls the
Melbourne Intellectual Tradition have
barely any political contacts other than
hostile ones.
The old Melbourne Left, that amor-
phous combination of Stalinist humbug,
old-fashioned Protestant bigotry, naive
rationalism and “mateship” sentimen-
tality, has not undergone a real change
of heart, though its outlines have be-
come somewhat blurred since 1956. It
is, on the whole, no longer strongly pro-
Soviet. Those who have heard about
them will now acknowledge as justified
Khrushchev’s criticisms of Stalin. Their
attitude to the USSR is somewhat more
ambiguous than it used to be—in a
generous mood they will hint that the
USSR is no better than we are.
Yet the most prevalent view is still
that the Communist bloc is basically
progressive, with somewhat more serious
blemishes than the Communists care to
admit (“we also lie, don’t we?”), but
an infinitely better society than the
“professional anti-Communists” make it
out to be.
There is unanimous agreement that
Communist conquest would not be a
change for the worse, and a very widely
held view that for scientists, teachers
and academics in general it would be a
change for the better. The moral su-
periority of unilateralism is taken for
granted. Any suggestion that our society
should be defended by political and mili-
tary means is brushed off as “sterile anti-
communism” and condemned as im-
moral.
Anti-Catholicism is still very strong,
but it is somewhat more sophisticated
than it used to be. The fact that many
Catholic intellectuals are politically
harmless has, at last, sunk in. Direct
aggression is restricted to the occasional
Catholic activist. Provided a Catholic
keeps his nose clean, and refrains from
anti-Communism, the Melbourne secular
humanists will leave him alone.
All this is not as clearly present as I
have described it; it varies from case to
case and, above all, it is much more dis-
jointed. The old Melbourne Left has
lost its capacity for organised political
discourse, particularly in public where it
knows it will make a fool of itself. The
most important change since 1956 is its
gradual withdrawal from active political
participation. Most of the old Leftists
are too preoccupied with status and
affluence to give much time to political
intrigues, other than those which have a
direct bearing on their material well-
being. Political responses have become
less frequent, but they have not become
qualitatively different. Suclj responses as
do occur from time to time are still in
favor of totalitarianism. In a crisis situa-
tion political participation may be re-
activated, and it will almost certainly
favor the totalitarian enemy.
At present the harmful effects of the
old Melbourne Left are essentially nega-
tive. It no longer preaches a coherent
doctrine, yet by the sheer weight of its
presence, often in key positions at uni-
versities and other cultural institutions, it
blocks and frustrates enquiry and dis-
course, as other established veto groups
have done before.
The Cuban experience has shown that
a totalitarian state under Soviet control
can be set up by fellow-travellers with-
out direct participation of the apparatus
of the Communist Party, at least in the
initial stages. Fidel Castro and his asso-
ciates were not Communists —they were
just “progressive intellectuals,” the kind
of people one finds on the old Melbourne
Left and in the Victorian Central Execu- )
tive.
It would be rash to draw an unduly
close parallel and to compare a dormant
fifth column in a stable country such as
Australia with a revolutionary organisa-
tion in a backward Latin American
society. Yet the situation may change.
An electoral freak may give access to
the sensitive areas. A Chinese break-
through in our vicinity may create favor-
able strategic conditions.
Mr Brian Fitzpatrick's recent descrip-
tion of Mr Haylen as our “shadow Minis-
ter of External Affairs” may merely ex-
press his private dream. Yet a few minor
changes in the delicate Pacific power con-
stellation may transform this and some
other dreams into a nightmare from
which we shall not wake up.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
A PROTEST FROM INDIA
Sir,
Two recent newspaper cartoons in
India have referred to our sales of
surplus wheat to China and one of them
carried the caption: “ Perhaps they could
send us some of their surplus goodwill.”
Should this reaction not prompt the
Wheat Board seriously to consider what
gift of wheat Australia could offer
India?
C. B. MAYOR
Kerala {lndia).
VALUES IN BOOKS
Sir,
I agree with M. H. Ellis’s praise of the
new edition of “Quintus Servinton”
(Bulletin, January 5). The reprinting
of this old book in a pleasant and well
introduced volume is indeed a matter
upon which Jacaranda Press may be
congratulated.
Mr Ellis is seriously mistaken and mis-
leading when he purports to compare the
values offered by “Quintus Servinton”
(35/-) with Melbourne University
Press’s “The Sydney Scene” (47/6). He
rightly says that both books contain
about the same number of pages, but
though he concedes that “Quintus Ser-
vinton” contains only two illustrations,
he conveys to readers the impression that
roughly comparable books are selling at
a price difference of 12/6. If he does not
intend this inference, why raise the
matter?
Now the facts are these: “The Sydney
Scene” has 60 halftone illustrations, two
line drawings, and end-paper maps offset
in two colors. It is bound in genuine book
cloth not a substitute and it is
gold blocked on the spine. Further, it
is bound in 16-page sections in accor-
dance with the best practice not
32’s. Finally, “Quintus Servinton” enjoyed
the support of the Commonwealth Lite-
rary Fund, which no one grudges it, but
“The Sydney Scene” had not one farthing
of outside support, and MUP is happy
also to be paying the editors some re-
ward for their labors from the proceeds
of sales.
Possessed of these facts, your readers,
if they wish, can make comparisons for
themselves. If I may express my own
view, it is that both publishers are
giving excellent value for money, but
that comparisons between such com-
pletely different types of books are rather
pointless, and an ill-service to Australian
publishing in general.
P. A. RYAN, Director
Melbourne University Press
Parkville (Victoria ).
FOR THE RECORD
Sir,
Although I realise that Charles
Higham’s article “Doing Record Busi-
ness” was only a very brief outline of
the recording industry in Australia, I
feel that his inaccuracies should not go
uncorrected.
Mr Southey has already pointed out


# STEEL PIPE,o/ Course..
:3:i
'
■
m
I
Wherever any great engineering project towers up
into the sky, steel pipe will inevitably be playing an
important part, as it did in this great dam.
For steel, alone, has the invincible strength ...and
the long endurance that endow it with a life span
far greater than almost any other material. Indeed!
it is partly this long life of service that makes steel
pipe so basically economical.
From the Australian tube mills of Stewarts and
Lloyds flows a continuous line of pipes and tubes
from Hot Finished Seamless down to the tiny g"
diameter Continuous Weld; but, whatever the
pipe, each one of them shares two things, the
enduring strength of steel and the high standard of
manufacture that makes a quality product.
Jf you have any tube or reticulation problems, let
us assist you with information and general advice on
the use of steel pipe. Simply call our nearest branch
STEWARTS AND LLOYDS
(DISTRIBUTORS) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
SPG. 2.62


PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY NOW...
FIRES DON’T WAIT!
With EPEX Mobile Fire Fighting Equipment any member of your family can be fighting a
fire on your property within minutes of its detection. EPEX units are equipped with a high
output centrifugal pump, reliable motor, suction hose and hose reel, for effective fire
fighting with simple operation.
n
The EPEX 150 gallon Port-
able Fire Unit can be
trailer mounted as illus-
trated, or dropped into the
tray of a medium truck.
Sbsl
150 GALLON
PORTABLE FIRE UNIT
Tank. 150 gallon, mild steel construc-
tion, treated on all inside surfaces
against rust.
Engine. 3J H.P. Petrol Engine direct
connected to pump.
Pump. li". Self-priming centrifugal
pump, capacity 60 g.p.m. free flow.
Max. pressure 45 p.s.i. at nozzle.
Hose Reel. One hand rewind hose reel
fitted with 100' x 1" hose and spray
nozzle.
Suction Hose. 15' x 2" suction hose,
complete with strainer.
Trailer Chassis. Mild steel construction
fitted with 6.700 x 15" pneumatic
tyres.
Weight. Approx 20 cwt. full, 7 cwt.
empty.
Note: Unit can be supplied fitted with
wooden skids in lieu of trailer chassis
if desired.
Write for information about the illus-
trated unit or the following as separate
units-. Trailer, Tank, Hose Reel, and
Pumping Equipment.
Designed and Manufactured by
ENGINEERING PRODUCTS PTY. LTD
418-428 Burnley Street, Burnley, E. I. Victoria, Australia. 42 1721 (Six lines)
383»
the statements concerning himself that
were misleading. In addition it should
be pointed out that Mr Higham has
confused the Gramophone Co. and the
Columbia Gramophone Co. It was the
latter which was situated at Homebush,
the Gramophone Co. being at Erskine-
ville until its merger with Columbia in
1931 as EMI. It was Columbia and not
HMV (the Gramophone Co.) who re-
corded so many local artists in the
period 1926 to 1930. The “mysterious”
names mentioned by Mr Higham were
all Columbia recording artists. If HMV
recorded any local artists in those days
(and this is in doubt) then they certainly
didn’t record many.
Second to Columbia in recording Aus-
tralians in the late twenties was the
Parlophone Co. which didn’t even rate
a mention in the article, and the
Vocalion Co. in Melbourne also did a
fair amount of local recording before
it collapsed in 1931. Brunswick did
no local recording.
Apart from these five major com-
panies there were a number of smaller
companies operating but these did all
disappear with the depression. It seems
that these concerns issued only records
bought from overseas companies and did
no local recording.
In the early thirties the Decca label
appeared in Australia, pressed by
Moulded Products Ltd of Melbourne
but results were disappointing and the
Decca franchise passed to EMI in late
1935.
A significant phenomenon of the
early post-war years was the develop-
ment of a number of small companies
to record the local jazz groups that EMI
wouldn’t consider.
J. MITCHELL
Lithgow (NSfE).
SELLING AUSTRALIAN WINE
Sir,
May I refer to two items in your edi-
tion of November 10, 1962: National
Notebook, “Unrepresented”; and Man
on the Land, “Concern Over Australian
Wines Losing Ground in Britain”.
I am an Australian, employed by an
Australian company solely to sell Aus-
tralian wines in Britain and am most
grateful to you for drawing attention to
some of our problems over here.
Reference to Peter Dominic’s remarks
in his publication “Wine Mine,” I quote
“not a trace of the sheep station in the
bouquet”.
The Australian Government Trade
Commissioner in London and the them
London representative of the Australian
Wine Board rang me when this remark
came to their notice in Dominic’s publics
tion which has a very wide trade and
public circulation. As it happened, there
was a Director of my Company with me.
Our opinion was requested, we both sug-
gested that immediate legal action be
initiated and we went so far as to offer
to foot part of the costs to obtain an in-
junction against further printing and at
least an apology. Nothing happened BUT
please do not think the Australian wine
interests here don’t care. After six years
here I frankly don't know what to sug-
gest; do you fight this sort of cheap
knocking in or out of law, do you laugh
and shrug it off, or what? -
But if your readers insist on buying
Holdens, Chevs or Mercs I'll under-
stand.
F. D. DANIEL
Surrey (UK).


REVIEWS
ART
APPRECIATION OR SPECULATION?
rjiGNiFiCANTLY 1962 saw the emer-
gence in Sydney of a highly specula-
tive art market on an international or
near-international scale, with the
Schureck auction. Prices for this, and
to a lesser extent, for the Voss Smith col-
lection brought into focus some of the
real problems of the Australian art
world. It seems that comparatively little
buying takes place which reflects either
great taste or enjoyment in the painting
for its own sake. Not that such attitudes
will always be uppermost since specula-
tion will exist as long as paintings con-
tinue to be exchanged for cash. It was
hard, however, to feel much sympathy
for the buyers of fifth-rate works by im-
pressive names (remember the flippant
little Picasso in the Voss Smith collec-
tion?) or the people who stack a hot tip
under the back stairs and wait until the
market comes good (they hope). There
appears to be no substitute for the
genuine collector who has authentic
feelings, opinions, even prejudices, who
purchases what he really enjoys because
he senses innate merit and consults his
own responses first before being fobbed
off with second-hand information from
dealers, critics or anyone else. Such a
person does a real service to the arts
because at no time were they intended
to be stock market substitutes. Their
meaning is above all cultural. If this is
lost they cease to exist in any living
sense.
Competitions continue to be the most
characteristic feature of the NSW Art
scene. They are born with great flourish
and enthusiasm, become established as
regular events, and decline into old age,
lethargy and anonymity. One such
casualty was the Blake, the 1962 show
being a wonderful, well-intentioned flop.
Piety lost all along the line in previous
shows to the surge and shout of secular
enthusiasms. It was natural for a stand
1° be made. If nothing else, it demon-
strated the need for a great deal of re-
thinking, especially on the problem of
how the discoveries of the moderns could
be used in religious art.
The Helena Rubinstein retains its do-
minant role as the competition of the
year since it materially assists artists to
extend their experience by overseas
travel. Conditions remain the happiest
with selected painters being well rep-
resented. Eric Smith made a notable re-
assertion of his central interests but
John Coburn and Leonard Hessing were
little short of his achievement in their
strong panels. The W. D. and H. O.
Wills prize remains the finest, except for
size limits, which did not assist winner
Frank Hodgkinson. The Transfield tries
a revival of figure, etc. by some kind of
legislation, always a rather unfortunate
method since there is nothing more ridi-
culous than inveterate non-figurative
painters dabbling reluctantly in the flesh-
pots of figuration just for the hope of a
few quid. This and the RAS Shows left
one with the feeling that neither were
fulfilling their aims in emphasising sub-
ject since it means little to most con-
temporary artists. Less spectacular but
more fruitful in the long run would be
purchase prizes, spreading the cash and
forming the nucleus of what could be-
come important collections. As always
the Waratah retained its title of Sydney's
folk festival, throwing up a collection of
oddments and rarities, as well as talent
which for sheer fun no exhibition can
surpass. Honors here went to the child-
ren.
Last year saw a kind of revival in
sculpture and pottery shows. Baroque
Steven Walker contrasted powerfully
with the restained, calculated abstraction
of Meadmore and Klippel, the latter re-
cently returned from stimulating years
in the US. We have few sculptors but
the quality of their work is high, it
certainly deserves more patronage than
it receives. One-man shows by potters
Mollie Douglas, Bernard Salm, Milton
Moon and an unadvertised one of Peter
Rushforth at his home were among the
most accomplished to be seen in 1962.
No less important was that of the Pot-
ters’ Society with a vital and craftsmanly
approach which promises many healthy
years.
Printmakers enhanced the quality of
their work with two stimulating shows
in 1962 and the Contemporary Art
Society put on its best (helped no doubt
by the Taffs award) for a long time.
lan Fairweather’s spectacular success
in August was the culmination of many
years, both in steady growth of reputa-
tion and in widening and deepening of
his range of expression. Subdued inten-
sity, born of a subtle mind steeped in
the culture of the past, permeates a kind
of painting almost wholly emancipated
from regional forms. Being at all times
himself he can speak entirely and
movingly on a purely human level.
With the steady procession of shows,
the increased number of galleries and
the habit here in Sydney of limiting the
time to two weeks or less one expects
standards to be lowered. They are, in
fact, with a feverish rush of painters not
yet fully possessed of their talent. How-
ever, there is also a stream of good,
reasonably well-known painters whose
work is usually to be seen somewhere
in one week.
As quiet, unacclaimed and indepen-
dent as it was inspiring, the showing of
nine recent works of Godfrey Miller at
the Cell Block Theatre was, for many,
the year’s finest. It underlined the convic-
tion that intense creativity touches off
the deepest responses in human beings,
the bringing of order out of chaos.
Last year was rich in good visiting col-
lections. In February the Duke of Bed-
ford showed magnificent paintings from
Woburn Abbey Rembrandt, Claude
Lorrain, Van Dyck, a “cold” Poussin,
the English portraitists, together with
plate, tapestries and family treasures.
Two excellent groups of Japanese prints
enhanced the impression of vitality
which seems evident in their contempo-
rary art and, at the Art Gallery of NSW,
a representative exhibition of pre-
Raphaelite painting and drawing the
elegant, semi-religious self-effacement of
which contrasted vividly with the iras-
cible satire, vulgarity and aridity of the
Melbourne “Rebels and Precursors.”
Films on Nolan (Qantas), and Sculp-
ture (David Muir) complemented a
vintage year for books on Australian
Art on L. French, Herman, Pugh,
S. T. Gill, and Godfrey Miller. The one
on French was lavish for this country
while Bernard Smith’s monumental Aus-
tralian Painting 1788-1960 provoked en-
thusiastic controversy as well as recog-
nition for its scholarship.
JOHN HENSHAW


TELEVISION
UNPLANNED
There was an epidemic of physics on
Sydney television last week, and it
is likely to spread to other cities soon.
An iconoclast named Professor J. S.
Miller Met The Press with shattering
impact, and later whacked bricks, teach-
ers and some popular illusions in the
first of a series of six programmes on
the ABC. One of the commercial chan-
nels televised Sydney University Summer
Science School lectures.
In the middle of it the world of letters
hit back with a programme called “The
Australian Book Battle” which, I m
afraid, the viewer lost. At the end of it,
surveying the shambles, Mr Frank Eyre
cheerfully remarked that his panel had
talked for 45 minutes, but had hardly
begun to cover the subject.
About 25 of those minutes were spent
arguing whether overseas companies
which publish in Australia are Australian
publishers, complaining that the univer-
sities did not assume enough responsi-
bility in publishing, and grumbling that
Australia has “no kind of national news-
paper” for the publisher’s advertisements,
a view evidently not shared by Penguin
Books.
By this time any member of the panel
should have been able to answer the
question posed at the beginning of the
programme, “Why do we get criticism?
What are we doing wrong?”
It might also be a good question for
the persons who plan discussion panel
programmes. It can be answered just as
easily as plea. If a dis-
cussion panel is ever to be a success on
television its members will have to be
chosen with great care and, at the very
least, the general trend of its discussion
rehearsed, and then controlled by a chair-
man.
It may seem revolutionary, but this
viewer would prefer a formal debate
to an “Australian Book Battle”. “The
Australian Book Battle” was a costly
waste of 45 minutes of television, smugly
rounded off with an admission that must
have astonished the many viewers who
would give their eye teeth for 45 minutes
in which to say something definitive
about their industries.
Come to think of it, the viewer was
not the only loser in this “Battle”. By
implication Australian letters took a beat-
ing too. The people responsible were the
chairman of the Australian Publishers’
Association, Frank Eyre; a past chair-
man, George Ferguson; Dr. Andrew
Fabinyi; Mr Geoffrey Dutton; and fin-
ally Alex. Sheppard, who did seem to
have something to say, but had not
brought the necessary megaphone along.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
LIKE OTHELLO, MAN!
All Night Long. Capitol, Sydney.
“/\h, baby, you’re huffing and puffing
over nothing”—you may not recall
this capsule of wisdom in the original (by
Shakespeare, dad), but it is kindly and
necessarily supplied by one of the actors
in this unheralded, quasi-jazz travesty of
Othello. And, as Shakespeare is now
public domain, it’s hard to understand
why this film wasn’t billed for what it is.
That would at least explain why Dave
Brubeck and Charlie Mingus, the sup-
posed centres of attraction, appear just
a touch self-conscious in their minute-
man, walk-on bits. The door may be
right, but the scene’s all wrong.
Getting back to the machinery of this
extraordinary farce, we have the first
wedding anniversary of Rex (the Black,
the huge and successful King of jazz
band-leaders, Othello) and Delia (the in-
nocent, white-goddess version of Des-
demona). The stage for this occasion
is, of all things, a plush flat in a desolate
London warehouse where an all-night
jazz party is being held in the young
marrieds’ honor. If one is disappointed
at not having an island fortress (expensive
nowadays), there is plenty of thundei
and lightning supplied at suitable inter,
vals.
The action follows Shakespeare’s suit
almost to the button. Gold cigarette
boxes and edited tape-recordings displace
the handkerchiefs and contrived eaves-
dropping of old, but the strangulation is
correctly followed by fix-it-all-up revela-
tions on the part of Johnny’s honest,
ugly, unloved wife. Of course, one small
change is made. Delia revives to be last
seen walking hand in hand with the Moor
along the docks at dawn.
Technically, “All Night Long” out-
does its mangled script. Jazz films have
a bad reputation for sound tracks as
well as drama, and this is no exception.
Despite poor Brubeck and Mingus, the
music is no better than that in most B-
grade, “jet-set” whodunits. And the
direction is even worse —filled, at its best
with inept and obvious adaptations froir
Orson Welles’ Othello.
JACK DAVIES
THEATRE
THE PROMISED PLAYWRIGHTS
announcement that a Playwrights’
Studio would open at the National
Institute of Dramatic Art at the Univer-
sity of NSW promised well. In the Press
statement made by Professor Quentin
(director of NIDA) in October, 1960,
he said: “We will enrol only 12 at the
start. Six members will be practising
writers or those who have had profes-
sional experience. The other six will be
learning their craft.”
I waited until late in 1961 before I
applied for admission. In the letter of
acceptance I learned that Professor
Norman Philbrick, head of the Depart-
ment of Drama at Stanford University,
California, would conduct the studio for
the major part of the year, and that was
an unexpected bonus. I knew of Pro-
fessor Philbrick’s work, not only at
Stanford but with the American Educa-
tional Theatre Association.
, The brochure issued by NIDA was
even more promising:
• Regular discussions in techniques
and problems.
• Rehearsed readings and productions
of work completed and work in
progress.
• Discussion with professional man-
agers and producers about the cur-
rent trend in theatre and visits by
members of the studio to rehearsals
and performances.
It sounded too good to be true
and it was.
Professor Philbrick arrived in Sydney
about mid-February, but it was April
4 before the studio assembled. I shall
never forget the look of stunned horror
on the man’s face when he climbed up
the narrow, shallow stairs to the top loft
of the Old Tote Building. (Not the
recently opened theatre but the building!
which had been the totalisator when the
new university was the Kensington Race-
course, and still is, to most taxi drivers,
simply Kenzo.) On my count there
were about 19 aspiring students, and
NIDA staff.
Within a few weeks our numbers had
fallen to 15. Some students came for
one or two nights and didn’t return. Of
the 15, six (including myself) were
journalists, one was a public relations
officer and the rest were non-profes-j
sional writers. I know that one student!
and myself had had plays produced be-
fore attending the studio, about four ofj
the group had attended the previous
year and had had one-act plays done at
the end of 1961 within the studio, but
the ratio worked out at six professional
writers to nine non-professionals. Some
of these had not written anything. It put
Professor Philbrick in the position of


[somebody who has to address primary
ischool) high school and university first-
L a r students simultaneously,
r \Ve had various assignments set by
Professor Philbrick, including the scena-
rio for a one-act play. Each of these
yas read (by Professor Philbrick) where-
in the rest of the group commented
eiand criticised. After that, we did first
r- drafts of these plays and the group was
Ibroken down into three small groups.
iil Each group read and commented on
It .plays done within that group, and Pro-
:j f es sor Philbrick had to shuttle back and
s. forth from each group, commenting and
is guiding. He then arranged personal in-
i- terviews to discuss the problems in the
tjplays, so for at least one night lectures
ijwere suspended to allow these interviews
it |to take place.
r At the end of the second term Pro-
cessor Philbrick returned to America and
■ for the third term other lecturers took
e over.
M Most of the three-hour sessions on
1 Tuesday nights were taken up with dis-
t cussions on the various assignments we
had to do, but where Professor Philbrick
f had given us a wide and varied range
of plays, we were more or less restricted
ito whichever writer the evening's lec-
turer personally preferred. Consequently,
> we took a fairly solid diet of Ibsen and
Chekhov, the wrath-and-soul quartet
Pinter, Brecht, lonesco and Beckith,
with a garnish of J. B. Priestley.
Halfway through second term we had
learned that “The Ham Funeral” and
“Season at Sarsaparilla” were being
given readings by the Drama students.
We all whooped, and asked if we could
go to these. It seemed that Mr White
had insisted on excluding everybody
other than the students doing the
reading and the producer and he was
not a member of the studio. This baffled
(me, for 1 had a copy of the “Sydney
Morning Herald” for March 3, 1962, in
which it was stated that the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust proposed to seek the help
of the studio in examining, trying out
and giving full discussion on scripts sub-
mitted from authors outside its member-
ship.
Eventually, we did have readings of
our plays, or at least six of them. The
members of the group whose plays were
not read were downcast, considering
that theirs had been so bad they weren't
worth reading, but it wasn’t that the
Plays had apparently been lost and no-
body knew where they were.
Six of us, then, had our plays done in
rehearsed readings, warts and all. We
were not invited to attend the rehearsals
of the readings to make alterations, nor
were we allowed to invite family and
Wends to “Come and see what I’ve
done’’. We had rather hoped that as
f be Drama students had done their
P'eces for producers and whatever, per-
haps the script editors of TV or film
units would be asked to our readings
in the hope that they’d see something
which if amended —would be usable.
No visitors. Just the promising play-
wrights.
On our final night we learned that
the opening of the studio in 1963 is not
yet decided, as the whole course is to be
replanned and it needs it. I had
the impression that this was the last year
of the studio, period.
The promises made were not pro-
perly kept. We did have discussions,
mainly abstract, but as for working out
problems after Professor Philbrick went
that could be, I daresay, covered by
the idea of having everybody discuss a
story line and exercise a sort of do-
it-yourself thing. Professor Philbrick fre-
quently mentioned plays which had
been successful, financially, but after he
left it seemed to me that anybody who
mentioned a play which had made
money was using dirty words.
We did not have discussions with pro-
fessional managers and producers, nor
theatre parties, unless I should count the
NIDA performances. We did have an
extraordinary lecture one night on what
producers want in a play, whereas any-
body with any knowledge of the theatre
in Australia knows that the two com-
mercial managements are interested only
in established, overseas successes and
won’t consider plays by Australians at
all.
The idea of a Playwrights’ Studio is a
good one but, as I went through it,
disappointing. Not insofar as Professor
Philbrick was concerned. If he hadn’t
been there, I don't think I’d have lasted
the first term. I went through the final
term simply to see if any of the promises
made would be kept.
It is not possible to mix professional
writers, amateurs and raw beginners. To
conduct a project such as this, the direc-
tor of the studio must be somebody
who knows the writer’s craft, the tech-
nicalities of dramatic writing and pro-
ducing and staging not necessarily his
own pet playwright, but in as wide a
variety as possible, starting with Greek
drama.
It must be somebody with a healthy
respect for earning a living by writing,
who knows that writers who earn a
living by writing, and only by writing,
must eat, sleep somewhere and be clad.
(Not to mention typewriters, stationery
and all that.) Somebody who knows the
market in Australia as well as overseas,
and who can help and advise on it.
But, above all, it needs somebody
dedicated to the job with the ability
to make writers enthusiastic, to teach
them self-discipline in writing, and how
to accept criticism in the spirit in which
it is offered.
With all that, with all the promises
quoted earlier to be kept, such a studio
would make a solid impact on theatre in
Australia. The idea of a Playwrights’
Studio promised to be something— and
the promises were not kept, more's the
pity.
MARIEN DREYER
"Britain's Common Market entry worries me—I don't know the French,
Italian or German for 'Get a bag'."


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types (includ-
ing Poems) for book publication.
Reasonable terms. Stockwell Ltd.,
Ilfracombe, England. (Estd. 1898.)
THE RED PAGE
POETS TAKEN BY SURPRISE
By RONALD McCUAIG
Rutherford and Other Poems. Doug-
las Stewart. Angus & Robertson.
17s. 6d.
Soufhmost Twelve. Robert D. Fitz-
gerald. Angus & Robertson.
17s. 6d.
Birds. Judith Wright. Angus &
Robertson. 12s. 6d.
Australian Poetry, 1962. Selected by
Geoffrey Dutton. Angus & Robert-
son. 15s.
/Anly a few poets confine themselves
to masterpieces. Large or small,
the poems of Kenneth Slessor have this
effect; each a new field of experience
enclosed in a new subtlety of technique;
each saying Behold, I will show you a
new thing. Most poets go on writing
as people go on talking; their master-
pieces take them by surprise. It is not
necessarily a difference of quality: a
selection from Douglas Stewart’s books
would give a vastly more powerful im-
pression than any one of them and so
also with R. D. Fitzgerald and Judith
Wright.
But Stewart’s new book is the finest
he has put out. There is no possibility
of quibbling about at least four of these
pieces. “The Silkworms” achieved a
celebrity in Australia and England on
its first appearance in “Quadrant” that
is accorded very few poems on their
first publication in a magazine; then
there is the one about the many-
breasted dryad in the lemon-tree and
the poem about his collection of
pictures. And “The Garden of Ships”
is the kind of Stewart poem which never
ceases to amaze me; its ease and abun-
dance, its verse rippling like leaves, its
assured presentation of these extra-
ordinary people living in ships washed
ashore by a tidal wave —it has the
felicity of his conjuration of a meeting
between Quiros and William Lane in
mid-ocean; he takes you by surprise
because he has been taken by surprise
himself. The long poem “Rutherford”
has probably given him more trouble;
he has worked on the idea that Ruther-
ford’s father was a wheelwright shown
the splitter of the atom pondering
breaking up the wheel of the universe
and included some lovely New Zealand
landscape on the strength of Ruther-
ford’s being a New Zealander; but the
miracle that fuses abundance into
delight is not there: I would rather
observe him presenting a wringer (wash-
ing) to Rosemary Dobson of celebrating
the pastoral firm of Schute, Bell, Bad-
gery, Lumby:
Schute, Bell, Badgery, Lumby,
How’s your dad and how’d your
mum be?
The masterpiece of Fitzgerald’s book
is “The Wind at Your Door,” for those
who like what you might call rep-
resentational poetry the finest poem he
has written. In the meditative and meta-
physical pieces and suites which precede
it he is as good as ever he was; there
is the same sharp acquisitive eye for
image, as when he is talking about the
weight borne by roads:
Moulded and compressed
by noise, posters and print,
mind too had best
acquire the nature of flint.
And there is the same tortuous honesty,
when he finds he is passing acquaint-
ances in the street:
Unseeing l explore;
yet am aware
should one at the crowd’s core
give stare for stare;
for eyes that have met and crossed
not wholly pass
as if but beads to be lost,
water turned glass.
In the past decade the immense
influence of the later Yeats has pro-
duced hundreds of tight poems in whicn
the poet gives poets, his friends, his
enemies and the world in general advice.
In saying that a great many of Fitz-
gerald’s poems are poems of advice, it
is necessary to differentiate him from
the followers of Yeats—from the first
Yeats has never had anything to teach
him about tight writing, and as to the
advice it is with Fitzgerald a means of
exposing the anxieties of an ageing man;
he keeps it to himself.
So prominent a part has this extra-
ordinary combination of advice and
later Yeats taken in modern Australian
verse that I had expected this year’s
Australian Poetry anthology to be full
of it but Geoffrey Dutton has been on
the job, and so far as I can see hi
allowed only two pieces of advice j n (
his excellent collection, and both vet
properly: John Thompson’s amusing “
Latter-Day Polonius to his Sons” wj|
the succinct couplet;
Each man, however he may live,
Hankers for an alternative,
and a poem actually called “Advice” \
Vivian Smith, less remarkable for j|
subject than its poetry:
Discordant season: moments 0
despair:
we glimpse the cracks that rui
through all our lives;
the heart we lightly thought rid
and austere;
the mind’s disordered drawer o
borrowed knives.
I was brought up to demand presenta
tion in poetry, but I suppose there is no'
reason why it should not be didactic,
and just as well, too, because the best
poem in Judith Wri ;ht’s book about
birds, “Brush Turkey,” is both brilliau
presentation and a moral addressed ti
poets. I also admired her silver tern
diving into a shoal and being savages
by bonito, and the swamp pheasan
rushing out of the garden after bein;
menaced by the family cat:
And 1 lean out and laugh to see
that queer old woman cross lln
street,
holding her brown skirts liigl
behind
and scuttling on her long blacl
feet.
Of the rest of her hook I would not
say it was strictly for the birds, since i
is by Judith Wright, and in pieces tha
you might not like altogether you conii
across lines like:
And those big grey birds, how the i
talked about us!
As to the masterpieces of the “Aus
tralian Poetry” collection I think Mi
Dutton was right in giving so mucl
space to Randolph Stow, because Sto«
is cultivating what has passed for the
grand style since Walt Whitman]
although he has not yet contrived
masterpiece in it and is perhaps a little
late in centring it on the Central Aus-
tralian mythos of Nolan and Stow thf
novelist.
This is especially so since Francis
Webb has given up exploring his soul
as a Central Australian explorer ant
found it in “Harry,” a cretin writing!
love-letter in an asylum, the most powet
ful poem in the collection, although l
has to compete with David Campbell
“Mothers and Daughters,” which for al
its smallness packs a terrific charge ol
poetry, and Rosemary Dobson’s lamed
for lost moonlight and nightingales.
“The Two Countries” and “Canberra it
April,” another of the diplomatic J.


Rowland's subjugations of the world’s
cities and nations.
Passing in this short review on three
books by three of the best of present-
jdav Australian poets and a collection of
a year’s Australian poetry, I remember
laughing in the 1940’s when Douglas
Stewart said to me, “You know, I think
there’s been a flowering in Australia.”
Well, he was right, and has become
more and more right in 20 years. I
doubt whether anyone of our time
could do justice to the huge volume of
poetry that has been produced in Aus-
tralia since 1930. Things we dismiss in
a few lines may well become the sub-
jects of books in years to come. The
most we can do is to watch trends and
hope that what a Melbourne critic has
called with some justice “the autumnal
feeling” in Australian verse, as our best
)known poets grow older, does not fall
'into winter.
Strangely enough, nothing could
foster this conclusion better than the
Melbourne poets themselves. Mr Dutton
prints three of them, one after the other.
Mr Noel Macainsh:
We are the sick men
Wilted, and blue
The words we scribble
Never get through. . . .
Followed by Mr Vincent Buckley:
No new thing under the sun:
The virtuous who prefer the dark;
Fools knighted; the brave undone;
The athletes at their killing work . . .
Followed by Mr Chris Wallace-Crabbe’s
“Melbourne,” of which this is the con-
cluding stanza:
Highway by highway, the remorse-
less cars
Strangle the city, put it out of pain,
Its limbs still kicking feebly on the
hills.
Nobody cares. The artists sail at
dawn
For brisker ports, or rot in public
bars.
Though much has died here,
nothing has been born.
It reminds one that Melbourne was
where Adam Findsay Gordon shot him-
self.
MONTGOMERY SOLDIERS ON
Three Continents. Field Marshal
Montgomery. Collins. 31s.
Most Army men with a strong pro-
fessional sense know when to keep
I silent. Montgomery of Alamein does not.
With a long and distinguished military
career behind him he is still soldiering
on, like some old-fashioned prophet, in
the struggle against the forces of dark-
ness. He has been to the Summit where
all truths are revealed and now down at
the annual prizegiving hands them out
to the chaps in tablet form. For all of
us there is a message. Of a possible
third world war the author tells us in
this book: “There is but one race under
Heaven which could stand between the
Western world and destruction in such
a crisis, and that is the race to which we
belong—the Anglo-Saxon people.” As
general turned political theorist he must
*be England’s leading humorist, or some-
thing.
“Three Continents” is a record of
Various trips the author made recently
to Asia, America and Africa. He studied
the local situation at first hand, took
notes on what he saw and the conversa-
tions he had with important people and
on the basis of his findings concludes his
account with a lengthy outline of the
appropriate policy for the West to pursue.
The language is temperate, the mood
amiable, the material vaguely interes-
ting. He says in the introduction he has
tried to give our conventional thinking
a good shake-up and the dust-cover
credits him with views that are “startling
and original and closely-reasoned.” What
we get however is a rather weird con-
coction of platitude, fantasy and half-
truth.
In several places the author makes the
point that “uninformed criticism is value-
less”; his own travels he defends on the
grounds that “it is not possible to judge
a nation if you have never visited its
country or seen the people.” These are
dubious propositions to begin with but
in any event he refutes them himself. He
did not visit Cuba yet he expresses ap-
proval of the changes he was told going
on there. The United States was not
visited and Montgomery tells us he has
never met President Kennedy or any
member of his Administration yet he
devises a global strategy that virtually
ignores America’s interests. Many of his
points about Americans are either trite
or silly, for example “they do so despe-
rately want to be liked; we British are
different.” The policy he has worked out
for the Middle East is based not on a
vigorous Egypt or Israel, as one might
expect, but on Pakistan, a country he
never visited.
Montgomery is impressed by displays
of leadership and he enjoys meeting
people as enlightened as himself. As he
told Mao or Chou or Nehru or some-
body it is captaincy which counts since
the people don’t always “know what is
best for them and the leader then
decides.” That’s the trouble with the
West too many bally politicians, not
enough action. Take Chou, he’s a great
man. So is Mao. So is Nehru. So is de
Gaulle. Verwoerd? Diefenbaker? Futhuli?
Nice chaps but not quite top drawer.
There’s no denying their sincerity and
honesty though.
The author’s approach to historio-
graphy is to interview the leader, run
the tape measure over him, then duck
outside to check if he is has been getting
the truth. It seems to follow that if
the leader is a good chap then the regime
backing him must be good. Verwoerd
“is a kindly man and he has at heart the
best interests of all races m the Republic.”
The proof? “Wherever I went in South
Africa I saw a most happy relationship
between black and white.” Mao is “a son
of the soil and his heart is with the
working masses.” Proof? He is “literally
worshipped by over 600 million Chin-
ese.”
This slapdash approach to evidence
does not carry discussion very far par-
ticularly when he is prone to ignore it
completely, for example, “bad faith lies
at the root of most of our troubles in the
world today.” What happens is that
Montgomery is inclined to apologise for
whatever regime happens to be in the
saddle at the time. He has little real
understanding of the nature of political
authority and improvises excuses for its
excesses. He applauds Mao for his ruth-
lessness, grudgingly concedes that this
may have led to a lot of headchopping,
then reminds us, but without any evi-
dence, that Chiang Kai-shek chopped off
more heads than ever Mao did.
Much of the advocacy, alas, proceeds
at this very low level, yet there are some
good things in the account. Where Mont-
gomery is on solid ground is in dealing
with organisational problems relating to
NATO. He has many suggestions to
offer and they all seem eminently sen-
sible. Where he comes adrift is in trying
to explain the great globe itself.
DOUGLAS TERRY.
THE HANGERS
Capital Punishment. Current Affairs
Bulletin, Vol. 31, No. 1. Depart-
ment of Tutorial Classes, University
of Sydney. 6d.
np H E desire to prevent undue emotional-
ism and extravagant disregard for
facts on the question of capital punish-
ment is fine —but surely it was unneces-
sary to produce a Bulletin of such extra-
ordinary yawn-enforcing tedium as this
one.
In fact it is hard to realise from this
Bulletin that capital punishment still
actually exists —other than as material for
academic argument —and that living
people are ewer involved in the procedure
of breaking somebody’s neck because it
is prescribed in a statute : dating from
Henry I’s reign. \
This paper simply never mentions
specific cases —except the Evans (two


lines) and Eichmann (one line) hangings
—and in each case the facts are wrong. It
is argued that ‘no case of miscarriage of
justice is adduced by abolitionists in Aus-
tralia’: this is technically true in the
sense that no persons have been hanged
recently except if they really committed
the crimes they were charged with. But
abolitionists can point to hangings in-
volving clinically insane murderers —
Arnold Sodemann (1936) and Thomas
Johnston (1939) in Victoria and a South
Australian migrant in 1952. While the
decisions to hang these v men may have
seemed defensible at the time of execu-
tion, in retrospect they seem utterly in-
defensible—even to retentionists. In
1936 a 16-year-old boy (yes, 16) was
hanged in Sydney—and nobody except
the Labor Opposition and some clergy
seemed to care much. Who would de-
fend it now?
The paper makes no reference at all
to psychopathy and murder, or the extra-
ordinary close correlation between
murder and suicide rates. Murder, as the
paper rightly said, is an untypical crime.,
Fair enough, but there is much that we do
not know about it. Are the Swedes right
in their insistence that it is a predictable
and preventable crime? Swedish crimino-
logists believe that so long as the raw
material for studying murderers is not
destroyed murder rates can be brought
much lower.
It may well be true, as the author urges,
that the prisoner may desire execution
and that ‘retributive punishment . . . con-
tains moral and psychological elements
which it might be an injustice to . . .
deny him,’ but the law does not exist,
nor should it, to satisfy an abnormal
urge for destruction on the part of the
criminal. He should read Professor
Thorsten Sellin on the subject of the
morbid fascination of capital punish-
ment for some criminals. Hangings may
also fulfil psychological needs on the
part of the hangman and Cabinet
ministers. Is this good?
The whole question of legal insanity is
not mentioned in this paper—but it is
really central. The application of the
“M’Naughten Rules” only arises when
the law is essentially punitive. The killers
who say ‘I killed and I knew what I was
doing’ or ‘I killed and I didn’t know what
I was doing’ are not substantially differ-
ent in that they both represent a problem
of restraint and rehabilitation.
I am a little impatient with the sugges-
tion that being ‘somewhat impassioned’ or
presenting ‘emotional advocacy’ is
viewed with disfavour—l suppose that it
presents some logical difficulties to argue
absolutely convincingly that torture or
cruelty to animals is always wholly bad.
Our judgment that these things are evil
relies heavily on a sense of moral or
emotional revulsion—and this seems
valid to me.
I note that the writer of this paper is
an abolitionist, but I cannot stress enough
that the CAB was inadequate in dealing
both with retentionist and abolitionist
arguments. By refusing to look at the
problem in any way other than as an
abstraction it represents a falling off in
the standard of other controversial CABs
—for example those on selective and
comprehensive schools.
Surely this problem is important
enough to warrant an issue or two where
the arguments could be presented at
length—fortified by case histories—by
people who do care passionately one way
or the other.
BARRY D. JONES
PERJURY, CORRUPTION, BRUTALITY
The Police and the Public. Ed. C. R.
Rolph. Heinemann. 375. 3d.
Organised Crime in America. Ed.
Gus Tyler. University of Michigan
Press. 60s.
Although Australians have tradition-
ally taken pride, sometimes overtly,
in their notorious anti-copper attitude, it
came as something of a surprise a few
years ago when the cable pages of the
dailies revealed rumblings in England to
the effect that all was not sweetness and
light in the relationship between the
English bobbie and the English common
man. Mr Rolph’s collection of essays
came out of those rumblings. But from
an Australian point of vew it is some-
thing of a mouse.
The three possible police crimes of
perjury, corruption and brutality are
only seriously discussed by two of the
contributors understandably enough,
an ex-criminal and a barrister. The ex-
criminal is predictably, Frank Norman,
the Soho boy, who went straight via
Encounter and Joan Littlewood’s
theatre. His story is clear and simple.
As a kite man, he’d floated a stolen
cheque. He was playing cards in an
illegal club when he was picked up by
two detectives after him for the cheques.
(They took bribes from the club pro-
prietor, he notes in passing.) They took
him to a police station and beat him
up systematically. He signed a statement
on a promise of a remand, but the
detective broke that promise and spoke
against it in court. The barrister, a lead-
ing London junior counsel, Mr Gerald
Du Cann, is rather more emotional:
“There are too many black sheep in the
force . . . bribery and corruption ,
The rest of the contributors never rea
get concerned with these issues.
The other contributors include a raj
and-file police constable, who is also
poet publishing in Boteghe Oscure, «
tells of the boredom of most uniforn
duty and the foolishness of senior p o |
officers during demonstrations; a ch
constable, deploring the passing of pul
morality and towards a solution posj
“Is morality less important than woo
work?” (in the school curriculum); a
a social worker giving the result ofi
another survey on what youth think
and discovering that they mistrt
police.
It is typically English that the lons
contribution to the book is on a triv
point. For 37 pages a BBC product
actor tells of a personal and legal ban
he fought after a policeman had stopp
him at 1 a.m. in a London street a
asked —in courteous terms —to kni
the contents of his case. This was
the producer an infringement of persoi
liberty and so after interviews, left
and finally an interview with the Co
missioner of Police he got an apoloj
not a satisfactory one, but an apoloj
If it is typically English that such
large section of Mr Rolph’s book shot
be taken up with a minor case
personal liberty endangered, it is just
symptomatic that Organised Crime
America should only contain o
reference to that sort of question a
then to answer liberals who put ci
liberties and national policy ahead
the local need to break the gangs.
Mr Tyler’s 51 essays are enou
excuse for that point of view. But wl
they offer a wide if rambling picture
big-time crime in the United States, c
finishes the book with the most intere
ing questions about the syndicate i
answered. Mr Tyler has collect
journalistic pieces from men as dive
as Mr Robert Kennedy and Daniel B;
But the major fault of the book is
scrappy quality. The essays too oft
contradict each other, for example on tl
issue of just how far the Mafia ru
organised crime, without any attem
being made by Mr Tyler to resolve tl
dispute. Mr Tyler sees the sources
lawlessness as being deep in '
American tradition and he selected
substantial part of his book to supp
that thesis.
But just how far is it true that
gangs have at times literally control
the politics of various cities? The be
contains hints and sometimes pr {
clear evidence of links between politic*
and criminals, but how this power <
used is unanswered. Another quest'
the book does not tackle is the p
of how Boston, with its Irish Tarn®
politics, has never been a gang to'j


Ljje Chicago has been notorious from
Ljthin a generation of its foundation,
f y\n essay on the modus operandi of the
Lndicate in business and labor racket-
IL n g would have been useful instead of
L reiterated general statement that
Lch of their income comes from those
lources.
gut if the book leaves many questions
unanswered it still has some great
.stories, worth reading, even if they never
shed light on organised crime. The
Apalachin raid of 1957 when a small-
town detective-sergeant, on his own
initiative, broke up a meeting of the top
east coast syndicate members, including
Buffalo’s Man of the Year for 1956,
makes fine comic reading with the
gangsters scattering into the forest in
pointed shoes. The tale of Wyatt Earp s
brief period as marshal of Ellsworth in
1873 is as good as any movie western.
RICHARD HALL
A VIEW FROM THE KITCHIN
Mid-Century Drama. Laurence Kit-
: chin. Faber. 355. sterling.
I'his book achieves exactly what its
title promises: a survey of the drama
icirca 1950 its theatres, its repertoire,
L players, its techniques. Generalising
ilways from performances, it attempts
Ito pick out from the mass of theatre and
show-business those plays or those
inioments in plays which deserve the title
of drama, those performances which
might be used as standards of style.
The reader may question the author's
definitions but no one can deny the
power with which Mr Kitchin, a critic
associated with The Times, recreates his
town feelings during a performance and
■the skill with which he attempts to ana-
lyse the means by which playwright or
player created those feelings. He is one
tof those rare critics with stage-sense
Enough to attempt the difficult distinction
(between play written and play per-
formed, and his description of the Mos-
cow Arts Theatre’s production of The
.Three Sisters is thrilling as he shares
his excitement at the performance and
his knowledge of the techniques which
created that performance; it should be
compulsory reading for producers (and
critics).
It is for this reason that one can ap-
preciate, it not accept, his praise of
Miller and Wesker; with them be-
cause of his clearly stated hopes for the
drama he is prepared apparently to
accept the intention for the achievement,
•the moral purpose for the dramatic
value. Similarly, he understates Williams
and Beckett dissimilar authors but
alike in that each is trying to communi-
cate revelations about an individual
neurosis. It is possible their individual-
ism is more illuminating about the
nature of our society its morals, its
desires, its losing game than any of
the attempts by Miller, Wesker or the
others actually to examine it. But Mr
Kitchin will not grant this; possibly be-
cause Williams with his apparent lack
of discipline and Beckett with his al-
most-killing discipline give less bearable
Pictures of us and our world than the
optimists of either the left or the right.
This seems to me an “example of the
triumph of hope over experience”, of
sympathy defeating intelligence. It is
perhaps not much of a compliment but
I can't imagine anyone not committed
to a Kitchin-like view of the theatre’s
aim and future or to an optimistic poli-
tical theory (which is not characteristic
of “our society today”) denying that The
Devils is the most depressing and ex-
citing, the most devastating and exhila-
rating picture of “our society today” and
the individual’s part in it which any
English writer has achieved since
Shakespeare manipulated history.
RAY MATHEW
THE LOCALS
A History of Brighton. Weston Bate.
Melbourne University Press. 455.
A N addition to the books of local and
civic history which stands above any-
thing I have seen recently is Weston
Bate's A History of Brighton which could
well serve as a model. Well-produced in
the normal format of books which are
meant to sell at a reasonable price by
Melbourne University Press, well-illus-
trated and properly presented, its basis
was a thesis for an M.A. degree which
covered only the first two decades of
the sprightly seaside resort’s history and
was then, after 1952, brought up to date
in this 425-page, well-indexed, neatly an-
notated volume.
It is compartmented in three parts with
some appendices, and copiously illustra-
ted. It seems to cover almost every
known fact about Brighton and its re-
gion, geological, ethnological, botanical,
polemical and historical, sporting and
demographic, municipal and genealogical
as to the original founder who was des-
cended in the female line from a clan
which provided the sergeant of the Court
which condemned Charles I.
This founder, one, Henry Dendy, was
one of the more opulent type of settler
of which Victoria is justly proud, and he
came out with a land order which Gov-
ernor Gipps adjudged to be worth
£lOO,OOO in 1841 in the same ship with
Nathan who set Byron’s songs to music.
In Melbourne he appointed, as his agent,
a young man named J. B. Were, and
the name, Capel Court, so long associ-
ated with the name of Were seems to
have arisen from Dendy family connec-
tions. Were was another grandee type
who sailed in before Dendy, with a wife
and a consignment of goods so large
that he allegedly made £70,000 out of it.
The rest of the story is not only order-
ly and well put together. It is altogether
very readable and skilfully handled hav-
ing regard to the necessarily dull ingredi-
ent of municipal and commercial fact.
M. H. ELLIS
Back to Colonials!
Antipodean Vision: Colonial; Impres-
sionist; Contemporary. F. W.
Cheshire. 50s.
book, as its title implies, is
another attempt to present Aus-
tralian painters as though they are all
in search of some Australian vision.
This is an historians’ gimmick and has
nothing to do with art. As far as I am
concerned the very word “Australiana”
and all it suggests make me feel sick.
But it seems all the abstract artists in
Australia are falling over backwards to
give their work some sort of significance
by the use of vague Australian titles.
Painting has become a rat-race; nobody
wants to paint a picture any more;
everybody wants to become a millionaire
like Buffet or Sid Nolan. Nobody
believes in anything right or wrong,
it’s a gimmick age and let's pour on the
gimmicks.
Charles Blackman’s “Suite” of paint-
ings are comic cuts that lack the balloons
for words. Len French’s “Death in the
Garden” could be a Persian carpet; it is
certainly death. The “Australian Gothic”
by Albert Tucker with its typically Aus-
traliana faces is an extreme example of
this hysterical Australianism. The
“Snake Bay at Night” by Russell Drys-
dale belongs to the totem poles in the
National Gallery. Rapotec’s “Experience
in Broken Hill” could equally well be
called “George Braque’s Fish on a
Plate,” but it uses the magic words
“Broken Hill.” Among the other con-
temporaries only “The Strapper” by
William Dobell is not concerned with
our “national character.”
After all this it is a pleasure to feast
your eyes on “The Breakaway” by Tom
Roberts with the sheer exuberant joy
in painting.
The book’s subtitle “Colonial, Im-
pressionist, Contemporary” is extremely
misleading, since 75 per cent, of the
paintings are Contemporary. Tt would
have been a better book with more
Colonials.
Back to the Colonials! Down with
Australiana!
BOIB DICKERSON.


THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
WOOL AUCTIONS GOING...
GOING... GONE?
Tt’s hard to keep a secret in the Aus-
A tralian wool industry.
A snowballing wave of rumors has
“blown the gaff” on what was to have
been the industry's closest-kept secret —-
moves for a change in Australia’s wool
marketing system.
Plans for a switch from the present
open auction system have been discussed
behind closed doors by industry heads for
at least three months, but every attempt
was made to keep the news from the
great mass of Australia's 80,000 wool-
growers.
Apparently the idea is to break the
news gently—when Australian Wool
Bureau publicity men have worked out
the best way of “putting it across.”
Meantime, rumor has it that plans for
an acquisition wool marketing scheme
will go before the new Australian Wool
Board soon after it gets down to business.
An acquisition scheme is generally re-
garded as one in which all wool is vested
in a central authority and sold by it—in
much the same way as the Australian
Wheat Board now operates.
Presumably brokers would become re-
ceiving agents for the marketing
authority.
An acquisition scheme would probably
cut wool marketing costs, but its big
virtue would be the say it would give the
industry in the marketing and sale of its
product.
It is all the fashion in the wool indus-
try today to emulate big business . . .
a not unpraiseworthy trend in a once
wooly-minded industry.
International wool salesman Mr Bill
Vines, new managing director of the
International Wool Secretariat, has
streamlined the three-nation IWS on
businesslike lines and stated his inten-
tion to run it “like a big international
company.”
But for an international business the
IWS is in an anomalous position com-
pared with Du Pont and the other big
man-made fibre companies—it has no
control over the product it is trying to
promote.
In Australia each individual wool-
grower markets his clip independently
through a woolbroker. Each man retains
individual control over his wool as long
as possible —but hands it over to profit-
minded “outsiders” long before it ever
becomes a garment for retail sale.
Brokers and buyers would probably
strenuously oppose a change in the
present auction system. But it will be
the. Australian woolgrower’s attitude
which will decide whether the present
system is scrapped.
The big Australian Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation, representing more
than 40,000 of Australia’s smaller wool-
growers, has been strongly advocating a
change for years. But the AWMPF’s
campaign has been for a reserve or floor
price scheme.
The rival woolgrower body, the A®
tralian Woolgrowers and Graziers’ Coi
cil, has supported the present aucii
system.
Rumor has it that the Woolgro\? (
and Graziers’ Council is now willing
support an acquisition scheme, althou
the council has not admitted this public
It has stated, however, that if them
Wool Board, after a thorough study
the many aspects of marketing, decide
change to an alternative marketing systc
is necessary, it would almost certaii
support the change.
More uncertain is the attitude of t
AWMPF to an acquisition scheme.
In many ways an acquisition scheme
even more radical than the floor-pn
system advocated by the AWMPF ai
one would therefore normally expect tl
federation to support it.
But much could depend on the %
in which the change is presented
federation members. The mere fact-
it is a fact —that the graziers were $u
porting an acquisition scheme could gi
rise to federation opposition.
The attitude of the third national ba
with large woolgrower membership, t
Australian Primary Producers’ Union,
unknown.
RABBIT FOAM TESTED
TTow successful is the radical new
JLA rabbit fumigation foam developed by
Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia
and New Zealand Ltd?
In spite of the foam’s harmless soap-
sud-like appearance and ease of handling,
the answer must be “extremely success-
ful.”
In fact, Victorian Lands Department
rabbit control officials have described it
privately as the “greatest thing since
myxomatosis and 1080.”
The Bulletin watched a demonstra-
tion by ICIANZ’s first new foam unit
recently at East Sale RAAF base in Vic-
toria. It seemed almost too simple.
The unit consisted simply of a yellow-
painted Land Rover with a water tank
built on the back, a pump and foaming
unit, and a long reel of 2|in. hose.
The Land Rover was run as close as
possible to the big warren to be tackled
and its two-man crew went to work.
The hose was simply inserted in one
entrance to the warren and the Land
Rover motor started up and the pump
engaged. The foam, blown up by the ex-
haust gases of the vehicle’s petrol engine,
surged out of the hose and into the
burrow as the two-man crew shovelled
earth around the entrance.
As the foam frothed up out of each
entrance and exit to the warren in turn
the men sealed the entrance off with
a few shovelsful of earth.
Finally, when the foam had filled eve
part of the warren it blew back out ti
entrance containing the hose and the jo
was over.
The foam is claimed to remain e§
tive for several days and then it brea
down into a tacky material which d
courages the rabbits from reopening t
warren.
A two-man team can cover about 1'
holes an hour. Normally it takes abo
five minutes to treat a warren, but soi
big old warrens have taken as much
55 minutes to fill.
The foam is harmless to stock ai
humans and any warren can be tackl
providing the Land Rover can get withi
200 ft. It thus operates equally well ®
flat or hilly country.
It is anticipated by ICIANZ that I
foam treatment will cost farmers
more than conventional poisoning %
fumigation.
However, the company is not sells
either the foaming agent or the foas
producing machine at present.
Instead it has decided to enter rah
control work itself on contract.
Cost of the work will be assessed ft
ing early stages of this work—the ft
unit is now at work in Victoria —and t
sale of the foaming agent and macM
will be considered after six months of
tions.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Gumming up world trade?
IT has not been for nothing that so many highly placed execu-
tives of the European Economic Community time and time
again urge they are not in it for economics but also for poli-
tics. Whatever peculiar meaning they wish to give to a much
abused word, it does seem clear that residual political strains
and prejudices are destined to play a larger part in Common
Market negotiations, especially as they affect the succession
of new admittances.
Britain alone may feel she is almost being held to ransom
by considerable intransigence on the part of General de
Gaulle and Dr Adenauer, both of whom up till now appear
able to over-ride the goodwill of a host of EEC officials. Many
supporters of the market may feel saddened at the rigidifying
of the concept of Europe and the barely hidden desire to cold-
shoulder those alien tribes the Anglo-Saxons.
With further exemplifications of such political notions we
cannot here be concerned, except to suggest that a species of
closeted nationalism welded on to a selfish protectionism must
become a very dangerous animal indeed. One can only hope
that broader considerations gradually make themselves felt at
the Brussels talks which on Monday last again began to re-
examine the conditions of British entry.
For it is growing doubly clear that countries within the
so-called European orbit are not the only ones to suffer by
any plot of exclusion and any attempt to constrict the already
critical movements of world trade. The current round of talks
are ostensibly based on the issue of British agriculture. But
we ourselves are intimately drawn in not only by Britain’s
future path but also by any conceivable arrangements for
Commonwealth temperate foodstuffs. As well as Ministerial
wrangles the Brussels meetings have to hear a report from a
specially appointed agricultural fact-finding body. Perhaps this
group can succeed in removing some of the acerbities and
‘traps” of top-level policy.
Looking beyond the tactics and technique of British admis-
sion, it is crucial that the Six see the implications of a “hard”
attitude for the whole development of freer world trade. The
UK is not the sole Power to be worried about this on a more
than domestic consideration.
President Kennedy himself has recently expressed a fear of
European tendencies as they relate to the benefits desired to
flow from the US Trade Expansion Act. American discussions
with the Common Market are also destined to start early this
year.
Some 14 or 15 hundred items will be brought under these
particular negotiations. “It will probably take well into 1963,
f would say towards the end of 1963 before both sides have
Prepared their positions,” Mr Kennedy stated in mid-
Uecember.
He was obliged to add: “We are going to have an extremely
difficult negotiation, particularly in agriculture.”
. The US wishes to meet Europe as a favorable market for
lts agricultural surpluses. But not only these food surpluses
are involved. It is worthwhile to transcribe the President’s
complete summary:
“Now, with the Common Market, with the prospect of
Britain joining, with the tremendous revolution in agricultural
production which is about to hit Europe, France in particular,
the levies and the rates and the penalties which are placed on
the introduction of agricultural commodities into Europe in the
coming three or four months may be of decisive importance
to us in our battle in the balance of payments, and also in our
struggle to bring some sense out of the problems we face in
American agriculture.”
Only a short time ago world trade stood imperilled by
financial hindrances the debate around the price of gold
and currency desiderata is still far from resolved. Any further
retardations, notably as they apply to commodities and under-
developed countries, would be disastrous.
So a good deal more is at stake than just British admission
and even all that means for the Commonwealth. Much Ame-
rican talk lately has been built around the “Grand Design” for
an Atlantic economic community, which by natural extension
could bring in the whole world.
The immediate agricultural battle will be fought around the
British price supports for home agriculture. A slight measure
of agreement had been reached on adopting these throughout
a fixed transition period, set to end in 1970. Britain does not
wish such a firm deadline, preferring product by product
phasing over a longer period.
The Six argue for consumer and producer subsidies gradu-
ally to force both consumer and producer prices in Britain to
the Common Market’s intended single price level.
French resistance has, according to some sources, tended to
breach the uniform front the Six have largely held right up to
the present. With a successful EEC coming towards fruition,
the next and equally real stage is to admit, both for political
and economic reasons, that Europe is not enough.
NOT SO PRIVATE
COMPANIES
financial Press has not been tardy in picking up the
more detailed private company reports required under the
new crop of Companies Acts. Publication of these results has
caused certain mutterings in the circle of private companies;
as more feel the glare of public print of their results (good and
bad) the mutterings will increase.
The benefits of being a “private” company have become less
and less over the years. Indeed, apart from personal companies
offering protection in the case of failure and certain taxation
and probate “lurks”, the “private” corporate structure is worth
little.
Now that the advantage of secrecy is denied the private
company proprietor, it is likely that the trend to public com-
pany basis will accelerate.
This, of itself, will create a problem. For to reap the full
benefit of “public” status, a company must have a market place
for its shares. The Stock Exchanges are not interested in too


small companies; rightly so, since they are not geared for them.
A second-rank Exchange might prove the answer.
While on the subject of Exchanges, Sydney Exchange is
becoming increasingly wary of a protagonist in the State Gov-
ernment ranks. Suggestions of a Registrar of Members, of
controls on members, do not meet with applause in O’Connell
Street.
Quite rightly, this very debatable suggestion has met with,
complete silence from the Exchange, which, it is felt, would
prefer to work with Government, not under direct Government
control. We hope that legislation is not hastily enacted without
the matter receiving a complete airing.
LABOR TURNOVER AND
BANKERS’ LICENCE
\ month or two ago the Bank of New South Wales pointed
to the sustained recovery in employment to a figure of
something less than 2 p.c. of the work force, saying that
although the figures were high by post-war standards “they
are not excessive for a diversified and dynamic industrial
society in which labor turnover in manufacturing industries
is in the vicinity of 70 p.c. a year.”
The Bulletin was particularly puzzled at the time by
the high figure put on labor turnover, which seemed to suggest
that seven out of ten workers in manufacturing industries
changed their jobs every year. But we waited until the latest
survey of turnover before making a comment on it.
It should be pointed out at once that this figure of the
Wales is purely a notional one. Nobody records labor turn-
over on a continuing basis in this or for that matter any other
country as far as we know. In this country a survey is made
twice a year, for the months of March and September, the
Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics saying that
because of the effect of seasonal fluctuations the trends in
labor turnover are most clearly shown by comparing turn-
over rates for the same month of each year.
Moreover, it should be understood that the bureau’s survey
is based on samples taken within certain industries or
businesses subject to payroll tax (that is paying more than
£2OO a week in wages) and the omission of a large number
of types of business indicates it is far from being compre-
hensive (in fact, in most of those excluded it is clear that
labor turnover is very small indeed). Further it includes all
movements within the same industry group.
One would say, therefore, without fear of contradiction,
that the figures greatly over-estimate labor turnover in Aus-
tralia. As for labor separations from jobs in manufacturing
industry, last September for manual workers it was 4.4 p.c.,
which would give a figure on an annual basis of about 53 p.c.
compared with the Wales estimate of 70 p.c. and one of 56
p.c. based on the bureau’s estimate for September, 1961.
The more one looks at the survey the clearer it becomes
that it is useful only as a year-by-year comparison of turnover
trends and the Wales appears to have been taking bankers’
licence in referring to a figure of 70 p.c. a year as covering
manufacturing industry as a whole in a general sense.
MORE MOVES AT MOONIE
AND ELSEWHERE
production test on No. 11 well at Moonie apparently
gave results on a par with the previous 10 succesful holes
+n the field, though the level at which the test produced an
oil flow of 1,642 barrels a day through a half-inch choke was
not announced. The group is going ahead with preparations
for two further wells. Moonie No. 12 is to be sited half a
mile west of No. 9 well.
Its well at Crowder proved dry and struck basement at
5,864 feet, while Cockatoo Creek well is still drilling ahead,
The rig at Crowder is being moved to another site at Undalla
about 19 miles north of Cabawin No. 1 from which a good
flow of oil (60 barrels a day) was obtained in May, 1961.
Some 120 miles north-west of Moonie, tests of Sunnybank
No. 1 by the Associated group have been delayed. Logging)
side-wall coring and plugging back have been completed and
casing is being run. This will be followed by testing of the
interval below 6,000 feet. It is expected that the main oil
producing interval at approximately 5,900 feet will be tested
any day.
The Associated group’s Westgrove No. 3 well has ceased
drilling at 12,663 feet at basement. After logging, plugging
and re-cementing the 2,985 feet of casing, production tests
are to be made on the gas sands in the interval 2,750 to 2,900
feet.
Woodside (Lakes Entrance) is currently very active in two
States, N.S.W. and Victoria. In N.S.W, the company shares
the drilling interest with Mid-Eastern in Mount Jack No. 1
well in the artesian basin area in the north-west of the State.
This well was spudded in last week and is now drilling ahead.
Following the encouraging flow of petroliferous gas in their
North Seaspray No. 1 well, Woodside. after consultation with
Atlantic Refining, whose subsidiary Arco partners Woodside
in its Victorian search, is to intensify its activity in the Gipps-
land (Vic.) area and a further two wells have been announced.
The first of the two wells, Merriman No. 1, will be drilled
to 6,000 feet on a promising structure located by seismic
survey south of the Seaspray structure.
On completion of this well the rig will be shifted to the
Seaspray structure where another well, Carrs Creek No. 1, will
be drilled to 5,500 feet at a spot about 3) miles east and
down dip from North Seaspray No. 1.
Site preparations will commence immediately and the rig
at Southwest Bairnsdale No. 1, which was spudded-in last
week to probe the rocks underlying tertiaries to a depth of
4,500 feet, will ultimately be used there.
Woodside also reports that the marine seismic survey carried
out off the coast of Gippsland has been completed with prom-
ising revelations, which will be studied in relation to the
findings of the group’s current shore-based drilling programme.
ISRAEL CHASES TRADE
AND CAPITAL
According to Mr Levi Eshkol, the Israeli Finance Minister,
a special Common Market - Israel Commission will sit
early this year to work out an item-by-item agreement on
trade. He suggested that the Six might use Israel as a guinea
pig to work out a pattern of association for other smaller
nations.
As well as the Common Market being one of Israel’s largest
and most important markets, Israel also relies heavily on
imports from Europe and cannot afford to work in isolation
to it, the Finance Minister stated.
Israel is also going all out to attract overseas capital, from
the United States in particular. On a recent visit to that country,
Mr Eshkol pointed out that Israel’s population is growing at
a rate of 5 to 6 p.c. a year and will grow from the present
2.3 million to 3 million by the end of the decade.
“The only thing that will maintain this growth is industry,
industry, and more industry,” Mr Eshkol proclaimed.
“While in this country I will help our friends here who are
trying to attract people with daring, initiative, and perhaps
capital, who will be willing to come to Israel and develop
our industry.
“If I could get a list of manufacturers in chemicals,
pharmaceuticals, opticals and other industries, I would kiss
their hands and invite them to Israel.”


Another “Wales” Service
• •
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “ Wales ”.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6133G-a
FINANCE FOR THE UNDER-DEVELOPED
PUBLIC FINANCE IN UNDER-
DEVELOPED COUNTRIES,
by A. R. Prest. Weidenfeld and
Nicholson.
n 0 many words have been spilt on the
;!U economics of under - developed
countries in Melbourne in recent months
an j in particular on the prospects of
marshalling savings in those in the East-
man orbit that one is hesitant to pick
up a whole book on the subject and
expect to find anything one hasn’t heard
already.
However, Mr Prest, like his brother
uho is Professor of Economics at Mel-
tourne University, is an acknowledged
.expert on this subject, viewing the matter
from a Cambridge college after first-
hand experience in the subject countries
of his thesis and close scrutiny of the
So as a result of some hard
and clear thinking he has come, .up with
an admirable synthesis which will help
considerably in clearing other minds on
the subject. . .. . : . .
Naturally he . has failed to find an
appropriate model among the under-
developed countries on which to clothe
his generalisations, but as Lord Morley
is reputed to have said of elephants—he
could not define one but nonetheless
would have no trouble in recognising
one.
Mr Prest finds that the main charac-
teristics of an under-developed country
are these, and they seem to rule Aus-
tralia out on all counts. On the pro-
duction side the common features are a
high ratio of population to capital, a
relatively high dependence on primary
production of one sort or another and
a relatively large subsistence element
among these primary products. On the
consumption side the distinguishing
feature is a low level of income and
well-being as compared with countries
in the Western world.
Equally most under-developed coun-
ties have rapidly growing populations
fut he finds much less uniformity in
their rates of change of income per head
®d this gives rise to the main problems
with which the book is concerned,
1 notably the financial problems of the
Governments of these countries and the
long-term pressures on them to spend—
•ho awakening to the desirability and
1 Possibility of economic improvement has
heen accompanied by a growth in the
: tahef that it is the duty of government
ito purchase many goods and services, to
1 Produce some of them itself and to re-
tribute income between various
> Actions of the community.”
* So the analysis is woven around the
tCnt ral fact that it is now not only
accepted but expected that government
should take strong positive action to
foster development and also that the
populations have the power to enforce
it through the medium of the ballot
box “the constitutional developments
throughout Africa and for that matter
other parts of the world have now given
the keys of power in most countries to
the populations at large.”
And not far from this in importance
to the financial arrangements and prob-
lems Mr Prest finds another almost
equally dominating awkwardness the
inherent economic instability of under-
developed countries arising inter alia
from fluctuations in prices and quan-
tities of exports, natural disasters and
so on, the narrow scope of the
economies in question lending them
particularly vulnerable to short-term
embarrassments.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
POINTS FOR CANBERRA TALKS
[The first of a series of four articles on the discussions between Government and the private sector.]
rTiuE Government’s pow-wow with in-
dustry and trade representatives in
Canberra next month should give it an
excellent guide to the part Government
avenues of income generation will need
to play in the continuing progress to-
wards full employment in the coming
year.
One thing should be as indelibly clear
to the Government as it is to business,
that owing to the plethora of money
flowing into Government loans the
stimulus of Treasury Bill financing for
the current year will be very much less
than the amount set in the Budget, which
was based on the estimate that loan
raisings in 1962-63 would fall short of
the 1961-62 figure by some £6O million.
At least if the Government is satisfied
with this position, Mr Menzies’ callers
should remind him that industry and
trade are not. For in effect the Govern-
ment’s stimulatory activities since the
Budget have largely been negatived, as
they were in 1961-62, by it taking
almost as much out of the system by
way of loans as it has put in by way
of new Treasury Bill money.
Economic analysis in terms of income
generation is not new in Australia but it
has become much more complex, even if
not better understood, since the days
when the country was only lightly in-
dustrialised and fluctuations in economic
activity followed closely fluctuations in
export income.
This is not to say that export income
has ceased to have considerable force in
income generation or even that it has
lost its place at the top of the list of
income generators. For in fact an export
total of £1,078 million last year would
have probably given rise (applying the
multiplier) to some £3,250 million of
total income or the equivalent of more
than half last year’s national income of
£5,932 million.
There can be no stronger argument
than merely citing this relationship to
stress the continued importance of ex-
port industries in overall income genera-
tion and Mr Menzies would therefore be
well advised to give representatives of
the export industries as long a hearing
as anybody in the coming talks.
It can hardly be expected that the
exporters will have quite as happy a tale
as last year’s on export earnings for
1962-63, for already, after six months,
they are trailing by £18.7 million with
a total of £504.9 million compared with
£523.6 million for the same period 1961-
62. Nonetheless their prospects are fairly
bright with wool about 121 p.c. higher
than the price this time last year and
most other major items heading favor-
ably.
Doubtless as usual the main beef of
exporters of primary products will relate
to the better performance they could put
up if the present stability of costs were
held, if tariff policy were better adjusted
to their needs and so on.
The new race of exporters arising
among the ranks of secondary industry
may not be on all fours in their approach
to the tariff, in that they expect the
best of both worlds from a Government
anxious to see industry create more jobs
on the one hand and to drive into new
export markets on the other. But in
their case also, one would expect rep-
resentations on the need to maintain
stability of costs.
But these people will be identical
with those representing industry in
general and these comprise those con-
cerned with the second and rising rung
of income generators which these days
are not so far behind in importance to
primary industry, if indeed they are
behind at all.
Here the channel of income genera-
tion is a dual one and in its case its
significance for job creation is of para-
mount importance for the economy, far
more important than primary industry
whose labor absorption capacity is
proverbially small.
Manufacturing industry makes its con-
tribution to income generation in two
ways. First through its direct employ-
ment of a high proportion (about 27 p.c.
according to the 1961 census) of |
work force and its purchases of t j
materials components and other instn
ments of production and distribute
Secondly it contributes through its ei
penditure on fixed capital equipmem
Its expenditure on capital equipment an
stock of raw materials, components, etc
is included in what is probably the ke
to the main economic equation, privai
investment.
Looking back on 1962, secondary in
dustry can say it has made a massiv:
contribution to income generatio:
through its huge increases in output!
finished goods over the year, an achieve
ment which must be acknowledged i
in part the result of the Government
more enlightened policy of stimulate
spending power and stepping up pul
works programmes.
But it has to be realised that apai
from the stock rebuilding which k
been necessitated by rising output, il
contribution to increasing income gener,
tion has been small from the investmen
side.
For its part industry will want to ga.
some assurance from the
that it is prepared to maintain a gem
ally rising tempo of economic activity i
a background to its own steps to prop
gate a higher level of new fixed capita
this progess will be examined next wed
while in two subsequent articles otbf
expenditure. The Government’s role i:
sources of income generation includir,
capital inflow, the banking system at;
instalment credit will be reviewed in tie
light of their performance in 1962 aid
requirements this year.
WORLD ECONOMY BRIGHTE
Tt is axiomatic that the economic
weather overseas, particularly in the
four main industrial areas, the US, UK,
Common Market and Japan, will have
a considerable bearing on the state of
the Australian economy this year and
the fact that at the moment the portents
are for a general rise in activity in all
four groups speaks well for prospects
here.
Perhaps the best clue to prospects for
a brighter economic climate abroad and
its reflection on the position of primary
producing countries lies in the trends of
world commodity prices. The Economist,
London, puts it like this:
“The sharp turn upwards in commo-
dity markets this autumn has not f
transformed the balances of payments'
the primary producing countries. Nj
would one expect the rise in world I
dustrial production that seems to be' 1
the cards to bring about any very ntf
sive growth in commodity prices *
less the American acceleration is sharp'
than one guesses.
“Nevertheless, the outlook for co*
modities in 1963 is somewhat nt
cheerful than it was at the beginning'
1962 and there is more talk of wo |
commodity schemes. The latest m
back by commodities seems backed
positive shifts in the underlying bah*
between production and demand. >1


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
8i!
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
6mths....6^p.a.
12mths..7^p.a.
dgb
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
with which consumption can rise to
production has come as a jolt.”
OVt As for production in the various big
industrialised areas the Economist thinks
that “in 1963 Britain’s national income
oU oht to rise nearly as much as Ger-
many’s and as much as the Benelux
countries, though much less than France
or Italy expect.”
What of the US and Japan?
In the US the mood of highly volatile
forecasters is to hope for a higher rate
0 f growth than most of Europe does,
provided President Kennedy’s tax cuts
are sizeable and in time. The Adminis-
tration is firmly committed to policies of
stimulating demand.
Maybe in Japan, 1963 will involve
some further readjustment in the eco-
nomy after the overheated position in
1961 and early last year but gross do-
mestic product is still expected to rise
by about 5 p.c. (the growth rate got up
to as much as 15 p.c. in 1961).
This improved outlook overseas is en-
couraging but in the last analysis the
pace at which we can keep the tempo of
activity accelerating in this country
depends on our own particular ability to
finance the higher level of imports re-
quired to fertilise higher production and
consumption.
On this the first thing to recognise is
that despite some weakening in Decem-
ber Australia’s international reserves
start 1963 only £l5 million or so lower
than twelve months earlier, the latest
official figure being £586 million for the
total as at the end of November com-
pared with £596 million in January last
and a peak of £6OB million in February.
However it must be remembered that in
March we paid back £7l million to the
International Monetary Fund, which
brought reserves down to £538 in that
month so that despite the heavier rate of
importing since then international reser-
ves have increased by £4O million or so
in the space of nine months.
The significant point about the rate of
importing in those months is that al-
though it lifted on to a new plane a few
million on either side of £9O million a
month, it never raced away to untenable
heights. After getting up to a peak of
U 7.5 million in August it dropped by
£lO million in September and in the next
two months was £93.6 and £95.1
million respectively.
True, the latter two months suggest
mat it is heading even higher, conceiv-
ably much higher, though there could
actually be a sizeable drop in December
hself since that month usually sees less
unloading on the wharves. It would not
e surprising to see an average for De-
and January of something like
0 million a month and this level may
We be sustained for some time.
In the light of the growing propensity
to import, it is very satisfactory that
world commodity prices appear to be
moving up, wool in particular. Prices of
this key Australian export commodity
have climbed progressively since the
start of the new season in August and
finished 1962 on a high note of optimism
with Japan coming in with some big
buying after a period of hesistancy
caused by lapsing activity in their home
woollen textiles industry and doubts on
Japan’s balance of payments.
As The Bulletin has indicated in
recent weeks the outlook for base metals
is also satisfactory and chairmen of Aus-
tralia’s mining companies appear to be
more confident of the outlook than for
a long time.
Equally, with the reservation that the
future lies somewhat in the hands of
China, prospects for good export returns
from grains following this year’s bumper
harvests look good and an improvement
is also looked for in meat exports.


DOING BUSINESS WITH CHINA
By THE BANKER
TVmng business with China means trad-
” ing with a country which neither Aus-
tralia nor the US recognises diplomatic-
ally. So far as Australian businessmen
are concerned, this does not seem to make
for any difficulties, except in travelling.
Business in China has to be conducted
with government-owned entities. Most
of the import-export trade is conducted
by corporations, such as China National
Import-Export (Cereals and Oils) Cor-
poration, which handles import and ex-
port of grains, vegetable oils, etc. There
are probably two dozen of these corpora-
tions which handle various commodities.
Most of them have their headquarters in
Peking, with branch administrations in
important commercial centres. If you
wish to buy or sell with China, these are
the entities with whom you deal.
The Australian trader finds doing busi-
ness in China a little more time-consum-
ing than in Western countries, but should
not feel that he is dealing with less effici-
ent businessmen than himself. Such
things as protocol and political pressures
play a big part in final decisions.
The biggest mistake an Australian can
make is to differentiate between China
and Taiwan in discussions or in corres-
pondence with the national corporations
in Peking. Not unexpectedly, their view
is that there is only one China.
Quantities or values expressed in US
dollars are not viewed favorably.
If you are a buyer, indicate clearly to
them exactly what you want and what the
current market for that commodity ex-
pects and is absorbing. They are no
different from us; they do not like ad-
vantage to be taken of them, and have
frequently expressed their belief in reci-
procal trade on fair terms and conditions
and for fair reward.
Like all countries seeking vast indus-
trialisation, difficulties have been experi-
enced with deliveries, and criticism has
arisen on dependability of supplies. How-
ever, they are not unreasonable in meet-
ing requests, and once again it is import-
ant to lay down clearly and emphatically
the terms and conditions of the contract.
In Hong Kong and other parts of the
world, world-renowned companies have
sold goods to China and have not found
them unreasonable in meeting claims
made by them or accepting claims from
them. Their standards for quality con-
trol are acceptable to most of the experi-
enced trading companies of the world.
They seem to have a reluctance to
appoint exclusive agents for their com-
modities in foreign countries, and at
the same time view with a little suspi-
cion transactions where numerous agents
are involved. They have traded for many
years and realise that the more hands
a commodity passes through, the dearer
the ultimate price must be. They natur-
ally appear reluctant to deal with people
and are constantly checking their prices,
qualities, etc. against similar products
from other countries, especially if those
other countries happen to be Taiwan or
USA.
As far as Australia is concerned, all
imports from China are usually payable
by the Australian establishing a letter of
credit in sterling. There have been in-
stances where China has granted terms of
payment without letters of credit, but
these are usually confined to countries in
the eastern area.
As far as exports are concerned, China
is readily prepared to establish letters of
credit in sterling. These are generally
established by the Bank of China through
one of its agents in Australia. Practically
all major trading banks in Australia are
agents for the Bank of China.
From investigations made it would ap-
pear that there are no statistics or inform-
ation published on China’s balance of
payments. It is believed that as far as
trade with Iron Curtain countries is con-
cerned, it is conducted more or less
under reciprocal trade agreements, and
trade is therefore in balance with these
countries.
If we then set aside the Iron Curtain
countries, we are beset with the problem
of China meeting its commitments with
the Western world, and these, then, must
be met with convertible currencies.
Government records in Hong Kong
show that China usually has a balance of
trade with that colony in the £5O/60
million per annum bracket. In other
parts of the world, say the UK, there
are favorable trade balances around
£ 15/20 million per annum. Other inves-
tigations could be made to show surplus
or deficit positions with other Western
countries, but it is mainly from the sur-
plus from Hong Kong and the UK that
the deficits with countries like Australia
are met.
China’s ability to continue to meet its
commitments and maintain its impec-
cable record is a question that must
puzzle every responsible banker and
trader in the Western world. Primarily
China is still an agricultural country.
Many questions are asked whether
China can meet Australian wheat pay-
ments as they fall due, and these queries
are prompted by the constant reports of
bad seasonal conditions being experien-
ced in China. In reply to the first part,
China refers to its record of never failing
to meet an overseas commitment as!
falls due, and points out that this is
than many Western countries
achieved.
There seems little doubt that Chin
economic progress has foundered inn
last two or three years. This cannoi]
wholly attributed to bad seasons 1
China. China is a vast country. All o ||
cannot have bad seasons. Parts of it J
have drought while other parts can hail
floods. It is very similar to Australia!
this respect.
Two or three years ago it would appeal
that a large portion of the blame forpJ
production could be attributed to mi
administration. Old concepts, advice anj
experience were disregarded as reactioJ
ary and new ideas were implementtl
Up till this time excellent seasonal coni
tions had been encountered in most pan]
of China.
Last year there is little doubt tha
several very important areas had hi
seasonal and even drought condition!
This, following on a period of bad 1
ministration and bad management, hat
disastrous effects in certain areas.
The overseas exchange position m
came tight as products from the light inj
dustries (raw materials of which w
agriculturally based) plus exports oji
agricultural products were not producini
the same amount of overseas exchange tl
purchase other raw materials to feed inlf
the industries.
A virtual unemployment problem araj
in many industrial areas, and the centii
planners had to begin a reassessment!
their agricultural programmes. Popull
tions began to move back into agricultuij
areas. We have the instance in Hong Kon
where this precipitated an increased es
odus of refugees into the New Territorie
area of Kowloon from the Chinese pro
vince adjoining the border.
As to the future, Peking maintains it
claims to the Western world that it
on its record and on ability to OT
ahead so that overseas commitments aij
not entered into without an assurancj
of receipts for exports which will enab|
the import commitments to be met. Thefj
is no published information available ij
substantiate this claim.
Traders in Australia, both importe|
and exporters, have little to fear aslj
dividuals when calculating their risks,jl
the letters of credit they deal under
complete protection. From the in teril j
tional point of view one would forecal
that at least for the next 18 mon!|
China will continue to meet its coffliroj
ments even though it may be with m
personal sacrifice to its people.


w.
llillll 1
3F
I
mt
I'Agkg
brand*!
°Ve's
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
T
BRANDY
REID MURRAY COMES TO ORDER
L £ID Murray investors, whether fixed-
iK interest or equity, cannot yet take
) much consolation from the brave and
sensible attempt of the Acceptance com-
ics debenture trustees to bring prac-
tically the whole group under one
receivership and managership. None-
theless, the Equity Trustees Executors
and Agency Ltd are surely to be com-
mended for their attempt to restore
order and precedence into an apparently
chaotic state of affairs.
Above all there need now be not the
slightest doubt that the rights of secured
lenders will be established at their
proper priority, a situation which direc-
tors’ first proposed scheme of arrange-
ment left considerably clouded. Assur-
ance on this particular point reaches far
beyond the necessities of Reid Murray
alone. The hitherto assumed legal
guarantees must be seen to apply to
other organisations in difficulties and
also to confirm the future usages of
fixed-interest borrowings.
But there is a lot more to the trustee’s
plans than the mere assertion of accepted
principles. The step to bring the holding
company into the orbit of the scheme is
of crucial importance to the rational
settlement of the group’s distressing
situation.
It rather takes one’s breath away to
head that the “Reid Murray Group
consists of approximately 220 com-
panies. ... At the present time the
information available to the Trustee is
insufficient to enable it to make a real-
istic assessment of the financial position
or prospects of the group.” Earlier
rumors were disturbing enough: that the
accounts were proving intractable and
could scarcely be brought to com-
pletion. Directors have, of course,
announced a further delay. The term
“approximately” creates its own vision
cf disorganisation.
Once more we have the old horrors
cf the kind of interlocking seemingly
.effective in times of boom, and bearing
the tremendous difficulties of untangling
when times go bad.
But Equity Trustees are at least view-
lng the group's scattered affairs as one
problem, which, however complicated,
they are. Should the Court agree to this
Unit y a °d allow the receivership of the
Parent company, both assets and
management of holding and subsidiary
c °mpanies come under unified control.
Arrest of a process of separation and
'smemberment looks to be one of the
features of the new scheme. One
two of the group’s subsidiaries are
“ready under other receiverships a
Process which, given its size and
Vilifications, might go on almost
indefinitely. Some of the multifarious
220 or so could well be wound up after
due discrimination, but any disposal of
assets must not be merely piecemeal and
haphazard.
Directors must have found it hard to
support a scheme involving an indepen-
dent and expert advisory committee to
assist the two receivers and managers,
Messrs. E. H. Niemann and C. J.
Waugh, of Hungerford, Spooner and
Kirkhope. That refinement could be one
of the best auguries for a return of con-
fidence, distant though this must seem
at present. The detachment of an able
and authoritative committee would
justify the firm viability of any of the
group’s activities permitted to operate
during and after receiverships.
Gold Fields’ attractions
\ T the start of a five-weeks’ visit to
Australia, the chairman of the huge
Consolidated Gold Fields of South
Africa Ltd was able to present a bright
and benevolent picture of his~'company.
For after a striking portrayal of the
maintenance of success in South Africa,
Canada, UK and USA, he brought
especial cheer by foreshadowing local
equity participation in the subsidiary
Consolidated Gold Fields (Australia)
Pty Ltd.
By casting this happy possibility only
about two years ahead, Sir George
radically altered previous predictions of
a public interest. When the group first
decided to enter the huge Mount Golds-
worthy iron ore project, together with
Cyprus Mines and Utah Construction
of USA, an Australian share interest
was apparently to be allowed only after
the profitability of the scheme was
assured. Now a “substantial” holding
may be granted as soon as the WA
venture becomes productive.
Consolidated certainly sets great store
on this iron project, which, Sir George
optimistically explains, is more in the
nature of quarrying than mining. Some
local comment attached a little too
much glamor to the rutile efforts. Here,
indeed, the company is succeeding with
its processes of rationalisation and seems
very well satisfied with the prevailing
world supply situation.
It also is proceeding with considerable
exploration for other minerals and even
holds out fascinating glimpses of further
strictly industrial expansion. But iron
looks like carrying the main burden of
progress over the next year or two.
Here capital investment may demand
about £24 million. Arrangements made
with the WA Government embrace a
deepwater port, two townships and a
125-mile railway. All tests confirm vast
reserves and ore of a satisfyingly high
grade.
Optimism is no mean phrase to use
where iron ore is concerned at this
moment. For some of the great national


steel industries are none too happy about
the course of the next year or so. Yet
Sir George sees an accession of strength
to the world economy. In particular, he
has no qualms for Japanese industry,
where most of the ore from WA will
finish up. Japan had always been the
goal, from the time when the deposits
were first being tested. Now much
closer negotiations have been taking
place with the Japanese steel companies
and prospects still appear good.
All in all, local investors can await
their chances of participation with
pleasure. They are certainly advised to
keep a weather eye on those interests of
Consolidated, especially Associated
Minerals, Wyong Minerals and Com-
monwealth Mining Investments, now
available through Australian share-
markets.
Kauri’s capital troubles
TAirectors of Kauri Timber Co. Ltd
already have the market’s answer
to their capital reconstruction proposals.
The shares last week were traded at
55., the proposed new par value after
exchanging the p’resent 20s. units for
the same number of ss. units in the
holding company. This price would
hardly support the next step —a five for
four par issue.
The company was negotiating to have
the issue underwritten. As it involves
£1 £ million, the underwriter would
need deep pockets, judging by today’s
market for debenture issues by superior
companies.
ONE TO BUY
ANTICIPATE MALLEYS' INTERIM
P\>r medium term capital appreciation
A from the modest level of 2s. 6d.
above par, the 20s. shares of Malleys
Ltd look a fair purchase.
Malleys makes more than 400 pro-
ducts for home and industry, notably
refrigerators, washing machines, gas and
electric ranges, kitchen and laundry
equipment, builders’ and plumbers’ hard-
ware. Factories in Sydney, Melbourne
and Brisbane provide most of the
group’s own manufacturing needs—deep
drawing presses, roll forming machines,
galvanising, enamelling, painting, plating,
plastic components and so on.
In Sydney and Brisbane the company
also acts as an industrial engineer,
specialising in industrial fans, air-con-
ditioning, metal acoustic ceilings, stain-
less steel and other metal fabrication.
An association which has already
proved valuable from a financial as well
as technical point of view is that with
the world’s biggest washing machine
manufacturer, Whirlpool Corporation, of
Michigan, USA. Whirlpool is also a
leader in other domestic appliances in
the USA.
At last balance date, June 30, 1962,
Whirlpool had £491,133 on loan at 6
p.c. a year to Malleys. This was in
accordance with an agreement made in
October, 1960. The loan matures in
October of this year, and Whirlpool has
the option to convert that loan to
ordinary shares, to an amount noil
ceeding 20 p.c. of subscribed
325. 6d. or market price, whicheveiU
the lesser, but at no less than 28s. F
As the business is very much dept
dent on the welfare of the home bi£
ing industry, in the financial year 19(£
Malleys suffered a severe reverse, p t( f
tumbling from £222,451 to
The usual 10 p.c. dividend was haliL
In 1961-62 good recovery was n|,
to £163,562, and the earning rate off
p.c. allowed payment of a 6 p.c, k
dend. The tax provision of £76,200%]
low by virtue of losses carried forsE
in subsidiaries. The higher depreciatfe
of £199,492 included £41,000 repress
ing a write-off of tooling costs. M
company readily reviews product a
ing to take advantage of advancesji
manufacturing technology. I
Washing machines must one day t
almost universally accepted, and f
trend to fully automatic models t
continue to stimulate sales. Our ir t
mation from the trade is that Mai f
Whirlpool models are doing extremjti
well. j
All NSW manufacturing proceJ
are now being transferred to v
Auburn plant, and this integration sficf
lower production and handling co|
The company’s three-year plan!
development was interrupted by the oil
of the recession, and Whirlpool if
indeed have been disappointed il
progress. |
But it is our conjecture that Mall
will report a sufficiently improved re*
in 1962-63 to warrant a step-upi
dividend to 8 p.c. The company will
anxious to see the shares move top
least 28s. to persuade Whirlpool to m|
in on an equity basis. If Whirlpool wi
draws, alternative finance—perhaps
other share issue—could be necessary!
This is not a blue chip to buy i]
tuck away with confidence. To buy oy
is to anticipate the interim report, |
tenor of which will be the clue to si
price movements for the following|
months.
Fielder’s higher objectives
Tn our issue of December 15, k
Fielder and Co. Ltd was stated!
having £211,591 in convertible n|
converting to ordinary shares at p®
the end of 1962.
In point of fact, half the notes »j
repayable in cash. The capital there!!
rises by £105,796 to £1,166,707. Aj
year’s dividend on this at 8 p.c. "1
require £93,337, ~plus £6,404 for|
preference capital. In 1961-62 the®]
ary dividend commitment was £BO,l
the world of business
"AH right, so it's a rat-race. I LIKE rats."


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
u
□
6
YEARS
□
o
FOR
12
MONTHS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
0
a
o
PA
FOR
6
YEARS
a
o
n
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
mmm
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
824 5 N
Details of another busy week are: —
| SOLD
1,00(1 Hanimex at 8/11 £435
100 AOG at 57/6 £284
1,000 Alliance at 1/5 £67
BOUGHT
1,000 Plastyne ctg. at 1/3 ... £67
1,000 Courtaulds options at 2/1 £lO4
1,000 Farmouts at 117 .... £B4
( a balance of £44 in the bank, my
portfolio now is:—
I-' Cost Cur-
It ot Nome ot Date Per rent
■ fnn S porpany Bought Share Price
in™ T ileys 3/5/62 20/9 24/-
•'MW Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/11
■Z ational Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/3
j Mar CUS Clark notes 22/6/62 27/6 42/3
loon p S . R ~ . 1/8/61 49/ - 57/9
140 n w l loyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/2
Z M a ? col 11/10/62 12/8 13/-
Z c Nl 9htmgale 17/10/62 14/11 18/6
Ton , T 0"? 1 2/11/62 7/7 6/6
200 feS & itChel ' 12/11/62 15/ * 16A
»eOOO ilr phson 14/11/62 16/6 17/6
f inn ct - 23/11/62 2/8 3/5
f3m u oiyrTlan Woods 26/11/62 1/3
M S rclen & Johnston 3/12/62 37/- 44/-
I ion Cl . ct 9- 7/1/63 33/- 34/6
W ti 9 D, y 7/1/63 57/6 60/9
? 400 CRT" 6 ' rts ' 7/1/63 2d - 2d-
iooo PI A 7/1/63 16/ - 17/2
1000 r° yne , , ct - 14/1/63 1/3 , 1/3
111,000 F oUrtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1 2/1
tarmouts 14/1/63 1/7 1/10
SPECULATOR’S
DIARY
IiTuDGiNG by the increased turnover, I
ij am not the only one interested in the
Lrlcet In fact, it has once again be-
come the sign of a gentleman to be peer-
ing at the Stock Exchange page as he
commutes to and from work,
r. i know what my broker is peering at
]L_the debit of £487 in my account. This
is not going to deter me from some buy-
ijng.
f My fir st choive was Plastyne, a manu-
facturer of plastic-coated sheeting, indus-
trial clothing with the very small
capital of £133,000. A very respectable
'earning rate of 19.6 p.c. in 1960 plunged
;t0 4.7 p.c. in 1961 and then to 1.1 p.c. in
7)962. An extension of this earning rate
|nd the company would be non-existent
in five years. This conclusion would be
the application of a loss-growth projec-
tion theory. Being practical, it seems only
fair that one should make adjustment to
this future trend. The company did well
to make any profit at all in the 1961/62
period and profits should show a substan-
tial recovery in the current period. In
particular, the company will benefit from
the emergency tariffs introduced last
year. Understandably, the markets are
quiet for both the fully paid ss. shares
and the contributing shares paid to 2s.
fed
■\ I remember now it was the tariff
factor that also influenced my buying
Courtaulds back in August last year at
11s. 9d. I subsequently sold them at 13s.
l;9d. in October. Now with the share
price at 155., I continue to hear favor-
able stories about record production by
this company. I finally settled for an
interest by taking a call option on 1000
shares for 6 months costing 2s. Id. per
share.
I paused at this stage to make a deter-
mined effort to think of what to sell and
finally took the coward's way out by sell-
ing 1000 of my 2000 Hanimex at Bs.
lid.


INVESTING IN BLUE PRINTING?
BY “SECURITY”
A comparison of two companies
which appear to be operating in the
same field is always interesting. Such a
comparison seems to be possible with
Max Wurcker and Drawing Office In-
dustries.
Max Wurcker (Holdings) Ltd was
formed in June 1953 to acquire Max
Wurcker (1930) Pty Ltd. The original
business was established in 1889, incor-
porated as a company in 1924 and re-
constructed in 1930.
Drawing Office Industries Ltd was
formed in 1951 to acquire Harding &
Halden Pty Ltd, a company which had
been formed in 1922 by S.C. & P. Hard-
ing of London. Another English com-
pany, J. Halden & Co. of Manchester,
joined the venture shortly afterwards.
Both companies are engaged in the
manufacture and distribution of sensitised
papers used in the reproduction of plans
and drawings and both provide the
various necessities of draughtsmen and
drawing offices. Both companies were
incorporated and have their registered
offices in New South Wales. Activities
of both had spread to Queensland al-
though in the case of Max Wurcker this
only dates from mid-1960 when Com-
mercial Blue Print Company Pty Ltd
was acquired. Drawing Office Industries
appears to have a branch in Western
Australia and in New Zealand.
Both companies were affected by the
“credit squeeze” and it seems fairly cer-
tain that the level of their activities is
very closely related to the level of busi-
ness activity generally. In the case of
Drawing Office Industries, the directors
reports of 1961 and 1962 refer to the
change of fortunes following the reduced
level of activity, and it would seem that
the company found that its stock level
was unduly high in the middle of the
1960-61 year. Some writing off was ap-
parently necessary in the following year.
The stock position so far as Max
Wurcker is concerned does not appear
to have been quite the same and that
company shows in its 1962 balance that
a stock reserve of £12,500 was held
equal to about 6i p.c. of stock on hand,
valued at the lower of cost or market.
Net working capital (the difference be-
tween current assets and current liabili-
ties) has always represented a large pro-
portion of total capital and therefore
the trends in the major items affecting
this figure are of some interest. The
following figures are an index based on
the average of the balance sheet figures
at the end of the financial year in 1955,
1956, and 1957.
Drawing Office Industries
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Debtors 117 128 169 141 148
Stock 105 115 112 140 107
Total current assets 109 119 128 140 121
Overdraft 242 195 126 295 95
Creditors 78 97 153 172 134
Total current liabilities 120 113 128 167 112
Net working capital 102 122 128 122 126
Max Wurcker
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Debtors 111 113 179 179 196
Stock 118 134 195 228 235
Total current assets 114 125 197 206 219
Overdraft 113 33 177 159 164
Creditors 64 94 123 164 163
Total current liabilities 100 92 168 184 197
Net working capital 135 173 238 268 289
Although the trends in the case of Max
Wurcker are clouded (by the acquisition
of Commercial Blue Print) from 1960
onwards, the upward and apparently well
controlled trend is far more marked
than in the case of Drawing Office In-
dustries. This suggests that Max Wurcker
has been achieving a better rate of
growth in total sales than has Drawing
Office Industries.
So far as profitability and earnings are
concerned both companies suffered over
the last two years but Max Wurcker
showed greater resilience and earnings as
a percentage of ordinary capital (after
adjustments) have now recovered to the
1957-58 level while Drawing Office In-
dustries is still well below. The position
is shown in the following table: —
Earnings p.c. of Ordinary Capital
Year , s nded in— 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Max Wurcker 21.2 23.2 26.7 20.0 22.0
Drawing Office
Industries 18.3 18.9 21.6 12.2 15.0
However, a more critical ratio is neces-
sary to judge the profitability of a com-
pany and the following table shows the
percentage of net profit before tax de-
preciation and interest on long term debt
to the total capital (net working capital
plus fixed assets, investments and in-
tangibles). Adjustments have been made
in this ratio for asset revaluations and
estimates have been made in respect of
acquisitions.
Year ended in— 1958 1959 1930 1961 1962
Max Wurcker 28.9 27.6 29.7 21.8 22.9
Drawing Office
Industries 21.1 18.9 22.5 12.4 15.3
The figures, however, suggest very
much the same sort of pattern for these
two companies as the pattern of earnings
to ordinary capital.
Returning to the earnings to ordinary
capital, it is somewhat disturbing to find
that neither company has shown any in-
crease in this ratio of the last eight years
(the period during which both were
listed). In fact, Drawing Office Industries
shows a decline. However, it must be
remembered that the last two years were
bad ones and not necessarily typical.
So far as the growth in dividend in-
come is concerned, Max Wurcker shows
an attractive growth rate of nearly]
per annum compound on average]
ing Office Industries on the other
was forced to reduce not only the
dend rate but also the actual div
payment in 1961 and 1962. Asti
nouncement of the bonus issue o|
for five in November 1960 said:
anticipated that subsequent to the!
issue, a dividend rate of 15 p, t
annum will be maintained,” it can
be assumed that after two years*
10 p.c. dividend the company isl
some difficulty in regaining the:
levels ruling prior to the bonus issit
Nevertheless, despite the fact tli
evidence from published inform
suggests that Max Wurcker hash
better performer than Drawing f
Industries the market has always favi
Drawing Office Industries over tit
five years. This is judged by tall
dividend yields and earnings yieldsl
on the last sale in November.
Dividend Yield p.c. 1958 1959 1960 1961
Max Wurcker 6.2 4.5 5.0 5!
Drawing Office
Industries 6.2 4.5 4.3 1!
Earnings Yield p.c.
Max Wurcker 10.6 8.4 10.6 81
Drawing Office
Industries 9.1 6.8 6.8 S.l
At the time of writing, Max Wo
are quoted at 21/6 buyer = 22/6s
with the last sale at 22/3 to $k
dividend yield of 5.6 p.c. and an ean
yield of 9.9 p.c. Drawing Office!
tries are quoted at 10/4 buyer =
seller with a last sale at 11/- to
a dividend yield of 4.5 p.c. and an
ings yield of 6.8 p.c. (i.e., the
price as at the end of November). I
it can be confidently expected thatD
ing Office Industries will return!
old 12i p.c. dividend rate this year
current price suggests that either
are over-valued or Max Wurd
under-valued.
It certainly seems that on its
record Max Wurcker should be f
higher than it is at the moment but
the last two years these shares have
risen above 24/3. If the shares
priced at the same times earnin
Drawing Office Industries they '
stand at 32/- with a dividend yi®
3.9 p.c. and in many respects this'
not be out of line with the div
income growth rate of the past.
However, in view of the recent I
suggesting that the industry is lik £
be a cyclical one it is suggested tl
the case of Max Wurcker investors
pay up to 25/3 for these shat
show an immediate dividend yield o
under 5 p.c. and an earning yi®
8.7 p.c.


n&i
■■rmTTTTi 111 ii i [ iiii i
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairman)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
Alternate Directors:
R. V. AGNEW G. L. A. DONOHOO
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
.
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MERALD AND WEEKLY TIMES
A PREMIUM IN EXCELSIS
The circulation strength of The Herald
an d Weekly Times Ltd is well known
L the home state of Victoria, and its
financial strength is recognised by the
share market in placing the ss. units at
|l2 times par. This is the highest
(premium on any non-mining stock of all
fisted shares.
A high earning rate has been main-
tained for many years, and a conserva-
tive financial policy has built up sub-
stantial reserves, hidden and otherwise.
! Investments are generally written
sdown to par value —an unusual practice
f so that the portfolio at latest balance
'date, September 30, comprised £4.7
million in listed shares at par, approxi-
mately £BO,OOO in shares and debentures
of other companies also at par, and
£375,000 in listed shares at cost. These
latter comprised a newly-acquired hold-
ing (15 p.c. of issued capital) in Davies
Brothers Ltd, proprietors of the Hobart
Mercury.
j The chief remaining listed invest-
ments would be in Australian Newsprint
Mills (Holdings) Ltd shortly to be
increased by a one-for-ten bonus, and
representing approximately 33 p.c. of
Tissued capital; in Queensland Press Ltd
'((approximately 40 p.c.); and in Adverti-
ser Newspapers Ltd (31.5 p.c.).
This gives the group security of news-
print supplies and minority (but sub-
stantial) interests in Press, radio and
television in Queensland, South Australia
land Tasmania.
All investments in companies dealt in
on a prescribed Stock Exchange appear
in the books at £5,065,979, or £11.9
million below the market value at Sep-
. tember 30. This “hidden” reserve is one
of the most influential bull points for
Herald shares.
The Herald owns 85 p.c. of the issued
‘(capital of one of Melbourne's two com-
mercial television stations and, judging
[by the experience of other public com-
panies, this would be an extremely lucra-
: five investment.
J The liquidity position is entirely satis-
factory, with generous working capital
v including almost £l.sm. in short-term
deposits, cash and treasury notes. There
g\ re no fi xe d term liabilities, a rare posi-
tion for big firms these days.
til . The trend of profits is somewhat
s jP ,s guised by charges made for asset
Replacement, which was, incidentally,
o |>mitted in 1961-62, and provisions made
jetr r fi l6 last two years (before arriving at
e profits) for development and invest-
ment fluctuation. Actually there were
sums written off investments to bring
them back to par and, strictly speaking,
should be considered as appropriations.
The declared profit for 1961-62 of
£1,444,983 would therefore be enhanced
to £1,851,788, and would represent an
earning rate of 47.9 p.c. on ordinary
capital. Tax and depreciation, were both
materially greater in 1962 than the year
before.
The first nine months of the year, the
company experienced lower advertising
but revenue picked up in the last three
months, and this trend continues into the
current year. A fall in newsprint prices
partly offset lost revenue. HSV-7 and the
Victorian radio stations 3DB and 3LK
had healthy profits. General printing acti-
vities were affected by lesser business
available early in the year.
First ventures were made into four-
color gravure advertisements in a daily
paper, creating wide interest. Both the
Herald and The Sun have by far the
biggest sales (for evening and morning
papers respectively) of any in Australia,
and the advertising rates are lower in
relation to circulation than any other
dailies, the company claims.
The program of installing new modern
press equipment was continued, and by
June 1964 the company will have put
in 61 high-speed printing units and 14
folders since 1950.
Reserves consist of £4,560,000 gene-
ral, £482,000 share premiums, £140,000
assets revaluation, £lOO,OOO provision
for development and investment fluctua-


tion, £2,029,000 undistributed profits,
£1,600,000 increased cost of plant repla-
cement, and £539,000 reserves on conso-
lidation.
When the last hand-out was made to
shareholders, a one-for-two bonus in
1958-59, the source was a freehold reva-
luation (made especially for the purpose)
and share premiums. The most likely
source of future benefits would be a
revaluation of investments which
would be a reversal of present policy of
writing them down or from share
premiums, although these at present are
not considerable.
The dividend rate could be increased
to 30 p.c. this year, as profits will un-
doubtedly reflect the higher business
tempo, and within a year or two from
now, the group could dispense more
favors. The shares at 60s. 3d. yield 2.3
p.c. immediately, and are no bargain,
but they represent quality.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
£'000
September 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 6640 7618 7805 7934 7172
Less current liabilities 2607 2667 2982 3670 3310
Working capital 4033 4951 4823 4264 3862
Investments 1198 3721 4199 4253 5148
Fixed assets 3589 4125 4558 5224 5443
Intangibles 303 53 53 — —
9123 12850 13633 13741 14453
Deferred liabilities 1250 513 577 584 617
Minority interests 113 113 131 139 159
Reserves 4924 8019 8721 8814 9448
Preference capital 400 400 400 400 400
Ordinary capital 2436 3805 3804 3804 3829
9123 12850 13633 13741 14453
Investment provision — — — 197 307
Replacement provision 250 250 250 175 —
Depreciation 427 518 561 510 627
Taxation 610 661 978 941 1014
Net profit 937 1038 1515 1513 1445
Net profit for ords. 912 1013 1490 1488 1420
Dividends 548 761 1046 1046 1051
Surplus 364 252 444 442 369
Earnings % 37.5 27.3 39.2 39.1 37.2
Dividend % 22\ 20 27J 2 7\ 27J
Dividend yield (a) 3.0 2.4 3.3 2.3 2.4
Price/earn. ratio (a) 19.6 30.3 21.3 30.3 30.3
High price (b£ 37/- 47/3 50/- 61/- 63/-
Low price (b) 25/6 23/6 40/- 41/6 52/9
(a) End of December, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
WHALE INDUSTRIES
NO MONSTER IN THE DEEP
llJhaling operations have been con-
'' ducted on the east coast of Aus-
tralia for varying periods almost from
the days of the first settlement. One of
the first centres of operations was the
now exclusive Sydney suburb of Mos-
man.
Later the colorful Ben Boyd operated
from his “empire” built around Twofold
Bay on the south coast of New South
Wales. But eventually every enterprise
has had to close because of economic
reasons.
Despite a form of international con-
trol, heavy overfishing in Antarctic
waters, the areas from which whales
travelling up and down the coast
migrate, caused an almost complete ab-
sence of the animals during the 1962
season, with little prospect of recovery
for at least 10 years.
Of the two companies operating, one,
Norfolk Island and Byron Bay Whaling
Co. Ltd., has gone into liquidation and
the other, Whale Industries Ltd., has
abandoned whaling activities altogether.
Whale Industries had been more suc-
cessful. It floated in 1951 with an issue
of two million ss. shares at par. It
operated a shore-based station at Tanga-
looma, on Moreton Island near Bris-
bane.
The plant was designed for two pur-
poses extraction of whale oil and the
manufacture of meatmeal and bonemeal
to be marketed by a separate subsidiary,
Hi-Protein Pty. Ltd. Another subsidiary,
Farm Margarine Pty. Ltd., was formed
to make and market margarine from
whale oil but this was not proceeded
with.
Operations began in 1952 with three
catchers. Over the next two years they
were very successful and in 1955 the
Tangalooma plant was expanded to give
a 50 p.c. lift in daily output.
Profits between 1953 and 1960 were
impressive, ranging from £105,722 to a
peak £188,434 in 1955 and £172,193 in
1960. Dividend rose from 6 p.c. in
1952, 10 p.c. in 1953, 14 p.c. in 1954 to
20 p.c. in the next six years. A two-for-
five bonus issue was made in 1959 with
dividend held on the higher capital.
Earning rate moved between 13 p.c.
in 1952 to 35.2 p.c. in 1955 and 32.1
p.c. in 1959. The earning rate after the
bonus was cut to 23 p c.
Despite its main interest of whaling,
the company also diversified. It acquired
a half share interest in Tangalooma Min-
erals Pty, a company formed to mine
rutile on Moreton Island (it never
operated profitably), formed Feed Lots
Pty Ltd, a cattle lot fattening operation
with F. S. Falkiner & Sons Pty and
bought the Gurley sheep and wheat
property near Moree for £600,000.
Following the latter acquisition, the
company made an unsuccessful bid for
Australian Wool Brokers and Produce
Co. Ltd in 1960. Twelve months later,
as whale stocks were beginning to
diminish, it also made a merger offer for
Norfolk Island and Byron Bay Whaling
Co. However directors of the latter com-
pany declined to accept the offer, and
declared a dividend, despite an earlier
decision to pass the payment, thus
breaching a term of the offer.
The 1961 season saw the first real
effects of the overfishing in Antarctic
waters. Despite a quota of 660 whales
the catch for the season was only 593.
In the previous year the quota was taken
in about half the season. Profit slumped
to £31,799 equal to 4.3 p.c. on c ,
and reserves were drawn on for £24
to meet the reduced H p.c. div r
charge of £56,175.
The 1962 season was disastrous'
pite daily airsweeps from Sydney
Tangalooma only 68 whales were t
and operations suspended. Operation
the year resulted in a loss of £220
and no dividend was paid.
Despite a writing back of £133
from reserves and <£50,000 over-p
sion of tax made in previous years.si
holders’ funds were reduced (
£900,032 to £729,491, giving the
shares a net assets backing of 4s, t
pared with 6s. in 1961.
With whale oil prices at an unpj
able level, with little prospect of iJ
vement, and experts’ opinion that#
stocks would not be regenerated toe|
omical levels within at least 10 1;
directors decided to sell the wha!
plant while some market still remaii
Sales began in October and indicati
are that the final loss on these will
about £100,000. In addition the tj
interest in Tangalooma Minerals I
sold for £35,000 which after alloJ
for a provision of £30,000 made fcj
possible loss, resulted in a small sura
over book values.
Gurley Station has now become
sheet anchor of the company. A total
11,000 acres has been prepared
wheat in the coming season. AlthoJ
the number of livestock carried]
been reduced the overall return has!
proved.
Feed Lots is not running as well
expected although directors conside
to be still in the running-in stage.
The company now has to decide*
it will do in the future — directorsi
considering a programme of recapitali
tion and of further diversification
these plums will not be available
several months.
The shares last sold at 2/6, 0
slightly above the low point of 1
touched in November. At this pricet
have speculative interest.
SUMMARY OF ACCOUNTS £'000
September 30 1958 1959 1960 196]
Current assets 679 405 524 506
Less current liabilities 284 312 354 455
Working capital 395 93 170 5]'
Fixed assets 359 772 722 772
Investments . 122 77 72 7/
Intangibles 32 32 — "
Total capital 908 974 964 JOO
Represented by
Ordinary capital 535 535 749 749
Reserves 373 439 215 W
Minority interest — — —
908 974 964 906
Depreciation 70 70 80
Taxation 80 105 100 3
Net profit 150 172 172 3 ;
Dividend 107 107 150 6“
Surplus 43 65 22 ~~
Earning rate p.c. 28.1 32.1 23.0 yj
Dividend rate p.c. 20 20 20 '2
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 8.0 6.1 9.5 “■
High 14/3 23/6 18/1J W
Low 11/3 9/4 9/9 «/-
(a) End of December.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
lMembers of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
S Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
Positions Vacant
LIBRARIAN
MARIST BROTHERS
HIGH SCHOOL,
KOGARAH, NSW
Qualified Librarian or Teacher-Librarian
to take charge of new Library.
If no suitable applicant for full-time
duties is forthcoming, consideration will be
given to the employment of several part-
time librarians.
Immediate task: to catalogue and index
3,000 new books.
Apply in writing giving details of
qualifications and experience to The Acting
Librarian.
All Souls' School, Charters Towers
Wanted: Master to teach Senior Physics
and Middle School Mathematics, com-
mencing January, 1963, resident or non-
resident, award salary, superannuation
scheme. For particulars apply Head-
master.
Missing Friends
MARY EMILY MOPFATT. Unless the
Public Trustee receives information of the
existence of Mary Etnily Moffat or Thomas
or McDonald or of any person claiming
through her on or before the 28th day of
February, 1963, the Public Trustee shall
proceed to distribute the estate of Arthur
Ernest Thomas deceased as if the said Mary
Emily Moffatt had predeceased the said
deceased without issue. The said Mary Emily
Moffatt was born at Lallat in Victoria in
1884 and is the daughter of John Thomas
and Mary Ann Thomas nee Gaylard. Inserted
by the Public Trustee for Victoria, 256
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
/ have 9000 shares in Federal Hotels,
which have slipped below 45., and 2000
Isas (NSW). What should 1 do with
t f iem ? H.S., Glen limes (NSW).
Without having any definite know-
ledge of Federal Hotels’ trading, the
behavior of the market suggests that the
company itself is in difficulties, and that
it is not just doubtful about the hotel
business generally.
At June 30, 1962, the company had
a huge overdraft of almost £750,000,
and current liabilities were three times
as great as current assets. Unfortunately
you have a very large parcel par-
ticularly as you do not appear to have
any other investments besides Isas
and this predicament is an illustration
of the danger of concentrating your eggs
in one or two baskets
We feel it would be advisable to sell
at least a portion of your Federal shares
now, as the situation could easily be-
come more serious.
Isas (NSW) Ltd's 20s. shares dropped
from par sometime in 1962 down to
14s. Now at 14/6 seller (but no buyer),
the shares could have bottomed. In late
November the interim report to Sep-
tember 30 was much more promising,
and you can expect some price improve-
ment. But we do not consider this a
very satisfactory stock - heavy equip-
ment distributors are always subject to
cyclical disturbances and on improve-
ment of the price, we recommend you
withdraw.
Australian Guarantee, or Deposit &
Investment, leading financiers, Ampol or
Woolworths would give you moderate
income returns —between 4 and 5 p.c.,
and much greater scope for capital gain.
★ ★ ★
I have held 5000 Whale Industries’
shares for about 10 years. 1 sold the
2000 bonus at 15s. 6d., and the rest owe
we nothing. / would like to sell and
gamble for capital appreciation in the
near future. Would Prasby and Aus-
tralian Beef be suitable?—R.H., Narem-
burn (NSW).
Your Whale Industries’ ss. shares are
currently around 2s. 6d. In December
‘ ist the company announced that, in
'fcctors’ opinion, the value of the net
realisable assets of the group was in
excess of paid capital. The shares should
therefore be closer to par, but of course
liquidation of whaling assets could be
a prolonged affair.
As you are apparently interested in
farming and grazing, Gurley station
should continue to be a valuable
possession of Whale Industries, and we
would not therefore venture into Aus-
tralian Beef.
Prasby has such a mixed bag of
interests that we would not recommend
it.
If you felt like an outright gamble,
you might consider selling enough Whale
Industries shares to buy 400 or 500
Freney Kimberley Oil Co. (1932) N.L.
shares. These are currently quoted
around 7s. 6d. for the 6s. units as against
the ss. 3d. shares of Associated Freney
selling for about 12s. 9d. and the Bs. 6d.
shares of Associated Australian Oil-
fields, selling for 375. 3d. The chief
assets of Freney Kimberley (which may
eventually be merged with Associated
Freney) are shares in Associated Freney,
which as you probably are aware, is tied
up with the Associated group, currently
having some success at Sunnybank. A
precise calculation of the present mar-
ket value of Freney’s portfolio of As-
sociated Freney shares is not possible,
but it would appear that the Freney
shares are undervalued in terms of
Associated Freney.
We would stress that this would be a
strictly speculative purchase.
★ ★ ★
In the hypothetical event of the Aus-
tralian currency being depreciated, what
effect would this have generally on the
values of various classes of shares listed
on Australian stock exchanges? — F.E.K.,
Avalon (NSW).
Should the Australian £ be de-
preciated, all stocks catering for the
domestic market would fall. Those
likely to best withstand the change of
circumstances would be companies
which sell on international markets,
such as the pastoralists, and the “bar-
riers,” Mt Isa and so on. Those com-
panies with big overseas subsidiaries,
like Henry Jones, would also be
relatively better off than purely Aus-
tralian companies.
And of course the gold stocks would
be in greater demand.


Feiffer
tfOiJ ' MO. LjOO
RRSf. FRST.
! I
I W.
I
cme Of].
OfOO Flfit
r m
mou
am r
im you.
. ams.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 728
ACROSS
I—LANDLORDS IN CANBERRA? (7, 7)
7—A very demanding, selfish, despotic character is
to live the lot and finish it. (2-3, 3, 3-3)
11— Negative weight is back. (3)
12— Mushrooms see dead and alive animal negatives
in France. (11)
15— One donated the century plant, (5)
16— Crack bloke having tea by the small piano. (4)
17— From a King of Mercia. (4)
19—A diffident gray. (4)
20— Responsibility bowling you
and me. (4)
21— Capacious bounder has my
following. (5)
23—Servants having an innings
against accurate bowling. (11)
26—Evatt fish is back. (3)
28—English lady Ned corrupted
without assistance. (6-8)
30—Wine of one who watches
racing, for instance. (9, 5)
DOWN
1— Taxi in- residence? (5)
2 In what state is the great
Chicago crook? (3)
3 Girl showing there’s nothing
up with the American prose-
cutor. (5)
4 Sample Rex arranged for
models. (9)
5 The Queen is taking a consi-
derable time. (3)
6 —A fashionable meeting place
arranged loans with Sarah
bowling. (5)
8— Black wool makes Hank a
star. (9)
9 Dye the turner of a lock
servant deficiency before you
turned up. (6)
10—Venetian barker going on to
the East. (4)
13— Put off the plane of Florence
first—dead wrong thereafter.
(3-6)
14 — Had to be found in a steam
yacht, but not above board.
(5)
15 — Induce some embarrassment
with an assault. (5)
16— Miss Horne is asked whether
I cannot name a song-like
instrumental episode! (9)
18—Medieval wars credit us with I
a Desmond. (8) *
22—Complacent trees come up.
(4)
24 Quadrupeds. (5)
25 A considerable time to muse.
(5)
27—Weep over the little physical
training vault. (5)
29—French born. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 727


FAMOUS COVERS...
IMPORTANT COVER STORIES
In 1962, THE BULLETIN not only reported news. It made news, too.
• A series of specially commissioned paintings were used on BULLETIN
covers during the year.
• About 10,000 new readers started to buy THE BULLETIN every week.
• After 82 years of presenting the world to Australia, THE BULLETIN
took wings, and by means of an air express edition, started to present
Australia to the world, first to New Zealand, later to Malaysia; soon it is
planned to go further afield.
• BULLETIN stories made world news. One of them, the story on the
plight of the Jews in Russia, had international repercussions, and by
focusing world attention on the problem went some way towards
solving it.
THE BULLETIN is proud of its achievements in 1962, confident that
it will gain more readers in 1963, and that it will continue to
expand its services to all its readers in Australia and overseas.
°U can be sure of your copy of THE BULLETIN
' Wee * b y filling in this subscription form. Or
can get a friend off to a good start in 1963
y 9 lVfn g him a BULLETIN gift subscription.
The Bulletin
The
Magazine for interesting people
The Circulation Manager, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
a. Please ask my newsagent to deliver/reserve THE BULLETIN for me each week.
b. Please post THE BULLETIN to the address below each week. I enclose cheque/
money order for twelve months subscription and postage.
Name of addressee
Address .
Signed
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year, £2/12/-; i year, £l/6/-, post free;
British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-. N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Re-
mit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year, £2/12/-; i year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.


af?9«!!SB@»sB<
m
'
s
■
■
■
\
. <?
•
Compared with any other luxury car ...
PREMIER OFFERS YOU SO MUCH MORI
for so much k
o pen the door on a new Premier. It looks rich . . . sumptuous
. . . inviting. And it has just about every luxury- appointment you
could possibly want to make motoring a new and delightful experi-
ence. Yet Premier can be yours for hundreds of pounds less than
other luxury cars. If you are a lover of fine cars, you should
drive a Premier. You’ll be impressed with its smooth, spirited
performance. With its superb comfort. With its wonderful silence.
Your Holden Dealer has a beautiful new Premier ready and
waiting for you to drive . . . now!
Mm
I mf-
z*.
‘regd.
Y 412
Premier is completely and beautifully appointed. Every Hol<
Premier comes completely equipped with world-famous Hy(
Matic* automatic transmission; individual front seats; top-grai
leather upholstery; heater-demister built into a front seat consi
deep-pile carpeting; door-pull armrests on all doors and a ce
armrest in the back; two-speed electric windshield wipers; w
shield washers; dual horns; glovebox and luggage compart®
lamps; parking brake warning lamp; back-up lamps; anti-glare l
vision mirror; chrome door scuff plates; Magic-Mirror
exterior finish; narrow band white wall tyres; chrome wheel
ornament; distinguishing badges; rear bumper over-ri
PRICE £-1,195 PLUS TAX
is&fa\dwr Holden Dealer . . . drive the K
LDEN PREMIE
GElilfi'RXdj MOTORS-HOLDEN’S PTY. L
Md
