

The Bulletin
jiifvE 15. 136S
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
mm
••'■liu .M" I.M'ET.JT'II n by m m 4S?


Princeton
FILTER
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
■
TOASTED
after action
sdf
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
*Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Lid.


National Notebook
Say When
Newman of Melbourne Rotary
A has just returned after taking a team
of six social and economic experts to
Papua-New Guinea. He told Melbourne
newspapermen that some of the temper-
ance bodies were extremely active up
there. On the backs of buses one could
see a poster which depicted a great
glass of beer with “Say No” written across
it.
There was one drawback to this.
Papuans were entering the pubs to ask
for a “no”.
How the Cookie Crumbles
With the takeover of Brockhoff’s of
" Melbourne by Arnott’s of Sydney
it looks as if the biscuit-making business
in Australia will remain largely a
family assortment. Less than a year ago
Arnott’s took over another Melbourne
firm, Guest’s, also in the main a family
concern.
The fantastic multiplicity of varieties
on the grocers’ and supermarket shelves
will remain. It is only since 1959 that
shoppers have had such
choice. Until then a
gentleman’s agreement be-
tween Arnott’s and the
main Victorian biscuit
bakers not to invade each
other’s territory had been
honored. Then Arnott’s
registered in Victoria and Swallow and
Ariel’s retaliated by coming into NSW,
with, incidentally, disastrous results.
Arnott’s latest move seems to forestall
the rumored American takeover of
Brockhoff’s or Arnott’s itself. The Ame-
ricans were anxious to move into the
baking business here, but simply could
not find out how the cookie crumbles.
Although Arnott’s are heavy advertisers
they are extremely publicity-shy. They
have always said that as a private com-
pany they need tell their business to no
one, and the Americans simply could not
find out enough about costs and profits
to buy with safety. Under the new Com-
panies’ Act Arnott’s will now in due
course have to publish a balance sheet.
One remarkable example of their
anxiety to preserve the character of a
family business is that the proportion of
New Australians to Australians on the
staff is maintained as nearly as possible
to the proportion of New Australians to
Australians in the total population. Ar-
nott’s don’t want a staff of New Austra-
lians, but, on the other hand, they don t
want it thought they are without a sense
of national responsibility, so they strike a
balance.
Art Enterprise
A RT enterprise has gone as far as Bow-
ral, the still rather exclusive moun-
tains resort in the Southern Tablelands
of NSW. Recently a young Estonian-
born artist, Tiiu Reissar, showed 43 oils,
watercolors and drawings in disused
showrooms in Bong Bong Street. “My
friends told me there are plenty of rich
people in this district and they said, too,
that not many of them have original
paintings in their houses,” she said.
Miss Reissar’s prices were from 52
to eight guineas and some of the paint-
ings showed red stickers, but the artist
had to sit, half-frozen, with her own ex-
hibition for a week and listen to the not
often kindly criticisms of the local gentry.
Music In My Ears
/Continuing our saga on the strange
behavior of Melburnians during the
football season, the PMG now runs a
football telephone service.
So far Melbourne is the
only city to receive the
honor. Ring 6051 and for
100 seconds you will get
the VFL, the VFA and
the soccer scores.
During the first' week
12,561 people called up for the scores
over the weekend, but oddly enough
14,718 continued to call during the week.
At first the PMG put this down to curio-
sity, but 13,412 called during the second
week and the figures promised to be the
same for the third week. Why, when
newspapers, TV and radio had shrieked
the results all the week-end, held endless
post-mortems, would people still want to
call 6051 on Wednesday or Thursday?
The only possible explanation: just for
the pure music of hearing an official
voice announcing the victory all over
again. We mentioned last week that it
was possible to buy tea-towels in club
colors so that father could dry the dishes
in the club design dearest to the heart.
Now the Gas Fuel Corporation has co-
operated superbly. It is marketing stoves
in the club colors. The first to appear
is the Melbourne Football Club stove
in rich blue-and-red stripes. It is very
nearly as unbearable as a Bengal stripe
shirt, but if everything in the kitchen
is in the same motif, then you wouldn’t
really notice, would you?
Page
VATICAN DILEMMA .... 14
Waiting for the White Smoke
•
Mr Calwell’s Nostalgia 6
Murder Will Out? 18
Hamlet: The Play’s the Thing ... 17
Calm in Kenya 22
The Australian Dictionary of
Biography: Why I Resigned,
by M. H. Ellis 25
The Australian Impressionists ... 32
Genius and Sadism in Japanese
Films 36
A Page of Poetry 41
Inside Darkest Hollywood 42
f
Farmers Stumbling Towards Unity 45
Debenture Confidence Needs a Lift 46
Food Makers Face Takeover Fire 51
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND AROET 16
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM . 25
LETTERS 34
REVIEWS 36
FEIFFER 40
RED PAGE 41
MAN ON THE LAND 45
WORLD OF RUSINESS ... 46
CROSSWORD 68
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Str, • - Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0656 Ext 330-
Vol. 85
No. 4343


Protege
Oix months ago Robert Evatt of the
Dominion Gallery in Sydney noticed
some pain ings by Geoffrey Hooper
among amateur offerings by a sketch-
club which were being given wall-space
in part of the gallery for a short time.
He took the Hooper canvases out of the
collection and buttonholed the 18-years-
old artist. The result has been that
Hooper has been able to cast aside com-
mercial art and paint exclusively for
Evatt. His first exhibition opened last
week and established him as the artistic
discovery of the week, or the day, or the
hour. In the morning papers a fresh-
faced Hooper declared that the reported
first-day sales of £1250 “seemed like a
dream from which he would soon wake
up.”
However, most of the financial risk has
been Evatt’s. Hooper told us that he had
been working under an arrangement with
the gallery by which he took in his work
periodically. Anything the gallery liked
it paid for right away.
The gallery had bought about 40
paintings and about 20 of these had been
sold to clients before the exhibition.
Hooper said he didn’t know how much
Evatt got for the paintings, but the bene-
fits of the enterprise seem to have been
mutual.
As a result of his six months’ work
Hooper has bought a sports car which
takes him and his surfboard to the north-
ern beaches from his home in Belfields in
the Western Suburbs. “But I’m not a
surfie,” he said. “Look, my hair is short
and it’s not bleached, it’s just fair.” He
told us that the newest addition to the
surfboard rider’s equipment is a rubber
frogman-suit which enables all-weather
riding to be undertaken in comfort. He
does not know how much these cost, but
thinks he can afford one.
Hooper’s paintings are colorful, rather
romantic representations, not of the liver-
colored brick and greyed stucco of the
Western Suburbs, but of Redfern and the
inner suburbs. His Redfern streets, part
from life, part from imagination, are
peopled with flat-faced, bare-footed child-
ren whose skin-tones, ranging from white
through brown to black, hint at marvel-
lous miscegenations.
What About Einstein?
poor matriculation results obtained
by students of the Jewish school in
Melbourne, Mount Scopus, seem to be
exercising the minds of some Jews in
that city, but what can be done about
them or whether anything should be
done is another matter. Dr. Frank
Knopfelmacher, lecturer in psychology
at Melbourne University, has a long
article on what he thinks about it all
in the current “Jewish Herald”.
Dr Knopfelmacher believes that a
comparison should be made between Mt.
Scopus and “comparable private non-
Jewish schools such as Melbourne
Grammar, Scotch College, Wesley Col-
lege and Xavier College.” However, he
believes that some delegates to the
Victorian Jewish Board of Deputies ; who
has also associated with the school, are
“ignorant of the basic sociological and
statistical concepts and methods involv-
ed” in getting such comparisons.
Just to show what he means, Dr Knop-
felmacher repeats some arguments used
by members of the School Board.
For example:
1. We are a Jewish school promot-
ing Judaic values. It is beneath our dig-
nity to compare ourselves with other
schools, to come to other headmasters
and humiliate ourselves by asking them
for information.
2. The college enjoys the benefits of
a uniquely magnificent transport system.
The sight of all those buses congregating
in the school grounds, day in, day out,
has induced tears of joy and enthusiasm
in one member of the council.
3. Examinations are not important.
4. Physics results do not matter to us.
Einstein, too, failed in Physics.
Dr Knopfelmacher writes that his
own “purely intuitive and therefore rather
fortuitous guess would be that no indivi-
dual can be blamed, including the head-
master, and that the weaknesses are due
to certain culturally debilitating features
of our community, such as cultural con-
flicts between the generations, second-
generations, migrant alienation and in-
security, social mobility, and break up
of our ‘shtetl’ and ghetto communica-
tions and communal organisations.”
The “Jewish Herald” says that the
Mount Scopus Board of Governors will
next week give a “short reply” to all this.
"The new currency is simple to
work out.
"It is quite easy, for instance, to
discover the ratio . . .


External Issue
A series of stamps for the Cocos Is-
lands is being issued this month. The
islands have been using Australian stamps
since Australia took over the adminis-
tration in 1955, but now the islands will
fall into line with Australia’s other ex-
ternal territories.
Australia issues stamps for the Ant-
arctic Territory, Christmas Island, Nauru,
Norfolk Island, and Papua-New Guinea.
These stamps are designed in Australia
and usually printed by the Reserve Bank
in Melbourne, where Australian stamps
are printed, but for some reason are
generally much better than the mainland
issues.
The Cover
/Tur cover this week is Sir Arthur
Streeton’s noted “ ‘Fire’s on!’ Lap-
stone tunnel.” Streeton was a leading ex-
ponent of the style which has become
known as Australian Impressionism. Our
color portfolio is devoted to other
paintings from this period, which was
roughly turn of the century. Artists in-
clude Tom Roberts, Charles Conder, J. J.
Hilder, E. Phillips Fox and F. McCubbin.
Originals are all in the Art Gallery of
NSW to which our thanks are due.
Because of repeated demands for ad-
ditional copies of previous portfolios, we
have arranged for special supplies of this
portfolio of the Australian Impressionists
and of some of the future planned series
to be run off. They will be sold at Is.
each, plus 3d. postage, on application
to Color Inserts, The Bulletin, Box 2521
GPO, Sydney.
Tanner
. . of a Bob to a Royal."
PLAIN ENGLISH
CLEANING UP THE WATERFRONT
FT is almost certain that nothing will be done to bring lasting stability
to the waterfront at this week s peace conference between ship-
owners, waterside-workers, the Australian Council of Trades Unions and
the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, under the chairmanship
of Dr P. Cook of the Department of Labor. There will probably be some
agreement to the effect that watersiders will 'behave themselves” and
in return get the -Y>d. an hour rise recently granted wharfies in all sorts
except turbulent Sydney and Melbourne. This will simply mean drat
while there will be a truce on the waterfront the wharfies’ leaders can
use any such agreement as further evidence that “militancy” pays; which
means that fairly soon there will be a further set of major strikes on more
or less phoney issues.
There will, it must be said, be no genuine stability on the waterfront
until two basic problems are solved. The first, which needs no under-
lining, is the control of the Waterside Workers’ Federation by Com-
munist officials who hope never to see the waterfront stabilised. The
obvious solution here is to get rid of these officials.
The second basic problem is not sufficiently understood. Some
instability in the stevedoring industry is inevitable. However high their
rates of pay may be, the men are uncertain from day to day whether or
not they can get work; they rarely know ahead whether the work will be
steady, hard or easy; they are particularly subject to redundancy through
automation.
While appreciating this in general terms the authorities rarely seem
to show it in their tactics. They prefer to try to but/ peace with higher
wages rather than take the necessary radical steps. Mr Justice Ashburner’s
recent decision, for example, to withhold the wage increase from Sydney
and Melbourne watersiders until they showed evidence of goodwill was
a particularly unfortunate decision since it gave the Communists a
genuine industrial, non-political cause which commanded the support of
the whole trade-union movement.
In the long run, peace may result from some scheme whereby water-
siders accept automation in return for the security provided from an
automation fund financed by the shipowners. But, meanwhile, a real
step forward would be made if waterside-workers were given a
guaranteed weekly wage and guaranteed pensions. This would take
much of the Communist-exploited insecurity out of the job.
ROYALS, CROWNS AND CENTS
THE Prime Minister’s choice of royal motivated by his own strong
emotional and political convictions —as major unit in the new
decimal currency suggests an attitude strangely out of touch with
popular feeling and today’s political realities. The choice of crown is
natural enough and sanctioned by continued usage. The choice of cent
is odd. There is no reason to believe that we could not successfully have
adapted a decimal system of 100 pennies to the royal and no reason to
believe that as in the United States the cent will not continue to
be known popularly as a penny in any case. Mr Calwell’s dark threats
that a change of government will see a change of decimal coinage names
is silly. The present nomenclature is not to everybody’s taste but to
change it at some future date would not only lead to confusion but make
the country look foolish. <


THIS AUSTRALIA
POLITICS
Calwell’s Nostalgia
versus Reality
The new book
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
ARTHUR CALWELL
out of touch
amrni
A s always happens
when Calwell
prepares his mind—
as he obviously did before writing
“Labor’s Role in Modern Society” he
displays here none of the authoritarian
streak that he sometimes displays when
he is caught in a situation which he has
not thought through. This is Calwell at
his most attractive. Through the pages
shines the fervent, dedicated Australian
nationalist who as Minister for Immi-
gration in the Chifley postwar Govern-
ment, overcame immense difficulties
and prejudices deep-seated in the Aus-
tralian community to become the architect
of one of the greatest mass movements of
people in peacetime history and to help
build the Australia of today. His nation-
alism here has none of the fanaticism
that produced the Sergeant Gamboa and
other incidents which estranged Austra-
lian relationships with Asia and marred
his reputation as an Immigration Minis-
ter.
In some ways Calwell in this book
is a voice from Labor’s past. This is
also seen in Calwell’s view of socialism.
Socialism to the Labor traditionalist is
a social atmosphere rather than an
economic doctrine. The Labor tradition-
alist unlike the Marxist does not regard
anything as inevitable except possibly
birth and death. Man can improve his
lot by trying to. As Calwell, describing
the reasons for the improvement in
the Australia of his mature years over
that of his boyhood, says “Men and
women were sensible enough to see that
they were not the blind pawns of any
theory but that human action could con-
sciously ameliorate human condition
. . . They did not believe they were
victims of a blind fate nor did they
care whether the prophets of doom came
from Manchester or Moscow.”
In yet another way Calwell shows
that he is in the Labor tradition of prag-
matic flexibility rather than the pro-
duct of a doctrine. While claiming that
“real and grinding poverty” which only
Labor can cure still exists among some
sections, he nevertheless acknowledges
the “real prosperity” that exists when
the overall picture is examined and the
“larger share of the total wealth which
has been put in the hands of the wage-
earning classes” . . . “We recognise that
the structure of society has changed con-
siderably in the past two decades” he
says. “And from realisation of these
facts flows a recognition of the need
for a restatement of the basic prin-
ciples of Labor in tune with current
circumstances.”
Not that Calwell even in this gentler
mood does not have a lash at his Liberal
opponents. He puts a finger shrewdly
upon the weakness of the non-Labor side
that is theoretically dedicated to a mini-
mum of state interference while never-
theless using the state to interfere when-
ever political necessity dictates. Prime
Minister Sir Robert Menzies “One
of the most politically astute minds that
Australian politics has produced”
as Calwell accurately and tartly com-
ments is “enough of a realist to be a
socialist when necessary.” To this ex-
tent Calwell acknowledges Menzies as a
cautious reformer rather than a con-
servative who, in Calwell’s view, came to
power as a champion of free enterprise
banking but under the pressure of politi-
cal compulsion shackled, successfully and
without compensation, the same banks
which former Labor leader, the late Ben
Chifley, had tried to nationalise with
compensation.
As I see it this is an honest book
trying to convey an honest viewpoint
and a book that should be read by any-
one interested in studying how traditional
Labor attitudes and outlooks color men
who were raised in them and still hold
to them unflinchingly. But the book is
a more accurate picture of Calwell at
his most attractive and of traditional
Labor viewpoints in today’s contest than
it is of the Labor Party as it exists to-
day. This might account for Calwell’s
incapacity to deal with the problems
created by the presence of forces now
powerfully entrenched in key positions
in the Labor Party but giving allegiance
to other values than those which are
the outcome of Labor tradition.
Calwell in his book seems to be des-
cribing the Labor Party as he would
wish it to be or as he believes it to be
rather than as it is. Just as he shows no
comprehension of the fact that the
Communist Party sometimes varies its
tactics of opposing Labor head on
(which he can see) and switches periodi-
THE FENIANS
80 Years Ago: June 16, 1883
fact that it is proposed to send
the Fenian “informers” to West
Australia, shows how utterly ignorant
the Colonial Office is of the provinces
under its charge. West Australia
abounds in expirees, tickets-of-leave,
exiled Fenians, etc., amongst whom
these “informers” would lead a life
that would be a veritable hell upon
earth; that is, supposing they were
allowed life at all. Of all places Aus-
tralia is the last spot to which they
should be consigned, and the Western
colony the most unfit in that unfit
place.
T’-he Epping (Tasmania) murderers
(Ogden 29, and Sutherland 18)
were hanged on the 4th inst. by the
Hobart executioner, old Solomon Blay,
who has during his career as hang-
man put to death over 100 persons.
Neither of the convicts slept during
the night. Sutherland’s step on the
scaffold was firm. Ogden, who looked
very boyish and carried a bunch
of flowers, trembled violently. His
mother says that reading a “History
of the Kellys” incited the lads to
crime. Both died instantly.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
196 1
¥ t N T A. t * b
»f,NK f.HOVr.ftS
OOBURY ESTATE
kite burgund ll
M-4 AS
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
sir
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
cally to infiltration (which apparently
he cannot see) he seems to have no
comprehension of the modern change in
relationship between Labor’s Parliamen-
tary and Machine wings. He claims that
after 70 years’ experience the predic-
tion that Labor would develop into “a
monolithic party with orders being
handed down from above for the ob-
sequious obedience of those below” have
been disproved.
Calwell’s assessment was probably
correct until comparatively recently.
But the old tacit partnership between the
Labor parliamentary party and its mach-
ine has gone. The machine in the shape
of the ALP Federal Conference is now
unmistakably the all-powerful body.
Calwell says: “If we were a mono-
lithic party there would be no room for
differences.” Nowadays that is precisely
the position. The orders are “handed
down from above for the obsequious
obedience of those below.” When the
ALP Federal Conference or Executive,
now very much “above” any other
Labor Party body, gives the order that
is the end of the road. There is no room
for differences as recent events in-
cluding the obvious subservience of both
the party leader and the Federal Par-
liamentary Labor caucus as well as the
disciplining of individual parliamentar-
ians have too obviously shown.
ELECTIONS I
Labor Pays
for Bundaberg
“You can't win with Leftist leadership ”
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER NICKLIN
A great victory
crushing blow that Queensland
electors gave to the Australian
Labor Party in the June 1 triennial
election not only shocked veteran ALP
men but surprised even the Country-
Liberal Government with its force.
No sensible Labor man had expected
his party to win the 15 seats needed to
put the ALP back into power. But
neither did Labor expect a smack in the
eye. Unofficially, on election eve, ALP
men talked of a gain of seven or eight
seats with some close contests in some
others. The party’s main election plug
was unemployment. But the Govern-
ment’s win was so decisive that it was
clear within 90 minutes of the polls’
closing that it had been returned with
a comfortable working majority.
The election was a strong indication
of the swing by Queensland away from
the ALP since the 1961 Federal election.
At that poll, Queensland, usually a State
which has voted predominantly for the
Liberal-Country Parties in Federal elec-
tions, swung to Labor and nearly toppled
the coalition non-Labor Government.
The Government’s win was particularly
noticeable in Brisbane where an ALP
City Council was swept into office in
1961 to give a pointer to the Federal
election held later in the year. On the
basis of the State election figures, the
Labor administration would lose power
in the April, 1964, Council election.
Labor, on this vote, should also lose
four Federal Queensland seats and pos-
sibly six.
Since this was the first State election
with compulsory preferential voting, the
Government would have been assured
of a win with the distribution of Queens-
land Labor Party preferences if there
had been any doubt. But the Govern-
ment was never in danger. Preferences
will be decisive in only four seats. They
were still being counted at time of going
to press, but at the worst, the Govern-
ment will have a net loss of only two
seats in a 78 - member Legislative
Assembly. The Government picked up
from the Queensland Labor Party
Leader (Mr Paul Hilton) his South
Queensland seat of Carnarvon.
Hilton came out of retirement to stand
after submitting a letter saying he was re-
tiring because of ill-health. He had held
the seat since 1932, but had not been
able to cover the electorate for 18
months. (The successful Government
candidate nominated under the impres-
sion that Hilton was not standing.)
The ALP’s chances undoubtedly were
affected by public disgust with the Left-
wing take-over of the State Labor
machine at February’s Bundaberg Labor
convention. As in Victoria Labor has
no hope of winning an election while
Leftists and pro-Communists run so
much of its policy. Federal Labor’s
fumbling over the United States base in
Western Australia also contributed to
State Labor’s poor showing. The Gov-
ernment campaigned on these factors
and on its record of State development.
The message is clear.
The QLP, which is linked with the
Democratic Labor Party, had 11 mem-
bers in Parliament before the 1960 State
poll. In the new Parliament, it will have
only one representative, Mr L. Diplock.
Two former QLP Parliamentarians, Mr
E. J. (Ted) Walsh (Bundaberg) and Mr
“Bunny” Adair (Cook), successfully
stood as Independents.
ELECTIONS II
Man in Grey
FROM AN SA CORRESPONDENT
Calivell has been warned
TTow, in a now heavily-industrialised
electorate, did the Menzies Govern-
ment manage to gain votes reducing
Labor’s outright majority of almost
7000 in 1961 to little over 1000? There
are a number of reasons. Firstly, the


large “popularity vote” enjoyed by the
former Labor member, the late Mr Rus-
sell, swung substantially towards the
LCL’s personable candidate, Mr Vern
Dyason. As an individual, Mr Dyason
undoubtedly had more appeal than the
rather earnest watersider, Mr Jack Mor-
timer. More importantly, because of his
faithful service, Mr Russell had the sup-
port of a considerable number of tradi-
tionally Liberal voters. Mr Mortimer, a
militant unionist, would have had little
appeal to these voters, and many re-
turned to the Government fold.
The ALP’s apparently shabby treat-
ment of Mr Russell’s daughter, Miss
Esme Russell, also must have influenced
the voting. The ALP rejected Miss Rus-
sell in favor of Mr Mortimer, and then
pressured her withdrawal when she
sought to stand as an Independent Labor
candidate. Her withdrawal caused some
ill-feeling towards the ALP in the elec-
torate.
Both these personal reasons influenced
the voting trend, but there were other
factors involved. A good season and
greater economic stability in this mixed
outback and city electorate raised the
Government’s stocks. At the moment,
Grey has one of the highest employment
rates in the Commonwealth. Higher wool
prices and increased overseas wheat sales
must have helped the Government, and
its White Paper, published on election
day, suggested further economic improve-
ment.
Then, the Government carried out its
most intensive by-election campaign in
SA. The. Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, twice visited the electorate,
holding meetings at Port Pirie, Whyalla
and Port. Lincoln. He was supported by
a team of four Federal Ministers and
about 30 Federal Liberal Members of
Parliament.
This team carried out a doorknock
campaign on some 3000 homes in the
scattered electorate of about 46,000 vot-
ers. Cartoonists had a field day as politi-
cians in planes, buses and cars roamed
the electorate, which covers more than
half the State.
But probably the main factor was La-
bor's shilly-shallying on the North-West
American communications base, which
left a bad impression and must have lost
the party many votes. The Liberals won
a majority of votes in Woomera, revers-
ing last election’s figures.
In the end, the industrial expansion of
Whyalla and Port Pirie in recent years
gave Labor the necessary votes. How-
ever, the result must be a heartening one
for the Government, for it made sub-
stantial inroads into a Labor stronghold
of 20 years. For the ALP it must be a
time of severe stock-taking. Calwell has
been warned.
CHURCH
Barton Babbage in the
Land of Opportunity
No silence from the Dean
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
DR S. B. BABBAGE
Wider fields
A ustralia will miss Dr Stuart Barton
Babbage when he leaves for USA in
August. Babbage, now 47, was the
youngest Dean in Melbourne’s history
when he was installed at St Paul’s Cathe-
dral just under 10 years ago, but he
brought with him a reputation for hard-
hitting public comments which he had
earned in the six years he spent as Dean
of St Andrew’s in Sydney. New Zealand-
born and with experience as a curate in
England, a chaplain in Scotland and with
the Royal Air Force in Persia, the rever-
berations of controversies he touched off
in Sydney echoed in Melbourne and
beyond. His parting comment on Sydney
in 1953 was that as a city it was “not
very sinful just pagan”.
Dr Babbage came to Melbourne early
in 1963 to be head of the Ridley Theo-
logical College in Parkville, and became
Dean later in the year. He graduated
MA at Auckland University College and
took his Ph.D. in London, history being
his field. Back in New Zealand, he was
a schoolteacher for a time, before
studying for the ministry.
The breadth of his conception of the
Church’s role in the modern world led
him into numerous rows. He attacked
mothers-in-law, saying that some of them
had a “pernicious and damnable” in-
fluence on the homes of young couples.
He assailed Douglas Annand’s 60 ft.
mural "Search For Truth” which deco-
rates Wilson Hall at Melbourne Univer-
sity as “godless”. There followed a dis-
pute over whether the figure on the
University’s crest is an angel or a winged
symbol of victory.
Emphatic on the sanctity of marriage
vows, he nevertheless urged that his
Church should go so far as to hold bles-
sing ceremonies for couples who had
remarried after divorce. In 1957 he
described the federal ban on Salinger’s
Catcher In The Rye” as an “act of
incredible ineptitude”.
For all his firm opinions, he was a real
liberal. He opposed the 1951 attempt to
outlaw the Communist Party, saying that
it was a move to amend the Constitution
permanently to deal with a temporary
need. A year earlier he had denounced
the NSW Peace Council as a puppet
organization of the Communist Party.
Years later he reacted to the 1955 split
in the ALP by attacking the Roman
Catholic Church for the part it had
played in the affair.
“Communism is a monstrous tyranny
more ruthless and oppressive than any-
thing the world has ever known. But the
fact is that Catholic Action has sought
the subversion and domination of the
Labor Party under the guise of fighting
Communism.”
In July, 1961, he was dismayed by the
terms of Archbishop Gough’s allegation
that Sydney University lecturers were ad-
vocating free love. “It would be alarm-
ing,” Dr Babbage said, “if in a university
a man was forbidden to speak the truth
as he saw it.
He crossed swords with the Methodist
leader, Dr A. H. Wood, in 1954 when
the latter urged that Australia should
outlaw nuclear tests on its soil. Dr Bab-
bage did not agree. So long as the tests
were confined to defensive and not
aggressive planning, they should con-
tinue. Otherwise the free world would
be defenceless.
In 1959 he became a sponsor of the
now famous Congress for International
Co-operation and Disarmament held in
Melbourne. Before the Congress opened,
he withdrew on the grounds that “some
of those who are acting as organising
secretaries are active members of the
Communist Party” who were perverting
the Congress for political ends. When
the Congress split, he presided over the
breakaway meeting of young delegates
who documented the modus operand! of
Communist control in it.
For more than a decade he has hit
hard at the White Australia policy. He
described Mr Calwell’s application of it
under the Chifley Government as “ruth-
less”.
He has been an unsparing critic of
what he sees as intellectual laziness in
Australians, particularly young ones. He
considers that standards of theological
training here are conspicuously lower
than in England or the USA. “From the
point of view of influence and import-
ance,” he once said, “the Presbyterian


WE sometimes wish that hotels were still
called hostels. The older word empha-
sised the importance of the host, whom
Christopher Anstey described in 1766: “He wel-
comes at once all the world and his wife. And is
civil to folk he ne’er saw in his life”.
Lately there’s been another development. The un-
fortunate word has degenerated from hostel through
hotel to motel”— a cold, impersonal word, it seems
to us though it does express a modern necessity:
convenient, near-at-hand parking.
Please don t think of us as a motel, but here at the
Southern Cross we have taken a great deal of
trouble to provide for the needs of the motoring
guest, too.
You drive right in off Bourke Street, into the
car park in the basement. You check in there, with-
out having to register in the main lobby. An auto-
matic, personal lift whisks you straight to your
room. Until you’ve had time to shower and change,
you don t meet anyone except the man who checks
you in. Come in your most casual clothes if you like.
Forget your car during your stay at the Southern
Cross: you won’t need it. A plaza of 70 excellent
shops is part of the hotel. Melbourne’s five city
theatres are all within a block of the Southern
Cross. And the business and professional world is
at your doorstep.
Because we offer you the convenience of a motel
in the centre of the city, you may feel tempted to
call us a hotel-motel. Please don’t. There’s only so
much messing-about a word can stand.
Church heads the list here. Roman
Catholic and Methodist achievement is
impressive but Anglican performance is
well down the scale.”
Last year he was a guest professor at
Columbia Theological Seminary in the
US and this largely formed his decision
to shift himself and his family to the US
indefinitely. (His 20-year-old daughter
remains to finish her university studies.)
His new post will be as professor of
Christian Apologetics at Columbia and
one attraction is that it will leave him
a lot more time for writing. This six-foot,
chubby-faced, energetic Dean, with his
disciplined blend of Christian tolerance
and uncompromising determination, will
be missed.
He is leaving because he feels his new
position offers both challenges and wider
opportunities. It will give him access to
a large number of campuses and he is
relishing the chance to work among stu-
dents and to project his ideas into a much
wider arena than even that which he
established for himself in Australia.
BUSINESS
The Big Biscuit
Preparing for invasion
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
While the strongly family-flavored
" Australian biscuit industry has been
ripe for capital infusion and rationalisa-
tion these many years, the merger
announced last week between Arnott’s
and Brockhoff’s, the two leading propri-
etary companies in the business, seems
more a brave attempt by local companies
to get into a position either to withstand
the on-march of overseas interests into
their territory or to come to terms with
the internationals as a united force.
As a result of the fusion with Brock-
hoff’s, the group now has about 70 per
cent of the Australian biscuit market.
For, say, Nabisco (National Biscuit Co.
of New York) which last year bought
out Griffins, the biggest NZ biscuit-
maker, or Westons, which has already
made rapid progress in Australian
market, to get this in one meal, they
would have to pay a far higher price
than by gobbling up the hard-pressed
proprietaries one by one.
It is no idle rumor that at least
Nabisco has its eyes on the group. It
has recently been looking at both
Arnott’s and Brockhoff's separately and,
incidentally, Swallows and Ariell, which
has about 9 per cent of the market
(Westons and Peek Frean shares most of
the rest.)


COMMUNISTS
Aarons’ First Test
The Underground Opposition
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
L. L. SHARKEY
A spent force
A cting and looking every inch a leader,
Mr Laurie Aarons arrived in Mel-
bourne recently to clear up the last vestige
of Ted Hill’s opposition to the new pro-
Khrushchev Victorian apparatus of the
Communist Party. Now, more than three
weeks later, some weighty opposition still
remains.
The Victorian State Conference, held
over a month ago and which was plan-
ned to wipe out Hill and his adherents,
succeeded in clearing the opposition from
official positions on the State Committee.
This was not remarkable inasmuch as
Conference delegates were handpicked
for their allegiance to Sharkey and
Aarons. To make certain of obtaining a
majority, there were over 150 delegates
this year, compared with last year’s 98.
Despite the meeting being stacked, Hill
still received 16 votes.
By and large, events turned out as pre-
dicted in The Bulletin of April 20.
Fifteen of Ted Hill’s supporters were axed
from the State Committee. Included
amongst these were John Arrowsmith,
long-time country organiser; Harry Boc-
quet, one-time youth leader; Ted Hill
himself and Frank Johnson; Vic and
Vida Little; and the seemingly indestruc-
tible Flo Russell.
Of the opposition still remaining the
most dangerous is in the trade unions.
Tramways Union secretary Clarrie
O Shea, Gordon Lewins of the Painters’,
and Paddy Malone and Norm Gallagher
of the Builders’ Labourers’ Federation
are still actively pro-Hill. Dr G. O'Day,
journalist Duncan Clarke and solicitor
Cedric Ralph likewise refused to leave
the sinking ship. A few branches are
also proving intractable.
But this was expected and is not
causing Aarons too much concern. What
is worrying him in this his first real test
as leader (for Sharkey is now a spent
force), is the underground opposition.
On the crushing of this opposition much
of his future authority will depend.
The party is emphatic in its view that
Ted Hill leads this opposition. Some of
its most damaging propaganda appears
in the Rank and File circulars it has
been issuing. (These are not to be con-
fused with earlier circulars under similar
headings which, while purporting to
support Hill and attack Sharkey and
Aarons, were in fact designed to
embarrass Hill). The new circular,
recently distributed, appeals to “those
comrades who continue to be hood-
winked by the pretence of Democratic
Centralism being practised by the
Aarons/Sharkey clique.” The circular
claims that there are members of the
Central Committee who “are becoming
aware of the traitorous role being
pursued by the present leaders of our
Party.” (In a pleasant non sequitur the
circular goes on to say that this is
proved by the fact that at a recent
Central Committee meeting “one com-
rade was incapable of attending through
over-indulgence in alcohol.”)
Claude Jones, who recently visited
Victoria as a hatchet man for the
Sharkey-Aarons group, is singled out for
a special attack. The Rank and File
group claims that Jones was in close
association with the Chinese delegation
at this year’s congress of the Italian
Communist Party a revelation which
will do Comrade Jones no good. The
circular also claims that Laurie Aarons
has moved his brother, Eric, to a key
post in Sydney. “Comrade Laurie, who
has so bitterly denounced Comrade
Stalin on the cult (of the individual)
should look to himself in a self-critical
way.”
In amongst its tittle-tattle, the circular
does make one telling point. It draws
attention to the fact that the Peking
“People’s Daily” has published material
from both sides of the present rift in
world Communism, whereas the Aus-
tralian Central Committee has sup-
pressed the Chinese views. (Australian
party members, however, can obtain
Chinese statements quite easily. The
Chinese publishing and propaganda
agencies in Peking are willing to send
them free to any inquirers.)
Apart from these circulars, the Rank
and File committee has also reprinted
and circulated the now famous editorial
from the Peking “People’s Daily” of
February 27 entitled “Whence the Dif-
ferences? A Reply to Thorez and Other
Comrades.” This runs to 22 pages, but
the committee has simplified the task of
reading its turgid jargon by underlining
the key passages. Together with the
editorial, it supplied an attack on Mr
Khrushchev. This took the form of
printing in parallel columns his attack
on Tito at the East German Party Con-
gress in 1958 and his defence of Tito’s
regime at the January, 1963, congress
of the same party.
The party is becoming increasingly
worried about the Rank and File com-
mittee whose circulars are gaining wide
distribution. Some of the recipients
have, as asked to do in the circular,
passed it on to other party members,
thus aggravating the discussion in other
States, notably South Australia and
NSW.
Aaron’s future authority will depend
on his ability to crush this opposition.
ECONOMIC SURVEY
Treasury’s Budget Hints
A Report too good to be true
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Treasury’s view of the economy
expressed in its “The Australian
Economy 1963” issued last week may
be a bit too good to be true. It sees
no clouds in sight and, except for some
unacceptable streaks in the labor situa-
tion, thinks all those obscuring our prog-
ress in the last few years to have rolled
away. It fails to recognise business has
not been kicking on in its recovery, ig-
nores the limping pace of investment,
and understates the persistence of caution
in personal spending.
‘'Looking at things broadly,” it says,
‘'it is hard to see any substantial grounds
for lack of confidence in the period
ahead.” Emphasis is placed on the pos-
sible trend of demand from now on.
This is right enough. But although the
possible sources of increased income are
mentioned, only the broadest attempt
is made to estimate their strengths.
For instance, it is recognized that in
addition to the rise in incomes through
increased employment and higher wages
(including more overtime), “the public


*/■
f
m
w
»:
V.
Pi
m
mi
■
wsfl
.
Far-seeing manufacturers
are looking to
SOUTH AFRICA
"Side-tripping" to South Africa, on your way to (or
from) Europe/U.K., is a very logical thing to do. Firstly,
it enables you to investigate personally today’s excel-
lent export opportunities in South Africa and her
northern neighbours. Secondly, it offers wondrous
sight-seeing opportunities (such as Kruger National
Park) —a welcome break from the beaten tracks of
traditional routes. And finally, it costs as little as
£15.10.0* in extra air fares, including S.A.A.’s Boeing
a
Stratojet service between London and Jo’burg.
Your travel agent has full details.
S.A.A., in associafion with Qantas, operates twice-
\fortnightly services between Australia and U.K. via
South Africa and Europe.
*Economy class from Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart.
Slightly more from other Australian capitals.
V 4
The
SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE
route to U.K./EUROPE
El
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
In association with Qantas, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. and E.A.A. saa6s/25.nat
is' holding very large cash balances and
there is room for large increases in per-
sonal credit in various forms.” But no
clue is given* as to if and when the
public will drop its cloak of caution in
spending, surely the most critical of all
factors affecting the business outlook.
The implication is that spenders will
let their hair down in good enough time
and that therefore any Budget stimulants
to spending are going to be
scribed. There is possibly a hidden hint
in this of official suspicion that the pub-
lic has only to let this inflationary po-
tential loose in spending channels to
wreck both stability and the Govern-
ment’s attendant hasten-slowly policies.
But, as the Treasury obviously feels
things are going very nicely in the econ-
omy, presumably Mr Holt will keep on
playing cat and mouse with the private
sector on this score, putting his money
on Sir Roland Wilson’s sense of timing,
albeit the latter hasn’t been very good
in the equally important (though under-
estimated) matter of stimulating private
investment, for which a cut in company
tax is long overdue. Pep talk in Trea-
sury surveys, coupled with higher in-
vestment allowances, has so far not
proved strong enough to get private in-
vestment off its recession ground.
Treasury philosophy for the next five
years is also centred very largely on its
confidence in the self-raising potential
of the private sector (not an altogether
unacceptable angle on things these days,
when business is possibly inclined to look
too much to Canberra to provide its in-
spiration as well as its crutches).
But, as Professor R. I. Downing said
in Melbourne last week, it is proble-
matical whether the rate of growth is
rapid enough to get the envisaged up-
surge in immigrant-intake satisfactorily
accommodated without more vigorous
action by the Government to promote
development.
RESOURCES
The Japanese Pioneers
What Australians Don’t Know
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
A ustralian ignorance of accessible re-
sources was dramatically revealed
recently when a disabled Japanese fishing
boat was towed in to Hobart. After the
Japanese-born wives of three Hobart men
came forward to act as interpreters, it
was learned that the Japanese had been
fishing on tuna grounds 300 miles south-
east of Tasmania —grounds which Aus-
tralians had known nothing about.
The Japanese were a mine of infor-
mation on deep-sea fishing in general
as well on Australia’s own off-shore
fishing grounds. In the waters around the
continent, it seems, the Japanese are now
taking an annual haul of tuna which
exceeds in weight an entire catch of all
types of fish caught by all of Australia’s
fishing boats! Shark fins for the Chinese
market are a valuable bonus catch, and
presumably they don’t throw other vari-
eties back into the sea.
Hobart’s professional fishermen en-
viously noted the superb equipment of the
visiting vessels. They have radar, echo-
sounders, gyro compasses, radio direc-
tion-finding apparatus, refrigeration for
the fish and good accommodation for the
experienced crews which spend extended
periods at sea on their long expeditions.
Each of them, one fisherman calculated,
would cost £300,000 to build in Aus-
tralia and equip for sea, with special
winches and other gear to handle the


IkII *
■| ■ i
ra :
■ ;
.
MMKS
1
lilllll
■■ ■ '. ,
-
- ~
.:■ . '■■;■'■•:•■ :■: ■ '■' .' ' ■_, :7-- :•:
; ; :’ '-V:
: .
.
m
■
EXPERT
—B
s;.
EXPORT
Penmanship
MMN
'
.
:
■
'
MM.
:
V 7 ;: • :
. .
: ' - •;
.■
: pr 1
m
tf.
': ■■■< ■■■:•..'
fv: J
: :V :■ ::
■
■
:*. ; J
Qantas helps Australian pen manufacturer write up record export sales
The W. A. Sheaffer Pen Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. exports a staggering 70% of its Australian-made writing
implements. Faced with world competition even from its own parent company, this vigorous Australian
“off-shoot” has always been supremely air-minded. For example, it air-cargoes with Qantas all consignments
of Sheaffer pens and pencils to the Far East, obtaining a special commodity rate which compares most
favourably with shipments by other means. Plus the added advantage—speed. Same-day or next-day
delivery is vitally important, as frequently many of these small merchants are undercapitalised. They carry
only limited stock of Sheaffer pens but thanks to Qantas Air Cargo they can get more in, at short notice.
From Sheaffer s point of view, this means that replacement stock flows in before the gap can be filled
by competitive products. Happy consignor, happy consignee. One Chinese merchant exclaimed with
unoriental fervour, Sheaffer is my No. 1 pen pal. Other manufacturers should see the writing on the wall.”
mm AIK CARGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
14 GOOD REASONS FOR USING QANTAS AIR CARGO:
1 Low special-commodity rates.
2 Increase use of production facilities and
equipment.
3 Reduce time in which capital is tied up
in goods in transit.
4 Meet unpredictable demands and
emergencies.
5 Reduce client’s inventory investment.
6 Reduce risk of inventory obsolescence.
7 Reduce investment and operating
expenses.
8 Reduce distribution costs.
9 Reduce risk of loss, pilferage, damage
or spoilage in transit.
10 Reduce packaging costs.
11 Enhance control or management of
goods in transit.
12 Reduce insurance costs.
13 Airfreighted samples steal march on
competition.
14 Qantas and its associates operate more
than 100 flights a week into and out
of Australia.
SPECIFY QANTAS TO YOUR
AIR CARGO AGENT, OR CALL
QANTAS AIR CARGO TODAY!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air Indio. 8.0. A C S/\ /\
and TEAL.
GAC.92.FP8.63


tV tinklin Sm Us k O J-fnase,,
'
m
3*
(OS
w
£
(T) Callum's
L^
Scots (ilhisky
A'-srMJiCiL~
3E&.
MC 4b.65 %
the harmony
of an age old
Scottish blend
the
perfection of
a product of Scotland ... of her soil,
her rivers, her very atmosphere.
miles of lines. The lines are up to 60
miles long. The Japanese expect to aver-
age three or four tuna from every hun-
dred of the innumerable hooks with
which the lines*are set. The tuna are
mostly in the range up to 120 lb. and are
not generally of a type valued for the
Australian market.
The reports stirred Tasmanian fisher-
men, but the high capital outlay and
the heavy wage bills for Australian ves-
sels must dampen the initial enthusiasm
for cropping Tasmania’s tuna pastures
commercially and profitably.
Experienced fishermen are inclined to
agree that the Japanese can more profit-
ably handle a lot of the fish at 7000 miles
range than we can on our doorstep.
THE RSL
That Man Dawson
" Not welcome in the club ”
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
HThe RSL’s rule forbidding membership
-*■ to Communists and Fascists has
often been a source of hilarity to Com-
munists many of whom are still mem-
bers of RSL clubs. But the League’s
decision in Brisbane recently to ban a
prominent Communist (a tomato-juice-
drinker) from its top club, the Anzac
Club, has sparked off quite a major
public controversy.
Known as the “Dawson Incident”, it
involves Mr G. M. Dawson, State secre-
tary of the Building Workers’ Industrial
Union and Queensland Trades and Labor
Council basic wage advocate.
The Anzac Club, immediately opposite
the Wickham Terrace entrance to the
Trades Hall, had become a regular meet-
ting place for almost all Trades Hall
officials and their friends. The other
day, Mr Dawson had several drinks of
tomato juice with a number of men,
when a club official asked him if he
were “Mr Dawson”. When he said he
was, the official told him he was told by
another official that he was under in-
structions not to serve him, and that he
was not welcome in the club. Mr Daw-
son and his friends immediately left.
Last week, the incident was discussed
at the Trades and Labor Council execu-
tive meeting, but it has been reported
that, at Mr Dawson’s request, the exe-
cutive decided that no action be taken.
Indications were, however, that union
officials would withdraw their patronage
from the Anzac Club. Mr Dawson has
declined to comment.
Non-Communist union leaders have
protested to “The Courier-Mail” at the
club’s barring of Mr Dawson' because of
his political beliefs. They claimed they
had no political “truck” with Mr Daw-
son, but they said the club’s action was
inconsistent with its general policy. It
was a licensed club, they said, but it
broke general licensing rules by serving
drinks to members of the public “who
wandered in from the street.”
These non-Communist unionists, re-
ported to be among Queensland's most
prominent, though they would not give
their names, continued “While most of
u-s don’t agree with Mr Dawson’s politics,
and while we agree with the club’s rights
to say whom it will sell to, we think it
can’t break the laws of the State and
then enforce its own peculiar laws on
the grounds of a man’s politics.” Other
union leaders said the club had given
overnight accommodation to a prominent
Communist recently.
One said: “They have Corns drinking
there all the time, and don’t know it.”
They claimed that they had drunk regu-
larly in the Anzac Club for two years
without signing a visitors’ book and
without accompanying a member. “We
have regarded it as our pub,” they said.
The secretary of the Anzac Club, Mr
G. Angell, said Mr Dawson was properly
asked to leave the club, since the club’s
and the RSL rules forbade membership
to “Communists and members of sub-
versive organisations.” He said he denied
“flatly” union suggestions that the club
was an “open-door pub”. Licensing rules
that a visitor be accompanied by a mem-
ber and sign a visitors’ book were rigidly
policed.
But “The Courier-Mail” reported near
the week’s end that one of its reporters
entered the club unchallenged and, with-
out signing the visitors’ book, ordered
and drank three glasses of beer at the
club bar. He entered alone and left the
bar unchallenged.


Rome Newsletter
Dilemma in the Vatican
Wanted: a Pope who will die in 10 years time?
From DESMOND O’GRADY
Wanted: A cardinal in good health
who will be dead in 10 years’
time. It is too bluntly put, but
a similar thought must engage those
gathered in Rome to elect a successor
to Pope John. The 20-year reign of Pius
XII was too long, the four years of John
too short. A brief reign would be
insufficient for shaping a comprehensive
policy, while a lengthy one would run
the danger of losing touch with a rapidly
evolving world. These considerations
already delimit the choice of a Pope.
Most likely he will be a cardinal
between 65 and 75 who enjoys reason-
able health. Before considering the
other delimiting factors it is worth
noting that the Conclave will be verv
different from that which elected Pope
John in 1958. For one thing, John
created 52 cardinals, and a greater pro-
portional increase in cardinals from the
amprinne than of Fnrnnpan*
Amencas than of Europeans.
Top cardma s from the two Americas
now number 19 rather than 11 while
Europeans have increased since the last
Conclave from 19 to 27 Because John
in r< r U< ? 6 , . C c rU f, a f ac , . I ? eW
cardinal would have to be made a bishop
,f he was not already one, this ,s the
rs one ave in w ’ c a e P a 1
An
Fcimenioal Council and l ° SC 0n &
Will he a continuation of it" Thr’ca? 6 "’*!
will dc d continuation or it. The Council
enabled bishops who knew eaeh other
Ft; nomp to opt to Loo™, 000
other and to see each other at work.
-
Cardinal Gilroy, for instance, pre-
viously was only a name to many, but
his efficiency and fairness as a Council
President made a splendid impression
on the whole assembly. Similarly, other
bishops either rose or fell in esteem, so
the members of this Conclave have
assembled with a better knowledge of
one another than those of the Conclave
after Pius’ death.
Some of the 82 candidates can be
discounted from the start. The cardinals
from the new and peripheral nations
who represent small or struggling
Catholic communities cannot be given a
chance.
More or less the same can be said of
the Americas: Latin America represents
the Church's under-developed area, while
the United States has too categoric a
place in world affairs for one of its
cardinals to be elected Pope with ease.
j n these last few vears Richard Cush
‘V last /f w years Kichard Cush ‘
ing, because of hls i.beral attitudes and
apostolic m,datives, has displaced
Francs Spellman as the most prominent
cardinal ,n the States, but Cushing is
a sick mam Paul Emile Leger, Arch-
1S °P ° ontreal. Canada, may have
some support but, apart from other
factors, at 59 he ,s probably too young.
It seems likely that the Pope will be
a European, but it is unlikely that he
vv ' d K ’ English, Irish, Spanish, Portu-
SUeSe ’. German ’ Frcnch °r front an Iron
purtHin r*onntr\/
Mindszenw cluid ”? ?o e f Card '" al
Mindszenty could not come from his
0l^ tlon , lead . the Church > whj le
Cardinal Wyszynski has such a delicate
role in Poland it is difficult to see any-
one taking his place. The primates of
both England and Ireland recently died,
so that the two countries are represented
only by aged curial cardinals, respectively
William Heard, 79, and Michael Browne,
76.
Spain and Portugal are isolated
politically, while Germany and France
have too much political prominence. The
French hierarchy is possibly the most
advanced in the Church, but it is also
advanced in years, four of the eight
French cardinals are over 80, two are
while the two youngsters, Richard
and Lefebvre, who are 76 and 71, are
tbe . * east extinguished,
regarcs t e ermans, ar ina
ose nn § s ’ ° ° U °| U u
some backers among the libera s, but he
£ ] 6 and balf blind - whlle JuI,US
ner ’ a „ °’_ 1S to ° ' oun °' .
be sma^er European countries sue,
as Austria, Belgium and Holland have
m<jre chance Q S f seei thejr cardina|s
made p than the bi Powers .
Franziskus Koenig. Archbishop of
Vienna, is a progressive leader whose
diplomatic abi nt y was rated high enough
by the Vatican for it to entrust him with
the recent tiations re2ardin Car-
dina| Mindszenty. No cardinal enjoys
higher esteem in Rome than the Primate
of Belgium, Leo Joseph Suenens. He is
admired for his intelligence, his swift
and balanced judgment his theological
i • . . . . . r r .. TT
learnm S and hls c ' e P‘ a h 01 feelln *: . He
emerged as one of the most judicious
and decisive figures at the Council, but
he has only 59 years and Koenig onlv
58.


- The Dutch Cardinal Bernard Alfrink
has fostered a notable advance by the
Church in Holland, he has a broad
historical and religious culture, and at
63 is closer the desired age than either
Suenens or Koenig. The last non-Italian
Pope, Adrian VI, who died in 1520,
was likewise from Utrecht.
Although all these non-Italian can-
didates may fail for one reason or an-
other, there is still a possibility of a
non-Italian Pope from among the Roman
Curia, the central bureaucracy of the
Church. Cardinal Bea, who was con-
fessor of Pius XII, became second in
importance to Pope John through his
inspired direction of the Secretariat for
Christian Unity in recent years, but his
age (82) and health make it likely that
the German Jesuit will continue in his
present post.
The director of the Church Missions,
Cardinal Gregory Agaginian, may have
the best chance of any non-Italian of
being Pope. He was highly quoted before
the last Conclave for his theological
learning, his knowledge of the mission-
ary and Middle Eastern World, his
diplomatic ability, his linguistic skill and
his cosmopolitanism: Armenian by birth,
with a French education, he had long
experience of Italy and, most import-
antly, of the Curia.
He is said to have lost his opportunity
last time because in the canvassing
before the Conclave he would not give
any assurance regarding his Secretary of
State should he be elected. Roncalli
assured the conservative group that he
would retain Tardini as Secretary of
State, and this convinced the conserva-
tives that there would be a continuance
of Pius’ policies. Now 68, Agaginian
would in many ways be an ideal choice,
although there have been reports of his
suffering a weak heart. Agaginian would
seem most suitable to direct the new
contacts with Communist regimes and to
encourage the unity of the Orthodox and
Catholic Churches which was one of
John’s unfinished works. Furthermore,
he would be aware of the inevitable
influence of Papal actions on Italian
politics, but he could give his attention
to his wider mission.
The Italians
HThe necessity to understand the Italian
political scene may favor the election
of yet another Italian Pope. The possibil-
ity of an Italian Pope is further strength-
ened by the fact that the proportion of
non-Italian cardinals is slightly lower now
than at the last Conclave.
The outstanding figures of the con-
servative current of the Italian cardinals
are Ottaviani, of the Curia, and Siri of
Genova. Ottaviani is 73, almost totally
blind and identified with extreme re-
action; Giuseppe Siri is too young at 57,
but this group may advance a candidate
such as Ildebrando Antoniutti, who is
65, and after his years as Nuncio in
Madrid may have the support of many
of the Spanish hierarchy.
A compromise candidate may gain
votes from both the conservatives and
progressives. Two Curia cardinals have
shown sufficient independence from the
rigid conservatives to qualify for this
middle-of-the-road vote. They are Paolo
Marella, who is 68, and Carlo Con-
falonieri, who is 70.
Marella succeeded Roncalli as Nuncio
in Paris after 15 years in Tokio and 11
in Washington. He has Ottaviani’s
esteem, but also considerable support
from the French hierarchy, which
indicates his ability to win support from
opposed currents. Confalonieri, as Sec-
retary of the Consistorial Congregation,
which handles the government of bishops
and dioceses, has world-wide contacts and
popularity.
The Progressives
Penally, there are the candidates of the
A progressive current who might be ex-
pected to continue Pope John’s work.
Giovanni Urbani, 63, has gained atten-
tion in recent months until now he is
one of the three leaders of the Italian
progressives. It is not merely because
he is Patriarch of Venice that many see
him as John’s successor. He has
fostered the liturgical movement with
success in his diocese, he has sustained
John’s teaching, and now has said it is
the task of the next Pope to continue it.
The second of the Italian progressives
is Giacomo Lercaro, who is 72. When
Pius XII made him Bishop of Bologna
about 10 years ago he attracted attention
by his audacious social teaching and his
spectacular methods of apostolate; he
used flying squads of priests on motor-
cycles to carry the Gospel to the Com-
munist-voting workers of his diocese.
When his candidate, Dossetti, was de-
feated by a Communist in the adminis-
trative elections Lercaro suffered a
severe setback from which he profited.
He abandoned his previous methods to
reorganise his diocese and renew it
internally. His new tactics consisted of
a deepening and extension of liturgical
life and Biblical culture, backed by the
research of the best-equipped centre of
religious sociology in Italy.
Lercaro’s speech at the Council, when
he reminded the assembly that the
Church must be the Church of the poor,
had a deep effect. He is talkative and
affable; he was quite in character in his
last appearance on television when he
was taking part in a feast in Bologna.
Young boys were sloshing confetti in
his face and he was laughing his head
off while awaiting an opportunity to hit
back.
Giovanbattista Montini, the Arch-
bishop of Milan, figures as the favorite
for this Conclave, as he did for the last.
He was Under-Secretary for State under
Pius XII, who appointed him to Milan;
so he has both curial and pastoral ex-
perience. John showed him particular
regard by making the apartment of the
late Cardinal Canali in the Vatican avail-
able for him during the Council. But
though Pius and John recognised Mon-
tini’s outstanding talents, there are con-
siderable doubts as to whether he will
be elected.
He Who Enters a Pope . . .
1%/foNTiNi is something of a Hamlet,
who is still debating whether to be or
not to be. Both in his political references
and his apostolic attitudes he seems to
vacillate. Although he is still highly
quoted outside Italy and at 66 looks the
logical choice, his stocks have fallen.
The European progressive bishops co-
operated with Montini during the Coun-
cil, but they were somewhat disappointed
in his own performance, which they
considered too cautious.
The cross-currents and the number of
candidates in each group may tell to the
advantage of the compromise candidates
such as Marella and Confalonieri. For
the first time, because of a new ruling by
John, the cardinals’ tallies and an
account of the voting will be kept, but
they will be stored in the Vatican secret
archives. All the public will learn will
be the name of the 262nd successor of
St Peter when the white smoke curls up.
Almost inevitably there will be a
slowing down in the renovation initiated
by Pope John. John himself proceeded
cautiously in his first months in office,
and it is only natural that his successor
should have a settling-in period. Apart
from that, it is likely that there will be
a period of less energetic policy-making,
but the impetus John gave to the Church
can hardly be stopped; and it seems
almost certain that another Council will
be convoked within a year to continue
the work already begun.
It was typical of John that in creating
new cardinals he did not stack the
college with men of his own ideas; so
the election is most open. There is a
Roman saying that whoever enters a
Conclave expecting to be made Pope
leaves it as a cardinal. Whoever leaves
it as Pope is assured of a place in history,
if not in Heaven; if the new pontiff
equals his successor he can be assured
of both.


mmHaHrmtss <9
- 4mm
-^Sr)
* \
EVERYTHING GOES...
AHSETT
\HEIGHT
■XPRESS
GETS THERE ON
TIKE
DAILY
scheduled services to all capital cities. Co-ordinated
road, rail, sea and air transportation.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 9 4091
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
8736
OUT AND ABOUT
Murder Will Out?
Poison favors murderers ...
By GORDON HAWKINS
(Senior Lecturer in Criminology, University of Sydney)
The Sydney City Coroner, Mr J. J
Loonies, had barely finished express-
ing his appreciation to almost everyone
who took part in the Bogle-Chandler in-
quest when very different sentiments
were heard from other quarters. The
finding “that Gilbert Stanley Bogle and
Margaret Olive Chandler . . . died from
acute circulatory failure,” was greeted
with a chorus of words like “unsatis-
factory”, “disturbing” and “disquieting”
from editorial pens.
..... , ...
Various inferences were drawn: that
, . ~11 „
there exists an undetectable poison , or
at least one which our Sydney experts
are unable to detect , that a hitheito un-
suspected and serious flaw in our law
enforcement organisation has been re-
vealed; even (in front page banner head-
lines) that a Royal Commission into NSW
' Al , 5 , ,
police methods is needed.
r
Yet even if we assume, what on the
evidence we are not entitled to assume.
that Dr Bogle and Mrs Chandler were
murdered it is doubtful whether these
inferences are justified. At the most one
might say only that the negative result
of the inquest in such circumstances ex-
emplified certain general truths which
although possibly disquieting are _ not
novel; and are certainly not restricted
in their application to New South Wales.
L. C. Nickolls, the Director of the
Metropolitan Police Laboratory at New
Scotland Yard, admits candidly in The
Scientific Investigation of Crime (1956)
“that is is probable that poisoning is still
as successfully practised as it always has
been in the past”. More recently Dr J. D.
J. Havard in his authoritative The Detec-
tion of Secret Homicide (1960) states:
, . 0
Measures to combat the scourge of the
murderer have been singu]ar i y un .
successfuL Neither the penalities for
poisoning in the Middle Ages nor the re-
strictions on the sale of lethal drugs, etc.,
j n mo dern times have diverted the secret
killer from his purpose.”
T £ . . ~a . ... ~ ,
In fact the immense difficulties which
~,,.4 . . . . ,
may be involved in toxicological analy-
sis and the identification of poisons for
forensic purposes are universally recog-
nised. This applies even in cases where
the analyst suspects what drug has been
administered. Two recent cases, one
English and one Australian, illustrate
some of the difficulties even when sorne-
thing as unsubtle and easily procurable
as rat poison is involved.
In Merrifield (1953) —a case of poison-
ing with phosphorous (contained in
Rodine) it was revealed that the
symptoms of phosphorous poisoning are
indistinguishable from those of necrosis
of the liver and further that the phos-
phorous may become oxidised leaving
nothing to be found not normally present
in the body.
In Fletcher (1952) a case of poison-
ing with thallium (contained in Thal-
Rat) one victim was found, after
both autopsy and a toxicological analysis,
to have died from polyneuritis, the
symptoms of which closely resemble
those of thallium poisoning. The strong
resemblance of the symptoms of
poisoning to those of natural death is
of course a common feature of such
cases. Another is the tendency of some
poisons to be quickly eliminated from
the body. Even in the case of barbiturate
poisoning if the victim survives for a
sufficient period after administration (48
hours say) the drug may well be eliminat-
ed or so broken up by the metabolic
processes that none can be identified in
the body.
In the case of the chlorates and bro-
mates a long time may elapse between in-
gestion and death with the result that the
poison may disappear and not be re-
coverable by analysis.
In respect of the Bogle-Chandler in-
vestigation we have to take into account
the fact that in the post-war years there
has been a tremendous increase in the
number of new synthetic drugs the
properties and effects of which are not
fully known and for which specific tests
have not been devised.
Many thousands of new chemical sub-
stances and compounds, all of them more
or less toxic, are produced every year;
and little or no research has been done
on the toxicity to man of many of the
newer insecticides, selective weed killers
and chemotherapeutic agents.
It is of course possible that Professor
Thorp’s experiments might have been suc-
cessful had the pathological samples been
refrigerated at the time of the post-
mortem. Hindsight solves no problems
however, and it should not be too diffi-
cult to ensure that in future this procedure
is followed.
But much wider implications are raised
by this case, for although homicidal
poisoning presents medico-legal investi-
gators with one of their most formi-
dable challenges it would be a mistake
to regard it as quite unique in this respect.
There are a variety of modes of killing
including suffocation. strangulation,
drowning, coal gas poisoning and electro-


m
U
I
■ ■:
il
I
I
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses front
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SF with Fl.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £ 90.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C 3348
c'ution which may leave no signs of ex-
ternal violence and thus give rise to no
suspicion. The Chief Medical Examiner
of New York reported in 1950 that there
is an annual average of fifty cases a year
seen in his office in which the clinical
history and external examination of the
body point to death from natural causes
but which prove on autopsy to be due
to violence.
As Havard points out, “It has now be-
come a fairly regular feature of murder
trials that the doctor has certified the
victim’s death from natural causes”.
It is true that in relation to murder
the criminal statistics of most countries
show a very high rate of detection. But
this should neither disarm potential vic-
tims nor dismay potential murderers.
The statistics relate only to cases of death
which have been identified as homicides.
And there have been too many in-
stances where the discovery of earlier
murders has been the result of investi-
gations into subsequent ones for anyone
to accept the figures at face value. There
is considerable evidence that for every
type of offence the number of crimes
actually committed is much greater than
the number known to the police; and
no reason to believe that murder con-
stitutes an exception to the rule.
It is salutary to remember that almost
all our knowledge regarding murder and
methods of murder is derived from
cases which have failed to escape detec-
tion.
“Murder will out” wrote Congreve;
thus echoing Shakespeare's “murder can-
not be hid long”. This Nemesic supersti-
tion, for it is no more than that, per-
sists and has wide popular acceptance.
Whatever the true facts of the Bogle-
Chandler case, it may perhaps serve as
a reminder that the poets and the public
are pretty certainly mistaken about this.
The Play’s the Thing
Wanted: a “virgin Hamleteer"
By JAN SMITH
Tired of audiences on their best in-
tellectual behavior at Hamlet
premieres, critic Herbert Farjeon
used to long for what he called a “virgin
Hamleteer” a keen but uncorrupted
mind from the provinces which would
come to the play unprejudiced by years
of exposure to divers interpretations of
Hamlet’s true character.
In a way Sydney actor John Bell is
doing this, but from the other side of
the footlights. He has studied Hamlet
with varying intensity for the last five
years, at Sydney University and later for
his one-man Shakespeare show at the
Genesian Theatre, and is therefore undis-
mayed by traditional quiddities about
drams of eale, Provincial roses, and sled-
ded Polacks. But he comes freshly to its
on-stage interpretation, a slight, intense
young man with buttermilk hair and
cheekbones ideally made for princely
weltschmerz.
Too young at 22 to have seen the last
imported Hamlet (Paul Rogers at the
Elizabethan in 1957), and familiar only
with the Olivier film version, he was, to
put it familiarly but not vulgarly, playing
it by ear when Hamlet opened at the
Old Tote Theatre, Kensington, NSW,
last week.
“It’s fashionable to take a stand on
Hamlet’s character,” Bell said, drinking
milk from a paper carton in the theatre’s
upstairs clubroom, hung with racing sad-
dl e s and Shakespearian character
sketches. “Peter O'Toole played Hamlet
as a beatnik-type at Stratford last year,
and Richard Burton did him as an angry
young man. But the trouble with seeing
Hamlet as a mediaeval counterpart of any
contemporary attitude, like these two did,
is that it dates. Hamlet should be age-
less, timeless, for all centuries and all
people.”
Bell does, however, lean to the idea
that Hamlet was the first of the honest
doubters, born into a mediaeval world of
ghosts, revenge and torment which he
could not help but query.
John Bell was born in Maitland, NSW,
son of a bank manager. At the local
Marist Brothers’ College, as Oedipus and
Hotspur in school plays, John was fired
with dreams of the stage. When a Com-
monwealth Scholarship came up he went
to Sydney University, although he had
been accepted as a National Institute of
Dramatic Art student in 1959. Last year
he graduated with English honors from a
four-year Arts course.
During his years with the Sydney Uni-
versity Players there were roles as Corio-
lanus; in Twelfth Night; e.e. cummings
sociological satire him; and a revue cal-
led “Wet Blankets”. But to non-Univer-
sity people he is known, if at all, only
for his part in Bruce Beresford’s home-
made film, “The Devil To Pay.”
Bell, as hero, spent a lot of time
driving across the Harbor Bridge, en-
joyed ill-got gains and a sloe-eyed mis-
tress, and eventually bit the dust of a
suburban railway embankment under a
hail of police bullets.
After University came his first pro-
fessional part Trofimoff in the Old
Tote’s first play, “The Cherry Orchard.”
“I thought he was an awful prig at first,”
he said, “but once I got really into the
character he became fascinating. I knew
what he ate for breakfast and every-
thing.”
Bell came freshly to the Trofimoff
role, too, unacquainted even with the


FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
g
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
(ilia
MOUTH WASH
American television production. Three
months later, when the Old Tote went
on to the Australian premiere of Max
Frisch's “The Fire Raisers,” Bell moved
easily from Trofimoff’s scruffy academic
revolutionary to a kinky pyromaniac.
In the last year Bell has taken speech
lessons from Alice Crowther, a Rudolf
Steiner disciple and former workmate of
Moscow Arts Theatre producer Michael
Chekov. He knows little about method
teaching but likes what he has seen. He
has no patience with most “little” acting
schools, accusing them of “putting a plum
in your mouth and throwing you to the
wolves.”
Full-time Australian actors are rare,
but at 22, without dependence on cigar-
ette commercials or RSL Club stints,
they’re rare indeed. Bell admits he’s been
lucky the Old Tote was born not a
moment too soon but isn't tempted
overseas until he's built up more ex-
perience here. And by experience he
means stage acting.
Portrait in Oil
A life that begins in loneliness
By BOBBY NELSON
An oil rig always begins in loneliness.
On a piece of empty country. The
first one, on a gray slope of Penn-
sylvania, was slapped together from hunks
of raw spruce and cottonwood. People
wondered what it was. Men working on it
felt the heartbreak of starting all over
again a hundred times with nobody else
much caring. But they kept on with hank-
ering hopes. Then the oil was gushing and
pouring. Everybody was yelling and
laughing their heads off, dancing with
each other, and rolling and sloshing in
the ooze.
Black Gold was slopping in their hair,
swabbing down their clothes, mucking
their boots, and the episode of oil was
born. It grew like a strapping, tow-
headed boy, reached man-size, and car-
ried its work gloves into the backwoods
and swamps, down to the sea at Long
Beach, against the wind into the Arabian
desert, and across the tangle of Vene-
zuela. In Texas it spiked its heels in the
gullies of the baldie land, and with new
feet tamping a tomb where the oldest
claws had tracked, the flurry of oil
scratched its finest mark.
Towns with borders of ravines and
mesquite blossomed into blocks of light
and acres of new building. Stubby’
streets that had never roused a napping
hound squirmed with hot tyres and clomp-
ing boots. Dusk switched to garish neon.
Explosive engines and loud talk blasted
a previously undisturbed sleep. Auto-
matic motions, excused before as living,
became stimulated with spontaneity,
speed, the barking smells of fresh paint,
wet cement, and damp wood. Where
there had once been room, there was now
a squeeze. Bunched cars parked headed
into the kerb instead of parallel. Vacant
stores with dusty counters came to life
and stacked-in loaded shelves like busy
libraries. You heard the brisk squeaks
of new screen doors, whacky sounds of
jingling coins, and the carnival exuber-
ance of gusty mirth.
Everything grew at an exciting pitch.
Small towns changed into an era, and a
huge tape worm in the middle of the
change gobbled with voracious appetite:
glossy khakis, Levi’s, hard hats, vans of
cigarettes, beer, gasoline, mountains of
food . . . everything that was poured into
its grinding jaws, and enormous deli-
veries had to be made.
Money came into its own, dribbled
through easy fingers, spun across cafe
counters, jacknifed into forgotten alley-
ways, stuffed pockets like wadded nap-
kins, and carelessly went like water. The
wash of it was felt like a flash of summer
rain. Men grabbed for it as a kid dives
into a bowl of jellybeans, and just as
hungrily. The ones with a sweet tooth
had their fill. Old farmers in baggy
coveralls flappy at the seat where their
buttocks used to show began to drive
posh cars that immediately caked-on
mud and stayed that way unwashed, the
everlasting sprigs of hay sticking at the
bumpers.
Then, as civilisation evolves, women
seem to clamber out of the woodwork.
Country girls, unnoticed before, all at
once were terribly noticeable. In a
twinkle you saw droves of them hawk-
ing the sidewalks, walking to the movies
in pairs, self-conscious of their fledgling
bodies, and almost panicky with little
vain smirks and silly giggles. The ad-
venture of men strutting a world they'd
dreamed but never touched. For the
first time, unnoticed girls felt the bone-
less thrill of being sought.
Around the countryside, derricks rose
like girted cobwebs, Jacob’s ladders to
the ground, each standing over a hundred
feet against the sky, and pumping pres-
sure mud through round hoses like giant
pulsing arteries.
During the day, the roar of diesel
engines carried in the wind, climbed to
a bawling crescendo and held. Derrick
floors, higher than a man’s head, packed
the weight of biting tongs, chains like
links of snake, whirling iron rotaries,
stacks of drilling pipe, and coils of steel
cables. Whiffs of grease, kerosene and
diesel hung in the air as mist.
At night, strings of light ascended the
towers and dotted the horizons like
blinking fireflies shimmering in the
breeze. From a distance, flaming spouts
of gas were as hundreds of ignited kit-
chen matches with their ends stobbed in
the ground. The power of engines
pounded the night, and trucks and men
moved in dark outlines.
Day and night, everywhere, you were
pressed with the heavy feeling of iron.
Lying still and waiting. Ringing. Or
iron hoisted in the air, wrested and
hurled, slamming through the cobweb-
bed girts. Ponderous in weight. Sighing,
heaving weight. . .
The great maw of the oilfields took in
all who would come, mauled them,
ruined their hands, and wrecked their
backs. Men wore blue scabs from scuffs


■■
3
The flavor of Hong Kong
■
I' ' l-i f ' i' 1 'if ' 1 - f - \kj
1. 'j 11, I f J'l 3 . 1 •
HfeL X
<'A'V
■
w
:
■HMi
■
' : ■
: .:.
, SOS
.£•.
i
. ;; : : : v;;:S;:
. > :
u
ppgpglp
i® »
The exotic charm of Tokyo
And all the comforts of Hilton
The new Hongkong Hilton lets you eat
your Yoke Laan Kai and have it too. It's
right at the heart of the business and
social life of Hong Kong; its atmosphere
couldn't be more oriental. Yet it gives
you all the cosmopolitan comforts that
have made Hilton Hotels world-famous.
Air conditioning, a swimming pool, lav-
ish furnishings, wide choice of cuisine,
impeccable service. The Kowloon ferry
and the Peak tram are at your doorstep.
And there's even a brigantine at your
disposal for harbour cruises.
The new Tokyo Hilton also offers you
exotic oriental life and international
comfort. The Sukiyaki is perfect. So are
the steaks. There's an exciting Japanese
Night Club right in the hotel—and a
magnificent swimming pool too. Like
every Hilton Hotel, it gives you an in-
triguing insight into the local way of
EH
HONGKONG MILTON
c:5
■se
TOKYO HILTON
life—with all the comforts of Hilton.
Send this coupon for rates and bro-
chures. For reservations, see your travel
agent, or phone any Hilton Hotel or
Hilton Reservation Office (see tele-
phone directory).
HHI
Hilton Hotels International,
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York 22, N. Y.
Please send me rates and brochures for
□ Hongkong Hilton □ Tokyo Hilton
Name —— •
Address
City Country .


with iron, scars, and sometimes a finger
was pinched off. Sometimes a leg. The
drilling plunged as a relentless pursuer
through strata of sand and granite rock,
every day, every hour of the day.
Drilling: a pack of work, strain and
hurt, the same as yesterday, and every
tomorrow like today. Each day a matter
of bruising tone. Like a man beating on
a boulder, yelling and cursing his head
off, hurting and swinging away harder
because of the hurt, and never giving
up. Now the wind whips together the
heat of the sun, mixes it with a low tune
in the hollows of the derrick, blows sand
and rain, and churns the mixture in a
swelter around a spinning rotary.
Out of the broil comes a hard kind
of man. A combination of simple parts:
callouses by the fistful come from the
plough-hand; shoulders axe-handle-broad
from the coal miner; knuckle-cramped
skill from the mechanic; restlessness
from the rover; a wild kind of sap from
the beer-hall slugger; and the penniless
pockets of the honest man empty a
hard-headed pride.
All the loose ends are forced, forged,
and spawned into a long-striding brawler
that spits through his teeth and calls
himself a roughneck.
After a day of grime and sweat, when
the pushing and humping against the
iron is lulled for a day, and after the
protesting of flesh against iron, the
roughneck comes to town. There’s
nothing very romantic about him. He
drinks and gets himself a woman. His
drinking soothes the ache in his back
and dries the sweat. His love is a rutted
palm caress, a plunder for sleep and
rest, and the woman is his balance with
iron. She keeps him from burying ten-
derness where no sort of kindness can
find it. From being chewed up on the oil
rig and thrown out as gristle and rind.
Maybe he’ll get in a fight. It’ll be a
personal kind of survival. Like the time
one roughneck got a slick type in the
alley and beat him. Then stood over him,
akimbo, fists clenched, and told him:
“You come around here with your
fancy ways and uppity tie, and you
think you’re better than anybody. But
you don't know nothing. I squeeze iron,
mister, and your neck ain’t nothing to
me. You ain’t messing with no flabby
store-bought boy here. The bones of
prissies like you is what I feed on. Get
smart again and I’ll use your ears as
handlebars and dig me a mud pit with
you. So you remember who caved-in
your face, you hear? And the next time
you want to get all barrel-chested, just
come on around. I’ll peel your lily-white
skin. . .”
The roughneck knows a simple fact
about living that most men spend their
lives trying to learn and never quite
grasp:
If you twist on a piece of iron with
your hand, blisters are raised. Keep
"He's down the yard fixing the kid's swing."
twisting and the blisters break and the
hand becomes raw, feeling like it will
wear completely through, making you
want to quit. But if you keep on twist-
ing, and won’t give up, the hands don’t
wear away. They grow callouses instead:
muscles that take care of the struggle.
Oil drilling creates a fine hard spirit
that you can’t get by. When a rough-
neck’s on the rig, he’s important. It runs
because of him. Gives him a place to
belong. There’s reason in drilling the
earth, an end that makes sense, per-
sonally, and a way to get to the end
... if you can push hard enough.
Not everybody can. The college kids
try in the summer. The athletes come
to keep their muscles taut. But they
never last. They stay long enough to spit
and swagger and allow some of the iron
to seep into their stride, their hands lose
the baby fat, but for the wearing of
the iron they don’t come. Too much
plain grit is needed, and you never have
this if you’ve been fed on philosophies
that you can’t lift with your back. It
takes guts too, and you never have guts
if you have to think about it.
/Vice a man gets the feel of an oil rig
under his feet, it never leaves him.
There’s something about the roar of the
engines, the smell of diesel, the challenge
of the iron, working with it, fighting it,
that grinds into his skin and becomes a
part of him. Builds his backbone. Gives
him heart.
But a roughneck’s no hero. And he’s
no poet. No time for dreaming. He’s
no shyster either. You never see a
roughneck steal. He works for his bread.
When you’ve got something to lift, he’ll
lend a hand.
If oil comes to Australia—not just
separate wells, sporadic stems, and near-
gushing mistakes, but the real discovery
of fields—scrub and brush will suddenly
be jarred with the weight of boom towns
and the trundle of heavy rolling trucks.
The economy will find its hands turn-
ing the wheels of a new machinery,
spreading the swash of population, and
growing out of the cramp of toddling
clothes.
Sedate investors will roll slap-happy
counting their profits, and the vitality
of a continent will very realistically
sprawl-out and elbow the edge of a
larger rim. Tall derricks will rise in a
thick maze across empty land, and the
skeleton frames will rattle-in a bluster-
ing era.
In the thick of it, humping and lift-
ing, fighting and sweating, you’ll see a
free-swinging, hard-headed man with the
iron. He’ll spit through his teeth, stand
spreadlegged, and proudly tell you he’s
a roughneck. You can bet your boots
he’s a damn-good-man.


\ \ :
"J&
VW7386
Why won't your wife let you buy one?
Some women don't like the Volks-
wagen’s shape.
At first.
Or the noise it’s supposed to make.
But the shape gets kind of lovable
and the noise is kept outside. (We
soundproofed the interior three years
ago.)
Volkswagen’s shape, like the marvel-
lous gearchange, is designed to make
driving easier and cheaper.
And that’s something women do like.
The wedge-like bonnet is important
when you’re driving it into a wind. The
wind keeps it down, not up, so the car
rides solidly, nose to the ground. You
don’t use as much petrol, because you
aren’t pushing a heavy, upright radiator.
Also the Volkswagen doesn’t date. It’s
still the latest fashion in five years
time.
Because of the shape.
By making mechanical changes, and
improving finish, instead of adding
curves and chrome, you get a car that’s
honest, reliable, and durable.
But talking about Volkswagen prob-
ably won’t convince her.
The thing to do is have her drive and
park one. Steering, gearchange, com-
fort. She’ll think there’s nothing like it.
But watch out when you start sharing
a Volkswagen with your wife.
After a while it isn’t ‘our’ Volkswagen.
It’s hers.
But from £849 tax paid,
why not have two Volks-
wagens and no arguments?
VWI2OO Sedan, from £849
tax paid.VWlsoo,from£ll99
sdf
tax paid. (Prices for State capital cities.)


OVERSEAS
Calm in Kenya
Kenyatta promises to bury the past
From COLIN LEGUM in Nairobi
"IVTr Jomo Kenyatta’s convincing
victory last week has been taken
calmly in Kenya. The prospect of the
leader who, only two years ago, was
being officially denigrated as “the leader
of darkness” becoming Prime Minister
next Saturday does not appear to be
creating any anxiety. His opponents
KADU (Kenya African Democratic
Union) have promised co-operation, and
even the wilder elements among the
tribal leaders have called on their
supporters to “honor, obey and respect”
the new African Government.
There are two reasons for this lack
of anxiety. First, Mr Kenyatta’s own
leadership in the election campaign. He
has gone out of his way to reassure
Europeans, Asians and minority ele-
ments of the Kenya African National
Union’s (KANU) determination to bury
the past. “In the past we have known
racial hatred. Let it be forgotten.” His
sincerity in making these statements has
carried conviction.
The second reason is the convincing
manner in which Kenyatta’s party,
KANU, has won the elections. It will
have a majority of at least 24 in the
House of Representatives, which amounts
to two to one. It has narrowly W'on a
majority in the Senate. And it will have
control over four of the seven regional
governments.
It has also again laid the myth that
KANU is only a party of two tribes—-
the Kikuyu and the Luo. Its support
among these two tribes is total, but there
are very few areas in which it cannot
count on at least substantial minority
support. Another myth that has been
laid is that of the unity of the Kalenjin
tribes the powerful nomadics who, it
has always been suggested, would un-
leash their spears against a government
headed by “Burning Spear” Kenyatta.
The election results show that the Kalen-
jin tribes are divided.
The supposedly monolithic Masai
have split their votes between KADU
and an independent known to be
sympathetic to KANU. The Turkana
have voted outright for KANU. And
the Rift Valley regional administration
the area of the Kalenjin tribes has
returned a strong KANU opposition.
Thus, Mr Kenyatta’s Government can
-by no means be regarded as a tribalist
or sectional Government—it is the only
national Government that could be
elected in Kenya today.
There is no doubt that his Cabinet,
when it is announced in the next few
days, will reflect its national composi-
tion and will include representatives of
most major tribes as well as the Asian
and European communities.
Four major questions now hang over
Kenya. How soon will independence
come when the colony achieves full in-
ternal self-government? Will the Opposi-
tion use the present constitution to
obstruct the Government from governing?
How soon can Kenya escape from its
present state of financial bankruptcy?
And can Kenyatta’s Government hold
together?
KANU is a coalition of forces rather
than a party. It has not been a very
happy coalition in the past, although it is
less divided at the moment than it has
ever been before. The two rival wings,
led by Mr Oginga Odinga and Mr Tom
Mboya, have loyally co-operated with
Mr Kenyatta, who has used his in-
fluence not to exercise commanding
leadership but to play the role of a
mediating chairman. This he has
managed to do successfully. At its
moment of victory, therefore, KANU
looks more united than for a long time.
The constitutional question, however,
is a real source of dissension. KANU is
determined to get changes in it before
independence; KADU is equally deter-
mined to resist any changes. Arguments
ever the constitution can both delay
independence and produce a continuing
sense of instability which has con-
tributed so heavily towards Kenya’s
economic rundown. What Kenya needs
above all today is strong, effective and
stable government; this is her only hope
of surmounting her economic and tribal
difficulties.
The next six months will show
whether Mr Kenyatta’s Government can
provide this leadership. Its first challenge
is likely to come not from the Opposition
but from the Somalis of the Northern
Frontier District who successfully boy-
cotted the elections. The immediate
problem facing the new Government is
to make their writ run over the arid
districts inhabited by the independent-
minded Somalis, (ofns.)
The Royalist Irish
Wailing for President Kennedy
Front JAMES WALSH in Dublin
T'he Irish are not a naturally republican
people; they dislike each other too
strongly to tolerate liberty, equality and
fraternity for the neighbor’s child.
In ancient times some Continental
Celtic tribes affected a republican form
of government with a strong element of
oligarchy. The Irish Celts, however, had
their hundred jealous kinglets and the
idea of monarchy still appeals very
strongly. It was wishful thinking as much
as adulation that called Parnell the “Un-
crowned King of Ireland”, and in the
1920 troubles Irishmen fought to the
refrain. And we 11 crown De Valera
King of Ireland . Characteristically, Mr
De Valera, in the Constitution he so care-
fully and solely fashioned, made the post
of President purely honorific and consti-
tutionally regal.
The projected visit of President Ken-
nedy to Ireland this month complicates
the orderly progress of the Irish towards
the pageantry of royalty and the rnanu-
facture of titles, for the American Presi-
dency, no matter how blue-blooded or
well-heeled its pccupant, remains the
zenith of the common man’s political
ambition and solus power. Its existence
is a notice of ejectment to all forms of
monarchy and dictatorship,
The very demands of the post, and the
careful and almost academic system of
checks and balances between the Presi-
dent and the Legislature and the judi-
ciary, ensure that the dictatorial genius
is efficiently frustrated before he can
aggregate sufficient power. Ireland’s
preoccupation with royalty and its atten-
dant symbols and pretensions was power-


The New
Tomato Juice
Cocktail by
Schweppes
n
J IT HAS ADDED SPICES FOR
I A PIQUANT TASTE!
9
Schweppes
T °MATO JUICE
COCKTAIL
%
IN 41/2 oz. CANS.
A SCHWEPPES JUICE IS THE NATURAL JUICE
at your Club, Hotel, Milk Bar, Store.


fully whetted by the visit of Miss Grace
Kelly and her bridegroom, Prince
Rainier of Monaco. The interest became
more intense with the later visit of the
Princess Margaret and Viscount Snow-
don.
The new bureaucracy and the indus-
trial oligarchy in Ireland desperately
await the development of a code of be-
havior and a system of ranking outside
the possibilities of the ordinary man, and
visits such as those of President Kennedy
excite ambitions and overwhelm the
limited protocol resources.
The ordinary Irishman has a very dif-
ferent view of Mr Kennedy. He sees him
as the symbol of escape from the terrible
poverty of means, and even more of op-
portunity, that afflicted most Irishmen in
the past.
To some other Irishmen, however, he
is a symbol of something else. This other-
symbol arises because the President has
to meet in Ireland a coterie of close
cousins who almost perfectly represent
the likely fate of the President had his
ancestors remained at home. Immense
and very vocative genealogy is being
feverishly pursued to identify the last
possible ramifications of his family con-
nections. But there is no mystery and
no surprise.
IV/Tr Kennedy’s Irish cousins are solid
farming folk with farms of more than
average size for their own country,
though they would look like cabbage
patches to some Americans. People like
these cousins, who held on to the land of
Ireland when all around fled or fell by the
wayside to expire in hunger or disease,
have their own very deep pride and a
kind of contempt for those who went
away that grows with the height of their
foreign achievement.
The Irish reception for Mr Kennedy
will be weak on the presentation of men
of New Frontier calibre. This kind of
animal has been kept severely within the
close confines of the rigid Irish Establish-
ment and the Establishment banks on
the brevity of the visit to conceal the
sequestration of talent and originality.
And the Kennedy clan itself? Now
the genealogists are at work and con-
founding the records of history, but the
clan has had a long and notable pedi-
gree and the highly honorable distinc-
tion of being one of the very last clans
to resist the intrusion of sheriff and sur-
veyor those certain symbols of final
conquest. This last stronghold was in
Ormond now the northern part of
County Tipperary.
Thus Mr Kennedy’s visit is of poig-
nant and curious symbolism for the Irish,
whose pride in his position remains
muted by the sour jealousy that cancers
so much that is excellent, (ofns.)
Europe’s Nuclear Game
Montgomery was irrelevant
From NORA BELOFF in Paris
’M/'hich nuclear pied piper the US or
the French will the Europeans
choose to follow? This is the real contest
now reaching its climax inside the West-
ern Alliance.
President Kennedy is offering the
Europeans a share in the cost and control
of a surface fleet, manned by polyglot
crews sailing around the coasts of
Europe, equipped with Polaris missiles
pointing towards the Soviet Union and
Eastern Europe. The missiles would be
fired only with US consent.
President de Gaulle recently author-
ised his Minister of Information, M.
Alain Peyrefitte, to state, more clearly
than ever before, the French alternative.
As the Americans may later leave Europe
in the lurch, say the French, the Euro-
peans should group together in a political
union and the French
nuclear deterrent will then
be transformed into a
European, rather than a
specifically national, force.
The Russians, they say,
might doubt whether the
US would use nuclear
weapons to save Europe
at the peril of its own cities, and there
could be no “credible deterrent” so long
as there was a US veto. Only an
autonomous European force could pro-
vide an adequate shield against Soviet
threats.
Both the US Secretary of State, Mr
Dean Rusk, and M. Peyrefitte have
spoken publicly this week of President de
Gaulle's probable visit to Washington in
the fairly near future—by mutual consent
President Kennedy does not propose to
include Paris in his trip to Europe in
June. But even if the two leaders meet,
their differences on the nuclear issue
cannot be talked away. Defining US
policy at his Press conference on
Wednesday, Mr Rusk said: “For present
purposes, the unity of the alliance re-
quires commitment to the notion that
the defence of North America and West-
ern Europe is indivisible.”
The day before, M. Peyrefitte, also ad-
dressing the Press, was arguing, on the
contrary, that nuclear power should be
divided between a US and a European
component. However the diplomats may
juggle their words, the nuclear deterrent
plainly cannot be both divided and in-
divisible at the same time.
The situation is complicated by the
ambiguity of British policy. Outwardly
the British Government is on far better
terms with the Americans than with the
French. Indeed, since President de
Gaulle vetoed British entry into the
Common Market, and thus shattered a
major plank in the Conservative Party
platform, the Prime Minister, Mr Mac-
millan, is hardly on speaking terms with
him.
Yet, basically, the Conservative Gov-
ernment’s nuclear views lean rather to-
wards the “divisible” rather than the
“indivisible” notion. The British Govern-
ment is determined to continue to manu-
facture and retain its own thermo-nuclear
warheads, even though it has found it
more economical to purchase American
vehicles for carrying them across sophis-
ticated defences of the potential enemy.
Although at the recent Ottawa con-
ference the British agreed to place their
own nuclear bomber force
under NATO command,
there was still the express
reserve that it could be
detached and reintegrated
into the British forces on
issues vital to the national
interest.
The case for the
immediate creation of a multi-national
nuclear naval force, which has now
become the primary target of US
NATO policy, does not indicate any
feeling among US leaders that they
need an increment of nuclear power in
their race with the Soviet Union. On
the contrary, it has been calculated that
there is enough destructive potential in
the existing US arsenal to destroy all
humanity 20 times.
To argue as did Field-Marshal
Viscount Montgomery in the House of
Lords two weeks ago that, from the
military point of view, the whole idea is
“poppycock” is irrelevant. What the
Americans are seeking is not greater
fighting strength, but the creation of a
joint force which might deliver the Euro-
peans from the nightmare that the Ame-
ricans might desert them, and yet will
discourage them from following the
French alternative of supporting a sepa-
rate nuclear force of their own.
To the Americans, the value of the
mixed-man force, in contrast to the
inter-allied nuclear grouping agreed on at
Ottawa, is that it should be a living de-
monstration of the “indivisibility” of the
NATO deterrent and, in fact, once
created, it would be as hard to break
down into its national components as to
re-create the separate eggs out of an
omelette, (ofns.)


FORUM
Why I Have Resigned
The Australian Dictionary of Biography—intrigues, inefficiency,
incompetence?
By M. H. ELLIS
I HAVE this week, after nearly a decade of association with the project,
withdrawn from the National Committee of the Australian Dictionary
of Biography.
In 1959, I drafted the constitution, a blueprint for organisation and
administration, and working party and other structures, along with rules
for making them work.
I was the only person outside the ANU on the first Editorial Board
and was one of the first two editors, covering the period 1788-1850,
appointed and the only editor ever appointed outside the universities.
I drafted the first full list of entries for a volume as far back as August,
1959. My services to the Dictionary were honorary (which those of some
others involved were not ).
But it has been obvious so far as
the ANU and the University of Sydney
have been concerned that when it has
come to the scholastic side of the scheme
I am a cuckoo in the nest. All the other
universities have been most co-operative
and comradely.
How Not to Publish a Dictionary
A lmost immediately I began to dis-
cover how far apart are the methods
of their academics from those of the
world of ordinary men and women.
The first serious example I en-
countered of academic method came
with acceptance of our publishing con-
tract. I suggested that we would have
to design the Dictionary physically, per-
haps have special type made for it, de-
cide on a mechanical type of setting and
the format we should use, train printers’
readers to conform to a substantia] style
book. I suggested, therefore, that we
should choose a publisher at once, that it
would be of advantage if we could use the
only organisation which then had a tech-
nical staff with special experience and a
factory tailored for encyclopaedia work
and the accessory tasks of storage, etc.
This was Angus & Robertson and their
Halstead Press, who had just finished the
largest project of the sort ever attempted
in Australasia, the nine-volume Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia. Agreement was
unanimous that if possible we should
persuade Angus & Robertson to under-
take the work while the Encyclopaedia
organisation was still in being. Mr Fergu-
son, their manager, was not as enthusias-
tic as the Board when I saw him. The
Dictionary, to anybody professional, pre-
sented no light task since it would be a
perpetual and recurring national institu-
tion, obviously calling for great care and
The AUSTRALIAN DICTIONARY
OF BIOGRAPHY is designed as a
perpetual national institution to
record accurately and impartially the
lives of all great and significant Aus-
tralians in reference volumes, the
first eight or ten of which are now in
preparation. Its organisation was set
moving in 1959 at the Australian
National University.
accuracy and the most exacting kind of
supervision.
The British Dictionary of National Bio-
graphy, on which it was to be modelled
ultimately, had been founded in 1882 and
had produced 66 volumes up to 1930.
Its epitome volume in 1930 contained
30,378 condensed biographies and a mil-
lion separate facts. Our first series would
run to 10 volumes and perhaps 8000
biographies and 2,500,000 words. But
the academics of the ANU seemed to
be ready to rush into the work slap-dash,
hurly-burly, as if they were setting out
to place an order for 500 copies of a
60,000 word thesis.
Mr Ferguson at first refused to con-
sider the idea at all. But when I prom-
ised that the whole of the editing along
with styling for uniformity of presenta-
tion and spelling would be done in the
University up to the point when there
would be no more correction needed
save that to rectify printers’ errors, he
consented to meet the Board on October
29, 1959.
After discussion he agreed that he
would undertake the work subject to (a)
his experts being satisfied that it could
be done economically; (b) his directors
agreeing. He proposed to settle these mat-
ters within the next few weeks and then,
if there were no unforeseen obstacles, to
submit in writing an offer along the lines
agreed on at the meeting. He received
our undertaking that we would not ap-
proach, or consider any approach from
other publishers pending his decision.
If one of them should ask him
for the use of his printing plant (as
some inevitably would do) it would have
embarrassed him not to be able to
tell them his position at the moment
vis a vis ourselves.
After he left, the Board decided to ac-
cept Angus & Robertson as publishers,
subject to confirmation in writing of the
proposals agreed to. An official precis
of what took place, later issued by the
Secretary with the Chairman’s approval,
read:
October 29, 1959: Special Meeting of
Provisional Editorial Committee was held,
attended by Mr Ferguson of Angus &
Robertson, which concluded with a
decision to accept an offer of publication
from Angus & Robertson.
From then onward, at least till De-
cember, “assumption was” that Angus
& Robertson would be confirmed as
our publishers. Mrs Mozley, the Assist-
ant Editor and Secretary of the Board,
was sent to familiarise herself with the
factory and learn a smattering of printing
practice. On December she wrote me,
after returning to Canberra, that she
had been “greatly enthralled and en-
chanted by what she had seen,” but her
letter had a postscript which read:
We are discussing the Dictionary in-
formally with Mr James of Melbourne
University Press . . . (but it is) . . .
highly unlikely that it will be more than
a mutual fact-exchanging encounter.
I reminded her of our undertaking to
Angus & Robertson. But on December
22 she wrote:
James of the MUP was here last week
and he talked with Professor Hancock
who told him frankly of our discussions
and negotiations with Angus & Robertson.
This morning we have a telephonic
proposition from them, offering the same
terms as Angus & Robertson . . .
I protested again. She then sent me a
letter from Mr James of the MUP stat-
ing: “I would like to confirm the sub-
stance of yesterday’s message to you,”
and informing her that, “we feel happy
with the plan of work.” It contained no
detailed offer.
On January 21, Mr Ferguson submit-
ted his detailed tender. It included an
offer to pay 10 per cent royalty, which
on a presumed sale of 5000 copies of
each of 10 volumes at £4 4s. Od. per
copy would have meant a subsidy of per-
haps £20,000. Mrs Mozley at once tele-
phoned MUP and asked if they would
pay the same. Instanter, Mr James said,
“Yes.” So she reported.
On the evening of January 27 (Wed-
nesday) I received in Sydney a letter from
Mrs Mozley dated January 25 saying
that the Board wanted to come to a de-
cision “this week.” She enclosed Angus
& Robertson’s letter. She stated that
she was “calling a meeting in Canberra
for Thursday (the day after I received
my letter in the evening) or Friday; but


11l
mm
■ ■■■'■■ ■
d
*
i
I
1!
V
■ ■
s':
S V
-- V ;
1
who said
entertaining had to be expensive
to be good!
Some people think that all entertaining is alike. But if you check with Chevron
Hilton’s New ’HOSTPLAN’ you'll find an important difference, important
because it affects you, different because it allows you to budget to an exact price
that includes all your party requirements. As a result of Chevron’s vast experience,
their ‘HOSTPLAN’ will give you an accurate appraisal of the needs of your
guests and relieve you of the worry of the many aspects of party organisation. It’s
the most economical All-inclusive plan ever offered and contains no hidden costs.
So if you re planning a cocktail party for seven or a banquet for seven hundred
call in Chevron, you’ll like their Personal Service.
For further information phone ‘HOSTPLAN’, 35-0433, and ask for ext. 215 or 270.
Jl
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET. POT T’S POINT. SYDNEY
CH.1557A


she didn’t know which day yet awhile or
whether the meeting would be held in
the morning or afternoon.
They would, it seemed, “particularly
like to have your views; Professor Han-
cock suggests you might like to attend
the meeting, but I know your commit-
ments are enormous, and the notice is
short. If you could come we should be
delighted to see you. Could you, alterna-
tively, let me have your verdict by post
and I could present it to the meeting?”
This apparently was a normal method
(at the ANU) of summoning members to
a formal board meeting to consider a
contract vital to the success or failure of
a major project.
“Professor was astonished”
T, of course, would not have had time by
the next morning to send my views.
I telephoned Mrs Mozley that it was
impossible for me to come on such short
notice the meeting was actually held
on the Thursday (28th). I wrote that I
could not give a verdict, because I had no
offer from MUP before me. To which our
secretary replied, in effect, “Oh, but Mr
James has assured us on the telephone
that the MUP will do anything Angus
& Robertson will do and you have a
copy of his letter confirming his mes-
sage”.
My apology was not read. It did not
reach Canberra in time. The Board was
“sorry to find itself deprived of Mr El-
lis’s help and great impetus .. . . his ab-
sence was particularly regretted”. He
was “known to strongly support the
claims of Angus & Robertson . . . It
was represented that his work in jointly
editing the two first volumes would be
rendered more difficult if a Melbourne
publisher was appointed . . . He was
heavily committed in Sydney . . . (he)
had a long association with Angus &
Robertson, and was in a position to exer-
cise a supervision over the publishing
procedures there”. All this went into the
minutes.
I had no association with Angus &
Robertson beyond that of other members
of the Board whose books the firm had
published. The rest of the statement was
based on my remark that since I was
a professional in the field of printing,
it would be of advantage to have the
printer near me in the‘"’formative stages,
so that I could be available for technical
discussion day-to-day in the factory.
However, the negotiations with the
printers now were quietly removed, with-
out any prior intimation to me, into the
hands of Mrs Mozley.
When I told Professor Hancock that
I must resign, he was astonished. “I
must blame it on the phone,” he wrote
and professed to believe that my primary
reason lay in the fact that somebody
not connected with the Dictionary ad-
ministration had made a slighting remark
about my work somewhere or other. As
if it were a secondary consideration, he
wrote that “as to the publishers, the
minutes make it clear we must have you
with us when we make our decision . . .
In discussing the matter with the MUP (it
was they who approached us and made
their proposition without any knowledge
of the terms proposed by Mr Ferguson),
we were . . . accepting proper responsi-
bility”.
Mrs Mozley’s version of December 22
had been that Professor Hancock had
“told him (Mr James of the MUP)
frankly of our discussions and negotia-
tions with Angus & Robertson” and that
next morning MUP had telephoned its
offer of “the same terms as A & R”.
The meeting decided to obtain a report
from the Publications Committee of the
University after receiving further in-
formation from both publishers.
When I spoke to Mr Ferguson he
urged me to stay on the Board. He, of
course, had shown no anxiety to have
the contract and had discussed it only at
my request.
The need for haste now seemed to
disappear from the situation about print-
ing. The Board meeting which decided the
issue took place in April. Instead of a
report from the Publications Committee
there was one entitled, “A Note on the
Publication Question,” presented by
Professor Webb, its Chairman, who
emphasised that it represented his own
view. He did not explain why the Pub-
lications Committee had not reported.
His document showed that the MUP
had hitherto published three books for
the ANU and that these had had a
combined circulation of 1526 in Aus-
tralia and 365 overseas. Apparently on
this data Professor Webb thought A & R
might have an edge over the MUP in
distribution in Australia but that MUP
would do better in sales overseas. MUP,
he said, offered to edit and style manu-
scripts which A & R didn’t the latter
had been told expressly on the authority
of the Board that this would not be
required of them. “On balance,” the
Professor continued, “I favor the MUP.
However, I don’t want this to be re-
garded as the Publication Committee’s
opinion.”
All the persons but one who
earlier had been sure that A & R
were outstanding as a selection were
now unanimous that the MUP had
the field. I asked if anybody knew any-
thing about the MUP printery. Pro-
fessor Hancock said MUP had assured
him that at the end of the year they
could “expect” to receive some fresh
capital which would enable them to cope
with the work. Professor Webb referred
me to his “Note on Publication” which
reported, “Either concern would turn
out a first-class printing job . . . MUP
is probably slower in production than
A & R”
A letter from MUP dated February
11, which the notice of the meeting had
said was “attached,” but which, by some
accident, was missed out of my copy,
was not placed before the meeting. One
paragraph in it read:
I have, of course, already indicated
to you that we are not precluded from
printing and binding with other firms ...
Brown Prior’s of Melbourne . . . Halstead
Press in Sydney, or Griffin Press in
Adelaide. . . . We have found in the past
that the Halstead Press, for example, co-
operate wholeheartedly with us even in.
cases where we all know that the manu-
script has been considered by Angus and
Robertson and ourselves.
The Halstead Press, of course, was
Angus & Robertson’s factory, the owner-
ship of which was my strongest reason
for wishing to employ them.
In May, a meeting of the Board was
held on three days’ notice to “confer with
Mr James of the MUP”. The short
notice kept me away.
At that meeting, it was agreed that
the terms which Professor Webb had
declared to make the MUP offer more
attractive than that of A & R i.e.,
that they would edit and style manu-
scripts was waived. And it was agreed
that “all editorial negotiations between
the Publisher and the Board and between
the Publisher and the Editors be con-
ducted through Mrs Mozley.” The
“style manual, containing directions on
abbreviations, printer’s style and punctu-
ation” was to be “drafted by Mrs Mozley
in consultation with the Editors and Mr
James”. Mrs Mozley at that time —•
mark that she was Assistant Editor —was
studying hard in Collins’ Authors’ and
Printers’ Dictionary in an attempt to
learn a few printing terms.
End of Joint Editorship
T had remained in the Dictionary
A organisation only because, in the past
three months, Professor Hancock had
been going through a period of great
personal stress and I felt bound not to
harass him. But now the issue had to
be faced. He was going to England for
eight months at the end of June and it
seemed fair to give him a chance to
re-organise before his departure follow-
ing my resignation.
The printing arrangements had become
a secondary matter by this time. The
problem of having contact with my
supposed joint editor of Volumes I and
II was an even more vital one. Professor
Clark was always too busy to meet me
when I came to Canberra. At the end
of November, 1959, I arranged a two-
day conference with him in Sydney so
that we could make basic plans and
visit the printery with Mrs Mozley, our
assistant editor. The day before this
meeting he had announced that he could


Ten years from now
gsd
When you choose a
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless . . . ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
MERCEDES-BENZ
fg
"MP
liiil!!!!
i ! ! !Sii!i
g;H!i
ili ili
III!! iili! ! i!
ii!:!!
i
mm in
! ! ! !! Si ! i ii
!!!!!
mm
i
ill
m
H!!ii 3 !
ii!
!!!l!
i hup
!!
!ii
iiil
nii
S i
’ l|J
ii!! I
!
ilii
i i
.
I!!!! 1
Sliiii
* ijj?
MB
lllijljg
■
fetfe,,,;..!!!!!
. ■ ■ -
\ :
::!=sHUss3g!
TliMintilirnnTiTi
». . . ■ ■
• •-
ii!!!”*??!!
3
462/545
not come the first day but would the
next day spare an hour or two
in the afternoon. He failed to arrive.
There was no explanation or apology,
though he had come to Sydney.
I discounted rumors whispered in Can-
berra that he would not work with me
because of my known strong anti-Com-
munist sentiments. Yet in the six months
before June I had not been able to con-
trive even ten minutes of conversation
with him. Now I discovered his introduc-
tion to a recently published volume, a
memorial to an active member of the
Communist Party, in which he wrote:
There was a great goodness in the man
... he is still remember'd in London . . .
still remembered in Prague and Moscow
with gratitude and admiration . . . his
Irhavior was inspired by this great good-
ness. So when the attack on the Com-
munist Party began after the war, when
the scribes, at the dictation of pharisees,
to scribble tlv ir words about the
spiritual values of Western civilisation
(i.e., the Communist whom he
was praising) stood firm.
Having regard to the text as a whole
it seemed that Professor Manning Clark
was endeavoring to draw two contrasting
parallels based on the Gospel of St
Matthew. The Communist whom he
praised seemed to be a modern parallel
to the good man of Christ in the 12th
Chapter of St. Matthew. I and my fellow
writers had attacked the Communist
Party after the war when it had se-
cured control of at least one key defence
union through forgery of voting tickets,
and at a period when the Chifley Gov-
ernment had had to form the Security
Service and pass special legislation to
protect the defences and the Rocket
Range against the Party. We were, there-
fore, it seemed, hirelings and “scrib-
blers,” our expressed opinions dictated by
pharisees; in fact, modern parallels of the
“scribes” who were denounced in
Matthew 23: “hypocrites . . . whited
sepulchres full of dead bones and all
uncleanness . . . serpents . . . vipers
certain of damnation.”
I could scarcely see myself co-operat-
ing with Professor Clark in producing
balanced biographies of the patriots who
established in Australia the “spiritual
values of Western civilisation” which he
seemed to scorn as the dish of hire-
ling “scribblers”, hypocrites and ser-
pents certain of damnation.
I suffered an emotional scene with Pro-
fessor Hancock when I discussed my
views with him. He said my resignation
at such a crucial time when he was going
away and had relied on me to give im-
petus to the development of the Diction-
ary would wreck the whole project. After
a long argument, I agreed to remain on
the National Committee and Editorial
Board and edit Volume I of the Dic-
tionary alone, provided I had full res-
ponsibility for its contents and accuracy.
This he agreed to unreservedly. I in-
sisted that a resolution giving this power
to editors be passed by the Board. It
passed such a resolution and in another
one invited me to edit Volume I and
Professor Clark to edit Volume 11.
I formally accepted the offer of the
Editorship of Volume I in a letter writ-
ten the same day. I said I hoped it was
clear that the “final responsibility for
building and editing the Volume to the
point of mechanised production was at
all times and stages in my hands and my
final responsibility, subject to the rights
of the National Committee and the Edit-
orial Board to apply broad policy on
uniformity of style with other volumes
and to control the Volume's economics”.
I wrote: “I would not undertake the work
save under these conditions, and if we are
clear on that from the beginning, we will
save ourselves difficulties. I should, there-
fore, like to have your assurances on the
matter.”
Three days afterwards I received from
Professor Hancock what appeared to be
a reply to this letter, in which he wrote
inter alia :
It is laid down that the editor has
FINAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE
VOLUME COMMITTED TO HIM . . . You
are so deeply soaked in the comparatively
limited subject matter of Volume I that
the New South Wales and Tasmanian
working parties will not be utterly indis-
pensable to you in the same sense that
they will be for editors in later periods.
I hope, for this very reason, you will take
particular pains to work with them on
terms of mutual respect, tolerance and
helpfulness.
Later I quoted my letter of acceptance
in writing without attracting comment in
the reply from Professor Hancock and I
was astonished 18 months after it was


written to see it stated that it had not
been received! If it was not received it
was difficult to understand why Pro-
fessor Hancock had gone to the trouble
of emphasising the words “final res-
ponsibility for the Volume committed to
him,” or why the Board came to permit
an appointment which it had formally
invited me to accept, to be made without
either a letter of acceptance from me or
a specific resolution appointing me.
The considerations that actuated me
in insisting on so firm a control of the
Volume had originated, quite im-
personally, from a perusal of the minutes
of the first operative meeting of the New
South Wales Working Party held at
Sydney University on June 15, 1960, the
day on which I had announced my in-
tention to resign.
Five Categories
A fter reading these minutes, I felt
that my responsibility for everything
about the Volume and its accuracy must
be in my hands. I was not willing to
risk my reputation as an historian and
biographer otherwise. This did not mean
that I would not use every source of
advice and investigation, or that I would
submarine the normal procedures
which I had drafted myself and under
which the State Working Parties made
recommendations of entries and authors
to the editors, who, however, now were to
have the right of accepting or rejecting
them.
In all States but NSW and Victoria
these working parties embraced every-
body academic and otherwise in the
historical world who seemed likely to be
of use in assembling material and thus
were of great use, as I found in Tas-
mania which was one of the two States
with which Volume I was concerned. In
NSW the Working Party consisted of a
close-lipped tiny group in the History
Department of Sydney University with
only one regular participant who pro-
fessed to be an expert in the early period
as a whole and Mr Gray of the Teachers’
College, who knew the “First Fleeters”
well. The Editors and Assistant Editor
sat with them ex officio and Professor
Auchmuty, who made no pretence to
know the period but who was an efficient
biographer, represented the NSW Uni-
versity. He and Mr Gray were consulted
only when it suited the others.
I did not attend the meeting of June
15. Those present at the meeting were:
Chairman, Professor John Ward, Challis
Professor of History at the Sydney Uni-
versity; Professor Manning Clark, Pro-
fessor of History, Canberra University
College (now of the ANU, School of
General Studies) and my co-editor; Mr
A. G. L. Shaw, Senior Lecturer in Aus-
tralian History at Sydney University;
Professor Auchmuty (Newcastle College);
Mr Gray and Mrs Mozley, who was to
be responsible for the style and accuracy
of the text of the Dictionary after it
was passed by the editors, and who acted
on this occasion as minute secretary.
Her minutes show that the Working
Party “accepted five categories for the
provisional list of inclusions” in Volume
I taken out of the basic list of about
350 names prepared by me in 1959:
CATEGORY A, 6000 WORDS: Governor
Macquarie, the Revd. S. Marsden (Pro-
fessor Clark’s ancestor) and David Collins,
Deputy Judge Advocate, 1788-1796, private
secretary to Governor Phillip and Lieuten-
ant Governor of the suh-colony of Van
Diemen’s Land until it reached a popula-
tion of around 800. Though I did a fairly
copious experimental biography of him
in 1000 words, the Working Party gave
him as much as the “Encyclopaedia
Britannica” devoted to W. E. Gladstone.
CATEGORY B, 3000-4000 WORDS: This
lumped together Governors Philliu
receiving at least 2000 words less than
his secretary Collins King, Bligh and
Brisbane; Flinders, John Macarthur, Sir
J. Banks, Oxlev with Captain Morisset
(whose name they spelt “Morrissett”),
Superintendent at Newcastle and Norfolk
Island, plus a few men of the calibre of
Samuel Terry, the convict merchant who
rightlv belonged to Volume 11.
CATEGORY C, 1000-2000 WORDS: In
this, the lowest category, above the “dog-
house class,” were Captain Cook (to in-
clude Tasman and Van Diemen). G. W.
Evans. P. P. King—distinguished explorers
—Alexander Riley, a merchant and sheep
breeder and. among others. George John-
ston, junior, whose biographv would be
complete if it were stated that he was
born 1792, son of Lieutenant George
Johnston, emnloved for a year or two as
a Commissariat Clerk and then for a few
months as superintendent of Governm°nt
Stock before h° was killed by a fall from
his horse. a»red 26.
One could name about 50 people with
a claim to be in the priority list who had
escaped the Working Party’s eye.
Following the Category List in the
Minutes was a list of “Recommenda-
tions for Contributors.” Out of 19 names
suggested seven were misspelt. Beaglehole,
the name of the world’s most famous
modern authority on Cook’s voyages,
appeared as “Beaglehold.” Dr Currey, a
fiercely flashing teaching light, former
President of the Royal Historical Society
and Lecturer in Legal History at Sydney
University, was disguised as “Currie”;
Dr George Mackaness, for whom Sydney
University has run out of Doctorates,
was given an extra “n” in his name to
compensate him: Duncan MacCallum,
it is a proud name in Sydney Uni-
versity had lost the “a” in his “Mac,”
V. de V. Voss, one of Professor Ward’s
protegees, was “Vos” to his Sydney
University colleagues. J. Forsyth, a dis-
tinguished naval historian and Trustee
of the Public Library, was elevated in
social status as a “Forsythe”. And Miss
Marley Steven, a sister Research Fellow
of the Minute Secretary’s at the post-
graduate ANU, was presented as “Miss
Stevens” and in a later list prepared by
the same Working Party for Volume
11, as “Marley Stephen.”
Any misapprehension that this rep-
resented some typing accident was nega-
tived by the fact that nobody uttered a
protest or criticism save Mr Gray; also,
through perusal of the list which the
same body prepared for Volume 11,
seven months later on January 19, 1961.
In this, apparently as the result of my
complaints, one or two of the old list
of contributors had their names tailored
to accuracy, but otherwise the NSW
Working Party ran true to form. Sir
Richard Bourke was introduced as “Sir
Andrew Bourke” the first Australian
Governor to earn a local statue. No
doubt his ghost was able to sympathise
with that of the famous Polar explorer
and Superintendent of the Australian
Agricultural Company who was intro-
duced by the Working Party as “Sir
William Parry.” Bishop Broughton was
promoted to “Archbishop.” The Rever-
end Thomas Hassall, best known of early
Australian-born pastors now seemed to
spell his name “Hassell,” according to
the Volume II experts Captain Alexander
Maconochie, RN, was recorded under the
name “Maconchie.” Dr Currey was still
“Currie,” V. de V. Voss was still “V.
Vos” —he was well enough appreciated
to be nominated to write the biographies
of all the Macarthurs of the second gen-
eration, plus Hannibal, their cousin. Pro-
fessor Morrell, one of the most dis-
tinguished historians of the Antipodes
was fined an “r” in his name presum-
ably for being out of bounds in Otago;
and Professor McCulloch, biographer of
Governor Gipps, was rechristened “Mc-
Cullock.” However, my learned advisers
seemed able to spell Roe, Ellis and Gray
accurately.
“Tendency to Kleptomania”
Category List for Volume II pre-
sented by the Working Party was just
as interesting as that for Volume I, but
revealed an alarming tendency to klepto-
mania which induced it to filch- —among
others into Volume II (1826-50), F.
Goulburn (left NSW 1825), his brother
Henry (no connection with Australia
after 1821); C. Throsby (died 1827), no
interest in him after 1825; Hamilton
Hume, only subsidiary as an explorer
after 1825 and J. T. Campbell, Governor
Macquarie’s Secretary, founding Presi-
dent of the Bank of New South Wales
who died in 1830. They obviously did
not recognise him, adopted him into
Volume 11, allotted him 500 words and
handed him to Professor La Nauze in
Melbourne University to write! Also,


We’re mining jet planes, window frames,
power mains at Jarrahdale, W.A,
Jarrahdale, approximately 30 miles south of
Perth, is only a tiny township . , . but its
existence is vital. Here the rich bauxite is
mined open-cut method as part of Alcoa’s
all-Australian aluminium operation. From
this bauxite comes the aluminium for Aus-
tralia’s future. The ships, the jets, the picnic
sets, the everything for tomorrow is made
possible by Alcoa’s al]-Australian operation.
Alcoa is now at work, mining, refining
and smelting aluminium. This £45 million
enterprise, through its 49% Australian
ownership, is an important factor in Aus-
tralia’s economic framework.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS ... ALUMINIUM IS
tso'sv
4
■yp
&i>
Mining:
DARLING RANGES
Refining:
• KWINANA
Smelting and
fabricating:
PT. HENRY •
GEELONG A
<■: ■■
Cv J .'
-PO
,o
ALCOA
0
AUSTRALIA
AUSTRALIA
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: 155 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. 67 6585
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
K
II
Fv-#
1
mama
1
m
S?V •
- P ■&
%
m
Wmkt
S&:
ill
vtf&.v.
AO Al 6. F P
“Bauxite mining at Jarrahdale.” A painting by award-winning artist Keith Howland,
commissioned by Alcoa of Australia.


they put Alexander Riley, who returned
to England in 1818, in their 1826-50 list
and Henry Colden Antill, Macquarie’s
Brigade Major, unimportant after 1825.
Volume II acquired a much more
advanced list in July, 1961, with word-
ages attached by the Editor and this list
seemed to show that the Working Party
were serenely oblivious of the existence
of a great bulk of the leaders of the
commercial and agricultural and pastoral
communities in an age of development
and rural and business expansion.
And their ideas of the relative im-
portance of individuals was sketchy.
William Bland, perhaps the greatest
figure of his time after Wentworth in the
fight for responsible Government, was
given the same wordage as Saxe Ban-
nister, a mad Attorney General who
spent an erratic couple of years in NSW.
One would have expected a dozen know-
ledgeable constitutional historians to be
fighting for the honor of doing the article
about Bland. The Working Party handed
his article to a medical doctor with no
known knowledge of political history,
presumably because he had the title
“Dr” before his name. The Revd J. J.
Therry also was equal to Bland in the
wordage quota and Bland had half the
wordage given to James Macarthur and
500 words less than was awarded to an
obscure publicist named W. A. Duncan
who had earned himself a job as Collec-
tor of Customs by supporting Governor
Gipps to the point at which his little
political journal was supposed to have
been forced out of existence by the brutal
pastoralists
Richard Windeyer was given a mere
1000 words and in later lists from the
Party (January, 1962) he was reduced to
500 to “include Archibald and Charles
Windeyer.” So much for the knowledge
of the University of Sydney and the Aus-
tralian National University of one of
the greatest fighters for legal and
constitutional reform of his age, the
originator of modern jury and libel law
in NSW; a leading advocate, the tireless
worker for responsible Government and
one of the first of scientific agricultural-
ists. They have awarded him finally less
space in the Dictionary than the “Flying
Pieman” and Donohue, the youthful
bushranger who survived an inglorious
year or two as a petty suburban robber.
Many leading merchants, including
Samuel Terry, were left to an American
Fullbright scholar in the United States to
deal with.
I was an optimist if I believed that I
would survive to enjoy the active
counsels of the erudite body of whose
learning the above are fair samples.
On July 8, a fortnight after my ap-
pointment as sole editor of Volume I,
I met them in Sydney. They agreed that
I should write the lives of all the
Governors up to Governor Bligh and
recorded this in a resolution and in a
list of about 170 grouped names of
persons for whom they nominated
authors. The next meeting was fixed a
month ahead in August.
At the end of April, 1961, ten months
afterwards, they had not met again.
In May, 1961, a mysterious meet-
ing, which had no constitutional stand-
ing, decided on the motion of the
Assistant Editor, Mrs Mozley, that the
NSW Working Party should meet with-
out the Editor to complete the Volume I
list and submit it to me. Though this
was an illegal proceeding I did not
oppose it since I hoped that it threw all
the responsibility on the Working Party.
The Working Party met and allegedly
rescinded the resolution passed a year
before that I should write the lives of all
the Governors this after I had written
most of them. They particularly objected
to my writing the lives of Governors
King and Macquarie, which they wanted
Professor Greenwood and Mr Shaw to
write. They said that my writing of these
lives would form an “impassable.barrier”
to agreement with me. I at once agreed
to accede to their request. My own
articles were commercially valuable but
were being donated gratis to the Dic-
tionary.
The Tasmanian List
HPhe evidence of what had happened
A over the Tasmanian list for Volume
I lent strong color to the view that
disagreement with the NSW Working
Party was raised only as part of a general
attack. In Hobart I had nothing but
friendly and smooth co-operation be-
tween myself and the Party. Here is a
diary of the history of this relationship
concerned with a third of the entries in
Volume I:
August, 1960: A month after be-
coming sole editor I conferred in Hobart
with the Tasmanian Working Party, a
broadly - based body embracing rep-
resentatives of every useful interest. I
asked them to make their recommenda-
tions complete before they sent them to
me, but not to place haste before
efficiency.
January, 1961: First Tasmanian list
of inclusions only revising my own
received.
May 12: Final Tasmanian list sent to
me. I forwarded comments and sugges-
tions for some alterations.
June 26: Tasmanian final suggestions
sent to me. All accepted.
July 20: I wrote to the Editorial Board
certifying that I was satisfied with the
list, so that invitations could be sent out.
August 12-13: Editorial Board’s Re-
port to National Committee:
VOL. I, TASMANIA: The list
was completed and had the Editor’s
sanction.
August 14: Professor Hancock wrote
to me: “The Tasmanian list has already
been agreed between you and the Work-
ing Party in Hobart.”
August 25: Professor Hancock wrote
me: “The letters commissioning Volume
I articles from Tasmania are already
going out and it would be grand if letters
to the NSW people could follow im-
mediately.” [The letters needed Professor
Hancock’s personal signature since they
were designed to form half of a contract
in the event of a contributor accepting.]
November 9 (13 weeks later): Item on
Agenda of Board Meeting: “Volume I,
(a) Tasmanian List.” The Chairman
said that though there had been a long
delay through disputes with myself, he
thought the invitations to authors should
now be considered by the Board. I ex-
claimed: “Good Heavens, Mr Chairman,
I authorised these for issue in July, and
in August you assured me they were
going out!” This incident is thus re-
corded in the minutes:
Volume I (a), Tasmania. The editor
indicated that it was quite satisfactory to
proceed with the invitations to con-
tributors for this list and the Board
authorised this to proceed.
January 27, 1962: Replying to my
comments on these strange proceedings in
a document circulated to members of the
National Committee, the Editorial Board
stated: “The Final Tasmanian list for
Volume I, submitted in April, 1961, after
delays consequent on those in New South
Wales, was not sanctioned by the Editor
until July 20. In conformity with normal
procedures, the list was circulated to the
National Committee. On its return, fur-
ther action was deferred on account of
the dispute over closely related lists for
NSW.”
It needs only reference to the indis-
putable documented facts given above to
gauge the veracity or otherwise of these
statements.
I do not wish to dwell here on the
remarkable series of events and dead-
locks which culminated in the open
breaking of my agreement by the Edi-
torial Board and my dismissal from all
offices, or on the arrangement which
composed matters so that I might remain
on the National Committee and co-
operate until I found that this second
arrangement into which I had entered
was being broken both in letter and
spirit by the Board.
I have asked the Vice-Chancellor of
the Australian National University to
hold a public inquiry into the conduct
of the Dictionary administration within
his University, of the Convocation of
which I am a member.


The Australian Impressionists
Illusions surround their work ...
By ROBERT HUGHES
' k ustralian colonial art was an ill-knit
j\ pattern. Except for Glover, Mar-
tens, Gill and Buvelot, it was en-
tirely made up of mediocre or thwarted
talents. There was no sign, in 1880, that
within a decade four young Melbourne
painters were going to give Australian
art direction and form the first identi-
fiable national group, the Heidelberg
School.
These four, Tom Roberts, Charles
Conder, Arthur Streeton and Frederick
McCubbin, are commonly called the Aus-
tralian Impressionists.
Illusions surround their work: for in-
stance, the idea that they were the first
to paint “real” Australian landscape, with-
out turning gums into oaks and gullies
into dells. In fact, the scrubby bush was
quite objectively recorded by Lewin in
1815, and it was familiar territory to
Gill by the 1850 s.
Parallel to this is the notion that they
were the first to paint Australian land-
scape en plein air. Certainly Buvelot,
who was Roberts’ first teacher, preferred
to paint landscapes in his studio; and
Piguenit, his contemporary, turned out
his vast dank panoramas of Kosciusko
indoors. But open-air painting was regu-
larly done before the Heidelberg painters
emerged, by Julian Ashton and others.
Then there is the idea that the Heidel-
berg School, especially Streeton, set a
norm of objectivity for Australian land-
scape. In a restricted sense, it did; by
1930 Professor Hancock wryly noted that
“the painting of Arthur Streeton has be-
come a national habit,” but the paintings
of Streeton’s imitators (late in life, Stree-
ton became one himself) were not ob-
jective investigations of landscape but
mimicry of a schema which was itself
hopelessly ossified by then. There are no
objective landscapes in art, only personal
schemas; the Heidelberg School is no
exception. The four painters in it saw
landscape not as a thing in itself but
as a vehicle of human emotion, some-
times even as an implicit symbol of
nationalist ideas. They picked its moods
to fit theirs.
But the main illusion about the Heidel-
berg School and its relationship to over-
seas painting is that the “Australian Im-
pressionists” were really Impressionists
at all.
They called themselves Impressionists.
But one of art’s minor complications is
that movements hardly ever fit their
names. The cubists painted no cubes
their names stuck after a hostile critic’s
crack about ‘Peruvian cubism.’ The ash-
cans actually painted by the American
‘Ashcan School’ could be numbered on
two hands. And Roberts, Streeton, Con-
der and McCubbin had no significant
contact at all with French Impression-
ism during the most vital years of their
art, 1885 to 1896. The two movements
are distinct. They are dissimilar in theory,
technique and approach, and linked only
by a semantic confusion.
The local painters called themselves
Impressionists because they chose, above
all else, spontaneity. They wanted, to
quote their catalogue to the famous 9 x
5 exhibition of 1889, “first records of
effects widely differing, and of a very
fleeting character.” They were quite
happy to accept the arbitrary distinction
between color and form which Monet had
rejected long before. They had no theory
of color. None of them used a true di-
visionist palette. In fact, we have no
evidence that any member of the Heidel-
berg School (except Conder, who left
Australia for good in 1890) ever saw a
French Impressionist picture before the
turn of the century. Not even a blue
shadow appears in their work until 1891,
when Streeton painted “Fire’s On!” Lap-
stone Tunnel. (It's now thought that the
blue shadows under the figures’ chins in
Tom Roberts’ Bailed Up were added
thirty years later.)
first truly Impressionist canvas
painted in Australia was, for all its un-
Monet-like low color, Phillips Fox’s The
Art Students, done in 1895. By then the
Heidelberg School had split up, Conder
was gone, most of Roberts’ key works
were finished, and Streeton was nearly
past his peak.
The real sources of the Heidelberg
School’s work were the tonal impression-
ism of Whistler, coupled with the 19th-
century tradition of “natural vision”
Corot, Daubigny, Millet and Courbet,
largely transmitted to Roberts via a now
obscure French artist, Bastien-Lepage.
Roberts, having studied at the National
Gallery School in Melbourne, after leav-
ing Buvelot's studio, travelled abroad in
1881. He encountered Whistler’s work in
England, but his only contacts with Paris
came, circuitously, through two Spanish
art students named Laureano Barrau and
Ramon Casas, who relayed to him the
watered-down Impressionist idea taught
by a peripheral French academic, Ger-
cme: “In painting, the first thing to con-
sider is the general impression of color.”
Hardly the new by Parisian stand-
dards in the eighties, but new enough for
Roberts’ captivation. He also liked Bas-
tien-Lepage’s subjects ( The Potato-Gath-
erers, now in the National Gallery of Vic-
toria, is an example) and Bernard Smith
has cogently suggested that he got his
idealised conception of rural labor,
which showed later in The Breakaway
and The Golden Fleece, from them. Cer-
tainly, he admired the Frenchman’s di-
rectness and precision of touch, and
copied it with a square-head brush.
Back in Melbourne in 1885, Roberts
joined with McCubbin and set up the
first of a number of painting camps in the
bush, at Box Hill. He met Streeton, then
a young art student, who was so taken
by Roberts’ “fresh air, true-tone-in-val-
ues idea” that he quitted the National
Gallery School and joined him in 1886.
Conder, then twenty years old, went
along too when he saw Roberts’ Box
Hill “impressions.” There was an agreed
basis: no setpieces, informal tonal paint-
ing, direct handling en plein air. Work-
ing out these ideas before the sunset
changed color made small canvases neces-
sary: hence the 9x5 show of 1889,
largely painted on cigar-box lids. When
it was put up at Buxton’s Gallery in
Melbourne, the critics disliked its lack of
“finish,” though the cries about blue shad-
ows and spotty faces that marked the
French Impressionists’ exhibitions were
noticeably absent. The 9x5 show was
taken to be an assault on la belle peint-
ure. “Of the 180 exhibits,” snorted the
“Argus” critic, “four-fifths are a pain to
the eye.”
“Painting,” Roberts said later, “fixes
one thing for you, one mood, one idea.”
This applies well to his exquisitely fresh
nine-by-fives, and to his larger land-
scapes, whose crisp brushmarks, sen-
suous paint and subdued color caught,
with steely precision, the flickering
bronzes and greys of gumleaves, the im-
palpable blue haze of distances, and the
isloation of objects in light. It also covers
his radiantly intimate portraits, mostly of
young girls, which are suffused by a ten-
der and momentary lyricism. But his
big subject-pictures are in a rather differ-
ent category.
Most of them are studio-paintings, and
there is a determined Courbet ring to the
letter he wrote to Streeton while at work


THE AUSTRALIAN
IMPRESSIONISTS
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO ® JUNE 15, 1963
A SOLITARY RAMBLE by Julian Ashton. (1851-1942).
Watercolor. 13¼X 9⅝ ins.
BAILED UP by Tom Roberts. (1856-1931). 53 X 72 ins.
THE DRY LAGOON by J. J. Hilder. (1881-1916). Watercolor. 25½ X 38 ins.


All pictures by kind permission NSW Art Gallery.
THE GOLDEN FLEECE by Tom Roberts. (1856-1931). 41 x 62½ ins.


THE ART STUDENTS by E. Phillips Fox. (1865-1915).
72 X 45 ins.
DEPARTURE OF S.S. ORIENT
by Charles Conder.
(1868-1909). 17¼ X 19¾ ins.


CREMORNE PASTORAL by Sir Arthur Streeton. (1867-1943). 36 X 54 ins.
ON THE WALLABY TRACK by F. McCubbin. (1855-1917). 48 X 88 ins.


on Shearing the Rams in 1890: Roberts
wanted to portray a subject:
Noble enough and worthy enough
if I could express the meaning and
the spirit of strong masculine
labour, the patience of the animals
whose year’s growth is being
stripped from them for men’s use,
and the great human interest of the
whole scene.
This was the pictorial equivalent of
Henry Lawson, of The Bulletin’s world
in the nineties. In Bailed Up, Roberts
foreshadowed a curious habit of Austra-
lian painters: like Nolan with Kelly, he
took his heroes from the past. People
long for the old virtues. They are so
simple. They go easily into art or narra-
tive. Bushrangers were all but extinct
by the eighties and Roberts never saw
one. But, like shearers and boundary-
riders (look at his Breakaway), they sWi-
bolised a kind of frontier courage, a
tough and simple ethos which was as
much involved with national sentiment in
Australia as Remington’s paintings, or
Winslow Homer’s, were in America.
Streeton never painted heroic subject-
pictures, but he was deeply interested in
the idea of an Australian ethos. He fed
it, however, back into the landscape:
One’s eye sweeps across an ex-
tensive plain fertile with crops and
orange groves . . . and man, he’s
nowhere to be seen, he’s just out of
it; yes, there’s a real drama going
on in front of me ... so interesting
and Australian altogether.
His art was sharply divided: seven
years’ drive, and then a long roll to a
stop with his death in 1943. The best
of it was completed between 1888 and
1896. It included his small sketches on
panel in the 9x5 show; the exquisite
little Redfern Station, 1890, whose sheer
lyrical freshness none of his fellows
equalled except, perhaps, Conder; and
isolated major works like Fire's On,
Cremorne Pastoral (1895: the culmina-
tion of his Sydney Harbor studies) and
The Purple Noon’s Transparent Might.
Otreeton enjoyed paint, its tactility,
its sensuous variations between a dry
scumble and a fat glistening slab. Like
Roberts, he foreshadowed one major
feature of later Australian art its
painterly sensuality. He, too, used a
square brush, but more aggressively than
Roberts: slashing in one face of a rock
with one stroke, he seemed more inter-
ested in form itself than in the play of
light over it; yet his passion for light
was intense, and he liked to work in the
full glare of the noon sun. Streeton was
a subtle colorist, and the highest-keyed
of the Heidelberg group; few Australian
painters, I imagine, would be able to
keep eight square feet of whitish ochre
as lively as he did with the right half of
Fire’s On.
Later, the agile brushwork became a
mannerism. Streeton, Australia’s first
virtuoso painter, declined as his reputa-
tion inflated. In the process he quite
overshadowed Roberts; by 1931, when
Roberts died, he was thought to have
merely started a mode of art which
Streeton perfected. Streeton was, like
Lambert in portraiture, Mr Art to the
twenties and thirties. By 1919, Lionel
Lindsay was placing him above the
French Impressionists, W'hom he scoffed
at as “high priests of impersonality.”
Soon after, J. S. MacDonald, the
other pillar of the critical Establish-
ment then, claimed that Australians
could become “the thoroughbred Ary-
ans in all their nobility” if they
would look attentively at their Streetons.
The irony of this stupendous hoo-ha
(equal, indeed, to our present Dobello-
mania) was that it concerned the great
man’s worst work: between 1896 and his
death Streeton added nothing of any sig-
nificance to the body of his Heidelberg
School achievement. Hibernating on a
provincial Olympus, he lived placidly on
the fat of his early discoveries.
After Roberts’ breadth and inventive-
ness and Streeton’s lightning wrist. Fred-
erick McCubbin looks like a dull figure:
the sentimental Dutch uncle, the “Prof”
of Heidelberg, cloaking his Victorian al-
legories of bush endurance in suggestive
mists of paint. This, at any rate, is a
common view of him, and I don’t think
it’s a fair one. He suffered in the swing
from romanticism to “hard” drawing set
off by Lambert’s return in the early
twenties; his hazes and stippled tree-
scapes were ignored in a search for pre-
cise contour. But he was undoubtedly the
precursor of the atmospheric painters
of the early twentieth century, Hilder,
David Davies and, more remotely,
Gruner; he tentatively defined the poetic
idea of bush melancholy which gained
strong currency just before World War I.
And, at their best, his gentle evocations of
landscape were never surpassed by the
crystalline elegance of Streeton’s
“machines.”
It seems likely that McCubbin first got
Roberts interested in hero ; c s”K;ecf-nic-
tures. His own were more elegiac than
energetic: a despairing fossicker in Down
on His Luck, a mourning family in Bush
Burial, a little boy of quite toffee-like
bathos in Lost. When it came to human
values, McCubbin could be neither ob-
lique nor subtle he was the hc> o the
pietistic genre of the academies. His ad-
miration for mateship ballooned into a
near-religious mystique by 1905, when
he painted The Pioneers as an altar
triptych. But he was an unpretentious
man. He had neither Streeton's toughness
nor Conder’s inherent taste. “It is pre-
cisely the picture of things most familiar
to us, of homely subjects . . . which
most appeal to us,” he once said.
But, curiously, his rendering of light
and atmosphere ran closer to real Im-
pressionism than either Streeton's or
Roberts’. He dissolved form in a tapestry
of all-over light effects; significantly, he
did not use the square brush, which de-
fined planes. His surfaces are often crusts
of dots and dabs, overlapping greys,
grey-greens, yellows, browns. Light is
caught and evenly diffused in a world of
soft edges. He had, therefore, the basis
of a divisionist technique, without the
brilliant and vivacious color of the
French. McCubbin was a humble soul,
not very imaginative, distilling several
pure drops of lyricism, from a close con-
tact with nature: a painter of man’s kin-
ship with the earth, and thus a Millet in
little.
Jn 1896, Albert Jarry's play Übu Roi
opened—and closed—in Paris. Yeats
was in the whistling audience, and later
he scribbled a lament for the era Jarry
helped kill:
I am very sad, for comedy,
objectivity, has displayed its grow-
ing power once more. I say, after
Mallarme, after Verlaine . . . after
our own verse, after the faint mixed
tints of Conder, what more is
possible? After us the Savage God.
By then, Conder was a familiar figure
in London and Paris, a friend of Wilde’s
and Rothenstein’s, caricatured by Max
Beerbohm, drawn by Toulouse-Lautrec.
He was now chiefly a decorative painter
his fans, ornamented with pale ethe-
real ladies and fetes galantes, were much
in demand and he fitted his fin-de-
siecle environment neatly. His Australian
work, between 1885 and 1890, contained
the seeds of aestheticism if only be-
cause it showed a more acute, formalised,
Whistlerian taste than his companions’.
Conder was intensely interested in de-
sign: his “impressions” were carefully or-
dered. His most celebrated picture, The
Departure of the SS Orient (1888) is a
formidably sophisticated effort for a
man of twenty. For, though Conder first
heard about Impressionism from Roberts
in Sydney in 1887, he gave tonal impres-
sionism a decorative bias; this shows
plainly in SS Orient, with its fastidious
sea-rain colors and crimson shadows,
with the groups on the pier dotting out
the formal focus-points of the space. It
is possible that Conder was painting en
plein air before he met Roberts: he had
studied under Ashton, and he may have
come in contact with another open-air
painter, Girolamo Nerli, who arrived in
Sydney in 1883. Nerli’s Voyagers anti-
cipates, to some extent, Conder’s SS
Orient, but by 1888 Conder was in more
refined control of tonal impressionism
than Nerli ever managed to be.
Conder was also interested in symbol-
ism, and just before he left for Europe
(Continued on Page 34)


he began using forms which anticipated
Australian art nouveau. Symbolism and
allegory like his large The Hot Wind,
a semi-nude woman blowing on a brazier
in the desert, which was rejected from the
Royal Academy in 1891 were quite
remote from what the Heidelberg School
wanted to do: and in fact, the school’s
latent energy took three directions, all
of them visible by the early nineties.
The first, through Conder, was towards
art nouveau and bush aestheticism
Sidney Long’s etoliated nymphs, Pans
and misty gums, or Blamire Young’s
watercolors. The second links with Mc-
Cubbin: the atmospheric and romantic
painters of the nineties and up to the
thirties: J. J. Hilder, David Davies (whose
Moonrise, Templestowe in the National
Gallery of Victoria is possibly the finest
animist landscape painted by an Aus-
tralian), Withers, Gruner and so on. And
finally, there was Streeton’s offspring
the national landscape convention, blue
sky, green hills and woolly rams.
letters
to the
editor
THE ABORIGINES
Sir,
Your issue of May 4, which contained
a beautifully illustrated color portfolio
on aboriginal art and ritual, was accom-
panied by an article on “The Dying
Culture” which calls for some comment.
The author's main intention was, no
doubt, to point to the urgent need for
research on aboriginal cultures before
they have all disappeared, and to convey
to the general public some idea of the
work that will be undertaken by the
newly formed Australian Institute of
Aboriginal Studies. With both of these ob-
jectives I am in full agreement. But,
what a pity that the correspondent who
wrote this article should have included
so many questionable statements about
the aborigines.
Firstly, he stated that the aborigines
are nearly unique and that among primi-
tive peoples “probably there are none
who live at the same material level.”
This perpetuates a common misconcep-
tion, that the Australian aborigines were
materially among the most primitive
people in the world. Actually, there were
many other contenders for this rather
dubious title. The Indians of Tierra del
Fuego have, I think, a better claim to it.
Then, he asserts that the aborigines
are “the archetype specimen the only
surviving archetype specimen of man
himself.” This implies that aborigines are
somehow a living survival of early man,
or even a “pre-man.” There is also some
reference in this paragraph to finds made
of early human remains, dating back a
million years, and again the implication
is that the aborigines represent a very
ancient group who developed or evolved
in Australia. One must take exception to
both of these implications, and particu-
larly to the term “archetype specimen”
being applied to the aborigines. There
are no living survivals of any archaic
hominid type on earth today only
Neanderthal man himself, if he were
still alive, would qualify for the title
“surviving archetype.”
Another fallacy perpetuated by your
correspondent is the notion that a
people’s social “inheritance” is affected
by their genetic inheritance. This is quite
a dangerous misconception, and yet he
states that “it would be unthinkable that
the 50,000 generations should not have
left their genetic mark upon our socio-
logical makeup.” Anthropologists simply
would not agree. In fact, they would as-
sert that there is not one iota of evidence
for the belief that human social institu-
tions are the result of genetic inheri-
tance, any more than language or any
other part of a people’s cultural life is
handed on genetically.
Your correspondent states that the
aborigines are “living Stone Age people”
and that by studying them “we can still
see what our own past must have been
like.” Whose past does he mean? There
is little ground- for believing that the
Stone Age (palaeolithic) cultures of Eur-
ope were in any way identical with abori-
ginal or, for that matter, any Pacific
cultures who relied upon stone technol-
ogy. Even he has some doubts on this
matter, for he notes that “the Australian
environment is, of course, very different
from the European, and the inhabitants
may have been genetically different.”
RUTH A. FINK, PH.D.
Lecturer in Anthropology, Australian
School of Pacific Administration
Sydney {NSW).
SEX IN SWEDEN
Sir,
I have read not without delight and
amazement your article on “Sex in
Sweden” (20/4/63). It is quite true that,
as stated, instruction in sex is compulsory
in the schools from the age of seven.
But having been a pupil during those
“lessons,” I can assure you that even
a Victorian country like Australia could
bear them!
But what I really do object to is the
statement that sex is seldom discussed
in private. Of course, living in a free
country, there isn’t really so much left
to discuss, whether in public or privately;
but discussions on sex among adult per-
sons on an intelligent level occur, and
not so seldom.
The really controversial statement in
the article concerns the loss of virginity.
In all fairness, it must be stated that in
the upper classes of Sweden a lost virgin-
ity is regarded as something quite ter-
rible.
INGMAR BJORKSTEN
Stockholm {Sweden).
AUSTRALIANS IN RED CHINA
Sir,
It is not in any carping mood that I
draw attention to some minor errors in
Professor Passin’s survey of Australia-
China contacts and exchanges (25/5/63).
The wonder is, not that there are a few
small mistakes, but that the survey is
so comprehensive and accurate. All the
more reason to tidy up the record in a
few places:
Neither the “revisionists” nor anybody
else in the Australia-China Society had
anything to do with arranging the 1956
delegation of university students to
China. This was arranged directly be-
tween the National Union of Australian
University Students and the All-China
Student Federation.
Reg Leonard was only in China in
transit. Having been chief of the Mel-
bourne “Herald” London Bureau, he
came home via Moscow and Peking, fil-
ing some dispatches as he travelled. Prof.
Passin gives the impression that Mr Leon-
ard was stationed in Peking as a corres-
pondent.
The former Sydney and Melbourne
journalist Fred Nossal spent eight months
in Peking as a correspondent, but not
for the “Herald.” He was sent to China
by the Toronto “Globe and Mail” in
1959 after the Chinese had rejected two
other correspondents nominated by the
paper in the course of 14 months’ nego-
tiations to get a man into Peking.
For some time after the Korean War,
Wilfred Burchett lived in Peking, but for
the past several years he and his family
have lived in Moscow.
Whether or not the local Unitarians
are heavily infiltrated by Communists,
the fact is that they are an unimportant
denomination. This alone would explain
their omission from the Non-Conformist
Churchmen’s Delegation which went to
China in 1959. From his vantage point
in New York, Prof. Passin apparently
sees the Australian Unitarians as being
comparable in numbers and influence to
the Unitarians in some areas of USA.
K. D. GOTT
Melbourne {Vic).
JOHN KNATCHBULL
Sir,
Mr R. J. M. Newton, QC, in his letter
about Mr M. H. Ellis’s review of my
book “John Knatchbull,” deplored the
reviewer’s failure to examine the manu-
script of Knatchbull’s narrative before
he ventured to express the view that it
was the work of more than one hand.
Even though Mr Ellis has still not exam-
ined the manuscript, he persists in his


charge by saying now that the hand-
writing as shown in Plate 111 of the illus-
trations in the book differs from that
shown in Plates XIV and XVI.
Now Plate 111 reproduces the opening
page of the manuscript, which begins,
“The Life of John Knatchbull, written
by himself 23 Jany 1844 in Woolloo-
mooloo [sic] Gaol.” Plate XIV is page
125 of the manuscript, written a day or
so before Knatchbull was hanged on 13th
February. (The narrative, excluding his
observations on the morning of his exe-
cution, consists of 130 pages, the last
page, reproduced as Plate XVI, having
been written the evening before he was
hanged.)
Despite Mr Ellis’s allegations I venture
to say that, although Knatchbull was to-
wards the end obliged to write hastily in
order to complete his narrative, there is
no essential difference between the hand-
writing of all these pages. In order to give
the public what 1 believed any reasonable
person would accept as conclusive evi-
dence on this point, I included as Plate
XV the confession written in the gaol
by Knatchbull on 10th February, three
days before he was hanged. Mr Ellis has
overlooked the Plate reproducing this
important holograph document. Like the
first few pages of Knatchbull's narrative,
it was written carefully. It was witnessed
by J. Long Innes, the visiting magistrate,
and Henry Keck, the governor of the
gaol. It is an official document and is
undoubtedly in Knatchbull’s handwriting.
On comparing Plates XIV and XV with
Plate 111, I am in no doubt that they were
all written by the same hand, certified by
these officials as Knatchbull’s.
In regard to the identity of Sir Edward
Knatchbull’s first wife, Mr Ellis creates
the impression that she and Sir Joseph
Banks were not connected, whereas in
fact, as I point out in the first page of
my Retrospect of Knatchbull’s life, his
father's sister-in-law was Lady Banks,
nee Hugessen, the wife of Sir Joseph.
As to the year of Knatchbull's birth,
no entirely satisfactory evidence of the
exact date is available. The internal evi-
dence of the narrative and that of the
naval records suggest that he was born
late in December, 1789, the evidence for
this conclusion being given on pages 116,
141 and 262 of my book. In addition,
when he was sent to the hulk Leviathan
as a convict, his age on 7th September,
1824, was entered in the Transportation
Register as 34 (page 161). That he was
himself uncertain of the year of his birth
is clear from three /things. First, in the
second line of his narrative he crossed
out the first date he wrote and then put
1787. Secondly, in the lengthy petition he
sent to Governor Gipps from Norfolk
Island in 1838, he implied that he had
been born in 1785 (pages 216-17).
Thirdly, in another petition, dated 1839,
he spoke of his “advanced age of 54
years” (page 225).
There remains Mr Ellis’s third ob-
servation that he stated the rank of his
grandfather wrongly. In my book I refer
to his maternal grandfather as Lieutenant-
Colonel Graham, having done so because
he is so designated in Burke’s Dictionary
of Peerage and Baronetage, sth edition,
London, 1837. It is a fair inference that
his grandfather’s permanent rank was
Lieutenant-Colonel and that this was his
substantive rank on retirement. He may
well have held a higher temporary rank
at the time of the disturbances in
America: he was Governor of Georgia
and is described as an American refugee.
In any case, it is not uncommon for
people to push up the rank of their ances-
tors and so bask in reflected glory. In
Knatchbull’s case his readiness to do this
is understandable. It is a phenomenon
which Mr Ellis will recognise as a fairly
common one in Australian history.
COLIN RODERICK
Homebush (NSW).
MUSIC PUBLICATIONS
Sir,
There are a couple of points arising
out of Mr Small’s review of Volumes
I and II of University of Sydney Music
Publications (18/5/63) which I would
like to elaborate. The two Monteverdi
compositions “Crucifixus” and “Et Res-
urrexit,” which form Volume I, were first
published at Venice in 1641 in a col-
lection of compositions by Monteverdi
called “Selva morale et spirituale.” The
principal work included in this collec-
tion is the “Missa a 4 da cappella,” and
there are clear indications that the two
items were meant to be used as optional
insertions in this Mass. When the ap-
propriate sections of the Mass are
reached one may read these directions:
“Qui si puo cantare il Crucifixus a 4 con-
certato se piace” and also “Qui si puo
cantare Et Resurrexit a 2 concertato se
piace.” Furthermore there is another
short item, “Et iterum” in this same col-
lection, which is also indicated as an
alternative to be used in the “Missa a
4.” As the Mass is written in the then
traditional ecclesiastical style, it seems
that the composer wished to balance this
musical conservatism by the introduc-
tion of these more modern alternatives.
In this series of publications we have
to confine ourselves to work by members
of the Department of Music mainly be-
cause of lack of finance. If we can raise
sufficient money to publish another two
or three volumes this year we shall be
very fortunate indeed, and from this it
will be clear that my colleagues and I
shall have no difficulty at all in pro-
viding more than sufficient material. In
any case we are hoping to persuade some-
body to finance a similar series for Aus-
tralian composers, if our pilot-scheme
proves successful.
ERIC GROSS
Music Department, University of Sydney.
Sydney (NSW).
“TROPIC OF CANCER”
Sir,
Mr Peter Shrubb (1/6/63) is as un-
successful at dissembling as he is at face-
tiousness. The long opening sequence in
his original critique of “Tropic of Can-
cer,” devoted to alleged English-speak-
ing tourists in Paris feverishly thumbing
through Miller’s book for cheap thrills
a conception which in itself is just as
much a masturbatory fantasy as those he
dislikes so much in Miller was ob-
viously meant to establish Miller as pri-
marily a writer of pornography. His
claim that Miller fails to provide sexual
stimulants rebounds on to his own head
for, to make such a conclusion and de-
vote so much of his critique and his reply
to my letter to this aspect, he must have
started from the premise that Miller’s
work is meant to titillate. I did not ex-
pect him to review “Big Sur” or the
“Colossus of Marousi,” but I repeat that,
by suppressing mention of these, he was
unfair to Miller, as he implies to Aus-
tralian readers that Miller is only known
for the “Tropic of Cancer.”
Mr Shrubb’s critical method is ab-
surdly syllogistic. He seems to think that
the fact that Lawrence, James, and
Hardy can describe places well (some-
thing I did not and do not deny) proves
that Miller cannot do the same. Why
these writers’ talents should be regarded
as mutually exclusive I cannot imagine.
I refer Mr Shrubb to George Orwell’s
Essay on “Tropic of Cancer.” “Inside the
Whale”; Orwell himself, and the writers
he quotes as praising Miller (novelists
themselves!), single out Miller’s ability for
descriptions of peoples and places as his
major artistic quality (significant, since
Orwell anticipates many of Mr Shrubb’s
other criticisms). Nor do I understand
why Mr Shrubb should reprove Miller
for his “glandular excitements”; what
excitement is not?
(DR.) B. BALDWIN
University of New England.
Armidale (NSW).
NORTH QUEENSLAND
Sir,
I take issue with the article “North
Queensland Is In” (11/5/63). It may be
“in” for the privileged few, but is de-
finitely “out” for the majority of ord-
inary working people. Townsville is
showing steady industrial progress, but
in this matter it is a rose between the
thorns of Mackay and Cairns. Mackay
lost thousands of pounds in waterside
workers’ wages when bulk handling was
introduced, and the only progress I’ve
noted in the town has been the erection
of a couple of motels.
In Cairns mechanisation has adversely
affected the labor force in cane-cutting,
the meat industry, and waterside workers.
The number of railway workers has been
reduced by branch line closures and
dieselisation. There is an abundance of
houses for sale, and empty shops.
Plenty of people can imagine better
places to live at the height of the humid
summer. But it is the winters that hold
them here; they are beautiful. And this
city of Cairns is beautiful. That is why
I dislike so much seeing what was once
solid progress being derogated by the
ballyhoo of a false boom.
SID SAMPSON
Cairns (Qld).


REVIEWS
FILMS
Japanese Genius and Sadism
By CHARLES HIGHAM
(Recently back from Tokyo)
In the narrow, crudely-lit arcades and
streets of Asakusa, Tokyo’s working-
class entertainment district, the film
posters reach out and grab the eye.
Decapitated heads roll in the dust,
scissors slash a man’s face, performers
of hara-kiri bend double in their death
agonies. Brilliantly inventive, profligate
with color and electrical gadgets, the
front-of-house theatre displays combine
sadism with creative genius in a way
which would please the heart of Alfred
Hitchcock. Where half-a-dozen stills,
displayed in a "glass showcase, would do
service in New York, London or Sydney,
in Tokyo there would be a hundred of
them, splashed in giant blowups all
along the top of the theatre or swarming
up and down pillars in the lobby. Through
the thoroughfares with their trowel-
shaped blue lights, artificial sprigs of
cherry blossom, broken pavements and
squalid litter, the theatre signs flutter
from poles or dance up and down in an
endless stream of neon. At night,
Asakusa and Shinjuku's Kabuki-Za (or
Theatre District) present a spectacle no
other city can offer as samurai blades
flash up and down, huge faces roll their
eyes in simulated anger and women
gambol with dogs in a manner which
would have our own censors white with
astonishment.
Inside the theatre lobby, you push
your 70 yen to the dumpy bow-legged
girl in the box and press through the
standing crowd at the back of the stalls.
If you are lucky, a single seat may be
vacant (Asakusa is no place to take a
date). Around you sit the young men
who make up most of the audience,
many of them buttoned into the black
Sigmund Romberg uniform with the un-
polished brass buttons and crumpled
patent leather shoes of the boy student.
There are few necking couples. A
smattering of clerks or young salesmen
in those peculiar thin grey suits and puce
ties one so often sees, their shoes dirty
and cracked by the endless grime of
Tokyo, and one or two businessmen
whose snores cause ripples of mirth.
Then the film begins.
It might be a Nikkatsu Studios pro-
duction, complete with breakneck chases,
breathless teenage encounters on rail-
way embankments, gruesome killings
and a last-minute showdown featuring
grunts, screams and police whistles. Or
it might be a calm, wise film from the
Daiei Studios, or a ferocious Toho
masterpiece by the great Akira Kuro-
sawa, of “Rashomon” fame. But what-
ever it is, the audience students,
clerks, businessmen (when they awake)
will be as caught and held and
entranced as though they were attending
a rite. The cinema may be down on its
knees before TV in most other places in
the world, but in Japan it is triumphant.
Crude the posters may be, but the
films are not. Technically, every Japan-
ese film I have ever seen has been flaw-
less; the country each year confounds
those diehards who still claim the cinema
is not an art form. Even the Nikkatsu
thrillers have an energy, slickness and
pace that Hollywood might envy. And
the elite Japanese films the cream of
those produced each year by Daiei, Toho
and Shochiku —dazzle the eye with their
superbly composed images and excite
the most jaded eardrum with their
resplendent musical scores.
TT’or the past three years, Japan has been
the world’s biggest film producer,
reaching the staggering production total
of 535 in 1961. Since then the figure
has dropped, but chiefly because of an
emphasis on quality before quantity and
the sudden demise of the Shintoho
Studios because of internal financial
difficulties. Modern films now outweigh
“costumers” and color films outweigh
black-and-white.
Costs are still amazingly cheap, com-
pared with anywhere else. Today a
million-dollar film in Hollywood is
practically a B-picture; in Japan you
could make 10 color productions for the
same figure. Exports are good —to the
US, to Brazil (where a Japanese business
community flourishes at Sao Paulo), to
Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand and
Okinawa, but the domestic market (as
nowhere else except India) is huge
enough to make exports almost un-
necessary. Overseas films do big business
“West Side Story” and “Lawrence of
Arabia” were running to packed houses
while I was in Tokyo but for the mass
of the population, Japanese is best. A
foreign movie has to be big, technically
brilliant, full of noise and movement
and color, to keep the customers happy,
although smaller productions (if they
are sexy enough) keep the pro-European
community in a good humor in the heart
of the biggest cities.
From a critic’s point of view, Jap-
anese films remain by far the best in the
Far East. The 150 features the Philip-
pines are producing a year are mostly
awkward and stagey affairs, of little or
no export value. Hong Kong brought
out 190 films last year, only one of
them, “Yang Kwei Fei,” of passable
quality. Indeed, so far as I could judge
from informed comment, the Far East-
ern Film Festival over, perhaps for-
tuitously, the day before I arrived in
Japan was a display of dead ex-
hibits, a fiesta for graveyard-keepers.
It is almost 12 years now since Akira
Kurosawa’s “Rashomon” burst on the
world a unique masterpiece and one
of the cinema's first dozen works of art.
Kurosawa himself — 1 a publicity-shy,
skinny six-footer makes a film a year
which inevitably gets into the Euro-
pean Festivals: perhaps the greatest
living director, he has an unrivalled
command of the language of the camera,
and his undisillusioned, ruthless analysis
of the Japanese character is deeply ap-
preciated by his audiences. Thousands of
Japanese have become aficionados of this
genius, going again and again to stand
at the back of the stalls and look once
more at certain sequences. The Japan-
ese are as passionate for the cinema as
Spaniards are for the bullfight or Mel-
burnians are for football. Confident of
a vast sophisticated audience, Kurosawa
big box-office as no other great film
director since Griffith has been can
be as cerebral, as taxing as he likes and
still score successes.
This year, Australians attending the
film festivals will see Kurosawa’s “Yo-
jimbo” ("The Bodyguard”), a dynamic
example of the brigand picture which in-
variably scores heavily at the Japanese
box-office. A sequel, "Sanjuro”, has been
followed by “High and Low,” which had
just opened when I arrived and is headed
for Europe shortly. A kidnapping story
with a long, virtuoso train sequence
which has become famous in Japan, it
is a glittering masterpiece of film tech-
nique culminating in a chase sequence in
Yokohama which strikingly explores the
twist-crazy underworld .of Japanese
teenagers and drug-addicts.
The official entry for Cannes this year


ti\Q\and
Thailand
REPCO EXPORT CO. PTY. LID.
(OIVISION OF REPCO LTD.J
Regirtered 1M QUEENSBERRY STREET. CARLTON, N. 3, VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA
34-51-45 —• C«bl«i tn 4 Ttl»jf«m»: "R*pfif#ft"
INVOICE Nfc
tn Account w’rtfc. 63 different countries
nm— ~i—i-r-i-ri-t-T.nn,-nr —■■ YoUf OfJef No,
m
4286
INVOICES TO 63 COUNTRIES
Repco provides a unique service to its overseas clients. Even the most involved and extensive order for genuine Repco
automotive products is reduced to one single shipment by the Repco Export Company. In the one shipment there could
be a wide range of items from each of the many Repco factories manufacturing engine, brake and transmission parts,
tools and service equipment. Repco invoices speak all languages and Repco service to the automotive industry is
acknowledged throughout the world.
m
EXPORT
ACTION
REPCO: where the
standard is perfection.
REPCO LIMITED, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA; MANUFACTURERS, MERCHANDISERS AND EXPORTERS OF AUTOMOTIVE PARTS, SERVICE
EQUIPMENT AND MACHINE TOOLS FOR TRANSPORT, INDUSTRY AND AGRICULTURE.


is to be “Seppuku” (“Hara-Kiri”) which
the London “Daily Mirror’s” Donald Zee
(in Tokyo while I was there) incorrectly
referred to as a deliberately titillating
horror-movie. It is in fact a sober exami-
nation of the evils of the ancient suicide
custom, superbly directed and acted. I
was also able to see a remarkable docu-
mentary, “Bad Boys,” shot with a con-
cealed camera in the back streets and
prisons of Tokyo: a compassionate and
deeply moving account of young men
forced into delinquency by the hopeless-
ness and squalor of their daily lives.
~ , ... . T , , ,
At all the public screenings I attended
in Tokyo and elsewhere in Japan, the
theatres were crowded (and I often saw
pictures in the mornings and afternoons)
and the atmosphere was far tenser than in
a estern t eatre.
Excessive over-acting or violence
brought ripples of amusement, while mul-
tiple tortures and beheadings sometimes
brought convulsive laughter. I recall one
film, “The Man”, made by the director
of “The Island” (which won a prize at
the Melbourne Film Festival last year),
in which a group of people endure suf-
ferings (hunger, thirst, disease) on a drift-
ing boat. The misery of the one woman
in the party was greeted with roars of
uninhibited laughter, and her demise (fal-
ling into the hold to lie spreadeagled on
her back) nearly brought on a riot,
Shown at a Sydney art theatre, the same
sequence would probably bring as many
clucks as one would hear in a coop,
Given this kind of ruthless critical
analysis in an audience (and I saw “The
Man” in Ikibukuro, a busy lower middle-
class Tokyo quarter) a film industry is
constantly on its mettle to provide intelli-
entertainment. This, the studios are
, , doi And d ite an in .
crease q£ se[ . owners from 900 in 1953 t 0
14,000.0110 in 1962, TV still hasn’t really
d<Jne much damage , f everywhere els ’ e
the j n t e n e ctuals regard the cinema as an
inferior art form, the Japanese regard
it as the most central art form of our
time. And the vast mass of the people—
crowding into little Asakusas in the small-
ler cities in pursuit of a samurai, college
or “art” picture are wholeheartedly
with them in that belief.
Child's-Eye View
To Kill a Mockingbird. State Theatre.
Sydney.
“rp o kill a mockingbird,” the gentle
-*■ small-town lawyer who is the central
figure of this film tells his young son,
“is a sin. A mockingbird just sits in the
garden all day long and sings, and never
does any harm to anybody.” Something
of the same sort might be said about the
film itself. It has so many agreeable
virtues, and its heart is so obviously in
the right place, that it seems a sin to
pick on it
i tr
e story ( rom a nove y arper
Lee) is set in a small Southern town in
, . ... , , A , . t ,
the nineteen-thirties, and has to do with
. . . , . ’ . . ...
the topical subject of racial prejudice.
The lawyer conscientiously defends a
Negro falsely accused of raping a white
woman, despite the hostility of the
townspeople and the near certainty of
, u ure ' e e P ls ® ® 1S seen
through the eyes of his two small child-
ren, who wondenngly discover their
. ’ , , , . 6 / . . .
fathers strength of character, and h,s
unflinching adherence to tolerance in an
intolerant community.
Director Robert Mulligan handles the
story with honest affection, capable crafts-
manship and a healthy lack of sentimen-
tality. The film s only obvious fault is
that it is too long: some of the scenes
are needlessly drawn out, and some of
the more discursive episodes could have
been dropped.
It’s “Mockingbird’s” misfortune that
it comes here with a small swag of
Academy Awards, for that tends to turn
attention from what the film does do to
what it does not do.
This isn t a film to seize the imagina-
tion and haunt the memory. As a study
of small-town childhood, “The Member
ot the Wedding” was more penetrating;
the climactic trial scene is less gripping
than that in Anatomy of a Murder ,
and the theme of racial intolerance has
certainly been dealt with more bitingly
The stor y is not onl y seen from the
point of view of childhood, but, either
hy accident or design, it displays the
simplified values of childhood. The father
.. , ,
is unswervingly, uncomplicatedly good;
... . , . . ,
the villain (the false accuser) monstrouslv
"q Peck makes the lawyer an
a|t ther alf figure> t , fee ,
(hat (he „ OScar ,. he WQn for the role
was large|y a wntimental gesture to a
nice fellow and competent actor, to mark
his aduation to sympathetic character
, c , ,
roles after long years of labor as a
matinee ido ,_ He has stm not d
himse|( as an actor of ra e and d th .
The chi|dren _ Mary Badham a$ the
sharp-featured tomboy and Phillip AL
ford as her serious elder brother are
charming and refreshingly devoid of
Hollywood cuteness. But, constantly in
the foreground, they are asked to earry
rather more of a burden than the best
G f child actors can reasonably sustain;
here a g a i n the film would have benefited
from a little cutting,
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
Unloving Martyr
Becket. Jean Anouilh. Repertory
Society. Canberra.
HHHE story of Thomas a Beeket is magni-
A ficent dramatic material. A many-
sided conflict between great figures, its
human and moral interests are as vital
today as they were in the 12th century.
A dramatist’s problem must be to select
among the competing themes implicit in
the story; but ultimately he must choose
between emphasising either the martyr-
dom or the refusal to compromise.
Eliot chose the first, and in his dignified
and formal drama studied the fine points
of conscience and salvation. Anouilh has
chosen the second not surprisingly,
for it is a recurring preoccupation in his
plays. Instead of concentrating chiefly on
Becket alone, Anouilh gives equal weight
to the character of Henry 11. Henry is a
Norman, stupid, immature, steeped in the
worldly pleasures which Becket can later
so easily discard. Becket is a Saxon, the
illegitimate son of a successful collabo-
rator with the Normans; resourceful,
athletic, sensitive and kind in the midst
of ox-brained barons. But in scene after
scene, Anouilh shows us Becket’s lack
of human warmth: he is kind because it
pays, but the love of neither king nor
mistress makes any impact on his disci-
plined heart.
Hence there is an important irony in
this absorbing play. The stupid, loving
king rises in stature as he moves through
loss and suffering to understanding, and
to a capable fulfilment of his kingly role.
Becket does not meet his finest hour in
martyrdom; as Chancellor he defends the
honor of the King with a brilliance
which Anouilh establishes economically
and vividly; as Archbishop he defends
the honor of God with exactly the same
brilliance and without any regret for
the friend he leaves. That is the terrible
thing about this complex portrait of
Becket. Henry is a boor and a sinner
beside him, but he has a capacity for
love and loyalty of which Becket never
even dreamed. So the play is not about
the glory of martyrdom, but about the
tragedy of a man who cannot love.
Canberra Repertory’s production was
swift and intelligent, a particular achieve-
ment because on the opening night the
producer (John Wells) had to stand in
for a sick actor and read the part of
Henry. This had the inevitable result
that Becket was highlighted more than
the King. Graeme Campbell’s perform-
ance as Becket would have commanded
our attention under any circumstances,
while Jenny Leng as Becket’s mistress,
and Jack Wischusen as the older Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, are also fine.
HOPE HEWITT


A
SUPERANNUATION
from
for all SELF-EMPLOYED PERSONS
professional men, businessmen, farmers, graziers
and ALL EMPLOYERS and their STAFFS
Commonwealth legislation now enables the A.M.P.
Society, Australia’s No. 1 Life Office, to offer you
tax-free superannuation which can provide for:
• RETIREMENT with adequate
cash resources.
• PROTECTION for your family
against death duties and against
sickness and accident.
CAPITAL APPRECIATION
through A.M.P.’s large holdings
of equity shares and real estate.
GUARANTEED by A.M.P.
assets of almost £6OO million.
For all information,
contact your A.M.P. man or The Superannuation Manager,
A.M.P SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE
N.S.W.: Box 2527, Sydney. Victoria: Box 2458, Melbourne. Queensland: Box
1404 R, Brisbane. South Australia: Box 407 C, Adelaide. Western
Australia: Box 881, Perth. Tasmania: Box 312 C, Hobart.
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by assets of
almost i. 600.000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the
greatest benefit to members.
' |
M 1458


Detective Story
Hamlet. Old Tote Theatre. Sydney.
HThe virtues of Tom Brown’s production
A of Hamlet at the Old Tote are direct-
ness and simplicity. We have suffered so>
many over-rich and over-stuffed produc-
tions of the great plays that this lack of
clutter is a great relief. In this respect at
least, the Old Tote has unfurled a brave
pioneer flag.
But the unvarnished speech and un-
trammelled action of Mr Brown’s open-
ing scenes lead one to expect a fine,
astringent reading that never comes.
Much of the blame must lie with the
actual playing of Hamlet himself. And
Mr John Bell failed to meet the challenge.
Bell is a developing actor of fine poten-
tial quality with unmistakable grip.
But he is a study in inexperience:
The voice is taut and incisive,
but the body fails to go along with it.
Throughout the play he shows insufficient
understanding of that basic rule of the
theatre: let the whole body speak as
eloquently as the tongue.
Bell also failed to develop the role
it stood still from the first scenes. This
static quality was shared by most of the
cast, though one honorably excepts Miss
Sophie Stewart’s Queen Gertrude and
Mr Fitzpatrick’s Horatio. For the rest,
everyone seemed to begin the play with
a certain knowledge of its end. They did
not discover the facts of the play as it
unfolded; they merely recognised fami-
liar things. This may be a style appro-
priate to the ritual of Attic drama, but
it is the death of Shakespeare. “Hamlet"
is a detective story, and the players
should also be surprised at its successive
events.
Other players who did well were Mr
Ron Haddrick as the Ghost, Mr John
Gray in several key character roles, and
Miss Janice D’innen (in a brave attempt
at a consistent, motivated Ophelia). Des-
mond Digby’s simple setting and glowing
costumes admirably set off the words and
action.
KEVON KEMP
Feiffer
Ship of Fools
Sail Away. Noel Coward. Her
Majesty’s Theatre. Melbourne.
VToel Coward’s “Sail Away” has all
the tedium of travel without the
compensation of seeing something new.
On a sea voyage you are in a com-
pletely artificial world in which almost
nothing happens. One day is exactly
like another day except for the increas-
ing boredom of the passengers. There
are the games you would never dream
of playing on land, the people you would
never dream of talking to on land, the
food you would never dream of eating
on land. There is the nursery with its
screaming children and the ship’s dance
with its paper hats. The horror of it alt
requires an lonesco to do justice to it.
Mr Coward, although he depicts it all
very realistically, seems for some un-
accountable reason to think it charming.
Admittedly the liner has every comfort.
It is tastefully decorated by Louden
Sainthill in pastel shades, and it stops
at all the most exotic ports of call. But
this cannot carry the long succession of
set pieces strung together on an almost
invisible thread of plot, the unmemor-
able lyrics and the undistinguished
ballet sequences.
The heroine is Mimi Paragon, cruise
hostess of the round trip from New
York to Europe and back. Resourceful,
indefatigable, witty, she is the bright
spot in the show and Maggie Fitzgibbon
plays her with vitality and charm. She
is a kind of beautiful, bouncy Jeeves
who can cope with everything by means
of her wit and her abounding vitality.
But, unfortunately, the conventions of
Mr Coward’s musical demand that this
sparkling Mimi should be involved in a
“romance” with one of those typical
musical-comedy heroes whose card-
board passion sounds like a good
imitation of what a tailor’s dummy
would say if, by some misfortune, it
could open its lips and speak. Mr Kevin
Colson plays the part very convincingly.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG


POETRY
Injured Child
So many words are brands upon my brain.
I do not care how men deplete tomorrow.
Abstractions reel and all amount to sorrow
As summer charcoals to a sky of rain.
But this is not the meaning I desire
Although it satisfies a moment’s need
While noting clouds. I never could concede
That children can be burnt in holy fire:
A child’s bones would appal a deity,
And yet the Eucharist is loved and held.
As I decide that God is soon dispelled
Our child awakes and lineaments are free.
I caused the pain and now the pain is done,
And though that accident melts in my mind
I learn more of infinity where blind
Components crash while burning like the sun.
R. A. SIMPSON
Horus Caged
Dawn among cages. Stretching loose of noise
where small birds dart from wire again to wire.
First light, taxpayers. And the neighbours stir
to rouse neighbours; behind routine bars
there are always duties, functions, personal chores.
Though the world outside may be without thought or
pity
and light may well reveal an indifferent city,
the finch is safe from the falcon’s judging claws.
But don’t you cringe to see his shadow drop
across your doorway in the dangerous light?
The enemies are tamed. You soon forget
the prayers and invocations once were sharp
in your throat for fear. Does the falcon in his cage
forget, himself, his empire and his rage?
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Archetype
He dreams her skin, her shape,
her courage of slight gestures,
with certain eye, quick hope.
His inhibitions, shame
and loyalty fail before
her vow to not succumb.
She dives with swift physique
through the blood of man to float
in his eye and haunt his look.
She winnows the field for love,
betrays the town and mourns
each victim to a flowered grave.
Revenge, as the young man knows,
will come when her beauty puckers.
But his he must also lose.
So life uncoils the farce
of that bitter secret battle
behind their ageing peace.
RODNEY HALL
Old Men
Old men
with rich faces
dissolve in thin streets
on long,
long,
summer Sundays.
Sun warmed sounds
echo and are heard
when, a life ago, and young,
the breathing eye of space
sings and ripples
through and out.
People statue streets with stony feet
as they laugh and skim,
in green of leaf,
through the grey outcrop.
A mosaic continent
of dusted distance
shimmers in colours of shadows
when boys bridge twilight
on long,
long,
summer Sundays.
REX HOPCROFT
Sea at Portsea
Blue, viridescent, with a cold edge
against the biscuit
hue, the yellow and brown
of this nude, populated
rim, its light shifts with the light
of sun moon stars,
shafts stabbing from a beacon
night-beams on flounder-spears.
We dared to slither from it once,
now revisit
no longer than we need to.
Daylong its sunlit spray
is barely glimpsed, the sheerest drape
drawn over
the sand, across the shallows
where the sharp-toothed prototype
of streamlined grace is driven in
by hunger. Why
do I seem baptised beneath
my beach-umbrella, landlocked
in that evangelistic tent
(its congregation
the cold-eyed gulls, the sermon
unspoken)? It's a dream
like others: it will pass. I watch
with a kind of awe
the vestals in bikinis
tending the sacred fire.
ALEXANDER CRAIG


RED PAGE
Inside Darkest Hollywood
Journey through a celluloid jungle
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Inside Daisy Clover. Gavin Lambert.
Hamish Hamilton. 225. 6d.
The Moviegoer. Walker Percy. Eyre
and Spottiswoode. 225. 6d.
What does an author do when he is
hired by Hollywood? He can drown
his conscience in drink (Scott Fitz-
gerald), churn out smooth adaptations
of the classics (Hugh Walpole, Chris-
topher Isherwood, Aldous Huxley) or
if he is lucky as well as clever
manoeuvre his bosses into a position
where they approve what he writes.
Gavin Lambert, who resigned the editor-
ship of “Sight and Sound” in 1956 and
went to California to write scripts for
Nicholas Ray, Jerry Wald and Ray Stark,
has always managed to keep his screen-
plays literate and individual, thanks to
an unusual persuasiveness. Sufficiently
detached and illusionless to be able to
see his environment clearly yet with-
out disgust, he has written two remark-
able books about Hollywood: the first an
interlocking series of sketches, “The
Slide Area” (1959), the second “Inside
Daisy Clover”, a first novel suggested by
the career of Judy Garland.
In “The Slide Area”, Lambert created
a physical and intellectual landscape that
was immediately recognisable and alive.
The Slide Area (where “Inside Daisy
Clover” is also set) is that part of the
drab collapsing Californian coast between
northern Santa Monica and Long Beach.
Here, picnicking parties are liable to be
buried in minor avalanches, houses are
built on sand, palms tilt and fade, smog
strips the sky of blue, an amusement pier
with peepshows and mirror rooms rots
slowly beyond the beach and bird-brained
musclemen cultivate their deltoids. Lam-
bert evokes the fading charm of outer
Los Angeles as subtly as Camus evoked
Oran another belle hide among cities.
And he knows the Area's inhabitants to
the bone: faggots in rinsed blue jeans,
fortune-tellers in hair-curlers, bums
watching their torsos in mirrors, life-
guards in their weatherboard towers. And
beyond the Area, the discreet trim houses
of the rich with their topiary and Japa-
nese gardeners, styles drawn from a score
of countries and states, and inside a claw
picking up a white telephone, a croaking
voice calling for the groceries.
It isn't far, either, from sliding Holly-
wood itself, and here Lambert has dis-
covered rare game: in “The Slide Area”
Julie Forbes, the ravening star with
smooth unlined face and glittering hair,
accompanied by a “butch” secretary, Mrs
Lynch: Emma Slack, the would-be starlet
chased by a movie monster; Cliff Harris-
ton, the uneasily “high-brow” director
trapped in a Julie Forbes assignment;
Clyde Wallace, the psychotic son of a
Hollywood agent. Anyone who knows
Hollywood knows these people, and
Lambert is their finest chronicler.
In “Inside Daisy Clover” Julie and
Mrs Lynch make a reappearance. Daisy
is an Emma Slack who makes good, and
we are back in the Slide Area from the
first chapter, Daisy and her mother in
the Paradise Apartments overlooking
Muscle Beach. Daisy emerges as a kind
of Deanna Durbin-cum-Judy Garland
a big-eyed but vulgar teenager hoisted
to fame after winning a talent quest by
Magnagram Studios’ Mayer-ish star-
maker, Raymond Swan.
novel is dedicated to Salka Viertel,
wife of Berthold Viertel, the director
who inspired the portrait of Bergmann,
Isherwood's squalid Austrian film-maVer
in “Prater Violet”. As in “The Slide
Area”, the influence is here recognizably
Isherwood’s and Swan often reminds one
vividly of Bergmann. But the Swan por-
trait is more subtle, more delicately
ruthless: a summation of the hvoocrisv,
solipsism and fake sentiment that make
a man king in the celluloid jungle.
Swan exploits Daisy, takes her to the
top with a vehicle entitled “Little Annie
Rooney”, then watches aghast as she
falls in love with a soft film star, Wade
Lewis, who calls her “dear heart” and
finally and inexcusably marries her. In
a long, poetic and marvellously sus-
tained sequence, Wade drives his bride
all night through the desert, arriving in
Arizona to leave her dead beat at the
Sunset Crater Motel. He disappears; Mrs
Swan is compelled to tell Daisy what he
is; it emerges that he has gone to live
with a male companion in Acapulco. The
shock of learning that her husband is
a homosexual, combined with slipping
box-office receipts, drives Daisy into a
nervous breakdown; this whole section of
the book —the virile star whom girls dote
on revealed as unmasculine, the long
series of misfortunes whereby Daisy
Clover is cast down is
Hollywood. And so is her last, tearful
comeback in Atlantic City.
What Lambert has done is to take
the routine structure of a Hollywood
musical (slum girl makes good, hits the
top with aid of kind old producer, makes
bad marriage, crashes, winds up in alco-
holics’ home, stages last-minute return
to fame because the Audience Is Always
Loyal) and turn this structure into the
fabric of truth. Hollywood reality is al-
ways near and yet far from the reality it
purveys on the screen, and Daisy her-
self impulsive, coarse, strident, yet
warm and decent at heart is as much
herself on screen as off. The novel con-
stantly moves on two levels: it shows
us what Daisy sees, lets us know her
reaction, and then makes it clear that
our own reaction should (if we are
sophisticated) be quite different. Swan
she half-likes long after we have de-
spised him: Wade she adores after we
have wanted to belt him; she even finds
time for a ghastly prancing colored
dancer named Perry Pierce. Her in-
nocence and its gradual but only partial
destruction are beautifully seen. And the
“romance” with Wade a ruthless
parody of a Fan Magazine novelette
again shows the author at his best.
But after all the praise, one is left
with a number of serious reservations.
Without the discipline that restrained the
writing in “The Slide Area”, the prose
here sometimes slips over the edge into
softness or weakness. The humor, often
brilliant and sympathetic, sometimes ac-
quires a note of disagreeable mockery.
And the heroine, whose pedigree (by
Isherwood out of Salinger) sometimes
shows up too clearly, is often far
cleverer than she ought to be: the effort
of a sophisticated male author pretend-
ing to be a naive female one • the
whole book is written in the first person
proves too much of a strain. A cer-
tain lack of sureness in the portrait of
this Lolita Caulfield suggests that Lambert
couldn’t quite make up his mind at times
how to let her react to certain situations.
At times, too. the novel’s period is in-
correctly focused. Daisy’s career suggests
the ’thirties, not the ’fifties, and the
film which is supposed to launch her,
“Little Annie Rooney”, again seems to
hark back to a much earlier period.
Swan, too, seems to belong to old-time
Hollywood, and Daisy’s memories of films
like “Lost Horizon” suggest that perhaps
Lambert originally wrote the book (or
conceived it) to take place in, say,
1938-43.
Granted its flaws, “Inside Daisy
Clover” remains a rewarding book. Gavin


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stotts tan train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting (o pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
—' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S; Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
8963
Lambert has returned for an engaging
new safari into darkest Hollywood and
emerged with marvellous spoor.
For Binx, the hero of Walker Percy’s
“The Moviegoer”, such Hollywood
journeys are purely vicarious. A young,
rich, healthy stockbroker, he still finds
life intolerable and escapes into films.
As reality and the pictures overlap, he
moves in a world half made up of flesh
and food and smog and concrete and
glass, half of a world of celluloid and
plush seats. The obsession grows, a love
affair begins and ends, and he finally dis-
covers himself with a film hangover,
looking at life through the addict’s
bunged-up eyes. Also written in the first
person by a Salinger sibling, “The Movie-
goer” makes a firm and promising im-
pression.
Paperbacks for Everyman
Sense and Sensibility. Jane Austen.
Dent-Dutton Everyman Paperback.
7s. 6d.
The Ambassadors. Henry James.
Dent-Dutton Everyman Paperback.
9s. 3d.
Crime and Punishment. Fyodor Dos-
toyevsky. Dent-Dutton Everyman
Paperback. 9s. 3d.
Vanity Fair. W. M. Thackeray. Dent-
Dutton Everyman Paperback. 11s.
3d.
TPhe paperback avalanche rolls on. It is
hard to believe that fewer than 30
years have passed since the first Penguin
nested timidly on the railway bookstalls
of London. Until then paperbacks had
been regarded as cheapjack Continental
products, Anglo-Saxon travellers bought
a Tauschnitz or a Flammarion to beguile
a train journey, and left it in an hotel
bedroom afterwards. Paperbacks were as
expendable as razor-blades. If one wanted
actually to possess Madame Bovary or
the Iliad one bought a durable, hard-
backed volume. The publishing revolu-
tion began before the war (about 250
Penguin titles had been issued by 1939),
but its astonishing development has come
with the postwar years.
Now it would be difficult to name a
literary classic in any language that has
not been published in paperback form,
either in England or America. The four
latest additions to the Everyman paper-
back library offer nearly 2000 pages of
Thackeray, Dostoyevsky, Jane Austen
and Henry James for a total cost of 375.
3d. In format and type-face they are
identical with ( the famous hard-cover
series and they are good value for the
money.
When Jane Austen was writing in the
peaceful seclusion of Steventon rectory,
Hampshire farm laborers outside her
windows were bringing up their famil-
ies on 4s. 6d. a week, Pitt’s Government
was hounding radicals into prison and
England stood alone in the war against
Revolutionary France. But no hint of
these happenings disturbs the sedate nar-
rative of “Sense and Sensibility”, or any
other of Jane Austen's novels. Jane’s char-
acters inhabit an orderly Arcadian dimen-
sion in which the worst calamities are a
mesalliance or a lost inheritance. Pride
is humbled and snobs are undone, but
the baser passions do not intrude among
the genteel figures who perambulate be-
tween London, Bath and the less-gran-
diose country houses. Jane Austen created
her own world and looked out on it with
charming but never cynical detachment.
If that were all that could be said of
her work, her continued reputation and
the almost fanatical devotion of the Jane-
ites woud be inexplicable. Of course that
is not all. Jane Austen is one of the great
stylists, though “Sense and Sensibility” is
perhaps not her finest achievement.
Henry James created his own world
too, but it is a world much more difficult
of access than Jane Austen’s. The reader
introduced to it by “The Ambassadors”
may well be temporarily daunted. Does
any ordinary human being really ratio-
cinate like these Jamesian characters?
Do we, before daring an observation on,
say, the state of the weather, search with
such delicate and devious deliberation for
the quintessential word?
Henry James’s characters are essen-
tially thinking, rather than feeling or act-
ing, beings. Their actions are often anti-
climaxes, mere gestures confirming the
results of painful cerebral processes.
Nevertheless, as we follow the spiritual
pilgrimages of these strange Americans
confronted with the alien culture of
Europe, exasperation gives way to fas-
cination. With only the slenderest thread
of narrative to guide us we press deeper
and deeper into the labyrinth, tracking
each serpentine sentence to its conclusion
through subordinate clauses, parentheses,
reservations and qualifications. Will Lam-
bert Strether succeed in his role of Am-
bassador? We do not really care. 'We are
not involved emotionally. We are too
busy admiring the craft of one of the
most extraordinary word-spinners in our
language.
Dostoyevsky’s novels are explorations
of hell, and “Crime and Punishment” is
the most terrible and overpowering in-
vestigation of them all. It is the univers-
ality behind his muddled philosophical
complex of quietism and messianic
Slavism that ensures Dostoyevsky’s status
among the giants.
“Vanity Fair” was the first of Thacke-
ray’s mature novels and he never again
achieved quite the same dramatic sweep
of plot, magnificent gallery of characters,
or control over his own propensity to
moralise. Thackeray liked to consider
himself an exile from his proper century.
Fielding was his idol and he lamented the
impossibility of writing the saga of a Vic-
torian “Tom Jones”. Even so, many of
his contemporaries found the “cynicism”
of “Vanity Fair” distasteful. Now the
cynicism simply appears as humane and
urbane irony, in which Thackeray was a
master. “Vanity Fair” is probably more
often re-read than most literary classics,
if for no other reason than delight in
renewing the acquaintance of the delec-
table, inimitable Becky.
GEOFFREY SCOTT
The Gazette
Thus year sees the 160th anniversary
of the beginnings of the Australian
Press. The Trustees of the NSW Public
Library, in conjunction with Angus and
Robertson, have celebrated by bringing
out, with the aid of Dixson trust money,
a facsimile edition of Australia’s pioneer


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
paper, “The Sydney Gazette and New
South Wales Advertiser,” March 5,
1803 - February 26, 1804. It was a
Government offset, printed and published
by George Howe alias George Happy or
Happy George, a native of St Kitts in
the West Indies.
The first numbers of the “Gazette”
make fascinating reading and study for
both historian and typographer. It was
an irregular “Granny” among Aus-
tralian newspapers, given to bursting out
into three or four different kinds of type
when supplies ran short in the middle
of a paragraph, printed on all sorts of
paper, at one desperate stage brown;
for a much regretted period when it
should have taught us a lot about what
life was like in NSW during the later
part of the heady reign of Bligh, it took
a vacation.
The first volume is a rarity of
rarities among Australiana. At times its
circulation was down to 100. Even the
earlier facsimile produced in 1899, of
which 100 copies were printed by
Angus and Robertson, is worth some-
thing in the region of £25 and if a full
volume were to come on the market it
would probably bring 1000 guineas.
The “Gazette” came out on the
initiative of Governor King. It served
the dual purpose of an official Gazette
disseminating Government orders and
notifications and a newsletter giving out
such intelligence (censored by the
Governor’s private secretary) as the
administration thought it good for the
population to know. Its very first item,
appropriately enough, is a notice of the
allotment of spirits brought into the
colony by that indefatigable importer of
arrack, Mr Robert Campbell. This order
was in the standard form which makes
nonsense of the historical rubbish about
the “Rum Corps monopoly” of which
the “experts” of the ABC now appear to
be the only really hearty exponents.
The standard apportionment is set out.
Of 4000 gallons, 1000 goes to civil
servants and storekeepers, 1000 to naval
and military commissioned officers, 1000
to the numerous licensed victuallers,
with 1000 reserved for the Governor to
grant on individual permit to settlers and
others.
The second item is a statement of
policy which makes it clear that the
“Gazette” is to be a source of “solid
information,” whose editor “courted the
assistance of the ingenious and the in-
telligent” but “opened no channel to
Political Discussion, or Personal Anim-
adversion.” The first advertisement —•
Is. 6d. for 12 lines to subscribers and
2s. to non-subscribers announced the
sale by auction of damaged pork and
other articles from the Commissariat
store. The first foreign news was a solid
account of a fire at Woolwich in England
11 months earlier. The first “lead” on
the news page was an account of the
escape from durance vile at Castle Hill
of 15 Irish gentlemen who became
banditti. The course of their adventures
until the last one on the end of a rope
out by the modern Barleymow Hotel
lent as much sauce to the “Gazette”
pages as the Bogle case has recently to
the “Gazette’s” descendants.
Sport was not neglected. The
cricketers played all the summer.
Pugilism sometimes got three lines. The
cockfighters were roped in and to receive
their deserts. Weddings and the “grand
serenade of culinary instruments” which
accompanied them; funerals with draped
coffins, Royal birthday celebrations with
a gratifying release of captives, all figured
in the news. Also, items which proved
that life in 1803 could be just as com-
fortable, relatively, as life in 1963.
Sydney had its milliners, its jewellers,
its “new eating house, with victuals
dressed in the English way, near the new
Windmill on the Rocks.” Bandanas,
chintzes and tobacco and the best
Souchong could be bought of Sergeant
Packer. Even the wonders of travel
were modern sounding. “An ingenious
mechanic” at Parramatta had con-
structed “a wheeled carriage to be drawn
by dogs.” Windsor Road, as now, had
its “caravansara,” “sheltered from the
sun’s inclemency by a large tilt,” its
interior furnished with a bed on the
floor, a “handsome larder in one corner,
with necessary kitchen requisites in an-
other”; in a third a “liquid treasure
poured from Betsy’s bosom” Betsy
was a rum ship and “in the centre,
. . . the little family, travelling in all
the eccentricity of Persian fable.”
Except for those over whom the
shadow of “Old Nosey” with his cat and
rope fell, life (according to the “Gazette”)
seems to have gone very well in Sydney
in 1803. This is a most useful reprint.
M. H. ELLIS
Bitter Honey
Honey For The Bears. Anthony Bur-
gess. Heinemann. 225. 6d.
PFhe first couple of paragraphs of this
A book are a clear guide to the rest of
it. “And what,” asked (loudly because
of the music) this patrician parrot of a
Tiresias from its wheelchair, skirt or
trousers hidden by tartan rugs, “might
be your purpose in going to St. Peters-
burg?”
“Tourism,” lied Paul Hussey. The
music, after its climax of shocking brass,
settled to vapid rocking waltzing fluting.
A most clerkly man behind the wheel-
chair, with eyes that the music seemed
to make water, got in quickly with: “It’s
the same with homosexuals. People al-
ways expect them to be at it all the
time.” And if that introduction grips
you, read on. But if it doesn’t, be warned
that the book gets worse as it progresses
Paul Hussey is a 40-year-old antiques
dealer travelling to Russia to flog 20
dozen drilon dresses in place of his
former RAAF friend and wartime lover
Robert, who had just died, leaving a
penniless widow named Sandra who is
the lover of Paul's American wife Ber-
linda, who remains in Russia with a
doctor named Sonya, in the end.
What happens between times could be
described as a very poor man’s Rabelais,
written in tumbling non-English by an
author who knows too many obscure
words and too few of the simple ones.
The blurb says it is an Anglo-Russian
comedy “which takes one, via laughter,
into the heart of the Cold War world of
mutual love-hate and incomprehension.”
Its comedy is both pansyish and mor-
dant. Paul fails with his wife, is told by
Dr Sonya that he is a homosexual too,
tries to rape a Leningrad spiv’s girl friend,
fails again when the girl submits, and
then tries to prove Dr Sonya right dur-
ing a drunken party. He meets a poten-
tial buyer for the 20 dozen dresses, sees
a police trap, gives the dresses away, is
taken to headquarters and punched in
the gut, vomits on the floor, and is re-
leased and told to leave the country. This
is comedy?
And at the end, after sundry adven-
tures involving gentry with such names
as Opiskin and Zherkov, he sits in a
Finnish cafe with the two Russian police-
men, and:
“Freedom,” sneered Karamzin.
“Freedom,” mused Zherkov, “what-
ever is it.”
The movement came to an end: sharp
chords for the entire orchestra set in
wide spaces of silence. “Whatever it is,”
agreed Paul.
“Candide” gone to seed, might be one
way to describe Mr Burgess’ tenth novel.
FRANK ROBERTS


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Farmers Stumbling Towards Unity
YlThy cannot Australia’s farmers get to-
" gether in a single, powerful and ef-
fective organisation?
There is not much doubt that the vast
majority of farmers strongly favor what
they call “unity” meaning the amal-
gamation of the present multiplicity of
farmer bodies into a single organisation.
But the negotiations are in the hands
of the executives and leaders of exist-
ing organisations, many of whom risk
being out of a job, or becoming sub-
merged in a bigger organisation, if their
efforts are successful.
It would be wrong to infer that these
people are deliberately sabotaging the
negotiations. Far from it. They are
honest, sincere and hardworking men
and most of them undoubtedly believe
in unity.
But they are steeped in the histories
and backgrounds of their own organisa-
tions and often hopelessly entangled in
the biases and rivalries of primary indus-
try politics. Perhaps with some justifica-
tion they view every move and suggestion
of the other organisations as a cunning
subterfuge.
There is certainly no likelihood of
sweeping gestures ... of unity-at-any-
price offers . . . from these men. Unity
negotiations are a pinching, cramped af-
fair in which ground is yielded with
grudging slowness.
the national field, where the Nat-
ional Farmers’ Union and the Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union are
endeavoring to combine into the Aus-
tralian Farmers’ Union, it would appear
that some progress at least is being made.
The day may yet come when Austra-
lian farmers have p single, powerful voice
at a national and international level. In
Victoria, however, a key State in unity
moves, progress is proving desperately
slow. In fact, the negotiations have been
quite a cloak and dagger business stretch-
ing over a period of years.
At one stage an enterprising weekly
newspaperman tore aside the veil of sec-
recy and published the far-from-shatter-
ing details of what little had been
achieved up to that date.
This disclosure not only launched a
witch hunt for the organisation respon-
sible for the leak; it also nearly wrecked
the negotiations.
At another time the negotiations nearly
foundered when the independent chair-
man of the Unity Study Group resigned
over an alleged slight by one of the or-
ganisations seeking unity. He was later
persuaded to withdraw his resignation.
So “secret” have been all these nego-
tiations that, but for the leak, many Vic-
torian farmers would not have known
they were under way.
When the Unity Study Group chair-
man recently issued what was described
as a “very important statement” on unity,
he virtually put the whole business on a
public footing for the first time. And
even then his statement was something
of a damp squib.
It said little, other than naming the
four bodies engaged in the negotiations
the Victorian Dairyfarmers’ Associa-
tion, the Victorian Graziers’ Association,
the Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers’
Association and the Victorian section of
the Australian Primary Producers’ Union
and admitting that the negotiators had
reached the stage of a draft constitution
for the new united organisation.
This was not news to most people.
Nor were many surprised to hear that
the draft constitution was not acceptable
to all of the four organisations.
Nevertheless, it is apparent that all the
years of talk have not been entirely
wasted. Some progress has been made
and it appears that unity will be achieved
in Victoria though it may not be this
year.
New South Wales has shown a lead.
If Victoria follows suit a successful and
efficient Australian Farmers’ Union with
branches in each State could be in full
operation within two or three years.
Revolution in Pig-Raising
Tn spite of many assurances to the con-
A trary, it is hard to convince the
general public that the pig is anything
but a smelly and rather dirty animal.
And it is not altogether surprising for,
from downwind at least, many of Aus-
tralia’s piggeries lend powerful support
to the theory.
In recent years, however, there has
been a revolution in pig-raising. More
and more pig farmers are pampering
their porkers with scrupulously clean
concrete pens, underfloor heating, scien-
tifically prepared and weighed food, foot-
baths for guests and a dozen other im-
provements.
Most of these boil down to an attempt
to turn the pig into a hygienic and dis-
ease-free (if not exactly perfumed)
creature.
And there is sound economic sense
behind the move. The pig, for all his ap-
parent delight in wallowing in filth, is
not the hardy, robust animal one might
expect.
Quite apart from introduced pig
plagues such as swine fever, still a
serious problem in New South Wales
there are several pig diseases, notably in-
fectious pneumonia and intestinal dis-
eases, which play havoc with a pig-
raiser’s profits.
Because these diseases are often passed
from sow to piglets at birth or soon after-
wards, it has been extremely difficult in
the past to get germ-free pigs in any
number.
Victorian Department of Agriculture
officers, working at the S. S. Cameron
Laboratory at Werribee, have, however,
taken a big step towards this target.
Adopting a technique used to an increas-
ing degree in America and Britain, they
are producing numbers of piglets uncon-
taminated by any external contact with
the mother pig.
The method, although requiring sur-
gical skill, is relatively simple. The sow
is put under anaesthesia and the whole
breeding bag complete with piglets is re-
moved through an incision in the wall of
the abdomen.
The piglets are quickly released and
reared aWay from the sow. Piglets ob-
tained in this manner are free of all
diseases except those which can be trans-
mitted to an unborn piglet.
Of those “operating table pigs” which
have been culled for slaughter, or have
died, so far none has shown any signs
of infectious pneumonia.
Victorian veterinarians connected with
the perfection of the new method point
out that it enables good blood lines
to be retained through disease-free pig-
lets, even though the sow is infected. It
also enables properties to be cleared of
pneumonia-infected pigs and quickly re-
stocked with disease-free animals.
There has been some commercial de-
velopment of the method overseas, but
in view of the veterinary supervision and
surgical skill required, its extensive com-
mercial use still appears some way off in
Australia.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Debenture Confidence Needs a Lift
Recent debenture crashes and company failures create
serious problems for genuine companies which seek to
raise public monies. Wide publicity has been given to
tighter legislation under the new Companies Act, a shake-up
of trustee companies, and strict policing by the Registrar of
Companies and by the Stock Exchanges. It all sounds impres-
sive as a warning to snide company promotions. But it also
induces greater wariness among investors.
The old image of gilt-edged investment and security of capital
has been sadly tarnished for debenture investors. Disillusioned
and sulking, they are tending to ignore the enticements of solid
companies which not only comply with the new regulations
but, basically, would have qualified all along.
It was a great shock to many to discover that trustees which
were appointed to enforce the terms of a debenture trust deed
were, in some cases, an associate company set up by the borrow-
ing organisation. Now, with the appointment of dozens of
Receivers to various ailing companies, and the “declaration” of
many more by State Attorneys-General, the sad delving into an
orgy of excessive debenture borrowing will continue for years.
The pendulum always seems to swing too far in the opposite
direction. Today, everyone is ultra-cautious. Previously, in the
care-free days of the 1960 boom, there was scant attention paid
to the problem of repayments. When the weakness of excessive
debenture borrowing was revealed to the public gaze, everyone
jumped on the band-wagon of criticism.
Advertisers now must submit copy to the Registrar for
approval of debenture prospectuses. Trustees must be
recognised by the Registrar. The Stock Exchanges have yet to
finalise their arrangements on uniform procedures, but this has
involved seeking opinions from lawyers, accountants, auditors,
etc.
rpHERE is plenty of criticism and confusion and Victoria’s Chief
Secretary (Mr Rylah) was not too far from the mark
recently when he said that a basic problem in protecting inves-
tors was to protect the public without interfering with com-
panies. Inevitably, the various State Governments have been
accused on the one hand of not doing enough and on the other
of doing too much. Without uniformity in each State, there is
the possibility that various loopholes can be found in the Com-
panies Act.
There is also the responsibility of accountants, auditors,
stockbrokers and solicitors to take into consideration. But,
despite all this current awareness and willingness by various
companies to meet all possible requirements, no legislation will
protect the investor from himself.
Investment in bad companies will continue, despite all the
warnings given. Unfortunately the human element of greed
enters into it. The fixed interest investor who wants income is
just as likely to place his money in a 10 p.c. or 12 p.c.
or even 15 p.c. issue instead of subscribing to a 74 p.c. or
8 p.c. issue of a recognised public company.
He may have the persuasion of a salesman to help him in his
uncertain venture, plus a verbal assurance that the debentures
eventually will be listed on the Stock Exchange. All the legis-
lation in the world won’t help him in such matters, because
an official prospectus may never be issued.
Against this background, therefore, the reputable company is
encountering real difficulty in raising funds, particularly if it is
a company which has not been before the public eye with
repeated successful debenture issues (such as those achieved by
the leading finance groups).
The task of reselling the gilt-edged image to debenture
investors doubtless will be a slow, tortuous process. It is pleasing
to note that the Australian Chartered Accountants’ Research
Society is taking the matter seriously and is conducting a
seminar at Terrigal from July 12 to July 14 “to deal with the
position of the auditor in relation to published accounts, with
the interpretation of figures disclosed in these and other
accounts, and to refer to criticisms which have appeared in
various publications.”
It is hoped that by “dealing” with criticisms the accountancy
profession won’t dismiss such criticisms. A meek, sleeping
watchdog is of no use in restoring public confidence in audited
accounts.
A BLUE-RIBBON
INVESTMENT TRUST
\ new Overseas Unit Trust just launched in London takes
some Australian stocks into its initial portfolio. They form
part of a resplendent collection of blue-ribbon international
investments.
Australia’s contributions are BHP, Ready Mixed Concrete,
British Tobacco, Peters (Vic.), G. J. Coles and Custom Credit,
making 6 p.c. of the whole portfolio. Rio Tinto-Zinc Corpora-
tion, which has 38.2 p.c. of its assets in this country, also
rates a place.
Italian shares get a similar percentage ranking, but West
Germany (10 p.c.) and Holland (12 p.c.) lead the field. The
managers put emphasis upon Europe and the USA, because
they believe these areas “provide the best scope at the present
time.”
The Trust’s economic and investment adviser is a Luxemburg-
based company, GREA, established by a number of European
banks. Its full and grandiloquent title reads: Groupement
d’Etude pour l'Analyse des Valeurs Europeenes!
TREMENDOUS LIFT FROM
WHEAT SALES TO CHINA
11/Tm 2.4 million tons of wheat already sold to Red China
" for the 1962-63 year, the Australian Wheat Board is mak-
ing tremendous contributions to Australia’s balance of pay-
ments, even if the sales are on credit. Forward sales already
have been mentioned for next year and the surpluses everyone
was so worried about have disappeared.
Including the 2.4 million tons sold to date for 1962-63, total


sales of wheat to Red China
since 1960-61 have reached 5.7
million tons. Figures supplied by
the Wheat Board relate to crop
years from December 1 to No-
vember 30.
Prices have not been stated.
But the total value of sales to
December, 1962, was £l3O mil-
lion for 3.3 million tons sold
On the foregoing figures the
average price is equal to £4O
million for one million tons So
if a further 2.4 million tons have
been sold since the end of the
crop year last November, the
total return for three years could
rise above £2OO million.
It has been said by Mr B. A.
Santamaria in Melbourne that
Red China, instead of feeding
her starving peasants, is stock-
piling Australian and Canadian
wheat so it could make “gifts”
of wheat to Cuba, Guinea,
Ceylon and other countries as
part of a political programme
against the West. If this be so,
the Australian Wheat Board
conceivably might conclude that
it is better to be paid for our
surplus wheat than for Australian
growers to have markets taken
away from them by grants or foreign aid deals.
The facts of life are that you must sell what you grow if you
are to make a living. Mr Vines, of the Wool Bureau, is reported
to have said he would deal with the Devil if he could get a sale.
Nations which are fighting to sell agricultural products must
find markets wherever they can. Mr McEwen’s trip to the
USA and Europe must have convinced him of this.
FIGHTING WORDS ON
WAGE POLICY
Jn a rumbustious and provocative annual address the chair-
man of the Metal Trades Employers’ Association (Mr
J. D. Munro) managed to cover many of the topical questions
at present agitating the Australian economy.
Mr Munro’s ire on the restrictive trade legislation and his
views on such things as industrial relations and strikes may
perhaps be taken for granted. But he was game enough to
venture along the thorny path of wage policy, an item too
frequently avoided in public discussion.
Stating that the free world more and more recognises that
“moderation in the rate of wage increases leads to higher
employment and faster economic growth,” Mr Munro went
on to pinpoint Australia’s splitting of wages “into two academic
parts” basic wage and margin, each established in separate
hearings by the Arbitration Commission.
Arriving at the basic wage, “not in fact paid to anyone,”
is branded as acting out a fiction. Then a second fiction takes
shape when the Commission assesses “work values” in
examining margins.
“It is not a question of ‘work values,’ but one which is
essentially the same as that looked at in the basic wage cases,
namely can wages be raised and, if so, by what amount?”
Mr Munro’s coat-trailing deserves attention.
THE TEENAGE
PROBLEM
/Considering the efforts to ab-
sorb teenagers into employ-
ment, over the last year, it was a
bit nasty of the Treasury to rub
Mr McMahon up the wrong way
about it in its economic survey.
However, the Minister for
Labor, not exactly an innocent
in crossfire with Mr Holt, was
quick to put the matter in its
right perspective.
The survey said that the
number of adults registered for
unemployment fell by 12,900 in
the year to April, whereas the
number of juveniles dropped by
only 900. It then mentioned
rather casually that there had
been a big rise in the number of
juveniles registering for work but
that the numbers registering had
tended to level off because a big-
ger proportion had been moving
to other forms of education in-
stead of seeking work imme-
diately on leaving school. Many
teenagers, unable to find work,
have gone back to school with-
out registering for unemploy-
ment.
The fact of the matter, said Mr McMahon, was that 12,000,
or 17 p.c. more school leavers had registered for work in the
year to April than in the previous 12 months, and of these
only 2612 boys and 5668 girls had not been placed compared
with 3480 boys and 5611 girls a year earlier. As usual
teenage girls are the main problem.
Although Mr Calwell, seeing a political point in it, disagrees
that the figures are manageable, the problem may not be quite
of the dire urgency suggested by the Treasury, especially in
the light of the glowing prospects that its survey holds out
for the economy.
A VERY WHITE PAPER
FROM THE TREASURY
highly polished prose of the Treasury's very White Paper
on the economic position and prospects makes the utmost
of the case for Government inaction to speed progression to
more pleasing economic horizons. But in painting such a
roseate picture of underlying strengths and portents in The
Australian Economy 1963 the Treasury once again lays itself
open to the charge of complacency, even if it is not wrong,
broadly, in taking a supine view.
The stark whiteness of this document at once arouses
suspicion, not so much in that it possibly reflects the political
minds and aspirations of Ministers rather than the acumen of
the Secretary of the Treasury, but more because the official
scribe seems to have been told to work his pen overtime to
dispel conceivable shadows, either by making virtues out of
possibly inconvenient necessities or by arguing to extinction
any views likely to upset the official argument.
Accepting, then, the general thesis that the economic out-
look is good (but not necessarily that it is good enough or
(Continued on Page 49)


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Buying Pressures on Shares
Qtock Exchange investment is a
prodigious field of inquiry, but it
has seldom attracted prolific writers.
Literature on it in this country is very
sparse, mostly threads and patches from
brokers. There is no standard work, let
alone anything with a broad enough
sweep to attract the general reader or
the small saver W'ho is always being told
to take his money from stockings and
put it into shares.
The Art and Practice of Investment,
just published in London, has no claim
at all to being a standard work, nor is
it exactly a small saver’s guide to riches.
Its main purpose is to lay bare the bones
of investment choices before institu-
tional investors. The beauty of it is
that after the main meal, which is a very
hearty one indeed, so many rich crumbs
remain to be picked up by the ordinary
investor.
As the scene is set in Throgmorton
Street, the decor and dialogue will
inevitably be a lot more intelligible to
UK than to Australian investors. But
Australians will find equally as many
general points on investment principles
and practice to ponder. Also, the main
argument, even if heavy with statistics,
is lively enough to keep most local
investors awake, even those whose dis-
enchantment with the practice and results
of buying Australian shares seems to be
final after the drubbings of the last
couple of years.
Tt only has to be demonstrated that de-
x mand pressure on investments is as
strong in this country as Mr William G.
Nursaw shows it to be in Britain to get
many of the disenchanted Australian
public back to stock exchange invest-
ment. This may not be so easy because,
for all the heavyweights like life offices,
superannuation funds, investment and
unit trusts and other institutions under-
pinning our share markets, just as they
do in Britain, Nursaw, who was writing
after the passage of the Trustee Invest-
ments Act 1961, was able to reinforce
an already strong case with the point
that much of the £2,740 million in gilt-
edged securities held by trustees at the
time of passing the Act had been set free
to chase the current supply of debenture
and equity scrip.
“Obviously,” he writes, “all other
things being equal, the Act must have
a depressing effect on gilts and steadying
effect on equities.” He is not put off by
the contrary movement in equities
following the passage of the Act, for in
his view “many trustees are waiting for
a rise in gilts and a fall in equities
before taking full advantage of their new
powers. In some ways it is well that
these new powers have come when the
future of equities is not crystal clear; I
hesitate to fhink what pressure would
have been put on equities if the Act had
come into force in May, 1961, when the
Financial Times industrials index was
racing towards 360.”
HPhis special influence apart, Nursaw is
highly confident that over the long
term the built-in pressure of demand for
shares by the institutions makes them
the more enticing meal, but he enters a
few nasty caveats for gluttons.
“It is already apparent,” he says,
“that investing in equities is not without
its dangers. In settled equity markets
the supply of shares is seldom adequate
and prices are forced up. In boom
times, with too much money chasing
too little stock, prices become unrealistic.
Prices can also be run up further in a
fever of gambling. Political factors can
confuse. Balance of payments can run
against us. International relations be-
come dangerous. Confidence suffers a
damaging setback.” So indigestion is
always an overhanging threat.
Institutional investors have the game
of investing pretty well sewn up
“choosing equities is a routine matter
for someone who has been choosing
them for years; he will already have es-
tablished a panel of equity shares, a
selection based on years of experience
and knowledge. He will know what
sLares are in, what shares are out.”
It is different for the non-professional.
Perhaps Nursaw makes it seem rather
more difficult than it is, but in any case
he offers sound advice to the small saver,
first to ensure he has enough money for
possible eventualities in readily cashable
assets like savings bank deposits, and
then to invest in investment or unit
trusts run by professionals. If choosing
shares himself, the small saver will find
much useful advice in this book and
none better than to consult a stock-
broker.
“The wise investor, whether an indi-
vidual or a corporation, should work in
close collaboration with a stockbroker,”
he says. “Some of the larger firms pro-
vide an excellent statistical service and
pride themselves on the probing power
of investment analyses processes and
methods.” This applies in Australia too.
“The average stockbroker in Britain,”
says Mr Nursaw, “is a serious, conscien-
tious, competent and reasonable practi-
tioner of the art of investment.”
HThere is no such praise for the profes-
sional economist whom Nursaw finds
generally to be an incorrigible pessimist
“the trouble often is that the cyclone
which the statistics predict will soon
hit us has already blown itself out.”
On the other hand, being a member
of the Society of Investment Analysts,
Nursaw is all for consulting them.
“They watch the figures of each industry
as a whole, whether orders are going up
or down, the changes in the labor force
and winkle out information on profit
margins, wage claims and so on, some
even visiting the company’s works and
interviewing the managing director.”
The status of the investment advisor
has grown to such importance in the UK
that it is now obligatory on trustees to
obtain the written authority of an invest-
ment expert to changes in trust invest-
ments.
Maybe the stock exchanges here could
get one of the leading investment
analysts here to try his hand at a book
of this sort, covering the scope and po-
tential of stock exchange investment in
this country. It might be a very useful
propaganda weapon in wooing the public
back to them.
“The Art and Practice of Investment”,
by William G. Nursaw (1963); Hut-
chinson of London.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B|% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/AB
that the Government is active enough
in promoting a faster rate of economic
activity), the Survey is still far from
satisfying on certain aspects of the
economic prospects.
Take the vital and inconvenient ques-
tion of surplus industrial capacity with
which is linked the slow recovery in
private capital expenditure. The Survey
merely skates over this. First, it says
“private capital expenditure is not, of
course, a large element in total ex-
penditure typically about 6 p.c.” This
tends to neglect the fact that private
capital expenditure is one of the main
sources of primary income generation.
The true significance of this item
should be reckoned as accounting for
about 18 p.c. of total expenditure, that
is taking in multiplier effects, not 6 p.c.
as stated in the Survey.
Linked with this is an entirely un-
satisfying passage (page 25) which leaves
the prospects for an increase in private
capital expenditure completely up in the
air. It gives no indication whether the
block of surplus capacity holding back
fixed capital investment is likely to be
swallowed up in the rise in general
economic activity forecast in the Survey.
A pparently the Treasury is as much
baffled by this as it is by the com-
plexities of the loan market. If so, it is to
be hoped it achieves a breakthrough in
time to make some tax concessions to
companies by the time Budget day rolls
around.
Still on the portents for “the next
phase” as seen by the Survey, take the
question of personal spending. The most
important imponderables on this are dis-
missed in a sentence “the public is
holding very large cash balances and
there is room for a large increase in
personal credit in various forms.”
Although it is probably the most
pertinent element in the current money-
goods equation, the Survey makes no
attempt to measure the possible effects
of any sudden change in liquidity prefer-
ence which could alter the whole pros-
pect for personal spending and, indeed,
stability, as The | Bulletin noted last
week.
The Survey seems to be more in-
terested in what will happen to personal
spending when the boom in the motor in-
dustry wanes. On this it says, “if spend-
ing on motor vehicles does fall back to
a more moderate rate of increase,
greater consumer spending in other direc-
tions could benefit other branches of
industry.”
Apart from being a masterpiece in
hedging, that statement shows a very
careless approach to what might be
called balance in the industrial structure.


u
Y»
"Why don't you advertise
the prices off your products,
IVIr. Chair-man?"
That’s a good question! And to answer it, just look at
the chairs and tables above which show only a part of
the wide Sebel range.
We make about 20 different types of chairs and
six styles of tables in a wide variety of sizes. We have
six standard colours in the metal frames and about 40
different types, colours and grades of upholstery. No
wonder our price list runs to six pages!
And then there are the quantity discounts for those
organisations buying 20 chairs or more. Did you know
that we offer a special rising scale of discounts —up to
22}/2% off list prices? Our price list sets all these out
very clearly and simply and enables anyone who is in
the market for a quantity of chairs or tables to buy on
the most favourable terms.
It you're thinking of buying a quantity of chairs
or tables tor a hall, club, hotel, etc., perhaps you'd
better ask us for a copy of our quantity price list.
Also ask for the Sebel 44-page catalogue and the
most informative “Complete Chair Manual.”
“CHAfR-MAN”
For 200 chairs or more, Sebel prices range
from the Utility Stak-a-Bye at £2/4/- right
through to the super de luxe Monarch chairs
at £7/5/6. These prices are plus sales tax
at 21/ 2 % if applicable.
I
SEBELS (AUST.) LTD., 96 CANTERBURY ROAD
BANKSTOWN, N.S.W. PHONE 70-0771
582.84
The assumption is that it is apparently
simple to switch off the boom in the
widespread motor industry and switch it
on somewhere else without hindrance to
the general position of industry and
employment.
Such a statement gives protagonists of
Government regulation of the rate of
output in the motor industry all the
ammunition they could wish for. More
significantly, it reflects a shallow line of
thinking, to the neglect of the key prob-
lem of the future level of total effective
demand in the economy.
Finally, moving on to the question of
growth in the ’sixties, the Survey hits
out right and left at arguments that this
may conceivably slow down. Well, we
are quite a way into the ’sixties already.
Any growth so far has largely been in
the nature of recovery.
The Treasury makes some good points
about the demands of new and “young-
ing” population providing a built-in
impetus for growth, but except for its
argument that housing demand will lift
fixed investment, the Survey’s demon-
stration of faith in industrial expansion,
promoted by a groundswell of demand
generated largely in the private sector will
not convince everyone. It is provocative
enough to keep the academics arguing
for years and need not prove to be
entirely acceptable to whatever future
Governments we may have for the rest
of the ’sixties.


sdf
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE & Z
INVESTMENT CO. LTD. •
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney. •
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros- 9
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms •
deposits.
NAME. •
ADDRESS I
• H •
INVESTMENT SECTION
Food Makers Face Takeover Fire
overwhelming drive urging Uni-
A lever Australia’s high-pitched bid for
Rosella Preserving may perhaps be
deduced from a sentence or two in the
1962 report of its great Anglo-Dutch
parent “Two factors dominate the
food business, in which we are deeply and
diversely engaged throughout the world.
One is that the housewife in the more
advanced countries now regards as in-
dispensable the prepared food products
that olfer such great advantages as
convenience, quality, variety, real
economy and independence of the
seasons. The other is that competition in
this field is intensifying as more manu-
facturers come into this market.”
A quite conscious policy thus stands
behind the fact that foods are accelerating
their position in the whole group’s
operations. Ice cream, quick - frozen
delicacies, pre-packaged meat, canned
and dried soup, packaged meals and so
on accounted last year for £302.2 mil-
lion, or 16 p.c., of gross turnover a
2 p.c. advance placing foods only below
oils and detergents.
The local Unilever has clearly resolved
also to stimulate its food interests to
chase the hitherto ascendant soaps and
detergents. Over the last few years, suc-
cess in ice cream has become evident
with successful and efficiently integrated
takeovers of Streets, McNivens and Sen-
nitts.
Even now, too, a widening food
swathe is being cut by Unilever’s instant
mashed potatoes, cake mixes, dehydra-
ted soups, pie fillings, cooking fats and
desserts. Rosella, handling much more
than the well-known jams and pickles,
affords a logical extension into canning.
The actual terms of the bid are also
plainly meant to forestall any rivals, Aus-
tralian or overseas. A Gordon Edgeil-type
defeat, when Unilever succumbed to
Peters (Vic.), cannot at this stage be con-
templated. The race towards concentra-
tion in the food industry is swift and
allows no delay or ( half-cocked bids.
From a purely financial consideration
this explains Unilever's willingness to
pay £4l million cash for Rosella and,
on that company’s immediate earning
capacity, accept a return of about 41 p.c.
Admittedly the assets obtained appear
conservative at 295. 9d. a 10s. share and
can obviously bear tremendous stimula-
tion from the resources which Unilever
commands.
It knows without any doubt the com-
petition to be faced from the fast-develop-
ing giantism in the food industry. It prob-
ably realises that the chain reaction of
. ~, ...
more and more consolidation will soon
eain force
gam orce.
And the only Australian companies
big enough to move in reprisal to the
overseas invasion are ones like Henry
Jones and Peters (Vic.). Defence and
counter-defence directed at prizes such
as Queensland United Foods, Monbulk,
Tom Piper and Big Sister will give plenty
of investment excitement in the near
future.
Australian business may have to yield
further ground before the guns of the
massing overseas battalions. For all the
advantages of modern processing and
size, a price must be paid. The old prob-
lems of ownership become as pressing
in this sector as they are in motor


CONSERVATIVE
SPECULATION
Buying a PUT or CALL option is a simple
matter. The investor buys a CALL option when
he thinks the price of shares is likely to rise
and he wishes to take advantage of the lower
price. Similarly he takes a PUT option if he
thinks the high-priced shares are likely to fall.
The PUT option enables him to place the shares
at a price above the ruling market value.
However, there are occasions when an
investor realises that a price is likely to move,
due to economic pressures, but is not sure in
which direction. On these occasions he can
take a double option which will protect his
investment. The double option is cheaper than
buying a PUT option and CALL option
separately.
Bringing it down to practical examples, the
investor reads that an international conference
has been called to fix the price of tin. With
the price of shares at 7/5 he buys a double
option for 1/6. Should the conference succeed
the price of his shares may go up to well over
10/-, in which case he exercises the CALL leg
of his double. Should the conference fail the
price may go well below 5/- in which case he
exercises the PUT leg of his double and places
his shares at 7/5.
Write, phone or post coupon today
for further details.
MONTGOMERY, HUGHES & Co. Pty. Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Phone: 26-1024
Please send further information to:
Name
Address.
vehicles, petrol refining and raw
materials, for example.
Already entrenched from America are
National Dairy, National Biscuit
(Nabisco), Quaker Oats, General Foods,
Campbells Soups, Raiston Purina. The
British wave, represented by Unilever
and Crosse and Blackwell (owned by
Nestles), certainly won’t stop.
National Dairy’s local operator, Kraft
Foods, plans extensions of its fish canner-
ies and new lines of dehydrated, frozen
and canned vegetables. “Competition in
this field is intensifying.”
Competition plus the takeover crisis
also explain the coming together of Wil-
liam Arnott Pty and Brockhoff’s Biscuits
Pty in the Australian Biscuit Co. Direc-
tors can’t escape the need to establish “a
special department to expand present ex-
ports and investigate and develop new
markets wherever practical.”
Pessimistic Jam-Maker
latest raid on Australian food
manufacturers by American interests
failed to cancel out the dampening effect
of an unpromising interim report on the
market for Henry Jones shares.
Rights to the current par issue of 20s.
shares are obtainable around 435. 3d.,
to permit entry at equal to the lowest
level for 2i years.
Directors reported that profit margins
were lower in the half-year to April 30,
and they expect manufacturing to be
much less profitable in 1962-63 than
was the case last year.
As this statement is taken to refer to
Australian operations, whereas 54 p.c.
of group profit last year was derived
from South Africa and New Zealand,
investors should not take this too much
to heart.
The company has been able to pay
10 p.c. dividends for the last 23 years,
and last year earnings gave a three times
cover. Goodies must be dispensed some
day.
Tobacco Comeback
T>ritish Tobacco Co. (Aust.) has
come back to the 10 p.c. dividend
rate which ruled between 1954 and
1961. It has taken two years, though
1961-62's final 5 p.c. suggested the
restoration.
The shares continue to hover about
this year's top level at 30s. 3d., yield-
ing a lofty 6.6 p.c. Shades of an old
leader!
Very distinct market doubts have
prevailed for quite a time, yet should
now be gradually mollified. Directors
report total sales for the April half-year
satisfactorily higher than for the corres-
ponding period of 1961-62.
More satisfyingly in the medium
term, they add that “the pattern of
improving manufacturing and cost-
control efficiencies contributed to the
higher profit.”
A decided fillip may have been given
by a wider entry into printing, for the
tobacco battle has certainly not abated
its intensity.
Clear View of Concrete
At least shareholders should appreci-
ate the directness and explicitness
of Ready Mixed Concrete's latest re-
port. Both it and the December interim
strike a different note from earlier
examples of unwarranted optimism still
remembered on the markets.
Some measure of assured recovery in
earnings seems to be on the way. As
with other heavy builders, bad weather
looks likely to make inroads on
generally better tendencies.
RMC gets it from two sides: “During
the last few months the Eastern States
of Australia have experienced the most
consistent wet weather for many years,
causing innumerable delays to building
and construction projects. Similar
delays have been caused in Britain and
the world of business
"What's a prosperity pointer? Why, your mother's surrounded with 'em."


INVEST
4!
m
ip«o
NOW
£1,000,000 !
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK!
i
o
10-20 years
11%
7 years
1%
5 and 6
years
61%
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
gs
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
dfg
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
CAS 23 186
Europe during the most severe winter
for 70 years.”
But the 121 p.c. dividend, held
through all troubles since 1959, “is
expected to be maintained.” Anxious
eyes will be hoping for a better earnings
cover than 1961-62’s 12.71 p.c.
Perhaps it won’t go too much higher.
An improvement in the current year’s
full profit is predicted, though “profit
for the second half may be below that
of the first half.”
That would reverse last year’s division,
when £513,000 of the complete
£1,054,615 profit came in the Decem-
ber period and £541,615 in the June
half-year.
Since unaudited earnings to Decem-
ber, 1962, were announced at £587,000,
a slower current half-year can hardly
produce much margin over 1961-62.
In spite of the re-appearance of
exactness, investors aren't inclined to
push the shares much above 10s. 2d.,
where they are yielding 6.1 p.c. That’s
still a low for 1963. Prices this year
have been up to 11s. 7d.
Subsidiaries’ Troubles
International Products Ltd, which
has paid 10 p.c. for the last nine
years, is not paying an interim dividend
for the last December half-year.
Trading for the ten months to April
has been profitable overall, but two out
of three subsidiaries have been in trouble
in the last four months.
The plastics division, operated by
W alter Barr Pty Ltd, ran into intensive
competition, which is being countered
by reorganisation to cut costs and
improve manufacturing techniques.
Betts and Co., which makes electric
motors, had technical problems in its
changeover to a new type product, but
is now on a profitable basis.
The third subsidiary, Roden Products,
which makes electric stoves and con-
tracts for engineering work, has been
profitable throughout.
The market, now extremely sensitive
to trouble, quoted the ss. shares at 4s.
buyer, ss. seller, j on this news.
DIG Unmoved
Jnterim report from Commonwealth
Industrial Gases Ltd of a sales rise
of 61 p.c. accompanied by higher ex-
pense did nothing to alter the price of
the shares.
The 20s. units remained at 84s. 6d. to
yield 2.6 p.c. in income and 6.0 p.c. on
earnings. Peak prices on Sydney Ex-
change were £5 13s. Od. in 1962 and
£6 the year before.
Best year for profits was the period
to September 30, 1960.
Tooth Rolls Out the Barrel
HTooth's first accounts under the new
-*■ Companies Act disappointed those
hoping for a much more informative
document for the year ended March 31,
1963. But they were not disappointed
with vistas of valuable assets conserva-
tively assessed, and with a disclosed
profit of £.1,911,231, exceeded by the
tax provision of £1,930,000.
Working back from the tax provision,
the real profit might have been nearer
£3 million, to give an earning rate of over
27 p.c., compared with the rate calcu-
lated or published profit of 17.7 p.c.
Directors nonchalantly credit reserve
with £503,455 accumulated profits on
the sale of capital assets, and £2 million
transferred from provision for bad and
doubtful debts.
This follows similar transfers of provi-
sions no longer required of £5 million
in 1958 and £6 million in 1954.
Sundry trade debtors of £8,992,620 in
the 1963 accounts were subjected to a
provision of £719,422, and stocks on
hand at values not exceeding cost of
£2,643,133, to provisions of £665,220.
Additions to properties and plant
totalled £1,341,643 during the year, but
the charge for depreciation was £990,733.
The company is committed to capital
expenditure of £836,082 in the current
year.
The market's first reaction was one of
approval, lifting the 20s. shares 2s. 6d.
to 775. 3d. where they yield 3.6 p.c. from
a 13| p.c. dividend.
Waltons Sought After
¥>ights to the one-for-six par issue by
Waltons Ltd opened at 10s. 6d. on
June 3, leaving the shares ex rights at
15s. Bd. The last price cum rights was
3s. above last year’s closing price of
14s. lid.
All major retailers have registered
share price increases since the end of
last year, hence the solid increase in the
index for retailers.
G. J. Coles shares are up about 2s. 6d.
to 15s. 6d. (yield 3.5 p.c.), Woolworths
up Is. Bd. to 15s. 9d. (yield 3.8 p.c.),
David Jones up Is. 6d. to 21s. 6d. (2 9
p.c.), and Myers up 2s. Id. to 355. (2.4
p.c.).
The Waltons yield is now 4 p.c., so the
appreciation in price seems fully war-
ranted. Profit for the January half-year
was 22 p.c. higher, and sales and profit
for the April quarter revealed satisfac-
tory increases over the previous corres-
ponding period, according to a release
from the company timed for the open-
ing of a £2 million issue of debentures
and notes by the subsidiary Waltons
Credit Corporation.


For carefree winter motoring-you need
CASTROUTE
fbrastartl
?»•
..W
First-time starts in the coldest weather save strain on battery,
engine and temper. Castrolite circulates quicker, protects engines
the way oils should. For really trouble-free motoring this winter
change to Castrolite for a start!
Consult the Castro!
chart at better garages
with the Bottle
Stand out front.
a
IW,
Casfrolite
If';' t*aic»j>^
j^strol
C93


CMC ANDERSON
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RA
SHORT TERM
6 months 6yop.a. 12 months 6y%p.a.
LONG TERM
2 years p.a.;3 years 7j°/o p.a.
4 years 8% p.a. |5 years p.a.
10 years Qj°/o p.a.
DIRECTORS: E. A. M. Newton (Chairman), B. W. Solomons, E. S.
Pratt, A. D. K. Cochrane, E. J. Cameron, G. L. Martin.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:— P. T. PTY. LIMITED, a wholly
owned subsidiary of PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from and applications lodged with
Any Branch in New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory
and any City or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks
☆ THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
☆ BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or at
☆ ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
* ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Sydney and Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
☆ PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country.
☆ ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE, OR THE
tft
Underwriting Brokers; RALPH W. KING & YUILI
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
E.A.(Consol.) —2
More Muscle for Mai levs
■JUlalleys’ declared reason for allow-
ing the US Whirlpool Corporation
to attain a larger shareholding is worth
pondering. It is difficult for an Aus-
tralian appliance manufacturer to pros-
per without a link with a large overseas
company, directors say.
They believe Whirlpool’s stronger
financial and technical support to be in
the company’s best interests. New
products are already being planned to
increase Malleys’ range.
Keeping up with the more technically
inventive overseas Joneses seems quite
obvious in the industry, which already
boasts a considerable volume of direct
foreign investment and a great crowd
of licensing agreements. Examples will
come readily to mind.
Immediate arrangements give Whirl-
pool an 11 p.c. holding, which is ex-
pected to go to 25 p.c. in about three
years. They are the culmination of
relations begun in 1954 with a licence
to make washing machines.
Extensions in 1960 covered refrigera-
tors, laundry dryers, dish washers, gas
and electric ranges. Whirlpool also gave
Malleys an unsecured loan for £350,000
at 6 p.c., taking a right to convert this
and accrued technical assistance fees and
interest to ordinary shares in October,
1963, at minimum premium of Bs. a
20s. share.
The latest agreement extends the
loan at 6 p.c., repayable by three yearly
instalments starting on September 30,
1964. All existing debts apart from the
original loan are converted into 209,091
ordinaries at 265. 4.8 d. (ruling market
price 245. plus 10 p.c.). Future royalties
also convert into ordinaries at specified
limits related to market prices.
The rate of technical assistance fees
is expected to fall appreciably from
June 1 this year. Malleys’ chairman (Mr
N. H. Routley) considers profitability
will thus be improved and that con-
version of future fees to capital will
furnish funds to repay the £350,000
loan. 1
Capital goes straightaway to
£1,820,240 on the first new Whirlpool
moves. The December half-year's turn-
over and profits are carrying well into
the current period. Profit for 1961-62
took a lift from £62,309 to £163,562
(10 p.c. earned for ordinaries), so that
the indicated 8 p.c. dividend appears
safe.
It’s still going to be a long haul
before the 10 p.c. paid between 1956
and 1960 comes in sight. The markets
don’t wish to shift the shares up very
much at present.


i
Sliiii
■. sm is.-Sr®
S ir «*
i
■ ... ~V
-
Palace and Museum of Beit-Eddine, near Beirut
Plan a Beirut stopover (at no extra air fare)
<s7>
on your next European trip with reliable KLM
{For more news about Beirut's beauties and reliable KLM don't miss a word of the following)
T f you’re flying to Europe, read these
■*- facts. They explain why many ex-
perienced travellers believe KLM is the
most reliable airline. KLM flies an
average of 3830 passengers every day to
104 cities all over the world. From its
world-wide experience KLM offers these
reliable passenger services: Budget Travel
Plan, Pay Later Plan, Group Travel
Plan and Multi-Stopover Plan. Now
read on.
1. KLM flies everywhere from Beirut.
Beirut is the capital of Lebanon, right in the
middle of the Middle East. From there,
KLM flies to Western and Eastern Europe,
all three Americas, all over Africa, Japan,
Singapore, Manila, India and Australia.
(From Europe, KLM makes up to 7 flights
daily across the North Atlantic.)
KLM’s DC-B’s leave Sydney every Wed-
nesday at 11.30 a.m., arriving Beirut at
4.55 a.m. Thursday. Plan a look-see with
KLM at Beirut and your accommodation
will be ready and waiting. But if you want to
fly straight to Europe KLM will get you
there reliably for lunch on Thursday.
2. Waterfront city with thoroughbred Arab
horses, training in the pine forests, or racing
at the Hippodrome a must for most
Australians. Half eastern charm, half wes-
tern exuberance, Beirut has put-you-ups
from luxury hotels to modest pensions.
Food is superlative, cooking international,
restaurants and cafes legion (spin-roasting
on charcoal grills yummy!).
For some: narrow lanes and mosques,
Phoenician treasures, ancient bazaars where
they like you to drive a bargain.
For others: beaches, swimming pools,
hotels, bars, cabarets, cinemas, theatres,
dancing. And a Casino for inveterate
gamblers.
3. Budget Travel with reliable KLM. In
Beirut, the KLM Budget Travel Plan (it
covers 55 cities the world over) offers a
night’s air-conditioned accommodation and
a city sightseeing tour which includes visits
to old and modern shopping districts. All
for only £6. With KLM Budget Travel you
arrange and pay for everything beforehand
no day-by-day budgeting worries.
Extra boon: KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan,
offering you over 30 stopover cities, in-
cluding Beirut, on your way to London
at no extra air fare.
4. You’re in reliable hands with KLM. Every
KLM DC-8 jet carries enough fuel to fly
1100 extra miles an additional load equi-
valent to 26,460 lb. of paying freight. KLM
believes the security is worth the expense.
KLM has had longer than any other air-
line to perfect its reliability 44 years.
KLM’s DC-8 jets have two pantries (for
faster service), five flush toilets and several
cloakrooms.
The cabin, air-conditioned on the ground as
well as aloft, gets a fresh supply of air every
three minutes.
5. Leave the details to your Travel Agent.
He knows how to organise your Beirut
stopover. He also knows KLM is a most
reliable way to travel. He’ll tell you about
KLM’s Pay Later Plan 10 per cent down
and 2 years to pay the balance. He’ll book
your KLM Minitour at Amsterdam: sight-
seeing along romantic canals, visiting
museums, shopping for Dutch treats,
watching diamond-cutters at their precise
work.
Two-thirds of all KLM passengers fly KLM
on the recommendation of experienced
Travel Agents. A very nice vote of con-
fidence from people who know travel.
Note: Mail coupon for further attractive
details.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-3966
80 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 63-6949
Please send copy of your KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address -
My Travel Agent is.
R 134


COMPANY LIMITED
D&
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
Tttis Issue lies been
Ovei
nm
;
1
wiiiiS
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpelual Trustee
Company Limited
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
71% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Slock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street. Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOT! & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital territory:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C Chambers. Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
ONE TO BUY
Nightingale Sees Profit
in Diversification
VTot a few investors may feel inclined
to leave chemicals shares under a
cloud for a little while longer.
Nevertheless here, as in other sectors
of a generally better economy, informed
scrutiny turns up the promising and
those which are well clear of retarding
problems.
If the times tend to place a premium
upon efficiency, not only the big ones
like ICIANZ are in process of qualify-
ing. Some smaller enterprises are right
out of the wood.
One of these should prove to be
Nightingale Supply Co. Its ss. shares
have regained a good measure of market
esteem since about September last. They
deserve further inspection, despite being
rather tightly held.
Prices have moved only narrowly
between 18s. and 18s. 9d. so far this
year, after a late 1962 top at 18s. Latest
sales are at the latter level, where the
yield on a 15 p.c dividend is 4.1 p.c.
and earnings yield on last year’s profit
figure 8.4 p.c.
These appear solid rather than exciting
returns, yet plenty could come from the
company’s development in the reasonably
near future.
Directors in February reported an-
other lift in group sales and were con-
tent to label the December half-year’s
profit “satisfactory.” They displayed
more obvious confidence in deciding on
a H p.c. interim dividend, in line with
the 1961-62 final, to establish a 15 p.c.
yearly rate.
quite moderate results for
1958 and 1959, when dividends were
8 and 9 p.c. respectively, 1960 enabled a
jump to 121 p.c. on an earning-rate
advance from 12.7 to 21.2 p.c.
The November of 1960 also saw a
one - for - four tyonus issue, bringing
ordinary capital to £149,717 where it
now stands. However, the trading perils
besetting 1960-61, especially the raising
of imports restrictions, played havoc
with margins.
Sales actually advanced 5 p.c., but
profit was knocked back by £4392 to
£26,757, dragging earning rate down to
14.1 p.c. Dividend was cut to 8 p.c.
Takeover rumors in June, 1962,
speedily denied, temporarily flurried the
sharemarkets, though it was the year’s
results that provided a really lasting
effect.
Profit doubled to £50,489, earning
rate leapt to 30.4 p.c. and dividend
became 13f p.c. Those are the standards
for judging February’s interim state-
ment.
The company impresses apart from
the accounting basis, too. Production
and marketing are spread over eight
well-diversified divisions: general chemi-
cals, dairy and food sanitation, timber
adhesives, industrial chemicals, merchan-
dise (Kleen-Bath, White Lily, Grasp ad-
hesives), contracts, Tremco (plastic
sealants and putties made under licence
to Tremco Mfg., of USA), and packag-
ing adhesives.
Until fairly recently general chemicals,
which embraced a popular range of in-
dustrial cleansers, detergents, soaps, dis-
infectants and polishes, dominated com-
pany activities. Now the industrial
division is rapidly growing more
prominent and at present ranks second
in operations.
One positive competitive advantage
has been conferred from the planned
diversification. It avoids a clash with
any other single chemical group. Many
markets may be pursued.
For instance, general chemicals, in-
dustrials and the Tremco products
should expect extended opportunities as
progress in the building trade and allied
industries becomes more positive.
Returning briefly to the accounts
position, it is striking to notice last
year’s big reduction in overdraft and,
despite nice dividends, a healthy reten-
tion of funds for use in the business.
Nightingale has thoroughly con-
solidated the ground of its progress.
Investors should be ready for the next
burst.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Are They Worth the Price?
Asa group, the insurance companies
are the lowest yielding stocks on the
Australian Stock Exchanges, having an
average dividend yield of about 2.6 p.c.
compared with the newspapers’ yield of
about 2.8 p.c. Queensland Insurance Co.
Ltd made a bonus issue last January and
very shortly now we should know whether
the nominal dividend rate will be main-
tained at 121 p.c. on ordinary capital
increased by 20 p.c. (Interim dividends
are usually paid in June.)
If the rate is maintained and there is
every reason to believe that it will be,
dividend income will have increased by
20 p.c. in seven years the last bonus
issue of 1 for 3 was made in August,
1956. If we average this increase over the
seven years, it represents an annual
average increase of only 2.6 p.c. and
probably is not very different from the
average “inflation” rate.
Nevertheless, the shares are selling at
945. 6d. (2.6 p.c. immediate dividend
yield from a 124 p.c. rate) and were as
high as 121 s. just after the books closed
for the bonus issue. Clearly one wonders
whether the shares can be worth chese
figures.
Tn selecting another company for com-
A parison, it seemed necessary to select
one of roughly comparable size. I have
selected the Mercantile Mutual which
seems to be roughly the same size (on the
basis of premium income) today, al-
though five years ago it was only three-
quarters the size. So far as the future is
concerned, there is a factor which could
change the situation and that is the recent-
ly acquired interest in life assurance
through the Australian Metropolitan Life.
If we assume that the 124 p.c. dividend
which both companies have paid for at
least ten years will be paid this year, the
record of dividend income from a con-
stant investment made in 1954 will be
as follows:
Year ended in
1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Mercantile
100 100 100 100 125 143 153 163 163 163
Queensland
100 100 110 154 154 154 154 210 154 185
Even ignoring the special 5 p.c. anni-
versary dividend which Queensland In-
surance paid in 1961, Mercantile does
not appear to have had such a good
record.
It seems to have become fairly well
established practice for insurance com-
panies to meet their dividend commit-
ments out of investment income. It is
therefore worthwhile examining the
trends not only in absolute terms but
also as a percentage of invested funds.
Taking the 1954-55 year as our base year,
the following figures show the trend of
investment income for the two compan-
ies:—
Year
ended in '55 '56 '57 '5B '59 '6O '6l '62
Mercantile 100 110 120 144 174 213 280 332
Queensland 100 111 122 130 140 163 169 186
If we examine the return on invest-
ments we should get an indication of
the success of the companies’ investment
policies. A shorter period has been chosen
in view of the problems which arise from
the valuations of investments: —
INVESTMENT INCOME AS PERCENTAGE OF
MEAN INVESTED FUNDS
Year ended in 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Mercantile 3.2 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.5
Queensland 3.5 3.5 3.8 3.3 4.0
These figures suggest that Queensland
has had more success in increasing the
return on investment than has Mercan-
tile. However, the increase in investment
income of Mercantile has arisen to some
considerable extent from the acquisition
of Intercolonial Investment Land and
Building Company and Australian
Metropolitan Life Assurance Company
Ltd. As these acquisitions resulted in in-
vested funds increasing by nearly 70 p.c.
it is perhaps not surprising that there
has not been a continuing upward trend
throughout the five-year period.
In view of the importance of invest-
ment income to dividend payout, it is
interesting to note the percentage that
dividends bear to investment income:—
Year
ended in '55 '56 '57 '5B '59 '6O '6l '62
Mercantile 100 97 89 84 77 83 91 76
Queensland 63 56 80 81 75 65 87 56
VTew capital raising by insurance com-
panies are likely to be few and far
between and would probably only occur
if they wished to make a substantial in-
vestment as Mercantile did in 1960.
Increases in invested funds will there-
fore arise almost entirely from retained
income. The only other source of net
income available is the underwriting
profit. The following tables show the
trends in premium income and under-
writing surplus:—
PREMIUM INCOME
Year ended in 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Mercantile 100 118 142 176 200 205
Queensland 100 106 110 120 132 138
UNDERWRITING PROFIT
Mercantile 100 156 216 234 204 117
Queensland 100 89 104 92 69 91
Again we see that Mercantile has shown
the greater growth.
If we make adjustments to premium
income according to the transfers to un-
expired risk provisions so that we obtain
a figure roughy relating to premium “ab-
sorbed” during the year, and then express
underwriting profit as a percentage of
this figure, the following figures
appear:—
Year ended in 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Mercantile 5.5 5.0 4.5 3.6 3.5
Queensland .... 2.6 3.8 2.5 2.0 2.1
While Queensland’s figures are more
erratic, a declining trend is apparent in
both cases. This makes projections into
the future even more hazardous than
usual. If we assume that both companies
will be able to increase premium income
at the rate of 5 p.c. per annum compound
for the next five years and underwriting
profits will level off at the 1961 and 1962
rates, while the rate of return on invest-
ments will continue to increase at the
same rates as over the last five years,
we come to the conclusion that the rate
of increase in investment income is likely
to be about the same for both companies.
HThis is necessarily based on the assump-
tion that dividend payout will not be
increased during this period. So far as
Queensland is concerned, if past relation-
ships between investment income and
dividend payout are maintained, it would
seem unlikely that another bonus issue
will be made before 1966. On the other
hand, Mercantile could be expected to
make a bonus issue at almost any time.
This prospect could well account for the
fact that Mercantile’s shares are priced
10s. higher than Queensland’s, although
in the long run they are much closer to
being equal in value.
Having regard to the rates of increase
in dividend income in the past and pos-
sible future increases, both stocks would
seem to be fully priced, even if the aver-
age annual rates of dividend increase in
the fifties continue in perpetuity.
QUEENSLAND INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(£'000)
Year ended
Sept. 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ord. capital 2500 2500 2500 2500 2500
Reserves 3088 3361 4152 5346 5704
Shareholders'
funds 5588 5861 6652 7846 8204
Unexpired risk
reserve 2825 3000 3175 3525 3700
Claims creditors,
etc. 3954 4354 4668 3788 3817
Other liabilities 161 172 161 324 335
Total liabilities 12528 13337 14656 15483 16056
Property 2061 2179 2340 2405 2438
Public securities 4065 3974 4008 3634 3621
Mortgage loans 1279 1705 1991 2815 3130
Company
securities 2696 3168 3540 3618 3791
Investment in
Subsidiaries 202 202 202 202 202
Cash and
deposits 812 838 1057 1262 1287
Agents balances 1133 1043 1220 1250 1293
Other assets 280 273 298 297 294
Total assets 12528 13387 14656 15483 16056
Premium income 4458 4635 5015 5549 5790
Claims 2648 2692 2961 3357 3585
Expenses 1524 1600 1759 1934 1923
To unexpired
risks 175 175 175 150 175
Underwriting
profit 111 168 120 108 117
Investment income 336 417 483 501 553
Net profit after
tax 497 585 603 609 670
Ord. dividends 312 312 312 437 312
Surplus 185 273 291 172 358


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Ampol as Income Stock
Grading in rights to the new share issue
by Ampol Petroleum Ltd opened on
May 31 and will continue for 10 weeks.
During that time the professionals and
a few amateurs with more faith than
most will be watching for exceptional
opportunities to acquire a stake in a
company with an inspiring record of
achievement in a notoriously tough
industry.
The management has convinced four
leading Australian banks and seven
financial institutions plus a leading
broking house that their latest develop-
mental scheme is a fair financial risk.
The plan to build a £2l million
refinery in Brisbane is Ampol’s boldest
stroke in oil strategy. It bought a site
from the Commonwealth Government
on the southern side of the Brisbane
River and persuaded the Moonie Pipe-
line Co. Pty to buy 25 of the 550 acres
and terminate its pipeline there.
Present indications are that the
Moonie field can supply about 25 p.c.
of the refinery’s initial capacity of
35,000 barrels a day. The remaining
crude oil will come from overseas.
Although at present there is no major
oil refinery in Queensland, Ampol’s re-
finery will be on stream by mid-1965,
and Amoco’s 25,000 barrels-a-day re-
finery will be producing by 1966 or
earlier.
Ampol currently controls about 7.8
p.c. of total Australian sales of refined
petroleum products and 11.9 p.c. of
motor spirit sales. As a refiner, Ampol
will have entree to the market for
aviation turbine fuel and liquid
petroleum gas.
As total Queensland consumption of
petroleum products is approximately
equal to Ampol’s Australian sales, and
the other petroleum distributors will,
if present practice is continued, borrow
from Ampol’s refinery,—paying back in
other States where their refineries are
located, Ampol is confident of disposing
of its refinery output.
Capacity of the refinery has also been
allied to Ampol’s shipping capacity.
Ampol’s tankers, W. G. Walkley and
Leslie J. Thompson and the charter
tanker Eli Maersk, last year to Septem-
ber 30 carried 870,000 tons of crude oil
to Australia.
The new P. J. Adams was delivered in
October and is on temporary overseas
charter until Ampol’s requirements
exceed the capacity of the present fleet.
The P. J. Adams tied up nearly £3
million which was non-revenue pro-
ducing last year, as was £1.4 million
in the lubricating oi!*’ refinery at
Kurnell (partnered with Caltex and H. C.
Sleigh), and £1.4 million in the B. F.
Goodrich tyre venture which has not yet
remitted dividends.
The company has been at pains to
stress that (apart from the petroleum
refinery) 1961-62 and 1962-63 will be
the years for maximum developmental
expenditure, and thereafter earning rate
should improve.
directors’ assessment of the econo-
mics of the Brisbane refinery, they
believe that the financial arrangements
made will permit a satisfactory margin
of earnings over the 14 p.c. dividend
when the shares of the present issue rank
for first payment in July, 1967.
The underwriting broker to the present
deferred share issue, working on the
assumption that the 9.5 p.c. improve-
ment in profit in the March half-year
is maintained, calculates that 1962-63
profit will approximate £2,475,000
(dividend requirement £2,203,000) so
that earning rate on average ordinary
capital should be around 15.7 p.c.
In May, 196 3, conversion of
£1,493,608 of notes to ordinary shares
brought total ordinary capital to
£17,482,785.
The three million ss. ordinary shares
issued to California Texas Oil Corpora-
tion in 1961 rank for full dividend after
September, 1966 (present rate 5 p.c.).
They do not participate in the present
share issue.
The apparent care with which Ampol
management has examined its market
potential and its financial structure leads
the observer to the opinion that the only
unpredictable item in the company’s
future is when Wapet will find oil.
(Ampol Exploration 69 p.c. owned by
Ampo] — has a one-seventh interest in
Wapet.)
The tremendous capital cost of tankers
and refineries is creating an inflexibility
in Ampol’s finances. At last balance
date loan capital almost equalled ordin-
ary capital and should exceed it this
year.
The consortium of banks lending
£8,334,000 at 7 p.c. for the Brisbane
refinery require repayment over six
years from 1967 to 1972. The financial
institutions lending £5 million at
p.c. require repayment between 1974
and 1978.
The £7.8 million to be provided by
share and noteholders does not require
servicing until 1967, two years after the
Brisbane refinery comes on stream.
Terms of the issue are three deferred
shares for eight stock units or con-
vertible notes, payable 2s. on application
by August 16 and 3s. on March 31,
1964.
T>ecognition that Ampol is entering a
* new investment phase has brought
the shares down to the level of an in-
come stock. The opening ex rights price
of 8s. 6d. for the 5s. shares gave a gen-
erous yield of 8 p.c. The rights to the
dividend deferred shares opened at 7d.,
6d., 8d. and 9d., giving an eventual
yield in four years’ time of over 12 p.c.
If the investor can forfeit income in
the interim, the rights represent an
unprecedented opportunity to acquire a
large parcel of Ampol’s shares for
minimum outlay.
The deferred shares are particularly
attractive to investors, such as those
approaching retiring age, who are
currently anxious to minimise tax
liability but look for a high return in
four years’ time.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
September 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 6334 8347 10633 12858 12008
Less current
liabilities 5380 8572 9022 9876 10497
Working capital 954 -225 1611 2982 1511
Investments 1512 2064 2630 4061 5163
Fixed assets 16715 22831 28808 34758 38497
Intangibles 340 338 364 574 294
19521 25008 33413 42375 45465
Loan capital 5894 7864 14497 14598 14758
Minority interests — — — 1165 1233
Pref. capital 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000
Deferred capital — — — 750 750
Ord. capital 7767 10696 10805 13715 15239
Calls in advance 611 — — — —
Reserves 4249 5448 7111 11147 12485
19521 25008 33413 42375 45465
Depreciation 822 722 963 1161 1437
Taxation 934 1002 920 938 1168
Net profit 1705 1859 2104 2273 2363
Net profit for
ords. 1645 1799 2044 2213 2303
Dividend 1008 1277 1511 1641 2050
Surplus 637 522 533 572 253
Earning rate 22.0 19.7 18.9 18.9 15.8
Dividend rate 14 14 14
Dividend yield 3.9 5.0 4.7 5.8 6.2
Price/earnings
ratio 17.1 20.8 15.6 12.7 14 3
High price 18/4J 25/3 25/3 15/1J 12/8
Lew price 12/2 18/3 14/6 10/3 10/8


First National Hire Purchase Company
Incorporated 2925
ISSUE OF
REGISTERED NOTES
6 to 10 years 7%
5 years, 6|% • 4 years, 6j%
3 years, 6% • 2 years, Sj°/o
Short-term stock also available from 3 months at 4£% p.a.
Applications for Registered Notes can be accepted only on the
printed form included in the prospectus. Copies of the full
prospectus with application forms obtainable from any A.G.C.
branch, your Stockbroker and all branches of the Bank of
New South Wales in Australia, Papua and New Guinea.
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,000
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
Corporation Limited
Cnr. Phillip and Hunter Sts., Sydney • 2 0324
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart • Canberra
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
RN2-NB
Pioneer a Sugar Bonanza
A deficit of one million tons between
estimated world sugar consumption
and production this year has produced
post-war price records on the London
sugar market in recent weeks.
A year ago the price was £stg.24 10s.
per ton, which had doubled by the be-
ginning of this year and doubled again
to £lOO sterling on May 22.
Cuba’s inability to obtain equipment
and technical assistance from USA is
largely creating this boom for other
world sugar producers. Beet sugar crops,
too, have been below normal for two
years; India is contributing less than
usual, and apparently Russian and other
consumption is rising,
The Australian sugar industry enjoyed
a prolific growing season in 1962 with
very favourable harvesting conditions.
The Sugar Board and the CSR Co’s
Marketing Division sought new markets
and expansion of existing ones with such
success that the entire crop was harvest-
ed, and over one million tons of sugar
were exported, placing Australia as the
fourth largest exporter in the world,
Against this background, the affairs of
individual sugar producers can be view-
ed with favor.
With only three years history as a
public company. Pioneer Sugar Mills Ltd
was able to increase profit by 36 p.c.
in the year to December 31, 1962.
Group profit rose from a revised
figure of £312,222 to £423,382, after
providing £284,953 (1961 £207,906) for
tax and £186,973 (£183,647) for re-
newals.
Furthermore, shareholders registered
as at May 28 were treated to a one-for-
five bonus, scrip for which ranks the
dividend as from June 30, 1963. The
dividend rate, which had been hoisted
from 13 p.c. in 1960 to 16 p.c. in 1961
and 1962, should be held on bonus-in-
creased capital, according to directors’
calculations.
the year independent valuers
revalued in the company’s assets, and
general reserve was increased by £1 5
million. The provision for depreciation
was transferred to a provision for re-
newals, and some items in the 1961 ac-
counts were reclassified this year for com-
parative purposes; hence the increase in
reserves and assets in the last two years’
accounts summaries.
No wonder directors view the year
with satisfaction.
Only blight on the company’s landscape
was the chemicals subsidiary, which is
prohibited by the Government from pro-
ducing DDT-based dips. The dryness of
the 1962 season affected sales, but these
have accelerated in 1963 with the intro-
duction of new products.
A 30-year lease was obtained on a
168-square mile property near Collins-
ville during 1962, and in January, 1963,
83 square miles of adjacent land were
purchased. A stud herd of Drought-
master cattle will be established this year.
The company also has six share farms
producing above-average quality tobacco.
Pioneer’s two mills crushed and pro-
duced record tonnages, and the forecast
for this year is for even bigger crops.
Management is, therefore, strengthening
capacity of the mills, mainly Pioneer
Before the 1963 crushing begins.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE.
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 linesj No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
£250,000 of plant and equipment will be
installed.
Although the fire at the Townsville
raw sugar terminal last month destroyed
a large quantity of Pioneer’s sugar, it was
insured and in no way affects Pioneer’s
business. The amount destroyed was a
small proportion of total Australian pro-
duction or exports, yet it created at least
a temporary flurry in the price of sugar
on the London market.
From a low price of 38s. this financial
and calendar year, the Pioneer 10s.
ordinary stock units have climbed to a
peak of 56s. on Sydney Stock Exchange,
cum the bonus.
At about 45s. after the bonus, the old
10s. shares return an immediate 3.7 pc.
There should be a dividend difference of
6d. between the old and the bonus shares
until the interim dividend (assuming re-
petition of last year's payment of 6 p.c.)
is out of the way.
While no one would suggest these are
cheap by past standards the climate for
the industry is considerably brighter in
the short and medium term than it has
been in the last few years. They should
still prove excellent holding.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1629 1796 2032 1952
Less current liabilities 2351 1901 1987 1608
Working capital -722 -105 45 344
Investments 19 20 31 31
Fixed Assets 2959 2881 4319 4244
2256 2796 4395 4619
Ordinary capital 1050 1175 1250 1250
Reserves 1206- 16213145 3369
2256 2796 4395 4619
Depreciation u/a 196 184 187
Taxation 97 248 208 235
Net profit 200 361 312 423
Dividend 158 149 200 200
Surplus 42 212 112 223
Earning rate 19.0 31.5 25.0 33.9
Dividend rate 15 13 16 16
Dividend yield — 3.3 5.8 —
Price earnings ratio — 11.9 11.1 —
High price — 35/- 39/- 37/
Low price — 30/- 29/3 27/9
ITALIAN FOOTWEAR EXPORTS
Italy exported 39,675,020 pairs of
shoes in 1962, compared with 33,227,613
pairs in 1961. Imports rose from
393,914 pairs in 1961 to 456,768 pairs
in 1962.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Two Real Surprises
TTsually a somewhat quiet period
between interim and final reports,
a couple of real surprises were produced
last week.
Surprises in more ways than one. First,
it was commendable to see companies
frankly reporting a change in trading
conditions since their interim report, and,
secondly, to see which exactly those
companies were.
RMC has told shareholders that the
chronic Sydney weather had upset the
hope of a material recovery in profit.
Most companies in the construction in-
dustry will likewise suffer. Still RMC
directors are confident that the 12i p.c.
dividend will be maintained. If that be
the case, the shares at 10s. are well
worth the interest of long-term investors.
But I belong to the short - term
category. So my interest turned to the
other company.
Carrier shares created a new low of
4s. 6d. on its announcement. For the
lucky person who bought at that price,
a 50 p.c. gain is already showing.
The prompt announcement that a
strike had affected earnings was to the
credit of the directors. My order for
1000 caught the market on the rebound
at ss. 6d.
For a ss. share with asset backing of
Bs. and the company having plenty of
orders on hand, any price under 6s.
seemed too low. We all now know that
this year is a write-off. But the torrid
time that the air-conditioning companies
have had over the last couple of years
could prove to be the best thing that
could have happened. A much more
efficient industry has emerged.
To balance this week’s industrial pur-
chase, I decided on ODE. Oil Drilling
and Exploration, to give it the full title,
engages in only part of what the name
purports the company to do. It is a
contract oil driller, but not a direct oil
explorer.
There is, however, an investment of
£75,001 in an oil exploration company,
Exoil. The sum of £75,000 is rep-
resented by 300,000 fully-paid shares,
while the remaining £1 is the right to
purchase a further 1,700,000 shares
before 1967. As such, ODE will have a
box seat to use at will over the next few
years.
Turning to the active side of the
business, ODE offers a complete drilling
service using both its own men and
equipment. There is almost a million
pounds invested in equipment that in-
cludes five rigs. Completing the picture
are two successful subsidiaries which
sell and rent oil equipment.
Very sensibly last year, to write off
£379,000 of intangible assets, the ss.
shares were written down to 3s. 4d. In
the same year, directors concentrated on
disposing of two home unit blocks at
Cremorne.
Confining itself to contract drilling
and oil equipment supply should see this
neat little company grow. Earning rate
rose from 11.0 p.c. to 14.9 p.c. last year
and the dividend was increased from 3d.
to 3id. On top of this was the interim
report in February which announced a
further increase in dividend to the annual
rate of 4d. and a substantial increase in
sales. With the market at 4s. 2d., I
bought 1000 shares.
As the portfolio is bulging at the
seams, I decided first to buy back those
Ampol which are now ex-dividend and
also ex-rights. Quite an involved trans-
action resulting in a profit of £ll. With
glossy booklets on Ampol by the under-
writer in circulation and the rights well
below their theoretical value, the rights
are worth watching closely.
After a rise of a shilling in the last
week, David Jones also left my port-
folio. The profit of £B3 more than off-
set the loss of £2l on the sale of 1000
Felt rights at 3s. 2d. The rights close
shortly and I can only afford to take up
1000. I also sold out of Alliance Oil at
a loss of £29.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
600 David Jones notes, 20/6 .... £613
1000 Felt rights, 3/2 £l5O
2000 Alliance Oil, lid. £ 87
BOUGHT
1000 Carrier, 5/6 £286
1000 ODE, 4/2 £217
800 Ampol, 8/9 £360
500 Ampol rights, 9d. £ 20
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/- 52/-
1000 Petroleum tnv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 37/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/6
600 A. V. Jennings 23/2/63 9/10 10/3
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. op. (8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/6
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/6
1000 Felt rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/2
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 46/6
1000 Functional 7/5/63 8/3 9/3
400 Borg Warner 21/5/63 25/- 26/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 22/9
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/-
1000 Carrier 3/5/63 5/6 6/3
1000 ODE 5/5/63 4/2 4/1
500 Ampol rights 3/5/63 9d. 9^d.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NOEL JAMES McCAULEY, late of
Sydney. TAKE NOTICE that ADELAIDE
JANET McCAULEY, known as JANET
ADELAIDE McCAULEY, has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1698 of 1963 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 15th day of July, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28
Martin Place, Sydney. C. A. H. Harms,
Registrar.
Cold Winds on Carrier
Plaint-hearted holders of Carrier Air
Conditioning ss. shares let their
holdings go for ss. 6d. on the report that
no final dividend may be possible for
1962-63. (The interim was passed in
March, to conserve funds.)
Strikes at the Seven Hills factory and
the East Sydney branch, of one month’s
duration, have delayed deliveries and
progress payments by customers.
The year 1946 was the last in which
the company failed to make any distribu-
tion to shareholders, and air conditioning
in Australia, led by Carrier, has come
a long way since.
Competition, as an economic fact of
life, has perhaps caught up with this
company, the largest in the field.
Directors claim that the industry is
not over-supplied, but the number of
small operators, with few overheads,
have forced profit margins down to a
low level.
It is considered by those in the trade
that the trend is now to specialisation.
Carrier’s affairs need drastic re-
organisation, with sharp pruning of costs,
if its reputation as a profitable invest-
ment is to be kept intact.
All Australian production figures of
room air conditioners: 1959-60, 40,065;
1960-61, 67,229; 1961-62, 29,177; nine
months to March, 1963, 9,505 (com-
pared with 26,373 for the similar period
last year), tell only too clearly what
an uncomfortable climate Carrier is
experiencing.
But panic sellers may rue their haste.
A profit is expected for the year to June,
and directors may find it within their
power to make some gesture of con-
fidence to shareholders.
Rural Whaling
dispirited market for Whale In-
A dustries’ ss. shares could hardly
expect re-invigoration from directors’
latest report.
Disposal of the whaling assets moves
much according to expectations. In the
books at £218,000, capital loss is “un-
likely to exceed £100,000.”
The farming venture at Gurley
station sees 12,000 acres of wheat being
sown and 2000 acres of other crops
harvested. But a cattle-fattening interest,
two-thirds of Feed Lots Pty, remains
unsatisfactory in “the present state of
the cattle market.”
Fish Exports to US
Oouth Australian Fishermen’s Co-
operative Ltd, which operates in
Victoria and South Australia, has sold
over 2 million dollars (£A910,000) worth
of fish to USA during this financial year.
The exports included 1,693,4401 b. of
frozen tuna and 884,6601 b. of crayfish
and crayfish tails. The tuna is eagerly
sought by canneries on the west coast
of USA, and the company regards the
prospects of export tuna as very bright.
UK EATS MORE MEAT
fJpoTAL meat and bacon consumption in
Britain has risen from 114.81 b. per
head in 1960 to 120.71 b. in 1962. Poultry
consumption rose from 12.51 b. per head
to 14.61 b. in the same period.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 749
ACROSS
I—Stand in some intersection behaving with duplicity.
(6, 8)
B—Some china hen is a railway-worker. (5-5)
10—Yours Truly performs fifty; it’s to be venerated.
(4)
12 —A fitting description for many a bore. (8)
14—Party going against the current with a woolgrower.
(6)
16 — Blunder I detected in a N.S.W. coal town. (5)
17— Puma quantity associated with some malicious
gossip. (9)
19— Blind egg I scrambled when
surfacing with gold leaf. (9)
20— Dope hotel in New York. (5)
21— Girl who has no envy. (6)
23—80 y measures these guide
ropes. (8)
26 Press for the beginning of
Ron’s statutory declaration.
(4)
27 Irish politics used to have
plenty of these domestic
tyrants. (4-6)
29—Lace-ups who are cruel ,to
cockroaches, etc.? (6-8)
DOWN
2 Drinks like Barkis? (4-8)
3 Hail upset this girl. (3)
4 A dirty look rising in the
dance. (4)
5 Aid described this country.
(5)
6 Vex with an essay on valour.
(9)
7 A factor in calculating circles
associated with a Samoan
port. (4)
9—Aid in calculation takes it
along. (7)
11—The 1920 s were noted for this
poor boy in “Casabianca.”
(7, 5)
13—Boy takes the curve with
haste. (6)
15—Way over one general
manager with a blot 6n the
escutcheon. (6)
16—An Australian who entertains
a member of the police
branch. (5, 4)
18—This makes the United
Nations never wrong enough
to over-awe. (7)
22—Oxygen in the region of the
oval. (5)
24 Neither good nor bad distress
signal showing on nothing.
(2-2)
25 Pertaining to all animal life
in Borzoi culture. (4)
28—The French moved a rival
for the ostrich. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 748


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER. BOADICEA. DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
mm
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
imi—i i niwimwi'iiiiiiii! iii i mill 1 1 »ii—■ —i—iiii
9 t • • ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick J whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.


ii * i
f s'; - //%•' , % ,*c
wmmmm§ Sto
j
■
1 4 JU
o
tv
IPBBM
-
■
M
m
**
m
■
m
:
■Sfe®
IlliilSllJM
fflll p |
mmm 48.
m «
Open the door on
%fhew world of
motoring luxury . .
sdf
g
Open the door on a new Holden Premier. You’ll find it's got just about everything you could
possibly want to make personal motoring a new and delightful experience. It’s completely
and beautifully appointed. Yet a new Premier can be yours for hundreds of pounds less than
other luxury cars. If you're a lover of fine cars, you should drive a Premier. You’ll be
impressed by its smooth, spirited performance. Its superb comfort. Its wonderful silence.
You'll really enjoy the armchair comfort of Holden’s exclusive “Red Carpet’’ ride. Your Holden*
Dealer has a beautiful new Premier ready and waiting for you to drive. See him today!
Price: £1,195 plus tax. General Motors-Holden’s Pty. Limited. *regd.
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY . . . DRIVE THE NEW
HOLDEN PREMIER
X 62«
