

The Bulletin
APRIL 27, 1963
TTSSC^r^S—BiS^^BPif^F
AN AUSTRALIAN JOlMhpgk, OF COMMENT AND OPINION - ESI. 1880
• EXMOUTH GULF—THE FACTS? • WHITE AUSTRALIA—A LOST CAUSE


THE ONLY
EE3SEJ
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
hHpbMHr
' r. gsgSgiPv " -t' ■• > "
MEsSi
X
■
t^
....
i
HP*
.;• ■/■;;■■■ :
y 4 ;^
\
-J#
§1
mm
m
M " \
Fl
m
TOASTED
after action
7)
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos wasted, to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd.
2.P121.11.62


National Notebook
Visitor
Thresh in Sydney last Saturday
-*• fresh from a grand Communist rally
in New Zealand was Mahommed
Lukman, deputy chairman of Indonesia’s
2,000,000 strong Communist Party. Mr
Lukman is also Deputy Speaker of the
Indonesian Parliament with the rank of
Minister although he is not, as over
zealous anti-Communists in Australia in-
sist, a member of the Indonesian Cabinet.
One reason for his visit is to see the
grave of his mother believed to be in
Corowa. Lukman’s parents Indon-
esian nationalists were exiled to Tan-
ahmerah in Netherlands New Guinea
before World War 11. Lukman, then in
his teens, returned to the
NEI just before the Japan-
ese invasion. His parents
were evacuated to Austra-
lia as Dutch political
prisoners. Mrs Lukman
died during the war and
her husband returned to
Indonesia after the war. He was killed
by Darul Islam terrorists in 1960.
The Side of the Angels?
Moderator-Designate of the Pres-
A byterian Church of Victoria, the
Rev. Mr Stephen Yarnold, took the
microphone at the weekly Labor Hour
broadcast on 3KZ recently and firmly
declared that the Church should be on
the side of the ALP. A member of the
ALP for many years, Mr Yarnold added:
’’But it isn’t it just wobbles around.”
Mr Yarnold has been an outspoken
radical for most of his life and his
broadcast breathed a spark of life into
what is normally a tedious session of
speech-making by trade union and party
officials. However, sauce for the goose
is sauce for the gander. Does the
Yarnold broadcast mean that Victorian
ALP leaders will stop squealing about
Catholic bishops and priests who in-
fluence their congregations to vote
against the ALP?
In The Long Run . . .
L*ome universal literacy and the writer
shall at last inherit the earth. That
is the message of hope that a pamphlet
which British author Richard Findlater
prepared for the British Society of
Authors, brings. But, in the meantime,
Mr Findlater has little cheer to offer.
Answering the query “What are
Writers Worth?” Mr Findlater says that
the majority of British professional
authors earn from their writings of all
kinds an income well below the national
average wage, which is around £l5 a
week. What makes it more ironic is that
the people they write about, in all
classes, are doing better than ever
before.
Mr Findlater feels too that more is
demanded of a writer. “To win atten-
tion, if not respect,” he writes, “the
writer should be very young or very
old or very rich; he should have a
stormy private life or public cause. It is
not enough to write. He has to act as
well, for press reporters or for the tele-
vision screen. Increasingly the writer is
becoming a part of show business.”
Mr Findlater predicts that within the
next generation more “amateurs” will
be squeezed out of writ-
ing, fewer novels will be
published, fewer publish-
ers will survive and “com-
mercial” libraries will
wither away. On the
other hand more and
more writers will earn a
bigger proportion of their living from
overseas sales, and such media as TV,
radio and films. The paperback (although
in the US one-third of the titles published
are in paperback) will be recognised as
the main commodity of British publish-
ing. The paperback will extend its empire
over the millions who are now only
learning to read, and who will in time
learn to borrow books and eventually to
buy them.
Inducement
Affairs Department is
advertising for a publications officer,
educational qualifications being Leaving
Certificate with salary offered £1761-
£l9Bl. It is also seeking a research
officer, qualifications being a degree in
Economics or Commerce (preferably
with honors) and offering a salary
£1651-£1971. As one graduate re-
marked, “I wish I had my Leaving
Certificate.”
Phenomenon
Bulletin art critic in Brisbane,
Dr J. V. Duhig, who died in St
Andrew’s Presbyterian Hospital, Bris-
bane, last week, was rated as something
of a phenomenon in his home city. Bris-
bane people, a fairly conservative lot,
could never really get used to the idea
of Dr Duhig being the nephew of the
Catholic Archbishop of Brisbane, Arch-
bishop Sir James Duhig.
Dr Duhig was like Archbishop Duhig
in looks the same slightly hooked nose,
Page
ANZAC DAY lT
Death and a Legend
•
Australian Money for Indian
Villagers 10
Goodbye to the Glaci 11
Britain —Country of No Secrets .. 12
Dame Edith: An Original Mind .. 15
The Vatican Looks Left? 20
The Exmouth Base —two views .. 23
Unscrambling White Australia 27
The Banned Bowels of Henry
Miller 34
De Gaulle’s First Revolution 35
Day of the Xerographs 38
Beef Cattle at Royal Show 39
Move for Lower Brokerage? 40
Full-blooded Case for Protection .. 44
®
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELROURNE ... 11
OUT AND AROUT 15
OVERSEAS 20
ROADICEA 22
FORUM 23
LETTERS 29
REVIEWS 30
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 39
WORLD OF RUSINESS .... 40
FEIFFER 58
CROSSWORD 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MP 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4341


the small chin, the good forehead. But
although the late Dr Duhig had a religi-
ous upbringing in later life he became a
rationalist. He even used to criticise
publicly his famous uncle’s sermons.
This short man (about sft 4in high)
had an amazing energy and drive to
which only a heart attack at 73 could
call a halt. He was a great friend of
young artists and young writers, and he
often made a point of buying paintings
at exhibitions by young painters even
if often they did not appreciate what he
wrote about them. At one time, he had
one of the biggest private collections in
Brisbane, about 200 paintings.
He was president of the Royal Queens-
land Art Society for 10 years. A decade
or so ago, when he was a trustee of the
society, his clash with some other
trustees reverberated throughout the
Brisbane art world. Soon, he was no
longer a trustee and a friend, in protest,
resigned as a trustee.
The Queensland president of the Aus-
tralian Medical Association (Dr N. V.
Youngman) described Dr Duhig as “a
man gifted in many ways and a brilliant
pathologist.” He was the first pathology
professor at the Queensland University’s
medical school. He was a writer. Before
the outbreak of World War 11, he won
the Laura Bogue Luffman literary com-
petition with a play entitled “The Living
Passion,” afterwards published in Lon-
don as one of the best plays of the year.
Dr Duhig was also a pioneer investigator
in Australia of venomous fish.
He was cremated privately last week.
Dr Duhig is survived by his widow, two
sons, and two daughters.
From the Far Shore
VTew Zealanders enlivened their Easter
holiday with a ban-the-bomb march,
which had its moments, although no
national secrets were divulged by the
marchers. About 2000 took four days to
march 30 miles into Wellington, carrying
their banners (“No bombs south of the
line,” “I like fishin’, not fission”). They
were met by the president of the NZ
Methodist conference who told them
nuclear weapons were a “blasphemy”.
They were met, too, by a number of
Canterbury university students carrying
rival banners (“We revel in radiation”
and “Bomb the banners”.) Blows were
exchanged and the police stepped in but
the crowd dispersed peacefully enough.
Another holiday activity in Wellington
was a hand-shaking contest. A university
student, standing near the Town Hall
amassed 14,756 in seven hours to break
the record of 12,256 grips in nine hours
previously set by another student. By
Such—to the life
T es Such who died last week—nobody
seemed to know his baptismal
names—materialised in The Bulletin
round 1935 like a genie out of a bottle
and dared the sub-editor in charge not
to accept a drawing of a harem girl.
Since he was more than six feet high
and a yard deep and wide and announced
that he was a canecutter fresh from the
fields, the sub-editor meekly complied.
Such then settled down happily to draw
harem girls (some of which he embalmed
in a brochure appropriately called Such
is Life ) for the next 27 years or so,
refreshing himself and his slender purse
occasionally by writing racy prose
sketches. The best of these, alas, were
not published, having been written after
he had enlisted in the Artillery and dis-
covered that instead of being sent to an
island full of Japanese yearning to be
torn in halves, he had been shanghaied to
Western Australia where he was served
out with beeswax, packing needles and
thread and told to mend tents for the
remainder of the war. On his return,
he resumed his lifework of embellishing
and replenishing the Such legend which
was rich in stories of how, when his
landlord refused to mend his ice-chest,
he took the offending object on his broad
back and ceremoniously cast it into
Sydney Harbor in the presence of a ferry
boat full of interested passengers; or of
how he turned up one day in the office
bloody but unbowed, announcing that he
had spent the night with a friend—“a
good cove, ready to fight after every
drink—with both hands. ’ A gentle giant
till roused, he was a man who suffered
gladly the worst life had to offer, shak-
ing hands with adversity as if greeting
a beloved friend and laughing through
his pain at the Goddess Fortune when she
gave him a bad coronary occlusion some
years ago. He was a man of principle
to whom “envy” and “discontent” were
unfamiliar words, one filled with loving
kindness towards his fellows.
"What's all this 'spies for peace' stuff in England...


way of variety four young airmen did
a 50-mile bath-tub hike. The bath was
mounted on pneumatic wheels.
O pioneers!
T ooking through the Melbourne Uni-
versity Students’ Representative
Council pamphlet on education, our at-
tention was caught by this summing-up
of the national achievement:
“Australians have become accustomed
to a high and rising standard of living.
We have reached our comfortable posi-
tion with comparatively little effort be-
cause we had a small population in a
country well endowed with natural re-
sources of all types, and especially suit-
ed to the production of wool and wheat.
Our primary industry has sold to a
growing world market, and our develop-
ment was made possible by a huge inflow
of capital and skilled labor from Britain
and the Continent.”
But then, of course, few, if any, of
the students would as yet have begun to
earn a living.
This Week’s Cover
According to recruiting advertise-
ments, they are all specialists in the
army these days. Weapons are replacing
men. Soon the only thin red lines will
be on rocket trajectory graphs. Tanner
plunges further into the gloomy implica-
tions of this to show Anzac Day on some
post-next-war occasion when there will
be very few ex-servicemen but an awful
lot of ex-civilians.
Tanner
Haven't they got a Russian
Embassy?"
PLAIN ENGLISH
THINKING BEYOND SEATO
J'HE Paris SEATO Conference made finally clear what has been appar-
ent for a long time the South East Asia Treaty Organisation is not
an effective instrument to deter Chinese Communist aggression in South
East Asia. It would not be quite accurate to say that SEATO has been
entirely a failure for although it lacks the military teeth and its signa-
tories the unanimity of will and purpose to engage against Communist
aggression (in Laos for example) it has some credit marks. It has brought
together a number of like-minded Asians for the first time with a common
fear of a common aggressor. It has made possible political and military
consultation where formerly none existed. It has awakened some to the
dangers that confront them. While these things may be a measure of
only a very limited success they should neither be despised nor ignored.
But new thinking is needed, for the fault with SEATO is twofold. It has
outlived its limited purpose and Asians have no faith in it Moreover it
cannot deal with large-scale subversive Communist action any more than it
can deal with the self-destructive tendencies of some of its signatories
Pakistan, for example, which currently marches cheek by jowl with Red
China in the hopes of an easy conquest of Kashmir or, to give another
example, the Philippines, which finds itself in strange embrace with
Indonesia in opposition to Malaysia. Most of all, SEATO, compounded
of fading and uninterested former imperialist powers like France and small
powers like Thailand has ignored, and has been ignored by, the real
power sources in Asia which alone count in any final sense of a showdown
with Red China.
nPPIOSE giving thought to the changing shape of Asia and therefore to
Australia’s security must be struck by the fact that the two most anti-
Chinese powers in Asia are at once the most powerful and most populous
India and Indonesia. India’s showdown has already come and is by no
means over. India has no illusions. Nor has Indonesia. Despite Liu
Shao-chi’s largely ritualistic visit to Djakarta there is no doubt whatsoever
that Indonesia is as anti-Chinese as India and fears either an eventual
southern march by China or extension by sabotage. Both India and
Indonesia have in the past benefited from SEATO many Indonesians
freely admit this but both countries dislike it and distrust it as an
instrument of a discredited imperialism and, however irrational this may
appear on some grounds, it is how they feel. To ignore this sentiment is
to ignore realities and future opportunities.
Red China’s growing military power constitutes a threat to all countries
in Asia; one which strikes an increasingly responsive chord and with
food cause. Perhaps Australia’s long range diplomatic role if we
elieve we have influence at all is to study the possibility of a much
larger, more truly effective means of common defence against a common
enemy.
BRITAIN'S WEAKENED MORALE
"W/TIAT has happened to British morale? Ever since the end of World
War II Britain has been racked by the gravest security breaches
Nunn May, Pontecorvo, Fuchs, Burgess and Maclean, Vassall and now
the Peace Spies. The current scandal is in many ways perhaps the worst
of them all for it begs the question not so much whether Britain’s security
arrangements are adequate most obviously they are not but whether,
in the current state of British demoralisation, security arrangements are
of any value. Quite obviously senior civil servants have leaked out the
present secrets and if they cannot be trusted who can? See “A Country
of No Secrets,” page 12.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE SALARY REVOLUTION
The Australian
New Deal
Who ivill lose status?
FROM A SYDNEY CORREPONDENT
F. A. HOOK
Discontent
rpHROUGHOUT Australia today various
social classes and groups are losing
or gaining status with an almost revolu-
tionary suddenness. The old patterns of
class relations are being rewritten; and
the most obvious gainers are the new
intellectual classes, now more strongly
organised than ever before in Australia
the scientists, the professional engin-
eers, the technologists.
The rewriting of our social patterns
is being done in the Arbitration Commis-
sioners’ rooms, and first become obvious
in the spectacular increases in salaries
awarded Professional Engineers, after a
case lasting several years. This was soon
followed by the increases for scientific
officers in the NSW Department of Agri-
culture and then in all Departments. In
due course, as Gaius pointed out in The
Bulletin, other professional intellectual
groups will organise to take advantage
of the new arbitration policy,
The basis of these radical decisions
was that the traditional idea of adjusting
all salaries according to an agreed-on
scale is out-dated. Formerly, in other
words, nearly all Australian groups had
a place in a settled hierarchy of salaries,
If one group got a rise, so must all the
rest in order to preserve the proper bal-
ance in the social hierarchy. Now, how-
ever, the Commission has decided that
some groups intellectually skilled
groups need a complete up-grading in
the social hierarchy because of the sup-
erior value of their work. Their salaries
should be raised substantially while others
must stay, comparatively speaking, where
they were.
This revolution in social attitudes is
leading not only to a reorganisation of
the intellectual classes as they try to
cash in, but to considerable bitterness
among the less professional classes who
are left out of the New Deal.
One of the first rumblings of discon-
tent came to a head last Wednesday in
Sydney’s Town Hall when 1400 State
public servants rallied, under their Associ-
ation’s President, Mr F. A. Hook, to
attack their Public Service Board for its
refusal, in line with the New Deal, to
extend generally throughout the Service
the substantial increases in salary recently
awarded the scientific officers of the vari-
ous State Departments.
Sitting in even rows and clutching
their brief-cases, they carried by acclama-
tion their protest at the Board’s refusal
to review salary standards generally in
the light of the scientists’ rise and
demanded that the Acting Premier,
J. B. Renshaw, meet them “immediately.”
The Public Service Board was un-
moved. In a statement issued after the
rally it said: “The Board takes the view
that the work of each class of officers
and employees must be considered on its
merits and in the result pre-existing salary
relationships will not necessarily be
maintained.”
It seems clear that since the Public
Service will not get or keep highly train-
ed men if it does not pay them the
market rate, the other public servants will
have to learn to live with the facts of life.
But no one likes losing status and there
will be more anger and bitterness before
the New Deal is established. All the
status-losers can do is bring their children
up as scientists, or technologists.
NEW GUINEA ANNEXATION
Saturday, April 28, 1883.
npHE annexation of New Guinea by
the Queensland Premier is cer-
tainly the most remarkable event
which has occurred on this side of
the equator during the last score of
years. Sir Thomas M’llwraith has
coolly forced the hand of Mr Glad-
stone. A weaker man would have
commenced to work up an agitation;
would have moved his local legislature
to vote solemn addresses to the Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, and
would have supplicated the Govern-
ments of the other colonies to lend,
by similar addresses, their moral sup-
port to his project. By this plan the
whole affair would have dragged on
for years.
But Sir Thomas M’llwraith has
spoken face to face with Secretaries
of State, and it is an open secret that
familiarity has had to his mind its
proverbial effect. He was not smitten
with awe. Earl Kimberley, ex-Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, he held
very cheap as an old-womanly sort
of creature, not favoured by nature
with a surplusage of intelligence, and
not particularly well informed even
with respect to the dependencies
which are, officially, his special
charge. In fact, Sir Thomas had
measured himself with the grand old
men and grand old women who fill
historically splendid posts in the Im-
perial Government, and had reckoned
them as being made of very ordinary
clay, after all. In this respect he
probably made no error. It is extrem-
ely doubtful whether there are half
a dozen of the men whose names
resound through the Empire who
could meet Sir Thomas M’llwraith on
even terms as statesmen. It has cost
Mr. Gladstone a war and a scan-
dalous sacrifice of principle, and the
country a sum of several millions, to
annex Egypt. Sir Thomas M’llwraith
coolly appropriates New Guinea a
territory which in a century may be
worth far more than Egypt without
expending a thousand sovereigns,
sacrificing any principle, or creating
any scandal whatever.
FRAUD
Cheap Homes
Come In, Suckers
T)ity the Victorian Company Fraud
•*- Squad isn’t as quick on the draw in
going out after big game as it proved
to be in winging GI Home Builders Pty
Ltd, whose dubious practices barrister
B. W. Nettlefold, as an official inspector,
has now laid bare. For his report shows
that within a matter of a couple of
months from the inception of their novel
home financing scheme last year the


police knocked on the door of the
promoters of this company and put a
stop to it.
The result is that although the pro-
moters, Lancelot Earle Tames and Ken-
neth Charles Peterson, lived off the
depositors’ fat for a while, most of the
£lO,OOO or so the latter put up will
probably be returned to them.
The promoters’ plot to build homes on
the American GI plan proved, said
Mr Nettlefold, to have been cooked up
from the pages of American magazines,
“Esquire” notably, and stories about
veterans’ homes in “Time” and “Life.”
Their advertisement first appeared about
this time last year. It read: “Home
Seekers! At last the famous American
finance and building plan is now in Aus-
tralia. (Based on the original GI home
purchase plan.) Available to all married
persons including those with limited
deposits.” This was ii display type.
Suckers were asked to ring a telephone
number. No address was given. The
follow-up was by salesmen armed with
a kit including a building agreement, a
book of 20 designs for homes printed by
the State Savings Bank, a receipt book,
a pro-forma of a transfer form issued by
the State Savings Bank, other plans,
photographs and so on.
The play was to imply that on pay-
ment of the minimum deposit to the
company the State Savings Bank would
put up the bulk of the finance, depositors
being asked to send instalments through
the Savings Bank to their account at its
Elsternwick Branch. This revelation was
a bitter pill for the bank.
In the initial five weeks of operation,
Mr Nettlefold says, the promoters had
drawn about one-sixth of the gross
amounts collected from depositors and
spent another third on administrative ex-
penses without paying up a penny in
share capital or transferring any assets
to the company in which they were the
sole shareholders.
The books were kept in pencil.
BUREAUCRACY
Mrs Mudge’s 12-year
Battle
A blistering Supreme Court judgment
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
C. STONEHAM
Omsbudsman
IV/Irs Jane Isabella Mudge, 78, the
Mildura widow who waged a twelve-
year battle with the Victorian Board of
Lands and Works, died last week when
victory was within her grasp. Her
daughter, Mrs Ruth Miller, is convinced
that Mrs Mudge’s tenacious, marathon
struggle to get justice for 67 displaced
Mallee farmers hastened her death,
which occurred only a fortnight after
Mr Justice Smith had delivered a blister-
ing judgment in her favor in the Supreme
Court. Her struggle was an epic of the
individual against abuses of officialdom.
Mrs Mudge was born in Adelaide and
worked for some years as a nurse in
South Africa and London. In 1927 she
and her husband took up a block in a
settlement scheme at Karawinna, 45
miles west of Mildura. To do so they
sold a farm they had developed at Sea-
lake and put over £6OOO into the new
property. In 1946 Mr Mudge died and
his widow stayed on the new farm.
In 1948 the Government introduced
a resettlement scheme after receiving
expert advice that the blocks were too
small to make farming economically
feasible. As a result, a merging of hold-
ings took place. Over 70 farmers were
forced to leave their blocks and were
given £lO5O compensation for each
600-acre holding.
Mrs Mudge refused to yield her own
two 600-acre blocks but was forced out
in 1950 and given £2lOO compensa-
tion. The displaced farmers meanwhile
were banding together in a fight for
higher compensation and selected Mrs
Mudge to run the test case. Not only
was her case typical, but she had obvious
qualities of doggedness and honesty.
She was known widely in the district
since 1916 when she had been matron of
the Wycheproof Hospital. The fight
dragged on for years. In the Supreme
Court in 1959 her counsel claimed that
improvements which she made to the
land included a five-room weatherboard
house, 500 chains of fencing, seven out-
buildings and the clearing of more than
130 acres of scrub. No allowance for
these assets was made in the compensa-
tion given to her.
Mr Justice Smith was told that Mrs
Mudge should have received about
£6OOO compensation and in his final
submissions her counsel attacked the
Board for erecting a “wall of silence”
inside and outside the Court on how it
arrived at its figure of £2lOO.
Two attempts were made to buy Mrs
Mudge off. After 10 years’ litigation she
was offered an extra £350. She rejected
this and was offered £7OO. “But I sent
that back. Then they offered £l5OO but
I wouldn’t take that either.” The climax
came this month when Mr Justice Smith
delivered a judgment which included a
scathing attack on the Board. He said
she had been denied natural justice and
ordered the Board to give her fair com-
pensation by June 30.
Justice Smith said the case was a
“saddening story.” He found that Board
officials had not complied with his 1959
order instructing them to determine the
matter. The case showed officials
“stubbornly maintaining their stand over
a long period of years and supporting it
by a succession of reasons, which were
mistaken in fact, or in law, or in both.
It shows them later resorting to a refusal
to give reasons or to answer corres-
pondence to defend their conduct from
examination.” In fact, said the Judge, it
revealed the need for legislation similar
to that introduced in England in 1958
giving the citizen right of appeal against
administrative tribunals over and above
legal processes now available.
He referred at length to the role of
Mr F. H. Klenner, head of the Mallee
Branch of the Lands Department in
1949-59 who handled correspondence
over compensation for the displaced
farmers. In the period when Mrs Mudge
was offered £350 extra, the Judge said,
both the Minister and the Secretary of
the Lands Department relied heavily on
Klenner for information and advice over
the dispute. “But Mr Klenner, as he
made plain by his demeanor and
evidence, is a man who regards any
investigation, let alone criticism of his
actions, as an affront. The judgment of
April, 1959, it is clear, was bitterly
resented by him.”
At the time Mrs Mudge was found
dead in her Mildura home Labor MPs
were meeting in Melbourne preparing to
raise her case on the adjournment motion
in the Legislative Assembly that night.
When the motion came up the Acting
Minister, Mr Petty, agreed that natural


justice had been denied to Mrs Mudge.
He promised justice for all the Mallee
farmers concerned and said a profes-
sional valuer had already been appointed
to advise on compensation on 1950
values. Mr Klenner, he pointed out, had
since retired. The Labor motion was
lost, but the cause had been won. Per-
haps the most fitting comment came
from Labor leader Mr C. Stoneham: “It
is a classic example of the need for
an Omsbudsman in Victoria.”
EDUCATION
The Campaign for More Money
5 tons of propaganda
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Melbourne University students have
launched a bold and ambitious
campaign to draw public attention
to the inadequacies of the nation’s edu-
cation system. They have printed no less
than five tons of a tabloid news-sheet,
and have set out to deliver a copy to
every home in Melbourne. The 400,000
copies of the paper are being letter-boxed
by over 800 volunteers, with students
from Monash University and from some
of the senior technical colleges helping in
areas near their establishments.
Over 200 senior students have made a
special study of the education question
to equip themselves to address church,
civic, political and other organisations.
Another committee is concentrating on
getting TV, Press and radio coverage for
the campaign.
The tabloid is largely concerned with
reciting some of the more salient defici-
encies of Victorian and Australian educa-
tion failure of the universities to
handle the number of students qualified
to enter them, the use of untrained teach-
ers, overcrowding and poor equipment in
schools, discrimination against married
women by education departments, lack
of enough scholarships at both the sec-
ondary and university level, and so on.
On the positive side, the tabloid urges
greatly increased expenditure on educa-
tion (£5OO million annually by 1970 is
proposed) and draws the conclusion that
this must inevitably come from the Com-
monwealth.
The facts and arguments which are
presented in popular form in the tabloid
have been drawn from a 40-page book-
let, “Education in Australia,” published
by Melbourne University Press and dis-
tributed nationally through the book trade
at 2s. a copy.
The report defines Australia as the
fifth most prosperous country in the
world, but claims that at least 13 coun-
tries spent proportionately more of their
gross national product on education than
we do.
The report ranges in critical vein
through State, primary and secondary
schools, apprenticeship training ) the uni-
versities and technical institutes. It pro-
poses a joint State-Commonwealth cen-
tral bureau which would conduct research
and co-ordinate such research as is going
on at present into education. It draws
attention to the way education statistics
are at present scattered through reports
of State Ministers, the Commonwealth
Yearbook, some publications of the Com-
monwealth Office of Education, and the
Bureau of Census and Statistics. It would
like to have all these compiled on a uni-
form basis and in expanded form as a
basis for more informed discussion of our
schools and universities.
The question of aid to church schools
is dealt with only briefly: Commonwealth
aid to the State schools (which the re-
port sees as inevitable'' would bring the
present controversy to a head. The Cath-
olic schools, says the report, are just
as badly off for teachers and facilities as
are the State schools and face a future
where conditions will deteriorate . . .
“Ultimately the Catholic community will
have to abandon its policy of educating
all Catholic children in their own schools,
or else the system will have to be saved
from collapse by Government assistance
under terms of some kind.”
The report was written by Students’
Representative Council president John
Paterson, who has been the driving
force behind the campaign He had the
assistance of a score or so academics
from Melbourne and other universities,
and the report is a model of concise and
restrained argument.
It was partly financed by the National
Union of Australian University Students,
and the whole Melbourne campaign is a
trial run for a nation-wide campaign
along the same lines. Adelaide and Bris-
bane students are expected to launch
their campaigns very soon, with the other
universities coming in later.
Mr Paterson said this v/eek that he
was happy with the progress of the cam-
paign. Bookings had been made to
supply speakers to close on 200 organisa-
tions, and over 100 of these engagements
had been completed. General Motors-
Holden’s and other firms had made dona-
tions to the campaign. There had been
little opposition to it, Mr Paterson said,
although a few crackpot letters had been
received accusing the organisers of being
undercover agents of the Catholic
Church.
The Buffalo
Cluttering up the Territory?
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
efforts be continued to find an
economic potential in the huge slaty-
grey buffalo which inhabits the plains at
the back of Darwin? Or should they be
shot out to make way for cattle? On
these questions hangs the fate of a
species which professional hunters like
Allan Stewart of Nourlangie have pub-
licised as “Australia’s only big game.”
The species, descended from water
buffalpes which early settlers brought
over from Timor more than a century
ago, has spread through the flood plains
of the Northern Territory along 600 miles
of coastline. The buffaloes are moving
fast. For many years there were none
west of “The Bitumen.’ - Now they are on
the Daly River and odd outcast bulls
have begun turning up in the Port Keats
and Fitzmaurice areas. Pastoralists no
friends of the buffalo as a general rule
believe the species is gradually adjust-
ing to dry conditions.
For years hunters kept numbers with-
in check. Between 1886 and 1911 more
than 100,000 hides were exported from
the Territory and shooting continued on
a heavier scale till 1956, when the market
collapsed. Since then the Government has
spent thousands of pounds on buffalo
research aimed at domesticating them for
beef export. Against this is the difficulty
of herding and controlling the huge
beasts.
The programme to Boost the Buffalo
had a setback last year when Hong Kong
banned live imports after an incident in
the stockyards on Lan Tao island when
a Chinese workman was gored fatally.
Nevertheless, markets for the meat,
which is stringy, but tastier than the sort
of bullock beef the Top End produces,
have slowly been expanded. Several
stations today are concentrating on buf-
faloes instead of cattle. One has been
granted an export licence. Currently the
industry, with hides, by-products, etc.,
thrown in, is earning about <£70,000
annually for the Far North.
All this has not been without its critics.
Foremost among them is Colonel A. L.
Rose, ex-Director of Animal Industry,
now in private practice at Alice Springs
as a beef-cattle consultant. Colonel Rose
is Member for Alice in the Legislative
Council. He recently advocated the mass
slaughter of buffaloes to make way for
cattle. Colonel Rose said “these things”
were “cluttering up” the Territory’s best
grazing land, which could be developed
to carry 50 or 60 cattle to the square
mile. This brought quick reaction from
the Administrator (Mr Roger Nott), a
leading advocate of Boosting the Buffalo.


He said they would thrive in places where
cattle could not live, and should be en-
couraged as an asset for the future.
The one man who is entirely satisfied
with the buffalo as it is is Allan Stewart,
who is attracting increasing numbers of
sportsmen to his “big-game safari” camp
at Nourlangie on the South Alligator
River, 120 air miles east of Darwin. Far-
fetched though the idea may seem now,
Stewart’s set-up, w'ith African-style quotas
and checks to see herds are not depleted
too much, could eventually become the
species’ main hope of survival. Two ex-
port abattoirs will be starting up in the
Top End soon, removing the lack of mar-
kets which has stultified cattle develop-
ment in the Far North for so long. With
pastoralists already looking to new graz-
ing lands in the buffalo country, the
future of this amiabie beast begins to
seem obscure indeed.
JOBS
The Labor Shortage
In a time of unemployment
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As / see it 1
THhe employ-
A ment prob-
lem in Aus-
tralia seems to have moved into a new
phase. When Labor Minister William
McMahon announced last week that the
number of people registered as un-
employed fell by 11,130 during March
to 84,912, or two per cent, of the work
force, a question later from Sir Wilfred
Kent Hughes (Lib., Vic.) in the House
of Representatives brought home the
fact that there could be a labor shortage,
even while there still was a substantial
body of people registered as unemployed.
Kent Hughes complained about the
shortage of hop pickers for the Ovens
Valley in Victoria. Could the Labor
Department do something to help hop
growers in the area get sufficient labor
to help hop growers harvest their crops?
McMahon in his reply revealed that the
problem, now that employment is at its
present level, is not so much of a job of
providing employment but a placement
problem. How do you bring the people
who want jobs and the jobs that are
available into a satisfactory juxtaposition
through the maze of social, family and
other difficulties which make the modern
worker far less mobile, despite his car
and other mechanical advantages, than
his prototype of the prewar period?
McMahon said: “There are about
8,000 adult males now registered for
employment in the whole of Victoria.
We are receiving notification of about
13,000 jobs a week. This means that in
Victoria where only 1.3 per cent of the
work force is registered for employment,
employees have a wide variety of jobs
from which to pick and choose. In this
situation we have difficulty in getting
men for particular jobs such as hop
picking.”
Actually, if States like Victoria have
unemployment figures of 2 per cent or
under (NSW, South Australia and Tas-
mania duplicate the employment situa-
tion in Victoria) Mr Albert Monk,
president of the ACTU, is being vin-
dicated.
On January 24, 1961, Monk made to
the Australian Citizenship Convention
a statement wffich earned him con-
siderable unpopularity with . the Labor
movement. He said: “The ordinary per-
son in Australia now gets awfully
frightened if we get up to 2 per cent
unemployment, wffereas in fact, because
of our seasonal occupations, it is nec-
essary to have about 1.5 per cent float-
ing population to deal with seasonal
work.”
What McMahon told Kent Hughes
in the House of Representatives was
happening is uffat he forecast would
happen. Unemployment in Victoria has
fallen to 1.3 per cent .2 per cent
below the “floating” population of
workers Monk said w'ere necessary to
fill seasonal needs. The Ovens Valley
hop growers are not getting sufficient
labor to meet their needs.
In an indirect way the Commonwealth
Arbitration Commission, which an-
nounced an extra week’s annual leave for
the metal trades (bringing workers in
that industry up to 3 weeks’ annual
leave) and a ten per cent margins rise,
was also confirming Monk’s analysis.
After exhaustive examination they also
arrived at the conclusion that 2 per
cent of the w'ork force registered for
employment still represented sufficient
prosperity to Australia to justify ad-
vances in both margins and leisure for
workers in the key metal trades.
But, as McMahon has repeatedly con-
ceded in Parliament, the maintenance
indefinitely of the present (by Monk’s
standard) good employment figures does
not eliminate the employment problem;
it merely changes it. It changes it from
the task of providing jobs into the task
of placing people who want jobs in the
jobs that are available. To some extent
this must be a re-education and re-
training task, as well as a problem of
bringing men into physical juxtaposition
with jobs which their families and other
responsibilities, as well as their quali-
fications, enable them to take.
IMPORTS
Shavers
No cut-throat competition
Although MHRs C. R. Kelly and
W. C. Wentworth find the occasions
usually right for a ride on their well-
known hobby horses, most people regard
getting a batch of Tariff Board pro-
posals through the Reps as a pretty
mundane matter. However, with the
restriction of competition still very much
in the legislative air, last week’s tariff
bills brought forth some useful evidence
for Sir Garfield Barwick that competition
was rather less than cut-throat in some
of the items under tariff reference,
notably electric shavers.
Mr Coutts of Queensland pointed out
that for 1961-62 the Tariff Board re-
ported we imported ten thousand or so
electric shavers at an average price
(presumably for Customs reckoning) of
755. a piece, those from Germany being
30s. each and from Japan less than a
pound. “Yet,” said Mr. Coutts, “we find
that, because of the price control ring
established by those associated with this
business, all these articles sell at about
sixteen guineas in Australia.”
This stung Mr Fairhall into saying
that he had no wish for the debate to
develop into “a witch-hunt of people
who are profiteering. The razor sold at
16 guineas does not show any enormous
profit,” he said.
ALP
Preston?
No action
HPhe affair of the Oakleigh (Victoria)
A councillors who were suspended
from the ALP for supporting bursaries
for Catholic, as well as State, schools in
the area (see Mr T. Gilhooley’s letter
on page 29), has had a strange sequel. As
described in last week’s Bulletin, four
of the five councillors involved were sus-
pended after being interviewed by the
party’s State executive. The fifth, Cr
D. M. Oakley, was abroad at the time
and could not be interviewed. Since
then, he has returned an.i been called
in by the executive. He escaped with a
reprimand.
One thing confirms the view that the
executive used the bursaries issue as a
pretext to “get” some or other of the four
councillors it suspended. It has been
pointed out publicly that ALP-controlled
Preston Council about 18 months ago
awarded a bursary to a Catholic school
in the area. If the Oakleigh Labor
councillors broke party rules, then it
looks as if their Preston colleagues did
the same. Yet no action has been taken
against the latter.


s
r
/ .*
/
' f V
; • .
THF.
1 IIJU-
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*“ Estate" (as the word “ Chateau ” in France ) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD,
FOREIGN AID
Australian Money for
Indian Villagers
David Scott’s shopping list
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Four months ago the people of
Traralgon, in Gippsland, Victoria,
raised £5OO to provide a new well,
storage tanks and irrigation pipes for the
village of Mudichur, 20 miles from
Madras in India. The money was raised
through Community Aid Abroad. The
director of Community Aid Abroad, Mr
David Scott, who arrived back from
India last week, can tell the people of
Traralgon that the money has already
been spent. The well will ensure a
regular water supply for the 900 villagers
and eliminate the labor of carrying water
that takes up so much of the time of
Indian women.
Mr Scott returned from his four weeks’
tour of India with a shopping-list which
includes tractors, pumps, well-sinking
equipment and a Jersey bull. His trip,
financed by a supporter of Community
Aid Abroad, was undertaken to visit pro-
jects where Australian groups are already
helping Indian villages, schools or in-
dustries, and to find other worthwhile
projects which his organisation may
underwrite.
Community Aid Abroad grew out of a
discussion group which began meeting in
1953 at a home for elderly people, run
by the Brotherhood of St. Lawrence, at
Carrum Downs, Victoria. Members of
the group set aside small sums from old-
age pensions and money was sent to buy
food in a famine-struck village in India.
However, Community Aid Abroad now
aims at sending money to provide the
means of growing food, rather than food
itself.
There are 26 groups in Victoria and
one in Canberra. This year the organisa-
tion sent £lO,OOO to India and Korea.
The organisation works in India through
Mr Pierre Oppliger, a Swiss, who is also
liaison officer for Swiss Aid Abroad in
India. Mr Oppliger recommends projects
and the responsibility for raising money
for each of these is undertaken by an
Australian group. Members of the group
know exactly where their money is going
and by direct contact gain a knowledge
of the day-to-day life of an Indian village.
The organisation's long-term aim is to
raise the level of Australia’s non-Govern-
ment help for under-developed countries.
Here, despite our proximity to Asia, Aus-
tralia lags badly behind such countries
as the United States and Britain. The
United States has nearly 200 non-Govern-
ment agencies sending aid abroad. The
organisation has also formed a foreign
aid study group of staff members of
Melbourne and Monash universities to
investigate the Commonwealth Govern-
ment's foreign aid progamme. It believes
that Government expenditure abroad
should be stepped up.
Mr Scott went to India last year but
before that the only first-hand reports
on how work was progressing came from
members of groups who happened to visit
India. Mr Scott said that the two main
conditions under which a project was
recommended was that the village or
school should have good leadership, and
that the expenditure will increase local
food production, or, more rarely, help a
local industry.
Mr Scott said that projects were
generally recommended by Mr Oppliger,
although the organisation dealt informally
with the Indian Ministry of Community
Development and the Ministry of Agri-
culture.
Projects which Mr Scott will now try to
push through include:
• The provision of a tractor for a 440-
acre farm attached to a leprosy-treat-
ment centre in Central India. A tractor
will enable the farm to treble its present
production. Mr Scott said that in many
cases in India a tractor merely meant
that under-employed villagers were left
with even less work, but at the leprosy-
treatment farm it would be valuable,
Many of the patients have lost fingers,
toes or limbs and cannot undertake heavy
manual work. He said that in spite of
widespread education programmes in
India leprosy sufferers, whose disease
had been arrested, were often unable to
return to their villages.
At this leprosy-treatment centre Com-
munity Aid Abroad is already paying the
salary of a farm manager £250 a year
for two years. When the organisation
first became interested in the project the
farm-land had received no manure or
fertiliser for 25 years and there was
only one well from which water was lifted
by an ancient Persian wheel.
• A programme of fencing, costing
£l5OO, is to be undertaken in the
sheep-producing area of Rajasthan,
which, according to Mr Scott, looks very
like parts of western New South Wales.
In most parts of India shepherds tend
flocks in open country, but in this area
fencing will precede a programme of pas-
ture improvement.
• The provision of a £2OOO hostel for
an aboriginal high school. Community
Aid Abroad and other organisations have
already done a certain amount of work
among the aboriginals in India, who still
live a semi-tribal life.
• Sending a Jersey bull, which will
probably cost £5OO, to an artificial in-
semination centre near Bangalore.
Although Mr Scott's shopping-list is
long, he would be the first to agree that
a well at Mudichur is just a drop in the
bucket in a country the size of India.
However, this trip convinced him that the
work is vital in the name of politics as
much as in the name of charity.
“Every village you go to in India there
is someone, perhaps only one villager,
who has heard of Australia,” he said,
“and if he has heard of Australia he has
heard of the White Australia policy. They
think of us as a large, rich country to
which no Asians can go. Anything to
counter the belief that we are a country
with strong color prejudices assumes
importance.”


Around Melbourne
GOODBYE TO THE GLACI
HThe Glaciarium has burned down.
I’m sorry that bald statement
obviously doesn’t move you at all,
but let me say this. In the old days
before drive-ins, bowling alleys and
the telly, the Glaciarium was the
social centre of Melbourne. Many a
beautiful Melburnian romance, on
skates hired at a shilling a pair, blos-
somed there in the Glaci’s Mugs’
Alley. There were the Saturday morn-
ing season tickets; we skated to the
skater’s waltz and put on our tubes
for the speed session. I remember
one never talked of powdering one’s
nose, it was always more" correct to
say: “You must excuse me while I
tighten my skates.”
The Glaci was the world’s seventh
ice skating rink and the oldest in
continuous operation. It opened on
June 8, 1906. The Sydney Glaciarium
opened in 1907, but Adelaide’s skat-
ing rink was in action about 1904.
It is difficult to describe the ex-
citement in Melbourne as the great
day approached. For weeks before-
hand the newspapers were full of
advertisements: “The sight of the
Southern Hemisphere. The ring and
the swish of skates will be heard for
the first time in Melbourne on a
glassy ice field containing over 14,000
super feet of REAL ICE. The fas-
cination and thrill of REAL ice skat-
ing needs only to be known to be
appreciated. SEE THE TRUE
POETRY OF MOTION.”
The entrepreneur was Mr. H.
Newman Reid, late general manager
of the Portland and Western District
Freezing Company. He spoke of the
marvels of the equipment, the mech-
anical stoking gear for the furnaces,
how not a breath of smoke polluted
Melbourne's air, and how every tex-
ture could be given to the ice from
granite hard to cushion soft.
“I tell you,” he said, “this has
got to be the finest rink in the world.
As it is, next to two rinks in America,
it is the largest rink anywhere
bigger than any in England and Eur-
ope. We will have gorgeous spectacles
on ice, carnivals, football,
hockey . .. . ”
The Lord Mayor, Cr Weedon,
opened the Glaciarium on a Saturday
afternoon. There were 2000 ladies
and gentlemen present, including
representatives of both Houses of
Parliament, and the Chief Railways
Commissioner, Mr T. Tait, who gave
an elegant exhibition of skating. The
photographs revealed that the gentle-
men wore bowler hats, high stiff col-
lars, sensible dark serge suits
and gold watch chains across their
midriffs. The ladies all looked like
Mrs Pankhurst, except that some
wore fox furs and dozens wore huge
beflowered hats. You will be pleased
to hear that not an ankle was show-
ing in the entire Glaciarium. Falls on
the ice in 1906 must have been par-
ticularly impressive.
“nPABLE Talk” reported: “Immedi-
ately after the opening ceremony
the band struck up and on flew (surely
there is no other way of describing
it) Mr Brewer, a Canadian skater,
who certainly, if ever he had another
existence, must have been a bird, say
a seagull, for with such grace he
swept the rink from end to end per-
forming wonderful feats as he went.”
“If one expected to see a floor of
ice clear and crystal looking there
would be great disappointment in the
appearance of the rink itself, as it
looks like a slate of palish grey. I
believe that in New York and Pitts-
burgh, where are said to be the big-
gest and best rinks, the floor is so
clear that you can see the freezing
pipes underneath, but there is noth-
ing glassy about this. However, all
skaters declared it left nothing to be
desired.”
Oh, the Glaci prospered. It was
the Melbourne Ice Storage and Skat-
ing Company. They used to make ice
down in the basement and deliver it
by horse and truck.
Now, skating was rather genteel
and polished, like tennis. Skaters had
to be correctly attired, always in a
proper shirt, tie and jacket. In the
twenties, for example, it was recom-
mended that lady figure skaters
should wear properly fitted frocks
with fur collars and cuffs and cloche
hats. Gentlemen wore knee breeches.
Then there was the bandstand by
the side of the rink, and the orchestra,
before the invention of inhuman am-
plifiers, played two sessions daily.
Why, there was De Gillio's Orch-
estra, Frank Blayden's, Ted Butler’s,
Madame Kuring and, of course
Clarrie Gange. He was musical di-
rector in 1939 and finished up as
managing director after the war.
The opening of the season was al-
ways a black tie affair, and the finish
too, for the select few, was a senti-
mental occasion. We used to wait un-
til they turned off the ammonia. The
ice would melt, the water would be-
come inches deep and there was the
incredible excitement of seeing who
could still skate over the bumps of
the pipes.
Then, of course, there were the
speed boys. Young Lex Davison con-
quered his first urge for speed at the
Glaci while the band played the
Post Horn Gallop. If you were
really hot you jumped chairs or bar-
rels, and the record for this was 16.
The Glaci prospered until the win-
ter of 1939, when the St Moritz ice
skating rink opened at the Esplanade,
St Kilda. The “Herald" described it
as the fourth largest skating rink
in the world and spoke of the mag-
nificence of the decor. There were
10,880 ceiling stars made of plaster.
There were “highly colored panels
of modernistic clouds” and “large
plaster aeroplanes, each driven by
electric motors, were used as inter-
planetary units to give feature il-
lumination.” How could the Glaci
compete against this?
It was in the fifties that the Glaci
began to report losses. The 1954 an-
nual report said that the customers
were taking to square dancing. In
1957 it closed down forever, and a
group from Flinders Lane bought
it for £135,000. They announced that
they would build a 17-storey fashion
and garment centre. All the plans
were published. A few months later
they sold it to APM for £165,000.
All through the credit squeeze
Whelan the Wrecker waited for his
turn. It never came. At 5.30 p.m., on
April 13, fire reduced the old land-
mark to a charred shell in just over
60 minutes.
BATMAN


London Newsletter
A Country of No Secrets
Peace Spies 9 “cheap and dangerous stunt ”
From NEIL KELLY in London
Because British officialdom cannot
keep a secret, thousands of town
hall clerks, municipal telephone
operators, voluntary civil defence work-
ers and Government officials of all ranks
are under suspicion as spies for peace .
Security men are probing the private lives,
the integrity, and the political proclivi-
ties of all these solid citizens. A week
after the ‘ spies for peace proclaimed
themselves, thus upsetting the Easter
holiday of Prime Minister Macmillan
and his Government, no arrests had been
made. That is, apart from the man who
was arrested for singing out the name of
a Berkshire village, and his colleagues,
who were hustled away by the police
because they wore the name of the vil-
lage printed on the backs of their leather
jackets. This is an ordinary village with
an ordinary name, but if I included it
here for cable transmission by the Bri-
tish Post Office I would be risking a
criminal charge under the Official
Secrets Act.
In fact, hundreds of thousands of
people have now heard the name of the
village, which contains a secret Govern-
ment headquarters to be used if Lon-
don should be wiped out in a nuclear
attack. Details of the regional seat of
Government Number 6 (RSG6) were
first publicised in pamphlets distributed
during the Easter Ban the Bomb march
from Berkshire to London. Thousands of
them had been copied from the original
secret Home Office document describing
the Government’s arrangements to deal
with the outcome of a nuclear attack,
they contained plans for “post-nuclear
Governments” to operate from a secret
network of 15 RSG s established in sub-
terranean bunkers. Each bunker would
be commanded by a gauleiter with sup-
reme power over the population in his
district.
The pamphlets contained a map and
picture of the headquarters of RSG6.
Much of the information about the sec-
ret headquarters appears trivial, but the
pamphlet also contained an outline of
two military exercises held last year,
which showed up the startling vulnera-
bility of Britain’s defence plans.
Everyone who handles the pamphlet is
liable to prosecution, but fresh supplies
are appearing in many parts of Britain.
Thousands of copies were made on a
copying machine in a department of
Cambridge University. Undergraduates
sold them in pubs and coffee bars at 10s.
a time. A pacifist newspaper, “Peace
News”, reprinted some of the secret
details despite warnings of prosecution.
Detectives have raided 30 or 40 homes
and offices in London looking for clues.
They took along women police officers
to search women suspects, and removed
loads of documents, letters and note-
books. Home Secretary Henry Brooke
branded the spies for peace as traitors,
and cast doubt on the loyalty of thou-
sands of Government employees and
civil defence workers who have shared
these secrets.
One of the leaders of the anti-bomb
movement, George Clark, revealed how
he picked up secrets when he posed as a
“Daily Mail” reporter last year. He
claimed that senior Government officials,
without bothering to check his creden-
tials, had told him most of the details
now published in the “spies for peace”
pamphlet.
Even opponents of the Government
condemn the publication of the secrets
as a cheap and dangerous stunt. No re-
sponsible voice has supported the “spies
for peace”. Not even the Labor Party,
which stands to profit from the Govern-
ment’s desperately inept handling of
security, has sympathy for them. The
“spies for peace” are an offshoot of the
Committee of One Hundred which forms
the extreme left of Britain’s Ban the
Bomb movement. The committee advo-
cates civil disobedience and has sparked
off most of the violence that has oc-
curred at anti-bomb demonstrations. The
“spies for peace” are young, mostly
middle-class, and many are university
and technical college students. They are
the dissatisfied young men in revolt
against authority and convention. Until
now they have not attracted much at-
tention, but as “spies for peace” they
have given fresh targets to any enemy
planning a surprise attack, and under-


WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
lined the fact that Britain has the worst
security record among the big powers
of the world.
They have made the defeat of the
Macmillan Government at the next gene-
ral election even more likely, and heigh-
tened the cynicism of the British people
about the nation’s defence and security
plans and the integrity of officialdom.
They have also produced a new party
game: “Who’s for saving?” The idea is
to make lists of the chosen few who
will be permitted to escape thermonu-
clear destruction by sheltering in the
Government’s official funkholes like
RSG6. The Royal Family is at the top
of most lists, and, in fact, “spies for
peace” claim that a special Royal bun-
ker has already been built in the West
of England.
T'he British are laughing cynically at
the fruitless efforts of the police to
track down the publishers or printers of
the “spies for peace” pamphlet, or the
sources of its secret information. Indeed,
Scotland Yard’s 24-hour halt in investi-
gations to “evaluate the progress so far
made” is convincing public opinion that
the authorities are not really serious
about tracking down “the traitors.”
Meanwhile the pamphlet itself is cir-
culating far and wide. The Post Office,
unknowingly, is handling hundreds of
copies. Fresh supplies are mailed to
prominent people all over Britain.
Foreign radio stations on both sides of
the Iron Curtain have broadcast long
extracts from the pamphlet in trans-
missions heard in Britain. French news-
papers have splashed the secrets in issues
openly on sale here. Even in these cir-
cumstances British newspapers meekly
accepted the restraints of the Official
Secrets Act, which has kept them silent
about the news that many of their
readers had read in other places.
At last there are signs that they are
increasingly embarrassed about the ab-
surdity of the situation. None of them
has yet had the nerve to publish the full
story of the pamphlets, but the London
“Daily Telegraph” has made the first
move in that direction. It obviously
hoped to evade the rules by quoting
directly from a Prague radio broadcast
which gave details from the pamphlet.
These included names of some of the
5000 “chosen few” who would be
Britain’s shadow military government
after a nuclear attack. The people in
RSG 6, which will rule much of
Southern England, are professors, civil
servants, air marshals and policemen.
They are quietly waiting for the day the
bomb drops, for that will be the day
they take over. A long list of names
from the three military services, the Civil
Service, the police and fire brigade was
I given. The most striking thing about it
was that the post-nuclear government of
Britain would be composed of relatively
junior officials, for the names on the
list are unknown.
No British newspaper has yet dared
to publish the names and location of the
15 regional seats of government not
even the most forthright of them, “Peace
News,” the pacifist weekly which has
been threatened officially with prosecu-
tion. But an extract from the “spies for
peace” pamphlet reprinted on the front
page of “Peace News” does worry
Whitehall. It reads: “The medical ser-
vices broke down completely. Every
hospital in the southern region was
destroyed or put out of action by fall-
out, the death of doctors, or lack of
supplies. The communications system
broke down and the roads were choked.
Gloucester, Oxford and Plymouth were
eliminated by small bombs. London was
paralysed; to go above ground was
death. A lethal belt of radiation extended
as far out as Windsor. Three-quarters of
the police in the Southern Region were
killed, injured or irradiated. Losses
among the civilian population were pro-
portionately even higher. Whoever won
the war, we lost it.”
This refers to a defence exercise held
in collaboration with other NATO
Powers last year. It clearly contradicts
Britain’s defence White Paper which
said the exercise “showed that our plans
are basically sound and practicable.”
The pamphlet looks like remaining the
hottest topic in Britain for the next few
weeks. Prime Minister Macmillan will
face an angry and bewildered House of
Commons when Parliament reassembles
this week. The nuclear disarmers also
will keep the story in the headlines for
some of them are planning marches to
three of the secret headquarters —in
Scotland, Wales and Cambridgeshire —•
which were named in the pamphlet.
From a military standpoint the gravest
breach of security is the publication of
information about the NATO exercise
(Fallex-62), with its emphasis on British
civilian casualties in a nuclear attack.
The pamphlet ridicules the minimum
“six-day warning” on which Fallex (like
much Allied planning) is based.
A Home Office spokesman' said that
the Government was not suggesting that
anyone could survive in an H-bomb
target area. The purpose of the Regional
headquarters, the spokesman declared,
was to help people back to a tolerable
existence in areas where life still re-
mained.
One aspect of the whole sorry busi-
ness has as yet to be discussed, and that
is the absolute compulsion on the
Government to plan for the possibility
of Russian nuclear attack.
Even if Britain tomorrow were to be-
come officially unilateralist, any Govern-
ment —Labor or Conservative—would
still have to plan ways and means of
surviving a sneak nuclear attack on the
homeland. Any Government which did
not do so would be criminally negligent.


DOES NOT RESPECT PERSONS
OR PROPERTY
/
rG
m%»
DOES NOT STOP TO ASSESS LOSSES
*****
CAN OE CONTROLLED SURELY—
AUTOMATICALLY
due
is indiscriminate, unpredictable and The Grinnell System guards day and night—
relentless in its rampage against the never rests—automatically extinguishes fire at its
unprepared. It can strike anywhere source, before any damage can be done.
at anytime with devastating property
losses—and human lives.
Precaution is the only complete insurance
against the ravages of fire . . . automatic
precaution in the form of the Grinnell
Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm
System.
u
The Grinnell System is engineered by
Wormald Brothers, since 1889, Aus-
tralia’s leading fire protection engineers.
Contact Wormald Brothers without obli-
gation, as your first move towards
complete fire safety.
Bcua
SEVENTY-FIFTH TRADING YEAR-|
WORMALD BROTHERS
GRINNELL AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY
WB
WB


OUT AND ABOUT
An Original Mind Under
An Original Hat
Squeezing a ripe orange with a pair of eyebrow tweezers 99
By JAN SMITH
THE Press conference, an obvious
and relatively painless way of
dealing with obvious, painful
people movie stars, popular novelists
and real estate wizards has its draw-
backs when applied to literary eminences.
The usual inane questions get asked
Have you written any poems lately? Why
have you never married? But the overall
impression with someone as rich in
legend and epithet as Dame Edith Sit-
well is of juicing a ripe orange with a
pair of eyebrow tweezers.
Piquant little drops are extracted, and
everyone scribbles furiously, coming up
for air to find the thread lost and Dame
Edith, instead of dealing more body
blows at Victorian poets “poor old
Drinkwater. A charming man, but then
most bad poets are” has been whisked
away with a query about her clothes
(“Find them? They find me”) and her
hands, which she creams regularly and
presumably keeps out of harsh de-
tergents.
We have plenty of original hats in
Sydney, but very few original minds un-
derneath them, so Dame Edith was
treated with deference and not a little
awe.
Kept under wraps “somewhere in
Sydney” for a suspenseful two weeks by
her publishers, Macmillan and Company,
Dame Edith held open-bedroom the day
before her departure from Fernleigh
Castle, the stately crenellated guesthouse
at Rose Bay where she has been getting
the complete rest ordered for her spinal
ailment.
Miss Elizabeth Salter, a masterful
woman in a red dress, who writes de-
tective novels in between acting as Dame
Edith’s secretary, ushered everyone in
with cautions that Dame Edith, at 75,
was not to be tired or flummoxed in any
way. Especially as she needs all the time
she can get to finish her memoirs.
There were no cocktails and no flash-
bulbs Dame Edith dislikes loud noises
and bright lights but for Sydney’s
first encounter with a dowager poet the
setting was perfect. Seeing Dame Edith
reclining on a green antique bed, her
pale Plantagenet face half hidden by a
black organza hat, it was obvious the
Chevron would never have done. Be-
tween 20 and 30 journalists turned up,
the men intrigued (perhaps she would
say something fresh about Marilyn), the
women already well informed on Os-
bert’s books and Sir George’s idiosyn-
crasies.
Dame Edith, although longing to see
more of Australia than lower Sydney
Harbor, had spent her two weeks solely
at Rose Bay, which may account for
her belief that the Australian accent is
the same as the British. Useless then to
ask about the Show, struggling to a
tawdry end over at Randwick, or about
the ABC’s ruling prices for literary
pearls. “You’re all so considerate and
have such lovely manners,” she told us,
leaving a suspicion that she meant it as
a subtle warning, or as a consolation for
the absence of hard refreshment.
Dame Edith is no piker. “Wowsers
had better keep well away from me,”
she told a reporter who asked about our
compulsions for moral uplift.
Polite we may be, but please, Dame
Edith, tell us we’re cultured, too. “You
have one very good artist,” Dame Edith
admitted. Yes, Nolan. “And two very
good musicians, Malcolm Williamson
and Gordon Watson.” “Don’t forget
Joan Sutherland,” cried Dame Edith’s
secretary, playing Mrs Beoemoth for one
glorious hour. All right, we were born
singers. And our poets? Dame Edith’s
luggage was heavy with her own manu-
scripts. What Australian literary works
she couldn’t squeeze in would be sent on
after her.
Dame Edith hadn’t read any Aus-
tralian poems since she’d arrived. “Not
Christopher Brennan?” a young radio
man pleaded. “No,” said Dame Edith,
fixing him with a beady twinkle. “Should
I?” w
Whatever indignities may have been
inflicted on Dame Edith’s young nose
(her father had it remodelled to conform
with his ideas of feminine beauty), it
is admirably built for looking down,
wryly, sadly, or contemptuously. So ad-
mirable, in fact, that it wasn’t even
necessary for her to go into details of
why she didn’t care for the current crop
of young English poets. Her favorites,
not surprisingly, are T. S. Eliot and Ezra
Pound.
“I’m going to be very unkind about
poor Mr Enright in a minute,” she
promised, slyly regarding her elegant red
varnished nails, but nothing ever eventu-
ated. Young poets, she thought, were
often made more bumptious than they
would be normally because of their uni-
versity education, a doubtful blessing she
had never enjoyed.
“I did do everything I could to help
Dylan Thomas. In spite of what people
said about him, he always behaved to-
wards me with the utmost respect. Like
a loving son.” Dylan’s death had been
a great personal tragedy “he was


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
-OSULLIVAN y /j
wt Vfn s y£~'
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Frinters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONING
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds, main bearings,
diffs, gears. SAVES Rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new com-
pression power, top speed, zip. SAVES, Adds
L.S.D. to resale value. GUARANTEED up to
25,000 miles. No results —no pay. Harmless
f |nes t engine. SIMPLE: Add Re-Nu expanding
liquid Nu-Metal to oil, petrol or plug holes.
4. 6, 8 cylds, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testimonials,
engineers' reports, free advice available. Open
Sat. morn.
RE-NU CO. Distributors reauired. (Estab. 1932)
58 SWANN ST., OPP. RICHMOND STN., VIC.
JB 1755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
Name
Address gy |_
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations; 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001, » v
being pestered by complete strangers,
parasites, even on his hospital death-
bed” and Caitlin’s book had done
nothing to ease the memory.
Dame Edith began to write at 23,
when a provident attack of measles al-
lowed her to escape from her parents.
Since 1915, when she published her first
book, “The Mother and Other Poems,”
she had written a novel about Dean Swift
(“I Live Under A Dark Sun”), bio-
graphies of Elizabeth the First and
Queen Victoria, and several books of
criticism as well as poetry largely.
She is keenly interested, possibly to
the point of obsession, in her Tudor
forbears. “If my mother had been alive
at the time, she would have been Queen
Elizabeth's cousin” and wears long
trailing gowns, of a vaguely menacing
aspect, because she feels herself un-
suitably built for modern dress. But this
morning she had achieved a compromise
with a black silk shift and a brocaded
jacket in gold and tangerine. Her hands
are her great pride, and we were all
ushered forward to shake them and mar-
vel at the legendary aquamarine rings.
“I just happened to find them,” she
said, wisely giving nothing away.
Why had Dame Edith chosen to write
the type of poetry she does rhythmic,
filled with assonance and obscure per-
sonal and historical reference? According
to the various prefaces to her poems, it
was because she was perturbed by the
flaccidity and verbal deadness, the
cliched patterns and rhymes of the
poetry immediately preceding hers.
This morning the answer was quick
and pointed. “It was dead as mutton,”
she said firmly, with a flash of the in-
dignation that had led her, years earlier,
to send a stuffed owl to “The Spectator”
with the suggestion that it be allowed
to write some reviews. “Especially,” she
explained, “when it had the advantage
of recently being combed for moths.”
Plain spoken from childhood, much
to the distress of her parents, Dame Edith
said firmly that all critics were fools,
although she herself is a critic. “Poetry
shouldn’t be criticised,” she said. “Ex-
cept by poets. Good poets.” She had
always known that she was destined to
be a poet, and the uproar over the ap-
pearance of “Facade” in 1920 had
shaken her not a jot. lohn Freeman’s
questions in the “Face to Face” inter-
view in television hadn’t shaken her
either. He, too, was charming and con-
siderate, unlike other English journalists
she’d met.
She loves cats, hates violence and
cruelty. The only unpleasant thing
about her stay in Sydney had been the
two Press cuttings sent by a dedicated cat
lover, about cases of animal cruelty.
She’d sent the woman some money, but
the incident had made her quite ill.
“Once in London I couldn’t sleep for
three nights because of a really shocking
case of cruelty,” she told us. “If people
spent more time thinking about humanity
and God (Dame Edith is a Catholic) it
wouldn’t do them any harm.”
Dame Edith passed around photo-
graphs of her three cats, two Siamese
named Leo and Shadow, and a little
black stray called Belaker for a charac-
ter in “Facade.” “Cats never say any-
thing silly,” she explained, gathering in
the photographs with a sly laugh that
was immediately reinforced. Urged to
recite more about Mr Belaker and the
cocktail shaker, Dame Edith pleaded a
bad memory, although as a girl it was
nothing for her to memorise an entire
Shakespeare play.
Dame Edith was educated at home
but felt rather bitter about the whole
business. “I had a private education, if
you could call it an education,” she said,
echoing her brother’s Who’s Who witti-
cism about being educated on holidays
from Eton.
If she were able to walk, she would
probably be among the Aldermaston
marchers. “I think I’m the only poet
who’s written anything about the bomb,
or Eliroshima,” she mused. Someone
wanted to know if she knew Bertrand
Russell, and wouldn't it be nice if they
could get together, but Dame Edith
hadn’t met him.
Of American writers, she praised short
story writer James Purdue, but didn’t
warm to the subject of American novel-
ists, although she is a member of the
American Academy of Arts and Letters.
Americans love her poetry, and Dame
Edith was quick to scotch the idea that
poetry was its own reward, instancing a
cheque she had received recently from
America for £15,000 sterling in pay-
ment for some manuscripts.
There are some unrepentant critics,
and overly fulsome admirers, but Dame
Edith has her own ways of dealing with
them, retyping the unfavorable letters
and sending them straight back again.
Sometimes she works a variation, and
sends the flowery letters to her unfavor-
able critics (one of whom, she insinuated,
was F. R. Leavis). “There was one par-
ticularly effusive one from a Persian
gentleman, which said ‘our girls long
to hold you in their arms.’ Goodness
knows what the critic's wife thought.”
Dame Edith would have liked a ter-
tiary education so she could learn Latin
and Greek, but her brothers had as-
sured her she'd missed nothing. “They
tell me it would have ruined my indi-
viduality,” she explained, and individu-
ality, to Dame Edith, is a prime re-
quisite of genius. “I am as I am,” she
affirmed. “The only time I ever think
of myself is when I am in pain or
grief.” What, is genius? “Being what you
are. Not trying to be someone else.”


.. ' -v ■■■■ : ■ ■
•'■/J
'mm
, : .c;: •.
:■■ ..
m
: £8
WWm.
mB
A
h
u
fk%
Hh
m
—e
.
■
.
. ,
■
m
:
filIM
Mg|i \
WmiWmMmM.
Data Processing Education for Customer Executives
ft-
:r. i ‘ B>&sBSp|
■
an
:
J: " . V
-
■ KSsX&i ;>!*£&>
m ft
I
m->
■Hi
Mil
.
: ••■-■• : ' ■ : :: ::
'
■
8
I
.
■
m
Wa
■■■■■■■ "
: :
:■
if##; i
,-: ,;i ;;
' : .. : v '
mm
WA>m
r=: 5 v
So that management can keep abreast of the
latest developments of data processing, IBM
conducts customer executive training programs.
The Seminar-type courses are a means of effect-
ive interchange of data processing information
at executive level and cover general sessions for
the punched card user and the user of intermed-
iate and large scale systems. Some courses deal
with specific systems while others cover the
application of data processing to industries such
as banking, manufacturing, Government and
Public Utilities.
The executive training program is another facet of IBM’s
Customer Service that protects your investment in IBM
equipment.
IBM
I3M Australia Pty. Limited,
in all principal cities.


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
RRI
CH
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
1
ULOV
Vodka
m
VH
Death and the Australian Legend
Anzac Day now
By PETER COLEMAN
With the exception of one or two
religious holidays, Anzac Day is
the only genuinely popular festi-
val in Australia. It is certainly the only
genuinely national one. The other public
holidays are, for most people, merely
days off work. On Australia Day a few
mainly middle-class patriots in New
South Wales manage to remember with
proper respect the achievement of Phillip
and his 900 odds and ends in Sydney in
1788. Otherwise it is a day sensible
people spend swimming or loafing, while
those at a loose end may watch some
rigged-up more-or-less hilarious attempts
at patriotic play-acting in the park. On
Labor Day a dwindling number play at
belonging to a great international move-
ment. The Queen's Birthday is only a
day off - as if the school had had a
visit from the Minister for Education.
Otherwise there are simply a few feast
days and hangover holidays like Boxing
Day or New Year's Day, less significant
really than other sectional festivals which
are not national holidays • —• Guy Fawkes
Day, St Patrick's Day, the old Empire
Day, or Wattle Day.
Anzac Day is the only one that touches
almost everybody deeply like the Day
of the Covenant for the Afrikaaners in
South Africa, Bastille Day for the
French, July 4 for the Americans. Of
course there are different Anzac Days for
different groups; it is obviously not the
same day for the survivors of Gallipoli,
or the surviving relatives of those killed
there, as it is now for the public general-
ly, particularly the new generations. For
this general public it is no longer essen-
tially a military or even a soldiers’ day.
It is the day on which they celebrate
their history, the history they feel
not the history of the books. The emo-
tions expressed on Anzac Day pre-date
Gallipoli by 100 years; and as the crowd
marches (you can't call it a mob, but it
could hardly look less like a military
procession) what takes place is the excit-
ed celebration of all the traditional
native values the Digger spirit, mate-
ship, democracy, all the ingredients of
the Australian Legend brought together
in a paroxysm of patriotism. It is the
one day on which all Australians of all
classes and all attitudes suspend their
differences which (very properly) keep
them fairly distant from each other for
the rest of the year, and feel they form
one people because of a common history
and a common national memory. One
sees this best with these people who each
year come to watch the march for the
first time in their lives; they feel a shock
of recognition, the revival of a folk
memory.
For the sociologist or a social psycholo-
gist of patriotism Anzac Day is the only
Australian occasion in which the effects
of patriotism can be regularly observed
and studied (and one must in due course
expect them, and the anthropologists,
to get to work on it). Already in the
various historical books describing the
emergence in past generations of the typi-
cal and peculiar Australian attitudes one
seems to be reading the pre-history of
Anzac Day. (Russel Ward’s invaluable
“Australian Legend”, for example, could
well be sub-titled “The Origins of Anzac
Day,” but because of his Leftist blind-
spots and misunderstanding of the day
he has to fob off in a few- lines what is
the essential symbol of his theme.)
This anyhow is the first element in the
Day. But it is also more than this. After
all, if it were only that, other days may
emerge as the occasion. One can imagine
several possibilities Eureka Stockade
Day perhaps, even Australia Day or La-
bor Day might have become the vehicles.
But even to mention them indicates the
absurdity of the idea. They lack the other
essential element, which came with
Gallipoli.
This element is usually misunderstood.
It does not essentially depend on Gallipoli
having been a military engagement; there
had been earlier Australian military en-
gagements which did not have this im-
pact. Certainly it has nothing much to
do with imperialism or Empire. Nor is
it even the appeal that heroic defeat
usually has; numerically speaking, most
Australian military engagements, like
most British ones, have been defeats. It
means more than simply our Charge of
the Light Brigade.
This second theme of Anzac Day as
a popular festival is Death. (I do not
mean the death of close relatives or
friends. For these survivors Anzac Day
is a personal rather than a national day
and would, if it were that alone, die out
with them.) The impact of the Day is
that it associates these two elements:
Death and the Australian Legend.


WORLD-WIDE
X 246
100 % British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(1£ pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
1
*
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LIMITED
12 Sullivan Street, MOORABBIN 5.20, Victoria, Australia
LEGAL OFFICER
required by
A Leading Australian Company with interests
throughout the Commonwealth.
DUTIES: Take care of all legal matters of the Company other than
industrial relations. This will include (inter alia) responsibility for
compliance by Commonwealth and State Companies with local
Companies Acts and other statutory requirements, drafting and
amending Company Articles of Association, drafting industrial
contracts and advising on all questions of commercial and company
law. When necessary matters to be referred to Counsel through
appropriate Solicitors.
QUALIFICATIONS: An applicant to be successful must have a thorough
knowledge and experience of Commercial and Company Law and
also some knowledge of patents and trade marks.
SALARY: A commencing salary of about £4,500 per annum is envisaged.
An excellent opportunity in a newly created post.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail qualifications, experience,
age, ’phone numbers and other relevant information.
Apply in writing to:
“LEGAL OFFICER”
Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants
Cattex House, 167 Kent Street, Sydney
or to our offices in Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth.
Traditionally this Australian legend was a
thing for boys, not men, or women. It
stood for such things as shooting ’roos,
shouting “mug copper’, for booze and
boiling billies; there was little room for
women except to breed Bastards from
the Bush. It meant naivete, mateship, a
basic optimism. It was a form of roman-
ticism, like all boyish things. Life was
never really like the Legend, but it made
it harder for the boys to grow up. Some
remained, and remain, boys to the end.
And so at Gallipoli the bearers of the
legend, the boys moved and inspired by
it, were killed.
Gallipoli brought Death into the heart
of our history and legends, and affects
later generations as much, though in a
different way, as the men of 1915. In
effect, on Anzac Day we are all killed.
Since then being Australian has come
to be different from what it was before.
After the last world war there was a
tendency among some historians to play
down the place of Anzac Day in Aus-
tralian history. Some said, for example,
that the depression had a far biggei
impact. Certainly there was a good
deal of official guff spoken about
Gallipoli—“the nation winning its spurs”,
for example, as if it had not won them
generations before. But the 1930 s de-
pression was only one of many in Aus-
tralian history, all of them influential,
but of less fundamental importance than
after Gallipoli. The basic Australian at-
titudes changed after Gallipoli, although
there is always a time-lag in such mat-
ters and it took a couple of generations
to sink in and be worked out (particularly
by intellectuals). Curiously enough a
good deal has been written lately about
Australian dramatists, in “The Seven-
teenth Doll” or “The One Day of The
Year” for example, critically re-examin-
ing the Australian Legend. The dramatists
do it brilliantly, it is true, but it is a
case of intellectuals catching up with the
experiences of the people 40 to 50 years
before.
So it seems to me that the RSL’s
fears about Anzac Day losing its popula-
rity are misplaced. We are often told, and
it is probably true, that in due course the
RSL will disappear (at least in its
present form), as modern wars involve
fewer and fewer men. But Anzac Day
does not belong to the RSL. However
Anzac Day may change in form it will
probably always survive as a folk festival.
In some ways it is more like a tribal
festival than the patriotic days of other
countries which are either of some inter-
national historical importance, such as
the French July 14th, or are rigged up
in an official attempt to impose patriot-
ism on sectional groups. It is a peculiar-
ity of this country to have turned its
tribal festival into a national day.


OVERSEAS
The Vatican
looks Left?
Pope John and a
paradox
From DESMOND O’GRADY
in Rome
The Italian Christian Democrats are
using two main slogans in their
poster campaign for the elections
of the fourth Republican legislature on
April 28. The first is “the happy years
continue,” the second “the D.C. (Demo-
crazia Cristiana Party) is twenty years
old” which is accompanied by an illustra-
tion showing a smiling girl who walks to-
wards a future full of promise. It is
necessary to suggest that this party which
has ruled so long is still young but even
more significant is the stress on well-
being, on security, on the “progress
without risks” which Premier Fanfani
promises the electors. This emphasis on
prosperity distinguishes the campaign
from the preceding ones in which the
predominant image was that of the
Demochristians as a dyke against Com-
munism.
In fact, this is the first general election
held in the Italy of the economic miracle.
Everyone has heard of the increased
national income but not all have partici-
pated in it. Those who have want to
ensure that their new wealth will con-
tinue to grow after the elections while
those who have not want to obtain more
equitable distribution. If the government
alliance of the last twelve months is ap-
proved the State will certainly intervene
more decisively to regulate the country’s
prosperity and Italy will have entered a
new era.
The new era began tentatively in Feb-
ruary last year when the Demochristians
finally decided to attempt the “opening
to the Left.” Since the war the Demo-
christians have polled more votes than
any other group but they have never
achieved an absolute majority. This has
forced them to seek support from those
parties to the Right or Left of their
middle-of-the-road position. The result
was that if the party tried to move
Right, its allies on the Left would leave;
if it tried to move Left those on the
Right would retire.
This was in line with an old, if un-
honoured, tradition in Italian politics.
The tradition dictates that one should
stay in power at all costs even though
one’s programme has to change. Mus-
solini’s violent swings from Left to Right
and back to Left had been anticipated by
some of his democratic predecessors.
Such retention of power through indis-
criminate alliances maintains stability but
inevitably thwarts any attempt at long-
term planning. The indifference to ideo-
logical distinctions work in favor of the
status quo and, in the long run, demora-
lises parliamentarians so that they are
prone to accept a strong man who knows
his own mind and will tell them how
their’s should be thinking.
For many years the Demochristians
have been immobile because of the fear
of the opening-to-the-Left. Many pre-
dicted that Catholic voters would not
tolerate co-operation between a Marxist
party and the Christian Democrats.
Others said that the largest Socialist
group, the Nenni Socialists, were irre-
trievably bound to the powerful Com-
munist Party and would be a horse of
Troy. Those in favour of the move
claimed it was the only means of putting
through a programme of reform, and
that the more democratic elements in the
Socialist Party could be weaned from
the Communists who would thus be
isolated.
In February last the Demochristians
grasped the nettle: they luve governed
the last twelve months with Socialist sup-
port and the electors will decide on April
28 whether this mild socialist experiment
is to be continued. The moment for the
opening-to-the-Left was well chosen for
the conditions demanded it. To a large
measure, the country’s new wealth was
reinforcing established groups instead of
being channelled in such a way as to
create a new structure which would
benefit all levels of the population.
The State ran the risk of invidious
comparisons if its services compared un-
favorably with those provided for work-
ers by paternalistic employers. The
social services system had to be reno-
vated for the greatly increased work
force which had a right to a return from
the miracle. Special previsions had to be
made for agricultural labour at a time
when the quickest returns were to be had
in the industrial cities. The school sys-
tem needed reform to raise the general
level of education, to provide a wider
range of opportunities and to shift the
emphasis more to technical training. The
administration and bureaucracy had to
be liberated from their complicated
Fascist and Napoleonic heritage in order
to cope with the rapidly changing cir-
cumstances. In a word, the reformers
conceived their task as a creation of a
modern state structure. They believed
that the objective conditions demanded it
and that the nation was rich enough to
undertake the enterprise.
These social and economic conditions
may have existed without their new poli-
cies being shaped if the Catholic Church
had solidly opposed any dealings with
the Nenni Socialists. Pope John, how-
ever, has made it clear that he is any-
thing but hostile to the opening-to-the-
Left. The paradox of the matter is that
while Marxist philosophy is condemned
for its determinism, Marxist parties are
most active in their desire to change
society. Catholic scholars are distinguish-
ing between Marxist philosophy and
Marxist analysis while the Vatican has
made it clear that there can be co-
operation with a Marxist party for
specific and limited political ends.
However, many believers are more
Catholic than the Church. There are
those who say yes, he’s a great Pope but
unrealistic, he’s lost his sense of propor-
tion. These beliefs are fostered by the
Press which expresses the interests of the
powerful economic groups of the Right.
Such reactionaries were Premier Amin-
tore Fanfani’s chief danger in guiding
Italian politics Leftwards. Fanfani has
never lacked courage, coherence or
determination. He came to the fore
after the war with two other youngish
Catholic intellectuals, La Pira, who is
now a most original mayor of Florence,
and Dosetti, who abandoned his political
career to enter the priesthood. During
his years as secretary of the Christian
Democratic Party, Fanfani transformed
it from an amorphous group into a tight-
knit, modern structure, as highly orga-
nised as its Communist opponents. In
his fourth term as Premier he is at last
pursuing the policy he has always advo-
cated for he is one of those Italian
politicians who would rather leave par-
liament than abandon his program.
Although his abrupt temper is under
better control now than in earlier years
he lacks the qualities which would inspire


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy ~aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
PIEMFOILPS
POT STILL
BRANDY
m : s r .
brandy
the electorate. Intelligent and capable,
he is considered antipatico and his op-
ponents make continuous jokes about the
short stature of this little Duce, il
Ducetto. His powerful head may recall
Mussolini but his refusal of the grand
gesture, his lack of color and his in-
tegrity invalidate the comparison.
In the last twelve months the Govern-
ment, which consists of Fanfani’s party
(273 seats in the Chamber of Deputies)
together with the Democratic Socialists
(23 seats) and the Republicans (7 seats),
has put through a packed programme of
reform with the support of Nenni’s So-
cialists (84 seats). The major measure,
which aroused all sorts of fears, was the
nationalisation of the electrical industry,
but, in addition, pensions have been
increased and extended to housewives,
social service provisions have been
granted to artisans, share farmers and
other agricultural workers, free and com-
pulsory schooling has been extended to
14 years and a general reform of the
education system commenced.
The alliance with the Nenni Socialists
broke up just before the elections be-
cause Demochristians refused to institute
regional governments throughout the
peninsula unless the Socialists broke their
association with the Communists in local
administrations. “The regions” are one
of the themes of the electoral campaign:
they are provided for in the constitution
and their advocates claim they are essen-
tial for the establishment of grass-roots
democracy in Italy. Those who oppose
the regions say their establishment
would be costly and would favour the
dismemberment of a nation where unity
has always been difficult to achieve. But
the regions are not the centre of the
campaign: the question to be decided is
whether or not the country is to adopt
a Catholic-tempered socialism.
The Liberal Party, which commands
16 seats on ihe immediate Right of the
Demochristians, prophesies an economic
apocalypse if the Centre-Left puts
through its programme. The inflation
which has been felt also in Rightest
France gives weight to their warning
which is listened to by those who have
profited from the “miracle” and who are
now converts to the myth of business.
The Nenni Socialists may benefit
greatly from their 12 months as a gra-
dualist party. A scientific survey con-
ducted in January showed that the per-
centage of voters believing it is possible
to be a good Catholic and a good Socia-
list rose from 37 per cent to 58 per cent
in the past 10 years while the number
of those thought it impossible declined
from 45 per cent to 27 per cent. The
Nennians may win most of the credit for
the reforms of the past twelve months so
it is quite likely that the Demochristians,
while remaining the largest group, will
lose votes to the Right and Left.
The Right-wing of the Christian
Democrats hope that Liberal gains will
be sufficient to allow an alternative to the
Centre-Left experiment: a Demochris-
tian-Liberal government which would not
have to seek allies further to the Right
among the Democratic Monarchists or
Fascists. They would even be pleased
with a Centre-Left government which,
because of an electoral success by the
Democratic Socialist Party, would not
have to seek support from the Nenni
Socialists.
It is a truism that it is hazardous to
predict results. After the Demochristians
had called in Mr Motivational Research,
Ernest Dichter, had consulted the experts
of electoral mathematics, of statistics, of
Gallup polls and of political sociology, a
Sicilian deputy suggested they visit an
astrologer. The D.C. was twenty years
old: they asked what the immediate
future held for one born on July 12,
1942. The horoscope was suitably Del-
phic: “Take decisions with confidence
but not without caution. The future will
be friendly if you know how to merit it.”
It sounded like a speech by the secre-
tary of the party, Aldo Moro, who refus-
es to look into the crystal ball or to wear
rose-tinted spectacles. Moro, who has
to keep the many-faceted party together
while Fanfani makes the running, may be
working overtime after the elections for
it seems that the Nennians will be en-
forced. In external affairs, Italy will
probably remain firmly in the Western
Alliance and NATO, although the
Nennians have a neutralist foreign
policy. As regard the Common Market,
a Centre-Left government would strongly
favour Britain’s entry into Europe, both
for fear of De Gaulle’s authoritarian lean-
ings and because the Italian Left is so
fervently anti-Nazi that it becomes anti-
German. In internal affairs the Centre-
Left would continue its structural reform.
On April 28 the Italian people will
give their verdict on the moderate socia-
lism of the last twelve months. Many will
be influenced by the fact that, at least at
the moment and for the first time since
the war, the political debate no longer
centres around the Communists.


MOTORING
The Silver Cloud 3
Salesmen, potted plants and lots of smiles...
By BOADICEA
The card was gilt edged and it was
from York Motors, the accredited
New South Wales distributors for
Rolls Royce and Bentley cars. They
invited me to a “private, exclusive pre-
view of the new Rolls Royce Silver
Cloud 3 and Bentley S 3 Saloons.” I
noted the full spelling of NSW and that
my friends would also be welcome.
Having for long been addicted to all
that is fine in this world I slipped along
with friends to the premises “just off
William Street” to renew my acquaint-
ance with what are generally regarded
as “the best cars in the world.”
The preview had attracted all types
of people, judging by the cars outside.
Parked cheekily at the door was a black
Volkswagen looking rather like a scout
for the large Bentley behind it. Inside
the air was more that of a death than a
birth of a new model. Groups of people
stood around almost self consciously
talking quietly among themselves and
studiously avoiding the two stately lim-
ousines standing on the tiled floor. A
couple of trestles covered with white
table linen carried food and drink but
in this polite gathering there was none
of the bun-rush that characterises pre-
views of lesser vehicles where free load-
ers and motoring scribes gather to enjoy
themselves and often outrageously
“knock-the-stock” after having polished
off the refreshments.
These types were conspicuous by their
absence this day, the only two recog-
nisable being a quietly tailored man
who was introduced by beaming ex-
competition driver Maurice Smith, chair-
man of Yorks among other interests, as
“the racing driver” and the other a
bearded, casually dressed fellow who
button-holed the Rolls Royce represen-
tative, John Vidler, got his story and
departed. Potted plants and salesmen
stood midst the clusters of interested
people and friends. The Rolls Royce
salesman is a specialist and following
the sad death of “Smiling Jack” Telbot
York Motors had no specialist until
recently when suave well-dressed Rex
Gilham was appointed to the enviable
position. Gilham should do well for he
is at ease with both nouveau riche and
well born and knows his subject better
than most.
In silver-haired Bert Ward, Gilham
has a tower of strength, for Ward runs
the service division through which all
good Rolls and Bentleys go. Ward prob-
ably influences more Rolls sales than
anyone else in Sydney. Occasionally a
visitor would cautiously open a car door
or boot-lid, and one or two of the old
hands would actually slip behind the
wheel, obviously owner-driver types, and
others sink into the back seat, chauffeur
driven types? Only the racing driver
showed much interest in what lay be-
neath the now lowered bonnet. “Ah
larger carburettors at last, should help
quite a bit.”
One visitor thought he’d take the new
Rolls subject to a satisfactory trade-in
price on his present Bentley. Among the
other somewhat plushier visitors this
man seemed too out of fashion in his
dressing to be serious, but he was. A
prominent stockbroker, he has had sev-
eral Bentleys and has probably driven
them further and in more remote places
than anyone present that day he used
his old Mark VI to explore Cape York
Peninsula and the Flinders Ranges. He
has also suffered that final indignity of
having his car break down in Sydney
and seeing it towed away.
HThe women were perhaps more interest-
ed in what the salesmen were say-
ing about the new models than were
their menfolk. However, one statuesque
blonde was interested in neither the cars
nor the men in the gathering and one
formed the impression that she probably
preferred an air-conditioned Cadillac to
Britain’s best. For it is a surprising thing
that neither the Rolls, costing £BB5O, nor
the Bentley, at £8650, has air condition-
ing. That, son, is an extra costing the
equivalent of a baby car! And what did
we think of the cars? Apart from the
front view, which we considered had been
spoiled by the fashionable double head-
lamps, the verdict was unanimous: We
all liked both cars.
Certainly the new lighting system will
give a better and safer penetration of
light for faster night driving but it looks
so out of character, sort of squinty.
Vision from behind the plain black wheel
has been improved with the lower bonnet
line and makes parking easier. Perhaps
because of this the bumper bars have
smaller over-riders but cars destined for
“North America,” notice the reluctance
to say the States, retain their old larger
over-riders must protect the costly
machinery from buffeting by those
cheap Detroit “expendables.” And the
aluminium 6.2 litre V-8 engine, which
was first introduced as long ago as
September 1959, has got a bonus in a
7 p.c. horsepower increase. This by way
of the two larger carburettors, an im-
proved induction system and raising the
compression from 8 to 9.1. Australians,
however, have to make do with the old
compression ratio of 8.1 for 9.1 engines
are only fitted to cars sold in countries
where 100 octane petrol is freely avail-
able. Obviously the Rolls engineers
haven’t heard of our many wonderful
petrols.
We have tiger juice and rocket juice,
Zed juice and pure juice but apparently
none of them adds up to plain 100 oc-
tane. Anyway, 8 or 9.1, the new modi-
fications give superior performance to
the original V-8s which were nothing
short of startling to anyone used to the
fairly lethargic 6-cylinder engines of the
postwar Rolls and Bentleys. Horse-
power, still a family secret, is coyly des-
cribed as “adequate.” Perhaps more im-
portant are the changes to the interior
which include better shaped front seats
now of the individual type and, by mov-
ing the rear seat back, rear passengers’
leg room, never a feature of these cars,
has been increased two inches. Four
adults couldn’t be more comfortably
carried.
The veneer capping to the dashboard
has disappeared and been replaced by
some padding of a fairly skimpy nature.
Two small ashtrays bracket this padding,
too small certainly for American cigars.
Increased power assistance has been
given to the steering mainly for ease of
parking without losing too much of the
important “feel” at speed on the road.
For this large car does travel at speed
or rather it can in excess of 100 miles
an hour. There was no mention of disc
brakes by anyone and it would have
seemed vulgar to have knelt on the floor
(tiled or not) and peered into the gloom
beneath the lady’s skirts as it were. Con-
sequently we went away convinced that
Rolls were sticking to drum brakes and
that, despite this stubbornness in design,
they had a right to call it the best car in
the world.


FORUM
The Exmouth Base:
1. Opting Out
By IAN TURNER
No-one— including those political and military planners who are directly
responsible for nuclear policy —can say for certain what will be the
consequences of the establishment of a command post for Polaris
nuclear missiles at Exmouth Gulf. The best that most of us can do is to
make an informed guess, based on whatever scraps of information govern-
ments choose to make available to their citizens; in the case of Exmouth
Gulf, ihe scraps have been offered grudgingly and belatedly, and in such
a way that the issue has been confused rather than clarified.
Tn the early stages of the argument,
many people seemed rc believe that
the Exmouth Gulf installations would
contribute to the defence of Australia as
such. This was clearly wrong; the Out-
look publication to which Dr Leifer
referred in his article (“What The Base
Will Do,” Bulletin, March 30) was
directed in large part to clearing up
this confusion. Polaris is a part of
America’s global nuclear weaponry, and
could not be used in any local war.
Whether the presence of such a base
on Australian soil would provide a com-
pelling reason for the US to use other
sorts of weapons (i.e. conventional) to
defend Australia from any local threat
is a quite different question. Dr Leifer’s
comments have the virtue of making this
distinction clear.
The two questions that must be asked
about Exmouth Gulf are: does this base
make world nuclear war less likely? and
how does it affect the security of this
country?
Most people are agreed that, failing a
general disarmament agreement, the
“balance of terror,” which rests on the
possession by both the USA and the
USSR of invulnerable second-strike
weapons, offers at least a precarious
security Does Exmouth Gulf make for
a more secure “balance”? It it does, then
it should be accepted, even it an addi-
tional threat to the security of Australia
is involved However, several points
should ->e considered.
1. The concept of the deterrent has
so far been based on the strategy of
promising the destruction of the enemy’s
cities in retaliation for d nuclear attack.
American spokesmen have for a con-
siderable time claimed that the US al-
ready has the capacity to destroy all the
major Soviet population centres, even
after it has suffered a Soviet attack. One
of the dangers of the continuous exten-
sion of the US weapons system seems to
be that the USSR might assume that the
function ot Polaris is changing from a
second-strike, counter-city weapon to a
“counterforce” weapon, directed against
Soviet military installations. If this hap-
pens, it will probably lead to Soviet
counter-moves.
2. The “balance of terror” means
what it says that is, it is, or should
be, a balance. The non-nuclear powers
are, presumably, interested in seeing that
both sides of the nuclear arms race have
an invulnerable deterrent. Hence, if the
USSR decidco that, to secure its deter-
rent, it too required bases in the South
Pacific, and could persuade a nation in
this area to give them a home, then
Australia could have no reasonable
objection.
3. Unhappily, however, it seems prob-
able that every extension of nuclear
weaponry carries with it an increased
possibility of accidental war. Dr Leifer’s
point that an improved chain of com-
munications lessens the chance of acci-
dent is jbviously correct; but it is also
true that every new deployment of
weapons and command posts means new
points at which something can go wrong.
4. Non-n iclear powers have, 1 think.
an interest in trying to see that nuclear
bases of all kinds are centred exclusively
in the home territories of the nuclear
powers. (This is a sort of point that Mr
Diefenbaker makes) The spread of
nuclear installations also spreads
nuclear targets; conversely, their concen-
tration also concentrates nuclear tar-
gets, and is therefore likely to contribute
to the care with which the nuclear
powers flex their nuclear muscles
I believe and I think that this
attitude is shared by many of those
who have expressed doubts about the
unconditional acceptance of the Ex-
mouth Gulf base that, unless the
powers can be persuaded to call of* the
nuclear arms race, global nuclear war
is almost certain Both parties claim al-
ready to have sufficient weapons to des-
troy the other, and adequate means of
delivery. 1 believe that further refine-
ments of these weapons systems materi-
ally increase the danger of nuclear war
without increasing significantly the capa-
city to deter 1 know, of course, that
the information on which these beliefs are
based is inadequate, but this is not an
issue on which I am prepared to accept
blindly the decisions of experts who
themselves decide the amount of infor-
mation which should be made available
to those whose lives are at stake in the
nuclear gamble.
11/hat of the second question, the
effect of Exmouth Gulf on the
security of Australia? Again, several
points should be considered.
1. It is generally agreed that the ac-
ceptance of an American nuclear base
will upgrade the status of Australia as a
target in the event of nuclear war. If,
as Dr Leifer suggests, the base will make
such a war less likely, then this is a risk
we should be prepared to take; but if
this is not the case, then Australia’s
target-status demands consideration.
2. It is also clear that acceptance of
the base will automatically involve Aus-
tralia in global nuclear war. should one
break out. Dr Leifer does not state this
point fairly when he says that the op-
ponents of Exmouth Gulf “fear . . . that
the United States, through this Centre,
will involve Australia in war.” The argu-
ment is rather that, if Australia accepts
the base, and if America is involved in
global nuclear war. then Australia will
willy-nilly be involved too
3. Perhaps it is wishful thinking, but,
in the absence of any authoritative study
of the possible effects on Australia of a
nuclear war in the northern hemisphere,
it does not seem prima facie irrational
to think that Australia might have some
(however slight) chance of survival, if
she were not direct i\ engaged, and that,
if we value human survival, this chance
should not be lightlv discarded.
4. It is clearly true, as Dr Leifer


)
L m 1 1
I .
VERIFAX COPIER
U
OR UP TO
HIGH-QUALITY SINGLE COPY
When overall appearance is important ... or when critically
sharp rendering of fine detail essential . . . use the Verifax
Fine-Line matrix. It reproduces delicate line-work, fine
detail, half-tone pictures and solid areas with amazing
crispness and fidelity even from the most difficult
originals. Copies made with Fine-Line matrix are black,
sharp and of premium quality ideal for sending to
customers, clients and executives.
LOW-COST MULTIPLE COPIES
When several copies are needed in a hurry use the regular
Verifax matrix and it will give you up to five dry, white,
permanent copies in 60 seconds. It will reproduce practically
anything written, typed, printed or drawn — pencil, ink,
ballpoint, paint and crayons. Tests show that Verifax copies
can last up to 100 years and longer.
For complete information contact:
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
Kodak
KM 8910


says, that Australia, because of her high
concentration of population in the coas-
tal cities, is peculiarly vulnerable to nu-
clear blackmail; but it does not follow
from this, as he seems to argue, that
the acceptance of an American nuclear
base does not increase the chances that
we may in fact be subjected to nuclear
blackmail.
5. While it is true that Australian ac-
ceptance of the Exmouth Gulf base will
provide the US with an incentive to
defend Australia against any local and
limited threat, this gain (leaving aside
the question of whether any immediate
threat exists) has to be weighed against
the considerations suggested above. And
even assuming a greater probability of
US assistance with the defence of Aus-
tralia, this does not mean automatic US
acceptance of Australia’s concept of her
national interests for example, vis-
a-vis Indonesia. On the contrary, it seems
likely that acceptance of the base will
limit even more Australia’s freedom of
decision in external relations.
6. Acceptance of the base will mean
that Australia will find herself in the
same quandary as Western Europe. Aus-
tralian territory will be involved in
American global nuclear strategy, with
whatever risks that that entails; but
there can be no guarantee that American
nuclear weapons would be used to de-
fend Australia from nuclear blackmail
or nuclear attack. As Western European
leaders have for a long time understood,
it is quite possible that the US would
not respond to a nuclear attack on her
foreign bases or her allies with a nuclear
counter-strike, because this would mean
nuclear retaliation on the American
homeland. And certainly the US would
quite rightly reserve the right to
make this decision for itself. Paradoxi-
cally, the acceptance of the Exmouth
Gulf base will most likely lead to an
increased demand, within Australia, for
us to acquire a nuclear weaponry of our
own.
These are tremendously important
questions. Clearly, anything that Aus-
tralia does can only affect very marginally
the security of the world. But what
policies we now adopt can have a de-
cisive influence on our own national
security; and this is a legitimate subject
for discussion by those who are con-
cerned for that security. (Indeed, had
it not been for the courage of the
Labor Party in forcing this question
into the open, a matter of such vital
importance as the Exmouth Gulf base
would probably have been decided with
no public discussion at all.) It is not
good enough to attribute any serious
questioning of the Government's foreign
and defence policies to Communist in-
fluence, or to anti-Americanism. It is
quite possible to be, in this context,
neither anti-American nor anti-Soviet,
but simply against the further extension
of nuclear weaponry, and in particular
its extension to Australia. It also seems
quite rational to argue that Australia’s
security would best be served by a due
attention to improving our independent,
conventional defence forces, even if this
costs us a substantially higher proportion
of our national income than we at
present spend on defence, while we opt
out of any involvement with nuclear
weapons on the grounds that this sort
of involvement, on balance, is advam
tageous neither to the peace of the
world nor to the security of the nation.
2. Living With Terror
By MICHAEL LEIFER
rp HE essence of Dr Turners concern over the proposed naval communi-
cations centre in Western Australia is whether it will affect
adversely Australia’s chances of survival in a global nuclear war. He
reduces this to two questions: “Does this base make world war less
likely?” and “How does it affect the security of this country?”
The two questions are inextricably
linked, since if the communications
centre proposed for Exmouth Gulf can
possibly make global nuclear war less
likely then obviously Australia must be
a benefactor in terms of security. I be-
lieve that the development of an invul-
nerable nuclear weapons system, on both
sides of the cold war, is one likely way
of avoiding a global nuclear conflict. If
each side’s retaliatory capacity could be
so developed and distributed that a suc-
cessful surprise attack would be an im-
possibility by provoking automatic and
unacceptable reprisal, then the pre-
carious balance of terror might become
a little less precarious, and Australia can
only benefit. The question follows: does
the proposed communications centre
contribute to a situation of nuclear stale-
mate?
Taking Dr Turner’s points in order, he
suggests that the installation at Exmouth
Gulf would involve a dangerous exten-
sion of the US weapons system which
might lead the USSR to “assume that
the function of Polaris is changing from
a second-strike counter-city weapon to
a counterforce weapon directed against
Soviet military installations.” This, he
feels, would also lead to Soviet counter-
moves. But such fears have less foun-
dation today than they might have had
in the middle of 1962 when the Ameri-
can Secretary of Defence, Mr McNa-
mara, endorsed the idea of counterforce
strategy. Counterforce strategy has been
intimately related to the role of the
United States Strategic Air Command.
However, it is now known policy of the
US Defence Department to speedily
transfer from manned bombers to mis-
siles. A decision has already been taken
to cease production of the RS-70 which
had been designed to extend the life of
the manned bomber for strategic missions
well into the 19705. At the same time,
the cancellation of the Skybolt (air to
ground) missile project is further evi-
dence that the United States Govern-
ment has accepted the obsolescence of
the SAC which, if continued, could be
no more than a force of manned mis-
siles. In the past, a large proportion of
America’s nuclear strike capacity has
depended on the SAC. However, given
the fact of its near obsolescence, the in-
stallation at Exmouth Gulf need not
necessarily indicate a dangerous exten-
sion of a weapons system, but merely a
change in its form.
In the light of this American emphasis
on the missile, it is open to serious doubt
whether, as Dr Turner infers, the Soviet
Union might assume that the function of
Polaris is changing. The distinction that
Dr Turner makes between first-strike
and second-strike weapons is becoming
increasingly blurred so as to appear al-
most meaningless. If both sides in the
cold war are able to develop invulnerable
nuclear striking power, for example,
through using underwater platforms, then
an intended first strike cannot but have
suicidal implications. In other words, if
both sides possess effective second-strike
weapons, then it is impossible to con-
ceive of there being such a thing as an
intended first strike.
One can only endorse Dr Turner’s as-
sumption in his second point that “non-
nuclear powers are, presumably, inter-
ested in seeing that both sides of the
nuclear arms race have an invulnerable
deterrent.” It is possible to go even
further than his suggestion of Soviet
bases in the South Pacific and to pro-
pose equal facilities for both the Soviet
Union and the United States in Western
Australia. If such an arrangement could
make the present balance of terror more
stable, then it should be considered.
However, there are many political ob-
stacles in the way of such an arrange-
ment, and Dr Turner would agree that


it would prove impossible in Australia,
even with a Labor government!
In his third argument Dr Turner
agrees that an improved chain of com-
munications lessens the chance of acci-
dental war, but he then goes on to sug-
gest the opposite. The point at issue here
is not whether there will be a new de-
ployment of weapons (I suggested in the
issue of March 30th that Polaris firing
submarines would still operate in the
Indian Ocean and South Pacific without
Australian acquiescence) but whether
the Centre will lessen the chance of acci-
dental war resulting from deployment.
In the fourth point, Dr Turner assumes
that non-nuclear powers have “an
interest in trying to see that nuclear bases
of all kinds are centred exclusively in the
home territories of the nuclear powers.”
If the ideal, which he appears to accept,
is the achievement of mutual invulnera-
bility, and if, at the present time, the
USA has Polaris missiles which fire
only up to two and a half thousand miles
from a submerged platform, then to
make her deterrent more effective, bases
of certain kinds, i.e., communications
centres, may be necessary outside the
home territory of the nuclear power. In
the case of Polaris missiles fired from a
submerged submarine, their accuracy,
and thus the credibility of the US de-
terrent, will depend on a navigational fix
which the Centre at Exmouth Gulf would
help establish.
It is rather unfair, in dealing with the
specific case of Exmouth Gulf, situated
in a desolate part of Western Australia,
to draw an analogy with Mr Diefen-
baker’s anxieties. Canada has densely
populated cities relatively close to the
US border, whereas the relation of
Australia’s cities and population to Ex-
mouth Gulf is quite different, especially
in terms of a single knockout blow aimed
at the Centre.
Dr Turner believes that without an
end to the nuclear arms race, global
nuclear war is almost certain. However,
it need not follow that “further refine-
ments of these weapons systems materi-
ally increase the danger of nuclear war
without increasing significantly the capa-
city to deter.” Surely if weapons systems
are so refined that surprise attack be-
comes impossible, without retaliation
involving unacceptable damage, then this
should decrease, not increase, the danger
of nuclear war.
Turning now to the issues raised under
A Dr Turner’s second question about
Australian security when Dr Turner
makes the statement “it is generally
agreed that the acceptance of an Ameri-
can nuclear base will upgrade the status
of Australia as a target in nuclear war,”
he fails to draw the distinction between
the whole of Australia as a target and
Exmouth Gulf as a target. If the enemy’s
intention is merely to knock out the
Centre so as to destroy the United States’
second-strike capacity, then it is feasible
to assume that the Australian areas of
population need not suffer. However,
there is still every likelihood that once
a global war occurs Australia Centre
or no would be a target given the
nature of an external alignment which
the Labor Party, as well as the Govern-
ment, is so keen to maintain.
Dr Turner claims that the Centre will
automatically involve Australia in global
nuclear war should one break out.
Whether Australia agrees to the estab-
lishment of a communications centre or
not, if the United States is involved in
global nuclear war it is difficult to con-
ceive of Australia being able to contract
out. In terms of great power capacity for
"What about the overture?"
mutual destruction, many times over,
there seems no real chance for Austra-
lia’s population to survive the world-
wide effects of radioactive fallout. Of
course, should both sides develop
weapons which destroy on a nuclear
scale, without fallout, then one night-
mare situation would be exchanged for
another. Australia would then, if not
directly attacked, have a chance of sur-
vival. But, for the moment, nuclear war
involves fallout.
Dr Turner has accepted the point that
Australia has an almost natural vulner-
ability to nuclear blackmail. He then
goes on to argue that the Centre will
increase this possibility. However, if the
Centre is the main attraction and not
the rest of Australia, then surely an
enemy would not waste its time with
nuclear blackmail, but would instead try
to knock out the Centre; an act which
need not involve the rest of the con-
tinent.
T\r Turner admits that the acceptance
of the Exmouth Gulf Centre “will pro-
vide the US with an incentive to defend
Australia against any local or limited
threat.” Yet he also feels that the accept-
ance of the Centre will limit Australia’s
freedom of action in external relations.
But since the Centre is something which
America wants, it is very likely that the
Centre may be the first means of leverage
on the US by Australia in the South-east
Asia area.
Acceptance of the Centre need not
involve the same quandary as in Western
Europe, because the American establish-
ment there is not so directly related to
the command post structure of its second-
strike capacity. Moreover there is every
chance that American nuclear weapons
would be used to defend Australia from
nuclear blackmail or nuclear attack if
such action involved a threat to a nerve
centre of the American second-strike
capacity. A threat to Australia, in this
sense, would be a threat to the US be-
cause it would be aimed at removing
America’s means of deterring surprise
attack. One might reply by asserting that
this means that Australia would be in-
volved in war through the US. How-
ever, any attempt by either side in the
cold war to try to immobilise its oppo-
nent’s invulnerable means of retaliation
would involve the self-same consequen-
ces for Australia. And, again, the US
would establish command posts else-
where, if Australian co-operation were
not now forthcoming.
If one conceives of a threat not being
directed at US retaliatory capacity, then
the Australian quandary is one that can
exist for any state which does not possess
its own independent nuclear deterrent.
This is certainly not intended as an argu-
ment to support such a course of action


for Australia. On the contrary, if,
through the Centre at Exmouth Gulf, the
balance of terror can be made more
stable, then the need for Australian nu-
clear weapons may never be realised. It
must be recognised, of course, that in this
issue, as in all international politics, ab-
solute guarantees and certainty are im-
possible a fact which Dr Turner has
tended to neglect. Nuclear weapons can-
not be talked out of existence, but we can
make some effort to live with them.
Unscrambling
“White Australia”
Who’s Who
By PETER WESTERWAY
In its time Australian politics has pro-
duced the usual quota of strange bed-
fellows. But none has been so strange
as those over White Australia. What
other issue could possibly have put
Archbishop Mannix and the Rev. Gordon
Powell, the Communist Party and the
National Catholic Rural Movement into
one camp and Senator Spooner and Tom
Dougherty, Jack Lang and the RSL into
the other?
And though White Australia has not
hit the headlines for the past few months,
we have certainly not seen the last of
these weird permutations. The various
Associations for Immigration Reform
have been receiving a steady stream of
requests for speakers from the service
organisations: Rotary, Junior Chambers
of Commerce and the like. Now the
NSW Association intends to approach
the trade unions. Headed by a Methodist
minister, with a liberal agnostic as its
secretary, it will find its most receptive
audience in the Communist-led Seamen’s
Union and its most hostile in the con-
servative Australian Workers’ Union.
The present drive for change in a
policy, which had been supported by
every party since federation, began in the
19405. Both the Methodist and Presby-
terian churches began to express doubts
on the morality of the policy, and the
Presybterians finally decided to advocate
a non-European quota. In 1945 both
Archbishop Mannix and the Australian
Communist Party also advocated such a
system. But at that time reformers
were few and largely those with their
eyes fixed on another world. As one
exception later wrote, “for an Australian
to suggest that the policy be reviewed,
even in 1945, was to incur a charge of
heresy!”
Since then the change of atmosphere
has been striking. No longer can White
Australia be confidently listed among
the “settled issues” of Australian politics.
What was once an automatic part of an
aspiring politician’s attitudes is an issue
for debate. A number of newspapers
have given editorial support to reform.
Public opinion polls show something over
half their respondents now in favor of
some non-European immigration. And
an increasing number of organisations
have adopted reformist motions. Despite
its cautious easing of administration in
recent years, the Federal Government on
this issue now appears to be behind
public opinion.
No one can say with confidence why
this change has taken place. One could
guess at post-war prosperity and inter-
national travel, experience of Colombo
Plan students, increasing awareness of
Asia and so on, but they would only be
guesses. Flowever, there can be little
doubt that the organised movement for
reform stems from the churches and the
universities. The Australian Council of
Churches has been one of the most per-
sistent supporters, and Student Action
the most spectacular. Both sides mingle
in the Associations for Immigration Re-
form.
The Associations originated in Mel-
bourne University, where a group to
study Australia’s immigration policy was
set up in 1959. The Immigration Re-
form Group, as it was called, published
its findings as a 50pp. booklet under the
title of Control or Color Bar? It sold
an astounding ten thousand copies and
has now been succeeded by a more im-
posing paperback. It also stimulated the
setting up of the first Association for
Immigration Reform in Melbourne in
1960, and the movement soon spread to
other States. There are now Associ-
ations in every State but Tasmania and
Queensland.
None of the Associations has more
than a few hundred members. This is
partly because the oldest Association has
only been functioning for three years, but
partly a matter of policy. Though they
welcome mass support, the prime movers
in the Associations hold a pretty sophisti-
cated view of the political process. “Gall-
up polls and the resolutions of bodies
with huge memberships like the churches
are more likely to impress politicians
than the size of the membership of the
IRA’s.”
They see impressing politicians as
their main task, and the eventual aim of
all their activities is to create a climate
in which the politicians can safely modify
the immigration policy. They have, of
course, been active in the ALP and this
gained them some notoriety when the
Federal Executive banned members from
belonging to the Associations. Press
interest in their activities reached a peak
last year when such prominent ALP fig-
ures as the Rev. Keith Dowding and Dr
J. Cairns, MHR, were forced to choose
between Association and party.
Since then they appear to have made
some small gains. The 1962 Victorian
State Conference of the ALP instructed
its Federal Conference delegates to press
for discussion of the White Australia
policy. And for what it is worth, the
Victorian DLP has asked its Federal
Executive to wipe racial discrimination
from the platform. Even Mr Dougherty,
general secretary of the strongly dis-
criminatory AWU, has publicly modified
his stand. Though the AWU has quite
recently passed distinctly racist motions,
he insists that its support for White Aus-
tralia is based entirely cn economic
grounds. “I’m not anti-racial,” he de-
clared early this year, “and the AWU is
not anti-racial; it never was.” As a
personal gesture, he says he will adopt
a Chinese child, and his final comment
on immigration might well have come
from the most dedicated reformer:
“Times have changed now. Any Austra-
lian who does the ostrich act now is a
bloody idiot!”
Even the Returned Soldiers’ League,
which has had White Australia on its
“non-political” platform since 1924, re-
cently altered the wording to remove the
racial insult. But most of its officials
probably agree with Sir Raymond Huish,
then Deputy National President, when
he told the 1961 Congress that the “un-
holy alliance of do-gooders, some influ-
enced by Communist organisations and
others by religious organisations” should
not be allowed to modify White Aus-
tralia.
Just how far the reformers still have
to go is perhaps best illustrated by the
story of the League’s correspondence with
the Minister for Immigration, Mr
Downer. At the 1961 Congress dele-
gates unanimously carried a motion re-
affirming support for “Australia’s tradi-
tional immigration policy” and fore-
shadowing a campaign to counter the
reformists’ propaganda. They sent the
resolution to the Minister, who was
moved to reply expressing his appreci-
ation and asking for further information
about their propaganda campaign. Later
he wrote that he would fully support
such a campaign in principle, and that
when the Immigration Advisory Council
had finished examining the same pro-
blem he would forward its findings to
the League for their guidance. It’s still
a long, long road.


WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
UPr
W, ; ~S <
Tariff I/I
;: : :■>
ess
Pi
if
V-vsl-vlv.
?%’
Jr«<r':3 * 5
Fiti-M
~ : -MLM-.<~~ 'fi
m
J:
»m?
n
C:
M
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
Specified
INDUSTRIAL. PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
m—'
< *
w
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town —
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
m
m
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of: Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
m
M'
&
mm-
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
m
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
SECOND-CLASS CITIZENS
Sir,
May I correct some of the more obvi-
ous errors in your article “The Second-
Class Citizens” (13/4/63)? Bill Rogers
(who has no T in his name) has never
been a member of the Peace Group and
Dave Oakley has never been to Moscow.
Both are loyal Labor men. The man who
IS president of the Ciayton Peace Group
and who HAS been to Moscow is Cr.
Hughes. He was one of the five at the
first interview and the only one not nam-
ed in your article.
The history of this dispute, at least in
the local area, is also very different from
that implied by you. Public protests did
not start until mid-December. The issue
first arose in the Finance Committee
where the two Labor representatives
(Viney and myself) twice got a recom-
mendation through to completely aban-
don the scholarships proposal only to have
the full Council reject it; until finally
that same full Council, meeting in com-
mittee, agreed to scholarships going to
State secondary school pupils only.
The six ALP councillors agreed by 5
to 1 to oppose discrimination, and since
it was clear that there was no possibility
of our original negating motion being
carried, we then sought to extend these
benefits to students at all secondary
schools in the city. This amendment was
defeated in open Council, only one of
the majority group voting with us. As
the non-Labor majority wilted under
pressure, there followed notices of mo-
tions, attempted rescissions and such a
variety of moves and counter-moves that
the ordinary man in the street must soon
have lost track of what was actually
happening.
Finally, in early February, Council
agreed on a motion to grant bursaries
(the implication being that they would go
to the more needy rather than of neces-
sity to the most brilliant) in a number
varying according to the enrolment at
the different schools. This meant that
any child in the municipality had roughly
one chance in 300 of getting a bursary,
irrespective of which school he attended.
TOM GILHOOLEY
North Clayton, Vic.
[The Bulletin accepts Councillor
Gilhooley’s explanation of the dispute
and apologises to Councillor Rogers who
was never associated with the Clayton
Peace Group and to Councillor Oakley,
who has never been to Moscow, for any
embarrassment they may have suffered
through The Bulletin story published
in This Australia, April 13. —Ed.]
DECIMAL COINAGE
Sir,
Now that the Federal Government
has made its welcome, if somewhat over-
due, announcements of a definite date for
the introduction of decimal currency in
Australia, might it not be asked that the
present names of the monetary units be
left alone? It is the change of system
that is necessary, not the change of
names. Pounds, shillings, and pence are
labels that are practical, appropriate, and
time-honored, and deeply ingrained in
our habits of thought. Any change means
a wrench, especially a change so far-
reaching as this, and anything that can
ease the change-over should not be
neglected.
The statement that Australia is now
old enough to warrant its own names for
its new currency seems to hint at a
national immaturity, a rather juvenile
reaching-out after the novel and the
different for their own sakes, after the
South African model. The search for
“truly Australian” names for our new
major and minor units opens up all sorts
of possibilities, from the comic to the
ridiculous.
The country will have quite enough to
do to adjust itself to the fact that from
February 1966 ten pence will make one
shilling, and ten shillings one pound,
without being badgered by a troublesome
and unnecessary change of labels.
K. A. SAXBY
Kokopo, NG.
“THE UGLY AUSTRALIAN”
Sir,
R. Scholes, in his article “The Ugly
Australian” (The Bulletin, April 13),
leaves himself open to severe criticism.
Anyone who spends only a few days in
Earls Court quickly learns which of the
nationalities rate good conduct medals
and which do not. I have no intention of
whitewashing the Australian, nor do I
intend calling people names. Neither
should R. Scholes, who seems to have
taken a rather hasty American-type sight-
seeing and fact-finding tour of London
SWS.
Because of their large numbers, he has
arbitrarily decided that Australians are
responsible for the majority of petty
crimes and misdemeanors in this district
Rushing into a statistical analysis would
be dangerous because of a lack of ac-
curate figures. But as from at least a
year ago the numerical superiority of
the Australians was extremely slight. At
present there appear to be comparable
numbers of South Africans and New Zea-
landers, with Rhodesians, West Indians
and Asians close behind.
R. Scholes blithely asserts that Aus-
tralians are the main offenders in fare
evading on Earls Court station. I chal-
lenge the validity of this statement and
suggest he legitimise it with some sort
of proof if he can.
When the Australian is indicted as
noisy and ill-mannered one wonders just
who R. Scholes associated with. Not by
the most extraordinary stretch of the
imagination can I visualise a two-up
game at the Surrey. I only visited this
place twice. I was the only Australian
there, the only Australian beer sold while
I was there was to myself. Almost every
off-licence in Earls Court sells Swan and
Fosters, and so do many off-licences all
over London.
The statement that “Cooee” and
“Bonzer” echo up and down the streets
is ridiculous. Nine-tenths of the article
appears to be inaccurate hearsay and the
other one-tenth vivid imagination. The
Australian cannot be singled out as the
only rotten melon on the vine. Perhaps
the author will enlighten us on his quali-
fications for writing so expertly about a
subject with which he seems completely
unfamiliar.
WARREN J. GLOVER
Earlwood, NSW.
GAOLING CATHOLICS
Sir,
Those who may have thought that
Opus Dei had been perhaps a little
harshly treated by Peter Kelly in The
Bulletin of March 2 must have had
cause to think again after Father
Ferrigle’s glaring sophistries in his letter
of April 6.
To say that Opus Dei has grown in
President Kennedy’s USA as well as
Franco’s Spain and that this therefore
proves Opus Dei is not pro-Fascist any
more than it is pro-New Frontier is
slovenly logic and involves a suppression
of relevant facts. There have been no
Opus Dei members in Kennedy’s Cabinet,
appointed by a democratically elected
President, but there have been in
Franco’s Cabinet. Furthermore, while
Opus Dei members have been serving in
the Spanish Cabinet, Catholics who have
dissented from the regime have been sent
to gaol, without any sign of opposition
from those pious Opus Dei members.
Indeed Catholics opposed to Opus Dei
have asserted that Opus Dei members
have seen one of their roles as providing
information to police against progressive
Catholics.
It is superfluous but I suppose it will
have to be said that those gaoled are not
Communists. Even an impeccably con-
servative journal like “The Tablet” of
London recently carried a report of the
trial of a Basque priest who protested
against the use of torture by police. Two
hundred priests, according to “The
Tablet” report, assembled in silent pro-
test outside the courtroom. Father
Ferrigle might like to tell us how many
Opus Dei members protested.
I don’t think anybody wants to suggest
that Opus Dei would want to set up a
Fascist state here in Australia. But the
very fact that this highly centralised
organisation is so backward looking as
to work eagerly through the ramshackle
structure of authoritarian Spain proves
that it is out of line with the spirit of
the Church manifested in the majority
of the current Vatican Council.
RICHARD HALL
Waterloo, NSW.


REVIEWS
FILMS
Bergman Plain
By MARTIN LONG
The Naked Night. Gala. Sydney.
Tngmar Bergman’s earlier films seem to
■*" be more direct and more appealing,
though less provocative and ambitious,
than his more recent ones. “The Naked
Night” (which is the absurd title foisted
on the film called by Bergman “Sawdust
and Tinsel”) belongs, 1 believe, to the
period of “Smiles of a Summer Night”;
like that film it shows Bergman’s ability
to tell a good story brilliantly, without
the complex symbols and moral pre-
occupations of his later work.
Bergman’s characters (he is, as usual,
his own screenwriter) appear here not as
abstractions but as warm, fleshly beings
acting out a particular story in a par-
ticular time and place. The drama of
failure and frustration that it involves
is universal enough, no doubt, and one
might find symbols and allegories if
one were in the mood. But it is primarily
the story, the setting, the characters and
the conflicts that hold attention.
The 1900-ish period of the story is
roughly that of “Smiles of a Summer
Night”; but the social setting is about
a dozen pegs lower, and the mood of the
film is melodrama touched here and
there with comedy instead of comedy
touched with pathos.
The central figure is the proprietor of
a run-down travelling circus. There is
no sentimental glamorising of circus life
here: Bergman makes very clear that
this circus is pitifully moth-eaten and
bankrupt, that the owner is near to des-
pair and the members of the troupe near
to revolt. Albert, the proprietor, is grow-
ing old and obviously losing his resilience;
Bergman and Ake Gronberg (the skilful
actor who plays the role) show in a few
economical strokes that Albert has had
the showman's expansive optimism, but
that his assurance and his armor against
failure are crumbling. The film details
his final humiliation and the final de-
struction of his defences.
Albert, needing costumes to replace
the ones he had to leave in the hands of
his creditors in the last town, goes to
the manager of the local theatre to bor-
row them.
The theatre manager treats him with
humiliating condescension, but lets him
have the costumes. When he tries to
make a parade through the town the
police ban it and impound his horses.
A visit to the wife whom he deserted
years before, and who now runs a to-
bacconist's shop in this same town, is
a disturbing experience. Tempted by the
peaceful atmosphere in which he finds
his wife and children, he offers to leave
the circus for her; to his surprise, she
refuses to take him back. Meanwhile,
his mistress, the voluptuous equestrienne
of the troupe, has allowed herself to be
seduced by one of the actors.
The humbling of Albert is only half
over. At that evening’s performance he
fights the seducer and is horribly beaten.
Afterwards, he screws up the courage
te blow his brains out, but the pistol
misfires and he has no nerve left for
another attempt. (Instead, he puts the
bullet into one of the circus’s dwindling
assets, the old and ailing performing
bear.) The final mood is one of calm
but unhopeful acceptance as the circus
trudges out of town.
The film contains more humor and
variety than might appear from this lu-
gubrious synopsis. As always Bergman
shows the ability to color and decorate
with side-issues and sub-plots without
losing the central unity. He has a
Dickensian flair for making every char-
acter and every scene tell.
There is one possible exception to this
impression of unity and relevance: a
flashback episode near the beginning des-
cribing an earlier incident in the travels
of the circus. This is a superb piece of
filmcraft in itself, but its implications do
not seem to be developed in the main
body of the film. Or perhaps I missed
the point of it; Bergman, even in this
relatively straightforward vein, is never
one to under-estimate the viewer’s
powers of perception.
His Natural Life
Birdman of Alcatraz. Regent, Sydney.
Ourt Lancaster has told the news-
papers this film was produced as a
plea for the release of Robert Stroud who
became a leading ornithologist while
serving, to date, 53 years in prison for
two murders. Bringing enormous direc-
torial skill to such altruistic aims John
Frankenheimer has fashioned a film with-
out a tedious moment in its three hours.
The restraint in his style makes Stroud’s
achievements seem all the more remark-
able. Certain scenes are outstanding;
Stroud coaxing his first pet bird to fly
the will that defied a prison system ap-
parent on every line of his face. The
discussion with the prison Governor
(Karl Malden) on the aim of imprison-
ment, and Stroud's apology to the prison
guard (Neville Brand) who abuses him
for 12 years of impoliteness.
For a film that aims to impress with
complete naturalism though, “The Bird-
man of Alcatraz” has some major faults.
A number of the sets look most uncon-
vincing as prison interiors, and Franken-
heimer never convinces us of the pas-
sage of time so essential to Stroud’s case.
One never believes this man has been
in gaol for 53 years, chiefly, I think,
because the make-up is so appalling.
Lancaster (who gives quite a moving
performance although he still impresses
as an intelligent man who is interested
in acting rather than as an actor) looks
a little grizzled as the years go on but
never seems much older. In the final
scene he looks quite young again. Thelma
Ritter, as Stroud’s mother, suddenly ac-
quires a face like crumpled brown paper
which wouldn’t be out of place in a
horror film. Karl Malden seems to grow
progressively younger.
The script of the film is good, par-
ticularly the dialogue, although too much
of Stroud’s character in his early years
is left unexplained, and the extent of his
mother’s domination is never clear. This
is important as there is some suggestion
this domination was instrumental in the
murders responsible for his sentence.
Stroud’s homosexuality is never even
hinted at. Although this could hardly
be a reason for refusing parole its omis-
sion does represent a bias on the part of


s
M)
38
37
15
66
>4
97
94
)3
40
41
69
99
98
Just one hundred years ago, from
a vat or cask numbered Sixty-nine,
came a Whisky unanimously
chosen by distillers and connoisseurs
in Scotland as the perfect blend.
This is the origin of VAT 69,
and its tradition of excellence
in Scotch Whisky.
More tljan a
... a tradition
BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
NZL4/10.4
.illllllilllllllNi
..
v Y\\ I'lit
"1...1
?/////' W//A\«tt«...
I-
-1


the film-makers. If more of these aspects
had been brought out perhaps the audi-
ence would be closer to the reason why
Stroud has been kept in prison so long,
especially as it is clearly not just a
matter of official apathy.
Only one scene in the film compares
with the more dynamic crusading films
of the thirties, such as “I am a Fugitive
from a Chain Gang,” and “Public
Enemy,” etc. in making the audience
aware an irredeemable wrong has been
done. This is when a doctor tells the
prison Governor that instead of being
refused parole Stroud should be applying
his skill to research on human, and not
bird, diseases.
BRUCE BERESFORD
THEATRE
Eyre on a shoestring
Yl7hat can South Australian amateur
theatre produce to match the en-
vironmental charm of Hayes Gordon’s
boatshed theatre in Sydney? In a grim
struggle to find and hold amateur theatre
audiences, the Adelaide Theatre Group,
led by the indefatigable Colin Ballantyne,
has come up with a logical answer. In
creating the Sheridan Theatre Institute
they have ingeniously adapted one of
the delightful colonial cottages of Lower
North Adelaide to the purposes of a
theatre more informal than intimate.
The audience sit at tables and sip coffee
during the performance, and wander
among the old trees in the garden during
interval.
The first performance at the Sheridan
Theatre concerned itself with three
South Australian one-act plays, two of
them by Colin Ballantyne. “The Ice
Cream Cart,” loosely based on those
events in the First World War known
as the Battle of Broken Hill, is an older
Ballantyne play, recently reprinted in
“Australian One Act Plays: Vol. 2”
(Rigby Ltd). The demented old Turk
who declared war on Broken Hill is
sensitively realised by Ballantyne, but
there is little more to the play than that.
But there is enough to make one wonder
why Ballantyne has not given himself
more devotedly to playwriting over the
years.
This feeling is intensified by the re-
markable power and concentration of
his new one-acter, “Between Gunshots.”
The theme, the relationships of Edward
John Eyre, the native Wylie, and the un-
fortunate overseer Baxter out in the
Great Australian Bight, is one that
obviously had to crop up some time or
other in Australian drama. Fortunately
Ballantyne has avoided both man-to-
man outbackery and portentous explorer-
voyager symbolism. Instead Ballantyne
has taken a rather startling Camusian
view of Eyre and Baxter. They are men
taken over by the manic obsessions
which so often underly the most normal
psychologies. A powerful obsession
relentlessly destroys a weak obsession.
"Waal, it sort of changed after they made Churchill a US citizen!"
Ballantyne envisages pity for neither
Eyre nor Baxter. The world is simply a
ludicrous madhouse when men are freed
from social constraints to become the
sum total of their obsessions.
The whole thing is a splendid piece of
theatre. The major flaw in an original
piece of stage writing is in the realisation
of Eyre’s character; some large hunks of
uncertainty in character and motivation
lead to a finally confused image of “the
Butcher of Jamaica.”
Ballantyne’s “Between Gunshots” calls
for skilled and atmospheric production
to establish the appropriate climate on
stage. One hopes that a peripatetic pro-
ducer like John Tasker will transport it
reasonably quickly to the Eastern States.
MAX HARRIS
Brave Old Tote
The Bald Prima Donna, Eugene
lonesco; The Fire Raisers, Max
Frisch. Old Tote Theatre, Sydney.
Oomebody ought to make a little act of
contrition towards Hugh Hunt
every time a theatre-lover passes through
the courtyard of the Old Tote Theatre
at Kensington. Hunt was the father of
the National Institute of Dramatic Art,
and NIDA is the father of the Old Tote,
and the Old Tote Theatre is the source
of the most valued new influence in our
present stage life.
At the Old Tote, going to the play be-
comes an event, a ceremony almost.
Theatre should be like this; a theatre
should stir the beholder with excitement
as soon as he sees its lights and foyer.
Robert Quentin, with his dedicated staff,
has achieved a whole delight of won-
ders out there, a little theatre to be in-
tensely proud of.
It also has in its current programme
an enormously rewarding night of
theatre. One might quarrel with producer
John Clark’s description of “The Fire
Raisers” as a comedy when it is in
fact a chilling and disturbing morality.
A strange morality, maybe, coming from
that remarkable German lineage that
runs from Buchner through Wedekind
to Brecht, but hardly a comedy. It is a
stark study in chaos, and of those sturdy
makers of chaos the middle classes
who pursue ideals and avoid reality.
Mr Brian James finds magnificent act-
ing answers to the playwright’s challenge.
He sketches for us the whole stupid edi-
fice of the central character, Bieder-
mann’s ideals and mainsprings. As neat
an example of Brechtian epic as you'd
find around, “The Fire Raisers” does not
quite fit neatly into the absurd category,
but is one hell of a play for all that.
Other performances back Mr James’s
work with solid gold. Mr John Bell as
a Fire Raiser showed how well he can


respond to good direction, and showed
again what great natural talent he has
for the stage. Mr Jack Allen, as the
wrestler, Miss Gwen Plumb as Frau
Biedermann and Miss Mary Reynolds
as a servant, carried perfect conviction
with them, though Miss Reynolds still
does too much, a fault that more ex-
perience will trim.
The first play on the programme is
lonesco’s “The Bald Prima Donna”,
which called up continuous gusts of
laughter at its impudent mirror of sub-
urban life. Everyone is called Bobby
Watson, because everyone is the same.
The two married couples are completely
interchangeable and if my memory
serves me, the first version of the play
I read used this device as its ending: the
couple who come to visit stay, and the
couple who owned the house leave. They
are so alike, their homes are so alike,
their clothes are so alike, that they have
no way of telling whether they are in
their own house or their friends’. This
is not the climax of the version used
by Mr Clark, but the point is made
equally well.
“Bald Prima Donna” is pretty early
lonesco and makes a fine to-do with
words that have lost all meaning, and
with people who have also lost all mean-
ing. It is a music-hall riot of a play bril-
liantly produced and realised in Mr John
Clark's direction as well as by Mr James
and Miss Plumb as one married couple,
and Mr Neil Fitzpatrick and Miss Mary
Reynolds as the other. Miss Anne Volska
turned in a deep-etched job as the maid
and Mr Alan Tobin came through his
fireman's helmet superbly. Miss Volska,
again, has the student fault of doing a
little too much.
Mr Heywood’s designs have won much
praise, but I was not completely en-
tranced by them. For a proscenium
stage, they would be superb, but for the
open stage used by Old Tote there
should be much less actual setting.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
Happy Associations
Take the Hint, Channel 9.
Should you ever arrive home and be
greeted with a challenging “Alco-
holic?” or “Blot?” be undismayed. The
“everloving” has been watching an after-
noon show called “Take the Hint,” and
is merely testing your word association.
Without hesitation you should reply
“Anonymous” and “Ink.” That would
prove you a genius.
“Take the Hint” is the most simple
and interesting of the many parlor games
taped in Melbourne for the edification
of Australian women viewers. It would
have more chance of holding an evening
audience than the late, unlamented
“Letter Box.” And it has one of the
most tolerable comperes on television in
Frank Wilson, who seems without affec-
tation, bluster, archness, dimpled charm
or any of the other qualities too often
found in the breed.
The show consists of Wilson and two
contestants partnered by two public
figures of one kind or another —Murray
Rose, Helen Boice, etc. A paper with
a word on it is handed to one of the
four, and also shown on the screen. The
two hinters try to utter words which by
association will lead their partners to
the desired one. When I looked in last
week, one word was “alcoholic,” and
the hinter said “anonymous” and his
partner got it right.
But few of the words are found as
easily, and the viewer is able to par-
ticipate to the extent of sitting on the
edge of his chair and muttering, “Affec-
tionately, you clot.” When such exhorta-
tions are addressed to professors, senior
policemen and the like, the show has
obvious therapeutic values.
That afternoon, “affectionately” proved
a complete stumbling block for the two
women contestants and their heartily
extrovert partners, Bill McCormack and
Alistair McHarg, whose claim to fame
is unknown to me, and whose brogues
and burrs sometimes were baffling.
When the word was handed out, the first
hint, and a good one, was “fondly,” but
instead of leading to an immediate
correct answer, it brought forth every
endearment in the human language
except the desired one. Such lapses make
the show for the audience.
For those who need a break in the
cerebration, the show also includes an
affair described as a Boomerang Quiz, in
which a contestant from the audience
stands watching while numbers from a
viewer’s letter are matched against those
on a board, with one of several prizes
awarded when a certain number has a
boomerang behind it. It provides com-
mercial content, and for the rest of that
I awarded full marks to Wilson as one
of the comperes who doesn't say, “And
now, we pause for an IMPORTANT
message” about cleaner cleanness, or
Shangri-la soap facials.
Obviously my word association on
those is pitiful.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
London’s
Golden Boy
Brett Whiteley. Rudy Komon Gallery.
Sydney.
Dome 18 assorted paintings in oil,
collage, gouache or tempera and two
or three well printed serigraphs comprise
Brett Whiteley’s debut in Sydney after
his success in London where Bryan
Robertson (always a pretty dubious com-
mentator) predicted a golden future.
These words at least give a clear idea
what he is about, something a bit dif-
ferent from the mimicry of local experi-
ments in the body-scape.
Whiteley has a strong landscape sense,
his abstracted views are peopled with
young man's fancies of minimal dis-
solving voluptuousness, not real figures
but erotic essentials, restrainedly provo-
cative without being repulsive.
Perhaps the best paintings here are
just landscapes, rather English, quiet
and subdued. Despite the enjoyment in
the others there is a note of melancholy
boredom, the lineaments of all too well
gratified desire. Sophistication there is,
based on a searching technique and the
essential spark of invention.
JOHN HENSHAW
JAZZ
Home-Grown
The McKimm—Mendelson Quartet.
The Fat Black Pussy Cat. Mel-
bourne.
Tazz in Australia is an imported com-
** modity. The first music was played
here in 1937 when Adrian Monsbourgh,
Sam Benwell, four guitarists (!) and some
others inaugurated the Melbourne Uni-
versity Rhythm Club. Much as one hates
to say it, all jazz played here in the
26 intervening years has been similarly
derivative.
This year has changed that situation.
First, the Bryce Rohde Quartet; now, the
McKimm-Mendelson Quartet, with Brian
Fagan and Barry Woods, are playing
music which has not before been heard
anywhere: making jazz in the ultimate
sense; a whole night of original com-
positions and a group unity which is
truly breathtaking. Incredibly difficult
unison parts taken at Parker tempo, con-
trapuntal improvisation, delicately bal-
anced entries, triple rhythms and an over-
riding unity of content, ever fresh and
challenging, make this a group of the
first magnitude.
ADRIAN RAWLINGS


Always ask for
AINSLIES
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halioran Manton Pty. Ltd.
THE RED PAGE
Not So Henry
The banned bowels of Henry Miller
By PETER SHRUBB
Tropic of Cancer. Henry Miller. John
Calder. 255. (stg.).
Tn Paris, a light is about to go out. It
A is only a small one, but without it
Paris nights will never be the same. For
since 1935, despite all that time and
chance have wrought, there has been
one thing you could be sure of about
Paris at night. You could be sure that
every night a fair-sized number of Eng-
lish-speaking tourists were curled up in
their bedrooms in hotels and pensions
reading the first words of a red paper-
back they’d bought that afternoon on the
other side of the Seine from Notre Dame:
I am living at the Villa Borghese.
There is not a crumb of dirt anywhere,
nor a chair misplaced. We are all
alone here and we are dead.
Hurrying, because this is not what they
bought the book for, they turn over:
This is not a book. This is libel,
slander, defamation of character. This
is not a book, in the ordinary sense of
the word. No, this is a prolonged in-
sult, a gob of spit in the face of Art,
a kick in the pants to God, Man,
Destiny, Time, Love, Beauty . . . what
you will.
They know what they want, all right; it’s
just a matter of finding it.
He’s put a fence around her as if
she were a dirty, stinking bone of a
saint. If he only had the courage to
say “Take her!” perhaps a miracle
would occur. Just that: “Take her!”
and I swear everything would come
out all right. Besides, maybe I wouldn’t
T AST week the UK Attorney-General,
Sir John Hobson, announced that
the British Government would take no
action under the Obscene Publications
Act against the publishers of Henry
Miller’s “Tropic of Cancer The book
remains banned in Australia subject
to the qualifications that university
libraries may keep it “under restricted
access’ ’ and that in special cases pri-
vate scholars or writers who need it
for their work may import it with the
written permission of the Minister for
Customs.
take her did that ever occur to him,
I wonder?
He can’t mean it.
At ten o’clock she was lying on the
divan with . . .
Aha! A bit of value? But not a lot, really.
My idea briefly has been to present
a resurrection of the emotions, to
depict the conduct of a human being
in the stratosphere of ideas, that is,
in the grip of delirium. To paint a
pre-Socratic being, a creature part goat,
part Titan.
Listlessly now, they turn back.
I have found God, but he is insuf-
ficent. I am only spiritually dead.
Physically I am alive. Morally I am
free. The world which I have departed
is a menagerie. The dawn is breaking
on a new world, a jungle world in
which the lean spirits roam with sharp
claws. If I am a hyaena I am a lean
and hungry one: I go forth to fatten
myself.
And next day the tourists go forth to
try their luck with Justine, or Naked
Lunch.
John Calder, an English publisher, has
put Tropic of Cancer on the same shelf
as Lady Chatterley’s Lover in the Char-
ing Cross Road bookshops, freely and
openly on sale, as it is already in New
York; and Paris nights are another fris-
son short. But not a large frisson, for
Tropic of Cancer, although it contains
enough impolite words to keep it off Aus-
tralian shelves, is fairly represented, I
think, by the quotations above; as a sex-
ual stimulant, that is, it is a poor sub-
stitute for a walk down Pitt Street be-
tween twelve and one.
It was, I think, Miller’s first published
work. It has since been follow'ed by Black
Spring, Tropic of Capricorn and Sexus—
aU autobiographical, and all more ex-
plicit, more explicitly orgastic, and less
surrealist perhaps than their forerunner
a travel book about Greece called The
Colossus of Maroussi, and in between
times several books of essays and stories
with titles like The Air conditioned Night-
mare, a blast at modern American civili-
sation that is as lively but extravagant as
its title suggests.
Tropic of Cancer is an account of part
of its author’s sojourn in Paris in
the early 19305. During that time he
was writing a book, bludging on his
friends, chasing whores, drinking wine,
lending an ear to people who had money
and needed an audience, helping friends
in various kinds of trouble, working as
a proof-reader in Paris and an English
teacher in Dijon, observing the love lives
of his friends and neighbors, thinking,
reading, imagining, walking through
Paris, being thrown out of Notre Dame,
trying to find freedom.
It sounds a lot but it isn’t. The book
is practically devoid of story, of event,
of action, of what the simplest literary
art is full of and the most refined seems
full of, of what happens. There are, of
course, passages of anecdote. There is
the series of events that follow Fillmore’s
picking up a decayed Russian princess,
there is the weekend in Le Havre, there
is the engineering of Fillmore’s escape
from pregnant Ginette. But the anecdotes
are discreet in a way that Orwell’s
in Down and Out in Paris and London,
for instance, strung on the thread of
chronology, are not and they are
usually quite short. What is worse is
that for all the sound and fury there is
usually something ineffably banal about
them.
There were about half a dozen girls in
the room, all naked and all beautiful
to look at I must say. They hopped
about like birds while the three of us
tried to maintain a conversation with
the grandmother. Finally the latter ex-
cused herself and told us to make our-
selves at home. I was altogether taken
in by her, so sweet and amiable she
was, so thoroughly gentle and
maternal. And what manners! If she
had been a little younger I would have
made overtures to her. Certainly you
would not have thought that we were
in a “den of vice”, as it is called.
Jealous women have a fight in a bar;
a whore hurries because she is worried
about her mother's health, and Miller is
able to get out without paying; Carl can’t
make up his mind about living with a rich
middle-aged woman who’s mad about
him, and Van Norden doesn’t believe
that what Carl says about the woman is
true; the pipes freeze in the Dijon school.
But none of it seems important or signi-
ficant; Miller’s chief concerns, like those


of the stay-at-home Americans he des-
pises, seem to be dandruff, plumbing,
money and sex. Now perhaps it is true
that life is about money and sex; but
it’s what is said about them, and what is
shown to happen because of them, that
makes books interesting. What Miller
makes happen because of them is crude,
shallow, limited, repetitive, and ordinary.
What he says about them is that only
destruction and ecstasy matter or per-
haps only the ecstasy of destruction.
If any man ever dared to translate
all that is in his heart, to put down
what is really his experience, what is
truly his truth, I think then the world
would go to smash, that it would be
blown to smithereens and no god, no
accident, no will could ever again as-
semble the pieces, the atoms, the in-
destructible elements that have gone
to make up the world.
Do anything, but let it yield ecstasy!
So much crowds into my head when I
say this to myself: images, gay ones,
terrible ones, maddening ones, the wolf
and the goat, the spider, the crab,
syphilis with her wings outstretched
and the door of the womb always on
the latch, always open, ready like the
tomb. Lust, crime, holiness: the lives
of my adored ones, the failures of my
adored ones, the words they left be-
hind them, the words they left un-
finished; the good they dragged after
them and the evil, the sorrow, the dis-
cord, the rancor, the strife they created.
But above all, the ecstasy !
This, of course, is typically romantic,
anarchic, egotistical; there is nothing es-
sentially new or original in it, no matter
how new it feels to Miller. There is a
tradition in which Miller could be assign-
ed his place; at various distances from
him there would be Shelley, Byron, de
Sade, Monk Lewis, Dostoevski, Rimbaud,
Lawrence, the Dadaists, Durrell, Kerouac.
Each has felt himself in some important
way solitary; each, wryly enough, is up
to his ears in tradition. Each was deeply
preoccupied with sex, and, in one form
or another, recommended it. And I must
say that nothing seems more amusing
to me than the thought that while all
these clever men were thinking and
recommending, millions of less clever
men and women were with great satisfac-
tion doing something else, carrying on
another tradition, in another way.
What distinguishes some of these
writers from others, however, is that they
are artists, and in general what distin-
guishes the artist is distance and control.
Unfortunately, as you may have guessed
from the quotations presented above,
Henry Miller is not distinguished for
either; his subject is himself, and his
method is disembowelment. This is bad
in several ways. First, because he is not
really interested in other people, except
as instruments through which satisfaction
can be procured the consumer's ethic
in excelsis he is unable to say any-
thing of much interest about them. Van
Norden, Macha, Tania, Ginette, Fillmore,
Carl, Moldorf and Borowski are all
shadowy figures, insubstantial, unfleshed,
internal. Second, because his method is
disembowelment, he is unable to tell us
anything of any interest about himself.
Telling is a sort of placing; it involves
the construction of a context. Miller, who
tends to regard everything that lasts more
than a few seconds as inimical and
gelatinous, is unable to make a context
that lasts long enough for anything to
stand out against it.
But he does believe in art. Here is
his view of it.
Out of the dead compost and the inert
slag they breed a song that contami-
nates. I see this other race of individuals
ransacking the universe, turning every-
thing upside down, their feet always
moving in blood and tears, their hands
always empty, always clutching and
grasping for the beyond, for the god
out of reach: slaying everything within
reach in order to quiet the monster
that gnaws at their vitals ... A man
. who belongs to this race must stand
up on the high place with gibberish
in his mouth and rip out his entrails
. . . And anything that falls, short of
this frightening spectacle, anything less
shuddering, less terrifying, less mad,
less intoxicated, less contaminating, is
not art.
This, surely, is to confuse the artist
with the work of art and of course
it describes Hitler rather better than it
describes Shakespeare.
There are always some of them around.
The complacency of peace breeds them;
the cataclysms of war breed them; des-
perate sexual shame breeds them; poverty
breeds them; mediocrity breeds them.
Someone like Swift, though, could put
his furies and terrors into shape; he ar-
ranged, he ordered, he transformed. Not
so Henry. What he has to say in Tropic
of Cancer is not only extravagant and
trivial, it is also merely personal.
De Gaulle’s First Revolution
"You don’t imagine I am going to sleep in the bed of the President
of the Republic"
By NEIL McINNES
De Gaulle Before Paris. Robert Aron.
Translated by Humphrey Hare.
Putnam. 575. 9d.
Oobert Aron (not to be confused with
Raymond Aron, who dispenses the
higher sociological wisdom at the Sor-
bonne) published his 780-page Histoire
de la Liberation de la France in 1959,
to follow his Histoire de Vichy. A Lon-
don publisher, for reasons that are not
clear, has brought out a translation of
the first 348 pages of that work, omitting
the maps and priceless lists of sources,
without stating that this is only part of
the original and indeed implying on the
blurb that M. Aron has not yet com-
pleted the whole book. Because the
translation stops with de Gaulle’s arrival
at Rambouillet, on the eve of the libera-
tion of the capital, it has been given a
title that seeks to exploit current interest
in the General’s personality. Yet
M. Aron’s subject is the liberation of
France seen from the French side (i.e.,
omitting the strictly military story of
the Allied campaign from Normandy to
Strasbourg), in which de Gaulle’s per-
sonality is only one element. The par-
tial translation, incidentally, costs, even
in England, much more than the whole
original.
Still, half a loaf is better than none,
and the publisher may yet give us the
rest of this important book. English
readers will then have in hand the only
serious history of the most extensive
revolution that France (which has seen
many revolutions) has ever known. For
the liberation was not just the end of
the Occupation; it was a vast political
upheaval in which two revolutionary
forces, the Communists and the Gaul-
lists, sought to take advantage of the
war on their soil between the Allies and
the Germans to throw out not just the
discredited Vichyites but the whole rul-
ing class associated with the Third Re-
public.
As it happened, these two forces an-
nulled each other and by 1946 there was
a “conservative counter-revolution”
when the old political parties got rid
first of de Gaulle and then of the Com-
munist Ministers and installed the
Fourth Republic. The restoration of the
Old Regime did not last, as everyone
knows, and by 1958 the tide turned
again, as the Gaullists resumed their
original enterprise. Thereupon many of
the characters mentioned in M. Aron’s
account of the first stages of this revo-
lution re-appeared, and they are indeed
in office in France today. This, and not


Gaullist hagiology, constitutes the real
topical value of the book.
After describing the Normandy land-
ing, M. Aron largely ignores the military
war that was fought by Eisenhower,
Patton and Montgomery, and deals with
the political war waged by de Gaulle
and the Communists, each of them seek-
ing to establish immediately an adminis-
tration independent of the Allies in the
Vacuum left by the collapse of the
collabos and the absence of the tradi-
tional governing class. The Allies, as
far as they understood what was going
on at all, deplored this sinister internal
struggle as disruption of their war ef-
fort or as indecent vengeance. Yet M.
Aron makes it plain that, were it not
for de Gaulle's consummate political
skill in checking the Communists, the
British and Americans would have found
that by the time they reached the Rhine
they had a “people’s republic” behind
their backs, established without the help
of the Red Army.
It is almost incredible, looking back
now, that Roosevelt, for example, should
have interpreted de Gaulle’s insistence
on recognition as the political suc-
cessor to Vichy as egoism, ambition and
megalomania. But one has to remember
that Roosevelt was at the time Stalin’s
loyal ally and was quite capable of
losing France to the Communists as he
did all of East Europe. Of course, where
the danger of “the war of national libera-
tion” being transformed into Communist
insurrection was glaringly obvious, the
Americans backed de Gaulle and after
a few bad frights they even grudgingly
admitted what he had saved them from.
One such incident is recounted in de-
tail by M. Aron: the mystery of the
long agony of the Vercors maquis. En-
trenched in the natural fortress of the
Vercors plateau, south-west of Grenoble,
the Resistance “liberated” part of France
and proclaimed the Free Republic of
the Vercors. Even Roosevelt, his eyes
opened by Tito’s achievement in Yugo-
slavia, knew what spontaneous liberation
and free republics meant. So London re-
mained as deaf as Algiers (where de
Gaulle was based) to the pathetic appeals
of the heroes of the Vercors for arms,
until the Germans stormed the plateau
and mercilessly wiped out the maquis.
This sickening affair casts discredit on
all involved, but it shows what was really
involved in the liberation of France: a
struggle for power between de Gaulle
and the Communists, which the Allies
only noticed when someone waved a
red flag under their noses.
In the English version, M. Aron takes
the history of this struggle only up to
the liberation of Normandy and Brit-
tany, where the presence of Allied troops
and the local weakness of the Com-
munists made de Gaulle’s victory rela-
tively easy. There remains to be trans-
lated the story of the much more dan-
gerous Communist bid for power in
Paris and south of the Loire, and then the
ultimate trial of strength between them
and the Gaullists in the country as a
whole. Already in this first part, how-
ever, all the elements of the struggle
are described and one can measure the
extent of the Gaullist achievement. M.
Aron, I should make clear, is no wor-
shipper of the General and he is writing
a history, not an anti-Communist tract.
He simply shows that the Liberation
opposed two political forces and he re-
cords how one of them checked the other
before losing power itself.
Readers who are attracted to the book
by its misleading English title will not be
entirely disappointed. Though they will
find the long chapters on the takeover
of the administration by the Free French
tedious, they will be rewarded by glimp-
ses of the General’s fantastic character
that are not available elsewhere. Ending
with de Gaulle’s halt at Rambouillet
(one of the presidential palaces on the
outskirts of Paris), the translation con-
cludes with the anecdote of him refusing
to sleep in the best bed of the castle,
dutifully made up by a deferential quar-
termaster. “I hope you don’t imagine
that I am going to sleep in the bed of
the President of the Republic!” ex-
claimed the General whom Roosevelt,
Churchill and tutti quanti credited with
precisely that ambition. Yet this was not,
as you might believe, Caesar refusing
the crown. It was more like Saint Just
refusing to put on Marie Antoinette’s
crinoline. The bed of the President of
the Third Republic was not good enough
for the revolutionary de Gaulle, and
when he later consented to sleep in it at
the Elysee Palace it was after destroying
the “republic of the old parties” with
his own hands.
The Xerographs
The most exciting adventure in the publication of Australians ever
entered on
By M. H. ELLIS
nPHE Public Library of South Australia
has initiated a project which might
profitably be copied by other libraries
which deal in Australian history.
Having discovered the existence of the
electronic “scanner” copying machines,
one of the greatest advances in reproduc-
tion of documents of all kinds, it is pro-
ceeding to turn out in laige numbers
reasonable facsimiles of out-of-print and
rare volumes of Australiana, even to the
colored plates.
It is an enterprising adventure and one
which should pay highly profitable divi-
dends. The process of xerography is
basically simple. The object or sheet to
be copied is merely placed face down on
the scanning glass, a number to indicate
the quantity of sheets to be printed is
dialled, the copying button is pressed
and the copies roll off. That is how the
xerox works in its simplest form. Pre-
sumably the South Australians are using
something a bit more complex since they
are reproducing very beautifully
colored plates and steel engravings
with an accuracy which puts to shame
such publications as the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society’s edition of
White’s Journal in which the reproduc-
tions bear only crude resemblance to the
lovely originals.
The process is not cheap, and the edi-
tions are naturally limited; but not so
limited that they do not make available
to libraries, serious students and collec-
tors facsimile copies of books copied,
exactly in the original form and appear-
ance, save for paper and the natural
differences from exact sizes in some
cases.
The Library is issuing its reproductions
unentombed in the mass of schoolteach-
ery explanation and annotation which is
fashionable in the East of Australia and
which tends to suggest generally that
the original is subordinate to the explana-
tion by the particular amateur who is
working his expertise to display his
knowledge.
The South Australian editions bear, in
addition to the genuine text, xerographi-
cally produced, only a title page showing
that the book is No. so-and-so in the
Australiana Facsimile editions, the year
of publication, the catalogue details for
reference in the Public Library, the
Ferguson number and the fact that it is
reproduced from a copy in the Library.
They are beautifully bound, the bindings
presumably being facsimiles of the copies
in the Library, the paper is beautiful and
the “type” fadeless.
The volumes are in fact collectors’
pieces saleable at prices which make
available, for from two to eight
guineas, works which sometimes do not
come on the market for years together
and which, when they do, command
anything from £4O to £lOO or more.
As an example, the latest venture, the
two volumes of Captain Charles Sturt’s


See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-3966
Please send copy of your KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
My Travel Agent is..
827/4
r WJ
KLM:
Q 238
Plan to include Bangkok (for the same air fare)
next time you fly with reliable KLM
Emerald Buddha Temple (or Wat Pra Kaew), Bangkok.
(i have a good time and forget about time from Bangkok KLM has 9 flights weekly to all parts of the world)
Experienced Australian travellers know that
KLM has a world-wide reputation for
reliability. This is just one of many reasons
for choosing KLM next time you fly to
Europe. Others include KLM’s experience,
KLM Budget Travel Plan and other
passenger services and Bangkok, city of
the gods, where east and west meet happily
together.
1. From Bangkok, KLM flies every-
where. Thailand is the focal point of South
East Asia. From Bangkok International Air-
port, KLM flies to Japan, Singapore,
Manila, India, the Middle East, Africa
(points N. S. E. and W.), all three Americas,
Western and Eastern Europe and Australia.
KLM’s DC-B's leave Sydney at 11.30 a.m.
Wednesdays, arriving Bangkok at 9.40 p.m.
the same day. Just about halfway to Europe,
it’s an ideal resting-place for a few days. If
you want to fly straight on, however, KLM
will get you to Europe reliably on Thursday.
2. Bangkok is the door to Angkor Wat,
legendary Cambodian city less than 2 hours’
flying away. Discovered 1861, the Khmer
Empire capital has vast battlements and
terraces, vaulted galleries and staircases,
soaring towers shaped like lotus buds. Every-
where are carvings of bewildering richness.
The massive Angkor monuments dwarf
even the wonders of Egypt, Greece and
Rome. The job of saving Angkor is in pro-
gress, and worth a world journey to see.
3. Exotic east with mod. cons. Old and
new meet and mingle peacefully in Bangkok.
Temples, palaces, jewelled statues, golden
staircases, picturesque ruins (and dancing
girls). Fairytale architecture, charming
traditions, monks in their orange robes, the
famous floating market of the Chao Phya
River.
All this and 1500 (or more) hotel rooms:
spacious, comfortable, generally air-condi-
tioned. Modern shops, racing, golfing, bowl-
ing, theatres and water-sports. Superb food
cooked in almost every national style. Try
authentic Thai dishes, try mango ice cream.
Beer is both local and imported.
4. Elephants and progress. In Thailand,
modern comforts and age-old monuments
give elbow-room to each other. Even the
elephants make way graciously for progress.
Bangkok’s famous Wats (you’re allowed to
call them temples) raise their spires all over
the city. Even a traffic jam is bearable set
against the calm progress of slow boats on
a canal. The Royal State Barges, sleek and
teak, may be seen on Bangkok’s river.
Go shopping. It’s a rewarding bargain-
hunt with excellent local goods at believ-
able prices.
5. Reliable KLM offers Budget Travel,
which covers 55 cities throughout the world,
allows passengers 2 nights at an air-condi-
tioned Bangkok hotel. Plus the famous
“floating market tour” and an extra halfday
tour (choose from many). All for only £l2.
You can arrangp and pay for hotel accom-
modation before you set off.
KLM has carried over 12 million passen-
gers, a total of fourteen and a half billion
passenger miles. A KLM plane takes off or
lands every four minutes somewhere in the
world. KLM insists on reserve power. The
engines on a KLM jet are so powerful it
could continue flying with only 2 working.
At take-off, your captain keeps a full 20 per
cent of engine power in reserve.
6. Your Travel Agent knows all the
answers. He’s a professional at arranging
trips, at knowing all the extras that make all
the difference. He knows KLM's Multi-
Stopover Plan, which lets you stop off for
days or weeks at any or all of over 30 cities,
including Bangkok all for the fare to
London.
He can organize your Bangkok stopover
for as long as you like. If you're mad about
poisonous snakes he’ll see you visit Bang-
kok’s famous snake farm. Two of every 3
KLM passengers are recommended to fly
KLM by experienced Travel Agents.
Note: You can buy a KLM ticket for one-
tenth down, then take two years to pay the
rest. Mail coupon below.


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D' Box 2671, G.P.O. Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
Two Expeditions into die Interior of
Southern Australia During the Years
1828-31 is catalogued by A & R’s for sale
at present at 40 guineas; but the SA Lib-
rary people have issued their two-volume
edition beautifully bound in imitation
vellum with gold-leaf titles at £7 7s.
complete with seven black and white and
four lovely color plates and two maps.
One of the maps is a folding map 23]ins
x 18] ins, reproducing the contemporary
official Colonial Office Chart of Discov-
eries in Australia up to 1830. This is a
magnificent chart drawn by a master and
invaluable to all students ct the pristine
period of early free settlement and ex-
pansion. And so, for that matter, are
the texts of the volumes themselves since
they cover Sturt’s resume of exploration
up to his time and the stories of his ex-
ploration of the Macqu trie River, his
discovery of the Darling River in 3 828,
the first account of the country beyond
west of the Macquarie Marshes and his
story of the pioneer journey down the
Murray River and description of its en-
vironment. Few great secondary schools
and libraries which have not the resourc-
es to acquire originals (even when avail-
able) will not want to own this edition
and many others of the same family.
The amazing thing is that so little has
been heard publicly of the South Aus-
tralian venture. It has been proceeding
with incredible speed. Publication began
in March 1962, as “part of the Public
Library Board’s contribution to the Ade-
laide Festival of Arts”. In the interven-
ing year it has produced what might be
termed the basic testamentary of the
foundation of South Australia in 39 vol-
umes covering all the main items essen-
tial to the basic research student of col-
onisation and exploration of South Aus-
tralia and its dependency, the Northern
Territory, up to John McDouall Stuart’s
diary of his journey across the Territory,
1861-62.
The edition includes Wakefield’s Plan,
all the relevant pamphlets and publica-
tions covering the proposals for, and rea-
lisation of the colonisation of South Aus-
tralia, the early descriptions of the explor-
ation and settlement and establishment of
civilisation in the colony including the
works on a German settlement in Ger-
man by Kaulvers, Listemann and Diesel-
dorf. The series was topped off with
Gill’s Bibliography of the Colony up to
1938 and Torrens’ system of convey-
ancing on which the standard method of
Australian land tenure is based and
Teichelmann and Schurmann’s Outlines
of the Grammar, etc, of the aboriginal
language of South Australia
After having completed this task, the
South Australians began tc invade the
East. They have published Carboni’s
Eureka, McKinlay’s journal of explora-
tions of the interior while conducting the
search for Burke and Wills with Whyte’s
sketch of McKinlay’s expedition, Sturt’s
two-volume journal already mentioned;
and they are entering on the reproduction
of Oxley’s Journals of the exploration of
New South Wales and other adventures
which could have been done by the
Eastern libraries and National Library
long ago.
It is the most exciting \enture in the
publication of Australiana ever entered
on. It introduces a new epoch in the
availability of printed source material
for the study of early Australian history,
and a new avenue for the collection of
fine reproductions.
Australian Drawings
Elwyn Lynn. Contemporary Drawing.
The Arts in Australia. Longmans.
6s.
T ongmans’ “Arts in Australia” series
has had marked ups and downs, but
the overall tendency has been towards
steady improvement. The latest volume,
“Contemporary Drawing,” edited by
Elwyn Lynn, is by far the best to ap-
pear, and is worth every penny of its
very modest price. Earlier volumes have
attempted to bite off too much, and to
bite it off already well-cultivated fields.
The virtue of the present volume is that
it makes the best use of its limitations.
With drawings there is at least an even
chance of good reproduction, and the
editor has contrived to keep the com-
mentary both economical and provoca-
tive. Most of the commentaries have
been contributed by the artists them-
selves, and they have by and large
thoroughly justified their editor’s faith.
It is obviously not possible, with 30
plates, to give even an adequate account
of contemporary drawing, and of course
no attempt has been made to do so.
No doubt many might quibble about the
selection, but for my part I find it ad-
mirable. Lynn is one of our best-in-
formed art writers and he has succeeded
here in giving a balanced and positive
impression of the contemporary scene.
By letting the artists speak for them-
selves, he has succeeded, too, in giving
a valuable glimpse into contemporary
currents of thought, about art generally
as much as about drawing. The artists’
attitudes to drawing run the full gamut,
from looking on it as a prelude to paint-
ing through to regarding it as an end in
itself.
BILL HANNAN
From Gallipoli
Anzac Newsreel. A picture history of
Gallipoli. Cyril Pearl. Ure Smith.
17s. 6d.
np HERE are some historic events about
which one can never know enough.
Gallipoli is one of them. It is not that
there haven’t been vast amounts of
published information available ranging
from Bean’s sober history and Mase-
field’s romantic one to Alan Moore-
head’s vivid recapitulation. But every
new published work on Gallipoli adds
just a little more to a picture that in
a way can never be completed. One of
the values of Cyril Pearl’s “Anzac
Newsreel” is that it does not try to be
too ambitious but manages to end up
being simple and eloquent.
It is a limited pictorial history with
a concise, informative text. The pictures
have been chosen with care and an eye
for a certain type of pictorial simplicity.
Conditioned by the stories of uncles and
fathers, by 3 thousand half-remembered
pictures of one’s youth, others might
have made a different choice, looked for
different things. I think I would have.
But the range is wide and the taste
excellent when extended to include small
pictorial gems like “Birdie” swimming
for instance.
Mr Pearl has gone out of his way to
feature the indirect photograph, the one
that tells a story by implication such as
the tired soldier sleeping or trying to
sleep —in his trench. Others are
graphically direct —the bomb makers
on the beach, the marksman using a
trench periscope, an Australian innova-
tion.
Nearly 500,000 Allied troops landed
on Gallipoli between the assault and the
evacuation to fight nearly 500,000 Turks.
Each side suffered 250,000 casualties.
Australian casualties were 26,000;
nearly 8000 killed. It was a tragic and,
as it turned out (as it must have always
turned out), wasted effort. Perhaps in
its way the most poignant picture in the
book turns out not to be of strained
faces, or of Diggers playing cricket on
Shell Green or of the crosses above the
sea, but of the great supplv dumps going
up in flames at Suvla Beach at the end
of the miraculous casualty-free evacua-
tion.
P.D.H.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Beef Cattle at “The Royal”
By M. H. ELLIS
T'he remarkable features of the beef
cattle display at Sydney Royal Show
were, first, the success of the conven-
tional horned breeds, secondly, the
emphasis obvious on local preferences
in meat type and the emergence of the
Herefords as the premier selling breed.
For long the Shorthorn was King of
the Range in Australia for a variety of
reasons: its size and scale enabled a
maximum of meat (irrespective of
quality) to be packed on to four legs; its
tendency to roan colors which sup-
posedly indicate a better hide and less
predilection to sunburn on the western
saltbush fringes; its capacity as a
“walker” and “good doer” under drought
conditions; and its ability to produce
sturdy, strong framed, long-stepping
working bullocks with the digestion of
an ostrich.
As a mixer with other breeds for early
meat production the Shorthorn was ad-
judged supreme. The Angus were farm
rather thar range cattle and there was
some prejudice against the Hereford be-
cause of its white markings, which were
alleged to be susceptible to scalding.
There was also a delusion that the Here-
ford was not hardy under dry grass-feed-
ing conditions, despite the proof of its
hardihood in such regions as the more
stony and chancy country of the Flin-
ders on which the breed proved itself a
good and frugal traveller able to stand
up to droving some of it very rough
and stock-whippy.
Until a few years ago the Hereford
was essentially a coastal breed, its great
studs limited to country like that of The
Esk-Dugandan region in Queensland.
Then, of course, there were some fine
Victorian studs reaching their highest
pre-World War II point in years.
The Hereford began really to go in-
land as a stud animal with the advent
of the Sparkes stud on the Western
Darling Downs about half a century ago.
The rise of the breed in general began
with the development of closer pastoral
settlement and with the visit of the
secretary of the British Hereford Herd
Book Society in 1923 and with the ad-
vent into the field of such men as the
late Jack Tanner, who belonged to a
distinguished Hereford breeding family
of the Severn River country in the West
of England, and who as head of various
stock firms was adviser, philosopher and
friend to some of the great Hereford
studs Hobartville and Golf Hill in
particular. He was a considerable in-
fluence in bringing the breed forward.
Today, there are many Hereford studs
of high rank in Australia but the displays
both in the horned and polled sections
this year were scarcely of world stan-
dard. The comment of the English
Judge, Mr J. H. Everell of Shrewsbury,
England, was that Herefords here gener-
ally are rangier and bigger than overseas
animals of the breed, too prominent
shoulders detracting from blocky sym-
metry desirable in stud beefs. The
exhibits in general were inclined to be
wire-haired and in many cases recalled
the Scottish cattle jingle:
Whenever the nose
Is inclined to be sootie
That fact must disclose
A connection with Clootie.
There was, in fact, an undue number
of Herefords which carried about their
noses a hint that Auld Clootie has a
large stud.
On the whole, the Shorthorns were
better in conformation and earned praise
from the distinguished Argentine Judge,
Senor Carlos Duggan, who said that they
compared well with the specimens of the
breed he had seen and judged in the US.
I notice, rather sadly, however,
that they are losing their traditional
color characteristics and tend to be
more universally red as a prevailing
color. The lovely purple roans of the
Derrimuts and Angus Waterloos and
Anthony Hordern’s Marthas seem to have
disappeared and the whites of A. J.
Simpson and Milton Park are becoming
more unfashionable than ever.
Despite everything, however, at the
most poorly attended sales for some time
the Herefords, and particularly the
horned Herefords, held supremacy. They
had plenty of bidders in both types, but
there was a slump in polled Herefords.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Professor Francis and Calf Feeding
Sir, Although 1 did not make the
claims on the nutritional value of “Den-
kavit Calf Milk” which surprised Pro-
fessor John Francis, I feel I am possibly
best able to substantiate them, since I
rear about 350 bull and heifer calves on
Denkavit each year.
The fact that some of the Drought-
master calves reared on the mother
weigh 3001 b. at 12 weeks is not sur-
prising, since the birth-weight of a bull
calf of this breed would probably be be-
tween 100 and 1201 b. whereas my
dairy calves weigh about 801 b. and
many reach 3001 b. on Denkavit in the
same time.
To clarify the argument, I will state
baldly that one gallon of Denkavit will
equal or beat one gallon of fresh cows’
milk in achieving straight weight-gain in
controlled trials with all breeds of calves
so far tested.
It is not suggested that Denkavit, a
100 p.c. Australian dairy product, should
replace the cow in beef production, but
it offers the first practical means of
rearing some of the 2 million dairy bull
calves which either die of neglect or are
slaughtered at birth each year in Aus-
tralia. It also offers a means of increas-
ing the size and improving the constitu-
tion of our dairy heifers, which at
present are among the world’s worst;
and in reducing the mortality during
rearing of these dairy heifers to below
the present 30 p.c.
As far as I can learn, no worthwhile
research has ever been carried out on
calf nutrition in Australia, excepting pos-
sibly the wartime work of Geddes for
the Meat Board, and we should all wel-
come the knowledge now available to us
from Holland, which leads the world
in this field.
KENTON G. SCHOEFFEL
“Cotswold Farm”,
Menzies Creek (Vic.)


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
A Move for Lower Brokerage?
Chairmen of the various associated Stock Exchanges of
Australia are getting together shortly in Adelaide for an
annual natter on what’s good for the Exchanges, the
brokers and the public. It is quite likely that brokerage will
be on the agenda.
With so many speculators or traders absent from the share
market these days it is most likely that ways will be discussed
on how to entice more traders back into the market. The
obvious method is to reduce brokerage.
Doubtless, such a move will be resisted by some. But there
are sound reasons for at least considering the inequitable scale
of brokerage rates which unduly penalise the small investor.
When buying “big” shares at 80s. or more, the rate of
brokerage is 14 p.c. This is a low cost to the investor com-
pared with brokerage rates on the so-called “cheap” shares,
where the rates are 24d. a share on ss. (4-1/6th p.c.), 2d. a
share on 3s. (54 p.c.) and Id. a share on Is. (84 p.c.).
The rates become even more restrictive when considered
in terms of in-and-out trading, where shares are bought and
sold within a fairly short period. The cost of trading in a
“big” share priced at 80s. or more is only 24 p.c. It is 84
p.c. on 55., 11 p.c. on 3s. and 164 p.c. on Is.
Now, a dividend of 10 p.c. is considered to be a substantial
distribution on a ss. share. The amount of that dividend
paid for a full year’s investment is 6d. a share. But the in-
and-out buying and selling of that share, if it is priced between
ss. and 9s. lid., is sd. a share. This almost offsets a year’s
dividend. In fact, if the share is priced at 10s., in-and-out
brokerage is 6d., without considering stamp duty.
Quch anomalies would be eliminated if a standard brokerage
rate were introduced. Supposing the 14 p.c. rate were
applied to all transactions? This would simplify all dealings
and, with decimal currency due in February, 1966, there
would be a great saving in office work.
True, there is just as much paper work and fiddling around
with a transfer of 100 shares at ss. as there is with 100 shares
at £5. But it costs just as much to have a person sitting
around in a broker’s office all day to handle one transaction
as it does to handle 20.
There are various possibilities which could be considered
to entice traders to scan the share lists once again. One of
these possibilities is to eliminate the double brokerage if the
shares are re-sold within a period, say, of two or three months.
The single brokerage idea is nothing new. It was applied to
mining shares not so many years ago.
There is another possibility: Credit margins, such as exist
in America. However, this has never proved a popular
suggestion and there are unhappy features about the prospect
of a client’s being sold out if the price falls below his margin
and he is unable to put up further cash.
If investors were asked for their suggestions on methods
likely to induce more share trading, they might request such
things as a flat brokerage rate, single brokerage on in-and-out
dealings within three months. They might also suggest
quarterly company reports, a quarterly directors’ certificate
lodged with the Attorney-General punishable with imprison-
ment if found to be inaccurate. Some of the Sydney “regulars”
may ask for creature comforts like chairs in Kindersley
corridor and provision of binoculars in the public gallery
so that share prices can be read from the official board.
Speculators also might like the Six-Weeks’ Delivery period
extended to three months to match the increased writing of
Stock Option business. But, of course, you can’t have every-
thing.
QUALITY IS THE
BABY-SITTER
YlThen the US Navy nuclear submarine Thresher was re-
” ported lost, a Navy official drew attention to the lack of
quality standards in the supply of equipment from commercial
contractors. The theme of his argument was that contractors
did not always maintain the strict quality control so necessary
in these days of exact nuclear science.
It is a frightening prospect when each tiny piece of equip-
ment may mean the life or death of many men. Casual
observers may recall that in one of the initial US astronaut
flights a last-minute check revealed a faulty door (missed
in earlier checks) which could have spelled failure for the
orbital flight and death to the astronaut. There must have
been other faults not so widely publicised.
We are in an age of exactingly high scientific requirements.
But the commercial line of supply still relies on profit motive,
mass production where possible, and the frailties of human
error.
The commercial battle of survival certainly is not necessarily
one of scientific exactitude. The modern image has been con-
structed on the basis of annual obsolescence. Scrap last year’s
model and buy a new one!
Tt has been called quite aptly an economy of waste. The con-
A sumer is attracted, or seduced if you like, by attractive
packaging, styling and appearance. But the life of the product
is designed in such a way that it will wear out or be obsolete
within a comparatively short period. Designers do not always
set out deliberately to fashion a model which will be outmoded
within a year. They know that competitors will come out
with a better model anyway which, in turn, will be super-
seded by their own new model.
In the process, the reliability, durability and quality of
material is pushed into the background. A minimum “get-by”
standard is accepted so long as sales acceptance is likely.
It is argued that money is needed for an expensive promotion
campaign, thus restricting the amount which can be sunk


in basic materials. Also, funds must be reserved for tooling-up
operations to create a new model.
When it comes to the final retail price, the retailer, the
advertising man or someone else along the line may have
made more profit than the manufacturer. The public cannot
point the finger because this trend in modem merchandising
has been fashioned by the public’s consumer demand . . .
an omnibus title which covers fads, gimmicks, gadgets and
novelties appealing to the over-stimulated “modern.”
Unfortunately, the real weakness of such a system is revealed
harshly when intrinsic quality is demanded for today’s compli-
cated and costly weapons or machines. Are we, then, reaching
the oft-predicted stage where men are more expendable than
materials? Improvement in manufacturing techniques has
contributed to the higher standard of living which is the hot-
house of population explosions. But the individual is forced to
be a specialist who, too frequently, knows insufficient about
the maze of machines which mushroom faster than he can
learn.
It would be a sad conclusion if, in the futile race against
time, man destroyed himself by insufficient attention to
technical detail. Sometimes it seems that quality is the baby-
sitter while the parents race the machines.
THE CREDIT STANDING
OF RED CHINA
Tn 1961, when Australia first sold wheat to Red China on
credit, the calamity-howlers began predicting every sort of
financial strife up to and including Chinese abrogation
of the deal and the loss of our wheat.
Perhaps to the pessimists’ disappointment but to the delight
of Australian wheatgrowers, China has met every payment on
the due date.
Between December, 1960, and the present we have sold her
190 million bushels worth £l3O million much of it on
12-month credit terms. Never once in that time has the
Australian Wheat Board had to chase up its payments . . .
which is something that can’t be said of some other nations.
In the last few months there has been another wave of
reports that Red China is desperately low in foreign exchange.
But China, obviously anxious to preserve her credit standing
abroad, has just given her answer.
First in Canada and then in Australia she stepped in
uninvited and made big prepayments on wheat shipped in
preceding months. In Australia’s case the prepayment
exceeded £7.6 million and covered payments due at various
times between April and June.
A substantial reason for the prepayment was, of course, the
saving in interest entailed.
The rate of interest charged by Australia on the Chinese
wheat deals has never been revealed, but has played an
important part in enabling us to get Chinese contracts in the
face on Canadian competition.
THE ENIGMA OF
EXHIBIT C 5
lot of steam has been expended in the Margins case
to prove that the 1962-63 Budget would have a less
exhilarating impact on the economy than originally intended,
and even that the Treasurer attributed more lifting impact
to it than could, on the sums involved, be rightly inferred.
The first point to get clear is that the arguments used in
this debate had nothing to do with the simple and now widely
appreciated fact that, as The Bulletin stated at the time,
the Treasurer sadly miscalculated the response of the loan
market in the current year. As a result of that miscalculation
he finds himself not only full of funds, but also with a lagging
economy. The failure to reduce interest rates as far back as
last September and the reduced recourse to Treasury Bill
finance following the bountiful harvest from the loan market,
have combined to deny the economy the right degree of
stimulus.
Without acting as an apologist for the authorities, it must
be said on this point that the economic signs around Budget
time last year did indicate a full-blooded recovery, and both
the Treasury and the Reserve Bank necessarily had to take
note of them. Also it was necessary to heed the advice from
key financiers that care should be taken lest the economic pace
get too hot for the maintenance of stability.
Now the authorities at last have plumped for lower interest
rates as a stimulant and, for all the absence of a long-term
issue in the £256 million Conversion set for next month,
Australia is on the right track in monetary policy. Unless
things go too well in this direction, a further stimulus possibly
can be expected from the fiscal sphere in August. (It is a bit
late in the year for the Treasurer to give any tax reductions
to help things along at this stage.)
This being said, it would be altogether wrong to over-state
the arguments used by Mr Hawke in the Margins’ case to
put the Treasurer and the Government in the place the Unions
see them.
In other words the measurement of the right degree of
stimulus needed by the economy from fiscal moves is not a
calculation that can be made simply within the Budget figures
themselves. It has to be related also to the general force of
income generating influences on the state of economic activity.
Ten years ago a rough measure of the fiscal stimulus
was the extent to which Treasury Bill finance was being
employed. Admittedly with the extended use of bank credit
and bank contributions to Government loans, the issue of
Treasury Notes and so on, the issue of Treasury Bills is only
one straw in the general wind today. The measurement of
stimulus from Treasury sources has become much more
complicated.
The question is whether the sums in Exhibit C 5 (the table
of Budget results and estimates submitted by the Common-
wealth to the Arbitration Commission) put even the now
generally accepted concept of the “cash deficit” out of court,
leaving the play to the consideration of whether fiscal stimulus
should be measured by the extent to which the difference
between overall expenditure (including the cost of redemptions)
and receipts (including loan proceeds) in one year exceeds
the difference achieved in the previous year.
For all the malevolent purposes of Mr. Hawke in calling
for it, this raises a new vista on the fiscal scene.
TARIFF REDUCTIONS?
AFTER YOU, PLEASE!
Tt seems the world is faced with a never-ending round of
tariff negotiations, all neatly wrapped in the shiny cello-
phane of high-sounding political phrases like ... “A challenge
to greatness.”
Australia is asked: Are you ready to join us? And lower
down in the fine print somewhere you will find some statement
where a US official warns that any wriggling through a chink
in the American tariff barrier could be done only as a part
of a world-wide lowering of trade barriers. It’s a case of that
old school game: I’ll see Fly. You do it first, then we might
try to emulate you.
Or, in polite tariff language, it might be called: ‘After you,
please’.
In these days of excess productive capacity in agriculture
and manufactures the hard facts ■of nation-to-nation trading
are that each nation is fighting to retain its markets or break


Wls ioifa pemtQC f/um youA MJmm,
O ' w
V&
> $•
vt*
; x* .„«*>
>**#«>
■«r*
: - i
N*
tot -fliejj lovQ if /
We show youngsters how to make banking a
pleasant and profitable habit. It’s their first
commercial experience, and a happy one.
We give teen-agers straight facts—explain to
them how their deposited money is used by the
Commonwealth Bank.
We encourage young adults to use our cheque
accounts to their great advantage, but wisely.
As a result, our younger customers provide a
useful percentage of the funds we can lend to
other Australians who have decided to “Bank
Commonwealth. ,,
And that “useful percentage’’ is most helpful,
because we are now lending more than a million
pounds a week for one purpose alone—to help
our customers to build or acquire homes of their
own.
Appropriately enough, our lending for home-
building has its effect in creating greater
employment, new communities, better living
standards for young people to enjoy.
We know that, in time, some of our young cus-
tomers will seek our advice about their own
financial problems. And rightly so: mutual
confidence is an essential element of full service
banking.
Commonwealth
TRADING • SAYINGS • DEVELOPMENT
Banks
CB 24.103


COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
'
INCREASE
PROFITS
©
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
T AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
into overseas markets to sell surplus pro-
ducts already on hand. Government sub-
sidies, direct or indirect, already have
proved effective in side-stepping tariff
barriers. Dollar loans, with conditional
strings attached, also help to exclude
cheaper goods offered by other com-
petitors.
Trade memberships like the European
Free Trade Area and the Common
Market, look like exclusive clubs formed
to exclude competitors. The huge litter
of expensive political edifices erected in
the past to iron out difficulties for mutual
benefit seem to be part of a huge confi-
dence game to chisel concessions out of
someone who is soft enough to believe
he is meeting that challenge to greatness.
But doesn't it boil down to the fact
that the best horse trader usually gets
the best horse? Unless a nation has
something worth trading, or is willing to
make some sacrifice, it is squeezed out
of the next high-sounding trade pact or
trade area agreement. Too many trade
and tariff organisations are formed like
a chain of public companies, each one
hoping to improve on the wreckage of the
last.
Bargaining or bartering will never be
superseded and the International Mone-
tary Fund, or World Bank, after all is
only a nations’ bank where you get a loan
if you have the right collateral or
guarantee.
LOPSIDED TRADE
WITH JAPAN
While Mr Holt was quite right in say-
ing in Parliament last week that
Mr Whitlam’s Brisbane outburst against
Union Oil’s letting of the Moonie pipe
contract to a Japanese firm was an in-
centive to direct action by unionists to
I ban imports of Japanese steel, the proper
1 economic response would have been
merely to cite the still very lopsided
state of trade between Japan and this
country.
! This would have been the more appro-
| P r >ate because negotiations for a new
I trade treaty, as much wanted by ourselves
I as by the Japanese, are not finalised. And
despite the huge balance of trade still in
jour favor, our exporters are still striving
I valiantly to sell more to Japan.
Incidentally there was hardly a mur-
'mur in New Zealand when that country
i last week let a contract for 100 railway
■ Wa ggons to the Japanese.
Although the yawning gap in our trade
vvit h Japan was narrowed somewhat in
the six months to December last, the
problem of reducing it much further will
remain intractable unless a more reason-
able acceptance of Japanese imports gains
ground here.
The gap between imports from Japan
(£49.5 million) and our exports there
(£186.9 million) in 1961-2 was £137.4
million. In the last six months of 1962
imports from Japan had risen to an
annual rate of £67 million, compared
with an annual rate of £44.8 million in
the same six months of the previous year
as against an increase of 21 p.c. in our
total exports to all countries.
EMPLOYMENT OF
SCHOOL LEAVERS
HPhe economy may not seem to be
bounding ahead, but the absorption
of the bulk of male school leavers over
the last few months is at least high testi-
mony to its underlying strength. There
were only 11.4 thousand junior males on
the unemployment register in March
less than half the number employed in
December and only 3700 more than last
October.
The absorption of junior females has
been far less satisfactory, the 18,000
registered in March being down by only
3,400 on the December peak and 7,200
up on last October.
Even without correcting for seasonal
factors, unemployment of adults, both
men and women, was slightly higher than
last October, 38,000 (38,300) men and
16,600 (15,800) women.
CARRYING TAKEOVERS
MUCH TOO FAR
I>ritish Labor Party surveys claim
that Britain spends only 12 p.c. of
national income on social security and
is well behind other European nations
which spend the following percentages
of national income: Italy 15 p.c., Austria
17 p.c., France 18 p.c. and Western
Germany 20 p.c.
The British Labor Party frequently
has advocated a National Pension Fund,
covering unemployment, sickness and
death. Compulsory national insurance
also has been suggested in Australia at
various times, although there appears
to be a greater awareness here that a
high level of social security destroys the
incentive to save and make personal
provisions for emergencies.
But the thought occurs that, if
nationalisation of life assurance com-
panies took place in Australia, the
government (through MLC) would own
a chain of electrical retail stores. Would
these State-owned stores automatically
leave the Government open for criticism
as a step towards a Communist state?
Makes you think, doesn’t it?


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Full-Blooded Case for Protection
A few years ago the Australian In-
dustries Development Association
undertook a Survey of Australian Im-
ports for 1957-58. This showed that only
65 p.c. of imports in that year could
be regarded as essential, and that the
remaining 35 p.c. could have been re-
placed by goods produced by industrial
capacity already installed here, giving
employment to an additional 100,000 (at
least) persons in industry.
The association thinks that import re-
placement capacity of industry has in-
creased substantially since then. It is
now to make another survey based on
imports for 1961-62, borrowing an ex-
perienced officer of the Customs and Ex-
cise Department for a year to do the job.
It points out that population increased
by 8.8 p.c. over the four years
since its last survey, and the expansion
of established industry and the exploita-
tion of new resources in that period will
also be taken into account in measuring
the increase made to import replacement
potential.
The new survey seems destined to
prove that, given higher tariffs, local
producers will undoubtedly succeed in
capturing a much bigger share of the
Australian market. Indeed, it will with-
out much doubt show that our capacity
for doing this, taken on a volume basis,
is very much greater than it was five
years ago.
But AIDA knows, probably as well
as anybody, that, given the existing level
of industrial capacity, the most critical
factor in import replacement lies in the
level of the tariff. Thus, to extend im-
port replacement and also to further the
development of Australian industry, it
is engaged in a relentless campaign to
increase tariffs.
Oo it isn’t surprising that AIDA took the
opportunity, afforded by the rumpus
over the Tariff Board last year, to line
up a committee of its own and outside
experts, including two economists, to
make another verbal assault on the whole
question of protection. The printed re-
sults of this came to hand just in time
for consumption over Easter.
We’ll come to its main recommenda-
tions presently, but one section in par-
ticular, in the body of the report, will
raise a few eyebrows among economists.
This is on the cost of protection.
“There is little evidence that the pro-
tective system has been a major factor
affecting the Australian price structure
in general,” it says. “For example, Aus-
tralia’s one bout of serious price infla-
tion in recent years, from 1948 to 1952,
(after some years of stringent controls
on prices and consumption) resulted
from many factors devaluation, the
change to the 40-hour week, boom wool
prices, huge basic wage increases, hot
money, pent-up consumer demand, and
so on. (Since then, the Australian rate
of price inflation has been at an ac-
ceptable world average; lower, for ex-
ample, than in agricultural countries
such as New Zealand and Denmark,
lower than in the UK, Sweden, France
and a great many other countries.)
“A whole complex of internal and ex-
ternal policies and forces have framed
both our price structure and standard of
living and will continue to do so.
Amongst these, protection has a minor
influence on prices, but has resulted in
many social and economic benefits.
“The view that tariffs in particular
increase farm costs, thus influencing the
development of our rural export indus-
tries, ignores this complex of factors.
“1^i gur e s of costs in various primary
A industries published by the Common-
wealth Bureau of Agricultural Econo-
mics, suggest that the magnitude of in-
crease in cost brought about by protec-
tion can be far less significant than an
uncritical acceptance of this doctrine
would lead one to believe. A large per-
centage of these costs is made up of
charges which bear on all businesses to
a greater or less degree. These are costs
of labor, freight, insurance, interest,
rent, taxes, depreciation, marketing, fuel.
Then there are specific items like seed,
fodder, and fertiliser.
“The items in these two categories are
determined not by a protective tariff but
by the general price structure of the
economy. They can amount to 90 p.c.
of total costs. The remaining elements
of cost which may be higher as a re-
sult of the tariff, in these cases, would
amount to 10 p.c. of total cost.
“Items within this group would be
subject to varying rates of duty, but,
applying the national average rate of
12 p.c., the increase in cost brought
about by protection is little more than
1 p.c.”
While saying much of interest on the
types of protective devices to be used
and the principles on which their appli-
cation should be based, the report’s
main recommendation is that a Depart-
ment of Secondary Industry should be
established and its activities co-ordinated
with the Tariff Board on defined lines.
It states that: “It would be the res-
ponsibility of such a department to
acquire a thorough knowledge of all
aspects of secondary industry and its
place in the economy, and to consult
with industry representatives on all as-
pects of its needs and problems. It
would be responsible for administering
Government policy in respect of secon-
dary industry, including its policy on
protection.
“HPhus a Department of Secondary In-
dustry, which had a comprehensive
Government policy to work on, and with
a knowledge of the operation and prob-
lems of secondary industry, and of other
economic influences affecting secondary
industry (for example, trends in the
wage rate structure, overseas trade
balances and terms of trade, desirable
growth rates, population trends, etc.),
could readily determine whether the de-
velopment of a particular industry or
type of industry were desirable in the
national interest.
“Administration of protective policy
in respect of secondary industry would
then be envisaged along the following
lines: —
“A manufacturer or intending manu-
facturer would present to the Depart-
ment of Secondary Industry its case for
protection. The department, applying
the principles of Government policy set
out in chapter VI, would decide whether
it were in the national interest that
assistance be given, and, if so, the
general form of assistance most appro-
priate and acceptable to the industry.
Should this be through tariff, bounty or
import licensing, the determination would
be handed to the Tariff Board with an
appropriate reference to decide what
extent and type of tariff, bounty or
import licensing procedure would
achieve the desired protection.
“Where other devices or means of as-
sistance are considered necessary (in
place of, or in addition to, tariffs and/or
licensing) the department would be res-
ponsible for seeing that appropriate
action is taken. For example, if finan-
cial concessions are involved, arrange-
ments would be made for their execu-
tion through the Treasury. If research
needs to be undertaken which is outside
the scope of industry organisations, ar-
rangements would be made with
CSIRO or other appropriate Govern-
ment institutions.”


• • •
A happier choice for every occasion
MGOve:
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . v ST. AGNES
“CROESUS”
Less Fire in Trade Talks
The Minister for Trade seemed to be
flattering himself, on leaving for the
forthcoming GATT meeting, in attribut-
ing America’s new trade policies to the
persistent lobbying of his department in
Washington.
The Trade Expansion Act is much
more probably the result of fears that
the United States might be the odd man
out in trade with the Common Market,
and was conceived long before Mr
McEwen’s big beef at the big bad indus-
trial countries of the West for their ap-
parent indifference to the long term needs
of the smaller primary produce export
countries last year.
At best the pin-pricking of Australia
in Washington before that mostly went
unnoticed, as anybody concerned with
lead and zinc exports to the US will
attest.
But he was quite right in saying that
the international climate for primary pro-
ducers is much more propitious as a
result of the change in US policy, re-
flected in the Trade Expansion Act,
though it must be admitted that Britain's
failure to clinch a deal with The Six has
spiked the implementation of the Act
on a number of commodities in which
Britain and The Six account for 80 p.c.
of international trade.
He was also correct in being more
optimistic than he appears to have been
for some time on the outlook for primary
export prices and for the getting together
in world commodity agreements.
Taken in the round, world commodity
prices are now above the level of 1958.
The Economist index is now showing an
advance of 5 p.c. over that year which
marked the substantial recovery from the
depths of 1956-57.
Moreover sugar, one of our major ex-
port commodities, has been in the fore-
front of the rise in world commodity
prices over the last year with a leap from
£26 to £6O a ton, though there are some
doubts on whether this sort of level can
be held. A softening in sugar could be
expected before many months are out.
Again, wool has been a star turn in
export markets over the last year, par-
ticularly in recent months. This time last
year wool tops (645.) were 109 pence
a lb. now they are 121 pence. This is,
of course, of high significance to us.
Of the metals, even lead and zinc, for
so long a drag on world markets, have
been rising, though rather gingerly of
late, and not in full response to the strong
world statistical position of both metals
The London tin price has gone to
£stg.74 2s. 6d. That is higher than it was
this time last year.
Admittedly lead at £5B a ton is still
below the £62 a ton of this time last
year, but it is well above its “low” over
the last year. But zinc is now £73i a
ton compared with £7oi a year ago.
Copper, an increasingly important. Aus-
tralian export, is about the same level as
in April, 1962—just over £234 a ton.
Of course, nothing very tangible is
afoot overseas to suggest that Mr Mc-
Ewen is going to find the big importers
any readier than they were last year to
get down to hard business on world com-
modity agreements.
Indeed, without countries like Aus-
tralia, Canada and New Zealand (whose
exports were threatened by Britain’s
pressing candidature for the Common
Market last year) breathing down their
necks, the big primary products import-
ers are more than likely to indulge in
delaying tactics on the world commodity
front than they were a year ago.
Moreover, Country Party leader
McEwen is not going overseas to sell
Australian manufacturers down the river.
He made that quite plain at the airport
on his departure.
“I will be stressing,” he said, “that
any international formula, which assumes
that a developing country with young in-
dustries can lower its industrial tariffs, is
impracticable.”
He confirmed this in America when
he told J.F.K.’s special Trade Minister,
Mr Christian Herter, that no primary
producing country (whose basic pro-
ducts normally do not qualify for high
tariffs) could afford an “across the board
slash in tariffs”.
One would not envy the British Minis-
ters in the task of dealing with McEwen
this time when talking about possible
terms for a new trade agreement between
Britain and Australia to replace the 1956
model which is up for renewal.
He has stated he won’t be negotiating
for the renewal, only sounding out Bri-
tain's views; but it will be interesting to
find out Britain's attitude towards Com-
monwealth preference now, after their
expressed willingness to scrap the whole
edifice to get into the Common Market
last year.
All in all, this should be a much
quieter trip for the Minister for Trade
than his errand last April when, single
handed, he aroused the gravest suspicions
in Europe that the insistences of the
Commonwealth primary producers might
make Britain's Common Market applica-
tion altogether too much of a good thing
for The Six.
OFFICE EQUIPMENT
4aa Office Equipment Mart, Inc.,
Detroit, USA, is interested in ex-
porting office machinery and equip-
ment to Australia. The US Consulate-
General has available a list of the various
types of machinery offered for export.


Buying a house or land?
••
vmsm
mmmm
V
TOP
SEEKING
FINANCE
It’s here! Buy your house or land with
finance from Mercantile Credits Ltd.
If it’s an older type property, Mercan-
tile Credits Ltd. will still help you.
Both first and second mortgages are
available for a large proportion of the
purchase price. You can buy land, too,
through Mercantile Credits Ltd. If you
already own your home, advances can
be made for extensions—or any other
purpose.
You’ll do far better with Mercantile
Credits. You pay a reducible rate of
interest on monthly balance. Long term
repayments if you wish.
Consider how you’ll benefit. Mercantile
Credits Ltd. also help you with hire
purchase finance, company loans, and
offer a Lease Plan for business and
professional men. Talk over your finan-
cial needs with an executive of
Mercantile Credits Ltd.
BEFORE YOU SIGN ANY FINANCE AGREEMENT
IT IS TO YOUR ADVANTAGE TO CONTACT
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
ALL UNDER
ONE ROOF!
Keep all your business
■ —leases, hire purchase,
mortgage and loans with
Mercantile Credits Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
10-14 Underwood St., Sydney.
BRANCHES:
118 Queen Street, Melbourne.
301 Ann Street, Brisbane.
329 King William St., Adelaide.
115 St. George’s Ter., Perth.
33 Ainslie Ave., Canberra City.
117/63
OIL SEARCH
Unkind to the Internationals?
Without wanting to join in any quarrel
" between the international oil com-
panies and Australian-owned oil search
groups, there are one or two points in a
letter—far too long to be published in
full—from Phillips Petroleum which sug-
gest that The Bulletin takes a some-
what one-eyed view of the oil search
scene because of its expressed opinion
that oil search should be speeded up and
that neither the internationals who domi-
nate it in this country nor Governments
are doing enough about it.
Phillips says that the reason why inter-
national oil groups should spring to atten-
tion when Mr Sprigg (of Associated Oil)
accuses them of taking their time about
exploration (Bulletin, March 30) is not
made clear.
Well, here is what Mr J. J. Tanner,
manager of the Phillips’ Australian
operations, considers to be the reason:
“Oil exploration is exceedingly ex-
pensive and must be conducted in the
face of the knowledge that for any given
project the probability of success is very
low indeed.
“The main determinant in the current
slackening off in the rate of exploration
is the fact that no commercial discovery
has been made in the 15 months since
the Moonie No. 1 strike, despite greatly
increased drilling. Hence the drop in
oil share prices; hence the decrease in
new capital floats for oil exploration.
“The management and shareholders of
international oil companies are just as
reluctant as their Australian counter-
parts to support increased expenditure
without encouraging results.
“Fortunately, there is still a high degree
of optimism for the eventual outcome on
the part of most companies operating in
Australia and an actual decline in ex-
ploration will not occur for some time.
However, unless a new discovery is
found, the present mild boom in explora-
tion and drilling will inevitably fade, re-
gardless of what the Government may
do, and regardless of the number of ex-
perts urging others to spend money.
“The world oversupply of oil is not
a villain in the case; in fact the oil glut
has aided, not hindered, oil search in
Australia for the simple reason that oil
found here can be sold instead of being
held in the ground until a market is found
under exceedingly competitive conditions.
“The surplus of seismic plants in Aus-
tralia that Mr Sprigg deplores is due to
the fact that they cannot find employment
elsewhere, and their owners are hopeful
that the next big boom will be in Aus-
tralia.
“Sir William Spooner has ably answer-
ed Mr Sprigg’s criticism of Government
policy on subsidy. Obviously all people
engaged in oil exploration were disap-
pointed when the subsidy rate was re-
duced, but most of us were encouraged
by the increase in the subsidy budget,
which is certainly the more significant
figure.
“There is room for argument as to the
optimum amount of subsidy, and Mr
Sprigg should be encouraged in his cam-
paign for increase. Few of us can find
serious fault with the Government’s
administration of the subsidy acts, how-
ever. Whether the reduction in percent-
age rate was wise remains to be seen.
“One can presume with some confid-
ence that it will be raised if the current
subsidy budget is not expended.”


INVESTMENT SECTION
Boral Bubbling Over
advisers of Bitumen and Oil
-*■ Refineries (Australia) Ltd are bub-
bling over with ideas.
After failing to reach agreement on
a merger with H. C. Sleigh Ltd, di-
rectors have turned their attention to
Mt Lyell Investments Ltd.
Mt Lyell not only offered a captive
market for Bitumen’s oil products
through Mt Lyell’s shareholdings in Aus-
tralian Fertilizers Ltd, Cuming Smith
and Mt Lyell Farmers Fertilizers Ltd
and Wallaroo-Mt Lvell Fertilizers Ltd,
but other listed investments and a fair
swag of cash uninvested from the £3l
million received last November for the
sale of its holding in British Insulated
Callender’s Cables Ltd.
The formal takeover offer addressed
to Mt Lyell Investments revealed that
since June 30 Bond's share premium re-
serve has increased by £2 million to
£6,300,853 as a result of the issue
to BHP By-Products Pty Ltd.
The share premium reserve will be
enriched by the issue to Mt Lyell share-
holders (assuming the takeover goes
through), and must hasten the day for
a generous bonus.
Trading results for the six months
to December 31, 1962 hoisted earnings
to an annual rate of 39.7 p.c. against
24.9 p.c. in 1961-62.
Purchase of four Mt Lyell Investments
shares at 7s. lOd. allows entry to this
flourishing concern at 245. 4d., after
allowing for the 7s. cash to be paid
by Boral. Boral shares were at that time
available at 265. There is no dividend
difference, but brokerage costs sd. more
on four Mt Lyells than on one Boral
share.
Lend Lease in the News
far from the headlines is Lend
Lease Corporation. And the shares
have drawn more attention lately for a
number of apparent reasons.
Victorian investors may be more in-
terested since the news that the front
line development company, Lend Lease
Development Pty, is project man-
ager for the £5 million Princes Gate
(Melbourne) railway development, and
about another £5 million projects in and
around Melbourne.
ACT residents should be impressed
with Lend Lease, as head lessor of the
Monaro Shopping Mall.
And certain Sydney buyers are bet-
ting that Lend Lease wiil succeed in
collecting almost £1.4 million extra for
construction of Stage One of the Opera
House.
The ss. shares are currently around
13s. 3d. where the immediate income
return is 3.8 p.c.
Barriers Away!
Tnterim statements from the Barriers
Broken Hill South and North Broken
Hill, and publication of the year’s results
by New Broken Hill Consolidated Ltd,
fully support The Bulletin’s recom-
mendation of these stocks in the issue
of February 16.
Souths, lifting interim dividend
from 3d to 4d a 5s unit, predicted a
55p.c. increase in profit to more than
£900,000 for the year to June 30.
Norths, some two weeks earlier, rais-
ed its interim dividend from 4d. to sd.
a 10s. unit, and predicted that profit for
the year to June 30 would be increased
by 140 p.c. to around £1,450,000.
Price of Souths has increased since
mid-February from 11s. 9d. to 13s. and
Norths from 20s. to 235. 9d.
Souths has sold off some of its invest-
ment to finance the Alcoa and Cobar
projects, and is making further calls on
its contributing shares.
In the year to December 31, New
Broken Hill recovered £5tg79,876 of
the £5tg566,373 profit fal! of the previ-
ous year. The cut in the interim dividend
of Id. a ss. share, was restored in the
final payment of Is. Id. so that the year’s
distribution was unchanged at Is. 6d.
sterling, and took £366,160 of the
£650,888 profit.
Since mid-February the price of New
Broken Hill shares has advanced from
425. to 51s. The return, on a 30 p.c.
dividend rate, is 3.7 p.c.
Some purchasers have been influenced
by the theory that Conzinc Riotinto of
Australia, which owns 32 p.c. of New’s
capital, might consider tidying up this
interest by buying out the shares held by
the public.
GNP Growth Rates
A Melbourne broker draws attention
to the close correlation of growth in
America’s gross national product and
long-term share price movements there,
as seen by one of the security analysts
in the United States as a result of an
examination of the 62 ears of this
century.
The inference taken is that if the US
can show a compounded 4 p.c. annual
increase in GNP at constant prices, which
is regarded as a conservative estimate of
the probabilities, share prices should reach
2.2 times their present level by 1979.
Allowing for 2 p.c inflation a year,
prices would be 3.3 times higher than
now.
The broker thinks this US experience
would be reflected in the outside world,
including this country, where a 5 p.c.
annual growth rate ir GNP should, in his
the world of business
"Look, J.B., a significant break-through."


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
Registered
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
PER ANNUM lO YEARS
PER ANNUM
6 YEARS
PER ANNUM
3 YEARS
>
>
Prospectuses and Forms of Application should be
obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
i Brisbane, Perth.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form referred to in and attached
to the prospectus.
C 281
view, be regarded as a target minimum.
“If this is so, there should be very little
worry about the long terms trend of
stock prices in Australia,” he says.
f Watch Chcm. Materials
A stock which is normally tightly held,
Chemical Materials, has been sub-
ject to some selling pressure lately—
possibly from ex-management sources.
The shares have been traded down
from 15s. 6d. to 13s. 6d. this year.
Someone, expecting the shares to fall
further, took a put option on 500 at
13s.
Legal action with a former managing
director was not expected to give grounds
for any doubt as to the company’s con-
tinued progress and success, directors
said in January last.
In late February, directors followed
up with exact figures of profit for the
half-year to December 1962—£66,511
before tax, compared with £58,103 for
the previous corresponding period.
Based on the interim report, last year’s
earning rate of 18.6 p.c. should be ex-
ceeded in 1962-63, so that the 15 p.c.
dividend (usually paid in December in
one lump) will be better covered.
The stock normally is favoured by
institutional support, so any continuation
of the present price trend could be con-
sidered as technical in origin, and an
opportunity for individual investors.
Metiers Plugs the Drain
/General Industries (the Metters
group) has at last plugged the
drain of its resources by removal of a
large part of its productive force from
the 50-year-old plant at Alexandria, to
Bankstown.
Although substantial non-recurring
expenditure was involved, the company
was able to reverse last year’s loss of
£489,220 for a profit of £124,483 in the
latest year to February 28.
The profit was arrived at after pro-
viding £54,182 for tax, but there are
sizeable accumulated tax losses which
can be carried over.
Cost savings arising from the integra-
tion of appliance manufacture, in what is
one of the largest plants of its kind in
the Commonwealth, will mostly be re-
flected in 1963-64 results.
As 1961-62 was not notable for activity
in house-building, which largely deter-
mines the demand for electrical appli-
ances, stoves, baths and sanitaryware, the
result achieved by General Industries has
all the appearance of a definite recovery.
On the news, the 20s. shares rose
Is. 4d. within a day to the half-way
mark of 10s. but for those interested in
a recovery stock, this one could still have
some prospects.
The reduction in interest rates on
housing loans is an encouraging factor
for the medium term.
No Walkover for Tarax
llTithout any statement from directors
” as to what shareholders would ex-
pect in the way of a final dividend, the
market for Tarax Drinks Holdings shares
fell very flat when the interim was cut
from 10 to 5 p.c. The ss. shares have
lost about ss. from the end of January
price of 19s.
Breaking into the Sydney market has
been no walkover, as at least two new
manufacturers have stepped into that
market, and price-cutting has resulted.
Tarax’s Sydney subsidiary is now
breaking even. The Melbourne company
was more profitable than ever, and group


rr
01
D&I
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
■■ TS mmi
!vXv!;X'l^WPWlv!v!v!;^^^P;;
f»m
*K #Jfc
Tr
52 £
•JMpMK :j|jW:
Sf'. 3@S|>liP
::Mxv:x:atawitt:v:'>x-:^
: : :i2&E : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :)illliilli: : : : : : : : : : : : : : MUM : : :
3
I
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6|% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7£% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications, will proceed only on one ot
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank ot New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
sales were higher, but directors expect a
lower profit for the year.
Last year Tarax distributed 20 p.c.
dividends from earnings of 24.7 p.c.,
but the days of such generosity are ap-
parently over.
McEwans in Canberra
/"Opening success of the Monaro Shop-
” ping Mall in Canberra is not only
due to Lend Lease’s planning and con-
struction, but to the fact that Canberra
shoppers were starved for quality
fashion goods (with city service) and
such mundane items as nuts and bolts.
Canberra males now spend their lunch-
hours gloating over the array of hard-
ware displayed by McEwans, Melbourne’s
counterpart of Sydney’s Nock and
Kirby.
McEwans, troubled in 1960-61 by
the economic squeeze a c it affected
builders, was able to cover its dividend
requirement once more with 1961-62
profit, and the main subsidiary increased
sales by 23 p.c. in the six months to
December 1962.
Canberra builders were bankrupted
at unprecedented rates in 1961, and the
Canberra subsidiary which then had
no retail outlet—incurred a loss of
£5,100.
The latest interim report, issued in
mid-January, said McEwans’ Mildura
subsidiary promised to achieve the best
result for several years, and the Can-
berra company was trading profitably.
The 10s. shares, on a 10 p.c. dividend
rating, return 6.2 p.c. from recent price
of 165., and should have more life in
them yet.
In on the Boom
boom in car sales appears to have
benefited United Motors (Holdings),
Adelaide Holden and Pontiac dealer, as
much as any company. But, somewhat
conservatively it seems, it has reported
merely in terms of a significant better-
ment in results for the six months to
December last.
This company reconstructed at the
end of 1959 with a virtual one-for-one
bonus and a subsequent one-for-one cash
issue to enable it to form a wholly-owned
finance company to finance its vehicle
sales.
Like most other car retailers, its earn-
ings rate slipped back last year but only
from 28 to 19 p.c. and the dividend was
cut from 15 p.c. to 12i p.c. This year
a return to at least the 28 p.c. earnings
rate looks highly likely; so does a lift in
the dividend.
Even failing a dividend rise the shares
yield 7.4 p.c. at the current price of
around Bs. 6d., behind which is a net
assets backing of 13s. lid., for the ss.
shares.
Valiant Success
/Chrysler Corporation’s decision to
spend £32.1 million over the next
ten years in Australia is a booster for
Chrysler distributors, Harden and John-
ston Ltd of Sydney, Austral Motors
Holding Ltd of Brisbane and Winterbot-
tom Holdings Ltd of Perth.
The president of the American com-
pany said the decision was prompted
partly by the extraordinary selling suc-
cess of the Valiant.
Chrysler has a controlling interest in
the French car firm, Simca, for which
these three Australian companies also
act as distributors.
As the directors made no dividend
predictions after last December’s one-
for-three bonus, Harden and Johnston ss.
shares are still evaluated on the pre-
bonus rate of 20 p.c. At present price of
17s. 9d. the shares thus return 5.6 p.c.
at the very minimum.
Interim dividend for the December
six months is usually paid in July, but
an interim report precedes this by a
couple of months.
Since January 1962 when the Valiant
first became available, Harden and
Johnston has attained greater market
stature, assisted by the bonus and divi-
sion of the shares to ss. denomination.
The stock should continue to rise in
market estimation with a new model due
in June and a station waggon in Decemb-
er.
Berrima Meats Fancied
A tiny NSW company by Stock Ex-
change standards —which has been
on the lists about three months is Ber-
rima District Meats Ltd. Paid Capital
is £123,765 in ss. shares, now fully-
paid.
The company was formed in mid-
-1959 by graziers and retail butchers of
the Berrima district who were anxious
to establish an abattoir and by-products
plant at Moss Vale (NSW).
A public placement, mainly to resi-
dents of the district, allowed Stock Ex-
change listing this year.
On the basis of slaughtering 3,000
sheep, 300 cattle and 75 pigs weekly,
management estimated that the com-


z-*'
For my money
it's a...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN 31% INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/l/S*
pany could earn 18 p.c. on capital and
pay 8 p.c. dividends.
During the two years of establish-
ment, the company has lost about
£3,000 a year.
The shares are already a shilling
above par, and hopefuls are predicting
that Berrima could be another Conkey.
World Trade Centres
seek business here
Two leading World Trade Centres in
the USA have advised the American
Chamber of Commerce in Australia of
the interest of their members in export-
ing to, and investment in, Australia.
Additional information may be obtained
from the Chamber.
The two organisations are:
Port of Houston World Trade
Center, Houston, Texas, and the
New England World Trade Center,
Boston (Mass.).
SPECULATORS DIARY
Greed to the Fore
"Orobably helped by the expectation of
yet another addition to the Kennedy
clan, the Dow Jones index is almost back
to its historic high. It broke through
the much publicised “700” barrier some
weeks ago. In less than a year, it has
dipped and risen 30 p.c. compared with
the fluctuation of a whole 3 p.c. for the
Sydney Stock Exchange index. This
state of affairs is all very well for the
patient, but not for my mob.
Hence, one might think that Harden
and Johnston is listed in the wrong
country.
Working on the theory that the
Valiant should be able to match that
share’s superb performance, I asked
Harden and Johnston to line up their
models for inspection. Not only did they
not have one on hand, but not until
June is the next shipment expected
and that will be the new model.
The total year’s sales figure must
surely be sobered down after the sensa-
tional increase of 120 p.c. in the first
six months. The profit should still be
very good but, in the above light, per-
haps the share at 17s. 9d. is fully priced.
Greed came to the fore also when I
calculated the profit of £134 at this price.
Selling a share I’ve had for four
months is quite different from selling
short. I discovered this with Carrier
which I just managed to scrape out of
at Bs. 9d. only to see the share slide back
to Bs. 3d. Perhaps it was the Carrier
experience or, perhaps, the total com-
mission charged of Bd., that decided me
against shorting Amalgamated Chemicals.
In its short history, Amalgamated
Chemicals has been one of the most
widely recommended stocks. The earn-
ings record is most impressive. With
takeover bids thrown in, it would appear
a perfect glamor stock.
Yet the tax provision of £246,000
was suspiciously low in comparison with
the profit of £509,000. Also tucked away
in the annual report are large transfers
from the Share Premium Reserve to two
accounts enough to confuse the most
enthusiastic layman “Reserve Against
Investments” (£143,000) and “Elimina-
tion of Contractual Commitments of a
Capital Nature” (£158,000). As the
item Investment was only £425 in both
the 1961 and 1962 balance sheets, the
magnitude and, indeed, the need for such
a transfer is beyond my understanding.
As for the second item, one share-
holder asked at the annual meeting
whether this was the settlement of a
service agreement with Mr J. D. Wilson,
the managing director, and Mr J. Olims.
It appeared that this was always the
purchase price (<£157,000) paid by Wil-
son and Olims in the issue to them on
March 28, 1962, of 160,000 and 50,000
shares respectively at i Os. premium.
Although the market price was about
18s., directors apparently thought 15s.
was a fair price.
So, behind the scenes, Amalgamated
Chemicals looks less rosy. But with the
market almost getting the better of me
(oh, those oil shares!), I let the matter
rest.
Perhaps it was this cautious frame of
mind that made me fall back on two
shares that had already been in the port-
folio, ANI and Kolotex.
The interim report of ANI was as
good as could be expected. Sales were
equal to the 1960-61 period when the
earning rate was 8 p.c. The company
also came back to the dividend list with
a 3 p.c. payment. Understandably, the
ss. shares rose to 4s. 7d. but have now
slipped back to 4s. I bought 1000.
Kolotex also had an encouraging
interim report. A “substantial increase”
in sales and a “very distinct” increase
in profit read very well. Like my dear
friends Holyman Woods, it is another
company that has undergone reconstruc-
tion. The old company, Rosslyn, was in
a pretty desperate position. Now, less
than two years later, the new entity is
considering paying a final dividend.
Another ANI case where the shares have
come back from 4s. lid. and, as with
ANI, I ordered 1000 shares.
I end the week with £213 to my
credit. Transactions were:
SOLD
800 Harden & Johnston, 17/9 .. £697
BOUGHT
1000 ANI, 4/1 £213
1000 Kolotex, 4/2 £2lB
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/4
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 14/6
1000 Tasman 7/1/63 1/2 lOd.
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairy mead 21/1/63 41/- 46/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/9
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/ lOd.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lOd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 51/-
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 8/11
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 2/-
2000 Gen. Ind. options 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/-
1000 Holyman Woods 4/4/63 4/5 6/2
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 ANI 18/4/63 4/1 4/1
1000 Kolotex 18/4/63 4/2 4/2


REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B|% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in
the Company's Prospectus which is available
at all branches of the Company's Bankers,
the Bank of New South Wales, any Member
of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited.
Applications may be made only on the forms
attached to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
'Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE CCI6O/1
ONE TO BUY
Union is Strength
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd
nPHE novel aspects of the MLC Ltd’s
bid for the Sydney electrical re-
tailer H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd
over-shadowed all other news even of
bigger takeovers around the Easter
break.
Now the tumult has subsided, The
Bulletin proposes the shares of the
target company as a means of cheap
entry to a value investment, to wit the
MLC.
Terms of the offer which has been
recommended by Palmer directors
are four MLC 20s. shares for each 25
H. G. Palmer ss. shares (i.e., 16 MLC for
each 100 H. G. Palmer with 21s. cash
paid for fractions).
On prices of around 19s. for Palmers,
versus £6 4s. Od. for MLC, entry can
be made via Palmers at a discount of
approximately 3s. 4d. a share, after
allowing for brokerage and the dividend
difference of Is. 4d.
MLC as one of the “Big Three” of
Australian life offices is the only one
listed on the stock markets. It was on
the unofficial list as The Mutual Life
and Citizens Assurance Co. Ltd, until
the holding company was formed in
July, 1962, by exchange of three new
20s. shares for each 20s. share formerly
held.
The holding company’s financial year
ends on April 30. Interim ordinary
dividend of 6s p.c. (Is. 4d. a share)
indicates a total annual payment of
131 p.c.
The last accounts presented by the
Mutual Life and Citizens Assurance Co.
were for the 1961 calendar year, which
reviewed the growth over the previous
25 years. The first £lOO million of assets
were built up over 68 years, the second
£lOO million in the following seven.
Of the total assets of £217 million,
£2l million (9.84 p.c.) was then invested
in shares, £l6 million (7.26 p.c.) in
debentures, and £lO million (4.66 p.c.)
in company notes.
So long as the holding company owns
at least 75 p.c. of shares in The Mutual
Life and Citizens, directors will ensure
that at least 2i p.c. of declared profits of
the ordinary branch and the industrial
branch will be credited to the holding
company.
It is understood that this year MLC
shareholders will receive 3 p.c. from the
ordinary surplus and 4 p.c. from the
industrial. MLC takes all the general
surplus, which should show material
increase over previous performances.
MLC’s venture into retailing by the
Palmer takeover is not so illogical.
After all, life companies invest in
thousands of companies over which they
have little or no control. (One share-
holding of interest is the 49.1 p.c. of
Alliance Holding Ltd’s issued capital.)
It is generally recognised that Palmer
will contribute at least £.430,000 to
MLC’s profits this year, and the cheaper
borrowings in future could save another
£250,000 net, without counting on any
growth in Palmer’s business under the
MLC umbrella.
The immediate earnings from Palmer
will, because of MLC’s share premium,


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
Australian Equity Corporation Ltd is engaged in Commercial and Industrial Finance
including Hire Purchase, mortgages, leasing, bills of sale, discounting and bulk finance.
A NEW ISSUE AT PAR OF £250,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8'
P.A. 5-10 YEARS
4 YRS. 3 YRS.
7i% P.A. 7T% P.A.
2 YRS.
7% P.A.
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
P.A. 5 YEARS
4 YRS.
8% P.A.
3 YRS. 2 YRS.
7\% P.A. 7i% P.A.
(Also shorter term currencies to 3 months)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
# Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67-7701
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9-3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
# Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
# Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
# Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
9 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
1300'
be about 70 p.c. on MLC capital issued
for the takeover.
The prophetic statement made at the
time of the formation of MLC Ltd that
“the increased scope of the Memoran-
dum of Association of the MLC Ltd
could enable future enlargement of the
company’s activities to be made with
consequential benefit to shareholders”
now can be interpreted to mean there
will be similar excursions into fields
beyond insurance.
Potential investors in MLC need not
feel that the Palmer horse has bolted
beyond reach. MLC shares were
£6 11s. 3d. immediately before the
takeover was published, and they have
been as high as £7 2s. 6d. earlier this
year. Entry via Palmer is recommended
for a long-term holding.
Packaging Group Quieter
W. Williams, recently in the news
A for its abortive bid for Sargood
Gardiner, turned in a lower profit for
the year to December 31. Abnormal
expenses of £24,239 were incurred.
The group, which originated as a
farm and station supplier, also produces
plastic articles.
The 1962 profit dropped by £ll,Oll
to £86,602, giving an earning rate of 9.7
p.c. Included in this are dividends from
companies in which F. W. Williams has
a half-interest, but not its equity in the
retained profits of those companies.
These associate companies are St
Regis - Williams Pty Ltd, a paper
packager, incorporating the old Bates
(Australasia) and Australian Sisalkraft
proprietary companies, and Commerce
International Pty, distributors of Piper
aircraft.
F. W. Williams’ interest in the
retained profits earned by these com-
panies dropped from £109,149 to
£81,373.
Association with the St Regis Paper
Co. of America gives F. W. Williams
shares more “class” in investors’ eyes
than it would rate on its solo per-
formances.
The 10s. shares have dropped to
30s. 9d. to return a dividend yield of
3.3 p.c. on the steady 10 p.c. dividend,
which was uncovered by the 1962 earn-
ings.


Oil? Yes, but Where?
In what sort of rocks has oil already
been discovered in Australia? And
where are future discoveries most
likely to be made, having regard to the
nature of Australian geology?
The Petroleum Information Bureau
recently gave a run down of the answers
to both questions in a timely review in
the Petroleum Gazette. It deserves a
wide audience in the light of the import-
ance of the subject to Australian dev-
elopment. i
The fact that most of the world’s oil
up to the present has been produced
from geologically younger sedimentary
basins is due partly to the concentration
of search and drilling in the most promis-
ing areas, that is, in the younger basins
from which oil is still seeping to the
surface and giving visible manifestations
of buried treasure.
Older sedimentary deposits, being
generally formed of denser rock, are
more tightly sealed and therefore give
fewer surface indications of the presence
of oil.
Australia is rich in both young and
old basins. The youngest thick marine
deposits are found principally along the
south coast —the Gippsland, Otway, Mur-
ray, and Eucla basins—and the Carnar-
von basin in the west. These extend on
to the existing continental shelves which
themselves are mostly thick sea-floor
accumulations. These arc being built
out from the coast by the deposition of
sand and clays along with entrapped
organic matter. Wide continental shelves
that have been developed in this manner
stretch outward from the Continent in
the north-east and north-west.
Costly to Drill
Ouch off-shore deposits are important
as potential oil-bearing areas, but they
would be costly to drill and develop.
Where the continental shelves overlap
the land, as in the Otway basin and else-
where in south-eastern Australia, explora-
tion and development would be less
costly.
In comparable situations, shows of oil
that could be significant have been found
at Lakes Entrance and Wocdside in sub-
coastal Victoria. But it is possible that
the most promising accumulations in this
area, too, may be seaward.
Further inland—in the Otway basin at
Port Campbell (Vic.) —moderate flows of
petroliferous gas have beeu obtained in
four out of five wells drilled in recent
years by the Frome-Broken Hill group.
The next younger marine sedimentary
deposits are those of the Mesozoic or
“middle” age, as in the Carnarvon and
Perth basins in Western Australia, which
were invaded by Mesozoic seas. These
two great basins still offer good oil pros-
pects despite the history of persistent but
unsuccessful drilling in the Rough Range
area.
Much of central and eastern Australia
was also invaded by Mesozoic seas. Their
sediments have frequently been penetrat-
ed in the search for artesian water. The
oil and gas showings encountered have,
so far, been just “teasers”. In the shal-
lower sections that have been drilled the
more “marine-like” deposits have been
at the top. This is unfortunate.
The deeper Mesozoic sediments tend
to be coal-bearing and non-marine, but
they contain thick reservoir sands. These
are thought to be Mesozoic sediments
thousands of feet thick underlying tens
of thousands of square miles of southern
Australia that have never been drilled.
These sediments may contain large
areas of older marine developments about
which little is known. Mesozoic Age
basins also extend across the east coast
into the Pacific. At the Pacific coastline
they have been folded strongly and have
been locally despoiled by intrusions of
molten rock.
Surprising Discovery
Moonie field is the most surprising
discovery in the Mesozoic category.
It is still not known whether Moonie oil
originated in the sediments of that age or
whether it leaked upward from older
formations at lower levels.
The occurrence of oil in these extreme-
ly porous and permeable water-bearing
sediments has already caused the taking
of a second look at many other areas in
which oil or gas showings have been re-
corded in sands of these ages within the
Great Artesian Basin.
Whatever the origin of Moonie oil, it
is reasonable to expect that other such
fields will be found, says PIB. The re-
maining Australian sedimentary basins
are older still. They were formed in the
Palaeozoic Age. They can be further
subdivided into upper and lower group-
ings because of the enormous time span
involved.
The Sunnybank well .n south-eastern
Queensland, is the best example of a
find of Upper Palaeozoic oil in Australia.
Here oil was found in the uppermost
Palaeozoic or Permian sediments. En-
ormous deposits of these sediments occur
in eastern Australia. Generally they be-
come more marine—and consequently
better oil-bearing prospects —to the east.
The great crustal downwarps of the
earth’s crust that accommodated these
ancient sea deposits embrace the Sydney,
Oxley, and Bowen basins through into
north-east Queensland. Parallel shelf-like
developments that are less marine in
character occur immediately to the west
of Roma (Q) and extend down to Coon-
amble (NSW). They are of considerable
interest and are already being actively
explored.
Permian marine deposits of the Perth,
Carnarvon and Canning basins, also
fringe the continent in the west and
north-west. These, too, may be consider-
ed as being worthwhile oil-bearing pros-
pects. The Beagle Ridge bore (Bureau of
Mineral Resources) in the Perth basin,
for example, had traces ol oil that orig-
inated in deposits of this type.
In Central Australia
F)ermian deposits are also distributed
widely over central Australia, but in
the known outcrop areas they tend to be
continental in character rather than
marine.
However, thicker marine developments
that will be worthy of the close attention
of oil searchers may still be found. There
are areas of interest also in the Simpson
Desert lobe of the western portion of the
Great Artesian Basin.
Older Palaeozoic basins of interest
generally show their best developments
in central Australia. They extend further
to the east with decreasing age. For ex-
ample, the younger or Devonian deposits,
rich in coral reefs, tend to be best de-
veloped in Western Australia in the reg-
ions of the Bonaparte Gulf Basin, the
Dividing Ranges and the K;mberleys.
Some gallons of crude oil were re-
covered in drilling Meda No 1 bore in
the Kimberleys several years ago. At-
tention is now returning to this area.
Phillips Petroleum Company has recent-
ly found thick Devonian reef develop-
ments in the east central Great Artesian
Basin in Queensland. These develop-
ments are also known to border the
Murray Basin in north-eastern NSW.
The earliest and greatest periods of
marine deposition in Australia were the
Cambrian and Ordovician periods. These
are roughly equivalent in age to certain
of the West Texas and Sahara deposits.
The best developments of the lime-
stones and black shales typical of these
areas occur in central Australia from the
Flinders Range, through Alice Springs
(on the Amadeus Basin), through the
Georgina Basin and on to the Daly
River Basin in the extreme north.
The Simpson Desert may contain
many of the better of these developments
capped beneath thick shale deposits. In
this respect the recently reported strike
in a well at Ust-Kut, north of Lake
Baikal in Siberia, is interesting. This
well was sunk in Cambro-Ordovician out-
cropping sediments, and at 7,100 feet
struck flow oil at 7,000 barrels at day.
The oil came from the lower Cambrian
deposits. This demonstrates the potential
importance of Australia’s great Cambro-
Ordovician basins.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Growth of Mutual Acceptance
ITPhe finance companies enjoying the
A most market popularity today are
those with bank or other institutional
associations. Investors rightly feel that
such institutions would not take sub-
stantial interests in a finance company
unless thoroughly convinced that it was
soundly managed and its finances were
on a solid basis.
This attitude can mean that some
sound companies may be overlooked,
but the record of Mutual Acceptance at
least warrants more than a passing
glance because of the current high divi-
dend yield of 7 p.c.
The history of Mutual Acceptance
extends over 27 years. It was established
primarily for the purpose of discounting
hire - purchase agreements for goods
supplied by Bloch and Gerber, Royal Art
Furnishings and Direct Furnishing. The
finance affiliate has prospered to a far
greater extent than its original sponsors.
It appears to have earned about 161 p.c.
on its ordinary capital during the first
full financial year of operations (1936-
37), which compares with the 211 p.c.
earned in 1961-62.
It is difficult to trace any major events
in the company’s history. Profits declined
markedly from 1940-41 and did not
recover to the level of that year until
1949. The ordinary dividend was passed
in 1943-44 and it was not until 1951-52
that the 121 p.c. rate paid in the second
and third years of operations was
reached again.
During 1948, Challis Investments Ltd
and Martin Acceptance Ltd were
acquired by share issues, and the first
issue of fixed interest capital was made
at the beginning of the 1951-52 year.
An issue made in 1955 carried the right
to convert to ordinary shares as at
December 31, 1958.
the point of view of business
A transacted, the first notable change
occurred during 1956-57 when the com-
pany decided to enter the field of motor
vehicle hire-purchase. Branches were
opened in Brisbane and Adelaide during
1958-59. During. 1959-60, according to
the chairman’s address of October 7,
1960, the company entered the field of
real estate financing and leasing of
industrial machinery, equipment and
vehicles.
In the 1960-61 directors’ report it was
stated that “the company’s policy of
diversifying its business into motor-short-
term land and property, and leasing, is
being actively pursued and this business
constitutes a substantial proportion of
the total volume.”
Unfortunately, it is not possible to
indicate the trends, but at June 30, 1962,
current assets were divided into the
following:
£,OOO %
Hire-purchase and tim® payment
contracts 11,997 53.1
Secured advances
Exceeding 5 years 2,959 13.1
Short term 4 2,361 10.5
Other 864 3.8
Equipment on Lease 3,316 14.7
Real property projects
Land and building 209 0.9
Land (and development costs) 129 0.6
Other debtors 52 0.2
Cash and short call 701 3.1
These figures do not take into account
income to mature provisions or tax
recoverable on lease financing. They
probably give a fair indication of the
“product-mix” and suggest that the com-
pany has diversified with commendable
restraint and has not been carried away
with the possibilities of quick profits
with high risk.
Tt is to be expected that, with the diver-
sification into the large types of
accounts usual in motor and mortgage
business, the average account would rise
in value. Having in mind that the com-
pany has been dealing mainly with small
accounts and that generally it has had to
pay more for its borrowings than the
bank associated hire - purchase com-
panies, it is interesting to compare the
net return before tax on its average total
assets with the similar figures for other
companies:
Year ended in 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Australian Guarantee
Corporation 6.3 4.5 3.1 3.5 4.1
Commercial and
General Acceptance n.a. n.a. 3.1 3.2 2.6
Custom Credit
Corporation 4.4 5.0 4.8 3.4 3.1
Finance Corporation
of Australia n.a. 3.7 3.7 3.4 2.9
I AC (Holdings) 7.0 4.6 3.8 3.8 n.a.
Mutual Acceptance
Co. 11.3 6.4 4.2 3.4 3.9
These figures show Mutual Acceptance
in a favorable light and must be re-
garded as a tribute to effective manage-
ment. A more appropriate assessment of
management performance could be
ascertained if the figures for interest
paid were available. Unfortunately, this
figure is generally available only for the
1962 year and the percentage of net
profit before tax and interest to total
assets for that year are as follows:
Interest as
a percentage
of average
borrowing
Australian Guarantee
Corporation 8.5 6.5
Commercial and General
Acceptance 7.9 6.7
Custom Credit
Corporation 8.9 7.5
Finance Corporation
of Australia n.a. n.a.
I.A.C. (Holdings) 8.3 (a) 6.7
Mutual Acceptance
Company 10.0 7.8
(a) year ended 31.12.1961.
With the exception of Custom Credit
Corporation, Mutual Acceptance has
had to pay nearly 1 p.c. more for its
borrowings, but nevertheless has per-
formed better than the others (with the
exception of Australian Guarantee Cor-
poration).
Oo far as the investor in ordinary shares
is concerned, earnings and divi-
dends are the key and Mutual Accep-
tance has shown a fairly steady growth
in earnings over the last three years,
which have not been without their
difficulties even for the “hire-purchase”
industry. The 15 p.c. dividend was
covered over 1.4 times by the 1961-62
earnings and there seems little likelihood
that the dividend could be reduced.
On the other hand, immediate in-
creases also seem unlikely and as the
company can borrow up to seven times
shareholders’ funds a new share issue
also seems unlikely in the near future.
The current price, around 10s. 9d. to
show a dividend yield of 7 p.c., is
attractive in relation to the yield avail-
able from the other companies men-
tioned, and if there are any growth pros-
pects in this industry these are as likely
to accrue to Mutual Acceptance as to
the others.
Mutual Acceptance has been reason-
ably generous to its shareholders over
the last ten years and dividend income,
adjusted for the bonus content of new
issues, has increased at the average
annual compound rate of 6.9 p.c. While
this performance may not be repeated
in the future, it is worth pointing out
that a relatively small increase of 3 p.c.
per annum on average will show a
return of 10 p.c.
MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY (£.000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Pref. capital 33 32 32 32 32
Ord. capital 866 1922 1922 1922 1922
Reserves 710 742 781 831 954
Shareholders' Funds 1609 2696 2735 2785 2908
Minority interests 182 180 180 180 180
Borrowings 3979 5812 13029 14360 14938
Bank overdraft 476 702 107 417 24
Other liabilities 486 552 785 958 606
Total liabilities 6732 9942 16836 18700 18656
Net outstandings 6681 9381 13857 14918 15084
Leased equipment
Fixed assets 48 59 173 223 237
Other assets 3 2 970 1343 1276
Intangibles
Total assets 6732 9942 16836 18700 18656
Depreciation l2 487 1078 760
Interest n.a. n.a. n.a. 1093 1141
Tax provision 222 216 245 246 306
Earninqs 366 318 312 354 413
Ord. dividend 130 263 288 238 288
Surplus 236 55 24 66 125
Earning % ord.
capital 25.2 16.5 16.2 18.4 21.5
Dividend % ord.
capital 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0
Pre-tax profit %
total assets 11.3 6.4 4.2 3.4 3.9
Dividend yield % (a) 9.4 6.3 7.5 9.2 7.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.4 14.5 12.3 8.9 9.2
(a) based on cash sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
A Sturdy Retailer
TJrisbane draper, McDonnell and East
Ltd, has maintained sturdy in-
dependence, and withstood successfully
the competition from stores controlled
by southern retailing empires.
Trading since 1901, the company
celebrated its diamond jubilee in 1961
with a share issue and a special 2i p.c.
bonus dividend.
In each of the last five years profit
progress has been made, and sales for
the year to January 31, 1963, were pro-
nounced a record. The company has
built up a substantial mail order business,
and it now retails furniture and domestic
appliances as well as clothing.
Decision to build a multi-storey car-
park has involved considerable capital
expenditure, but it must be a draw-card
for shoppers. The second stage
(doubling capacity to 250 cars) was
opened in September, 1962, and there
is now provision for another 100 cars.
Further extensions are planned to
increase capacity to 500 cars.
Further evidence of aggressive business
practice is the purchase in the last
financial year of two properties adjoin-
ing the George Street (Brisbane) store.
One, occupied by Merchants Mutual
Ltd, with 21,000 sq. ft. of floor space,
will be the new bulk store and receiving
section, despatch and mail order
divisions.
The other building, St Oswald’s Hostel,
fronts North Quay, and will be con-
verted to staff rooms, display depart-
ment and workrooms. With these two
purchases, McDonnell and East occupies
two acres in a valuable city commercial
block.
Meanwhile the older property is being
modernised with a view to a more
attractive appearance, better facilities
and more space for customers. The
present two-storey reserve building next
to the store is to be demolished and a
new three-storey building will provide
16,500 sq. ft. of extra selling space.
The store offers many services, in-
cluding a baby comfort room, free
stroller service, ladies’ lounge, bank
agency, chemist, medical benefits pay-
ment office, and the George Street
official Post Office.
Stocks rose from £316,996 to
£368,868 over the year, and debtors
(net of a generous unchanged allowance
of £38,144 for doubtful debts) rose
from £241,128 to £269,920. Invest-
ments representing short-term loans dis-
appeared last year £47,065.
The company has financed its growth
by a one-for-four share issue at ss.
premium in September, 1959; a one-for-
six shaTe issue at 10s. premium in Sep-
tember, 1960, together with an issue of
convertible notes in the ratio of one for
four; and by the recent share issue at
10s. premium in the ratio of one-for-
three.
This issue was payable 3s. (2s. capital,
Is. premium) on application by April
18. The company did not lay down a call
programme, so that the market is un-
certain of the discount it should place
on the new issue.
The previous capital issue was called
up within nine months, but this one may
not be, as the application money was so
low.
The new shares or the notes may
provide a relatively cheap entry into this
sturdy retailer.
The 20s. 8 p.c. notes now sell around
34s. 6d. to return 4.6 p.c. These convert
to ordinary shares on the basis of two
20s. shares for three 20s. notes, on
November 1, 1965, or alternatively will
be repaid in cash between October 31,
1967, and 1970.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
January 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 635 610 663 640 645
Less current
liabilities 246 214 284 336 291
Working capital 389 396 379 304 354
Investments 1 37 51 47 —
Fixed assets 299 595 736 876 1051
689 1028 1166 1227 1405
Deferred
liabilities 182 97 119 118 116
Preference
capital 9 9 9 9 9
Ordinary capital 286 321 389 416 456
Reserves 212 601 649 684 824
689 1028 1166 1227 1405
Depreciation 13 17 18 23 29
Taxation 32 39 49 61 82
Net profit 53 63 76 88 111
Net profit for ords. 52 62 75 87 110
Dividends 36 36 56 52 57
Surplus 16 24 19 35 53
Earning rate 18.2 20.7 20.2 20.8 24.3
Dividend rate 123, 12J 15 12J 12J
Dividend yield (a) 5.7 4.5 5.7 3.8 4.2
Price earnings
ratio (a) 11.5 13.3 10.4 15.9 12.2
High price (b) 41/- 53/6 62/6 57/- 68/-
Low price (b) 33/9 41/3 54/7 41/6 53/-
(a) End of March, month's accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
D. HARDY AND SONS LTD
Below Par But What of Assets?
D. Hardy and Sons Ltd is in a highly
liquid position following the sale of
some of its property, and directors are
considering a return of capital. How-
ever, the market does not appear to
expect much additional benefit to accrue
and the shares are still languishing con-
siderably below par.
The company was formed 73 years
ago but did not convert to public status
until 1946. The shares were listed in
1948 when paid up capital was
£275,000 in 200,000 20s. ordinary
shares and 45,000 20s. 5 p.c. prefs.
In 1951, following a revaluation of
assets, the company made a one-for-one
bonus and simultaneously a one-for-two
share issue at par. Paid-up capital after
these issues was £575,000, and has re-
mained unchanged to date.
The company carries all types of
timber for builders and cabinetmakers,
and has a distributing agency for CSR
products, laminated plastic sheets and
aluminium weatherboards.
It operates at Cairns in North Queens-
land but principal activities are confined
to Sydney, where it has its head office
and yards at Glebe Point and until
recently a yard at Balmain.
But this Balmain property was sold
for £333,000 —£83,000 already paid
and the remainder over the next three
years. This price was considerably over
the book value, for at October 31 last
total book value of all freehold land and
buildings was stated to be only £185,416
(at 1950 valuation and additions at cost).
Plant, etc., brought fixed assets to only
£261,793.
This cash payment places the com-
pany in a highly liquid state and has
caused directors to consider some
capital reorganisation. As a first step
they will repay the £75,000 preference
shares. Following this they will consider


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO,
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ot Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 81-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
INVESTMENTS WANTED
FOR GENUINE CLIENTS
WITH CASH £15,000 to £50,000
SHOPS (Inner Sub.)
FLATS (could be older Bldg.)
CITY PROPERTIES
SPEEDY INSPECTIONS SALES ASSURED
S. KLIGER & CO., PTY. LTD.
406 Lonsdale St., Melbourne
67-2587 67-5457
some form of repayment or reorganisa-
tion of ordinary capital.
Reflecting the reduction in stocks
preparatory to sale of the Balmain
property, stock fell from £500,268 to
£366,829 at October 31 last. Trade
debtors were down only fractionally
from £307,425 to £277,541, indicating
a smallish fall off in business. Reflecting
the reduction in stocks, bank overdraft
was down from £138,218 to £2928.
The company has had a reasonable
profit record since 1946, going into the
red only once —in 1951-52. It has not
missed a preference payment and since
1955 has not failed to pay an ordinary
dividend. But in the past two years,
following a decline in earnings, directors
have had to call in accumulated reserves
to meet the commitment.
Business in the timber industry re-
mains particularly difficult and, despite
consolidation at the Glebe site, the
company still faces difficulties in getting
its profit figure up. But directors- are
nevertheless still quite hopeful that the
company should show some improve-
ment in the current year.
At present the shares are selling around
14s. 6d. and show a dividend yield of
about 6.9 p.c. and an earnings yield of
about 5 p.c. On the basis of buying assets
cheaply they would be worth picking up
around these prices.
The latest accounts show reserves and
surplus profits of £179,521 giving an
assets backing to each 20s. share of
27s. 2d. But as the Balmain property
realised so much over the book value,
the remaining fixed assets may also be
assumed to be considerably undervalued,
indicating that the assets backing of the
shares must be well over 30s.
Already this year there have been in-
dications that some large groups are not
averse to acquiring assets cheaply and
D. Hardy shares look undervalued on
this basis. Should some rationalisation
take place in the timber industry the
more compact group could stand to
benefit in earnings as well.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'000
October 31 1959 1960 1961 1962'
Current assets 728 1050 813 652
less current liabilities 250 537 305 161
Working capital 478 513 508 491
Fixed assets 262 254 253 262
Investments 2 2 2 2
742 769 763 755
Represented by
Pref. capital 75 75 75 75
Ord. capital 500 500 500 500
Reserves 167 194 188 180
742 769 763 755
Depreciation 15 13 9 7
Taxation 39 54 15 3
Net profit 68 76 28 19
Dividends 44 49 34 29
Surplus 24 27 — —
Capital profit — — — 12
Earning rate p.c. 12.8 14.5 4.8 3.1
Ord. dividend p.c. 8 9 6 5
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 7.3 11.7 7.3 8
High price (b) 20/- 22/9 19/6 16/4
Low price (b) 11/4 15/- 14/- 12/3
(a) End of March, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
JOHNS HYDRAULICS LTD
In the Ascendant
A quick share issue, a bright interim
report and payment of the com-
pany’s first interim dividend brought
favorable attention to the shares of Johns
Hydraulics Ltd.
A Melbourne company, formed in
1951 to acquire the business of R. and
M. Johns Bros Pty, tool and diecaster,
hydraulic and general engineer, and that
of Johns Plastics Pty, maker of electrical
accessories, the company is not widely
known outside Victoria.
The business is now conducted
through Johns Hydraulic Equipment Pty
which claims 28 years’ experience in the
design and manufacture of high per-
formance hydraulic equipment, including
injection moulding machines, blow
moulding machines, compression and
transfer moulding machines; record
moulding, metal forming, stereo and
gap presses, and die casting machines;
through Sturdee Electricals Pty which
makes electrical accessories for domestic
and commercial use; and through Panto-
graph Diesinking Services Pty of
Tooronga (Vic.), which was taken over
since June 30, 1962.
Apart from Pantograph, all activities
have been concentrated at Clayton since
the new engineering factory was com-
pleted in 1960.
Directors said in their latest annual
report that Johns Hydraulics was meet-
ing increased demand for its products,
and despite two successive difficult years
in the building industry, Sturdee turn-
over and profit rose.
Sales and profits of the established
operating subsidiaries for the six months
to December, 1962, were reported as
substantially higher than in the previous
corresponding period, and Pantograph
also traded profitably. Orders in hand
are at a satisfactory level.
After paying 10 p.c. in a single sum
each October for the last four years,
Johns Hydraulics has handed out an
interim 5 p.c. to ordinary shareholders.
Directors are confident the 10 p.c.
annual rate can be maintained on the
higher capital.
The share issue on the basis of one-
for-five shares on convertible notes
raised paid capital from £425,000 to
£530,000, and the new shares rank for
dividend for the final three months of


WARDEN OF THE COLLEGE
ST. PAUL'S COLLEGE
Within the University of Sydney
The Fellows of St. Paul's College invite appli-
cations from Clergymen in Priest's Orders of the
Church of England for the office of Warden of
the College.
Applicants should hold an Honours Degree,
and preferably have experience of the admini-
stration and the life of a University College.
A residence is provided. It is hoped that the
appointee will be able to commence duty before
the end of 1963.
Particulars of salary, duties, etc., are avail-
able from the Bursar, or in London, from the
Bank of New South Wales, 47 Berkeley Square.
Applications should be received by the under-
signed not later than 31st May, 1963.
BRIAN K. WHITE, Bursar,
180 Phillip Street, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: SIDNEY FRANCIS AITKEN, 22 Hamp-
ton Road, Artarmon, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE
that MAVIS MARGARET AITKEN has filed
a Petition No. 3999 of 1962 for divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
12th day of June and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Mr W. H.
LUCHETTI, Solicitor, of 137 Pacific Highway,
North Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
the current fiscal year. Total dividend
obligation is thus £45,125.
Apart from the 50,000 10s. ordinary
shares issued at a substantial premium
for Pantograph, previous capital moves
were the one-for-four par issue to share
and noteholders in 1961, the one-for-two
par issue in 1956, and the one-for-two
par issue in 1954.
The 8 p.c. convertible note issue,
which will increase paid capital by
£IOO,OOO on June 30, 1965, was made in
1959 on the basis of one-for-three shares
held.
The recent call for funds was required
for additional working capital and to
finance expansion resulting from in-
creased demands for group products.
I Directors are also planning to obtain
extra funds by means of fixed interest
bearing securities.
The company already has a fair
amount of loan capital, <£100,000 being
raised during 1961-62. It is repayable in
1972.
Stocks and work in progress at June
30, 1962, were back to 1960 levels, but
debtors rose significantly from £103,978
to £176,547 over the year.
The attractive return plus prospects
of gentle growth justify payment of up
to Is. more than the present price of
14s. 3d. (now yielding 7.0 p.c.) for the
110s. shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 369 445 583 649 652
1 Less current
liabilities 274 331 472 478 358
Working capital 95 114 111 171 294
Fixed assets 326 339 531 596 590
Intangibles 13 10 9 8 7
434 463 651 775 891
Loan capital 29 30 186 195 291
| Preference capital 30 30 30 30 30
Ordinary capital 300 300 300 400 400
Reserves 75 -103 135 150 170
434 463 651 775 891
.Depreciation 31 38 34 39 43
|'?* atlon 31 38 44 31 38
h ■ J Pr j flt 50 62 63 51 62
dividends 26 32 32 35 42
P Urp ! us 24 30 31 16 20
taming rate 16.1 20.0 20.4 15.0 15.0
dividend rate 8 10 10 10 10
dividend
yield (a) 9.4 6.7 5.6 8.3 7.3
trice/earnings
ratio (a) 5.3 75 8 .8 8.0 9.2
P'9h price (b) 9/11 18/- 23/- 16/1 15/6
, L0W P nc e (b) 6/3 9/- 13/7 10/- 11/9
[u! °f October, month accounts presented.
Calendar year.
Will Bounty go to £500,000?
VUtth newly won export markets at
stake, Australia’s big condensed
milk manufacturers have an anxious ear
cocked towards Canberra at the moment.
The firms are hoping the Federal Gov-
ernment will agree to an Australian
Dairy Industry Council request for a
£150,000 lift in the Government subsidy
on export processed milk products.
Early last year several of these firms
the local subsidiaries of international
giants were warned by their parent
companies that they would have to cease
exporting unless they could compete
on more satisfactory terms on world
markets.
The loss to Australia in terms of total
export trade might not have been signi-
ficant had this withdrawal occurred, but
it could have been extremely serious for
the surplus-plagued Australian dairy
industry. It would have meant all the
butterfat used in the export processed
milk products would have been dumped
back on to the already-overloaded butter
market.
On the other hand, the Australian
Dairy Industry Council reasoned in Feb-
ruary last year, an increase in con-
densed milk exports would take still more
butterfat away from butter manufacture
and help ease the overall strain.
Hence the Council’s request to the
Federal Government early last year for
a subsidy of £500,000 a year maximum
on processed milk products exported dur-
ing 1962-63.
The Government went part of the way
by granting a bounty for the 12 months
of a maximum £350,000.
This has already had a marked effect,
enabling firms to submit more competi-
tive tenders, particularly on Asian
markets, and enabling Australia to win
back some of her old processed milk
markets, as well as establishing some
new ones.
In 1960 only 2226 tons of butterfat
were exported in processed milk pro-
ducts. In 1961 the figure was up slightly
to 2402 tons, but last year with the
bounty influencing exports in the July-
December period exports jumped to
3107 tons.
This year, if the present trend con-
tinues, the dairy industry expects the
total to be at least 6000 tons!
Even the lift in the July-December
period of last year of 705 tons of butter-
fat meant a reduction in butter manu-
factured during that time of 858 tons.
With current dairy industry estimates
placing the 1962-63 dairy produce sur-
plus at 5000 tons of butter and 5000
tons of cheese, even this reduction is a
cause for muted cheers.
With exports likely to reach at least
6000 tons of butterfat this year, how-
ever, the Dairy Industry Council fears
—with good reason —that the £350,000
subsidy would not be enough to meet the
Government’s original objective of a rate
per pound butterfat equivalent to the
final bounty rate paid to butter producers.
(One of the reasons given by the pro-
cessors originally for their inability to
compete on world markets was the high
price they had to pay for raw materials
as they were buying in competition
with butter factories which benefited
from the £l3i million a year dairy
industry subsidy.)
Present indications are that the
Federal Government will agree to th§
Dairy Industry Council’s recommen-
dations and boost the processed milk
export bounty to £500,000 for the
1963-64 year.
POTATO CHIP MACHINES
"CV R. Knott Machine Company, Inc.,
of Sharon (Mass., USA), is interested
in exporting its slicing machines for the
potato chip industry. Descriptive litera-
ture is available for perusal at the US
Consulate-General.
The company offers a design and con-
sultation service for clients requiring
specially built machines.


Feiffer
i \)%v to me
A LOT OF iROU&ie
WITH SHFRMAU-
hf'p c?m a wr,
THROW TAUTRUM6.
I COtWWT PO
A THIU6 WITH HIM.
(jwnL. m m r paw
PRFRMAtJ PLMIU6 WITH
gOOK OF TPAPIK6
STAMPS. I TOOK THFM
AWA<T FROM HIM AMP I
6A10," IF PHFRMAM IP
A 6OOD Boy AU w
He cam Keep omf of
TRAM
STAMPS."
iriClL F o£ THS mX OF W
m me ajaswt a ?h?
our of him- aw u)Hev i
6MB HIM HIS TPAP/fJ6
STAMP'AT POTME: W
HAVf toeVfß. 5£5M SUCH
A CHILPJ
to th£ mr pm Mm momwj
TO 6m M e WUOLZ l TOiO
HIM/SHfRMAU, 6hCW VM,
that m mskgooq m k
mm M\n 6ive m a I
worn stamp. aup if
WRS A &W ftjtf FOR A
WHOU WEEK moUT
MOTH6R HAI/IJUS TO STOTP
W 6m MU 6M HOP
M EXTRA Tm\)6 6MF.
MUsMRmr,
that m eewe
a mem t
CHILP.
■sw>eocm-
m. He i
em op his
He www
T HIH6 I
7010 HIM.
m
Mow SHEKMAD
m m a$
600 V te 6a 0.
iter mK m
comer® m
500® book
of rmm
sm?e.
u moot
l\W OOU6HT A
m MHER.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 742
ACROSS
I—Who shapes a burning as if at the point of bursting
into flame? (9)
s—Nothing Scottish in town. (4)
7 Thus you make money. (3)
8— Pests which sting a Jewish lawgiver heartened by
Ecuadorean capital. (10)
11— Dull cricket dance of the Irish? (7)
12— To glide in the crook part of a church. (7)
14— Measure a youngster with it. (5)
15— Novel writer went wrong quite backwardly. (9)
16— Chifley youngster with some receptacle breed of
wheat. (9)
20— Summit adding 100 to the
remainder. (5)
21— Savings of the provident
brownest unfeatured urge.
(4, 3)
22 Money troubles are a little
too much. (7)
24—“ A dog” is not the answer
to this which helps a tan.
(6-4)
26 The Volga boatman does an
unkind comment on the song
about himself? (3)
27 Backing for some corres-
pondence college. (4)
28— Nothing taken from Soho re-
compense towards the coast.
(9)
DOWN
1— A pose upset him whose work
was fabulous. (5)
2 A policeman does his financial
business and quacks. (11)
3 Not intended to be available
from tuna men. (7)
4 A gathering of people who
have been long parted be-
tween Mauritius and Mada-
gascar. (7)
5 Entail a confused girl’s name.
(7)
6 Wednesday’s child is full of
it; you and I are full of
nothing. (3)
9—What makes Sarah work in
Shropshire. (5)
10—China estate is broken up.
(6)
13—Trenchantly criticise some
bank officer before I can be
seen on a Mediterranean is-
land. (11)
14 —See you and Crosby and a
square by its square-root. (6)
17— You tidy up, being uncon-
sumed. (7)
18— Pest takes tenants for blasted
little instruments. (7)
19— Bellini composed this Roman
arrangement. (5)
20— Throw over the French mirth.
(7)
23—Like this married set in the
soil. (5)
25—An old-fashioned inquiry as
to the existence of ye paint-
ings, etc. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 741


&. f >
% ■ •• >
m
*i}\
m
m
i?
m
■ ■
a#
=u
.. .
m
*»
:
■
»•
l
■ ■■l
we
:
.- :
■
■
mm
■E
Make sure of receiving
lIHHIIMFiIi' I flit ’ H"""
your new, brighter
Bulletin reaulariv
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriotions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions' to Australian Consolidated Press Limited
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Pleace tick -y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
months


New edition
BRITANNICA
now available direct from the publisher on
Book a Month
Payment Plan
you get all 24 volumes now—pay later!
Almost everybody likes to talk, but some people can express
themselves better than others. These people seem to know
something about almost everything, and, regardless of the topic
being discussed, they can contribute to the conversation.
Naturally, they feel at ease in any group. But people are not born
with this ability ... they learn it.
They learn it by cultivating an interest in current events and their
causes. They read and study a variety of subjects, soak up information
from newspapers, good magazines and books. They form their
opinions carefully and can support what they say with authority.
More than likely, Encyclopaedia Britannica holds a prominent
place in their home, readily available for reference on any subject.
Their efforts are rewarded with the respectful attention of others,
when they speak.
This kind of conversational ability and social assurance is not difficult
to acquire, especially with Encyclopaedia Britannica giving you
complete, authoritative information on any topic. Whatever interests
you . .. whatever subject is of current interest to your group ...
you will find it thoroughly and thoughtfully discussed in the pages of
Britannica. For.every adult, Encyclopaedia Britannica offers an
invaluable aid to increased conversational ability and social assurance.
• ? -zZ/Lff?
I i
The latest edition of Britannica the greatest
treasure of knowledge ever published is the
greatest in our almost 200-year publishing his-
tory. All 24 handsome volumes of this world-
renowned reference library will be delivered to
your home NOW direct from the publisher. You
pay later at a cost so low it is as easy as buying
a book a month!
Equivalent to a library of 1,000 books
The Encyclopaedia Britannica is the most valu-
able gift you can give yourself and your family
the priceless gift of knowledge. Information
on every subject significant to mankind is con-
tained in its new edition. It is equivalent to a
library of 1,000 books, bringing you the know-
ledge and authority of world-recognised leaders
in every field.
Just think of a subject and you'll find it in
the Encyclopaedia Britannica whether it is
information on the rules of a sport, the back-
ground of a religion, how to build a brick arch
in a fireplace, or the science of launching a
guided missile.
The new Britannica almost “televises” informa-
tion to you, with 25,042 magnificent photo-
graphs, maps, and drawings. In every respect,
Britannica is the largest and most complete
reference set containing 27,357 pages and over
38,000,000 words.
Symbol of a good home
Encyclopaedia Britannica cannot help but have
a lasting effect on you as well as on the growth
and development of your children in school and
in later life. Benjamin Franklin said: “An
investment in knowledge pays the best interest,”
and Britannica gives you the accumulated
knowledge of the world in clear, easy-to-read
language and superb illustrations. It is essential
in every home where education is valued and
respected.
Preview Booklet Offered FREE
Simply fill in and mail the coupon today, and
we will send you . . . without cost or obligation
. . . a copy of our beautiful, new booklet which
contains an exciting preview of the latest edition
ol Encyclopaedia Britannica. Send no money.
It’s yours, absolutely free! However, to avoid
disappointment, please mail the coupon today,
before it slips your mind.
jUTm
II
ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA, DEPARTMENT E.B. ' 42
257 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and without obligation, your colourful Preview Booklet which
pictures and describes the latest edition of ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITANNICA—
and also complete information on how I may obtain this magnificent set, direct
from the publisher, on the Book a Month Payment Plan.
Name
Address.
(please print)
City
Zone..
.State.
In New Zealand, write E. 8.. Post Office Box 1303. Wellington
