

The Bulletin
FEBRUARY 2. 19©3
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1


CRAVEN FILTER
Ar-*
M
i
m
%
NOW AVAILABLE
THE CLEAN
CIGARETTE
that’s kind
to your throat
in packets
of TEN!


National Notebook
Bright Candle
Fresh from Washington, where she
sang for the Kennedys in the com-
any of° Yves Montand and Joan Suther-
land, Shirley Bassey is now at Andre’s
Nightclub in Sydney; flying from one
engagement to the next around the world
may be putting a strain on her resources,
but she’s not the kind of person who can
“rest” easily. Even when we saw her,
three days ahead of her first show, she
was saying she’d like to go to Las Vegas
again, to play the Flamingo, and if she
received an offer she’d fly there the
moment the engagement at Andre’s was
i over. Yet this seemed unwise, for
Shirley Bassey —more than most show
business people we have seen recently—
looked in need of a long vacation in
the sun.
Small and slender, the brilliant half-
African, half-Welsh singer has a pallid
intense face, slanting dark eyes with
heavily blacked lids, and expressive hands
which convey hatred or delight by grab-
bing handfuls of humid
air. Many entertainers
tend to feed one schmalz,
delivered, more often than
not, in the metallic, level
voice of a talking weigh-
ing machine. Mercifully,
one gets none of this from
Shirley Bassey. The girl from Tiger Bay,
Cardiff, has had it tough, has suffered at
the hands of incompetents in her career,
thinks British show business is sleazy,
and doesn’t hesitate to say so. Her
honesty and edge make talking to her
a special pleasure.
Going back to her Welsh childhood,
she remembered struggling from week
to week, with her Negro father’s allow-
ance arriving from all over the world
(he was a merchant navy sailor). At
16, she was discovered in a working
( mens club, where she had been singing
w 'th a concert group; on tour with two
seedy shows—“ Memories of Jolson” and
Hot from Harlem” (“there was nothing
°t about it”) she suddenly decided to
retire, and went back to her previous
1e ' ® ut a showman named Mike Sulli-
Van became her Svengali, pushing her
- a Channel Islands show; later, at
I ' n London, impresario
ck H y!t°n came to see her.
an t l Hink much of me, ‘Joost
Nn 0< ?? Singer ’ A™™,’ he said in his
r ° ll Countr y voice, but he needed a
of Ce ?‘ for his starring lead in Talk
on? «i Town ’’ and he couldn’t get any-
arcaSf’'4° l* h i red me ” With bilin S
sm > Shirley Bassey talked about “all
thosd sophisticated people /” she played
to in “Talk of the Town” and, again for
Hylton, “Such is Life,” and at the Cafe
de Paris. After London, it had been a
relief to get to the States, where she ap-
peared at the El Rancho, Las Vegas, and
the Persian Room, New York. Her
numbers were slow, sexy, more intimate
than those she had sung in the Hylton
shows, and the notices were raves. One
particular number, “Who Wants To Help
Me Burn My Candle At Both Ends?”
an invitation which would have shocked
Emily Dickinson, became associated with
her permanently, and she got a reputa-
tion for late-nights-and-black coffee “high
living” that hasn’t entirely suited her
personality.
Night-club audiences, she found, didn’t
vary a great deal internationally, except
for the row of stony faces which always
seemed to be in the front row, their own-
ers defying a performer to make them
happy. “Get beyond the front line and
you’re fine,” Miss Bassey told us. “But I
wish those front rowers
you find everywhere
would go to the back, or
better still go out of the
club, or better still drop
dead!” On the whole, she
preferred the suburban-
commuter type of audi-
ence she found in Sydney to the in-town
sophisticates of the Persian Room.
How had she found working on Tele-
vision in London, Rome and New York
(she hadn’t, she said, done anything im-
portant in Sydney TV)? First, she laid
into British Telly: “It’s terrible there,
just terrible! They’re afraid of the me-
dium, they’re not suited to it, they don’t
understand it! Most of the people behind
the cameras want to get in front of it
they’re frustrated performers! Something
always happens to make me blow my
top! And they panic oh, they panic!
In America, of course, though the me-
dium’s still hell I hate it they’re
better. They’re more relaxed there.
Trained. They know what they’re doing.
And in Rome, they’re really wonderful,
believe it or not they’re with it there.
But in England !” She clawed at the air
as though she were clawing at someone’s
face. “In England !”
But behind the toughness, the animal-
vividness, there’s a nervous half-caste
child one often sees looking out through
those dark eyes. She’s deeply scared of
failure, of the one slip which would send
her back to Tiger Bay or its equivalent.
Meanwhile, there are constant plane
flights, the demands of a nervous tem-
SENATOR HENTY, Reformer
The Wild Tasmanians Page 13
•
The New Tait Case 6
Who Calls the tune? 10
The Sure-Footed Centipede .... 17
Montsalvat—at 2/- per head 19
Instant Endean 21
The Great Rum Rebellion Debate 22
The Fall of Singapore—by Sir Earle
Page 25
De Gaulle —How the General was
out-generalled 29
Gagging the World Press 30
Remember, Remember The
Genesians 33
Priestley’s Better Half 37
Noxious Weeds: Fight Against
Lantana 40
Barwick on Restrictive Practices 41
Professional v. Amateur Investors 47
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO ... 8
OUT AND AROUT 17
FORUM 22
OVERSEAS 29
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 33
POETRY 36
RED PAGE 37
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
FEIFFER 54
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St, Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. irelbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4329


perament, the conflict of disgust and love
in her attitude to her profession. Tired,
she sometimes looks like a million late
nights. “Who Wants to Help Me Burn
My Candle At Both Ends?” she cries
and it’s an invitation few would want to
resist. But will it, this particular candle,
last even half the night?
Vanishing Tourist Attraction
TTShe pastoralists of Tasmania’s historic
-*■ Midlands are cut down to size by
their environment: their acres are fewer
and their flocks are smaller than those
possessed by the graziers of mainland
states, and they have to work harder for
less impressive wool cheques. But like
their kind elsewhere in Australia they're
envied and secretly admired by towns-
men, and the tales which grow up about
them have an edge of sharpness, as when
the townie patiently explains, “It's a bit
confusing at the stud sheep sales, but you
can pick the owners—they wear hats.”
The theme of the flattering stories was
tangibly manifested in a ram's skull,
magnificently horned, which for years
remained on a telephone pole beside the
Midland Highway near Oatlands. The
eye sockets glared unblinkingly across the
paddocks towards a homestead once in-
habited by a grazier in admiration of
whom friends are said to have set up
the skull. Another legend insists that
enemies put the ram's skull on the pole as
a cruel token of derision, and that when
their victim removed it they replaced
it with another. Telephone linesmen,
when the time came to renew the pole,
carefully restored the skull in position.
Now the skull has vanished. It’s a
grievous loss to part of our folklore and
Tasmania's tourist attractions. A PMG
man who had first-hand knowledge of the
thing reported last week that he had seen
it adorning the front of a station wagon
bearing Victorian number plates.
For Art’s Sake
A private art gallery will open on
■*"*- February 5 at Cook's Hill, an inner
suburb of Newcastle, NSW. The gallery
is in a converted terrace a few hundred
yards from William Dobell’s birthplace
and close to Newcastle Art Gallery, sup-
ported by Newcastle City Council.
The gallery is owned by Roger and
Anne von Bertouch. The first exhibition
is of works by artists who were born in
Newcastle or have spent some time there.
These include Tom Gleghorn, now in
London, Ross Morrow (Holland), Jon
Molvig (Brisbane), William Rose, who
is travelling on the Rhine, John Olson
(Hill End), Paul Beadle (Auckland),
John Passmore and William Dobell
(Wangi).
The gallery is not the von Bertouchs’
first idealistic enterprise. In 1954 with
no local knowledge or experience they
settled at Mungo Brush, on Myall Lake,
north of Newcastle. They planned to
develop their land slowly and devote
themselves to art and letters in an atmos-
phere of solitude.
The plan was idyllic but eventual
failed, but there Mrs von Bert ouch
“February Dark,” a novel which receive
good notices, and “Experience,”
was second prizewinner in the
Festival literary competition. It j s s ,'
unpublished.
They became expert prawners
gardeners at the expense of writings
painting. They left Mungo Brush la
July and began renovating their
to the interest and amusement of
neighbors, because in Newcastle terraca
are still occupied by people who |
them economical, rather than fashionablt
housing.
Old-timers
A mass meeting of several hundred
Darwin residents decided last wed
to ask the Federal Government for i
district allowance for Northern Territon
pensioners. To combat high costs *
other disabilities public servants workii
in the Territory are paid allowancest
up to —and in some cases above—£3o
a year. The aged have only their pei
sion, and for many ; t has proved impos
sible to live on it. They have had tomal
the sad trek south to live out their In
years in some Redfern or Collingsw
tenement. Others —so long in the Nonl
that they would sooner die than b
the tropical sunshine —get by in ava®
of shacks and shanties on the
the major Territory towns.
Charitable organisations have helps
in one way and another, and recently ft
“Colonialists and Imperialists are easy to recognise.
Me®-colonialists and ll6
imperialists are easier


Government weighed in by budding
Tuckwell Court, a block of pensioners
flats in Darwin. But even that backfired.
The rent of £2 15s. a week was too
high for the old people, and now—
months after the official opening—only a
few of the flats are occupied.
The people of the Territory are very
conscious of the pensioners’ plight. After
a local newspaper had revealed the con-
ditions under which the few tenants of
Tuckwell Court were living—some of
them couldn’t afford beds and were sleep-
ing on the floor—gifts were received of
tables, chairs, beds, and even refriger-
ators. One man gave a case of beer, and
another offered a free dinner daily.
This Week’s Cover
This week’s cover is by Sydney artist
Arthur Nichol, who also draws
for us above the signature Kurt
Nodt. Mr Nichol said that he adopted
this name some time after he left the
Sydney Morning Herald in 1951. “I
remembered that in the old Herald build-
ing in Hunter Street it was possible to
pass the same person in the same corridor
20 times a day for 20 years and still
never receive from him or her any other
social communication than a polite but
refrigerated curt nod,” Mr Nichol
tells us.
“However, after a time Kurt Nodt
developed an identity of his own. I used
to imagine that a particularly bad piece
of artwork was not done by me but by
some clumsy Northern European
migrant.”
Tanner
They're anyone who resists
domination by us."
PLAIN ENGLISH
INDIA AND US - THE NEXT STEP
rjIHE news that two RAAF representatives are taking part in this week’s
Commonwealth-Indian-United States talks in New Delhi on
strengthening the Indian Air Force is the best news concerning Australia’s
relations with our Asian allies since the sending of a fighter squadron to
Thailand last year.
Its significance is two-fold. Firstly it underlines the fact that whatever
India really means by its policy of “non-alignment,” it does not mean
appeasement or pacifism. There has always been a lot of understandable
confusion about what India does mean about “non-alignment.” Without
withdrawing the criticism that India (in the past at least) did not seem
to understand the nature and the threat of world Communism, it is clear
that “non-alignment” never meant for India, as it does for, say, Egypt,
simply a fancy word for opportunism; it rather indicates India’s determina-
tion to remain an independent power.
Or take the case of the Hungarian Revolution: Many people felt bitter
over India’s support for the Soviet Union at the time but it is worth
remembering that while the Western World sat on the sidelines and
cheered the Hungarians along, it did absolutely nothing of any value to
help them. India on the other hand was the only foreign country whose
representatives in Budapest helped the Hungarian revolutionaries in
concrete ways—providing medical supplies to them, for example, and
helping them escape across the border to Austria. This apparently was
also part of what they meant by “non-alignment.” The word is so vague
that probably India’s current preparations to resist the Communist
invasion may be seen as its determination to defend “non-alignment.”
Whatever it means Australia and India need not quarrel over words.
The second significant part of this week’s talks in New Delhi is that
Australia is now committed to strengthening our Indian alliance. Australia
needs all the Asian friends it can get, and while we have always paid lip
service to this idea, we have not done very much about it. We have under
SEATO an alliance with the Philippines, Thailand and Pakistan—which,
whatever the defects of SEATO compared with NATO, is a step in the
right direction; but while Thailand and the Philippines are good allies,
they are unfortunately not very powerful ones.
The curious thing is that although India is one of our natural allies,
we have done very little about it. India is a member of the British
Commonwealth, it has the same language, it has the same British tradi-
tions in the civil service, it has the same rule of law. It is also, along with
China and Japan, one of the most powerful countries in Asia. In other
words both power politics and tradition link us.
Having now committed ourselves to closer military relations this is the
time to follow up with closer relations in other fields. This could include
anything from the old stand-bys of more exchange visits or more official
aid. But one obvious thing that springs to mind is an expansion on
voluntary popular level of the existing scheme whereby small Australian
groups—mainly churches—each “adopt” an Indian village, that is, help its
developmental works, send medical supplies, or money. There is a lot of
conventional nonsense involved in many of the old-fashioned “adoption
schemes between towns, usually within the Anglo-Saxon world, but this
scheme is of quite a different kind. If a variety of trade unions,
businesses, and clubs, as well as churches, each “adopted” an Indian
village in this way, we would be helping Indians at the grass-roots level,
getting them more interested in Australia, and helping what is potentially
the strongest democracy in Asia. Good relations at an official level are not
enough.


THIS AUSTRALIA
HANGINGS
THE NEW
TAIT AFFAIR
The "We-Told-You-So" Chorus
H. BOLTE
A blunder
The criminally insane convicted mur-
derer Robert Peter Tait continues to
be a central issue in Victorian politics.
Last year, when the Bolte Government
bowed to the public agitation against a
revival of hanging after an eleven-year
gap. it looked as if the affair had ended.
Tait, following a series of court actions
on his behalf, was transferred to Ararat
Mental Hospital with his papers marked
“never to be released.”
He was not destined to remain there
long. Tait himself made repeated pro-
tests against being kept in the hospital s
section “J” for the criminally insane,
and requested a transfer back to Pen-
tridge Gaol, where he had spent so many
months during the hearing of his case
and subsequent appeals.
Early, this year Tait was examined
by the Chief Medical Officer of the
Mental Hygiene Authority, Dr H. C.
Edmonds, who reported that he was
not mentally ill and no longer needed
treatment at Ararat.
Later the Deputy Chairman of the
MHA, Dr C. R. Brothers, in a separate
report to the Chief Secretary, Mr A.
G. Rylah, said that when Tait was
certified as being mentally ill he was
suffering from a “reactive anxiety
depression”. This condition had been
brought about by the predicament in
which Tait found himself while a pri-
soner at Pentridge.
Dr Brothers went on to say that with
the removal of the death threat, Tait’s
mental condition was able to clear up
satisfactorily in the relatively short time
he was at Ararat. Dr Brothers said he
had discussed the situation with Dr
Edmonds, who agreed that treatment in
an institution was no longer necessary
for Tait.
Following these reports Mr Rylah
took steps to have Tait transferred to
Pentridge. The chorus of “we told you
so” from the section of the public which
favored hanging Tait may have been
muted, but is very likely to become
audible if and when State Parliament
has an opportunity to discuss the matter.
However, the Premier, Mr Bolte, has
already indicated his Government's
reaction. At the time of Tait’s reprieve
Mr Bolte had spoken of the legal system
being “exploited” to prevent the carrying
out of the death sentence. Last week he
returned to his theme and promised that
his Government would amend the Mental
Health Act in Parliament’s March ses-
sion to prevent a repetition of the case,
and in the same breath suggested that
the whole question of court appeals
would also be examined.
Two separate points were involved in
Mr Bolte’s statement. The first con-
cerned the new concept of “mentally ill”
introduced under last year’s Mental
Health Act in place of the old “insanity”.
Mr Bolte has made it clear that he is
dissatisfied with the interpretation placed
on the new phrase by his Government’s
psychiatric officers. The other point
was a vague threat to curtail opportun-
ities of legal appeal by convicted p er ,
sons.
On neither score did the Premier
make his intentions at all specific. Faced
with charges-that his Government mean
to tamper with normal legal processes
the Premier beat a hasty retreat by issu'
ing a denial that such was his intention.
His statement merely gave the
Opposition leader, Mr Stoneham, aw
the Anti-Hanging Committee an oppoj.
tunity to remind him of the defeat be
had suffered over the attempt to han*
Tait last year.
The President of the Anti-Hanging
Committee, Mr Doube, called fori
committee of inquiry into capital punish- 1
ment, while Mr Stoneham hammered!
his claim that Mr Bolte was proposing to!
manipulate the courts. The Melbourne
Press, which had steadfastly opposed th
hanging of Tait, published a series of
statements by abolitionists.
Mr Bolte may have blundered in
raising the issue of Tait afresh. Apanj
from giving the impression of be® I
an ungracious loser, he has revived tin
forces opposed to hanging which were
resting, perhaps a little exhausted, ate
their successful campaign to save Tail
As Mr Doube has pointed out, tk|
campaign cost £2500. of which sot.
£7OO is still owing. His committee ii
tends to carry on its work with theairj
of having capital punishment remora
from the Victorian statute book. If 41
Premier persists in his attempts to amen;
the Mental Health Act and the to
relating to criminal appeals, Mr Doube-
will have a lot of fresh ammunition fc
his campaign.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
UNCLE TOM'S CABINET
"Perfidious" Mr Quirke
rpHE SA Labor Party’s pronounce-
A ments on Mr P. H. Quirke’s joining
the LCL last August, and now in his
appointment as Minister of Lands in the
SA Government, savour of an old-world
melodrama. The play appears to be in
three acts. The first has Mr Quirke as a
devoted son of the Labor movement,
fighting the good fight (years 1941-8). In
the second he falls away from virtue to
the extent of becoming an Independent
—but is still supported by many Labor
voters who believe he is basically true.
Then comes the great betrayal of 1962,
when he saves the hated Liberals and
sells his soul for a position in U®
Tom’s Cabinet. His present appoint®
is, according to Labor leader Wal
“the price of perfidy”.
All this has little connection with l
reality of Mr Quirke’s electorate. It* Bl
of those SA country electorates
class warfare has little meaning. 0®
election time, each party nominates sc
popular local figure, and it is disc®
assumed that he has always voted
that party. And some of these ‘ La 1
men returned are pretty conservative
deed.
In the contest of SA State P 0


r\ m i
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to gjet Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
•—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/6.
Amazing new
PANTENE*
Vitamin Hair Tonic
with party passions largely anaesthetised
by 30 years of mild LCL government, all
this is quite natural. The SA Labor
executive may give unhesitating support
to the extreme Left in the Federal
sphere (at the 1955 Hobart conference
SA was the only State whose delegates
all supported Evatt in every crisis), but
they haven’t had the chance to show
what they are made of in the State
sphere.
Quirke differed from other such
“Labor” men in that he was a trifle
more conservative, and that difference
between the Labor line and his private
convictions inevitably caused a break. He
is far too straightforward and indepen-
dent a personality to stay long in a party
with which he has some major disagree-
ment. Some day, when the ALP gets
into power in SA, it is going to be in-
teresting to see what one or two of the
other country Labor members do when
called upon to carry out the official party
policy.
The ALP bases its claim that Quirke
was elected with Labor support and
hence is under moral obligation to them,
on the fact that no Labor candidate
stood for his seat in 1959 or 1962. But
this was purely because at a previous
election he had almost been defeated by
a Liberal, and the ALP decided it was
better to withdraw from a seat in which
it had no chance whatsoever than to
help in putting a Liberal in. Any sug-
gestion that it “gave” him the seat is
nonsense it merely preferred him to
an otherwise inevitable Liberal.
There was a tremendous explosion of
wrath last year when Quirke first sup-
ported the minority Playford Govern-
ment, thus keeping it in office, and then
actually joined the party and thus
evened up numbers in the House. But it
is almost certain that in both these things
he was fulfilling the will of his predomi-
nantly conservative electorate. And the
ALP can hardly have been genuinely
surprised that a man with a record of
supporting the Playford Government on
all major issues should continue to do so.
As to his present Ministerial appoint-
ment, he is probably the most vigorous
and able man available. But it must be
very much doubted whether this would
automatically have given him prefer-
ence over other able country members
such as Mr Heaslip and Mr Laucke
both much senior in the party had
he not recently done some great service
to the party.
COMMUNISTS
THE CHINA HANDS
SLAP BACK
Circulars for Peking
TED HILL
The hard sell
Moscow-Peking rift is still making
itself felt in the local Communist
arty, despite the national leadership’s
dated stand on Khrushchev’s side after
a ° ne f s °journ in Mao’s camp. The
removal of E.F. “Ted” Hill from his
ea mg positions in the national and Vic-
7* leadership over a year ago sig-
a ik 6 . ec liP se of the Peking faction
t . triumph of the “soft-sell” Mos-
into o - ?' nce then, Hill has shifted
Porters and severa l of his sup-
Vida R' h en Miller, Flo Russell and
Party ~t7 ave been s t ruc k °ff the
P y-ro I.
Despite these setbacks a pro-Peking
act ! on is still at work in the Victorian
sev tlol i °- f the part V’ and has issued
nat^ a c^ rcu lars bitterly attacking the
a leadership, in particular Lance
Sharkey and Laurie Aarons. When the
first of these circulars appeared obser-
vers outside the C.P. were sceptical that
they were genuine. The language was
almost a parody of Stalinist jargon, but
Sharkey’s henchman, R. Dixon, last year
made a statement admitting that a pro-
Peking faction was at work and con-
firming that the circulars were intended
to be taken seriously,
The circulars purport to come from
“the rank and file committee Communist
Party of Australia”, and their attack on
the leadership is not entirely on ideologi-
cal g rounc js. They charge the present
leadership with having “adopted positions
°f self-interest rather than those in the
best interests °f the working class.”
The Australian delegates to last year’s
Communist congresses in Italy and
Czechoslovakia, Bill Brown and Claude
Jones, are singled out for particular
attack.
The circulars complain of the “un-
principled attacks on the Chinese Com-
munist Party” made at the Italian and
Czech C.P. Congresses and at those of
the Bulgarian and Hungarian congresses
on the Albanian Party. They draw com-
fort from a decision of the N.Z. Com-
munist Party last December calling for
a “world congress of Communist parties
to discuss problems, rather than having
them aired at individual congresses.”
They claim that Sharkey supported the
idea of a world congress last year, as did
the Chinese party. “However, Comrade
Sharkey is now such a hater of the so-


called ‘Chinese Line’ that he has moved
ground on this as well as on other
matters ...”
The authors of the circulars declare
their support for the ‘hard Chinese Line,’
even to using that phrase, and claim that
“Sydney comrades are joining us in in-
creasing numbers.”
The circulars include the familiar cry
of dissident Communist groups that
“Democratic centralism” is not being
observed. This was one of the main
complaints of the “revisionist” rebels of
1956, who broke with the Party after
the Khrushchev revelations about the
Stalin era, and the Soviet onslaught on
Hungary.
It is ironic that the present pro-Peking
faction were the harshest and crudest in
dealing with the dissidents of 1956,
whose language they have borrowed in
some extent. To this extent the “rank and
file” circulars are cynical documents,
since their authors must know only too
well that “democratic centralism” is a
meaningless phrase.
Despite the ascendancy of Sharkey’s
pro-Moscow line, the fact remains that
numerically more of the local Commu-
nist cadres have had Marxist training in
China than in the USSR. Hence there is
a potential base for a pro-Peking faction
to build on in its attempts to displace
Sharkey. No doubt copies of the circu-
lars have been mailed to Peking just to
let Mao know that some of the Old Boys
from his Marxist schools are battling on.
"WHITE TRASH"
A white man is not thought much
of up in the very far North. The
other day a sugar-planter up there
was informed by his overseer that a
man had died suddenly that morning
on the estate. The planter immedia-
tely jumped on a horse standing near
and rode to the spot. On his arrival
there, he found that the body was that
of a bush-carpenter who had been
employed in erecting some fencing on
the plantation. He rode straight back,
and when he got to the house dis-
mounted, and, striding up to the over-
seer, said, “Why you, you gave me
a proper scare. I thought it was one
of our Kanakas, but it’s only a
double-blanked white man.”
Tn spite of the opposition which Mr
Reid’s proposal to convert St James’
School into a High School for both
sexes has excited in certain mostly in-
terested quarters, it is most sincerely
to be hoped that Mr Reid will not
allow himself to be overruled or dis-
suaded from this project. The need
for such an institution is great, not
only in Sydney, but in the chief
country towns. At present, if a parent
is ambitious of giving his son a supe-
rior education, he has little recourse
except to private “Classical and Com-
mercial Schools”, which, in the majo-
rity of cases, are unmitigated frauds,
where, for a couple of years, a lad is
put under a certain loose and stupid
drill, and whence he emerges more or
less perfect in “vocables”, as Carlyle
would put it, but hazy and undeter-
mined as to the meaning and use of
those vocables. With girls, the case
has been worse; for, in the sphere of
female education, there being fewer
competitors, there is more chance for
mediocrity. Accordingly, in Sydney at
least, we find mediocrity rules the
roost.
bulletin
February 3, 1883
LAW
CLYNE v. THE TENANTS
A test case?
PETER CLYNE
“Best-known landlord
rpHE month of February will see the
end of a four-week long lull in the
relationship between landlords and ten-
ants in NSW, that has followed the ex-
piry of two key clauses of the Landlord
and Tenant Act on New Year’s Eve.
The elimination of the two clauses by
the Legislative Council has opened the
way for an owner to take eviction action
after owning premises for only six
months, instead of the previous two
years, and the abolition of the alternative
accommodation provision.
Under the operation of the Act 31
days must still elapse after the serving
of a notice to quit before a summons
for court action can be taken out. It
is impossible to say with accuracy just
how many notices to quit have been
taken out in the last four weeks and it
is only when they begin to come before
the courts in February that the extent of
eviction moves can be assessed.
But even while the expiry of the two
clauses has made it easier for a land-
lord to take action against his tenant
the case for eviction still has to be proved
in the courts. Apart from the obvious
grounds of nuisance, misconduct, etc., the
key clause for actions will be paragraph
g (i) of Section 62 (5) of the Act,
It is on this paragraph that the most
articulate and probably the best known
of the landlords, Mr Peter Clyne, a
former barrister, has chosen to move
for evictions.
Mr Clyne, lately an estate agent who
has specialised in advertising with dis-
arming honesty about his properties for
sale, acted, while the expiry of the two
clauses was still pending, with a circular
letter to 32 tenants of properties owned
by him, mainly in the inner Sydney
suburbs. In the letter he offered to
sell the properties on terms to tenants
at £750 discount from Valuer-General)
estimate or pay the tenants £750 to
move, but failing that made it clear that
he would take legal action to regain the
houses.
Some of the tenants settled on tit
terms but others organised themselves
into a Peter Clyne Tenants’ Commit®
assisted by a Fair Rents’ Advocate, Mi,
Wal Geraghty, MLC.
While other tenants’ committees hast
been formed it has been the Peter G)*
Tenants’ Committee that has got the most 3
publicity, due largely to the astuteness
Mr Geraghty, a former senior Stf#
Public Servant and long-time
Central Executive member.
To Mr Geraghty the issue is simp
The tenants are fighting for their mf i
rights against a speculator who
brought their homes, in almost all CK
within the last year, on borrowed m ol *
for a quick capital gain. The ten® :
he says, have moral rights because 1 ,
their long term occupancy; the f act -
the capital value of the cottages has W |
repaid several times over. Mr Geraf
who has been criticised by some b ;
men for appearing for landlords 1 -
occasion to support the rent in creJ |'. %
claims he would defend the right ° f


genuine landlord, but not that of a
speculator.
Further the concession on the V-G,
it is claimed, is only a paper one, be-
cause of appreciation in value of pro-
perties and the fact they were bought at
depressed prices.
To Mr Clyne the issue is equally
simple. In the words of his grounds in
the notices to quit he wants the “pro-
perties available to people willing and
able to pay a fair market rental for the
property they occupy and to seek pos-
session against tenants who do not gen-
erally require the protection of the Land-
lord and Tenant Act.”
Furthermore the \ct “conventionally
applied amounts to expropriation, for
the benefit of persons who do not re-
quire the benefit, and certainly ought not
to have it at the expense of the land-
lords.”
In reply, Mr Geraghty claims that the
issue is not rentals but the speculators’
need for a quick capital gain.
Mr Clyne’s attack on the “conven-
tional” interpretation of the Act centres
on the key paragraph in section 62 (5).
Jhis speaks of the premises being
reasonably required by the lessor for
occupation by himself” or some depend-
ent - In his grounds in the circulated
notice to quit Mr Clyne argues that the
provision can apply to him because the
Properties after becoming vacant will be
e t outside the Act. This means that the
essor retains control and supervision of
e properties and hence can come under
e relevant paragraph reference to “oc-
cupation by himself.”
W the court upholds his argument then
1 6 ,y va y VV ’H be open for virtually every
n ord to act similarly. Whatever the
nio'Th nS t * le COUrts w *thin the next
an , n . stage is set for a showdown
C01 ' L seer »s hkely that the Clyne tenants
couW the test cases.
RICHARD HALL
TASMANIA
THE NEWEST COUNTRY PARTY
Off to a bad start
publicists of Tasmania’s still embry-
A onic Country Party have made a bad
start by treading on the corns of those
with whom they must co-operate if they
are to get anywhere.
Seizing on the Federal Government’s
announcement that freight rates on Tas-
manian products exported to the main-
land on National Line ships would be
cut by 18 per cent., Mr C. R. Best, MLC.,
the party's provisional chairman, was put
on record as having “pointed out” that
the Tasmanian infant had submitted to
its Federal body on December 7 a motion
seeking such a reduction. The inference,
of course, was that this motion had
speedily brought Government action.
The political roundsman of “The
Examiner” drew the ire of the Country
Party when he reported that Tasmania’s
Attorney-General and Minister for Indus-
trial Development, Mr R. F. Fagan, had
been “largely responsible” for the cut in
freights. It's no secret that the Sea-
Road has not been an unmixed blessing
to the island State. It has certainly kept
down the cost of shipping goods from
the mainland, it has speeded deliveries
and it has dramatically reduced damage
to cargoes and pilfering, but it has put
mainland manufacturers on a better foot-
ing to compete with Tasmanian factories
in supplying the State’s domestic market.
But by cutting outward freights, the
National Line helped itself (by encourag-
ing back-loading) and put Tasmanian
plants and growers in a better position
to compete in mainland markets. It would
have been only commonsense for Mr
Fagan to do his uttermost to secure these
freight reductions.
The Minister for Customs and Excise,
Senator Denham Henty, of Launceston,
could not let Mr Best get away with his
statement. The Country Party had no
justification for claiming kudos, said
Senator Henty. A deputation of Tas-
manian Liberal senators and MHRs early
last year had sought freight reductions,
and in June the Minister for Transport,
Mr Opperman, had responded by sub-
stantially cutting the rates on Tasmanian
timber exports. “After an examination
of the effect of this reduction on the
ANL’s revenue over the last six months,
this reduction was extended to other com-
modities as requested by the deputation.”
To this Mr Best’s publicists replied
with evident heat that the Tasmanian
Country Party was proud of its effort
in “bringing this necessary move to Mr
Opperman’s notice.” His original state-
ment had simply been intended to point
out that organisations other than the State
Government had played a part, he said.
(In fact, it did not mention “other organ-
isations”.) This, he added, was an in-
stance in which all three Tasmanian
parties had done their share, “as it should
be.” (The statement, in fact, was that
“Mr McEwen was very pleased to have
an opportunity to take up the case for
reduced freight. The speed with which
the reduction has been made is proof
of the Country Party interest in Tas-
manian affairs.”)
Significantly, the Tasmanian Labor
Government has remained silent. Its in-
tention obviously is to continue its
slightly contemptuous attitude of simulat-
ed unawareness of the existence of the
Country Party.


AUSTRALIAN MUSIC 1963
WHO CALLS THE TUNE?
What's wrong with the ABC's music policy
By MARTIN LONG
The concert-giving season in Aus-
tralia starts this month and will
continue a fairly steady stream of
activity until about next November.
During that time (if we count the opera
season that the Elizabethan Trust hopes
to mount) there will be something over
1000 separate public performances of
serious music at professional level
throughout Australia, as well as a fair
quantity of live broadcast performances.
At least 90 per cent of all this will be
controlled or strongly influenced by
Australia’s “Ministry of Music” the
Federal Music Department of the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission. This
highly centralised body almost certainly
has more power over the musical destiny
of a whole nation than any organisation
in the non-Communist world.
The ABC’s massive and pervasive
power is one of several things that make
the musical life of Australia different in
almost every way from that of other
countries, and it must dominate any dis-
cussion of how serious professional
music-making is organised here.
The ABC administers all the perma-
nent professional orchestras in Australia;
it engages nearly all the solo recitalists
who tour here, and as the few re-
maining rival impresarios drop out of
the field it seems to be moving towards
a complete monopoly in this as well.
(The only comparable recital-giving or-
ganisation is the Musica Viva Society,
which operates strictly within the field
of chamber music on the basis of an
unwritten no-poaching agreement with
the ABC.)
The ABC is the only broadcasting or-
ganisation which makes more than
sporadic use of serious musicians, and
it is also the major employer of popular
musicians. (In the 12 months ended
June, 1962, it engaged including
duplications—74oB solo artists and 497
ensembles for radio, 811 soloists and 163
ensembles for television.)
It has an important finger in the
operatic pie, since it provides the or-
chestras and thereby a large invisible
subsidy for the Elizabethan Trust’s
opera seasons.
According to legend, the impetus for
the ABC’s entry into the world of the
concert entrepreneur in the mid-thirties
came from a disagreement between the
ABC’s general manager, Charles Moses,
and the notoriousy hard-bargaining
J. and N. Tait organisation over
a fee for the services of young
Yehudi Menuhin, who was
making the first of several Aus-
tralian tours for the Taits.
If the legend is true the pay-
off came last year, when the
Taits, whose concert activities
had greatly shrunk in the meantime
asked the ABC for help in organising
another Menuhin tour. (It is said that
this time the ABC expressed surprise at
the generosity of the fee that the Taits
had signed to Menuhin.)
Today the ABC handles up to 800
concerts a year; it claims it cannot find
another organisation in the world that
gives as many. It maintains permanent,
full-sized symphony orchestras in Syd-
ney and Melbourne, and permanent,
though smaller, orchestras in all other
State capitals. Each of these receives
some subsidy from State and sometimes
municipal sources, but none of these is
anywhere near big enough to give the
subsidiser an equal voice in deciding
how the orchestra is to be used.
The orchestras give subscription series
of concerts in each State capital (in Syd-
ney in 1962, 10 “rounds” of concerts,
each consisting of five concerts arranged
in two separate programmes, with 9783
subscribers in all; in Melbourne, four
concerts to each round and 7479 sub-
scribers). There are also low-priced
Youth Concerts (also arranged in sub-
scription series) for concertgoers of 25
and under, free concerts, open-air con-
certs, schoolchildren’s concerts and
extensive country tours that take the
State orchestras as far afield as Cairns
and Bunbury. They also give a number
of studio broadcasts.
Four years ago, after attendances at
solo recitals had been falling off for
some time (this was part of a world-wide
trend), the ABC arranged its solo recitals
in subscription series too. This has
proved a success, in Sydney at any rate,
where the number of subscribers doubled
from 1961 to 1962.
Altogether the subscription system
seems to work well in Australia (Musica
Viva uses it too), and it suits the ABC,
which generally likes things to be cut
and dried. This ABC tendency to regi-
mentation could be attributed to its semi-
public service status, but it is also made
necessary by the logistic problems in-
volved in the interlocking of its concert
and broadcasting activities.
This is also a good and no doubt suf-
ficient reason for its highly centralised
control although admittedly centralis-
ation is to the taste of Sir Charles Moses,
who presides over a well-disciplined
musical “cabinet” at Broadcast House,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The core of this cabinet is the Artists' j
Tours Committee, which decides which
international and national celebrities;
Australian audiences shall hear, and
when (the planning already extends ten- j
tatively into 1965). The members of
this committee are Moses, the federal |
director of music (formerly Herbert,
Cannon, who retired late last year) the I
director of programmes (Clement Semtj-
ler), and the director of publicity and I
concerts (Charles Buttrose). Joseph Post,
the assistant director of music, deputises I
foi the director during the latter*!
“shopping trips” abroad, and has go®l
abroad on these duties himself.
Near-monopoly
HThere will always be argument as t‘,
whether or not the ABC near-ni°"i
opoly is good for Australian musitj
There is no question that in some
it is not only desirable but inevitahj
in Australian conditions. The ABCfl
dominating position enables it to spf ea |
its gains and losses and engage fr oll l
rank artists without pondering too n )UC |
as to whether they may also be
office.” I


It enables it to undertake worthy but
uneconomic ventures like the country
orchestral tours, the Youth Concerts and
the schoolchildren’s concerts. It also
helps it to provide security (as security
is measured in a notoriously insecure
profession) to a large number of Aus-
tralian musicians.
It could well be argued that the geo-
araphy and demography of Australia,
with its great distances and unevenly
distributed population, demand that
music, like railway lines, be largely a
public enterprise if the people as a whole
are to be fairly served.
But there are dangers in monopoly as
such. The ABC has an alarming degree
of power over the fortunes of the profes-
sional performer of serious music. In-
evitably one hears tales of favoritism and
blacklisting; these stories are hard to
verify, but the mere fact that such a
possibility exists is uncomfortable for
the professional who cannot or does not
want to take refuge in teaching music,
jazz playing or beekeeping.
Good award conditions
An the other hand the ABC monopoly
” has certainly not held down the con-
ditions of regularly employed players in
comparison with countries where there
are many more employers. Australian
musicians have a fairly active Musicians’
Union and generally good award condi-
tions. Permanent orchestral players
throughout Australia have an average
income of about £ISOO a year; those in
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra (work-
ing longer hours than those in Adelaide
or Perth, for example) have a basic rate
of £32/10/- a week, with loadings for
skill. ABC players have regular holidays
and sick leave, and can qualify for
superannuation. In England last year
permanent orchestral players were agitat-
ing for an increase in their wages from
£AIB/15/- to £A2S for rank-and-file
players.
(In passing, despite the alleged Aus-
tralian prejudice against women in pro-
fessions there are possibly more women
m major orchestras in Australia than in
any country in the world. The Victorian
Symphony Orchestra until recently had a
woman leader.)
Through its monopoly the ABC has
an alarming degree of influence over the
ormation of public taste, and it is here
at it is most vulnerable to criticism,
s rigid conservatism and dogged
flnddlebrow-ism preserves the old isola-
•°n of Australia from current artistic
movements.
The list of composers of works played
or the first time j n Australia by a n t he
orchestras in all States in the 12
ont hs between
’ if. w °rth quoting in full: Benda,
toff § V CliVe Egk, Khodza-Eina-
’ Kre iki, Lancen, Lilburn, Marcello,
Martinu, Rivier, Rosza, Sutherland, de
la Vega, Villa-Lobos, Zador.
Benda and Marcello are 18th century
composers. The Berg work was the
Three Pieces of 1914. The only other
20th century composers of importance
in the list are Martinu (died 1959) and
(at a long stretch) Villa-Lobos. Douglas,
Lilburn and Sutherland are Australian
and New Zealand composers, so their
inclusion may be regarded as an act of
duty, though a duty somewhat perfunc-
torily fulfilled.
There is nothing of the new compo-
sers who have been reshaping modern
music since 1945; there is no Stravinsky,
no Britten, no Shostakovich, no Hinde-
mith; not even any Schoenberg or
Webern, whose works are still largely
unknown to Australian concertgoers.
Future historians of Australian music will
look at a record like this with baffled
incomprehension.
It may be replied that orchestras else-
where which depend on box-office re-
turns often present programmes that are
just as old-fashioned. But in older musi-
cal centres there are usually other orga-
nisations catering to special tastes, while
the ABC, as a near-monopoly not en-
tirely dependent on the box-office, has
a responsibility to the minority audience
and to the healthy growth of the coun-
try's musical awareness.
The ABC’s conservatism shows itself
in other ways. Though it continues to
develop its existing musical activities —
particularly in the country—it has done
nothing permanently creative, musically,
since the founding of the Youth Con-
certs in 1947. It is significant that the
most important recent addition to Aus-
tralian musica] life, the establishment of
top-quality chamber music recitals, has
been left to Musica Viva.
One suggestion that has been made
without apparent result is that the ABC
should establish a small orchestra spe-
cialising in the performance of baroque
and classical works, along the lines of
the group that Yehudi Menuhin
assembled with notable success at the
last Adelaide Festival. The time may
have come for something in the nature
of the BBC Third Programme, but there
seems to be little hope of getting it. In
fact, we seem to be moving further away
from it. Twenty years ago the ABC ran
a regular programme, featuring both live
and recorded music, called “Modern and
Contemporary Composers” ; there is no
equivalent today.
The ABC is often charged with pre-
venting the development of local artists
by swamping the concert platforms with
international celebrities. If this means
that we should place import restrictions
on musicians in order to protect less effi-
cient local industry the argument is dan-
gerous (though, in fact, it is implied in
the official policy of the Musicians’
Union).
There certainly does exist a snobbish
attitude towards resident musicians, but
it is the audiences who are to blame for
it, and the ABC, to its credit, has made
some attempt to combat it. The ABC
says it would like to use Australian
artists for country and provincial re-
citals, but finds that audiences outside
the capital cities are quick to suspect
that they are being fobbed off with
something “inferior,” and demand that
they be given the international stars that
the city-dwellers hear. (At least one
provincial subscribers’ committee has
bluntly told the ABC that it “won’t
have” Australian artists.)
The ABC could certainly give more
work—and longer sessions—to resident
artists in its broadcast programmes. But
through its annual concerto and vocal
competitions it provides something much
broader in scope and much more useful
to young talent than the much bally-
hooed operatic aria contests run by news-
papers and oil companies.
One distressing side effect of the
ABC’s dominating position (and here
again the audiences rather than the
ABC are to blame) is that serious artists
handled by smaller independent manage-
ments are likely to be ignored. This
was spectacularly demonstrated last year
when the Polish pianist Halina Czerny-
Stefanska, one of the most authoritative
and sensitive Chopin interpreters ever
heard here, toured for Natan Schein-
wald, a film importer whose name was
largely unknown to concertgoers. De-
spite enthusiastic reviews she drew beg-
garly houses.
Another indirect result of ABC domi-
nation is the tendency (not discouraged
by ABC spokesmen) to assume that the
ABC is the only begetter of Australian
music. Without question concert activi-
ties expanded enormously after the ABC
began operations in the thirties, but this
does not mean that all was darkness be-
fore that time.
Overseas inspiration
T>oth the Sydney and Melbourne con-
** servatoria were quite active concert-
giving organisations up to and after
1935 and orchestral history in both
cities goes back to the last century.
Choral activities in particular were far
stronger in the past than they are now.
In Sydney the Conservatorium main-
tained a professional orchestra as well as
its student orchestras, and it gave regu-
lar seasons of concerts up to the end of
World War 11. There have been re-
cital-giving string quartets in Australia
(notably the famous Verbrugghen Quar-
tet of the early ’twenties) for 100 years
at least.
The post-war musical success story
is the rise of Musica Viva. As so


often happens with institutions founded
in Australia, it was inspired by some-
thing elsewhere, and as happens with
nearly all such institutions, Australia
has transformed it into something
totally its own. Richard Goldner, an ex-
Viennese violist with memories of
Vienna's Musica Viva, founded it in
Sydney in 1945 as a small string orch-
estra. Soon after that a Musica Viva
string quartet was formed. It gave sub-
scription series of concerts in Sydney
and later extended its tours to other
States and New Zealand. Increasing
costs forced the quartet to disband in
1952.
Two years later the society started
business again in the role of entrepre-
neur, and hopefully signed up the Pascal
and Koeckert string quartets with no
cash in hand. (The only way they could
pay their full-time organiser, Miss
Regina Ridge, was to have her take a
shilling from each subscription as it
came in.)
Chamber music self-supporting
ff\)DAY the society has more than 1200
subscribers in Sydney, nearly 1000
in Melbourne, 400 in Adelaide and about
the same number in Brisbane and Can-
berra (these last two, as well as New-
castle and Wollongong (NSW), are run
in conjunction with semi-autonomous
local chamber music societies. In Perth
Musica Viva’s tourists are handled by
the ABC). Altogether it places about 70
public concerts a year.
By dint of shrewd organisation and
low overhead (Miss Ridge is still the
only paid officer) it has performed the
rare feat of making chamber music sup-
port itself, without any subsidy or guar-
antee. (Miss Ridge says, perhaps wist-
fully, that the popular belief that the
society is kept afloat by donations from
“wealthy Jewish members” is 100 per
cent, untrue. The ABC broadcasts some
of its recitals, but the fees the society
gets from these are not crucial to its
existence.)
Some of the audiences it draws —the
peak is 1600 for a Hungarian Quartet
recital in Sydney last year—would be
notable attendances for chamber music
anywhere in the world. It is in a
strong enough position to engage groups
of the standing of the Fine Arts Quartet
(1961), the Hungarian Quartet (1962)
and the Budapest Quartet (1963).
In 1958 it was invited to manage the
Australian tour of the Czech Philhar-
monic Orchestra (the first overseas orch-
estra to visit Australia), and in turn in-
vited the ABC into partnership for the
organisation of the tour.
Both the ABC and Musica Viva find
that the most rapidly expanding side
of their activity now is concert-giving
outside the capital cities. Here (as far
as the eastern States are concerned) they
have the benefit of pioneering work
done by the Arts Council of Australia
and, to a less extent, its Victorian part-
ner, the Council of Adult Education.
The Arts Council is another charac-
teristically Australian institution which
began as an imitation of an overseas
model. Dorothy Helmrich founded it in
the war years as the Council for the
Encouragement of Music and the Arts
(CEMA), intending to run it along the
lines of the British CEMA. It dutifully
changed its name in 1945 when the
British CEMA became the British Arts
Council. But the Arts Council of Aus-
tralia, a hard-battling organisation with
a permanent staff of four, has little re-
semblance to the august British Arts
Council, which distributes subsidies far
larger than the Australian Council
would ever hope to receive.
The Arts Council is officially a federal
body, and it had active branches in all
States in 1951, when it sent a ballet
company around Australia with the first
production of John Antill’s Corroboree.
But its branches outside NSW, Queens-
land and Tasmania are now dormant,
and its organisation is handled from
its Sydney headquarters. (In Victoria it
usually works in co-operation with the
Council for Adult Education.)
It is a worthy, if unspectacular organi-
sation. Its success can be gauged mainly
by the numbers it reaches. It sold a
quarter of a million tickets for its per-
formances in NSW and Queensland in
1961, and it travels its companies as far
as Mount Isa and Cairns.
Recently it has paid less attention to
the touring of musical recitalists and has
concentrated more on drama, ballet and
opera; but it will resume solo tours this
year if hoped-for subsidies from new
sources eventuate. At present it re-
ceives £12,500 a year from the NSW
Government and £SOO from the
Queensland Government. It says it
needs £24,000 a year to do the job it
would like to do.
Three opera companies
TPhe history of concert-giving in Aus-
tralia has been one of scattered ac-
tivity followed by sudden growth and
consolidation. The history of opera, on
the other hand, is one of strong activity
followed by sudden decline and a ten-
tative, even precarious, renascence.
In 1849, when bullock waggons still
rolled down George Street, Sydney saw
Wallace’s Maritana five years after its
London premiere. Bellini’s La Sonnam-
bula, now looked on as so difficult that
only a company with exceptional singers
dare tackle it, was playing in Sydney a
few years later. In the ’nineties Pag-
liacci came to Australia within 18
months of its first performance. In the
’eighties in Brisbane three rival opera
companies played simultaneously. g e
fore World War I Australia had its %
and last performance of the complete
Ring cycle of Wagner.
Those, of course, were operatic days
But even by today’s standards Australia’s
supply of opera is minimal compared
to other countries of equal population.
Nevertheless, we have had in post-war
years some attempts to establish ,
national opera. (The opera companies
of the past were mainly imported.)
The Victorian National Theatre
Movement, inaugurated in 1935, held
its first season of opera in 1948. Three
years later another “National” opera
company was founded in Sydney, and
the two gave joint seasons in both cities
in 1952. The Melbourne company
achieved an artistic standard compar-
able with anything that has been seen
here since, and the NSW group, though
it disappeared in an atmosphere of
schism and bankruptcy, has been retro-
spectively underrated.
The Elizabethan Theatre Trust has
had command of operatic activity sinct
its foundation in 1954 and has ploughed
a somewhat erratic furrow, trying to re-
concile relatively slender resources with
sometimes extravagant ambitions and
the formidable problem of maintaining
one national opera company to serve a
whole continent.
The key money
TI/Joney is the key: The Trust receives
for all its annual activities si
sidies totalling £144,000 —only a fraction
of that paid to opera alone in single cities
of Europe. It lost £IOO,OOO on its first
three opera seasons (although its spokes
men insist that, per capita, the atten-
dances were as good as in other cot
tries) and had no season at all in 196
It still seems to be by no means a fotf
gone conclusion that there will be anni
seasons from now on. (In view of this
the title “Opera House” which is gi ,£l
for convenience to the nest of audit® 11
rising on Benelong Point, Sydney, has®
ironic ring.)
There is, of course, professional t
semi-professional concert activity g<*
on outside these categories, w*
of them presented by the conservator
and university music departments ®
the numerous specialist societies.
In Sydney, for example, there are t*
International Society for Contempt;
Music, the Bartok Society, the Sc
bert Society, the Mozart Society, 1 '
organ societies, the Dante Alig ll
Society, the Gallery Society, the
Society and several others which r
time to time offer a public platform
professional musicians. Perhaps ’
population increases some of /


groups will grow strong enough to pro-
vide for the specialist audience that the
ABC so conspicuously ignores.
Comparisons between Australia ana
other countries as to musical patronage
(in both uses of the word) and rate of
activity are on the whole fairly profit-
less.
It is almost impossible to find another
country with which a valid comparison
can be made. One cannot compare
Sydney or Melbourne (let alone Perth or
Brisbane) with centres planted squarely
in the tourist passageways of the world,
where important musical events com-
mand free-spending audiences from
every continent (including Australia).
As to subsidies, should one compare
Australia with European countries,
where State subsidies for music are often
stupendous by Australian standards (the
Italian State authorities pay £4,500,000
a year for opera alone), or with
America, where State patronage is
“Socialism,” and the ancient custom of
patronage by the wealthy (though often
filtered through “foundations”) still pre-
vails?
Subsidising of the arts is largely a
matter of tradition and inertia: in
Europe the issue is often whether or not
an institution that has existed since the
Renaissance (and earns lots of tourist
dollars) should be allowed to wither; in
Australia it is a question of whether
money is to be spent on music or on
hospitals and housing.
It is hard to estimate the amount of
Government expenditure through the
ABC that could be classed as a subsidy
on musical activity. The deficit on con-
cert operations in the 1961-62 balance
sheet stands at £57,278 3s. 6d., but that
means little, since musicians’ salaries —
£683,734 6s. 7d.—and staff salaries are
listed separately. The total of Govern-
ment and municipal subsidies for music
m Australia might be more than
£1,500,000, and would almost certainly
be less than £2 million per annum—
about .03 per cent, of the national in-
come.
Patronage in the other sense—the
evel of attendance—seems to be healthy
y most standards. But again, it is hard
0 ma^e comparisons, for no one sepa-
rates the tourists from the taxpayers at
Bayreuth.
There is nothing unexpected, or espe-
-13 y praiseworthy, in this strong con-
fer demand. However much people
ay theorise about “musical” and “un-
usical nations, the conditions for
ass patronage of music must depend
ln 0 - 1 a gOOC * livin § stan( fard, allow-
andmeasure °f universal leisure
cn education, combined with
rp entrate d urban populations—and
th P admission prices. And all
° ese Australia has.
THE WILD TASMANIANS
17 Politicians who won't let Parliament be a bore
By ALAN REID
Tasmania produces an exceptionally
A heavy crop of colorful politicians.
On the performances of some of them,
it would seem that an unusually high
proportion is dragged, barefooted and
tangle-haired, out of the thickest thickets
on the tallest Tasmanian mountains, out-
fitted with a pair of shoes and a hair-cut
and then let loose upon the Australian
voter.
To the 124 members of the House of
Representatives and 60 Senators, who
jointly make up the National Parliament,
Tasmania contributes 17 12 Senators
and five members of the Lower House.
Two of the 17 Athol Townley, from
Hobart, and Denham Henty, from Laun-
ceston are in the Menzies Ministry,
Townley administering the Defence port-
folio and Henty Customs. Two of the 17
Labor Senate Leader Nick McKenna
and Senator William Aylett (Lab.) are
expatriates. McKenna represents Tasma-
nia from a good-class Sydney suburb,
and Aylett guards his State’s interests
from the sun-drenched, surf-loving vant-
age point of Queensland’s swank, tourist-
maintained Gold Coast. One of the 17
Gil Duthie, Labor whip in the House
of Representatives, and widely conceded
to be one of the best parish pump opera-
tors in the business is that rara avis
of Australian politics, an ex-parson.
Two of the remaining 12 Senator
Reg Wright (Liberal) and Senator Reg
(“Spot”) Turnbull make some of the
so-called “wild-eyed” men from New
South Wales (traditional home of the
Australian “wild-eyed” politician) seem
like sissies. Wright is a short-legged, long-
bodied, big-headed, sonorous-voiced
lawyer who not only looks as though he
stepped straight from the pages of
Dickens but sounds as though he ac-
quired his rich, fruity vocabulary from
the same source. He hates Communists,
Socialists, Labor Leaders, Prime Minis-
ter Menzies, a good half of Cabinet, and
the fact that it is the junior members of
the Press Gallery and not the senior men
who report the Senate’s words of wisdom.
He likes the sound of his own voice, big
words, the Senate, the Constitution.
Turnbull is a medico, from Launces-
ton, a long, lean greying man who looks
like a slightly rumpled version of a Man
of Distinction, who has been in political
trouble almost as often as Treasurer
Harold Holt has been skindiving. He was
a school classmate with urbane Harold
Holt, but is as uninhibited about Holt (or
anyone else) as a TV comic, has a sense


of humor, a scathing tongue, a snout on
the Labor Party (which expelled him
after he became involved in a lottery row
while he was Tasmania’s Labor Treasu-
rer), and a strong sense for political self-
preservation and survival.
If you tot up the above list, you’ll find
that this leaves only ten of the 17
Tasmanians in the National Parliament
to qualify as unexceptional by mainland
standards, and even among the ten some
would stand out as unusual if from an-
other State and consequently not com-
pelled to share the State stage with such
as Wright, Aylett and Turnbull.
While the Menzies Government re-
mains in office and he remains a member
of the Menzies Cabinet, Townley must
be ranked as Tasmania’s senior National
representative. Townley’s political
strength is in Hobart where he is a pros-
perous chemist sharing ownership of a
big chain-store-type pharmacy, right in
the heart of the city. Though it is ex-
pressed more in hints than directly, and its
origins and motivations are obscure to the
outsider, there is a bit of feeling between
Hobart and Launceston. The Launcesto-
nites view the Hobartians as rather
flighty and not quite as solid as them-
selves. The Hobartians regard the Laun-
ceston ites as near kin to backwoodsmen.
Townley suits Hobart but, say the Tas-
manians, would not stand nearly as high
in Launceston where Denham Henty, a
member of the Henty family which pion-
eered European settlement in Victoria
from its Launceston base, is viewed as
the essence of a solid, dependable citizen.
Townley of the Inner Circle
A still slim good-looking man of 56,
Townley is a wartime naval type who
among other activities chased Japanese
midget submarines around Sydney Har-
bor on that dramatic wartime night when
they penetrated the defences guarding
Sydney Heads. Townley has been De-
fence Minister since Sir Philip Mcßride,
now Liberal Federal President, retired
from that job and the Parliament in
1958.
Quite shrewd, a reasonable down-to-
earth talker, sports-loving and athletic-
looking, Townley, who is a fervent Men-
zies admirer, was looked upon as one of
Menzies’s “inner circle” favorites, and a
possible successor to Menzies as Liberal
Parliamentary Leader and in the Prime
Ministership. Apart from other factors,
health seems to have written finis to that
possibility.
Townley’s handling of the Defence
portfolio has gained him both friends and
enemies. Though Mcßride had an im-
mense reputation with the Public Service
as an administrator (he is still quoted
as one of the few effective Ministers of
the Interior ever to occupy that difficult
chair) Defence had all the earmarks of
being a bit of a mess when Townley took
over. It was a weak point for the
Menzies Administration. Political friends
as well as enemies were critical of the
fact that though since 1949 the Menzies
Government had spent many hundreds of
millions of pounds on defence there was
remarkably little to show for this ex-
penditure in the shape of military iron-
mongery and men trained to operate
such ironmongery as compared with
penpushers, stores supervisors, and the
like.
Without letting a sentence of criticism
against his predecessor pass his lips,
Townley proceeded to change that.
Under his Ministerial direction, the Army
and Army equipment was re-organised.
Naval needs were overhauled. The Air
Force supplied with more modern appa-
ratus for its use and long-term arrange-
ments made for the replacement of its
planes and the extension of its transport
facilities. Nowadays the criticism that the
Government has little to show for money
expended is rarely voiced. The debate on
the Defence estimates late last year
showed that the points of worry are
whether the Government is spending
enough on defence and whether the iron-
mongery it has and is acquiring is the
right type of ironmongery for Australia's
specialised needs.
While Townley undoubtedly acquired
friends from his handling of the Defence
portfolio, there has been nothing specta-
cular about his handling of the portfolio
and this has brought him enmity parti-
cularly within the ranks of his own
party. This in part stems from (1) Town-
ley’s attitude to defence problems and
(2) his attitude towards Asians who, his
disgruntled colleagues believe, may one
day test Australia’s defences at a period
when the United States is too preoc-
cupied (or to safeguard what it considers
to be its own interests has made a deci-
sion to stay aloof) to come to the aid of
its comparatively unimportant Australian
partner.
Townley’s view is that a small, de-
veloping country like Australia has to
face up realistically to the fact that only
a proportion of its income can be spent
on defence.
An example of how this approach
works out in practice is what has hap-
pened about submarines for the Austra-
lian Navy. Expert advice some time ago
was that Australia should build up a
submarine fleet. Cabinet, after consider-
ing the reasons that led to the experts
tendering that advice, accepted the ad-
vice. But the money was not available for
the Navy to get submarines without other
services being deprived of ironmongery
that Townley and his advisers deemed
had an even higher order of priority. So
the Navy was told that it could not have
submarines yet. When the funds recently
became available, they got Cabinet ap-
proval to get them. This approach might
be sound in many ways but, as I
earlier, it is not spectacular and the
Liberals who fear an early threat from
Asia which would possibly find Australia
without United States’ backing do not
like it.
Just as his hostile colleagues within the
Liberal Party are guided by their app re .
ciation of the degree of threat Australia
is under from Asian sources, Townleyj s
guided by his appreciation. Townley
believes that Australians are completely
different from Britishers, Americans
Frenchmen, Dutchmen and other Euro!
peans who sooner or later will be leaving
the area and returning “home.” Austra-
lians have nowhere else to go to. They
are here to stay. This is their home,
Therefore Australians have to must
find a modus vivendi with their Asian
neighbors.
Darker than the Asians
T'ownley’s own experiences have in-
A fluenced his outlook. He went to a
Colombo Plan Conference some years
ago as Immigration Minister. On arrival,
he found himself facing hostility as the
administrator of Australia’s restricted im-
migration programme. He made no apo-
logies for the programme. He took off his
shirt he sunburns very blackly -
to demonstrate to his fellow delegates
from Asian countries that he was darker
than any of them. He disclaimed that the
Australian immigration policy was based
upon any imagined racial superiority and
in so far as it was cultural that did not
mean that Australians viewed their Euro-
pean-derived culture as superior to any
other culture. Australia’s immigration
system was merely the expression of the
culture that existed in Australia and to
which Australians were accustomed. On
his return to Australia, Townley was
pursued by clippings from Asian news-
papers giving accounts of how the Asians
he had spoken to at the conference ac-
cepted and defended the right of Aus-
tralians to maintain their immigration
programme on its existing basis. He had
similar experiences at other conferences
and on visits to Singapore and elsewhere.
This has given him the conviction that it
Australians try to understand the Asian
viewpoint and in turn make an effort
to get Asians to understand the Australian
viewpoint Australians and Asians will livt
in proximity and with a minimum ®
friction.
His enthusiasm for this approach con-
tributed towards him making the wo»
political “boner” he has pulled since»
went into Parliament in 1949. Wh'»
the Dutch and Indonesians were st
wrestling with the West New Guinea
problem and while shots undoubte f
triggered off by the impatient Indonesian*
were actually being exchanged—Towri,
visited Indonesia and was photograph
in Indonesian uniform with his “gong s


visiting an Indonesian military esta-
Ushment. Townley since has given all
kinds of explanations for this incident,
but in my judgment, this preoccupation
w ith the necessity to establish a modus
vivendi with Asia and Asians was respon-
sible for him failing to appreciate the
reaction that publication of a photograph
of him so clothed and in such circum-
stances would produce both internation-
ally and back in Australia. It also blinded
him to appreciation of the fact that the
Dutch had acted honorably and respon-
sibly over West New Guinea, had be-
haved with scrupulous regard for Aus-
tralia’s interests, and were entitled if not
to support at least to neutrality, and for
an Australian Minister to refrain from
being publicly revealed in circumstances
suggesting sympathetic support for the
Indonesians’ acts of hostility against the
Dutch.
The arms build-up in Indonesia
based on supplies from the Soviet Union
does not appear to have shaken
Townley. Undoubtedly he is watching it.
But there are no signs that he is exerting
any pressure upon Cabinet to put him
financially in a better position from
which to stage an arms race. He wants
arms kept at a minimum in this area.
When some time ago Government first
tentatively explored the possibility that
Australia should either acquire atomic
weapons or take the first steps to manu-
facture its own, Townley was against the
proposal. His view was that Australia
should certainly acquire or take action
with the aim of ultimately producing its
own atomic arms if others within the
area acquired them. But he was against
Australia being the first to introduce
atomic arms into the area. Now, with
Indonesia, he seems to be taking the
attitude disapproved by a section of
the Liberals that it is in Australia’s
better interests to persuade Indonesia that
there is no further need to build up its
arms and a case for decreasing them. He
believes this preferable to risking starting
at this stage an Australian-Indonesian
arms race which with the Soviet supply-
ing Indonesia Australia could not hope
to win, anyway.
Henty the Reformer
Henty, 59, Townley’s Tas-
manian colleague in the Ministry,
is a quite different type from Townley.
Where Townley has a certain flamboy-
ancy, Henty, a Launceston business
man who found his way into National
politics through local activities (he was
Mayor of Launceston for seven years),
is solid and unpretentious. He is not a
good speaker, though, bespectacled and
rather harassed looking, he gets across
what he wants to say. He seemed to be
an example of the Menzies penchant for
seeming to put the wrong man in the
wrong job. Menzies did this when he put
William McMahon, a wealthy bachelor
who if he had so elected would never
have had to do a day’s work in his life,
first in Social Services, handling the
problems of the old, sick and under-
privileged, and then in Labor, handling
employment, and when he placed John
Cramer, a civilian without military ex-
perience, in charge of the Army port-
folio. McMahon’s appointments paid off
handsomely. Cramer made a bad start,
but seems now to be working out (the
Army Department, usually good for end-
less Governmental headaches, has not
been under fire for months). Henty
turned out another good appointment.
The Customs portfolio to which Men-
zies appointed Henty in 1956 is largely


a “machine” job. Since the Trade De-
partment has been in existence, Customs
is not a policy department. It administers
policy which Trade initiates. Over a wide
field of Customs activities, any clot who
has enough sense to listen to the advice
of his very competent officials could
prove an adequate Minister. The late Ben
Chifley, when Prime Minister, is reputed
to have been asked what quality he
prized most in a Customs Minister and
to have retorted “Honesty” (Customs is
one of the few areas of Commonwealth
administration which lend themselves to
“finangling.”)
But there is one area of Customs ad-
ministration that is politically touchy.
Customs still has the responsibility for
book censorship.
Henty is the last person whom you
would identify or who would push him-
self forward as a literary type. Yet under
the administration of this Launceston
business man book censorship has libera-
lised to an extent that previously would
have seemed politically impossible.
Hundreds of books have been taken off
the banned list.
A further step liberalising Australia’s
censorship administration highlighted re-
cently the fact that there is little love lost
between Henty and his fellow Tasmanian
in the Senate, Reg Wright. Wright, usu-
ally nominated as Tasmania’s top bar-
rister, contrives to convey the impression
that he is jealous that Henty, a man of
earthy, prosaic commonsense, should
have been appointed to the Ministry
ahead of himself with two University
degrees and a brilliant (but on occasions
erratic) mind. Possibly, without realising
what he is doing, Wright’s attitude sug-
gests that he would find it ecstatically
pleasant to be wearing the balding
Henty’s political scalp at his belt.
On this particular occasion Henty had
been approached by University and other
authorities. It was pointed out to him
that Australian research scholars and
students were being penalised by the
operation of the censorship laws even in
the liberal and modified form in which
he now had them operating. Medical re-
searchers were denied books they needed
for their work. Students of English litera-
ture could not get access to books like
Henry Miller’s “Tropic of Cancer” which
many respectable modern writers con-
fessed had influenced both their styles
and outlooks. Henty could have dug his
toes in. The great mass of Australians
would not have been any worse off.
Only scholarship would have been
poorer. Instead Henty agreed to access to
such books for persons who convinced
him that they wanted access for bona-fide
research or scholarship purposes and
provided circulation was restricted to
those persons who had bona-fide reasons
for wanting access to the banned works.
The Senate Regulations Committee
of which Wright is a prominent member
got to work. It disapproved of Henty’s
action, and wanted to place checks in the
form of references to advisory board
upon the Minister’s discretion. Wright,
who was the committee’s main spokes-
man in the Senate (as he was reported
to be the main driving force in its deal-
ings with this particular matter), pictured
an unworthy and venal Customs Minister
flooding the country with indecent litera-
ture unless subjected to strict and en-
forced controls over his power to release
such books.
Henty, though he lacked both Wright’s
ponderous fluency and logical marshal-
ling of his arguments, nevertheless “did”
Wright like a well-cooked dinner in this
particular argument. He pointed out that
Wright was always screaming about Min-
isters and Parliament handing over power
to bureaucrats. Here he as a Minister was
prepared to make his own decisions
and to carry the responsibility with the
voters for making them. Yet here was
the committee of which Wright was the
main spokesman wanting him to accept
the decisions of the very bureaucratic
machine that Wright was always com-
plaining was operating powers that
should be in Ministerial or Parliamentary
hands.
Nick McKenna in his role of Senate
Labor Leader added another touch of
comedy to this almost exclusively Tas-
manian Senate show. He started off sup-
porting Wright and the committee (as his
party had instructed him to) but by the
time he had sat he had argued himself
as close as damn it to acceptance of
Henty’s commonsense viewpoint.
Bucking the machine
on that occasion did not
contribute to the debate. If he had he
would probably have supported Henty.
He has an unconventional cast of mind,
and is anti-bureaucrat. In one of his first
speeches after bucking the Labor
machine in Tasmania (which would love
to cut his political throat) to get entry
to the Senate as an Independent, he not
only got stuck into his former class-
mate, Harold Holt, but also into Holt’s
first lieutenant, Tasmanian-born Sir Ro-
land Wilson, who as permanent head of
the Treasury and probably Australia’s
No. 1 bureaucrat must be numbered
among Tasmania’s most distinguished
alumni. Turnbull suggested that a manag-
ing director and a general manager in
private business who got their firm into
as sticky a mess as Holt and Wilson
had got Australia would be eligible for
sacking.
Aylett, the “Gold Coast” Senator, is as
extraordinary as Turnbull in his way.
Aylett is one of the very few in the
Labor movement who has had a clear-cut
win over that powerful figure, Mr F, £
(“Joe”) Chamberlain, Federal Secre-
tary of the ALP. Chamberlain has an
austere streak. He takes the old-fashioned
view that if a man is entrusted by a
party to do a job and moreover
draws handsome emoluments for doing
that job he should do the job. When
goaded by Aylett’s frequent absences
from the Senate, the ALP Federal “bos-
ses” discussed the question of Aylett’s
Senate attendance, Chamberlain indicated
that he was in favor of action against the
offender. In such circumstances, the man
who incurs Chamberlain’s displeasure
can usually be reasonably certain that
within a relatively short time he will be
walking round with his political head
tucked neatly underneath his arm. For
a while it looked as though that would
be Aylett’s fate. The Tasmanian ALP
Executive, prodded by Chamberlain and
the ALP Federal authorities duly held its
scheduled meeting to decapitate the sun-
loving Senator. He marched into the Exe-
cution Chamber but some time later
emerged with his head still firmly on the
shoulders. The Senator still inhabits the
Gold Coast, and everyone except pos-
sibly Chamberlain and a few Tasmanian
electors who have a sense of neglect -
seem reconciled to this felicitous arrange-
ment.
Apparently there is greater tolerance
of the unusual in Tasmania than has been
usual elsewhere in modern Australian
politics. Aylett’s unconventionality in his
choice of an abode does not mark him
out particularly from some of his earlier
fellow Tasmanians. He is part of a long
tradition. I remember one Tasmanian
who used to throw all his official mail,
unopened, into the wastepaper basket.
He worked on the theory that if people
wanted to see him or get him to ho
something for them urgently they would
come and see him personally or phone.
Another Tasmanian, a gentle soul who
seemed equally devoted to Douglas Credit
and the violin, used to beguile the tedious
train journeys Parliamentarians had to
undertake prewar to get to Canberra
(now most of them fly) with endless tunes
on the fiddle, all accompanied by toetap-
ping and much headshaking in time to
the music.
They are a colorful lot, the Tasma
nians. Despite the relative fewness c
their numbers, they have two of
zies’s Ministers in the shape of Townie'
and Henty, a Labor leader in McKen®
and a collection of originals in Wrig ! -
Turnbull, Aylett, Duthie and
which the largest mainland States woi l '
find hard to match. They might not
terribly numerous but they are interes n
to anyone seeking relief from the dra
ness into which the Parliament is P £
sistently descending.


OUT AND ABOUT
THE SURE-FOOTED CENTIPEDE
"The idea of being just a mediocre painter never enters my head"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Robert Hughes, of Sydney, is
a man of many talents, but how
many he intends to keep in cur-
rency and how many he prefers buried,
even he himself is not yet quite sure.
Mr Hughes is artist, critic, author, car-
toonist, architecture student, playwright
and poet. However, artists tend to feel
that he is a better critic than artist;
writers think he is a better artist than
writer; and one or two people have
thought he was a better plagiarist than
poet. (This plagiarism business could
certainly be buried now, along with Mr
Hughes’s minor talents. It perhaps serves
0 s h° w only that the penalty of early
success is that you don’t have time to
1 e your youthful indiscretions).
At any rate Mr Hughes, looking back
, r ° m eminence he has achieved by
ls middle twenties, is pretty bored by
e enfant terrible of the avant garde
0^ a himself. He is prepared to lop
most of his careers and ultimately
Ion £S t 0 stanc * or as ar ti s t- He is no
po Sa^s ’ a P oet anc i hasn’t written
er Y for six years. He no longer writes
plays, and hasn’t done any cartooning
for a year. “I realise now that it is a
lifetime’s job to write a good poem or
a good play,” he said. “And, after all, I
could still be a young painter at 40.”
He has suspended work in architecture
after getting into fourth year at Sydney
University, but hopes to take his degree
some time. “It is a pity not to finish
something you have started,” he said. He
feels that studying architecture has
helped him as an artist, mainly by clari-
fying his thinking on space.
This leaves Mr Hughes as artist, critic
and author. To support his claim as
author Mr Hughes has just finished his
history of Australian art from 1788 to
the present day for Penguin Books. The
book was commissioned in October,
1961, by Sir Allan Lane. “He had some-
thing vaguely in mind when he ap-
proached me, but I made sure he came
to dinner so that the deal could be
fixed,” Mr Hughes said.
Mr Hughes worked on the manuscript
solidly last year, and it was because of
this that architecture was abandoned. To
collect material and see painters he vi-
sited all States, except the West. He went
to Queensland to see lan Fairweather on
his lonely Bribie Island. Artists working
in London were a special problem, Mr
Hughes said, but he felt that with letters
he had been able to bring himself up to
date on their work and ideas.
Mr Hughes does not feel that his own
views on painting and painters had in-
hibited him in writing a history of Aus-
tralian art, but he felt that the chapters
dealing with art from 1939 on might
arouse some controversy. Four out of
the 10 chapters of the book deal with
this period.
“I think non-figurative painting is more
interesting than figurative,” he said, “and
this point of view is put forward.” He
felt that the expressionist movement in
Melbourne from 1937 to 1947 was a
great deal more important than was
commonly estimated. He said too, that
some people might feel he had under-
valued Dobell. Of course, this wasn’t
personal (“Bill is a marvellous fellow”)
but to talk of Dobell in the same breath
as Rembrandt or Goya was ridiculous.
Although Mr Hughes says he has been
more concerned with paintings than with
painters, he has depicted some artists
with pretty bold strokes. Here he is on
Norman Lindsay:
“Lindsay’s lemon-breasted, ham-
thighed Gibson Girls are wholesome and
dated. Their eroticism is depersonalised
and cow-like; the very projection of
adolescent sexual fantasy. They smirk
and pout and wiggle their elephantine
buttocks but never become human. They
are no more than the furniture of an
escapist and basically rococo daydream.
Lindsay lived in a pantomime world of
cavaliers, gremlins, pirates, troubadours,
Greek gods, courtiers, imps, panthers
and magicians; his art was a grand cos-
tume party, now superseded by ‘Play-
boy’.”
Giving birth to a Penguin should
establish Mr Hughes’s claim to author-
ship. How is he faring as a critic? Mr
Hughes who got his basic training as
critic with the Sydney “Observer,” is art
critic for the Sydney “Sunday Mirror”
and “Nation.” He says that he earns his
living by criticism, combined with sales
of paintings. “Everyone seems terribly
surprised when I say that,” he said.
“They seem to think I am worth half a
million or something. My paintings do
sell. I don’t know to whom, but I do
know I never have any of them, so they
must sell.”
However, Mr Hughes said he would
like to be able financially to abandon
criticism. At the end of the year he
may go to New York for a year on a
private scholarship. Then his time would
be devoted only to painting. He has been
to London, but does not particularly
want to live there again, disliking the


Australian school of thought there. “1
don't feel I am taming an implacable
continent and I don’t like people telling
me that that is what 1 am doing,” he
said.
Mr Hughes said that to think that
artist couldn't be critic, and vice versa,
was ridiculous. It was an artificial distinc-
tion and part of the tradition of Austra-
lian painter as intellectual hobo.
“Australians like to think of the artist
as someone inarticulate except at brush-
point,” he said. “Some artists can play
along with this attitude, wearing a mask
to hide a highly intelligent mind, so that
people say, we must help this poor sod
so that his children may get the educa-
tion he missed.”
However, Mr Hughes feels that in
general Australian art criticism is inarti-
culate and that there is no sustained
interest in aesthetics. He agrees, of
course, that painters would go on paint-
ing if critics were wiped out. “This lack
of standards of criticism would not be
crucial if it were not for the fact that in
Sydney we are in the middle of an art
boom,” he said. “Reputations are being
made and lost. The wrong reputations
are being made. The money is going to
the wrong people. The taste mechanism
is in the hands of fools. There is a lack
of informed opinion on art. Most taste is
provincial. This is not to imply that Aus-
tralian painting is inferior. It is not.
“At present the demand exceeds the
supply. There are perhaps 15 prominent
painters in Sydney and 10 up and
coming, but there are about 200 exhibi-
tions a year. The galleries become
backers of temporary horses. Even the
most conscientious of them cannot get
hold of enough good paintings to keep
themselves going.”
Mr Hughes said that Miss Betty O’-
Neill at the Hungry Horse Gallery, was
trying to do something which no Sydney
gallery had yet done—to get together a
“stable” of good painters, who would
show only with her and whose work
alone she would show. He agreed, how-
ever, that there might be more back-
sliding by the artists than by Miss O’-
Neill.
He himself will have an exhibition at
the Hungry Horse, to be opened on
February 5. The exhibition represents
the past six months’ work. “Once I had
finished the Penguin book I found I could
go ahead with painting,” he said “Writ-
ing recharges my boilers.” He tidied up
that metaphor and went on to explain
that he would show 18 oils, gouaches and
collages. The theme of some of them,
semi-figurative works, was an Indian
fable, which he had of Albert Tucker,
who got it from a long-playing record
by an American singer.
“It is the fable of the toad and the
centipede,” Mr Hughes explained. “You
see, there was this fat old toad, sitting
beneath a rock. Each day a beautiful
centipede came out and danced on the
rock, a wonderfully elaborate dance. The
toad wanted very much to eat the centi-
pede, but he was so slow-moving that
he could not catch the nimble centipede.
So he sought the advice of his toad an-
cestors. The next morning the beautiful
and lively centipede came down to the
rock and began his elaborate dance. And
just as he was beginning the toad spoke
up: ‘Tell me, o centipede, how do you
know which leg to move first?’ The cen-
tipede paused to think and on that in-
stant the toad jumped up and ate him”
This, of course, Mr Hughes said Was
an allegory of the creative and the'criti
cal life.
What if Mr Hughes proved to be
even to himself, only a mediocre painted
Would he be happy to become a toad
instead of a centipede? “I cannot say
what might happen in, say, 40 years"
he said, “but the idea of being just a
mediocre painter never enters my head"
Sydney’s lively centipede may have
lopped off a few of his own legs, but
he still knows how to put his best foot
forward.
A PIG WITH A GOLD TOOTH
THAT'S SHOW BUSINESS
"A highly competitive industry"
By KATHERINE RANDERSON
From an office in Pitt Street, Mr
Sam Peisley runs the Showmen’s
Guild of Australasia for a member-
ship of about 370, who at this moment,
after a brief summer respite, are fanning
out across Australia to set up shop at the
first of the year's agricultural shows. Mr
Peisley is secretary of the guild, which
covers mainly NSW and Queensland.
However, most of his members work in
several States and are members of the
other States’ guilds.
Last week a fair number of them were
in Sydney so that it was possible for Mr
Peisley to get enough committee members
together at one time for a meeting in the
Trades Hall (the guild is an employers’
organisation but is registered under the
Arbitration Act, although most of the
employees are family-members, who
generally work on a percentage rather
than a salary basis). There will be
another meeting in Sydney during the
Royal Easter Show, perhaps one later in
the year at Rockhampton. But gener-
ally Mr Peisley has to go out and catch
his quorum when he wants to have a
meeting.
The showmen still spend most of their
time on the road, but these days they
travel in comfortable caravans, which
might cost up to £BOOO. These have hot
and cold water, electricity and some have
a telephone installed as soon as they set
down at a showground.
The showman has changed, too. “He’s
not the uneducated man he might have
been 50 years ago,” Mr Peisley said.
“These days he has to be an astute
businessman, working in a highly com-
petitive industry.”
But in other ways show business is
still the same. The sort of thing which
people want to see is still the same, and
there is always a new generation coming
along to whom the fun of the fair is some-
thing fresh and exciting.
One thing has changed. Mr Peisley
said that at present in Australia there
wasn’t really one genuine fat lady
(Forty-five stone, he explained, was
minimum weight for a fat lady and eight
feet is the minimum height for a giant,)
The last of these, Mr Peisley said, was
Nellie Sharman, who died of cancer about
two years ago, aged more than 70, after
having been in the side-shows for more
than 40 years.
Mr Peisley said that in general it was
harder nowadays to get people to pal
themselves on show. “People are better
off and better educated,” he said, “and
not as easily talked into this sort of
thing.”
He said, too, that showmen had con-
siderable trouble with the Immigrati
Department over bringing freaks into the
country. “Pygmies because they a [t
colored are allowed only on temporal)
permits,” he said, “but the big trout*
is often with the giants, bearded la<fe
tattooed ladies, all the usual run f
freaks. These people can pass hea#
and employment qualifications, but |l>
Immigration Department has a thij!
against freaks. And do you know I*
reason they give for wanting to bar th®
That they will frighten pregnant woffle*
Would you believe it?”
Mr Peisley said that certain types r-
freaks such as horned Kaffirs, Siaffljj'
twins and tailed people were very “
cult to get anyway. “Most of our 0
bers import their acts through a


he said. “One member, Dave Meekin,
has recently travelled thousands of miles
in Africa looking for pygmies. This time
he found some Arab ones, but most of
them come from the Kalihari desert, and
most of the ones he gets are still living
a tribal life. Some work in side-shows
for a few years and then go back and
with their comparative wealth lord it over
their tribesmen. But some stay in show
business. One pygmy has been in Aus-
tralia for years. She has her own caravan
on the road and her tiny fingers are
covered with diamonds.”
Mr Peisley believes that some of the
freaks have a much better life inside
show business than they would out of
it. “After all, if a giant walks down the
street people will look at him, so why
shouldn’t they pay to do so?” he said.
“Very tall or very short people have great
difficulty in fitting into normal life and
jobs. At least, show business solves their
financial problems and in it they are
among people who understand and like
them. And most oi them are not there
just to be looked at. They are often
talented performers. For instance,
Zando, the quarter-boy, is a fine musician,
and we have another artist, a man who
has changed to a woman—yes, like
Christine Jorgensen, but not as un-
pleasant—who is a talented performer.”
Mr Peisley himself doesn’t seem to
find much to commend the curiosity
which leads people into the freaks’ tents,
but being a showman, looking after the
interests of showmen, his shoulder-
shrugging attitude is “After all, we give
the people what they want.” “We are all
brushed with sadism,” Mr Peisley said.
‘Everyone who watches the man on the
flying trapeze hopes, if only for a split
second, that he will fall. And people are
interested in the fundamentals.
“But show business isn’t just putting
an abnormal human being on show.
Show business is thinking up the gimmick
which will get the people and that’s what
makes it so fascinating. A fat lady, a
giant that’s nothing. It’s the extra
something that counts. A man shows a
fat pig—that's nothing. He gives it a
gold tooth—that’s show business.”
Mr Peisley himself had 30 years in
the side-shows before he became secretary
of the guild 10 years ago. The guild was
or med 30 years ago. There are similar
guilds in other countries. There is a large
one in the United States of which
u alo Bill Cody was first president.
. r J isle Y is fifth generation Australian
, u fSt famil Y to §° i nto
thirT ° us * ness - That makes him some-
c 3 Phenomenon am ong his
*< r ri
e Sj de-show business is generally a
family concern,” he said. “Most of our
members are of English descent and some
of them are from families which, as far
back as they can go, have been connec-
ted with the English fairs. The tradition
of marrying into the business is almost
as strong as it is in the circus. Even
though many of our members are com-
fortably off now, few permit themselves
the luxury of marrying someone who is
not a performer. The whole family has
to pull its weight. Nowadays many of the
children go away to boarding-school or
to university, but a surprising number of
them return to the shows. One of our
boys has just passed his Leaving at St
Joseph’s, Hunters Hill, and cannot make
up his mind whether to become a priest,
a teacher or to go back with the family.”
Mr Peisley said that there were about
360 shows in NSW and Queensland and
another 100 in Victoria each year. Guild
members worked different circuits, some-
times doing one run for a few years and
then, with the permission of the guild,
switching runs with another member.
Space at showgrounds is paid for at so
much per foot frontage per day and is
allotted by tradition. “If so and so has
had a spot in previous years he is legally
entitled to it again under the rules of our
guild,” he said. “That is, unless he is
barred for some legitimate reason. If
a showground changes its ground-plan
it’s quite a headache for us.”
The guild concerns itself with dealing
with the various agricultural societies on
matters affecting the members. Mr
Peisley said that the guild membership
list had been closed last year to all except
sons and daughters of members. The ban
would last for five years.
MONTSALVAT
AT 2/- A
HEAD
A French manor-house
within coo-ee of triple-fronted
cream brick veneers
By PETER GREEN
The Melbourne newspapers rarely, if
ever, mention Montsalvat. It
never makes the art columns. A
generation has grown that knows nothing
of Justus Jorgensen.
But there was a time when “Jorgy”
was the talk of the town. He was far too
advanced for gentle Melbourne. Some
stern newspaper proprietors felt it would
be much better for the health of their
respectable readers if his name were
never mentioned, and so the black ban
was applied. Who knew what went on
at Montsalvat! There were stories of it
being a temple for free love and free
thinking. There was even talk of illegiti-
mate children, and how those artists’
models behaved was nobody’s business.
No doubt Justus Jorgensen did live in
a style that was surprising to some mora-
lists, but that was a long time ago. Now
Montsalvat is open to the general public.
There is a handsome brochure, as befits
any place of public interest. There is a
turnstile on the gate and admission is
2/-. I drove out there last week, through
Heidelberg, through Rosanna to El-
tham, a once lovely township now being
entangled in the mesh of suburbia. My
first impression of Montsalvat was, “God
bless my soul somebody has built a
local Disneyland.”
But then the truth became all too ob-
vious. This was no Disneyland Mont-
salvat, immense and beautiful, was made
of solid stone. It looked for all the world
like a 16th century French manor-house,
and here it was within coo-ee of triple-
fronted cream brick veneers.
I went across a paved court, through
great doors that seemed to cry out for a
drawbridge into a gallery, which was the
perfect reproduction of a baronial hall.
There was the fireplace, which could
roast a side of beef, the panelling, the'
pewter plates, the stone floor and the
20-foot-high ceiling.
On an easel was a partly finished


Buy Odol
MOUTHWASH
from your Chemist
After meals refresh with Odol.
A few drops provide protection
against bad breath and germs.
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA
by SCOTT & BOWNE (A/ASIA) Ltd.
For C.ompK-Je O: i! Mygseffe
\
MOUTH
: WASH.
Highly Concentrated
;; arvd H
'Economics-!’-m -Use-
NETT CONTENTS: 2\ FL. OZS.
painting ot Michelangelo’s Pieta, and
from an amplifier came the dramatic
tones of Beethoven’s Fourth Symphony.
In a corner sat the maestro himself,
Justus Jorgensen, perhaps a little formid-
able with his long hair and Van Dyck
beard, the ruler of the Montsalvat. Yet
despite his reputation as a rebel, he
turned out to be a gentle, charming man
and a gifted talker.
And so the story was unfolded. Jor-
gensen was born at Mordialloc 69 years
ago, the son of a Norwegian sailor. He
had two masters in his early days,
Charles Schreiber, a Melbourne architect,
and Max Meldrum. Even his toughest
critics describe him as a near genius as
an architect; as for his art, he is still all
the way with the Meldrum school and
proud of it.
In the nineteen-twenties he went to
Europe and for a time he was a freelance
copyist at the Louvre. It was in Europe
that he developed his passion for 16th
century Gothic, the urge to create art on
the grand scale in stone.
In 1928 he returned to Melbourne and
opened a school for art and architecture
in the city, then, in 1935, he moved to
Eltham. His idea was to create a unique
art colony, where students and teacher
could live together in beautiful surround-
ings in an atmosphere that breathed art.
Jorgy saw himself as a leader of a fine
orchestra, a man who could draw out of
his musicians talents they didn’t know
they possessed. He likes this simile. He
had been told the workmen didn’t exist
who could use the forgotten arts to build
a place like Montsalvat. He is more
contemptuous of bad architects than bad
workmen. A good architect should be
able to direct, teach, draw out —in short,
to be a maestro.
And so in the depression years Jorgy
gathered the “orchestra” which helped
him to build Montsalvat. Associated with
him was Mervyn Skipper, who was Mel-
bourne editor of The Bulletin for 25
years. Mervyn’s son, Matcham, the
sculptor and silversmith, was one of his
students; so were his artist daughters
Helen and Sonia. There were bank
clerks, lawyers, sons and daughters of the
wealthy, tradesmen, stonemasons, brick-
layers, Eltham locals. Some paid to work
there and some were paid.
Of course, Whelan the Wrecker was a
great help. According to Jorgensen,
Whelan was a wrecker with a soul; he
had far more feeling for buildings he
pulled down than many an architect who
puts up glass houses in the city. So
when Whelan spotted something worth
preserving he called Jorgy. For example,
there was a balcony that came from an
insurance building in Collins Street, a
window that came from the old Mel-
bourne gaol. The 40-foot beams (yes, 40
feet) in the gallery came from an old
city bond store, and the flagstones of the
floor came from all over. Some came
from a brothel in Little Lonsdale Street.
We went on a grand tour, looking at
cloisters, great diamond-paned Gothic
windows, bell-towers, steeples, even a
swimming pool at least 25 yards long.
There were rows of cells for students,
and the dining hall was reminiscent of
the dining hall of an Oxford college.
Part of the original idea of the art
colony was that it should be self-support-
ing, so there was a farm with crops to
be raised and cows to be milked. There
was a vineyard too, and wine was pro-
duced. The trouble was they always
drank it before it had a chance to
mature. But the farm buildings, like the
Tudor barn, were strictly period stuff.
The walls were sun-baked mud brick,
and mud plaster covered with white-
wash. Yes, wattle and daub and mud
bricks aplenty—rather more attractive
than the local galvanised iron.
Yet this was an art colony —where
were the paintings? There was the plea-
sure to be had in stone, but there
nothing on the walls. Jorgensen led aS
through a door marked “No entry” u/
spiral staircase, high up under the ro 0 (
Here was the Jorgensen collection
collection of a lifetime. He said he had
never had any interest in exhibiting hi s
work or selling it. There must have been
at least 50 self-portraits, all depicting the
bearded Jorgensen at various ages.
The latest, still unfinished, showed him
in a beret, his face reflecting the Ift
with a deep shadowy background, J w .
gensen said he had tried to capture ft
delicate use of light from the old masters
One was reminded too of the fact that
Rembrandt had a passion for self-por-
traits.
Apart from the self-portraits then
were many portraits of his friends, and
countless nudes. He explained that his
object had been to depict life in all its
facets, no matter what. He pointed to
one nude painting the model wasveij
clearly pregnant.
If the paintings were not to be seen
downstairs, neither were the students,
The colony, with the students living-in,
more or less came to an end around
1953. Jorgensen still had 10 outside
students, but no longer was it like the
depression years. Costs were too high, it
was impossible to run a colony, ft
monk cells and the dining hall were
deserted.
In the exciting years he used to hair
dreams of running art festivals at Mont
salvat, or perhaps even turning it into i
miniature Glyndebourne. They could
have music, plays out on the court with
the crowd watching from the hill al
around. Vivien Leigh on a visit once said
it would be ideal for that. However,!
did not come about.
So what is the future for Montsalval!
It is too good to go to waste. It is a wort
of art in stone, but it has no practical
function. In the 16th century it could |
have housed a feudal lord but there’s«
future in being feudal around Eltham
Jorgensen says the National Trust w
been to look at it, but the Trust has
money. A cemetery trust showed sot*
interest, but he does not want it to k
come a cemetery. He could leave it*
his children, but with the immense rato
they could not maintain it.
He can’t even leave it to the Sta*
The State would not preserve it, so*
is in a dilemma, hoping that someho"
some way, his life’s work will be f \
served for posterity. In the meantime
you are passing that way for Heaver t.
sake pay your 2/- to go in. , ;
As I was leaving I had to ask why* |
called it Montsalvat. It was a stf [
question. Wagner, of course! Jorge* 1
said: “It was my joke. I used to sjjT
am the son of Parsifal and I come «
Montsalvat, home of the Knights o 1 ■
Grail’.” f


INSTANT
ENDEAN


FORUM
THE GREAT "RUM
REBELLION" DEBATE
Dr Evatt and others v. M. H. Ellis
By M. H. ELLIS
IN an article in “Quadrant” in 1957 I attacked Dr Evatt’s “Rum Rebellion”
and its author’s “superficiality of research, the inaccuracy with which
he crystallises the results of it, and how ready he is to jump to malign
conclusions about those he dislikes.”
I added that “it was fair to isolate two chapters”—which I analysed
in detail “because every chapter is subject to the same sort of criticism
of its errors.” I challenged Dr Evatt to refute my charges, and in one
mattei offered £-25 to a hospital if he could do so.
Though the article had a great deal of publicity in the Press and
universities, the only contemporaneous replies to my statements came
in the form of personal attacks on myself, some of them libellous, in the
Communist and Leftist Press. For some reason, in Leftist political circles
the reaction intemperate and even took the form of anonymous threats
by letter and telephone to use personal violence as an argument.
Three years after my article was
printed Mr Michael Roe, M.A., Lecturer
in History at the University of Tasmania,
wrote the first article specifically attemp-
ting to combat my statement of the
facts. He chose not “Quadrant” but
“Meanjin” as his medium. His article was
so absurd that it seemed to defeat itself.
I ignored it until recently a Mr Wannan
wrote to The Bulletin (November 24,
1962) quoting Roe’s article as proof posi-
tive of some of his own statements.
In a reply to his letter, I wrote that
his quotations from Dr Roe’s findings did
not improve his case, since Dr Roe’s
version in “Meanjin” was marred by
schoolboy howlers, in statement of fact,
prejudice and schoolboy judgments. He
had not proved anything, I wrote, except
the decrepitude of his own knowledge of
the subject.
On this, Dr Roe wrote: “I uphold the
judgments of my ‘Meanjin’ article, and
suggest that The Bulletin sponsor an
independent enquiry into their validity.”
Dr Roe is an academic who has the
confidence of the Australian National
University which has awarded him a
Doctorate of Philosophy in Australian
history. He has a priority in confidence
with the editorial board of the Australian
Dictionary of Biography, of which the
chairman is Sir Keith Hancock; the gene-
ral editor is the Professor of History at
the University of Tasmania.
The board has selected Dr Roe to
write the biography of Governor King,
which will necessarily cover the events
over which he is in dispute with me. His
apparent eminence in academic circles
justifies his right to defend himself in
public against my charges, and puts the
onus on me to publicly support my alleg-
ations.
TTere then is what Dr Roe wrote in
n “Meanjin”, Vol. XIX, No. 2 (fol-
lowed by my comments):
Dr Roe
In my opinion the judgments offered
by H. V. Evatt in “Rum Rebellion”
are broadly correct. Three documents, as
yet unpublished, are here quoted to
support the view. The first is a letter
written by John Sullivan, an official of
the Colonial Office, to John Macarthur.
It was written on January 19, 1803
a few weeks after Macarthur’s arrival in
England under arrest imposed on him by
Governor King late in 1801.
The text read:
Governor King, having in letters
recently received by Lord Hobart,
stated that he had forwarded Despat-
ches by you, I am directed by his
Lordship to desire you will be pleased
to inform me whether any such Des-
patches were committed to your Care.
I am, etc.
Apparently the Colonial Office had
read King’s other communications to
mean that Macarthur had been charged
to carry to England an original of the
“vital” missing despatch of November 5,
1801. This was not precisely so: Mac-
arthur did set off from Sydney } n
Hunter with the document in his care
but it was addressed to Marquess Welles’
ley at Calcutta and his formal respond
bility there ended.
Nevertheless, Sullivan’s enquiry p roves
a vital point: although the despatch now
in the Colonial Office files bears the
minute “1802”, it did not in fact arrive
there during that year.
This document was certainly that
which went aboard with Macarthur (and
includes the order for him to embark)
dated after the other two sets left Syd-
ney; had it come to hand, Sullivan would
have found no reason to send off his
query. This vindicates the Watson-Evatt
opinion that the British authorities judged
Macarthur's case in vacuo.
How did they learn even the barest
details? From the various incidental re-
ferences in King’s other letters of the
period.
Most important was a despatch (num-
ber five) dated November 14, 1801. The
Colonial Office minute on this document
states that it was received on September
15, 1802, and that an extract was seat
to Army Headquarters (under whose
cognizance Macarthur’s case came) on
October 1 or 2. The contrast between this
exactitude and the bare “R 1802” on the
November 5 document is very emphatic,
endorsing the view that the latter an-
notation is mysterious but not relevant,
The second document is Macarthur’s
reply to Sullivan, dated January 20,
1803:
I have the honour to acknowledge
your letter of yesterday and to reply,
I beg you will have the goodness to
inform Lord Hobart that Governor
King never did entrust any despatches
to my care, or furnish me on my de-
parture from New South Wales with
any papers, except an order to Embark
as a Prisoner and an open Duplicate
of a letter to Marquis Wellesley: copies
of which I enclosed to Lord Pelham
with the report of my arrival in
England.
The letter displays those qualities
which made Macarthur a man of power
and moment. He answers without hesita-
tion, and in a tone of ringing confidence
He lies. Not a hint is given of the de-
patch going with him in the Hunit s
no suggestion of its current location.
Surely Macarthur was now play 11 1!
for time, just as Evatt suggests he
when allegedly planning the AM
Josepha theft. I find the two actions e
the same quality. When a version of t 1
theft charge appeared in a Sydney ne" s
paper in 1844, it was not denied !
James or William Macarthur, actn
though they were in colonial life-
tradition of mentioning old John and
theft went back a long way: “Macart
. . . has managed to get three k tters
this place,” wrote surgeon Balmain n


A fair lady is Lome, with frills of
white surf on skirts of jewelled sea.
Lome has so much to offer her
holiday guests . . . surfing and
swimming, riding and hiking, golf,
tennis and some of Victoria’s most
beautiful picnic spots. After dark
Lome goes gay with continental
coffee bars, cabarets and dancing
’til dawn. Make Lome the goal
for your next vacation , . . See
Victour for all your travel and
accommodation bookings.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
♦
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
1
' ■ §
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
35368
ADDRESS
. n to D’Arcy Wentworth in the
Colony on August 3, 1802, “while Grant
has lost all his despatches, which he says
he was robbed of. _
i Xhe third document is a letter written
by M. W. Henry to John Dunmore Lang
on November 4, 1850, a few months
a f ter Dr Lang had been elected to the
Legislative Council by the radicals of
Sydney.
“Seeing your truly Patriotic speeches
believing you also to have the public
Weal at heart, I make bold to address
you”, Henry began. “I am an inhabitant
of the Collony about fifty years and have
Eared {note: the word is actually
‘reared’ in the original manuscript) a
numerous family of Children Grand
Children and great Grand Children and I
would ask any reasonable thinking man
if 1 have not as just a right to look to
1 the welfare of my posterity as either Mr
Jas Me Arthur or Wm. Charles Went-
worth?” He went on to recall the days of
the “rebel junta” and “rebel lash.” He
feared that the “paiple of this Colony
can not see sufficiently Clear with regard
to their own interest they have twice
chosen as their Daligates not only the
ofspring of the Men who protracted the
progress of the Colony but the very men
themselves who took the most active
part in that most foul Grog and tobacco
rebellion of 1808 there was not two more
active men in the Conspiracy than Mr
Wm. Chas. Wentworth and Mr Jas. Me
- Arthur.” Henry should have said “ob-
structed” the progress and the “relatives
of Wentworth and Macarthur,” but his
subsequent account of the new Govern-
ment’s proceedings was fairly accurate
and detailed. “It is well known to old
inhabitants,” he emphasised, “. . . that it
was the Governor’s intention to stop
the monopoly of the Soldier officers.”
No other account of the rebellion
impresses me as being so authentic, so
deeply felt. The historian who follows
Henry s lead may well feel confident.
Comment by M, H. Ellis
T he circumstances of Dr Roe’s article
need some explaining. Dr Evatt al-
eged that John Macarthur escaped trial
ruin in England when he was sent
ome for court martial by Governor
m B in 1801 because a “vital despatch”
Sen | England embodying the charges
Him was stolen in transit in the
nn Q Josepha while in charge of Lieu-
jnant Grant, R.N. The loss of this
es Patch was recorded by Governor
ln g> who asserted that the “villainous
fa a c " S r on Had taken place, despite the
d P | at H e had been forewarned. King
the at Had P ut tbe captain of
heav k the despatch under
a t /, or| H and had sent the document
sea f a^ter s Hip Had put to
I an !* s tiU it was stolen. ”
Pointed out that Fvan's research had
been so cursory that he did not discover
that the “vital despatch” was only a copy,
useless for legal purposes; and that his
inescapable conclusion that Macarthur
organised the theft as the only person
with an interest in preventing the papers
reaching England was invalid for several
reasons. One was that others, including
Grant who carried them, had an interest
in losing the papers, and that the same
applied to the owners of the ship which
carried them.
The other was that Macarthur did not
and could not have escaped trial in Eng-
land because of the theft, since a pro-
perly authenticated original minuted as
received 1802’ was received and pre-
cised at the Colonial Office in 1802
before Macarthur’s affair was dealt with
in January-February, 1803.
It was in reference to this matter that
Dr Roe came to Dr Evatt’s rescue with
his strange article reproduced above. Ac-
tually three sets of the despatch and
enclosed documents were sent by King
to England (vide h.s letter to the Duke
Portland, H.R.A., Series I, Vol. 3,
P* 33 E
(a) The copy stolen from the Anna
Josepha, sent in care of Lieutenant
Grant, R.N., covered by a letter of pre-
cise instruction to him. King thought
the ship “so miserable a tool that I think
it a great chance if she arrives,” so he
did not think this copy, as Evatt does,
"vital.”
(b) A set of originals sent, under
cover of explicit instructions to the
bearer, in care of Captain MacKellar,
who set out to take Macarthur’s sword
to London in the Caroline in March,
] 802. This was lost at sea with the ship,
which was never sighted again after she
left Sydney Harbor,
( c )' A second original sent in the
Hunter a few days after the Anna
Josepha sailed, with the copy which was
stolen. Macarthur, under arrest, travelled
in the Hunter, and a letter from King
covering the despatch was sent to the
Governor-General of India asking him
to send Macarthur on to England and the
despatch in the same ship with him
This mus , be (he despatch in [h( , Colo .
n ial Office files, since no other’ original
existed.
The assumption of Roe that this last
_ or anv _ set of the re i eV ant do-
CU ments was not available when Mac-
arthur’s case was dealt with in January-
February, 1803, is based merely on a
remark (seized on with glee) which
was made by the Adjutant-General in a
letter in which he censured King for the
whole of his proceedings. He mentioned
“the articles of complaint, whatever they
may be,” and Doctors Roe and Evatt
were only too eager to read this as a


The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. cijn
statement that the charges had not come
to hand. The “whatever they may be”
was no doubt actually dictated by the
confused nature of the charges in King’s
despatch and documents. In one docu-
ment Macarthur was told that he was
only under arrest on one charge and that
only tentatively; in other documents it
was clear that he was charged with
several other vague offences, some cer-
tainly not cognizable by a court martial
outside NSW.
Roe assumes that because the docu-
ments were sent in the Hunter they
must have been sent in Macarthur’s per-
sonal custody and that, despite the fact
that they are recorded as being in the
Colonial Office in 1802, Macarthur must
have stolen them and held them back
until after his matter was closed at the
end of February, 1803, afterwards some-
how getting them into the Colonial Office
files. He is positive that Macarthur lied
in response to Sullivan’s query about
whether he had been entrusted with des-
patches.
The real issue
fact was that Sullivan’s query was
prompted by what looks like a slip
of a pen in one of King’s letters written
four months after the Hunter had sailed
—there is another slip in the same
paragraph, and the whole letter has an
appearance which suggests that King
might have been in a condition to make
slips. He spoke of “the despatch sent by
him” (Macarthur). He had previously
told three separate persons in three sepa-
rate letters that the despatch was being
sent in the same ship with Macarthur.
There was nothing in King’s order to
Macarthur to embark and deliver the
letters, which he did in fact deliver to
Lord Pelham, which mentioned any des-
patches.
However, the real issue is whether
Macarthur stole the relevant despatches
and made them unavailable to the autho-
rities when they handled his case.
But having committed himself to the
thesis that Macarthur was a thief and a
liar who only escaped ruin by his own
wrongdoing and theft, Dr Roe is not
going to let a little matter like the posi-
tive records of the Colonial Office inter-
fere with his historical convictions.
And he finds the Colonial Office re-
cordings which show the date before
which the despatches must have arrived
“mysterious but not relevant.”
King took enormous precautions
precise letter of instruction to the bearer,
£5OO bond from the captain, despatch
sent aboard only when ship was at sea
over the Anna Josepha copy to foil a
conspiracy of which he was aware. Yet,
according to Roe, on almost the very
same day the copy went off King hand-
ed a set of originals to the prisoner
(Roe alleges, a thieving conspirator)
without safeguarding himself by writing
anything about them into his letter of
instruction or advising the prospective
recipient in India that the prisoner was
carrying them. And the prisoner then
calmly steals them, holds them back until
they cannot be used against him, and
then somehow inserts them into the Colo-
nial Office Record Room.
When a document arrived at the Colo-
nial Office the procedure was to enter it
in a precis book in the order of its
arrival sometimes merely marked as
“received,” sometimes as received on a
particular date. The precis of the Mac-
arthur despatch appears immediately be-
fore the mail of September 15, 1802,
received in the Hope via China and India,
and the only sensible deduction ss that
the Governor-General of India sent it in
the Hope, it having been forwarded to
Calcutta from Amboina where the
Hunter, disabled by a hurricane, was
lying, along with Macarthur; or brought
in the Hope.
The original despatch marked “R
1802” is in the corresponding
as to date and in relation to other docu
ments. It would have been impossible to
insert the precis in the precis booking
middle of a page four months afterwards
without rewriting every entry in the bool
for the whole period 1801-2 which it
covers. It is therefore certain that it
received not later than September 15
1802, thus being available in England
four months at least before Macarthur’s
case was dealt with. This makes rubbish
of the propaganda of the Evatt-Roe
school.
The matter in Dr Roe’s article under
the heading “The Third Document” is
even more ridiculous than that in which
he “proves” his facts about the “vital
missing despatch” (as Dr Evatt called it),
Henry’s letter was written in Novem-
ber, 1850, shortly after Lang had worn
by-election against fierce opposition bj
W. C. Wentworth and James Macarthur
and their friends. There is no question
about the fact that Henry is recounting
their adventures in the rebellion of 180!
against Bligh. Apart from the juicy bits
actually quoted by Roe from the letter
to Lang, Henry records that these
were “the very men themselves”. Outside
what Roe quotes Henry added that Janies
Macarthur, at the time of the rebellion,
“took for his companion a most dam
gerous ruffian transported for his natural
life for the murder of man in the pre-
sence of his wife and nine children,.,
a proper person to accompany Mr James
Macarthur in his foul expedition.,.
They went to every house in the Collony
. . . Mr Wentworth was not idle with his
pen calumniating the Governor . .."
The measure of this nonsense can be
judged from the facts (a) that at the time
of the rebellion James Macarthur was
nine years old; (b) that W. C. Wentworth
was at school in England 5000 league
away, had not been near Australia fa
eight years, didn’t hear of the rebellion
till nine months after the event, and dm
not return here till two years later.
The measure of Dr Roe as an historian
and biographer can be judged from fa
testimony that “no other account oft-
rebellion impresses me as being ®
authentic, so deeply felt. The histonJ
who follows Henry’s lead may well fa
confident.” And, as a matter of j a:
Henry gives no account of the rebelW
apart from his few scraps of bas ®
personal libel.
However, Dr Roe will find himself*
convenable company among some o 1
proposed contributors and managed
the Australian Dictionary of Biogr a Pj
on which thousands of pounds are ,
ing, to my mind, largely squan d
And if Sir Keith Hancock or he
like me to explain and document
remark I shall be happy to do so fa
public interest.


THE PAGE MEMOIRS
THE FALL OF SINGAPORE
This third instalment from the late Sir Earle Page's
just published memoirs, "Truant Surgeon", covers his
period in Britain as Special Envoy from the Australian
Government during World War 11, the Australian
Government's criticisms of Winston Churchill's conduct
of the war against the Japanese, the fall of Singapore,
and the decision to recall all Australian forces serving
outside the Japanese war area.
By SIR EARLE PAGE
John Curtin v. Winston Churchill
THE BULLETIN, March 25, 1942
The whole question of Australian
participation in the machinery for
the joint direction of the Pacific
war was now under discussion. On 26th
December, 1941, Curtin, gravely concer-
ned by the successes of the Japanese in
Malaya and fearful of a repetition of
Greece and Crete unless land reinforce-
ments and air cover were at once pro-
vided, appealed directly to the President
of the United States for immediate assis-
tance in Malaya. He signified that Aus-
tralia was ready, should the American
Government desire it, to accept an
American commander in the Pacific. The
following day he made a public declara-
tion in the columns of the Melbourne
“Herald” underlining Australian depen-
dence on American aid and seeking a
positive say in the direction of Pacific
strategy.
Nevertheless, on 6th January, 1942,
Curtin took the opportunity to cable
Churchill, stressing Australia's growing
danger from direct attack as an American
base. In reply Churchill intimated that
the United States would be willing to
reinforce Australian home defence troops
with 40,000 to 50,000 Americans.
By 21st January the situation in
Malaya had greatly deteriorated and there
was a tendency in some quarters in Lon-
don to regard the defence of Singapore
as a hopeless task. Churchill himself was
opposed to authorising further reinforce-
ments. His communications with Austra-
lia and New Zealand, however, advised
him otherwise. He had had a cable from
New Zealand objecting in almost every
etail to proposals made by the British
overnment. At a meeting that day he
complained bitterly that he had received
no reply at all from Australia. I replied
at as the cable had been handed to me
nny on the previous Monday night, it
c a P rc, bably not yet been received in
..anberra. Moreover, so obscurely were
e cables phrased that it was almost im-
ossible to understand their meaning. I
vised that if the Cabinet wished to
t res ults the best procedure would be
et me help them in drafting the
■nnumications as I knew what my
Government was thinking and in what
terms messages would be most easily
understood.
I then argued vigorously for continued
reinforcements in Singapore. I held that
Australians had been sent to Singapore
with a definite promise of reinforcements
and the Australian Government would
never consent to the desertion of its
fighting men. To withhold reinforcements
would be entirely fatal to the campaign,
and would threaten the lives and fortunes
of the men already there. I believed that
every available man in Singapore should
be thrown into the fight up to Malacca,
where the Straits were relatively narrow
and where Japanese landing craft could
be prevented from passing. They should
be supplemented by an additional British
brigade from Singapore, which could
reach its destination, about sixty
miles away, in four or five hours by
train. If our men must die, then it was
better that they should do so fighting,
rather than die like rats in the Singapore
trap.
Churchill favored adherence to the
Battle of Johore. My own opinion was
firm. We should fight on the Peninsula
itself. Three hundred men had died in
the narrow pass of Thermopylae to save
Greece. To save Singapore, the Nether-
lands East Indies and Australia, our men
might expend themselves more profitably
farther north in Johore than in the vul-
nerable island of Singapore, where de-
fence in depth was absolutely impossible.
Churchill admitted that the Australian
and Dutch Governments had not been
consulted about the possibility of aban-
doning Malaya. To this I replied with
spirit that, as the lives of their men were
at stake, it was unthinkable that they
should not be consulted. He raised the
question of what message should be sent
to Australia, saying that he had reached
no final decision.
We decided to defer our advice to
General Wavell for up to two days pend-
ing developments. Discussion proceeded
on an amicable basis until a messenger
arrived with a cable from Curtin demand-
ing a permanent seat in the War Cabinet,
rejecting the British proposal for an
Eastern Group Council of Britain, Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and the Netherlands
East Indies,, centred in London, and
urging that an inter-Allied policy-making
body should be set up in Washington.
Churchill slammed the telegram on the
table and declared that he had said his
last words—Australia could go to
Washington if she wished.
When the meeting ended, Churchill
waited to walk down the passage with
me. I told him I was satisfied that if the
War Cabinet would authorise me to seek
a suitable solution with Ismay and
Bridges, l we could find one acceptable
to all parties. But “take it or leave it”
tactics would only infuriate Australia.
The next day I cabled Curtin, advising
that the opinion of General Gordon
Bennett, commanding the AIF in Malaya,
should be obtained. I also advocated an
Eastern Group Council in London. Such
a Council, I emphasised, would act as
a Defence Committee on the Far East in
London and would give directions on
strategy to General Wavell. On it the
three Pacific countries would play a
dominating role; and all would favor up-
holding Singapore to the last.
On 24th January further difficulties de-
veloped. A comprehensive cable arrived
from Curtin, following an emergency
meeting of the Australian War Cabinet.
This alleged that the AIF in Malaya had
not been adequately supported and de-
clared that the evacuation of Singapore
would be regarded as an inexcusable be-
trayal in Australia and elsewhere. If a
major emergency arose, the cable con-
tinued, reinforcements should be diver-
ted not to Burma but to Netherlands
East Indies. The Australian Government
had noted the deterioration of the posi-
tion in New Guinea and the serious con-
sequences which would follow the cap-
ture of Port Moresby, and requested
immediately 250 fighter aircraft, the
t General Ismay, then Deputy Military
Secretary to the War Cabinet; Sir Edward
Bridges, Secretary to the Cabinet.


allocation of suitable planes from United
States supplies already in Australia or due
to arrive, and the provision of submarines
for the defence of Port Moresby.
At the War Cabinet on 26th January
I received assurances from Churchill that
instructions had gone to Wavell to hold
Johore to the last man. Reinforcements
were being thrown in as fast as possible.
Already 3700 additional Australians had
arrived and another brigade of the 18th
British Division would arrive the follow-
ing day. Both groups were being sent
immediately into action. An aircraft
carrier with fifty-one Hurricanes would
arrive off Sumatra the following day and
the planes would be flown straight into
battle. The troops were holding fairly
well and no more Japanese had infiltra-
ted down the coast past Batu Pahat.
Churchill insulted
My inquiry about the 10,000 Dutchmen
who, according to Bruce, could have
been sent across as reinforcements in two
days, annoyed Churchill. But I felt bound
to point out that when everyone else was
in a mess the Australians had come into
every theatre of war and put up a good
fight. I consequently resented any impli-
cation that we had been looking after
ourselves, and told the Prime Minister so.
Churchill immediately agreed that we
should have more planes and indicated
that America had promised 350 at the
earliest moment. He had wasted no time
while in America in arranging the whole
of this programme of increased aircraft
via the Pacific and the Atlantic through
India.
Bruce meantime had sent a further
cable to Curtin pressing the case for an
Eastern Group Council in London. It was
no sooner dispatched than a telegram
arrived from Curtin—which I suspected
to be the work of Dr H. V. Evatt, Minis-
ter for External Affairs —containing a
damning indictment of the proposal and
fiercely countering every argument ad-
vanced by Bruce.
Churchill’s attitude was quite straight-
forward. He believed that if Australia
insisted on Washington as the head-
quarters she would gain nothing from it;
she would fail to achieve any control over
planning or strategy and would be isola-
ted like Robinson Crusoe. But if she
wanted this she could have it. She could
either accept Britain’s suggestion for an
Eastern Group Council in London or
he would make representations on her
behalf to the President. But he would
plead with the Australian Government
no more. He intimated that he had been
profoundly insulted by the cables he had
received from the Australian Govern-
ment and could stand no more of these
public attacks by our Ministers on his
conduct of the war.
I stated my belief that both he and
Curtin were doing their best for the
Empire and Australia as a whole and
that misunderstanding had resulted from
unnecessary verbiage. And I suggested
that if all adjectives and adverbs were
eliminated in their communications,
leaving the nouns unadorned, there would
be few points at issue and agreement
could be achieved. Churchill concurred,
and with a smile suggested that I should
in future vet his cables to Australia. He
later arranged that these should be de-
livered to me at the Dorchester Hotel
between two and three o’clock in the
morning. By this means, we secured a
new amity and understanding between
the Australian and United Kingdom
Governments upon which His Majesty
King George VI complimented me as I
was returning to Australia.
On 2nd February the Prime Minister
Major-General Gordon Bennett
THE BULLETIN, March 4, 1942
received Roosevelt’s reply to the sugges-
tion for a Pacific War Council in Wash-
ington. The President rejected the idea
of ministerial representation there, but
declared his readiness to welcome a mili-
tary mission to work in close contact
with his Chiefs of Staff. Roosevelt felt
that the Ministerial Council should be
located in London. The Dutch also
favored a London Council. After some
argument in the War Cabinet that day,
Churchill agreed to a military mission as
well as the London Council and I advised
Curtin to this effect when the meeting
concluded.
Meanwhile I sought from Ismay a clear
picture of events in Malaya, but he
assured me that no such picture was avail-
able. He could not understand how and
when the decision to fight at the Kra
Isthmus was made instead of at the line
through Malacca where the Straits were
much narrower. 2
Ismay arranged, however, to give me
Wavell’s daily cables to the War Office
which, in view of their highly secret
character, I returned immediately I had
read them.
Ismay supported the idea of a p ar
Eastern Council on a ministerial pl ane ;
London, to which would be attached a
Chiefs of Staff organisation acting as a L
Far Eastern Defence Committee in accor- \
dance with my suggestion. Such a bodv
would be fully informed and act as the
driving force for the Chiefs of Stag j„
Washington. He regarded the Washing,
ton organisation as a facade, since the
real work was being carried on in Lon-
don. He said the Americans wanted a
machine of that sort as though thev
could buy it in a shop. We should help
them build one, but it might take six or
twelve months to iron out the difficul-
ties and get it into working order.
On Saturday, 7th February, the Aus-
tralian Government cabled, concurring in
the establishment of a Pacific War
Council in London and appointing me |
the Australian representative.
The Council held its first meeting on
10th February, the day after the Japan-
ese landed on Singapore island and cap-
tured Tengah aerodrome. We had a defi-
nite undertaking from the British Govern-
ment that the Council would be able to
deal as a whole with the Japanese war,
I had received a cable from Wavell ask-
ing that we should plan a means for the
ultimate defeat of Japan and I urged the
Council to concentrate on key points
essential for an offensive, relinquishing
those where we had no strength to resist,
On the 15th February, 1942, —the
tragic day on which Singapore fell—
Curtin sent me his observations on the
situation that would arise through our
defeat in Malaya or the use of Japanese
sea power against the Netherlands East
Indies, Portuguese Timor or Australia,
He also raised profound questions con-
cerning the tactical disposition of the
AIF and referred to the need for adequate
naval escorts to convey our troops in the
face of superior Japanese naval and air
power. He emphasised the necessity of
defending Australia as a main base fa
operations against Japan and suggested
that some of the AIF should not be diver-
ted to the Netherlands East Indies, but
returned direct to Australia.
If Java fell
/General Wavell also set out his view
in a cable on 16th February. This
advised that the loss of Java, though s
severe blow, need not be fatal and urged
that no efforts should be made to rein-
force it if such action compromised th|
defence of Australia or Burma. Bo®
Burma and Australia were absolute!!
vital for the war against Japan. I*
Wavell’s view, the further landing ®
Australian troops in the Netherlands H a 'j
Indies was unjustifiable from the tactic'
and strategic point of view, whatever
political considerations involved.
If Australian Corps is diverted
2 Australian war historians have not
offered any clarification of this point.


hk proceeded] I recommend that at
list one division should go to Burma
nd both if they can be administratively
V, pivP d and maintained. Presence of
this force in Burma threatening inva-
ion of Thailand and Indo-China must
have very great effect on Japanese
strategy and heartening effect on China
and India- It is only theatre in which
offensive operations against Japan pos-
sible in near future. It should be pos-
sible for American troops to provide
reinforcement of Australia if required.
On the same day, 16th February, the
Defence Committee met to hear the views
of"the Chiefs of Staff. Their objective
was to maintain for as long as possible a
front eastwards of the Indian Ocean, in-
cluding the outer islands of the East
Indies "and especially Sumatra, Java and
Timor. Burma and Australia should be
held at all costs to provide a base from
which to launch a later offensive against
the Japanese. The Americans must
hold Hawaii and those islands necessary
for their reinforcement routes.
Our position was now extremely vul-
nerable. The Japanese had 24 divisions
and strong naval and air forces in the
ABDA area. The Allies had 24 divi-
sions, of which five were trapped in Sin-
gapore, and one in the Philippines. We
were inferior at sea and in the air. If the
three Australian divisions in the Middle
East were to be transferred they would
have to be replaced. Some European
divisions must be placed in India to
counter the effect of Japanese successes,
American forces would have to be moved
across the Atlantic to garrison the British
Isles and permit the disposal of British
divisions to other theatres.
The Chiefs of Staff estimated that
100.000 extra men were needed from the
Middle East; 100,000 should be trans-
ferred from India to the Middle East and
the Far East, and 500,000 from the
United Kingdom to the Middle and Far
East, together with their replacement by
Americans. The problem involved not
merely the shifting of personnel and
equipment but also the transport of half
a ton of material per man per month to
maintain our forces. The disposition of
700,000 men would require up to
4,000,000 gross registered tons a year for
that purpose.
Churchill raised the question whether
the army was not over-mechanised and
t°° pampered with mechanical gear for
the type of warfare involved. General
A- E. Percival’s report on the fighting in
lalaya attributed Japanese successes to
. e act that the troops were practically
mdependent of motor transport. The Jap-
anese had led the world in the develop-
ment of their technique of landing opera-
lons ’ including the design of special car-
and landing craft. They had also
°ved a general army technique suit!-
Norman Lindsay’s view of the Japanese attack on Singapore
THE BULLETIN, February 11, 1942
able to their own requirements and to
Asiatic conditions. In Malaya they had
close co-ordination between supporting
arms (mortar, army and air) and made
full use of radio communication between
their men and their units. They had de-
veloped the use of noise as a weapon of
warfare. The explosion of crackers and
loud mortar bombs had proved very
effective in jungle country where visibility
was poor.
Quick and effective air support, as-
sisted by the possession by the army of
its own air arm and the use of trees as
fire positions, gave them advantages over
ground-bound opponents who were ex-
ploited by encircling movements and the
continual blocking of roads in the rear
of the troops. These tactics were effec-
tive in depriving us of guns and trans-
port. The Japanese also showed great
skill in repairing demolished barriers,
using local materials, and in overcoming
obstacles for the passage of tanks—tactics
that could be attributed only to thorough
planning and the sound training of engi-
neers.
These factors, Churchill reported,
made the Japanese Army a formidable
fighting force. By comparison, the Brit-
ish Army had suffered with standard
equipment which was generally too heavy
and cumbersome for work away from the
roads. Artillery, however, had continu-
ally proved its value and was much feared
by the Japanese.


■
I
Mail us TJ'li
coupon
We’ll send r
Austral^
12 times a l eit ’
ooH?
V& a 'ia. Past and P in j|io<
* t 0 life each
sefn S .u 0f Walkabout. A n atiO%
fo® n through eyes of the
the n ?° St au thors . • -, s ® e
Phrr enses of leadl , ng more e ifa’ 5
inj’ s : Ifs biree.JtJ'jSslf*
f h , a , n ever - lt ? you W
' n an ever, it s
i &ant to fe • magazine
All we need is your:
NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE:
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues,
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed
Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb.
MS 582
The Defence Committee then consid-
ered the question if Java were to be
abandoned. The Australian Government
had made two suggestions: that the whole
of their troops should be used in the
Pacific area, but that if Java could not
be saved, then troops should not be
wasted in hopeless rearguard actions of
the kind already fought in the Japanese
war, but used in holding actions at key
points. This question had now become
urgent, as one Australian division was
due to land in the Netherlands East
Indies within 48 hours. The Defence
Committee held that if the decision was
to take them to Australia instead they
should not be put into any unnecessary
danger zone, but be returned home at
once. Should this be done and at which
point should they be disembarked?
I said that in my view Darwin could
be reckoned for strategic purposes as
part of the Netherlands East Indies. The
proper line of protection was the line
through New Guinea and New Cale-
donia to New Zealand. If this could not
be held, then the iine must recede to the
Australian mainland. Though this would
be a hard decision to impose on the
Dutch, who had been fighting so gal-
lantly, if we did not take the appropriate
course not only should we not save the
Dutch, but lose our own men as well.
Churchill agreed that, as a result of the
act of flinging the 18th British Division
into Singapore a week before its surren-
der, we were already short of 20,000
men. There was no sense in repeating
such a gesture. He felt, too, that it would
be senseless to wreck the towns of Ba-
tavia, Sourabaya and others in Java in a
futile battle which would involve the loss
of fighting units who could serve in a sub-
sequent offensive. He maintained that
Japan would be destroyed by direct
attack at her heart, either from China or
the Pacific, rather than by capturing
islands piecemeal.
I was in perfect agreement and empha-
sised the vital necessity of maintaining
India and Australia as bases. However,
I was fully aware that, from the point
of view of our allies, this attitude might
seem unpalatable, as we would be retain-
ing two British possessions as bases and
relinquishing other people’s territories to
the enemy.
The Defence Committee agreed to this
tentative decision. But before it was
communicated to the Chiefs of Staff in
Washington, or announced to our own
people, we felt that the Dutch military
representative should have an opportunity
of discussing it with the Chiefs of Staff
in London the following day. Churchill
said to me, “You will have to put up the
case for the desertion of the Dutch.”
On 17th February I received a cable
from Wavell definitely urging that no
more reinforcements be sent to Java and
a cable from Australia stating the Gov
ernment’s views.
The Pacific War Council met that dav
The Dutch Prime Minister and his col
leagues begged to be allowed to fight f ot
their country to the death, whether thev
were reinforced or not. I swung into th £
discussion, suggesting that if the Dutch
on their own decision, were allowed to
fight with all the forces already on
island, it would be the best symbol ol
Allied cohesion we could possibly have
The Pacific War Council agreed that
the Dutch should fight in Java but that
we should not further reinforce Java with
Australian troops.
The day had provided many extraordi-
nary experiences. 1 do not believe that
I have witnessed a more moving and
pathetic scene than the Dutch Prime
Minister’s plea to pursue their own resis-
tance to the Japanese. My admiration for
the manner in which they accepted our
desertion made me feel ashamed.
Following the Pacific War Council
meeting of 17th February, a series of
recommendations were sent to the Joint
Chiefs of Staff at Washington. These set
out that (a) all Australian forces serving
outside the Japanese war area should be
sent to that area at the earliest oppor-
tunity; (b) in view of the imminent threat
to Rangoon and the vital importance of
keeping open the supply route to China,
the Australian Government should be
asked to permit the 7th Australian Divi-
sion (the leading elements of which were
then off Colombo and were the nearest
fighting troops to Rangoon) to proceedto
Burma to assist in the defence of that
country until they ~ould be relieved by
other forces; (c) the 6th and 9th Aus-
tralian Divisions be moved to Australia
as rapidly as possible; (d) army rein-
forcements now on the way from the
west should not proceed to Java but
should augment the defence of point
vital for the continuance of the struggk
against Japan, namely Burma, Ceylon art
Australia; (e) the American Chiefs of
Staff should be earnestly requested 9
consider the possibility of attacking indus-
trial centres of Japan by carrier-bor*
aircraft and to concentrate greater naval
strength in the ABDT area.
These were the most positive and cot
structive suggestions made by ®
authority since I had arrived in Englf
I soon found myself embroiled in
series of delicate negotiations between t*
British and Australian Governing
which had profound implications W
for the conduct of the war and the fi®
of Empire relationships.
NEXT WEEK
The Burma Controversy
and the A.I.F.


OVERSEAS
HOW THE GENERAL
WAS OUT-GENERALLED
and the French delegates ridiculed de Gaulle
From NORA BELOFF in Brussels
How exactly did the Brussels dead-
lock develop? It is worth ex-
amining closely the week’s fears,
double talk, intrigue, fury and blackmail
which lay behind the conferences. On
Friday, January 11, Mr Heath had re-
ceived confirmation from foreign and
British sources that the General was in-
deed resolved to keep Britain out.
He flew to Paris, and asked M. Couve
de Murville flatly whether, if the tech-
nical differences could be resolved,
France would politically veto Britain's
entry.
The quiet and correct French Minister,
who rarely tells demonstrable untruths,
replied, “Certainly not.” Couve’s in-
timates believe that he was as unprepared
as M. Pisani, his berrded colleague and
Minister of Agriculture, for the General’s
Press conference three days later.
Not that M. Pisani could have been
surprised: reporting to the General before
leaving for Brussels on Sunday, January-
-13, he expressed the view that he thought
it would not be too difficult to squeeze
agreement out of the British on outstand-
ing agricultural differences: “But I don’t
want an agreement,” said the General.
The new round of negotiations began
on January 14, heavily over-shadowed by
the impending Press conference. But the
British and other delegates, by tacit
agreement, behaved round the conference
table as if the General did not exist.
While their juniors were sitting at their
radio sets taking notes of the Press con-
ference, the Ministers went doggedly on
discussing the week’s agenda and the
complexities of voting rights inside the
enlarged Community. The scraps of news
"ere eagerly scrutinised but never men-
tioned.
Mr Soames went heroically back to
work on an all-night agricultural com-
Allowed by a private meeting
Wlt his own advisers, which lasted until
l Us t before dawn. Mr Soames was en-
gaged and felt that he was now re-
pVlnf= more understanding on Britain’s
predicament from five mem-
Community, and even from
e hherto unbending Dr Mansholt.
tes'ifi 6 i^ dele B ates themselves have
that th a^a ' nst t f le General’s statement
time T 6 ne S°ti a ti° ns were a waste of
wenty-four hours after the Press
conference, the head of the Quai d’Orsay
Economic Department, M. Olivier
Wormser, told his British colleagues in
Brussels that it was not sufficiently rea-
lised how near we were to agreement.
The French delegation, none the less,
used its Press officers right through the
week to emphasise that Britain was fail-
ing to respect the basic principles of the
Community’s agricultural system. But Dr
Mansholt, defender of the tablets, said
that this was no longer true. He let it
be known that he and Mr Soames would
take only a couple of days to work out a
reciprocally satisfactory agreement on
the still outstanding issues.
Couve said he knew France was being
criticised and he would not allow it to
appear as “an accused in the dock.” M.
Fayat, the Belgian chairman, was then
called out, and went back to tell the other
delegates that France demanded a special
conference to discuss “organising”
(French euphemism for disorganising, a
British delegate said afterwards) confe-
rence business.
That evening M. Fayat entertained all
the delegates to dinner, and whispered
to Mr Heath about France’s intention to
break off the conference. The British
delegates repaired immediately after
dinner to a private conference in their
hotel. Mr Heath telephoned Mr Mac-
millan to discuss what to do next. Hang
on, was the answer he recommended and
was given.
M. Wormser, who was proud of
having forced so many British conces-
sions, was clearly indignant at being told
by the General that he was wasting his
time. A lovable feature among French
delegates is that they take immense
pleasure in making fun of their superiors.
After the General had announced that
Britain was unsuitable for Europe be-
cause she was an island, a very senior
delegate entertained his colleagues with
the story of two neighboring farming
families, who wanted their respective son
and daughter to get married.
The boy was recalcitrant, and finally
asked first to see the girl naked. In great
turmoil, the family arranged that she
should have a bath and the boy should
be allowed to look through the keyhole.
“Well?” they said afterwards “No. I
don't think so,” said the boy. “I never
like women with blue eyes.”
After the Press conference the Gene-
ral’s most vociferous critic was M.
Spaak, who had been resolved to use the
three months while Belgium was in the
chair to drive through an agreement
with Britain by a series of marathon
meetings (the method by which he man-
aged to extort agreement for the Treaty
of Rome five years ago).
He met Mr Heath privately to discuss
how to demonstrate Britain’s conversion
to Europe, and when the Ministers met
on Tuesday, January 15, to discuss the
Mansholt report on agriculture, he so-
lemnly announced that proceedings
would be decisively helped along if the
British promised to end the transitional
period for adapting agriculture by De-
cember, 1970. Mr Heath agreed and
other delegates solemnly recorded their
view this was a great step forward.
Then on Wednesday the conference
moved to the question of tariffs..
In the afternoon Mr Heath retired to
allow the Six to examine his “package
tariffs” offer. Their meeting was inter-
rupted by the arrival of M. Couve de
Murville, coming straight from Paris. He
took his seat looking remarkably pale:
was it because the Paris-Brussels flight
had been bumpy, one ambassador asked
his neighbor, or was it the agony of
being cast as First Murderer?
As the argument got bogged down
in lead and zinc, Couve signalled to his
old friend Dr Luns, the Dutch Foreign
Minister, whom he had known all over
the world for 12 years, to come outside.
He plunged straight in: “We cannot go
on with all this nonsense. I think we
should call a special conference to ad-
journ our negotiations with Britain.”
The next morning, Couve soon found


signs of hostility. Two Italian Ministers,
the 70-year-old Deputy Premier, Attilio
Ticcioni, and the suave young Economic
Minister, Emilo Colombo (who has been
accused in Italy of being too pro-
French), called on Couve and told him
that if France was intransigent Italy
would support Germany on the all-
important quarrel over finance regula-
tions; she would refuse to admit any
special treatment for Algeria, and she
would block any agricultural agreement
which might help to dispose of the
French dairy surplus.
Mr Heath and his team were outside
the conference room, but their friends
gave them a blow-by-blow account. Their
biggest relief was to find that the Ger-
mans were standing firm.
Now Dr Schroeder, the Foreign Min-
ister, rushed back from Bonn and had
no compunction in telling the French, in
private and in public, that Germany
would not tolerate a rupture.
Everybody knew that Germany’s stand
was vital. Only the Germans, it is felt
here, can still hope to shake the Gene-
ral’s resolution and only then if Chan-
cellor Adenauer can be prevailed upon
to insist that this is the price for pro-
ceeding with the Franco-German rap-
prochement on which the General sets
such store.
But perhaps the worst shock for the
French delegation was the loss of sup-
port from the Brussels Commission itself.
This may have been partly influenced by
Jean Monnet, the father-figure of the
European Community, who had publicly
refuted the General’s statement, and on
January 16 made a discreet visit to Brus-
sels. where he saw the key personalities.
The French, expecting the ''Commis-
sion to be neutral, had agreed after some
debate to admit President Hallstein to the
restricted Ministerial session which
Couve had summoned. But Hallstein an-
nounced that he believed the negotiations
were useful and near success, pointed
out that the Treaty of Rome specifically
opens the Community to new members,
and insisted that the Commission could
not associate itself with any move to
break off the talks.
Against all this resistance, Couve de-
fended himself in conference mainly by
arguing that Britain was demanding too
many exceptions to become a full mem-
ber. But in private meetings with Min-
isters and, finally, on Friday, January 18,
in the conference room, the French
Foreign Minister exposed General de
Gaulle's high indignation over the
Nassau agreement as the real reason for
his opposition to Britain’s entry.
Leaks by French officials to the
Belgian Press on Friday morning made
out that the Nassau agreement covered
a much wider betrayal of European in-
terests including an agreement to end
the Community’s special association with
Africa and a secret agreement by Mac-
millan and Kennedy to sell out on
Berlin.
The Americans had learnt their lesson
against interfering in European negotia-
tions during the dramatic failure of the
Defence Community in 1954. This time
they were a model of restraint. But after
European delegates had asked them to
get up and say something, they distri-
buted a carefully worded communique
denying that the Nassau agreement was
an “anti-European front” and recalling
American devotion to interdependence
with a united Europe.
Surrounded by threats which must
have sounded more and more like black-
mail, Couve expelled alt officials from
bis delegation room and put through a
secret call to Paris. He was obviously
ordered to avoid a breach but also to
prevent negotiations with Britain from
proceeding.
The job was like squaring a circle
was obviously hopeless to
other five to agree to a rupture. A fjl
meeting among the Six alone was t
flatly refused. Finally a compj
statement was reached; Mr Heath *
called in, and heartily approved it *
The original date of January 28 \
the next round of negotiations would I
respected; but the French reserved!)
right to reopen the request for adjod
ment. Meanwhile working commits
would proceed, whether the French J
tended them or not.
Couve fought hard for a formal
which would indicate that the next mat
ing has nothing to do with the normal
round of negotiations. But after
longed argument he finally allowed that
the French request should be discussed
“at the next meeting of the conference !
In other words, the conference would
go on.
GAGGING THE WORLD PRES
7962 was a bad year for journalists
By ROHAN RIVETT, Director of the International Press Institute
and former Editor of the Adelaide News.
Nineteen sixty-two has been a grim
year for believers in Press free-
dom. For two or three years the
glad tide which ran so strongly after
1945 has been ebbing. Looking across
the globe, no editor of a free newspaper
can feel happy about the scoreboard for
1962.
In Africa, now emerging more and
more into world headlines, any com-
placency today is rank hypocrisy.
Most of the new-nation states have
decided that freedom of the Press is a
“luxury' 5 they will not accept. More ac-
curately, the individual rulers, seized
with a heady intoxication of power, have
found independent thinking a bore, an
embarrassment, an affront..
Under one pretext or another, the
Press has either been bullied into a
narrowly subservient government line, or
emasculated of all critical comment
throughout most of North Africa and
West Africa.
Ghana’s government took the final
step this year in gagging and actually
taking over the one courageous and in-
dependent newspaper. In Nigeria, the
battle is still not lost, but there is now
keen apprehension for the future. In
Francophone Africa there is no tradition
of Press freedom.
In British East Africa, in its various
sub-divisions, a number of African politi-
cians, on the eve of complete authority,
have made it clear that they are unlikely
to tolerate a tree and independent Pres
once they gain office.
In the isolated apartheid state of Sod
Africa, the noose placed around thened
of the strong and well-established Eat
lish Press by the Verwoerd govenma
has been tightened inch by inch. Corn!
eous editors in the predominantly Ent
fish-speaking cities have been inspired If
the cold courage of Johannesburg
“Rand Daily Mail" in fighting steph
step as the chains of the police stall
tighten.
Editors in the free countries well real-
iso the pressures which now sit on tlf
shoulders of those journalists who dond
support the South African government
In Asia, the Indian Press has notab
maintained its great traditions, event'
the embarrassment of an immensely pH
pular Prime Minister, himself a protect®
of Press freedom. In the great nation
ferment which has followed the Chin®
invasion there has been clear evident
that the Press of India is free, vigors
and active. However, from India to
North Pacific fringe, where Japan, W
Kong, and the Philippines still stan J
bastions of the right of the Press-
report all the facts (even when they®
barrass the government of the day),
murky picture darkens.
The few Pakistan editors and P
who have dared to criticise either®
or local government have suffered w
sals in varied forms. In October
Council of Editors protested
criminatory policies in placing ad®


THE ‘MAYFAIR’ 8 AT MELBOURNE’S SOUTHERN CROSS
hi
0 Reservations
Suggested
You would expect to pay more at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross Hotel
but you don’t!
Rates commencing at just £4 single, £7.4.0 double,
are just the first of many attractions awaiting you at
Melbourne’s Southern Cross, Australia’s largest hotel, backed
by the skill and experience of the world’s leading international
hotel group. Others include elegant new restaurants, intimate
coffee lounges, cosy bars, and underground parking for over
300 cars. Comfort and good taste are the keynotes to every
individually air-conditioned guest room and suite.
SOUTHERN
CROSS
HOTEL OF NEW HORIZONS
131 EXHIBITION ST., MELBOURNE
Book NOW through your travel
agent, or by contacting direct,
The Southern Cross (Melbourne
63 0221, grams “Inhotelcor”).
8
mmmrnjmr
7 i'hllM
1HC13.24
INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS
w the Government and semi-
organisations.
tn Burma, the high hopes aroused by
■J Declaration of Rights, won for the
th Press in December 1961, have
'be?dissipated since the Army coup A
1 kesman of the Army government has
spu red the International Press Institute
L freedom of the Press will be pro-
tected However, varied actions and
‘res make it extremely hard for a
Burma newspaper to maintain an attitude
of healthy criticism of the Army rulers.
In Malaya and Singapore it has still
to be proven how far any newspaper dare
n 0 in criticising the government of the
L In Thailand and the former French
colonies along China’s borders, we have
long looked in vain for any evidence of
an independent Press. No one in Asia or
Africa has moved further towards totali-
tarianism than President Soekarno in In-
donesia. As a final gesture, Ministers
have become the controlling authority on
the. board of the news agency which
dominates distribution of all domestic
ant foreign news to the Indonesian
people.
The brilliant journalists who made a
name for Indonesia in the early years of
independence have been cast out or
gagged. The most courageous of them,
Mochtar Lubis, is now in his sixth year
of confinement and his second year in a
political jail.
The picture is brighter in Europe.
With the solution of the Algerian crisis,
de Gaulle’s France has given ample proof
that real freedom of the Press still runs
from the Channel to the Mediterranean.
Any cynics should look at a cross section
of the Parisian Press through last Octo-
ber and November, or at any issue of
“Le Canard Enchaine.”
The rallying of a large section of the
German Press and other media against
the nature of government action in the
“Der Spiegel” affair has encouraged those
who maintain that today’s Germany, in
its attitude to the Press, has broken with
the authoritarian traditions of the past.
In the Low Countries, Scandinavia,
Italy, and Austria, as in Britain, there
has been abundant evidence that each
new attempt by political forces to inter-
fere with the traditional liberty of news-
P a Pers has summoned forth a strong
reaction.
Overall freedom of the Press did not
R ose § rou nd in 1962 in Western Europe,
ntain, or Britain’s three oldest domi-
nions.
However, in Latin America the vari-
es dictatorships continue to ensure that
?. P eo Pl e enjoy the choice of viewpoint
! c people in the democracies take as
a right.
lij n *ke strongest of all bastions of
cm? n * tec * States, the Cuban crisis
| Uc ed suggestions of a major breach
in the traditional independence of the
American Press. Tremendous argument
has raged ever since. First, there is the
issue whether, in a crisis, government
statements should be tailored to the
“national interest” without regard to
facts. Secondly, there is the limitation
and supervision of contact between
officialdom and the working Press.
The world-wide fight in the news-
papers of the democracies against the
“government handout” has been brought
to the front of the stage by the Washing-
ton controversy.
However, noboJy, having added up
the score across the non-Communist
world, has much reason for pleasure or
complacency about the developments of
1962. In many countries editors and
publishers striving to tell the truth to
their communities have been silenced or
dispossessed. As we begin the New Year
it may be well to think for a moment of
journalists like Mochtar Lubis, who have
preferred to lose their personal freedom
rather than accept the status of slavery
and silent submission to policies they
believe to be wrong.


mi
W
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Ptv. Ltd.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE WAIFS OF KURE
Sir,
As a member of the second contingent
of Australians to arrive in Kure from
Morotai early in 1946, and who spent
the following two and a half years with
the Occupation Forces in Japan, I can
claim a certain degree of intimacy with
the matter which has encouraged Mr
Massey Stanley to write in reference to
Peter Coleman’s warmly sympathetic
story on “The Waifs of Kure” (Bulle-
tin, December 22).
I do not think it can be said that
Australian troops are traditionally inar-
ticulate particularly when they are
unhappy as we were on first coming
to Japan. Nor do I believe that we were
exactly outcasts entirely friendless
and completely without private sources
of influence. So, without wishing to
detract in any way from Mr Stanley’s
personal and major contribution (Bul-
letin, January 5), I believe it could be
contended that the arrival of those first
essential amenities was more correctly
due to the cumulative efforts of many
individuals of all ranks and callings, and
not to any one person.
While disliking Mr Stanley’s inference
that the men eventually received more
in the way of amenities than they de-
served, I particularly resent the “poor
amenities-illegitimate children” theory
implied in his letter. This is more than
a glib and unthinking over-simplification
—it is intolerably insulting to the men
and women concerned. There were so
many very real emotional factors (includ-
ing affection) involved on both sides in
the association of Australians with Japa-
nese girls that it would be well-nigh
impossible to accurately and fairly re-
duce them to paper.
Australians in Japan were healthily
and normally-motivated men —many of
whom had not enjoyed the company and
attentions of a civilised girl or the un-
questioned amenities of domestic life
for quite a number of decidedly unplea-
sant years. We were curious, “ready for
fun”, and, in the finest traditions of the
Australian Army, sublimely ready to
overlook the existence of any restrictive
regulations. The Japanese girls, for their
part, quickly, quietly and conclusively
demonstrated that they were very
charming and in many cases lonely,
even desperate women.
When these two elements are brought
together, something is bound to happen
even babies. (I believe unexpected
babies have even been known to “occur”
in unions sanctified by holy matrimony,
which latter privilege, it might be ob-
served, was denied by Army Regulations
to any Australian-Japanese couple desir-
ing it at that time.)
I feel that it would only be fair, to
the unknown Australian and Japanese
parents who might be held only partly
responsible for the creation of that sad
little group of waifs in Kure, to mention
that the Australians had fairly thorough-
ly investigated the delights of picture
shows, ping-pong and darts some time
before coming to Japan. And that the
mutual attraction of male and female
is rather widely accepted as an estab-
lished fact of life.
In effect, it might not be unreasonable
to conclude that the low incidence of
illegitimate births to the possibly large
but perhaps fortunately unknown num-
ber of “illegal unions” was largely
ascribable to the inherent sense of de-
cency and responsibility demonstrated by
the average Australian. These qualities,
I assure you, were reflected very credit-
ably by a vast majority of the Austra-
lians stationed in Japan. But, please don’t
take my word for it ask the thousands
of Japanese of both sexes who knew
them in those trying times.
ROBERT A. ROBINSON
Yokohama {Japan).
THE VICTORIAN ALP
Sir,
Dr Knopfelmacher’s article “Cuba,
India and the Australian Left” (Bul-
letin, January 19) was much too
charitable with the Central Executive of
the ALP in Victoria. Their participation
in the Laverton “Peace” march was
much more direct than he indicated. On
December 10 the organisers of the
march issued a printed circular advertis-
ing this Communist enterprise, which
bore the names, among other people, of
V. J. Stout, A. McNolty, D. MacSween
and O’Brien, all leading members of the
Victorian Central Executive. It is impor-
tant that these things should become
known, since the Victorian Central Ex-
ecutive through its secretary, Mr Cyril
Wyndham, is at present trying v ery i
to create a bogus impression of v
Communism” in order to break the hi
vote and saddle the Australian pj
with pro-Communist Governments ul
false pretences.
JOHN COOPE
Altona (Victoria).
SOVIET ANTI-SEMITISM
Sir,
Thank you for letting me see |
photostats sent you from London, fw
of course, are not photostats of any i
the Soviet newspapers which Mr Leiblei
and your magazine claimed publish
anti-semitic articles. The six photostat
are unattested photostats of article
which might or might not have appeared
in Soviet newspapers.
In your issue of December 22,196?
you mention an alleged photostat of the
Buinaksk “Kommunist” which wash
tured in the American press. Mr Pt
Sloan, of the publications department of
the British Soviet Friendship Society,
after inspecting the actual newspaper,
asserted in the London “Jewish Ch»
icle” of March 10, 1961, that the photo-
stat was a “technically excellent montage'
and gave full details of the faking oft
photostat. This unmasking of a fail
document has never been challenged.
JUDAH W[?]
Box Hill (Victoria).
[Mr Waten’s denial of the genuineness d
the photostats is fatuous. They come fra
an impeccable source (Wiener Libraij
4 Devonshire Rd, London) and if he wants
further confirmation he can find the n»
papers referred to on file in the Lei
Library in Moscow. It is obvious, howevtt
that Mr Waten, in his sycophancy to 4
Soviet Union, has no interest in facts *
evidence whatsoever, even when the subjat
is anti-Semitism.
Mr Waten refers to an “alleged” photo®
of the Buinaksk “Kommunist” and to t
letter by Mr Pat Sloan “of the public-
tions department of the British Sovi:
Friendship Society” in the “Jewish Chi*
icle” of March 10, 1961, describing 4
photostat as a “technically excellent n#
tage” and giving full details of the “feft
of this photostat”.
First, Mr Sloan is not “of the pu®
tions department of the British »'*
Friendship Society” but the secretary of®
Society.
Second, his “unmasking” of the "f*
document” was exposed in the ‘k*
Chronicle’s” reply to Mr Sloan wW
referred him to an actual copy '
Buinaksk “Kommunist” of August 9,1”
which the “Jewish Chronicle” had obtanw
in which the blood libel appeared.
Third, Soviet officials admit that the*
tide in question appeared. For exaff
Mr Samuel Rozin, of the Novosti ij
Agency, Moscow, in a letter to
Bulletin said:
“The article he (I. Leibler) ment ‘ 0BS .!
indeed published in the Buinaksk pi
‘Kommunist’.” , .
Mr Waten is welcome to exan jL
Rozin’s letter in The Bulletin®,,
though, of course, he will
cognise it as “a fake and a forgery,
is no point in our wasting further S P
Mr Waten and this correspondence i
closed.—Ed.] i


REVIEWS
REMEMBER, REMEMBER
By JAMES LANG
Remember, Remember,
The Fourteenth of November.”
For a small group of people, this piece
>of doggerel points to the day a little
over a year ago on which Sydney’s
Genesian Theatre was “blown up.” The
explosion was of course not physical, but
nonetheless destroyed a worthwhile going
concern. Theatregoers felt regret. But
since it was a Catholic theatre and the
person responsible was the chaplain
they felt a certain curiosity. To many
Catholics, however, the incident was
more important for it emphasised differ-
ences between clergy and laity known to
exist in quite a few Catholic organisa-
tions. Differences all the more disturbing
because the official policy seemed to
make it impossible for them to be re-
solved in favor of the layman.
Usually, little is heard of such clashes
for these organisations are confined
within the framework of the Church and
only a comparatively few people are
affected. However, for the first time, the
Genesian Theatre incident brought such
a clash to the public notice. For a
theatre built up by the invited support
of theatregoers is essentially a public
body. So, not only has there been a good
deal of speculation in such circles, but
there has been a much more general
recognition that a considerable body of
Catholic laymen are unhappy at their
status in the light of such incidents.
The Genesian Theatre’s position a few
years ago was unique, at least in this
country. It was recognised as a theatre
°f standing and yet it was a religious
0ne > for it professed to present plays
according to Catholic principles, and
operated under the authority of the
Archbishop of Sydney.
It was a place where good and unusual
P a ys could be seen at a high level of
e sentation. Though an amateur organ-
a,10n’ i. ts standards were professional
eading actors were glad to appear
new S Sta^6 ’ T rom its ranks came
mak P ? ducers ’ actors and designers, to
o their mark in the theatre generally.
nior 6 enes * an Theatre now is no
e except as a building and a name.
For the organisation which is now
operating under that name is as differ-
ent from the original as chalk is from
cheese. Its openly expressed intentions
classify it rather as an amateur Dramatic
Club.
Moreover, for the past 12 months it
has presented a series of plays previ-
ously done by other theatres, usually
of the suburban dramatic society class.
It has been more fortunate than most
such clubs in having a well-equipped
theatre and the benefit of years of plan-
ning at its disposal. Nevertheless actors
there have consistently complained of
poor houses and now it is difficult
among theatregoers to find a person who
has seen recent shows; even organisers
of Catholic bodies have commented that
they have discontinued theatre parties as
they have found tickets difficult to sell.
The reasons for this changeover or,
as some say, take-over, is still a matter
of conjecture among disappointed
theatregoers and even more so among
disturbed Catholics who realise its
broader implications. These conjectures
have been extended by the quoted hope
of the Archbishop, Cardinal Gilroy, that
time will bridge the differences which
divide members.
The changeover had its beginnings
about four years ago when the previous
chaplain relinquished his position for
reasons of health. The new appointee
was Father S. T. Thorne, parish priest of
Erskineville, a priest unknown to the
Genesians, for he had not been one of
the large number of clergy who attended
their theatre in fact, it was realised
later that he had never attended any
theatre.
Now in fairness to Father Thorne it
should be pointed out that this deficiency
need not affect a chaplain’s position
which was to guide the theatre along
Catholic lines. However, lack of know-
ledge was combined in this instance
with a lack of any appreciation of
theatre plus an uncompromising tem-
perament, and so Father Thorne’s job
became virtually impossible. Fatei
queries as to the reason for Father
Thorne’s appointment brought to light a
range of explanations. A fellow priest
attributed his appointment to the fact
that he wrote poetry. On the other hand,
the prosaic proximity of Erskineville to
the city was given as a reason. There
was, too, the information that Father
Thorne had a reputation as a “strong
man” which tied up with the traditional
suspicion of Churchmen for “bohemian”
theatre people.
Whatever the reason, Father Thorne’s
approach was soon known. His first step
was the stringent censorship of plays,
even those presented at members’ work-
shops. Censorship is difficult to appreci-
ate and a distinguished Catholic visitor
to this city recently remarked in dis-
cussing this problem that surely laymen
with sufficient responsibility to carry on
the work of a Catholic Theatre would
have sufficient responsibility to select
the right plays. However, the checking
of plays was freely accepted in the
Genesians and, before Father Thorne’s
advent, censorship had consisted of
friendly discussions between the chap-
lain and the theatre’s producers.
The new chaplain had other views.
For example, Fry’s “The Phoenix Too
Frequent” a modern classic was
made by dozens of cuts into an unpleas-
ant play. This transformation greatly
surprised me as I consider I can spot a
dirty meaning as well as the next man.
There was a hyper-puritanical ap-
proach (for instance, the changing of
“underclothes” to “clothes”) mixed
with the straightout ridiculous, e.g., the
supposition in “The Iron Harp” that the
Irish girl making plans to flee to Eng-
land with a captured British officer was
automatically going to contract a mixed
marriage though the religion of neither
person was mentioned.
Much more important than strict
censorship was the fact that the chap-
lain would not permit discussion. For a
simple question as to why a play or a
line was rejected was answered “It is
sufficient that I have said so —I do not
have to give reasons.” To Father Thorne
such questions suggested a questioning
of the authority of the Cardinal's repre-
sentative.
This willy-nilly insistence on censor-
ship by a man unused to plays produced
some curious results. For instance the
Apostolic Delegate came to see “The


Skin of our Teeth.” He had' read the
play previously and, speaking to the cast
after the performance, His Excellency
expressed surprise that the line referring
to the birth of Rome was omitted. A
long silence found no one willing to
point out that the words “He raped you
home from your Sabine Hills” had only
one meaning for Father Thorne.
In his endeavors to to clean up the
stage Father Thorne soon brought to the
committee what he called “Rules for
kissing in the Genesian Theatre.” Faced
with some seven or eight clauses on this
subject, experienced theatre people
endeavored to point out that the tech-
nique of stage kissing hardly made it
an “occasion of sin.” But the chaplain
overruled them with the statement that
they did not know what they were talk-
ing about and the rules must be en-
forced for they were the Cardinal’s wish.
No doubt feeling that the wrong type
of people were being accepted as mem-
bers, Father Thorne insisted on inter-
viewing all applicants. These would
undergo 30 minutes or more interroga-
tion on such things as their Sodality af-
filiations; or, to the amazement of one
girl, as to whether her brothers went to
Mass on Sundays. Not surprisingtv,
many of those interviewed were not
heard from again.
To those in the theatre, Father
Thorne gave periodic homilies aimed at
making people in the Genesians what he
called “nice.” Father Thorne’s views
were sometimes most unusual. For in-
stance his comments ranged from order
priests—who, he had maintained, should
stay in their monasteries—to Protestant
ministers, who and here he quoted
from the scriptures were “false
prophets” and “ravening wolves.” This
last statement was made when he objec-
ted to the participation of the Genesians
with members of other faiths in an ABC
telecast on Christian Drama.
Lack of understanding
HThe examples quoted—far from isol-
ated one—-are a conservative selec-
tion indicating Father Thorne’s approach
to the theatre and to the layman. So it
was that after three years of this con-
sistent control and lack of understanding
the members were united in their concern
for their organisation. Some members
resigned office, others drifted out, but
the leading ones stayed for they were
reluctant to walk out on the work of
years. It was difficult also to know what
could be done, for the chaplain was an
appointee of the Archbishop who alone
could solve the problem.
After it had become clear that the
theatre could not survive as a worth-
while concern, a couple of committee-
men mildly raised the possibility of an
audience with the Cardinal to discuss
the theatre’s affairs. In the midst of
preparations for such an audience,
Father Thorne deliberately provoked an
incident by selecting a producer and
play without the slightest comment to
any officer of the theatre. When asked
respectfully for his reasons, the chaplain
dismissed the committee, revoked the
constitution and handed over complete
control of the theatre to a couple of
people he had brought in from outside the
organisation. No reasons were given, no
questions answered, no discussions per-
mitted. “This is the Cardinal’s theatre
and I am the Cardinal in it” was Father
Thorne’s frequent pronouncement. The
last part was certainly his belief and
the first was legally correct, for the
theatre building was church property
and all Catholic organisations have ulti-
mate power vested in their Bishop.
However, the theatre was completely
conceived in the minds of lay people
and born out of their labor and sacri-
fices.
Now the priority of the chaplain in
Catholic organisations is principally to
offer guidance on the Catholic spirit of
the organisation. But it is recognised
that he is the Bishop’s representative
and, in obvious cases such as serious
misbehavior or financial difficulties, has
the power to take decisive and even
extreme steps. But in Catholic organisa-
tions any small differences of the layman
with his chaplain are naturally accepted,
for he feels confident that any major
clash will be resolved and justice meted
out by his Bishop.
In the case of the Genesians, an ap-
peal was made to Cardinal Gilroy.
Cardinal Gilroy received several mem-
bers in audience, was most sympathetic
and asked the president to convene the
dismissed committee and to present their
ideas to him. This was done with the
simple request that the members’ con-
stitution and their right to govern them-
selves be restored. A formal acknowledg-
ment was received but no other decision
has ever been given by Cardinal Gilroy,
though the president, or rather ex-
president, wrote again a couple of
months later.
There have been similar differences
between laymen and clergy in quite a
number of Catholic organisations
organisations which cover many fields
and which include some of considerable
prestige. All followed the same pattern,
with the chaplain attempting to over-
rule the lay officers on matters where
their competence should have been relied
on. In each instance the difference was
taken to the Cardinal. Not once was the
layman’s cause upheld though some
certainly received the same sympathetic
treatment as the Genesians— and n
them, heard nothing more, o’ffi ■!
policy, it must be inferred, is that \
such disputes will be solved only |
the passage of time. Either the c ha
lain will be taken to his eternal reward
or he will voluntarily retire. That t| E
organisation should suffer or the lay me
sustain injustice is merely an unfortunate
by-product.
Sooner or later there will be a chant
Father Thorne will be replaced byj
more liberal chaplain. But the ne»
chaplain will find it impossible to over
come the thought of laymen that what
has happened once can happen again,
For it has been clearly shown that tit
chaplain is in complete control and
answerable to no one the members
have no say and there appears to be no
appeal to higher authority.
The call to lay-action
Tn the minds of some Catholics that
-*■ Genesian takeover has been a good
thing. For much as they regret the pass*
ing of a theatre of which they were
proud, they realise that the spotlight has
been placed on a system which has
troubled them.
Many laymen in recent years havt
been endeavoring to answer the call to
lay-action made by various Popes. They
have heeded the call to study, to prac-
tise Christian principles and to put them
to work in their own fields, so that mans
every activity will be influenced by these
principles. These laymen, or at least!
good number of them, now find it im-
possible to continue; for by so doing
they would be debasing their intelligence
and lowering their self-respect.
In too many Catholic organisations
laymen have found that their ability,
accepted in their own particular sphere,
is overridden by the chaplain. They are
eager to accept his spiritual guidance,
will listen with respect to his views on
secular matters, but they cannot down-
grade their own specialised knowledge.
So there is a reluctance to accept ofo
or to work in a place where, faced with
the differences which beset all men, the
dice are so heavily loaded in favor ot
the clergy. Above all there is the distaste
in the minds of laymen that their rela-
tions with their priests are maned ,
the knowledge that a chaplain P ossess ®
such all-powerful control in essentia,
lay organisations.
Laymen are far from being ai° ne ®
these feelings for a considerable nuffl
of priests are sensitive about this
tion. Not only do their priests regret
loss to the Lay Apostolate of such ®
of standing but they consider that a
too heavy responsibility is being PC
on the shoulders of priests assign®*
lay organisations.


ART
THE BIRDS HAVE FLOWN
, hihold Wynne & Sulman Com-
*2io»; for 1962. Art Gallery
of NSW.
Interest in these competitions, which
I are the longest established of all, no
doubt carries over from years of contro-
versy though, all throughout, the stand-
ards varied and selections were mixed.
Xhe Trustees have unbended to the extent
of awarding this year’s Archibald Prize to
Lou i s Kahan for his portrait of Patrick
White. Kahan has painted better por-
traits than this. White appears a bit
iike Voss at the end of the road, droop-
j ngi half cadaverous, wearing a frantic
tachisce shirt which tries to compensate
f for the los; of vital energy in the fixed
gaze and immobility of expression.
Clearly two approaches are at variance:
the painterly and the realistic. Kahan’s
crumbling phantom ; s, at rock bottom,
frankly representational but the draw-
ing, weakened by melodramatic handling,
becomes listless and jumbling.
A few manage a happier fusion of
painting and portrait—Ray Crooke’s in-
timate “Xavier Herbert,” Jacqueline
Hick’s sensitive “Francis Roy Thomp-
son,” Sali Herman’s “Dawn” and others
by Moling, J. Carrington-Smith, Mary
Brady and Jean Isherwood (the last
three for direct craftsmanly values which
enhance likeness). Curiously one of the
best, perhaps the most engaging portraits
-by Vladas Meskenas-—was to be found
in the Sulman, entitled “The Resting
Couple.”
Though not as numerous as usual,
the various “traditional” portraits could
be relied upon for factual statements of
visual accuracy, notably in Reg Camp-
bells “Alfred Cook” which for sheer
skill if not for great conviction would
satisfy most viewers. Pugh and Rigby
c °nie near to making forceful statements.
The first falls a bit on the treatment of
the hands in “Dr Mannix,” the latter
because of an inability to push his image
beyond a certain mundane level. Judy
Cassab’s capacity to create film-stars is
evident in her portrait of “Barry Stern.”
Like the Archibald, the Wynne is a
feast of competence without any great
or important events. The Sali Herman
painting of the “Devil’s Bridge, Rottnest”
seems to reek of the studio. Its atmos-
phere is strangely enclosed. The sea is
convincing but the rocks not fully formed
or integrated with the whole. His “Old
Sydney” is romantic enough and rests
on more familiar territory, surely a
stronger painting all round. Fred Wil-
liams’s spacious “Trvptych” sums up a
great deal of lush atmosphere and heat,
and despite its more abstract qualities
contrives to convey these impressions in
a concrete way. Joe Rose, Roy Fluke,
Strom Gould, Kenneth Jack, Salmon and
Edward Hall contribute work of diversi-
fied intent but of real interest. Joy
Roggenkamp’s winning watercolor in
sombre times was one of a dozen of
comparable merit, all competent.
Rigby’s “Children Dancing” exploits the
patterns of moving form in an agreeable
way without a great deepening of experi-
ence. As winner of the Sulman his was
a fairly obvious choice,
The 1962 Archibald, Wynne and Sul-
man competitions show to some extent
a fair average and a better hanging than
usual. What seems significant is the fact
that a great many artists who could lift
standards well beyond present levels are
not exhibiting. It is, however, natural for
artists to tire of competitions. Having
suffered rather meaningless rejections for
years, some no longer bother. After all,
without the artists such exhibitions are
futile; if the trustees find on a change of
heart the birds have flown they can, of
course, blame no one but themselves.
JOHN HENSHAW
TELEVISION
THE ORIGINAL AUSTRALIANS
celebrate the 175th anniversary of
the Landing at Sydney Cove, the
prepared two films, “The Land
at Waited” and “Prelude to Harvest,”
"'hich have been televised in Sydney and
ot er capitals during the past week. You
® a ) have seen them, and noticed one of
[ e omissions. To balance it a little, I
like to mention a series on ABC
J VI^ 0n which might have been called
e People Who Waited” but is entitled
c er inga.” In 15-minute episodes it
obiT 8 -° escr^e the °ld wa Y of life
) original Australians, estimated to
have numbered 300,000 at the time of
the Landing.
“Alcheringa” is written by Frank Few,
and each episode is introduced by Bill
Onus. To my shame, I must admit that
I know Mr Onus’s name, but nothing
more about him, and the same can be
said about someone casually described
as Doris Simpson, who appeared in last
week’s episode, acting the name role in
“Women Gathering Food” with a fine
combination of ability, gracefulness and
dignity that put most other female acting
on television to shame.
Each of the many episodes of “Alcher-
inga” begins with some sounds of the
bullroarer and didgeridoo, launches into
a preliminary narration which is better
forgotten, and then sights Mr Onus, who
describes the subject of the evening,
which might be hunting, dancing, canoe
making or any other single activity of
daily life in Australia while it was
waiting. In last week’s episode Doris
Simpson, accompanied by a small girl
named Cris Mabouine, set out through
the bush to gather such items as witch-
etty grubs, small yams, wild cherries, and
any minor wildlife that came within
range of her stick. There wasn’t much
more to it than that, but it recreated
vividly the missing natural element, the
native who belongs, which many of us
175-years-later outsiders can readily
imagine during any walk through the
brooding bush.
I recommend “Alcheringa” as a series
well worth 15 minutes of anyone’s time
each week. It is quietly and sincerely
done, and the actors I’ve seen in it so
far have been a pleasure to watch, more
natural in their traditional if not actual
environment than the Australians who
act in many other Australian efforts on
film, in their natural city environment.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
BAWD OR BORED?
Senilita. Metro Continental. Sydney.
Between yawns, an old and thread-
•“-* bare conviction reaffirmed itself. Far
worse than the incessant cinematic
mangling of cowboys, Indians, pirates,
suburban romantic triangles (in color),
epic heroes, Biblical stories and all other
such commodities is the always tedious
tickling at the feet of what James Joyce
called “the loveliness that has not yet
come into the world.”
There are many artistic and moral ob-
jections to all the “serious” garbage
parading under the inviolate Art-Truth
banner, but the most horrible failing of
this produce is its total lack of humor.
“Senilita,” with all its aspirations to
beauty, bawdiness and depth, is only an-
other epic exercise in boredom. And,
more depressing still, what this film fails
to adequately portray is a flaw very
similar to its own.
Anthony Franciosa is often cast as
somebody just slightly on the wrong side
of making it. There is a great deal of
acuteness in this, for he is one of the
world’s most over-rated hams.
Still it is not really Franciosa’s fault.
The script and direction are so lacking
in clarity of context, and so unsure of
anything except a half-cooked emotional
stew, that no one could have done much
better. The intent may be an entrance
into the heart, but it is done with a
butter knife instead of a scalpel.
JACK DAVIES


POETRY
The Sleeping Buddha of Ayuthia
Here in this garden lies the sleeping Prince,
With samlor drivers resting from the heat.
Ayuthia is not Nirvana, since
The pretty girls lay flowers at his feet,
And he, dream-lost like any happy youth,
Smiles down on the confusion of their hearts,
That with devotion to the four-fold truth
Desire one with which all suffering starts.
His cheek touches the lotus whose caress,
Subtle as Yasodhara in his arms,
Troubles the noon with a gay tenderness
Which mocks the arts of Mara, all that harms.
Perhaps he's gentled now the black-maned horse
No man could tame and hears his cousins cheer,
The vanquished suitors, as he leaves the course
And mounts with Channa, the good charioteer.
But as night falls and bats begin to flit
Around the sleeper, unpursued and blind,
The lotus trembles: from Samsara’s pit
Rises the boundless freedom of his mind.
Uncountable, uncounted aeons flow
Into the soundless music of a leaf,
Born and unborn, transcended at one throw.
Free on its hinges turns the gate of grief.
DAVID MARTIN
Spider and Fly
I saw a small and fly-like blonde
out of the corner of my mind.
One would have thought she waited for
someone in particular.
Hand over hand along the rail
an old man spidered to her call.
She turned her back and shrugged her wings.
The spider said, “This morsel stings!”
The spider swung out into space,
a leer upon his four-eyed face,
and tried to web her in his grasp,
this black-and-golden-bodied wasp.
And as he brushed her sleeve she struck
and turned and killed him with a look.
W. HART-SMITH
Sandal from an Egyptian Tomb
The Jackal guardian of his lungs and heart
is a bleached bone in the loose centuries of sandhills,
is only wind around old corners. His entrails
are waste in a easeful of broken vases. The great
gods die as soon as we forget their names:
Who knows the hawk god of his liver now,
or prays to the dog head? The dogs have his guts
to chew
idolatrously. We laugh in the open tombs.
There's no inflection carved in hieroglyphs.
Looking blankly at his ritual throne
we cannot think of a man alive and alone,
we falter in the text of past beliefs.
Until this sandal. Sharply, the mundane
etches the script of our Rosetta stone.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Yachtsman becalmed
His porthole sees a palmtree scratch
and fan the humid air.
Held in the goblet bay, water stretches
hard and smooth as unbroken ice.
He sweats in his chair:
yachtsman, married, wealthy, calm.
Beyond his range of eye
are girls with frosty drinks, a beach. The sail
—too hot to budge—is lodged and scored
on the setsquare sky.
Then, like a midget shadow-jib
a dorsal fin skates
through the thin pretence of ice, the only moveniei
anywhere. It skims the porthole, glides
and figure-of-eights.
The glassbound yachtsman frames a shout
of warning, gagged by that crafty
cabin. His beware! is never heard
while wicked freedom scouts for flesh.
Small comfort—safety.
RODNEY HALL
In a Coffee Lounge
Through the petty hours.
The nervous minutes sliding into night,
Faces shimmer, make
Their mark upon the public air
Before they go. Here, between
Miscalculations in our talk, the silent
Gnawing works in me again: when
Shall the shutters fall, the
Dry words flap
On empty air, to tell me once again:
Past words, past calculated lip and eye
We have no entrance.
WILSON BLACK[?]
Fireworks Night
A rocket soars, explodes, and dies away,
And I turn helplessly to you to say
Something, as usual inadequate,
And, as usual too, I am too late,
For you are watching in the bonfire’s glow
Somebody else who might have loved you so.
T. H. JO[?]
Anger
Knuckles white on the table,
Jaw grinding on jaw;
Human frailty never
Caught him like this before.
The bright uneasy pictures
Play upon his brain,
Compelling recognition
Of neither lust nor pain
But anger, flaring anger,
A rising gale that soughs
Up through a grove of laurels
And wrenches the green boughs
Or gathers in its flurry
Fat crowds of waiting men,
Driving the breath of panic
Into their midst again.
Gall steadily rising,
Eyes narrowing tight;
The carnival of folly
Blazes upon his sight.
CHRIS WALLACE-CR[?]


not to
hang?
THE TAIT CASE
by Creighton Burns
Insane or not insane? Where does executive power
end ? Where does the authority of the courts begin ?
Argued with emotion at the time, these vital issues
are now documented and discussed by a leading
political scientist.
At all booksellers
*5/- (postage 10d.)
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
THE RED PAGE
LITERARY ASSASSINS
Priestley's better half
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Mar«in Released. J. B. Priestley.
Heinemann. 31s.
Australian readers, stung by J. B.
A Priestley’s barbs of a few years ago
in the “New Statesman” (like James
Morris, he reserved his sharpest weapons
for that cite maud it in which The
Bulletin is published), may well have
,built up a sales resistance for his wares
by this time. His public image in these
parts consists, one suspects, of a grous-
ing,‘frowning old hulk with pipe clenched
in teeth or used as a kind of argumen-
tative baton, skulking about from lecture
platform to radio station in rumpled
tweeds, rasping insults in a cheese-grater
voice and conveying an overall impres-
sion of doughty, constipated Yorkshire-
dom.
The shock of hair, the tight upper lip,
the angry thrust of the old head it’s
all designed to set an Australian’s back
up, without the insults thrown in for
good measure and the stray, maddening
compliments for kangaroos and Alice
Springs. “Margin Released”? some will
say, who cares if he shoots the bloody
carriage off?
All unfair, and it would be a pity if
people here didn’t read Priestley’s newest,
and his most agreeable book for a long
while. It is a loose, rambling, affectionate
chronicle of growing up in Bradford,
going to war, returning to Cambridge
and a literary career in Fondon. The
ground, some 30 years earlier, is that
covered by John Wain in his recent
Sprightly Running,” but the differences
are important. Wain, faced with suffer-
jng, groans; Priestley, with his appetite
I or life good, bad and indifferent, seizes
°n every experience and wrings the ut-
most from it.
As shown by this book, Priestley is
indeed very different from the public
■mage; in the heavy old machine a poetic
j= °st has obviously been screaming to
~ et out - There have been hints of
'- other, gentler Priestley in his curious
an now badly dated) plays about time
n space, in which stockbrokers sit
f Unc * living-rooms and talk about the
L r dimension as though it were a
dan” at or^s; i n “Johnson Over Jor-
War' by Basil Dean before the
the' 0 ° W^‘c b I was taken as a treat at
j n ( , a * e seven and have not forgotten;
“Th e P. assa ges between the old people in
e Llnd m Tree”; and in some of the
better novels. His theme, in play after
play and book after book, has been the
confrontation of an ordinary British
mortal—a stodgy, unimaginative, kindly
sort of being and an extraordinary
glimpse of the world beyond the physical
one. This discovery of the supernormal
by the aggressively normal has obsessed
Priestley, who has evidently been a
craftsman always on the verge of be-
coming an artist.
“Margin Released” swings between art
and craft craft not only in the sense
of technical skill, but in the sense of
literary cunning. The artistry is mainly
to be found in the extraordinarily vivid
and stylish passages dealing with World
War I, the trenches evoked with an un-
embittered, tough assurance that conveys
the horror more sharply than hysterical
roll-calls of rats, cockroaches and carn-
age have ever done. The craft and
craftiness are in the accounts of
literary people Priestley knew, which,
with the skill of a seasoned novelist and
journalist, tell you just enough to stimu-
late your interest, yet not so much that
the picture is dully over-detailed.
Throughout, whether dealing with
clerking in Bradford, war, undergraduate
days, Fondon, or international success,
Priestley lashes out magnificently at the
smug, the spiteful, and the boot-licking.
Tike Wain, he savages that Fondon liter-
ary scene which, for so many art students
here, seems to glitter like a distant, desir-
able nebula. At times, he strikes home
with deadly accuracy, as in his account
of the way Hugh Walpole (his friend and
collaborator, and a writer who deserves
a proper critical reassessment) was
treated after his death. Walpole, as
Priestley so warmly reminds us, was a
man of extraordinary kindness and gen-
erosity, helping more needy writers (as
well as the struggling Lauritz Melchior)
than perhaps any other novelist of his
generation. Authors, as we know, are not
always as kind as Walpole. “And this,”
Priestley says, “was the man who could
be described, in the nastiest obituary I
have ever read in ‘The Times,’ as ‘not
popular among his fellow writers.’ Out
came the last of the stealthy assassins to
knife the corpse.”
Priestley, to his great credit, has
fought hard, and continues to fight, the
“stealthy assassins” that army of
quiet, cruel, vindictive, durable people
who populate the thickets of literature
waiting to pounce on the writer whose
talent or fame is greater than theirs. Ex-
tending this to life in general, he is
constantly reiterating in this book his
loathing of those who, embittered them-
selves because of some failure or slight,
try to destroy the happiness of others.
Priestley himself may be bad-tempered,
querulous and coarse-grained, but he has
never been mean, slimy or back-scratch-
ing. He can, as he approaches 70, look
back with a certain pride on a life
notably lacking in the pettiness and
squalor of so many literary careers.
As well as its honesty, its good-
heartedness and simplicity, “Margin Re-
leased” is notable for its sudden and
brilliant moments of illumination of
characters and events. For days after I
finished reading it I was haunted by the
extraordinary passage on Kitchener, who
inspected Priestley’s battalion during the
course of a route-march from Aldershot
to Folkestone: “The image I retained
was of a rather bloated, purplish face and
glaring but somewhat jellied eyes, an
image not of an ageing man, already
bewildered by, reeling under, the load of
responsibility he refused to share, but of
some larger-than-life figure, huge, but
turning into painted lead. It was a frigh-
tening and not pleasing image, and a year
later, when we heard he had been
drowned, I felt no grief, for it did not
seem to me that a man had lost his life:
I saw only a heavy shape, its face now
like an idol’s, going down and down into
that northern sea.”
That image of Kitchener, red, bloated,


stiff as an idol, sinking like a plummet
under the icy grey waves, is intensely
characteristic of Priestley, who always
manages to introduce a moment of un-
canny vision into a straightforward ac-
count of men and events. One can see
, , r ~.. . j tt u
why he felt so sympathetic towards Hugh
..., , , , , , , ... x ®
Walpole who also had the ability to
blend the sinister and terrible with the
dull and everyday, an ability that seems
peculiar to the British, with their dour
yet haunted landscape (it is also found
in the films of Alfred Hitchcock). Priest-
ley’s book may be simple and restrained,
an utterance from a comfortable, smoke-
filled study, but the shadows lurk, and
doors are continually opening on an-
other and stranger place,
_ Those who look for conclusions about
life and death will not find them in this
boot Pnest ey now only seems to belteve
half-heartedly in that fourth dimension
... J . , , . , .
which once preoccupied him, and in
which a] , thg £Vents of the t stiu live
and haV£ their bejng Seria , isnij probably>
no i on g er a ttracts him. Old himself, in
an o i d> s j c k and bro k e country, he can-
not be exactly sprightly as he looks at
the future. But he has courage and re-
solution, and he still believes in that
England he half-despises.
FROM THE OTHER SHORE
Landfall Country: Work from “Land-
fall,” 1947-61. Chosen by Charles
Brasch. The Caxton Press. 455.
lITe have all heard that in New Zealand
there was growing up a generation
of writers of great promise, that publi-
shers there were springing up like warrior
chiefs, that even the critics were less
cannibalistc than ours.
Now here is Landfall Country, a
collection of the best work from 15
years of the premier literary magazine
of New Zealand (“Landfall”), 15 years
in which two and a half million people
have had a fine chance to express the
richness and vigour of their living.
Instead we tack along the same old
coastlines, skirt the same shallows,
crumble the same mean fare, listen to the
same self-pitying wind wail over grit—
as we do and have done in Australia.
Not that there are not fine things in
this Landfall Country. Taken separately,
the short stories, poems, essays, criti-
cisms, are stimulating. The art work is
excellent, of a harsh strength far super-
ior to the infantile doodlings of Austra-
lian literary quarterlies, but it is curious
that not in one reproduction, even of a
photograph, is there anyone smiling. Nor
in the whole 459 pages of Landfall
Country is there any touch of humor.
Working our way in cautiously through
the reefs of short stories, we begin with
a sketch of an old-age pensioner in bitter
cold weather, “Old Tolly.” Next is a
hideous story, but memorable, called,
significantly, “The Losers.” It is about the
sleasy racing crowd and ends with the
torture and murder of a horse for the
insurance money. “The Undertaker’s
Story” is by that fine writer, Frank Sar-
geson, who also has a long prose piece
“Up On to the Roof and Down Again,”
which has much greater style and drive.
There is also an analysis of Frank Sar-
geson’s prose.
“A Race Apart” by C. K. Stead is a
subtle, almost stealthy, description of
how a young man from the Antipodes
walks into the snob-culture of Britain and
is eaten alive by female spiders in the
form of Lady So-and-So and the Hon.
Clare Smith-Withers. “And the Glory”
is a sketch of a resentful and mean shop-
man who refuses to serve a customer and
then complains about “not getting
service” for his electric lighting. “Blues
for Miss Laverty” by Maurice Duggan
celebrates the despair of a music teacher
sinking into drink and loneliness. This
is a charming haunting story, and in
merrier company would not have in-
creased the load of depression which is
now glooming the landscape.
“The Bulls” is a sketch of an old bull
being driven from a farm and a young
man gloating that he will supersede an
old one. “An Evening for Fish” describes
how a father teaches his son to cheat.
The most human story and one with
real pathos is Maurice Shadbolt’s “After
the Depression”, which describes a Com-
munist zealot, dragging a poor wife and
tired child to a mining settlement where
he may find work—and agitate—and be-
ing turned away. You are struck that
here Maurice Shadbolt is not merely
“seeing through” people; he has the com-
passion which sees all round them, wholly
and complete.
“All Part of the Game” is a long tire-
some story of a racing stable; it ends
with the jockey hanging himself. “The
Collector” is set in a gaol and the main
character has toothache. Are we near the
poetry yet? No, hold on, there is one
more: — “Eli, Eli, Lama Sabachthani”.
This is twenty-seven pages about ice and
penguins. Anyone who can read right
through without feeling he has missed the
clue will be given a gilt doll and a packet
of fairy-floss. Diatoms drift under the
ice for millions of years, a penguin is
eaten by a seal, and a ferocious seabird is
blasted by a volcano, or was it an atomic
explosion? Anyway, it’s sombre stuff and
some of the sentences run for nearly a
page.
Ha! the poetry at last! “What sha
sing? sings Harry:—
“Sing of our leaders? Like a ptf
Proficiency descends on all
Pontific nobodies who make
Some high pronouncement
week”
The poet is equally disillusioned
other sections of society and say
verse by verse.
The first of the elegies is for Dirty
Mick:— “You are salty dust where
lie, but quickened is the anonymous.
Next an “Elegy” in IX parts conclut
with “The Laid-Out Body.” ‘Wow
dead who talked of wild places and j
inhabited by the hawk.” There is
address to a dead Chinese Poet b.
d. 846, followed by yet another “El
and such pieces as “The Morgue,”
Memory of Dylan Thomas” and “Id
Field of My Father's Youth.” One sh
not, I suppose, complain, but we do
to be stumbling over tombstones.
Now we have arrived at the n
general essayists, and the first offeri
about the land, and the weather, and
seasons. “ Man appears only twice it
year’s diary” but the birds and cl
and the descriptive writing of
Mirabilis is serious and straight fora
and so is “South Island Journal.”
Bill Pearson in “Fretful Sleepers”!
launches a full scale attack on the w
savages of New Zealand, that is
one except the 1500 readers of Lad
Public morality, education, speech,
havior, art, the New Zealand habit
always blaming God, or Nature, or
Government; he blasts them all forf
odd pages, but every sonorous acc
tion has a familiar ring about it:—
we huddle together under our lh
bare conventions and the cold f
through. We try to iron out our in
culate doubts in a self-evident, self-
pelling system of habits.”
“Documentary,” a collection of*
must be editorial comments gives
quarter either. The grievance is l
society is middle-class, hypocritical
stupid.
One thing about these grave 1
Zealanders with their earnest excell
and their evident honesty is they d
suffer from the Bums-Bellies*
Bosoms School of “promising J®
writers” whom we have always will
(I learnt recently that after 22 p l
occasional sketches an academic
still be called “a promising short*
writer.”) Maybe Charles Brasch
cises his own censorship, but then
from Landfall Country a w f°
absence of stories from “young
celebrating their prowess with deta
anatomy.
KYLIE TE[?]


THE GREAT SURVEYORS
an d Theodolites. F. M. John-
Edwards & Shaw. 30s.
a nE of the wide gaps in the writing of
U pioneering history is in the bio-
field of surveying. The sur-
L® of all generations up to the end
' r tlie last century were also the ex-
plorers, and theirs is a remarkable tale
L from the beginning with old Baron
the Hessian mercenary; going on to
Charles Grimes, who made the first real
ma p of the embryo of Sydney streets;
Meehan, the polished Irish exile whose
map of Sydney (1807) is a classic and
whose explorations of mid-southern New
South Wales and surveys which fixed
the shape of many historic properties
ure part of Australian antiquity. Oxley,
We, Dangar, Hoddle their names
are all associated with the foundation of
our great eastern cities as with the first
breaking open of the wildernesses of the
interior West and Hunter.
But the Johnstons of Western Australia
are the prize surveying family of our
country. Their generations ran direct
within this continent for 109 years in the
male line, though they fix as their “datum
peg ancestor” the father-in-law of the
first Johnston to arrive, Marshall Clifton.
Born in 1787, Clifton worked in the
Admiralty, and it is a tradition in his
.family that “his dapper figure bustling its
pway along the Strand provided the model
f for Charles Dickens in his creation of
Pickwick.” Certainly Dickens is very
likely to have known him.
When he retired at the age of 45 he
studied art, and then set out across the
oceans in 1840 with his wife to become
Principal Land and Survey Administra-
tor of the West Australian (Land) Com-
pany. The objective of this venture was
to found the model town of Australind,
near Bunbury (WA), for which he pro-
duced a very striking modernistic plan
closely resembling that which Colonel
Light (another surveyor) made for
Adelaide. That the town failed to ma-
terialise was the outcome of fate, but
the project brought to this country not
°nly the Cliftons but families like those
0 Forrest and Sir Newton Moore (two
More surveyors, both later Premiers) and
; the Johnston dynasty.
| Clifton handed on the surveyor’s
IChain1 Chain through one of his daughters. She
® arried a young Scot, H. R. Johnston,
. member of the large party of survey-
rs which preceded the administration
; *®to Australind in 1840.
L. e k eca me Clifton’s right-hand sur-
to G l ® distant, joined with him in pas-
te m , eve^°Pment when Australind failed
retJ aer^Se ’ ® ot f ever an d on his
W n em Pty-handed from Victoria to
tp ert . ra ia Was found on the track from
J 0 bunbury, his swag on his back
and his gold sleeve links clutched in his
hand. But though he died at the age of
37, he had lived long enough to leave
behind him a strapping, bearded son, a
more-than-six-footer, Harry F. Johnston,
who eventually succeeded John Forrest
as Surveyor-General of Westralia.
Harry Johnston pushed northward as
far as Hall’s Creek and the Kimberleys—
his father having gone no farther north
than Geraldton. He was one of the first
surveyors articled in Perth; he qualified
in 1874 at 21. He surveyed the road
from Toodyay to New Norcia, went
with John Forrest to survey the Mur-
chison and the Gascoyne, was second
in command of the Brooking expedition
to the Kimberleys in 1883, took part in
the survey of Broome when Brooking
laid out its site, made the first surveys
up to the mouth of the Fitzroy, and in
the next two or three years was all over
the Leonard River region and worked
as far north as Wyndham on a 600-mile
traverse.
When in command of an expedition
in 1884 he fixed the site for and laid
out Derby, further surveyed the Fitzroy
and Margaret River regions, and, while
putting in a survey peg on what was
known later as Hall’s Creek, discovered
the first gold in Western Australia, a
find which eventually brought 2000 men
to the field.
The names on the map commemorate
his further astonishing wanderings. Yet
he was only 62 when he died in 1915 as
the result of an accident with a Webley
pistol after he had farewelled his sons
in the AIF, who included Frederick
Marshall Johnston, his successor in the
family dynasty and author of this book.
In 1901 F.M. joined the Westralian
Survey Department on a princely cadet
salary of £4 3s. 4d. a month, out of
which, after paying £1 10s. a month
board, he reserved something for savings
and 13s. 4d. a month for “riotous living”.
Eventually he found himself surveying
lands which would be needed for railway
purposes along the Commonwealth’s
transcontinental line to the West, with his
datum peg on the outskirts of Kalgoorlie.
Thence he was transferred to Canberra
towards the end of 1913 where
strange contrast to the Gascoyne country
he surveyed part of Deakin and
Yarralumla, camping at a shady water-
hole on Yarralumla Creek. By 1915 his
work had taken him into the rough
ACT eastern border country, in the
headwaters of Naas River and out to
Pierce’s Creek and the Cotter.
He was sent back to WA to do fur-
ther surveys on the railway and Hender-
son Naval Base, enlisted at Blackboy
Hill, went overseas, came back and sur-
veyed Australia’s first air route (Gerald-
ton-Derby), and ended up choosing sites
for radio stations and surveying “the
most valuable site in Australia” next to
Sydney GPO. He became president of
the NSW institution of Surveyors, and
eventually Commonwealth Surveyor-
General in 1944 and chairman of the
wartime Mapping Conference and first
Director of National Mapping. He re-
tired in 1949.
Thus ended a family connection of
109 years with official Australian survey-
ing. The last of his line, F. M. Johnston
has devoted his leisure to writing
“Knights and Theodolites,” which should
prove a good source book for Aus-
tralian novelists who deal in pioneer-
ing sagas, covering as it does prodigious
fields, geographical and chronological. It
carries an introduction by Robert Fitz-
gerald, one of Australia’s leading epic
poets. He also is a surveyor.
M. H. ELLIS
THE 1920's
This is the Grass. Alan Marshall.
Cheshire. 21s.
\ lan Marshall, crippled by polio in
childhood, here takes up the story of
his life at a later point than in “I Can
Jump Puddles'”. “This is the Grass” tells
how, throughout the nineteen twenties he
battled in and near Melbourne for
employment, for acceptance as “a normal
man with all a normal man’s privileges,
not as a cripple . . .” Marshall
realised, too, that if with his mind he
could achieve victory, then his victory
would be recognised and other people
would accept him without patronage. He
came to know, also, that to be a
complete man and a writer he must
somehow gain knowledge that a woman
could love him.
He saw clearly as he emerged from
adolescence that “I was a member of
a minority group as were Jews, Negroes,
Aborigines. There were unwritten laws
of behaviour for such people that did
not apply to the majority. A man robbed
by a Jew proclaimed that all Jews were
thieves. If he was robbed by an Aus-
tralian only one man would suffer his
wrath ... A cripple making love to a
girl was evidence that all cripples were
victims of lust; the healthy man was
envied his conquests.”
However, Marshall only arrives at
such mature conclusions after several
years of disgracefully underpaid jobs,
squalid lodgings and remarkable ac-
quaintances among whom Arthur the
coachman, and Marshall’s father stand
out as truly “noble men”. There is a
huge canvas of place and character dis-
played in this book —it is lively, it has
humor and pathos without bathos. It is
equally of the earth as well as of the
spirit and deserves much respect.
NANCY KEESING


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
O’SULLIVAN
= -*, PTYLTD.
& l&Rs BfW*S}^ l &
trade
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYP'D
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
GRIM FIGHT FOR SURVIVAL
AGAINST LANTANA
By HENRY G. LAMOND
/Common lantana is known to botanists
as Lantana camara. (Note the small
“c” about which they are very precise.)
Its origin in Australia is lost in the mists
of time; it might even have been imported
with the First Fleet. It probably came
from Brazil, or some adjacent South
American country.
The reason of its importation may
have been as an ornamental shrub, a
hedge, a dozen other futile purposes.
About the only thing which ate its
berries were bronzewing turkeys. As a
fodder it was useless; as an ornament
it got out of hand.
In sheltered gorges it grew to a height
of 20 feet or more; on the hills the
winds kept it down to about five feet;
but where it took hold it grew in a maze,
an impenetrable jungle.
I have an intimate contact with the
pest. About the end of 1926 I bought
the Molle Group of islands, six of them,
in Whitsunday Passage, NQ. I bought
them because they were cheap. They
were cheap because they were over-run
with lantana. I had an idea I knew
how to eradicate it, and I wasn’t relying
on the introduced lantana fly to do my
work for me. But I had to curb the
stuff else my family and the sheep and
other stock which I’d put there would
be forced into the sea!
That bramble-like bush, covered with
little spikes, can tear clothes and
lacerate flesh. The mare I used to ride,
when out goat-hunting for mutton, was
a heavy thing—perhaps quarter-draught.
She was bred on the islands. She under-
stood lantana. Many times, forcing a
way through, she had to half-rear, lunge
forward, crush the maze beneath her
weight so she could walk over it. If
on foot, as I often was, I had to jump
on top of the stuff, lie like a log with
my weight distributed, and roll over and
over in the direction I wished to go.
Failing that, I had to get down on my
belly like unto a snake and crawl under
the bottom branches and twigs. That’s
a fair indication of its hold of the
islands.
After countless experiments, and with
scratched limbs and torn shirts, I dis-
covered lantana was most allergic to
fire of any sort. A really good smoke,
blowing low and dense, would make it
feel so sick it would shed most of its
leaves and look wan. It offered itself
as ready fuel to a fire, and, like a dope
addict, the habit was fatal to it. The
trouble was to get a fire to carry through
those grassless areas. By getting a smoke
over it it would lose its leaves, thus
baring the ground to the sun that in-
duced grasses to take a chance. Next
year, or when the season ran its cycle,
that grass would be dry and
fuel to carry the flames to the?
the thousand or more acres so
Much sweat was lost, many
numerous lace-works of scrath a
bare legs and arms before that F
was achieved also, many l On J
had gone and weary miles had j
trudged. But, positively, fi re J
remedy.
Among other things, I discover;;!
lantana shed enough leaves to J
a carrier of fire if the season J
enough and hot enough. AfJ
wind was also necessary. nJ
was a good time for that, j US |J
the wet season. But at that time]
year the winds weren’t constant' 1
were gusty and swerved a lot. M
part of the luck of the game. '
The best time to burn was M
fortnight after rain and a similar!
before. After was easy to judge; J
was a lottery with the gods and l|
Jones. But, assuming things d
more or less favorably, and if Incij
in, a man could do several M
acres with slow-moving fire of ill
heat—and the mat of dead leaves oil
ground provided that. In addilii
real blanket of smoke would pod
ahead, stifling the lusty plants I
leaving them leafless with bare neiJ
of twigs letting the sun in to snj
the ground and promote grovtlj
grass.
So much for the first burn—anil
cleared the whole of one side ofij
as bare as a licked plate. The firtl
weaved its way down to the vaij
started up the side of the hill opra
Those, though, were lucky break
After the following “wet”—and:
ness knows whence the seed came]
whole of the burnt country was ti
deep in grass. Also (and this hurt)!
were sparse shoots of lantana. Thai
needed a little encouragement a*
would be a maze once more. S
never got that chance. When the,]
was dry, another fire was put throij
When it passed, those shoots of kj
were wiped off completely. In 4
and this was the strong point—’l
those lantana plants had shot, at]
various other places on the ash-si]
ground, there appeared little snioj
ings, like baby volcanoes, sqj
smoke from the earth for a m
or so, or until the next rain soaked j
out. They were the shallow
previous lantana growths which
survived the previous fire. The)
half-dry and inflammable when tM
fire swept over them. 1
positively the end of the lantana
The country was open again; the
had been destroyed and, with reastj
care, it could be kept in abeyance.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Barwick on restrictive practices
ir Garfield Barwick addressed the Australian Legal
S Convention on his proposed restrictive practices and
monopolies legislation to good effect. When the possible
enactments were foreshadowed early in December, most
Explanation was given to descriptions of proscribed behavior
and the constitution of examining tribunals. Sir Garfield has
now added the social and economic motivation behind his ideas.
At the present position of business activity throughout
Australia, these general attitudes are of utmost importance. It
may sound idealistic to ask businessmen to become worked up
about such things as the public interest and the reasons why at
this particular time they should serve it more. Yet our survival
as a trading nation hangs upon a ready awareness of what faces
Australia as a whole.
We have perhaps too long mouthed our adherence to the
virtues of free competition yet not noticed what interferences
we were imposing upon it. It has been especially odd, too, to
shear so many staunch defenders of freedom railing against the
larsh atmosphere of increasing competitiveness—from inside
and outside the economy.
r Both principle and detail of Sir Garfield’s notions should
receive a thorough and widely spread discussion. Is it sympto-
matic of indrawn business attitudes that up till now genuine
examination of and argument about the legislation has been
pinimal?
Unfortunately Sir Garfield did not indicate to his Hobart
audience whether his optimistic hope of a fair measure of
jsate co-operation is still justified. On recent evidence, some
pates (notably South Australia and Western Australia) are
efinitely unenthusiastic. The ramifications of any future
(statutes are so immense that their passing into law will require
a long teething period.
All the more reason again for political and business interests
i o come vociferously out into the open.
[|^ E federal Government’s impulses naturally sound the
oftiest. The proposals are based upon a belief that healthy
f vigorous free enterprise will confer greater benefits on the
ltd 7 mt ! 3S a w^°^e than will an economy tightly controlled
Pplainsi P art ' c ‘P atec * by Government,” Sir Garfield
r| S ° n trUG F-ifr era l gospel (at least in theory) that
fprpn * Uae a fr° Ve means a minimum of Government inter-
Aerence with business.
[ c °ntrol h C *° eS - Eec l UEre that the econ °my is not subject to
a „ reen y individuals or groups of individuals, whether by
p rope ! ent or fry the power which large aggregations of
I yor market advantage might otherwise afford.
of th e ‘ aiI Ki - 1S ree econom y- This is the core of the concept
Jiold ac interest’ in the proposals,” the convention was
While Australian business may not be so cartelised and
restrictive as in some other countries, many typically socially
adverse practices go on. So far as the suggested prohibitions
are concerned, it would not be difficult to recall examples of
actions absolutely forbidden by Sir Garfield’s List B: persistent
price cutting at a loss to force a competitor out of business,
collusive tendering and collusive bidding.
The registerable List A activities, while frequently not so
socially reprehensible, may by their very nature slow up busi-
ness operations and in this light will be tested by the tribunals.
Once more, instances could be cited of price fixing, uniform
terms of dealing, restriction of output and outlets, boycotts,
discrimination.
The suggested legislation is tolerant enough to examine these
processes on their merits. Indeed it deserves commendation for
any testing of any actions which militate against the free func-
tioning of the economic community. Sir Garfield has earlier
asserted that he does not desire to shackle growth and pros-
perity with “uncertainty and resultant timidity.” In short, some
restrictive devices can be justified in particular cases, where
the public interest does not suffer, so business goes on as
before.
lUTew features made apparent in the Hobart speech are the
legislation’s suggested extension to services as well as goods
and its extension both “vertically” and “horizontally.”
“Horizontal” agreements to be tested are those operating at
the same level of a productive or distributive process, say be-
tween manufacturers, between wholesalers, between retailers.
A “vertical” agreement can extend through the industrial pro-
cess—between manufacturer and wholesaler, between whole-
saler and retailer.
Apparently there is intended to be comparatively little
direct proscription. No practice becomes illegal until its lack
of justification looks clearly obvious to a tribunal. And, as Lord
Devlin was quick to point out, “businessmen should welcome
the fact that the burden of proof would be the job of the
tribunal.”
Another distinguished visitor to the legal convention, Justice
Schaeffer of Illinois (US) Supreme Court, was temerarious
enough to state that “businessmen would not bring anything of
great value to the tribunal.” He wished to leave it all to the
Judge—“still the greatest generalists in the world today.”
While retaining their respect for the legal process, it is up
to the local businessman to disagree. Sir Garfield has promised
the smallest amount of legalism consistent with proper opera-
tion of the proposals. Some businessmen (laymen!) of stature
and range should genuinely wish to find a place on the
tribunals.
Perhaps it may turn out they will be cowed by “the opinion
of legal men,” as Lord Devlin hinted. But on such things as
mergers and takeovers, sizeable ones of which have to be given
tribunal approval, they could surely bring a wealth of experi-
ence and a sense of the growth factors in Australian industry.


NEW INCENTIVE TO EXPORT
MARKETING
A vital step forward in the development of our overseas
trade is the Federal Government’s institution this year of
an award for the best export marketing project undertaken by
an Australian organisation. The award, announced last week
by the Minister for Trade (Mr McEwen), will be made
annually to stimulate export activity and the use of modern
techniques in export marketing.
Entries for this year’s award will close on March 31, but
entrants will be given a further six weeks to submit details of
their projects.
Marketing has in recent years become a science demanding
constant study of market conditions and the introduction of
special techniques to meet those conditions. For too long this
science has been neglected by Australian exporters, but there
seems now to be a growing realisation of its importance in
view of the paramount need to expand our overseas trade.
True, the annual Hoover Award, which was designed to
improve marketing standards in Australia, accomplished a
good deal, but was necessarily limited in its appeal to manu-
facturers and did not specifically aim at furthering export
trade. As Mr McEwen said in his announcement, this new
award would be an extension of the Hoover Award and would
be a valuable addition to the Federal Government’s export
action programme.
The Department of Trade has in recent years played an
ever-increasing part in trade promotion through its trade com-
missioner services, trade publicity and promotion pro-
grammes, and the incentives it has provided exporters
in the way of taxation concessions. Under Mr McEwen’s
direction it has become a live organisation of businesslike men
bent upon advising and assisting industry. This new award
may be regarded as an added incentive to business people to
enter the export field.
THESE LABOUR CAMPS ARE
DIFFERENT
/Considering that, next to New South Wales, Victoria is
Australia’s most industrialised State, the latter’s much
superior record in industrial disputes speaks volumes for the
efforts made to improve industrial relations there over the
years.
Of course, taking coal mining out of it, since that industry
is largely concentrated in NSW, the statistical record of
Victoria’s relatively good overall performance in industrial
disputes is probably less impressive than at first sight. For
Australia as a whole about three in every ten disputes in
1961 (the latest full year available) were in coal mining, but
no break down into industrial groups on a State basis is
provided.
However, stevedoring, also a very contentious industrial
arena, is equally active in Victoria and NSW, so all things
considered, it is pretty obvious that there is more industrial
peace south of the border than to its immediate north.
One can’t help feeling that this is no mere climatic,
geographic or even demographic accident, but rather that two
particular efforts to improve understanding between workers
and employers have had a lot to do with it.
The first of these is Victoria’s Institute of Public Affairs,
which has been actively working to promote better industrial
relations since the late thirties. The other is the annual camp
started in 1929 by Lord Somers, then Governor of Victoria,
at which 100 boys, half from industry and half from leading
secondary schools, are brought together each year at a
permanent camp site at Somers on Westernport Bay and
literally made to mix and see each other’s viewpoint m'j
by leading personalities from all walks of life.
Including this year’s camp, which ended last week
fewer than 3000 boys from both sides of industry
attended these “meets” over the years. This year’s list* 1
industrial concerns which sent boys to the camp reads | t
roll call of a Victorian company Debrett. Perhaps a week '■
camp is not quite long enough for a full mix to take e| ;
but the matter is not left there as follow-through activij {
through Power House, a sort of old boys’ organisation
continue the good work throughout the year.
INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES: STATES
NSW Victoria Australia
Workers Workers Workeii
Involved Involved Involve-
Year No. Directly. No. Directly. No. Direci?
000 000 000
1956 878 219 54 35 1,306 415
1957 761 253 47 9 1,103 325
195 8 624 137 6 6 4 6 987 215
1959 547 123 60 31 869 221
1960 736 289 98 86 1,145 512
1961 529 131 91 51 815 288
Jan-June,
1961 256 66 53 43 439 218
Jan-June,
1962 319 79 65 21 507 131
Percentage
civilian
employment 38.8 28.3 100
DEFINING THE BORDERS
OF MOONIE OIL
cial levels. Then from the 12th well, some 4 miles fra
the most northern (No. 3), it became apparent that #
perimeter of the field had been defined; only water came fra
the “interesting” oil horizon of 5800-odd feet.
Further testing will have to be undertaken to prove tk
No. 12 is barren of oil, but the signs (water) are that the mat
up of the oil-bearing strata is different to what it has been
nearby wells.
It should not be taken as a too depressing fact; after!
the perimeter has to be established and it was inevitable thal
would be established by a “dry” hole. There could be othe
say, to the north or on the flanks, none of which has«
defined
Moreover, even if the field is limited to the present si
it is large enough to commercially produce for a good M
years. Market and trade gossip suggests 20,000 barrels a 8
for 20 years.
The known field is sufficient to justify considerable capi
expenditure (i.e. an £8 million pipeline as well as ancil
pumping gear at the field). Investors in AOG can take cop
from that thought.
Speculative interest in the oil search still centres on
Surat Basin, where, apart from Moonie, there are at least
other possible commercial accumulations that we kno*
The first of these is around Cabawin where the Moonie 1
coverers have had plenty of signs including flow oil.
About 80 miles north of Moonie the Associated gr° u P
had some success at Sunnybank. Here flow oil was enc
tered at 5850 feet (strangely the same depth as was
Moonie some time ago). The result of testing this flow "
awaited anxiously. |
The group is drilling a second well before results of t e
are completed.


DJ
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairman)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
Alternate Directors:
R. V. A6NEW G. L. A. DONOHOO
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: 8W4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
RUBBERS' PROBLEMS
UKE WOOL’S
was no idle chance that recently
1 br ought Dr L. C. Bateman, controller
f rubber research and chairman of the
Malayan Rubber Fund Board, to Aus-
lia Dr Bateman has an impressive
research record, especially covering the
• . an d vulcanisation of natural
rubber (NR). Yet like all good rubber
men these days, and particularly in his
position, he is equally concerned with
commercial and marketing problems
and the competition with synthetics (SR).
Thus Dr Bateman felt that with our
greatest product, wool, facing and meet-
ing a roughly similar situation, he could
perhaps pick up hints on how to direct
future NR promotion. We ourselves
Should not find it strange to hear the
(prime Minister of Malaya (Tunku Abdul
Rahman) say: “Rubber is the main stabi-
lising factor in our economy, and there
is no fear of any deterioration in the
future if existing market prices continue
to prevail.”
Only a little time ago Miss Barbara
Wood emphasised that, industrially ad-
vanced as we may be, we yet share
certain economic features with other
more primitive commodity producers.
Australia is riding fairly high on the
sheep’s back at this present moment, as
with other commodities. Like Malaya,
though, there are frequent and nagging
(problems of costs and marketing.
Dr Bateman, as our own wool organi-
sations, has learnt to live with synthetics.
Styrene-butadiene synthetic rubber des-
troyed the singularity of NR, he argues.
But it far from replaced it. Indeed, since
[1942, when the threat became obvious,
the NR industry has enjoyed a longer
period of sustained prosperity than ever
before.
This prosperity rests largely upon a
tremendous upsurge in production and,
a position not dissimilar to wool, upon
the fact that SR cannot replace NR in
pi lar ge volume outlets. NR straddles
the market in a “premium” position,
f Some idea of the competitive realities
| re c °nveyed by the latest (preliminary)
pres issued by the secretariat of the
"temational Rubber Study Group for
to 11 months to November, 1962.
; uring this period more synthetic
natural was produced, but more
S WaS consume d. Between January
n November synthetic output reached
n estimated 2,042,500 long tons. Natu-
Production totalled 1,905,000 tons.
: owever, the respective consumption
res were: synthetic, 1,970,000 tons;
L ra .’ 1>980,030 tons. The latter con-
P'on included delivery of 60,000
310 snP stoc^P‘les and gross imports of
’ tons to Russia and 93,750 tons
[“Communist China.
* e November month saw synthetic
production at 195,000 tons, consumption
at 185,000 tons and an overhang of
stocks 395,000 tons. The respective na-
tural figures were: production, 195,000
tons; consumption, 180,000 tons; stocks,
740,000 tons.
The marginal see-saw is apparent. Of
particular interest are US consumption
figures for November: synthetic, 105,873
tons; natural, 38,276 tons. America
produced 134,982 tons of synthetic in
November.
So Dr Bateman’s path is no easy one.
He is convinced, though, that scientific
improvement of the trees and a steady
aiming at lower costs are helping Malaya,
and rubber, a great deal. He contemplates
a situation where progressively less NR
must be used in relative amount for
many years. NR will be used with greater
selectivity, for substitution by blends
must make considerable inroads.
We have heard these kind of words
before. Perhaps rubber and wool have
something to teach one another.
Certainly the technical advancements
which lead to the development and
actual designing of new synthetics
sound vastly similar. As in so much of
synthetic chemistry, notably plastics, the
molecules can be tailored to achieve
specific purposes.
The uniqueness of rubber, likewise
wool, is a thing of the past. So far as
rubber is concerned, it must now cope
with the recent development of SRs of
high resiliency. Less resilient rubbers,
for instance, cannot be used when any
deformation generates much internal
heat. This limitation has, up till now,
preserved the field of high performance
or heavy duty tyres for NR.
Wool might take notice of Dr Bate-
man’s very words: “The marketing of
competitive synthetic rubbers has and
will continue to set standards for these
factors which will increasingly fashion
the buyer's outlook and can only be
ignored with penalty by the NR in-
dustry.”


HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street,; Sydney. BM 2001.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
THE BENEFITS OF CAPITAL INFLOW
of the bonus issues made
recently by a number of Australian
subsidiaries of overseas companies may
be valid up to a point, in that it predi-
cates future strain on the balance of
payments resulting from increasingly
heavy remittances of profits from these
concerns to their overseas parents.
But although argument will continue
to rage on this point, and on whether
on balance the long-term inflow of capi-
tal will ultimately work to the detriment
of the balance of payments, there is no
gainsaying the high importance of the
current very satisfactory level of appa-
rent capital inflow in allowing us to feed
the rising industrial activity without
drawing heavily on our international
reserves.
Added to the current benefit bestowed
by capital inflow on the balance of pay-
ments is its useful contribution to income
generation. These benefits are quite
apart from the fact that, although the
amount of overseas capital going directly
into industrial investment from year to
year is marginal to the bulk of capital
provided from internal sources, it is
primarily our ability to attract overseas
capital that determines the level at which
growth can be sustained.
We started 1962-63 on a rising note
of optimism about the likely inflow of
capital because although, as the figures
ultimately showed for the full year 1961-
62, apparent capital inflow at some £9l
million was the lowest for some years
in the second half of that year, we ex-
perienced a rising inflow following an
outflow in the first half of the year.
This optimism has proved well justi-
fied, because for the first half of 1962-63
the inflow was greater than for the full
year 1961-62; in fact it appears to have
been about £I2H million. This has been
sufficient to look after a current account
deficit of possibly as much as £l5O
million for the six months, with a million
or two to spare after crediting official
overseas loans of, say, £2O m. and about
£l7 m. for other trade credits such as
received from China on wheat trans-
actions.
In the event, despite the current ac-
count deficit, our overseas reserves gained
£20.6 million in the last six months of
1962.
The beauty about this is that, provided
capital inflow continues at something like
this level or even a little below it, it
enables the authorities to plan ahead for
a higher level of activity, even if this
means a considerable increase in the im-
port bill in the coming months. More-
over, the reassurance is heightened by
the current favorable trend in exports
which reached the highly satisfactory
total of £87.3 million in the short month
of December, compared with imports of
only £75.4 million.
r\N the score of its contribution to in-
come flows in this country, no estim-
ates have been made of the significance
of capital inflow for the simple reason
that it is a balancing item in the balance
of payments, and it is extremely difficult
to identify in detail.
The popular conception of capital in-
flow as overseas funds sent in lump sums
and invested here, is very wide of the
mark.
Probably the great bulk of private
capital entering this country occurs as
direct investment by parent companies
overseas in local subsidiaries and
branches, and as such affects personal
incomes only very indirectly and then
only a fraction of it. Its most direct effect
is seen when it involves the purchase of
Australian materials and labor in the
course of being invested in this country.
In that case it is on all fours with the
employment of locally saved funds in in-
vestment projects here, so far as generat-
ing further income in Australia.
This is one reason why it is good
policy for Australia to insist that a high
proportion of the material and equip-
ment going into projects of overseas
companies in this country is manufac-
tured in Australia. The same applies to
components and raw materials used by
overseas companies in their production
operations in this country. For quite
apart from the cost to the balance of
payments of importing components, say
of motor cars, imports of such compo-
nents when alternative supplies can be
made here, deny employment to local
manufacturers and we also lose some-
thing in income generation. The point
has recently been the subject of a refe-
rence by automobile component makers
to the Tariff Board.
The effect of portfolio investment from
overseas on local investment and so
income generation here is particu-
larly difficult to identify. To start
some so-called portfolio investment!
no effect at all, such as when one w
seas resident purchases an Austraj
stock from another overseas resident
on the London or New York stock
change.
On the other hand a purchase bv
overseas resident of shares from anAi
tralian resident here adds directly to«
local investment funds, and, as Sir I
Potter pointed out the other day, this
of direct benefit so far as it puts fun
in the hands of Australian sellers of j
shares for further employment in j
country.
Unhappily, not much of the recenti
flow of private capital is thought toln
been for portfolio investment. Info
the paucity of overseas interest in buyi
Australian securities is one of them
reasons behind the reluctance of o
share markets faithfully to reflect)
improvement in the economic situat
over the last nine months or so.
As yet there is no sign of a newm
of overseas investment in Austral
shares, and it could be that, failing I
happening, 1963 could be another di
year on Australian stock exchanges.os
the other hand, if fairly soon wet
pass through the stage of consolidat
the recovery from the 1960-61 recess
and enter a new phase of industrial!
pansion, this would doubtless inert
the attraction of portfolio investment
Australian shares and also attract®
overseas capital to take part directly
financing that growth.
The invigorating effects of portli
investment from overseas were well
lustrated in 1959 and 1960, and
reverse side of the penny has been*
in the two subsequent years when ill
been at a low ebb and when atW
there even appears to have been a i
outflow of funds from portfolio i“*
merit.
In fact, a strong inflow for poro
investment can make all the different*
the marshalling of local funds form’ 1
ment in that it gives necessary sW
tion to activity and prices on Austt*
stock exchanges, and helps breed
right climate for making new is sl ®
capital. In that way it makes a*
contribution to income g elWl
through the medium of private m
ment. 1
It is not too much to say that tilt
in portfolio investment from oves
the last two years is in part a cause®
poor performance of private i flVes
as an income generator over this p


BAD NEWS FOR ANALYSTS
p Seu do or near scientific wiles of
1 t[, e security analyst have acquired
Trowing prestige in the last few years,
institutions employ him professionally,
[he humbler individual investor pores
j ¥£r his charts and predictions with
avidity, and with fond visions of profit.
a craft these days, investment
analysis uses a batch of very refined tools,
, offl e of them possessing only a distant
'onnection with the blunt facts of com-
jany behavior. Hence the genuinely
sophisticated practitioner keeps his feet,
f not his ear, pretty close to the ground
snd is apt to emphasise that he is still
jsing partly an art and not a thoroughly
istablished science.
All to the good, for the hard contra-
ctions of business often modify the
lost ardently assured forecasts. Yet
some purists continue to work upon the
heights in lofty disdain of actual and
torrent share performance.
; They have just had to suffer some tell-
ing blows from an expert among experts.
Mr l M. D. Little, a particularly skilled
Oxford economist, decided lately to sub-
ject a large number of company earnings
and dividends to acute statistical examina-
tion. He is well able to manipulate the
rarest of techniques, as readers of his
Wound “Critique of Welfare Econ-
omics'’ know.
Three conclusions especially shocked
Buy analysts.
First, any single past earnings growth
ratio, the dividend cover or assets size
provide no firm guide to future earnings.
They should not influence share prices,
tagh “a high dividend cover may
emerge in a higher than average future
Wend performance.”
Then Mr Little found no significant
relation between ploughback and growth.
A®>ng firms that plough back heavily,
fcnt as many decline in relation to the
Fge as grow.”
k Lastly, and this in a very sacred area,
F e ’ s no key in management.”
LL ‘good management’ is defined as
an ®g a higher than average rate on
Wy capital than for the ‘industry’ and
gaining this rate on new money for
c to eight years or more, then good or
management is extremely rare,” Mr
Llt « discovered.
Many investors no doubt find out this
°f thing for themselves. There’s been
r °f opportunity in Australia since
J hectic, pre-1960 balloon was punc-
£ ' But it would be better for the
comer to be told, before the extreme
a L sts get at him, that share dealings
C* 56 mac * e eas Y b Y f oo l Pro of pre-
range of economic and com-
mercial factors must be weighed and
judged, and then a choice exercised. The
past furnishes hints which have to be
meshed in with the present. In the
company and share world there are many
new things under the sun.
Fortunately, at the same time as Mr
Little, there has arrived a first-rate exam-
ple of share analysis at its sanest and
most moderate, and with all the craft at
its command as well. It is our old friend
Ord Minnett and Partners’ “Australian
Equities 1962.” Mr M. A. Gleeson-
White’s introduction displays the same
lucidity and balance as it did in the pre-
vious (1961) edition.
Mr White again points out “the dan-
gers of using 1960 earning rates and
past capital gains as guides to the selec-
tion of equities.”
“Writing now in December, 1962, it is
obvious that a complete break with the
conditions of 1960 has occurred, not only
in the share market, but in other major
aspects of the economy, the most signifi-
cant being in international trading rela-
tionships. It is remarkable that such a
break has not occasioned a major up-
heaval in equity markets instead of the
relatively mild fluctuations of the past
two years,” he maintains.
The introduction then goes on to a
fairly close exposition of price-earnings
ratios, to which we shall return in a later
issue. Present Australian P.-E. ratios
appear adequate on overseas standards.
So the Australian sharemarket does not
appear overpriced on an international
comparison.
A sage outline of world and domestic
economic conditions concludes that
events of the past two years have not
impaired our long-term growth prospects
and that “the possibly adverse effect of
the United Kingdom joining the Com-
mon Market has been over-emphasised as
a major influence on growth in the next
decade.”
More wisdom for investors comes right
at the end: “It is important to remember
that even a detailed statistical review is
no more than an analysis of events which
are past. Investment decisions should be
made in the light of all relevant
information.”
Boral goes to SA
Oince Bitumen and Oil Refineries
(Aust.) Ltd and H. C. Sleigh Ltd
announced on January 4 that they would
go their separate ways, Boral continues
to be socially acceptable, but Sleigh is
being treated as a poor relation.
Bitumen shares moved up on the news
from 245. 3d. to a.ound 265. 9d., while
Sleigh, which had been 12s. 7d., have
been dallied with at 11s. lOd.
Now Boral announces entry with the
controversial Ready Mixed Concrete Ltd,
into an Adelaide Bituminous hot mix
manufacturer, Bitumax Ltd.
They have each taken a major share-
holding while Australian United Develop-
ment Pty Ltd (a subsidiary of the finance
the world of business
"IF WE NEEDED A MANAGER, WHO WOULD WE CONSULT?"


33
B
A happier choice for every occasion • • •
aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A,
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY .. ST. AGNES BRANDY
company, Australian United Corporation
Ltd, which is affiliated with lan Potter’s
broking house), retains its original
interest.
Boral is already associated with Reid's
Quarries Ltd in Melbourne hot mix
plants, but this is its first Adelaide ven-
ture. The hot mix material is used ex-
tensively for asphalting road pavements.
Boral shares at present return 3.3 p.c.
(earnings yield 4.6 p.c.), while Ready
Mixed ss. shares at 10s. lid. to yield
5.7 p.c. (earnings yield 6 p.c.) evince
signs that the rejection period is over.
They could be sought higher in future.
Tax angle on Mt Morgan
PThiE imminent issue of redeemable pre-
ference shares by Mount Morgan
Ltd conveys valuable tax benefits to the
high-income investor.
Investors can claim as an allowable
deduction from taxable income one-third
of calls paid in companies whose princi-
pal business is mining and prospecting
for gold, silver, base metals, rare miner-
als, oil, or afforestation.
Application or allotment money bears
no such advantage. The issue being made
by Mt Morgan is of one million 7i p c.
cumulative redeemable second preference
shares of 10s. each, to ordinary and
preference shareholders registered on
January 18. It is not a rights issue, but
allotments will be made with a ratio of
one-for-four in mind. The issue is under-
written, and the general public will not
have an opportunity to participate.
Subscription lists will be open from
February 20 to March 20.
Application money is 6d. a share, and
an advance of Is. 6d. for a first call to be
made immediately after allotment makes
2s. payable straight away. Two calls of
4s. each will be payable not earlier than
May 31 and November 31. One-third of
9s. 6d.—that is 3s. 2d. per 10s. share —
can therefore be claimed by investors as
an allowable deduction for tax purposes,
spread probably over two financial years.
This should ensure a big application from
tax-conscious investors, and a rallying of
market support round about call times.
The shares will be redeemed at par in
ten years.
Speculators disappointed
Immediate reaction to the news from
A Amalgamated Chemicals Ltd that
takeover talks would be prolonged was
one of disappointment.
It is understandable that taxation,
accounting and legal matters would re-
quire lengthy and detailed consideration,
and the statement that takeover negotia-
tions may not reach finality before the
end of February does not necessarily re-
duce the prospects of a successful con-
clusion.
The additional news that a one-for-four
issue at 50 p.c. premium would be made,
so that the talks would not interrupt
the group’s expansion, was surely reason
enough for continuance of shareholders’
support. The speculator in for a quick
cash profit could pull out, but the genuine
investor interested in a solid, well-man-
aged and expansive organisation should
stay in.
If the still anonymous American J
fails to come to terms with Ama] 1
ted directors on suitable condition J
consideration, shareholders niav |
comfort from the surviving indepeJj
of a thriving Australian concern. I
The company balances its booh l
December 31, and although au J
figures will not be available until!
time in February, indications f roni J
sidiary results arc that the group r J
would be considerably higher than!
1961.
As Bligh Chemicals Ltd and[t
Holdings Ltd were taken over in lj s
1962 will be the first year in which n
effectiveness of the merger can be jud-
In the interim report issued last As s
directors claimed that sales were' c
20 p.c., but the profit increase exceed!
this by a very wide margin duetosucije
ful integration of acquired companies]
reorganisation of marketing and adii
tration. "
is
c
Trustees’ dividends up |
rpwo trustee companies, Perpetual Ti !
tee Co. Ltd of Sydney and Trial
Executors and Agency Co. Ltd ofi
bourne, which last year reported ail
crease in funds under their adminisl
tion have increased interim dividends!
Perpetual has been nudging dividl
rates up each year since 1956, andll
year paid interim 61 and final 71 f!
This year the interim is 71 p.c. conlssf
ing a 15 p.c. payout for the year. [
Trustees, Executors and Agency pi
11 p.c. in 1959 and 1960, 12 p.c. (5 a
interim and 7 p.c. final) in 1961 c
1962, and has now declared an in
6 p.c. $
t
Australia Hotel busier F
j
HThe December half-year was i ¥
profitable than in the previous con|
ponding period for Australia Hotel s
Ltd. Directors consider the currenttri
in trading is satisfactory. They didl
say in their interim report, hoW|
whether profits exceeded the halffS
dividend commitment of £50,431. I
Last year, when the full years pi
were only £59,988, dividend was!
from 12i p.c. to an interim 5 p £ !
final 5 p.c. Apart from difficulties »|
industry, trading was affected by bwf
alterations at The Australia, chief} s
provision of air-conditioning t
rooms. p
Directors then believed that T 1 0
tralia could compete on equal term
new hotels in Sydney. tl
Shareholders will not be happ) a
they see the company can afford 1 a
mum 10 p.c. dividend. The ss. s I
Bs. 6d. are not far from their l t
ebb. j


PROFESSIONAL V. AMATEUR INVESTMENT
How to get more sleeping at night
L, r loser on the sharemarket since
X November, 1960, has undoubtedly
l-lhe amateur investor. He took the
f f high interest or dividend, and
the tempting capital growth promised by
evelopers and other boom industries
F How would he have fared if he
L placed his money with profes-
{L investors, the unit trusts and
| u t u al funds? The Bulletin took a
look at prices of various trusts and funds
'"selected at random, as shown in the ac-
companying table. . ' ,
First, it is clear that the uninitiated
Cj i a y investor has suffered less—con-
;i*erably less—by sticking to unit trusts
| an he would have done by intuitive
Investing. There has been no failure in
unit trusts; only small dividend cuts; and
[ply marginal price movements.
J Several factors are responsible for
This. Spread of risk is not the least of
'these. Selection of the spread—by pro-
J lessionals —has added considerable weight
to the cushion against violent individual
{stock price movements. For instance,
'faithful BHP on the market has given
its valiant shareholders a torrid time, far
‘me torrid than any one of the unit
msts or mutual funds, in the last 30
Tenths.
1 Unit trusts have all but maintained
ncome distribution. Actual dividends
have been forced lower by the falling
faway of capital benefits by Australian
‘companies.
i! Most unit trusts dispose of additional
share offerings (rights, etc.) and distri-
bute the proceeds to boister dividend
payments to the unit holders. This
avenue has not been the force that it
fas in the 1950’s and. consequently, unit
’{rusts have had less income from all
' sources to distribute.
j But this factor has not been a direct
tfluence on the sale price of units, for
T 1 Tust prices are geared solely to the
Market value of shares held in the trusts,
"directly, of course, share prices are
in omewhat lower when the pressures
i ec ting the unit trusts’ dividends are
111 °P er ation; i.e., less income and less
ii ffowth.
ih Not surprisingly the land trust —which
ii remained a large dividend payer— ■
I IT f larger pr * ce than an y other
~S ' ,^ ost land trusts acquired their
' lt i. Perties ’ n ‘'boom” days. Most' of the
’’ j r j er f tr ] L ) lsts today show only a small
1, 0 , a / rom pre-restriction days, al-
iLc’iq P r * ces ea rly in November 1961
Ivan u re mark edly lower. Good
aav e been made in trust prices
o,i The f tWO months.
) e ■S. and A. Managed trusts were
formed since economic restrictions were
imposed, and thus look stronger than
the old-established trusts.
The open-end funds showed less in-
clination to fall in price, but it must be
remembered these are designed primarily
for growth rather than the provision of
income and, therefore, pay only very
small dividends, allowing the funds to
grow by income retention. The growth
element has been hampered by the falling
off in income and capital benefits.
There is no evidence to suggest that
the professional investor has done better
for himself than he has done in trust
management. The market generally, as
measured by the Sydney Stock Exchange
indices of all ordinary shares or all in-
dustrials, gives evidence of this.
But because of the spreading of risks
in a huge portfolio, the unit holder is
protected from excessive falls which were
experienced by individual investors in not
only the duds on the market, but many
of the leaders like BHP and CSR.
Some sections of the index have actu-
ally made significant gains over the levels
prevailing before November 15, 1960.
(Share prices, remember, had fallen by
then from record peaks in September,
1960.)
Although it may not necessarily be
true that investors would have done bet-
ter to leave their money in the bank
rather than invest on their own account
or via unit trusts or mutual funds, they
would most certainly have shown greatest
financial returns by investing in, say,
bank shares early in November, 1960.
But, in retrospect, it was only the
extremely profound thinker who imagin-
ed bank shares worthy of speculation
back in 1960. The layman investor had
little chance of selecting these, or for
that matter any of the other sectors that
withstood the economic chill wind of the
1960-61 period.
Indeed, the setbacks and collapses in
other sections of the market have more
than offset any of the gains and have
added strength to the belief that “spread”
investing is surer for the lay investor.
So, it has been the investor with the
largest spread, covering all possibilities,
who has travelled the smoothest passage
over the past 30 months. The unit trust
movement —with more than £.lOO
million in it— has provided that spread
for the small investor.
Managed funds, of course, are not as
exciting as investing in singular or groups
of stocks. And, possibly, in times of
“boom” they are not as rewarding. But,
on the experience of the last couple of
years they provide a calm that allows
more sleeping at night.
PERFORMANCE OF MANAGED FUNDS
Prices
Nov. 3 Nov. 2 Nov. 1 Jan. 17 %
1960 1961 1962 1963 Change
Australian Fixed Trusts (NSW)
First Australian Flexible .... 28/6 26/9 26/3 28/- — 1.8
Natural Resources No. 1 .... 25/9 24/9 22/9 24/9 — 3.9
AFT Balanced Fund .... 4/9 4/6 4/3 4/3 —10.5
Unit Trusts Ltd
First Wales Flexible Q’ld 20/9 19/3 19/9 20/- — 3.6
Wales Flexible Trust
First Wales Flexible .... 24/6 23/6 24/- 24/6 nil
E. S. and A. Managed
Scottie Balanced Fund .... — — 4/9 4/9 nil
Industrial and Rural Flexible — 24/- 25/3 25/6 nil
Australian Land Trust (NSW)
Australian Land and Build-
ing No. 1 5/1 4/11 4/7 4/6 —11.5
Mutual Funds
First Australian Capital Fund 11/- 10/9 10/8 11/4 -f- 3.0
Delfin Australia Fund .... 4/8 4/6 4/6 4/7 — 1.8
Capel National Fund .... .... 4/6 4/6 4/7 4/9 + 5.6
Sydney Stock Exchange Share Indices
All ordinaries .... .... .... 301.82 299.44 292.70 301.80 nil
Industrials .... .... .... 322.52 321.39 306.70 317.18 — 1.7
Banks 132.17 141.51 163.12 171.99 +30.1
Other finance .... .... .... 546.18 490.10 564.03 579.21 + 6.0
Trade and services .... .... 383.90 407.45 365.97 369.13 — 3.8
Food, drink and tobacco .... 154.82 190.18 145.34 152.18 — 1.7
Basic materials .... .... 363.16 367.82 368.83 393.36 + 8.0


£1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
r
[Per Annum 6-10 Years]
Convenient periods are as follows:
3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months | 2 years 4 years 5 years 6-10 years
4% 4i% 41% 51% 16% 61% 7% 71%
Applications must proceed only on the form enclosed
in the Prospectus which may be obtained from
* THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
* Any recognised Stockbroker.
* General Credits Limited. * The Underwriters.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited owns 41% of
the Ordinary Shares of General Credits Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulburn Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
21 East Row, Civic Centre, Canberra. Phone: 4 4360-9.
Cnr. Dennison & Hunter Sts., Newcastle. Phone: 61 4288.
and at: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO..
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
1273/N


*• 1 NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
( embers of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK and share brokers
Tin. v ■ Ground Floor,
N a ti° na i Mutual Life Building,
Queen Street, Brisbane,
Address: “NEVITTCO”
p hone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 188 7 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
8 Denham Street. Phone: 60»9.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
ij. atever patriotic excesses The Bul-
(f eTIN ’s Australia Day cover inspired,
did not extend as far as the stock-
t ket p r e-holiday dealers, in fact, must
P felt quite mournful about the First
U. Even cheers for the foundation of
C„ r eat merino industry, now dragging
[the baubles into the country, were barely
audible.
The market, sometimes regarded as a
"national psychological barometer and
valiantly striving to set fair in accord
all those New Year resolutions, is
suddenly shocked back into dullness
j»ai n . As one of my more perceptive
friends put it, “Everyone here was
Worried about Britain joining the Corn-
ion Market last year and now the same
[eople are worried about Britain not
joining it.”
Also, what about the wool sales? Wool
prices this year are now a firm 24 per
cent higher than one year ago. This
ispeaks well for such woolbrokers as
Winchcombe Carson and Elder Smith
Goldsbrough Mort. It also speaks well
for the export cheque.
Secondary industry has also shaken off
the shackles of the 1961 recession. The
major problem for the investor or specu-
lator is not to decide w'hether one com-
py will do well or badly, but whether
’that company will show a greater im-
provement than the next,
i Nearly every company in my port-
folio has been bought on the expectation
of substantially increased profits this
year, Provided the interim report does
not just read “interim ordinary dividend
at the unchanged rate of 5 p.c. will be
paid,” then I shall be in a much more
informed position for a critical assess-
ment of each company within the next
few months. You now possess “Specu-
lator’s” investment policy in its most
sober terms.
One other company that must improve
F resu lts is L. J. Hooker, Pitt Street
Farming and all. The trading loss for
of £636,000 looked tiny against
Mai capital losses of £3,500,000. Almost
df of the total capital loss was the
write down of stock and realty. The asset
backing figure, for what it is worth, sub-
sequently fell from 10s. Id. in 1961 to
6s. 4d. in 1962. Although the current
asset ratio fell from 1.4 in 1961 to 1.1
in 1962, the liquidity position is appar-
ently satisfactory.
With such mammoth figures and such
width of diversification from real estate
and hotels to sheep and cattle (I am
hungering for pastoralists this week),
only the very broadest of assumptions
about current profits can be made.
Firstly, the company accounts are now
on a sound basis. Secondly, as regards
real estate, the more sober valuations
should permit current profits in this divi-
sion now. Thirdly, the pastoral division
should show a better return, especially
with the improvement in the wool prices.
And fourthly, the company will benefit
from the past tax loss.
It should all add up to a reasonable
profit on the ordinary capital of
£5,300,000 this year. I managed to
get 2000 June 1964 options at Is. last
Tuesday. A stroke of fortune, as the
options rose to Is. 3d. on Friday when
such newspaper headlines as “Mr
Hooker and the Rocks plan” appeared.
One company that did not even try to
rise on Friday and in fact has not risen
for a long time is Wancol. Its 20s. share
still yielding over 10 p.c. has just been
forgotten by the market. By selling out
at 135., I incurred my first loss this year
—£4. Hardly a stumble!
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
400 Waned at 13s. £255
BOUGHT
2000 Hooker 64 options at Is. £59
600 Functional at 6s. 7d. .... £205
On the expectation of a good year
coming up, I have added more Func-
tional to the portfolio, which showed a
£2OO increase in January. May de
Gaulle allow this appreciation to con-
tinue.
Cost Cur-
No. ot Name of Dote Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Motleys 3/5/62 20/9 25/-
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/3
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/3
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/3
1,000 Functional 2/11/62 7/0 6/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 16/8
200 Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 17/6
2,000 LNC ctg 23/11/62 2/8 3/8
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
300 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 37/- 43/-
200 ICI ctg. 7/1/63 33/- 34/9
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 60/9
1,000 Tasman Dry
Cleaners 7/1/63 1/2 1/2
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/-
1,000 Plasfyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/3
1,000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
1,000 Farmouts 14/1/63 1/7 1/8
200 Fairy mead 21/1/63 40/- 40/6
600 David Jones Notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/6
2,000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/- 1/3
ONE TO BUY
HARD TO GET,
BUT WORTH IT
ThtE wool industry is enjoying its best
fillip for years, the National Council
of Wool Selling Brokers of Australia re-
porting “the keenest and strongest buying
movement seen for some time.”
Japan has been bidding in spirited
fashion, strongly supported by the Con-
tinent (including Eastern Europe) and
the UK. Average prices are the highest
recorded this season. And the December
Australian average price of 61.18 d. per
lb. for greasy wool was the highest
monthly price since January 1960.
The small centres set the tone for the
auctions in Sydney, Melbourne and
Fremantle the following week.
Since the Cuban and the Sino-Indian
crises in October, wool prices have risen
steadily, and are now around 10 p.c.
above values pertaining three months
ago. The rigorous European winter has
also had some bearing on prices here.
The increasing industrialisation of
countries in the Middle East, Africa and
Asia and their improving living stan-
dards are important factors in the de-
mand for wool. So long as wool prices
do not bound out of line with synthetic
fibres, the market for wool is healthy.
On the basis of this information, The
Bulletin makes its weekly selection
of One to Buy. Two pastoralists con-
trolled by the Killen family Pastoral
Developments (Holdings) Ltd and Marra
Developments Ltd are cosily situated.
Pastoral Developments has freehold
and leasehold properties in NSW,
Queensland and WA. In 1961-62 the
company earned 12.5 p.c. on ordinary
capital of £864.279, and paid 8 p.c. divi-
dends for the third year in succession.
Marra Developments has freehold and
leasehold properties in the Western divi-
sion of NSW. Last year it earned 20.7
p.c. on ordinary capital of £587,307,
and paid out 10 p.c. to shareholders for
the fourth successive year.
Only a small proportion of issued
capital of either company is held outside
the Killen family circle, so the shares are
not easy to acquire.
The present quotes reflect this: Pas-
toral 20s. shares were last traded at
235. 6d. to yield 6.8 p.c., and while a
buyer was still offering 235. 6d., the seller
wanted 28s. Marra was last traded at
295. 6d. to give a similar yield of 6.8
p.c., and while there was a buyer at
28s. 9d., no sellers were around.
If neither of these stocks is readily ob-
tainable, other pastoralists and wool
brokers deserve closer attention.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
HIGH YIELD, PLUS PROSPECTS
A month-long strike and adverse
weather conditions for the spread-
ing of fertilizer caused consolidated net
profit of New Zealand Farmers’ Fertilizer
Co. Ltd, Auckland, to fall by 3.8 p.c. in
the year to May 31. This disappointing
result and a one-for-five issue of £1
shares at a premium of 5/- toward the
end of 1962 have depressed the shares
to around 275. 6d. a most attractive
level for entry into New Zealand’s fore-
most fertilizer manufacturer.
At the current price the shares not
only offer a yield of 6.7 p.c. from the
- still well-covered 9.17 p.c. divi-
dend, but also substantial prospects of
capital gains and higher dividends. Asset
backing is nearly £2 and this is a con-
servative figure because land and build-
ings are in the books for only 75 p.c.
of Government valuations. In normal
years the dividend has been covered at
least twice and there appears to be no
reason why the company should not
return to this happy position.
Following the takeover, in 1960, of
the Challenge Phosphate Co. Ltd, the
company now has two large works in
Auckland, one in New Plymouth to
serve the Taranaki district, and one in
Morrinsville for the central part of the
North Island. Together, these works
have a capacity of about 600,000 tons
annually, compared with sales of nearly
500,000 tons in 1960-61 and 462,000
tons in 1961-62.
Competition is strong. The group has
to meet opposition from two North
Island works of Kempthorne Prosser
and Co.’s New Zealand Drug Co. Ltd
and from two farmers’ co-operatives,
which started operations in recent years.
To counteract the possible formation
of another co-operative in Northland,
now served from Auckland, NZ Far-
mers’ Fertilizer (two-thirds interest) and
Kempthorne Prosser (one-third interest)
are building a works near Opua, in the
northern tip of the North Island. The
funds raised in the recent premium issue
were needed for this purpose.
New Zealand soils have a fairly low
fertility and large quantities of fertilizer
are required to keep production of pri-
mary produce high. However, whether
the farmers will buy what their land
needs depends largely on their prosperity.
For instance, better wool, meat and
butter prices in 1959-60, immediately re-
sulted in an increased use of fertilizers,
and parent company profit (before the
receipt of dividend from Challenge
Phosphate) rose sharply from £101,348
to £173,430. As present wool and meat
prices are satisfactory and butter prices
better than had perhaps been expected,
the fertilizer industry could have a good
season this year.
Moreover, aerial topdressing is grow-
ing strongly, reaching about half a mil-
lion tons in 1960-61. More hill country
is being brought into production conti-
nuously and this trend should continue.
On the other hand, the fertilizer industry,
which is still subject to price control,
has a handicap in being dependent on
imported raw materials. Freight rises,
etc. can have a detrimental effect on
profitability. For example, NZ Farmers’
Fertilizer in 1960-61 increased output
by 11 p.c., but as a result of increased
costs and competition, profit went up
only 7 p.c.
Although a cash balance of £161,261
was replaced last year by an overdraft
of £110,360, liquidity is still very good.
The company’s large reserves, nearly
equalling ordinary capital, give it
strength to weather any storm, but plain
sailing can rather be expected. Its pro-
minent position in the industry
good rates of earning 197
capital and 12.9 p.c. on ordinary f
in the “normal” year 1960-1
shares an attractive long-term p
sition.
BALANCE SHEET COMPARISONS
May 31 1958 1959 1960 J
(ENZ'OOO)
Current assets 939 835 1562 Iffli
Less current liab. 408 270 62]
Working capital 532 565 941 m<
Fixed assets 383 361 1493 un
Investments 342 373 27 5;
1256 1299 2461 251)
Represented by:
Minority interests 103 jj
Loan capital 329 |«
Pref. capital 150 150 150 w
Ord. capital 525 525 1290 ffi
Reserves 581 624 589 804
1256 1 299 2461 2fl)
RESULTS (in ENZ'OOO)
1958 1 959 1960 1951
Depreciation 70 67 135 j||
Taxation 132 102 226 275
Net earnings 127 101 251* 26S
Earned for ords 119 93 243 258
Ordinary dividends 47 52 80 111
Surplus 72 41 163 131
Earnings % 22.7 17.7 18.8 19,j
Dividend % B+bl B+b2 8.33 9.17
Dividend yield 5.7% 4.8% 3.3% 47?,
High price 36/9 50/6 50/6 42/6
Low price 26/9 33/6 33/6 36/-
* Includes only 4 months' profits by Chain
LARGE OAKS FROM LITTLE ACORN!
VICTA PROCESSES LTD
Incorporated: May 31, 1922, in
Sydney as Cement Mortars Ltd.
Name changed to Victa Processes
Ltd, July, 1959.
Directors: M. V. Richardson
(chairman), Mrs V. M. Richardson,
C. R. Fieldhouse, H. R. Horton,
J. Craggs, G. B. Richardson.
Nature of Business: Spray paint-
ing, etc .
Capital: Authorised: £500,000 in
ss. shares.
The company was originally formed
in 1922 with a £60,000 share capital to
manufacture and market ready-for-use
cement mortar. But it took four years
to become profitable, and then by sale
of sand. The company continued to
trade with varying results until 1959,
when, in May, Victa Consolidated In-
dustries Pty Ltd was issued 143,676
ss. shares at par.
Before this date, in fact in March,
1951, authorised capital was increased
to £150,000 and a l-for-2 bonus issue
made, involving the issue of 26,054 20s.
shares.
Exactly a year later the Court
approved the repayment of 10s. per
share and the shares, now 10s. paid,
were split into ss. units. In that year
(1952), the company paid 12i p.c.
dividend and by 1955 had increased the
rate to 15 p.c., which rate was main-
tained in 1956.
The next three years were disast
and a loss of <£.1965 was made ini!
The Victa influence then te
apparent and under the new
efficient management record profits'
made and maintained. A steady ID
dividend was easily met.
A closer examination of the
figures shows that the net income
trading fell a little from that ol
previous year, but dividends and ini
from the subsidiary fell by app
mately <£looo. As the dividend
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
I960 1961 1
Shareholders' funds £ 73.2 J7.7
Index 100 101 1
Total investment £ 73.2
Index 100 104.
Working capital £ 40.9 *■,
Index 100
Tax provision £ 5.8
Net profit £ 11-7 .L',
Index 100 1041.
Dividend, p.c £ '°g
Undistributed profit, p.c 33.4
N.T.A. per 5s. share 4s.8d.
Percentage profit to:
Ordinary capital 14-97 •-
Shareholders' funds 15-96 v
Total investment 15-9° Jj
Net tangible assets 15.9° y
Leverage 1-0 "'j
file rate of 6 p.c. the respective a ■
received from this source in '
1962 would appear to be * ! f
£.123 maximum respectively,
leaves £3572 and £2515 f° r j
As the short-term loan to


j, as increased from £57,998 to
tmii this fall in interest would
x It? that the loan is comparatively
and the 1961 loan has been
Cit'd. This short-term loan policy
[L the company 15 p.c. of its net
rnme before tax, a profitable way to
Lploy surplus funds.
ares have remained static at around
75., thus yielding 7.1 p.c. and earning
9.4 p.c.
Although only a small company, it
has powerful friends in Victa Con-
solidated Industries (mowers, houses and
aeroplanes) and could well prove that
holders of the shares may ultimately
benefit in the larger sphere of activities
by their holding in the smaller.
CENTURY'S EXPANSION PAYS OFF
CENTURY STORAGE
BATTERY CO. LTD
Incorporated: March 9, 1928 in
Sydney.
Directors: A. V. Maxwell (chair-
man), A. A. Luciano, F. B. Blood
(Director, Davis Gelatine Consolida-
ted Ltd), 1. O'Riordan (Director Mas-
cot Industries Ltd), H Fisk, E
Hazell ( Director, C. C. Rawson Ltd,
Consolidated Projects Ltd, W. C.
Douglass Ltd, Westcott Hazell & Co.
ltd), L. A. Scott.
Nature of Business: Manufacturer
of storage batteries, rolled zinc pro-
ducts, etc.
Capital Authorised: £1,000,000 in
ss. shares.
Century Storage Bat-
tery Co. Pty Ltd, Century Batteries
{SAj Ltd. Lig Batteries Ltd, Cen-
tury Batteries (NQ) Pty Ltd, Cen-
tury Batteries (Malaya) Ltd.
Original capital of the company was
r £5OOO in 20s. shares, but in 1932 capi-
jblwas doubled. With issue in Aug, 1947,
of 23,540 20s. shares on basis 3 for 10,
is authorised capital was fully sub-
scribed. In Jan., 1950, authorised capital
was increased to £250,000, in May, 1950,
a 1 for 2 issue was made and in Nov.,
1550, authorised capital was doubled to
£500,000. At the same time a 2 for 3
.tonus issue was made. Sept., 1951, saw
jet another issue, 2 for 5.
[Three years later (Oct., 1954) author-
ised capital was increased to £1,000,000,
and in Sept., 1956, a 2 for 7 issue was
made of which by July, 1959, 10s. per
20s. share was paid. At this date the
shares were split into ss. units,
i .In July, 1959, the company opened the
Malayan factory, which as a pioneer in-
ustff’ s lax free for 5 years. The com-
pany owns 55 p.c. of the issued capital.
The dividend of 15 p.c. has been well
Peered this last two years and the net
Fht percentage to shareholders’ funds
total investments at over 9 p.c. is
&high, while the NTA of 12s. in
[ ® sc i° s es the strength of the re-
„ L At ate shares are being traded at
u’’ taUs yielding 5 p.c. and earning
tf L p,c :’ and are therefore an investment
I f° A Positi on for consideration,
i LjJ lnte resting feature is shown in the
I (961 oss account and that is in
if y tae minority shareholders in the
: san company received £4421 in
dividends, while in 1962 the amount had
risen to £10,713. As the outside holding
is unlikely to have increased in 1962, it
would appear that the 1962 dividend was
substantially increased. If it had been
10 p.c. in 1961, 1962 could be 22i p.c.
or 25 p.c. Which brings one back to the
point some industrials in our South
East Asian neighbour are well worthy of
support and offer better than Australian
dividends with equal security. If you
want further information write our Ad-
visory Service and our South East Asia
financial expert will advise. Malayan and
Singapore readers should use this service
also. It’s theirs for the asking.
ANALYSIS SUMMARY (IN £'000)
1961 1962
Shareholders' Funds £'s 1101 1148
Index 100 104.2
Total Investments £'s 1122 1166
Index 100 104.1
Working Capital £'s 339 324
Index 100 95.75
Fixed Assets £'s 786 856
Index 100 108.9
NTA per Ord. 5s Od share 11s 8d 12s Od
Tax Provision £'s 76 72
Depreciation £'s 52 56
N'et Profit £'s 104 109
Index 100 104.2
Dividend p.c. 15 15
£'s 62 69
Undistributed Profits p.c. 40.5 36.2
Percentage profit to:—
Ord. Capital 25.28 23.51
Shareholders' Funds 9.5 9.5
Total Investments 9.3 9.35
Net Tangible Assets 9.8 9.77
Leverage 1.02 1.01
Share prices (Jan.-Dec.)
High 16/3
Low 11/-
RESULTS OF TAKE-OVERS AWAITED
COX BROTHERS (AUST.) LTD
Incorporated: January 24, 1928 in
Victoria.
Directors: Sir Frank Richardson,
chairman (Director of Hearn Indus-
tries Ltd), G. A. B ire on, A. E.
Brown, B. R. Richardson, Sir Frank
Selleck (Director of Commonwealth
Bunking Corp., Overseas Corp. Ltd,
Trans Otway Ltd).
Nature of Business: Retail Stores
etc.
Capital Authorised: £290,490 in £1
7% Cum. Pref. shares; £209,510 in
£1 shares; £9,500,000 in ss. Or-
dinary shares.
Subsidiaries: The Economic Stores
Pty Ltd, Sydney Snow Pty Ltd,
Foy & Gibson Ltd, Bilsons Pty Ltd,
Toy & Gibson (WA) Ltd, Bright &
Hitchcocks (Stores) Ltd, Waugh’s
Pty Ltd, Myers (Bendigo) Pty Ltd,
Bowrings (Aust.) Ltd, Partons Pty
Ltd, Morslieads Pty Ltd, Georges Ltd.
HThe company was formed to amalga-
A mate the interests of Cox Bros Ltd,
Cox Bros (Tasmania) Ltd and Cox Bros
(Adelaide) Ltd. In 1955 Foy and Gibson
Ltd was acquired and also a controlling
interest in Foy and Gibson (WA) Ltd.
In Dec, 1956, Walton-Sears Ltd made
an unsuccessful attempt to take over the
company.
In March, 1959, in association with
Australian United Corporation Ltd, the
company formed Cox Finance Corpora-
tion Ltd.
In 1959 and 1960 a series of take-
overs were made and the company ac-
quired Waugh’s Pty Ltd of Wollongong,
Bright and Hitchcocks (Stores) Ltd of
Geelong, Myers (Bendigo) Pty Ltd,
Bowrings (Aust.) Ltd, Partons Pty Ltd
of Dandenong, and Morshead Pty Ltd of
Ballarat all within 14 months.
The largest take-over came shortly
after, when Georges Ltd was acquired
by the issue of 4,645,706 5s. shares,
while the balance of shares in Foy and
Gibson (W.A.) Ltd were also obtained.
The result lias been increased sales, but
profits fell away, particularly in 1961
when sales were up £61 million, but
profits fell £40,000. In 1962 sales
increased £5 million, but profits increased
only £1000. This has also resulted in
dividends being barely covered, and
1962/63 could well see the 10 p.c.
dividend being reduced, or, if continued,
partly financed out of surplus, if the fall
in profit trend continues. Long-
term liabilities continue to increase and
a further rise in 1962/3 could also affect
the profit rate.
The shares are traded at 7s. to yield
7.2 p.c. and earn 8.1 p.c. and are not
underpriced, particularly with a low
NTA. The consolidation of the various
take-overs should soon be seen and the
returns for the coming year could make
interesting reading.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1960 1961 1962
Shareholders' funds £'s 7391 8867 8754
Index 100 120 118.4
Total Investments £'s 21154 32946 38268
Index 100 155.6 181.
Working Capital £'s 7302 16273 18383
Index 100 222.7 251.8
Debentures £'s 2000 6780 6975
Mortgages £'s 3103 3264 3314
Deposits £'s 6864 11690 15718
Tax provision £'s 402 385 309
Net Profit £'s 786 754 755
Index 100 97.1 97.2
Concealed profit on
tax provision £'s — — —
Dividend (ord.) p.c. 10 10 10
£'s 500 585 649
Undistributed Profits p.c. 24.1 9.3 2.25
NTA per 5s ord. share 6s lid 6s 5d 6s 4d
Percentage profit to: —
Av ord. capital 15.31 12.31 11.65
Shareholders' funds 10.64 8.5 8.62
Total investment 3.72 2.29 1.97
Net tangible assets 11.3 9.1 9.25
Sales (retail) 26815 30870 32035
Leverage 3.36 3.84 4.52
Ord. share prices (Jan.-Dec.)
High 10s 6d 9s 2d
Low 7s 5d 7s 1 d
Outside shareholders'
interest 1709 1125 1091
Note: 1960 figures do not include Cox Finance
Corpn Ltd, but 1961 does, although in both years
this company was not a subsidiary.


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers’ letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
I had £BOO invested in Reid Murray
debentures.
What prospects of eventual repayment
do you think we have? It probably
would be better to allow them to con-
tinue trading under a scheme of arrange-
ment rather than liquidate. I have £4OO
invested in AG Healing which I have
always considered solid, but after the
Reid Murray debacle, 1 am wondering
should 1 sell. — A.G.H., Coburg (Vic.).
We agree with you that creditors and
shareholders of Reid Murray would obe
better off if the group is allowed to con-
tinue trading—providing, of course, it
can earn profits rather than liquidate
the business. Announcements were made
recently whereby joint managers and re-
ceivers from a leading accountancy firm
were appointed to sort out the accounts,
and restore some order. At least that is
a more hopeful development than the
scheme, mooted earlier, to rearrange the
ranking of the creditors. You did not say
when your debentures mature, but we
would consider that a little forbearance
may pay off. The debentures listed on
the market are now quoted so widely by
buyer and seller that you would have to
accept a very big loss to get rid of them.
Again, we do not know when your
A. G. Healing debentures mature. The
longer the period before maturity, natur-
ally the greater is your risk. But A. G.
Healing (incorporating A. E. Goodwin)
has little in common with Reid Murray
except that it retails electrical appliances.
The Healing group had none of the
boom and bust features of Reid Murray.
It does not rely extensively on fixed in-
terest borrowings, and its selling policy
is very different to Reid Murray. Nor
has it any money in “development”
projects.
We are confident that you have no
cause for concern about A. G. Healing.
This is confirmed by the market which
has supported the 5/- shares at around
twice par for a long time.
★ ★ ★
In March, 1962, / bought Brambles’
shares at 14s. Bd. as a recovery stock.
Do you approve of this, or do you think
the funds might be more suitably placed
elsewhere, perhaps in one of the
smaller, newly-listed growth potential
companies? 1 am 19. Do you think my
future selections should have any par-
ticular characteristics?—Somer-
ton Park ( SA ).
The price of your Brambles’ shares
now is approximately what you paid for
them nine months ago. Although they
have been lower than this in the interim
because of the poorer results for 1961-
62, we do feel they are on the way up
again, provided the interim report for
the December six months confirms the
improvement from reorganisation. If
this report indicates a tardy recovery,
you could perhaps decide to pull out
and hop into something else.
You must be prepared for fluctuations
in prices, and accept lower prices
philosophically. Many factors outside
the company’s control affect a share’s
price.
As a young investor you s h oi
to select stocks now classed
second rank which will move i ?
first rank. These should be com”
with moderate capital in an j f
which is forging ahead faster that
economy as a whole. Growth p*
should be the primary determi
rather than present income. "
★ ★ *
I have £3OOO at present in them
bank. Having no knowledge offal
affairs, 1 would appreciate your 4
on its investment. I thought of mm
£2OOO in secure debentures anil 1
in shares of a company with good*
spects of growth. — R.O’H M
(Q’ld).
You did not specify whether!
would require to withdraw your m
funds at any particular time. But fm
may be invested in debentures tor«
ing periods. Two sound companies n
advertising in the financial press fort
money are Mutual Acceptance Co,i
the leading hire-purchase financier,;
Lend Lease Corp Ltd, the construct
company.
Mutual Acceptance is offering up
8 p.c. on notes of 5 to 10 years,;
Lend Lease is offering up to 8 p.c.
annum on debentures for 5 to 10 ya
You could invest £lOOO in each
these two, and perhaps spread the
maining £lOOO over a couple of oil
shares which we have recommend!
cently as One to Buy.
You could select from these accoii
to the yield you require:
CSR 20/- shares at 57/- yield 11
CRA 5/- shares at 17/3 yield
(tax free) 1
Moulded Products 5/- shares
14/9 yield *
Thiess Holdings 5/- shares 10/8
yield
★ ★ *
I recently purchased some PW
Co. N.L. shares. I know N.L. slim
“No Liability” but could you fl'«
further? — P.T.L., Salisbury (54
Mining companies may be oidu
“limited” companies or they ®!
“no liability” companies. A call on l
tributing shares of a limited conf 1
a legal debt owed by the shareholi
the company and is recoverable si
The contributing shareholder of *
liability” concern however may f
not to pay his call, in which
shares are forfeited to the comps l !
The company may auction t®!
feited shares, and apply the P roC J
meeting the unpaid call and any 1
after the expenses of sale is P a n
the forfeiting shareholder. The cl
be paid at any time up to the au'j
date of auction, and ownership re l
As most people are reluctant
INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
“Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE


UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
TEMPORARY LECTURESHIP IN
ARCHITECTURAL SCIENCE
Applications are invited for the position
Of TEMPORARY LECTURER in ARCHI-
TECTURAL SCIENCE. Candidates should be
Honours graduates in Engineering or Science,
torch experience or practical experience
■ the building industry would be an
'itage. Salary, according to qualifications
\im experience ’ will be within the range
U3O-XlO5-£2,435 per annum, plus cost of
adjustments (at present £44 p.a.).
® successful applicant will be expected to
F? as earl y as possible and his appoint-
ment will terminate on 31st December, 1963.
Applications, giving details of qualifications
M experience and names of three referees
H t be forwarded to reach the under-
E by 15th February, 1963. Further in-
J' atl °n may be obtained from the Pro-
’ of Architectural Science
January. *' TELFEE '
ni?P I D™S RSITY OF MELBOURNE
WARTMENT of economic history
C Brs R TAt,y? R SENIOR LECTURER IN THE
uicIORY OF ECONOMIC THEORY
Ref£ ation r? are invi ted for the position of
(l ! '®omic T Sy r Lecturer in the History of
iehint PPOir L. tee wRI be expected to conduct
Wnml research in the History of
»oniir ni cue nistory OI
induct anci Wlll be S iven time to
research.
e Present salary range is—
l»nt 11 sa
£A l>6s(fx £lO5 £A2,450
l!t|«mm!L E ! cturer £A2,450 x £llO £A3.000.
it !„ salary will be determined accord-
ffl li^ allf ications.
nil »in Ua u ion similar to F.S.S.U. in Great
''liable be Prevised. Housing finance is
ill It
information and the conditions of
I an
» tin, rj I !! I , erß .f ri ay be obtained from the Regis-
i Bftorja V „ e^ lty of Melbourne, Parkville, N. 2.,
, a Pbii ca tions should reach him
:at
Divorce
F. H. JOHNSTON.
Registrar.
Divorce Notice
,Petition has been filed against
MA r TIN JONES WILSON, late of
Road, Catford, London,
istrv’ o bo may apply to the Divorce
law’, f o S „ oniers et House, London, W.C.2,
a copy of the Petition. If within
WPPIr -u J UAAC rcwuuii. ££ wiuiixii
site Re bas not communicated with
H 'y, the Court may hear the case
“osence,— B. LONG, Registrar.
For my money
-it's a...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
r*ior
O INTEREST
EARN
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9684/1/62
. de bts until the last possible mo-
ltieir o(ten a flood of calls arrives at the
nl i,nv’s office, and the company post-
c P Jr cancels the auction while it
diusts the register for the late payments.
5 company would rather receive the
„ than have to forfeit the shares.
In the case of both Is. calls on the
5 planet shares (now paid to 35.) the
forfeited share sales were postponed.
★
j /01 75 and retired from business 22
i ars ago . 1 hold £6OOO in Government
Sands of varying maturities, and £3600
in Finance Corporation 7 p.c. debentures
’maturing 1964; 1176 shares in WA
investments are 1950 shares in Adelaide
Sops and Nail; £2OO SA Gas debentures
< maturing 1964; 1176 shares in WA
{Newspapers; £3OO in 1 p.c. unsecured
iinotes of TVW and 600 shares; 1618
shares in Ampol Petroleum and 323 1963
convertible notes; 1142 Swan Brewery
shares; 2600 units in AFT Industrial De-
velopment WA; and 800 Ampol Explora-
tion shares.
1 do not want to pay SA probate on
the Adelaide Rope shares. They were
55 s. in 1960, and now about 35 s.
Should l sell them now? I should have
sold the Ampol Ex shares in 1953, and
the Ampol Petroleums in 1960, but l
have never sold shares at any time, being
content so long as they pay dividends or
show capital appreciation. G.C.J.,
Double View (WA).
Your total investment portfolio of
around <£15,500 is concentrated in
bonds, five industrial or commercial
equities, one oil exploration company, a
public utility, unit trusts, and a couple
of company note issues. As far as the
equities are concerned, the spread is not
very wide—ropes, etc., a newspaper and
associated television company, petrol dis-
tribution, and a brewery, but the unit
trusts compensate in some measure for
this.
We appreciate your desire to limit in-
vestment to WA securities, and agree
that funds invested in Adelaide Rope &
Nail Co. Ltd should be partially or
wholly withdrawn. It is our view the
market was excessively optimistic in put-
ting the shares to 555. in 1960, but on
the other hand in 1962 the shares were
traded between 355. and 465. 3d., so
present price is close to the lowest. It
may be worthwhile to depend on a more
confident note in the interim report for
the 6 months to December 30, and then
gradually sell out.
The principle of never selling can be
a disastrous one, although we appreciate
your wishes not to trade in shares. But
as you must be well aware, companies
pass through various stages of growth,
and when they begin to stagnate, it is as
well to step out into something more pro-
gressive.
One must be philosophical about oil
exploration stocks; Ampol Exploration
may yet strike again, but at least you
are still well in front, and could sell
now at a very good profit.
We might question the very large
holding in Government Bonds. Do you
need so much handy for probate pur-
poses? Admittedly there is the tax rebate
to consider, particularly if you are in a
high tax bracket. But perhaps as some
of these bonds mature the funds could be
diverted to either higher yielding de-
bentures, or lower yield equities with
capital growth potential, depending on
whether your primary object is maximum
income now, or accumulation of capital
for your beneficiaries. The same applies
to the SA Gas debentures.
WA companies which deserve your
consideration are Atkins WA or Had-
fields WA, HL Brisbane and Wunderlich
Ltd and Swan Cement.
NEW TREATMENT FOR
RID SCALE
4 new treatment for red scale that
permits harvesting of fruit only one
week after spraying has just been passed
by NSW Department of Agriculture
entomologists.
Tested on citrus trees in the Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area the new product,
Rogor 20 per cent vegetable powder,
gave almost complete control of red
scale.
Mr Carl Hely, senior entomologist
with the department who supervised the
testing, said, “When used in a concentra-
tion of 2i lbs. per 100 gallons of water
Rogor proved far more effective than any
other treatment, and results were very
good at half that concentration.”
Mr Hely added that the addition of
one gallon of white oil to every 100
gallons of the Rogor mixture was essen-
tial to gain maximum effectiveness.


Feiffer
FOE too MAW 4PARS,
PROFESSOR, TH6
poetic has eeew itt
IURKMEP Otf tKe
, ISSUF OF MtfCt£?Aß [/MR-
THGK HAVS
A6AIMST %t
because of
petosm
PROFWOg.
Bemuse of
PFUWfO.
mmm.M'A wm-xui
OF 00 hWLIP FS PStTßOyep.
IHB CttltO roe. A MA me
ATTgMff AT WHICH
I peeu has mir. M
IM PU&UC M 689. F£ZIB>
THAT Ml OF OS MVOP B?
vesr&Mep.
Tmpwp&soe.
W.W PUBLIC fJOU)
THAT MM
WA OF VS mxo
B 6 O&Tmeo.
MPeFOL- tiMteWLe#
PKreosoe, rue lah
prnic■ &t iu 9oe s
MOT Accept THe FACTS
AS fc)s THSCRISTS
pperee to uim
THen_
-THAT ,'MUieEfiir
OF MUCtFAR WAR
wax ten %
HUPT At nJ
wen m&ueo, p&f&sor.
m m>sß Hove mu?
ee ro convince me use-R-
-that u m feSUope wr.
rmavop center if thw
ISfJORF OURS. IFloe CAD
RestRICT WCtCAR ftJAfc 7®
eACH other's 1 •
Him 6Ases ir
mam pßOveroee (
QOire a civihz^
AFFAIR-
M(M MfATeft
TffAU RIVAt-
OF '
RB'dM.
mo loss of uves. wsne ■
BASE'S. PRACTICAL!. A PISARMA'
nm PROGRAM, REALLY. I
WOUU? THI/OK If SHOOLP EVO)
6IOUST THC SUPPORT OF
THe PACIFISTS IM OUR
tfIPVT/
AWP A 6<30(0 .
D FOU fM PUMMbtJf'
ljO£ CA(J Mr RbßOllO
AUP START AU
f.
HAPP^f
U)ARF>,
P&FbSSO?.
ib n au ofcft)
fWS AWP Pig
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 730
ACROSS
I—Casual innings including no legside or onside shots.
(7)
s—ln the cooler, thanks to the princess. (7)
9 —Most unpunctual sailor kicks the bucket before tea.
(8)
10—Response from an Australian state attended by the
Queen. (6)
12— He is with a renowned New York milliner’s top
troubles. (9)
13— You and I are after 100 for a Russian composer.
(3)
15 —Hero’s round could become
very, very dreadful. (10)
17—Girl who is to take the din-
ner back. (4)
19— Chamber Othello is backward.
(4)
20— Mongrel ate scrambled eggs?
(7, 3)
24 Girl who has a spot. (3)
25 Glory box location of the
lungs of comedian Bob. (4,
5)
26 Greeting a swell start for a
golf round. (3-3)
28— Parent vehicle on one dandy
dish. (8)
29 Demureness exhibited by a
style pen. (7)
30— Tea leer in pique. (7)
DOWN
1— Whence do Khrushchev’s
speeches come to be no longer
discredited? (3, 2,3, 3)
2 Remotest animal’s coat having
some vacuum flask tea. (11)
3 An ego marries and livens.
(8)
4 Poltroon celebrity of stage,
screen and/or TV is inter-
rupting father. (7)
6 The most high-quality poem
of Kipling overturned the
birds’ home. (6)
7 Novel directions. (3)
8— A year in a Queensland
town. (3)
11 —Though you shall be you.
(4)
13—Court cornet involved in a
musical progress. (7, 4)
14 —Sense of slight in the little
digger country. (11)
16—Row with this. (3)
18—Love song in ten areas. (8)
21— King George deserting the
grumpy umpire with some
familiarity. (4)
22 Ancient is waggish with the
first-class hundred. (7)
23 Removes clothing. (6)
26 Drone to smell unpleasantly.
(3)
27 — Ivy Bush and 24-across being
upset. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 725


si®
■
EXTRAS
H I
20
• ••
—
.
: ■
V
■ :
i«W
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos — blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger — make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
jgjih
<25 * UicjjF* 11 h just
of Turkish
Ci
°Wgh
MANUFACTURED FOR THE*AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.8.62


mm
m. 9::
:
B
me
■
tiff
S
am
/
lists
llg§BfS#iij
mmm
? sf®sii®is
.9*jsßm.4
V '
mm
m
is
*
7
v?* _.J
■MtifeaiittattiMaNkMH
This man is buying THE BULLETIN and so are thousands of new readers because
find THE BULLETIN each week gives them something they can't get anywhere else in Austral «
significant news; informed, factual reporting; a wide overseas coverage; short stories; &
and discussion on topics of interest to thinking Australians everywhere. More and more
buy THE BULLETIN for Discus, Cellarmaster, its Out and About Pi |
its theatre, book and music revjeti/s'. Bd&tiijdse of
the new look more and more peo;
The Bulleti
