

The Bulletin
2.3 1963
ippi'
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
CRICKET'S CHANGING FACE


;;
I i t II I it u?
ssf -t is ii!|i
fllltllllii
f, _ -
it* m
M |
I fg «r
.JH
Ik
s a , JSlte
SgSS.
MU
M N
V
5 -w'
■~, !Sa5;:
i^SB
- .-.. a *r.
»•• mi
UK
Bt
K@
; *
s*te
St:
Geon
7tyvmy6'/HafaiaA
Daynide is made by STOREY DAVIES & Co. Pty. Ltd. (Plastics Division) Felt & Textiles of Aust. LW.I
deserves an audience!
This magnificent new Lecture Theatre at Monash University, seating 250,
features Tierstack seats upholstered in “Geon” based “Daynide”. The
flexibility of “Geon” based vinyls helps “Daynide” in withstanding constant
use, and architects consider that this type of Lecture Theatre seating is
superior to any other available in the world.
Similar installations' of this type of seating have been carried out at
Universities at Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and Armidale, N.S.W.
CONTACT:
Made in Australia, “Geon
vinyl
ides
improves products and P ro '
sales appeal where it counts-" 1^
the sales counter. Have ) oU
help you
product which we can
improver
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne.
Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W, Telephone 92-6319.
GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Old-
Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited.
Ms#


National Notebook
ft Sea
n HE Indonesian news agency, Antara,
l re cently put the following item on
jswire service:
L caricature in the Sydney weekly
lolletin recently depicted Bung Karno,
| President Kennedy and British
fej er Macmillan planting respectively
| e Dwi Warna (bi-color), Stars and
ijpes and Union Jack.
"Carried in the front page of the
unary 26 issue, the three leaders were
ctured clad in 18th and 19th century
Itary uniforms complete with the Na-
uleonic cap. Each was planting the flag
lie same place while in the back stood
alralian Premier Menzies, Foreign
ister Sir Garfield Barwick and Oppo-
lion Leader Cal well.
“Farther in the background was a
looner of the last century, at sea.
“Bulletin is a prominent weekly. It
lies comment and
■ions on political, eco-
no and cultural topics.
iNeither caricaturist nor
lor supplied any text
■explain the caricature,
■viously, however, it was
■fired by an article in
fetish Press that ‘lndonesia repre-
is a very likely candidate to fill in
power vacuum resulted by waning
fch prestige in South-east Asia.’
Hate comments have appeared in
Australian Press predicting that In-
Kiawill become a big power in the
ic,”
Nefeel indulgent towards the Indo-
*s’ lack of understanding of the
pie purport of Tanner’s Australia Day
sometimes we feel rather
ourselves. As for example, when
picked up another Antara message
to read:
is the sex behavior of a man in
'’Does he experience a stronger or
ler sex feeling? This question was
*1 by Antara correspondent to the
third cosmonaut, Major Andrian
% v who is currently on a visit to
rata.
['kit no change at all in my sex
p in space,’ Nikolajev replied with
p '% sex feelings during weight-
-111 space was as normal as I am not
pV he remarked.
0 substantiate his statement the
“ Dau t indicated that while in space
s Perienced a similar ‘sex impulse’
Corning as he and other normal
1 0 °n earth.
j 0l! hearing this all his audience
! Eot help laughing.”
Festival Fun
f|%E committee organising this year’s
Cairns tourist festival has had a
unique proposition put to it. Mr Vince
Vlasoff, a crocodile hunter and partner
in the underwater observatory at Green
Island, suggested a fight between a man
and a shark could be part of October’s
festival.
Armed with a tranquiliser gun, the
man would shoot the shark, wrestle with
it and then drag it ashore. Mr Vlasoff
said he knew a diver who was prepared
to take on a shark tethered off Green
Island jetty. This last suggestion met with
a cool reception. Mr Blake Hayles, who
supplies accommodation and transport
for Green Island tourists, said: “We
haven’t had a shark fatality there yet,
and we don’t want people to think there
are sharks around.” At this stage it looks
as though a large cod or
groper will stand in for
the shark in the big
wrestle.
Keeping pace
CV>R 1963 the VRC, very
*■ generously, has lifted
the stakes of the Melbourne Cup to
£25,000. However, back in 1890 for
Carbine’s year, the VRC bumped up the
sweepstakes by £lO,OOO to bring the
total to £13,230. Back in the nineties
when a working wage was only a few
pounds a week this was tremendous
money, real world class. Some of the
local mathematicians have worked out
therefore, what with the deterioration of
money and the growth of Melbourne to
keep up with its 1890 fame the VRC
should offer a prize to £lOO,OOO.
Temporarily Corruptible
VTobody looks for laughs from the
“Manufacturers’ Monthly,” but take
this from its legal column in a recent
issue. Clayton and Halsey sold obscene
photographs. One day they sold some to
two police officers disguised as people,
and found themselves charged with
publishing obscene articles contrary to
the provisions of the Obscene Publica-
tions Act,
Cross-examined, the police officers ad-
mitted that collecting obscene samples of
literature and photography was their job,
and that the things they bought did not
shock them and did not arouse any feel-
ings in them whatever. It was just like
buying mock salmon cutlets for submis-
sion to the public analyst. On this evid-
ence the jury convicted, but the defen-
WOLLONGONG Page 15
Adolescent among cities ...
About Cigarettes and Gondolas ... 10
Cricket’s Changing Face 13
Wollongong Adolescent among
Cities 15
Foreign Films Two Audiences .. 18
My Friend lonesco 20
Indonesia and “Neo - Colonialism" 25
The Politics of Art in Russia .... 26
“The Beer’s on at Ivan’s” 27
Europeans in Exile 36
New Indignity for Farmers 40
Poor Response to Export Incentives 41
Ampol Sets Posers 47
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELDOURNE ... 10
OUT AND AROUT ....... 15
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 27
LETTERS 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
FEIFFER AND X-WORD . . 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St, Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MP3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
Vo. 4331


dants appealed and their convictions were
squashed on appeal (R. V. Clayton
Court of Criminal Appeal, July 31
1962).
The Court held that as matter was not
obscene unless it tended to corrupt the
person to whom it is actually published
(in this case the police officers), obscene
publication had not been proved. A sub-
stantial hurdle was therefore placed in
the path of police seeking to deal with
the publication of obscene matter, but
one cannot help feeling wrily sympathetic
with a point of law which was somewhat
roughish in conception but sound in
principle. But the problem of finding
vice snoopers incorruptible in fact but
corruptible pro tem b not an easy one.
Second Chance
"Dejects from the Archibald, Wynne
and Sulman entries will be exhibited
this year for the first time in nine years.
About 70 paintings will be on show at
Anthony Hordern’s art gallery from Feb.
22 to March 23, proceeds to Dr Barn-
ado’s Homes.
All of which raised the question of
how submissions for the Archibald and
Wynne exhibitions are judged (the Sul-
man is judged independently) and we
asked Art Gallery director Hal Missing-
ham. All pictures are paraded before
the trustees, sitting as a panel, and each
trustee has a week or 10 days to inspect
the pictures before the actual judging
day. They mark their first 10 in order
of preference on a ballot sheet which
is sealed and sent to the State Electoral
Commissioner. He runs through them
and retains a list of five preferences for
both categories in catalogue precedence
but not order of preference. The assem-
bled trustees discuss these choices and
secretly record their order of preference
for the five. The electoral officer checks
these and announces the result. This
system came in six or seven years ago.
The remainder are separated into
three groups; the ‘ins,’ the ‘outs’ and the
‘possibles.’ The ‘possibles’ get a second
airing and adjustments may be made ac-
cording to revised opinions of the trustees.
Keeping Ahead
IZ'ogarah (Sydney) councillors last
week were trying to find an answer
to a perpetual local authority nuisance—
a mechanised barrow-boy. They have
asked police to arrest the trader, Kevin
Taylor, each time he parks his truck in
Claydon Reserve to sell fruit.
Past Council clashes with Mr Taylor
have proved a costly business. He has
been issued with 30 summonses which
have cost the council £5 a time, but
which have cost Mr Taylor a mere £3O
in court fines. Kogarah councillor R. P.
Pallier summed it up at a recent meeting
as “pretty cheap rates.”
Change of Heart
Despite some Press articles on the
subject there are still some sceptics
who believe that there has been no
change of heart in the Victorian ALP
Well, they may now be having se C(
thoughts as a result of one recent m
in Victoria. Mr John Van de Loo, m
ing on behalf of the United Labor p a
and the Commonwealth Centre P a:
wrote to the Victorian Executive of
ALP telling them that “because of
noted change in Labor’s attitude” o
unity tickets, in particular, he wanted
members of his two parties to join
rejoin the ALP.
No doubt after suitable discussions;
some evidence of good faith the 1
torian ALP Executives will agree to w
the Melbourne “Age” described
“peacemaking moves”. Mr Van de I
who was previously an ALP member;
founded the United Labor Party to c
test the last Victorian State elections
who also stood for the Senate in
Federal election, may even be endoi
as an ALP candidate. The United Ii
Party and the Commonwealth Cer
Party have just a little more than
handful of members and has no influe
in Victorian or Federal politics.
Other Island
/General de Gaulle has received
** expected Australian support in
bid to keep Britain out of the Europ
Economic Community. The Internatio
Irish Freedom League (Melbou
branch) at a recent meeting passei
resolution in favor of the members
the Common Market withholding tl
approval of Britain’s entry until 'I
withdraws her armed forces from i
"Thank Heavens
this Royal tour


I bridgehead she has established
ib-East Ireland.”
league also plans to petition the
tional Court at The Hague to
jjain on trial “for her continuing
jl activities against the people
an d” and to request other mem-
tbe United Nations to demand
iritain relinquishes her “colonial
| t i on of Ireland, or be expelled
that assembly as an aggressor
i> xhe league, as part of its cam-
is holding a monster rally on
jme’s Yarra Bank on February
i the monster rally “has nothing
with Australian politics” the
has invited both Mr Menzies and
dwell to attend.
Quiet Flows The Don
, cover picture of Sir Donald
1 Bradman shows an older, balder,
dined face than that familiar to the
|of earlier decades; but according
((Adelaide spy he is much the same
of man now as then, a little less
perhaps, a little more inclined to
(egarious to join in the singing at
ry Club lunches, where he is often
a shilling for having his name in
paper. These days he plays an en-
! It game of golf off a two handicap,
1 1 he sandwiches in between his
ess and family interests and, of
it, his continuing interest in the ad-
itration of cricket. See Cricket’s
Iping Face, page 12.
Tanner
is informal."
PLAIN ENGLISH
CURBING RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES
'T'HE Australian business world like that of any other country has its
-■-“Threepenny Opera” side and it would be surprising if in Australia’s
modern and sophisticated commercial society bushranging techniques
were not common. That they are abundantly present is shown by the
prevalence of price fixing, price cutting, collusive tendering and bidding
(“pies”), exclusive dealing, rigged markets, and price and trade
discrimination. These things have been part and parcel of the survival
of modern business and very few of our established trading corporations
can claim that they have really acted in accordance with the rules of free
competition but then what are the rules? In any case, historically, the
way business has been run in Australia has not acted against the
interests of either the investor or the public at large and quite a few
bushranging companies in pursuit of profit and growth have become
both efficient and respectable.
But the fact that this system has worked well in the past
does not mean it is suited to a highly complex modern industrial
community where the need to safeguard ordinary public interest
in commercial operations has become increasingly necessary. And it
is to safeguard that public interest that Sir Garfield Barwick has
devised his rules to govern the conduct of business. Even so it is going
to take a very long time before there is nation-wide agreement to his
Restrictive Trade Practices Act. Already he has found that the three
states from which he could reasonably have expected the largest measure
of support have refused to come to the party. Victoria’s Liberal
Government wants nothing to do with any act which affects tried and
true business practice while South Australia and Western Australia regard
with apprehension any legislation likely to frighten away investment in
any shape or form.
Yet Sir Garfield’s proposed legislation, despite its unwieldy shape,
has a social aim that deserves sympathetic consideration. As Sir
Garfield sees it the economy must not be “subjected to control by
individuals or groups of individuals, whether by agreement or by the
power which large aggregations of property or market advantages might
otherwise afford. The aim is a free economy.” In the general interests of
Australia no one will quarrel with this aim. But how is it to be achieved?
The Act needs very careful and detailed examination which the Attorney-
General has, in all fairness, called for. For example, even allowing for
the widest interpretation of “public interest” many of the Act’s provisions
seem to deal harshly with the rights of individuals and the clause relating
to mergers and takeovers is an example of potential injustice. Any
takeover which reduces competition “without justification” is not likely
to get approval from the Tribunal set up under the Act.
And yet half or more of the takeovers that occur are to reduce competi-
tion with or without justification. What does “without justification” mean
in situations of this sort? The old adage If you can t lick them join them
seems fair and reasonable business practice at any time. This part of the
legislation also seems to prohibit people from disposing of their assets
as they solely think fit. Is this not an inroad into a long accepted freedom?
Perhaps the unfairest discrimination is basic to the Act that established
monopolies will be allowed to continue while new ones will be forbidden.
The social aims of Sir Garfield’s proposed act are clear and desirable.
Whether they can be achieved without injustice is something else.


THIS AUSTRALIA
LABOR
THE BATTLE FOR
BUNDABERG
Senator Kennelly looks on in dismay
A. A. CALWELL
Not too old
When Mr Calwell visited the key
Queensland State ALP conference
last week at Bundaberg he indicated the
line which will be taken by the Labor
Party in this year’s State election un-
employment. The line is a good one as
Queensland is still suffering to some
extent from the same unemployment
which was responsible for the landslide
against the Menzies Government at the
last Federal elections. This combined with
the offer of three weeks leave to workers
in Queensland which was reaffirmed by
the Bundaberg Convention is certainly
vote-catching, and could possibly lead to
the downfall of the Nicklin coalition
Liberal and Country Party Government.
But Mr Calwell’s use of the phrase
“running sore” to describe Queensland’s
unemployment was indicative of his real
and unvoiced thoughts on Queensland
Labor. The “running sore” was obviously
a reference to Dr Evatt’s famous descrip-
tion of unity tickets which, after the
Labor Party split, gave so many votes to
the then newly-formed Democratic Labor
Party, and kept Mr Caiwell fro m
coming Prime Minister at the
elections. >
Labor’s Deputy Leader in the Sei
the shrewd king-maker, Senator Kent
was as silent about the issue and
state of the ALP in Queensland as
Caiwell. He contented himself will
plying to Mr Egerton’s recent “too.
crack at Mr Caiwell. But his pres
indicated that he had travelled to Bu
berg, despite his ill-health, to examin
first hand what is happening in Qui
land. As Senator Kennedy is know
be one of the growing number in
ALP who now believes that Labor’s
hope for Federal office lies in
of rapprochement with the Democ
Labor Party, his visit had added si|
cance especially as he was one oi
main architects in getting rid of
“Groupers” which led to the split.’
the old, toughened campaigner saw
have shocked him.
As predicted in The Bulletin as
ago as last September, the Trades
group easily controlled the conferem
a comfortable margin of 20 votes
the opposing Australian Workers’!
faction. This humiliation for the pi
ful Queensland Secretary of the h
Mr Edgar Williams, means the dt
and fall of the AWU. in Queen
politics will continue for another
years.
Federal ALP members who bel
that the AWU faction in Queen
could change at least one of the
Queensland delegates to the Ft
Executive were severely disilM
This in turn could have meant brei
the dead-lock of six-all on the Fc
Executive —eventually leading to
sort of discipline over the Vic
Executive’s blatant pro-Communisl
licies which have kept Labor ®
office. (The Menzies Government
not lose one seat in Victoria at t j
Federal elections.)
The other possibility envisaged!
moderates in all States was that
Williams and his supporters wou c
some of the six delegates to the
Conference of the ALP.
The vacancy on the Federal
cutive was filled by Mr Fre
who became Secretary of the
Employees Union in 1948-49 m
land. Mr Whitby will be
able on the Federal Executive i
Victorian colleagues. An > n 1 .
his political views can be g aU &
his attendance at a “Hands o
rally held in Brisbane last
this rally, Mr Whitby share
WHAT IS A JUDGE WORTH?
February 24, 1883
A good deal of downright touting
has been carried on during the
last few weeks among members of
the Legislative Assembly by those
interested in having judicial salaries
raised. Are the judges at present
fairly remunerated according to their
abilities, when viewed in relation to
the market price of talent? We will
take, first, the Supreme Court Bench.
The Chief Justice receives £2600 a
year, the other judges draw £2OOO
apiece; and when on circuit they
have, in addition, handsome travelling
allowances. With reference to the
Chief Justice, it may be admitted in
the present dearth of judicial ability
in NSW he is worth his money, so
long as he does his work. He has
made notable, and even prodigious,
blunders; but at least he is head and
shoulders above his associates. How-
ever, it is his misfortune to be sp
frequently incapacitated by illness
that to raise the salary for his behalf
would be absurd, and to raise it for
the benefit of his successor would be
folly indeed, while it is so extremely
doubtful whether that successor may
not be a small political barrister
chancing by political exigencies to
hold office as Attorney-General when
the vacancy occurs. If his sense of
what is decent is insufficient to
induce him to retire, it would be
foolish indeed to increase the pension
he shuns. To do so would simply be
to offer an incentive to future judges
to linger on the Bench until they
could secure an increase of pension
to suit their minds.
The next judge is a hard-working
man, enthusiastic in the course of
what he thinks is just, and not above
overruling the whole Supreme Court,
if it suits his conception of absolute
rectitude, but his blunders are much
complained of, and we doubt whether
a more striking instance could be
found of misdirected energy and hard
work than is afforded by him. He is
never adduced as an argument for in-
creased salary. The next two judges
run in a sort of couple. The question
proposed is are they worth more than
<£2ooo a year each? Would they
have made more by any other trade
or profession? Let those who know
them, and who know also how hard it
is to make £2OOO a year by brain-
work without capital, answer us.


w jth Mr Jack Fitzgerald, a State
' mittee member of the Queensland
Inunist Party.
v[r whitby is certainly trusted by the
eensland Trades Hall Council faction.
en the Communist Secretary of the
des an d Labor Council, Mr Alex Mac-
went to the Moscow Peace Con-
RS i July/ August last year he left
[Whitby to carry on. In the past, when
acdonald has been absent, he has
i f a ys left a member of his own party in
jfle but he trusted Mr Whitby so
. Khthat he conferred this honor upon
il
i|f Senator Kennelly blanched at Mr
iflby’s election, he must have been
i ther dismayed at the election for the
tsates to the Federal Conference. The
iee men who got in are Mr Frank
ilan (Australian Railways Union), Mr
auk Waters (Amalgamated Postal
: iters’ Union), and Queensland’s Lord
ljor,Mr Clem Jones.
i loth Mr Nolan and Mr Waters
illetin, September 24) have had
iar political histories. Both of them
ie back into the ALP when the
{[island Labor Party belatedly split in
7; both of them have fellow-travelled
lommunist countries, Mr Waters twice
Peace” conferences and Mr Nolan to
Communist World Federation of
ie Unions. Mr Nolan’s most famous
ement was in his union’s paper, the
Iway Advocate” of October 15 last,
« wrote of his travels. Referring to
lit America he told his readers: “The
tap has, in effect, created American
s nearly everywhere in these
te. This foreign occupation for
pses of aggression constitutes in it-
iviolation of natural sovereignty and
to same time a permanent menace
pee”. As Federal Conference dele-
IMessrs Nolan and Waters will have
I interesting, if predictable contribu-
te make to ALP foreign policy.
II the all-powerful Trades Hall fac-
lmay have over-reached itself at
Although it condescended to
'Edgar Williams to gain a place
controlling body of Queensland
f )the Queensland Central Executive
>t had clearly demonstrated that
D °t have the numbers for control),
tesarily humiliated Mr J. Duggan,
filamentary Leader of the Party.
1 u ggan, who in the past has
•how anxious he is to get along
,e Trades Hall faction, appealed
‘Convention to have his deputy,
,lc Lloyd, elected to a Convention
'■ He was challenged on his
s Peak to the motion and lost.
[ Keefe, the Federal President
who on one motion sup-
Mr Duggan, Mr J. H. Mann, the
'for Brisbane, Senator Felix Ditt-
three other State politicians
who were all defeated on a procedural
motion. This tended to give the ALP a
bad Press, and the arrogance evident in
the Trades Hall factions’ behavior is now
well known to even the most un-
interested of voters.
What has now become evident to all
those who follow the hurly burly of
Queensland politics is that Queensland is
now, if anything, further “left” than
Victoria.
PETER KELLY
TEENAGERS
AMONG THE CITY
FATHERS
“Kissing and cuddling in our City Hall"
A. G. RYLAH
Pleased?
Richard Joseph Cremin, 37, has
been a member pf Kew Council for
two years, and for eighteen months of
that time he has kept a very close watch
on the Saturday night dances held in the
Kew City Hall by dance-hall entrepreneur
W. S. Freeman. The point of Cr Cremin’s
sleuthing became apparent last week
when the renewal of the Freeman lease
came before the Council.
There was strong opposition from Cr
Cremin who told the Council he was
disturbed at the “degenerate dress” worn
by women attending the dances. More-
over, said Cr Cremin, the manager of
the dances was positively in favor of
women wearing slacks. The dances could
encourage “immoral acts,” added Cr
Cremin, shortly before the Mayor called
him to order for departing from the point
at issue. Cr Cremin withdrew and the
renewal of the lease was agreed to in
his absence.
Outside the Council, Cr Gspmin said
that when he first visited the dance he
was amazed to see “quite a number of
young girls dressed in shorts. Couples
were lying on the floor kissing and
cuddling in our City Hall.”
Tihere were about 1000 at the dance,
mainly aged between 14 and 19, and
while most were neatly dressed a small
percentage wore shorts, slacks, jeans and
other casual garb. Since then he had
regularly visited the dance, sometimes
going inside but often studying teenagers’
dress from the outer darkness.
He had concluded that between 10
and 15 per cent of the dancers wore un-
conventional dress, with many of the girls
taking the floor in Bermuda shorts and
“shorter shorts.” Others had bare mid-
riffs or slacks “as tight as they could
get into.” He said he was amazed at
such bohemian dressing in conservative
Kew and just as surprised at the attitude
of his fellow Councillors whom he called
“a conservative lot.” The dance manage-
ment had shown little interest in his
complaints, Cr Cremin said. When he
had predicted that the girls would finish
up dancing in bikinis, the manager had
merely commented that such was a
strong possibility.
Mr W. S. Freeman, proprietor of
Freeman’s Dances, was quickly into the
argument. His family have been running
dances for 57 years and he charged that
Cr Cremin was completely out of touch
with modern teenage dress and behaviour.
“Sometimes during the year when we
have to vacate the hall we put on the
same dance at the local Roman Catholic
Church Hall. If there was anything
wrong with the dance I’m sure the parish
priest would have something to say about
it.” In fact, he added, two priests occa-
sionally looked-in on the dancers.
The Kew police said they were not
disturbed by the dances which were well
conducted. The Precentor of St Paul’s
Cathedral, Rev Hugh Girvan, who is one
of the organizers of the Deano’s Dances
in the Cathedral crypt said his church
had never considered banning girls in
slacks. “They were harmless and rather
comfortable, I should imagine.” Nor was
there any comfort for Cr Cremin in the
comments of the YWCA spokesman.
But what hurt the Councillor most of
all was when seventeen-year-old student
Terry Kelly entered the fray. Mr Kelly
said he had attended a recent dance at
Kew City Hall and: “At eleven I took a
girl outside to get some fresh air. We
walked near the Town Hall, when sud-
denly this guy flashed a torch in my face.
It was Cr Cremin who we all knew had
been prowling around the dance every
Saturday night. He asked me how old I


was. He didn’t believe I was over 17
and told me to go back to the dance.
There was no use arguing with him be-
cause he had a policeman with him.”
Cr Cremin hotly denied that he had
flashed torches or spoken to teenagers at
the dance. He made most of his observa-
tions from his parked car and occasion-
ally went into the hall.
By this time reporters had been to the
Kew Hall to inspect the dance at first
hand and one paper had editoralised that
there was not necessarily any connection
“between slacks and slack morals.”
Cr Cremin, who came to Australia from
south-west Ireland eleven years ago, in-
tends to continue his crusade. He is now
a painting and decorating contractor, a
non-smoker and occasional drinker. And,
although he may have gladdened the
heart of Mr Rylah, the Victorian Chief
Secretary, he denies he is a wowser,
He reaffirmed that all the girls whom he
had seen kissing on the hall floor wore
slacks or shorts. He would continue to
try and clean up the Kew City Hall, he
said. As far as contrary evidence was
concerned, Cr Cremin had an answer for
that, too: “The word might have gone
around that I am on the prowl. Last
Saturday night the behaviour was re-
markably good.”
EDUCATION
THE UNIVERSITY
LOCK-OUT
How many more students will be
kept out of the Universities?
P. G. PRICE
Pipe dream
When the universities of New South
Wales reconvene next month,
well over 1000 qualified students
will stand on the outside looking in. At
least 890 will stand outside the Univers-
ity of Sydney, 200 outside the University
of New England, and an as yet undis-
closed number outside the University of
New South Wales.
There are other aspects of the prob-
lem. A NSW Higher Education
Advisory Office has been established
under the Directorship of Mr P. G.
Price. And the Commonwealth has again
refused aid to NSW primary, secondary
and technical education on the grounds
that the Commonwealth’s committee
on tertiary education holds immediate
priority over all other Commonwealth
educational allotments.
D . ~ , , ,
But, as.de from a few general
crmeisms in the general Press, no one
really seems surpnsed There » no
reason why they should be for over-
crowding was confidently predicted m at
least two excellent reports-the Murray
“ mver^'f s throughout Aus-
tralia in 1957, and the Price Report on
x T -„, wj i • •
New South Wales universities in 1961.
Only a few days before the present
figures were released, the NSW State
Cabinet had already approved a stop-
gap plan to ease the blow. They decided
to grant between £25,000 and £30,000
per year to provide bursaries for students
to repeat fifth year of secondary school-
ing and thus get another chance at
university entrance. The Minister for
Education in NSW, Mr Wetherell,
pointed out that this may additionally
help to implement the Wyndham Report
contention that students desiring a
university education should be better
prepared. But it is also generally evident
it will only make it that much
harder for those seeking to matriculate
next y ear -
Other suggestions have followed in
rapid order. Perhaps the most beguiling
P ne * s that of Dr Mackay of the Univers-
of NSW - He suggests greater emphasis
on § e ffi n § more students through first
year in something like the “junior
college ’ system of America. But this, as
both the Murray and Price reports
pointed out> is based on a babl
dangerous con tof hi her education .
It onl means the p ß cessing o{ a
ater number of „ * ducated
degree . carriers instead of the y cr e a ti o n of
the highly educated population whichj
as the Murray Repo rt emphasised, is
, A t u , ,
urgently needed for the whole complex
A „. , , K
of a modern state and even more
urgent is the need for qualified teachers,
As it is, teachers have little time for
individual work with students because of
a rapidly rising staff-student ratio (up
to 19.3 students to one teacher at the
University of Sydney in 1959, and
siderably more at present). The f ant ]
student failure rate of between 60 and!!
per cent throughout Australia mean!,!!
only a few of those now attend
universities will actually graduate or J
qualified for post-graduate study. 1
The Price Report set forth two raa i o
projects to ease overcrowding i n jJ.
The first and most immediate wast
establish a new university for about 60(
students on Sydney’s North Shore. T|
furthest this has got is to the select#
of a site at North Ryde The seen
suggestion was for the rapid expansio
of the University of New England s
that it could handle 2500 students t
1970. At present its total enrolment
only slightly over 800. An addition
proposal has been for the establishme
of a university college in Bathurst. Ti
also is still in the stage of prelimina
discussion. One aim of the Price Repi
projects w t as the eventual cut-back of t!
rising and unwieldy number of studet
at Sydney University. But with all ti
immediate factors in mind, this can no
seem only a pipe dream.
By far the bleakest aspect of the win
situation is that this first one thousa
is only a drop in the bucket before futu
possibilities. Between 1930 and 15
the total Australian university populatii
rose from 9,483 to 46,841. In Ni
South Wales it rose from 2,824 to 16,1
The proportion of university enrota
in the 17-22 years age group rose frc
140 per 10,000 to 588 per 10,000(1
in NSW) largely because of the
creased demand for highly educal
personnel and the growing “hold
power” of secondary schools. Tot
there are more than 20,000 univeis
students in NSW alone. By 1970 ti
will be more than 45,000; and by 1!
there will be more than 55,000, Thatl
almost triple the present university poj
lation. And these are more or less c
servative figures.
Mr Price, who has just been nan
Director of the new Higher Educat
Advisory Office in NSW, states
simply that the situation is “enormoi
complex.” By this he means then
the ever-present problem of coffll
hensive financing (40 per cent of
budget of NSW goes to education),
almost impossible job of recrul
poorly-paid teachers away from wha
Price Report terms a “growing an
panding” economy (although the Mu
Report has brought higher salaries)'
There are also a number of
decisions to be made as to just
departments and disciplines shou
first developed. Additionally there *
need of bringing many existing a
up to standard and the necessity ,
vide sufficient scholarships t 0


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
Vi
m}
3
pW* *'**K ■ -|
:-r'lf
ESTATE
BURGUNDY
Jl|* 4tU * *»*i. \f. r I CI'I *” *
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
ixi
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
MS
needy students in answer to Mr
Wetherell’s fear “that students with lower
romances but with better financial
backing wiH be gaining their places.”
L t h the Commonwealth and New
D South Wales Governments are cur-
cl!tly trying to work out practical
Approaches to the problems of higher
education. Mr Menzies last year estab-
fshed a committee with the explicit task
([producing “recommendations effect-
j-g the structure of tertiary education.”
now Mr Price is preparing a new
itport for Mr Wetherell taking these
problems into account. He says that
jiswill be ready at some time in the
nr future, depending on how long it
Jtalce to gather and collate the figures.
One thing certain in all future reports
that there will have to be some com-
omise between the realities of the
liversity facilities and the ideal of an
open entrance” policy previously
paused by Australian universities. In
is regard it is necessary to note the
U Price Commission’s comment that
it “would regard as unrealistic, indeed
retrograde, any attempt to make the
universities highly selective places.”
Further, it states that in Australia “there
is need for every person that the uni-
versities can graduate.” Another cer-
tainty is that, no matter how far this
compromise goes or how quickly current
and future proposals are put into effect,
many thousands of qualified students
will be left standing at the gates.
Aside from all the practical considera-
tions, however, officials are aware of a
basic psychological hindrance to even
partial solutions of the problem. As one
concerned parent put it, “Higher educa-
tion is much like a man with six heads
many people will stare at him for
hours, but they’ll never invite him home
to dinner.” Or, as the Murray Report
said more flatly almost six years ago,
“important sections of public opinion”
do not “yet realise that the future of the
country will require a very large number
indeed of very highly-educated men and
women.”
JACK DAVIES
EUCATION
TEACHERS v. THE REST
Living opposite a pigsty or above a
cheap country cafe
JOHN BLOOMFIELD
He opened
P annual conference of the Vic-
torian Teachers’ Union began with
and ended with a whimper. The
•fence was opened by the Minister
•Education, Mr J. Bloomfield, and
81 came a speech by the retiring presi-
*Mr B. W. Mcllroy. Within
Wes of these formalities being con-
F foe conference carried a resolu-
•that each of the 20,000 members
® contribute 10s. towards a pub-
*y campaign in support of the union’s
W conditions claims.
Jeachers’ £lO,OOO Publicity Plan”
e a fine headline and seemed to fore-
low fireworks for the State Govern-
j l, However, the levy is a purely
Jfery one, and informed estimates
at the VTU will get range only as
[as £2OO.
yjy delegates had a lot to say
toe housing problems which face
J rs who are transferred to rural
j' Conference was told of one
ae d teacher who had lived for
r w eeks in a motel where he paid
<£l2 a week more than he was earning.
Mr Kevin Clarke, of Moe High
School, said he knew of a master who
had to live in a farmer’s house opposite
a pigsty, while Mr K. Scarlett, of Mel-
bourne High School, spoke feelingly of
his olfactory experiences while living in
a room above a cheap country cafe.
Conference decided to press on more
vigorously with its equal pay campaign,
and to ask the Government to launch
an advertising programme to lure
graduates from industry and commerce
into teaching. This was one idea which
Minister Bloomfield received warmly.
He said he would gladly meet VTU
representatives and examine their
suggestion.
Meanwhile the Director of Education,
Mr McDonell, announced that 1200
secondary teaching studentships were
being offered this year. This was 200
more than in 1962, and took some of
the sting out of the VTU’s repeated
claims that secondary schools were being
manned by untrained teachers.
A cruel blow, however, came from an
unexpected direction. At the Bendigo
Trades Hall Council delegates attacked
what they called the “greed” of highly-
paid teachers in taking other jobs
during their holidays. Butchers’ Union
delegate Mr C. Lyall said: “If these
teachers are bored with holidays some-
thing should be done to shorten them.”
The council decided to take up the
matter with the VTU to discover its
attitude to these malefactors.
No reply to this anger from Bendigo
came out of the teachers’ conference for
the very good reason that the con-
ference had fizzled out two days before
it was scheduled to end. The delegates
had gone home, possibly to pore over
their copies of the Education Depart-
ment’s “Gazette,” which warned them
against taking outside employment
without permission, commenting on
controversial political issues, or writing
to members of Parliament (including the
Minister). \


Around Melbourne
ABOUT CIGARETTES AND GONDOLAS
TTow difficult it is here to find any-
one who is frightened of dying of
lung cancer. True, Albert Monk gave
it away some years ago. He cut down
from a magnificent 100 cigarettes a
day. He stopped overnight, no weak
palliatives like lollies or chewing gum,
the iron will of the trade union
leader carried him through.
There have been a few other in-
teresting examples. Mrs Neil Evans,
a charity worker at Toorak, concen-
trates entirely on cigars. “I smoke
only about five a day,” she says. “It
gives me all the satisfaction I need
and I’m never worried about cutting
down.”
But most of us carry on with no
worries. The vote is overwhelmingly
for tobacco. Last week Rothmans an-
nounced that the 20 per cent dividend
would be maintained and they had
completed six months of record
trading. On January 20, Philip Morris
said they had lifted profits 47 per cent
in the December half year. British
Tobacco is about to spread the good
news, which could be that their
consolidated profit will be over
£.2,000,000. Never has smoking been
so popular.
Last week Joseph Cullman, 49,
world president of Philip Morris, ar-
rived in town. We learned that he
was a good tennis player and his golf
handicap was three. He said cigarettes
would ultimately be exonerated as a
possible cause of lung cancer . . .
“I am as confident of this as I am
that no link has so far been established
between smoking and cancer.”
The strongest cry in answer came
from the eminent director of The
Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, Sir
Macfarlane Burnet, O.M. His attitude
to cigarette smoking over the years
has been very interesting. Sometimes
it has looked almost like a one-man
campaign against it. His advice con-
stantly to young people is “DON’T
START.”
He gave up smoking seven years
ago after five of his friends died of
lung cancer. Like Albert Monk he
stopped at once, no tapering, no pal-
liatives, and he has never smoked
since. Now he speaks out against
smoking when the occasion arises,
on Meet the Press with TV, at a
Rotary luncheon or in regular letters
to the newspapers.
I asked him was he satisfied that
cigarette smoking caused lung cancer.
He said: “It is quite definite, the
evidence is complete from my point
of view.”
He believes that the most impor-
tant job of preventive medicine right
now is to eliminate cigarette smoking
as far as humanly possible and, above
all, to keep young people from ever
starting it.
He says, as it is, many people prefer
to make the choice of enjoying their
cigarettes and maybe sacrificing five
years or more of their lives. Accord-
ing to the evidence the heavy smoker
is twice as likely to die from all causes
between the ages of 55 and 64, as the
non-smoker.
In his latest message to the news-
papers, he said: “There are three
distinct questions that can be asked.
The first is: Has it been established
that cigarette smoking is responsible
for most or all of the great increase in
the amount of lung cancer that has
taken place over the last 50 years?
The answer is an unequivocal Yes.
The second is: Has the study of in-
dividual patients with lung cancer
shown that heavy cigarette smoking so
constantly precedes the onset of the
disease that by standard rules of
statistics we can say it has been the
essential cause of the condition?
Again the answer is Yes.
The third question is: Do we know
how cigarette smoking produces can-
cer of the lung? The answer this time
is No. We do not know whether the
substances of cigarette smoke which
can cause cancer of the skin in mice
are wholly or partly responsible and
we have, in fact, only speculations to
offer about how any chemical sub-
stance can produce cancer.
Sir Macfarlane says this is the main
point of all those who oppose action
against cigarette smoking. And he
adds: “The same arguments could be
applied to old age and natural death.
The nature of the process of ageing is
even less understood than the nature
of cancer but we all know how in-
evitable is the onset of old age and
disabilities.
“If you find it just too hard to give
up cigarettes, I always advise to
switch to a pipe. There is no evidence
of a tie up between pipe smoking and
cigar smoking and lung cancer. Of
course, one reason for this could be
that it is not so easy to make a study
of pipe and cigar smokers. There
aren’t so many of them. But such
evidence as there is seems to indicate
the pipe smokers are in the clear.”
ITere in Melbourne we have always
had dreams of glory about our
Yarra. It’s not over large but with
careful management couldn’t it have
something of the charm and magic of
the Seine or . . . or . . . Why not the
Grand Canal of Venice? And actually
that’s just what we are working on.
For the Moomba-Henley Regatta we
have a fair dinkum 37-foot Venetian
gondola to act as a sort of flagship,
Don Ingersole, the Moomba organiser,
obtained the gondola by courtesy of
the City of Venice.
Tye’s Furniture Store brought out
the gondola and took a full page ad
in the “Herald” to tell the world about
it . . . “Exquisite Piece of Venetian
Craftsmanship it was built in the
16th century and since this time has
carried nobilities from all over the
world through the streets of Venice.
Our own Queen rode in this same
gondola on her Venetian Tour in
1961.” For the past fortnight the
“Exquisite piece” has been on display
in Tye’s Bourke Street store handy to
the Vynex lounge suites, the chrome
smoker stands and the wall-to-wall
Axminster.
The next move was for Mr Ingersole
to call for gondoliers to man the
vessel. There were 12 applicants, and
he selected two genuine canal-trained
gondoliers who used to be next-door
neighbors in Venice Giovanni
Greco, 29, and Giulio Barbazza, 26.
Their costumes were flown out from
the town itself.
But there has been a tragic sequel
to all this. A small difficulty. The
gondola won’t float. The boat has
been out of the water so long th e
planks have shrunk. According to one
expert the only way to overcome the
problem would be to sink it f° r
several days until the planks swelled
and sealed the cracks. So what will
happen now is uncertain.
BATMAN


u
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
: . *
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/6.
Amazing new
PANTENE'
Vitamin Hair Tonic
PRISONS
HOW TO FREE
PRISONERS
An unpublicised success
R. R. DOWNING
No headline-hunter
Figures released last week by the Adult
Probation Service of New South
Wales show a surprisingly high rehabili-
tation rate of 86-87 per cent and add up
to a continued success for that quiet
organisation which has only operated
since 1951. In these eleven years all
other states have followed New South
Wales in establishing their own adult pro-
bation services, with the notable excep-
tion of Western Australia, which is now
said to be considering coming into line
with the East.
The Service, operating in the Attorney-
General’s department, under a minister,
Mr R. R. Downing Q.C., who is not one
of the State Cabinet's headline-hunters,
has had little publicity except for the
occasion passing reference in a court
news story where a judge has referred
to a pre-sentence report from the Service
or released an offender on condition that
be remain under its supervision.
The Service operates within the Quar-
ter Sessions Court that is in the
intermediate jurisdiction between the
minor crimes of the Petty Sessions courts
nd the more serious crimes of the
Criminal Courts. This covers a whole
®ge of offences from the classic “Break,
Enter and Steal”, through to false pre-
tences, illegal use of a car, unnatural sex
faces, and even manslaughter. But al-
most axiomatically the Probation Service
excludes the criminal who has passed
through several convictions, although the
Service has been given cases who have
Previously been imprisoned.
operation is not limited to the
°f rehabilitation and supervision.
W'cms of the Service are commonly
upon by judges to prepare sen-
ence re Ports on prisoners under remand
\ er conviction or a guilty plea. The
0 W of these reports is to determine the
pility Of probation.
| Probation is concerned with offenders
“although convicted are not sent to
1. ° r their crime, as distinct from parole
I lc * s concerned with the convicts re-
[{^ e from jail. The Service’s pre-sen-
reports, unlike probation practice
1 ome overseas centres, are made avail-
able to the defence and the officer can be
cross-examined by the defence if the
defendant wants the report rejected.
Obviously not all those men or
women who become the subject of pre-
sentence reports a,re granted probation.
Since its beginning, the officers of the
Service have prepared over 6,200 pre-
sentence reports and of these only 3,200
have been committed to its supervision
The test of the success of the NSW
Adult Probation Service rests on, to use
the jargon of penology, the rate of re-
cidivism. Although a failure rate of only
13-14 per cent seems spectacularly suc-
cessful, it has remained about constant
since the figures of the Service started
to assume analysable proportions.
The latest figures show a slight im-
provement on the rate up to late 1961
when the Principal Probation Officer,
Mr D. C. Swanson, prepared a special
progress report which was the first social
analysis of any reasonably large volume
of figures relating to convicted persons in
Australia.
Mr Swanson, who came to head the
Service with legal background as an
officer in the Attorney-General’s Depart-
ment and field-work experience as a
Child Welfare officer, in this report set
himself and the practice of his Service
firmly against those who see simple
black-white causes of criminal behaviour.
As he put it bluntly “It is obvious from
a consideration of statistics that an
extremely wide complex of factors is
involved.”
While the complexity of factors is
stressed, the figures of the Service through
its eleven years have consistently dis-
closed that just on 50 per cent of those
put on probation came from broken or
disturbed homes. Also, 50 per cent of
those on probation were in the 18-25
age group and it was in this group that
proportionately more failures occurred.
Another significant fact revealed was
that the failure rate among unskilled con-
victed persons was higher, ranging to
nearly 20 per cent. One of ’ the main
tasks of the probation Service has been
to attempt to find some means of giving
vocational training to those who left
school early. In this Mr Swanson sees
new hope with the moves to ease the
way for later apprenticeships.
The figures include relatively few
women well under 5 per cent. This
contrasts with overseas probation experi-
ence where there is a much higher general
incidence of female crime. But those
women who are convicted in Australia
show a much higher failure rate than
the men. The recidivism rate among
women is between 20 and 25 per cent.
Even allowing for the failures, how-
ever, the overall success of the Service
pays many times over for the salaries
of its forty field officers who cover the
whole State.
RICHARD HALL


CRICKET'S
CHANGING
FACE
An Hertical View...?
By FRANK ROBERTS
By FRANK ROBERTS
During its first 86 years Test Cricket
has had more than a good share of
startling incidents. One of the
strangest occurred on February 6, 1963,
when 10,000 people crowded Manuka
Oval in Canberra to see Sir Donald Brad-
man bat again, in the MCC Prime
Minister’s XI match, and in Adelaide
“The News” published a letter which be-
gan, “I despise people who . . .” and
ended with the signature of Don Brad-
man.
The people “The Don” despised were
those who “write letters to newspapers
under a pseudonym, but particularly
when they clo t ak their identity to make
untrue accusations and damage other
people’s reputations.”
It was amazing. Through four Tests
in the current series, as in the past, Sir
Donald Bradman had ignored various
kinds of Press criticism, probably on the
principle that if you stop to answer one
critic you have to satisfy them all. His
only comment in months had been a
single, “I’m not interested in what Mr
Miller has to say,” when questioned
about some of Keith Miller’s notions
that he had become a dressing-room
bogey man.
The letter that sent him off like a
rocket was a mere squib; two paragraphs
that went, “It seems obvious that Benaud
is under orders from the selectors and
the Control Board to play for ‘gates.’ I
am sure he is keen to play brighter
cricket, but in Test matches he must
bow to his masters.” It was signed
“Rigged”, Evandale.
“The Don” wrote that “Rigged” should
be ignored, “except for the harm such
filthy accusations can cause.” The
chairman of the Board of Control and
the Australian selection committee then
assured “Rigged” that no such instruc-
tions had ever been given during the 35
years he had been associated with Test
cricket.
It was a bad day for Sir Donald. In
Canberra he was out for four, and
in other places writers of letters to the
editor were emboldened to ask for an
equally frank reply on the Meckiff
question. On February 11 two gentlemen
wrote to the Sydney “Telegraph” point-
ing out that “although he has taken 48
wickets in first-class cricket this season,
including two matches against the
MCC, he has been pointedly ignored
for this vital fifth Test match.”
And on the same day, in the Mel-
bourne “Age”, Jack Iverson, one of the
past greats of Australian cricket, wrote,
“Not so very long ago an Imperial
cricket conference was held in London
and Meckiff’s head could well have been
a peace offering made then by Australia
so far as future Tests were concerned.
“If lan Meckiff were let loose in a Test
match against England in this series the
English cricket writers could have a
major journalistic occlusion and the re-
sulting ‘bodyline’ tension would certainly
bring about an unhappy atmosphere
during Her Majesty’s visit.
“All this prompts me to believe that
the Australian selectors were themselves
‘under instructions’ from higher up the
line.”
So far, neither Sir Donald nor the
Prime Minister has commented, although
Mr Menzies is not one to dodge an
issue. He merely outflanks it as when,
exactly 30 years ago, he told the MCC
team at a Melbourne reception that
“everyone in Australia is tremendously
interested in the Test matches and . . .
the onlookers insist on barracking; that
is their prerogative.” A few days later
the Australian Board of Control sent off
its famous telegram to the MCC: “Body-
line bowling has assumed such propor-
tions as to menace the best interests of
the game ...”
As Bradman was the main target of
Larwood’s tactics, which lowered his
average for the series to 56.57 runs, it
seems humanly possible that there is a
less majestic reason than Iverson sug-
gests for the constant neglect of Meckiff,
the “chucker” whose deliveries have
never equalled Wes Hall’s for sheer men-
ace to the person; and Hall bowls to the
rules, including the one that now allows
an umpire to stop “bodyline” bowling
after only one warning.
This is 1963. Since Stephenson’s team
came here 101 years ago, cricket has
abandoned the scooped bat, the two
stumps and one bail, Tests played to a
finish regardless of time, and many
other things. It changes slowly, but it
does change. Spectator sports which don’t
do so go to the wall, and all the tradi
tion in the world will not save them
in this age when rapid change is breedinj
its own antidote, conformism, which ha l
its paradox in that it seems to favor new
forms of old things, with little interest in
their origins.
This is something cricket must face
and there are few signs of any such
realisation in all the recent discussion
and writing about the sport. There is
none in Bradman’s “The Art of Cricket”,
which reveals Australia’s leading crickel
administrator as a man whose “art” is
strictly traditional. It may not be enough
to favor “brighter cricket”, as Bradman
does, within the old framework. The
sport has always had its bright times and
its dull seasons, according to the quality
of the players and the temperaments of
the captains, and sometimes of the ad-
ministrators.
There is a definite picture of Bradman
as an administrator in Richie Benaud’s
recent book, “A Tale of Two Tests”,
and in fairness to “The Don” it’s worth
quoting. He could have referred “Rigged”
of Evandale to it.
In excerpt, Benaud wrote, “The last
time a Brisbane crowd watched a Tesl
match Trevor Bailey batted for over
seven hours for 68.” Before the Firsl
Test against the West Indies, Sir Donald
Bradman spoke to the Australian team,
and “he told us he f elt this could be a
wonderful year of cricket. He hoped this
season that cricket would come back into
its own, and some of the play at all costs
for a draw attitudes would be forgotten.
In particular, he said that this Australian
side could lead the way to one of the
most attractive cricket series seen in the
country for a long time, but that it was
up to the flayers themselves.” And the
result is history.
Also, in fairness, it should be remem-
bered that lan Meckiff played in tin.
Test, and, suspect action or not, was
belted along with everyone else by Gty
Sobers until he took that valuable wicke-
Bradman’s critics should also
Benaud’s report of a conversation ww
went: Bradman, “What are y° u ® oU !
for, Richie, a win or a draw?”
“We’re going for a win, of course.
Bradman, “I’m very pleased to hear 1.


C 0 far, so fine. Like a majority of the
D le who follow the Tests, I have no
JJs about the Bradman ability as an
! inistrator, compared with those who
® preceded him. If we think about it
fall we might presume that the selec-
, practice of never commenting on
J reasons for dropping this man or
duding that one is out of consideration
the individuals’ feelings, even at the
0 f some bewilderment among the
laving spectators.
put this year many have wondered
Meckiff has not been included on
it record, why La wry has retained his
lace after topping a record for negative
jttiag with numerous quick dismissals,
hy new players were popping in and
at of the teams like rabbits at dawn,
jd why cricket’s administrators con-
uied to ignore the public’s right to be
tested in more than the teams on the
ild.
Ie next series
r
liey could profitably read Benaud’s
comment on the subject, in his “Tale”;
! or those steeped in the no-comment
adition I would say that but for publi-
ly good publicity in these
odern times, crowds would dwindle
id eventually drift away to some other
ort. The more good publicity cricket
ceives the more it will flourish.”
Probably, the administrators have been
ring to solve the problem of blooding
wplayers in Tests, one by one, without
aliening the teams too much. An Aus-
ilian team will go to England next year
tat Benaud, Harvey, Davidson and
lackay. The total is worse than it looks,
raise the loss includes the Australian
iptain and vice-captain, two of the best
wlers and one of the batsmen, and one
M. experienced all-rounder. A talk
'lke Press, for the public’s benefit, by
i Donald Bradman would prepare the
Mind for continued interest, and per-
!Ps even enlightened criticism. It would
[roach more than a stiff answer to
Sagged”
En’t as though “The Don” is nor-
a secretive, ungregarious person,
ft it has been said among crick-
'N that h e iik es the game better than
■Payers. Bradman experienced all the
ftaess of public fame in his day, the
ght changes in crowd attitudes, the
Ration among colleagues that the
®“ st a f least act, if he cannot be,
‘®odest idiot. But he also travelled
L. er from Bowral in cricket flannels
many 'people who have given less
sports as much of their genius,
cticf aS S ° not because of Bradman
ut because of cricket, in
| JV ra “ man was a phenomenon.
atio f g acce Pted the duties of admini-
lic n 3 s P ort which depends on
; ondarv te J eSt ’ shouldn, f one of the
y duties be to keep the public
interested and informed? Is it enough
for the Board of Control to say nothing,
and then shrug when cricket writers play
the guessing game? I realise that this has
been happening for a long time, with no
apparent harm, but I suggest that the
public tolerance is changing, that people
have less time to read frippery about
cricket, and that unless they can be given
clear facts and sound background infor-
mation, the new generations will not
bother with cricket, just as circumstances
of another kind led them to give tennis
away.
Now that the 1962-63 Test series is
about to become a memory, and almost
a new team of players has to be found,
it is an ideal time to begin to consider
any necessary breaks with the past and
changes in the future. A new, young
team led by a captain with an adven-
turous mind might not win the Ashes
in England, but would stir the younger
Australian imagination, and draw spec-
tators for the next season here.
Then the Board of Control might con-
sider whether it is enough to have less
than one visiting team a year playing ip
Australia. This is a nation becoming
ready to support as many international
contests as promoters can achieve, if the
pace is hard and fast, and, as Benaud
said, the publicity is good and I take
that to mean frank as well as favorable.
It would never be difficult to raise a
Junior Eleven to meet Pakistan or New
Zealand while the Australian team is
filling commitments abroad, and that
does not happen every year, either.
More could be done'* to encourage
junior interest in cricket. During January
about 1200 youngsters went to an even-
ing of films, and addresses by Bradman,
Benaud, Cowdrey and Vic Richardson at
the St Clair Youth Centre in South
Australia. Well, it could easily become
a baseball state, and the move was a
good one, but how rare. Is enough being
done to encourage cricket in New
Guinea? And elsewhere in the Pacific?
And, for Lords’ sake, is Perth ever
going to be given what is logical, the
First Test? Ask the Board of Control.
But sign yourself “Rigged” if you want
an answer, because the question has been
asked many times before.
These are all matters within the powers
of Australia’s cricket administrators. The
value of effectiveness of any of them
would depend on vision. Some time in
"the future it may be discovered that it is
not necessary to bring a Malayan,
Indian, Pakistani, Ceylonese, Fijian or
New Zealand Eleven here for a whole
series of Tests. One international match
could clear expenses and lift interest in
the off-years. It might even be profitable.
For the sake of public confidence in
cricket administration, the “suspect
action” issue should be settled. There is
Dexter’s remark, “I have seen a few
promising batsmen who should reach the
top. I am not so sanguine about the
bowling.” What will the selectors do if
their most promising bowlers would not
please the English critics? Bowling has
changed during cricket’s history. There
was a terrible shemozzle when overarm
bowling was first introduced Somewhere
in the 1920 s I recall that Warwick
Armstrong had to miss a State match
because he had taken a beating about
the legs from England’s Tast bowlers.
Today’s batsmen wear thigh padding
and some use chest padding, against the
faster bowlers. Richie Benaud recom-
mends polythene plastic and shrugs at
the traditionalists’ objections. And so,
probably, will cricket in general, in a
future when what is now labelled
“chucking” is tolerated. The first wrong
’un was regarded as something of a
horror weapon. Everything new is.
In very recent years a few cricketers
have decided that some road and gymna-
sium work might help their fitness during
a Test season. Others have resisted the
notion like the plague, and there was
some difference of opinion on the matter
between Gordon Pirie and members of
the English team during the voyage out
last year. By athletics standards he did
not consider the cricketers very fit. In-
evitably, as in all other sports, fitness
will become a fetish in cricket, and it
won’t harm the game.
Play must be livelier
now on, to hold the interest
established during the West Indian and
current MCC tours, livelier cricket will
be necessary. This is a demand of the
times. And it will strike home more
quickly in Sydney than anywhere else if
the present threat to ban parking in the
public sports areas near the SCG is made
law. If the public cannot drive there,
these days, the sport has to be excep-
tional to draw them.
Livelier cricket will require a careful
balance of bowling and batting strengths. 1
Wickets will fall, and 100 runs will


for all. travel
CONSULT . . .
MACDONALD HAMILTON s CO. PTY. LTD.
Accredited Agents for:
• The major shipping companies of the world.
• All airlines—domestic and international.
• The leading motor tour companies in Australia, New
Zealand, North America, United Kingdom and Europe.
• Hotels throughout Australia and the world.
We offer expert advice and assistance for passports and
other formalities and deliver tickets within the city area.
These services are entirely free of charge.
nn X
N.S.W.: 4 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone 25 1901. QLD.: 193 Mary Street, Brisbane. Telephone
31 0221. 279 Kent Street, Maryborough. Telephone 2497. Quay Street, Bundaberg. Telephone 34
VIC.*. 311 Collins Street, Melbourne. Telephone 62 3281.
mMsmm
mm
e/w
Gool-smoking
Kentucky white
hurleys, famous
for over 50
years. Ready-
rubbed or sli-
ced in pocket
tins. At all
tobacconists.
THE HOUSE OF EDG EWORTH. Virgin
become an exceptional score. Batsmen
will have to maintain a certain scoring
rate, or be out. There will be a marking
crease on the pitch to prevent bumpers,
and a 10 or 20 yard circle around
the batsman which will be out of
bounds to fieldsmen. Fast bowlers will be
allowed 30 seconds at the most between
each receipt of the ball and its delivery.
And before my crystal ball falls to
pieces, let me say that none of these may
be very good ideas; but cricket will have
many changes forced on it, an( j
may be quite extreme. Why, 0ne S( J
soon a batsman will walk on to th s
wearing new, lightweight pads that’
protect him and enable him to sprint
amble. It will be an overdue revota
The question is, how much of tl
could Sir Donald Bradman and his fell
selectors and board members see, as tl
watched the Fifth Test end and the re
test begin. It is an important quest!
for the future face of cricket, and;
that I and many other spectators woi
like to see answered, if Don Bradm
should ever have the urge to pen a f
lines again.
In “The Art- of Cricket” he describ
the infinite variety of possibilities whi
make the game so fascinating to
students, if any of them are realisi
There’s the rub. Unfortunately, crick
not only for cricketers. It is for 50$
Test spectators of whom about 40,(1
in the classic phrase, don’t know ai
thing about Art, but know what tl
like. Faster cricket, for instance. It’s
long way back to the village green,
The nearest thing to that, and to p
nic cricket by heroic players, will be
traditional match in Canberra, and ei
there a modern synthesis is part of I
scene. Normally, Canberra weatl
would not allow the grass on the pil
to mature until December, too late
a good preparation. So they have instal
electric elements under both pitches
Manuka Oval, to bring on the grass
October.
Of the sacred pitch let’s say no m
than that at one time it was not o
sidered cricket to whip covers on i
off it. A later generation may feelt
the present arrangement places too j?
a premium on luck, to the detriment
skill. If the modern mind continues
its present directions, it will met
regard luck as a challenge to science,
life, in sport, and in cricket of all spa
I suspect that some young man will
computer and ten spare minutes 1
prove that cricket becomes dull >
every 150 runs, and our selectors of
day will then adjust the new-ball ng
That year one of the best-sellers w
“The Physics of Cricket”, by Sir Hj
Messel. :
Before then, a simple digital comp l
could be used to assess anot et
cricket’s queries the value m ‘
and more than that, the value in ra
talent, which the MCC teams m
here and there around the country,'
the Australian team’s lesser mac
England, can show on the boo s
tion apart, are such extended tour, :
October to March here, good tor
I have no opinion, but sU §» est t : ra!
things should be examined fr°
time. , . nll u tt
And for a final apostasy, s 1
be five Tests?


OUT AND ABOUT
WOLLONGONG:
ADOLESCENT
AMONG CITIES
Will it overhaul Newcastle?
By TREVOR MURRELL
physically, Wollongong-Port Kembla
k (or to give the area its correct title,
A the City of Greater Wollongong)
has everything; a long string of golden
Caches, scenic beauty, rapidly-expanding
industries, a thriving commercial centre,
id even (although it is gradually shrink-
ig) a fringe of rural land. But in other
lays Greater Wollongong is lacking,
ftile technically a city, the predominant
outlook is that of a small town.
This is not without reason, for Greater
Mongong is the adolescent of Austra-
lia cities; a gangling youth of a city,
iering from sharp growing pains,
spotted with skin blemishes, groping for
its real character.
It is an Australian version of a boom
town. Its post-war growth has been
bomenaL Although very young
Greater Wollongong was proclaimed only
in 1947 it is now the third city of
Sew South Wales and the seventh of
tetralia (its population and its produc-
iffl are greater than Hobart’s).
In fact, Greater Wollongong is ranked
*cond only to Canada’s Edmonton as
4e world’s fastest-growing city. While in
Edmonton oil has been the spur, Wollon-
(®l owes its growth to the huge con-
centration of heavy industries at Port
bbla.
It is emulating, on a smaller scale, the
Brazilian city of Sao Paulo, which began
Is industrial development in the 1920 s
1( I soon after earned its nickname of
k “Chicago of the South.”
Although the steel industry was estab-
stod at Port Kembla in 1926, the de-
[®ion years stalled off any outstanding
lowth of secondary industries until just
® the War, when the boom began,
wne idea of Wollongong’s expansion
gauged from its population figures,
jnhave doubled in the past 12 years,
* 'ts industrial output, which has sur-
'ed %ures which were estimated,
c m the early fifties, for 1990. Steel
L, Uc fi on at the Australian Iron and
Ltd works is the highest in the
i er ® hemisphere (3.25 million tons
Mi anc * coa l production on the
i> ern fields stands at more than seven
i 0n tons annually.
From 1950/51 to 1960/61 industrial
output increased from £45.7 million to
£241.2 million; production value from
£11.2 million to £84.8 million.
The 1960/61 figures, with a total work
force of 26,654, were considerably higher
than Newcastle’s for the same period
(industrial output £214 million and pro-
duction value £68.7 million) with a
greater work-force of 33,517.
The effect of the industrial boom on
the city can be seen in the amazing in-
crease in expenditure on building from
only £4 million in 1950/51 to £34.6
million ten years later.
The Prime Minister, Mr Menzies, said
recently: “Wollongong represents a
microcosm of the whole Australian eco-
nomy. If this area continues to develop
as it has, so splendidly, then it is reason-
able to expect Australia to develop in the
future.”
But Wollongong has had no time to
settle down, to sit back and take stock of
itself, to work out its problems. Unlike
its older sister city, Newcastle, it has not
been able to take progress in its stride;
it has expanded haphazardly, unchecked.
Its narrow main street mile-long
Crown Street is ever-changing, with
re-building and renovation. Wollongong
is a growing market and, with so many
jumping on the band-waggon to cash in,
it is becoming a city of service-stations,
insurance buildings, apartment blocks,
supermarkets and regional shopping
centres with, unfortunately, very little
personality behind its glass and steel
facade.
This almost overnight emergence of a
provincial town, relying largely on prim-
ary industries, to a major industrial centre
and budding city has left Wollongong
somewhat confused.
In the midst of the boom it retains to
a great degree an ambiance of “small
town” thinking. This can be blamed
partly on its geographical location; its
276 square miles are spread over a nar-
row, triangular coastal strip more than
30 miles long.
From the apex in the north, where the
mountains become sheer cliffs dropping
down to the sea, the Illawarra Range
gradually recedes from the coast and
Wollongong widens to some six miles at
its southern boundary, which crosses
Lake Illawarra. Originally the area was
populated by a string of towns which
gradually fused, so that now they are
regarded as suburbs.
But the fusion of these towns into the
mass of the greater city is only compara-
tively recent; and no sooner did Wollon-
gong become a city than along came the
era of decentralisation of shopping and
other necessary suburban facilities, thus
helping to maintain the grouping of the
former towns rather than the creation of
the City of Greater Wollongong as a
whole.
The city is now spreading its residen-
tial tentacles up the mountainsides and,
particularly south of Wollongong proper,
thrusting into the dairy country. The
southern end of the city is closer to the
heavy industries, and is as yet compara-
tively undeveloped.
The NSW Housing Commission has
spent more than £ 15 million in Wollon-
gong since the war in an effort to help
ease the acute housing shortage, and has


Wait a second...
COMMERCIAL & GENERAL ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN NEW SOUTH WALES
(Bmmtuttfal BattfeUqj Company of £yiut?y timitffi
KENT * MUtTT STkEETE, SYDNET
027361
THE ATTACHED CHEQUE IS IN PAYMENT OF INTEREST FOR THE CURRENT
QUARTER OR ACCRUED FROM DATE OF LODGEMENT OR PREVIOUS
QUARTERLY PAYMENT ON DEBENTURE STOOV DEPOSIT/NOTES LISTED
BELOW.
THIS CHEQUE REQUIRES ENDORSEMENT. PAYABLE FREE OF EXCHANGE COM MERCIAL & GENERAL ACCEPTANCE LIMITED
THROUGH ANY BRANCH OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
Of SYDNEY LIMITED
SIGNED
... and this interest cheque of CAGA FINANCE was calculated and printed at our
Computer Centre, on the GE.225 one of the most flexible computers available today i
Australia. In just a few minutes this modern computer can do all the mathematics that
done by hand—it can solve problems far beyond man’s capability and assist
industry to do a much better job... accurately, more economically 1
ls Our Most tErriJl Important Product
COMPUTER DEPARTMENT
103 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-7553
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC PTY.
P79/I0.7!


ted two southern satellite towns at
Ikeley (13°0 houses) and Unanderra
L this, along with private home
uilding in the south ’ has added to the
' Jing of separation between opposite
Q s of the strung-out city. People living
L the southernmost suburb of Dapto
little in common with those in one
■ the northern suburbs, say, Austinmer
Coledale.
This attitude has tended to check pro-
tss in the city itself. The most notable
Irjence of this is the failure to create
second major business street. While
anises in Crown Street repeatedly
ange hands, and more glass and con-
;te 6 additions sprout up, barely half-a-
zen department stores have ventured
yond. Wollongong has still no second
isiness street and one is many years
Overdue.
I%ne recent examples of this wariness
progress are the rejected proposals for
irist attractions near Wollongong
rbor and on an island in Lake Flaw-
's (despite the constant decrying of the
b’s failure to attract tourists); and the
ortive attempt to introduce a new traf-
system in Wollongong. The city suffers
iin a dire traffic problem—one person
[every four owns a car or van. To
mbat the congestion in inner streets a
r traffic and parking scheme, includ-
one-way traffic in Crown Street, w’as
oduced on a six-months trial basis. But
mail group of businessmen, operating
he failing eastern end of Crown Street,
icted soon after its introduction; they
med it was losing them trade,
b the scheme was doomed from the
l-as usual in Wollongong, notice was
en of the minority group. Traffic had
(er flowed better; shoppers, motorists
[the greater number of commercial
made no complaint; but these
iple were disregarded and in December
one month before the end of the trial
sod —two-way traffic returned, along
congestion.
jjtle for power
1 almost every body established in
! there is a perpetual battle
or power, for political or other reasons.
I me main offender is the ALP, with its
ID y Ranches. In an industrial centre
' e Wollongong the Labor Party should
] an important role. The Liberal Party
- ~r nost non-existent, and the only other
I r ca l force is the Communist Party,
C. as three full-time organisers oper-
the district.
Jt the ALP in Wollongong devotes
0 time to internal squabbling.
, ov 0n fhose rare occasions when it does
Hits tv * S invariat) ly to d° with some-
J.. e tbe pot-hole in the street Mrs
lVes in> ignoring important matters
Jlj ! s ’ sa y, the growing near-slums at
suburb huddled against the
, 0 Port Kembla steelworks).
Other groups affected by this malaise
are rendered similarly ineffective. A
struggle for power exists within the trust
that supposedly manages the fenced-in
paddock that is called Wollongong Show-
ground, in the Tenancy Advisory Com-
mittee of the Housing Commission and,
of all things, in the Nareena Home for
the Aged Trust.
This spirit is not confined to political
groups, but permeates all kinds of orga-
nisations—sporting, commercial and cul-
tural.
Like many adolescents, Wollongong
suffers from a marked inferiority com-
plex, and it has to keep telling itself what
an important place it is. It has some
reason for this.
For too long it has remained New-
castle’s “little sister” in the eyes of the
nation and, also, it lies in the shadow
of Sydney. But Greater Wollongong has
long since overhauled Newcastle in pro-
duction, and is now producing twice as
much steel as its northern counterpart.
Although beneficial in some ways,
proximity to Sydney has its complica-
tions. Many of Wollongong’s young
people are lured by the “big smoke”,
while others, mainly among the profes-
sional and business set, continue to refer
to travelling to Sydney (where most of
them came from) as “going to town”
The large mass of Sydney close by tends
to make Wollongong seem more insigni-
ficant than it is.
The trade union movement in Wollon-
gong is powerful, and yet comparatively
free of internal strife. There is the dis-
tinct split between the right and left wing
unions (the Federated Ironworkers’ Asso-
ciation holds court in its 1955 vintage,
seven-storied Ironworker Building, while
most of the other unions are housed in
the newly-constructed Trade Union
Centre of the Miners’ Federation). But
the skirmishes between the two factions
are mild compared with those that occur
elsewhere. There is comparatively little
major industrial upheaval, and full-time
union officials are kept busy with minor
claims and complaints. Port Kembla
wharves are among the quietest in Aus-
tralia, although Communists hold some
of the key positions in the local branch
of the Waterside Workers’ Federation.
In fact, compared with some other
types of organisations in the city, the
unions get things done with remarkably
little fuss.
Essentially the city of the small man
the tradesman, the steel-worker and
the miner Greater Wollongong wor-
ships the god of overtime. At its peak of
prosperity two years ago these men were
earning, through double-time and double-
shifts, as well as by “lurks” outside reg-
ular employment, as much as and in
many cases more than, the better edu-
cated classes (doctors and solicitors ex-
cepted). Although the bubble burst, ajjbng
with the real estate and building balloons,
when the “credit squeeze” came, it did
not quite vanish. Still, when someone is
after a job, the first question he asks is:
“Can I get much overtime?”.
So there is preoccupation with money,
and apathy towards the city’s affairs.
People are more concerned with where
they can earn those few extra quid for
the payments on the house and the car
and other hire-purchase items, and who
will win this year’s football competition,
than with what is happening to and in
Wollongong. An issue has to be thrust
time and time again under the noses of
the public before they sit up and listen,
let alone think about it.
Steelworks colossus
HThe dominating feature of Wollongong,
A physically and otherwise, is, of
course, the colossus of the Port Kembla
steelworks the giant of blast-furnaces
and open hearths and mills, sprawled
over hundreds of acres and surrounded
by a bevy of lesser heavy industries.
Without the steelworks Wollongong
would not be what it is today, and would
still be relying on primary produce.
Everything in Wollongong dances to
the tune played by the steelworks; com-
mercial interests gear themselves and
their advertising for steelworks’ pay-days,
housewives gauge their lives by the same
happy event, the City Council woos the
power behind the source of the town’s
industrial might.
Divided into a Number One and a
Number Two steelworks, it contains, in
addition, an immense flat products divi-
sion, which is the largest individual pri-
vate enterprise operating in Australia and
which now is producing more than the
country’s needs in tin-plate (an achieve-
ment, when one considers that ten years
ago Australia had to import all her tin-
plate).
Workers at Port Kembla have an un-
usual relationship with their place of
employment. No steelworks in the world
is a pleasant place to work, regardless of
how much overtime can be earned. It is
dirty; dust penetrates everywhere, even
into offices, providing a constant source
of irritation. The steelworker grumbles
about the smoke and the dust and the
heat in which he works, and begrudges
the profits made by BHP from his sweat.
But at the same time, he has a perverse
pride in the world production records
created by various sections of the works,
and there is a distinct note of satisfaction
in his voice as he describes the function
of his plant or shows a visitor through
the vast industrial acreage.
The influence of the non-British
migrants is considerable. It is seen in
Crown Street and its off-shoots in the
many espresso bars, continental delicates-
sens and fashion stores, and in the shop-
window signs that list the number of


languages spoken by employees; and
newspapers carry advertisements in
foreign languages.
Wollongong with its people from
40-odd nations is probably the most
cosmopolitan centre in Australia outside
Sydney’s Kings Cross. The proportion of
migrants in its population is greater than
in any other city or town in the country.
It is, in fact, regarded as a fron-
tier of the “New Australia”. Assimi-
lation, although slow and marred by the
creation of “Little Italys”, “Little
Maltas”, and other national colonies, par-
ticularly at Cringila, is well under way.
Wollongong is used to migrants now, and
men working continually alongside those
of other nationalities find it difficult to
keep up the traditional animosities.
And migrants have given local culture
a slight jolt ip the arm. They form a
large proportion of the small audiences at
classical musical recitals and concerts,
and many of them are talented artists.
In line with its inveterate materialism,
one of Wollongong’s worst deficiencies
has been its lack of culture. Overloaded
with clubs, its entertainment consists
almost solely of drinking in chrome and
Laminex-fitted lounges to the accompani-
ment of two shilling-pieces clanking into
the bottomless guts of poker machines.
The arts have been completely ignored,
except for token gestures of prizes at the
annual council-run art shows.
Arts Council and Workshop Theatre
presentations attract a mere handful of
regulars, and art shows, although be-
coming fashionable among social clim-
bers, receive little backing or encourage-
mcnt.
Like most cities, large or small,
Wollongong has its faults. Yet, for all
that it lacks, it offers much to the man
seeking a place in which to settle down
good jobs, some comfortable residen-
tial areas, excellent shopping and trading
facilities, a string of glorious beaches and
a countryside within easy reach of the
city.
Above all, it offers a future —a future
more impressive, perhaps, than in any
other place in Australia. It is destined for
an even greater role in national develop-
ment and appears* if the current rate of
expansion continues, to be about to
overhaul Newcastle and become the
sixth city of Australia.
Greater Wollongong never will be a
beautiful city, and it has no N tradition
for, although its past goes back to the
earliest days of Australian settlement, the
majority of its people are newcomers.
But there is a growing community
spirit, an emerging awareness of Greater
Wollongong as a single entity and of the
importance of what is happening there.
And perhaps, as the children of the
migrants, both old and new Australians,
reach maturity, then Greater Wollongong,
too, may come of age.
FOREIGN FILMS;
TWO AUDIENCES
"And then, of course, there's always sex"
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Grey Eminence of Australia’s
current foreign-film boom is a
rotund and relaxed Pole who now
calls himself Sidney Blake. Smartly
suited, in a two-by-four Sydney office
decorated with film cans, Blake controls
about 80 p.c. of the foreign movie
import business in the country and has
been largely responsible together with
Robert Kapferer, who seems to be
much less active these days—for the
fact that Sydney and Melbourne com-
pare favorably with Los Angeles and
San Francisco as centres for European
cinema screenings.
“There are four foreign film theatres
in Sydney, three in Melbourne and
regular outlets in the other cities,” Blake
said with an air of understandable pride.
“My films keep them busy most of the
time.” Each year, Blake treats himself
to a trip to the Cannes, Venice and
Berlin festivals to look over the current
product. “I usually see between 170
and 190 films each trip,” he told me.
“Of these, I choose between 15 and 20
I think might be suitable for the Aus-
tralian market.”
What qualities did he look for in a
film; what did he feel would appeal to
the public here? “Of course I have to
bear in minfl that there are two publics.
The one is made up of 80 p.c. migrants
and 20 p.c. Australians this is the
non - intellectual, the non - arty public.
This public wants a strong story, stars
they’ve heard of at home if they’re
migrants, and an opening that isn’t
boring, that grips them right away.” He
smiled innocently. “And then, of course,
there’s always sex. One must remember
that.”
He paused, frowning suddenly. “And
then there’s the other public —of
students. There is now a big enough
audience of students to fill a theatre for
an arty film for quite some time. I am
having one of my biggest successes right
now with ‘Boccaccio 70,’ which has run
for several weeks at a Sydney theatre.”
How had he made out with the really
formidably “arty” films Antonioni’s
“L’Avventura,” for instance, which with
its snail pace and stark images must
have proved a taxing experience for all
save the doughtiest highbrows? “Well
I didn’t like it myself,” he said. “And
the audience at Cannes—there were cat-
calls and laughter and boos. I decided
at once that it wouldn’t be on my list
But then when it got to London the
critics gave it a fantastic amount of
praise. I still wasn’t interested. But the
local theatre managers pressed me to
bring it in. I gave in.” He breathed a
massive sigh of relief. “Fortunately, I
kept my money. I broke even.” He
looked as though he would hesitate to
take other risks like that, although he
has brought in Alain Resnais’ “Last
Year at Marienbad,” named by a con-
sensus of the world’s critics as the
greatest film not only of 1962 but of all
time.
“I graduated from Cracow University
in law in 1922,” he said. “But there was
no money in law too much com-
petition and I went into the film dis-
tribution business there.” In 1939 he
owned five theatres, as well as a dis-
lot and fled via Lithuania to a ship for
tribution company, but abandoned the
Japan and then, on a visa supplied by
the Polish expatriate Government in
London, to Sydney.
Unable to speak English, Blake was
unable to enter the film industry here,
but while running a restaurant business
in Kings Cross he pioneered film im-
ports from Russia by bringing in “Pro-
fessor Mamlock” and “The German
Defeat Near Moscow.” Then in 1954,
with some gift shops under his manage-
ment and plenty of money coming in,,
he went back into film distribution yet
again, renewing his old Paris contacts
and re-hiring the agent he had used in
Poland, Wilhelm Buchheim, to handle
his European negotiations.
“Beginning with films like ‘Com-*
panions of the Night,’ ‘Caroline Cherie,
‘Return of Don Camillo’ and ‘Le Gram
Jeu,’ I gradually got things going,”
said. “By 1958 the Australian pm
was responding warmly to foreign films-
For the art picture, audiences were
p.c. Australian. My biggest successes
were with ‘La Parisienne,’ the Bardo
picture, in 1958, and Sam Goldwyn*
old ‘Secret Life of Walter Mitty’ m j
That Goldwyn movie did 8-10 wee s
the Sydney Lyceum.” J
With the foreign films and m e ,1
Goldwyn production keeping turn
clover, Blake might be thought o
completely happy with the s^ ene , '
but there was something troubling j
the festivals. “The only real rim


... v :
' ■
■ VvS
'P**; , - *
J i
**•> V-.
*
„ •Ttn-ijr-r " jm.
* ».
FALCON '*
ms
. . ; ~-. . :
. . . . ■ ■ :
.
V ' ? r ' Ws* * W' i. H
' , *
-: * £ r '> j; 4Ss»>* *.; * »>
g #>
&£^psSßs
■
'=Ws - * s'* $& S
;£«
&
,
: ,
■': ■ : |
I
V-$ w':S
' ■ : 1
m
: i, ■■■
■ i
MaagSHHB
;vV, ■
;,; jo-
rngm
. ■
. ..-;. ..
FXS4I
® nce you weigh all the things you want in a car against what you want to pay, you’ll agree the other
Makes can only come close to the trim, taut, terrific new Falcon. No other car in its class gives you the
dean, low-swept beauty of Thunderbird-inspired style, or carries such a high resale value. No other
as l he eagerness to eat up the miles on so little petrol or the ruggedness of heavy-duty ball-joint suspension.
no other offers you the pleasure and dependability of Fordomatic Drive world’s simplest and
proven automatic transmission. See and drive the new Falcon today at your Ford Dealer’s .
> ce °f two engines: Pick from the
' o norse Power economy-leader (it’s still
, h more powerful than the engine of
or the cobra-
J5 a *n° mp . etitor )
Worming engine that “cools off the
not ones”.
Pursuit 170” the super-
Lower cost of ownership: Only car
to offer you the complete combination:
(i) Low initial price, (2) Up to 30 miles
per gallon, (3) 6,000 miles between oil
changes, (4) highest resale value, (5) low
cost service and parts, (6) Ford 12/12
Warranty.
Choice of 6 models: Your choice of 3
sleek sedans including the fabulous
Futura (which features bucket seats), and
3 fun-loving station wagons, including
the aristocrat of all wagons the beauti-
ful Squire with its glamorous side-
panelling.
FOR BEST VALUE - FROM £1065 INCLUDING SALES TAX
(Prices slightly higher in country areas.)


tival in Australia is the Perth Festival,”
Blake said. “They try to show the most
outstanding pictures in the country, and
they pay for them. The other festivals
want films for nothing, including mine.”
He was particularly critical of the Mel-
bourne Film Festival, feeling that with
its large budget it could amply afford
to pay for his films and still have plenty
of surplus over. “A film I have just
brought in here, ‘Mondo Cane,’ had its
Australian premiere in Perth, simply
because they paid for it.”
Blake was most enthusiastic about the
work done by John Birman, promoter
of the West Australian Festival of Arts,
but not so enthusiastic about the work
done by the other Film Festival organ-
isers. Later, I contacted lan Klava,
Director of the Sydney Film Festival,
and asked him for, a comment. “We’ve
known for some time that Blake doesn’t
like us,” Klava said. “The fact is that
we can’t afford to pay for his films,
though I can’t speak for Melbourne.
Most of our films are brought into the
country on the grounds that Australians
wouldn’t otherwise be able to see them.
In order to avoid expensive duty pay-
ments, we have to guarantee they will
leave the country within a certain time.
“Blake’s films are shown at Perth
because Perth’s is a festival of films to
be shown in the rest of Australia and
which West Australians might not other-
wise see. Since they only show films
already in the country they operate quite
differently from ourselves.”
It seems unfortunate, then, that the
Sydney and Melbourne festivals and
Blake cannot work in close conjunction,
and must be perpetually at loggerheads
this way. But such conflicts are, of
course, part of film business both here
and —it seems everywhere else as
well.
MY FRIEND lONESCO
"A child who has grown old in years only"
The second part of a profile of the noted playwright
By LUCIEN BOZ
The world reputation of Rumanian
playwright, Eugene lonesco, Was
made with a handful of plays
“The Bald Prima Donna,” “The Lesson,”
“The Chairs” and “Rhinoceros” but
he has, of course, written others, which
are important to an understanding of
his development as a writer.
Among lonesco’s other plays is
“L’lmpromptu de Belvedere,” a sketch
that has never been publicly performed.
It is a one-act play dealing with the
dramatic events that preceded the
abdication of King Edward VIII.
In May, 1957, in Paris, at the house
of an Argentinian patron of the arts,
Mr de Bestegui, this sketch was per-
formed in the presence of the Duke and
Duchess of Windsor, lonesco and his
wife, Salvador Dali and his wife and
the dramatist Marcel Achard.
There are only two characters in the
play, which lasts 20 minutes. One per-
former represents the author, the other
a lady of high society. The latter asks
the author to write a play about the Duke
and Duchess of Windsor. An amusing
discussion follows in which they try to
find a way of avoiding embarrassment
to anyone. The first night comes but the
play has not yet been written. lonesco
then decides to perform a scene show-
ing the first meeting between the Prince
of Wales and Mrs Simpson. The actress
assumes an American accent and plays
Mrs Simpson with a heavy cold, sneezing
and blowing her nose.
The Prince says to her: “You have
caught a bad cold.”
“Yes, these English houses are cold.”
“The houses are heated better in
America,” says the Prince.
The conversation sounds common-
place, but through the stereotyped
phrases runs a current of amusing
allusion that did not seem to please the
illustrious couple present at the per-
formance. That is why, when I asked
lonesco for the rights to produce this
sketch in Australia, he wrote to me in
a letter dated July 8, 1957:
“The Duchess and the Duke of Wind-
sor, feeling that they have been mocked
by the ‘lmpromptu,’ are against its per-
formance.”
“The Obedient Jack,” lonesco’s third
play to be performed, and which I saw
in May last at the Studio des Champs-
Elysees in Paris in Jacques Mauclair’s
production, is a “naturalist play.” Jack
is the despair of his family: grandfather,
grandmother, parents and sister all say-
ing that he does not like potatoes with
bacon. But at the end Jack gives in,
eats the dish he previously refused, and
marries Roberte, who has nine fingers
and three noses, thus strongly resembling
a painting by Picasso.
The rebel (are there not rebels in every
family?) submits to his parents’ wish,
conforms, marries Roberte and goes into
anonymity. He wanted to spread his own
wings and free himself from family ties.
Instead ... defeat, despair, failure.
There were qualified newspaper criti-
cisms of the play. The thread -,
story was, however, easy to foij
pite the unusual style in which the’ 6
aracters spoke. A few intellect,, ,7
acclaimed him, bu, , he Ac,a,3
Robert Kemp, supported by all
thinking” critics, was saying; %!
esco is strictly equal to zero.” i 0l! 1
friends replied to this by quoting a?
ous phrase from Jules Renard: %!
critics are the ones who write fj
big newspapers.”
“The New Tenant” is the story 0 f
man who collects furniture and all kin
of curiosa: an empaled head, a harp,
cupboard, a vase, etc., and in thee
his room is overflowing with perf ec
useless objects. And when the
movalists escape by the attic window,!
tenant (we can only hear his voice-.
is hidden under all the bric-a-brac) t;
out: “Switch off the light!”
This play in one act tells of a B
who tries to escape from the world!
horrifies him and who, in the darki
of his room, prefers to live with
atmosphere created by the strai
objects he has collected.
The subject of lonesco’s next pi
“Amedee” is a corpse that has been
an apartment for 15 years and!
slowly grows in size, an inch or I
a year. Suddenly the corpse starts
grow visibly and the couple who hi
been giving it shelter decide to get
of it. Amedee, down on the strati
carried aloft by the corpse, now chan
into a luminous parachute, and hell
escapes from the police who are tn
to arrest him. Amedee flies upward!
his wife Madeleine can only say: “Co
down Amedee, you’ll get the ’flu, jt
catch cold. Look here, Amedee,?
never be serious. You’re lifting you
up but you're not going up in
esteem.”
In ‘Tlmpromptu de l’Alma,” to
makes gentle mockery of drama cri
He figures as himself in this play.
lonesco the author who has to del
himself against three critics, calledi
tholomeus I, Bartholomew II and J
tholomeus 111.
“L’Avenir est dans les oeufs. ®
faut de tout pour faire un monde
takes all kinds to make a wort ) 1
sequel to “The Obedient Jack, k 3ll
for several years, Jack and
the great despair of their farou
eluding their dead grandfather
sometimes comes back to the u° r
takes part in the conversations y s
ing through his portrait hanging 0
wall), have no children.
It is all a play on words, an
display of words, but it leaves
tinct impression, the instinct or
that, in spite of everything- se
life continues, that children a i


m
Y//A4
mm®
mm
m
*>'•
;'' . j
-•.
ffl/
Oriei*
fgplippp
Festival
mm
i-m
Id
Colourful, easily cleaned floors for children's play
GSR H 1-VINYL
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
Mosaic
Stardust
8 oft... Quiet... Elegant
In any setting, in any home, CSR Hi-Vinyl
Floor Tiles bring new luxury and colour. Soft,
underfoot comfort, deep colourful dimension
make CSR Hi-Vinyl Floor Tiles ideal for your
home.
Mosaic, Festival, Oriental, Stardust, Marbleised—
exotic patterns and over 40 beautiful colours to
blend with your decor and give you a personal,
individual floor. Select your design by using the
free CSR Pattern Planning Service. Hi-Vinyl Tiles
are made in Australia.
Mtltf tf&M \)idU tefei
<*s»>
BUILDING\ s /MATERIiLS
H 1.102
SOLD BY DEPARTMENTAL AND HARDWARE STORES EVERYWHERE
for Complete Oral Hygiene
\
\
MOUTH
WASH
■. i j ' Htgbly Concentrated’'
and
. : : ■gcandfplcß !•' to Use : i
NETT CONTENTS: 25 ?L OZS.
isjiuaqo jnoA luoji :
V- 1 ■ v<"* : • V*- >■ *r ••'*
HSVMHIfIOIAI
it ■'Rh-.i:■{
After meals refresh with Odol.
A few drops provide protection
against bad breath and germs.
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA
by SCOTT & BOWNE (A/ASIA) Ltd.
vefl if their future is not very
encouraging-
" The Master is a sketch where the
hlic’s taste for fashionable celebrities
\ pU taken to task by lonesco. We have all
IS en actors and singers showered with
Quests by autograph hunters, blinded
[v the strong reflectors of human curi-
L lonesco, in this play, does not tell
, us w hat kind of “master” he means. Is
it a novelist, a philosopher or a popular
s j n ge r ? It does not really matter. All
the stupidity and hysteria of a crowd
wrought up by the news that the Master
j s coming are savagely satirised by
i lonesco.
I The three acts of “The Killer” show
i the single-handed combat by Beranger,
t whom lonesco calls an “average citizen
|of average age,” against a killer whose
[ victims are beyond number.
We have seen how in “Rhinoceros” the
people were afflicted and felt an irresist-
ible desire to return to the marshes. In
“The Killer” we see the defeat of a man
who set out to fight the disease and tried
to recruit others who would also fight
against the danger of annihilation
; represented by the Killer.
The Beranger of “Rhinoceros” is the
[only one in the world who continues
jto fight against rhinoceritis, but in “The
Killer,” a sad end awaits the Beranger in
whom cowardice and weariness take the
upper hand.
j lonesco’s Killer reminds me of the
l central character in a novel, “Thought”
i (la Pensee) by a Russian author of the
pre-revolutionary period, Leonida An-
idreew. In this novel of the 1900 s,
Doctor Kerjenteff dreams of inventing a
f means of destruction more powerful
1 than nitroglycerine, that could wipe out
! the world. This wish has been fulfilled:
1 scientists have invented the atomic bomb,
the cobalt bomb, powerful enough to
destroy life on this earth. lonesco’s Killer
"'ipes out humanity in small slices and
the public does not react against it. Is
this same public going to condone the
use °f bombs that can cause total
l destruction?
The three acts of this play recall the
'"tensely dramatic pages of Kafka’s “The
dual But lonesco has created a fan-
lasy that was not to be found in the
sombre, icy setting of Kafka’s novel.
" yet we must not be mistaken here:
es P*te the brilliant fantasy that runs
rou gh the play, the position of lonesco,
0 is fighting against the public’s
pat y in the face of the mortal danger
at threatens it, is very clear. It is an
ac - intellectual position. I would even
. 11 3 cartesian position, if this ad-
Irnq Vere not SO disliked by lonesco.
[| i in a thicket i n the Soseaua
y e is Bucharest’s “Bois de
a P°hce officer found the
- °t a magistrate. He had com-


mitted suicide and the Coroner’s report
showed that he had suffered from
neurasthenia. His name was Dumitru
Demetresco-Buzau, a Rumanian name
as common as Smith or Jones. The
newspapers mentioned the incident in
the regular general news column. The
event was commonplace, the name was
commonplace. What few people knew
at the time was that under the
pseudonym “Urmuz” this Mr Demet-
resco had written poems and stories
which had earned the admiration of a
few intellectuals. In 1930, when I pub-
lished an account of his work, his sister
came to see me with Urmuz’s manu-
scripts that she had carefully kept. She
begged me to edit them. This I was
happy to do and straight away I went
in search of a publisher. Everywhere I
met total indifference. A few years
later a lieutenant-doctor in the Medical
Corps, a poet who had spent most of
his salary to publish under a pseudonym
the avant-garde review “Unu,” published
Urmuz’s work in a small volume.
Urmuz’s poems are an enigma and
there is a rather sad aura about his
absurd verbal acrobatics. It would take
a whole book to try to analyse his work.
Urmuz tried to descend the staircase
of thought right down to the mental
level of pajjnitive organisms and to
proceed as a scientist would in the
laboratory with a polyp, turning face
downward. The polyp continues to live
and in a remarkable way the same thing
happens with inverted thought, turned
to opposite poles, which still has life.
Without prior initiation into the poet’s
way of thinking, some poems are not
easy to understand. The same applies to
Urmuz who cannot be understood; his
poems may cause us to laugh, as we
laugh at a clown. One of Urmuz’s
characters, Cotadi, is covered with roof-
ing shingles and has a piano cover
screwed to his back.
lonesco liked Urmuz’s work so much
that he wished to translate it into French.
He was not able to carry out this plan
because at the time (1947) Urmuz’s
works were not public property. Being
later fully occupied with other matters,
he abandoned the project. I believe that
Urmuz had a profound influence ‘ on
lonesco’s dramatic writing.
Unknown Dramatist
Another author who influenced
lonesco was lon Caragiale whose
sketch “Les Grandes Chaleurs” (The Hot
Season) lonesco turned into a play. The
author of stories and a few plays,
Caragiale is best known for his humorous
sketches. lonesco considers Caragiale
the “best unknown dramatist in the
world.” “His characters speak as if they
were deeply immersed in the irrationality
of cretinism.” Like the characters in
Beckett’s “Endgame.”
Another Rumanian, an exponent of
surrealism and, like lonesco, living in
Paris, and in a sense a lesser precursor
of lonesco, is Tristan Tzara who is better
known as a poet than as a dramatist.
I should add here the name of a little
known Rumanian author who died when
still a young man in a tuberculosis
sanatorium, M. Blecher. He wrote only
one book: “Memories of the Immediate
Irreality.” The adventures of the mind
that he describes in this story take place
on the peaks of “poetic insanity”
analogous to the surrealists’ dream
interpretations.
A quotation from Blecher’s book will
assist in understanding of lonesco:
“. . . The intimate and sad sensation that
I used to feel during my adolescence
when during my endless wanderings I
would suddenly awaken in the middle
of a terrible isolation as though the
people and the houses around me had
been swiftly absorbed into the uniform
dough of a single substance in which I
existed as the only empty space that
walks here and there without purpose.”
I think that I should mention a
phrase of lonesco where the fear of
emptiness appeared when, in the review
“Les Cahiers des Saisons,” he explains
the states of mind that are at the origin
of his plays: the first is an understanding
of the evanescence of things; the second,
of their weight. “Every one of us,”
wrote lonesco, “has been able to feel, at
certain times, that the world has the
substance of a dream, that the walls no
longer have thickness, that we seem able
to see through all things.”
The editor of this same review,
Jacques Brenner, observes correctly that
lonesco, finding himself a prisoner in a
stifling prison, the words that were
dancing like soap bubbles, now fall like
stones. It is at this stage that he sub-
stitutes for these symbols of lightness in
his plays, material objects: innumerable
mushrooms begin to grow in an apart-
ment (“Amedee”); hundreds of cups
are brought in to serve coffee to only
three people (“Victims of duty”); dozens
of chairs are arranged for invisible
guests (“The Chairs”); several noses
appear on the face of a young girl (“The
Obedient Jack”). These objects are the
concrete manifestation of solitude, of
the victory of mindless forces.
It is by humor, “happy symptom of
the other presence” that we must react.
lonesco has stated clearly that his plays
are the product of “a state of mind, not
of an ideology; of an impulsion, not of
a programme.”
I have found a confirmation of the
influence of Urmuz on lonesco, in an
article by William Saroyan: “the pain
of absurdity, of failure and of despair
is expressed, in the midst of a ,
hyena’s laugh. ... You can break °I
laughing at the top of your voice
well, and you do, whether you re J * S
see one of his plays, but your laui”
is not altogether real, or in any Cas
does not resemble any laugh y ou J
heard before. The thing i s j Ust
funny as you are accustomed to thin!
that things are funny and yet a lot f
people break into laughter, as, goodne!
knows, they have a right to, because it
is never necessary to justify l aug[lter
lonesco, himself, to all appearances pre
ferred everyone to laugh. Laugh a j
much as you want to, but only try to
forget what you have seen and the effect
that it has had on you. You cannot do
it. This is art, the new art.”
Five-year Run
T AST May and June I met lonesco
again in Paris and discovered how great
is the fame he enjoys now. His plays
were being performed simultaneously in
three different theatres—at the Huchette,'
where for five years without a break!
matinees and evenings, they have been
performing “The Bald Prima Donna’’;!
at the Studio des Champs-Elysees, where
Jacques Mauclair was the producer and
star performer in “The Chairs” and
“The Obedient Jack.” At the Theatre de
France (the new name of the Odeon),
lonesco alternates with O’Neill and
Beckett.
At one time, lonesco told me, his
plays were staged in five theatres at the
one time: “Rhinoceros” at Jean-Louis
Barrault’s theatre, “Victimes du devoir"
at the Theatre Recamier, and at the
three theatres mentioned above.
Translated, performed or published
(besides in French), lonesco’s plays have
appeared in English, in Castillian and
Catalonian Spanish, in Portuguese,
Gaelic, Flemish, German, Dutch, Heb-
rew, Afrikaans, Finnish, Arabic, Ice-
landic, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish,
Serbian, Croatian, Czech, Polish, Turkish
and modern Greek.
When I visited lonesco, I saw in his
library the dozens of books that have
been written about him and his play s > a *
well as the translations. A flbod of
letters arrives every day for lonesco
from the four comers of the earth
People ask him for articles, stage direc-
tions, advice. He is bombarded wit
requests to make lecture tours, to explain
his plays. He is sought by radio an
television.
And yet, despite fame, lonesco has
remained the same as he ever •
simple, kindly, the best of friends,
is why, apart from the few critics w
do not want to see his plays and w 0
like him stop writing the way he 0 T
he has no enemies. Everyone 1


and Eugene responds to their
J ' e JL s in kind. He tries to say in
,eD wa y what he thinks of theatre,
ftrals and philosophy, and does not
‘Lake converts. He firmly believes
' t every period looks for a new way of
U eternal truths.
? A U history,’ he says, is nothing
e than a sequence of crises —of
Lons and of denials; of opposing
g 0 f attempts, as well, to return to
ioned positions (but with new out-
ls otherwise the return would be re-
jj ar y). If there is no crisis, there is
nation, petrifaction, death. All
Sit, all art is aggressive.”
iithough his plays are performed by
Sessional companies in Paris, Munich,
,jon and New York, lonesco is
ijhted to know that his plays are also
ji in colleges and universities. When
atold that his plays were performed
indents of the University of Sydney,
aid he was charmed. “It is there”
ike universities and colleges), he
<t to me, “that they perform the
talive and most interesting theatre.”
nesco has a few revenges to take,
ike takes them. For example, when
ias an unknown author he wrote
t essays that he sent to various
iiry reviews, hoping less' that he
I become known, than that he
111 make a little money.
He manuscript always came back
1 “the Editor regrets.” He kept
s manuscripts and he is now pub-
lagthem, without changing a comma,
i getting wonderful remuneration for
i,
k day a few years ago, when
sco and his family were leaving a
ire where “Amedee” was being
formed, his daughter Marie-France,
'was 13 at the time, said to him:
hen ourselves, Dad naturally I
rt repeat it but between ourselves,
oofess that your plays seem to me a
%> a bit childish.” This pleases
itsco very much because in this way
s ®e that he has succeeded in giv-
•Ws plays the sincerity and spontaneity
!1( Mly children are capable of.
jMng anarchist
ls dyings are sometimes like his
ow n dialogue, too. When Jean-Paul
e and other famous French intel-
as asked lonesco to sign their peti-
against the Algerian war, lonesco
se > declaring that he was an anar-
(e * droite (a right-wing anarchist),
in L* n * onesco a child who has
I °^ n years only; a lover of farce
W an d-guignol\ a revolutionary who
against commonplaces and the
ices° n ° US re P et *^ on of these common-
ioj , an adversary of moral pressure
a § a iust it with the spoken and
lonesco is 53 years old. Every time
someone asks him his age, he becomes
three years younger. I think I have found
the explanation for this little fib in the
play “The Killer” where Beranger says:
“If I say I am only 35, this isn’t entirely
to mislead my fellow-citizens, how could
it affect them? It’s to mislead myself. In
this way, I boost my morale, I think I
am younger, I give myself en-
couragement.”
A further important feature about
lonesco is the curiosity about human
beings and life in general that he has
always shown. I remember one day when
we were both young students, he and I
were walking along a quiet street in
Bucharest. I do not remember what we
were talking about at the time but I do
remember very well that, suddenly, lon-
esco stopped in front of a house, pointed
at it and said to me: “Who do you think
is living in this house. Is it an old couple?
Is it a young family? Are there children
there? What are they doing?”
In lonesco’s plays, we find all the
explosive material needed to destroy con-
formity in all its manifestations. Here
is a particularly apt example: Trino
Martinez, a Spanish actor-producer, has
told in an article in “Le Cahier des
Saisons” why he produced lonesco in
Spain (I quote): “The situation of Spanish
intellectuals is oppressive to the last
degree. Certain rules prevent us from ex-
pressing ourselves as we would like, cer-
tain dogmas stifle all possibility of in-
tellectual life. ... I cannot resist the
temptation to spe in the professor of
“The Lesson,” the parson, politics and
the abuse of power.”
I could quote from other articles by
political refugees from behind the Iron
Curtain who swear that lonesco, in his
plays, is attacking the governments of
their respective countries. This proves
that, despite the horror he has of being
associated with any political movement
whatsoever, lonesco is constantly being
claimed by opposing factions. It is not
the first time that myths about an author
have been created against his will.
In reply to some questions I had asked
him, lonesco wrote to me in a recent
letter:
“The present-day modern theatre: a
chance of two equally dangerous direc-
tions being taken: right-wing conformity
and Brechtian conformity. I am against
drama with a message.”
A new play
Tonesco’s plays have been performed
now for 12 years or more. People ad-
mire him, people detest him, some try to
dissect the mechanism of his plays. In
his brilliant essays, lonesco himself has
done his utmost to explain them. And
yet, the same as some of his plays that
have an end that is like the beginning,
as two peas in a pod, people discuss,
comment, admire or detest lonesco but
he escapes from the critics like mercury.
Nor does he rest on his laurels; lonesco
has not stopped writing and reports from
Dusseldorf, West Germany, tell us about
the opening of his new play, “The Air
Walker” which, soon, will be produced
in Paris by the Jean-Louis Barrault Com-
pany. It appears that once more lonesco
uses as the name for his central char-
acter, Berenger, the Very same name
which he has already given to the main
personage in “The Killer” and “Rhino-
ceros.” This perhaps could be an indica-
tion that lonesco sees man as displaying
similar basic reactions to the many pres-
sures, exerted by society, which with the
aid of technological advances (radio,
TV, propaganda etc.) impinge more
heavily than ever before on the
individual.
A Sydney cinema is now presenting
“The Seven Capital Sins” for which the
episode entitled “Anger” was written by
lonesco. Because a fly is found in a bowl
of soup on the same day, in the same
town, at the same hour in all of the
town’s families, the men are thrown into
a rage. There is, as a consequence, a
family fight in each home, then fighting
in the streets, and as a grand finale, a
beautiful TV announcer declares with
a smile: “Ladies and gentlemen, the end
of the world will come in five minutes.”
And the familiar mushroom of the atomic
bomb is the last sequence of this film,
which follows the same theme of the
inescapable destruction of man.
I have tried to sketch the portrait of
a famous playwright and it seems that
I have to take up the theme at the
beginning of this article: lonesco es-
capes classification, however much we
try to give him his place in modern
theatre. lonesco is like the timeless un-
reality he evokes so well in his plays, a
quicksilver spirit that attracts us and ever
escapes our grasp.
WORLD COPYRIGHT LUCIEN BOZ


INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT
CREATES
NEW RISKS
AND
NEW
FIRE
HAZARDS
>•:%
m
mi
*
*
*
k
KEEPS
i
V
As the rapid development of industrial methods and materials
takes place—Grinnell engineers are engaged in devising fire protection
systems to protect against the new and different fire risks
so often created.
Since 1889 Wormald Brothers and Grinnell have been the leaders
in the field of automatic fire protection and it is this experience together
with their constant research and development policy which
makes them the logical consultants for all types of fire risks—new or old.
WORMALD
BROTHERS
WB
*
GRINNELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER
& FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
€SQFP FIRE PROTECTION ENGINEERS SINCE 1889 • THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND


OVERSEAS
[INDONESIA
AND "NEO-
COLONIALISM"
The oft of confrontation...
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in
Singapore
Ihe half-hearted December uprising of
the "North Borneo National Army”
|e British Protectorate of Brunei was
Lftiy cut down by some 3000 British
]o ps to a scattered resistance main-
ned by about 300 diehards. Sheikh
M. Azahari, political leader of the
nit, has since been deserted in Manila
his closest lieutenant,' and denounced
his most enthusiastic Filipino backer
But security forces in Brunei have
I been pulled out. On the contrary,
10 men of the Strategic Reserve in
United Kingdom have been alerted
a possible move into the area. In
ighbouring Malaya Premier Tengku
Klul Rahman has told his people of the
:h for a national “state of pre-
ijpdness.”
For those who regarded the Brunei
section as a paltry affair which
ild quickly be written off had
toned without the Indonesians, for
■it was to have been the fusehole
: a charge that would blast apart the
P’s project for “Malaysia.”
Mr this scheme not only Singapore
talso the British dependencies of Sara-
f> ® ru nei and British North Borneo
iild be clustered around Malaya this
W as constituent States of a new
wign federation within the Common-
instead of obtaining their inde-
Me individually from Whitehall,
ndonesia’s progressist leaders would
J r ave small, pliable, newly-inde-
-1 ent fledgling nations on their door-
! lan a strong anti-Communist
JNan federation protected by the
Malayan Defence Agreement.
1 0n !! sin g th at they would fight “neo-
! iSm and neo-Imperialism” wher-
({ / nia y he found, the Indonesians
190 f efore announced that some
J°l Llr| teers” are now ready to
,1 1 Borneo from British col-
ief £ 'f SS ' an TU-16 bombers, and
catrn° Indonesian Air Force,
5 y ln g not only the Borneo fron-
L.;„ aso sea-border between
Malaya that runs through
Djakarta ° f Malacca ’ according
■ The Navy has been put on
an alert, and Indonesian submarines have
started operating in North Borneo waters.
Dr Subandrio, the Indonesian Foreign
Minister, has meanwhile accused Tengku
Abdul Rahman of adopting a consist-
ently hostile attitude towards Djakarta,
and has announced that his country will
henceforth practise a policy of confronta-
tion towards Malaya.
The Indonesians used this word “con-
frontation” in the course of their cam-
paign to wrest West New Guinea from
the Dutch, and it describes an offensive
of shouting, fist-waving, poking and
pinching which obliges the isolated and
bruised victim to retreat without ever
quite providing him with an excuse to
turn on his persecutor.
Between 1957 and 1962 the Indones-
ians repudiated their debts to Holland,
expropriated all Dutch assets in the archi-
pelago, obliged Dutch subjects to leave
the country, diverted their exports from
passing through Dutch markets, and
severed diplomatic relations with the
Hague before finally landing “volun-
teers” in New Guinea to start a local
rising against Netherlands rule. If the
party “confronted” does not hit back he
may be further provoked without fear
of reprisals. If he counter-attacks he
can be as an aggressor.
Indonesia has an army of 330,000.
Her navy and air force have been ex-
panded and modernised with Soviet
ships and aircraft at a cost of more than
$7OO million, and include a 19,000-ton
Russian cruiser with another to come
missile-firing frigates, a submarine
fleet, about 100 jet fighters of which
some are MIG 19s and 21s, and 30
Ilyushin and TU-16 bombers.
No one has laid claim to a square
inch of Indonesian territory. Not a single
British or Malayan soldier is permanently
stationed on the island of Borneo. But
Indonesia is already being depicted by
her spokesmen as a country hemmed in
and menaced by “colonialism.” In Dja-
karta it is explained that the fact that
neighbouring countries are alarmed by
Indonesia’s military build-up in itself
constitutes an external threat.
The Malayans and the British are
somewhat mystified and a little appre-
hensive. Their main fear is that the vir-
tually defunct insurrection in Brunei
may be artificially invigorated for years
to come by constant infusions of Indo-
nesian “volunteers” from across the bor-
der. Otherwise no one seriously believes
that Indonesia will break a golden rule
by getting involved in a stand-up fight.
Malaya may be subjected to moral, dip-
lomatic and economic pressures, but
Malayan experts say that trade sanctions
would hurt Djakarta more than Kuala
Lumpur.
The suggestion has been made that
the Indonesians have once more gone
into their sound-and-fury routine to dis-
tract the attention of the country’s 96
million citizens from their economic
plight. In the capital of this guns-before-
butter neutralist republic, 75 p.c. of
whose national revenue was devoted to
military expenditure in the 1962 budget,
demonstrators had to be told recently
that their ricebowls were empty because
four shiploads of grain from Egypt hap-
pened to be overdue. The campaign to
provide the masses with the minimum
necessities of food and clothing has so
far failed. The canny Indonesian peasant,
fully aware that in the city rice fetches
six times its controlled price, has refused
to part with more than about 25 p.c. of
his crops. Indonesia grew a surplus of
rice 25 years ago. This year she must
import at least 1,300,000 tons. Mean-
while industrial production has fallen
steadily, in some sectors down to 25 p.c.
of capacity.
Many experts also believe that
Djakarta is making a bid for the leader-
ship of the Afro-Asian bloc, since India’s


LEASE
YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita 1 !.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
AYS
LEASING COUP.
nr. no.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RB.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
lustre has dimmed in the eyes of the
neutralists because she quarrelled with
Communist China and sought assistance
from the West. But if the Borneo ter-
ritories join Malaysia, Indonesia will be
denied the possibility of assuming leader-
ship, even of her immediate neighbors.
Seeking to inspire the uncommitted by
her anti-colonial dynamism, Indonesia
has therefore chosen North Borneo as
a guinea pig for a demonstration of the
dialectic which justifies fanning rebel-
lion against established authority in other
countries as a legitimate struggle against
“neo-colonialism.” This is a dogma
which permits the “neutralist” arbitrarily
to apportion praise and blame, to dis-
dain the Tengku as a neo-colonialist and
to laud the discredited Azahari as the
worthy champion of “emerging national
forces.”
It may, however, be grossly unfair to
impute purely Indonesian motives to
Djakarta for the current conduct of the
republic’s foreign affairs. Government
leaders have derided Malaya as a
country which was granted its indepen-
dence peacefully and did not fight for it,
and which still has an “Aunt” in Queen
Elizabeth. But in strong contrast to this
embarrassingly prosperous accomplice of
colonialism, Indonesia is not only de-
pendent upon foreign Powers, she is at
their mercy.
Moscow has given Indonesia aid
worth more than $l,OOO million, mainly
in the form of loans on which at least
2.5 per cent annual interest must be paid
and the principal refunded after between
eight and 12 years. The further in-
dustrial development of Indonesia de-
pends in the case of numerous projects
on hundreds of Soviet technicians now
working in the provinces including
Indonesian Borneo. And in sympathy
with the aims of the USSR is the Indo-
nesian Communist Party, the largest
outside the Soviet bloc. Meanwhile
Djakarta’s foreign exchange reserves are
approaching zero. The Communists are
in an excellent position to put pressure
on the Djakarta Government.
But the alternative to bowing to the
Communist will can hardly be a simple
assertion of independence. It must
almost certainly involve a fundamental
change of policy. For probably the only
Power that can haul the nation’s
economic machine out of the mire of
debt and deficiency into which it has
been free-wheeled is the United States
of America.
THE POLITIC
OF ART
IN RUSSIA
The Lunatic Asylum...
home for recalcitrant artist[?]
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
Tt is the hardest thing to form a c
picture of the state of literature
the arts in the Soviet Union today,
There is a ferment, we all!
Things are said and done which®
Stalin would have been not only
possible but inconceivable. Expei
tation in painting, in music, is tolera
in literature it is positively encouraj
A 30-year-old poet, Yevtushenko,
answer Mr Khrushchev back to hii
and get away with it. Another, Voi
sensky, can visit Rome, give an i
view to “The Times,” and return 1
in one piece.
Mr Khrushchev himself expl
when confronted with an exhibit#
abstract paintings in Moscow; hi
paintings were there on show, andp
of Russians go on painting in that
It could be argued that Mr ft
chev’s outburst was no differentia
from any speech by any President)
Royal Academy. But this is too
Mr Khrushchev is not an acadeni
he is the Head of the Soviet State
the First Secretary of the Coi
Party of the Soviet Union. Heisi
solute control of the whole appi
of State. What he says goes.
First things first. And the first
here is that everything published)
Soviet Union depends on the peri
of the Head of State. If Mr Khrusl
allows Mr Yevtushenko to talk ba
him it is because he thinks it is a
thing; if he decided that this di
accord with his own purposes 1b j
stop it, and would. He has used
sanctions in the past.
Thus, after Hungary, he this
the assembled writers at his own j
party with gross brutality. Hep®
the attack on Pasternak, which e®
the harassing of that poor man *°'
He permitted the framing of Pasjj
mistress and adopted daughter
more recently committed to P n j
lunatic asylums a number °
who were rash enough to P U^IS ,
work banned in the Soviet
among them Naritsa and ■
Volpyn who, incidentally, 0
been charged with blackmar'e
well as lunacy. t w ia
The lunatic asylum, a new


fc is undeniably apposite: any
!f,itizen whose work i, banned at
IC ?who sends it abroad must
definition be a lunatic, Mr Khrush-
v would retort. And so in a sense he
Xhe implications are heavy.
, tend to forget this. Dazzled by
flexibility* the brilliance, the dash of
Evtushenko, impressed, too, by his
fent courage, it is too easy to be-
|iiat all has changed. Yevtushenko
j f fosters this illusion by saying
Ij i s strong enough not only to look
■himself' but also to protect others,
jsked w hy he has failed to protect
Im Naritza, Yessenin-Volpyn,
, he could reply that he was too
after all, or, more likely, that he
sert himself only for those who
{ protection. If too feeble, he
the game away. If simply choosy,
lave to take note of the fact that
tioice coincides happily with Mr
ichev’s.
ibody, neither Yevtushenko, Voz-
isky, Ehrenburg, nor anybody else,
st questioned the right of the State
i a man to prison or a lunatic
® for publishing abroad what may
(published at home or his right
jwbat may or may not be pub-
iat home. This is fundamental,
tthey do not perceive the need to
ion these things, in which case our
are not their ways. Or they feel
leed but do not dare,
e important thing to grasp is that
(ling published in Russia today
i has any political significance is
ipolitical act committed, in the last
,and for his own purposes, by the
of State.
extreme example was the recent
stion of Solzhenitsyn’s concentra-
®P novel, “A Day in the Life of
Denisovich.”
Hr Khrushchev, for his own pur-
of State, had not wanted a book
Me in the labour-camps Solz-
jo would not have been published.
las Khrushchev would never have
j Yevtushenko to answer him
“ e had not wanted, for his own
lses of State, to encourage certain
,°: phoning. Conversely, I
11 IS fair to say that Yevtushenko
n ot have answered back if he had
!, Wn * n advance that it would be
:I| y safe to do so.
l so ? And so the arts in the Soviet
an instrument of politics,
some of the most considerable
e not politically minded. They
ies T? all the same for political
j 6 P ur P°ses are always in-
| °^ ten admirable as far as
L Ut the y have nothing to do
re > with music, with sculp-
Khrushchev has done is,
immensely, to broaden the bounds with-
in which Soviet writers and artists may
safely move. Their permissible subject-
matter is far richer than it was, and it
seems to be understood in high circles
that experiment in technique, in presen-
tation, must be allowed if the arts
(needed for the building of a special sort
of society) are not to die.
In his preface to “A Day in the Life
of Ivan Denisovich,” Mr Tvardovsky, a
respected figure in the Soviet literary
world, declares: “Today there is no
aspect of our life that cannot be dealt
with and faithfully described in Soviet
literature.” I could supply a long list of
forbidden aspects, and so could Mr
Tvardovsky; Mr Khrushchev, too,.
FORUM
"THE BEER'S ON
AT IVAN'S"
A fairly routine operation in espionage
By DONALD HORNE
Perhaps it is best to look at the
Skripov affair as a fairly routine
operation. It is routine that the
Russians use diplomatic missions as part
of their espionage apparatus and routine
that we should try to catch them at it.
This is no occasion to argue this point.
Anyone who is not by now convinced
of its truth is not going to become con-
vinced of it because I say so. But there
are several different kinds of public re-
actions to the disclosures about Skripov
that are worth commenting on because
they throw light on us as well as on the
Russians.
For one thing, because of our chronic
tendency not to see ourselves in the
main course of history, we tend to
forget that there are straight defence
reasons for spying in Australia. It is not
just a matter of infiltrating Government
departments (although that can be more
important in the long run) but of find-
ing out what the British, the Americans
and our own defence forces are doing
here in Australia.
The Russians would be most directly
interested in what the British are doing
at Woomera, and the Americans at their
£40,000,000 base. Any facts they could
find out here would fit into their global
espionage operation. They could also
come in useful for feeding to the Com-
munist Press, a gullible MP, or some
other propaganda vehicle. So far as our
own defence forces are concerned it is
worth remembering that the largest
Communist Party outside the Communist
bloc is the Indonesian, and that the
leaders of that party would certainly be
interested in anything the Russians could
pick up about Australia’s defence forces.
Another oddity about some of the
Australian reactions came from the
“Right,” from some of v the armchair
cloak-and-dagger men who seemed to
think that they could have handled the
operation better than the ' Australian
Security Intelligence Organisation. For
all one knows perhaps they could. But
how can one know? This really seems to
fall into the realm of fantasy. It is
speculation in a vacuum. The more
sensible course seems to be simply to
congratulate ASIO on pulling it off.
And here one might raise a 1 eyebrow
in Mr Allan Fraser’s direction when he
talks of a “dirty business” and the use
of an “agent provocateur.” If the 30-
year-old, “good-figured” (I quote from a
newspaper) Miss “X” was an agent
provocateur it would mean that she pro-
voked Skripov into spying, that he went
off and got a high-speed transmission
set because she provoked him into it. If
we are to have a counter - espionage
organisation (and who says we shouldn’t?)
it seems to be a pretty elementary idea
to try to plant agents on the Russians.
However, what was most significant
about Australian reactions was that some
Australians seemed to have decided that
the Russians had given away spying and
that some of the Australians who knew
Skripov had decided that he was too nice
a guy for anything like that.
I don’t want to thump the tub about
the immutability of Russians. There is
no doubt that the Stalin terror regime is
not in operation at present (although
institutionally it could return), that the
Russians are eating better (although not
as well as us), that various artists and
intellectuals have written things that
would have got them shot under Stalin,
and so on. But the exact significance of
the “liberalisation” (“relaxation” might
be a better word) is still very much for
the future to determine; for the moment
it has not gone so far that it is not


fffpssu
5 GOOD
REASONS WHY
I ALWAYS USE
V
v
M
V
nr
.. V •
I i
mzm
.... ' > /
'v
f V
. i
■/
• No ether pipe has greater strength. Steel pipe is not
fragile or susceptible to damage by stock or fire, so can be
laid above ground, saving cost of trenching. It also with-
stands far greater pressures end that's important, too.
• Steel pipe lasts longer. Steel pipe doesn't deteriorate in
sunlight or with exposure, is not damaged by termites or
rodents, its inherent strength enables it to withstand all
sorts of external impacts undamaged.
• Steel pipe costs less. On account of its much longer life
and comparatively low initial cost, I have found steel pipe •
far more economical buy than any other type of pipe-and
I've tried them all.
• Steel pipe is easy to instal, handle or store. Steel pip®»
being so sturdy can be surface-laid, then dismantled and
relaid in a new location or stored without risk of damage
in handling.
• Steel pipe has so many uses. Its inbuilt strength and rigidity permit a wide
variety of uses, not practical for other fragile or flexible types of pipe, such
as vertical and overhead installations. That's why I say, "Give me steel pipe
every time."
FOR GREATER STRENGTH . . . LONGER LIFE . . . EXTRA VALUE - INSIST ON STEEL P$
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY.
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities, also Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Cairns, Mackay, Kalgoorlie.


... An d it has no necessary rela-
foreign policy and the cold war.
!0D ° L to be the central error of
Revisionist Western thinking: be-
’ the terror has subsided, and there
butter around, this must
lily lead, or has already led, to
S'* of foreign PO l^'
..such case can be made out. One
i easily imagine an expanding and
L CO nfident society becoming more
L ve rather than less. One has to
e foreign policy (of which espionage
part) on the way it behaves, not on
lie theories -about its relation
domestic developments. Khrushchev
te „tly wrote a letter to the chairman
[ the Japanese Communist Party in
Lhe said: “Espionage is needed by
Lwho prepare for attack, for aggres-
E The Soviet Union is deeply dedi-
leh to the cause of peace, does not
end to attack anybody, therefore has
iintention of engaging in espionage.”
«simply lying.
is and “nice guys”
shall devote the rest of this article
tothe theory that because Skripov was
ice guy he wasn’t likely to be a spy.
iecould really dismiss it in a sentence:,
is have to appear to be nice guys,
fit may be instructive to compare
[ipov’s conduct in Australia with the
il of conduct expected of people in
position, as tabulated in the Petrov
'lit,
Ire an Australian quotes the Petrov
port he must make an act of affirma-
i Here is mine: I believe the Petrov
iiwas used in the party game. (My
is that it was Dr Evatt who
to this.) But the report of the
Royal Commission itself is a
Mro examination of how Russian
tots who are also spies are
Nto work. It has achieved an
toonal reputation in this regard.
Petrov Report suggests that some-
!»> Skripov’s position should use
''Cultivation tactics, or in Russian
'largon, “study” particular in-
i' I ®' Study’ involved a very slow
Wed process,” says the Report.
1,1 >f the subject was an avowed
’®Mst the greatest care in ap-
an(! developing him was
J' en the time was thought to
e > ne subject was given some small
,; c might compromise him. If he
gd that task he was then on what
ij fV i° v ca^e( l ‘the small hook,’ and
i; . r °i )nient or ‘study’ would go on
tde "%. but still cautiously .. .
ton the sub i ect would be per-
for Cept SOme small gift, not so
id o e Purpose of bribery as to
torJ 1 h ' S mora l resistance. The
»seduction.” 1 E StUdy ’ iS a species ° f
While he was in Canberra Skripov was
known to be more than usually attentive
in his social relations with Government
officials, and he did try the technique of
small gifts. For mdnths he hat been the
talk of a percipient section of Canberra.
In particular he used very successfully
his membership of a Canberra club to
getv on matey terms with fairly high-level
Government officials and business
executives. In fact he seems to have
overdone it a bit. “The beer’s on at
Ivan’s,” became slightly too much of a
Canberra cry.
Now this does not mean that, on this
evidence alone, he was a spy, but that it
was commensurate with being a spy.
Those people who thought that he was
friendly and easy to get on with and
therefore not a spy drew the wrong con-
clusion. If all Russian spies are friendly
Russians, at least some friendly Russians
are Russian spies. I am sorry to have to
put up such an elementary point in logic.
Skripov maintained a regular kind of
diplomat’s contact, addressing Apex and
Rotary Clubs and so on. His themes
were sincerity and friendliness, exchange
of tourists and sporting, cultural, scien-
tific and trade union delegations. It was
a routine “peaceful co-existence” line.
The club officials who arranged these
little talks should now be told that,
according to the Petrov Report, Skripov
may have been looking for new in-
dividuals to “study,” and that if he
found them he would have sent off re-
ports to Moscow about them.
The Petrov Report devoted a whole
chapter to the interest of the Russian
intelligence services in journalists, and
it also showed that it was a spy’s task
to obtain information about university
students, since they are now a principal
source for recruiting for the more im-
portant jobs in Government departments.
Once again one finds Skripov’s apparent
friendliness not incommensurate with his
being a spy. Last year he was trying to
set up a scheme of reciprocal visits
between Australian and Russian journal-
ists. (The Tass representatives in Aus-
tralia up to the time of Petrov’s defection
were all MVD men.) And during his
stay in Australia he built up university
contacts. There may be nothing in this.
On the other hand, given the interpreta-
tion of the Petrov Report, it was prob-
ably less innocent than it seemed.
Again, the Petrov Report stressed the
importance in a spy’s work of the Aus-
tralia-Soviet Friendship Society. One of
its members was described as a sort of
agent and go-between amongst Aus-
tralian Communists and Soviet officials,
and listed at the Australian desk at the
Moscow Centre as a “willing helper.”
Skripov was one of those Russian
diplomats in Australia whose particular
job, it seemed, was to keep contact with
the Australia-Soviet Friendship Society;
he was also a great urger of exchanges
of delegations.
The Petrov Report seemed to establish
that it was the job of the Moscow Centre
to report on delegations that visited
Russia and to suggest people worthy of
“study” for active espionage work in
Australia on their return. Once again,
this does not prove that Skripov was a
spy. But we know for other reasons that
he was a spy, so we need not be sur-
prised at the suggestion that his close
connection with the Australia - Soviet
Friendship Society may have been that
he saw it as a recruiting ground for
agents.
Perhaps the saddest parallel between
what the Petrov Report suggested a spy
like Skripov should do, and what he did
do, is contained in Chapter 12, where
the report deals at length with the work
of Russian spies on members of Parlia-
ment. There was every sign that MPs
were becoming one of Skripov’s special-
ities. He got into parts of Parliament
House where visitors are not allowed
without invitation, and he appeared to be
on friendly terms with some Labor MPs.
It has even been suggested that some
questions asked in Parliament were
inspired by Skripov. Labor’s Parlia-
mentary leaders have been worried
for some months about his apparent
familiarity with some Labor members.
Confidence men
/Anly a ratbag would suggest that the
Government officials, businessmen,
Apex and Rotary members, university
teachers, Australia - Soviet Friendship
Society members and members of Parlia-
ment who befriended Skripov need be
treated with any suspicion. But one
cannot help adding that only a misguided
person would suggest that Skripov him-
self should not have been treated with
the greatest suspicion.
It is a deplorable thing that one cannot
seize every apparently friendly out-
stretched hand. But it is not a new thing.
There have been confidence men since
history began. And a successful spy
must, before he is in business, be a
successful confidence man.


r
** \ IJ
EVERYTHING GOES...
ANSETT
WREIGHT
EXPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
A80!4
WE SUPPLY
EXPLOSIVES Log-splitting and
post-hole guns. Powder and fuse
for same. Blasting mats. Tamping
rods. Magazines. Carrying boxes.
Exploders and all accessories.
STEAM VALVES Everlasting
valve. Particularly suitable for
boiler blow-off or full on.
WATER FILTERS For farm,
household and industrial use.
TUYERES Hot air for forges.
MINING Curvilinear tables for
ore concentration. Classifiers. Rapid
magnetting machines.
TOOLS Barrows, pinch and other
bars. Jumpers, mattocks, picks,
handles, shovels, quarry tools, road-
lamps, etc.
ENQUIRIES TO
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 PARRAMATTA ROAD, CAMPERDOWN, N.S.W.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE EARL PAGE MEMOIRS
Sir,
Lady Jean Page has raised with me
the question of whether certain refer-
ences (in Sir Earle Page’s “Truant
Surgeon”) to the dispute between the late
Sir Earle Page and Mr R. G. Menzies
had been excised without the know-
ledge and consent of Sir Earle.
As you know a very close bond of
friendship existed between Dr Page and
myself extending over the 43 years of
our mutual public life. From time to
time he discussed with me material which
ought, or ought not, to be incorporated
in his book. Among other matters, some
little while before his death, he raised
with me the question as to whether
certain material relative to certain
incidents following the death of Mr
Lyons, including his attack on Mr
Menzies and the sequel, should be in-
corporated in his book.
I advised him that as it would intro-
duce — in an otherwise objective his-
torical work—a jarring personal note of
doubtful value and thereby lower the
tone of the whole book if
wise to exclude this material W ° Uld
Later he informed m e that u
given further thought to the mJ!)
had decided to exclude the mater ff 3
the book, but as a footnote wn
the H. of R. Debate pagfj I
If any personal material refer 2.
Mr W. M. Hughes was excluded T 8
sure it was on the same groundsM
treated in the same manner.
Trusting this will assist in clarifvi
the subject in dispute.
H. DRUMMO[?]
Sydney.
BECAUSE MY SKIN IS BLACK
Sir,
I would very much like to call
your good attention a reportage in V oi
issue of January 12, captioned “Be*
My Skin is Black” by Miss Patricia Rol
First, it will be noted that a coif
of paragraphs were quoted from my aa
icle “The Australian in Perspective”! H{
the article been published in full, |
reader would have x been duly inform
of the points I had adduced for si
a statement as “the Australian is asi
and an ignoramus with little or no hoi
in him”.
In fairness to journalistic ethics,
believe that The Bulletin should i
have quoted any part of the statera
from the article without my knowlei
and consent, as it was meant to be i
in full.
Regarding further comments made
my “skin” as a “gimmick”, I think
first paragraph of the same report
by your writer contradicts this. 1 ref
the evaluation as preposterous and t
less. Your reporter was correct to s
“Ajala . . . seems surprised that anyi
should be more interested in him tl
in his manuscript.”
Furthermore, Miss Rolfe must
misunderstood me when she conclffl
“He (Ajala) does not see any role
himself in Nigeria.” If I may clarify
remark, I stated: “I detest politics,
those Africans who, after stud]
abroad, go back home expecting o
come politicians and rich men a
expenses of uninformed Africans.
OLABISI A[?]
Rose Bay (NSW).
KEY TO MACARTHUR
Sir,
I apologize, but must add a oo!
to my earlier comment. ■
that the precis book, far
valueless (Dr Roe’s etter ’ f
February 16), confirms one o L
arguments. Your readers
that this book was compi ledin
(probably about 1807, I thi ' fl(e
not know: (1) That the pr (
dates of the originals’ recel J '
correspond with the . , en i we re
the originals, and eviden y 0 (
thence. 6 (2) That in the pr" (
crucial despatch, the P
the date of receipt is ban •
cates that when the p


Bravo!
said one
Scotch-man
to
another...
"I am glad to see the return of civilised drinking*
All too often these days one observes the
barbaric habit of mixing water (ordinary
tap water at that) with whisky. Soda
Water is clearly the essential
mixer! It brings out the true
flavour of whisky. “Bravo,”
he repeated —“let’s have another
whisky and soda.”
SCHWEPPERVESCENCE LASTS THE WHOLE DRINK THROUGH
.. i t u ere was no endorsement on
ainal to copy. Ergo, the “R 1802”
the ° n the original belongs to a still
D° ff 5 te and there remains no shred
'fevidence to believe the authorities
Jadl despatch when considering Mac-
arthur’s case.
MICHAEL ROE
m ,m of Tasmania, Hobart.
H. Ellis writes:
nr Roe has stated that the entries in the
is book recording the receipt of the
KUr (a) Place them in order of date
ftdress and not of receipt. They don’t.
That they were “compiled in retrospect
ffl, about 1807 I think)". Thus, it he
! p ri „ h t __ and we have no evidence, save
I s . L. so for his assertions Macarthur
tie the despatches, kept them five years,
JL inprudently returned them to the
f-' lonial Office which must have recon-
uructed the whole of its indexes, precis
book and despatch files in order to fit them
into the right places according to dates
in their records and provide false evidence
that they were received in 1802. _
Incidentally, Dr Roe does all his ponti-
ficating about the errors of my ways in in-
terpreting Macarthur without having seen
the Macarthur papers, as I know for certain.
(This correspondence is now closed.
- Ed.)
WHAT’S WRONG WITH THE ABC?
Sir,
I have no quarrel with Martin Long’s
article on the ABC’s place in Australian
Music (Bulletin, February 2), but would
like to supplement it with an observation
on the plight of the country music lover.
Most of the year’s concerts are held in
the capital city, this precluding our in-
dulgence in many of them. The State
Svmphony Orchestra makes a country
lour once every year or so. Thus if we
are lucky we get to one or two concerts
a year; most are able to attend none.
We are then forced back upon radio,
and Mr Long has admirably brought out
the fact that ABC radio dominates the
music scene. But does this help us? Take
the case of Queensland where the capi-
tal city is situated in the very corner of
a vast State. Here nearly all the concerts
are held, the centres of 40,000 population
Setting practically none; and the people
here, being hundreds of miles from the
eapital, are unable to attend these con-
certs.
So are we catered for by the famed
alternative program of the ABC? Most
certainly not. The alternative program
consists of one medium-powered trans-
fer, situated where? In the capital city
ot course—no doubt so that the already
saturated music lover there can listen.
Mr Long talks of setting up a third pro-
Sram, We haven’t received the second yet.
e of having no Stravinsky
nd Britten in the concert series. We
ountry people haven’t received Bach or
if art yet. It’s time there was an ex-
itllBloll of the second program, so that
w e can’t get to the concerts the city
s ic-lover enjoys, then at least we can
en to them on the radio.
LINDSAY K. BATES
Kolan.
TUCKER S RECORD
Sir,
I was distressed and amused to dis-
cover, on “The Red Page” of the Feb-
ruary 9 edition of The Bulletin, a
sentence written by M. H. Ellis which
can bring only dishonor to the repute
and prestige of this section of the journal.
The sentence begins: “For instance,
Tucker’s record,” and staggers through
nine lines of chaotic construction to end
with the statement: “threatening to charge
him publicly with having tried to or suc-
ceeded in committing sodomy with him-
self on five nights.”
The incomplete infinitive is a construc-
tional error which 16-year-old school-
boys could correct with ease; the notion
of a man succeeding in committing sod-
omy with himself defies acceptance.
H. R. COWIE
Toowong (Queensland).


REVIEWS
MUSIC
FIRED WITH ENTHUSIASM
By JOHN SMALL
Three orchestral concerts. Sydney
Symphony Orchestra conducted by
Sir Bernard Heinze and Charles
Mackerras, with Romola Costantino,
piano, Julius Katchen, piano, and
Nelli Schkolnikova, violin.
npHE Sydney Symphony Orchestra re-
-*• sumed work last week after its
Christmas break with a free Sunday
evening concert under Sir Bernard
Heinze, and the first two concerts of
the ABC “Summer Festival”, i.e. the
short series of non-subscription orches-
tral concerts given in February every
year and conducted this year by Charles
Mackerras.
The festival concerts confirmed that
Mackerras is a very able and versatile
musician, and a first-rate leader as well.
He manages to fire his players with his
own enthusiasm, without, like van Otter-
loo, doing so at the expense of discipline.
At these concerts the orchestra played
with a responsiveness and precision that
no other conductor, except Horenstein,
has been able to command in the last 12
months. Mackerras has been mentioned
several times as a possible candidate for
the still-vacant post of permanent con-
ductor of the Sydney Symphony Orch-
estra; if he is still available he ought to
be engaged immediately. He has the
ability to build the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra into a first-rate group after
its recent history of indifferent standards.
Soloist at the first concert was the
Soviet -violinist Nelli Schkolnikova, a
magnificent artist who does not suffer
by comparison with the three great
violinists Menuhin, Kogan and Ricci
who toured Australia last year. Her
technique is well-nigh flawless, and she
exploits it in a virtuoso manner, without
however, indulging in mere virtuosity.
She played the Mendelssohn concerto,
a work the good qualities of which are
rather overshadowed by the fact that it
is so well-known, in a very fresh and
engaging manner.
Julius Katchen, who played Tchai-
kowsky’s first piano concerto, has a big,
sonorous piano tone, and a big, masterful
way of playing his instrument. I like the
concerto too little to have been very
impressed by anyone’s performance of
it, even Katchen’s, but it seems to me
that if anyone were able to make some-
thing of this work; it would be he. Un-
fortunately, it will be some weeks before
Katchen is heard to best advantage; in
the remainder of the “festival” he is
scheduled to play the Greig concerto,
and Prokofiev’s third concerto.
One of the other works heard at the
festival was Brahms’ serenade No. 1 for
orchestra, an early work that gives some
point to Darius Milhaud’s remark that
the music of Brahms is “thick in the
orchestration and thick in the head, and
when it is good it sounds like Beethoven.”
Despite his admiration of the classics,
Brahms was incurably Romantic in tem-
perament. Brahms was constitutionally
incapable of writing completely light-
hearted music; even the Liebeslieder
waltz, one of his best works in a light
vein, has an autumnal air about it. True,
the melodies in the serenade are carefully
designed to sound like folk tunes, and
the orchestration, with its emphasis on
woodwinds, is devised to enhance the
rural atmosphere. But the work is still
rather indigestible. The first three move-
ments last half an hour, and might as
well be endless.
Far more successful as light music
was a charming serenade for strings by
the Swedish composer Dag Wiren, This
piece had all the virtues the Brahms sere-
nade lacked it was short, unpreten-
tious, lucid, pointed, bearing clear traces
of Wiren’s years of study in Paris.
Sir Bernard Heinze, who conducted
the free concert, is not an exciting con-
ductor, unless one finds it exciting to
hear everything made to sound a little
like Brahms (Brahms at his best, I hasten
to add). However Sir Bernard always gets
the orchestra playing well, and his read-
ings are never erratic or wilful. The
soloist with him was Romola Costantino,
who played Rachmaninoff’s rhapsody on
a theme of Paganini. Despite a certain
lack of power which meant that the
piano sound was sometimes swamped by
the orchestra, Miss Costantino demon-
strated that she possesses the technical
and emotional equipment to deal with
practically any 19th-century music.
ART
NO THREAT TO SECURITY
Peter Kaiser. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney.
Peter Burns. Dominion Gallery.
Sydney.
VI/hen abstraction dealt with rigid
" geometries a rational order existed
over the plastic structure of which the
fearful, timid and insecure could clamber
in search of the limited stability life in
the 20th century could not offer them.
Action painting determined to end this
illusion, retreating from a last vestige of
idea, rejecting the lingering indulgence
of aesthetic order, deifying the act of
painting and gunning down ruthlessly any
appearance of the follies of the last five
centuries.
Having dug into the bedrock, action
painting rapidly became an academy of
screams and grunts, which it will, no
doubt, remain (since articulation is so
distressingly central). With the texturists
emerging as a powerful influence a para-
doxical situation has arisen. On the one
hand the self-asserting ego has been
smacked back into near anonymity (one
of the great mediaeval virtues. No
doubt, frugality and continence will fol-
low!); on the other a new trompe Foeil
realism has emerged. A fascinating array
of found objects presents the beholder
with as little threat to his sense of
security as any Victorian parlor piece.
Peter Kaiser is a most talented case in
point. His 20 paintings and gouaches
are surely the most seductive things to e
seen in Sydney at the present mornen.
He can be likened to-Spaniards Tapies
and Cuixart, but in spite of a shadowy
“Dead Bull,” rent and bleeding, P eter
Kaiser has no discernable ardor for foug
gutsiness. Rather is his a Parisian s sen
sibility giving his paper-textured canvas
an inscrutable tincture of enorm /\
subtlety. Shades of the Tao are inv° e ’


APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Lecturer in Chemical Engineering
Applications
lecturer
are invited for the' position of
ln Chemical Engineering.
erab| Pli^antS sh ? uld have an honours degree, pref-
. V in Chemical Engineering with research and/
experience.
SA2 451 ary rar| ge r.for a Lecturer is £A1,650 to
£AI(V! J Per annum and annual increments of
nined ° re p . ayab| l e - Initial salary will be deter-
s un accorc ling to qualifications and experience.
“Peiannuation similar to F.S.S.U. in Great Britain
p 1 provided.
noinlm er ' n^orr n°tion and the conditions of ap-
Univo, 6 ?* T ay k® obtained from the Registrar,
ODB |- s '. ty °f Melbourne, Parkville N. 2., Victoria, and
a lons should reach him by 15th April.
F. H. JOHNSTON,
Registrar.
' A •
:
wm
■
;
%
mm
vssMzttQm.
The rattle that shook the world
The most treasured possession Na-
poleon gave his son was a rattle, made
from a new metal . . . aluminium. This
was the metal of princes, rare and
costly, to be dined off in preference to
gold. And Imperial approval started an
era for aluminium. An era which is
still virtually in its infancy, and taking
directions far different to those which
occupied the Imperial jewellers. For
today, aluminium is plentiful, within
the reach of all, and valued for its
structural assets as well as its un-
doubted beauty. This newer era of
aluminium began for Australia with
the efforts of Australia’s leading
aluminium company—Australuco.
Australuco uses aluminium’s unique
property of strength with lightness,
and its freedom from rust and cor-
rosion, to supply the architectural and
building world with structures of sur-
passing design. You will see it in many
new homes, in factories, and in the
slender skyscrapers beginning to punc-
tuate the skylines of Australia’s cities.
AUSTRALUCO Al_i_Jlvilhsj.lLJ!\/l
AUSTRALIAN ALUMINIUM COMPANY LIMITED, Unwin Street, Granville. 'Phones 637-0133.
totem* where both the , sa « e an , d
“"plains have long since been reduced
tn geological dust.
‘‘Femme” is itself the vaporous ghost
a ghost, “Torso” some enigmatic
moke. A number besides “Fungus”
describe the attractions of micro-biologi-
cal appearance. The very attrition of a
oasted surface follows the weathering
and decaying of rocks and walls, and in
this sense we feel the gentle numbness of
slow destruction. The variegated greys
and tobacco browns show for a change
how interesting these colors can be. Over
all hangs the brooding sublimated air of
sensibility and taste inventing and dis-
covering in texture its raison d’etre in
passionless intensity.
Turgid, sometimes tortured pigment
exposed by every trowelling, reveal Peter
Burns struggling to free himself of the
constraint of his tight drawings. This is
a compensation for their rather rigid
look, and though these coronas begin to
whirl and spark like Catherine wheels we
wish his experience of form were great
enough to support his ambitions for
grand statement. Landscape offers wide
scope for self projection. Moods often
indicate his satisfaction with what he
thinks the outback might be rather than
what it is or could be.
How difficult it seems for many ab-
stract or near abstract painters to find
not one but the enormous range of mood
belonging to our landscape. A feeling
in a place might conceivably be misinter-
preted as belonging to that place. It
doesn’t necessarily follow at all.
JOHN HENSHAW
MASONIC ART
Mervyn Moriarty. Bonylhon Gallery.
Adelaide.
Psychiatry and cultural anthropology
have shown some of the links be-
tween patterns of social behavior and
artistic or religious symbolism. A symbo-
lic artist must have a capacity for waking
dreams, an abnormally ineffective censor-
ship between the irrationalities of his un-
conscious mind and the coherent self
which lives on top. Then natural selec-
tion by opinion and the sale room will
tend to encourage those fantasies in paint
which are related to contemporary social
anxieties (on, for example, violence, city
buildings, the Orient, brainy women,
death, the Australian desert, sex, or the
aborigine). A few artists stand apart from
this process because their techniques or
subjects are so exotic and individual as
to have special value as curiosities.
What is usually sensed sooner or later,
though, is work which is not original be-
cause it has been dug whole out of a
book or other record, as a weak novelist
might dig in psycho-analytical case-
histories and use them unmodified. This
is not to say that a creative artist should
shield himself from published technical,
historical, or scientific knowledge; one
can imagine him being excited and en-
couraged to find the origins of his own
dark dreams mirrored in other human
records.
Mervyn Moriarty shows triangles,
spheres, widening spirals, squares, crosses,
and crescent moons, set in darkly por-
tentous abstract backgrounds with just
hints of human heads or figures, and
with loaded titles such as “The Cycle of
Man”, “Life and Death”, “Elements of
Growth,” “Shadow of One,” and “Head
of Christ.” Some of the pictures are
quietly attractive, where the paint is
handled well, but the whole show is flat
and monotonous. This is partly because
it is repetitive and because we are all
getting bored with abstracts. Another
reason may be that although the emblems
he uses stem from what Sir Herbert Read
called “structural features of the mind
that cry for definite satisfaction” they
have been chosen too consciously, an old
fault of surrealism, and of the symbolic
art of masonic temples. One suspects
even that they may conceal very different
not-paintings, still censored underneath.
Whether this is so or not, the market is
for more convincing and personally com-
mitted manifestations of anxiety dis-
charged in fantasy.
EARLE HACKETT


MIXED COMPANY
Group Exhibition. Douglas Galleries.
Brisbane.
HThe newest gallery in Brisbane has a
A group show of about a dozen con-
temporary artists, five from Brisbane,
who, as I pointed out before, are begin-
ning to show up well in mixed company.
The best things are “Mountains” by
Judy Cassab and “Before the Operation”
by Bob Dickerson. “Mountains” con-
sists of a beautiful design of parallel
ranges running diagonally down the
canvas done in what is essentially ab-
stract style but so handled as to make
it practically representational without be-
ing photographic. If is a mass of glow-
ing color derived from the crystalline
surfaces exposed on the rocky sides of
the hills and refracted into innumerable
rainbows of color.
Bob Dickerson’s picture is so bare as
to be empty but is extremely poignant.
It consists of the face of a patient, in
natural color and geometrical design,
lying under a sheet on a trolley before
going into the .operating theatre.
Andrew Sibley shows a very vigorous
and probing portrait of David Row-
botham. I think the portrait is success-
ful both psychologically and technically
and Sibley has clearly taken a lot of
trouble with it. “Remembrance” is a
typical Sibley in pale grey panels but the
figure holding a (memorial) bunch of
flowers is sentimental gush.
Mervyn Moriarty also shows a char-
acteristic “Mother and Child” in deep
blue and red which recalls what you
might see in a very ancient German
church, the figures having the distortion
of mediaeval times. John Aland has
four things, the best being a black and
white drawing, “Cycling Girl”, full of
life and movement and with a most
endearing touch of cubism which always
pleases me; I often wonder why.
J. V. DUHIG
THEATRE
349 YEARS LATE
Bartholomew Fair. Ben Jonson. The
University Sunken Garden, Perth.
/\ne advantage that Jonson has over
” Shakespeare these days is that he is
not taught in the schools and we are
not compelled to appreciate him. Yet
Jonson’s almost total eclipse by his great
contemporary has denied him recogni-
tion from the regular theatre-goer as
one of the giants of our dramatic
literature. In his own time he was
supreme in the new field of satiric
comedy, and he has been rarely equalled
since. Like all satirists, he is a man with
a message here the fairly shallow
one that when our principles and our
pleasures conflict it is usually pleasure
which wins.
Yet what the play lacks in depth it
achieves in breadth. It is large, noisy,
colourful, uninhibited beyond the point
of mere bawdiness, rumbustious, witty
and unashamedly theatrical.
The production opened at a nifty pace
and I, for one, would have preferred it
to move, at least in the beginning, a
little slower. We are sadly unfamiliar in
Australia (as elsewhere) with realistic
Elizabethan plays and it takes a little
while for audiences to adjust to oddities
in idiom and manner of plays of any
period sometimes even our own.
Those first ten minutes of dialogue not
only have to introduce us to unfamiliar
characters in an unfamiliar world, but
also feed us the foundations of plot. It
is important that none of this be lost
through excessive speed. Here pace lost
us some and the inadequacies of the
venue lost us more.
In all respects save one the Sunken
Garden might have been planned and
made for this production. Its nooks and
crannies, pools, paths, ornamental trees
and discreet hillocks formed a unique
and exciting partnership with set, cos-
tume and action that continually sur-
prised and delighted the eye. But
acoustically it is woeful. One pities the
actor whose lines are lost because the
wind is blowing in the wrong direction.
The first scene and my carping done
with, both cast and audience went to the
fair. Here, for all their viciousness and
villainy, was the most engaging collection
of pimps, tapsters, cutpurses, bawds, pig-
women, gamesters and other unsavoury
characters plying their trades with vary-
ing degrees of discretion among ballad
singers, jugglers, stall-holders, tumblers,
musicians, puppeteers and the rest.
A variety of clearly defined characters
visit the fair, all with a pretty show of
reluctance or disinterest; and all are un-
able to resist the temptation to sacrifice
principle for pleasure. Conscience is
abandoned for the day. The Puritans
soon succumb to the smell of roast pork
and good ale, gentlewomen are per-
suaded to live like ladies at the price of
virtue.
There are misunderstandings, quarrels
and brawls, yet with all this the satire
is more firmly entrenched than the slap-
stick. The play is well constructed, full
of incident and pungent comment. If
some of the local references are obscure
to modern audiences there j s arnD , p
humor as fresh and vital to us as it.
to Jonson's Londoners. * Ws
The Elizabethan Theatre made John
Tasker available to direct the production
for the University and Graduate Dra
matic Societies. It was their contribution
to the recent 11th Festival of p ert h
His direction and Maurice Jones’ pro !
duction design were happily unreveren-
tial and always in harmony with th?
spirit of the play.
Most performances were convincing
and a few were too vital and well pro-
jected not to be mentioned. Barbara
Hainan was triumphant as the gravel-
voiced pigwoman, brothel-keeper and
confidante of rogues. She was so dis-
gusting we could almost smell her, and
she expleted hair-raising curses at her
tormentors with enviable ferocity.
Kevin Hodges’ ingratiating fool was
well-sustained and never coy, and Syd-
ney Davis scored a tour de force as his
irascible manservant. Undeniable stage
presence skilfully dissipated in ensemble
playing made Wilfred Dowsett (the
gullible Justice of the Peace) a tower
of strength to his fellows. He was deli-
ciously nimble and in as fluent command
of his role as Alan Cassell (Lantern
Leatherhead) whose exquisite timing
made the riotous puppet show "cene a
highlight of the play.
If proof were needed that a trained
voice is the best defence against poor
acoustics it came from Patricia King’s
Widow Purecraft. As well, she moved
herself with admirable grace and effect.
MARY LORD
HAPPENINGS
OFFSTAGE
Ardele. Jean Anouilh. Brisbane Arts
Theatre, Brisbane.
Thus is a play which (predictably with
Anouilh) parades all the most
theatrical of characters within the most
theatrical of plots and, of course, in a
theatrically decorative period setting.
The scene: a French chateau, circa
1912. The characters: An ageing
General, his mad wife, his sister the
Countess (fashionable but, alas, 40), her
husband the Count, who is smoothly
cynical, and her lover, Villardieu, a
‘thinning dandy. There is also the
General’s daughter-in-law, Nathalie, who
is young, and his second son, Nicholas,
who also is young, but worse, innocent
The plot revolves around the Generals
other sister (Ardele) who does not appear
onstage, a contrivance which leads to
innumerable one-sided conversations up
stage through the bedroom door
Ardele is in love, for the first time, a
43. If it is all so contrived and artificia
in execution, why then has Anoui


©
t
GOING TO MELBOURNE?
Time your visit for the Monster Melbourne
2nd International Trade Fair
February 27th March 16th
IT COULD PAY FOR THE TRIP!
See a world of products from goods in your
own field. Make International contacts.
The Melbourne Exhibition Buildings will be
the ‘Key Centre of the South’.
2nd MELBOURNE
INTERNATIONAL
TRADE FAIR
February 27th March 16th
succeeded in making a play which, if not
ferociously profound, is disturbing and
provoking enough?
The answer, I think, is that he has
conceived a brilliant image to contain
his central thesis, that love is only the
property of the innocent and that the
essential physicality of it, besides acting
as its own destruction, makes experience
inescapably cynical. The conflict of
innocence with experience is a common
enough theme, but by making Ardele
and her lover both hunchbacks Anouilh
neatly reverses the usual image of the
physically attractive body housing the
grotesqueries of lust. Here the mal-
formed body contains the only truly
genuine love expressed in the play. The
only other innocent in the play is
Nicholas, whose love for Nathalie must
end because he is still innocent whereas
she has learned experience.
I think Anouilh’s statement is falsified
rather by the cast he has chosen to
exhibit to us. B.ut a point is made. The
performance was generally within reason-
able proximity to the “grand” hamming
necessary to the parts. It is, as the pro-
gramme states, an actor’s play. I did
not feel the actors
nlptplv _ WQr . * „ y 7 ™
a
t making behind their puppet-dress,
mam trio ° f P® rf °J rmer * ( the
General, the Countess and CounQ pro-
ass"rance around which
whole atmosphere necessary for the
play CoUld be mamtamed -
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT


THE RED PAGE
EUROPEANS IN EXILE
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Partisan Review Anthology.
Edited by William Phillips and
Philip Rahv. Macmillan and Co,
London.
‘TFhe Partisan Review” has undergone
* several metamorphoses in its 29
years of life. It began as a Communist
quarterly, gradually adopted a Trotskyite
position, became Marxist and anti-Stali-
nist, and finally after a brief, liberal
spell emerges as an anti-Communist
platform under the banner of the Con-
gress for Cultural Freedom. The maga-
zine’s politically various past may well
be an embarrassment to its present
editors, William Phillips (who was here
last August for a seminar) and Philip
Rahv, and indeed no reference to it
occurs in their very brief prefatory note.
Only the most assiduous reader would be
able to trace changes in political color in
the pages of the present volume.
As the book’s dust jacket impressively
displays, this durable publication has
commanded a dazzling array of talent.
The presence here of Paul Valery,
Jacques Maritain, T. S. Eliot, Andre
Malraux, and F. R. Leavis makes it clear
that the editors are quite able to call on
the most distinguished transatlantic
names. At home, Mary McCarthy,
Dwight Macdonald, Lionel and Diana
Trilling and W. H. Auden represent the
hub of the American Establishment.
A good buy then, and not only for the
reason of snob appeal. The book gives
one a clear picture of the present rela-
tionship between New York and London
and Paris as centres of culture, the first
city now unquestionably in the lead. Yet,
though New York (where “The Partisan
Review” is published and most of its
American contributors live at least part
of the time) is by virtue of wealth, talent
and vision the mistress of the West, these
pages make it clear that her intellectuals
are far more troubled by the problem of
their isolation from society than are those
of the European capitals.
In Paris, the great figures represented
here, Malraux and Maritain among them,
have always known that a large and
cultivated public exists to honor them.
The French bourgeois, whether deeply
interested in the arts or not, has always
been taught to respect the writer, the
artist to regard him as the most
elevated of beings. Although this is not
true in England, there is a sufficiently
big minority to take an interest in a
writer’s work for him to forget the blank
indifference of the rest of the public.
In the United States, a staggeringly small
percentage of the population has the
slightest interest in writing of quality at
all (even the works of Grace Metalious
reach less than one per cent of the
public). The circulation of “The Partisan
Review” and other magazines like it
would be lucky to struggle to the 10,000
mark. This knowledge of the indifferent
millions of the vast mass of Ameri-
cans who neither know nor care what,
say, Mary McCarthy has to say about
Tennessee Williams permeates this
book and the magazine from which it
has emerged.
Knowledge of remoteness from the
masses of the nation, knowledge of the
lack of centuries of cultural tradition
these sit heavily on the American con-
tributors to “The Partisan Review An-
thology.” The writers have reacted
variously to their crisis. Dwight Mac-
donald, among others, has rejected the
whole of “midcult,” the middle-brow,
middle-class and middling mass of novels,
plays and criticism which strive to keep
the “common reader” happy. He advo-
cates a firmly rooted aristocracy of in-
tellect, headquartered in New York, and
with, presumably, himself as Grand
Duke. In a recent issue of “Esquire,” he
showed his attitude by saying that Los
Angeles wasn’t even within the bounds
of civilisation; for him, clearly, New
York itself is a provincial outpost and
London is the capital.
Although Steven Marcus in an essay
here on criticism declares firmly that
American critical writing is superior to
English (and Mary McCarthy has also
proved herself a vocal nationalist), the
tone of the anthology is intensely pro-
European and self-denigrating. Now that
New York, both intellectually and soci-
ally, is as intensely and ruthlessly strati-
fied and enclosed as any European city,
the tendency is to regard it as a European
centre at one remove, rather than a
singularly American citadel of art and
learning.
Whereas about 40 years ago a publica-
tion like “The Partisan Review” would
have been determinedly American, at
once ridden with an inferiority complex
intellectually and brashly set upon estab-
lishing a native culture, this magazine
today is practically indistinguishable
(except in the excellence of its pan er and
typography) from publications across th
Atlantic. It is not so much American
flavor as cosmopolitan or at times
quasi-European; in other words it L
not reflect the optimism, confidence
lustiness and superficiality of America a
most of its people know it, but rather
the pessimism, doubt, tiredness and
penetrating introspection of a quasi.
European intellectual minority centred
Manhattan.
The movement into Europe mentally is
seen reflected in the activities of Amer-
ica’s President, who is as far removed
from Taft, Teddy Roosevelt, or his im-
mediate predecessors as it is possible to
be. He openly admires art, and his wife
displays the Presidential art treasures to
Television; he reads Robert Frost from
the idiot box (though not yet -
William Carlos Williams); he entertains
poets, opera singers and painters in a
manner unthinkable to the haberdasher
and the general who came before him
into the White House. The new, cultured
American, sober-suited, pro-British,
liberal and art-conscious, is the American
who moves through the pages of “The
Partisan Review” and who confronts the
public these days from the hub of
Washington.
Yet, though culture is fashionable now
in America, and the horny-handed in-
dustrialist must feel uncomfortable in the
more rarified circles, one doubts if “The
Partisan Review’s” circulation has greatly
grown. Nervousness, edginess, self-
questioning are still to be found in its
domestic contributions. The poems here
are so ridden with anxiety that at times
the whole poetic structure seems to be
rent apart, only an ingrained American
professionalism and know-how saving the
verses from collapse into incoherence. I
Some essays the editors’ among
them offer a nervous surface with
little of interest below it (I found the
speeches of Mr Phillips while he was
here peculiarly uneasy and despite
some brilliant strokes unrewarding
when explored in depth). Pieces on in-
dividual writers Nathanael West, F.
Scott Fitzgerald, D. H. Lawrence -
often bear the load of the critics own
troubles with backbreaking effect on a
line of argument. That peculiar agoni#
uneasiness which most of us note in
Partisan Review” sometimes tends °
reduce the impact of an essay.
The best contributions to the book are
those which have simply appeared in
pages because they are well written, an
written by famous people, regardless
whether they reflect a “mood or n
Isaac Rosenfeld’s bitter, heartless so
“George,” about a woman who s
herself naked at a party to .
discomfort and nobody’s eXClte
seems to me a masterpiece of observ


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH H
•COTCH WHISKY fiISTILLERS
WM. SANOERSON & SON LTfl,
ntorr
tfian a
ikottlj...
a trabitton
ASK FOR VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
NZLI/H4.2
. f lightly sustained irony. F. R.
ffvis’s dismissal of latter-day Ezra
r ifl j a brilliant example of aggressive
P ri!cai generalisation, is well worth re-
reading. And Stephen Spender’s “Anglo-
Saxon Attitudes” comes as close to telling
the truth about London literary life as we
are likely to get these days.
FITTING THE NEW MOULD
r*ne York to the Kimberleys. George
Farwell. Rigby Ltd. 28s. 6d.
r N his new book George Farwell takes
1 us through the most remote regions of
this continent. His story, though spiced
with those “characters” who find their
way into every book on the North, is
essentially one of the mid-twentieth
century; of the challenges facing us now
that the pioneering urge has faded. It
tells of a few Australians who do not fit
the new mould, and of what they are
doing to meet the threat that is building
op in the hungry, crowded nations to
the north of us.
Farwell gives us some interesting con-
clusions of his own. And he skilfully
uses odd bits of fact and history to round
off this tale of far places . . . Somerset,
ghost settlement of Cape York Peninsula,
where Frank Jardine and Sana Solio, his
Samoan princess, once lived in baronial
splendor and dined off silver plate . . .
the Tiger Country, north of Cairns . . .
Thursday Island, with its weathered
shanties, its dwindling lugger fleet, its
enormous thirst, and its row on row of
graves where the divers lie . . . Mulpa-
ringa, “kadaitcha” killer and outlaw of
Central Australia . . . the little group of
Myalls, speaking no known language,
driven by drought from their home in the
western desert, gaoled by a white man’s
court in the Kimberleys for spearing
bullocks . . .
At Weipa, Cape York Peninsula, a
bauxite mining enterprise is in its birth-
pangs—bulldozers roaring, houses rising,
men sweating—while overhead the wild
pse still fly and the tall, spindle-shanked
aborigines spear their fish on the shores
of the Gulf of Carpentaria.
Farwell says: “It seems a tragic coin-
cidence that the founders of Weipa mis-
sion, with so wide an area to choose
from, should have built on the precise
spot where some of the richest bauxite
deposits lay . .
The book covers a tremendous area of
outback Queensland, the Northern Ter-
ritory and the Kimberleys. There is
Charters Towers, presented to us not as
the dying city of goats and bottles we
remember but as a thriving cattle centre.
It is a cheering picture for those who love
the Towers, until recently a seedy parody
of its days of greatness when it boasted
32,000 people, 58 hotels and was known
among gold fossickers, simply, as “The
World.”
We read of the new mining towns of
Mount Isa and Mary Kathleen, cross the
blacksoil Barkly Tablelands into the Ter-
ritory. At El Sherana (named by mining
man “Bluey” Kay after his daughters
Ellen, Sheren and Anna) Farwell visits a
centre of the great uranium boom, now
petering out in a world of glutted mar-
kets but hopeful of revival later as a
tourist resort. Darwin is passed over
briefly. And perhaps that is as it should
be, for it has little enough in common
with the pioneering outback.
Farwell has told us something of what
is being done today to develop the North.
With him many will “give thanks that
something that has gone out of the lives
of the rest of us is still retained by a
few men, at least, in the emptier portions
of the Australian continent.”
K. G. WILLEY
THE FIRST ART CRITIC
The Essential Vasari. Edited by Betty
Burroughs. Unwin. 11s. 3d.
Useless Memoirs. Carlo Gozzi. Oxford
University Press. 295. 9d.
r f HOSE w ho, like myself, were un-
fortunate enough only to know
as aris ‘Lives of the Most Eminent
[m ,f ects ’ Winters and Sculptors of
a y by repute will have new cause to
ess paper-back revolution which
w brings us a concise version of the
[^ OUs work, containing 25 of the
Fost S ’ The y are based on Mrs Jonathan
... er . s translation, abridged and with
" olts by Betty Burroughs.
kno\T *° 3Ve Vasari is not to
°ne of the most entertaining corn-
mentaries of the Renaissance, leave
alone one of the first and most delight-
ful art critics of the modern world. To
come to him fresh, being acquainted
only with the sometimes rather slighting
references to him in the work of histo-
rians and art historians, is to open an-
other window on the Golden Age. His
accuracy is often questioned and his
prejudices, notably in favor of his own
Florence, are obvious; but what a wealth
of color, anecdote and insight! This is
the ideal bedside book for the cultivated
mind.
Himself a product of the maniera as
a painter, Giorgio Vasari reserves
sublimest praise for the later masters,
his contemporaries and often friends.
But his true guru is Michelangelo, who


wrote sonnets upon the first edition of
the Lives, and to whom he stood some-
what in the relation of a pupil. Michel-
angelo’s adventures and misadventures
with a long series of Popes are related
with tender gusto, though the chapter on
Da Vinci is episodically richer, at least
in this collection.
My favorite story is of Leonardo’s
father secretly selling his young son’s
work, a decorated shield the prodigy
made for a peasant, and which the old
man thought too good for such a pur-
pose. He found a buyer for 100 ducats.
Eventually the Duke of Milan paid 300
for it.
Australian art dealers may study Vasari
with profit, though unhappily they can-
not follow Michelangelo’s well-known
but apocryphal stratagem of burying
a sleeping cupid, to have him “dis-
covered” as an antique. What can be
done with aboriginal works in this field
is limited. But artists, too, will find in
this book some useful hints on how to
deal with stupid clients. They may not
care to emulate Donatello when, with
Duke Cosimo as go-between, he retained
enough independence to smash the bust
of a merchant who quibbled over price;
but they will like his way with the guild
of joiners for which he produced his
Saint Mark, in the outside niches of Or
San Michele.
“The Saint Mark, being designed for
a high niche, did not look well standing
on the floor of the studio. The syndics
of the guild were not disposed to accept
it, but Donatello begged them to let him
set it in position and there work on it.
He so placed it and shut it up for a
fortnight and then, without having
touched it, he uncovered it, to the ad-
miration of all.” Plus ga change!
I did not know, but want to believe
it is true, that Michelangelo had to
satisfy Soderini in the matter of the
nose of his David. >
“Soderini . . . thought the nose too
short. Michelangelo ... to satisfy him,
took his chisel and a little loose marble
dust in his hand and climbed the scaffold-
ing. As he tapped lightly on the chisel,
he let the marble dust drift down. ‘I like
it better now,’ said Soderini, ‘you have
given it life’.”
I suppose this is the sort of story
every art student knows, but thousands
who do not will turn to Vasari with joy.
Nowhere else can you see Titian and
Michelangelo standing together in the
Belvedere, discussing the Danae. Miche-
langelo turns to Vasari and says that the
coloring is very pleasing, but it is a pity
the Venetians don’t study drawing more.
Betty Burroughs’s little chapter-end
comments are very useful, but her foot-
notes slightly less so. In the context of
the times, for instance, it is not prepos-
terous of Vasari to claim that Jews paid
ritual homage to the statue of Moses. 1
occasionally prefer to give my fellow
journalist and critic the benefit of the
doubt. Nevertheless Miss Burroughs loves
her Vasari who could not? and
can be as enthusiastic as he in bestowing
praise, as she does generously on his
wonderful sketch of Brunelleschi, archi-
tect of high drama.
To have carved this book out of five
monumental tomes is a valiant achieve-
ment. One can hear Vasari, the courtier,
politely applauding.
Carlo Gozzi’s “Useless Memoirs” are
fairly well known in Addington Synge’s
racy translation. I am not sure that
Philip Horne’s cuts have been always for
the best, but the reinstatement of certain
passages dealing with the Count’s in-
conclusive love-life are appreciated. No
one, nowadays, performs Gozzi’s in-
numerable plays and phantasies ,
they provide raw materials fa
librettos, “Turandot” being the mos , £
liar, if not the most recent.
His autobiography, the result of
tacks made on him by an amorous riv i
in the theatrical world of mid-18th
tury Venice, is an apologia as well an
witty tract on the times and on Cow
media dell’arte; interesting also for wh t
it tells us of Goldoni W h 0 h a
weathered so much better than Gozzi hi!
detractor. The latter was, if this is m.
sible, an amiable misanthrope, writing
when the Serene Republic had reached
its lowest decadence.
He still reads well. But perhaps the
“Useless Memoirs” have most value for
today’s general reader as a lead-up to
Stendhal’s Italian settings.
DAVID MARTIN
COME BACK, YOU BRITISH SOLDIER
Return to Burma. Bernard Fergus-
son. Collins. 31s.
Dateline—Peking. Frederick Nossal.
Macdonald. 31s.
VjyiTHiN a year of retiring from the
” army Bernard Fergussoh took
off to revisit the scenes of his two
classic stories of the war “Beyond the
Chindwin” and “The Wild Green Earth.”
In a sense he was responding to the
exhortation “Come you back, you
British soldier, come you back to Man-
dalay”; yet it was not the south that
concerned him but the north, the rugged
area between the Chindwin and Irra-
waddy that was so bitterly contested by
Wingate, under whom Fergusson served.
He went there to look up those who, at
some peril to themselves, had helped
British troops, and to thank them and
to pay tribute in passing to those col-
leagues who died at Japanese hands in
obscure and lonely places. “Return to
Burma” is a travel book of an uncon-
ventional kind.
In 20 years much had happened to
Burma, as Fergusson soon found. It was
independent, but had for a long period
been torn by civil unrest. Some of his
former friends, having fought with dis-
tinction against the Japanese, continued
to fight as rebels against the government,
and suffered for it. Others, however,
had made the difficult transition to
citizen life, and these came forward to
swap yarns about the old days with the
author as he made a sort of curry-and-
rice Progress upcountry.
It is a fragmentary narrative. There
are bits of history, descriptions of people
and landscape, and much reminiscing of
wartime incidents: the pagoda that was
still using a rusty unexploded RAF
bomb as a gong; the pieces of junk
waiting to be souvenired, like the old
wireless battery with the message still
on it, ‘Made in Australia’; the yarn that
Wingate was reputed to strain his tea 1
through an old pair of socks.
This sort of thing is amusing and
well done, but little of the color or
excitement of this theatre of war is con-
veyed in the text. Some may object to,
his casual namedropping, to his true-
blue professional bonhomie, to his
patronising views of the modern Burma
Army. These can be explained away
perhaps as the attitudes appropriate to
the great-grandson of Lord Dalhousie,
His solemn remarks about what seem
to be at this distance quite trivial
occurrences are another matter, and I
think they are part of his failure to
involve us at any depth in his personal
story.
“Dateline —Peking” is a travel book of
the conventional kind, but it has none
of the remoteness of Fergusson’s journey
Frederick Nossal is a professional
journalist and, as one would expect, the
prose is clear, incisive and eminently
readable. His story is important, for it
comes from one who was the first
Western correspondent to be allowed to
remain in China under the Communists
for longer than a few months. He di>
in fact, manage to stay eight monts,
up to mid ’62, before getting the push
He says that the problem for al j?
visitor, not only for a journalist, ’
China is that one has to be prepare
shut one’s eyes to weaknesses m
Communist system or face eX P u SI J _
The Chinese do not make it easy ’
outsiders to see or do anything. B ure
cratic delays, icy politeness, evaslon ’
pathological mistrust of all f°
whether Communist or not, are s
of the difficulties that confron ,
visitor. Nossal spent much of 1S
in wordless strolls round Peking)


BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
Many STOTT students pay for their Course
before completing it. If YOU have a flair for
writing, then Stott's Literary Courses will
develop your talent.
Stott students are taught to write successfully
for both Australian and overseas markets, and
they study under the guidance of instructors who
are themselves successful writers.
There is a constanf demand for well-written
stories, articles, par,s, radio and TV scripts, etc.,
and the lucrative field of Freelance Writtng is
waiting to pay well for good work. Write today
for full particulars of Stott's : Literary Courses.
Molls Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE B 463
WRITERS' AND PHOTOGRAPHERS'
MARKETING GUIDE (1962-3 ed.)
Aust., N.Z. and Oversea Markets for all
classes of MSS and photos. Also publishers,
literary agents, etc.
Complete detailed data, 15/- (post lid.)
Most booksellers, or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Box 28, P. 0., Collins St., Melbourne.
, in hi s hotel room reading trans-
iW from the Communist Press.
Tiven all these hazards, it is remark-
,V t he was able to ferret out any-
“ wangled trips to the main
Srial areas and, using some
broke through the net of
stration and loneliness to document
It must be a valuable story. The main
'l ine we already know in certain
cts-a small ruthless Communist
Lat the top backed by an army and
pet police controlling a vast servile
Ration of 700 million people. Where
j,account is relevant is in assessing the
ljn ges that have taken place since
Generally his account is hostile to
tCommunist regime (it is ironic that
magazine should label him a
Lge of Peking), but he does set out
/evidence and he does temper his
iiicisms. In the Epilogue he sums up
(position:
“Yet there is no denying that Com-
mism has done much for China. The
ding Government has cleaned the land
[corruption, of filth in the streets, of
warlords and bandit hordes. It has been
ruthless in stamping out organised
prostitution and gambling. Organised
vice cannot exist side by side with the
Chinese brand of Communism.
“The Communists give children and
their parents schooling, Marxist educa-
tion admittedly, but better than nothing.
The labor armies mobilised by Peking
are turning out goods ranging from
tractors and trolley buses to pins and
needles . . . 'but weigh against these
benefits the losses, to the individual, the
family, to human dignity.
“Since Chinese citizens are supposed
to belong to one seven-hundred-million-
member family fathered by the State,
the home life of people is made to seem
unimportant. Children are enouraged to
reserve their energies for the State, and
their contacts with their parents are
growing looser. Worse by far has been
the suffering of the intellectuals and the
educated middle class. They face two
choices compliance with Communist
commands or social extinction.”
DOUGLAS TERRY
DROWNED IN THE TUMULT
ierly, Number 2, 1962. Edited by
falter Stone. Angus and Robertson.
75.6 d.
tajin Quarterly, Number 4, 1962.
Edited by C. B. Cristesen. The Uni-
versity of Melbourne. 10s. 6d.
Wrant, Number 1, 1963. Edited by
lames McAuley. The Australian As-
sociation of Cultural Freedom. ss.
fecrly, 1962, Number 2 and 3.
Edited by J. M. S. O’Brien and I. W.
Brumby. The Arts Union of the
University of Western Australia. 6s.
| p °em by Charles Higham on “Naga-
saki’ in “Westerly” suggests some-
"S of the state of current Australian
lltter lies after the explosion of the
White novels and plays and the
! Porter novel and short stories. The
ea 's not mine; Nancy Keesing uses it
Induce her review in “Southerly” of
'gently published novels drowned in
“mult (Kylie Tennant performs the
Nightingale service in
* ! h f e ar e all excellent magazine
•Southerly” prints an incredibly
u, ecture by Dr Colin Roderick on
tid ew ! sh mysticism behind White's
,;rf. S ln .the Chariot” which somewhat
a S| mil ar essay by Allan Edwards
LI, y 1 an d Sybille Smith is quite
ritic” • U ° n Brennan’s Stature as a
I op e an,ln . has rarely looked better.
ku* Wlth a delightful essay by
ewart on trout-fishing around
Brindabella, goes on to an extract from
Miles Franklin’s story of her childhood
in the same place, and continues with a
new poem by Stewart, “The Peahen”,
one of his best. The serial “The Austra-
lian Image” in this isrue is a consideration
(yet once again) of how the English look
at Australia, by Noel McLachlan; that on
“Remembrance of Things Past”, about
the atonal composer Hanna Eisler as
Catherine Duncan knew him in Europe,
is a model of what such things should be,
as is the poetry survey by H. P. Heseltine
and the story survey by A. A. Phillips.
About the best of the short stories is a
long one by Desmond O’Grady in
“Quadrant” about a young Australian
who wants to write and fall in love in
Italy; and then in “Meanjin” there is
Eric Roll’s curious story of the love of
an Australian soldier and a New Guinea
girl during World War II; “Westerly”
prints one by Donald Stewart and ex-
tracts from new novels by John K. Ewers
and Peter Cowan, but “Westerly’s” most
interesting prose is factual Mary
Durack’s story of Father McNab, who
at 63 tried to establish a mission in the
Kimberleys, Alexandra Hasluck’s of the
aboriginal patriot or murderer Yagan,
and an extract from Henrietta Drake-
Brockman’s forthcoming life of Pelsaert.
In poetry A. D. Hope is at his most
horrible (that is, at his best) in “South-
erly” in “Variations on a Theme by
Paulus Silentarius”; Vincent Buckley
attends two funerals in “Westerly” and
visits his parents in “Quadrant”; James
McAuley transfers to a “Merry-Go-
Round” in “Westerly” a theme used by
both Slessor and Aldous Huxley about
vaudeville; but the poem that gave me
most pleasure was J. R. Rowland’s cool
study of “A Diplomat” in “Meanjin”.
“Westerly” has a 16-page plate-paper
presentation, some in color, of pictures
by twelve Western Australians, with a
critical and factual account of the artists
by Patrick Hutchings. Whether this is
“Westerly’s” first issue is not quite clear;
they say: “November 1962. Vol. I. No. I
being 2/1962 & 3/1962.” This is no
doubt an example of the Higher Mathe-
matics about which I hear so much and
understand so little. Anyway, it’s quite a
job.
RONALD McCUAIG


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
DESPITE RECORD PRODUCTION,
RURAL EXPORTS MAY FALL
The value of this year’s gross Austra-
lian rural production is expected to
reach an all-time high of £1,416 mil-
lion.
This official estimate is basgd on better
prices or greater production in the wool,
dairying, wheat and meat industries.
A rise of £6 million in the value of
wool production is expected higher
prices compensating for a fall in pro-
duction.
The value of milk products is likely to
rise by £3 million and perhaps by
even more than £ 3 million if the present
favorable season continues.
The gross value of cereal production
in 1962-63 is estimated to be £274 mil-
lion—£2B million higher than in 1961-62
the rise due almost entirely to the
present record wheat crop.
The estimated increase of £26 mil-
lion in the gross value of cattle, sheep
and pigs slaughtered has been due mainly
to increased production, especially of
beef and veal.
Despite the volume of rural produc-
tion this year, the volume of exports of
rural origin probably will be about 6 p.c.
less than last year. This is due largely
to the anticipated fall in the exports of
wheat from the record level of 230 m.
bushels in 1961-62 to an estimated 180
m. bushels this year.
Exports of barley and raw wool are
also expected to fall from last year’s
levels barley from 31 m. to 17 m.
bushels and wool from 1638 m. lb to
1583 m. lb.
The value of rural exports is expected
to be £770 m., or £46 m. lower than
in 1961-62, due mainly to anticipated
lower wheat, barley and wool exports.
Although the value of meat exports is
expected to rise still further in 1962-63
the increase is unlikely to counteract the
fall in the exports of other products.
The Federal Government expects the
rise in the gross value of production to
result in a higher net farm income level
this year, unless it is offset by unexpected
rises in the prices of goods bought by
farmers.
At this stage farm costs are expected
to show only a slight rise this year. Net
farm income is provisionally estimated
by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics
at £505 m. £33 m. higher than last
year.
This represents the first substantial rise
for some years.
NEW INDIGNITY FORCED ON
FARMERS' UNION
TOhe National Farmers’ Union of Aus-
-*• tralia must feel like hiding its face.
Few national bodies can ever have been
in such an embarrassing position. Indig-
nity has been heaped upon indignity in
the last few months.
After having had to drop its member-
ship of the powerful International Fede-
ration of Agricultural Producers (as
mentioned in The Bulletin last week)
because it couldn’t raise the £l6OO
annual membership fee and thus losing
its voice in discussions on international
commodity agreements, it has now suf-
fered another setback.
Out of the blue it received an urgent
request from the British NFU for imme-
diate talks aimed at obtaining interna-
tional commodity agreements.
Wonderful news this, for in the past
Britain had usually been regarded as an
opponent of these agreements at least
in some products. But the NFU of Aus-
tralia shame-facedly had to write to
London saying, in effect . . . “We’re very
sorry but we can’t afford the plane fare
to send a man to talk with you. But we
would be delighted if you could send
your representatives out here.”
So, unless Britain takes pity on its
poor offspring, Australia will miss an-
other golden opportunity to capitalise on
the Common Market breakdown.
The serious financial situation which
prevents the NFU of Australia function-
ing as a strong and effective voice of
Australian primary industry is a direct
result of the duplication of bodies re-
presenting the Australian farmer.
Australia has a host of farmers’ or-
ganisations, each competing f or
pounds each year from the fl,
none-too-well - lined - these - day, 2?
Many of these organisations are sta I
ing along ineffectually on the brink ni
bankruptcy. Scores of them direct
overlap, or even completely duplicate!,
activities of rival bodies. Their only e ff e
is to divide the voice of the farmer ani
prevent any one body gaining fi n J
strength.
Many attempts have been made by flj
more far-sighted industry leaders to over
come the problem, but petty jealousie
and selfish interests have proved stumb
ling blocks. Today full unity seems al
most as far away as ever.
Until it is achieved the Australia
farmer will continue to watch opportuni
ties slip through his fingers.
FARMERS HELPED TO DESIGN
NEW CULTIVATOR DRILL
A new cultivator drill, available wit!
four types of interchangeabl
ground tools, has been released in tin
for 1963 seeding by International Hat
vester. The drill, the McCormick Inter
national A 6-1, was designed entirely ii
Australia.
The A 6-1 breaks new ground becaus
for the first time in a cultivator dri
it uses automotive principles forme
channel members, enclosed oilbath gear
box, cranked axles operated hydraul:
cally, sealed bearings and non-lube busl
ings, roller chain drives.
Cereal growers had a big say in tb
design of the new drill. IH field sta
surveyed farmers in every State, findiij
out what they wanted in a cultivate
drill. Engineers worked closely withfiel
staff and farmers to develop prototype
which were subjected to gruelling s
tests.
Centre of interest in the A 6-1 isj
cranked axles. These allow the w o
machine, including ground tools, to I
raised or lowered from the whee s
hydraulic remote control for: 1
• A convenient lower loading el c
for seed and fertiliser; , ,
• Ground clearance of n ine in
for safer road transport;
• Down pressure on ground to
required in hard soil. J
The A 6-1 is available in thßOj
16 row (9ft. 4in. sowing «
row (lift. Bin.) and 24 row ,
A new oil bath gearbox ena
adjustment of seed and super
finer scale than ever bef° re |
31b. steps for grain and in 5
fertiliser. . up
Grain can be sown in ~
1421 b. per acre, and super m
to and in excess of 5001 b. P
A grass seed box is aval a
tional equipment.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Export Incentives’ Poor Response
fE sincerely hope that a sufficiency of businessmen and
industrialists were shocked, even shamed, by some
observations on exporting made by Mr W. S. Lowe
last week. Mr Lowe has recently left a position as assistant
secretary to the Department of Trade to pursue export sales
promotion elsewhere. This forthright swansong and its under-
tones of informed advice call for wide attention.
It surely cannot increase our complacency and the malaise
of so-called lack of confidence to discover that Australian
exporters could have sold £5O million more goods overseas
lost year. Mr Lowe strenuously believes that possibility and
roundly asserts the businessmen are not taking enough trouble
lo apply the Federal Government’s export incentives.
We have often had occasion in these pages to point out that,
io far as the export drive is concerned, Trade is assuredly
®e of the liveliest and most helpful of Government depart-
ments. There has been no excuse for business to pretend here
tlat officialdom performs slowly and unimaginatively. Allied
>i the incentive scheme, the department has proved very
tolling to furnish guidance in many of the preliminaries of
sport—from trade ships and publicity onwards.
So it caiPt sound particularly rewarding to hear from such a
source as Mr Lowe that manufacturers do not fully under-
stand the incentives and actually remain rather suspicious of
k governmental gift-horse. To adopt Mr Lowe’s own
metaphor, “some companies had adopted a ‘wait and see’
thinking the present three-year term of the scheme
'as merely a ‘temporary carrot’.”
Now clearly no export market is built up in a day. Thus
"any novice exporters will demand a certainty of longer-term
stance. Therefore, Mr Lowe, as well as nervous industrial-
lsts' are on solid ground in asking for an announcement of
tension of the scheme.
Perhaps it is necessary continuously to repeat and explain
jjat the incentives, started only in 1961, actually cover.
J e y they are tax concessions allowing a rebate of payroll
I , or lifting exports and a market development allowance
e form of double deduction in assessable income for
00e ys spent on export promotion.
ln° Se genera l principles are perfectly straightforward.
Ko J m ° re com P an l es should be seeking out their application,
u ne COns iders the idea has failed, yet it does appear that
tnm COm P an i es can realise the benefits of an additional
pgeraent to profits.
u? er . all . the recent year’s urging, Mr Lowe’s pessimistic
tooi/ 1011 ' S at a sma H percentage of Australia’s 54,000
es ar e really interested in producing for export.
| LI * s a^! e to support a view earlier maintained by The
Vi f IN efforts to join the Common Market are
Fie nc h ° Cont * riue ’ as she has too much at stake to take the
AustralJ ICtory as final - But ' whatever happens in 'Europe,
s export effort must be stepped up sharply.”
It has also to be realised that, despite licensing and other
controls, “we have still imported goods and services worth
<£looo million more than we exported over the last 10 years.”
The imperative task is to win more exports or just to suffer
controls and an eventual droop in the standard of living.
Backing for such general views comes also from the
National Bank of Australasia, which especially examines the
position of rural exports in its latest monthly summary. The
volume of these exports for 1962-63 seems likely to drop and
our overall earnings from overseas to be lower than last
year.
We would be foolish to assume that markets for Com-
monwealth produce will because more secure, the bank argues.
Our efforts towards market diversification, which up to date
have met with only limited success, must be intensified.
We sorely need the help of manufactured exports and this
in a rapidly more competitive climate.
Priding ourselves on the tremendous industrial strides made
since the Second World War, it still does not seem enough to
justify our progress solely on its internal results. Mr Lowe
himself talks of our technical competence being as good as
any in the world, and in some spheres better.
That competence, though, must soon be ready to move away
from what many would regard as a too cloistered protection.
We shall be taking further steps towards maturity under the
coming Japanese Trade Treaty which will, so reports have it,
contain no “escape clause” to hinder certain of Japan’s exports
to us.
In the chase after our own fresh export opportunities,
it will not do to by-pass any benefits furnished by Government.
The incentives should be developed for the initial courage of
financial risks that they can genuinely give.
WANTED: 500 MEN
IN NEED OF A JOB
employment situation gets curiouser and curiouser.
Something like 116,000 people claim to be unemployed;
the Government says the bulk of them are school leavers and
seasonal workers caught in the bulge of the work force. The
protagonists say they are breadwinners who can’t find a job.
We don’t know.
Last week Sydney’s Metropolitan Water Board pointed out
that it had 500 vacancies for unskilled workers and few appli-
cants. We know that skilled workers are having little difficulty
in obtaining jobs. Indeed, there is only scant physical evidence
that there is any abnormal number of jobless about.
A detailed breakdown of the nation’s unemployed is unfor-
tunately not available. We don’t know how many breadwinners
are not winning bread. The lack of essential data clouds the
position.
However, we do know, from more than intuition, that the
true level of unemployment is somewhat less than the statistic-


ally recorded figure (116,000) but probably considerably more
than the number drawing benefit (43,000).
The Water Board’s position is far from unique, and it does
point to the very narrow margin between full employment and
apparent large scale unemployment of male workers.
Moreover it suggests that at least in Sydney there are few
breadwinners unemployed. Perhaps the breakdown of unem-
ployed as we see it is nearer the real picture than either poli-
tical proponents imagine.
Our breakdown of unemployed looks something like this:
Juvenile males .... .... .... •••• 24,000
Juvenile females .... .... .... • 26,000
Other females .... .... .... 15,000
Seasonal workers .... .... .... 15,000
Unemployable .... .... .... .... 15,000
Continual no. of males in transition
from job to job .... .... .... 5,000
Older males .... .... .... .... 5,000
That adds up to 105,000 more than what probably is the
true unemployed level, yet it does not include any male work-
ers at breadwinning ages of 21-55.
We do not underate the sizeable juvenile employment or
any character of unemployment. But if the main area of unem-
ployment could accurately be defined then industry could work
at reducing it more effectively than at present.
What is emerging is that Australians will have to accept
at social levels a greater difficulty in securing the job they
most want; particularly females and unskilled juveniles.
HAWKE PRESENTS HIS
HOMEWORK IN COURT
if his onslaught was mild compared with the voicing
of unofficial advocacies both inside and outside the court
one day last week, Mr R. J. Hawke, the unions’ official
advocate, gave past basic wage and margins judgments a
heavy hammering at Melbourne’s law courts where the current
margins case is being heard by the Arbitration Commission.
Listening to him through the long summer day as he
recited the results of his homework on case histories with
the idea of disabusing their minds of the value of precedent,
the commissioners must have wondered where it was all lead-
ing; when he would get to the point at issue and finish
ridiculing their proud predecessors.
Worst offender in Mr Hawke’s book was the January,
1952 basic wage judgment, which he considered was dictated
by fears of inflation. This target was well chosen because, with
the background of a couple of years of price stability before
it, the Court must look very closely at the possible un-
stabilising effects of a big rise in margins at this stage in the
recovery, whereas the basis of the unions’ case rests largely
on the capacity of the economy to sustain the increase being
sought in margins.
THE CHANGING HARVEST IN
PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
/Yne of the major problems in administration of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea is to build a firm economic
foundation for the raising of native living standards and the
expansion of social services. Without this an unreal and
artificial community would develop. This was a conclusion to
a recent publication of the Department of Territories, which
discusses primary and secondary industries in some detail.
Many tropical and temperate products could be commefci-
ally grown in the Territory if regular markets were available,
but their absence is usually due to the difficulties of breaking
into established markets or failure of an infant industrv
compete on a cost basis. 0
The Administration and Department of Territories
anxious to preserve the utmost freedom in marketing 0 f T
ducts to allow industries to accept the maximum returns So
successful marketing arrangements which have been mad 6
concern rubber, copra and cocoa. Rubber producers in the
Territory obtain world prices, and in periods of depression
3d. more per lb. sold in Australia. At the request of com
producers, a Copra Marketing Board was reconstituted in 1957
to control the export and sale of copra on world markets at
world prices.
Cocoa is sold through agents on growers’ accounts in
Australia and overseas, and by direct negotiation with buyers
About one-third of cocoa production goes to Australia, the rest
to USA, the UK, and Europe where the distinctive flavor is
appreciated.
The main cash crops copra and copra products, cocoa
rubber and coffee were estimated to earn <£11.6 million or
81 p.c. of the value of Territory exports in 1961-62. Cocoa
arjd coffee are increasingly important, as shown by the table
below:
TONNAGES VALUE
£
Exports 1953-54 1960-61 1961-62 1961-62
Estimated
Copra and copra
products 98,624 107,243 105,500 6,805,000
Rubber 3,145 4,373 4,675 1,210,000
Cocoa beans 727 7,292 10,000 1,980,000
Coffee beans 87 2,295 3,450 1,560,000
A five-year forestry programme provides for the doubling of
the annual log cut to 120 million super feet by 1966-67.
The Administration recognises that as much of the production
in the Territory is native grown (coconut products 25 p.c,
cocoa 33 p.c., coffee 60 p.c., gold 12J p.c.) the Government
may have to intervene more than where industry is wholly
European.
In a foreword to the booklet, the Minister for Territories
(Mr Paul Hasluck) describes the transition from subsistence
farming by natives to cropping for exports as “dramatic.”
Secondary industry is being encouraged by tariff concessions
on the import of plant and raw materials, protection of the
finished product, and low rates of taxation.
Exports from Papua-New Guinea.


0,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000£250,000,000£250,000,b.
0,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000.£250,000,000£250,000,000k.
0,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000£250,000,000 £250,000,000 £2u
0,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000£250,OCMijfiiSiiJ)bodi66o£25o!66o, , oo6S5fi;^ 1 \,.
0,000,000 £250,000,000 £750 nnn naajsfflj <
0,000,OOP £250,000,000
0,000,000 £250,000,000
0,000,000 £250,000,0]
0,000,000 £250,OMf
n nnn ooo£25a<?or y
J,000,
£250,1
JO £250,
,000 £250,
/),000 £250,
j00,000 £250
000,000 £250
j0,000,00&£25i
250,000,000£25
2250,000,000 £25
J£250,000,000£25
J0£250,000,000£25
rf)O£25fl,OOO,O0O£25'
)00£250,000,000£25
)00£250,000,000125
.>00£250,000,000£25
)00£250,000,000£25
'.)00 £250,000,000 t2 r
J00£250,000,000£"
)00£250,000,000£
>00£250,000,000£
>00£250,000,000f
>00£250,000,000/
>00 £250,000,000
X)0£250,000,000
OOO £250,000,000
>00 £250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
100E250,000.000
)00£250,000,000
>00£250,000,000
)00 £250,000,000
,)00£250|
)00£250
>00 £25
)00£25'
,)00£250
■)00£25i
>00£25l
OOO £250*
)00£250,000,000
>00 £250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
X)0£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
>00£250,000,000
>00£250,000,000 £250
100 £250,000,000 £250
100 £250,000,000 £250
)00 £250,000,000 £250
)00£250,000,000 £250]
)00£250,000,000£250,
)00£250,000,000£250
■)00£250,000,000£250
)00£250,000,000£25
I00£250,000,000
I00£250,000,000
)00£250,000,000
)00£250,000 .Qfl
)00£250,0
)00£250,0
I00£250,0i
100 £250,0
)00£250,0
250,0
250,0'
K30
_ J£250!000!000£25 _
J.OOOJO £250,000,000 £250?
°j;000£250,000,000 £250,
**00 £250,000,000 £250,0
'250,000,000 £250,000
'0,000,000 £250,000,
,000£250,000,000£250,00d,000£250 1 *
0000250,000,000£250,000,000 : £250,C
>£250,000,0000250,000,000£250,C
‘ r ' ic i0,000,000£250 1 000,000£250 t (
iO,000,0000250,000,00002500
‘",000,000£250,000,000£250,t
*7M£250,000,0000250,C
mmeoBt
100,000
00,000 £250,OCc
10,000 £250,OOC
10,000 £250,OOC
"*00,000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,OOC
' 000 £250,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,OOC
'QO £250,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,OOC
0 £250,000,000 £250,000,000 £250,OOC
”250,000,000 £250,000,000 £250, OOC
'Rn non nnn«9Kn nnn nnnc9i»n nnr
U,Ul»
> f 00l
>,oa
>,001
>,00l
I.OOf
>,00(
10,001
>,001
1,001
£250,000,000
Two hundred and fifty
million pounds. It's a lot of
money, no matter which
way you look at it.
It's the amount of money
the Commonwealth Savings
Bank has lent to help its
customers obtain homes in
the last 16 years.
It pays to—
BANK
COMMONWEALTH
OOUIC INQUIRY
0$ ns MEN
Hr Menzies has at least resolved the
ill guessing game surrounding mem-
LL of the economic inquiry. Many
yjns still remain to be decided on
I crucial matters of method and tech-
It is to be hoped that these ap-
Liy abstract affairs will be accorded
{ importance they deserve, even that
gess and academic discussion be
jjUy directed towards them.
Dr Vernon, as chairman, would' no
lit appreciate a considerable measure
outside opinion on technique and pro-
im, for little guidance has been,
itlsafed to him. His first reactions
lied a trifle startled: “It would be
it unrealistic to think that anything
tlis sort could be knocked off in a
iple of months.”
Nevertheless, relative speed is part of
necessary essence of this particular
itract “to have some competent
1 objective advice of an analytical
d upon certain great questions re-
ding the best use and disposition of
[resources,” in the impressive word-
:of the original announcement,
fe ourselves have attempted a bare
lortwo along the lines of organisa-
i especially in urging the irhportance
In absolutely competent secretariat
liits ability to call upon a thoroughly
rational range of statistical informa-
t These statistical demands are un-
do be provided by the present Aus-
I® set-up. Their collection must need
hone of the first concerns of the
® committee. Indeed, a sure foun-
ffl h this one respect can add
H] to the speed and effect of the
#!s policy deliberations,
we to whom the inquiry means the
Wy of fresh possibilities within the
talian economy may cheerfully
Dr Vernon’s colleagues. It is par-
tly welcome that Sir John Craw-
: director of the Research School
aeific Studies at the Australian
® al University, comes in as vice-
iman,
J John has earlier expressed de-
f firm views on the inquiry’s
are glad these will find
a vent in helping to shape the
■ ® °J The thankfully more em-
-8 terms of reference,
a other members preserve a sug-
([ distinguished balance: Pro-
I ■ «• Karmel, professor of eco-
I at Adelaide; Mr D. G. Moles-
, firman of F. J. Walker Ltd;
Han : er > deputy chairman
j| agln B director of the Myer Em-
|t;enis n ° ne ed to tell any of these
HI n that very many outsiders
ait the results of their ap-
proaching and arduous efforts. Perhaps
we can be given a reasonably early de-
scription of the machinery and organisa-
tion the committee favours. Will it con-
sider desirable and expedient the release
of a series of interim and specialised
reports as the whole field receives exam-
ination?
Such a form of publication, of pub-
licity even, could serve to highlight
some of the more immediately basic
probings of the economy. There is, as
we have frequently maintained, a great
need for more open., particularly busi-
ness, discussion of the major causal
factors of our economic life,
Whatever we may think of the terms
of examination, absence of direct target
planning or no, there need be nothing but
good wishes as the inquiry sets forth,
As they stand now, the terms do some-
thing to remove the preponderant em-
phasis on the tariff that echoed through
the first outline. They contain a clearer
recognition of the width and inter-de-
pendence of all the topics.


GROSS
NATIONAL PRODUCT
(£ million)
’59-60
’60-61
3573
730
’61-62
1954-55
’55-56
’56-57
’57-58
’58-59
3646
Wages, salaries, &c.
Company income
2450
518
2677
547
2828
594
2918
581
3041
635
3352
761
(705)
Surplus of public authority
business undertakings ....
Income of unincorporated
35
30
50
61
77
90
108
111
businesses —
455
465
485
(472)
Farms
Other unincorporated
447
443
520
347
(565)
businesses, pro-
fessions, &c
476
499
509
507
523
571
570
231
Net rent and interest —
181
195
217
181
5864
830
Dwellings
119
137
152
168
19(
Other ....
93
102
112
125
135
158
5932
National income
4138
4435
4765
4707
5047
5592
801
Indirect taxes less subsidies
Allowances for
509
551
622
675
706
478
785
517
591
561
7255
+ 5
depreciation, &c
272
329
361
446
7321
Gross national product ....
4919
5315
5748
5828
6231
6894
+ li
Annual increase per cent
+ 7i
+ 7
+ 8
+ i
+ 7
+ 11
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
WANTED: PROLONGED GROUND SWELL
Something effective can probably be
done to bolster employment in cer-
tain reluctant directions specified at last
week’s talks between the Government
and industry and also by way of a gen-
eral stimulus to keep recovery going.
But this would not dispose of the main
problem or, indeed, the major challange
now facing the economy. That is to set
in motion a prolonged ground swell in
industrial development, needed to lift the
whole economy up to a higher and stead-
ily rising plane of activity, which would
not only accommodate the statistically
predictable annual additions of school
leavers to the work force but also a
much higher intake of immigrants in the
years ahead.
An overall programme to achieve this
which would set its sights say up to
the end of this decade should run in
parallel with anything the Government
might decide to do to iron out present
dents in the employment structure and
general stimulants.
The plain fact is that unless business
and industry get solid assurances from
the Government that it is going to play
a more positive role to ensure achieving
a substantial increase in gross national
product year by year for a sufficient
number of years for them confidently to
plan industrial expansion on the scale
required, they are unlikely to make the
responses necessary to achieve that
expansion.
The truth of this is pretty well borne
out by what is happening at present, and
it is to be hoped the Government’s con-
science was pricked sharply enough at
the talks in Canberra last week to stir
it to a full realisation of the part it is
required to play both in the short and
long terms in economic conditioning.
For its part, industry wants the Gov-
ernment to * take another look at
its policy of attempting to maintain
internal price stability, and it was
no accident that the manufacturers
topped their ten-point programme
with the request that the Government
should reaffirm its policy that adequate
growth should not be sacrificed in the
interests of cost stability. This goes to
the heart of the matter. By the sound
of it, industry is reconciled to the fact
that vigorous growth and cost stability
are incompatibles.
The problem is to plan for a rate of
growth which, given rising productivity
and measured demands on available re-
sources, minimises cost and price in-
creases. Not so easy for a country such
as tins with two big imponderables, ex-
port income and capital inflow, and a
fickle free-enterprise community prone
to read more into an assured growth rate
than is possibly compatible with ordered
expansion.
What is wanted is a target growth
rate high enough to excite industry to
undertake steady capital expansion, but
not high enough to whet the appetite of
speculators that the roof is the limit, as
was the case in 1959-60. The latter is a
critical consideration in determining
growth rate. It has to be remembered that
some speculation is inevitable if the
economy is on a rising curve, and this
can become intolerable if growth targets
are set too high, possibly higher than
5 p.c. a year in our case.
A ttractive as high growth rates may
be superficially, attempts to achieve
the target tend to run geometrically
rather than arithmetically, much in the
same fashion as Donald Campbell the
other day explained was the case for
engine and body stresses when increasing
the power of racing cars. Once assured
of a 5 p.c. growth rate, the tendency of
entrepreneurs in a private enterprise
community is to overplan for their share
in the expansion. Their aggregate pro-
jections, including many highly inflated
ones, are virtually certain to force the
overall rate higher than the target and to
excessive rates of capital investment. The
investment boom of 1959-60 was a copy-
book case of this, though as far as one
knows, the Government did not set any
limit to the growth rate it thought could
be achieved in the late 19505, or at any
other time for that matter.
Without discounting for price in-
creases, gross national product rose by
11 p.c. 'in 1959-60, which, without using
hindsight, was far too high a figure and
exemplified some of the above reasonin
about growth rates. Needless to say the
rate of increase dropped to 5 p, c j n
1960-61 (a year in which it gained some-
thing from the continuance of the in-
vestment boom into that year) and to 1|
p.c. last year, by which time the invest-
ment boom had long since run its
course.
According to calculations made by
McGraw-Hill, we can expect a rise of
about 5 p.c. in gross national product
in the current year, but it has to be
remembered that this 5 p.c. is estimated
for a strong recovery year following the
recession. Some observers think this esti-
mate is on the high side and would go
for a maximum figure of 4\ p.c., though
their disagreement is not wide.
If the economy, as Mr Bury said re-
cently, is trending sideways rather than
heading higher at the moment, and prices-
wages still being steady, it could be that
failing another boost we could finish up
with less than a 5 p.c. increase. But going
on the 7 p.c. rise in 1958-59 following
a rise of only i p.c. in the recession
year 1957-58 one can’t be too sure. At
any rate it looks to be about the figure
one would go for as an annual growth
rate for Australia with the hope of hold-
ing cost increases, though judging by the
7 to 8 p.c. increases for most years in
the 1950 s we could manage to go ahead
at something faster than 5 p.c. a year if
we are prepared to tolerate some increase
in prices, as the manufacturers appear
to be.
But maybe if we go for 5 p.c., which
incidentally, McGraw-Hill finds is the
expected average rate of rise in gross
national product in industrialised western,
countries in 1963, we will finish up wit
a figure somewhat higher than that
anyway.


General Credits Ltd.
Paid up capital £4,157,880
£1,000,000 REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
7
I
%
PJL
[6-10 Yea**]
Other Convenient rates sad periods avaflabla.
Applications must proceed only on the form caolotedia the
Prospectus which may be obtained from
♦THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
♦Any recognised Stockbroker.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
owns 41% of the Ordinary Shares of General Credits
Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulbum Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
277 William Street Melbourne. Phone: 60 0241.
and at: Brisbane, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters: lAN POTTER A CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C3.A.
1263
General Credits Ltd.
MANUFACTURERS MAKE MERRY
By “CROESUS”
Ahe manufacturers stole thunder at
1 j ast week’s talks in Canberra with
heir well-balanced ten-point programme
in revitalise the private sector, in parti-
lr the manufacturing section of it
Lj they can rightly claim to be the
to the labor absorption problem.
Some of their points, about interest
B tes and company tax, for instance, must
Chiton the raw the upper hierarchy
Government leaders. Others, such as
ieplea for higher Government spending,
Jt have caused wry smiles from Min-
L usually under fire for Government
Lvagance, while others, like the desire
j a more modern performance by the
fariff Board, probably found little reac-
jon at all.
la total this weighty bag of common
ase gave the impression that the manu-
diirers have a poor opinion of the
tonment’s economic policy.
It is a pity, perhaps, that the Govern-
at forebore to issue a statement on
is thoughts on the ten-point programme
nd what it intends to do-to give the
ttonomy another boost. The country is
jilting increasingly impatient, but no
junta it will have its answer before
ray long.
Let’s face it; the private sector has not
ita up the running from last year’s
imminent stimulants in the whole-
hrted manner expected.
One can argue from this that the
plants were not strong enough; were
Wsufficiently prolonged; and that their
set was to a big extent offset by the
wemment’s loan raisings.
fely if the stimulants had taken in
kway expected, new issue activity in
capital market would have been
P stronger in the last half of 1962
i Commonwealth Statistician’s
■ lles kst week revealed it to be in that
fttiod,
,^ er the sharp rise in new money
on shares, debentures, registered
l)!cs an d deposits by Stock Exchange
M companies in the June quarter,
’ Allowing the stimulants announced
z®' ago it might have been expected
t , B°°d work would continue even
tc vigorously in subsequent quarters.
Ss not the case.
capital raisings by S. E. listed
Janies rose to £46.2 million in last
• , s June quarter from £29.8 million
a March quarter, 1962, and from
l, million in the June quarter, 1961.
e su hsequent September quarter,
"’‘hey dropped to £39.5 million (as
against £55.6 million September quarter,
1962) and in the December quarter at
£45 million they were about the same
level as December quarter, 1961.
One would also have thought that at
least if bank advances were moving
contrarily as the recovery proceeded last
year, outstanding overdraft limits of the
banking system would be reflecting more
buoyant business expectations.
Indeed, overdraft limits responded
well, rising every month from £1,665.2
million in February, 1962, to £1,770.9
million at the end of the year. However,
this run of rises ended in January, 1963,
with a drop of £8.4 million on the
month to £1,762.5 million, the first fall
since these figures were first made avail-
able by the Reserve Bank in November,
1962.
Too much should not be made of last
month’s decline, but it could support the
view that business confidence has taken a
turn for the worse.
Of course, it would be wrong to put
the whole blame on the Government for
the failure of the private sector to take
up the running from last year’s stimu-
lants, but the latter’s lethargic response,
particularly on the score of fixed invest-
ment, should have been taken more into
account by Government policy in the last
few months, first (having missed the op-
portunity to cut bond rate appreciably
last September), by open market policy
in the loan market, forcing bond yields
to considerably lower levels and, second,
by stepping up expenditure on public
works.
The first would have made commer-
cial rates more competitive though
possibly not competitive enough to offset
the generally low level of incentive for
fixed investment in the private sector
while the second would have forced more
spending power into the system in lieu
of the flow from Government sources
budgeted for last August on the basis of
expectations of a poor year feu* loan
raisings.
The Government should have learnt
the lesson in these last few months that
once private sector investment is down
in the mouth, it is the responsibility of
the authorities to take what may seem
big risks in interest rate and also fiscal
policy in order to entice private spending
and investment into greater activity.


Dsl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
ISSUE OF £1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairmea)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
G. L. A. DONOHOO
Alternate Director: R. V, AGNEW
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian' Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YU ILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, G.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 6 AND 10 YEARS
6% for 2 YEARS
61% for 3 YEARS
7% for 4 YEARS
7i% for 5 YEARS
MINING
COMALCO SOLVES N.Z. PROBLEM
The most significant part of the state-
ment by the New Zealand Prime
Minister oh the rearrangement of plans
for the Manapouri-Te Anau development
project was that it could well result in
the establishment of an alumnium smelter
there “earlier than might otherwise have
been expected.”
It should be understood, however, that
this does not mean that Comalco’s ori-
ginal target date (mid-1966) for the com-
pletion of the integrated aluminium in-
dustry based on the bauxite resources of
Weipa (Queensland) and hydro-electrical
power at Lake Manapouri, is going to be
bettered.
On the contrary, in commenting on
Comalco’s decision not to proceed with
the power project, which will now be
built and financed by the New Zealand
Government at a cost of £3l million,
Mr D. J. Hibberd, managing director of
Comalco Industries, said it would take
another five years to complete the NZ
hydro-electric project. This means that
the alumina plant to be built at Weipa
would not have an outlet for alumina in
New Zealand before 1968 at the earliest.
Although the company has now stated
it will press on with its plans for the
alumina refining plant at Weipa, it will
be in no hurry to build its projected
smelter in New Zealand.
However, it is good news that at long
last the Weipa alumina refining project
is to go ahead, though the company is
obviously in some doubt about how much
capacity to build there on the basis of
supplying only Bell Bay and any export
markets available in the next five y e J
It seems unlikely that without the out
let for alumina for the envisaged smelter
in NZ, which was originally expected to
take 200,000 tons a year of alumina fr offl
Weipa on the basis of its production
capacity of 120,000 tons of aluminium
metal, the capacity of the Weipa plant
will in the first instance be more than
160,000 tons of alumina, compared with
the originally projected 360,000 tons.
Even capacity of 160,000 tons would
still leave a considerable tonnage to find
export markets after satisfying, say, a
105,000 tons a year demand from Bell
Bay when the smelter there is raised to
52,000 tons capacity by the end of this
year. (New plant being constructed al
present will raise Bell Bay’s metal capa-
city to 45,000 tons by the end of next
month.)
At present Bell Bay is working mostly
on imported alumina (from the US) and
partly on alumina refined at its own
plant from bauxite imported from South-
East Asia and some shipped from Weipa.
With Alcoa (which will start smelting
operations at Port Henry (Victoria) at
the end of next month also initially using
alumina imported from the US) expecting
to complete its alumina smelter at Kwio-
ana (WA) by the end of this year, and
British Aluminium-Pechiney getting on
quickly with a similar plant at Gove in
the Northern Territory, it was vital
for Comalco to get its own alumina
refining plant at Weipa built as soon as
possible in the light of the fierce competi-
tion looming up for metal sales in the
Australian market.
If the NZ Government is as good as
its word, however, and looks like goW
the Manapouri hydro-electric P rO F
completed by 1968, and Comalco also
proceeds to get its smelter erected there
by then, the latter will require afu 6
big expansion of alumina refining cap
city at Weipa, although total alum®
production in Australia f rom Welp ,
Gove and Kwinana will far e ® e
smelting capacity in Australia an
Zealand. ~
Relieved of its big headache to
the £3l million for the Manapo
hydro-electric plant, Comalco no
the problem of finding the capita
sary to finance its multi-milh° n e P
as much more tractable.
The aluminium industry is P
ing fast, and Comalco is by n 0 ove .
tailing the field despite the slugg
ment at Lake Manapouri.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
B-d^g-siiiiug
dgb
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications far these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue*
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon —■ — •*
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
AMPOL SETS SOME POSERS
r x sounds trite to commence by saying
1 { jj at Ampol Petroleum’s plans for its
Brisbane oil refinery are chock-full of
fascination. Yet shareholders, and in-
tending investors, must undoubtedly find
them so. There’s an enticing set of
problems to tease out in order to bring
the investment picture into any kind of
clarity.
Only a few weeks ago, writing in this
section, we remarked on the need to
resolve the ambiguities surrounding the
new projects as speedily as possible. We
were even optimistic, or innocent,
enough to believe that a clear assurance
would be forthcoming on the possible
use of Moonie oil.
However, in discussing some of the
financial arrangements last week, Ampol’s
general manager, Mr W. M. Leonard,
took quite a delight in leaving a crowd
of details fairly obscure. That old bogey
the hyperfine discretion demanded by
banks appeared to put a pall over any
approximate revelation of what the
company is to pay for its fixed-interest
borrowings.
Nevertheless it would be too churlish
at this stage to adopt a wholly cavilling
attitude. Both Ampol and the financial
bodies involved (a consortium of banks
and a group of leading institutions) are
to be congratulated on making the £2l
million involved entirely available within
Australia.
One hastens to amend that statement
to the exact situation. For after all
shareholders themselves are to provide
about £7.7 million through the three-
for-eight par issue, deferred as to
dividend until June 30, 1967. The
market is unlikely to become unduly
excited over that, in purely pricing terms,
though shareholders and intending
uyers of rights need have no real
worries of the end result not becoming
entirely rewarding.
Current share prices suggest a
eoretical value of these rights around
!!'. 6d; > af ter allowance for 2s. 9d«
■vidend forgone. The brokers con-
C , erned ’ J. B. Were and Son, and the
nus of the fixed-interest suppliers,
jcate genuine faith in the whole
erprise. But there’ll be no wild need
outsiders to hurry when the share
>ssue opens.
dir!!f^ 0 trust *be above investment-
e w °rds are not in any way
a 2f ed cold water. Here comes
o, a J J P ro j e ct in the making and con-
found 3 r s^ be showered all
its n *■ 1S hardl Y necessary to indicate
s J a ” lcular economic value at this
The. stra lia’s industrial situation.
For me<^ ate benefits are plain.
one fbing Mr Leonard did explain
completely satisfactorily was that a very
goodly proportion of the money would
be spent within the country. Some 30
p.c. of the total will be required this
year, 60 p.c. in 1964, and the remain-
ing 10 p.c. by 1965. The refinery is
expected on stream in April, 1965, and
should be profitable about one year later.
At this rate of building, and com-
mencement proceeds forthwith, Ampol
wins the race to a Brisbane refinery
from Amoco. With all the concealment—
perhaps evasion is the better word—
Moonie as well as quantities of outside
crude carried in the company’s own
tankers can feed Ampol’s establishment,
Mr Leonard did reply that Moonie oil
would most likely go to the highest
bidder, though he also gave an impres-
sion that the provision of first facilities


GLEN WILLS GOLDFIELDS
NO LIABILITY
(Incorporated under the Companies Act 1958 of the State of
Victoria, on the 14th Day of May, 1962 J
'
Authorised Capital £500,000 in 2,000,000 Shares of 5/* each.
Issued and paid up capital—2o2,oos shares ... £53,001/5/*.
Issue of 987,995 Shares of 5/* each, payable 3d. and pre-paid call of 4/9d. (total
5/-) per share on application.
The proposed main business of the Company is to mine for gold on
Lease No. 5596, issued by Department of Mines, Victoria, covering an
area approximately 4 miles by i mile at Glen Wills, near Omeo,
Victoria, formerly leased by Maude and Yellow Girl Gold Mining Co.
N/L, and including the Sunnyside Field; utilising all plant, equipment
and housing thereon acquired by the Company.
DIRECTORS
HAROLB lAN SABEY,
27 Tennyson Street, Brighton Beach, Victoria,
Company Director, Chairman.
EDWARD BROADHURST, M.Sfc, 8.M.E., M.AJ.M.M.,
457 St Kiida Road, Melbourne, Victoria.
Geologist and Mining Engineer.
HOWARD JARVIS, F.COMM.A.(ENB.)
36 Grosvenor Street, Brighton, Victoria.
Accountant and Company Director.
ROBERT BRUCE NORMAND, DIP. PROS. ENG.,
25 Dempster Avenue, North Balwyn, Victoria. Production Engineer.
KENNETH WILLIAM THOMAS, 8.A., B.Ec.,
7 The Bastion, Castlecrag, New South Wales. Company Director.
The Offer will open at 10 a.m. on 11th February, 1963
and will close at 5 p.m. on 10th August, 1963 unless
otherwise determined by the Directors,
Applications for shares will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus. Prospectus con-
taining application form is available from:
"The Secretary,
Glen Wills Goldfields No Liability, 125 Collins Street, Melbourne , Cl, Victoria."
NAME -
ADDRESS - -
am
STATE
for refining gives something of an edge
too.
The coincidence of the Brisbane initial
capacity with Ampol’s own market pro-
portions looks an extemely valuable
situation. The refinery can handle all
Queensland’s demands, which happen
also to be the size of Ampol’s share of
the Australia-wide market. The com-
pany’s fleet can certainly fetch all the
crude needed, apart from what Moonie
may furnish.
So it won’t be difficult to make the
“exchange, borrow and loan” deals with
the other petroleum groups Shell,
Caltex, Esso, Mobil and BP who are
now refining for Ampol in other States,
Returning to financial naggings, on
any reasonable interpretation of interest
rates on the loan capital, the company
will have to meet about £1 m ii U
year. The promised 14 p. c . dividend
equity raisings calls f or a nmK
£1,750,000. So pre-tax profits have i
climb above <£2,750,000 a year. Allo °
ing for all cost elements, including 2
overseas crude, that appears reasonably
feasible.
By its bold move Ampol enters fully
into the ambit of every complication in
international oil, a tricky area indeed
The company will appreciate each
feature of an integrated enterprise —
from shipping to refining to supply out-
lets. It will need all the shrewdness and
drive so remarkable in the past. One
does not anticipate the unexciting middle-
age, only a little while ago forecast by
some observers.
Particularly virile qualities have
assuredly been displayed by the com-
pany (and its financial advisers) in pre-
paring the ground for this fresh effort.
In spite of the non-disclosure of
significant details, one cannot leave the
subject without commending the worth-
while provision of the banking system’s
term loans. Perhaps when Mr Leonard’s
hinted statement from the consortium
comes to hand we’ll have a bit more to
go on than now. Dr Coombs has given
the range as from “three to eight years
or possibly a little longer” and has
added that “the broad pattern of interest
rates on these loans is to be consistent
with overall interest rate policy.”
Another contractor floats
In deciding to place a fifth of its capital
with the public and get Stock Ex-
change listing in Melbourne and Sydney
it seems that interstate civil engineers and
builders John Holland (Holdings) Ltd has
been impressed by the advantages which
have been gained by fellow Victorian-
based firm, Leighton Contractors Ltd.
Since it took a similar step last
Leighton has not only succeeded mj
developing an impressive public imagei
of itself virtually from scratch since i
listed, but is now in the process of gain
ering new capital from its shareholders
by way of a two-for-five new issue.
Whereas Leighton placed 40 P-C- j
its issued capital, Holland is only o e
20 p.c., but on precisely the same e '
ss. shares at ss. 2id. plus bro e >
making ss. sd. Issued capital i
£660,000 in ss. shares. Broker to
placement, expected in a week or >
is Wallace H. Smith and Co., or
bourne. ,
They have yet to provide full
of the float, which, going on tn
of Leighton since listing and t
ancy of A. V. Jennings in the
should be a resounding success v
participants and the company a


pill
I E
■
m
m
m
:
l
\
>
f
m
■ tut-
why do I use that bank?
thats business!
Of course it is . . . strictly your own business. Australia has
thousands of bank branches competing for your business and
offering all the best in banking service at the lowest cost. When
you choose your bank to suit your own personal needs, remember
that there’s freedom in the right to take your pick.
EVERY
AUSTRALIAN
benefits
from competition
between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The A.N.Z. • tbe NATIONAL • tbe WALES • tbe C.B.C. • the C.B.A. • the Adelaide and E.S.&A.
Heftier takes the cake
„ nU time to time it is argued that
F B s otne limit shouid be placed on the
. f t 0 w hich all companies should be
f litted to borrow in relation to either
tf Sued capital or shareholders’
fU After some singularly unhappy experi-
pnces in this context over the last few
rs it is on the cards that something
2jn be done along these lines in forth-
ing amendments to Companies Acts
jow being worked out by our very itiner-
ant Attorney-Generals.
More usually criticism is focused on
lance companies, but this week The
Bulletin heard of a case of an appli-
ances retailer which must surely take the
cake. Working on a capital of <£3500,
|is borrowings now exceed £600,000.
We also learn that his net liabilities ex-
ceed £400,000.
An HP concern which has a lien on
is incomings says he will certainly go
o the wall in due course but in the
neantime it pays his creditors and sup-
fas to hold him up, the latter because
of his valuable trade outlets.
A third aluminium smelter?
Ifter the turn-round in Australuco’s
a profit experience last year, at first
jlance it seems rather odd that British
Aluminium is selling its half interest in
that company to the other partner Alcan
Ltd of Canada). It follows
pish Aluminium’s unscrambling of an
tarlier link-up with Consolidated Zinc
to develop the Weipa bauxite deposits in
Northern Queensland.
The company’s disengagement from
the widening Australian aluminium fabri-
tating and marketing scene would appear
to leave its leas? over the Gove (NT)
Mite deposits as its sole interest here,
tough it is conceivable that this lease
apsed at the end of 1962, by which time
to company had to submit development
tons for its holding to the Federal Gov-
rament or have it terminated. No an-
jouncement has been yet made about
ls e '^ er by the Government or the
ompany, but presuming British Alumin-
as decided to develop this field, it
• U , P oss ‘bly presage the erection of a
/smelter to join Alcoa’s and
'Omalco’s.
Lfj P° ss 'bility cannot be ruled out.
mi ,/ erec ti° n of a third smelter here
, only be justified by
Um l, oVerse as demand for metal (pre-
necn/ m e . where smelting is
oju ° m ! c ow ing to prohibitive power
lealL 0f course > sort of
4a a , ture tie-up has been made
tor of S l ra ? co > which is our biggest
ak e w miUm ’ at P resen t having to
fell ]j a our-fifths of its metal from
•8 the rlcf P rote ct e d prices and draw-
rom Alcoa’s Kitmat smelter.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DERM STOCK
o
o
6
YEARS
o
o
I
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
iiiiMffiiMia
0
o
o
0
a
o
I
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters; lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
The stock for 1953
T HE 10s - ordinar y sh »es Of the.»
company, The R io Timo-a,'*
poration Ltd, rose to 21s Ut
recently, the highest point
merger in mid-1962. e 111
RTZC is a result of the mer 2 erJ
Rio Tinto Ltd and Consolidated
Corp. Ltd. Its shares (bearer scrip) t
not listed on Australian Stock Exchan
as the group does not issue full inte ‘
reports as required by local rules
The group no doubt has attracts
more attention in London with its atf
vity in Canada, where, among 1
things it purchased the Atlas Steel o rou
But Australia provides the group w j
its greatest growth potential, and ft
seems to be the major consideration!
the minds of British investors who appea
to have a finer appreciation of their loca
stock than Australians do of CRA,
CRA is all the Australian activities 0
RTZC and, by the way, is Tg
Bulletin stock of 1963.
From strength to strength
ly/IELBOURNE financier Arthur Good
certainly learned well from lii
earlier partnership with Were’s. Hi
Grouped Holdings, floated only a year
ago, goes from strength to strength as i
weaves a pattern on the lines of Cape
Court and lan Potter’s Collins House
group.
Latest entrants into its web are Com
pounding Investments and a sizeable slici
of All States Discount, which the late
G. W. McKinley Wilson had aspired!
blossom on the same übiquitous lines will
strands into many profitable pies.
After the recent revelations on tit
high profitability of the official short-ten
money market companies and the hifl
likelihood of the “unofficial” satellites
doing equally well or better, probably
the acquisition of a major interest in Al
States Discount is the juicier plum of tit
two. But one hears that other bidders an
currently offering more than Mr Goodi
for the remaining blocks of shares n
All States Discount, which incidental!!
showed the remarkably high earning
rate of 52.9 p.c. on capital in its bt®
term, a figure considerably higher t ®
the disclosed earnings of other s 0
term money market companies,
Incidentally and far from its traditio
stamping grounds, Elder Smith 0
brough is horning further into the gr°
ing Goode empire. It recently took aboa
300,000 2s. shares in Grouped HoP.
and will later get another 200,00
ing its interest up to 15 p.c. Bot
are priced at 3s. 9d„, as against a 0
being asked in the market. In ..
Grouped Holdings is currently ®
a three-for-five issue of 2s. shares
9d.


rnnfusion in chemicals
unusual background of take-
fover negotiations, Amalgamated
nicals Ltd rights issue caused some
ket confusion last week.
7 IoW sale at 10s. was posted for
.friehts on the opening day, and on
Lsday they dropped from 9s. lOd. to
V Meanwhile the shares were selling
17s! 6d. and 17s. 3d.
jhe ne w issue requires additional pay-
ft 0 f 7s. 6d. allowing entry at 16s.
«Counting the dividend difference of
u and not forgetting on the other
jjj the lower commission by buying
lie rights, the rights have a distinct ad-
jntage over the shares.
Rights trading has been extended to
| K h 11, and should strengthen. Or
Diversely, the old shares may weaken,
lit they should not be sniffed at too
gainfully. With or without an Ameri-
i buyer, they are well worth 17s. on
pent trading expectations.
Precision in plans
[he lively photographic chemical and
1 equipment maker, Olims Consolid-
tdLtd, closes its books on March 14 to
tanine entitlements to the bonus being
ude in the ratio of one-for-four to
tiers of ordinary and the deferred or
Mopment shares.
These development shares are being
(sated now by a rights issue on a six-
ii-ten basis. The rights are currently
tag sought at 6s. with 10s. (including
ipremium) to pay.
No dividend is payable on them until
fcfinal period in 1965-66.
few managements lay out their
iicial plans with such precision as
k who in October last explained its
pen of paying constant dividends of
“ipc., and when appropriate, to make
• issues so long as earning rate on
Wcapital is not reduced below 20 p.c.
lie trend then was for earnings at an
•ml rate of 30 p.c.
Sales in the December 1962 half-year
Ceased 21.5 p.c., and profit showed
St % growth.
lie theoretical price of the ordinaries
jfinus is 15s. which gives an attractive
of 4.2 p.c. on a stock which seems
!tlfl ed for high ranking.
jigger insurance business
| Modest interim report from Mer-
cantile Mutual Insurance Co. Ltd
; ounced an increase in premium re-
e and investment income for the
"Jber half-year.
. 8 year’s first consolidated accounts
, e a n advance of 12 p.c. on the
f J 1 ' of its predecessor.
; ® arni ng rate of at least 26 p.c.
Ranged capital is well within the
this year.
ONE TO BUY
GREAT SCOPE IN ICIANZ
Imperial Chemical Industries of
Australia and New Zealand Ltd
was analysed by “Security” in The
Bulletin in December, 1961, and he
recommended the shares at the then
price of 365. 3d. They bottomed in
Sydney only 6d. lower.
While one cannot claim such pre-
science, The Bulletin is prepared to
recommend them now at about 465. 3d.
Accounts for the year ended September
30, 1962, have just been published to
reveal considerably higher sales and
profits and added assets strength.
The group’s net profit of £3,042,142
almost recovered the ground lost since
1959-60 when profit was £3,082,007.
In the intermediate year profit was
squeezed to £2,134,760 by import com-
petition and the general economic
recession. The 1962 depreciation charge
was £473,000 higher than 1961 at
£3,031,618, and the tax provision was
an extra £905,000 at £2,477,151.
True, the latest results include 15
months’ figures for the newly acquired
Commonwealth Fertilisers and Chemi-
cals Ltd and Consumers Ammonia Co.
Pty, which may have accounted for some
£300,000 of ICl’s group increase.
But the tone of the managing director’s
detailed report is of uninterrupted ex-
pansion—it was even in the darkest days
of the recession and the group has
signed contracts totalling £4,329,000 for
capital expenditure. It also has a con-
tingent liability of £7.2 million for
the purchase of shares in other com-
panies, presumably concerning the recent
arrangement to buy a one-half interest
in British Nylon Spinners (Aust) Pty
Ltd. BNS (Aust), to be known as Fibre-
makers Ltd, which makes “Terylene”
fibre as Bayswater (Vic.).
Another new project is ICIANZ’s 51
p.c. interest with Nalco Chemical Co.
of USA, in the making of petroleum
catalysts for use in Australian oil re-
fineries. Plant, to cost £1.3 million, will
be productive at Botany (NSW) early in
1964.
The whole group now comprises five
Nobel plants, three chemical plants, four
plants for rural products, three for
alkalis, three for dyes and fabrics, two
for plastics, seven for Balm Paints (in-
cluding two in New Zealand) and three
other NZ plants.
The Nobel group is being extended by
construction of plant at Botany for
ammonium nitrate prills, and because
plant for ammonia, arethanol, nitric acid,
ammonium nitrate and urea is almost
completed, work in the use of nitro-
genous fertilisers was accelerated.
The chemical group sold significantly
higher, partly because of greater activity
in the automobile and engineering in-
dustries. A new plant for chlorinated
paraffin waxes used in plasticisers began
producing at Yarraville.
Production capacity of the alkali
works at Osborne in SA was increased by
25 p.c., and a record harvest of salt was
achieved. Soda ash will be delivered to
Victorian customers in bulk when the
Melbourne bulk sea-terminal is finished.
Demand for polythene and p.v.c. was
better in 1962, and rigid p.v.c. has a
future in service piping.
An apparatus for generating foams has
been devised which should be very use-
ful for fire-fighting, sterilising dairy
equipment, cleaning plant and motor ve-
hicles, but, most importantly, for exter-
minating rabbits in burrows.
The renewed activity in the automobile
industry also benefited the dyes and fab-
rics group ICIANZ makes “Vynex”
and vinyl sheet and the textile industry
was also requiring more polyester fibres
and dyestuffs. A new organic pigment
plant came on stream at Laverton (Vic.)
early in 1962.
N.Z. business was hesitant throughout
the year, so that the ICI subsidiary there
had lower sales. Australia, therefore,
accounted for all the group’s sales and
profits advance this term.
Selling prices have been continuously
reduced since imports restrictions were
removed early in 1960, so the increase in
value sales this year must represent a
very substantial lift in quantity sales.
Although there was an upturn in busi-
ness generally, the chairman reported
that the profit was increased by econo-
mies effected within the company itself.
Integration of the Commonwealth Fer-
tiliser company with the chemical groups
is expected to show “substantial savings”
in cost.
The latest earning rate of 11.1 p.c. on
average ordinary capital must climb back
towards the 17-18 p.c. rates of the late
50s, as new projects financed by the
1961 issue (just finalised this month) be-
come profit- producing.
Share premium reserve doubled in the
last year with the issue of a large parcel
of shares to ICI of England, which holds
some 80 p.c. of the Australian company’s
issued capital. (This factor provides a
stabiliser for the ICIANZ shares, most
of which never see the market.)
And ICIANZ exercised its customary
conservation in adding £500,000 to its
special depreciation reserve (now £3.4
million) in case fixed assets become re-
dundant or obsolete before fully depre-
ciated, and to allow for higher replace-
ment costs.


BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES £’000
Year to 30th June
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets ....
563
745
955
1017
1735
1441
1545
Less current liabilities
293
445
333
647
491
943
818
Working capital
270
300
622
370
1244
~498
727
Fixed assets
484
554
822
1121
1047
1852
2012
Investments
4
3
3
28
55
50
166
Intangibles .... „
44
45
67
63
66
73
6f>
Total capital .... .... ..
Represented by —
.. . 802
902
1514
1582
2412
2473
2971
1125
1000
735
39
Ordinary capital .. „
619
663
729
729
875
875
Convertible notes
' —
—
481
500
1000
1000
Reserves
181
236
301
350
442
540
Minority interests
2
3
3
3
73
36
72
Loan capital
Estimated operating
.. —
—
—
—
22
22
568
revenue t
138
236
260
259
391
492
222
113
Earnings
71
112
129
115
163
192
Earnings per share (a) ..
0.57
0.73
0.78
0.63
0.99
1.10
0.50
Dividend per share (a)
.. 0.33
0.37
0.38
0.38
0.50
0.50
3.6
Dividend yield p.c. (b) ..
. N/A
N/A
N/A
4.6
5.0
3.7
ivertible
(a) Adjusted for new issues and share splits but not including any allowance
notes.
(b) Based on last sales in the month accounts presented.
for coi
PROVINCIAL TRADERS HOLDING LTD
NOW IN THE GROWTH STOCK CLASS
By “SECURITY”
A lthough Provincial Traders Holding
Ltd has been listed on the Sydney
Stock Exchange since 1958 and on the
Brisbane Exchange for some years before
that, it is probably one of the lesser
known food companies, yet it has a
successful record. Over the last two years
(that is, since the last two issues to
shareholders), the price of the shares has
been pushed up so that it is now in the
growth stock class. In these circum-
stances an appraisal of history and pros-
pects seems desirable.^
The present company was formed in
1950 to acquire Provincial Traders Pty
Ltd and Fertilizer Distributors Pty Ltd
which had then been in business for over
20 years. Unfortunately, little detail is
available of the history of the company
before 1958. In this year the first issue
of convertible notes was made, and it is
interesting to note that the underwriters
required a fee inclusive of brokerage of
£.4 3s. 4d. p.c. This issue gave no fixed
quota to existing shareholders although
they had a prior right of application.
In the prospectus Mr J. L. Forsyth,
managing director of the operating com-
panies, said that the turnover of the sub-
sidiaries called for the employment of a
substantial amount of working capital to
which the funds to be raised by the note
issue would make a valuable contribution.
He mentioned that turnover had risen
from £814,516 in the first year of the
holding company’s existence to an antici-
pated £3 million in the “current year”.
Coupled with the figures given in the
annual reports for the years 1955 and
1956, it is possible to get some idea of
the trends of sales and profits for a few
years:
Net Profit
Before Tax
Year to Sales as % of
June 30 £’ooo £’ooo Sales
1951 814.5 N/A N/A
1955 1,722.8 96.4 5.6
1956 2,000.0 (approx.) 121.4 6.1
1958 3,000.0 (approx.) 208.4 6.9
Subsequent reports have not quoted
sales figures, so it is not possible to see
whether this favorable trend in profits
to sales has continued.
Further capital was raised both in the
form of ordinary shares and convertible
notes in October, 1959, and about this
time the company’s fertilizer business was
sold to ACF & Shirleys Fertilizers. A
majority interest was acquired in J. R.
Wyllie & Sons Pty Ltd, hardware and
electrical goods retailer. Mr J. S. R.
Wyllie, who, it was announced in the last
annual report for 1961/2, had attained
the age of 72, had been on the Board
of Provincial Traders for a number of
years.
During the following year the company
established what has now become its
main line after margarine manufacture —
the production of dressed chickens. Pro-
vincial Traders is the largest chicken
producer in Australia and “Dixie” chick-
ens are well-known in Sydney and Mel-
bourne as well as Brisbane. Other brand
names used by Provincial Traders for its
products include “Spreadwell” table
margarine and “Kirrabel” cooking fats
and oils.
Looking at the profits since 1955/6, it
appears that after the sudden jump from
1955/6 to 1956/7 when a 50 p.c. in-
crease was recorded, there was a fairly
marked decline for the next two years.
Whether this was attributable to diffi-
culties with the fertilizer business which
was sold at the end of 1959 or whether
it was due to other influences, it is not
possible for an external observer to say.
It is, however, fairly clear that there has
been a marked improvement since 1958/
1959. Profits increased by 63 p.c. from
1958/9 to 1959/60, by 24 p.c. in the
next year, followed by 13 p.c. in the
latest year.
From the point of view of an investor
who has maintained a constant invest-
ment since 1954, dividend income would
have increased at the average annual
compound rate of about 6 p.c. It is
difficult to make this calculation in the
usual manner because information on
prices before and during rights trading
is rather sketchy and consequently
estimates have been necessary Yli
would almost certainly understate the
growth rate. Even so, it is unlikely that
the rate of growth would anywhere near
equal the dividend growth rate of the
leader, Marrickville Holdings, which has
been around 11 p.c. over the same
period.
Against this, the apparent profitability
ratios of these two companies would
seem to favor Provincial Traders at the
present point of time:—
Year to
June 30 1956 1957 1958 1959 I 960 1961 nm
Marrickville 1
29.1 28.4 29.9 24.0 24.2 192 Mi
Provincial
23.1 29 4 28.8 17.0 24.7 20.4 23.0
There could therefore be some argu-
ment for pricing Provincial Traders on a
similar earnings basis to Marrickville,
after making allowance for Provincial’s
convertible notes. Per share earnings of
Provincial, after adding back note in-
terest less tax and treating the £1 million
of convertible notes as 3.2 million ordin-
ary 5/- shares, would be 0.66 shillings.
At Marrickville’s price/earnings ratio of
23.6, this would suggest a price of
15s. 6d. as compared with the present
price of 13s. 6d.
As during 1962 on the Sydney Ex-
change, the price of the fully paid shares
varied from 16s. down to 13s. 6d. with a
last sale in December of 14s. 6d., it
would seem that this price of 15s. 6d, is
not very different from the market’s
normal rating. Although this price
suggests that the growth during the next
ten years must be at a slightly greater
rate than the last ten, this /is not at all
impossible on the basis of the last three
years’ performance.


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
3808
3773
3843
4016
4008
Less current
liabilities
1165
1079
1059
1069
1244
Working capital
2643
2694
2784
2947
2764
Investments
—
—
102
95
135
Fixed assets
2976
2963
2812
2720
2833
Intangibles
280
280
280
280
203
5899
5937
5978
6042
5935
Loan capital
486
473
459
446
176
Preference capital 100
100
100
100
100
Ordinary capital
2346
2346
2346
2346
2346
Reserves
2967
3018
3073
3150
3313
5899
5937
5978
6042
5935
Depreciation
227
228
262
232
237
Taxation
367
254
225
178
321
Net profit
368
322
345
285
446
Net profit for
ords.
363
317
340
280
441
Dividends
293
293
293
235
352
Surplus
70
24
47
45
89
Earning p.c.
15.5
13.5
11.6
12.0
18.8
Dividend p.c.
121
121
121
10
15
Dividend yield
p.c. (a)
5.3
5.8
8.3
7.1
Price/earnings
ratio (a)
16.7
15.9
13.0
11.6
High price (b)
12/10
12/3
12/6
9/-
11/9
Low price (b)
10/11
9/11
8/7
6/8
6/11
(a) End of March, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
A. L NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPES
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
t Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
[?]AUBMANS INDUSTRIES LTD
COLOURFUL PROSPECTS IN PAINT
rarely pays to abandon all faith in
I a one-time leader, as witness the re-
tlrable rejuvenation of the business of
Jibmans Industries Ltd.
Balancing its accounts on December
;[ Taubmans had a particularly sick-
ling profit picture for 1961, with two
jficult half-years. But in the year just
•ipleted, although the building in-
j,stry was not revived to any marked
jot, the automotive and domestic
jpliance industries were much more
live and Taubmans lifted profit by
j p.c, from £284,686 to £446,055.
He earning rate at 18.8 p.c. on
ioary capital was the best since 1954-
jjhe 1962 group profit was a record
it the company. '
After cutting the five-year 12i p.c.
Mend rate to 10 p.c. in 1961, direc-
ishave now hoisted it to 15 p.c. with
iSaal 10 p.c. This rate is also likely to
!within the capacity of the company
It 1963.
The paint market in this country is
itt)’competitive, and Taubmans remains
lemajor independent company special-
ly in protective coatings. Pinchin,
Ikon and Associates Ltd of England,
subsidiary of Courtaulds of England,
a a controlling interest in this com-
3iy, and provides valuable technical
stance.
The main factory is at St Peters,
Wney, and a second NSW factory at
Iwood makes resins, industrial and
fcorative coatings with a weekly
ipacity of 35,000 gallons. The Vic-
lao factory at Sunshine has a
tty capacity of 25,000 gallons, the
island factory at Yeronga 14,000
te, the SA factory at North Largs
® gallons, the Perth factory 3000
te> the Tasmanian factory at
tobe 1500 gallons, and the NZ
iloiy i n Wellington 16,000 gallons.
Industrial coatings, such as for the
*of beer cans, sold higher in 1962.
5 subsidiary making cement com-
ftds is now operating on a “pro-
lively satisfactory basis,” supplying
? c °mmercial, industrial and civil
peering projects.
? (J l6 interest in Fiji Paints Ltd earned
* beyond expectations, but as
sts are not consolidated, earnings
,!ta tan into account only to the extent
•dividends received.
Sensing arrangements have recently
® made with Fishburn Printing Ink
l’ an d a wide range of plant has
for 1963.
During the year over £.100,000 was
spent on a new decorative products
factory, extra facilities in NZ, and at
the Villawood plant.
Liquidity has improved in recent
years by reducing stocks, by depreciation
provision and profits retention. During
1962 £255,000 in debentures was re-
paid, and the working capital position
still looks entirely satisfactory. Several
new projects will absorb a substantial
part of these funds and contribute to
future profits.
The chairman (Mr. E. G. F. Horne)
in his annual address referred to the
transfer of production of decorative
paint from St Peters to Villawood in
August, 1962, and forecast that the new
modern plant would reduce production
costs this year.
Present price of 12s. 4d. for the ss.
shares has afforded a capital profit of
almost 100 p.c. to those who bought
near the bottom in 1960 and 1961.
On the new 15 p.c. dividend rate,
income return is an interesting 6.1 p.c.,
the earnings yield a less attractive 7.6
p.c. However, if the company is able to
finance its development without recourse
to shareholders it is justified in paying
out a high proportion of its earnings in
dividends, though this would leave little
scope for bonus distributions.
WILLIAM ATKINS HOLDINGS
MOVE INTO BUOYANCY
A ppearing as it did with a batch of
other confident company statements,
William Atkins Holdings Ltd interim
report attracted special attention be-
cause directors sounded quite assured
about immediate future trading. They
went further than most in describing
current sales as buoyant an important
word in the line of goods handled by
the firm.
With an emphasis also upon internal
efficiency, directors remarked on the
benefits expected to flow from the siting
of all Sydney subsidiaries at one place,
the new premises in Auburn.
The company thus provides every
evidence of an organisation ready to
cultivate industry’s clear emergence from
the 1960-61 trough. Of equal import-
ance, Atkins has taken pains to recall its
own errors from a previous recession
and to take steps accordingly.
We have to go back to 1953 to learn
what happened. But the lesson first.
Despite the 1961-62 sales downturn,
directors were not forced to write down
stocks in any way. More than 99 p.c.
were of Australian derivation.
In the 1953 recession, however, the
company was caught with large stocks
of imported steel. Their resultant dis-
posal at substantial losses marred an
otherwise first-rate profit record.
The present holding company was
formed in 1937 to acquire William
Atkins Pty Ltd, which had operated in
Sydney since 1888 as a branch of
William Atkins and Co. Ltd of England.
Operations take place through four
subsidiaries two in NSW, one in
Queensland and one m Victoria.
Shareholders have seen a good deal of
benefit since 1956. In that year a one-
for-two cash issue at par brought paid


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
1962
June 30
1958
1959
1960
1961
Current assets
396
467
540
812
338
848
419
Less current liabilities
209
167
239
Working capital
187
300
*30?
*474
314
6
175
*429
368
Fixed assets
176
182
300
6
Investments
5
7
7
175
Intangibles
69
175
175
25
Long term loan
—
—
■—*
"437
664
"783
969
1002
Represented by:
180
257
360
304
390
393
500
500
Ordinary capital
Reserves 2
469
502
~437
664
783
969
8
1002
10
Depreciation
8
8
6
62
95
52
43
25.2
132
A
60
50
Taxation
33
40
87
76
Net profit
Dividends
58
23
65
34
67
20
50
26
Surplus
Earning rate p.c.
35
32.4
31
23.9
19.6
15
15.7
10
Dividend rate p.c.
m
12i
5.1
■3.9
Dividend yield (a)
High (b)
Low (b)
5.8
60/-
36/6
4.0
64/- c20 /6
36/6 cl 3/3
cl 7/6
cl3/6
cl6/'
ell/'
(a) Early December, month
accounts presentee.
(b) Previous calendar
(c) 5/- basis.
year.
TALCOTT FACTORS LTD.
Issue of £250,000
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
, /
10 years
m
m
per annum
3 years—7% per annum % 6 years—per annum
Trustees for the Debenture Stockholders:
THE M.L.C. NOMINEES LIMITED
The main business of the Company is factoring of Accounts
Receivable.
GREGORY BLAXLAND
DIRECTORS
Chairman:
KATER—Chartered
Electrical Engineer
Deputy Chairman:
JACK GORDON BEALE, M.L.A.—Chartered Engineer
Managing Director:
NEVILLE ADELSTEIN—Company Director
LEYCESTER FERRIS-SCOTT—Chartered Accountant
KENNETH CLARKE—Chartered Secretary
PETER DALLAS WALKER—Chartered Accountant
ROGER HAMILTON STRUTHERS CAVAN—Bank Officer
Applications for Debenture Stock will proceed only on one of the forms
of application referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the prospectus.
A prospectus can be obtained on enquiry at:
• Any branch in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria,
South Australia and the Australian Capital Territory of
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange in Australia
• Any office of TALCOTT FACTORS LIMITED
Sydney • Melbourne • Adelaide • Brisbane
• or from the underwriters
J. B. WERE & SON Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne
Melbourne • Sydney • Adelaide • Brisbane • Perth
TF3301-30NAT
capital to £lBO,OOO. Three years i at
followed a one-for-two bonus c *
currently with another one-for-two pa
issue, doubling capital to £360,000. Xh
ordinary shares were split into' 5 S i, ni - f e
in 1960. ' lts
Market estimation allowed a one-f or .
four issue in March, 1961, at a 50 p
premium. A small issue to employees
at this same' time lifted capital to the
present £500,000.
Due to the rise in capital, earning rate
has fallen at a faster rate than the
decline in profit figures indicate. Peak
earning rate, since presentation of con-
solidated accounts in 1957, was 32.4 p.c
in 1957-58 when the profit was £58,416
Two years later earning had risen to
£95,319, but earnings rate was down to
25.2 p.c.
The credit squeeze atmosphere had its
inevitable effect in the last two years.
Profit dropped to £87,163 in 1961 and
£78,822 in 1962. A 19.6 p.c. earning
rate in 1961 went down to 15.7 p.c. the
next year, with the higher capital used.
With earnings giving only a small
cover to the previous year’s 15 p.c.
dividend,' directors last year took the
wise course of cutting the rate to 10 p.c.
Careful control during the year saw
stocks at June 30 last at £485,722, well
below the £534,940 of a year earlier.
Reflecting the longer credit given to
clients, debtors were up from £278,155
to £359,587. Much of this increase was
financed by additional bank accommoda-
tion—up from £141,582 to £214,000.
Currently the shares are selling about
14s. to show a dividend yield of 3.6 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 5.6 p.c. How-
ever, directors have indicated in the past
that they consider the 10 p.c. dividend
only a basic amount. With any improve-
ment in business, the stock must be
treated as a better than 10 p.c. invest-
ment. At current prices there could be
some capital appreciation.


year round. Donations: 169
Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
My loss of confidence came last week
despite urgings from my editor.
“You must move into this market; fly
ihe flag. y° u know - There are bargains
adore.” But nothing I looked at aroused
to the supreme confidence needed in
this game of speculation.
The rumblings of the coming boom in
aluminium intrigued, but it looks as if
this is one industry in which there will be
no ground floor for Australians. What a
pity, too, for what other industry can
take the lead of the financial Press three
days of one week?
Australuco, Alcoa, British Aluminium,
Comalco, Fechiney and Alcan. What
joy for a portfolio investor—but none is
available to him directly yet. Perhaps
Alcoa will let some equity-minded locals
in on their venture later.
In a week of aluminium we heard of
Australuco’s splendid recovery; Alcan’s
purchase of Australuco; Comalco going
ahead with its giant Manapouri smelter;
and British Aluminium’s link with
Pechiney to develop alumina at Gove.
Rushing to the list I looked for stocks
connected with aluminium and came up
with a sizeable list: Western Mining,
North BH, BH South, CRA, and G. E.
Crane all shareholders in Alcoa or
Comalco, the two most progressive of
the combatants for industry honors.
I almost went into the two Barriers
(North and South) but decided that their
interest in Alcoa was too small to allow
classification as aluminium. I may step
in here next week, purely on the thought
that they may have a better time of it
this year—as noted by our tame analyst
in “One to Buy” last week.
But I don’t think there is any need
to rush, (Famous last words for me, I'll
probably miss the market again.) I
already hold CRA, The Bulletin
stock of the year, and, awaiting financial
arrangements, I guessed it would be
to stick to that holding.
Western Mining looked too pricey to
e imaginable as a ground floor entry
'"to aluminium. That left G. E. Crane,
which is in solid links with the fabrica-
tlon P ar t °f the Comalco enterprise. I
a re ady held 50 of them, so decided to
Set some more.
At £4 a pop, I couldn’t get (or afford)
!J an y>, so another 50 it was. This was
rowing lessons learned to the wind, for
a solid rise. If aluminium
booms, my 100 G. E. Crane’s should
provide profit for me.
National Consolidated announced its
interim report with profits well up com-
pared to the corresponding period in the
previous year. But this to some extent
was to be expected, so the market price
could continue to stay around 27<5. 6d.
I sold —my reward for nine months
holding was a paltry £B.
This temporary state of being in credit
was interrupted when my attention was
drawn by British Tobacco’s evidence of
a large advance in efficiency and unit
profit. I thought about BT but it has
risen from a low of 21s. 6d. last year
and may suffer a little reaction in coming
weeks. That left Rothmans or Philip
Morris for an industry representative.
I chose the latter.
Philip Morris still looks well worth
short-term investment. The term is used
in this case because, judging by one of
the professional investment counsellors,
the current taboo is the word “specula-
tion.” Although formed in 1954, it did
not pay a dividend until 1960. Consider-
ing that profits had already accumulated
to 35 p.c. of the issued capital, a dividend
payment of 6 p.c. could hardly be called
rash. The introduction of the mentho-
lated filter cigarette “Alpine” helped to
push the earning rate of 10.8 p.c. in
1961 to 15.6 p.c. in 1962. The current
interim report startled the market when
it stated that the earning rate was up to
22.6 p.c. With this profit growth now
established, the earnings' yield of 13.1
p.c. looks ridiculously high. My port-
folio was augmented by 200 at 345. 6d.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
300 National Consol., 27/6 .... £4OB
1000 Farmouts, 1/9 £B3
BOUGHT
200 Philip Morris, 34/6 £352
50 G. E. Crane, 80/- £203
No price reaction, so those Farmouts
had gone out at a loss of £l.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/9
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 9/9
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/6
1,000 Functional 2/11/62 7/0 8/-
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/9
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 16/-
200 ICI new 7/1/63 43/- 45/3
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 60/9
1,000 Tasman new 7/1/63 1/2 1/4
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/-
1,000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/5
1,000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
200 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 43/-
600 David Jones Notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/6
2,000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/- 1/2
2,000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 1/2
1,000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/4
600 Tutt Bryant Notes 7/2/63 6/3 6/10
100 G.E. Crane 8/2/63 77/6 80/-
200 Philip Morris 13/2/63 34/6 34/3
the world of business
"You certainly can NOT go up to bed! You just keep right on with
your practice!"


ADVT. AGENCIES
REACHING
FOR A RAINBOW
TlThe Australian Association of Ad-
vertising Agencies has grasped the
nettle of rising costs and, in an endeavor
to rationalise staff conditions in the
industry, had a full-scale discussion last
week at a specially convened conference.
The mounting salary bills and the
increasing prevalence of poaching of
executives seem to have thrown the
advertising agency structure into tur-
moil, so much so that the medium and
smaller agencies are finding it difficult to
maintain adequate staff to service ac-
counts.
This has been brought about, of course,
by the shortage of trained men. The
4As has tried valiantly to bridge the gap
by instituting classes and sponsoring
advertising courses for young men, and
has had some success; but the rapid ex-
pansion of advertising in the last few
years, especially since the advent of
television, has left large gaps in
many agencies, thus seriously affecting
efficiency. The large agencies naturally
can outbid the smaller ones for capable
men and are not loth to do so, but the
cost of these manoeuvres has nevertheless
posed a real problem.
The conference, which was ad-
dressed by Messrs Briggs, Sid Baume and
Roger Welch, produced a wide variety
of opinions, and the resultant discussion
showed that the 60 or so top agency
men who attended felt deep down in
their hearts that although rationalisation
was, from an economy viewpoint, most
desirable, the chances of achieving it
were negligible. Lip service was paid
to the ideal, but who in this age of cut-
throat competition could expect any
individual to sacrifice his business
interests and the prospect of losing
prized accounts for the sake of unity?
Not in the agency business!
Although the discussion ended at a
reasonable hour, sporadic minor erup-
tions occurred subsequently over cock-
tails and supper, where the usual con-
viviality had an under-current of doubt
that all agencies would honor any agree-
ment that might by some miracle be
brought into being. The odds are
strongly against such a miracle.
And so the agency business will con-
tinue on its irrational way, chasing
accounts, poaching staffs and piling up
already burdensome costs in the name
of “service to clients.” And service they
must give or go out of business.
W.M.R.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally,
1 recently bought 2000 Pope In-
dustries shares at 4s. lid. with the
intention of getting in on the ground
floor with a below par investment in a
company recovering from the credit
squeeze. 1 was elated at the news of a
merger with Simpson Distributors. Why
do the shares not respond to this
announcement, and if the negotiations
are successful, to what height will the
shares rise? — P.J.8., Norwood (SA).
Pope Industries is negotiating with A.
Simpson & Son Ltd and Simpson Dis-
tributors for a merger. Pope will prob-
ably acquire the issued shares in the two
Simpson companies and become the
holding company for both groups,
changing its name to Simpson-Pope
Holdings Ltd. Both groups will maintain
separate identities and sell their products
in competition. Presumably, though,
they expect to economise on distribution
and administrative costs, and expect to
be a more potent selling force combined
than operating singly. Simpson Distribu-
tors, which is listed, handles the sales
and service of A. Simpson & Son, the
private manufacturing company. Paid
capital of Simpson Distributors is
£260,000, and last year it earned
£141,015 or 54.2 p.c. on capital.
Pope (which includes manufacturing
and distributing) has a paid capital of
£2,564,000 of which £814,000 is
preference capital. Although the usual
level of profits was between £200,000
and £300,000, a large loss of £687,000
was incurred in 1960-61, and this
position was reversed to a small profit of
£42,000 in 1961-62.
The profitability of A. Simpson & Son
Ltd may be such as to make the Simpson
companies the dominant partner in the
new holding company, and therefore the
merger will not be loaded in Pope’s
favour.
It has been suggested by market
observers that the merger is motivated
by A. Simpson’s desire to get maximum
listing benefit. As the Simpson com-
panies are believed to be very successful,
Pope shareholders must benefit from the
alliance, and the shares did in fact firm
a few pence. It will be some time before
details are finalised, and, of course, there
is no guarantee that the merger will
eventuate. If it does, the Pope shares
should improve, but an equally important
factor will be the tone of the interim
report due about March for the six
months to December, 1962. A price of
at least 6s. is not beyond the bounds of
possibility this year, and it could be
higher if the ex-Simpson shareholders are
not allotted Simpson-Pope shares on an
extravagant basis.
★ * ★
1 would appreciate advice on Clarence
River Oil NL. Would you consider in-
vesting £5O or £lOO at the present time
as pure speculation? R.P.C., Newport
(NSW).
You should never invest in an oil
stock unless prepared to lose the lot.
Clarence River Oil shares have
apparently always been subject to more
unaccountable price fluctuations than
most. In November, 1962, the directors
made the unusual step of announcing a
two-for-three bonus of ss. shares paid
to Is. They announced no plans for
calling up the remaining 45., but as the
company is a “no liability” one, holders
could not be held legally liable for the
calls if at any time they considered it
not worthwhile paying them. (They
would of course forfeit the shares by
doing so). Directors made the issue
because they feared the great activity in
the company’s shares could provide an
opportunity for outside groups to gain
control of the company. They said the
company issued capital of 2,400,007 ss.
shares (before the bonus of 1,600,000 Is,
paid shares) was small in relation to
other oil exploration companies, but they
considered Clarence was in the top three
prospects from what had been found and
developed towards possible commercial
activities in the gas-oil field.
Investment bankers in Texas were
recommending their clients to Clarence
shares in October, 1962, on the groun s
that gas flows at Grafton could be pip®
to Brisbane (170 miles) through hig y
populated areas, if they were prove
commercial fields.
Dampening news has just come if?®
the company concerning the
No. 3 well, where drilling has been a
doned by Burmah-Murphy. The in 1C ?
tions of gas shown by a gas detector i
January have failed to materialise.
Burmah Oil of the UK and t e
Murphy Corporation of USA .agree
May, 1962, to spend £335 ’ W
licensed areas Nos. 66 and 31, to
a half interest in the licences.
money is spent, without success


Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
iT JOSEPH VALENTINE MILLAR (also
Sown as JOSEPH VALENTINE WILLIAMS),
formerly of Cootamundla and of Coledale,
iIKE NOTICE that WINIFRED MARGARET
jILLAR has filed Petition No. 3393 of 1962
ii divorce on the grounds of desertion and
junkenness. If you wish to defend you may
lan answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by
it sth April, 1963, and obtain a copy of
lie petition without charge from lAN B
lALKER, Solicitor, of 88 Pitt Street, Sydney
-C, A. H HARMS, Registrar.
1 DIVORCE PETITION has been filed against
ILBERT CHARLES JAMES GARDINER, late
il 7 Anglesea Court, Carshalton, Surrey,
inland and Melbourne, Australia, who may
ipply to the Divorce Registry, Somerset
louse, London, W.C.2 England, for a copy
lithe petition. If within one month he has
•A communicated with the Registry, the
tart may hear the case in his absence.
HONG. Registrar.
"Deaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
Ail communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS
STATE
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: JOHN ALBERT, address unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that JUNE ELIZABETH ALBERT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3430 of 1962
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may enter an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 4th April, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from J. H. WOLFF,
Solicitor, of 52 Phillip Street. Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS. Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: KELVIN WILLIAM TURNER, address
unknown. TAKE NOTICE that VALERIE
ADA TURNER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4143 of 1962 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may enter an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 4th April, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from J H. WOLFF, Solicitor, of 52 Phillip
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME>
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (y/) whichever method of
delivery you prefer. /
For those desiring direct sub-
•cription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£S 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through,your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880.
terial progress, public interest in the
Clarence shares will sag unless other
yar financial arrangements are made.
L company might then make a call
Contributing shares.
I jf you are intent on buying into this
company, it may be wise to limit your
investment to 200 fully paids, which with
brokerage and stamp duty would cost
(on close to <£-50.


Feiffer
r am a mteiz
Of 10516 m.
i mxmo'skm-
that i(J m we tvs
me A pea) vice
arms, x m
rmsruFFsi?
m ttowreo
IfJ TH6
udßm.
w mmt
; CAWSHT A
*JF •
(Dice TO
people xmu,
ve Mice
TO HOU.
m www
mr to ir
i m a
'TRUST ■
6im J 1$
'TRUST _
zeceiw.
thcw i hapa
Fiwe "All
IW#ft efATAT
me.sAie
6PEet?jiT(s
COR IHJSTRI/*
Hms FOR
mm?
Tto)jNVA*m&&
wsoopj rH&ets uo
mi; m& i 5 auto
mvW5R$TAwm”
mi ms -
PFPFSCT ''BfiAW
15 40/£ AUP i.OI/S’
15
Lf6t fWTK t
imx TH6H our
TO A NAUOMAU
miew-
couecroßZ
emwoU‘
im ,
WSR6
stom
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 733
ACROSS
I—Despicable sport of cads if in West London film-
producing organisation. (4-8)
B—Fancy courses for water processes in mind. (7-7)
11— Erratically filled yet undernourished. (3-3)
12— Ache also affected fish. (3-5)
14— Color one in explosive. (4)
15— The most sizeable rags let change. (7)
18— Gorky Jolson of the most. (7)
19— This makes a little dog keep changing. (4)
22 Emmet taking her a right
angle of a floral organ. (8)
23 Duplicated food after busi-
ness. (6)
25 “He’s ice,” he cheers, (ana-
gram) (8,6)
26 A careless shepherdess has
the minute box-office look.
(6,2-4)
DOWN
1— Legal wealth is so. (6,3,3)
2 Trivial fish to measure. (8),
3 A small seal not to be con-
fused with a small swan. (6)
4 Grub. (4)
5 European unit of work and
some woolgrower communi-
cation. (10)
6 Unnecessary sewer steamer.
(8)
7 Used to be cut up. (3)
9—Ungenerous average. (4)
10—See him with a Napoleonic
marshal’s blubber a blacken-
ed character. (7,5)
13—ISTanbul demonstrates this
plutocrat. (10)
16—W.A. strike affected enough
to indulge in aquaplaning.
(5,3)
17—Place for some lying four
before a Camelot knight. (8)
20— Reason why a diver might
come up to scratch. (4)
21— Blubber booking republican*
ised hooking likewise. (6)
24 Valley in need. (4)
25 Intimidate a lower business
mentioned with West. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 732


uouncing a great International Publishing Event!
Inrsfor
(a7day
Free Preview
without obligation in your own home!
FRANCE
tie glorious colour and vivid
jmentary of one magnificent
be —176 detail-packed pages
that bring a nation to life!
UXE EDITION FROM THE SUPERB
m
WORLD
LIBRARY
PARED FOR YOU BY THE EDITORS
LIFE MAGAZINE AND PRESENTED IN
OPERATION WITH THE LONDON
SUNDAY TIMES
LtO preview —free for seven days without obligation!
lIS tO OWll at 10/■ off publication price!
UGH THESE PAGES, you see France as no ordinary tourist
you meet famous personalities, explore world-renowned cities
itonc s ' tes - Your guides are scholars, newspapermen and
" ohave lived and worked in this land of romance and colour.
Slt ' ve camera you're taken on an absorbing tour of breath-
CeKr J> lassie and modern architecture; you visit theatres,
•Is and homes.
It these p a g es y OU share the fascinating lore of a land rich in
j ro “h‘ n g with contemporary life.
five 10/-
SPECIAL PRE-
PUBLICATION
OFFER at
25% off publication price !
FRANCE” «,iii u
Hediatelv be Sent to y° u or a ree P review
10 money now ° Ur rece ‘ v ' n g the coupon below. You send
[entitled 1 ,^ a l S ’ an<^y°u decide to keep the book, you will
ate 10/- (th - e S P ecial P re 'P u blication price of 30/-. You
4 Sa p rev j e 3tS on published price of £2.
I subsennp n S , U L, SCr ' be b y° u W *U also receive automatically
0 ® e Senprn„ t °°^ s ‘ n t^le Life World Library on the
rH| feWorl d re Lh PPrOVal termS ‘
oUntr ies of the LlDrar o / W 'H present to you all the great
jtae ev ocati\ e WOrld ' do ' n now an d ma Lc sure you receive
®asterlv 6 ' ? xc ‘ t ' n § hooks—written and illustrated
’Options to you' 1 | e I rstand ' r _'S and clarity—such handsome
R ea rs of pi
library. For you and your children, they
ensure and fascinating information.
Actual size of books. 8|" x 11". Full colour, linen-finish hard covers. 176 detail-packed pages. 40,000 words of
descriptive text. Over 100 photographs, more than half in full colour! Dates, personalities, maps.
FRANCE Brought to Life in One Magnificent Volume
HISTORY. From 500 8.C., a
past studded with great names and
climactic events.
THE PEOPLE. From the dark,
volatile Southerners, to the taci-
turn Northerners; intimate per-
sonal glimpses.
POLITICS AND GOVERN-
MENT. The turbulent present,
the towering figure of Charles De
Gaulle. How the Government
works.
INDUSTRY. Facts and figures
behind a booming economy; its
motive power and its prospects.
AGRICULTURE. A close look
at agriculture, including the
famous vine industry. The effects
of the Common Market.
THE ARTS. A survey of French
achievement in literature, theatre,
painting, architecture. The
“intellectuals.”
and full coverage of
EDUCATION—SPORT AND
LEISURE—FOOD AND
FASHION.
MAIL THIS
VALUABLE
PREVIEW
COUPON
TODAY-AND
SAVE 10/-
LIFE WORLD LIBRARY, c/- Mingay Publishing Co. Pty. Ltd.,
47 CHIPPEN STREET, CHIPPENDALE, N.S.VV.
Please send me a ropy of “FRANCE” without obligation to buy. If, after
seven days, I decide to keep it, you will charge me at the special pre-
publication price of only 30/-, saving me 10/- on the published price of
£2. I shall then receive subsequent books on the same free approval terms.
NAME
ADDRESS _
BN
SEND NO MONEY NOW block letters pleas


THE GREATEST NAME
IN CIGARETTES
s
till
-■
mm
*****
A
m
ROTHMANS KING SIZE
really satisfies
