

The Bulletin
JUNE 22, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND QHflMfefcEST. I®o
mivm m
1 mmmv
I c WORSIEY. I
» The £f?air
|« r Mimfa?' Wktfp*
THE CILENTO STORY


There’s no more exacting master than Tradition
Creating fine wines is a matter of family pride with the Smiths of Yalumba . . . has been since
1849. This is one reason why Yalumba Moselle endears itself as a dinner companion. For
Yalumba makes Moselle from selected Rhine Riesling grapes into a light, bright, slightly sweet
wine bottled young and matured in the bottle for truly authentic character. Try Yalumba
Moselle just once; you’ll ask for it always.
YALUMBA Moselle
.S. Smith and Son Limited, Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
FREE Yalumba Wine Selector tells
all about the serving of wines
with meals . . . like one? . . .
write direct to Yalumba, Angas-
ton. N.S.W. readers may enquire
direct to state distributors,
O’Malley and Morris Pty. Ltd.,
40 Ennis Road, Milson’s Point,
Sydney Phnne 07 707-;


National Notebook
Hot Tip
/Confirmation that the days of austerity
are over in the automobile industry
at last seems to come from the report
that a Sydney dealer has just finished
building a waterfront home which has
its own sauna bath with electrically
heated stones.
Knife-and-Fork Job
TNespite the pleas of those who have
noted some architectural beauty in
its crumbling structure, Hobart’s 150-
year-old gaol is to be demolished. His-
torically unimportant compared with
Port Arthur, it occupies valuable land
near the city’s centre. The hand-made,
sun-dried bricks and soft stone of the
structure are collapsing at such a rate
that within a few years no serious effort
of wrecking would be needed. Indeed, in
its last decade as a prison escapees re-
moved stones with knives and forks.
Unlike the luxury gaol
at Risdon, to which all
prisoners were removed
several years ago, the
Hobart Gaol was built in
contempt of comfort. On
the orders of Governor
Macquarie in December,
1820, Lieut.-Governor Sorrell had the
first two - storey block erected as a
penitentiary and a clearing house for
newly-arrived convicts. Three hundred
males could be herded behind its high
brick wall.
There they were held awaiting assign-
ment to chain gangs or penal settle-
ments, and there they were returned for
reassignment or the rude correction of
the treadmill. By 1826 the buildings
were bursting at the seams, and a new
wing was added to increase the capacity
to 600. Further additions were made
15 years later, and again in 1859.
Decaying with the gaol itself are the
old gallows, on which 350 men died.
The trapdoor is immense. On one
notable occasion, seven convicts plunged
simultaneously through it to their death.
The gallows were last used in 1946 for
Tasmania’s last execution.
Above the dank, cold, airless solitary
confinement cells a chapel was built in
1831. It was used by settlers as well as
convicts until nearby Holy Trinity
Church was completed. The chapel was
regarded as insecure, and after it was
the scene of several escape attempts a
platform was erected behind the altar
wall to accommodate a warder with a
rifle. The muzzle was aimed through a
hole in the centre of the Cross.
Uncomfortable as it was, the gaol in
more recent times was regarded affection-
ately by many of its patrons. The fire
risk along its wooden gangways and
stairs was so frightening that certain cell
doors remained unlocked at night, but the
story was that no one wanted to escape.
Certainly some scandalous little parties
were held behind the walls when prison-
ers unwilling to wander out at night
arranged for friends to visit them. Break-
ing into the gaol, it was said, was slight-
ly more difficult than breaking out.
Tom Brown’s Hamlet
Sydney’s Old Tote Theatre is already
beginning to live down its modest
beginnings in the old totalisator building
of the Kensington racecourse, but it’s
perhaps still appropriate to say that in
“Hamlet” it has its third winner out of
three starts. This is the new adult “Ham-
let” not put on for the straw-hat or
black-stocking circuit. It isn’t set for the
Leaving this year and
producer Tom Brown
doesn’t even know what
is.
The four producers of
the 1963 season at the
Old Tote each chose his
play simply because he
wanted to do it. They discarded any
grand ideas of monumental seasons of
Australian, classical or any other sort
of drama. This has paid off in good
reviews and audiences, and even seems
to be paying financially.
Brown chose “Hamlet” because he
wanted to do it, but also because he had
a “Hamlet” John Bell. Brown, during
his years overseas, was associated with
the Old Vic production which starred
Richard Burton and with the Stratford,
Ontario, one in which Christopher
Plummer played.
Since the play opened Brown has
moved up in the Elizabethan hierarchy.
He has taken over as director of the Nat-
ional Institute of Dramatic Art from
Robert Quentin who is now Director of
Drama for the Elizabethan Theatre Trust
(the Trust hands around imposing-sound-
ing titles like someone naming new coin-
age). It is expected that Quentin will
within a reasonable time be able to carry
the Trust’s new-style theatre to Ade-
laide and Brisbane, establishing there
something along the lines of the Old
Tote or the Union Repertory.
“With these smaller theatres we feel
we are on the right lines,” Brown said,
“but we still have to find a style. We’ve
got away from thinking of theatre archi-
tecture in terms of the Italian-style opera
Page
WINES TO BEY 23
A vintage year for Hunters
•
The Cost of Imported Bishops .... 6
The ANU answers M. H. Ellis 11
The Profumo Affair 12
Diane Cilento: the “New Me” 15
British Migrants: the £lO Escape
Route 20
Music: Questions of Interpretation 21
The Small Car Battle 22
Around Melbourne: Dreaming of
Cats and Glory 24
South Africa Reorganises its
Defences 25
New “Bulletin” Poets 29
The 10th Sydney Film Festival ... 37
The Hollow Legend of T. E. Lawrence 41
Drive on Farm Disease 45
Educating the Prospective Exporter 46
Why World Sugar Prices Rose .. 51
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO G
OUT AND AROLT 15
MOTORING 22
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 29
LETTERS 34
REVIEWS 37
FEIFFER 40
RED PAGE 41
MAN ON THE LAND 45
WORLD OF RUSINESS ... 46
CROSSWORD G 2
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4349


house, but we still have to find a way of
acting which suits these smaller theatres
and which suits Australia.
“The important thing is that our drama
companies will have a home, actors will
be paid 40 weeks of the year. It’s a good
firm basis and it would be quite easy to
do a national prestige job if and when it
was wanted.”
A Matter of Interest
A deadly Queensland conefish, the
poison of which is under scrutiny by
Sydney detectives investigating the
Bogle-Chandler deaths, drew thousands
of people to a university science students’
display in Brisbane last week. Lectures
on the deep red and ivory Conus geo-
graphus and other cone fish, poisonous
and non-poisonous, are part of the course
in third-year zoology.
The chemical composition of the poison
is not yet known and this could explain
why no known poison was detected in
the bodies of Dr Gilbert Bogle and Mrs
Margaret Chandler. Dr Robert Endean,
zoology department lecturer, said last
week that the University was hopeful
that a beneficial use would be found
for the poison—in surgery, by paralysing
muscles.
A Well-Lit Cemetery
Adelaide has the best dug graves in
the world, according to Mr V. F.
Roberts. Mr Roberts, who is managing
director of Evergreen Memorial Park
Ltd., told us that this was the judgment
of Professor Harry Shepard of the Uni-
versity of California’s Department of
Landscape Architecture.
Evergreen Memorial Park Ltd was
formed recently to help provide the
people of Adelaide with grave sites “in
advance of need.” A brochure which Mr
Roberts has had prepared for the com-
pany’s nine consultants —“they are not
salesmen” —says that the park “combines
the benefits of beauty, dignity and sound
family planning.”
“It is a perpetually endowed park,”
says the brochure, “so beautiful that it
seems way above the level of this world,
wherein trees, shrubs, flowers and cool
sweeping lawns pay colorful homage to
nature and where softly splashing foun-
tains add dignified loveliness to the
peaceful and gracious surroundings.”
The brochure also has colored pictures
contrasting the “unnecessary squalor” of
city cemeteries with the “beautiful sur-
roundings” of Evergreen.
Of course, Mr Roberts told us, he
had read Waugh’s “The Loved One.”
He admitted this with a weariness—or
wariness—that did not leave him until
much later in the interview when he
discussed with enthusiasm the work of
C. Northcote Parkinson. As for Waugh,
well, Mr Roberts said, Waugh was witty
and Waugh was Waugh but in “The
Loved One” he was writing of excesses
which had crept into American practice.
Such as the elaborate leave-takings.
Still, Mr Roberts made it clear that
if his project was to lack excesses, it
was not to lack refinements. There would
be four chapels, which would be used
for weddings, christenings and other
ceremonies as well as for funerals. Mr
Roberts stressed that an outstanding
feature of the Memorial Park would be
its private archives where those who
wished to leave details of their achieve-
ments in Government, the arts, sport
or business could do so in the sure
knowledge that the records would be
protected for ever.
The park, improving on Adelaide it-
self which has been called the “only
cemetery in the world which is lit at
night”, will be “perpetually lighted.”
No Man’s Land
MUhere and what is Victoria? The
question came up when Judge
Rapke went to Mildura to try a man
charged with an offence against a girl
allegedly committed on Lock Island,
about half a mile from the Mildura Rail-
way Station. The judge instructed a
General Sessions jury to acquit the
accused on the grounds that the Crown
could not prove that the island,
administered by the Victorian State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission,
was part of Victoria.
Judge Rapke cited a British act of
1855 which says that the whole of the
Murray watercourse from its source to
the South Australian border is and shall
be part of the territory of New South
Wales. Lock Island came into being
when a channel was dug in 1926 across
a bend of the river on the Victorian side.
"This Profumo affair has had a terrible
effect on national security 1"
“Yes."


The excavation was to be a shipping
lane and part of the Mildura irrigation
system.
So the opportunities for nibbling
away at Victoria are limitless. If the
Murray ever departs from its course, as
it does in flood, the land it trespasses
on becomes part of its course—and part
of NSW.
Judge Rapke suggested that this was
a highly unsatisfactory state of affairs.
It was vital, he said, that it be settled
whether Lock Island was in Victoria or
NSW otherwise crimes could be com-
mitted there without either State know-
ing whether it could act.
This week’s cover
week’s cover of Australian actress
A Diane Cilento was taken by Austra-
lian photographer, Alec Murray, who
has lived for many years in London. Miss
Cilento was leaving the Royal Court
Theatre, Sloane Square, London, where
she appeared in an adaptation of Piran-
dello’s “To Clothe the Naked.” As the
poster indicates, it was another success
for Miss Cilento. On page 15 Betty Best
writes about the present state of Miss
Cilento’s career.
Last week we announced that we had
arranged for special supplies of the color
portfolio of the Australian Impressionists
and of some of the future planned series
to be run off. We regret that this does
not include the cover-picture. The charge
will be Is. at our office, or Is. 3d. if
posted.
Tanner
"Now they'll have to weed out
the heterosexuals/'
PLAIN ENGLISH
GREATER MALAYSIA?
Tt is both tempting and misleading to represent Indonesia’s new attitude
to Malaysia at the Manila talks as a resounding diplomatic defeat
engendered by Malayan determination and a show of British arms. While
these two factors undoubtedly had a sobering effect in Djakarta, there is
evidence of a lot of genuine Indonesian soul searching not merely about
Malaysia, which comes' into being on August 31, but about Indonesia’s
long-term role in the area. It seems that in Manila genuine concessions and
attempts to reassure were made by all sides; and perhaps a discovery by
all three that the sum of their mutual interests was greater than that of
their mutual suspicions. For this reason President Macapagal’s proposal of
a future Greater Malaysia comprising Malaya, Indonesia and the Philip-
pines should be examined seriously even if, on the face of it, such a
confederation is riddled with weaknesses and inconsistencies a criticism
to be made quite objectively about Tunku Abdul Rahman’s Malaysia if it
comes to that. In the short term Indonesia has much to gain by helping to
ensure that Malaysia is a viable buffer state between Indonesia and the
uncertain north. Nor is it lost on Djakarta that both Malaysia and the
Philippines will retain their defence links with the western defence
system. In the long term Indonesia must by sheer weight of numbers and
the richness of her natural resources come to dominate the pan-Malaysian
area. This need be neither frightening nor even undesirable. It is inevitable
that Indonesia’s voice will be heard and respectfully listened to. It is
inevitable that Indonesia’s genuine if irrational hatred of colonialism
will lead her to try and influence Malaysia into adopting a political
system more akin to her own. For Malaysia a friendly, or at least tolerant,
Indonesia is essential. It is hard to see how Malaysia could survive in the
long years ahead against unrelenting Indonesian hostility and subversion.
In the meantime the machinery of consultation has been set in motion
and three nations with more than a fair share of common racial and
cultural interests and fully aware of a common enemy now have a means
for discussion and debate of mutual problems.
THE NEXT POPE
/~\NE interesting feature of the Papal elections that has become clear
even to non-Catholics is the extent to which the Vatican is split
over the question how best to handle the threat of totalitarianism. The
alarming thing is the extent to which the late Pope John XXIII, for all
his great goodness, has become a sort of hero to those who believe in
appeasing Communist imperialism at any cost; they refer happily to the
late Pope’s welcoming visits to him by the editor of a Soviet newspaper
and the Soviet Director of Culture, that is, two leading apologists for
modern servitude. These same admirers of the late Pope now forget
how liberals were obliged to criticise his predecessor for his cautious
silence on certain occasions over Nazi atrocities. To many non-Catholic
admirers of the Catholic Church Pope John’s politics may not seem
to be much of an advance on those of Pius XII. What they want to
see is a new Pope more profoundly aware of the dangers of
totalitarianism of any kind than John XXIII or Pius XII sometimes were.


THIS AUSTRALIA
RELIGION
Why the Anglican Church
is Declining
The cost of imported Bishops
By the Rt. Rev. IAN SHEVILL
BISHOP lAN SHEVILL
“Roman Catholics are
more Australian”
My recent visit to America coincided
with the publication of the first
survey of the Australian Church
by a distinguished American observer.
The Rev. Canon Howard A. Johnson
is the Canon Theologian of the Cathedral
of S. John the Divine in the Diocese
of New York and is the only man in
history to have visited every corner of
the Anglican Communion. Preparing his
material, he spent two years travelling
200,000 miles and now has produced his
book “Global Odyssey,” published by
Harpur and Row. Several of the chap-
ters are enthusiastic and full of praise
but when he turns to the Church in
Australia, he gives us truths which, as
an Australian, I read with concern.
He says: “Problem number one, which
confronts every Australian city, is the
sudden arrival of immigrants. Their ap-
pearance on the scene by the thousands
is, I am convinced, the Australian
Church’s greatest opportunity; but the
fact that in the eyes of the Australian
Church these immigrants loom larger as
a problem than as an opportunity defines
precisely the depth of the problem. Our
Church is ill prepared to receive them.”
He adds that our name, “The Church
of England in Australia and Tasmania,”
is “unwieldy and uninviting” and asks
whether a European migrant would be
This is a condensation of part of
Bishop Shevill’s Presidential Charge
to the Synod of the Anglican Diocese
of North Queensland.
likely to seek a spiritual home in such
a body. “Yet,” he continues, “when I
asked Australian Anglicans whether
they felt the name had a forbidding and
deterrent aspect, they looked at me
blankly.”
He submits that the “number two
problem is the Church’s lack of
centralised organisation” and notes that
“only slowly is Australia learning to
pull together.”
He concludes, “This could be
Anglicanism’s moment in Australia, we
are letting it slip through our fingers.
‘Anglicans are born and bred, not
acquired by conversion’ was the mourn-
ful and bitterly ironic way in which one
enlightened but discouraged Australian
churchman commented on the somno-
lence of his Church.”
From this emerges our custom of per-
petuating “redundant theological col-
leges” which he feels are a relic of the
“horse and buggy days.” “The plain
fact is: Australia does not have enough
authentic Doctors of Divinity to staff so
many colleges adequately. Yet, on they
go, small as they are, under-staffed as
they are, with libraries so tiny and
obsolete that they made me weep.”
Tn my journeys in England it fell to
my lot to address audiences of
theological students, most of them
graduates, at both Oxford and Cam-
bridge. The subject was “The Church
in Australia” and the questions which
followed the lectures indicated a grow-
ing uneasiness in thinking Anglican
circles about our life here.
They also asked the question, “Why
do you want to call yourselves the
Church of England in Australia and
Tasmania?” Every other part of the
Commonwealth has grown out of this
implied colonialism. There is the
Anglican Church of Canada; the Church
of India, Burma, Pakistan, and Ceylon;
the Church of the Province of South
Africa, West Africa, East Africa,
Central Africa; the Episcopal Church of
the United States . . . but you are still
the “Church of England in Australia
and Tasmania.”
They also enquired, “Why do so many
Australian clergy come to England and
want to stay here? The emigre colony is
growing, it already contains an able-
bodied Australian Bishop and an able-
bodied New Zealand Bishop, it includes
ex-archdeacons and other dignitaries.
They asked also, “Why do you go on
getting your leaders from here can’t
you produce Australian leadership?”
They also wanted to know what the
Church was doing about our Racial
Policy, the Migrants, Church Unity and
what truthful answer could be given.
Most thinking Christians, however,
will be prepared to face these criticisms
seeking calmly and objectively the
answer to the question: Why are we
making such a small impact on Aus-
tralian life?
THE BATTLE OF WATERLOO
bulletin
80 Years Ago: June 23, 1883
Monday was the 68th anniversary
of the Battle of Waterloo, of the
great fight in which the men of Beer
beat the men of Wine, in which solid
roast beef whacked fried frogs; just as
in Egypt, the other day, good old
English roast beef and plum pudding
and Bass's bitter trounced the black-
fellows and their water-melons and
sherbet. We have in Australia about
100,000 men who were at the Battle
of Waterloo, and who remember all
about it. (Whenever an old man dies
in the Benevolent, they put him down
as a Waterloo veteran.) Yet the daily
papers of Monday said never a word
about the glorious anniversary. And
we used to think the dailies were all
run by old fossils who had been
regimental chaplains at Waterloo.
Ah, well! Their memories must be
failing now. But it’s not too late. Go
ye, every Britisher, out to the nearest
licensed house and drink Bulldog
Beer to the illustrious memory of old
Beady Wellington, who used to thrash
white men, and who wasn’t made a
Baron for bombarding blackfellows.


There are of course a great number of
factors involved but I believe that there
are two outstanding reasons which must
be faced by the Church in Australia,
They are:
(1) LACK OF AUSTRALIAN
LEADERSHIP
In America, where the Church is in-
creasing, all Diocesan Bishops and most
assistants are American citizens.
In New Zealand, where the Church is
decreasing, all Diocesan Bishops, with
one exception, have been imported.
In Australia, where the Church is de-
creasing, what is the position?
Although the Australian Church now
has its own constitution and although
175 years have elapsed since the first
clergyman arrived on these shores, the
leadership of the Australian Church is
still predominantly in the hands of non-
Australians.
We have never yet had an Australian-
born Archbishop. There are a number of
Australian-born Bishops, generally in
country dioceses or acting as assistants.
This situation has as a natural by-pro-
duct the importation of leadership for
other posts of responsibility; for example,
in the capital cities of the East Coast,
three out of four of the Deans are from
abroad.
In Theological Colleges it is not a
unique situation in Australia to find that
the entire residential staff have been
imported.
ITroadly, 40 per cent of Australians
live in Sydney and Melbourne.
Brisbane and Perth account for another
10 per cent. This means that half the
Anglican population of the Common-
wealth have never had indigenous leader-
ship.
The figure is even greater than this,
for at the beginning of 1963 over two
million Anglicans lived in one of the
ten dioceses presided over by imported
leaders whilst a little over a million lived
in the 14 dioceses presided over by Aus-
tralians (and here the term “Australian”
is used in its widest sense to cover one
either born, educated or ordained in this
country).
Thus broadly it may be said that in
Australia two Anglicans out of every
three live in a diocese which lacks in-
digenous leadership.
The tradition of appointing English-
men seems to be wearing thin in Vice-
Regal circles. Is it not time we dropped
it?
The Presbyterians do not insist that
their Moderators be Scotsmen, nor the
Roman Catholics that their Cardinals
and Archbishops should be Irish or
Italian.
It may well be asked: “What then is
wrong with imported leadership?”
The answer of course is that this
country is no longer a colony, it is no
longer what Noel Coward called “A first
rate country for second rate people”,
it is a growing nation with its own prob-
lems, ethos and aspirations.
The very best imported leader must
spend a period of years learning Aus-
tralia and every time this happens the
leadership of his diocese marks time
whilst the nation rushes on.
Then, too, the imported leader very
often looks to somewhere else as “home”.
If adverse circumstances arise he will re-
turn home . . . the Australian on the
other hand starts at home and has to see
it through.
It is often asked: “Why do the Aus-
tralians go on importing leaders?” But,
let us realise it is not the Australians
who are doing this at all; in most cases
it is Church leaders who have themselves
been imported supported by some Aus-
tralians with nostalgic memories and
others impelled by varying motives.
Although I realise it is not conclusive,
there is an extraordinary correlation be-
tween indigenous leadership and in-
creasing Church membership.
The leadership in the Church of
England in Australia and New Zealand
is predominantly imported and Church
membership is declining. On the other
hand in America, under indigenous
leadership, the Episcopal Church is in-
creasing. In Australia, under indigenous
leadership, the Roman Catholic Church
is increasing, for Professor Leicester
Webb has pointed out a not always
realised fact when he writes: “In terms
of the social background of its leaders,
the Roman Catholic Church is the most
Australian of all the churches. Of the
33 members of its present Hierarchy, 25
are Australian born ... it is now the
exception for members of the Hierarchy
to be appointed from outside Australia.”
It is my earnest prayer that the
Church in Australia will dare to be Aus-
tralian . . . and this before it is too late.
This prayer is prompted by no
narrow nationalism. I realise the
tremendous debt in the past we have
owed to England and like any Australian
worthy of the name, I rejoice to live in
the British Commonwealth.
However, if the Church in this land
is to grow, I am convinced it must be
led by men who have lived here long
enough to know this country and its
people. Their birthplace is irrelevant
... it is where they think of as Home
that matters.
(2) The second outstanding reason for
the present state of the Church in Aus-
tralia is a PREOCCUPATION WITH
CHURCHMANSHIP.
This is a peculiarly national problem
for we Australians tend to ask in any
situation not “Is this thing true?” “Is
this man holy” or “Is this method
relevant?” . . . but always “Is it inspired
by high or low churchmanship?”
This question, which was important in
England and elsewhere last century, is
seldom heard anywhere today except in
Australia, for the rest of the world has
realised that “churchmanship” is far
more a matter of psychology than the-
ology.
Extremists still exist but they are
generally incomplete personalities who
are compensating for their inability to
adjust themselves to their environment
by a fervent devotion to their segment
of truth. They sit behind their infallible
book (Be it “Proof Texts” or “Ritual
Notes”) and emerge with the light of
persecution in their eye. They should be
regarded with the kindly tolerance which
any large family extends to the slightly
strange aunt who has her own little
ways.
HThis concern over churchmanship has
been a source of wonder to visitors
to Australia for almost a century and if
again I may quote from “Global
Odyssey”, Canon Johnson says: No-
where in my entire tour of Anglicanism
did 1 encounter questions of churchman-
ship so divisive, so much a source of
distrust and rancour ”
This criticism by an external observer
is sadly true and is not unrelated to the
first problem of leadership, for in the
second half of last century, when most
Australian Dioceses were established,
the leaders who crossed the world to
this continent were zealous party men.
In loyalty to the pioneers, those who
chose their successors sought to per-
petuate the same emphases until today
many are persuaded that these are
questions of truth rather than tempera-
ment.
There are signs, however, particularly
amongst the Australians themselves, that
this loyalty to parties is wearing thin for
we are challenged to accept far greater
and more compelling loyalties to God;
the Lord Christ; our Nation and our
Church —beside which party loyalties wilt
into insignificance.
What I have said in this Charge may
well be misunderstood, misquoted or mis-
represented but in my tenth year as
a Bishop of this Church and as an Aus-
tralian, I feel compelled to take the risk,
for it is time that these things were said.
Unless we dare to act, think and speak
courageously in solving these two prob-
lems our reputation abroad and our
influence at home will continue to be
in a minor key.
Therefore I plead, like not to
an earthly king but to Almighty God,
“LET MY PEOPLE GO”.


3 ALP CONFERENCES
The Two Labor Parties
Under one label
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Tt was a symbol of
A the Labor Party.
When he was pre-
sented last week in Melbourne with
copies of alleged unity tickets between
ALP and Communist Party members in
Victorian Australian Railway Union
elections, Mr Arthur Calwell, in words
of a witness, “screwed up the tickets
behind his back and threw them into
the gutter.”
This was precisely how Mr Calwell
threw away the Prime Ministership
before the 1961 Federal elections when
he refused to back his three deputies in
the Parliamentary Labor leadership
Mr Whitlam (NSW), Senator McKenna
(Tas.) and Senator Kennelly (Vic.) —in
their demand that ALP authorities
enforce the Victorian ALP to observe
the Federal ban on unity tickets. It may
be the way in which Mr Calwell will
lose the next Federal elections —by pre-
tending that things are other than they
are, by screwing up unpalatable evidence
behind his back and throwing it away.
When he made his gesture Mr Calwell
was on his way to address the annual
Victorian ALP Conference. Three ALP
Conferences were held that weekend
in NSW, Victoria and South Australia.
As I see it, the conferences did
nothing to solve either Mr Calwell’s
problems or Labor internal troubles.
They revealed starkly that there is no
longer one Labor Party in Australia but
two quite distinct parties even though
the parties maintain a facade of unity
under the label ALP.
Mr Calwell’s own speeches to the
NSW and Victorian Conferences show
his intuitive —or conscious percep-
tion of this state of affairs. To the
Right wing in predominantly, if rather
timidly anti-Communist NSW, he was
the apostle of the Right-wing viewpoint,
calling for more effective defence of
Australia and castigating the Menzies
Government for what he considered its
inadequacies in this field. It was a
speech that went down well in Sydney
but would not have been received
cordially in Victoria where the ALP is
fond of “peace” councils and is not
nearly as concerned with the ideological
sympathies of persons with whom ALP
members associate in such councils.
So in Victoria his emphasis changed.
Mr Calwell attacked the Communists
who were “imprinting the kiss of death
upon our best ideas.” He spoke very
fiercely against the Communists; he had
to. For Labor to have any real chance
at the next Federal elections, the ALP
in Victoria has to change its public
image from one of Leftism with
susceptibility to Communist influence to
one of conformity with ALP anti-
Marxist traditions. But I doubt whether
any of those at the conference who have
tolerated unity tickets that give the Com-
munist Party control of key unions or
have even participated in such tickets
were unduly perturbed. They do not
mind what Mr Calwell says against their
Communist allies. Their fear is lest he
does something against the Communist
Party. From their viewpoint the com-
forting measure of such a possibility is
that he “screwed up the tickets behind
his back and threw them into the
gutter.”
To give the Marxist-orientated section
of the Victorian ALP Conference
further reassurance, Mr Calwell rather
grotesquely went to considerable pains
to equate the power and influence of
Mr B. A. Santamaria and his national
civic movement (virtually confined in
influence to Victoria, limited in appeal,
defeated constantly in industrial and
political fights) with the power and
influence of Communism as an inter-
national force and a grip on key strong-
points in Australia, such as the Brisbane
Trades Hall and major unions from
which Labor policies can be influenced
and sometimes dictated.
Almost as though to demonstrate
more convincingly than Mr Calwell the
marked difference between the two
parties now existing in Australia under
the label of ALP, the NSW Labor Party
passed a resolution asking the NSW
Labor Government to give all schools,
as distinct from State schools, State aid
for the provision of science laboratories
and science training facilities.
State aid for denominational schools
is a red rag to the Victorian ALP.
Mr Calwell may have enjoyed the ex-
citement of flying hastily from city to
city and addressing three State Labor
Conferences but he could not have
derived much comfort from the know-
ledge that he talked to what has virtually
become two parties.
POLICE
Breathalysers First
The Porter Report
From a Melbourne Correspondent
TTerbert Charles White, 57, an in-
strument maker, had an accident one
night last December while trying to over-
take a big transport. He received a
broken leg, broken knee and a deep cut
on the nose. Police arrived on the scene
of the accident in East Preston and took
White to police stations at Preston and
Reservoir for breathalyser tests. Only
afterwards did they take him to hos-
pital!
These facts came out when White
appeared in Preston Court last week on
charges arising from the accident. He
was fined £5 for overtaking a vehicle
when it was unsafe to do so, but charges
of driving under the influence and dan-
gerous driving were dismissed on grounds
of lack of evidence.
Publicity given to the case resulted
in the Acting Chief Secretary, Mr Hamer,
calling for an immediate report from
Police Chief Porter. This explained that
White’s visit to two police stations was
due to a technicality of the breathalyser
law which obliged police to take suspects
to the nearest police station. White was
taken to Preston before it was discovered
that Reservoir was the nearest station.
“There is no justification,” Mr Porter
said, “for an inference that Dr Birrell
(the police surgeon) or the police placed
the technicalities of the law before the
humane reaction which might be expect-
ed of any doctor or any policeman in
circumstances involving injury, even to
an alleged guilty party.”
Mr Hamer indicated that he was
satisfied with Mr Porter’s report and
underlined that White had thanked Dr
Birrell for eventually taking him to hos-
pital and had not lodged any complaint
until the case came on. However, Dr
Birrell had told the court that his reason
for not taking White straight to hospital
was “because at that stage I thought
he was under the influence.”
The inference that an apparently sober
accident victim will be taken to hospital,
while an apparently drunk one will go
first to the nearest police station is a
disturbing one.


COMMUNISTS
Rex Chiplin’s Defection
A complete break?
From a Sydney Correspondent
REX CHIPLIN
Formerly “Charlie”
Oome two years back when Communist
leaders L. L. Sharkey and L. Aarons
made their fateful decision to renounce
Mao-tse Tung and once more acknow-
ledge Khrushchev as their boss, Soviet
officials laid down certain conditions
which would make it extremely difficult
for the Communist Party of Australia
ever again to stray from Soviet leader-
ship. They forbade the sending of any
more delegations to Communist China
or the training of any more professional
revolutionaries there. In future such
matters were to be looked after in the
Soviet Union. Further, to ensure plenty
of favorable news about the Soviet Union
was published in the Australian Com-
munist Press, an Australian reporter was
to be stationed in Moscow, with a change
every two years.
The first of these reporters was the
best in the Communist Party—tall, heavi-
ly built, bespectacled, Rex Chiplin, who
last week made national headlines after
the news of his recent defection from
the Communist Party became public. But
back in those days he was still acceptable
to the Soviet Union because of his role
in the Petrov Royal Commission, and
he was completely trusted by the Aus-
tralian Secretariat because his basically
pro-Chinese ideas were at that time—
when the Sino-Soviet split was only just
beginning—still the dominant ones here.
Their mistake was they did not recognise
Chiplin’s tendency to think things out
for himself, the fact that when someone
shouted turn, he was liable not to turn.
Chiplin first became involved in the
Communist movement in the early 1940 s
through his links with Jack Hughes’s
Communist front, the breakaway Labor
Party. Extensively self-educated and
with a background of both industrial
worker and radio script writer, he was,
by 1945, a full time reporter on “Tri-
bune”. In a period when the Communist
Party had several capable reporters
Chiplin soon proved himself the best of
the lot. As a result of one of his articles
a Public Service enquiry was held on
the wastage of building materials at
Rosehill racecourse and the guilty
parties fired. By 1950 he was “Tribune’s”
Political Correspondent in Canberra.
During the Petrov Royal Commission
in 1954 it was revealed that Soviet In-
telligence had allotted him the Code
name of “Charlie” and regarded him
as a person willing to provide informa-
tion. He called Petrov a liar.
In 1957 after four months touring
Czechoslovakia, the Soviet Union, Mon-
golia and China, he wrote the inevitable
book which said the Soviet workers
paid “the cheapest rents”, had “plenty
of money”, and enjoyed the “best Social
Services in the world.” There was no
racial discrimination in Russia and food
was cheap and plentiful. In the chapters
on China, however, it was apparent that
he was an early exponent of the Chinese
revolutionary line as against Khrushchev’s
“Peaceful Coexistence.” (No one should
underestimate how readily Red China’s
war-mongering “adventurism” appeals to
the so-called “romantic” Wild-Colonial-
Boy side of certain Australian Com-
munists.)
Then he went to Moscow for his two
year stint, as “Tribune” representative.
Towards the end of this period rumours
began circulating in Sydney that all was
not well in Chiplin’s relations with
Soviet authorities; this was put down to
the man’s high spirits and antipathy to
authority. However, before his return,
the old and more “dependable” Alf Watt,
former “Tribune” Editor and a slavish
exponent of the Soviet line, was named
as his successor—instead of one of the
younger “enthusiasts.”
In due course Chiplin returned home
and very soon afterwards resigned both
from the Communist Party and “Tri-
bune.” He is reported to have said he
wouldn’t send a dog to live in Russia.
What happened? Communists claim
that one factor was that although
he had always assumed that he would
be appointed Editor of “Tribune,” he
found on his return that the former
“Peace” organiser Alec Robertson had
the job in his grasp, and with W. A.
Wood, Paul Mortier and Henry Mc-
Carthy, formed a formidable barrier to
Chiplin's ever getting to the top.
But this was not the main reason.
What did turn the scales was the realisa-
tion of the extent the Communist Party
had deserted Red China and was slavish-
ly following the course he had deplored
in the Russians. (His two journalist
friends Ken Miller and Duncan Clarke
had been axed for holding views he
himself had held.) Ted Hill, the man
that most of the party intelligentsia look-
ed to for guidance, was in disgrace and
he and his followers had been driven
from office. Chiplin had no job, no place
to go, no base to fight from.
Whether his resignation presages a
complete break with Communism and all
its aspects, and not just with the par-
ticularly sordid, Careerist Australian
Communist Party, is the 64 dollar
question.
OIL
Tender Collusion?
The Council Market
From a Sydney Correspondent
/Collusion in tendering for the supply
of various petroleum products to
Sydney Metropolitan Councils was
strongly denied by the major oil com-
panies after identical prices (3/o+d. for
super and 2/9d. for standard grades)
were quoted for petrol in all six tenders
submitted for a recent contract. They
pointed out that the prices were those
approved for the supply of petrol to
Councils by the price fixing authorities
in Queensland and South Australia whose
rulings are adopted throughout Austra-
lia by the wholesalers. (Queensland and
South Australia are the only two States
to adhere to price fixing for petrol.) The
Shell manager in NSW stated that com-
petition in all sectors of the Australian
oil business, including the Council
market, was fierce.
The NSW Government appears to
have had a stronger grasp of this than
the Metropolitan Councils because one
tenderer for the Government’s main re-
quirements of petrol for the coming year
managed to quote a substantially lower
price than its competitors, and got the
contract.
At any rate the profits of the major
oil companies as evidenced by Mobil’s


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
&s
0
r
!aP«M RET
site.....
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* "Estate" (as the word "Chateau ” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product oi the winegrower's own
Vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
statement (issued this week) do not on
the face of it look exorbitant and ap-
pear to be considerably less than the
capital expenditure being undertaken by
them from year to year. Last year Mobil
made a net profit of £2.7 million and
spent £4.9 million on capital works. And
for the year to June last when, according
to Petroleum Information Bureau figures,
the industry as a whole increased its cap-
ital investment in Australia by £42.1
million to £412.8 million, the industry
invested far in excess of its published
profits of operations in this country.
Mobil, for one, says it has not sent a
penny of profit overseas from its local
operations since 1951.
That, of course, is not the whole story.
But how much of the profit made by the
oil companies on their Australian refining
operations goes direct to the overseas
parents and is never shown in their local
accounts is a moot point. At least one
major company is currently in grips with
the Taxation Department to arrive at the
appropriate proportion for a number of
recent years.
LAW
The Bar Council v.
the Coroner
Echoes of the Clyne case
From a Correspondent
J. J. LOOMES
“Worthless allegation”
Tn 1960 the High Court of Australia,
in the case of Clyne v. the NSW Bar
Association, said that cases would con-
stantly arise in which it is not merely
the right but the duty of counsel to
speak out fiercely to denounce some
person or the conduct of some person
and to use such strong terms as seem
to him in his discretion to be appropri-
ate to the occasion.
The Court, however, said that it was
essential that this privilege should not
be abused. It also said that it is grossly
abused if counsel in opening a case
makes statements which may have
ruinous consequences to the person
attacked and which he cannot sub-
stantiate or justify by evidence. The
Court said
"It is obviously unfair and im-
proper in the highest degree for
counsel, hoping that where proof is
impossible, prejudice may suffice,
to make such statements unless he
definitely knows that he has, and
definitely intends to adduce, evi-
dence to support them."
In a recent coronial inquiry before the
Sydney City Coroner, Mr Loomes, SM,
into the death of Ernest Robert Morley,
who had hanged himself in a suburban
police station, Mr Isaacs, QC, on behalf
of Morley’s relatives, alleged that, prior
to hanging himself, Morley had been
assaulted by police officers; he further
said: “It will be alleged that he (Morley)
received injuries not in the report of
the Government Medical Officer.”
In giving his finding the Coroner said:
“An allegation made by Mr S. Isaacs,
QC, that Morley received injuries not
shown in a report of the Government
Medical Officer was unfair, worthless
and baseless ... I feel that the insinua-
tion from that allegation, when no
evidence had been tendered to prove it,
is an unfair and unwarranted attack on
the Government Medical Officer and I
am surprised to hear it come from
senior counsel. I emphatically give the
lie to it.”
Mr Isaacs then referred this criticism
of himself to the Bar Council of NSW
which in recent years has shown a
revived interest in general legal ques-
tions of major social importance.
The President of the NSW Bar
Association, Mr C. L. D. Meares, QC,
on Saturday last issued a statement say-
ing that the Bar Council was satisfied
that the allegations made by Mr Isaacs
were part of his instructions and
evidence was called to support those
allegations. “In those circumstances,”
Mr Meares said, “it was not only the
right of Mr Isaacs but his duty to act
as he did.”
Mr Meares also said that it was the
duty of counsel fearlessly to uphold the
interests of his client without regard to
any unpleasant consequences either to
himself or to any other person. Mr
Meares concluded by saying: “Whilst it
is the duty of a barrister in opening a
case not to open any fact as a fact in
the case which he is not in a position
to support by evidence presented by
him, it is no concern of his and certainly
no ground of criticism of him, that the
evidence so presented may not ultimately
be accepted by the tribunal.”
Mr Loomes, SM, recently handled
the controversial Bogle-Chandler inquest
without running into the difficulties
which attracted the criticism of the Bar
Council in the Yeates inquest. However,
in his next major inquest he made state-
ments with which the Bar Council
vigorously disagreed on the question of
what is the correct duty of counsel in
making allegations and charges in Court.
Lawyers point out that it is important
that there should be not only an in-
dependent Bench but a fearless and
independent Bar which will put the
citizen’s case courageously provided
there is evidence on which to base it.
The Bar Council, which is ready to
move the Court to have counsel dis-
ciplined when they break the proper
rules, is also fully entitled to protect its
members when they are wrongly
criticised for acting according to their
duty. It agrees that it is essential
counsel should not go any further than
the rules of proper conduct permit,
but it is also essential that they should
have no fear about doing what their
duty requires.


The ANU Answers M. H. Ellis
“Briefly and without acrimony ...”
{The following letter to the Editor was received from Professor Sir Keith Hancock, of
the Australian National University, who is Chairman of the National Committee of the
Australian Dictionary of Biography.)
Sir,
I have been empowered, if I so
choose, to reply, but briefly and
without acrimony, to any Press attack
against the Australian Dictionary of
Biography made by Mr Ellis, follow-
ing his recent resignation from the
National Committee.
Mr Ellis’s long article in your
columns of 15th June is written under
the sub-title “The Australian Dic-
tionary of Biography—lntrigues, In-
efficiency, Incompetence?” To each
of these questions the answer is No.
A few days ago I looked round the
table where the members of the Na-
tional Committee were sitting
nearly 30 historians representing every
university in Australia. Each of these
men will write, some of them have
already written, articles for the Dic-
tionary. Each of them in his own
State or region is giving leadership
to groups and the scores of hundreds
of individuals who have been gathered
into this great volunteer enterprise.
Each is an historian of personal
integrity and proved professional com-
petence. Together they constitute the
National Committee, a body closely
welded together in the determination to
achieve at a high standard of scholar-
ship the task it has set out to achieve:
namely, to complete the Australian
Dictionary of Biography, in approxi-
mately 15 volumes, approximately 10
years from now.
We have had our teething troubles
and we are now through them. Mr
Ellis recalls some of them. I do not
accept his account of events, whether
it is founded on his reading of docu-
ments or his recollection of interviews.
The choice of a publisher, about
which he writes at length, was a diffi-
cult one, particularly in the circum-
stances of that time when great un-
certainties existed in the publishing
trade and the situation appeared to be
in flux. I believe that we made the
right decision. I may add that both
then and since then Mr George Fer-
guson, to whom Mr Ellis refers, has
shown complete understanding of the
problem which faced the Editorial
Board. With great generosity, Mr
Ferguson has assured me that his
firm, although it has not been com-
missioned to publish the Dictionary,
will do everything that may lie within
its power to promote its success as a
publishing venture.
Not only in the choice of a pub-
lisher but in some other episodes, Mr
Ellis says that he has detected slap-
dash administration in my depart-
ment, which carries the administrative
work of the Dictionary. I agree that
mistakes were made, and not only ad-
ministrative ones: but the responsibi-
lity for them was mine alone. At that
time I was trying to do too much
work with too little assistance. I be-
lieve there is something to be said for
this way of starting a creative enter-
prise. Anyway, the National Com-
mittee and the Editorial Board now
have the great good fortune of Profes-
sor Douglas Pike’s services as General
Editor. On him, too, the burden will
remain heavier than it should be, until
he can set up his headquarters here:
but he is supported by devoted and
efficient assistants.
About the conflicts in which Mr
Ellis became involved, first with the
New South Wales Working Party and
later with the Editorial Board, I find
it not so easy to write and this for
a plain reason. On a proposal origin-
ating from Mr Ellis himself the Na-
tional Committee, on February 2,
1962, gave directions that every
reference to these conflicts should be
expunged from its records and from
those of the Editorial Board. It did
this, not out of weakness, but in res-
pect for the feelings of Mr Ellis. Its
decision was part of a deliberate, clear
and comprehensive agreement, which
satisfied Mr Ellis at that time (see his
letter to the Sydney Morning Herald
of February 5, 1962). Mr Ellis now
feels himself at liberty to break this
agreement. 1 do not.
Still, without digging up the past
which all of us had promised to bury,
there are a few things which I can
and must say. First, there is Mr Ellis’s
attack against the New South Wales
Working Party. Among “the close-
lipped tiny group” at Sydney Univer-
sity, whose alleged incompetence he
denounces, is Mr A. G. L. Shaw. Less
than 18 months ago, Mr Ellis himself
proposed Mr Shaw as the most suit-
able person to take over the editorship
of period I of the Dictionary. But
now Mr Shaw’s stocks are down again.
This unpredictable, up-and-down
movement of Mr Ellis’s judgment
makes things difficult.
I am willing to believe that the
New South Wales Working Party, in
its early days, was rather too small
and that its typing services were in-
adequate. In those days we were all
of us experimenting, producing rough
drafts and trying things out. That was
right then. Nowadays it is right for all
our groups to be bigger, better orga-
nised, more deliberate, more syste-
matic. Both then and now, however,
one thing has remained constant
the reputation for learning and pro-
fessional skill which the historians of
Professor Ward’s department in the
University of Sydney deservedly enjoy
throughout Australia.
Then there is the attack on Profes-
sor Manning Clark, which Mr Ellis
has made not only in his latest Bulle-
tin article but elsewhere. I find this
attack dreadful, because it is aimed
not only at Professor Clark’s scholar-
ship but at his patriotism and inte-
grity. I can only say in reply that I
look on Manning Clark as a good
Australian, a good colleague, a good
friend, a good craftsman and a far
more exciting and inspiring teacher
and writer of history than I could ever
hope to become.
Mr Ellis’s violent attacks on indi-
viduals damaged the fibre of mutual
trust and co-operation. Not all these
attacks were made in public. Not all
of them were aimed against people of
established reputations: young histo-
rians of great promise have been
(Continued on page 14.)


London Newsletter
The
Profumo
Affair
Seven Pistol Shots and a Scandal
From NEIL KELLY
Britain’s greatest political scandal of
modern times was launched two
summers ago with a plunge into the
swimming pool of a stately home out-
side London. Seven pistol shots last De-
cember set it alight and the flames are
still rising. The British wonder how far
they will reach, how many more reputa-
tions will be blackened, how many more
famous names drawn into the scandal
that has struck, perhaps fatally, at the
Macmillan Government.
Nobody expects Macmillan to resign
or his Government to fall at this stage,
but in the long run the affair may prove
fatal both to his prestige and the elec-
toral prospects of the Conservative Party.
The Labor Party had an unprecedented
16i points lead over the Conservatives
in public popularity, according to a re-
liable public-opinion poll, before the
Profumo scandal broke. Now it has
dropped to such a low point that the
Government’s defeat in the next general
election, sometime in the next fifteen
months, seems certain.
Mr Macmillan, unflappable as ever,
played golf in Scotland as the scandal
broke. However, when he got back to
London it seemed that the crisis was
only just beginning. Members of his
party were discussing the possibility of
his resignation. Some Conservative MPs
openly blamed Macmillan for the sleazy,
sordid image that the Conservative hier-
archy has acquired recently. Mr John
Cordle, who represents Bournemouth in
the House of Commons, said, for instance:
“There is weakness somewhere and it
seems to be found clearly and wholly
in the leadership of the Government.”
Conservative backbench MP Lord Lamb-
ton said: “There has been for some time
a general feeling of unrest in this country
as to the morality of the present Gov-
ernment. This feeling will be immensely
increased.” Former “Sydney Morning
Herald” editor Mr Angus Maude, who
last year lost a blue ribbon seat for the
Conservatives, said that Mr Macmillan
“might feel compelled to resign” if there
had been a security leak over the Pro-
fumo affair.
Most politicians, however, expect Mr
Macmillan to save himself temporarily
by another masterly Parliamentary per-
formance when the House of Commons
discusses the case next week. He has done
it so often before, even as his policies
collapsed around him, that many of his
supporters, and perhaps Macmillan him-
self, believe he is invincible.
The Labor Party, fearful of being
branded old-fashioned and puritanical,
will not attempt to condemn upper-crust
morals in their parliamentary attack but
will treat the affair as another indict-
ment of Britain’s inefficient security sys-
tem. They will attack Macmillan, who as
Prime Minister is personally responsible
for Britain’s security, for a reckless lack
of responsibility in safeguarding the
nation’s secrets.
“The Times”, in a weighty editorial, in-
sisted that it was a moral issue. It thun-
dered “everyone has been so busy as-
suring the public that the affair is not
one of morals that it is time to assert
it is. Morals have been discounted too
long.”
“The Times” went on to deliver one of
the most telling indictments yet made of
the Conservative Government: “Eleven
years of Conservative rule,” it declared,
“have brought the nation psychologically
and spiritually to a low ebb. The Con-
servatives came to power a few months
before the present reign opened. They
have been in office so far throughout the
whole of it.
“The ardent hopes and eager expec-
tations that attended its beginning have
been belied. Today they are faced with
a flagging economy, an uncertain future
and the end of the illusion that Britain’s
greatness could be measured by the so-
called independence of its so-called
deterrent.”
The central figure of this Dolce Vita,
Anglo-Saxon style, is willowy, red-haired
model Christine Keeler, 21, who in four
years progressed from waitress to the
most-called girl in London’s West End.
Her friendship with War Minister John
Profumo began in July, 1961, in approp-
riate surroundings: the swimming pool
at Cliveden, the famed country estate of
Lord and Lady Astor. Profumo was in
a dinner jacket, Christine was wearing
only a towel. Beside the pool where she
had been swimming in the nude, Lord
Astor introduced Christine to Profumo
and his actress wife, Valerie Hobson.
Christine and her friend, Mayfair osteo-
path Stephen Ward, often used the pool
at Cliveden, where Ward had a cottage
on the estate.
The affair quickly developed as Chris-
tine and the War Minister found they
were mutually attracted. There were
clandestine meetings at Christine’s fiat,
once at Profumo’s gracious Nash house
in Regents Park, and in his red mini-car.
What Profumo did not know was that
he was sharing his mistress with burly
Russian naval attache Captain Eugene
Ivanov. But others did know, including
British security agents, who observed
both men entering and leaving Christine’s
flat.
Christine’s friends knew, too. Mandy
Rice-Davies, a shapely sixteen-year-old,
said: “The farcical thing about it all was
that on more than one occasion as
Jack (Profumo) left Christine’s flat, Iv-
anov walked in. In fact this was some-
thing of a standing joke among us.”
Up in Christine’s room
|3rofumo was uneasy about the effect
A the affair might have on his political
career and upon his marriage. Even so,
he continued to see Christine and wrote
to her on embossed War Office writing
paper. One evening at Christine’s flat
an Army colonel showed up looking for
her friend Stephen Ward, and Profumo,
political head of the British Army, stag-
gered with embarrassment as he was in-
troduced to the officer.
The affair came to an end when Chris-
tine rejected Profumo’s pleas for her to
move to another flat. That was December,
1961. The first phase of the impending
scandal was over. The second phase be-
gan a year later, December, 1962, with
the seven pistol shots fired by West
Indian John Arthur Edgecombe, Chris-
tine’s former lover, outside her flat.
He tried to blast the lock off the flat
door with five shots and fired two more
at Christine looking out of the window.
Edgecombe was arrested and charged


with attempted murder. Christine was
told she would be needed as the key wit-
ness for the Crown.
Meanwhile, Ivanov had been recalled
to Russia and the first rumors linking
him with Profumo, through their con-
tact with Christine, began to circulate
in Westminster and Fleet Street.
When Edgecombe’s trial began the
charge was reduced to one of possessing
a firearm with intent to endanger life.
But the news that made the headlines
was the prosecution’s announcement that
their main witness, Christine Keeler, had
disappeared. Hints that a member of
the Government was involved in the
disappearance were made in the House
of Commons and in newspapers. The
“Daily Express” reported on March 14
that Profumo had offered his resignation
but that the Prime Minister had asked
him to stay on. Profumo himself said:
“There is no truth in the story at all
I have not seen the Prime Minister. I
have been working on the Army Esti-
mates.”
A little earlier the Labor leader, Har-
old Wilson, had seen Mr Macmillan and
given him evidence which purported to
show that Profumo and the Russian Iv-
anov had had the same mistress and
that there had been a risk to national
security. Wilson requested that MIS look
into it but Macmillan turned down the
idea.
Labor MP Colonel George Wigg, who
is an authority on defence matters,
startled the House of Commons on
March 21 when he said that there was
not a member w'ho had not heard rumor
upon rumor involving a member of the
Government front bench. He asked the
Home Secretary to answer these rumors.
Other Labor members supported his re-
quest but Home Secretary Henry Brooke
refused to comment.
Three Ministers and one liar
HThe skeleton, however, had been re-
vealed. The Government leaders, lain
Macleod, Leader of the House of Com-
mons, and the Chief Whip, Martin Red-
mayne, and the Attorney-General, Sir
John Hobson, sent for Profumo, who
had to be got out of bed. That night for
three hours the Ministers questioned Pro-
fumo. He maintained that he and his wife
had know'n Christine Keeler but that
his relationship with the girl was entirely
proper. He admitted that he had sent
her a letter that began “Darling” but
explained that away on the grounds that
he frequently addressed women friends
with the wwd. A statement was drafted
and Profumo read it solemnly to a
packed House next morning, March 22.
He said: “I understand that in the debate
of the Consolidated Fund Bill last night,
under the protection of Parliamentary
privilege, the Hon. Member for Dudley
(Mr Wigg), and the Hon. Member for
Coventry East (Mr Crossman) and the
Hon. Lady the Member for Blackburn
(Mrs Castle), opposite, spoke of rumors
connecting a Minister with a Miss Keeler
in a recent trial at the Central Criminal
Court.
“It was alleged that people in high
places might have been responsible for
concealing information concerning the
disappearance of a witness and the per-
version of justice.
“I understand that my name has been
connected with the rumors about the
disappearance of Miss Keeler.
“I would like to take this opportunity
of making a personal statement about
these matters.
“I last saw Miss Keeler in December,
1961, and I have not seen her since.
“I have no idea where she is now.
“Any suggestion that I was in any
way connected with or responsible for
her absence from the trial at the Old
Bailey is wholly and completely untrue.
“My wife and I first met Miss Keeler
at a house party in July, 1961, at
Cliveden.
“Among a number of people there
was a Dr Stephen Ward, whom we knew
slightly, and a Mr Ivanov, who was an
attache at the Russian Embassy.
“The only other occasion that my wife
or I met Mr Ivanov was for a moment
at an official reception for Major Gagarin
at the Soviet Embassy.
“My wife and I had a standing invi-
tation to visit Dr Ward.
“Between July and December, 1961,
I met Miss Keeler on about half a dozen
occasions at Dr Ward’s flat when I
called to see him and his friends.
“Miss Keeler and I were on friendly
terms. There was no impropriety what-
soever in my acquaintanceship with Miss
Keeler.
“I have made this personal statement
because of what was said in the House
last evening by the three Members and
which was, of course, protected by privi-
lege.
“I shall not hesitate to issue writs for
libel and slander if scandalous allega-
tions are made or repeated outside the
House.”
Mrs Profumo watched from the Speak-
er’s Gallery.
As he sat down on the front bench,
the Prime Minister on one side of him
and Mr Macleod on the other patted
him approvingly on the back. Conserva-
tive backbenchers cheered. Profumo
quickly left the House and went off with
his wife to join the Queen Mother at
Sandown Park races. Later that evening
the Profumos danced cheek to cheek at
a Conservative Party dance.
Stifling rumors, kindling scandal
TJis statement stifled the rumors and he
A quickly showed he was ready to use
the libel laws to prevent a recurrence.
He issued writs against an Italian maga-
zine which apologised and paid <£so to
an army charity. Other foreign publi-
cations made alterations to already
printed copies and the English distribu-
tors tore pages from another foreign
paper before it went on sale.
Before Christine Keeler, who was still
missing, disappeared, she had approached
the London newspaper “Sunday Pic-
torial” with a letter Profumo had written
to her during their affair in August, 1961.
She said the letter confirmed her claim
that she had been Profumo’s mistress.
She also said she had affairs with Ivanov
and other well-known men. The “Sunday
Pictorial” did not publish the letter be-
cause it felt the evidence it contained
was not substantial enough to warrant
the breaking of a Government Minister’s
career. The letter said:
“Darling, 9.8.61,
In great haste and because I can
' get no reply from your phone
Alas something’s blown up to-
morrow night and I can’t therefore
make it. I’m terribly sorry especially
as I leave the next day for various
trips and then a holiday so won’t be
able to see you again until some time
in September. Blast it. Please take
great care of yourself and don’t run
away.
Love J.
I’m writing this ’cos I know
you’re off for the day tomorrow and
I want you to know before you go
if I still can’t reach you by phone.”
When the “Daily Express” finally
located Christine in Madrid with blonde
Australian girl photographer Kim Proctor
on March 26, she said that Profumo had
lied in his Commons statement and that
they had in fact been lovers. The news-
papers, however, felt they could not risk
publishing her statement. Profumo him-
self said, “Who is going to believe Kee-
ler’s word against mine?”
The storm seemed to be passing, al-
though it was widely known in news-
paper, political and diplomatic circles
that Profumo had lied to the Commons.
Christine got back into the headlines


among the victims. Of course, saeva
indignatio may serve the useful pur-
pose of infusing new life into our
rather stolid profession: witness the
performances of Professor Trevor-
Roper in England. But the Dictionary
is a consultative enterprise, demanding
the co-operation of scores and hun-
dreds of people all over Australia. We
cannot do our jobs unless we practise
patience and tolerance towards each
other.
As editor of a 30-volume series of
British War Histories, I have had ex-
perience of working within an ela-
borate consultative process. It did
not impinge upon the editorial free-
dom which I needed and possessed: it
did not in the end delay the produc-
tion of good work: but at certain
stages of the work it did demand great
patience. If the experience of Mr
Ellis has been a different one, this,
perhaps, may go far to explain the
misunderstanding and conflicts which
arose between him and me.
Mr Ellis has not been forced out
of this all-Australian venture, as he
said he had been in his recent letter to
the National Committee. After the
meeting of the National Committee in
February, 1962, where harmony had
seemed to be restored, we hoped that
we would still have his services as a
candid critic from the inside and as a
valued contributor. Very great efforts
were made to retain his services, by
Professor Pike, by Mr Shaw, by me
and by others. Somehow, these efforts
failed. Mr Ellis has decided to resign.
The National Committee has received
his resignation with regret.
My own regret is sincere. Although
I have no doubt that the early vol-
umes of the Dictionary, without any
contributions from Mr Ellis, will
achieve a very high standard, I will
all the same feel that he could have
been among the contributors. Al-
though I believe that he is deceiving
himself when he claims to be the
important person in the origins of
the Dictionary, I do recognise the
enthusiastic and valuable services that
he rendered during an important
phase of the Dictionary’s growth.
It is completely true that the rules
and procedures of the Dictionary,
which, by a slow evolution, have reach-
ed at last what seems to be their final
form, still bear a clear imprint of his
early drafts. In 1959 I used often to
say that he was helping us “to get off
the ground”. All the more pity that he
is not still with us, now that we are
airborne.
This letter has grown longer than
it should have been, according to
the instructions given me. It is, at any
rate, the only one: for I shall not
enter your correspondence columns
again on this subject.
Perhaps I can appropriately con-
clude with the announcement that two
volumes of the Dictionary will go to
press next year.
Yours faithfully,
W. K. HANCOCK.
when she was assaulted by another old
lover, West Indian night-club singer
“Lucky” Gordon. Police were busy also
on other lines of inquiry. They collected
evidence from Christine’s flat mate,
“Mandy” Rice-Davies, about an alleged
call-girl system for London’s upper crust.
Dossiers were sent to the Director
of Public Prosecutions who asked for
more details before deciding whether
charges would be laid.
On May 21 Dr Stephen Ward, the
well-known osteopath and artist, issued
a statement to the newspapers which they
did not publish because of the risk of
libel damages. This said: “I have placed
before the Home Secretary certain facts
of the relationship between Miss Keeler
and Mr Profumo, since it is obvious
now that my efforts to conceal these
facts in the interests of Mr Profumo
and the Government have made it appear
that I myself have something to hide
which I have not.
“The result has been that I have been
persecuted in a number of ways, causing
damage not only to myself but to my
friends and patients a state of affairs
which I propose to tolerate no longer.”
Ward, the son of an Anglican canon,
had treated eminent patients like Sir
Winston Churchill, Elizabeth Taylor, and
millionaire Paul Getty, although his
United States doctorate was not recog-
nised in British medical circles. As a
well-known artist he had sketched mem-
bers of the Royal Family, including
Prince Philip, Princess Marina, Lord
Snowdon and the Duke and Duchess of
Kent. He had also sketched Mr Mac-
millan.
By the time Parliament rose for the
Whitsun recess at the end of May the
scandal was near bursting point. Harold
Wilson went to see Macmillan again.
Awkward questions were tabled in the
House for the Prime Minister. The
“Lucky” Gordon trial was imminent at
the Old Bailey.
Ward’s arrest
"Drofumo asked for an interview with
Macmillan but the Prime Minister
had already left for his holiday in Scot-
land. The Profumos went off on holiday
to Venice. Two days later they were
back. Profumo wrote his abject letter of
resignation confessing that he had lied.
Macmillan dictated his curt acceptance.
Frofumo’s career and the second phase of
the scandal were over. The next day
“Lucky” Gordon, who also had found
Christine Keeler a dangerous mistress,
was sent to gaol for three years.
Ward was arrested and charged with
living on immoral earnings and refused
bail. Police indicated that more serious
charges might be brought against him.
Lord Dilhorne, the Lord Chancellor,
made swift inquiry into the security as-
pects of the case and presented his report
to Cabinet. This may well lead to the
establishment of a legal tribunal to con-
duct a full-scale investigation of the
affair.
The likelihood of this was emphasised
by what was described as a “shattering”
new development, when the London
“Evening Standard” printed on its front
page a letter from a well-known
solicitor alleging that Ivanov had asked
Keeler to obtain from Profumo the date
of delivery of nuclear warheads to West
Germany.
The letter was addressed to Mr Mac-
millan, and the solicitor, Mr Michael
Eddowes, claimed that he had submitted
a full report of his knowledge of the
Ivanov affair to the Special Branch as
long ago as March 29. “In particular,”
said Mr Eddowes, “that report includes
a specific statement which Miss Keeler
made to me personally that Captain
Ivanov had asked her to obtain from Mr
Profumo the date of delivery of nuclear
warheads to West Germany.”
How had it happened that Profumo
had been able to mislead his colleagues
while the truth was so widely known
elsewhere?
If security agents as reported had
known of Profumo and Ivanov’s en-
tanglement with Christine, why had they
not told the Prime Minister? If they had,
why did Macmillan not sack Profumo?
Reliable observers ascribe Macmillan’s
strange blindness to his “obsessional
hatred for the Press.” It is said he blames
the newspapers for forcing him into
hasty actions over the Vassall spy case
and was determined not to let them do it
a second time.
In fact the scandal has vindicated the
newspapers which, at the outset of the
affair, were accused of muck-raking. Now
that they have been proved right, their
watchdog activities are being hailed as
the surest defence against corruption.
In the meantime the Tories were
fighting doggedly on. Lord Hailsham,
Lord President of the Council and
Minister for Science, declared that “a
great Party is not to be brought down by
a squalid affair between a woman of easy
virtue and a proved liar.”


OUT AND ABOUT
Cilento: “The New Me”
The long hop from Toowoomba to Broadway and the West End
From BETTY BEST in London
It is a long hop from Toowoomba to
Broadway and West End leading
roles but Diane Cilento made it as
naturally as most girls take typing jobs.
She made it on a combination of
striking looks, talent and sheer determina-
tion. In fact she was so one-eyed about
it that in concentrating on her goal she
missed out on a good deal of ordinary
living on the way.
At 15 while her father, Sir Raphael
Cilento, was with UNO in New York,
she began ballet classes at Carnegie Hall
and a course at the American Academy
of Dramatic Art. In less than a year
she had a job with the Barter Theatre
in Virginia, USA, where she gained use-
ful experience in small parts and learned
backstage odd jobs from props to
electrics. With the Barter Company she
went on tour through the southern and
mid-west States until 1950 when she
persuaded her parents that London and
the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art
was the next logical step.
With a scholarship but no mainten-
ance grant (a fact she kept from her
parents) she had to take all kinds of
odd jobs during the Academy vacations
They included selling programmes at a
circus and serving in a wine shop.
“Marvellous places to see different kinds
of people,” she says.
As soon as she left RADA she got
work: At London’s Mercury Theatre, at
the Arts and at Manchester’s Library
Theatre where her performance as
Juliet got her wonderful notices and
eventually the lead opposite Sam Wana-
maker in “The Big Knife” at the West
End Duke of York’s.
Her first screen role was as the Angel
in “The Angel Who Pawned Her Harp.”
She never went through the starlet or
extra period. There were feature and
leading roles right from the beginning:
in “Passage Home” with Peter Finch,
“A Woman For Joe,” “The Passing
Stranger” and “Stolen Journey” until in
1957 she got the plum role of
Tweeny in “The Admirable Crichton”
with Kenneth More. This was the last
of the offbeat, slightly puckish roles in
films. Miss Cilento developed into a
strikingly glamorous woman for “The
Truth About Women,” “Jet Storm,”
“The Full Treatment,” “The Naked
Edge,” “I Thank A Fool” and finally
“Tom Jones” with Albert Finney.
This long line of starring roles, plus
her television career on both sides of
the Atlantic, would have been a for-
midable success for an actress not yet
30. But it is on stage that Miss Cilento
has made her biggest name. In 1956
she co-starred with Michael Redgrave in
“Tiger At The Gates.” The play trans-
ferred from the West End to New York
and won her the Critics’ Choice Award
as best actress of the year as well as the
Daniel Blum Award.
Her performances in Sartre’s “Altona,”
Tennessee Williams’ “Orpheus Descend-
ing,” Elaine Dundy’s “My Place” and
Francoise Sagan’s “A Castle in Sweden”
have brought her constant critical
acclaim in London. Her most recent
success in Pirandello’s “Naked” is to
Miss Cilento the most important role of
her entire career. It has a personal
significance which only she can interpret.
Now that she has married for the
second time, had her second child and
settled into the first real house of her
own she has found time to take stock
and try to see herself as a person first
and an actress second. Even now the
lines get crossed occasionally and a
personal question is likely to receive a
professional answer.
“How do I see myself? Well, unlike
a lot of actresses I never have had a
permanent mental picture of myself.
When some actresses are onstage they
have an image of themselves and how
they appear in a part. When I am work-
ing it is the part I am thinking of. I can’t
see myself at all. I am interested only
in the sort of person I am playing.”
“Yes. But who are you offstage?”
“Oh that’s a tough one ... I don’t
think I can say. I know I’m much more
settled now in my own mind about what
I am doing. For instance, before, I used
to dash off to Spain or go to the States
and do a. play or something just on the
spur of the moment. You know, if I
felt like it. Now, with two children and
a husband to think of, I have to plan
ahead. Almost two years ahead, really,
to make sure that we get some time to-
gether. In the past I didn’t plan two
days ahead if I didn’t have to.
Miss Cilento’s most engaging quality
is her frankness. She can’t be bothered
putting on a party face for anyone.
Either they accept her as she is or else
she doesn’t want to know them.
“I realise now that this can be un-
attractive in an actress but that’s too
bad. I can’t help it.
“I know I haven’t the art of being
tactful with the Press. Yet I also know
that whatever the papers call an artist is
what the public sees her as. But I can’t
pretend to be what I’m not just to build
up a favorable image. What’s more I


<>**
m
.
r ■
1
||g
‘
m
■ ■■: ■::■ :. ■•■■ .. '
' . ■
■i
;
S *
' v ; : "■ : :;: : v . :,;
I «=§si
• '■::,'v : ::SS'v
(i
:• ■ •
. ■ ’ ' ■ . : ’
. : ■■•■■■ •■■:.:■
mwmmunnawyniuM l
■
m
.
tmm
'yty.
jm
m
HsSHBBa«
fill
ii"l".' kJ^VS!^!-J. V**.. ,;■ .*' *■ . i
, -n
<mmt;
■
.
TOKYO 4
{■?' c> &J§S^&3
.
fi
■me v 4 * H
Mm:M ttr * ■ :
<*&sm
SgfSJfe*©
■
vf
:' ■,:
wav york mMm §
:;.. ■: : - : :; V ■ . ;
■ . f ' ■ . ■'; '
MM wmm
LONDON tOM?
i;r v
In
m
-■■y.
v ' "■ -
. ,;, : ~.: .-V
4
:: ■ :
•••': v
PMm
■■-yy%
Wmmm
'£ ■
m
S : ;
:
.. .
■ ■;!; : -;'
; -: : ':::
m
■BBIBSBIBWfBBB
nnl
■■
. : -:': ; -'n
Lufthansa? 9 hours from your office
For the Australian businessman the trip
to a Lufthansa terminal is longer than
most.
About 9 hours if you join your Luft-
hansa flight at Bangkok, longer again
if you choose to board at Hong Kong
or San Francisco.
But from the moment you step aboard
the plane with the heron symbol you’ll
know why seasoned travellers and
travel agents hail Lufthansa as the ulti-
mate in continent-spanning effortless
travel. You fly the latest Boeing 7208’s
or world renowned Boeing 707 Inter-
continentals.
You enjoy continental cuisine, English
conversation from your cabin crew.
You have a choice of 49 cities across 5
continents to fly to, most cities that
Australian businessmen need to visit.
Most of all you enjoy the practical
benefits on which the Lufthansa
reputation has been built.
German thoroughness and efficiency.
Precision timetables and friendly
service.
All these things are yours just 9 hours
from your office with Lufthansa, the
German international airline.
9 hours?
Actually, when you think of it, a few
seconds phone call to your travel agent
to specify Lufthansa is all the time you
really need.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
'"'^LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES
1A117408


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
o'sulltvan
rmm
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTVPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
can’t spill over to people and tell them
all about my personal problems. I
suppose its arrogance really. I know I
wouldn’t take their advice so I can’t
see any point in asking for it.”
This is all fairly accurate stuff. I have
known Diane Cilento for more than
seven years. She has frequently dis-
cussed professional problems in great
detail. She let me sit in on her recent
divorce case as a friend. She has invited
me out to the house that she and her
husband, Sean Connery, have sworn will
never be photographed for publicity. But
in all this time she has never “spilled
over.”
“My own two feet”
TTer early childhood as the second
youngest in a family of six was
spent mainly in Toowoomba. Both her
parents were busy professionals, Dr
Raphael Cilento, as he was then, being a
noted specialist in tropical diseases and
his wife an eminent gynaecologist.
“I was left very much to my own
devices and the other children were
more or less my guardians,” she said.
“I can remember at about the age of
four envying children whose mothers
said, ‘What time will you be home this
afternoon?’ because my mother never
checked up on me like that. Of course,
later I was grateful for the chance to
be independent of adults. It meant a lot
to me when I had to stand on my own
two feet in the showbusiness rat-race
here and in America.” Even so, as she
says that, Diane looks a little wistful.
At 14 she went with her parents to
New York where she finished her school-
ing. “New York was terrifying at first,”
she said. “It seemed so big. After
Queensland the shock of the traffic and
all those high buildings and all those
people was electric for a kid.
“But, as it was there that I saw my
first theatre and right away knew exactly
what I wanted to do for the rest of my
life, the shock was soon forgotten. I
had to be an actress. I would do any-
thing to be one.”
Miss Cilento’s father did not oppose
her idea but he did make a condition:
“You can be an actress as long as you’re
a good one You will hate it if you are
not a success. If you ever fail at a part
then do something else.” His attitude
corresponded with his daughter’s own.
She forsook quite voluntarily any
ordinary adolescence in order to get
started on her career. Perhaps this is
why she has been catching up on those
lost years ever since. There is much of
the wilful youngster in everything she
has done.
Her marriage to the young, out-of-
work Italian, Andrea Volpe, in 1955 had
the spirit of childish adventure about it.
But the hard school of independence she
grew up in gave her the strength to look
after and support their daughter
Giovanna single handed when Volpe
elected to live permanently with his
family in Rome. Miss Cilento tried for
a time to live in the feudal family
atmosphere of the Volpe apartment
where matriarchal rulings came before
marital bliss, but it became impossible.
Back in London she set up house with
her daughter Giovanna in a fiat over-
looking Kensington Gardens and threw
herself wholeheartedly into work—stage,
screen and then television.
“I’ve never been good at money so
it was hard for me to budget,” she said.
“I’ve never believed in accepting an
inferior acting job for the sake of better
pay so I frequently had struggles.”
There were emotional struggles from
the beginning too. Miss Cilento valued
her marriage and wanted to save it. She
tried year after year to get Volpe to
come to England to live. She could not
get enough work in Rome and in any
case the Volpe family would not
countenance her working. Yet she
needed the money for her daughter’s
education, and she loved acting.
The fact that it took her away from
Giovanna a lot did not impair their
relationship which is one of the most
comfortable in English show-business.
“I am lucky with Gigi,” she admits. “She
was born independent. She enjoys
affection but she has never wanted to
cling like some children do.”
With her gay spirits Miss Cilento
never lacked suitors during the years she
lived alone in London. She was always
popular at after-theatre parties and
never one to back out of any fun. But
the party life and the constant hard
work had taxed even her tough con-
stitution, and in 1957, while struggling
against laryngitis in the leading role of
her first musical “Zuleika,” she had a
nervous breakdown and slashed her
wrists.
Ups and downs
Thus half-personal, half-professional
crisis might have crushed a less
hardy spirit. Diane got over it in a char-
acteristically determined way. She flew to
Spain for a few months, then returned
to London in the summer and went
straight into a film, “The Truth About
Women.”
Throughout all the ups and downs one
friend stuck by Miss Cilento. This was
the handsome young Scot, Sean Con-
nery, whom she played opposite in her
TV version of “Anna Christie.”
“Although I never thought about
marrying Sean, in those days his friend-
ship was a great help to me,” she said.
“I don’t take many people’s advice but
somehow I was always willing to listen
to Sean’s ideas.
“He will take suggestions from me,
too. This is an important basis to our
marriage now. I think that there are
two great dangers in marriages between
actors. First, their careers often keep
them apart. Secondly, their separate
ambitions can make for unhealthy com-
petition. But for me the very fact of
marriage settles all that. I can’t imagine
competing with my husband. I do not
go into marriage lightly.
“He has given me a sense of security
which I never had before. To begin
with this house was Sean’s whole idea.
He found it, bought it for us and
managed all the redecorating and build-
ing. That means that I know how much
he wanted it. The fact that he did all
this before we were married as part of
his own plan is important.”
What it all boils down to really is that
Diane Cilento is being looked after for
the first time in her life. Mr Connery,
who has known what it is like to be
poor, is a better planner for Miss Cilento
than she can ever be for herself.
But the final stage in growing up is,


across
ism
%
I ifr.Ml
Mi
0
CANADIAN
NATIONAL
RAILWAYS
r
It’s like
staying at a grand
hotel! CNR offers full
air conditioning,
luxury parlour coaches,
magnificent food ..,
and service you’ll
remember always.
or your Travel Agent
General Agents: Dalgety and New Zealand Loan Limited (Inc. in Eng.)
l5 Bent St., SYDNEY
in Miss Cilento’s opinion, once more
professional rather than personal. It
began two years ago when she appeared
at Oxford in a limited season of Piran-
dello’s “To Clothe The Naked.” Cast
as the central figure of an Italian
“nannie,” so incapable of dealing with
the world and the people in it by reason
of the nakedness of her own personality,
she had found a role which appealed to
her intellect as well as her emotions.
She had made the translation of the
second act for the Oxford production
and was thrilled by the sense of satis-
faction it gave her. From that moment
on she determined to make a complete
translation, play the role in London and
set up the financial and artistic side of
the entire production herself.
“There were two reasons for this,”
she said. “The first was that I felt that
I had never really begun a job right from
the beginning and carried it through to
the end. I had to do this to fulfil an
urge within myself to be practical and
businesslike about an artistic effort.
“Secondly, there was something about
the role of Ersilia Drei which said almost
everything I have always wanted to say
about human relationships.
“By this I don’t mean that I am
Ersilia, just that I understand her prob-
lems.” (To Diane Cilento there was
obviously nothing ambiguous or contra-
dictory in this comment.)
“This girl cannot conform. Piran-
dello has picked a person who has no
attraction for the world because she
cannot find an acceptable personality
with w'hich to clothe herself. And she
admits this fact which makes her even
more unattractive to those around her
• all of whom are clothed in false
personalities which the world finds quite
acceptable.
“In the anguish she suffers throughout
the action of the play Ersilia at last
comes to know herself and in doing so
accepts the nakedness of her own
personality. When she kills herself at
the end she knows why she is doing it
and proves more courageous than all
the conformists around her.
“I felt that this was something which
had to be said. It is topical because
today people are muddled by all the
outside ideas that are pushed at them.
People are acceptable only because of
their own personalities not because of
the old standards of class or money
which they once had to fall back on.
Now they must choose for themselves
what outward characteristics to ‘clothe’
themselves in.
“This is something I have had to
learn. I’ve gone through the stage of
defining the world and myself in relation
to it. Now I want to get on with
things.”
Sheer torture
T ooking about her for a clue to the
“things,” Miss Cilento snatched up a
newspaper with a front page picture of
Princess Alexandra: “This is the sort of
thing I was trying to say,” she said
angrily. “All this sort of thing in the
papers builds up an image of someone.
No one has any idea of what this person
is really like. They just think they know
her because the papers give them an
image.
“Now I want to make my own image
and not let others force it upon me. I
have spent my career doing what are
called ‘artistic’ and ‘serious’ roles. I
couldn’t have picked anything harder.
But I've done all that. Now I want to
entertain. To do things that make me
happy as well as please an audience.
Believe me, doing ‘Naked’ was sheer
torture.”
It was not too healthy for her bank
account either. Many of her artistically
successful ventures have been done for
the love of the project with little or no
financial profit for Cilento herself.
Now she swears that time has passed.
That she intends the film of D’Arcy
Niland’s “Call Me When the Cross Turns
Over” to be a commercial project and
appeal to a general public. Yet the old
serious approach shows through when she
says “You can only do what you think
is right. If you aim only for success you
can’t give the job the attention it needs to
be good. I am making myself over in so
far as I want to appeal to the general
public more than I used to. But that
doesn’t mean I could ever take a part
I didn’t believe in.”
Two days later Miss Cilento kept our
appointment to be photographed by Alec
Murray for The Bulletin cover. In
place of the clinging slacks, Chelsea
boots and dashing shirts I was used to,
she wore a black and white dress and a
giant black straw hat.
“You see,” she said triumphantly, “the
new me. I’ve started already!” But the
outfit did not fool anyone. The old non-
conformer is still strong underneath.


SPECIAL
SECTIONS
PLUS
37 on
SPORT
ri
Tk Ampol Book of i
AUSTBALIAM
Is*
BY SIDNEY J. BAKER
isniu
240 pages filled with Australian “firsts” . . . basic facts
. . . records . . . curiosities. Special Section on Sport.
Whether your interests lie principally in sporting statistics, in the realms of
literature, drama and music, in sheep and cattle, industry or commerce,
history or the professions, you will find many surprising facts here about
the Australian scene. It is an accumulation of thousands of interesting
facts gathered over a period of 30 years by this noted Australian author.
To encourage widespread readership of this valuable work, Ampol has
purchased the entire first edition for sale to customers at Ampol Service
Stations and country Agents—at less than half the normal retail price!
SPECIAL PRICE
(less than half-price)
W
AUSTRALIAN
fIMPOL
AP49Q
AMPOL STATIONS


The £10 Escape Route
British migrants leaving England because of the " niggers ”?
By PETER DUINN
A comfortable man with white
hair said: “We’re going out to
join our son. But mainly we’re
leaving England because of the niggers.”
The man sat with his wife and
daughter in the Cricketers’ Tavern —■
one of the bars in the tourist section
of the Canberra. The 45,000-ton ship
reached Fremantle on June 13 and
Sydney on June 18. On board were
1870 migrants, the largest number ever
carried on a single ship.
The white-haired man said he had
been a proof-reader on the London
“Evening News” and had lived in a flat
at Clapham. He added: “I wrote a letter
for the paper but the editor said ‘We
can’t use it. Rothermere would never
stand for it.’
“There’ll be headlines soon: ‘White
Man Seen in Clapham’.” His daughter, a
model who sat very carefully, smiled.
His wife, an Australian with red
finger-nails and pale blue eyes, observed
in precise upper-class tones: “Do you
know, when we left Waterloo we passed
a train full of wogs going in.”
Most migrants on board could think
of other reasons for selling their
furniture at firewood prices and sailing
away to the sunshine and affluence
which is supposed to be waiting for
them in Australia. But eventually, and
sometimes apologetically, they get to
the same point: “Of course I’m not in
favor of a color bar, but —.”
An electrician from Glasgow didn’t
like his child going to school with so
many West Indians. A snappy little
riveter from the Clyde, the only migrant
in evening dress, brought the subject up
again. He sat in the Cricketers’ below
a life-sized mural of K. S. Ranjitsinhji,
and got very angry because his son
couldn’t get a trade. A big motor
mechanic, face scrubbed pink by the
Biscay breeze, said he was taking his
child because 19,000 school-leavers were
going on the dole. “I don’t like a color
bar, mind,” he said, “but when I came
down from north to get boat train they
were everywhere—darkie porters, darkie
roadsweepers, darkie waiters. They’re
even talking now about putting darkies
into the police.'”
“The poe-liss,” someone said, laugh-
ing softly.
Perhaps too much could be made of
this urge to sail away in a luxurious
white ship and hide behind the White
Australia policy. In any event the
other reasons for going are sufficiently
disturbing even if some reveal a broad
streak of chauvinism. Bad weather, un-
employment, lack of overtime, the class
system, American influence: the com-
plaints reveal some chronic national
malaise which no one seems to know
how to cure.
TN the first four months of this year,
110,000 people in Britain applied
to come to Australia. Many had
their minds made up by the excep-
tionally cold English winter. But
Peter Dunn, on board for part of the
voyage, tried to find out why most of
them decided to come.
The appeals and promises published
in newspaper advertisements by political
evangelists in the last weeks before the
voyage failed to persuade the Canberra
migrants that there was much future
for their children in Britain or that the
£lO that adults are required to pay for
their passage had been a hasty invest-
ment.
Even though a majority of them came
from the north, a surprising number
were skilled men leaving relatively
secure jobs. The Australian Govern-
ment is not too keen about taking semi-
skilled men on the dole with debts and
with no one to give them a reference.
Up to the end of April this year
110,000 people, the population of a
good-sized town, had applied to go to
Australia far more than the total for
the whole of last year. At this rate the
unemployment problems in the north-
east and other areas round the country
are going to start solving themselves.
A fitter-turner, with a thin, black
moustache, who produced flashlight /
photographs of himself making the Can-
berra’s stabilisers in Edinburgh, said:
“There was no one to take my job. They
begged me to stay. A young chap doesn’t
have the confidence or the experience
to take over £B,OOO worth of machinery.”
“All the skilled men are leaving,”
said a maintenance fitter from Pudsey.
“For every thousand tradesmen going
out there’s a thousand unskilled coming
in from the West Indies. Semi-skilled
chaps are trying to train men for skilled
jobs.”
A chemical worker from ICI, who
refused to listen to the Cup Final broad-
cast on the ship’s radio because “that’s
all behind me now,” added: “The lady
from the insurance company said 30
families had left in one street in
Gillingham.”
They seemed determined to do their
best and to come up to some form of
undefinable standard. Some got alarmed
one night by the stories put around by
a young merchant seaman who had
already been to Australia and was talk-
ing like an old hand. He made a
ferocious face: “YouVe in this bar and
someone shoves you. ‘Pommy bastard ’
they say. ‘Blank Aussie convict’ you
say and there’s a punch-up.” Two
migrants sipped their beer nervously.
“They shouldn’t take any notice,” a
member of the Canberra’s crew said
later, “of such silly stories. A lot of the
older ones find it difficult enough to
settle anyway. They get homesick.
Actually it’s their children they want
the younger people who can forget and
grow up as Australians.”
Over 600 children were on the Can-
berra. Apart from a few with measles
they generate a shrillness that fills the
aft section with the gaiety of Southend
pier. “The only difference being,” one
sensitive traveller remarked, “that South-
end pier has got a way off.”
Mucking In
migrant with a small pale mous-
tache slipped genteelv through the
barriers one evening to drink in the First
Class lounge but the sprinkling of air
hostesses, nurses and teachers seemed
determined to muck-in where they were
just like good Australians are
supposed to. A land a sent, parted by
the migrant quality of cabin organisation
from his young wife, said he would drive
a lorry in Australia if necessary. He was
getting away from parking meters and
slow promotion, he said, and wanted
eventually to own his own farm.
Few of the migrants seemed to have
arranged their lives in Australia beyond
the first days in a hostel. Many said
vaguely that they have been guaranteed
jobs. A painter and decorator, escaping
from the seasonal work at <£ll a week
in Scotland, said he was being met by
a Geelong church committee which was
sponsoring him and that he would get a
job at £24 17s. for a 40-hour week plus
a rented house for a year. But he seemed
the exception rather than the rule.
Everyone looked for some kind of
consolation in their new country —sun-
shine or more money being the main
ones. Some are running away from
broken marriages. One family said to


be running away from debt was marched
off the ship by detectives just before
the Canberra left Southampton.
A young milk-bar cowboy who was
seasick throughout the calm Bay of
Biscay crossing said he had left England
only because his parents would other-
wise have refused consent for him to
marry. He had long sideboards, white
piping on his black shirt and pants and
was wearing a thick, studded leather
belt. He said he missed the gang, which
used to sleep at night in haystacks, and
said he had had to sell his 500 c.c.
motor-bike. He added, brightening, that
he would buy another in Australia a
650 c.c. machine road-tested at 118
mph.
Questions of Interpretation
What the composer meant or what the audience wants?
By MARGARET CLARKE
Iwent to see the visiting Hungarian-
born violinist Mr Tibor Varga at his
Sydney hotel. We sat in the sun in
its charming Italian-style garden and
talked about his att.tude towards in-
terpretation, about one of the “difficult”
modern works he has introduced to
Australian audiences and about the audi-
ences themselves, compared with audi-
ences in Europe and the Americas.
Mr Varga is a congenial man to talk
with; he responds to questions as his
violin responds to the bow. My question
about interpretations engaged him deeply
and it was apparent that the subject is
one he often discusses with the friends
who visit him at his villa in Sion, in the
French-Swiss Alps, possibly with his pu-
pils and perhaps even with his children
(Gilbert, 11, and Susan, 10), for his an-
swer began as a simple fable.
“A man in a wood starts to sing,” he
said. “The sound he produces creates an
emotion inside him. He then experiences
a response to his emotion inside himself.
Three things have thus taken place: a
desire arising from the unconscious
being; an expression of the desire; an
emotional response to the form of the ex-
pression.” There, in the simplest possible
form, was the composer, the performer
and the audience.
“What the performer must do,” Mr
Varga said, “is to try to communicate
to the audience an understanding of the
vision that inspired the composer to
write his work: he must give them a
glimpse of it. Sometimes this is a hor-
rible task for the performer; sometimes
he is afraid until he becomes so in-
volved that he forgets to be afraid.”
He compared a musical score to a
map, “a key to the composer’s vision.”
“All good music,” he said, “is something
more than notes and it is that ‘something’
that the performer must convey to his
listeners. Now, it sometimes happens
that a performe., by force of his per-
sonality, induces the public to accept an
interpretation of a work and this may
be so successful that some other per-
formers imitate it. In time it becomes
a fixed habit and audiences begin to
resent any deviation from this.
“It is useless to ask an artist, if he
is honest, to play any work in a fashion
that he has not experienced within him-
self. Now, I don’t feel the Debussy
sonata I played in Sydney as some of
the public, perhaps the greater part,
thinks a Frenchman would feel it, so I
do not try to imitate the public image
of a French approach, nor do I try to
suppress my own feelings about the
work.”
I asked Mr Varga was there any com-
poser whose works he enjoyed interpret-
ing above all others. “Mozart is the most
human of all composers,” he said. “He al-
ways speaks as a man to men; there is
no occasion for which he is unsuited,
no mood to which he cannot bring com-
fort and help. Beethoven is tormented
and unhappy, always seeking a vision to
escape from himself, from the world
and from his own troubles. But Bach
speaks from above; his music belongs
to the infinite; it has no beginning and
no end; therefore it is inexhaustible in
its capacity to inspire. Now you know
which composer I value above all others.”
I broached the contentious subject of
contemporary music, of particular rele-
vance because Mr Varga is giving Aus-
tralian concert-goers their first public
hearing of the violin concerto by Alban
Berg. This work, written in 1935 after
the death of the beautiful young Manon
Gropius (daughter of Gustav Mahler’s
widow and the American architect Wal-
ter Gropius) for whom Berg, then a man
of 50, felt a strong paternal affection, is
an example of the Schoenbergian method
of composition, based on the 12-note
row (containing the 12 semi-tones of the
chromatic scale arranged in a certain
order).
In general, Mr Varga said, the public
the world over resisted contemporary
music (though in some parts of Ger-
many there was a cult for it). However,
the Berg concerto, to his surprise and
delight, had been .veil-received in the
Australian cities in which he had already
performed it. But this work, he pointed
out, was a requiem rather than a true
concerto. It was not full of disturbing
dissonances, like some of Schoenberg’s
music; the 12-note row Berg devised for
it is, in fact, productive of singable
melodies and allows for chords built of
thirds traditional chords and the
row suggests two minor and two major
triads.
I asked Mr Varga how he assessed
Berg. As one of the great musical geni-
uses of this century, came his reply, a
man of deep musical sensibility who (un-
like Stravinsky) could not be imagined
expressing his thoughts and emotions by
any other means than music: a composer,
in short, in the tradition of Schubert.
Mr Varga’s comments on the recep-
tion of the Berg concerto led me to ask
him how he had found Australian audi-
ences generally.
“I had not expected such appreciation
of music,” he said. “Even in small towns
I have played to magnificent audiences.
In Mackay, in North Queensland, for
example, I had an audience of 900.
I would not expect anything better in
Europe, in a town of comparable
size. And I didn’t play simple works,
either,” he added. “I played Brahms and
Beethoven. Big works. Sonatas.”
I asked him how he assessed Australian
orchestras compared with those in Eu-
rope and the Americas. Better, far bet-
ter, than he had expected, was his reply,
and performing in the European tradi-
tion; Australian orchestras displayed a
musical perception closer to the European
than anything he had experienced “in
any other continent.”
He was also delighted by the variety
in Australia’s scenery. To discover a
temperate zone and tropics within the
compass of one country seemed to him
a most remarkable thing.
“You can travel from Scandinavia to
Southern Italy without discovering any
scenery to compare with that in Northern
Queensland,” he said.


MOTORING
The Small Car Battle
By BOADICEA
When a VW meets a Morris 850?
The small-car market in Australia
has suddenly developed into a real
battle-ground and the remainder of
1963 and certainly 1964 should be inter-
esting for the spectator and advantageous
to the buyer.
For many years Volkswagen have had
it all their own way, romping along in
third place behind GMH and Ford in the
list of Australian new car registrations.
The quality of their product has always
been superior, their service initially an
eye opener even to GMH and their re-
sale value better than average. But with
their growth have come problems in the
service departments due to a lowering in
dealer standards, and complaints about
new cars have increased. One confirmed
VW buyer told me that in the early days
he was hard put to find any faults to list
during the free services but, of late, this
has taken a decided turn for the worse
and he has no trouble in finding half a
dozen legitimate “beefs”. While VW ser-
vice is still the envy of other manufactur-
ers, its decline worries the owners who
have always been VW’s best sales force.
Now, with the price of the 1200 VW at
£953 (the austerity model at £849) and
the 1500 VW at £1199, the Volks-
wagens are spoken of as expensive and,
though the cars are worth the money,
they are way above the price of their
main competitor, the Morris 850, which
costs a bare £753.
This Morris 850 has had a remarkable
acceptance in Australia and the March
registration figures show the 850
and Morris Cooper (£950) as the third
biggest sellers, displacing Volkswagen for
the first time.
It can be argued that one Volkswagen
outlasts two Minis but the youngsters
who buy the Minis are not interested so
much in this aspect as in the £2OO price
difference. March registrations record
1671 Minis sold throughout Australia as
against 1616 Volkswagens.
BMC are naturally elated and this
result must be most gratifying to Mr
H. J. (Joe) Graves who has been running
the show for the past four years.
The re-organisation of BMC has paid
off handsomely and the factory now re-
ceives bouquets instead of brickbats from
the self-styled motoring experts of Aus-
tralia's Press. Mr Graves becomes deputy
chairman in August and hands over the
reins to Mr R. L. (Bill) Abbott, who has
been his understudy since February, 1962.
With Abbott and Lindsay Shimmin, who
is sales director, BMC now have two
Australians at the head of the local com-
pany.
Both are young, ambitious men with
long GMH training behind them and
they will offer real competition not only
to Volkswagen but also to Ford which,
as second biggest seller, sits squarely in
the sights of BMC’s guns. BMC, like
Ford, places a great deal of faith in
competitive motoring and is consequently
capturing the youthful market. When
BMC introduces its 1100 range it hopes to
cast its net still wider and go after the
average family car market more suc-
cessfully than it does at present with
its six-cylinder Freeway. A worry must
be whether the “1100” will eat into the
“850” sales. It must to some extent,
but more vulnerable are VW and Ford’s
smaller cars.
'C'ord will counter with its new four-
door Cortina, which sports a powerful
1} litre engine easily modified to give
100 horsepower and over 100 mph.
The company’s new <£13.5 million ex-
pansion plans are proof of its faith in
the future and the Cortina will become
an essentially Australian-built vehicle
along with its bigger sister, the Falcon,
which is already a winner in competi-
tion.
Dark horse in the small car race is
unquestionably the Rootes Group’s new
Hillman IMP. Rootes have been lying
doggo too long not to have something
really good coming and the IMP was re-
leased in London early in May.
Rootes engineers and designers look to
have come up with a small car to beat
the Mini. It is a two-door four-passenger
car of handsome lines and is expected to
sell in Australia in October for around
£BOO. It has exceptionally good vision
with a lot of glass and a modern low
waistline.
Its design allows the use of the rela-
tively high compression ratio of 10:1
and 42 horsepower and 52 ft. lb. of
torque are developed from the 875 cc
capacity. This of course is in its mildest
form of tune with one small Solex car-
burettor. As Rootes have always been
competition-minded, their racing depart-
ment doubtless has ready a special
“cooking” version to challenge the Minis
in England. There are several interesting
innovations in design. For instance, a
pneumatic throttle control is used for
the first time on a production vehicle,
air pressure replacing the usual complex
system of linkages and cables.
A diaphragm type clutch is used which
means only very light pedal pressures are
required which may take a little get-
ting used to. The suspension uses trailing
links at the rear and a swing axle in front
and it is said to set a new standard in
handling for rear-engined cars, which will
no doubt interest both VW and Renault.
There are no greasing points because
of rubber bushings, and the rack and
pinion steering is oil sealed and requires
no maintenance. A fully synchro-meshed
four-speed gear box is used and about the
only omission appears to be disc brakes,
for 8-inch drum brakes are used all
round.
So far the only adverse criticism con-
cerns the noise level (mainly from the
tyres) which is too apparent inside the
car. This will no doubt receive attention
in production.
Just how the IMP will fare will depend
on the local managing director, genial,
hard working Mr W. Sullivan, and the
dealers who in the past have suffered
some setbacks, particularly in Sydney.
Perhaps a more efficient and powerful
sales and service organisation could be
interested in handling this new Hillman
along with its own wares. Like Renault
with their superb RB, Rootes have a
winner from all accounts with their IMP
but in the same way that Ford finds the
GM organisation so hard to crack, Rootes
and Renault find VW and the revitalised
BMC standing abreast across their path to
a higher percentage of the market.


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
P]ENIFO3LID)£
POT STILL
BRANDY
Wines to Buy
Good year for Hunter whites
By CELLARMASTER
I visited the Hunter Valley district a
few weeks ago to taste the new wines.
It rained morning, noon and night,
for the three days that we were there, in
sharp contrast to the hot weather that
existed up until almost the end of the
grape picking this year; weather that will
result in the best general standard of
wine to come from the Hunter in some
years.
We saw a lot more white wine than
red and the overall standard of these
whites was better than the other. My
preference has long been for these
wines and I believe the Hunter is THE
great white wine area of Australia.
Doug Elliot has made some fine wines,
again especially white. The 63's are very
big and robust, full of nose and flavor.
Two I particularly liked were from his
Belford vineyard, big gutsy wines with
a delicious taste. The reds were good
and the general overall standard very
high with only one or two minor excep-
tions.
The Tulloch Brothers are delighted
with the vintage. Here 1 found no one
outstanding prospect. Rather, all the
wines were good and extremely promis-
ing. We tasted wine after wine until my
tongue felt like the seat of an overstuffed
velvet chair.
Murray Tyrell, another extremely en-
thusiastic winemaker, showed us all his
new wine, striding back from cask to
cask with a big grin and an air of com-
plete self satisfaction. I think his new
reds were the best we tasted during our
trip and show great promise. I shall be
surprised if they don’t win a stack of
awards. It's a pleasure to know that he
is planting more and more vines every
year. After years of decline in area under
vine, there is healthy planting and re-
planting going on everywhere.
At Ben Ean again I found no one out-
standing wine, although a very high
general standard. Carl Stockhausen
was luncheon host this day and as
the rain poured down Carl tricked us
all with a range of masked wines he
thought suitable for the occasion. One
of them was an old ordinary Cawarra
Claret with considerable bottle age
which we all thought outstanding. It
just points again that we drink most of
our reds too young and that we should
all be INVESTING in red wine to put
away now for another day.
Another prediction, this time for Lin-
deman’s ’63 whites. I do not think they
will do quite as well in Shows as they
have done in the last few years. This
does not mean that the wine is in any
way inferior to previous years, but just
that everyone else's is getting better and
better, and it will be extremely difficult
for judges to point with certainty to
merely one or two wines.
Finally, a visit down to Dalwood by
the swollen Hunter River. This is per-
haps the most traditional winery in the
Hunter, with charming stone buildings
and row upon row of casks beautifully
lined up. Row upon row of young wine
was lined up and we were soon at it
again.
There were some outstanding white
wines; Semilion, or Hunter River Ries-
ling (whatever that means), the delicate
and delightful Blanquette that makes
such good Chablis and the wine that I
thought the best of all those we tasted
... a Pinot Riesling from grapes from
the old HVD Vineyard. Penfolds have
made this wine before. Once it was cal-
led 1958 Dalwood Chablis, I believe, and
if you are ever lucky enough to see this
wine offered, grab it. In ’59 there was
little around and in ’6O there was bad
weather; 1961 produced the 295 Pinot
Riesling, a wine available now that still
has a long way to go. This year's wine
is in the same mould and could even be
better than its predecessors. Full bodied,
well balanced and full of flavor, it's the
potential Australian White Burgundy, if
ever there was one, though Penfolds are
careful to avoid this label and simply
state the grape blend. Good luck to
them, and good luck to you if and when
you come across this wine.


Around Melbourne
DREAMING OF CATS AND GLORY
FFere in Melbourne we are indulg-
ing in our dreams of glory. We
see the world sending their craft to
Port Phillip to joust with us on the
sun-kissed waters off Sandringham.
First the British, then the Americans,
and, who knows? Maybe later, even
the Russians, all in search of the Little
America’s Cup.
Good heavens, you haven’t even
heard of the Little America’s Cup?
Well then, the Little America’s Cup is
the international catamaran challenge
trophy. It was donated in 1958 by the
Sea Cliff Yacht Club of New York.
The trophy is of solid silver. It stands
about two feet high: an abstract design
said to depict “billowing sails”. It
looks like a frantic version of the
Sydney Opera House.
The whole idea has been snaffled
from the Big America’s Cup; the rules
are the same. They have the same
business of the best out of seven in-
dividual contests, and the skippers can
call for a day's rest in between, all
that sort of thing. But there are two
essential differences: (1) The “cat”
people say happily that their cats can
do up to 30 mph and hence beat the
living daylights out of any 10-metre
yacht that ever hit the water; (2)
Money. The America’s Cup is for
millionaires. The cat people would
be lucky even to raise a few thousand
in royals. Indeed, you should see
the photographs of the Chapman
Sands yacht in England, present
holders of the trophy. The club
house looks like a pint-sized shearing
shed.
The British catamaran Helcat took
the trophy in the first year and re-
tained it again last year by whopping
the American challenger, Beverley,
4/1. Again there was a little repeat of
America’s Cup history. Barely had
Helcat tied up when there was a chal-
lenge in from our Sandringham Yacht
Club. The news of this was almost
sufficient to capsize New York’s Sea
Cliff Club. Good lord, they had not
the remotest idea that a challenge
could come from an odd place like
Sandringham. Immediately they sug-
gested a round robin affair. Why not
let America and Australia race off,
then the winner challenge Britain?
Sandringham, you will be pleased
to hear, stood firm. No, sir, this was
our challenge. Now Sea Cliff has sent
out letters challenging both Chapman
Sands and Sandringham, so that they
can clinch next year’s challenge no
matter what happens.
At Sandringham they are as con-
fident as Nelson before Trafalgar.
They feel that they lead the world in
catamaran design, and, with 1000 cats
in the water around Australia, Mel-
bourne is the headquarters. Cats have
been in vogue now for 10 years or
more. At first they were considered
to be utterly non-U. Dammit, some
people felt they were even immoral.
The fellow in the £ 10,000 racing keel
yacht who is left for dead by a cat
gets the same feeling as the gentle-
man in the £BOOO Rolls Royce who is
knocked off by a Mini-Minor on the
Geelong Road. Humiliating.
A nd you ought to see some of these
early cats; they’re about as hand-
some as a go-kart. Charlie Cunning-
ham, the boat builder, put together
one of the first cats here, back in
1951. He sailed it in the South Chan-
nel Race that year and broke the
course record by nigh on two hours.
He recalls that the cat was so steady
he could put a thermos and cups of
tea on the decking. Frank Strange,
of the Sandringham Club, met him
on the beach, and they decided it was
high time to form a new class, and
Charlie’s design for a cat was called
an “Yvonne.”
Another event they like to remem-
ber was the Williamstown-Geelong
race of 1962. An Yvonne, with Alfred
Munns and Graeme Anderson aboard,
smashed the record right open. They
covered the 33 miles in 2\ hours.
They were so darned fast that they
beat the officials. Indeed, the historic
victory would never have been re-
corded if someone hadn’t seen the
arrival from the club bar window.
The trials took place near Blair-
gowrie Yacht Club on June 9 and 10.
Blairgowrie, by Sorrento, is near the
Port Phillip Heads, the nearest ap-
proach we can get to the tidal condi-
tions of the Thames Estuary, where
the challenge will take place. And
what with the frigid conditions of
Melbourne’s winter June, we liked to
feel this was almost perfect training
for the frigid conditions of Southend’s
frigid autumnal September.
There were five teams and five C
class 25-ft. cats in the trials. The most
luscious of the pedigree cats was the
one from Sydney, Ann, designed by
Alan Payne, the designer of Gretel.
She was worth £2,000, she was made
of moulded cedar, all varnished, and
she shone like a Cadillac. But at
6501 b. she carried too much weight
to make speed.
The chosen cats for the Thames
were Quest, designed by Charlie Cun-
ningham, and Matilda, designed by
three boffins—Peter Hooks, an archi-
tect, Jack Shaw, a mechanical engin-
eer, and Peter Joubert, a university
lecturer in fluid dynamics. Charlie
Cunningham designed Quest by test-
ing models in an agricultural drain,
and at least 800 hours of work went
into designing Matilda.
Both are said to be the last word
They weigh around 4001 b. and revo-
lutionary top-secret techniques have
gone into their construction. These
secrets are being guarded carefully,
lest they should leak into the English
camp.
The chosen team is Alfred Munns.
22, of Queenscliff, a professional boat-
builder who has been on the watei
since he was a baby, and Grahame
Anderson, 22, also of Queenscliff, a
Board of Works clerk. The reserve
team is John Taylor, technical repre-
sentative of a glass firm, and Petei
Scarfe, 32, an accountant.
They will leave in about three
weeks, and they will have five weeks
training on the Thames before the
challenge series on September 21.
So far BP Petroleum has put up
£l5OO, and Sandringham is still look
ing for another £l2OO to make it all
a success. However, they’re not over-
worried about that success. Norman
Strange, president of the Catamaran
Association, says they have a much
better chance than Gretel. And he
adds: “When we do get that trophy
they’ll never get it back. I'll tell you
why. They’ll never handle our short,
steep, nasty sea. You have to be a
cowboy to ride a cat on Port Phillip.”
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
“Let Them Come—We Are Ready!”
South Africa reorganises its defences against civil war
From a SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT in Capetown
et them come —we are ready for
. them!” This was the defiant reply
of a South African Minister to
the Addis Ababa conference of African
leaders. The Minister, Mr Ben Shoeman,
warned 3,000 schoolchildren whom he
was addressing that the next generation
of white South Africans would have to
be prepared to offer everything, includ-
ing their lives, to defend their country.
The Defence Minister, Mr Jim Fouche,
said: “We will stand armed against the
outside world. It has been decided a-t
Addis Ababa to launch a military attack
against South Africa in the future, but
we give them the assurance that if they
attempt such an attack we will hit back
tremendously hard.”
Mr Fouche, in another speech, said
the time was not far off when every white
boy in South Africa would be doing nine
months’ compulsory military training
. . . “whether he has flat feet or not.”
South Africa has a bigger and better
equipped army than any of the inde-
pendent African States which attended
the Addis Ababa conference. In the
past four years the defence budget has
increased four-fold. Part of the re-equip-
ment and reorganisation of the South
African Defence Force is designed to
fit it into the general internal security
pattern, so that it can assist police to
quell internal unrest.
The head of the Defence Force,
General P. H. Grobbelaar, said recently
that soldiers might have to restore order
as happened during the state of
emergency in 1960. They should use
the minimum force possible. For this
reason South Africa was ensuring that
it had its own supplies of tear gas in case
imports were cut off. Tear gas was an
example of the use of minimum force.
The Defence Minister, replying to the
accusation that the Defence Force was
being equipped mainly to deal with pos-
sible internal unrest, said: “Can there
be a person in the world who is so
stupid as to believe that we should have
to buy modern aircraft, that we should
buy modern ships, that we should buy
modern anti-aircraft guns and that we
should buy aircraft travelling at twice
the speed of sound to fight against our
internal population?”
The Minister’s reply was logical.
Whatever steps are being taken to enable
the Defence Force to co-operate with the
police force, it is a fact that the Army,
the Air Force and the Navy are being
expanded considerably for use against
possible external attack. South Africa
buys Buccaneer and Lockheed aircraft
from Britain, Alouette helicopters from
France, and certain undisclosed equip-
ment from the US. This is only part of
substantial military purchases from the
West.
Now Mr Harold Wilson, British Labor
Leader, has stated that a Labor Govern-
ment would halt supplies of arms to
South Africa, and. at the United Nations,
Norway has called for an arms embargo.
The Afro-Asian nations have for some
time imposed a total trade and diplo-
matic boycott.
Mr. Harold Wilson’s statement has
provoked angry replies from Dr Ver-
woerd’s Government. A Minister has
hinted that South Africans might boy-
cott British goods in retaliation. As a
precaution against arms supplies being
cut off, South Africa is manufacturing as
much equipment as it can. A new muni-
tions factory is making 92 different items
of arms and ammunition.
South Africa’s permanent force con-
sists of 15,200 officers and men. The
citizen force men who are called up
for nine months’ compulsory training —•
numbers 70,000. The Commandos
(“week-end units”) have another 80,000
men. The Minister of Defence said this
year: “I should very much like to organise
a division for women in our Defence
Force . . . they could release many men
for active service.” All these forces con-
sist of white men. Non-whites are used
in the Defence Force only in a non-
combatant capacity.
The police force has 12,200 whites and
13,700 non-whites. The police “A” Re-
serve will shortly have 10,000 members.
The police “B” reserve, or home guard,
consists of citizens who will protect their
own homes in times of emergency. They
are trained in the use of their own fire-
arms and supervised by the police. There
is a big recruiting campaign in progress,
and about 7,000 white men have enrolled.
In an emergency, therefore, nearly
200,000 white South Africans could be
brought out either to quell internal dis-
turbances or to repel external attacks.
The white population numbers three mil


down
to
earth
.Wherever chemicals, fumes, gases, dusts are a hazard, industry depends
on inflatable protective products like the suit below. Made from nylon
mesh spread-coated with Geon PVC paste resin, it is air-pumped to the
correct body temperature, is puncture proof, flexible and brightly
coloured for quick identification. The visor is rigid PVC, the air line is
PVC tubing. In industry, Geon improves products or helps evolve new
ones. Have you a product which we can help you improve or develop?
Geon coated nylon by Plustyne Products Pty. Ltd., in safety equipment from Industrial Protective Company.
wpp
: w** * ~ -***■ -1 r* *
v.v.:
k
Genii
Ttyvuyf/Mafouad
m
: ■
4
m
■
-t.
■V
:. ■ ' *:;.••
I • I
,-VS
:
. : :
M-C
UH
SHiMH3S
V% |
' s >
i
'V:
5,..: \.:
v% :
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Fty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W, Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.2.) Limited


lion, against 11 million Africans,
1,500,000 coloreds (of mixed race des-
cent) and 450,000 Indians.
There has been speculation on South
Africa, Southern Rhodesia, and the
Portuguese colonies of Angola and
Mozambique forming a white military
bloc. Some of the speculation has been
exaggerated. While the independent
African leaders see little difference be-
tween the policies of these three coun-
tries, there are in fact differences which
severely limit collaboration. Dr Ver-
woerd has referred to the “great dif-
ferences” between the policies of South
Africa and Southern Rhodesia; Mr Win-
ston Field, Prime Minister of Southern
Rhodesia, has said it is “nonsense” to
compare his policy with apartheid; and
the Portuguese officially pursue a policy
of assimilation which is anathema to Dr
Verwoerd's Government.
These policy differences have given rise
to important tactical differences. South-
ern Rhodesia and Portugal do not want
to be associated too closely with apartheid
in public for fear of provoking further
trouble for themselves among their
African populations.
Dr Verwoerd, for different reasons,
steers clear of any form of political al-
liance: apparently he suspects that
Angola, Mozambique and Southern
Rhodesia will have multi-racial Govern-
ments one day, and he does not want to
be identified too closely with the exist-
ing Government there. Dr Verwoerd
clearly, harbors hopes of being able to
arrange a form of co-existence with these
territories one day when they are under
multi-racial rule.
Mutual pact unlikely
is little likelihood of South
Africa, Southern Rhodesia, Angola
and Mozambique entering into a military
mutual defence pact. South Africa is the
only member who could offer assistance,
and if South African troops were to be
despatched across the border to help quell
black uprisings, there could easily be a
war in Africa. Apparently, the white
rulers in Southern Africa recognise fully
the potential explosiveness of a military
alliance.
Probably the best the four territories
can do is to exchange political information
concerning African guerilla and libera-
tory movements, to repatriate political
refugees, and to revise customs tariffs,
arrange trade pacts and offer loans
South Africa has the initiative here
to buttress the economy of the white bloc.
For the rest, the white bloc has no
choice except to equip itself and wait to
see what the independent African States
will do next. The forecast is that Angola
will be singled out first for a concerted
attack by Portuguese Africans, operat-
ing from the Congo, with substantial aid
from Algeria and elsewhere. If Angola
falls Mozambique would not be able to
hold out indefinitely. Or Southern
Rhodesia’s white Government might be
overthrown first. Then it would be South
Africa’s turn.
These thoughts flit through the minds
of the more politically-conscious white
South Africans. The Defence Minister has
suggested that South Africa will face
serious trouble in 1965 and there ap-
pears to be reasonable grounds for this
prophecy, (ofns.)
The Reluctant Rebels
A soda-pop boycott launched a racial battle
From GODFREY HODGSON in Greensboro, North Carolina
TTow to satisfy the massive upsurge of
the American Negroes’ impatience
with segregation and discrimination is
now the number one business on this
country’s domestic agenda. It preoccupies
the President; it looks like monopolising
the time of Congress for the rest of this
session, it occupies masses of space in
every newspaper.
Yet, oddly enough, the latest phase of
the great drama began here, in this small-
ish industrial town in a State where race
relations have always been relatively
good, in a discussion between two 17-
year-old Negro boys who shared a room
at the big agricultural and technical
college here.
It was they, in their innocence, three
years ago, who started the sit-in move-
ment of non-violent demonstrations
against the color bar in public places.
The movement spread immediately to the
Negro youth of the, South in general,
giving them both a target and a tech-
nique. In turn, this youth campaign put
adult Negro leadership under growing
pressure to campaign for desegregation
by direct action, instead of waiting for
results from court decisions.
This shift in Negro tactics led directly
to the Birmingham crisis and to the new
mood of determination in Negroes, both
in the North and the South.
Ezell Blair Jr. graduated from col-
lege a few weeks ago, and he had been
helping his father dig a ditch when I
found him at home. His father is a
building contractor, who built his own
comfortable bungalow in the most pros-
perous Negro street in Greensboro. Ezell
Jr. always wanted to be an architect.
Now he may go to law school instead,
and if he does he will go to the best
university in the State, the beautiful,
wooded 18th-century campus at Chapel
Hill, which was integrated a few years
ago.
He is a slight boy who looks younger
than his 20 years, good looking, but
with a skin rash which the doctor says
may come from the continuous nervous
tension of the last three years. One of his
instructors says “his leadership is charis-
matic. He’s not especially intelligent, but
he is a leader.”
It all happened by accident, as he
tells the story. He insists the idea was
not his but his room-mate’s. Joe McNeil
is now commissioned as a second lieu-
tenant in the US Air Force.
In 1959, Blair and McNeil roomed
together, “and we used to talk about
everything, bull sessions, you know, ban
the bomb, racial discrimination, every-
thing.
“One day Joe said he went down-
town to get a bite to eat at Woolworths,
and they wouldn’t serve him. He said
they served him in New York, and what
were we going to do about it?”
What they did, after talking to some of
" their friends, both white and Negro
and persuading two classmates to go with
them, was to sit down at the counter in
Woolworths and order coffee on the
afternoon of February 1, 1960.
“The waitress looked at us as if we
were from outer space,” Blair remem-
bers. “A short bald-headed man fetched
a policeman. We said ‘good afternoon.’
The cop scratched his head. He didn’t
know what to do. But the lady manager-
ess said ‘We don’t serve colored people,*
quite politely.”
They still don’t know what to do about
Blair and McNeil's technique in the
South, but they still don’t serve colored
people—not everywhere, anyway.
By the end of that first week, young
Blair found himself leading 1,000 stu-
dents in sit-ins, with angry white crowds
watching and truckloads of tough red-
necks coming in from country districts
to jeer and throw things. The Mayor
came to see him; he negotiated with
representatives of the chain stores.
“There was little me persuading a mass
meeting of 2000 students to call off
demonstrations for a while to let things
cool down.”


A
Schweppes
Juice
is the natural
Juice!
*Piquant! Pure Tomato Juice
blended with spices.
IN 4 1 /2 oz. CANS.
SCHWEPPES TOMATO JUICE COCKTAIL
at your Club, Hotel, Milk Bar, Store.
Quarterly Economic Reviews cover world economic,
financial and political developments: 58 reviews, each
country published quarterly.
AUSTRALIA
This review describes the present favorable economic conditions. It also discusses
the latest important wage award and gives news of various industrial projects.
Further details from:
THE ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
52 Queen Street, Melbourne, C.I. Tel.: MA 2730.
In the next two weeks the sit-in tech-
nique spread to dozens of other towns
and other colleges. Blair and McNeil are
not sure they were absolutely the first
to use the technique; they believe now
other kids did it first in Oklahoma City
and Chicago. But at the time they had
never heard of this. Nor had they studied
the works of Mahatma Gandhi. They got
the idea from a successful boycott of a
soda-pop firm in McNeil's home town,
which had discriminated against Negroes
in an amateur talent contest it was
sponsoring.
Since then Ezell Blair Jr. has become
something of a celebrity locally, and
every inch a professional at politics,
though his head is not swollen. He has
been fined, and he is due to appear in
court again. He and his friends have suc-
ceeded in desegregating Woolworths,
and many other cafes in town. But in
the new round of demonstrations,
Negroes have still not succeeded in
opening up every cafe and restaurant.
They hope they have opened up the
cinemas this week, and they are asking
for a general statement against dis-
crimination from the city.
/"4ut of my hotel window, as I write, I
can see five Negro students picketing
a segregated cafeteria. It is all rather
peaceful and routine.
“There is very little hoodlum white
reaction here,” a Negro leader told me.
“We may have to alienate the moderates.
The Mayor thinks law and order is all
that matters. But the only cities that
have made progress in the South are
those where there has been a threat of
violence.”
This is not a violent State. Negroes
here say the police are “congenial and
sympathetic.” From the Governor's office
in Raleigh to the white liberals here
people say “We will work this thing
out.”
But already, to young Negroes
like Ezell Blair Jnr., there can be no
working out if that means compromise.
This year’s sit-ins, and particularly the
gaoling of 1,300 youngsters, has forged
new solidarity between students and the
ministers, doctors and lawyers who are
the established Negro leaders.
“At first we had a hard time,” said
one of these leaders. “But when they
put hundreds of kids in gaol we had
even Uncle Toms on our side.”
It is the measure of change in Greens-
boro change that even white liberals
find hard to understand that few
Negroes would now disagree with young
Blair when he says: “We aren't going
to stop until we have desegregated this
city.” But they would also agree, and this
is new, too, when he adds that when
they have “this will be a better place for
Negroes to live than the North.” (ofns.)


KODAK |
VERIFAX COPIER
YOU m NOW
GET \
OR UP TO
jpr: .
*
HIGH-QUALITY SINGLE COPY
When overall appearance is important ... or when critically
sharp rendering of fine detail essential . . . use the Verifax
Fine-Line matrix. It reproduces delicate line-work, fine
detail, half-tone pictures and solid areas with amazing
crispness and fidelity even from the most difficult
originals. Copies made with Fine-Line matrix are black,
sharp and of premium quality ideal for sending to
customers, clients and executives.
LOW-COST MULTIPLE COPIES
When several copies are needed in a hurry use the regular
Verifax matrix and it will give you up to five dry, white,
permanent copies in 60 seconds. It will reproduce practically
anything written, typed, printed or drawn pencil, ink,
ballpoint, paint and crayons. Tests show that Verifax copies
can last up to 100 years and longer.
For complete information contact:
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD.
Branches in all States.
KMB9IO


ACCOMMODATION FOR
EXECUTIVES . . .
wEk
I
FIRST IN SYDNEY; FIRST FOR
CHARACTER, CONVENIENCE,
COMFORT.
• Just 3 miles from the heart of the city, 2
miles from Mascot Aerodrome.
• 3 Executive Suites, 1 Director’s Suite and
32 standard and family suites.
• Individually controlled air conditioning. You
can open your window if you wish.
• 24-hour room and meal service.
• Laundry and valet service.
• Licensed restaurant.
• Private bathroom in every suite.
• Telephone, television, refrigerator and radio
in every room.
• Golf courses, beaches and other sporting
facilities. All within a few minutes of the
Travel Terminal. Overlooking Randwick Race-
course.
TRAVEL TERMINAL
2A Alison Road, RANDWICK. 39 7071
Telegrams: “TRAVTERM” RANDWICK
Stay 1 night, days or weeks and enjoy our comfort and service.
1C13.43.
FORUM
New “Bulletin” Poets
A speech from the dock
By VINCET BUCKLEY
(Poetry Editor of The Bulletin)
poets the word “ reviewer ■" is greeted with a shrug, and the
word “ critic' ' is hardly mentioned at all. But the title of “editor” is
a swearword, lie is one of the few remaining substitutes for a patron,
and a patron can be a terrible thing.
This was brought home to me shortly after 1 became, twenty months
ago, THE BULLETIN’S poetry editor. In the very first week l committed
some gaffe in dealing with a poem, and got from a normally very friendly
poet a letter saying: “1 thought you might be different, but you turn
out to be just another bloody editor ” Nothing worse could have been
said, and it was written with a thumbnail dipped in blood.
Anyone who has had to fill a chair
vacated by Douglas Stewart might be
excused for feeling apprehensive; for
Stewart was a distinctive, indeed, a fam-
ous, editor. And to follow him in a role
much more restricted than the one he
played can induce a good-humored
paranoia.
Stewart was not only poetry editor,
but literary editor, of The Bulletin.
Any policy he cared to lay down about
poetry could be part of a wider policy.
I am part-time, and 1 edit only the poetry.
Contributors could be excused for won-
dering if I exist at all.
In saying what it has been like editing
The Bulletin poetry for nearly two
years, I am as conscious of the difficul-
ties as of the rewards. There are poets in
Australia and among them some of the
best or best-known who never sent
their poems to me. I think of Stewart
himself, Judith Wright, A. D. Hope, Fitz-
gerald, Campbell, Manifold; and some
of these I can’t imagine submitting their
work to any Bulletin editor, now that
Stewart has gone.
There are, however, other poets who,
so far as 1 can gather do send their
best work: Francis Webb, R. A. Simpson,
Rodney Hall, Alexandei Craig, J. R.
Rowland, Thomas Shapcott. Most of
these published with Stewart, but not so
regularly, perhaps not so eagerly, as
now.
The result has been that a new pattern
of Bulletin poetry has emerged, and
has caused a great deal of comment,
pro and con. Many people assume that
it is not only a pattern but a deliberate
policy; but if there is one man in Aus-
tralia who can testify that it is not that,
it is myself.
Some editors do have a declared policy
for poetry, a set of formal or ideological
requirements which a poem must satisfy
before it will be published; and one may
detect in some journals a preference
(both formal and ideological) so firm, set,
inflexible, as to amount to an undeclared
policy. Where journals like “Southerly”
suffer from nothing more deliberate than
choked arteries, “Overland” and “Quad-
rant” look often as though the limitations
of poetic range they exhibit are deliberate-
ly chosen ones. (There is no journal in
Australia to compare with the new “Lon-
don Magazine” whose cheerful preoc-
cupation with the homosexual frissons
seems to be coming to amount to a
principle of selection.) By contrast,
“Meanjin” has been notable lately for
not treating poetry in this way. So, I
would maintain, is The Bulletin.
Not everyone will agree, fen years
ago 1 wrote an essay on “the new
Bulletin poetry,” and accused this
verse of whimsical condescension towards
human beings, of evading “the poetic
reality of Australia.” Now I in my turn
am accused of promoting a newer Bul-
letin poetry: formless, introspective,
jagged, pessimistic are the favorite words
to describe it. I am also accused, inevit-
ably, of acting as the agent for a clique.
No man can be judge in his own case;
nor would I want to be; 1 may, however,
make a speech from the dock.
The pattern which the newer poetry
makes is the result not of cliquishness
(in fact, The Bulletin is possibly less
cliquish than any other Australian jour-
nal except “Meanjin”) not of a policy, but
of the fact that some good poets submit
no poems at all, while others submit
their best work. That, quite simply, is
the reason for the recurrence of certain
names and for whatever pattern readers
see emerging.
It could still be true that the pattern
itself was composed of poems formless,
introspective, etc., and that, surely,
would be a pointer to the deeply gloomy
taste of the editor. In fact, the range of
poetry published in the last 20 months is
surprisingly wide, and it contains a num-
ber of things which seem to me at least
minor triumphs. Francis Webb’s Cos-


• t
•••
•• • • ••
•#
• I
••
000
• 0
• •
••••
•••
••
00
••
m*
••
• •
••
• •
09
••
• •
• •••
••
00
000
••
• •••
• •
o**
••
• ••
• •
••
••••«•
# 1
#•
• ••
••
I ••
•
$$••••
f * •
»•» •
ress Is Our Mast Important Product
»#*•••
\ *
00
• ••
• * «
,»9«
ELECTRIC
00
. •••
V*
• 00
ft
• • 00
, /
, t
*#•»*«*
**»
//
00
00
000
• •• • •
• • •
••
• 0
• 00
00
000
000
000
000*00
• 0
00
00
0 0
••00
00000
• 0
0 0
000
00
00
0000
*OO
o*o
•00
00 o*o
•0
•0
•••0
000*00
00
00
0 0
••000
00
000
00
00
0 0
•00
00
00
•0
000 •• *
What other computer manufacturer can
offer you 7,800,000 MAN-HOURS of
experience in applying computers to
its own data processing problems?
Before making a decision on computers
check General Electric
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY: 103 York Street, Sydney. 29-7553. MELBOURNE: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 67-5984.
GEB3/10.7'/,


S 3
a
pi?
Q
h
h
atea
MOUTH WASH
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
C 93
SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONING
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REFLATES WORN upper cylds, main bearings,
diffs, gears. SAVES Rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new com-
pression power, top speed, zip. SAVES, Adds
L.S.D. to resale value. GUARANTEED up to
25,000 miles. No results —no pay. Harmless
finest engine. SIMPLE: Add Re-Nu expanding
liquid Nu-Metal to oil, petrol or plug holes.
4,6, 8 cylds, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testimonials,
Engineers' reports, free advice available. Open
Sat. morn.
RE-NU CO. Distributors required. (Estab. 1932)
58 SWANN ST., OPP. RICHMOND STN., VIC.
JB 1755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
Name
Address BUL.
tessey poems, for example, may be both
difficult and in a way terrible, but no one
could dismiss them as gloomy. I am glad
to have published them, as 1 am glad
to have published several subtle, sophisti-
cated, honest poems by that under-rated
poet J. R. Rowland; or Alexander Craig’s
best poem, “A Summer Communion”;
or some of the works in which Simpson
and Shapcott have been taking a new
heartening direction away from cramped
imaginative worlds; or the couple of
terse, hard poems in which James Mc-
Auley has been recently emerging from
his lyrical preconceptions. I am glad that
Rodney Hall tries out his best work here,
and that Wallace-Crabbe so often sends
in his short poems.
In all this, no doubt, people may see
examples of seriousness purchased at the
cost of elan. But creative elan may take
many different expressions; and I person-
ally would regard as retrograde, even
obscurantist, the view which is still widely
held in Australia (though it has been
abandoned in most countries) that elan
is best, or only, expressed in abstracted,
conventional, “joyful” lyricism whose
chief appeal lies in a combination of
neat form and naive optimism. Birds are
wonderful creatures; sexual experience
can be splendid (though I don’t see why
it is so generally assumed to be an al-
ternative to religion): yet a poetry which
relies on a simply stated affirmation of
such values, and on very little else, is
just not broad or deep enough to express
a people’s fully creative response to the
world. 1 am at one with Max Harris
when he says:
“One comes to think that Ern Mal-
ley. in extinguishing the literary
myth-seeking and metaphysical mod-
ernism of the 19405, didn't do the
country as big a favor as is generally
thought. Bird-watching is a poor
substitute for the contemplation of
the human condition.”
Not that there is much myth-seeking
evident in recent Australian poetry, wher-
ever it is published. The poet’s interests
have changed with his sense of what
the world is like, and of what the possibi-
lities for poetry are in it. In place of
myth-seeking, we are now likely to get
elaborated, and often ironic, reflections
on human relationships, presented in
terms of sensations. As I said two years
ago, this new habit is likely to push
poets into an ethical corner which I
don't much like, the repeated - graceful -
reminders - that - life - is - not - cosy -
and - that - there - are - no - answers
corner. This view can become as self-
congratulatory as any other; and does
so, quite quickly. But if some of the best
poetry now' comes from in or near that
corner, it would be suicidal, not to say
unjust, for an editor to knock it back.
There is now', among the best poets,
less emphasis on merely reproducing or
hymning moments of excitement, and
more emphasis on creating poems which
are both a context for such moments and
a means of defining them. “Introspec-
tion!” say the hostile critics. “Self-con-
sciousness!” Sometimes; sometimes not.
I prefer to think of it in terms of care-
ful honesty, of refusal to assume too
much.
“To me,” said D. J. Enright in The
Bulletin recently, “it seems a pity that
many Australian poets — still dogged by
the spectre of Ern Malley? — should be
so preoccupied with such merely external
matters as technique or metrics.” Many?
Well, how many? I know very few poets
who are preoccupied with metrics; in fact,
I should say that one of the deficiencies
even of the better poetry now being
written in Australia is that, in the pur-
suit of emotional honesty, it tends to a
rhythmic flatness and inflexibility.
But that is not a matter of metrics,
and I hardly think that it is produced by
preoccupation with “technique” as such.
Several poets are trying to give the tex-
ture of an individual experience; very
few are trying to be clever or correct.
In speaking of the poets who have
most frequently published in the new
Bulletin, I have mentioned well-known
names, several of whom would not in
the past have been thought of as Bul-
letin men! That may give a false pic-
ture. In the first place, some who were
regulars with Stewart have continued to
publish in The Bulletin: Hart-Smith,
Francis Geyer, John Blight, David Row-
bottham. In the second, much of the
poetry is by people I had never heard
of two years ago: David Wood, Miriam
Stone, Michael Tatar, Vernon Low are
only a few of many names. And many
poems have been published by very
young poets, several of them undergradu-
ates; I think, in particular, of Andrew
Taylor, of whose work “Young Quintus”
is an excellent example; and of Wilson
Blackman, whose “Sunday Morning”
strikes me as superior to three-quarters
of the stuff which wriggles into the an-
nual anthologies of Australian poetry.
Blackman is, admittedly, a poet whose
work rises from an act of introspection,
but at his best it is already capable of
transforming introspection into self-defini-
tion. Taylor, on the other hand, is striving
for a more public poetry, a presentation
of social themes in an experimental mode
which is as yet tentative. I make no apol-
ogy for publishing work of that quality
and kind.
It should be obvious that I think the
new Bulletin poetry is as good as the
poetry published anywhere in Australia,
and that it is more heartening than most
because it is less facile and dejci vu. Much
of it is not to my personal taste. But
we must separate the judgment of the
editor from the taste of the man. And
I must say that, if the Bulletin poetry
is of the kind it is, that is because the
best poetry now being written in Aus-
tralia is, with a couple of exceptions,
of that kind. “Would to God,” I mutter,
“that Slessor were still writing, and Judith
Wright still writing at her top, and Hope
still writing well.” But no editor, and no
editorial policy, can achieve what the
peculiarities of the creative life fail to.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
OUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON S SON LTO.
Connoisseurs will understand our pride
This is
Centenary Year for
VAT 69
One hundred years have set Time’s
honoured seal of distinction to this excellent Scotch
Whisky and, in so doing, has truly justified the discrimination of
those who nominated the fine old whisky from
the vat numbered 69 as the perfect blend.
More than a Scotch, a tradition for 100 years now


letters
to the
editor
“THE POLICEMAN’S LOT”
Sir,
In “The Policeman's Lot” (1/6/63)
Gordon Hawkins reaches some valuable
conclusions. But he reaches them partly
through quite false premises. To begin
with, he quite blithely equates the British
and Australian police forces, and goes on
to deal with public relations with each
as though they were comparable. The
British force, as he quite rightly points
out, had its roots in the Bow Street Run-
ners. He omits to mention that these in
turn evolved from the night watch, a
commercial civilian body hired indepen-
dently to protect the property of the
employers. In contrast the Australian
police, emerging at a more advanced stage
of development, has its origins inextric-
ably tangled in a State force formed to
guard the interests of a settler community
in a penal colony.
The distinction is marked, and persists
to this day in the attitudes of the police
to the public. Whereas the policeman in
England is the State servant and knows
it, the Australian policeman is a member
of an armed and virtually autonomous
power group whose sole check is the
knowledge that if he stirs the bees’ nest
too much he might get stung. In Eng-
land there is an active and effective
check on police methods in the Watch
Committee. Its effectiveness is testified
by the Thurso case in the recent past.
Here the bashing of an ill-mannered
young thug resulted in the dismissal of
several officials as well as the policeman
concerned. The repercussions did not die
out until parliamentary level had been
reached.
In England the policeman is the ser-
vant of the law. Here, because he is
armed he is the potential judge, jury and
executioner. A man who is shot “by ac-
cident while escaping” (a phrase that
covers a million trigger-happy blunders)
cannot appeal. Thus the arming of the
police negates this fundamental human
right of our code, and in doing so makes
a travesty of the judicial principle.
Carrying arms in a State which has
abolished the death penalty is a paradox
worthy of a place in any G and S opera.
The results of these factors on the
public attitude and psychology are a little
different from those Mr Hawkins sug-
gested. It may be true that all English-
men are uneasy in the presence of a
policeman, but the Australian reaction is
one of pure fear; the fear of an armed,
omnipotent authority against whom there
is no redress.
LAURENCE J. PAYNE
Sydney (NSW).
THE UNITARIAN CHURCH
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to a
remark in the article by the American
sociologist Herbert Passin on “Aus-
tralians in Red China” (25/5/63).
Speaking of Australian church delega-
tions to China, the author says: “The
Unitarians, led by the Rev. Victor James,
who is active in the ACS and has been
to China to attend the 1952 Asian and
Pacific Peace Congress, are perhaps the
most sympathetic.”
I should like to point out that this
sentence is erroneous and misleading. It
is based on a false generalisation. The
Rev. Victor James is attached to the
Unitarian Church, Cathedral Place, Mel-
bourne. This church is not affiliated with
the Australian Assembly of Unitarian
and Liberal Christian Churches in Aus-
tralia, of which all other Unitarian
churches in this country are members.
None of cur member churches, of which
two are to be found in Melbourne, one
in Sydney and one in Adelaide, has had
any contact whatsoever with Communist
China, or shares the political sympathies
of the Rev. Victor James.
E. BRAMASTED
President Australian Assemblv
of Unitarian & Liberal
Christian Churches.
Sydney (NSW).
“NEW PAINTING 1952-62”
Sir,
It is a pity that Mr Bill Hannan in
reviewing my recent booklet “New
Painting 1952-62’’ (1/6/63) has largely
confined himself to somewhat hysterical
subjective reactions, which seem to me
to have little to do with the book itself.
His word picture of my unfortunate pub-
lishers hanging their heads in shame cer-
tainly deserves to go down in art history
bracketed with the opinion of the Syd-
ney critic who a few years ago referred
to the early Nolans, Boyds, etc., in the
collection of the Museum of Modern Art
of Australia as half-baked hill-billy junk.
If Mr Hannan had wanted to criticise the
book seriously and objectively, he surely
could have found realistic grounds for
doing so.
As to textual errors, I can at least in
part share his views, though if the ex-
ample he quotes is typical of what he
objects to I confess he leaves me at a
bit of a loss. Mr Laycock said he was
“represented in a few private and public
collections", and I can see no reason to
doubt that he meant what he said. If
Mr Hannan cannot see the implication,
that is neither Mr Laycock’s fault nor
mine.
I did not include Fairweather, Miller
or Kemp nor, for that matter, Dobell,
Drysdale, Orban and, possibly, others
because my book was limited in its
scope, and, for the reason I gave in my
introduction, these artists did not in my
opinion come within those limits. This
has no necessary bearing on their merit.
JOHN REED
Bulleen (Vic.)
THE MANDARINS
Sir,
In “The Awful Mess of Everything”
(1/6/63) Charles Higham asks: “In cal-
ling for a style, did Read join Cyril Con-
nolly in demanding a Mandarin litera-
ture?” Where, I ask Mr Higham, does
Cyril Connolly demand a Mandarin
literature? Certainly not in “Enemies of
Promise” where he upbraids such a style,
stating that: “ ... it is beloved by literary
pundits, by those who would make the
written word as unlike as possible to the
spoken one. It is the style of all those
writers whose tendency is to make their
language convey more than they mean
or more than they feel, it is the style of
most artists and all humbugs ...”
The lesson Cyril Connolly wishes
writers to draw from the Mandarins is
a negative one: “From the Mandarins
. . . the new writer will take warning not
to capitalise indolence and egotism nor
to burden a sober and delicate language
with exhibitionism.” Does this constitute
a demand for a Mandarin literature? Is it
likely that Connolly has departed from
this position and joined those writers he
charges with whimsical, allusive, archaic,
pedantic, falsely colloquial and sham
lyrical writing? I think not!
It seems more likely that Mr Higham
has misread his Connolly, and that Sir
Herbert Read (whose answer to Mr
Higham's question almost coincides with
Connolly's view) has, perhaps obliging-
ly, misinterpreted his Higham.
ROGER McDONALD
Murrumburrah (NSW).
THE CRITICS
Sir,
ABC's “The Critics”, that odd body
referred to by Ross Campbell in
“Forum” (8/6/63), certainly used my
book, “Modern Australian Humor”, as
an Aunt Sally when they recently com-
pared it unfavorably to “Private Eye on
London”.
I am inclined to agree with Mr Camp-
bell that Jean Battersby, one of the panel,
looks scrumptious. But she, along with
her colleagues in criticism on that occa-
sion John Casson, Eric Westbrook
and the omnipresent Max Harris—seem-
ed to me to be suffering from a bad
attack of what A. A. Phillips so felici-
tously calls “the cultural cringe.”
Apparently, it is so, so provincial, so
unsophisticated, to enjoy the Australian
humor of A. D. Hope, Kenneth Slessor,
Thelma Forshaw, David Forrest, Ernest
G. Moll, Henry Lawson and Norman
Lindsay, to name but a few in my
anthology, and so, so right, so sophisti-
cated, to giggle delicately over “Private


ijgalH
SBSS9S3Sg9gSBSSgggS3S£-gg^>g
WM 'M
:■&'■■;<■< .> ’i ,
& :;;>
If
in
gw.
'1
WW|
Hi
ivs
V
' W*' ■'! '- A
iSSP
Wm
-'<r
IS
.-• •• •: .
■.<.\\r>*
■
M§
’' 'I. -’
WBMftKBK
. ; :-Wfe-
:A
; : ■:■; ;:v
m*
-
HHs
vWIR
M
r
.SiBS
I: fWHfr
1; i %/fw3. !
Ilk. 'lljSw !
: I
fe- ;* 7 . ■ r%.j
■ l
Lv pX‘ Ht • „,i*lv jft . .4
N *- k • A 4" ; * ’ V
BffiH HiSH ■
W»k
I '*•.
.•: •• •• '.■
llpL,.
I^X
* i
<:>■■:.- ;■ l>N.; « * .. * ■.
~, * >v% v B*.
„ Ak 11
I - < <- *
~-3
K:/-y.
- ~ ! ; : i: : .t'kHk' ■• .-Uv:•>:';•'. ';: ; • .
' ‘.M I
...■.• ■ ■■
Spit
■ •».-•
,
:. .t-
-•. ■ - • ■.. _.• <
,A
• .
y|nj
• - A , *^rWfc
■
' */. 4<oy %
. : •
.-. . \
• t .
.:•:- ....
.
ik _J
•vvii
p§#
a n
':i:A
fm
MHH
■' #1
'A
1
■
pMAA;
■ip
PPiPI
- A ■'- : ' ■ ■■: : ;': ; l' : i :
With Qantas, service is second nature
Some aspects of the many-sided Qantas service you enjoy strike you immediately—and it is good that they
should, for these services are important. But just as important are the many services you never notice
because with Qantas they really are second nature —part of the day-in, day-out activities that keep a great
airline operating and its passengers happy and comfortable. You’ll notice the quiet confidence of your
captain with his background of many millions of miles in the air. The skill and diligence that Qantas
engineers bring to each job they do. These are part of it, as are the varied activities of interpreters,
dietitians, chefs, booking clerks, export experts—and the 6,500 and more Qantas people who put their
hundreds of different skills and abilities at your service. It’s been like this with Qantas from the beginning
42 years ago. It’s one of the reasons experienced travellers prefer to fly
Qantas —and one of the reasons Australia’s round-world airline is one of the
world’s greatest airlines.
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
Q 99.105.63


DISSENT
WINTER 1963 12 extra pages
contains a symposium on ALP policy and the Exmouth Gulf radio base with Don Dunstan,
Brian Fitzpatrick, Jim Jupp, lan Turner, A. Clunies-Ross.
also
The Tragedy of Taiwan .... Douglas Mendel
Liberalism & Communism in
South Africa Colin Tatz
Curbing Monopoly Alex Hunter
Conformity in Education .... John McLaren
Non-Alignment Nonsense .... Peter Samuel
Building Bureaucracy
a Canberra Observer
Comments on State Aid and Soviet Jewry
reviews of The New Radicalism, Australian Women, Conversations with Stalin, Bevan's biography,
Documents on Australian Education.
2/6 off newstands or 12/- for a year's subscription to Box 4044, GPO, Melbourne.
Eye on London.” “The Times” Literary
Supplement, by the way, has characteris-
ed this latter book as “a brisk fizzle of
gratuitous jokes” strung together “on a
feeble narrative thread.” And this critical
verdict has been widespread in England.
I should point out that there is a fair
swag of contemporary satire in “Modern
Australian Humor”. And not the least
in importance is Max Harris’s own
vitriolic verse, “On a Christmas Tree in
the Commonwealth Bank”.
BILL WANNAN
Caulfield (Vic.).
THE SNOW COUNTRY
Sir,
The Patricia Rolfe article “The Snow
Country” (1/6/63) is the best attempt
I have yet read of a true description of
the present “set-up” in the State Park.
But even she does not over-burden her-
self with praise for the skiers. Why
doesn't the State Park Trust recognise
the skiers, and give them the credit for
making the area as popular as it is now?
It's the people who ski who have built
the villages and developed the area that
was formerly occupied by wombats,
brumbies and wallabies.
BRIAN O'CONNOR
Yass (NSW).
NO JOB FOR A TEACHER?
Sir,
I was under the (apparently mistaken)
impression that Australia was critically
in need of immigrants and teachers. As
an Englishman, living and teaching in a
French-speaking college in North Africa,
married, a family man, and 39 years of
age, I had hoped that Australia might
offer me employment as a teacher. Alas,
I had not reckoned with officialdom.
Without a diploma, I am not wanted, yet
the three universities which I have at-
tended at sundry moments in my life
did not inspire me with much faith in
certain established methods of education.
Little does it matter that I am the
author of two books, an established free-
lance journalist, English teacher for the
past 12 years, scenario-writer and lin-
guist. For I happen to be one of those
rather unorthodox persons who have
spurned the chance of “collecting certi-
ficates”, and who, upon demobilisation
in 1946, chose to discontinue my univer-
sity studies for a while in order to travel
in Europe to broaden my outlook on life.
Among my pupils I have had top busi-
ness-executives, a film producer, high-
ranking officers of the French Air Force;
yet it appears that the education authori-
ties in Sydney are not interested, and in-
sist upon a diploma.
Here, in Algeria, life for a European
and his family is becoming more and
more precarious. Is it too much to hope
that Australia may contain men of vision
who do not feel bound by stringent
rules and regulations? Someone who
might offer me the means of a livelihood?
DERMOT KAVANANAGH
College des Peres Blancs.
Algiers (North Africa).
“NINETY NINE PER CENT”
Sir,
The review by Bruce Beresford of my
latest film, “Ninety Nine Per Cent”
(25/5/63), shocked me. I consider it
biased and quite unfair.
Although the review says that the
screening of “Embryo 3” at Sydney
University was compiled only by Adrian
Rawlins, the programme stated that
everything was organised by Bruce
Beresford and Adrian Rawlins together.
In fact, I was (with my film) a guest of
Bruce Beresford, and in my 36 years I
have never known a person to use his
guest's work in a show and then publicly
criticise it.
My film has already been acclaimed by
many qualified people including some
who attended Mr Beresford’s screening
and who went out of their way to tell
me how moved they were by it. The re-
port of the Australian Film Award Com-
petition stated that a film, “The Devil To
Pay”, directed by Bruce Beresford, got
an equal Honorable Mention with my
film, “Ninety Nine Per Cent”.
GIORGIO MANGIAMELLE
North Carlton (Vic.)
EDUCATION
Sir,
The campaign by the Melbourne Uni-
versity students to improve educational
standards is wholly admirable and must
be acclaimed by all with the interests of
Australian education at heart. However,
I cannot help but feel that the students
are, perhaps, a little unfair to the gov-
ernments concerned when they state
that Australia, though the fifth most
prosperous country in .Be world, ranks
only fourteenth in expenditure on
education.
The real blame for this shameful dis-
crepancy rests on those in charge of
private schools, who take it upon them-
selves to educate 511,000 children at no
cost to the Governments. These people
are responsible for Australia being so low
on the list of national expenditure on
education.
(REV.) J. P. BARTLEY
Crookwell (NSW).
“THE BUSY FASCISTS”
Sir,
In The Bulletin of May 11 Mr A.
Moharic, chairman of the Cardinal
Stepinac Society, and Mr V. Maglica,.
hon. secretary, wrote an open letter,
claiming that the society had been un-
justly accused of being connected with
the Croatian Ustashi (fascists) in Aus-
tralia, and that the source of information
used for this purpose must be regarded
as “extremely suspect” and that in-
accuracies in translation have either been
“manufactured” or “used” by me for
my “non-fascist” purposes.
If I was wrong, as they say, why
didn’t they, together with their spiritual
leader, Father Kasic, take the case to
court in order to clear themselves of the
so-called false accusations I made against
them? Simply because too much
evidence would then be supplied about
their present and past political activities,
some of which I give:
Mr Moharic was in Croatia, during
the war, a zealous Ustashi member in the
city of Bjelovar (Croatia). Mr Maglica
was in Croatia, during the war, a Ustashi
civilian executive. Father Kasic, their
spiritual leader, and themselves, ap-
pointed as their proxi-delegate at the
Ustashi National Council in New York
a Jesuit priest. Dr Dragutin Kamber,
with a heavy Ustashi past. Dr Kamber
was, in Nazi Croatia, a Ustashi colonel
in the city of Doboj, and chief of police
for Eastern Bosnia.
Father Kasic represented this society
in Sydney at the Croatian National
Council, and put forward to the council
some proposals (political) which were
accepted. This happened shortly after
Father Kasic had declared from the
pulpit that he would not take part any
more in political activities.
The three people at the head of the
Cardinal Stepinac Society, Mr Moharic,
Mr Maglica and Father Kasic, are now
under the direct order of Mr S. Rover,
Ustasha and chairman of the Croatian
National Council in Australia, and Gen-
eral Luburic of Ustashi headquarters in
Madrid.
Does not all this make it obvious
that the Cardinal Stepinac Society in
Australia is used as a cover for Ustashi
activities?
MARJAN JURJEVIC
Chairman, Dalmatian
Settlers’ Society
East Brunswick (Vic.).
(This correspondence is now closed.
—Ed.)


AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
cherry
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
1
ULOV
Vodka
mm
VODKA
REVIEWS
SYDNEY FILM FESTIVAL
Childhood’s Agony
By MARTIN LONG
\Fear by year the Sydney Film Festival
A has become more and more a film
festival in the generally accepted sense:
that is, a representative showcase of the
better films that are being made at the
present time. The earlier film festivals
here were more like glorified film society
screenings, gathering together outstand-
ing films from a wide period. The tenth
Sydney Film Festival, now current, offers
30 separate programmes largely made up
of films released in the last 12 months or
so.- This is as it should be, even if it
means that the festival produces fewer
excitements than in earlier years.
The Festival programme, seen as a
roundup of new work in cinema, doesn’t
reveal any startling new departures or
newly emerging forces. The most
memorable films (for me) tell good
stories well, in a traditional technique,
and they come from countries whose
ability to make good films is well estab-
lished: the United States and Poland.
There is a somewhat delayed ripple from
the French New Wave, Truffaut's
“Kindly Shoot the Piano Player” (1960),
which is novel in its reckless mixture of
comedy and tragedy, but only half suc-
cessful. There is technical interest, of a
specialised kind, in the extraordinary
ingenious trick-filming of the Czech
“Baron Munchausen”. But as far as the
feature films are concerned, the main-
stream of the Festival is traditional.
As so often seems to happen, youth
and childhood provide the material of
the most striking and successful of the
films. For me, the two outstanding films
are “David and Lisa”, an American film
about pupils in a school for psychiatri-
cally disturbed adolescents, and the Polish
“Birth Certificate”, which deals with
children cast adrift by war. Another
Polish film, “The Innocent Sorcerers”,
is a slight but deftly-made comedy of
young love, and the most endearing of
all the documentaries I have seen in the
festival is a Canadian film about kinder-
garten children.
“David and Lisa” is a remarkable first
film from a new director, Frank Perry.
There is not a hint here of the rawness
and exaggeration that mark another
festival film from a young American di-
rector, “Strangers in the City”. Perry’s
subject the problems of psychotic
adolescents is extremely dangerous
simply because it carries so much natural
poignancy. The script (by Eleanor Perry)
and the direction neither sentimentalise
nor sensationalise; with the help of
skilled, mainly unknown, young actors
they produce quite naturally a touchingly
credible story. The rather pat optimistic
ending might not pass the psychiatrists;
but anything other than a happy ending
might have been literally unbearable.
There are parallels between this film
and “Birth Certificate”, which groups to-
gether three stories about children fend-
ing for themselves in wartime Poland.
Here again there was a danger that the
horrors would be so intense that they
would merely numb the emotions; but
here, too, the director, Stanislaw Roze-
wicz, and scriptwriter Tadeusz Rozewicz
have achieved pathos without melodrama-
tics, and they have lightened the prevail-
ingly dark mood of the film by bringing
out the invincible cheerfulness of child-
ren. Rozewicz has handled his child actors
with rare skill; perhaps the haunting
image left behind after all the filmgoing
in the Festival is that of the wonderfully
expressive eyes of Beata Barszczewska,
the orphaned Jewish girl of the final
episode.
In contrast to these sensitive and com-
passionate films West Germany’s “Mr
Mississippi’s Marriage” and Truffaut’s
“Kindly Shoot the Piano Player” offer
technical cleverness and a hard objective
eye. The mixture of comedy and tragedy
in Truffaut's film (ostensibly a low-life
melodrama about a defeated cafe pianist)
is not in the tradition of the wisecracking
gangster film, or in the artificial comedie
noire , since it brings realistic tragedy and
slapstick audaciously close together; the
laughter it gets is often more embarrassed
than spontaneous. “Mr Mississippi’s
Marriage” is a political and moral satire.
Director Kurt Hoffmann gives it a hard
elegance and an air of cold disillusion-
ment that seems typically German (it is
somewhat reminiscent of “Fraulein Rose-
marie”).
“Leon Morin, Priest”, a sincere but
wordy and uncinematic tale about a
young widow who falls in love with a
priest, and an innocuous little comedy
from Czechoslovakia called “Out of
Reach of the Devil” would not cause
much stir in an ordinary commercial
cinema. The first, however, bears one of
those innumerable awards that are
handed out so freely at European film
festivals.
The Festival once again reveals Canada
as an assiduous producer of documen-
taries; the quantity and quality of her
short films puts to shame Australia’s
relatively slow development in this field.
The quality, though, is not consistent:
some of the worst, as well as the best of


SECOND ANNUAL
BLUE MOUNTAINS
ART COMPETITION
Closing date, 19th August, 1963
Prizes totalling £250
Also junior section under 21, £5O
For details write to:
TOWN CLERK,
Blue Mountains City Council,
Great Western Highway,
Katoomba, N.S.W.
the short films in the festival programme
came from Canadian sources.
I have mentioned “Kindergarten”, a
fascinating study of totally unself-cons-
cious, totally undirected children at play.
Another outstanding Canadian documen-
tary has an American subject: “The
Most”, a hard-boiled study of Hugh
Hefner (the founder of “Playboy” maga-
zine) and the cult of frenzied hedonism
that focuses upon him. On the other
side of the Canadian ledger there is “Day
after Day”, a string of conventional in-
dustrial sequences accompanied by a
pseudo-poetic and largely inaudible com-
mentary and described in the printed
festival programme as “a literally stun-
ning example of the emotional power of
the film medium.” It left me stunned
with boredom.
(The lofty pre-judgments served up as
programme annotations are a continuing
irritation. This year they irritated the
ABC sufficiently to cause it to withdraw
one of its films, which it held to have
been slighted in the programme notes. I
don’t commend the ABC’s touchiness,
but it will serve a good purpose if it per-
suades the festival committee to stick to
facts in future and let the audience do
its own judging.)
Most of the Australian films, judged
in international company, earn little more
than a pat on the back for trying. An
exception, perhaps, is “Tahiti, Pacific
Cocktail”, an ABC television film, direc-
ted by John Gray, which is a highly
competent piece of reporting. Dusan
Marek’s animated film “Adam and Eve”
has aroused a good deal of interest, since
it represents a new departure for a resi-
dent film maker; but its art style is (to
me, at any rate) rather uninteresting, and
its symbolism obscure. Bruce McNaugh-
ton’s “A Hole in the Ground”, combining
visuals of a ghost mining town with a
sound track recalling its past days, is
imaginative in conception, though less so
in execution.
This last film is fashionable in having
no spoken commentary, while Marek’s is
thoroughly “in” with electronic music.
The festival made it quite clear that the
reaction against the ear-bashing com-
mentary has gone about as far as it can
go that is, to the point where the films
are not always entirely comprehensible
on their own. (“A Hole in the Ground”
would, I think, puzzle a non-Australian
audience.) Electronic music has become
such an avant-gardists’ fad that the cu-
muluative effect is almost humorous; you
could probably hear more whee-whut
sounds at a film festival these days than
at a contemporary music festival.
It is impossible to be very selective in
viewing the packages of short films that
precede the features in most program-
mes, but of those I have seen there are
few to which I must give brief but
honorable mention: “Sunday” (USA), a
first-rate piece of selective reporting deal-
ing with a public demonstration in Green-
wich Village; “Master” (France), a chic
little drawn film satirising art fashions;
“A Lecture on Man” (Britain), a savagely
hilarious four minutes of satire; “My
Financial Career” (Canada), a charming
cartoon based on Stephen Leacock Story.
Crime of Passion
Town Without Pity. Director, Gott-
fried Reinhardt. Regent Theatre,
Sydney.
Oet in a small German town soon after
the war, Gottfried Reinhardt’s “Town
Without Pity” begins with the rape of a
young girl by four soldiers of the Ame-
rican occupation army. The men are
arrested and a court martial set up.
But the film concerns itself less with the
actual trial than with the effects of the
crime on the townspeople, who start off
in a state of high moral indignation but
soon discover a golden opportunity to
indulge their spite towards the occupa-
tion troops or the girl and her family.
In the end they succeed in completing
the destruction of the girl begun by the
four bored, half-drunk Gl’s.
It is a valid theme and treated very
earnestly, but without much imagination.
Reinhardt is properly indignant about
man’s inhumanity to man but does not
appear to have any helpful suggestions as
to what we’re to do about it; and excep-
tion must be taken to his implication that
because the girl was something of a
flirtatious tease, the rape was somehow
not such a crime after all.
Reinhardt has felt it necessary to have
a background narration rarely an
effective device unless it is witty and
cynical (as in “Sunset Boulevard”).
Here it is spoken by an irrelevant “girl
reporter” who really has no business in
the film at all.
Reinhardt’s direction is straightfor-
ward and competent in a conventional
way, and though he has not conjured any
very impressive performances from his
cast, he has at least managed the difficult
feat of preventing Kirk Douglas, who
plays the defending counsel from indulg-
ing his besetting sin of overacting.
“Town Without Pity” is a serious and
well-meaning film, so it is a pity it got
stuck with a theme song of remarkable
cheapness and banality. This ditty fre-
quently interrupts the proceedings, ending
with: “And it isn’t very pretty, what a
town without pity can do.”
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Make-Believe
Worlds
The Tongue-cut Sparrow, The Puppet
Theatre That Walked. Joan and
Betty Rayner. Australian Children’s
Theatre. Melbourne.
Waiting for Godot. Samuel Beckett.
Marlowe Society. Union Theatre.
Don’t Tell Helena. Don Battye and
Peter N. Pinne. Melbourne Uni-
versity Dramatic Club. Union
Theatre.
trims one-hour programme for children
A aged sto 11 consists of two plays and
five folk-songs acted in costume. The
plays were written by Joan and Betty
Rayner after a visit to Japan and Formosa
to collect folk stories and acquire the
exquisite costumes and puppets used in
the performances. “The Tongue-cut
Sparrow” is based on a Japanese folk
story and “The Puppet Theatre That
Walked” is set in China. Each play in-
cludes a little puppet show.
Joan and Betty Rayner have the trad-
itional versatility of the strolling players.
With the aid of their box of costumes
they become an old English country-
woman, a mischievous pedlar, an old
Japanese couple, a young Chinese far-
mer, his wife and a cruel slave-trader,
and finally two French farm girls.
There is no scenery, just back-cloths
and a box to serve as a stool. The child-
ren are told they must imagine the scene
a house, a road, a farmyard, a forest
where the snow is falling lightly. The
Rayners make no attempt to conceal
that they are acting all the parts. They
appear between each part of the pro-
gramme and explain the setting. But such
is the power of the story and the magic
of the acting that the large audience of
small children is completely transported


SI
■ 1
■■■■■Ml
-5- *
wwm
i§iii
M •:
Hi
> £§!&:& .
■ll I
liisssx
CP-37
HOT
OFF THE
PRESS
Aluminium ... in the first stages of
fabrication at Crane’s Concord Plant.
This 60" width 2-high reversing hot mill
starts a sequence of events which may
finish in many ways, according to the
diverse requirements of industry. This
searing hot strip could become the soft
foil of a toothpaste tube . . . the roof
of a factory ... or even a boat.
Unless you are already one of Crane's
many customers, it will be important
news to you that the Australian owned
G. E. Crane Group of Companies are
leading manufacturers and suppliers of
aluminium, brass or copper sheet, strip*
foil, tube and extrusions.
G
E.
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINIUM • BRASS e COPPER


into each make-believe world for the
time it lasts.
In the course of three to four years
this programme will be shown to about
a quarter of a million children in South
Australia, Victoria and New South Wales.
Parents are invited, too, and any who
are lucky enough to have a child of the
right age should seize the opportunity.
“Waiting for Godot” was the last
production in the Marlowe Society’s
season of the absurd. A safe rule for
producing the plays of the dramatists of
the absurd is to treat them as comedies.
Many of them are “black” comedies, but
comedies nevertheless.
They should be played fast, con brio,
but not clowned. “Waiting for Godot”
is full of music-hall routines with boots
and hats, and the dialogue of the two
tramps is very like the patter of music-
hall comedians. These two find that the
time passes very slowly as they wait for
Godot, who will never come, but it
should hot pass slowly for the audi-
ence. Leaden weights should not be at-
tached to the dialogue and the many
pauses (again reminiscent of the music-
hall) should not each become a seem-
ingly impassable abyss. Laurence Beck’s
production made the play an endurance
test.
It is true that some of the blame rests
with Beckett himself, who is responsible
for Pozzo and Lucky. These two are
not characters but symbols, and symbols
both obtrusive and obscure. They are
like grotesque dolls, one heavy and clum-
sy, the other limp and floppy, and the
wires by which their author jerks them
are visible, whereas Vladimir and Estrag-
on, the two tramps, have the liveliness of
true creation.
The actors who play the tramps need
to be first-rate comedians to keep the
play alive, particularly while the wooden
Pozzo and Lucky are on the stage. While
Mike Herron as Estragon and John
Paton as Vladimir seemed talented, they
lacked the professional comedian’s in-
fallible sense of timing.
“Don't Tell Helena” is about univer-
sity students working in the cosmetic sec-
tion of Myers during their vacation. The
local setting gives it some freshness, but
it is constructed according to the con-
ventional formula for musical comedy,
and suffers from the typical weaknesses of
thinness of plot, absence of theme and
sickliness of “love interest.” Sharper
satire directed against cosmetics, depart-
ment stores, customers, university stud-
ents, or the lot, could have tightened up
the show.
The noisy orchestra drowned most of
the words of the livelier and better lyrics,
while allowing the sentimental songs to
be heard with appalling clarity.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Feiffer
CHIU7REH!'“W
(vjeet? rou wi& A 5
vice (6 cap ee. wr
rue mi vure wu ta lk
-SHARP 10 MW OZ.
OOV T 6ltf£ THSM
HffU
thw waut rm
Foster Mwe
wvmte of
A FAMKX
m M 4 m6esx m
mmce, me
iootm omc. tie tecmo-
i rm m mx He.
6ws a
a Remum amp
iu vires no m uuo&T
em\u ro uve m
him. mho CAM till
WHAr me
M THIMK/M6 f
m its mom m mis
30T m cousemm one m
urn im mm. what voes
He Ten m wjiamM
To asm TO A urns
met He oATHTHurup
AW M IMP TOUR, oiop BUSH
mol" THE UU6UA6S MT
m Torn. Tiw to se me
AW Tom AR WTfW
ttOTHtp.
m fHATS WOT 7HF LAST. W ReWMm
cmiet, m m MWTeR
iw M' family f m om m atf
THF B/6 IPSAS ? tfMJS OFF
To Paris/ rows arouwp with
50UP16RS AfOP ROUffIMCKs!
MAKPS FPISWOS WITH THF
6eeMAWsf so what fofs
THAT fiwf fwurf of a
PFRSOIU TFU. MFfWOfONW
POFSM'T He WFFP MF OUf
Noeopy (OFFps hf/
400 {MbJ mr ire
m 10 86 A P6f5(N
OF M 4 Me A M
eemiume ■
Auc? n loio
m TH6 Me M' •
me of w
m FAMILY
THAT W&
w Ip 1H&100FU7 HOV
HAVf V be A RBMIOT.
h VW OFF AS ■ 1
AM
soM£'
BOpif WHo's'
A ume ■
mee,
Smg'ltHAU)
UIKITA, B<9p
mme.
mm Arm
e\m&m
iems her
tie sHouu?
we iv
■roeewe-
\


RED PAGE
Arabian Phoenix?
T. E. Lawrence’s hollow legend
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
T. E. Lawrence to his Biographers
Robert Graves and Liddell Hart.
Cassell. 60s. 9d.
blurb on the dust-jacket of this
book says that its “total impression
is a most persuasive defence against such
as Aldington’s attempts to explode the
Arabian ‘legend’.” A more absurd claim
was never made. In fact, page after page
underlines the most unattractive features
of T. E. Lawrence’s character his
vanity, his duplicity, his nauseating false
modesty and his delight in surrounding
himself with a pretentious veil of mys-
tery. Aldington himself drew heavily on
these letters when they were originally
published in two limited editions 24
years ago. The> provided many of the
clues that led him to write one of the
most devastating of biographical expos-
ures. It is unlikely that admirers of the
Prince of Mecca will derive much com-
fort from the material now made gener-
ally available in this single-volume
edition.
The Lawrence Legend was founded
when Lowel’ Thomas, an American
propagandist looking for colorful war
heroes, arrived in Jerusalem early in
1918. There he met Colonel T. E. Law-
rence, a British officer who had ac-
companied Feisal’s Arab “army” during
its advance from the Hedjaz into Pales-
tine, an advance marked by various skir-
mishes and railway demolition exploits.
Thomas decided that he had stumbled on
“one of the greatest scoops in history”
and his opinion was strongly reinforced
in personal interviews with the engaging,
Bedouin-robed young colonel. In 1919
Thomas began the series of illustrated
lecture tours f hat spread a highly-roman-
ticised version of the desert war through-
out England and America. In 1924 he
published “With Lawrence in Arabia,”
which sold about 200,000 copies in the
English edition alone. We have Thomas’
word for it that Lawrence helped him
considerably in preparing material for
the lectures and the book. Later, however,
when the Legend was solidly established,
it suited Lawrence to denigrate Thomas
and all his works. The man with whom he
had collaborated became “a Mr Lowell
Thomas.” “Butter of the Lowell Thomas
sort does not keep very well,” Lawrence
wrote disdainfully to Robert Graves.
War stories in “With Lawrence in
Arabia” were dismissed as “fantastic,”
and Lawrence hoped that the book would
soon he “driven off the shelves.”
Until Aldington published his book
eight years ago the two chief biographies
of Lawrence were “Lawrence and the
Arabs” by Robert Graves (1927) and
“T. E. Lawrence: In Arabia and After”
by the military historian Captain Liddell
Hart (1934). Both were issued in Law-
rence’s lifetime and both were the fruit
of close and continuous collaboration
between subject and author. In 1939,
after Lawrence’s death, Graves and Lid-
dell Hart published selections of Law-
rence’s letters and many examples of his
corrections and amendments to their
manuscripts. In keeping with the tradi-
tions of what Aldington calls the Law-
rence Bureau, only 500 copies of each
selection were printed and sold at five
guineas each. The book under review is
a one-volume reissue of these two books.
/\ne fact is soon apparent to the reader.
” Lawrence presented entirely dif-
ferent facets of his character to his two
biographers. To Robert Graves he was a
scholar, ascetic and mystic, a tormented
individualist who would rather have been
a great writer or artist than a mere sol-
dier. “I have wished all my life to have
the power of creating something imagina-
tive: sculpture, painting, literature,” he
wrote in October, 1927. He described his
own writings as “muck,” but the com-
ment was as insincere as it was abject.
Quite clearly he yearned for posterity to
remember him as the author of “Seven
Pillars of Wisdom” and “The Mint” at
least as much as for his desert adventures.
To Liddell Hart, on the other hand,
Lawrence wanted to appear as a Great
Captain, a creator of kings and king-
doms, a revolutionary strategist in guer-
rilla warfare and a precocious genius
who since boyhood had devoured military
textbooks and dreamed of leading a
modern crusade to free the Arabs from
“bondage.” How much truth lay behind
these poses it is almost impossible to
say. Lawrence’s stories to both bio-
graphers became, as he developed them,
so bedevilled with exaggerations, mysti-
fications, reticences and qualifications
that not even Aldington’s later researches
have entirely disentangled the real
T. E. Lawrence from the semi-mythical
hero, “Lawrence of Arabia.”
The celebrated Arab Revolt has shrunk
to its proper proportions in the cold light
of history. Lawrence himself admitted
that it was really “a sideshow of a side-
show” and nobody would now claim that
it had much influence on the Turkish
collapse in 1918, much less on the
whole course of the war as the more
fervid of Lawrence’s admirers once al-
leged. The campaign of Lawrence, Feisal
and their handful of Bedouin raiders
was, in fact, a very small peg on which
to hang that monster of literary precios-
ity, “Seven Pillars of Wisdom”. But if
Lawrence the Great Captain has disap-
peared into military limbo, the personal-
ity of T. E. Lawrence alias Ross alias
Shaw remains a fascinating subject for
study.
A ldington believes that Lawrence’s il-
legitimate birth was one of the deter-
mining factors in his mental makeup.
Despite his affected contempt for conven-
tions, Lawrence was acutely sensitive and
adopted all sorts of shifts to protect him-
self from the slightest hint of ridicule.
His treatment of Robert Graves revealing-
ly illustrates one aspect of his peculiar
dishonesty. Lawrence read and passed
every word of Graves’ biography and, as
these letters show, made frequent and
important alterations in the text. Yet he
insisted on Graves making it appear in his
introduction that he had received little as-
sistance. Many familiar anecdotes of the
Lawrence Legend (his reading “the best
part of 50,000 volumes” in the Oxford
Union library in six years, his reducing
Lord Curzon to tears, his compelling an
arrogant officer to salute two humble
privates, his “arranging” for the Turkish
surrender of Erzerum) thus appear in
Graves with Lawrence’s imprimatur. But,
when Liddell Hart sought more detailA;
a few years later, Lawrence decided i§-
was time to modify some of the storiejt
For instance, when Liddell Hart wantA
to confirm the graphic tale of the salaffi.
ing major, Lawrence replied with JBy
hand contempt: “There was a squahHP
of this sort at Taranto: I think Robert
Graves mentioned it.” Equally ungen-
erous was his reaction when the “New
Statesman” reviewer of Liddell Hart’s
biography referred disparagingly to “gos-
sip column stuff provided by such writers
as Robert Graves and Lowell Thomas.”
Liddell Hart considered this grossly un-
fair to Graves and, as he relates, wrote
to Lawrence “thinking he might feel dis-
posed to make it clear directly or in-
directly that Graves’ book had been
written with his authorisation and help.”
Lawrence did not feel disposed. In fact
he considered the incident “rather
amusing.”
Liddell Hart was perhaps fortunate
that Lawrence did not live long enough
after the publication of his biography
to repudiate it as he had disowned the


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTT'S CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
Molls Correspondence College
159 Flinders lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney: 290 Adelaide Street. Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray
Street, Perth.
CUT AMD MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
8.1063
earlier productions of Lowell Thomas
and Robert Graves. Probably no
biographer would ever have satisfied
Lawrence. He was evidently incapable
of telling the whole truth about himself
to any one person. That might be
regarded as common human frailty were
it not for Lawrence’s unpleasantly dis-
ingenuous habit of pretending to
demolish one biographer’s stories and at
the same time of fathering another set
of dubious tales on his successor. Both
Graves and Liddell Hart learned only
what he wanted them to learn and this
collection of letters shows that even in
his most casual notes Lawrence’s strange,
inhibiting self-consciousness never relaxed
for a moment. He could not, for
instance, speak plainly about the impulse
that drove him to sink the identity of
Lawrence of Arabia in Aircraftsman
Shaw. Once he told Graves that he
wanted to “eat dirt,” and that may have
been as true a reason as the much-
trumpeted Lawrence Bureau story that
he was fleeing from the unwelcome
blaze of publicity. There was a distinct
streak of masochism in Lawrence, as
readers of the Seven Pillars will be well
aware, and as these letters confirm in
more than one reference.
Precious
and
Plain
Art and Australia. Number 1. Edited
by Mervyn Horton. Ure Smith. 30s.
Paintings of Tom Roberts. Robert
Campbell. Rigby. Limited edition
£5 ss. Ordinary edition £3 3s.
TTre Smith’s “Art and Australia” is at-
tempting to take up again the job
which their “Art in Australia” did be-
tween the wars. On the surface it ap-
pears marked out for success it is
handsomely produced, generously illu-
strated and contains a large and invalu-
able directory of exhibitions, auctions
and prizes. To some extent it can rely
on the fact that the art world in Aus-
tralia is now large enough to keep a
“plush” magazine alive.
The first issue suggests that the maga-
zine aims to hold its public by concen-
trating, like its predecessor, on informa-
tive and appreciative articles rather than
on strong critical comment. Only two of
the six features deal critically with con-
temporary Australian art (painting and
sculpture since 1945 by James Gleeson
and Lenton Parr respectively) and of
necessity they cover such a wide range
in such a brief space that their com-
ment on individual artists is severely re-
stricted. Lenton Parr's pessimistic review
of eighteen years’ neglect of sculpture is
valuable in that it shows a real concern
for the aesthetic education of the general
public. “The aesthetic response of the
man-in-the : street”, he concludes, “is
ultimately a product of the street. Our
function is neither to cajole nor talk
down to him. It is simply to provide the
best possible street.” By contrast with
Parr's clear-headedness the articles on
painting seem overblown and precious:
this is especially true of Laurie Thomas’
eulogy on themes of lan Fairweather's.
The sixteen reproductions, two in
color, which accompany Thomas’ effu-
sion are most welcome, but many 1 am
sure would have preferred a more sub-
stantial and informative monograph on
Fairweather. One can easily understand
Mr Thomas’ enthusiasm, but not so
readily his verse.
Rigby's “Paintings of Tom Roberts”
has the same format as their S. T. Gil!
book of last year. There is a largely
biographical introduction of about a doz-
en pages, and twelve color reproductions,
with brief commentaries on each. The
plates are adequate, but not as good as
those in the Gill book. It seems unrea-
sonable to use a plate reduced to a quarter
of the original size on a page which
would accommodate a one-third reduc-
tion. This may be being fussy, but in
books of this kind the plates are, after
all, the main reason for buying. How-
ever conscientious the introduction and
comments may be, they can hardly break
new ground, and their presence in the
book is largely a matter of convenience.
Robert Campbell's introduction pro-
vides a balanced appreciation of
Roberts’ artistic intentions and of his
historical importance. Although his com-
ments on the plates tend too much to-
wards gushing generalities, his selection
of works is sound and does justice to the
range and stature of Roberts’ achieve-
ment.
BILL HANNAN
In a Russian
Bathhouse
Scenes from the Bathhouse. Mikhail
Zoshchenko. Ann Arbor Paper-
backs. 16s.
The Hotel Room. Agnar Mykle. Barrie
& Rockliff. 225. 6d.
was more than a good
writer. This collection shows that he
was one of the great humorists of
the epoch; perhaps the greatest. He may
not be the funniest he is supposed to
be funnier in Russian but he is the
most versatile and searching.
The best thing is simply to enjoy him
without worrying too much about ideo-
logies, Zhdanov's famous and inexplic-
able attack on him, or the social back-
ground from which his material derives.
The latter, of course, is important, but
Zoshchenko (who was a young officer
when the Revolution broke out) was not
primarily a political satirist, as we have
been led to believe. He was a restless
Ukrainian who did his best work in
Leningrad, and, 1 should guess, a poet
manque. A man with an ironic interest
in the tragic, a brilliant raconteur and as
analytical of himself as he was of life
around him.
The (otherwise excellent) introduction
describes him as “alienated”, but I
wouldn’t agree with that. On the con-
trary, it would be hard to think of a
modern writer more intensely involved
with reality. To be anxious is not to be
alienated, and Zoshchenko, on the evi-
dence of the autobiographical fragment
included here, did always have to struggle
with a severe anxiety neurosis. But he
didn’t take refuge in symbolism: he re-
mained a materialist, combining admira-
tion for Freud with loyalty to Pavlov (a
very sound mixture). His people, more
or less ineffectually, try to control reflexes
induced by false stimuli: this is the foun-


Randolph
Stow
TOURMALINE
His brilliant' new novel of an
outback township's struggle for life.
Leading Critics say: —
Australia magically well conveyed . . immensely enioyable . . .
whirlwind power . . . marvellously realistic description . . . compellingly
written . . . intense and extraordinary . . . diabolical force . . . haunting.
(from all Booksellers)
20s.
MACDONALD
dation of his technique and of their
troubles.
On the face of it, Zoshchenko’s is a
“sick” humor, but only in so far as it
deals with sickness. Something robustly
positive and compassionate underlies it;
pity for humans, but never contempt.
This gives some of his stories a sharply
serious edge, as in “Confession”, a short
tale of a peasant woman confused by her
priest’s lack of faith and in “The Patient”,
a little gem which would be ruined in
summarising.
The introduction cleverly points out
that Zoshchenko’s approach relies on the
“lead balloon” and the “cork anchor”.
More fundamentally, it presents the op-
posite of the Walter Mitty touch. “Liai-
sons Dangereuses” tells of an ordinary
man’s comic battle to keep his wives, in
competition with parachutists, polar ex-
plorers and cinema operators. “I guess
I’ll just have to try and be a hero, so I
can compare favorably to the rest of
the population,” the victim muses sorrow-
fully at the end. The queer thing about
this, as about many of Zoshchenko’s
other stories, is that the loser does not
really appear defeated. To draw a risky
parallel: Zoshchenko aims at what
Chaplin has done in “Monsieur Verdoux”
not at what Chaplin usually does when
his anti-heroes finally come out on top.
He never “saves the situation”. When we
laugh, we laugh on the other side of our
face.
Zoshchenko’s range is amazing. “Vic-
toria Kazimirovna” is a World War I
story on the theme of greed and death:
Kafka with a dash of Mark Twain. “A
Weak Container” is a deft piece about
corruption, smouldering with almost
revolutionary indignation. “The Adven-
tures of an Ape”, which is not his best
but which so annoyed Zhdanov, is about
an escaped monkey who found that
“breathing was easier in a cage”.
“Poverty”, masterly in every line, relates
what happens when electricity comes to
pessimistic folk. (“My dear man,” she
says ... “I don’t want my modest cir-
cumstances to be lit up for the bedbugs
to laugh at.”) “The Aristocrat” concerns
a worker who takes a declassed noble-
woman to the theatre, to discover that,
in the interval, she wants to devour more
pastries than he can afford. Above all
there is the marvellously self-revealing
but over-edited novella, “Before the Sun
Rises”, which alone justifies the book’s
existence.
The translation is very good. Allowing
for a slight unevenness in the level of the
stories, one is still compelled to pay
homage to a Russian talent in the great
tradition, neither “cosmopolitan” nor
decadent. In a few years he will take
his place with Babel, Mayakovsky and
the early Sholokhov among the giants.
“The Hotel Room” is a Norwegian
novel, the first by a writer who has since
won wide acclaim. Its subject is the
defence of decent sexual freedom as a
civic right against the Peeping Toms of
interfering conventionality. The story of
a fictitious court-case, interlaced with
essays and extremely frank flashbacks of
the central character’s growth to man-
hood and love experiences, it makes a
good point powerfully enough, without
quite reaching the heights claimed for it.
Interest is forced too much to give the
protagonists their full resonance. But
Agnar Mykle is an author who ought to
be invited to Australia: in the academic
life of Tasmania and the musical life of
Sydney he should find themes still more
worthy of his gift.
DAVID MARTIN
Struggle for Life
The Lowlife. Alexander Baron. Col-
lins. 20s.
Pictures on the Wall. Hugo Charteris.
Collins. 225. 6d.
A lexander Baron’s novel “The Low-
life”, written in the first person,
gallops along at a furious pace. Vulgar
but not offensive, it deals with the career
of Harryboy Boas, Jew, bachelor,
dreamer and a compulsive gambler.
Harryboy’s approach to life and sex
causes his doting, comfortably married
sister to worry about his wifeless state.
But it’s useless, for Harryboy only feels
comfortable with whores.
Harryboy declares he has no past, no
future and no troubles, but does admit
to trouble when the Deaner family moves
into his rooming house. He becomes un-
willingly but deeply involved with
Vic, Evelyn and four-year-old Gregory
Deaner, and his association with them
leads him into very real trouble.
Harryboy’s masochism drives him to
suffer mutilation the removal of one
of his eyes and to have it transplanted
into young Gregory, who is in danger of
losing his vision because of an accident
that the boy’s parents (and Harryboy)
feel they have unwittingly caused.
Before the day of the operation, Har-
ryboy indulges in future visions of him-
self, sharply dressed, at the dog-track,
wearing a black patch over the missing
eye. He feels sure he will be a dashing
figure, and dead certain the eyepatch will
bring him luck with the bookies.
Amid the laughter, noise and action
of the book there is a deeply serious
theme. Gradually we discover that Harry
Boas has an obsession, a secret guilt. This
guilt becomes intensified by an episode in


The UNITED
Insurance Co. Ltd.
(Inc. in New South Wales)
Security
mm
$
m
Service
Head Office:
George and Hunter Streets, Sydney
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances
of every description
DIRECTORS:
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars.
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson, D. A. T.
Dickins, K. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen, H. V.
La wry (Alternate)
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager
his past life, one that his association with
the small Deaner boy keeps bringing back
to haunt him, and in an attempt to
cosset his conscience he is prepared to
go to sacrificial lengths.
Hugo Charteris’ “Pictures on the Wall”
is brilliantly impressionistic. Philip
Ayrton, warden of a detention centre
situated in an isolated English town,
knew his father only “as a closed study
door”. His mother died when he was a
baby and he grows into adolescence feel-
ing he belongs to no one and no one
cares for him. At 19, he turns to Catholi-
cism and decides to become a monk. In
a wild impulse of self-abnegation he be-
comes a fanatical young novice but his
enthusiasm wanes. He finds the religious
life is not for him, and leaves it.
Characteristically, Ayrton marries the
first available young woman who comes
his way, an unremarkable girl named
Ella. She presents him with a daughter
and a son.
He is deeply attached to his wife and
children, but remains a solitary, locked
up within himself. Almost as securely
locked up as the delinquent boys he is
in charge of; he never escapes the mon-
astic world.
Ayrton’s attempts to achieve closeness
to his family, to his charges, even to the
various organisations he has worked for,
fail and frustrate him. In his mid-
forties, he is painfully aware of his lone-
liness and when Minty, a questionable
but voluptuous girl, crosses his path, he
believes he has fallen in love for the
first time.
Philip is possessed by a satirical demon
mischievously egging him on towards
professional and personal destruction.
This is the story of a man whose lovable
nature triumphs over a difficult fate.
Mr Charteris has written a most moving
novel.
ELIZABETH KATA
Pastorals
The Complete Poems of W. H. Davies.
Jonathan Cape. 41s. 6d.
"yHmLE it is good to have the complete
” poems of W. H. Davies, it is also
advisable to go through the volume with
a pencil, to mark the poems of real
interest or merit, so that future readings
will be less impeded by the amount of
indifferent or downright bad work.
Davies was obviously not rigorously
self-critical, and his worst poems are
amateurish versifyings of the sort that
any editor sends back every day. But
now and then, while still writing the
same kind of poem in much the same
way, the unpredictable lyric certainly
takes over.
The successful poems have two main
themes. On the one hand there are
poems expressive of contemplative won-
der, as in this early morning vision:
The timid Stars had vanished quite
The Moon was dying with a stare;
Horses, and kine, and sheep were seen
As still as pictures in fields green.
On the other hand there are poems
about life's predicaments, and among
these some of the best have a particular
feeling for the life of the poor in Lon-
don, that city which he calls “the soul’s
destroyer - ’:
As 1 walked down the waterside
This morning, in the cold damp air,
I saw a hundred women and men
Huddled in rags and sleeping there.
Artistically the poems on these two
main themes form a unity, for in both
cases plain accurate words take lyrical
form, and become the vehicle of feelings
that arise authentic and pure from the
situation. This simple strength is one of
the permanent modes of poetry, and
time and fashion have little effect upon
it.
But at any lower level than this Davies
is very uncertain. There is an interesting
late poem about a return to London
which illustrates this. He responds to the
morning light, with a striking phrase:
When l at morn saw how the Heavenly
light
Could burnish that dull gold on dome
and spire
I lost all instinct, like a horse near fire.
But then the ugliness and cruelty of the
city overwhelm him, and he seeks a sym-
bolic contrast:
Soon saw how false that empty glitter
was,
For men did drop of hunger there,
and die;
There saw I many a homeless man,
with death
The silver lining of his cloud then 1
Saw woolly sheep, fat cows in meadows
green,
In place of such men ragged, pale and
lean.
The turning of the proverbial phrase is
effective. But then the imposition of the
pastoral image at the end is a failure.
It is meant to provide a measure of the
natural rightness and goodness which
London violates; but all we get is a
Wordsworthian cliche, clumsily handled,
and saved from bathos (if it is saved)
only by our respect for the poem as a
whole and the feeling in it.
The typographical standard of this
volume is unworthy. And personally I
could have done without Osbert Sitwell’s
unilluminating memoir, which presents
Davies, if not as a poets’ poet, then at
least as a chaps’ chap.
JAMES McAULEY
Think of Piety
In Search of Greatness. Yousuf Karsh.
Cassell. 445. 9d.
ITarsh calls his dog Clicquot, “short
for ‘Veuve Clicquot’ because he
sparkles like champagne.” Karsh is that
sort of man.
An Armenian-Canadian who came to
specialise in portrait photography, he
has attained world fame as a photo-
grapher of the Great. He has achieved
this admirable situation by possessing
an impeccable sense of the Cliches of
Greatness. That is, if you think of Pope
Pius XII you think of piety. Thus,
Karsh lights his subject, gets a profile,
and creates an elementary photographic
equation: Pope Pius equals piety. Margot
Fonteyn and you think of balance and
grace. Augustus John and you think of
a craggy artiness. And so on. Every
person photographed by Karsh becomes
his own public image, naively and
romantically stated.
To do this successfully, to use such
a subtle and revealing medium as the
camera, and not once be tempted away
from the obvious, calls for expert tech-
nique combined with a malleable mind.
Both these qualities Karsh possesses in
abundance. His first book is called
“Portraits of Greatness” not “Portraits
of Men.” This book is called “In Search
of Greatness” not “In Search of
Humanity.”
Thus, as we read Karsh’s smug and
superficial cocktail-party stories about
his encounters with public personalities,
we rejoice with him at the triumph of
ordinariness in this big, harsh world.
Worthy mediocrity is so often ousted by
creative talent that the Karsh success
story will give fresh heart to a great
many people.
MAX HARRIS


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Drive on Farm Disease
By JOHN GILMORE
¥>ublic Health authorities have begun,
or are about to launch, education
campaigns on hydatids. This is more
than ever timely. Most killer-diseases
like cancer and heart conditions are
insidious. In most cases, if the heart
sufferer had known more he would have
lived longer — his personal preventive
measures would have made treatment
simpler or even unnecessary.
Hydatids, of which Australia’s teem-
ing sheep-lands are the classic home,
and which is a particularly messy human
disease, may not be nearly as fatal as
cancer and heart complaints as far as
the statistics now reveal. But it is just
as insidious. A sheep-man can harbor
it for years without knowing it. And the
statistics go only so far — hydatid cases
are not yet notifiable in most States, in-
cluding NSW.
Many serious diseases carried by live-
stock can be contracted by their handlers,
but it is fair to say that the majority
of Australian farmers rarely consider
these dangers. This is the way with a lot
of farm health risks in this country —
things like tractor-deafness and the
effects on spray plant operators of some
agricultural chemicals In both of these
cases safeguards are simple, and it is
the same with hydatids.
Cays Professor J. D. Smyth, a science
dean at the Australian National
University: “Hydatids control in Aus-
tralia is a social problem — not a
biological one. It is a matter of educa-
tion.”
The Professor is doing basic biological
research into certain aspects of the
disease, his work being financed by the
Public Health Service of the United
States, where hydatids is also a big
problem. In due course it is hoped to
be able to perfect a vaccine, but a lot
of laboratory spade-work must be done
first.
The Wool Research Committee is
already supporting Professor Smyth’s
research programme.
In a general view, the ignorance in
Australia as a sheep-country of the
hydatids hazard is appalling, especially
when the risk to children is considered.
Farm youngsters unreservedly fondle
dogs, the primary hosts, which have
been fed sheep offal containing em-
bryonic hydatid tapeworms. TB surveys
of school children are revealing some
of the sad results. Kiddies might as well
be given tins of weedkiller to play with.
In humans, hydatid disease takes the
form of internal cysts due to infection
by embryo forms of the parasitic worm.
The farm slaughtering-place is the focal
point in the life cycle of the organism.
Most cases of reinfestation of “clean”
farm and station dogs can be traced to
the killing site. The dog allowed to eat
raw sheep offal is the commonest source
of infection survey results are reveal-
ing that a staggering 30-odd p.c. of farm
dogs are infected, and anything between
30 and 60 p.c. of sheep. Cattle, pigs
and horses are also “normal inter-
mediate hosts.”
TTydatids can, in fact, infect a wide
range of animals, but not rabbits, as
many land-holders seems to believe.
Dingoes carry it, and kangaroos, giving
Australia a special disease problem
the enormous one of the reservoir of
infection in wild game.
Burning, burying or otherwise destroy-
ing offal will break the life cycle of the
disease, preventing dogs contracting it
and passing it on to man. But how
many farmers bother? How many, on
the other hand, casually throw raw
offal to hungry, anxious, waiting dogs?
Worm eggs, so small that they cling in
masses to the feet of a fly, can be blown
in the wind, lodged in fleece or in the
hair of dogs.
Ration sheep are killed on every sheep
property in the country, and anyone
who has done this job must have
regularly found hydatid cysts in the
lungs and liver of the slaughtered
animals.
It is strange, then, that so many do
not realise that the same cysts can be
made to occur in the human body not
only in the lungs and liver, but in the
brain, in bones and in the spinal chord.
They can reach football size, demanding
massive surgery. (Sheep are invariably
slaughtered before cysts have time to
develop to this size.) The cysts seen in
sheep contain tiny tape-worms, and
when consumed by dogs these develop
in the canine intestine in only a few
weeks. Dogs show little or no symptoms
at any time. Then the adult worms pro-
duce millions of microscopic eggs.
Passed to man, the eggs hatch into
embryos which burrow through the
walls of the intestines and enter the
bloodstream, being transported usually
to lungs or liver. Or the infection in the
sheep-man can take the form of the
hard “hydatid sand” old-timers speak of.
When cysts burst in the human body,
the infection is further spread, or the
sufferer dies.
Tt is likely that many hydatids deaths in
earlier days were attributed to other
causes. The whole cycle in animals is
sheep-dog-sheep, the latter picking up
eggs passed by dogs.
Many stock-working dogs are tied up
for long periods in special houses. Here,
worm-eggs disintegrate and mix with
dust. As he lies down, the dog’s coat
becomes heavily contaminated. You can
get hydatids by holding a dog, then
rolling a cigarette; by picking up a straw
out in the paddock and chewing it.
When sheep are yarded near dog
kennels, their fleece can gather vast
numbers of the deadly eggs. Egg-laden
dust can blow into water tanks. When
dogs enter vegetable gardens, greens are
contaminated.
The dog is the key control, which is
far from difficult. The dog must be kept
free from tape-worm.
The best dose for dogs seems to be
arecoline hydrobromide, but it must be
carefully and regularly administered.
Worms must be killed before they reach
maturity.
The French call hydatids “the disease
ol dirty hands.” Simple hygiene rules
eliminate its dangers. But they are not
being observed.
GRASSES FROM HIMALAYAS
A Scottish mountaineering expedition
which plans to climb three of the
most difficult peaks in the Himalayas
hopes to take back rare grass seeds
which may lead to early hay crops.
Botanist Mr C. Martin, of St. Andrew’s
University, who will accompany the
expedition, proposes to collect seeds of
rye grass of a type found only in the
more remote parts of the range.
Because of the early ripening qualities
of this grass, Mr Martin intends experi-
menting to see whether it can be used
to start earlier hay crops.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Educating the Prospective Exporter
urgings to Australian manufacturers emphasise the
need to export to South-East Asia. Less publicity is given
to the problems involved. For those who are interested in
exporting, serious attention must be given to analysing the
market conditions of each area. Grave mistakes have been
made by failing to investigate
particular requirements of
prospective export areas.
EPIC (Export Payments and
Insurance Corporation) and
Australian Government Trade
Commissioners will help . ex-
porters to avoid pitfalls. The
May 31 issue of “Overseas
Trading”, published by the De-
partment of Trade, Melbourne,
gives some sound advice on
appointing an agent in South-
East Asia.
Tax laws in various coun-
tries can trap the unwary. In
Ceylon, the appointment of an
agent who does not import as
a principal from a supplier
may cause the Australian ex-
porter to become liable to non-
resident trader’s tax assess-
ment. In Singapore, an agent
who does not have branch of-
fices may be able to offer only limited distribution of goods.
Briefing an agent on selling advantages may be useless if the
Australian exporter hasn't visited the area and investigated the
local customs and prejudices. Sales promotion costs, credit
terms and the ability to provide after-sales service are a few of
the requirements which need careful attention.
one can afford to book an order and then sit back. The
follow-up, based on an adequate survey of local market
conditions, becomes an essential part of the merchandising
programme.
The care needed in appointing an agent is exemplified in
The Philippines, where items to be watched include the Retail
Trade Act, the Philippines Flag Law, the Laurel-Langley
Agreement and the National Marketing Corporation. The
Philippines, made up of a flock of islands, needs sub-agents and
effective distribution outlets over a wide area. A retailer in the
Philippines must be a national or a US representative. Govern-
ment preference is given to local suppliers and local tenders.
In all areas of prospective export marketing, care is necessary
in investigating the financial standing of an agent, particularly
in view of recent disclosures that a well-organised gang was
working a lucrative racket in importing goods, selling at cut-
prices, and folding up overnight.
Naturally there are risks involved in any exporting project.
It is vital that Australian exporters analyse those risks carefully
and adjust their thinking to the Asian way of life. The trouble
involved in investigating a
market thoroughly could pay
off handsomely in the eventual
development of large markets
in the East.
To assist Australian export-
ers, the Dept, of Trade is pub-
lishing a series of articles on
the appointment of agents. Fut-
ure issues of “Overseas Trad-
ing” will cover Burma, Indo-
nesia, India, Pakistan, the Mid-
dle East and South-West Asia.
Anyone who wants to in-
vestigate these markets can
start the ball rolling immedi-
ately by contacting the Dept,
of Trade and EPIC to discover
the background of prospective
trade outlets, including the tax
advantages gained from ex-
port promotion and conces-
sions to manufacturers by way
of payroll tax, etc.
EFFICIENT MINING OR
SOCIAL BENEFITS?
HPhe revolution in coal mining techniques and the replace-
ment of the pick and shovel miner by automatic machines
is not a problem confined to Australia. Nationalisation of the
industry is unlikely to put back the clock when it comes to
competing on world markets. Today’s producer must produce
economically or go out of business.
Only good quality black coking coal for steel-making or bun-
kering is required by overseas buyers. So what point is there in
producing coal from a nationalised mine if the coal can't be
sold?
The extent of the coal mining revolution is exemplified in
the USA where the miner has become a highly paid, skilled
technician. In the 10 years from 1950 to 1960, however, the
labor force dropped from 400,000 to 136,000.
The rich Americans haven’t succeeded either in re-employ-
ing displaced miners. In some areas, one out of every three
families is on the dole because these people have been unwilling
or unable to up-stakes and switch to a new job in another area.


There are uneconomic mines in the USA which are still
worked by pick and shovel because the mines are deep and
would not justify the introduction of modern equipment.
Freight costs also determine if a mine can be worked or not.
But, to keep these mines going, the workmen have agreed
to take less than union rates.
In contrast to this, two men in Virginia run a plant which
washes, dries and separates 38,000 tons of coal per day. The
mine from which the coal is extracted employs 825 men, of
which 750 work underground. But no one touches the coal
when it gets on to the conveyor.
Another mine operates on a push-button system where auto-
matic coal cutters, guided by radar, gather 14,000 tons of coal
per day. No miners are required underground at such a mine.
Maintenance workers and the man who sits at the instrument
panel are the only “miners” involved, whereas 1,000 men
would be needed to produce the same quantity in an average
mechanised deep mine.
"Oecause of these tremendous advances in mining techniques,
coal has been able to compete with fuel substitutes. But the
economics of coal production also include freight problems,
and Australia must watch such factors when competing with
America in the export of coal to Japan and the Philippines.
The NSW acting Premier, Mr Renshaw, said this month that
it was not possible to resolve the problems of the coal-mining
industry merely by changing ownership of mines. Without
control of shipping, you could have cheap coal at the coal
face but be taken for a financial ride by the people who trans-
port it, he said. He stressed the importance of marketing and
suggested that a proposed State Parliamentary Select Com-
mittee would inquire, among other things, into the feasibility
of improving the use and marketing of coal. The tendency
for various companies to undercut prices to gain overseas con-
tracts was damaging to the general economy, he said. He cited
the orderly marketing of wheat as a good example of what is
known as “national” or “socialised” effort.
Perhaps the day is coming closer for a Coal Marketing
Board. But, socialised or not, the coal industry cannot sell to
overseas buyers unless the coal meets their requirements of
quality, ash content, price, etc.
IRON ORE EXPORTS
"LIBERALISED"
As lately as June last year the Premier of Western Australia
(Mr David Brand) stressed that his State had no time to
lose in selling some of its vastly capacious iron ore deposits.
Quite apart from his special pleading on WA development, Mr
Brand had a knowledgeable eye on lavish world supplies and
increasing competition to dispose of them.
The Federal Government in 1960 modified the absolute
embargo placed on ore exports since 1938. Despite the proving
of tremendous additional reserves all over Australia during the
last year or two, it has, however, appeared loth to sanction
really liberal annual exports from “large” deposits containing
more than five million tons.
Perhaps the terms now permitted to Mount Goldsworthy
Mining Associates may both stimulate that group and encour-
age other prospecting companies especially active in various
parts of WA, notably Pilbara.
The associates comprise Consolidated Gold Fields (Australia)
Pty together with two US partners, Cyprus Mines Corporation
and Utah Construction and Mining Co. They will be allowed
to export all proved reserves totalling 64 million tons at a yearly
rate up to four million tons, providing exports begin within
five years and the price is reasonable.
This consortium in February, 1962, secured WA Govern-
ment acceptance of a tender for exclusive rights to examine
Mount Goldsworthy deposits. Should it decide to proceed with
actual mining operations, these must begin not later than 1965.
The whole project embraces the building of a port, two town-
ships and 125 miles of railway from mine to port.
To obtain a four million ton export rate, capital expenditure
would be about £23 million.
Most export hopes have been directed towards a hitherto
thriving Japanese steel industry. Consolidated Gold Fields’
chairman (Sir George Harvie-Watt), when in Australia earlier
this year, mentioned negotiations were already in train with
the Japanese and that competitive conditions could be met “in
price and quality.”
He obviously set great store by this section of his com-
pany’s activities and hinted at an Australian share participation
as soon as the venture became productive.
The consortium, as well as other exploratory groups, ob-
viously need the goad of large exports to secure their markets
and to lower costs. Every possible advantage is required to
appeal to a rather less buoyant Japanese industry and to counter
other suppliers such as India and Malaya.
It is to be hoped that the Federal Government’s liberalisation
of controls has come in time.
PLAYERS * GOLD LEAF
FOR NEW GUINEA
T>ritish Tobacco (Aust.) thought well before implementing
its decision to make Players’ Gold Leaf king-size filter
tip cigarettes in New Guinea. Formation of the new subsidiary,
W. D. and H. O. Wills (TPNG) Ltd was planned about two
years ago.
. The territories have even been subject to a thorough market
survey. It doubtless demanded considerable finesse to judge
what type of cigarette, with all the bloom of local manufac-
ture. might appeal to the 25,000 European and two million
indigenous population.
Players finally won the day and concessions will enable them
to sell tor 2s. in hinge-lid flip-top boxes of 20, against 2s. lid.
or 3s. for importeds.
The new company does not expect to use installed machine
capacity of 240 million cigarettes a year right away. But it
is quite ready to cultivate the advantage of having no opposing
manufacturer yet in position.
A similar venture well established in Fiji claims a yearly
volume of 500 million. Here there is a rival maker. Guess who!
British Tobacco directors firmly believe more Australian in-
dustry should be implanted in Papua-New Guinea. They speak
highlv of the Administration’s assistance.
Other industries might care to investigate inducements
parallel to two years’ duty-free importation of tobacco, 12
months’ freedom from excise and low company tax. The Ad-
ministration dearly wants to attract secondary industries.
GOLDEN ASP BITES
FOX ON WALL STREET
Wall Street evidently believes that Twentieth Century Fox
" will survive the 40 million dollar deficit it chalked up last
year when Cleopatra, the most wasteful film in history, struck
terror into the hearts of Fox stockholders.
From a low of 15 dollars last year, the stock recently recov-
ered to 35 dollars. A happy augury is that the Fox studio has
collected 15.3 million dollars in advance box office bookings
before the film made its debut last week.
Show biz experts say that Cleopatra, which received the
greatest ballyhoo of all time, grossed enough in advance book-
ings to make it the eighth-highest earning film in Hollywood’s
history. A curious public, already steamed up to see Liz and
Richard Burton perform, could make the box office grab an
all-time winner, irrespective of whether the film is good or bad.


%
7‘
MILLION
E PI C makes
export profits
safe
Liabilities totalling over £40,000,000 are currently covered by E P I C #
compared with £1 1 million insured in 1958; ample evidence that more
and more exporters are turning to EPIC. Small wonder, when you
consider that EPIC provides insurance against buyer insolvency,
default of payment, import restrictions or even war or revolution.
More. EPIC enables the exporter to trade overseas on credit; can
often obtain finance for an export business. And, through its world-
wide commercial and political intelligence network EPIC provides
up-to-the-minute information on international markets—a consider-
able advantage. Think about the advantages of EPIC cover, and
ask an EPIC man to call and talk it over with you, soon.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
Guaranteed by the Commonwealth Government
A free brochure sets out details of all E P I C's services.
Write or telephone for your copy.
SYDNEY: 46 Market Street 29-3055. MELBOURNE: 224 Queen Street 67-3914.
ADELAIDE: 118 King William Street 8-7327.
In other State capital cities contact the Regional Director at the office of the
Department of Trade.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
“Fewer Bottle-necks, More Growth?”
HThe Treasury is apparently so con-
vinced of the strength of the spon-
taneous forces propelling the Australian
economy forward that in its annual sur-
vey it finds practically no room at all to
designate the part the Government will
need to play in the coming years in in-
come generation. Its only reference to
this in discussing “the next phase”
that is, the next year or so is confined
to one small paragraph. This reads: “The
trend in public authority expenditure on
both current services and works is likely
to be strongly upward. This is, of course,
the second largest element in total expen-
diture.” Dealing with the theme of pros-
pects beyond the next year this element
is not mentioned.
This is not to say that the Treasury
necessarily sees the Government playing
a neutral role. But without bringing Gov-
ernment action into it at all, the survey
devotes practically the entire discussion
on the “further on” prospects to shoot-
ing down, at least to its own full satis-
faction, all possible arguments why
growth in general could slow down in
the rest of the sixties.
The broadest, though certainly not
the sharpest, arrow in its bow is the con-
viction that the development of the new
mineral resources in Australia in recent
years “can hardly fail to have a strong
and increasing influence.” It expects this
to have a psychological effect which
“will arise from the knowledge that our
lines of future advance can be thrown
much further ahead and marked out
more confidently than hitherto.” In ad-
dition, it says there will be a “real effort
in terms of labor, equipment and mater-
ials required.”
On the other hand, the survey doesn’t
expect these effects to be manifest very
rapidly, the tempo depending on many
things “some of which defy prediction.”
For instance, “if, say, further oil were
discovered, the pace could soon quicken
a market for the products being more
or less at hand. Lacking that sort of
thing, the growth of activity directly
associated with the new resources will
turn mainly on whether markets are
found abroad and on the rate of general
expansion here. Indirectly, however, the
strengthening of long-term confidence and
widening conceptions of what this coun-
try can achieve may induce other bran-
ches of the economy to thrust forward,
and that, in turn, could promote faster
exploitation of the new resources. There
are signs that such a view of possibilities
has already emerged, both at home and
amongst interests overseas.”
So far so good. The survey then
examines the argument that “growth in
general could slow down in the sixties
because various special conditions which
ruled in the fifties have passed off.” It
suggests that at best this view seems to
be based on a half truth, for while growth
was stimulated by intensified efforts to
break bottle-necks in the most urgent
directions, others had to go untouched
through lack of adequate resources to
do all tasks concurrently.
Thus, says the survey, “It is of course
true that, at one stage, shortages led to a
concentration of effort and expenditure
on housing, fuel and power and
some branches of transportation. But
this was largely at the expense of other
branches of activity which were re-
pressed to make that concentration pos-
sible. Until not many years ago, for
example, building other than dwelling


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY © NEWCASTLE • WAGGA © MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/AB
construction was strictly controlled in
the interests of housing.
“In 1951-52, the value of non-resi-
dential buildings commenced was only
27 per cent of the value of all buildings
commenced. With the easing of controls
it rose fast. In 1961-62 it was 48 per
cent of the total. But this expansion has
not in the meantime subtracted from
dwelling construction which proceeds, if
anything, on a greater scale than it did
then. Similarly with fuel and power
also a top priority sector in the earlier
years. More is being spent today on fuel
and power development than ever be-
fore, yet it has dropped back as a per-
centage of public works expenditure, the
reason being, of course, that expenditure
on other works has increased/’
While admitting that the shortage and
bottle-necks of the "fifties evoked special
efforts and expenditure, the survey holds
that they also acted as a drag on growth
in other directions. Now 7 that they have
been removed, “it does seem a strange
argument that grow'th must in conse-
quence slow down.”
Similarly with the spur of import res-
triction. The survey argues that because
this has now been removed it does not
necessarily mean that industrial growth
must therefore slow' dow'n. “Here again,
it is undoubtedly true that some indus-
tries were started or expanded to produce
articles blocked by restrictions. With
conditions of full employment, how'ever,
this w'as almost certainly at the expense
of other industries seeking labor, mater-
ials and plant.
“On the other hand, import licensing
did without doubt act at times to retard
some branches of growth quite drasti-
cally. In the more stringent phases, it was
common, as regards a good many classes
of capital equipment, to issue licences
mainly to replace existing plant; new in-
stallations were required to wait their
turn in the queue.”
The Treasury believes that “the broad
truth of the matter is that the sectional
efforts made necessary by difficult .con-
ditions in the "fifties have since merged
into a widening stream of activity which
now 7 carries them on. In none of the
fields then difficult is less being done
now than then, and, as to most of them,
the future w'ill see more being done
than now'. That will undoubtedly be
the case with regard to housing as the
young people born since the w 7 ar reach
the marrying age and if, as is not un-
likely, immigration grows.
“Meanw'hile, other sectors of activity,
necessarily held in check through the
straitened post-war years, have been en-
abled to spread their wings. It would
be an odd commentary on a nation as
well-endowed as ours if strong growth
had to rely upon the perpetuation of
bottle-necks.”


CALL OPTIONS
TO PROFIT
FROM RISING
PRICES
When you feel that a share is
due for a rise in price, purchase an
Option to CALL the share at the
present market price three or six
months hence. If the share rises as
you anticipated, you exercise your
CALL and make a substantial pro-
fit. If you are wrong (and none of us
is right all the time) and the share
declines, then you will allow your
CALL to expire without exercising
it. Your maximum loss is limited to
the price of the CALL Option. Had
you purchased shares rather than
the Call, your loss would be as
great as the decline in the price of
the shares.
Write, phone or post coupon today
for further details.
MONTGOMERY, HUGHES & Co. Pty. Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. Phone: 26-1024
Please send further information to:
Name
Address.
“CROESUS”
Brainwaves From Abroad
/"Opponents of the extension of the
interests of multi - national com-
panies here have had as much as they
want to bite on these last few weeks,
what with Unilever’s bid for Rosella,
United States Rubber’s buying into
South Australian Rubber, the new de-
fensive alignments of the Australian
biscuit industry and so on.
However, it is worth remembering
that this horning-in of overseas com-
panies into our business has its com-
pensations for us, not only for the
additional strengths it brings to the local
companies concerned but also on a
broader national basis.
One aspect of this lies in the proven
ability of most of the multi-national
companies operating here to throw up
new products from their massive re-
search organisations.
The national importance of this was
recognised in the recent Treasury
Survey of the Australian Economy,
1963. While the survey stated that not
everybody would agree that “people at
large have gone so far towards satisfy-
ing the full range of their everyday
wants that only new products will tempt
them to much additional spending,” it
also looked to product innovations as
one of the keys to sustaining a rising
level of effective demand and so of
growth in the economy as a whole.
Again, recognising that product and
other economic innovations, and not
capital accumulation as such, are the
chief sources of economic growth, Pro-
fessor Alex Hunter has pointed out that
a recent study of the Australian
chemical industry revealed that during
the period 1935-53 83 p.c. of the major
product innovations in the industry had
overseas connections, and that a similar
picture would emerge from an examina-
tion of a wide range of industries, such
as electrical equipment, automotive,
petroleum and so on.
The other side of this picture is seen
in the poverty of basic product research
in Australian industry, a weakness to
which, for all the solid advance in
recent years, even bodies like the Vic-
torian Employers’ Federation and the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures
have often drawn attention.
So we must look with comfort as
well as envy at the benefits we receive
by way of product and other economic
innovations from multi-national com-
panies.
Take ICI, the UK associate of
ICIANZ here. Its recent annual report
for 1962 glistened with references to
new products thrown up by the com-
pany’s research staffs. Its chairman, Mr
Paul Chambers, mentioned a dozen or
so new products thought up by the com-
pany, and there can be no doubt that
some of these, even if possibly not all,
will be put at the disposal of ICIANZ
in this country. They include new
plastic materials for the interior panel-
ling of motor cars and a new range of
materials for paint makers. There are
“new and safer” explosives for coal-
mining, new fire-fighting chemicals for
aircraft, and insecticides for farmers
and gardeners.
But the biggest ICI brainwave of the
moment is apparently a new method for
making ammonia (used extensively here
mainly for fertilisers) from oil, instead
of the conventional coal. This new
method is supposed to be so cheap that
even if coal were provided free the
company would not prefer it. ICl’s old
ammonia plants on the Tees-side are
spread over 45 acres; its new ammonia
plant will cover only 30.
Forty or more companies, world-wide,
want to share the secret.
the world of business


1
&
ns
(&.IWI
happier choice for every occasion . • •
MGOVCS WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A,
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY .. ST. AGNES BRANDY
Why World Sugar
Prices Rose
By ALAN DAY IN LONDON
HThe dramatic rise in sugar prices which
has taken place over the last year
is mainly the result of the disturbances
to the world market arising from the
American ban on Castro’s sugar, and the
entry of the Russians and Chinese into
the world market as massive purchasers.
Through most of the 1950 s (with the
exception of a temporary rise after Suez)
the world free market price for sugar
was relatively steady at around 30s.
sterling per cwt. This was largely
achieved by the International Sugar
Agreement, which imposed export quotas
on countries selling on the free market.
The agreement was successful for a
long time in preventing excessive price
fluctuations: it helped stabilise prices by
varying export quotas in accordance with
expected demand. It managed to do this,
even though the “free” price applies to
only quite a limited part of world trade
in sugar and so is of a marginal nature
and subject to wider fluctuations than if
there were a unified world-wide market
for sugar.
of the most important channels
A of trade in sugar lie wholly or partly
outside the free market. Britain buys
most of her imports from the Common-
wealth at a fixed price (currently about
465. sterling a ton) under the Common-
wealth Sugar Agreement, and buys only
about 10 p.c. of her total requirements
on the free market.
The United States also buys much of
its sugar at agreed prices, mainly from
Latin American countries. Until 1960
Cuba was the biggest supplier to the US,
but in 1961 imports from Cuba were
banned and larger American quotas were
given to other countries.
The third important channel of trade
lying outside the free market was opened
up after the American ban when Russia
and China made long-term contracts to
buy large quantities of Cuban sugar.
Russian and Chinese imports of sugar
(mainly from Cuba) have increased ten-
fold in two years.
The Common Market countries also
take little sugar from the free market,
because they produce nearly all the
supplies they need from sugar beet. Most
of them grow beet sugar at prices reason-
ably competitive with world prices
unlike the United Kingdom, which grows
about 25 p.c. of its sugar consumption
at costs about half as high again as
those for purchases abroad before the
recent prices rises.
The acreage of sugar beet in Britain
is rigorously controlled in order to limit
the subsidy bill. All the output is bought
by the British Sugar Corporation, which
has a statutory monopoly of processing
home-grown beet.
The Sugar Board gives financial
support both to Commonwealth and
domestic producers. Until recently the
board has bought their output at prices
above the free market level. It covered
the loss incurred by selling at prices com-
petitive with imports bought on the free
market by imposing a levy on refiners
which was in turn passed to the con-
sumer.
'The disturbances resulting from the
American ban on Cuban sugar and
the big increases in Russian and Chinese
purchases contributed to the collapse of
the International Sugar Agreement in
December, 1961, and so to the ending
of export quotas to the free world
market. The uncertainty arising from
these disturbances also contributed for a
time to steep falls in free market prices,
which were largely due to bumper crops
throughout the world.
The subsequent steady rises, and the
recent dramatic increases, are the result
of the realisation that output is currently
about a million tons short of the free
market’s requirements. Although this is
less than one-fortieth of total world pro-
duction, it amounts to more like one-
tenth of the sugar entering the free
market, so the effective shortage is quite
serious in relation to the size of the free
market.
Now the Sugar Board is making huge
profits because it buys at guaran-
teed producer prices and sells at prices
depending on the world level. The Board
has the power to use these profits as
a “distribution payment”: instead of re-
finers (and so ultimately consumers) pay-
ing a levy to help support Common-
wealth and domestic producers, as has
been done in the past, it can now pass
on the benefits arising because the
guaranteed price is less than the world
price.
It is likely that this power will be
used as soon as arrangements have been
made to prevent refiners from using the
money to subsidise exports of refined
sugar. Once this has been done, prices
in the shops should fall again.
In any case, it is unlikely that the
world price will stay at present levels
for very long, although the shortage may
last a year or more. World sugar pro-
duction could be increased within a
season or two to meet demands. There
is a great deal of land in the tropics
which can quickly be brought into cane-
sugar production. Indeed, the danger is
that the market may over-respond to
the shortage and that there will soon be
over-production and catastrophic price
falls.


eOMPMV UHITCK
Kl
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
tm Jfifr
m ui W
jg ittl «*
**** 225 $2
4R 35 &
;W;X;>Xv>X;>jjAfcijji|^;lvXwjijyu^ux-:’^
u> %n Ist
.
42 a &
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
71% .. 5 Years
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one ot
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
0 All Branches ot the Bank ot New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland
0 Any member ot a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W. KING & UJILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory!
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
INVESTMENT SEC HON
An Analysis of the Latest Latec Moves
Tt cannot be anything but a prolonged
-*• and intricate task to rehabilitate those
portions of Latec Investments which are
worth rehabilitating.
That is abundantly clear from the
statements just made by MLC Nominees
Ltd (trustees for the debenture holders)
and the company’s present chairman
(Mr P. A. Malouf).
Debenture holders themselves may be
feeling very slightly mollified at being
able to contemplate their second dis-
tribution since the receivership was insti-
tuted in September last. At least the legal
priorities of repayment to secured credi-
tors are preserved. Full restitution will
eventually be made.
Such a consummation did not look
very probable when the great crash was
first announced. It appeared even less
likely as Mr Malouf, in his early exam-
inations of what could be saved, had to
notify successive huge losses and distress-
ingly heavy write-downs.
Something has undoubtedly been
achieved in bringing a measure of re-
organisation thus far, though debenture
holders must realise that their claims
won’t be settled at all quickly.
Neither the receiver (Mr C. H. R.
Jackson) nor Mr Malouf last week would
comment in any way on the time lapse
here. They can only agree that of neces-
sity it has to be lengthy.
By June 30, 3s. 6d. in the £ plus ac-
crued interest, a total £1,098,297, will
have been repaid from debenture out-
standings of £4,466,417. Some £913,074
miscellaneous liabilities (real property
mortgages, other secured creditors, taxes,
etc) rank ahead of these debentures.
In view of the tremendous volume of
bad paper previously written by Latec,
the consolidated statements of affairs as
at September 30 last, still extremely dis-
illusioning, disclose a more favorable sur-
plus of assets over secured liabilities than
many observers expected.
Tangible assets, pointedly excluding
inter-company debts, reach £8,038,535.
They throw down a surplus of
£2,659,044.
It should come as no surprise, how-
ever, to learn that the statements bear
exactly the same reservations we are
growing used to in the collapse of a
few other boom-fed monstrosities.
The trustees put the main doubts
bluntly:
• The difficulty in certain instances of
arriving at an accurate estimate of the
realisable values of certain assets, par-
ticularly some of the freeholds, under the
conditions operating by virtue of the ap-
pointment of the receiver.
• The interlocking nature of trans-
actions between various numbers of the
group which renders it impracticable to
place any reliable estimate on the value
of inter-company accounts in particular
cases.
Those complaints are not only echoed
in attempts to bring the old Latec into
the daylight, but in similar probings of
the Reid Murray and Stanhill “empires”.
To their magnitude have to be added
“the costs, charges and expenses of the
receivership and such losses on realisa-
tion as may be sustained as the receiver-
ship proceeds”. Here is the place, per-
haps, to mention also that debtors, shown
at £12.7 million in the last available ac-
counts (to June 30, 1961), now stand
at £3.2 million! Admittedly that is actual
payout value and future hiring charges
can lift the shatteringly written-down
item.
Full accounts for 1961-62 are to be
available very shortly, while Mr Malouf
believes figures for the current year can
be ready just after the end of 1963.
Returning to the statements of affairs,
the assets surplus indicated above stands
against other liabilities £5,909,938 “in-
cluding the claims of unsecured note-
holders amounting to £5,485,660”. The
fate of all these hangs on the receiver-
ship, the State Government investigation,
and not least on the attitudes of unsecur-
ed creditors themselves.
They may not feel inclined to rest
perpetually quiescent with long-suffer-
ing hopes of some recompense from
Latec’s presently profitable core to be
embodied in a scheme of arrangement.
Last September’s proposal, by the way, is


INVEST
m
£l f OOO f OOO
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
10-20 years
7 hfo
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
6 \°/o
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6%
12 months
5%,
6 months
4%
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
CAS 23 186
stood over generally until the obscurities
of intangibles and inter-company balances
can be resolved.
For unsecured creditors rank in the
particular subsidiary “in which their re-
spective claims exist”. It can’t be of much
solace to them and (at last!) the lowly
shareholders that “all subsidiaries have a
contingent liability under their respective
guarantees to the MLC Nominees and in
each case the contingent liability exceeds
the total assets of each particular subsidi-
ary company.”
Nevertheless, though unsecured
creditors can scarcely envision re-
payment in full and shareholders are
desperately out on a limb, Mr Malouf
is probably right to plead for tolerance.
Winding-up sounds a proper vengeance
for past misbehavior. But it doesn't final-
ly allow the existing profitable subsidiar-
ies to get anywhere, provided they are
saved from realisation in the receiver-
ship.
Mr Jackson has behaved prudently and
circumspectly so far. Indeed he reiterates
that he has no intention or desire to
touch earning activities. Motel and hotel
groups and the Mala home building com-
panies are operating profitably. They
have been assisted by the receivership to
remain so, only partly beause “the ac-
cruing profits will assist in repayments
to debenture holders and in defraying the
costs”.
To this mildly comforting picture
should be added the trustees’ assurance
that “the group’s land development pro-
jects are also being satisfactorily proceed-
ed with and should, over a period, pro-
duce monies for settlement of liabilities in
excess of the values placed upon the sub-
ject lands in the statements of affairs.”
All parties now immediately concerned
with keeping parts of Latec intact as
going entities are convinced that bad
debts and the flagrant over-valuations of
properties have been completely written
out. Mr Malouf confirmed the adequacy
of the procedure last week.
On June, 1961, asset levels, barely half
of the padded and grandiloquent Latec
structure survives. It is needless to add
that the forthcoming accounts must
obviously be seen to present an exact
portrayal of the company as it exists and
an understandable case for its non-liquid-
ation.
Shareholders are enduring the sight
of a bare nominal value placed on their
stake. It cannot be sufficient merely to
tell them to hang on.
Organising Grocers
One way to organise the grocery- trade
in the face of the ever-spreading
great chains is successfully practised by
Queensland general merchant and ware-
houseman Thomas Brown and Sons.
The company last year announced its
sponsorship and management of a “vol-
untary group of independent grocery re-
tailers” under the name Foodland. Start-
ing on August 1, 1962, the volunteers
now comprise 169 members and 179 as-
sociate members throughout Queensland.
They are supplied from Thomas
Brown warehouses at Brisbane, Rock-
hampton, Townsville, Cairns and Mac-
kay. The scheme is already contributing
to its sponsor’s profits.
Quite rightly directors have noticed
that “maximum profit can be obtained
therefrom only when operating costs
have been reduced considerably.” They
have thus planned a modern one-floor
warehouse for Brisbane, to be occupied
early in 1964.
In the year to January 31 last, its cen-
tenary, the company lifted net profit from
£34,439 to £79,724. Taking into con-
sideration “the conservative dividend pol-
icy adopted for many years and the cur-
rent improvement in trading conditions
generally,” dividend is held at Is. 7d. a
20s. share.
Capital was increased in July, 1961,
when ordinary and preference sharehold-
ers were compensated by issues after the
old “A” ordinaries were given full voting
rights. A further issue in September
brought ordinary capital from £555,850
to its present level at £750,134.
The shares are infrequently traded, but
last sold in Brisbane at 31s. to return 5.1
p.c.
Savings Rise by £332 million
Savings bank deposits increased by
£332 million in the year to the
end of April when the total was
£1895 million. They can be expected to
have made another leap in May if only
because the Commonwealth Savings
Bank, which holds slightly less than half
of the country’s savings bank deposits,
credited depositors’ accounts with £27.9
million in interest payments during the
month. This is the highest interest on
dividend payment ever made in Aus-
tralia.
Constructor Could Reward
At Bs. the ss. shares of John Holland
(Holdings) Ltd look worth investi-
gating by the young investor.
After placement in March at ss. sd.
the shares were listed on Melbourne and
Sydney Exchanges, and have stabilised
round about the present mark.
As civil engineer and master builder,
the company has a large volume of work
in hand in NSW, Queensland and WA,
as well as in the home state of Victoria.
Placement prospectus showed an ad-
justed profit for 1961-62 which gave


mmm
si
i
: «8
*" *'
m
. : .
I
*
■■ ■'
SV:
.•••■': •>'•
■ .v*vv;
>«g|
■
% m
m„.
banks
What! .., you mean
GA'fC.E about me?
Yes, they do. There are thousands of bank branches throughout
Australia and all of them keenly competing for new customers—
and this includes you. It is this real competition that ensures the
best in banking at the lowest cost and guarantees your freedom
to choose the bank that serves you best.
EVERY
AUSTRALIAN
benefits
from competition
between banks
E
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
the ADELAIDE • the E.S. & A. • the A.N.Z. • the NATIONAL • the WALES • the C.B.C. • and the C.B.A.
HI 19
earning rate of 17.4 p.c. Dividends of at
least 10 p.c. are forecast.
A one-for-two bonus was made prior
to the public placement, thinning net
tangible asset backing to 4s. 9d. a ss.
share, so it will take time to accumulate
worthwhile reserves.
The shares are rightly ranked below
older leading constructors, but display of
a little faith now could reward over the
medium term.
Hearty Builder
IyFELBOURNE builder A. V. Jennings is
clearing right out from any gloom
remaining in its particular industry. On
nine months’ figures to March both last
year’s record turnover and profit look
like being comfortably topped.
In 1961-62 profit skyrocketed from
£66,818 to £195,611, with turnover at
£9.25 million. Now sales have already
reached £9 million (up to March) and
the rate will be preserved to the end of
June.
Margins are being well held, so that
earning rate also could take a decided
kick. It might be too much to expect a
return to 1960's 27.42 p.c., on con-
siderably lower capital, but there’ll be a
positive advance on 1961-62’s 17.6 p.c.
Dividend had to be cut back from
12 to 10 p.c. two years ago but a re-
storation is coming into view. The ss.
shares are at present edging very close to
their peak 10s. 3d. and in line with other
prospering contractors could go a little
higher.
North B.H.’s Kitty
VTorth Broken Hill’s forecast profit
of £1,450,000 for the year ending
June 30 (more than doubling 1961-62’s
results) gets a healthy underpinning
from the latest quarter’s sales.
In the three months to March 31, dis-
posals of lead, zinc and silver totalled
£1,265,000, to compare with £1,866,000
for a full six months to December.
The latest proceeds vividly reflect im-
proved metal prices, which for the March
quarter averaged: lead £67 7s. 4d. a ton,
zinc £BB 15s. a ton, and silver 11s. 0.2 d.
an ounce. The respective averages over
the nine months are: lead £63 15s. Bd.,
zinc <£Bs 9s. lid., silver 10s. 4.8 d.
Incidentally, after hectic rises during
the past year, the price of silver seems
to be slightly more stable, very close to
the official American monetary price.
But there is still a big difference between
supply and demand. The supply will
not be markedly affected by increased
prices.


I
w
%
Link up with the
‘RURAL’
for top trading
bank service
RURAL
HEAD OFFICE:
BANK
Martin Place, Sydney
As a ‘Rural’ cheque account
customer you’ll enjoy service
that’s always friendly,
efficient, and helpful. Your
‘Rural’ cheque account
opens the doors to so many
helpful services, so start
banking ‘Rural’ soon. You’ll
like it!
RBI 25/Bdc
CSR Caps The Season
#Ane heartening feature of Colonial
Sugar Refining’s handsome 1962-63
profit is that it is almost certain to be
exceeded in the current year. Though
the hectic overseas price levels for sugar
are even now in process of considerable
modification, any conceivable average
will leave the London free price well
above the position at the start of 1962.
To more than compensate, Australia’s
new season output of raw sugar should
better 1962’s peak of 1.8 million tons,
enabling full benefit to be taken of any
fresh export opportunities.
CSR itself may even take a little kick
from building materials and chemicals
operations, about which directors’ pres-
ent preliminary statement sounds reti-
cent to the point of no admissions. Sugar
can easily speak without mention.
There’s not much cavilling, though,
at a 44 p.c. leap in earnings, from
£3,129,679 to £4,506,817 and an earn-
ing rate on capital used of 20.5 p.c. As
a garnish, dividend returns to 10 p.c.
The final 5i p.c. applies to half the
capital raised by last year’s one-for-seven
premium issue. Capital now ranking
fully totals £24,190,348, on which di-
rectors are confident in holding a 10 p.c.
payment.
Share markets have tended to abate
their glowing enthusiasm for sugars
lately. On the actual day of CSR’s pre-
liminary, its 20s. shares came back Is.
to 645. Immediate post-report optimism
took them quickly above 665.
Insurance Status
lofty premium element in Bankers
A and Traders Insurance’s latest issue
certainly won’t detract from the stock
in shareholders’ eyes. They may sigh for
the par issue of 20s. shares made in
1956, yet market prices at £6 and 15
years of 12i p.c. dividends are at hand
to console them.
Comprising 100,000 shares at 605., the
new issue lifts paid capital to £600,000
and brings in £200,000 premium.
Directors accompanied its announce-
ment by a statement that premium in-
come and profit for the year to March 31
were “satisfactory.”
Factoring Glitter
'E'actoring debutant Commercial Guar-
A anty Ltd made doubly sure of a
brightly lit stage for its Stock Exchange
bow. Not content only with the glamor
at present surrounding factors, the first
public performance was enlivened by
the appearance of historic American
banker J. H. Whitney and Co., which
has taken a 16.6 p.c. equity interest.
In this line naturally the chief im-
portance of the Whitney attachment
is the opportunity afforded of access to
large loan funds. Negotiations have al-
ready started, involving some hundreds
of thousands of pounds. Whitney’s man-
aging partner (Mr Benno C. Schmidt)
will bring them to the boil on a forth-
coming return visit to Australia.
Even before the announcement Com-
mercial Guaranty’s ss. shares were ac-
corded quite a good reception. On turn-
over of 24,500, prices closed at 6s. 7d.
CAGA’s Cash Issue
is the second important hire
purchase financier in the last
couple of months to announce a cash
issue.
Total paid capital will rise to £5
million, of which £2 million will be held
by The Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney Ltd.
It is three years since CAGA made


>
For my money
it's a ...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
3%
INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OP
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
*S94/»/*t
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members o] the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNET
TeL 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley' Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane!
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutua] Life Building.
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: "NEVITTCO’’
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines; No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
a call on shareholders, and that was a
par issue, two-for-five. The forth-
coming issue is at 75., a premium of 25.,
and will go out to shareholders in the
ratio of one-for-four. It will be called
up in easy instalments up to January 1,
1964.
Last year’s earning rate of 12.4 p.c.
(of which 10 p.c. was distributed) gives
CAGA shares one of the lowest earnings
yields in the hire purchase section
New Ground Broken
Broken Hill has broken valu-
able new ground, statistically at any
rate, in its move to publish quarterly re-
ports of production, prices, and other
relevant mining data. It is scrapping for
good and all the old four-weekly reports,
which always seemed to end up on a
date which allowed only the roughest
comparison with previous years and gave
only production figures.
North, whose shares have lifted from
around £1 to 28s. 6d. this year, couldn’t
have chosen a better quarter for the in-
novation, at least from its viewpoint. Not
only does the latest quarter (January to
March) compare with the one before out-
put restrictions on lead were lifted
(March, 1962), but the tide of prices,
both of lead and zinc, was flowing
strongly the company’s way in the March
quarter and has gone substantially fur-
ther ahead since then.
Although there have been no signals
from the other Barrier companies that
they intend to follow suit, it would be a
good idea if they did so.
Aluminium Variables
|"|ne of the minor constituents of
Comalco Industries Pty Ltd,
Southern Aluminium Pty, provided a
passing interest with its published profit
for 1962. It reached £3589.
The company was a bit of a problem
in its public days before mid-1961, when
it was acquired by Comalco. Major
control then rested with Larke, Hoskins
and Neal Investments.
But the last public profit, for the
year to June 30, 1960, reached £63,551
on capital of £500,000. After eight
years’ operation, an initial 8 p.c. divi-
dend was paid.
The company specialised in hollow
extrusions and very thin sections. Semi-
fabrication in the Comalco group is now
the principal prerogative of Comalco
Products Pty Ltd, which is to con-
solidate all these operations at the
Yennora (NSW) mill.
Comalco Industries, owned jointly by
Conzinc Riotinto of Australia and
Kaiser Aluminium of the US, suffered
a group loss of £94,854 in 1962, though
the actual producer, Comalco Alu-
minium (Bell Bay), earned £123,167
profit.
CRA’s annual report devotes a
special survey to aluminium and con-
cludes with every confidence in market
growth and rapid development of new
applications.
‘‘Hopelessly Insolvent”
fate of Garrison Industries Ltd,
now a subsidiary of Testro Bros,
was sealed last week by a liquidation
order from the Supreme Court in Vic-
toria on the petition of two big creditors,
Albion Quarrying Pty Ltd and Tozer
Kemsley and Co. The trustee’s personal
verdict was that the company was
“hopelessly insolvent”, but Mr Rex
Testro opined that as it had valuable tax
losses, liquidation w 7 as a “callous and
selfish act.”
All this leaves Testro Bros’ various
suits and also the inspectorship very
much in suspense, not to speak of the
£235,000 purchase money for Testro’s
stake in the company.
Factors On Guard
HThe established factoring fraternity had
better look to its mettle when Mel-
bourne financier General Credits enters
the ring later this month.
For the last 18 months the company
has confined factoring operations to
clients of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia, with which it is associated. Ser-
vices are now to be offered publicly.
What may shake existing practitioners
a little is that General Credits intends
just to charge on the finance used, adding
a small holding fee for any unused baF
ance of the agreed total.
Many other companies, financing
directly a portion of a debt, levy any
penalties on the total face value of the
debt.
Such a procedure gives them pickings
above the normal 18 p.c. yearly charge.
General Credits believes it can keep
charges close to a H p.c. monthly aver-
age.
The company’s future is certain to be
enhanced by its latest project. Operations
once confined to motor vehicle and home
appliance h.p. have lately been extended
to leasing, personal loans and credit
wholesaling, all helped by the bank
linkage.
Results for the year ended April 30
should also appear this month. Dividends
were resumed by a 3i p.c. interim in
December, when directors reported that
pre-tax profit for the October half-year
exceeded full 1961-62 earnings.
The ss. shares now sell around 7s. 6d.
They have touched Bs. sd. this year.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Prestige and Profit
Although the share market is rightly
cautious about most textile com-
panies because of the historical instability
of disclosed earnings and dividend pay-
outs of most of the listed companies
operating in this field, the time now
seems right for purchasing some shares
in Prestige Ltd, manufacturer of
hosiery, lingerie and fabrics.
It must be noted that, like many
textile companies, Prestige incurred a
loss in the 1951-52 financial year, but in
the case of Prestige, it was perhaps more
unfortunate as it occurred one year after
having made a 4-for-5 bonus issue and
a 3-for-5 cash issue at a 50 p.c. premium.
However, the company quietly recovered
and has in recent years performed very
well.
From what one can deduce from the
informative set of accounts disclosed by
Prestige, the key to the company’s
future profitability seems to be whether
the protection afforded the rayon weav-
ing and associated divisions by the 1960
tariff (which covers the lower-priced
fabrics) and its extension by a later
emergency tariff (which covers the
medium and higher quality piecegoods)
will be continued.
In addition, a continued high level of
domestic demand for their goods,
especially those outside the rayon fabric
division’s goods, will be needed so as to
enable fuller use to be made of the
installed capacity.
However, as far as the question of
protection is concerned, investors need
hold little concern here. For the results
of Prestige when operating under tariff
protection rank as a very strong argu-
ment for extensions of tariffs to manu-
facturing industries, and indeed are a
far cry from the “waste and inefficiency”
many economists ascribe to companies
operating under protection.
T>restige admitted that the profit figure
A for the 1961-62 financial year of about
£167,000, which was an improvement
of 30 p.c. over the previous financial
year, was due to a substantial improve-
ment in earnings in the rayon fabric and
associated dyeing and finishing divisions
as a direct result of the emergency tariff
on rayon piece goods imposed early in
1961. But the company was quick to
point out that most divisions earned very
much less than in the previous year,
due to a low level of demand which led
to highly competitive and difficult
trading conditions. In addition, the
company did not regard the 1961-62
profit figure as an adequate return
either on its conservatively valued assets
(the last assets revaluation being in 1951)
nor on its turnover.
The almost doubling of the con-
solidated net profit of Prestige for the
year ended March 31, 1963 (still subject
to audit and after unstated tax and
depreciation provisions), doubtless was
due to a continuation of the benefits
resulting from the additional protection,
together with higher turnover which the
company announced in its interim report
at the end of October last year.
But, quite apart from the impressive
profits Prestige has earned over the last
two years, the company claims many
other benefits which have flowed from
the tariff protection, from both the com-
pany and the public standpoints. These
include: reduced prices (by an average
of 4 p.c.) on over half of its production
of rayon fabric; not a single instance
where price charged during 1962 was
greater than the corresponding 1958
price; increased employment at the
Ararat mill; an assured market in the
medium and higher priced field which
enabled greater use to be made of
existing capacity resulting in improved
efficiency and productivity; the absorp-
tion of higher wage rates and raw
material prices into its cost structure. In
all, they represent a most impressive list
of arguments for the granting of tariff
protection to a company which is
already noted for the quality of its
products.
A point which is of special significance
to potential investors is that Prestige has
been quick to pass on to shareholders
part of the benefits which have accrued
to the company. In July, 1960, a 1-for-
-5 bonus issue was made, and the 10 p.c.
dividend which was maintained on the
higher capital has been increased to 12i
p.c. for the 1962-63 financial year.
Further, the directors announced
in April that they would recommend to
the annual general meeting to be held
on July 22, 1963, that a bonus issue be
made, again in the ratio of l-for-5 held.
They stated then that they were confident
that future profit would enable the
existing 10 p.c. dividend rate to be
maintained on the enlarged ordinary
capital.
However, as one month later the
dividend rate was boosted to 12i p.c.,
it is not now clear whether the higher
12i p.c. will be maintained on future
bonus - increased ordinary capital, or
whether the l-for-5 bonus announced
will be met by a pro rata dividend cut
from 12} p.c. to 10 p.c. in the 1963-64
financial year.
If a purchase of shares is made before
July 8, then the shares will still be cum
a final 10 p.c. dividend (or 6d. a share)
and entitled to the coming bonus issue.
This means that on the basis of the
current market price of 11s. the shares
ex-bonus should be priced at 9s. 2d.,
which on the basis of a 10 p.c. dividend
will yield 5.7 p.c. and on a 12} p.c.
dividend 6.8 p.c.
Tn the 10 years ended the 1962-63
financial year dividend income has in-
creased from <£7 10s. received on 100
shares in the 1953-54 financial year to
£15 received on 120 shares in the
1962-63 financial year, or at an annual
average compound rate of 7.2 p.c. Thus
on the ex-bonus pricing of the stock at
9s. 2d. yielding 5.7 p.c. (based on
current market price of 11s.) dividend
income only needs to increase at an
annual average compound rate of just
over 1 p.c. p.a. in the future to secure
a 7 p.c. return.
A brief comparison with Bonds In-
dustries (which was reported on recently)
is also favorable for Prestige Ltd. For,
whilst both have performed almost
identically as regards the past rate of
growth of dividend income, Bonds are
currently priced to yield 4.1 p.c. from
the 12} p.c. dividend which is covered
2.4 times by the latest financial year’s
earnings. Prestige, on the other hand, is
priced to show a 5.7 p.c. yield from the
12} p.c. dividend which is covered 2.7
times on the basis of the latest profit
figure.
On the basis of this comparison, then,
it would seem that Prestige represents
good buying.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to March 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ordinary capital 702 702 702 842 842
Reserves 1000 1058 1142 1038 1096
Ord. SHF. 1702 1760 1844 1880 1938
Pref. capital 478 478 477 455 452
Outside shareholders 64 68 71 66 69
Loan capital 1036 1011 994 1064 1029
Total capital 3280 3317 3386 3465 3488
Represented by:
Working capital 1258 1325 1454 1521 1585
Land and
buildings 893 905 927 933 934
Other fixed assets 1046 1012 920 961 919
Investments 83 75 85 50 50
Total capital 3280 3317 3386 3465 3488
Operating income 760 616 675 638 701
Depreciation 317 255 266 301 284
Earnings 169 122 149 102 141
Op. inc. p.c. total
capital 23.0 18.8 20.4 18.9 20.2
Adjusted earnings p.c.
ord. capital 20.0 14.4 17.7 12.1 16.7
Adjusted ord. div.
p.c. 8J 8J 10.0 10.0
Dividend yield (a) 7.0 6.9 6.7 8.7 6.7
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 5.9 8.4 8.4 9.5 8.9
(a) Based on last sale, month accounts presented.


BEHIND IHE BALANCE SHEETS
G and G Carves Off Some Fat
TT istory repeats itself in the recent
bonus issue by Gordon and Gotch
(Australasia) Ltd, wholesale newsagent,
stationer and bookseller operating
throughout Australia and New Zealand.
The company has established a pat-
tern of high earnings and a high divi-
dend rate. When these reach a level of
embarrassment, management carves off
some of the fat.
In June, 1950, a three-for-ten bonus
was handed out, and the 20 p.c. estab-
lished four years before was maintained.
Four years later, when dividend had
crept to 25 p.c., a one-for-two bonus
and one-for-three par issue brought the
1955 dividend back to 18s p.c.
Dividend rose again to 20 p.c. in
1959 and 1960, and the company slap-
ped a stiff premium of 13s. per ss. share
on a small (one-for-ten) cash issue.
Shareholders were taken by surprise
when the 1960-61 dividend rate was
cut back to 16i p.c., but a dock strike
in London, lower profit margins after
lifting of import restrictions, and Gov-
ernment-inspired financial restrictions
were beyond directors’ control.
The 20 p.c. dividend rate was restored
in 1962-63 with interim and final dis-
tributions of 10 p.c., and the one-for-
five bonus (to shareholders registered on
June 4) was announced in mid-May.
/"|nce again no indication is given as to
the new dividend rate. The 1962-63
profit of £511,189 would give an earn-
ing rate of 29.4 p.c. on post-bonus capi-
tal, after allowing for preference charges
While the latest profit for the year
ended March 31 shows a 13 p.c. abso-
lute rise on that recorded for 1961-62,
the increase in taxation provision from
£339,922 to £441,180 shows that
1962-63 was far and away the best
trading period the company has experi-
enced.
In itself the tax provision suggests that
disclosed profit conceals some more fat.
The chairman (Mr G. Sutherland
Smith) said in his annual review that the
record profit resulted from “an expansion
of sales in most of our activities, to-
gether with a careful control of ex-
penses.”
A rise in stocks from £2,034,771 to
£2,345,906, and in debtors from
£1,860,135 to £1,904,245, accom-
panied the increase in turnover.
Although the company does not clas-
sify these as investments, £650,000 was
held in bonds, fixed and other deposits,
and money at call, while another
£272,000 was with the bank at balance
date.
Loans on mortgage were down from
£250,000 to £150,000.
The bonus issue will reduce present
reserves of £3,440,995 by £285,405,
and bring paid ordinary capital to
£1,712,433.
The New Zealand subsidiary had a
better year, and quota restrictions on the
import of books were removed, although
they still apply to magazines and periodi-
cals. A new warehouse is planned for
Wellington.
The pre-bonus price of 275. 6d. for
the ss. shares gave a theoretical ex-
bonus price of 235.
Those shareholders who sold out in
1960-61 for as little as 13s. through
lack of confidence and poor communica-
tion from directors, are justified in feel-
ing a little sick.
Directors this year have dared to re-
port that “future prospects both in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand look bright”
although they caution that “costs gener-
ally continue to rise.”
A dividend of 181 p.c. could be within
the capacity of the company for the
current year, so that a yield of 4.0 p.c.
is possible from a purchase at present
levels.
The solid reserves and continued high
earnings ensure that this yield will be
supplemented sometime in the future by
capital benefits. But when the spotlight
moves off Gordon and Gotch after the
bonus and the annual meeting on June
21, the shares may be picked up for
nearer 20s. if the investor is observant.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 3696 4293 4920 4733 5253
Less current
liabilities 1934 2043 2233 2101 2619
Working capital 1762 2250 2687 2632 2639
Fixed assets 2133 2168 2480 2471 2507
3895 4418 5167 5103 5146
Loan capital 241 211 481 250 150
Minority interests 26 27 26 27 28
Preference capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ordinary capital 1300 1300 1427 1427 1427
Reserves 2228 2780 3133 3299 3441
3895 4418 5167 5103 5146
Depreciation 64 80 75 85 87
Taxation 332 263 346 340 441
Net profit 347 312 326 451 511
Net profit for ords. 339 304 318 443 508
Dividends 260 260 238 262 285
Surplus 79 44 80 181 223
Earning rate 26.1 23.4 22.2 31.0 35.3
Dividend rate 20 20 16| 18J 20
Dividend yield (a) 4.9 4.8 6.2 4.9 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 16.7 17.9 8.2 12.2 —
High price (b) 25/6 26/- 25/6 17/3 22/3
Low price (b) 24/2 25/9 15/9 13/- 15/-
(a) End of June, month accounts presented
(b) Previous calendar year
LOWES LTD
A Cultivation of Suburbia
the widening national domina-
tion of a relatively small number
of huge departmental and chain retailers,
the way of the specialist retailer in Aus-
tralia is not easy. More and more, in this
activity, are size and spread becoming
the keys to really successful trading.
It hardly appears surprising, therefore,
that an old established maker and seller
of men's and boys’ clothing like Lowes
Ltd has found the going very tough
indeed.
Despite the fact that the last three years
have yielded successively better profits,
matters of policy are still very much in
the melting pot. The essential and adopt-
ed drive from a strictly city business to
the suburbs continues to place a keen
burden upon management.
After all, directors can’t find it hard
to call to mind that as recently as 1960
earnings slumped to a mere £10,713
and no dividend was paid. There had
also been one or two false steps in hand-
ling certain goods.
A television and home appliance sec-
tion proved abortive, closing in March,
1961. A rather more novel innovation,
women’s wear, began in April, 1959, and
was terminated in March, 1960.
While the big retailers go from
strength to strength, on ever broaden-
ing ranges of goods handled, the moder-
ately sized stores battle for a decreasing
share of the market. Apart from the tech-
niques of organisation, recent general
economic conditions have not lightened
their struggles.
So it is within this somewhat gloomy
atmosphere that Lowes’ recent modest
successes and developmental programmes
have to be evaluated.
Investors tend to treat the prospects
rather charily. Despite 1962-63’s divi-
dend lift from 8 to 9i p.c., the ss. shares
stay around 9s. Id. to yield 5.2 p.c. They


have edged down since publication of the
annual report.
The market at present does not evince
many signs of quickly pressing towards
this year’s top at 10s. 6d. Last year’s
best price was 9s. 9d. and the lo»vest 7s.
On current possibilities, that seems too
far to go.
Profit for the 13 months to January
31 advanced by £12,872 to £79,498,
giving an earning rate of 15.8 p.c. Direc-
tors mention that “inclusion of the addi-
tional month has made no contribution
to the overall result.”
They have also to explain that “these
results were not obtained easily.” A
lack of confidence by the purchasing
public is still visible, while running costs
(especially salaries and wages, land tax
and rates) increase continuously.
board has lately and with compara-
tive justification stuck its flag to the
mast of suburban development. This
policy, though, cannot be adopted with-
out a measured caution.
In 1962 the chairman (Mr Stephen
Lowe) told shareholders that the main
city store “fulfils a very important and
very necessary role in the company’s
marketing stability.” But “the prevailing
tendency of the purchasing public to shop
in their local suburbs” had to be met
as well.
The policy was reiterated at this year’s
annual meeting on May 22, with suitable
reservations. “So many of these (subur-
ban) developments are available at the
present time, that we feel they must be
considered very carefully before partici-
pating in them,” Mr Lowe stated.
“Whilst, no doubt, they serve a very
useful purpose in certain areas, their
indiscriminate location will cause some
problems not only to traders but to local
municipal councils, to small established
traders and to the community in
general ... It is our view that some con-
trol resulting from a very close analysis
of the desirability and local benefit of
regional shopping developments should
be exercised if the community at large
is to be protected,” he warned.
Careful adherence to that attitude now
sees Lowes with three Sydney city shops,
five suburban (Parramatta, Hurstville,
Burwood, Fairfield and Bankstown), and
two country (Newcastle and Wollon-
gong). Modernisation of all stores has
gone on steadily throughout the past
three or four years.
An Oxford Street branch was closed
in May last and the freehold sold. The
next new branches are to be at Rockdale
and Liverpool.
Mr Lowe believes that “recent moves
in finance, coupled with the lowering of
the bond and overdraft rates, indicate
very plainly that the Australian economy
is day by day becoming more buoyant.
This, to my way of thinking, is the
green light for industry and commerce
to go ahead with confidence.”
The 1962-63 results were achieved on
record sales and “despite the unfavorable
climatic conditions which have prevailed
since the close of the year, directors
see no reason why the company cannot
look forward to another successful year.”
There appears little reason to assume,
however, that success will be won with-
out distinct difficulty and exceeding
demands on managerial skill. That’s
clearly the future pattern for specialist
retailing.
Financially, Lowes looks destined to
work within its present capital structure
for some time yet. Shareholders might
optimistically recall that a revaluation of
freeholds in 1955 brought them a one-
for-one bonus. There’s still £416,984
left in freehold property revaluation
reserve, but any sudden release cannot
be expected.
Present funds presumably allow direc-
tors to contemplate a careful extension
along the lines of expressed policy. To
accomplish this during 1962-63, over-
draft had to be lifted quite sizeably by
£132,045 to £189,320.
On the other hand, a mortgage loan
of £32,917 was obliterated, shareholders’
current accounts and temporary loans
were reduced by £22,239 to £63,987, and
trade and other creditors came back
£26,184 to £71,002. A £44,276 rise in
stocks arose mainly from the new
Bankstown store and preparations for
Rockdale.
Directors explain a £50,151 lift in
trade debtors to £216,514 by the increas-
ing use of credit facilities, though “the
ratio of credit to cash sales is being main-
tained at a very satisfactory level.”
The latest statistics for retail sales
do not manage to infer anything very
exciting for the immediate future. Per-
haps Lowes’ price/earnings ratio at
around 12 is just about right. For com-
parison, the major retailers who conquer
by size average about 19.5.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES {£'000)
Feb. 28
January 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 538 513 451 479 574
Less current liabilities 431 297 322 349 470
Working capital 107 216 129 130 104
Fixed assets 1198 1199 1227 1247 1269
1305 1415 1356 1377 1373
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 455 455 455 455 463
Reserves 761 787 797 825 848
Loan Funds 89 173 104 97 62
1305 1415 1356 1377 1373
Depreciation 14 17 17 23 27
Taxation 22 — 25 44 47
Net profit 37 11 50 67 79
Ordinary dividend 29 — 30 40 48
Surplus 8 11 20 27 31
Earning rate p.c. 8.2 2.4 10.9 14.7 15 8
Dividend rate p.c. 6 — 6 8 9L
Dividend yield (a) 4.6 — 4.7 4.7 4.7
Price/earningo
ratio (a) 15.9 66.6 11.6 11.6 12.6
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
KORNBLUMS FURNISHINGS LTD
Unimpressive Furnisher
|£ornblums Furnishings Ltd made
some recovery in the year to
January 27, 1963, from a losing position,
but it is still not out of the wood.
Ordinary dividend has been omitted for
three years, although preference share-
holders have never been by-passed.
The net profit of £11,726 was after
providing £16,429 for tax and £23,113
for depreciation.
A sum of £4814 was provided
against possible bad debts on a balance
of £10,025 owing by subsidiaries of
Reid Murray. As an unsecured creditor,
Kornblums is unlikely to receive any-
thing on this account, so £5211 will be
a charge against the current year’s profit.
Established in Victoria in 1889, this
furnishing importer and warehouseman
has an unspectacular investment record.
The holding company was formed in


1951, and ordinary dividends were paid
each year until 1961, 10 p.c. being the
rate ruling for the preceding six years.
Sale of Sydney warehouse premises in
Castlereagh Street in 1962-63 brought a
capital profit of £2218. The warehouse
moved to leasehold premises in Alex-
andria.
The subsidiary handling South Aus-
tralian and West Australian distribution
improved profit. Queensland sales were
also higher in the year under review.
Three 10s. ordinary shares were
offered to holders of ten ordinary shares,
and holders of the 20s. 6 p.c. preference
shares (participating to 7 p.c.) and 8 p.c.
unsecured notes were offered the shares
in the ratio of six for ten in an issue of
£123,000 of ordinary capital in 1959.
The £lOO,OOO unsecured (non-con-
vertible) note issue matures in 1967.
The bank overdraft doubled to £121,091
in the last financial year. Stocks and
debtors both rose significantly.
Directors in their 1962-63 report said
the impetus in sales slackened in the
second half of the year.
- The manufacturing subsidiary incurred
a loss, with the unrestricted entry of
imported furnishing fabrics. The com-
pany is attempting to produce woven
goods other than the furnishing fabrics
which were the original concept.
If new management can achieve
tighter control over stocks and debtors,
there is some hope of a profit revival.
The industry has never been highly
rewarding, and trading conditions are
much stiffer now than they were in the
50’s.
At 4s. Bd. the market rates the 10s.
shares at close to their lowest level, and
at present do not warrant greater
support.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
January 27 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 576 620 794 756 900
Less current
liabilities 319 412 460 332 386
Working capital 257 208 334 424 514
Fixed assets 459 642 652 479 394
Intangibles 44 44 44 44 44
760 394 1030 947 952
Loan capital 200 200 296 231 226
Minority interests 16 19 19 17 15
Pref. capital 40 40 40 40 40
Ord. capital 270 385 393 393 393
Reserves 234 250 282 266 278
760 894 1030 947 952
Depreciation 20 19 31 26 23
Taxation 35 34 20 7 16
Net profit 52 48 23 Dr. 34 12
Net profit for
ords. 49 45 21 10
Dividends 27 28
Surplus 22 17 10
Earning rate 18.0 16.0 5.1 2.4
Dividend rate 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 7.0 7.8
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.0 8.0 13.2
High price (b) 13/3 15/1 14/9 8/ 8/3
Low price (b) 11/6 12/6 7/6 5/ 4/3
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
ONE TO BUY
Booth Industries
a Healthy Stock
HHhe capacity to overcome a relatively
quiet business period should attach a
premium to any sound building mat-
erials stock.
That accolade has been continuously
earned by Booth Industries’ ss. shares, at
the present moment in fairly full measure
some investors may think.
But even on the general grounds of
economic improvement and an adequate
return, the shares could shortly begin to
edge higher. On internal company
strength and on comparative earnings,
they deserve to do so.
Sales are now made around 13s. 9d.,
equal to 1962’s top price and only 3d.
below the peak 14s. attained this year.
Prices have not fallen under 13s. during
1963, so the fairly narrow range gives
a tolerable picture of market esteem.
At 13s. 9d. the yield on a recently
confirmed 15 p.c. dividend stands at 5.5
p.c., still highish for well-regarded en-
terprises in this field. More reassuring,
perhaps, the price-earnings ratio of 10.7
looks particularly low in an industry
where that indicator usually moves con-
siderably broader.
Coming markets, under the influence
of a probable reduced long-term bond
rate, could easily decide to press yield
back towards 5 p.c. and price-earnings
to about lli. In that case the shares
would be reckoned attractive at 15s.
The company’s growth possibilities,
especially on the earnings side, can
thoroughly sustain prices up to 15s.
T|irectors may have sounded too pre-
cise and careful in their April interim
report. They laid a good deal of stress
on languishing home building.
Nonetheless, sales for the December
half-year “of subsidiaries wholly owned
as at that date” went 9 p.c. above the
corresponding period of 1961. Under
keen competitive pressure, turnover of
the industrial building subsidiary went
lower.
With further exactitude directors state
the December profit “from the subsidia-
ries currently owned at that date was
slightly less than that for the correspond-
ing period of 1961, but with the inclu-
sion of profit from subsidiaries subse-
quently acquired was greater.”
It can hardly appear that margins will
suffer much under this pressure. The
chairman (Mr J. S. Booth) was able to
tell last October’s annual meeting how
“expenses were kept under control and
gross profit margins improved in most
sections.”
Operations, though all close to build-
ing, extend reasonably widely. They take
in brick making, contracting and hard-
ware merchandising.
Even in the shadowy 1961-62, when
a record brick output was attained, ac-
cumulated stocks were reduced. Forward
orders also remained favorable.
The notoriously difficult timber opera-
tions at least saw record profits from the
country hardwood mills. “Our retail
timber and hardware subsidiary was quite
successful,” Mr Booth modestly summa-
rised.
T ast year’s uneasy conditions still
allowed group profits to go up from
£61,121 to £80,673, representing an
earning rate at 25.65 p.c. Earning rate
has remained above 19 p.c. since 1957.
After keeping dividend at 11 p.c. be-
tween 1957 and 1961, directors could
confidently plunge to 15 p.c. for 1961-62
confirmed by a lh p.c. interim in April.
On higher capital the current year’s
earning rate is expected to finish around
22 p.c., certainly a healthy and promising
performance.
Capital has grown moderately through
sundry issues to purchase a chain of hard-
ware shops around Sydney, thus multi
plying retail outlets for company pro-
ducts. No difficulty was experienced late
in April in placing 100,000 shares at Bs.
premium to help these purchases and for
general working capital.
The actual issue was effected with a
prominent Sydney broker. Booth’s shares
have long been popular among institu-
tions.
A cash issue to shareholders does not
look any sudden eventuality, the last,
one-for-two at par, taking place in Oc-
tober, 1959. On a strong balance sheet,
1961-62 capital of £314,494 was sup-
ported by £322,612 of reserves, includ-
ing £165,000 general and £96,696
assets revaluation.
No long-term borrowings exist and
overdraft accommodation last year to-
talled a mild £56,824. A 1960-61 short-
term loan from Australian Guarantee
Corporation was repaid by October, 1961,
“in substantially less time than our ar-
rangements called for, and as a result
our standing with them is very high.”
The same reputation can attract all
types of investors at prices somewhat
ahead of prevailing levels.


Missing Persons
Would any person knowing the present
whereabouts or the whereabouts since Feb-
ruary, 1952, of ALICE LOUISA SMITH form-
erly of 18 Palmer Street, Balmain, please con-
tact MERVYN FINLAY & CO., 141 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JOHN ASHLEY GORDON Me WILLI AMS
formerly of 944 Couch Road, Griffith, N.S.W.,
TAKE NOTICE that MAXINE McWILLIAMS
has filed a petition for divorce No. 1633 of
1963 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or before
24th July, 1963. You may obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from McINTOSH,
ADRIAN & FELLOWS, Solicitors of 27 Hun-
ter Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HAMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT '
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: NEILSON ROBERT MELVILLE, late of
Newtown in the State of New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that HELENA OLIVE MEL-
VILLE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1635 of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend this petition you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry in the Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 29th day of July, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the Petition from MESSRS. J. B.
M.OFFATT & SON, 139 King Street, Sydney,
without charge—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: WILLIAM EDWARD GREEN. TAKE
NOTICE that JEAN EEATRICE GREEN has
filed a Petition No. 956 of 1963 for Divorce
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
12th day of July, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
J. W. WALKER & CO., Solicitors, of 48
Macquarie St., Parramatta.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(.Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
£250,000 issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
%
P.A
2
5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3611
SPECULA I OK’S DIARY
Dream? Or a Nightmare?
TJaving got down, frozen, from Mr
Dusseldorp’s Thredbo jammed chair-
lift, I could hardly agree with the
spokesman for Lend Lease who said,
“Nobody was hurt or upset. They are all
back in the lodges having their dinner
and enjoying themselves.”
Swinging helplessly in mid-air, I
pondered the likelihood of Kosciusko
Chalet successfully operating a chairlift
twice or three times as long nearby. Such
a chairlift leading right to the door of
the remodelled Chalet may be a skier’s
dream, but could be an investor’s night-
mare. The prospectus for the recent issue
did not lack in optimism, but the all-
important estimate of earnings on the
bottom of page 5 gives no breakdown
spare the word! of the estimated
revenue of £280,000.
Further down we find the major item
in estimated expenditure of £221,000 is
“Other Expenses” of £176,000. Bor-
rowed funds of £200,000 exceed the
capital of £150,000 and will involve the
company in an interest bill of £25,000
a year (12i p.c.), a sizeable amount until
the company trades profitably.
If the interim report of Goodwins Ltd
can be taken at its face value, the com-
pany traded profitably in the first half-
year. At any rate a 5 p.c. interim divi-
dend was paid. Since then business
should have improved in the absence of
further adverse publicity. On the
strength of this I bought 1000 shares
at 3s. Id.
At the other end of the price scale
was James Hardie cruising serenely along
at £5.
This year tax topped £1 million for
the first time, making the declared profit of
£650,000 seem quite paltry. Apparently
Mr Reid envisages the Taxation Commis-
sioner assessing the profit in the vicinity
of £1,500,000, or more than double the
declared figure. For this reason I bought
100 shares at £5 in the hope of a quick
turnover.
Talking of quick turnovers, it was ne-
cessary to move fast in sugar shares last
week. I sold my 400 Fairymead imme-
diately its 60 p.c. profit rise was an-
nounced. I came out with an average
sale price of 525. 6d. and a profit of
£219, a near record for the portfolio.
At the same time I switched into 250
Pioneer Sugar, which were then still cum
the one-for-five bonus.
My last purchase of the week was
500 Australian Motel Industries at
ss. 4d.
To balance up all this buying I sold
both Borg Warner and Functional Hold-
ings. Functional is developing along
promising lines, but the share issue could
keep the price down temporarily.
Transactions for the week were:—
SOLD
1000 Functional 9/- £439
400 Borg Warner 26/3 £516
400 Fairymead 52/6 £1056
BOUGHT
300 Pioneer Sugar 42/- £642
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 5/4 .... £139
1000 Goodwins 3/1 £163
100 James Hardie £5 £5OB
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 37/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. op. (8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/6
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/-
1000 Felt. rts. 24/4/63 8/3 8/4
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 47/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 22/6
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/6
1000 Carrier 3/5/63 5/6 6/-
1000 ODE 5/5/63 4/2 4/4
300 Pioneer Sugar 5/5/63 42/- 44/-
1000 Goodwins 10/5/63 3/1 3/1
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/5/63 5/4 5/4
100 James Hardie 13/5/63 £5 £5


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME.
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~J or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
Th.e
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 750
ACROSS
I—Feeder1 —Feeder allowed some feature of the camel queen’s
hot-gospellers. (5-8)
7—Bottom the Weaver had some experience of this
obstinate perversity. (15)
10— Communist accompanying the Confederate general
grinned unpleasantly. (6)
11— One midge and one article for a Jesuit. (8)
14— Animal to exist in nine. (4)
15— A piece of material let in the coterie of Augustus.
(6)
16 — Adamson’s mother at the time of sunset. (3)
18— Brother put back an eye. (3)
19— Cupid and Capone indifferent
to the usual good-conduct
rules in the morning of the
mouth. (6)
20— Fortitude and determination?
King George has it. (4)
22 Conductor’s act suggests the
double defeat. (8)
23 Fag out with contrapuntal
composition. (6)
25—A virtuous untouchable state
quite different from 7-across.
(15)
27—A royalist who is French and
Scotch reveals a corny spirit.
(7, 6)
DOWN
1— Elbow? (5, 8)
2 Bowel? (6, 5)
3 Legate damaged a fledgling.
(6)
4 Pay attention to Edward, but
not Edwina. (4)
5 Island vehicle of an influential
Moslem having a screw loose.
GO)
6 Spot'for a bishopric. (3)
8— Cheques for coppers on
primitive marine transport.
(6)
9 Tennis lets you change with
lots of Maxims. (13)
12— They help a party to warm
up frozen surf? (3-8)
13— Dismissed no wrong with a
Bobby in a precarious posi-
tion. (3, 2,1, 4)
17—Bar put up some wager kind
of joinery. (6)
21—The women’s quarters are
curiously hard up. (6)
24—A god who contributes
nothing to the hubbub. (4)
26—Gas bag is upset by such gas-
bagging. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 749


•• ■ , '•Vf**!
iiii
s
mmm
FROM
STOP
•,.yv.
i:i-
FULL
SPEED
AHEAD!
HI
as
#
?* *
laffs
TO
mm,
mmsm-i
m
* i'Sm
■ .
fi
||§|u|
mmm
m
W~~"' ’ ■ ***?
i
j. "w
>
mm
£>r
J
v r>.-j
>r*!
*
«■*
1
HI:
ip
SI
imm 1
S<SsS
WS
H
. . . you're AUTOMATICALLY on your way!
It's the Wolseley tradition to be way out in front with quality, performance
and engineering. Look at Wolseley's luxury, then examine other cars in the
same price range. Listen to the purr of the 'Blue Streak Six'. Feel the power
at the press of a pedal and the roadholding that makes driving a
pleasure. And now compare the Automatic transmission that's automatically
better. The three speed hydraulic torque convertor; the light, compact,
space saving unit; the manual overide that allows engine braking and
emergency push starting. No other car matches Wolseley value for money.
Buy wisely buy Wolseley.
BMC service backs your
Wolseley 24/80 all
the years of its life.
NEW WOLSELEY 24/80 AUTOMATIC
,338 including sales tax. A product of the British Motor Corporation (Australia) Pty. Limited


The Symbol of the World's Best known Largest-Selling King Size Virginia Cigarette
ifcSSJi S«9
; Oi
r
K® 5* si
I
1
s' ■
FILTER
fiOTHMAWS OP PALL MALL AUSTRALIA LTD
the
Rl lIP
Cs 9 ImV Cm
BAND
of
Rothmans
King Size
Filter:
20
ROTHMANS OF PALL MALL,
EST. 1890
a izuom& or- f\m vm-kmrtMi
THSOV.-K StX RU<S«$
DQU&LY SMOOTH-FILTER TIP
PLUS THE EXTRA LENGTH
Over the years the distinctive blue band has
been synonymous with the high quality and purity
of Rothmans King Size Filter Australia’s most
wanted cigarette.
Many attempts have been made to imitate Rothmans
—even the blue band has been copied. But no
other cigarette has been able to equal the quality of
Rothmans King Size Filter.
So long as Australians continue to compare the
tobacco, compare the filter and to demand true King
Size flavour, Rothmans King Size Filter will continue
to be FIRST IN AUSTRALIA - FIRST IN THE WORLD
