

The Bulletin
JULY 27. 1963
/ y .
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF FACT AND OPINION - EST.ffSSO
Death of a Circm?
Perils of Overseas Investment in Australia


■ -
'
3P3$
•V® :
\WK
mm
Wggßggw®
Bfr*** ‘r^riyiiTTitrarMr
g£ P’li
«■ ™ “ OJ^;
r«
/A/ CJ
f %' &
•pats * *y <s,
c^AVe
N
mf
4m a
CLEAN
CIGARETTE
THAT’S KIND
TO YOUR THROAT


/
I
“/ \
P
//
M
t
i
m
. .#
*'J
KEEP ON
THE MOVE
WITH
AS L FINANCE
For the finance to expand ... look to ASL. For that new equip-
ment, new fleet. . . look to ASL. This Australia-wide organisa-
tion covers every phase of finance—industrial, hire purchase,
leasing, real estate. And behind each transaction there's a
man trained to assist and advise you on the better use of
finance. Fast, fair, friendly! That's ASL FINANCE.
Sydney 25 5281; Brisbane 21991; Melbourne 67 6551;
Adelaide 8 7183; Hobart 2 2426.
Associated
Securities
Limited
FINANCING INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION SINCE 1926
ASL 9 10.3
OREIGN INVESTMENT . . 15
Partnership v. Domination
@
essel’s Tantrum: The New Science
Book 7
eath of a Circus?: Elephants Cost
Too Much 17
Desire For Snow: Canecutting
isn’t Fun 21
urma’s Leftward Rush 29
asser Treads a Tightrope 30
onald Colman, Clara Bow and all
that 34
lockbusting the Critics 37
ilose-up on Ivan The Terrible .. 40
onds and the Budget 44
[r. Holt and the Loan Council .. 49
•
ANNER G
HIS AUSTRALIA , 7
0 YEARS AGO »
LAIN ENGLISH 13
ORUM 15
>UT AND AROUT 17
►VERSEAS 29
iROUND MELROURNE . . . 31
ETTERS 35
REVIEWS 37
EIFFER 39
IED PAGE 40
VORLD OF RUSINESS .... 44
lAN ON THE LAND G 1
ROSSWORD 62
tutorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
‘dvertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
r °l. 85
No. 4353


8Y APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
OUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLER*
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
Connoisseurs will understand our pride
This is
Centenary Year for
VAT 69
One hundred years have set Time’s
honoured seal of distinction to this excellent Scotch
Whisky and, in so doing, has truly justified the discrimination of
those who nominated the fine old whisky from
the vat numbered 69 as the perfect blend.
More than a Scotch, a tradition for 100 years now
ISBfifi
NZL 6/10.4


National Notebook
Ties That Bind
Politicians can cover some pretty
strange ground in debate, but when
they are “in club” the areas of dis-
cussion seem even wilder.
The seventh Australian area confer-
ence of branches of the British Com-
monwealth Parliamentary Association,
just ended in Canberra, is an illustra-
tion. The C.P.A., founded in 1911 to
“facilitate the exchange of information
and to promote closer understanding be-
tween Parliamentary organisations with-
in the Commonwealth of Nations”, func-
tions like an exclusive club, with club-
rooms in many parts of the world.
Presenting a report on last year’s con-
ference at Lagos, Nigeria, a Tasmanian
Labor MHA, Mr L. E. A. Costello, un-
derlined the club atmosphere. One extract
from the report to his fellow Australian
C.P.A. delegates sitting in the green-
padded seats of the chamber of the House
of Representatives vacated for the winter
recess until the budget session opens
reads: “I raised the question of reducing
the size of the C.P.A. badge. Although
some satisfaction with the size of the
present badge was expressed the secre-
tariat was instructed to pursue the matter
of a smaller badge with the manufactur-
ers.”
Another extract: “C.P.A. Tie—l7oo
ties have been ordered by branches and
now the possibility of having scarves
for lady members is being explored.
It occurs to me that in view of the high
customs duty charged upon the ties sent
to us from the U.K. some steps might
be taken to have them made within
Australia.”
The Years Between
Tn a recent London “Observer”
A the Establishment is seen working
in its weirdest form. The new book by
Michael Astor about the Cliveden set,
“Tribal Feeling,” is reviewed by none
other than Michael’s uncle, Lord (aged
84) Brand under the heading “Cliveden
from the Inside,” on the request of
David Astor, the editor.
Lord Brand begins: “I have been asked
by the editor of ‘The Observer’ to review
a book written by his brother, and my
nephew ... it is not an easy task for
an uncle, aged 84, who is no writer of
books, to review a book written by his
nephew, aged 47. I have the advantage
of having known Michael’s parents and
numerous relatives intimately, having
myself married Harry Astor’s sister, and
of having known Michael since he was
born.”
Down on Paper
IyiELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS has
begun music publishing. It will start
its list with two works by Melbourne
composers: duo for violin and viola by
Dorian le Gallienne and fantasias for
string trio by Felix Werder. (Earlier
this year the Music Department of
Sydney University made its debut in the
same field.)
The scores will be printed in Mel-
bourne by A. Kynock and Co. Pty Ltd,
a subsidiary of Allans, and the only
firm in Australia which specialises in
printing music. Its manager, Mr J.
Chadwick, told The Bulletin that most
printeries could handle music by having
blocks made from an existing score or
suitable manuscript. His firm, however,
starts at the point of having the plates
engraved in the traditional way. His staff
of 20 includes two musical engravers.
Kynock and Co. have been in the
business for 43 years, he said. Much
of the firm’s bread and butter comes
from publishing sheet music for schools
and music teachers. We asked what was
the firm’s best seller over the years. Mr
Chadwick said it was the setting for
voice and piano of “Moonlight and
Roses” but added that it wasn’t sell-
ing too well these days.
Selling Their Birthright
through the windows of the
shop on the corner of Grenfell
Street and Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide,
an aborigine in a crumpled suit snuffled
because of a civilised, common cold. The
shop, newly-opened by the Department
of Native Welfare, sells aboriginal arti-
facts.
Mercifully, perhaps, the Department
does not run to chichi. The shop is
square and bare. On the walls are hung
hooked rugs, their patterns aboriginal,
immemorial. Scattered on some chrome
and plastic tables are spears and woom-
eras, priced at 75., and boomerangs,
priced at a guinea. There are kangaroo-
skin moccasins artifacts which, pace
the anthropologists, surely link the Aus-
tralian aborigine to the American
Apache, that other aborigine who has
been taught to cater for tourists.
Announcing the opening of the shop,
the South Australian Minister for Abor-
iginal Affairs, Mr Pearson, said it was
one way of teaching aborigines to work
for a living. “It will also help to make
the public aborigine-minded and is in
line with contacts already made by the
department with church and social
groups for more ready acceptance of
aborigines in the community.”
The window-gazing aborigine turned
to walk away, loudly blowing his nose.
A sentimentalist might have read into
the sound the pathos of a man conscious
that he has exchanged his birthright
for a snot-rag.
French Cricket
Tn Sydney last week casting a specula-
tive eye on tourist potentialities was
Louis Eschambrenner, director of the
New Caledonia Tourist Office. Mr
Eschambrenner, who learned English
while working in Australia after the
war, told us his native island never
seriously considered attracting tourists
until the nickel market tumbled recently.
“We used to export a lot of our
nickel to Japan where it was smelted
and sold to the U.S., but orders have
fallen off,” he said. While optimistic
about the future of nickel, the islanders
saw nothing wrong with capitalising on
the natural attractions of New Caledonia
and thus tourism was born.
“One of the big attractions in New
Caledonia,” Mr Eschambrenner told us
“is the absence of racial problems. We
have 15 different races living together.
All receive the same wages and have
the same rights. Unless they are non-
citizens they all have a vote. The island
is self-governing.”
Mr Eschambrenner is descended from
an Alsatian family which moved to the
South Seas when Bismarck took over
the border States in the 1880 s.
“Many of the French citizens of New
Caledonia are descended from exiles who
took part in the Paris Commune,” he
said. “These were imprisoned on the
Isle of Pines, just south of the main
island. We’re restoring the old gaol and
the dungeons. Visitors can still see the
guillotine there.”
Some powerful Sydney interests are
planning to give the island all the bles-
sings of a tourist-conscious mecca in-
cluding air-conditioned hotels, organised
tours and swimming pools. “Of course
we already have plenty to offer; miles


of beaches, fishing, magnificent food
and above all peace and quiet,” Mr
Eschambrenner said. “Did you know the
natives are fanatical cricketers? They
learned the game from British mission-
aries.”
Repercussions
"Depercussions from the ill-advised
JL * debut on television, via Michael
Charlton’s “Four Corners,” of the Sec-
retary of the Communist Party, Mr
L. Sharkey, continue.
At Mascot when on their departure
for the Soviet Union, Mr R. Dixon,
Sharkey’s long-time friend and No. 2
man, stepped in and took over the TV
news interviews, leaving Sharkey in the
background still looking as if he did not
know what it was all about.
Now a group of his one-time Party
friends have served notice on the Com-
munist Party that because of his lament-
able showing on “Four Corners” they
will not contribute one penny more to
the Party’s fighting funds while Sharkey
remains secretary.
Not Unanimous
Professional colleagues of Perth have
made it clear that they do not share
the views of Dr Bernard Bignold, the
psychiatrist who advocated sterilisation
of unfit people. Some have taken the
unusual step of rebutting him in public.
After Bignold said in one Press intei-
view that he thought most of his mental
health colleagues shared his views, the
acting director of Western Australian
Mental Health Services, Dr W. Gray,
said that Bignold’s views were not those
of the medical staff of the Mental
Health Services. One of Bignold’s col-
leagues at the Claremont Mental Hos-
pital, Dr Frederick Bell, also disassocia-
ted himself publicly from Bignold’s views.
Bignold was formerly a veterinary
surgeon with the Department of Agri-
culture who switched to medicine after
the war.
Our Cover
'C'rom Charles Higham’s story on page
17 there seems every reason why
the circus clown should look sad. This
week’s cover photograph was taken at
Wirth’s Circus by a member of our staff,
Mr H. Lloyd Jones.
Three-Letter Words
T ast week in Letters to the Editor
one of our readers called on Vic-
toria’s motor transport people to elimi-
nate all HUJ car registration numbers
because it is a word with Rabelaisian
overtones in several European languages.
This information has moved one of
our writers to enter this plea for other
suffering motorists:
Pity the poor Melburnian whose car
has a three letter word in Ukrainian.
Meaning something that makes the
ribald scugnizzi laugh till they’re reeling
and dizzy.
Yes, pity the motoring lady whose
HUJ is sinister and shady,
Making her feel a real mug, when
she’d sooner be known for her HUG.
But also feel sorry for owners whose
APE, BAT, COM and DOG are fair
boners,
As are also such stoppers as GIG,
HUM and RAT, while to indignant
coppers a blot on the fair name and
number of COP makes one wish they
were dumber.
But reserve most of your pity for the
poor COW in Melbourne or some other
city.
Who buys his plump wife a car that
unnoticed by him is one of the 999
prefixed FAT;
He’s in BAD, his name is MUD, he’s
a thorough PIG and an utter DUD
Though not as much as the fellow
who bought his spouse a BAG and spent
weeks explaining that it was not as bad
as HUJ in Czech, Polish, Russian, Yugo-
slav and perhaps Rumanian.
Tanner
"What do you want to read this for? You're not a registered nurse or a doctor?"


THIS AUSTRALIA
EDUCATION
Harry Messel’s
Angry Press Conference
Parents' secret subsidy
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
HARRY MESSEL
“Tired of it”
YI/hen the invitations went out for a
Press conference last Friday at the
School of Physics of the University of
Sydney it was expected to be something
of a routine affair. But a newspaper
story that afternoon turned it into
a chapter in what could become some-
thing of a cause celebre —the Affair of
the Text-book Contract for the Science
for High School Students, the new science
text for NSW and possibly the most
important text-book yet produced in
Australia. (For a criticism of the book
see The Bulletin, Red Page, May 25.)
The conference had been called merely
to announce that the schedule for pub-
lication of the book (900 pages, 4i lbs)
was set for January in time for the 1964
school year, but the newspaper story so
angered the ebullient Head of the School
of Physics, Professor Harry Messel, that
he seized the opportunity to denounce the
reported offer of a Melbourne commer-
cial printer to produce the book for
schools at more than half of what parents
are now expected to pay for it —335. in-
stead of 655.
The Professor spoke for 25 minutes
without break. Put simply, his argument
was that the book as published by the
Foundation was cheaper than it could
have been by any other means (“down
by one-half to one-third”) and that the
Nuclear Research Foundation was en-
titled to the royalties (“I hope they can
make a fortune”) because of the work
put in by its members on the project.
The publicity given in the afternoon paper
story to an offer by Jacaranda Press Pty
Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wilke
and Co. Ltd of Melbourne, spurred the
Professor into a general attack on the
book trade and text-book publishers.
(They are “fleecing the public”.) Further-
more the fact of the Wilke offer made
five months after a contract had been let
to the NSW Government Printing Office
was “one of the most unethical business
things I’ve ever heard of,” he said, and
he left it to the public to decide “what
shenanigans were going on.” Professor
Messel said that an attack had been
launched on him because the Foundation
had “by-passed the book-trade”.
In reply to questions, he side-stepped
the issue just how much royalties the
Foundation might get. (“It is impossible
to estimate.”) But he defended the
payment of royalties to the Foundation,
because he was “tired of going around
kissing people’s backsides to raise cash
—and you can quote me on that.”
Meanwhile in Brisbane Mr Brian
Clouston, the managing director of Jaca-
randa Press, was unavailable for com-
ment. He had been ordered by his board
to make no comment —having just return-
ed from Sydney trying but failing to get
an appointment with the Acting-Premier,
Mr J. B. Renshaw, to discuss the matter.
To publishers and printers generally
the decision by the Nuclear Research
Foundation to publish the book itself and
to contract with the Government Printer
for what must be at least 250,000 copies,
represents the loss of hundreds of thous-
ands of pounds in income—a loss that
naturally infuriates a struggling industry.
Parents who are puzzled by the fact
that they appear to be paying double
the price they might have paid for a
more or less compulsory text-book can
console themselves with the thought that
the extra price amounts to an indirect
subsidy to the Nuclear Research Founda-
tion. The only question is how much
this subsidy actually is. Professor Messel
is silent on this point, but the book trade
claims it amounts to about £2 per copy.
UNIONS
The Cochrane Case
The Double Standard
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
Tf an employer did to an employee what
the Communist-led Australian Rail-
ways Union in Victoria is doing to one
of its members, the ensuing screams of
protest from Labor and Left-wing circles
would justifiably —be heard around
the Commonwealth. The member is
Councillor T. A. Cochrane, an ALP
man, who recently laid a Unity Ticket
charge in the ALP against the ARU
Victorian Assistant Secretary, Mr W. H.
O’Brien.
As I see it the Union is trying to de-
prive Cochrane of something that is even
more basic than his union rights. It is
trying to deprive him of his political
freedom. It has suspended him from
union membership for his action in re-
porting O’Brien, who as a result of the
report was expelled from the Labor
Party and consequently has lost his seat
on the Victorian ALP Executive. In
effect the Union has said to Cochrane
“You may belong to this union only if
you forego your right as an Australian
citizen to belong to a political organisa-
tion and to observe its rules”.
If you examine what Cochrane has
done, it is obvious he has not sought to
have an outside body the ALP in-
tervene to say that the ARU cannot elect
O’Brien as its Victorian Branch Secre-
tary. He has not infringed any ARU
rights. He has merely had established
that O’Brien has no right to run for union
office under an ALP label when he runs
in association, on a Unity Ticket, with
Communists in defiance of the ALP pro-
hibition upon this type of association.
As the label ALP is owned by the ALP
it is entirely within the ALP’s competence
to withdraw it, and whether it withdraws
it or declines to withdraw it is a matter
between Cochrane and O’Brien as ALP
members and the ALP itself.
The fact that the Communists have
inspired this action against Cochrane in-
dicates that they are rattled by the recent
defections. Communists in Victoria
have successfully bluffed the ALP into
staying outside union affairs and hence
into leaving the monopoly of political
interference in industrial matters to the
Communist Party. They have done this


by postulating that the ALP and the in-
dustrial movement can exist in separate
compartments, neither interfering with
the other.
The Communist Party wants it this
way because it knows that if ever the
ALP intervenes forcibly in the industrial
field its power points in unions now
under Communist control would be
threatened. The Communist Party never
observed the ‘compartment’ thesis though
it was the Communist Party’s brain-child.
The thesis was evolved only to hypnotise
the Labor Party into inaction, not for
observance by the Communists them-
selves.
Now by taking action against Cochrane
industrially for an action he took politi-
cally the Communist Party has come out
into the open. It is showing almost con-
temptuously the extent to which it is pre-
pared to interfere not only in the unions,
but in the internal affairs of the ALP. It
is certainly interfering in the internal
affairs of the ALP more blatantly than
Mr. B. A. Santamaria when his non-
Communist organisation established an
effective influence from without upon
the ALP prior to the 1955 Labor split.
The Communists obviously expect to
get away with what they are doing to
Cochrane and as a consequence to
frighten other ALP men from exercising
their political rights; and they may get
away with it. It is not without signifi-
cance that the Labor and Left-wing voices
which would be complaining in outrage
about this treatment of Cochrane if the
treatment had been administered by an
employer to an employee and not by a
Communist-led trade union to an ALP
member, are not being raised with any
fervor at the moment.
It will be interesting to see whether—
as well might be the case Labor has
so lost its old self-confidence and become
so spiritless that it will accept from the
Communist Party what it refused to
tolerate from Mr. Santamaria in 1955.
HEALTH
The Medical War
The MBF -a doctors ’ front?
W. SHEAHAN
“Tragic”
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
A shuffle of statements and counter-
statements, the intervention of the
NSW Minister for Health (Mr Sheahan),
and the beginning of a court action
further contributed last week to the
confusion of contributors to the Medical
Benefits Fund of NSW and the Hos-
pitals Contribution Fund of NSW. But
at least the issues were becoming
clearer compared with the previous
months.
The affairs of the funds affect
directly at least one quarter of all Aus-
tralians. The MBF (taking into account
its Queensland and Tasmanian funds)
has a membership of more than
2,500,000, while the HCF of NSW
covers 2,500,000 in NSW alone. Further,
the disputes arising out of the clash
between the two funds also have
implications affecting other voluntary
funds, because behind the quarrel is the
question of financial reserves and ad-
ministrative conduct of voluntary health
funds. And when it is considered that
74 per cent of the Australian population
is covered by membership of such funds,
the implications are far wider than most
State disputes.
The new round of statements began
with an announcement by the Medical
Benefits Fund interstate council that
MBF would establish its own hospital
benefits fund in NSW. This decision
came eight months after the HCF had
given notice of withdrawal from a joint
management company.
The original announcement of the
HCF withdrawal from the joint manage-
ment company was made without ex-
planation and was vigorously criticised
by the MBF. Although HCF offered a
compromise of partial integration of fund
facilities to continue after the break-up
of the management of the company, the
MBF decision to go ahead and establish
its own hospital fund made a final split
almost inevitable.
At that point the HCF then called
an emergency executive meeting for
Tuesday, and the NSW Minister for
Health, Mr Sheahan, weighed into the
battle.
On his first day back from hospital,
Mr Sheahan called a Press conference
in his recently redecorated office. (A
Dobell and a Utrillo have replaced the
old newspaper cartoons on his walls.)
What the hour-long Press conference
amounted to was a plea for a Common-
wealth inquiry into the financial basis
of all funds and an attack on the Medical
Benefits Fund on two counts: firstly, its
reserves were too low, and, secondly, its
payments to contributors were too low.
Mr Sheahan claimed that the MBF
had only £2i million in liquid assets to
cover its 2,500,000-odd contributors,
while the HCF had £5 million. In other
words the MBF reserves position was
“tragic”, because it was unable to pay
“what Sir Earle Page had originally
wanted such funds to pay.” Mr Sheahan
cited the original intention that medical
PROTESTANT CHILDREN, CATHOLIC TEACHER
bulletin
80 Years Ago: July 28, 1883
HThe colony has deliberately adopted
a system of ignoring sectarian
distinctions in its public schools. The
mass of the people have declared that
they are satisfied the best plan all
round is that in State schools only
secular instruction shall be given.
That being the case, it is immaterial
to them who gives the instruction, so
long as the teacher is competent and
of reputable life. But at Mittagong a
little gang of ultra-bigots are not con-
tent that the local school is non-sec-
tarian. Non-sectarian with them is ex-
pected to signify sectarian! The
schoolteacher there is a Roman Cath-
olic. They are Protestants. Therefore,
they have demanded that the teacher
shall be “removed.” We are glad to
see that the Minister for Education
put his foot down on the Mittagong
bigots with a stamp. They threaten
to withdraw their children. Exactly
what Dr Vaughan and the bigoted
Papists threatened, and did. Bigotry
works identically at both ends, it
seems. It is also comforting to know
that in Mittagong bigotry is not
supreme, and that the general sense
has repudiated the stupid, persecuting
spirit of a small and irrational,
although loud and fussy, minority.


LEARN FRENCH* AS NATURALLY AS HE DID
BY LISTENING
He learnt French as a child by listening to other people. You can do exactly the same
through Linguaphone. The only difference is that you listen to the voices of distinguished
speakers and professors on Linguaphone recordings (45 r.p.m. or tape). What they say
is specially designed to help you learn the language in a short time —an incredibly short
time.
Learning by Linguaphone is wonderfully easy. The process of learning almost takes you
by surprise. You find yourself speaking the language, capturing the right accent and
intonation without any particular effort. To make sure you learn the written language at
the same time, you follow each lesson in an illustrated textbook. Linguaphone is the finest
audio-visual way of learning a language.
Over a million people have learned a language in this way choosing from thirty-
seven separate languages.
the coupon below for the FREE 20-page book and details of the Week's Free
Trial Offer.
LINGUAPHONE FOR LANGUAGES
“ - p OS f Today “ “ “
Linguaphone Institute, Ply. Ltd., i Fleming Place, (off 359 Lt. Collins Street) Melbourne.
Please send me without obligation your free illustrated booklet of the Linguaphone method
of learning languages.
I am interested in |~j FRENCH Q GERMAN |—] ITALIAN j~J SPANISH
or
*(34 languages available)
NAME ...
ADDRESS
B. 27/7/63.
insurance funds should return 90 per
cent of the medical expenses, though
this was denied later by Senator Wade,
the Federal Minister for Health. Benefit
payments for surgery calls have fallen
to about 50 per cent, according to Mr
Sheahan.
Next day the president of the MBF,
Sir Ronald Grieve, answered Mr Sheahan
by claiming £4,400,000 in assets. To
that the Minister repeated that his figure
had been realisable assets, not including
buildings, etc., which were not in the
HCF reserve figures. (In fact, the
Minister was a little out in both figures;
according to the last reports MBF liquid
reserves were £2,860,000, while HCF
liquid reserves were shown as
£6,332,000.) But even allowing for the
Minister’s error, he had made his point.
Sir Ronald Grieve side-stepped the
Minister’s cases on costs by saying that
if the reserve figure had been inaccurate
then the costs cases were to be doubted.
The HCF executive committee met
next day to consider their rival’s
decision, and set up a sub-committee to
investigate the possibility of setting up
their medical fund. The same day an
action was commenced by HCF in the
Equity Court for injunctions against the
joint management company to stop it
delivering certain information from its
records to the MBF.
case came before Mr Justice
A Asprey last Friday and was adjourned
for a week. After hearing an hour and
a half of argument on how long any
adjournment should be, the judge com-
mented that the matters “ought to be
settled by common sense.”
The week had seen a flare-up of the
propaganda warfare that had dragged
on between the funds since the announce-
ment last year of the impending break.
MBF had gained early publicity victories
in a campaign shrewdly master-minded
by the big public relations firm of Eric
White Associates, while HCF had kept
a stiff upper lip and refused to enter into
open argument. HCF, slow to stir under
criticism of their tight-lipped manner,
a few months ago called in another
major PR firm, who modestly and
cleverly suggested instead of a firm
doing the job it would be better for
HCF to hire their own man. So HCF
took on one of the brighter young State
public servants —Mr Phil Gallagher.
Behind the scenes the atmosphere has
been thick with talk of “socialistic”
prejudices in the HCF, and counter-
claims of a “doctors’ front” in the MBF.
The “socialistic” charge against the HCF
has been hotly countered by HCF men
who point to a stockbroker, two ex-
Liberal MLAs, an insurance company
chairman, a solicitor and a market re-
search executive, as well as businessmen
on their committee. The counter-charge
of “doctors’ front” has emerged as the
prime HCF argument for its original
decision to split. The claim goes that
a full-scale overhaul of administrative
procedures was needed and the HCF,
with its business background, had been
unsuccessfully pressing for this.
The decline in the percentage of fund
returns in medical benefit cases has
directly affected the millions of con-
tributors throughout Australia and the
question that plenty of contributors and
two Sydney newspapers were asking last
week was whether the old percentages
would ever be restored or whether the
present ones could be maintained.
In the flurry of the battle between the
two funds this question appeared to have
been lost sight of. Although Senator
Wade could reject an inquiry on the
grounds that the existing scheme had
worked satisfactorily, contributors had a
right to be sceptical.


ACCOUNTANTS
Cooking the Books
A new demand for registration
SIR ALEX FITZGERALD
No substitutes.
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Tt is rather startling that any expert
A in cooking the books can step out
of gaol and put up his sign of public
accountant in Victoria or any other
State in the Commonwealth; or that
any company, public or otherwise, can
take on its staff a company secretary or
a finance director without the quali-
fications of one of the recognised pro-
fessional accountancy bodies in this coun-
try. Both high and low accounting eche-
lons of companies and Government de-
partments all over the country are
heavily laced with unqualified account-
ants whose testimony has perforce to
be accepted by legalised auditors.
It would perhaps be going too far, ex-
cept in one or two cases, to say that
cooking the books has been a main cause
of some of the big company failures over
the last year or so. But obviously what
Sir Alexander Fitzgerald last week called
“a ready acceptance of responsibility
to the community” has been lacking in
too many accounting places in the recent
period of company distresses. The ques-
tion is whether means lie at hand to
enforce responsibility, and the verdict
must be that though registration of
both practising and non-practising ac-
countants which Sir Alexander and
the Australian Society of Accountants
demand would go some way towards
achieving it, the complete answer lies in
lifting the level of ethical standards
(and perhaps not only in the ranks of
unqualified accountants).
But, morals apart, as the country’s
legislatures warm up to close loopholes
in the companies’ acts, and sensing the
climate is right for a break-through to-
wards registration of accountants, the
professional accountancy bodies think
that their 30-year-old campaign now
has a better-than-ever chance of suc-
ceeding and that the ghostly suspicion of
their desire to create a professional
monopoly through legal registration of
accountants has been laid. (Writing in
the Society’s journal, “The Accountant,”
in 1956, Sir Alexander Fitzgerald stres-
sed: “It cannot be too strongly em-
phasised that registration is sought on
the grounds of protecting the public
from untrained and inexperienced lay-
men and not as a device for creating
a professional monopoly”).
Registration came within an ace of
being established in Victoria when a
bill was prepared but dropped in 1956,
though not before the professional
bodies expressed the hope that the legis-
lation may serve as “a pattern for
other States.” Seven years later,
through Mr Rylah, the Attorney-Gen-
eral, the same Government is still hedg-
ing on the matter, saying in March this
year the Government would consider
registration “if and when Victoria’s two
accountancy societies could guarantee
their members’ support for the scheme.”
rpHE main snag of legalising for registra-
■*" tion is where to draw the line among
the deep-ranging numbers of unqualified
accountants. Nobody seems to know
the numbers of these non-qualified ac-
countants but even eight years ago the
professional societies were saying “the
development of managerial and govern-
ment accounting and the great increase
in the ratio of non-practising account-
ants clearly established the need to
register both sections of the profession.”
To some extent the need for dis-
tinguishing between the qualified and
unqualified person has already been met
by the Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments through the registration of tax
agents, trustees in bankruptcy, auditors
of company, municipality and friendly
society accounts and under the Com-
monwealth Life Insurance Act, but this,
in Sir Alexander Fitzgerald's view, is a
poor substitute for the general regis-
tration of all accountants, individual
practitioners and otherwise.
The 9000 or so qualified accountants
in Victoria (some of these are practising
by themselves and many are employed
by firms, Government departments and
so forth) can reasonably be expected to
conform to high professional standards,
though the president of the Victorian
division of The Australian Society of
Accountants, Dr H. F. Craig, admitted
earlier this year “they could be a greater
force in the protection of the interests
of the public if in addition certain statu-
tory safeguards were provided.” For ex-
ample, in his view “if every company
was required to employ a registered
accountant in the position of finance
director, it could be feasible to require
periodic certification by the registered
accountant that the financial affairs of
the company were being administered in
accordance with recognised accounting
principles and practice.”
Now that section 74 (10) of the
Companies Act is being revised to em-
power trustees to take more prompt ac-
tion in the interests of debenture holders
and now that the class of eligible
trustees has been narrowed in Victoria,
it would certainly be very helpful if on
a snap or any other investigation into
a company’s position a trustee could
require certificates from a registered
accountant. In the same way it would
be a very good idea if public corpora-
tions were required to employ certified
accountants.
As Dr Craig said in his presidential
address this year the obligation to re-
quire a certificate from a registered per-
son would be a positive force for main-
tenance of professional standards which
nearly always follows. There would be
no conflict between a registered account-
ant’s duties to his employers and his
obligations to his profession. If em-
ployed by a large public company he
would still be subject to the normal
principles governing the relationship be-
tween employer and employee. But
where in the course of his employment
his responsibilities extend also to third
parties, including Governments and pub-
lic generally, his capacity to maintain
professional standards would be greatly
reinforced by the statutory recognition
and control.
BUREAUCRACY
Frightened People?
A Brisbane Ombudsman
FROM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
Tpwo leading Brisbane citizens have
called for the establishment of an
organisation to protect the public against
the bureaucrats particularly those of
the Brisbane City Council which, ad-
ministering all of Brisbane (there are no
separate local councils), has become a
dangerous colossus.


The two men are Sir Leon Trout
(solicitor, former Liberal Party Queens-
land branch president, and past presi-
dent Australian Associated Chambers
of Commerce) and the outspoken Mr
Tom Truman, a senior lecturer in his-
tory and political science at Queens-
land University.
“The doctrine of natural justice does
not apply in Australia,” said Sir Leon.
“The only remedy a citizen has is to
have his grievances aired in Parliament,
if he is fortunate.” He pointed out
that legislation to give the citizen the
right of exposing administrative injus-
tices had been operating in Sweden for
many years, and England, Canada, and
New Zealand had introduced similar
legislation.
Sir Leon suggested the setting up
by legislation of a Queensland tribunal
which would be answerable only to
Parliament. It would hear complaints
from citizens, investigate them, and, if
necessary, call on the relevant Minister
or administrative head to answer these
charges. If the authority concerned
failed to give satisfactory replies, the
tribunal would table its report in Par-
liament. It would not be able to interfere
with the functions of any department or
organisation, but it would report pub-
licly on the administration of them.
Mr Truman summed up the feeling
of many when he said last week:
“People feel helpless against the City
Council now. The worst aspect is that
they seem frightened to criticise
and this is something I have not en-
countered in any other city in Aus-
tralia.” He said that Brisbane needed
a Citizens’ Protection Association and
cited the case of the “frozen street,”
in Annerley (South Brisbane). In 1958,
he said, the residents of Franklin
Street were notified by the Council of in-
tention to resume 17ft of their proper-
ties for road widening. About 12
months ago, Council surveyors drove
pegs through the front gardens. But
residents still don’t know when the Coun-
cil intends taking their land. One esti-
mated he had lost £lOOO on the sale
of his house because of the indefinite
threat of resumption.
CIVIL RIGHTS
Aid for South Africans
The active one per cent
EDWARD ST JOHN
Not surprised
FROM PATRICIA ROLFE
r\NLY a tiny proportion of the South
Africans who have come to Aus-
tralia are opposed to the regime there,
according to Sydney constitutional law-
yer, Mr Edward St John, QC, who set
the figure at something as inconsequen-
tial as one per cent. The rest of them,
many of whom gather at the Springbok
Club, which sounds drearily reminiscent
of the Down Under Club in London,
just wanted to get out before the whole
thing exploded.
However, the one per cent have taken
the initiative in the establishment of the
South African Defence and Aid Fund
in Australia. The Fund was formally
set up in Sydney last week at a meeting
charred by Mr St John, who had been
an official observer at the treason trials.
The meeting, attended by about 35
people, including, according to Mr St
John “students, trade unionists, liberals,
a few Communists, and some South Af-
rican Nationalists vho must have come
from the Embassy,” was addressed by
Professor Julius Stone, of Sydney Uni-
versity, and Dr Derek Marsh, formerly
of the University of Natal, who had
been imprisoned for two months without
trial after Sharpeville. It is expected
that national headquarters of the Fund
will be in Sydney but there is already
activity in Canberra, Melbourne and
Adelaide.
The meeting was rather dramatically
held within a few hours of the time
that Helen Joseph was sentenced to
12 months’ imprisonment in South. Af-
rica for failing to report to the police
between one and two p.m. on June 7
while she was under house arrest.
A lengthy cable of good wishes was
read from the president of the British
Defence and Aid Fund, Canon Collins.
However, the local Fund is not likely to
demonstrate during any future Royal
tours of Australia. “J know Canon Col-
lins is a controversial figure,” Mr St
John said, “but that cannot take away
from the extremely useful work which
his organisation has done for people in
South Africa. And the British fund has
a very impressive list of sponsors.”
The Australian Fund already has the
Anglican Archbishop of Sydney, Dr
Gough, the Lord Mayor, Alderman M.
Jensen, and some noted academics and
churchmen as sponsors; also such
authors as Morris West, Olaf Ruhen,
Judith Wright and Dal Stivens.
The Committee hopes to keep out
extreme elements by limiting the fund’s
objectives. “People can talk about eco-
nomic boycotts or appeals to the United
Nations if they like; we don’t mind as
long as they contribute to the fund,”
Mr St John said.
The Fund plans only to “assist in the
defence of persons suffering under South
African laws and the support of their
dependants, and to work towards the
repeal of those laws.” If, as seems likely
because of the General Laws Amend-
ment Acts of 1962 and 1963, it is no
longer possible to have recourse to law,
then the fund will go to help depen-
dants.
The Fund will at first send money
through the British fund, although there
are South Africans now in Australia
who in South Africa have received and
distributed aid from outside.
“I am not surprised that Australia
has been so slow in doing something to
help the victims of South Africa’s op-
pressive laws,” Mr St John said. “I am
only surprised the fund has come so
soon. We are still extremely insulated
and isolated.”
THE KING'S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA, NSW.
HEADMASTERSHIP
Applications are invited for ap-
pointment as Headmaster of The
King’s School, Parramatta, as from
the beginning of 1965.
The school has 850 pupils including
530 boarders and is conducted broadly
on the traditional lines of an English
public school. It was founded by Royal
Authority in the year 1831.
The Headmaster must be a com-
municant member of the Church of
England: he may be either a clergy-
man or a layman.
Applications addressed to the
Chairman of the Council will be re-
ceived until 31st October. 1963.
Particulars and conditions of the
appointment are contained in a
brochure which may be obtained from
the Honorary Secretary of the Coun-
cil, The King’s School, Parramatta.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
9 6 /
f:
■
'
°OBURY ESTATE
tiTE BURGUNDY
*****
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
POLITICS
Reece of Tasmania:
Another Joe Lyons
He bestrides Tasmania like a Colossus
E. E. REECE
The first five
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
JTPasmanian Premier Eric Elliott Reece’s
A crinkly hair is thinning and greying,
but his face is still smooth and cherubic,
as Labor enters its 30th year in power
in Tasmania and Reece himself, just
turned 54, ends his first five years as
Premier. Now fully emerged from the
back rooms of union and party confe-
rences on to the open stage of Aus-
tralian politics, he may yet become a
national figure, another Joe Lyons. Al-
ready he bestrides Tasmania like a
Colossus.
A miner’s son, who began work at 13
in the mines on the West Coast, Reece,
after a variety of rugged jobs and 11
years as an AWU organiser, was first
elected to the Federal Executive of the
ALP in 1940. In 1946 he was elected
to the House of Assembly; in 1948 he
became president of the Tasmanian ALP;
and in 1952 was elected Federal pre-
sident. He was re-elected to the Federal
presidency in 1954, just in time to be
chairman of the historic Hobart biennial
conference in March, 1955, which split
the Labor Party.
The groups were not a significant
issue in Tasmania, where Communist in-
filtration was tenuous and Reece, as an
industrial wing man of the traditional
school, was undoubtedly more in sym-
pathy with the groupers than with the
Evatt faction; no doubt he felt for his
mates as the special executive meeting
axed the “old” Victorian executive. Soon
afterwards, in Hobart at the biennial
conference, he threatened to call the
police to remove members of the “old”
executive who attempted to enter the
conference room.
Having survived the split, Reece was
soon to face another storm in the Par-
liamentary Labor Party rooms. Dr
R. J. D. Turnbull, hard-working, agile,
unreliable, competent and eager, had
brought a new twist into Tasmanian
politics, but his charm was wearing thin
in Premier Cosgrove’s Cabinet, and in
July, 1958, Deputy Premier Roy Fagan
quit. He said flatly that he couldn’t
bear any more of Turnbull.
Reece succeeded Fagan as Deputy
Premier, and he took charge in mid-
-1959 when Cosgrove’s health broke
during the dark days of Supreme Court
proceedings against Turnbull on corrup-
tion charges (which were not sustained)
relating to lottery licences. On August
25, Cosgrove returned to Hobart, still
weak from major surgery, and resigned.
Next day, Reece became Premier.
In contrast with the dining-out and
race-going of Sir Robert and the late
Dame Gertrude Cosgrove, Mr and Mrs
Reece had, and have, a homespun, stay-
at-home look. Eric Elliott Reece has an
air of Welsh Methodism very different
from the expansive Irish Catholicism of
Cosgrove and most of his Ministers,
somewhat shy and abstemious, he lacks
the bonhomie of Cosgrove. “Call me
Eric,” he says —but he says it apologeti-
cally.
But one of Reece’s first acts was to
urge Fagan to return to the Cabinet, and
Fagan, no doubt remembering Reece’s
loyalty to him in his troubles with Turn-
bull, agreed. As Attorney-General, Min-
ister for Industrial Development and
Deputy Premier, he has been Mr Reece’s
greatest strength. One of the most
significant achievements of the Reece-
Fagan partnership has been completely
to dissipate the taint of Tammany around
the Caucus.
Reece’s rise was also concurrent with
a renewed slump in Opposition morale,
but he greatly improved co-operation be-
tween the Government and the Liberal
Party, which has sloughed some of its
disrupting elements and is now a more
coherent force than it has been for
years. The new-born Country Party he
studiously ignores.
His chief danger is the low quality
of his Ministry. Only Mr Fagan and
Mr Neilson stand out. Only they and
Mr Cashion would be regarded as com-
petent by the standards any business
organisation would employ in judgment.
Too often he has to watch some other
Minister slum a task so comprehensively
that his intervention becomes mandatory.
There are rumblings that he has de-
lusions of grandeur and is daily less
willing to trust administration to some
lieutenants. As well as Premier, he is
Treasurer, Minister of Mines, and Min-
ister in charge of Hydro-electric Under-
takings. In the background is also a run-
ning fire of complaint from Leftist
unionists, who claim that Mr Reece is
“the best Premier the Liberals ever had.”
Within 10 months he must face the
electors, with the new imponderable of
the Country Party to threaten Labor’s
expectation of celebrating its 30th an-
niversary in office next July. One has
a feeling that Eric Reece will pull it off.
Will he follow another Tasmanian
Labor Premier, the late J. A. Lyons,
into Federal politics? He certainly
has more of the homespun character-
istics of a Labor Prime Minister
than the leading contenders in Can-
berra. Tasmanians may scoff at the
thought of Athol Townley as a
compromise Prime Minister, but they
treat the thought of Eric Reece in
that position with slow and serious ap-
proval.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Who are the “Appeasers”?
YI/HO are the “appeasers” in Aus-
tralia’s External Affairs De-
partment and whom are they sup-
posed to be appeasing? The gen-
eral charge of appeasement on high
civil service levels reflected in
the “Sydney Morning Herald” last
week seems to be that Sir Gar-
field Barwick has been persuaded
by senior External Affairs officers
into taking a dangerously soft line
on Indonesia, particularly in rela-
tion to the noisy launching of
Malaysia. This seems to be a curious
charge in view of Australia’s firm
support for Malaysia, in view of
its defence commitments to Malaya
clearly understood and acknow-
ledged by Indonesia and parti-
cularly in view of the prominent
and successful part played by Ex-
ternal Affairs in agitating for big
increases in Australia’s defence
spending.
In part the charge of appease-
ment undoubtedly stems from a
“switch” in line in the Department’s
advice on Indonesia after the West
New Guinea fiasco. For 12 years
the Government followed an un-
yielding pro-Dutch line and some
senior officers—of stout hearts and
steady nerves helped formulate
policies which led this country, in
the absence of great and powerful
friends, to an increasingly untenable
position. After West New Guinea
there was need for a rapid re-
appraisal not only of Indonesia but
of Australian relations with Indo-
nesia. The fact that we found our-
selves without great and powerful
friends at a crucial time made the
'eappraisal doubly urgent.
Another motive in the appease-
ment charge probably stems from an
obscure and irrational fear of closer
understanding of Indonesia and its
aims, aspirations and fears. Thus
while it may appear irrational that
Indonesia should fear Malaysia’s
tiny 10,000,000 people it is a live
enough issue in Djakarta with its
morbid memories of the rebellions
and separatist movements in the
nnst when it was often feared Sum-
atra might split from the Republic
and join Malaya. To take factors
such as these into our calculations
on Indonesia is a necessary part of
framing a foreign policy. It does
not imply a “soft line”.
Indonesia still suffers from the
world’s most crippling colonial hang-
over which affects all parties, all
alliances and all institutions. Sus-
picious and sensitive, potentially
dangerous and capable of great mis-
chief, fearful of disintegration, and
of her neighbors’ intentions, Indo-
nesia is nevertheless not a mono-
lith. Behind the facade of steel
helmets and sporadic gaolings,
despite the official bombast and a
controlled Press, there is a sophisti-
cated debate taking place in Indo-
nesia on its long term aspirations
and its proper role in the area in
which we live. To attempt to un-
derstand these processes and to try
to influence them in favor of our
own national interest is surely the
first duty of Australia’s professional
foreign service officers. It is a far
cry from appeasement.
End of the Line
f"|NE cannot underestimate the im-
portance of the Sino-Soviet
split, now more or less formalised
by the failure of the Moscow recon-
ciliation talks. Earlier on there
were good grounds for caution
since splits and faction fights have
been a regular part of Communist
history and they have usually result-
ed in a strengthening rather than a
weakening of the Communist
Party. But an essential condition
for the Communists’ ability to des-
troy “anti-Party factions” Trot-
skyists, Titoists, Stalinists, etc.
has been central control from one
place, Moscow. This essential con-
dition no longer exists. For the first
time in the history of the Commun-
ist Party, since Stalin imposed his
monolithic unity of the warring
factions some thirty or so years
ago, the Communists of the world
are now controlled from two com-
peting centres.
The consequences may be tre-
mendous. Formerly, as soon as
one knew Moscow’s policy one also
knew how its agents throughout the
world in everything from peace
fronts to trade unions and acade-
mics—would behave, and one could
act accordingly in the defence of
free institutions. Now for the first
time not only can we not predict
how Communists will behave in
a situation, but Communists them-
selves do not know because they
will be receiving competing orders.
The confusion this has caused is
obvious in Australia, where despite
the overwhelming victory of the
pro-Moscow faction in the local
party, Communists remain dis-
affected under a leadership which
defames so many former comrades
and leaders. Although the Mos-
cow line will be officially followed,
no one can be sure how many
Communists will defect in a crisis
and how many will toe the line with
so little enthusiasm that it will
amount to defection. If the split
goes deeper and two official parties,
one led by Red China and one by
the Soviet Union, compete openly
for leadership, the confusion and
unpredictability of Communist be-
havior will be even greater.
This also means that just as tra-
ditional Communism has lost some
of its meaning so certain kinds of
dogmatic anti-Communism have
become both irrelevant and even
dangerous. The anti-Communist who
continues to operate as if nothing
has changed will not only make a
fool of himself but will also miss
valuable opportunities to further
weaken the Communist conspir-
acies—a matter which will become
of ever-increasing urgency for Aus-
tralians since Russia’s rebuff may
lead Red China to engage in more
military adventures in South East
Asia in order to gain victories that
would add badly needed prestige to
its cause. Intelligent rather than
dogmatic anti-Communism is now
more than ever a life and death
matter for Australia.


At Crane’s...
••••*• •
>
mm
m
mmm
m
m.
m
m
X
mF ..... ....
; y -y-&Y£vYs/'>YS •<•:•>> <v /y
m
mm
«0w
no margin for error
G.
E.
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINtUM • BRASS
COPPER
Many of the end-products made
from aluminium, copper and brass
have exacting functions to fulfil and
are subject to the very finest of toler-
ances. For this reason, no pains are
spared at Crane’s to ensure that the
metal content is precisely what it
should be. This end is achieved by
the use of, among other things, a
spectrograph, which reveals the exact
composition of the metals we use.
The spectrograph eliminates error
. . . and is industry’s most reliable
safeguard against structural failure of
the metals it specifies.
CP-3


FORUM
The Perils of Foreign
Investment?
Partnership is now the aim
By DON HENDERSON
VTot so long ago when private com-
pany profits were private matters,
foreign ownership of Australian enter-
prise became the annual target of wide-
spread criticism when General Motors-
Holden’s announced one of its super-
lative profits.
Foreign ownership had become grud-
gingly accepted for a number of reasons,
principally those of Australia’s obvious
need for capital in the form of know-
how, techniques and plain money. There
was also the painful realisation that the
country needed to get into the main-
stream of world thinking if it was to
survive and thrive.
Nevertheless, what had been until
recently a trickle of objection to foreign
ownership has now become a good deal
more than that. “Partnership,” not
“ownership,” is now preached from all
sides even the ALP which has a
theoretical objection to overseas capital
overall.
Only last week ALP leader A. A.
Calwell voiced the sentiment rather for-
cibly in New York the very source
of dominating capital.
In the annual haranguing that went
on when GM-H’s rather large profits
were published at that time by far
the largest of any Australian enterprise
running up to £l5 million when BHP,
the nation’s largest enterprise, struggled
by with £ 10 million as a bad second
the company bore the brunt of an out-
break of the universal dislike of foreign
capital domination.
Quite often otherwise sane commen-
tators spoke chauvinistically of the
grand designs of General Motors and
of foreign profiteering without due re-
gard to the fact that the company was
invited here by Prime Minister Chifley
in 1946 or to the popularity of its
product and product-price, its industrial
responsibility (it could have made bigger
profits by improving its share of the
market with price-cutting in those early
19505), its national position as the
agency by which a large slice of Aus-
tralia’s industrial development was ach-
ieved, and, most important, the just
rewards of efficiency.
However, some critics looking further
ahead than others objected not so much
to the scale of GM-H profits as to the
domination of foreign capital.
Today these objections are quickly be-
coming generally accepted as com-
pletely valid. The perils of “open” in-
vestment from abroad are, at last, being
proved to Australians.
Canada, Cuba, the South American
countries and other areas all depended
largely on overseas assistance in their
drive to economic maturity, and de-
spite the success of the drives all suf-
fered and some continue to suffer from
allowing foreign capital an open go.
All have attempted to turn off the
tap. Some have turned it completely off.
The subject of foreign ownership in
Australia has long been confused with
the pressing need to maintain a flow of
capital from abroad not only to assist
in industrial development but also to
provide the means for the country to
keep out of balance of payments
troubles.
The whole problem of today stems
from the time when Australia found
it had to grow quickly after the war.
Population through migration was only
part of the means for this growth. A
giant push into industrialisation was
needed to provide for the increased
population.
A farmer, say, must go without some
of his luxuries or even essentials if he
is to build that silo he wants this year
unless he sells part of his farm or
borrows to get the necessary funds.
A nation is no different.
If it wants to build something quickly
above and beyond its means then .it must
sacrifice something or borrow. The
nation must save more, as a unit, to be
able to spend more or it must “borrow.”
Sometimes it must do both.
Australia in its remarkable post-war
industrial push has sacrificed quite a
lot. In earlier years imports of consumer
goods were all but prohibited in order
to keep down expenses and allow more
to be spent on capital goods. At the
same time money was sought for “bor-
rowing” by way of capital investment
one way or another to assist in the push.
Total private investment involved in
the industrial push cannot be precisely
estimated; complexities appear by way
of investment in established rural ac-
tivities and commercial servicing indus-
tries. But, it is a fact that total private
investment in everything in Australia
between 1947 and 1962 approached
£14,000,000,000.
Overseas capital investment one way
or another accounted for only 10 per
cent of that sum, when overseas sources
invested in Australia or left in Aus-
tralia almost exactly £1,400,000,000 in
the same 15 years.
Statistically, then, while this capital
assisted in the nation's development Aus-
tralia had in no major way sold its
heritage for the short-term gain of
quick development.
Even so the price that will be paid for
allowing this assistance may turn out to
be too dear in terms of continuing re-
missions of dividends over many years.
That will be left for the generations
ahead to judge.
But, at that, it may have proved a
gain for the nation by giving it the
tremendous international trading good-
will that comes from an overseas credit,
for this capital flow has been the prime
factor in Australia balancing its inter-
national books.


/it
IvNOl}
vut>//
BEiiM
INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Wholly-owned by Ausfrations,
this Company is devoted to
the economic growth of Australia,
EFFECTS EVERY CIASS OF
FIRE • MARINE
& ACCIDENT
INSURANCE
General Manager: RALPH W. MANN
General Manager—Australia: FRANK T. ALDERTON
Secretary: GEORGE F. PACE
BRANCHES
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
DARWIN
PERTH
ADELAIDE
MELBOURNE
HOBART
LONDON
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
imports 80 per cent of which have
been of a capital nature providing the
basis for the nation’s growth have
exceeded exports. Capital inflow has
quite often saved the national bank
balance.
If it were left in Australia all would
be rosy. But it can’t be left here.
Considerable resentment has been
built up by the apparent success of over-
seas-owned enterprise, while Australian-
owned ventures seldom appear to be as
profitable as overseas-owned ones.
And this year, with the enforced pub-
lication of private company profits bring-
ing to light for the first time these
foreign success stories, there have been
distinct rumblings from the natives.
The view is taken that “eyes have
been picked” from the more commer-
cially successful spheres by overseas in-
vestors. Indeed, the high percentage of
their total investment accounted for in
retained earnings (about half until re-
cently) would confirm such suspicions.
Concentration of overseas investment
in these more successful areas cannot
be considered an abuse, or even a re-
turn to the 1920 s when far-reaching
excesses of international capital cul-
minated in the Depression of the 19305.
After all, if capital was wanted, it would
have to be “successful” capital.
However, it is placing a suspicion on
the motives of overseas capital coming
to Australia especially in the corporate
realm.
And, of course, it makes that capital
all the dearer for it being more success-
ful. But, this facet aside, the bulk of the
capital flow has been of “development”
nature, capital which creates fresh as-
sets, and has been good for Australia.
It has not been excessive in total.
But it has been selective. And Aus-
tralia now finds that several of its key
industries the petroleum industry,
the motor industry, and more recently
and more dangerously the food canning
industry have slipped almost com-
pletely into overseas control.
The success of “development” invest-
ment in Australia has attracted at a
faster rate capital to purchase existing
assets. There has always been a steady
flow of portfolio (share) investment, par-
ticularly from the UK, but of more
recent times the emphasis has been
greater. The giant takeovers in the food
industry have been the genesis of the
current activity.
This is why,, in the background, the
Government is stepping up its “persua-
sion” technique in attempts to quell grow-
ing public disquiet on ownership. In this
way it hopes that investment will con-
tinue to flow from abroad but only in
effective partnership with Australian
capital.
In 1960, Mr Wentworth sounded the
warnings about other people’s capital
thus:
• “A world economy which is based
upon a big inflow of international
capital is likely to be a brittle econo-
my. The factors which control its
tempo (credit and wages policies
for example) are in the hands of
numerous independent Governments,
which may not act in concert. Indivi-
dual investors do not always take the
broad international view against their
own short-term interests. The follies
of 1929 may never be re-staged un-
censored, but slightly-blue versions
are still conceivable.
• Overseas investment can be used as
a local anaesthetic, to repress the
painful danger signals in the local
economy, and thus to defer necessary
adjustments beyond the safety point.
There is an unhappy jolt when the ac-
cumulated lag can no longer be ignor-
ed.
• It is possible for a country to become
“foreign-owned”. The old economic
checks, which were once believed to
protect against this, have now turned
out to be largely illusory. Political
checks can, indeed, be introduced
but the cost may sometimes be rather
greater than evisaged. By all means
leave the next generation to pay
things off but how can they, if
the income-earning assets are in the
hands of the creditors?”
Partnerships not only with fresh
capital but in existing ownership will
certainly follow concerted objections to
domination. Goodwill of that capital
already here and continued success
for it demands that local desires at
least appear to be satisfied.
Our need for capital is still great
if not as urgent as before but some
form of direction is needed to prevent
the import of capital to purchase exist-
ing assets, and also, to provide partner-
ship arrangements. If that direction is
towards “persuasion” then so much
the better.
If not, then legislation is imperative.
Government’s main function is the hus-
banding of the nation’s resources.
Errors, or more exactly cut corners, can-
not be left casually to future generations
to clear up.


OUT AND ABOUT
Death of a Circus?
Elephants are the only satisfactory investment, even at
£2,000 a time
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Outside the £60,000 Wirth Circus
family house at Coogee, three
white stone lions squat proudly
staring defiance at the visitor. Ponies crop
the parched grass of the three-acre lot,
derelict power plants (one of them said
to be powerful enough to light a town)
stand idle, a seal cage with disused swim-
ming tank rusts quietly on silent wheels.
The once beautiful garden, where passers-
by reported seeing lions, tigers and
leopards, is now run to seed. Yet inside
the house itself, the Australia 1916 furni-
ture, huge stuffed dolls used in riding
acts, Queen Anne china, strange Maori
carvings, and massive rooms (each bed-
room with private bath) still carry an
opulent and bizarre flavor of a better
circus past.
The Wirth house is in many ways a
symbol of Australia’s circus today. To
the casual eye, scanning the newspaper
reports, it’s finished here already. Sole’s
small but attractive circus now operates
a rather seedy vaudeville show, at time
of writing touring North Queensland.
Wirth’s —once the fanciest, gaudiest and
brashest circus in the country—has been
hit with taxation and debts and has been
forced into business with Ashton’s, itself
not what it once was. Bullen’s, the young-
est (b. 1921), is as I write at a standstill
at Singleton, NSW, its tents closed
following a family row in which Mrs
Bullen is said to have fired her husband
and sons from the board or directors.
Yet if everything in the circus garden
is far from lovely, inside the house is
still pretty well in order. Philip Wirth,
Philip Ashton and the Bullens all made
big money in the circus’s heyday before
the Depression. The Wirths may not be
operating, but they have expensive
properties in Melbourne and probably
can live comfortably on their interest
for the rest of their lives. The lively,
shrewd, and well-spoken Stafford Bullen
is busy preparing a Big Top for Perth
entrepreneur Eric Edgley, to house the
Russian Circus on its forthcoming visit
next year at a cost of between £21,000
and £25,000. The calm way Bullen men-
tions the figure scarcely suggests near-
penury.
Yet even if circus people are still in
the money, the circus itself has pretty
nearly run to the bottom of the hill. TV
already beginning to lose its initial
grip —isby no means the only cause
of the decline. Still more serious has been
the increase in railroad charges, which
has badly affected Wirth’s, always a
rail-travelling show. “It costs £IOOO to
hire a train for a week,” said Eileen
Wirth sadly. “You can add £2OOO to that
for transporting and feeding.”
The purchasing price and upkeep of
animals have also increased drastically
since World War 11. Today, it costs a
total of £2OOO to import a small (3ft.
to 4ft.) elephant to Australia: close on
£IOOO to buy it (from zoos or agents in
Singapore, Burma and Thailand), hun-
dreds more to ship it, and then the cost
of weeks during blood-tests and quaran-
tine at Taronga Park Zoo. To feed an
elephant costs at least £2O a week, be-
cause they eat almost incessantly and lose
their food practically as soon as it is in-
gested (they can get through between
H and 2 cwt. of oats and hay per day).
Bears cost at least £3OO and are expen-
sive to maintain. A leopard will cost
£7OO, a lion £SOO of more. The only
satisfactory investment are the elephants,
which can outlast a circus generation,
and have been known to live 150 years
(the Wirths’ famous Princess Alice a
mate of Barnum’s Jumbo was 140
when she died of-old age in 1947). But
as a rule, the turnover in livestock is
very heavy, and even elephants have been
known to die “young” from toot (a
poisoned weed that gets into fodder), in-
fected teeth or even trains (Bullen’s
much-loved Topsy, frightened by a dog,
ran fatally in front of a train at Essen-
don, Victoria).
Comparing data supplied by Mary Sole
(of Sole’s Circus), the Wirths, Stafford
Bullen and Mrs Douglas Ashton, it would
seem that it costs about £3OOO a week to


I
r
amazing proof of
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
imf
■
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAD
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £90.0.0.
front yrnir photo dealer
C 3348
run a circus while it is on tour. A Big
Top accommodating 4500 people itself
costs a fortune to fabricate and repair
if damaged during bad weather. Enter-
tainers clowns, tightrope walkers, jug-
glers and the like cost up to £l5O a
week each and usually come from over-
seas. Occasional topliners Madame
Kovac, Wirth's lion tamer, who was kil-
led by a lion's paw, and the Man Who
Could Swallow Live Goldfish fetch
much more. And the Pinheaded China-
man (though described to me as a Per-
feet Little Gentleman) is also apt to
prove expensive, together with his fellow
(and perennial) freaks.
Then there is the costliness (not to
mention the bad publicity) of escaping
animals. Our Press makes very little of
escaping animal stories, but they are
legion, and colorful. In Malvern Rd.,
Darling, Melbourne, on the night of
February 13, 1946, Mr and Mrs H.
Crawley were playing a game of solo
with some friends when they heard a noise
at the back of the house. They found
an elephant in the garden, eating the
pussy willows. In January, 1950, two
circus bears escaped from Hayden’s
Circus in the Murray Valley, attacked a
monkey cage and ambled over to a pass-
ing car. The occupants stopped to pat the
creatures, which ungratefully clawed at
their admirers. The travellers made off.
After an exciting motor-bike and lasso
chase, the bears were apprehended.
Shortly before that, on September 9,
1949, Ken Bullen was cracking the whip
during a Bullen’s Circus lion act at
Bondi when Rajah the Lion jumped off
his pedestal and jumped 10ft. through a
hole in the net above its head. It ran
down' the aisle to general consternation
(Stafford Bullen told the people not to
panic and lassoed the beast). In May,
1953, a goods train hit a mobile lions’
cage and the three freed creatures roamed
alarmingly around Coff’s Harbor. Six
months later, Claude Hallcroft of Nar-
randera found Bullen’s tiger Queenie
tenderly licking his seven-year-old
daughter’s face. Claude fired at the
tiger, grazed its nose, and sent it shame-
facedly padding out the door.
Audience One Elephant
|3erhaps the most engaging of all such
incidents took place in January, 1954,
when elephant Topsy of Bullen's Circus
(the one later mowed down on the rail-
road) was alarmed by a tractor in Syd-
ney and ran a quarter of a mile into the
Cleveland Street Church Hall. There, a
bagpipe rehearsal was taking place.
Topsy broke through the front door, and
the Scots performers found themselves
with an audience of one elephant. Said
the more stalwart Rev. R. Hichin, who
kept his place, “they picked up their
kilts and ran for their lives.”
This kind of thing has been more or
less run-of-the-mill for Sole's, Bullen’s,
Ashton’s, Wirth’s and the other circuses
during their colorful histories. Ashton's
is the oldest circus, going back to 1832,
Wirth's began in 1878, Sole's around the
turn of the century, Bullen’s in 1921. As
the most venerable circus going, Ashton’s
have members of the family in many of
the world's greatest Big Shows. The
Seven Martinettis, Laconas and Flying
Ashtons, commanding up to £25,000 a
year, have given Royal Command Per-
formances and wowed audiences at New
York’s Latin Quarter, the London Palla-
dium, and other showplaces.
The five circus generations were
founded by British emigrant clog-dancer
James Ashton, who started his Big Show
in a bush enclosure on the present site of
Sydney’s Central Railway Station. Since
then, big families and intermarriage
among cousins and other circus families
have produced an Ashton family-tree as
complicated as a monkey-puzzle. Ned
Kelly is known to have watched the Ash-
ton show, and Jimmy Governor is sup-
posed to have washed circus horses in
return for free tickets.
It was Joe Ashton (father of Douglas
Ashton, who now runs the show) who
caused a temporary renaissance of the
circus after its long slide downhill dur-
ing the Depression and Post-Depression
years. In 1937, Joe boasted two rings,
a cast and staff of 70, and 32 child assis-
tants. World War II broke Ashton's
again, and they have never really re-
gained their former greatness.
Wirth’s history has already filled two
readable books by the Wirth brothers,
Philip and George. Theirs was the one
brilliantly successful world tour by an
Australian circus —in the 1890 s, when
they travelled to South Africa, perform-
ed before Kruger, fled because of the
Jameson Raid, then went to South
America, where they attracted enormous
crowds and lost all their possessions in
a fire at Montevideo. They were smash
hits in England, and returned home via
Ceylon with the first two giraffes ever
seen in Australia. Edward, Prince of
Wales (later Edward VII) and Kruger
gave them especially cast medals (Kruger
called Philip “the jumping kangaroo”).
Later, the Wirths presented a special
whip to the winner of the Melbourne
Cup (the custom is still maintained) and
Philip Wirth obtained some notoriety by
offering life membership badges to anyone
who would eat in the lions’ cage. Accord-
ing to one story, handed down to the
present generation, he once held a ban-
quet there, issuing the badges to guests
as they filed nervously out.
A curious incident took place in 1913,
when a Rich American Uncle (Casper
Brewer Wirth) left the Wirths a total
of four million pounds. At the time,
despite pre-World War I circus prosper-
ity, Philip Wirth and his wife were dis-
covered by reporters in rather shabby
circumstances in a Paddington cottage,
Mrs Wirth washing, ironing, sewing,
scrimping, saving, etc., for 10 children.
Much to-do was made of the inheritance
at the time, but according to Wirth's last
manager, George Christie, it was never
distributed. “It’s still in America,” he
told me. The legal questions are still,


SPECIAL MM OFFERI
ndO
U
B*
%y
n
■ ' r
The Ampol Book
F*SS2h
AUSTBALIANA
Mm
BY SIDNEY J. BAKER
54
SECTIONS
PLUS
37 on
SPORT
240 pages filled with Australian “firsts” . . . basic facts
. . . records . . . curiosities. Special Section on Sport.
Whether your interests lie principally in sporting statistics, in the realms of
literature, drama and music, in sheep and cattle, industry or commerce,
history or the professions, you will find many surprising facts here about
the Australian scene. It is an accumulation of thousands of interesting
facts gathered over a period of 30 years by this noted Australian author.
To encourage widespread readership of this valuable work, Ampol has
purchased the entire first edition for sale to customers at Ampol Service
Stations and country Agents-at less than half the normal retail price!
SPECIAL PRICE
(less than half-price)
flO
mTRALIAN
fIMPOL
AP4-9S
AVAILABLE FROM AMPOL STATIONS AND COUNTRY AGENTS


Ten years from now
When you choose
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless ... ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
MERCEDES-BENZ
III!
iiillHIl!
|
iiiijj
mill'
11l
111 111 l
\*u Hi Itii
H !!!!i
;i «l
in
II! I
!•!!
if
1
Siiiiiti
1111
111
! il i
M
li !|!ii
:
!!
!i=l
,!■
Sil'sapißisH
;;
H :
y■. 'i
- - ■
4
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD, MELBOURNE
<62/s«
after 50 years and decreased Wirth for-
tunes, being wrangled across the Pacific.
Sole’s Circus has also had its share of
colorful and curious incidents, and finally
of bad luck. One of Australia’s most
famous trapeze and high-wire artists,
Mary Sole (now Mrs Lindsay), is today a
little old lady in her 70’s, rather forlorn
about the way things have gone. When
an acetylene tank blew up in 1933 and
killed her father, Mary and her husband
and three brothers took off for a South
African tour with spectacular success.
Despite a tragic accident in which her
daughter strayed under a train and lost
her leg, Mary Sole remembers the tour
with great pleasure as well she might.
At Grasfontein, the circus family struck
diamonds a great many of them. Their
claims came good, they bought a carni-
val, made a packet and came home to a
still depressed Australia, with bags of
“rocks” to show their jealous friends.
Death came to Sole’s Circus in 1962,
when a relative of the Soles’ was killed
by a blow of an elephant’s trunk while
he was preparing to take photographs.
That broke Mary Sole’s heart, and today
Sole’s Circus is virtually non-existent,
operating Sorlie’s Revue, a vaudeville
show in the sticks.
Today, with only Ashton-Wirth
actually operating in a big way, circus
lovers in this country have little to keep
them happy. The old days when crowds
would rush down to a station to see a
circus train come in at 7.30 in the morn-
ing, and cheer it out at midnight for
its journey to the next whistle stop
those days have probably gone for good.
The cry of “bring in your chickens and
mind your washing, the circus is com-
ing to town!” won’t often be heard. Yet
the one or two tiny circuses, and Ashton-
Wirth, continue to move across the im-
mense inland distances, taking note of
the seasons: to Queensland or WA dur-
ing the winter, to Victoria and NSW
during the summer (taking care to dodge
the floods). And there’s still a seedy
glamor about it all: being raised up, up
into the blue, the band playing, the ring-
master in his evening clothes and top hat,
the pretty girls and handsome boys rid-
ing the horses in their white stockings,
the trapeze artists swinging in chains
of limbs from their perches, balancers
prancing on the high wire or lions gin-
gerly treading the low wire. Bullen’s still
retain 10 elephants, lions, tigers, bears
and monkeys, and Ashton-Wirth rather
more. The picture, really, isn’t altogether
gloomy, though Mary Sole and others
still talk bitterly of Australians’ lack of
respect for circus people. Douglas Ash-
ton, Stafford Bullen (who expects to
start up again soon) and the Missus
Wirth pouring afternoon tea in the
lounge room at Coogee, are optimistic.
So, too, is Eric Edgley, about to invest
£38,000 for a chartered plane and
£50,000 for fees, expenses and mainten-
ance, for the Russian Circus next year.
It's quite a statement of faith in Aus-
tralian interest in circus, especially since
there is talk of Edgley’s & Bullen’s
Big Top housing more than 5,000 and
the charge being £1 a head. No doubt
the results will make history one way
or another, either breaking the Australian
circus for good or sending the Big Top
once more soaring into our fierce blue
sky.


“In His Dreams it Almost Snows”
The summer of the “gun” cutter
By BOBBY NELSON
Look down from Good Shepherd
Mountain. In the early night you
can see the country burning. Not
entirely. But in patches: paddocks of
cane blazing with flames that walk with
wind across the valley: the scattered
fires look small, orange, and lovely like
distant camp-sites.
What’s burning is the dead leaves of
the cane. It drives the rats and snakes
from the rubbage. It leaves a track
that's hot and smouldering. Men beat
out wandering edges with wet sack-bags.
Cinders and ash speck their faces. Their
skin is charcoaled.
Then, maybe, rain will come. Sizzling
steam will lift as a cloud in one
•squeezed huff. The dampened sod that
remains is black and dreary.
The fires are soon gone. Lights in
Mossman town are left dull and lifeless.
After midnight, the lights wink out.
The dark town takes on the shape of a
burned paddock. From the mountain
the whole valley seems to wait in ruin;
the ocean laps against the near coast.
A crocodile barks along the banks of
the Daintree.
In the morning, stalks of cane stand
as thousands of charred fingers. A pad-
dock looks like something wild that’s
had its hair singed. Cane-cutters are
hacking away. Their smudged faces are
nearly the same as coal-miners’.
Jack Bender cuts in one paddock.
He’s a “gun” cutter. For 15 years no
one’s cut more cane in North Queensland
than Jack. His hair is a tousled leaf
of rubbage. His nose is as blunt and
hard as a runner’s old cleat. His back
is unshirted. Legs are bare. Pieces of
him resemble the scorched joints of
cane: spindly, stiff, knotted. You get
the idea his thirst is parched like sap.
His movements are lazy, but the cane
falls like sticks of straw. No one can
match his pace.
At mid-morning he stops for smoko.
Tea is poured from a vacuum flask into
the tin lid. He nurses the hot cup be-
tween his hands. “Yeah, I only intended
to cut for a season. Or maybe two.
But, I don’t know ” he looks into
his cup “Fifteen years is too long,
I reckon. There was an old man once
who wanted me to come into his
business. Down in Victoria where it’s
not so hot. Wanted to treat me like a
son,” his eyes got lost behind the cup,
“I don’t know, I’ve had other chances
too, but I reckon I just wasn't in the
right places when I should have been.”
He finishes the cup and slings the leaves
out of the bottom. “But it’s no good,
cane-cutting. You do it ’cause you can’t
do nothing else, ’cause it don't take
nothing up here,” he taps a finger
against his forehead, “It ain’t nothing
but plain hard yakker.” He picks up
his broad blade and walks lazily back
to the paddock. He’d only stopped for
12 minutes.
The rest of the gang take longer.
Their hats are amazing wrecks; crum-
pled lumps of headgear with no per-
sonal value except as some kind of
worried protection. Their short pants
and singlets are misfitted and full of
snags. They wear no gloves. Hands,
the first week of cutting, are badly
damaged. The bleeding stops by the end
of the week, but the palms are still
raw and painful.
Ask a cutter why he doesn’t wear
gloves: “Gloves!” he says, “You try it,
you’d be laughed outta town. Why,
people would think you was a girl or
something” the simple Australian
misunderstanding about what makes a
man; the secret fear of not being one
or, perhaps, the correct, dead-right, in-
tuition, and the best kind of male
vanity?
By the middle of the season, horned
layers of callouses will be sliced off
with razor blades.
The union takes care of the cutters’
interests. No more camping in tents and
fighting for wages. Living quarters near
paddocks must be furnished by the
farmers. A # cutter earns an average of
£35 a week.
Jack stays in a clap-board barracks
on the farm. He has a bed, a chair, and
a kerosene stove and ’fridge. The walls
have no panelling. The rafters are
naked. Twenty feet at the back is the
hard-seated toilet supplied with a stack
of the Cairns Post.
He cooks his own food, steak and
eggs three times a day, and sometimes
he has beans. He’s not a dainty cook.
The pot holder is an old pair of shorts.
He wipes grease on his pants. If the
bread is spotty with mould he eats
around it. The dishes are washed in cold
water without soap. When a scum


forms, it goes with the food. Ants run
a chain-saw trail from the board floor
to the cabinet.
The bed has a dank mattress. He
sleeps on it under a wiry blanket. He
dreams of work in his sleep: the cane
seems to grow up around him faster
than he can cut it. He hacks against it.
It grows too fast and crowds up to
smother him. He can’t cut enough for
even a dint. He sweats, tossing and jerk-
ing his arms and legs. The sweat smells
bad. It pours out of him like molasses.
Then the cane and heat fade away,
and he dreams of coolness and crisp,
clean weather where it almost snows:
almost. If it would only snow in his
dreams he would be happy.
Before sun-up he’s awake and up for
work. During the hottest months he
starts cutting three hours before dawn
by the light of the moon. There’s a
union rule against working as early as
that. He could be fined. But the grey
shadows are dewy and calm. Dim moon-
light is close to the blood and carries
memories. When the cane is tall and
straight a man can set a fine rhythm
with the swinging blade. Stalks flake
down in nice even rows.
But heavy loading is done in the sun.
Sharp leaves chafe and slice the fore-
arms. Brittle bundles carried on the
shoulder points scrape into sores, and
the sores rot into boils. Weight of load-
ing taps a man in the knees. He has
to snort and plod like a burdened horse.
Sweat drizzles from his chin. The heat
fries his scalp. Most men feel the tor-
ment and slack-off. Jack, winded, ach-
ing, and bleary-eyed, feels the hurt and
pushes harder.
Small rail cars the size of piano crates
are piled high with cane and cinched
across the bulging stomach with a chain.
The cars have little iron wheels that
roll on narrow tracks. A maze patterns
the valley. A miniature steam engine
pulls a string of cars to the mill. The
dinky tracks, the bundled cars with
funny, tiny wheels spinning and click-
ing, the puffing tot-size engine it all
looks like a toy train set, like Disney-
land, except here, there are no flying
balloons or painted clowns.
Ragged Hands
At the beginning of every season the
papers say there’ll be a shortage of
labor. They call for more help. But
there’s no shortage. It’s a tactic of
alarm to get extra cutters to take the
place of the ones who will quit. Be-
cause, always, after the first week, one
in nine men pack their bags with ragged
hands and leave. Cutting is the kind of
wrecking that turns out the lamp be-
hind the eyes, and closes the gate of
the brain. You couldn’t cut cane and
work with your mind.
On Saturday Jack puts on a clean
shirt and goes to Mossman town. It’s
mainly one street with one movie, one
restaurant, five pubs, and a news-stand
with week-old Sydney magazines.
He drinks in the Queen’s. It’s crowd-
ed with the same men. They all know
Jack, or know of him: “the ‘gun’ cutter.”
There’s a quiet respect and you get
the impression this is the reason he has
stayed with the cane and pushed his guts
out for 15 years. A crowd of simple
men have given him an imaginary
throne.
There’s a target of pegs on the wall.
Men toss quoits at it. Jack plays at it for
fun. He doesn’t always win. He buys
two-bob chances on a Goose Club raffle.
His name is rarely called at the noon-
hour drawing. A bucket holds a rash of
numbered tickets, sixpence each. A
number that ends in zero wins a bottle
of beer. The odds are ten to one. Jack
is lucky about every tenth time.
Three aborigines drink at the end
of the bar. They harmlessly bludge as
many beers as they can. It’s expected.
Jack buys a round, and nods back when
they smile with broad white teeth and
humbly thank him, just as they out-
wardly humbly thank every white man.
The barmaid is the prettiest girl in
Mossman. You’d say she could hold her
own in King’s Cross. But not when
she opens her beautiful mouth. Her
voice is harrowingly twangy and coun-
trified. Jack was in love with her for
three months before he found he was
sharing her favors with four others. He
tries to forget. It put a kink in his pride.
Where there are 10 men for every
woman, most men do without. Their
desires can be worn down in the fields.
The females are fortunate. They’re
swarmed. They can pick and choose,
and usually marry as soon as they’re
out of school. But it’s no country for
a woman. As in most small Australian
towns, the married women are left at
home. They invent their own distractions,
and the husbands take them for granted,
the one consideration that most women
can never appreciate. Boredom settles
in easily. Then you hear of a restless
wife running off with a cane-cutter,
going south, leaving a scratchy note, an
empty sock, and sometimes a howling
child.
They’ll leave on Saturday when the
men are in town.
The Saturday is boozed into the
night. That’s when the horses are bet
in the barbershop next to the Queen’s.
Jack bets with the rest of the crowd,
and after hearing the results on the
radio he goes to a back room and plays
Chinese poker: five card stud with half
a deck. The beginning four shillings
raises increase toward midnight until
they are £4 and £5 a throw, and a
man can lose or win £lOO.
A Yugoslav named Marco cleans up
on everybody. His winnings the previous
season bought him a new car and a
cupboardful of fancy clothes. With the
car and clothes he tries to make up for
being casually ignored, excused for less,
and half shut-out. Because he’s not. an
Australian, he’s a New Australian,
acceptable, tolerated, and always: differ-
ent. Left just outside the fringes of a
family fire, the strange cousin nobody
ever tries to understand.
Jack loses at poker. “The cards just
weren’t in the right places when they
should have been,” he says.
No Work on Sunday
TJe goes back to the barracks, lays on
the dank mattress. He’d been drink-
ing. He’d been gambling. It had been
a good day. His money is gone. He’ll
work for more. He goes to sleep
smoothly. In his dreams it’s cool and,
once again, it almost snows.
There’s no work on Sunday. He’ll
spend the day getting over the beer.
When it’s dark, he and the gang will
burn the cane. Cinders and ash will
fly in their faces. They’ll beat the edges
of the blaze with their wet sack-bags.
At dawn, he’ll be cutting ahead of
the gang. A solitary figure. Alone. The
stalks will fall like straw. The sun will
bake his hide and dry his throat. A pain
will start in his back. He’ll sweat and push
against it. Heat and tiredness will creep
up the legs. His scalp will simmer —•
day after day. Like a plunging horse.
He’ll have no mind. The paddocks
couldn't care what nicks them.
He cuts a wide track. The cane goes
down. The cane grows back. A million
stalks fall by his hand. Then they
sprout again, every year, and it seems
he’s done nothing. For all his push and
drive and pain, in so short a time,
there’s no trace of his presence, as if
he’s been of no consequence at all.
He stops for smoko. “The machines
are coming,” he says, darkly, “There
was two in the district last season, and
three more this year. In five, eight years
there won’t be no more men cutting,
it’ll all be done with machines. And
maybe it’ll be a good thing. I won’t
have to worry no more about the heat
and hard yakker,” he sips the tea, “I
know what I’m going to do though.
It’s too hot up here. I’m going where
it’s cold. I’m going where I don’t sweat
and where it snows. Where it’s pretty
and white, and I’m going to lay right
out on the open ground, just lay there
forever, and let all that clean, soft snow
fail all over me ” He smiles.
He can do that. He’ll be right. Snow
doesn’t give a soft white damn whom
it touches.


DECISIONS! DECISIONS! DECISIONS!
When top-level decisions have to be made, it’s important
to be filled in on background basics to have the vital
statistics of the job in hand. (That being so, the Sultan’s
decision should be relatively simple). Without specific
information, the best man in the company can be utterly
at sea when making a decision on the best kind of paper
for his firm’s various needs. Is there any help, anywhere,
for this frustrated good guy? Faced with selecting papers
for advertising and colour printing, for instance? But of
course . . . Shoalhaven Advisory Centres throughout
Australia are at his service. And yours! Staffed by friendly
people who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
picture about paper. If you’ve a paper problem, large or
small, call your nearest Shoalhaven Advisory Centre,
now! We’ll gladly advise . . . and send you samples of
Shoalhaven papers and boards. Because demand is con-
stantly increasing, Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven is under-
taking a £7 million expansion programme this year. In
addition to existing papers, new machines will manu-
facture special grades not previously produced in Aus-
tralia. Name your need and Shoalhaven will almost
certainly meet it. When you’re choosing paper for adver-
tising and colour printing, specify Shoalhaven for constant
quality, constant supply.
SHOILHiWEI PAPER
%m 0 i m Jr®m flu m m JFm W mmm mm, m JF®m 1 mmm m m
The extensive Shoalhaven range includes various
grades of papers for advertising and colour printing
—Show Offset, Poster Papers, Satin Finish Ivory
Boards, Economy Pulpboards (white and tinted) and
all are available in various embossed finishes.
WTS.4
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any paper
problem just ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
♦


Rome’s Musical “Dolce Vita”
And Salzburg: " A l l very commercial now ”
By MARGARET CLARKE
IT sounded like a musical “dolce vita”,
the picture Massimo Freccia drew of
modern Rome’s concert life. Freccia
is chief conductor of the Rome Symph-
ony Orchestra which gives two concerts a
week and broadcasts on the Italian radio.
“We have these concerts in Rome be-
tween December and April,” he said.
“The music must be controversial,” he
said. “New sensations all the time.” He
mentioned a string of names. I heard
Boulez and Stockhausen among them. He
made it clear that dodecaphonic music
was now taken for granted in Rome and
Berg, Webern and Schoenberg were part
of the standard repertoire.
Mr Freccia described a work that had
been given a hearing at the last Venice
Festival. “By a Mr Brown from Amer-
ica,” he said. “It required two orchestras
and two conductors. One was Mr Brown
himself and the other an Italian named
Maderno. The orchestras improvised
in turn, with certain notes on a given
group of instruments.” He enumerated
the instruments.
And how had it sounded?
He closed his eyes. “Terrible,” he said.
“Contemporary music must be played,”
he admitted. “It’s of our time; and
geniuses may emerge.” He recalled that
Wagner had not been too well-received
in his day.
But (with insistence) what was his
own personal taste?
“I'm not of this generation,” he ad-
mitted, “and a man’s taste is likely to be
rooted in the period in which he was
brought up. But a conductor, like an
actor, must be able to adapt himself to
whatever role he is playing; he must not
think of his own inclinations.”
Mr Freccia is a native of Florence,
a city that has produced an extraordinary
number of talented people and not a
few geniuses, including Michelangelo and
Machiavelli. As he talked he seemed to
me very much of a Florentine; he looks
like a Florentine, clear-headed, hard-
headed, suave, his sensibilities to be used,
not to use him. And, indeed, his style
of conducting has the strong and austere
yet graceful lines of the typical architec-
ture of Florence, the muted, subtle colors.
As a boy Freccia studied the violin;
he had no thought of becoming a con-
ductor, but an interest in chamber music
started him on the road that eventually
led to the podium. While a student he
formed the habit of inviting other stu-
dents to join him for a quartet; the
quartet became an octet and finally a
chamber orchestra. At this point he
jumped on to a box and began conduct-
ing.
“It was then,” he said, “that I decided
that what I wanted to do in life was com-
municate my musical ideas to others.”
After a period of conducting in
Florence he went to Vienna to study the
German romantics; then came an en-
gagement in the United States and he met
Toscanini, then conductor of the NBC
Orchestra. The young man became
friendly with the old one, and Freccia
spent much time listening to Toscanini’s
rehearsals and talking music with him.
“I learned a tremendous amount from
him,” he told me, “but I have never tried
to copy his style.”
Freccia spent a good many years in
America and is now an American citi-
zen; his wife is a Cuban at one time
he was conductor of the Havana Orch-
estra.
I asked him his opinion on the modern
mania for music festivals, quoting the
French music critic Denise Bourdet who
once wrote that they tend to debase
artistic standards and tire out the artist,
especially singers. He did not entirely
agree, and was interested to hear about
the Adelaide Festival.
“It’s better that people should go to
music festivals than swim all the time,”
he said, with a sly smile. “And if the
artist accepts too many engagements and
wears himself out it is not the fault of the
festival; he can always refuse.”
But Freccia then drew a distracted
picture of modern Salzburg, with tourists
arriving by the busload, half of them
with little idea why they had come; then
he contrasted it with Salzburg of the
19305, when Toscanini and Bruno
Walter reigned there and the audiences
consisted entirely of music-lovers.
“It’s all very commercial now,” he
said, with a little sigh; though to judge
from his expression he accepted the fact
that the world had changed since his
younger days.
Adventures of a Quiet Man
The Archbishop held the ladder
By KENNETH SLESSOR
Mine has not been a life of great
excitement in the moon-probe or
flying trapeze sense of the word.
I must admit frankly that I have never
at any time wrestled with crocodiles,
landed by parachute, cracked a whip at
a lion or climbed a mountain higher than
200 feet above sea level. But “excitement”
is a relative term. I believe that no human
being can pass the age of 50 without
having managed to survive a whole
whirlpool of desperate adventures, so
mortifying, terrifying or shameful that
the mind recoils from their recollection
and so common that they are seldom
recognised. Having children, being cured
of pneumonia, flying from Sydney to
Melbourne, paying off a house or a hire-
purchase washing-machine, the occupa-
tional hazards of the city and the social
crises of the suburbs, all of these can be
as racking and shocking experiences as
being shipwrecked or pursued by head-
hunters.
I suppose the night when 1 broke
into a house with the Archbishop of
Sydney might be described as an ad-
venture, not without its perils and cer-
tainly not without excitement. It began
in the golden dusk of a late afternoon
in 1929 when I was returning home
along Darling Point Road. As I neared
St. Mark's I became aware of a tiny
commotion on the opposite pavement,
and when I looked more closely I saw
the shapes of two men. They appeared
to be engaged in a solemn and curious
kind of dance, and I would have been
prepared to dismiss the scene as one of
revelry if at the same moment I had
not noticed that the larger and possibly
more agile of the dancers was Dr Wright,
the Anglican Archbishop of Sydney. I
had no difficulty in recognising him, for
in those days bishops flaunted their
gaiters boldly, and Archbishop Wright’s
gaiters, sleek, plumply-filled and fault-
lessly buttoned, were unmistakable. Dr


At the Black Dolphin
we have been
told that
Dolphins aren’t black.
Our architect was “that bloke who
wrote that . . . book which said those
. . . things about our Sydney.”
There’s too much water about
(although we used to be proud of all
our sea, pool, inlet, even tap water),
that we should serve more wine
(although we are always serving more
wine), that we should stick to beer,
that we should stick. . . .
If the Black Dolphin won an archi-
tectural award there must be some
really horrible buildings in other places.
The only place we would need air con-
ditioning is . . . sharks, not dolphins!*
Black
Dolphin
MERIMBUL/
* But we do have a great number of very
satisfied customers who happily are
pleased with the results of the architect
and the dolphin and the water and the
wine.
Wright, I must add, was one of the most
bishoply Archbishops I have ever en-
countered. His face had a rosy Friesian
serenity, his hair was a nimbus of saintly
silver and his voice was as rich as
pomegranates. He was, in addition, a
practical as well as a pulpit Christian, a
man of kindness and tolerance, widely
loved by the people of Sydney. Almost
the only subject which inflamed him to
passion was the opening of the Royal
Show on Good Friday, about which he
wrote reproachful letters to editors once
a year for many years.
Tt was quite inconceivable that the Arch-
bishop should be dancing in the
dusk outside St Mark’s Church. More-
over the second figure was anything but
ecclesiastical. A tubby man with a dis-
located tie, an unshaven chin and a
strong odor of rum, he had his eyes
closed as if in slumber, half-opening
them at intervals to remark “Goo’ boy!
Goo’ boy!” He was supported by the
Archbishop at an angle of roughly 75
degrees, like a human tower of Pisa.
“I found this poor fellow asleep on the
road near the tram stop,” explained the
Archbishop. “I am very much afraid he
is under the influence of drink. He was
reclining in a most dangerous position—
indeed, it is a wonder he was not run
over. He also seems to be very tired. As
you can see, he falls off to sleep.”
The poor fellow half-opened one red-
rimmed eye and said, “Goo’ boy! Goo’
boy!”
“I thought it would be best to get
him home,” the Archbishop continued.
“I asked him his address but I fear it is
difficult, most difficult, to understand
him. However, he gave me this, which I
assume is where he lives.”
The Archbishop handed me a mottled
and crumpled envelope bearing a name
and the number of a house in Darling
Point Road.
“That isn’t far,” I said, grasping the
poor fellow on the side unsupported by
the Archbishop and heaving h : m approxi-
mately vertical. “1 would be glad to give
you a hand.”
Together we propelled him, sometimes
as if in slow motion, sometimes at a
kind of tottering run, along Darling
Point Road.
Darkness had almost come down by
the time we reached the number indicated
on the envelope. It was a semi-detached
two-storey Victorian house with a side-
door, surrounded by a miniature lawn
and garden-bed. It was in complete dark-
ness. So was its semi-detached neighbor.
The Archbishop propped the poor
fellow against the fence while I went
to the door, knocked several times and
rang the bell. I waited for a few minutes,
ringing and knocking, but it was plain
that the house was empty.
The Archbishop was distressed when
I told him. “What shall we do with this
poor fellow?” he asked. The poor fellow
was now in a deep stupor.
“We could search him for a key,” I
suggested.
“I have done so,” said the Archbishop.
“I fear there is no sign of one. He seems
to have absolutely nothing in his
pockets.”
A brilliant idea struck me. “There is
one way we could get him inside,” I
said, “but I’m afraid it would be against
the law.”
“What is that?” asked the Archbishop
eagerly.
“I believe I noticed a ladder in the
garden,” I said. “It would just about
reach to the first floor. There is a window
open on the balcony.”
“You mean ” said the Archbishop.
He paused and nodded his head. “You
mean that we should enter that house
and open the door?”
“I mean that 1 could climb in,” I
corrected him. “Technically it is known
as breaking and entering. But under the
circumstances I mean, if you were to
hold the ladder?”
“I would most assuredly hold the
ladder,” said the Archbishop.
“In that case,” I said, “I can’t imagine
any cop arresting a housebreaker if the
Archbishop of Sydney was holding the
ladder.”
Archbishop Wright smiled. “I think
we can take the chance,” he said.
T upended the ladder and placed it
against the side of the house. The Arch-
bishop held it firmly. I felt he was doing
this not only as a practical precaution
but as a kind of symbol of absolution.
I went up the ladder with all the agility
of the under-30’s, through the open
window and on the dim balcony. A door-
way at the end led to a staircase and
within fifteen seconds I had the front
door open.
“All clear,” I whispered to the Arch-
bishop, wondering at the same time why
I should whisper. He released his
powerful grip of the ladder and we
hoisted the poor fellow between us,
balanced him on the points of his toes and
ran him into the house.
There we placed him on a couch. We
took his shoes off, removed his tie,
covered him with a rug and left him still
slumbering contentedly. As I closed the
front door, the Archbishop said, “Really,
one would scarcely believe it so easy to
enter a dwelling!”
This was the moment at which, as
delicately as possible, I broke the news
to the Archbishop that I was a sordid
newspaperman by trade and hoped he
would not object to a brief description
of our exploit in next morning’s “Daily
Guardian.” I cannot say that Dr Wright
was overjoyed by this prospect. I think
it was only his habitual kindliness and
a desire to reward me for my small
services which caused him to consent
and he begged earnestly not to be quoted.
I contented myself by remarking next
day that there were (at that time) about
a million census Christians in Sydney
but few of them as practical in their
belief as an Archbishop who bothered to
take a stray drunk to the safety of his
home.
I never again heard anything of the
matter from either the Archbishop or
the poor fellow of Darling Point Road.
There were times when I was tempted to
smuggle a note to the Archbishop with
some such message as “What about a
job tonight?” or “There’s a wide open
joint at Double Bay,” but the curse of
congenital prudence restrained me.
During the 34 years that have gone
by since the night of the long ladder
I have often wondered whether that
drunk did live at No. , Darling
Point Road, the address given on the
envelope.
If he didn’t I can scarcely bear to
picture the scene which must have
followed when the rightful occupants
returned to find this monolithic figure
stretched on a couch with its shoes off.


Ill] I
mm YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU Mm
m
m
m
if
mm
m
.:
■m.
V
w
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
Use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
Unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-'
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
good/Vear
U*fy
mm
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
Water supply of a W.A. town—.
frequently under heatwave condi.
lions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
Crushing plant.
m
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
ww
S v'
m
mm
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
V *
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C264D


MOTORING
Toyota—a Challenge
And a Pleasure
Looking distinctly GM in design ...
By BOADICEA
Shareholders in Australian Motor
lndustries can take some heart from
the recent introduction into this country
of the Toyota motor car. This Japanese
car may prove to be the turning point
for AMI, a company which started with
great flamboyancy but lacked direction
from the top.
Pinning their faith on the Standard
Triumph Herald, a small passenger car
which had received lavish praise, almost
universally from the motoring press,
AMI lost heavily as did Herald dealers,
and Herald owners when the car proved
to be something of a damp squib in
this country.
Not even the enthusiasm of some
irresponsible motoring writers could
sustain the initial flush of sales. The
Herald was too flimsy for Australian
roads and Australian motorists and the
assembly by AMI at Fisherman’s Bend
was frankly a shoddy job. Top AMI
heads rolled in the ensuing panic and
with the sell-out of cars at irresistibly
low prices the confidence of the public
and the stock market was badly shaken.
The Leyland Group stepped in at
Coventry, the home base of the Standard
Motor Company, and there was at once
a stiffening of the sinews throughout the
organisation. Not only has there been
a marked improvement in administration
in Australia but, as might be expected,
the Leyland influence has extended to
the construction of the vehicles which
while not built like trucks are certainly
far more robust than before.
In fact, if AMI had the Herald of
today when they originally launched the
car their story could just as easily have
been one of success instead of failure.
The present 1200 Herald is a good
car and it is indeed unfortunate that it
carries the stigma of the first Herald and
has arrived just too late. The cult of the
VW was fairly insuperable for the orig-
inal Herald and now its successor has run
headlong into the Mini Minor cult of
today. AMI still have their faithful
Vanguard, surely due for modernisation,
though the six-cylinder car has never
been as successful as the renowned four-
cylinder version.
It was most suitable for Australia. I
remember a colleague of mine wrote of
the Vanguard as one of the very few
cars he would consider driving round
Australia straight off the showroom floor.
But the four-cylinder was priced too high
in comparison with the six-cylinder
Holden. When the Vanguard Six
appeared it suffered from overheating
problems, which had already been
suffered, diagnosed and cured in New
Zealand before the car was marketed
here. An obvious case of the left hand
not telling the right hand what was
going on.
Apart from Heralds and Vanguards,
AMI have gathered the American
Rambler into their net and are making
a fair fist of assembly and distribution
of this large “compact” car. The sales
of their Standard Triumph sports car
have never been able to grow in Aus-
tralia mainly because the USA takes
almost all Coventry’s sports car produc-
tion. The introduction here of the
Triumph Spitfire, a smaller sports car
tagged as a “Sprite Chaser,” is an effort
to capture the youth of the country, but
here again AMI can't get the volume
required and from what I’ve seen of the
Spitfire maybe it is just as well. It un-
doubtedly goes harder than its rival, the
Austin Healey Sprite, but it is also
more expensive by some £7O, a prime
consideration for youth.
its interior finish, while pos-
"" sibly excusable for a sports car, is
such that the Sprite appears in comparison
to have been fitted out by Saville Row.
Again the Spitfire is unlucky to have
struck the Sprite in such elegant clothes,
for the older Sprite was ugly and spartan
and sold because it was virtually un-
opposed. Today it is good-looking and
comfortable.
The Toyota Motor Co. is Japan’s oldest
and largest manufacturer of motor
vehicles. The car chosen for Australia
is called the Tiara 1500, a lj-litre four-
door family car, costing £915 tax paid.
There are two other versions, a wagon
for £999 and a utility for £849. A
surprising 65 horsepower and a speed of
over 80 mph have been extracted from
the overhead-valve engine which, unlike
the Nissan Datsun cars and their Austin
ancestry, looks distinctly GM in design.
We have become quite accustomed to
the Datsun cars on our roads and when-
ever I’ve seen them they look to be going
well and full of smiling Australians.
Queensland, in particular, has a good
sprinkling of Datsuns and the luxurious
Cedric is gaining ground with every
shipment. These Nissan group cars are
fully imported whereas the Toyota
vehicles contain at present 50 per cent
of Australian components and their as-
sembly is AMl’s responsibility. Provided
AMI can do a first-rate job the Tiara has
every chance of being a success.
In NSW, AMI are lucky in having the
motor house of York’s as State-wide
distributors. York Motors are long-
established and gilt-edged and they can
ensure AMI of proper distribution,
something AMI have needed in the past
and without which the best product in
the world can't survive.
At the same time York’s will expect
AMI to keep on the ball, for the quality
of the Tiara will be put against that of
the fully-imported Datsun. In Sydney
the Tiara and the Datsun face each other
diagonally across William Street.
AMI themselves hold the key, the
Tiara product looks basically good and
I hope to report on my road impressions
of the car before long. Just how good
AMI can make the Tiara remains to be
seen. Their record hasn’t been out-
standing but this could be their last
chance to get ahead and I have an idea
they’ll make it. Their success will mean
additional worries for VW and probably
further visits from the Wolfsburg bosses
to the VW factory at Clayton.
The order will be for more sales and
less excuses. Even BMC secure on
their new-found crest will view the
Tiara with some disfavor and could
have some natural qualms about the
eventual release of their larger Mini
Minor. The public on the other hand
can view the Japanese car invasion more
happily. It can only prove to their
benefit. Those dark days of the late 40s
and early 50s when cars were hard ;q
get and often of poor quality are not
easily forgotten.


' A m*C*r*- , & V ***''* ln
h > <£>-..,
v &s'
]i r=
:ir7;
\x[ It
i| >; j
--IT.
“”T
X,
*wr>*-v-: k i *****->4‘ t
m
=^oBB
<W\ i
i
J
* t * l *“ l ii i i rit
**>
E !
Wtfw
*-•» wn»» •**«»*«
fs
***•'’*"**••«;+ * «%u kf>
DNd!
K
A o
Has your office
joined the revolution ?
Right now there's a revolution going on in offices
all over the world. Administration, like so many other
fields, is fast taking advantage of new techniques
made possible through technical developments and
creative thinking and planning.
In the process tried and true methods of the past
are being replaced by new, better and more economical
ones. Fresh possibilities for quicker and easier ways
of doing many jobs are continually being opened up.
Methods of handling paperwork for instance have
come a long way in the last few years.
Through world-wide 3M research the range of Thermo-
Fax machines can now do far more for you than
ever before. Not only do they copy quicker and better
on a wide selection of white and coloured papers
but they make possible a variety of time and money-
saving office systems that ensure greater efficiency.
Thermo-Fax brand copying machines have always
set the pace in the business communications field.
They can show you the way to join the office
revolution and keep up with modern trends.
3M representatives are always ready to discuss
creative ways of handling your paperwork.
mv TRADEMARK __
Therm a-Fax
BRAND
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
LU E
2 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY 2-0930 ■ 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 61-3841 ■ 9 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
LA 5971-6 ■ 178 BARRY PARADE, BRISBANE 5-4131 ■ 238 LORD STREET, PERTH 28-4651 ■ 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART 3-1620.
msa 3190 a.


OVERSEAS
Burma’s Headlong Rush
To the Left
The General and the Brigadier
From DENNIS BLOODWORTH in Singapore
In Burma's stumbling rush towards total
Socialism, the Government has de-
cided to control everything in secular
private schools from the choice of books
to the kind of uniform children will wear.
This has been decreed by the 17-man
Revolutionary Council which rules
Burma under General Ne Win. It will
strike off the register at once any institu-
tion that “introduces subjects contrary
to the policies of the Revolutionary
Council.”
It has also created an official news
service “unopposed to the policies of the
Government”, which is to take over the
distribution rights in Burma of all foreign
news agencies.
Ever since Brigadier Aung Gyi was
ousted from the military junta in Feb-
ruary as a go-slow reformist Socialist,
the Left-wing faction has had exclusive
access to Ne Win’s ear. Among them was
a significant sprinkling of “converted”
Communists and “former” officials of
Communist international front organisa-
tions. And they at once made their advo-
cacy of quick change felt.
Burma's rice industry, responsible for
70 per cent of her foreign exchange
earnings, is to be completely nationalised
by next year. The 14 foreign and eight
Burmese banks in the country have al-
ready been converted into State “People’s
Banks”. But there are also “People's Drug
Stores”, for the whole process of social-
isation has been pushed into top gear
and a new distribution system inaugurated
whereby Civil Store Committees control
a network of Government-owned whole-
sale and retail shops. Of 32 British busi-
nesses operating in Burma one year ago,
only 16 survive today.
Strict censorship of foreign and
Burmese films is being introduced. The
State-owned Ava House organisation is
the sole importer and distributor of books
and periodicals, which must be “bene-
ficial to the country”. Foreign embassies
may not distribute publications. Foreign
correspondents are not allowed into the
country, and local journalists get nothing
but formal handouts from Government
sources. Most Western aid projects have
been suspended. The Government has
tried to force the worker, male or female,
into a regulation blue-black uniform
which will make “discipline easier”, and
on May Day it promised labor a new
deal based on the total nationalisation
of all means of production, distribution,
transport action and trade.
The farmer, first consideration of the
regime in this backward, agricultural
country, is to be given about £som. in
loans this year against a previous annual
average of less than half that figure. But
meanwhile a new system of co-operative
villages, each of not less than 50 families,
is intended “to raise the living standards
of the peasants”, and subsidiary crops
have begun to be sold exclusively through
“Co-operative Vegetable Markets”. Prices
of seeds, fertiliser and agricultural im-
ports are being firmly controlled. The
State is running seminars for farmers,
and demands the cultivation today of all
possible arable land.
To achieve all this the Government
has passed an Act empowering it to sus-
pend or extend any law as it pleases.
Many commentators believe that dog-
matic “Peking Line” Marxists are already
in full control of the country, that in a
short time it must be boldly labelled
“Communist bloc” and abandoned by the
West as an ideological dead loss.
This is to oversimplify, however.
General Ne Win is the man who gives all
the orders and who still enjoys unique
prestige in the army. And Ne Win is
not a Communist ■— at least, not yet.
He is a nationalist, feeling his way to-
wards something which is not a known
political formula, but an elusive ideal: a
sarong Socialism to fit a Buddhist Burma.
Some of his Left-wing advisers are pro-
Peking, and he is therefore in danger of
being sold a doctrinal gold brick. He is
said to see no foreign envoys except the
Chinese and he cannot forget that Burma
has a 1,200-mile frontier with Com-
munist China. The Chinese have put a
£3O million development loan at Ran-
goon’s disposal, offered technical assis-
tance over 25 industrial and engineering
projects, and lent more than 100 experts
for their realisation; perhaps as many as
300.
In January Ne Win nevertheless put
out “The Philosophy of the Socialist Pro-
gramme Party” as the manifesto of what
he hoped to be a one-party one-trade-
union regime. Its object was not the vic-
tory of Communism but the salvation of
his own smiling country in which average
earnings per head are less than £2O a
year and a peasant makes about £8 after
he has paid back his farm loans. In his
earlier “Burmese Way to Socialism” he
had castigated the capitalist world in
which man exploits man. In this later
work, however, he added a condemnation
of “Leftist Imperialism” for its despotic
attitude towards the millions. “The Philo-
sophy” speaks of a formula which will
“correlate man and his environment, de-
viating neither to Right nor Left”. It is
full of Buddhist metaphysical concepts
whose political application requires re-
spect for the dignity of man and his in-
dividual initiative.
It is poor commons, therefore, for
dogmatists from Peking. According to
East European Communists in Rangoon,
there is consequently little love between
Ne Win and the Chinese.
For the moment the General is
neutralist, and is imbued by a sense of
remorse for the past and a desire to do
good. Typical of him has been the am-
nesty for most classes of criminal which
was declared two months ago. Neverthe-
less ex-Premier U Nu and his Cabinet,
the last elected Government of Burma,
remain in gaol. Ne Win may make con-
cessions to Buddhism. He feels he need
make none to democracy.
TJrigadier Aung Gyi, who used to be
Burma’s vice-chief of staff, came
into Rangoon from Kachin State at
the end of May and said he was now de-
voting his time to religious meditation. In
retirement from public affairs, he might
enter a Buddhist monastery for a while.
This sounded simple enough, but it is
not so. The master of Burma, General
Ne Win, had tried to prevent the Briga-
dier’s scheduled arrival in the capital by
ordering the Mandalay-Rangoon flight to
be cancelled. Brigadier Aung Gyi came in
by train.
The two men quarrelled earlier this


year, and Aung Gyi, who advocated a
moderate Labor Party type of Socialism in
Burma's ruling Revolutionary Council,
resigned all his posts in February, and
abandoned the field to General Ne Win’s
Left-wing advisers. Since then Burma’s
socialisation has been violently accelerat-
ed, and gloomy prophets predict that
Rangoon may quickly become the docile
puppet of Peking.
Ne Win is the boss, but he knows that
no ambitious politician in Burma can
ignore the yellow-clad monks of the
Theravada Buddhist order without court-
ing grief.
Throughout Burmese history the
“phongyi”, or religious teacher, has been
a key figure whose influence has permeat-
ed all sections of society. The first
“nationalists” during the British colonial
era were organised within the Young
Men’s Buddhist Association, and many
of them later became prominent politi-
cians. In the ’thirties, as one historian has
remarked, “no political mob was com-
plete without its saffron-robed leader”.
In 1954 Premier U Nu was almost
forced to resign when angry and pug-
nacious monks demonstrated throughout
the nation against his attempt to ban
religious teaching. Towards the end of
his ministry, U Nu even made Buddhism
the State religion. For this reason Burma
today presents a spectacle of politically-
minded colonels and generals vying with
one another in their protestations of piety.
Ne W'in seeks to popularise Socialism
through Buddhism. He has once more
brought into prominence ex-colonel Ba
Than, the former director of psychological
warfare who retired two years ago to
found a Buddhist lay order devoted to
meditation and social works.
Among others, Ba Than is now pre-
sented as proof that the regime is in
harmony with the national religion.
Meanwhile, although its Socialist revolu-
tionaries have imposed a strict control
on private secular schools to ensure they
toe the current party line, it has care-
fully left religious schools alone.
The extraordinary amnesty declared in
April was also calculated to please Bud-
dhists throughout the country. Not only
were prisoners pardoned, but police sur-
veillance of habitual criminals was sus-
pended, current cases were quashed in
the courts, detective enquiries were
halted, and the record sheets of Govern-
ment employees wiped clean of adverse
entries.
On the other hand, Aung Gyi remains
a worry not only because he has his own
following in the army and sympathisers
Jn the leadership of the opposition parties
but above all because he is devoting his
time to Buddhism and Buddhists. For,
despite all Ne Win’s gestures, the church
is turning against him, and in the pro-
vinces the phongyis are beginning to speak
their minds to a receptive laity.
In general, Buddhists are unreliable
allies against Communism. They avoid
taking sides, for fear of becoming the
victims of worldly rage and ambition.
But experienced observers recently in
Rangoon estimate that two-thirds of the
Burmese Buddhist clergy oppose the
regime and regard Ne Win’s religious
advisers as thinly-disguised fellow-travel-
lers. The nation as a whole seems to be
getting a little restless under its daddv-
knows-best dictators.
The minority peoples who populate
Burma’s extensive hill States still offer
sporadic armed resistance to a central
Government which stubbornly refuses to
grant them more autonomy. The peas-
ants, although favo'red above all by Ne
Win’s Left-wing advisers, are on the
grumble again. Socialisation offends their
tough individualism and at the same time
seems to mean that instead of getting
high prices for their grain from private
dealers, they get low fixed payments from
the State.
A sulky, morbid atmosphere pervades
the capital. Civil servants are not filled
with pride in their revolutionary role when
they find their offices placed under mili-
tary guards. Judges do not care to be told
their business by the army. Opposition
politicians, who half-expect imminent
arrest, have little to lose. Editors fear
harsh reprisals for the least deviation
from approved Government policy.
Youth remembers how savagely these
army officers quelled the student riots of
last summer and know that it was
Aung Gyi who protested in Government
councils against the iron treatment they
received. Some say, cynically, that the
Communists need do nothing in Burma
the army is doing it for them. There
may be no counter-revolution in Burma
tomorrow. Perhaps no one will draw to-
gether the strings of discontent. But Ne
Win, a neutralist interested in the welfare
of Burma and not a world revolution,
may still be made to feel that opposition
at home cannot be suppressed and must
be placated. His less flexible Marxist
counsellors have won the first round, but
they have not yet won the match.
(OFNS.)
When Victory is Defeat?
Nasser treads a tightrope
By ISI LEIBLER
"T|espite widespread publicity heralding
the establishment of a tripartite
United Arab Republic consisting of
Egypt, Syria and Iraq, real unity between
these States is still far from a reality.
It is a mistake to interpret the recent
revolutions in Iraq and Syria as a vic-
tory for Nasser. It is true that Com-
munism received a major setback in these
regions but the newly emerged power
elites have proved to be anti-Nasserist.
Both the Syrian and Iraqi coups were
engineered by the Baath a party
describing itself as the “Arab Socialist
Renaissance Movement”. Its leaders in-
clude some who were involved in the
original unsuccessful Cairo-Damascus
Union, and as a result are highly resent-
ful and suspicious of any deal involving
Nasser. Mass local support for Nasser
has made the Baath leaders go through
the formal ritual of paying lip service
to “Union"’. But it has become quite
apparent that they will do everything pos-
sible to sabotage a real fusion with the
Egyptians which would involve domina-
tion by Nasser and “extinction of the
Baath Party”.
For this reason, despite misleading
Press handouts from Cairo, the agree-
ment of April 17 provides only for the
“gradual” creation of a tripartite Arab
Union over a two-year transition period.
Bitterly disappointed with this out-
come, Nasser endeavoured to “acceler-
ate” Union by appealing directly to the
Iraqi and Syrian masses through the
medium of Cairo Radio. This infuriated
the Damascus and Baghdad regimes of
Salah Bitar and General Baqer who in
turn carried out massive purges of pro-


Nasser elements in the Government and
Army.
Nasser then apparently lost patience
and virtually declared war on the
Baath. “Aflaq, your end will be similar
to that of the Iraqi traitor Kassem” or
“Baathists, your party is nothing but a
tool for British imperialism whose money
is pouring into the coffin of Aflaq and
Bitar” are fairly typical of the Cairo
Radio broadcasts beamed to the two
countries earmarked for “gradual” union
with Egypt. Nasser’s exasperation was also
expressed by his unofficial Press spokes-
man Hussanein Heikal on May 17 in
“Al Ahram”: “I don’t believe that the
UAR can, after today, co-operate with
the leadership of the Baath Party or even
peacefully co-exist with it”.
The Kennedy Administration is follow-
ing these developments with consider-
able unease. The anti-Communist coups
in Syria and Iraq were of course extreme-
ly advantageous to Western interests in
the Middle East. Presumably, their suc-
cess was not entirely unconnected with
direct American assistance to what had
appeared as a reasonably stable Baathist-
Nasserist coalition of “anti-Communist”
forces. What the Americans now fear
most is that the present tension could
easily spark off yet another revolution,
again enabling Moscow to gain a foot-
hold in the area.
President Kennedy has shown that he
considers Nasserism far preferable to
Communism. But although Nasser has
dealt ruthlessly with local Communists,
Soviet influence in the UAR is still a
factor to be reckoned with.
Egypt still maintains very strong trade
and commercial relations with the Soviet
bloc and is receiving regular shipments
of Soviet arms. Nasser has also gone out
of his way to stress that his policy of
“positive neutralism” remains unchanged
and that if American “co-operation” is
not forthcoming, the Soviet bloc is always
ready to help out.
Shattering US Illusions
PUiro’s policy of extracting the best
from both East and West was recent-
ly highlighted when Kennedy gave Nasser
a clear “hands off” Jordan and Saudi
Arabia warning. Nasser immediately
authorised his right-hand man Prime
Minister Aly Sabry—to release his report
of a recenlty concluded twenty-thousand-
mile journey, encompassing Russia, China
and India.
Sabry’s report was published in “Al
Ahram” the leading Government
newspaper and presumably came as
a great shock to the US State Depart-
ment. Sabry stressed over and over again
that, in Russia, both he and Khrushchev
had agreed “that the bonds of friendship
and collaboration must be strengthened
in all fields by the Soviet Union and the
UAR.”
But it was in relation to his talks with
the Chinese Communists that Sabry must
have really shattered American illusions
of Nasserism as a bastion against Com-
munism. Sabry stated that he made cer-
tain (unspecified) commitments to the
Chinese and, in return, Chou en-Lai as-
sured him that Communist China would
not recognise Israel “whieh was like
Formosa except that the Formosans were
Chinese while the Israelis were clear in-
truders in the Arab homeland.”
Towards the end of his lengthy stay
with the Chinese, Sabry had a series of
conferences with Mao tse-Tung himself in
Shanghai. “Al Ahram” stresses that dur-
ing these talks Sabry assured the Chinese
leaders that there was no truth in reports
that the UAR had sided with India dur-
ing her conflict with China. Sabry main-
tained that the UAR was merely con-
cerned in preventing India from abandon-
ing her neutralist policy or “from being
pushed into the lap of the West” by her
Right-wing reactionaries.
At about the same time that Sabry’s
report was published in the UAR press,
Nasser assured the British and Ameri-
cans that he was utilising all his influence
to dissuade his followers in Jordan and
Saudi Arabia from making trouble in
those regions.
These assurances were not reflected in
the inflammatory exhortations of the
Cairo Government-controlled “Voice of
the Arab Nation” calling on Nasserists
in Jordan and Saudi Arabia to overthrow
their Governments by violent means.
For example, on March 19, Cairo
Radio appealed to “free officers, soldiers,
students and Arab brothers in Saudi
Arabia and Jordan: How long are you
going to tolerate Saud and Hussein? The
time has come for the Army and people
to purge the Arab land of all imperialist
vestiges the lackeys who have sold
their honor and dignity and who co-
operate with the arch enemies of the
Arabs the English, the Americans and
the Jews”. Or on April 7th “Officers
and men of our brave army in Jordan:
Hussein has been guilty of many acts of
treason. He deserves death and death is
to be the fate of Hussein the treacher-
ous King and hangman of his people . . .
march on the Royal Palace and purge
yourselves of this dynasty of treason . . .
God is great.”
Jordan's future is naturally closely
bound up with Israel. The Jordanian
border is by far the longest and most
vulnerable one for Israel. Hitherto, it
has been a relatively peaceful frontier
with few incidents. But trigger-happy
Nasserist troops closing the ring around
Israel and poised on these frontiers would
obviously create a very difficult situation
for the Israelis. An attack from Jordan
could cut Israel in half at its narrow waist
only a few miles from Tel Aviv. Even
primitive sniping action could virtually
separate Jerusalem from Tel Aviv by cut-
ting off the main highway linking these
cities which runs adjacent to the Jordan-
ian border.
For this reason, it is generally believed
that in the eventuality of a Nasserist
takeover in Jordan, the Israelis would
occupy Jordan up to the river, thus
finally eliminating the salient held by
the Arab Legion. There would be little
alternative left to the Israelis despite
knowing that such a step would in all
likelihood trigger off a general war in
the area.
“The Injustice of 1948”
Tt is consequently paradoxical that the
threat of Israeli intervention, if there
should be a change in the Jordanian status
quo, has been a prime factor ensuring
Hussein’s survival. A Nasserist takeover
in Jordan could easily have been ac-
celerated by the simple expedient of as-
sassinating Hussein a step which Nas-
ser has hesitated taking, realising that
this would hasten the showdown with
Israel for which he is presumably not
yet ready.
Israel’s concern with the Jordanian
situation is based on a realistic appraisal
of Nasser's intentions and not prompted
by a fear of a united Arab bloc. In fact,
many Israelis believe that in one sense
they would be more likely to achieve
a peace settlement with a united Arab
State than with a series of petty regimes
competing with one another in hysterical
anti-Zionism.
At present, however, a determination
to exterminate Israel is about the only
theme upon which Arabs of all political
persuasion can unite. In fact hatred of
Israel provides much of the dynamic in
the current drive for Arab unity. In such
an atmosphere any Arab leader counsel-
ling moderation in this field would be
committing immediate and certain
political suicide.
Hence, it is not surprising that “the
liberation of Palestine” or in plainer lan-
guage the annihilation of Israel, was one
item inscribed into the charter of the
new stillborn Arab Union, which in-
volves no dissent or need for compromise.
Nasser has utilised the anti-Israeli
weapon in his fight against the Baathists
in Syria and Iraq. He has accused Baath
leaders (wrongly) of being soft on
Israel and stressed the need for “Union”
and Arab unity as a means of destroying
Israel.
The Israelis cannot be under any il-
lusions about Nasser. Twice defeated
and humiliated by the Israelis, Nasser is
bitter and determined to regain his honor
in a third round. He has even shown him-
self willing to retard domestic reform and


maximum
a
. . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
<'■ ' ' ' ' ' ' . : »3
U GMK
i 1
\
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be It,eluded
in G.M.K. Systems.
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries—,
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPc 1 * UP
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 « Canberra 4-4098 »
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-06 U
economic development, if such a price is
required to afford the luxuries of Ilyushin
bombers and rockets.
Nasser's present military potential is
frequently underestimated. It is true that
in recent months the UAR Army in
Yemen made a poor showing. Nearly
30,000 of Nasser's crack troops were
pinned down by primitive Royalist tribes-
men. Cairo was actually grateful for
American arbitration foreshadowing
evacuation of UAR troops from Yemen
with minimal loss of face.
But as a capable army man, Nasser
can be relied upon to learn from UAR
military fiascos of the past. Today the
UAR Air Force and Mechanised Bri-
gades, supplied with the latest Russian
equipment, are in a far more advanced
state and have personnel better trained
in the utilisation of weapons than in
1956.
Nor can Nasser’s rockets “research”
programmes be ignored. For over ten
years now Cairo has acted as a haven for
hundreds of fanatical Nazi technical ex-
perts many of them condemned war
criminals. In recent years this retinue of
Nazi technicians has been augmented by
other German scientists lured to Cairo by
the incredibly huge salaries offered by the
UAR Government. That the usually sober
Israelis have apparently indulged in
“James Bond” type efforts to scare away
these “specialists’’ suggests that Israel
is more than concerned with develop-
ments in this sphere. This was further
borne out when Israel risked harming
her painfully built good relations with
the West German Government by draw-
ing world-wide attention of the partici-
pation of German nationals in these acti-
vities.
The Israelis have, of course, endeavour-
ed to acquire additional weapons to
counterbalance the Arabs. President Ken-
nedy’s sale to the Israelis of Hawk
ground-to-air missiles came after Nasser
had publicised a huge new rocket deal
with the Russians. The Hawk is only a
defensive weapon and will not go a long
way to solving Israel’s defence problems
—especially as effective initial deliveries
are only scheduled for late 1964.
Since the anti-Communist revolutions
in Iraq and Syria and the new American
attitude to Nasserism, Israel will prob-
ably find it increasingly more difficult
to purchase American arms. Despite,
President Kennedy's repeated assurances
that co-operation with Nasser and a
guarantee to support Israel's existence are
not mutually self-exclusive, the Americans
will think twice before antagonising the
Arabs by supplying the Israelis with more
arms.
Of all the Western countries, France
alone is still reckoned as an ally of
Israel. On the other hand the Israelis
have made spectacular headway amongst
the newly emergent African States by
their generous economic and technical aid
freely given without strings or the stigma
of repentant colonialism.
But should an armed conflict even-
tuate, neither friendly African votes in
the UN nor limited French support are
likely to materially affect the outcome
of any real showdown between the
Israelis and Arabs. For this reason,
Israelis of both sexes must undergo two
and a half years of the toughest military
service in the world. The constant state
of military alert is such that a maximum
call up of all eligible men and women
throughout the country can be effected
within twenty-four hours.
Long range prospects for peace in the
Middle East are uncertain. On the one
hand outnumbered forty to one, the
Israelis cannot indefinitely expect to re-
main technologically and industrially
ahead of the Arabs. There also seems
to be an increase rather than a lessening
in the Arab determination to remedy
"the injustice of 1948’’.


<r<* <
POWERFUL SERVANTS OF MANKIND
K
Power for Everything
6*5
CABLES. Pl.Yv LTD,
CABLES WIRES
FLEXIBLES )
v;
The vast range of Olympic wires, cables and flexibles is one of the most comprehensive in the
world. Manufactured to exacting international specifications, Olympic Cables play an important
part in power generation and the application of electric power in industry, communications,
factories, offices and homes throughout Australia. It has truly been said that there is an Olympic
wire, cable or flexible for every electrical purpose.
Power for everything through Olympic Cables
AN OPERATING COMPANY OF OLYMPIC CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LTD.
4596


Around Melbourne
CLARA BOW, RONALD COLMAN AND ALL THAT
week we are in the midst of
A merry-making and melancholy.
We’re merry-making because, in the
year of Cleopatra, Hoyts is celebra-
ting its 50th anniversary. We have just
been told that this is the golden
jubilee of the greatest theatre chain
in the Southern Hemisphere and girls
dressed in gold lame are distributing
Todd-AO size birthday cakes.
Then we’re melancholy because the
wreckers are pulling down the dear
old Savoy Theatre in Russell Street.
Traditionally it has been the home of
vaudeville, strong theatre and clean
living in our town. Its history goes
back 91 years and until 1934 it was
known as the Temperance Hall,
owned by the Order of the Sons of
Temperance.
It was built, you see, because so
much wicked drinking went on at
the open bars of Melbourne’s music
halls. A place of entertainment was
needed, which would be completely
free of this influence. There were
some wonderful shows, particularly
on Saturday nights. Most moving
indeed were “The Drunkard’s Death”
and “Ten Nights In A Barroom.”
There were some sterling perform-
ers. Dame Nellie Melba made one
of her first public appearances at
the Temperance Hall, and there were
others like John McCormack and
Lola Montez.
In 1934 they put in motion picture
machinery. The name changed from
the Temperance Hall to the Imperial,
from the Imperial to the Savoy. Up
the back there were all sorts of meet-
ing rooms for such guests as the
Persian Cat Society, the Racing
Pigeon Club, the Football Umpires’
Association and it is said, even, that
there were meetings of spiritualists
where they used to hold hands and
burn incense.
Now the WHELAN THE
WRECKER IS HERE sign is on the
front wall. Honest John Gilbert
walked past last week and made the
comment: “This is the best show ever
put on at the Savoy Whelan the
Wrecker bringing down the house.”
As for Hoyts it is the story of a
glorious advance from Pathe Films
to talkies, to 3-D, to Wide Screen, to
Cinemascope, to Todd-AO, Stereo-
phonic Sound and Cinerama. It all
started with Arthur Russell, a Bourke
Street dentist. He used to practise
illusions as a hobby and he bought
into a small circus called Hoyts. He
put himself on the programme and
toured the Western District. In 1913
he hired St George’s Hall in Bourke
Street and established Hoyts pictures.
In those days pictures ran from three
to ten minutes.
And so the Empire grew. St
George’s Hall was reconstructed as
the De Luxe. George Griffith became
the secretary. New theatres were built
in the city and they acquired the
Empire in Brunswick and the North-
cote in Northcote. Glory of glories,
these suburban theatres had their own
electric generating plants before elec-
tric power was available in the sub-
urbs.
However, the great climax to the
motion picture industry in Melbourne
came in 1929 with the opening of
the two finest picture palaces we had
ever seen, the Hoyts Regent and its
rival, The State.
npHE State was, and still is, something
to see. It looked like a cross be-
tween Genghis Khan’s palace and an
oil sheik's harem. There was a superb
artificial sky with stars that twinkled
on and off, a cloud machine that
could pump across every cloud from
cirrus to cumulo nimbus enough to
make you reach for your umbrella.
Rudolf Valentino’s very own sword
hung on the wall until somebody
pinched it back in the ’thirties, and
statues everybody from Diana of
Versailles to Discobulus and Venus
de Capua.
Well, The Regent had some mighty
arty stuff, too, including some
enormous urns specially made in
Italy. Anyway there was a neck and
neck struggle between the two
theatres as to who would open first.
The Regent foreman would walk
down Russell Street at 4 p.m. to see
how The State was progressing. The
State foreman would walk up Russell
Street at 4 p.m. to see how The Regent
was progressing. Then both would
put on an extra shift.
The State won the battle and
opened on February 23, 1929, with
Clara Bow and Buster Keaton in “The
Fleet’s In.” The souvenir programme
said modestly: “As you gaze in won-
derment at the spectacle of The State
you are transported into another
world a world that will stagger
you by its supreme beauty. Never
was a theatre so beautiful, or its glory
so dearly bought, but that it fades
into insignificance beside this Floren-
tine garden of music, of picture and
of song.”
The Regent opened on March 15
with Ronald Colman and Vilma
Banky in “Two Loves,” a pretty
deadly reply to “The Fleet’s In.”
However, their prose didn’t have quite
the same lyric quality: “You’ll be
thrilled, you’ll be delighted. When
you have seen The Regent, when you
have sat spellbound by the pageant
of stars, you will truly know the
entertainment that delights London
and New York.”
The mighty empire spread all
around Australia and it is still by far
the largest chain, but depression, war
and TV came. Things were never
quite the same again. Yet everybody
suffered the same way and the new
gimmick was to think of a splendid
new name for the theatre. Everybody
was in it. The Liberty became the
Odeon, the De Luxe became the
Esquire, the St James the Metro,
the Majestic the Chelsea and the
enormous old State, the Forum. It
wasn’t easy to see the point in these
name changes. Except that Forum
did smack splendidly of chariot races,
togas, the slaughtering of Christians
and all that sort of thing.
As for Hoyts it had to tighten its
defences. The count after 50 years
is this. In Victoria six city theatres
and six drive-ins, all intact. In the
suburbs the count has dropped from
38 theatres to 15.
However, the future is rosy. Caesar
and Cleopatra is expected to open in
a city Hoyts theatre some time around
Christmas. It will be a black tie affair
and just as good as the opening in
New York. Liz and Dick didn’t
attend that one either.
BATMAN


letters to the
EDITOR
“CHOICE”
Sir,
In his reply to my criticisms of
“Choice” (“A Consumer’s Report on
‘Choice’ ”, 29/6/63), the Deputy-Chair-
man of ACA, Dr Epstein, (13/7/63)
assails my integrity, intelligence and
competence, misrepresents my views in a
manner calculated to make them appear
ridiculous and fails hardly even at-
tempts to answer any of the specific
arguments and evidence contained in my
article. His inability to refute my argu-
ments does not surprise me: the intemper-
ate and defamatory rhetoric of his reply
does slightly. (ACA should perhaps
acquire the services of a good lawyer, as
well as those of more economists and
statisticians.)
Epstein’s innuendoes and personal
abuse are not worthy of any reply from
me. Moreover I suspect from his letter
that communication between us is im-
possible. Nevertheless, I cannot allow his
distortion and outright misrepresentation
of my views to go unchallenged. Speci-
fically, Epstein states that I (i) “com-
plain” that ACA advises its readers to
stick to manufacturers’ recommenda-
tions; (ii) “state that deceptive packaging
is harmless”; (iii) “actually state that
misleading the consumer gives him more
choice”; (iv) “don’t like ACA’s ‘expos-
ing products or practices which are
against the law’ and (v) suggest that
ACA tries “to exclude imported goods
from the country”.
In fact, in my article I (i) complained
that in testing products, ACA “generally
sticks rigidly to the manufacturers’ in-
structions, even when these are intended
only as a guide and even when they are
clearly inappropriate” and cited two in-
stances where this resulted in unfair and
misleading comparisons being made; (ii)
argued that ACA makes more fuss about
deceptive packaging than is warranted;
(iii) actually stated that elimination of
odd-sized packs “is a laudable aim” but
“does conflict with the desideratum that
consumers have a wide range of choice
among package sizes”; (iv) exemplified
ACA’s incomplete appreciation of the
consumer interest by pointing out that
laws designed to maintain the quality of
products in practice often serve to re-
strain competition; and (v) suggested
that pursuit of standardization in packa-
ging is dangerous because it could have
the undesired effect of excluding many
imported goods from the Australian
market.
Epstein says that I overlooked the
fact that ACA is a “non-political, non-
profit organization, consumer-owned and
consumer-controlled”. I did not overlook
this fact: I consider it to be utterly
irrelevant to an assessment of how well
“Choice” fulfils its stated objectives.
Epstein states, correctly, that every
issue of “Choice” contains a statement
to the effect that references made relate
only to the articles tested and not to
any other articles of the same or similar
description. This is clearly in the nature
of a legal disclaimer of responsibility on
ACA’s part. Taken literally, it means
that “Choice’s” product comparisons
apply only to the particular samples pur-
chased by ACA. If so, there is absolutely
no point in publishing “Choice”. In pub-
lishing “Choice”, and suggesting that
consumers “buy on test”, ACA is, I re-
peat, inviting its readers to accept its
findings as applying to any sample of the
tested products which they might buy.
This being the case, it behoves “Choice”
to display a sense of scientific caution
and responsibility by utilizing appro-
priate statistical design and analysis in its
testing procedure. (Incidentally, I am
well aware that for some purposes a
sample of one is adequate, and that in
any case a sample of one is better than
no sample at all.)
Taken as a whole, Epstein’s letter sug-
gests that he equates good intentions with
performance: ACA’s intentions are good,
“therefore once a test is decided on, it
is carried out as well as can be”; Parish
criticises “Choice”, therefore his inten-
tions must be bad, and his arguments
fallacious.
I am amused by Epstein’s boast re-
garding “Choice’s” circulation. To appeal
to the “test of the market” is hardly con-
sistent ' v ith ACA’s philosophy.
As for Epstein’s invitation to join ACA
even were I full of zeal for consumer
research I would hesitate to join ACA
in view of its past performance and the
light which Epstein’s letter throws upon
its present leadership. Others are ap-
parently of like mind: I understand that
the Canberra branch of the ACA recently
seceded from the parent organisation.
ROSS PARISH
Sydney (NSW).
PROFUMIGATION
Sir,
What is Knopfelmacher, a failed Cal-
vinist? Thank you for having Donald
Horne to redress the balance.
Michael Frayn, one of England’s
current crop of satirical young men, has
suggested, of youth problems, that the
real problem is not “the wickedly delect-
able sex life of the young, but the
increase in middle-aged prurience.”
R. D. SYMONS
Emerald (Vic.)
Sir,
The article “England Made Them”,
by Frank Knopfelmacher (Bulletin,
July 6), was the most refreshing piece
of journalism I have read for some time.
It struck hard at the state of affairs
which for many years now has relegated
our nation to little more than an English
county. “Anglicisation” has been forced
upon us, and Australia must outgrow its
childish dependence.
M. W. GERKENS
Daylesford (Vic.)
Sir,
Considering The Bulletin’s interest
in upholding standards of strict historical
accuracy, we were rather surprised to
find Donald Horne (6/7/63) numbering
Mr Gladstone among the British Prime
Ministers who were notable for an extra-
curricular sex life.
It is well known that Gladstone was
in the habit of striking up conversations
with streetwalkers. But it is almost
equally well known that his object was
not fornication, but an attempt to per-
suade these outcasts that they might
still hope to rehabilitate themselves in
society by changing their way of life.
Such conduct may have been futile, and
was certainly unworldly, but Gladstone’s
sincerity was recognized by politicians
both inside and outside his own party.
Only two sources have suggested that
Gladstone was in fact sexually immoral
with these women. One was a black
mailer, whom Gladstone convincingly
discredited. The other was an author,
writing in 1927 and drawing largely on
his imagination. Gladstone’s sons took
steps to defend their father’s name, and
were eventually sued for libel by the
author of the book. The author lost his
case.
G. C. BOLTON
D. D. CUTHBERT
Department of History,
Monash University.
Clayton (Vic.).
THE PRESBYTERIAN CLERGY
Sir,
May I add a comment to the remarks
of Mr E. C. B. MacLaunn on the
Anglican Church (6/7/63). In the
Presbyterian Church (in which I am
a student minister) the tradition has
been that a candidate shall reach BA
degree standard before commencing a
three-year course in theology, biblical
languages and literature, etc.
I agree with Mr MacLaurin that the
university degree is a status symbol
among some ministers (and perhaps
even more so among their congrega-
tions) but I cannot see the theological
colleges shrinking to the giving of mere
pastoral theology courses, while all can-
didates attend the university. In the
Presbyterian Church the majority of
ordained ministers are still without any
university degree, and many students are
either unable or unwilling to matricu-
late to the university.
R. J. WILSON
Sydney (NSW).


WORLD-WIDE
100% British Mad •
the iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
(£ pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
S
Ex
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores, la
case of difficulty write to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street, Moorabbin, 5.20, Victoria, Australia.
SANTAMARIA AND THE
COMMUNISTS
ir i r, t ■ , , T ,
IP. Lanigan s etter (Bulletin July
13) prompts me to protest against the
persistent misrepresentation of Mr San-
tamaria, the Movement and the NCC.
TU a , . ~ ,
r 1 he L e 7?u flV n p . a P graphs 1,1 ih , e le " er '
In each of the first tour paragraphs there
are glaring misrepresentations, not to use
a harsher word for example, distortions.
According to J P Lanigan Mr San-
,NCC. 'S dictatorial, its object is
total victory in the Labor Party and in
he Trade Union Movement ; Mr San-
tamaria s theory is expounded in the
controversial Bombay E x a m i n er
articles , the NCC is saddled with ex-
cesses and vices ; Mr Santamaria blat-
antly exploits Church facilities for politi-
cal purposes”; “the NCC seeks to obtain
results which suit its own followers ,
the NCC equates sincere anti-Com-
munists with the Communists them-
selves ; and, finally, J. P. Lanigan talks
about ‘the doubtful influence of the
•
J. P. Lanigan would surely qualify for
a job in a packaging business. He is
good at putting labels on things, but
apparently not very concerned to match
the label with the contents. To test his
ability to describe the content I would
b . tefu , for his answers h f ~
, questions (Chapter and verse,
please) F ’
‘ „
I.ls Mr Santamaria a democratically-
elected head of the NCC?
2 ln what arc th methods of
, h „ vrr Hietaiorlkl 9
\ What does he mean by 'Total vie
, in the Labor Part etc y ,
4. H as Mr Santamaria ever comment-
ed on the Bombay artic|es?
5. what are the “excesses and vices”
0 f NCC?
6. Is it wrong to use a Catholic TV
programme or a Catholic newspaper to
a j r a political point of view? If so, why?
7. W hat are the results sought by
the NCC?
g What exactly does he mean by a
“sincere anti-Communist”, or, if that
question is too difficult, does he consider
NCC members to be sincere anti-Com-
munists?
9. Would he please give the names of
some of these sincere anti-Communists
who have really fought against the Corn-
munists and who have been maligned by
Mr Santamaria?
10. How does he propose to get
trade unionists to go to their meetings?
I am not interested in another batch
of labels. I just want to know whether
this particular batch accurately describes
the content of J. P. Lanigan’s package.
If he has a product to offer, then the
public is entitled to an accurate descrip-
tion.
THOMAS MOORE
Gooloogong (NSW).
BROUN ON DIVORCE
Sir,
Having crossed swords with Malcolm
Broun in inter-’varsity debates in our not
too distant under-graduate days. I am
certain he will not mind my enquiry as
to whether or not the experience of
catching a “respondent and co-respon-
dent in fragrante delicto” (13/7/63) is
limited, like the prothonotary, to New
South Wales? Perhaps Mr Broun’s en-
quiry agent was hot on the scent; or
is it that “the gruesome details” of the
discovered act make adultery a sin that
smells to high heaven to the delicate
nostrils of the Sydney divorce Bar?
We Tasmanians are told that our
aborigines were unique in that they
never committed adultery; they are now
unfortunately extinct. However . . .
“What men call gallantry, and gods
adultery,
Is much more common where the
climate’s sultry.”
And I venture the opinion that even
in the case of two royals and ten cents
pecunia no olet.
ADRIAN GIBSON
Hobart (Tas. ).
“THE CODD AFFAIR”
Sir,
What a pity that a magazine of such
standing as The Bulletin should pub-
lish such a sordidly degrading story as
John Rickard’s “The Codd Affair”
(29/6/63). How disgusting to think that
such so-called literature should be put
on a pedestal before the eyes of the Aus-
tralian reading public. And how shock-
ing to realise that people are paid to
produce literature of this type, while
thousands of devoted people throughout
the country are working their hearts out
to instil into the rising generation a
genuine love and appreciation of good
writing.
G. G. FAULKNER, B.A.
Pius College,
Albany ( WA).
Sir,
Mr Lee Youdale (13/7/63) apparent-
ly has not passed the stage of ‘'Winnie
the Pooh” in his literary appreciation,
judging by his condemnation of “The
Codd Affair”.
If Mr Youdale was so shocked by
the story, I fail to see why he read it
completely (as he appears to have done).
The story itself is good, and it is a pity
The Bulletin does not “inflict” more
short stories of its calibre on its readers.
DAVID HILL
Turramurra (MSB 7 ).


REVIEWS
FILMS
Rose-Tinted Spectacles
Blockbusting the critics
By CHARLES HIGHAM
rPHE “blockbuster” defined by “Sight
and Sound” as “a film running not
less than about a hundred and fifty
minutes, shot in color, or in some big
screen process, or both” is obviously
here to stay: the same magazine, totting
up the lists of all-time box-office
successes, reveals that every one of them
was a blockbuster: “Gone With The
Wind,” “Ben Hur,” “The Ten Command-
ments,” “Around The World In 80
Days,” “West Side Story,” “The Robe,”
“South Pacific,” “The Bridge On The
River Kwai,” “Spartacus.” Clearly, the
only way to obtain huge profits these
days is to make a huge expenditure: one
hopes the evident logic of this will apply
in the case of “Cleopatra,” on w'hich
the fortunes of 20th Century-Fox so
perilously hang. Investments in films
today are on so gigantic a scale that
every stage of the script from con-
ception to shooting stage has to be
weighed in terms of “audience appeal.”
An easily identifiable title, proven box-
office stars, religion, sex, noise and color
•—the ingredients are obvious, the mixing
of them requires much unsung skill. At
its worst, the blockbuster film can be
stupefying, dull, inept: the attempt to
equate sex w'ith religion in “King of
Kings” was far less adroit than De
Mille’s in a previous version, and the
film has had a deservedly rocky passage
at the box-office. By contrast, Samuel
Bronston’s other two big productions,
“El Cid” and “55 Days at Peking”, have
proved that a huge spectacle can also
show evidence of taste and skill: Bron-
ston, obviously, is a latter-day Griffith,
w'ith a unique pow'er of wringing beauty
and excitement from unpromising
material, and a rousing command of the
medium.
And it is not, as it once was, de
rigueur in snobbish circles to sneer at
spectacle films. The pretentiously self-
admiring Penelope Gilliatt (of “The
Observer”) has obviously known at every
stage of her brief career how far she
could go without damaging her reputa-
tion: one feels she was on perfectly safe
ground in calling “El Cid” a masterpiece
last year. Howard Hawks’ “Hatari” and
David Lean’s “Lawrence of Arabia” may
exhibit their directors’ worst faults
schoolboyish prankishness and ice-cold
perfectionism respectively but it is no
longer considered smart to denigrate
works of this kind because they are big.
To the contrary, the films seem to be
less critically weighed and examined than
if they were small ; shorn of its huge,
deadpan images and slow, narcissistic
camera pans, “Lawrence” would be
reduced to little more than a Lew
Landers Western, while How'ard Hawks’
much admired film would simply emerge
as an antediluvian quickie, with footage
that (often) could have been snatched
from a Fitzpatrick travelogue.
rp H is process of being - kind -to - the -
A biggies has, then, had some grotesque
results no less maddening than the old,
snide running-down of films like “Gone
With The Wind” (which it is now OK
to admire) and “The Adventures of
Robin Hood” (enjoying a rousing revival
in, of all places, Hong Kong). Critics
like the admirable Dylis Powell (“The
Sunday Times”), John Coleman, an
atrocious stylist (“The New Statesman”)
and Isabel Quigley ("The Spectator'”' all
wax highbrow on the subject of spec-
tacles; a whole school of critics, centred
in Paris and with a branch-office in New
York, exists to find all kinds of meta-
physical “meanings” in blockbusters (the
pages of “Cahiers du Cinema” and “The
New York Film Bulletin,” verging on
illiteracy in their respective languages,
are full of really ludicrous attempts to
find “symbols” in sequences obviously
cooked up some desperate midnight and
shot off the top of the director's head).
Yet, absurd as the whole business of
critiques demise en scene has become
the blockbusters have occasionally come
good: “West Side Story” undoubtedly
owed much of its excitement to the sheer
size of the giant screen and the marvel-
lous impact of the sound-track recording;
“Ben Hur’s” chariot race would not have
had half the breathtaking beauty and
vigor it possessed if projected normal
ratio, black - and - white (whatever the
adherents of the earlier silent version
have to say); and “El Cid” was
triumphantly fitted to the new screen
proportions: color, designed and executed
with masterly skill, was perfectly
arranged within the great frame, and
individual sequences—the first arrival of
the Moorish army against a storm-swept
escarpment, the murder of Prince
Alfonso under the walls of Valencia, the
last ferocious onslaught of the black-
clad Moors from the sea —dazzled W'ith
their combination of moving and station-
ary color, vibrant sound-track, and
spacious direction (Anthony Mann)
geared to the new ratio.
The danger is to temper one’s frank
enjoyment of these spectacles with too
much rationalisation of their content:
treat them as fine entertainment, un-
usually tastefully done, and you strike
the right critical level (too many re-
viewers either sneer or try to justify their
admiration by erecting an intellectual
thesis around a simple “show”). Samuel
Bronston’s “55 Days at Peking” (direc-
tor, Nicholas Ray), which opens in
Sydney this w'eek, is an admirable case
in point: it’s nothing more than a latter-
day Henty, splendidly splashed across
the screen —and harking back more than
a quarter of a century to the kind of
thing Korda did so beautifully in the
’thirties: one Jhinks of “The Four
Feathers” with its Fuzzy-Wuzzy charges
and vulture-haunted field of death, and
“The Jungle Book,” w'ith its haunted
temple and its jungle fire. Daunting to
see critics trying to read into this simple
adventure story of the Boxer Rebellion,
full of rousing battles and dominated
by a craggily imperturbable central per-
formance from Charlton Heston, some
kind of “message” about the relation-
ship between East and West; happier to
sit back and relish the sumptuous re-crea-
tion of Manchu court and British am-
bassador’s residence, the green-tinted,
Goyaesque battles at the barricades, the
sombre, wordless baritone choruses of
Dimitri Tiomkin for the advancing
Chinese army, harking back more than
25 years to his score for “Lost Horizon.”
Happier, too, seizing the film on its
own level, to notice the marshalling of
extras into changing patterns that excite
the eye; the deliberate and watchable
hamminess of Flora Rohson’s Dowager
Empress; the old-fashioned but rousing
finale, with the troops of many different
nations marching in to relieve the city,
and the weeping women holding their
children high. The film reverts back
many years to a time when Holly-
wood films were convinced, dynamic,


AUSTRALIAN WRITERS
Well-established London agency, with US
associates, representing top producers, directors,
actors and writers is interested in creating
imaginative outlet for new and established liter-
ary talent from Australia. We would be in-
terested to read original manuscripts for novels
or films, or to represent published authors for
films. Please write, before submitting manu-
scripts, to: Mrs ROBIN DALTON, JOHN
REDWAY & ASSOCIATES, 35 DAVIES STREET,
LONDON, W.l.
vigorously Philistine and high in hormone
content the days before Schary and
Kramer and their kin got notions,
decided the cinema was a tub. and began
thumping it, with predictably dire conse-
quences. “55 Days at Peking” may not
be a work of art but, by heaven, it’s
good cinema.
Downhill
Yanina Vanini. Director, Roberto
Rossellini. King’s Cross Metro
Theatre, Sydney.
Oince his debut on the international
screen at the end of World War 11,
Roberto Rossellini has managed to build
himself an increasing and, to my mind,
almost entirely unjustified reputation as
a director.
Now Rossellini turns his dubious tal-
ents to the costume drama and the color
camera. “Vanina Vanini” is based on a
story by Stendhal, probably the last
author who should be filmed by Ros-
sellini, who (despite his name for real-
ism) has a romantic, novelettish ap-
proach to life. Stendhal's work, though
clad in the romantic trappings of the
historical novel, is soundly based on an
unsentimental Gallic acceptance of the
lack of heroism in most hurhan motives.
Rossellini’s haphazard assembly of his
material is horribly obvious in this kind
of film, which requires a sumptuous ex-
pertise. The color is murky and unim-
aginatively designed.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
ART
Raft’s Journey
Emanuel Raft. Gallery A, Melbourne.
A lthough he is only 25, Emanuel Raft
has already had two one-man shows
and has been in five group shows, in Italy
and Australia. The present exhibition at
Gallery A is his first one-man show in
Melbourne, and consists of paintings,
drawings and jewellery. In his paint-
ing at least he shares the problems of
most young painters of merit: the style is
not altogether his own, the ideas are
over-stated and over-simplified, and the
forms are often stronger than the ideas.
These are not necessarily drawbacks in
the work, in fact many believe them to
be the virtues of youth, but they need to
be kept in mind. Undoubtedly Raft is
a talented painter, and an intelligent one.
His work, I think, will quite quickly dev-
elop greater subtlety and substance. At
the moment it is certainly worth seeing.
Gallery A does not distribute its favours
lightly, and it mounts its exhibitions ex-
ceedingly well.
Raft has studied recently in Italy and
it is most likely from there that he deriv-
ed many of his techniques and tastes. It
is funereal painting, severe and unat-
tractive, without any color or glitter or
even the elegance that one often finds in
subdued painting. The heavy black
backgrounds dominate most of the
works perhaps too much, because
sometimes the repetitive white shapes
fail to claim the attention. Overall, in
fact, the ideas, for all their merits, are
too repetitive. The main figure in every
painting is an unhealthy little group of
white and brown shapes reminiscent of
bones, or giant bleached insects, or
human bodies. They are grouped in
defensive foetal positions and occupy
only a small part of the painstakingly
worked gloom surrounding them. The
ground with which they do battle is
hairy, crinkled, torn, burnt and baggy.
There is life in the work, but not much
hope. Whether this comes from genuine
experience and conviction or is imposed
by the style is impossible to say. Art
certainly limits ideas, but it can also
create them often against the will of the
artist.
In these paintings living objects which
are not very pleasant struggle with dark,
ill-defined and threatening forms which
are much bigger than them. Occasional-
ly, in paintings like “Man to Come” and
“Acrobats of our Age” the figures seem
to achieve fleeting ascendancy, but the
signs of retreat and decay are already
evident. In most cases they are confined
and do little more than twitch. Some-
times they float in pairs and seem to
enjoy a fairly happy oblivion. What
Raft is putting in visual terms would
not surprise a reader of, say, Samuel
Becket at all.
BILL HANNAN
OPERA
“Our Man”
In London
Oydney - born Malcolm Williamson
(32) was asked by Rostrum Ltd to
write an opera for Graham Greene’s
“Our Man in Havana”. Recently the
work was given five performances at
Sadler’s Wells, London.
On the whole the Press has been good,
if cautious: Everyone from the “Daily
Mail” (Percy Cater) to the “Daily Herald”
(Richard Long) talks of catchy tunes, in-
genious orchestration but worries whether
the work might be a “musical”. “The
Times” spends most of its review mis-
sing the point: “His musical invention is
spontaneously, convincingly dramatic,
when he has the chance ... a real
operatic talent ... a highly coloured,
ebullient score . . . And yet ‘Our Man
in Havana’ is a poor opera, in certain
respects a bad one, and as a represent-
ation of a good novel is a travesty . . .”
Graham Greene put that right by point-
ing out in a letter that the reviewer was
misled by the author’s own not so adequ-
ate adaptation of the book for the
screen.
At the last performance, one could
feel the audience becoming absorbed in
the plot, responding sharply to the lines
(“She is mistress of the Minister for De-
fence” brought down the house). The
first scene of Act Two (London Intelli-
gence Headquarters) was a brilliant
opening to a brilliant act. From then on
the audience was hanging on the notes.
The failure came in Act Three at what
should perhaps have been the emotional
climax when the hero laments the mur-
der of his friend and immediately
after the woman spy comforts his
daughter with “Think of him as he
was” to a tune which belongs in “The
Sound of Music.” But this failure doesn’t
destroy the work.
TELEVISION
Gore Hill Gutser
Ballad For One Gun. Channel 2.
Tt is not amusing to have to slam a
television drama which set out to
be mildly experimental and might have
been halfway successful if someone with
a keener sense of what is drama and
what is ludicrous had done some slam-
ming in the production stages. I’m sure
any child of 12 or so could have given
valuable advice, in the form of guffaws
and other derogatory sounds, at various
points in the making of “Ballad For One
Gun”, a story to end all stories of Ned
Kelly.
“Ballad For One Gun” was written by
P. G. Mann as a departure from things,
like “The Patriots”. This time he was
not going to worry about historical ac-
curacy, if that’s the phrase. As explained
by producer Raymond Menmuir, it was
to be “definitely a new approach and a
new treatment of the whole Ned Kelly


legend.” And as visualised by Sydney’s
newest morning star, John Bell, “We play
the Kelly gang rather like a band of
young hoods, but the crux of the play
is in the change of motives and attitudes.”
No sir, the crux of the play was the
use of sets “adapted from the Nolan
series of Ned Kelly paintings”. This con-
cept gave us the Kelly gang living in an
unseen cave confronting an eroded fallen
tree with draped skeleton, the wreckage
of a galvanised iron water tank, and a
limitless desert. It gave us Ned donning
his armor early in the piece and wearing
it everywhere from then on, includ-
ing bars where he would pour drinks
he was never even likely to get in
through the faceplate. And it gave
us a final scene at Glenrowan
when Ned tiptoed to the door-
way, the troopers shot him in the legs,
and Captain Standish appeared, to stand
beside another fallen tree with draped
skeleton, and desert, murmuring, “There
we hope, Mr Hare, history will scotch
the legend. I wonder?”
It is quite incidental that Cap’n Stan-
dish had last been seen at a desk many
miles behind the front line. No doubt
he’d boarded a passing kangaroo and rid-
den it to a skeleton over the waterless
waste. It may also be neither here nor
there that the young hoods behaved and
spoke like well-bred, frightened child-
ren, despite the comfort of their leather
jackets; that a good sample of Ned’s dia-
logue was, “Revenge, Katie dear, will be
sweet”; that the bloke who simulates
firearm shots for the ABC by belting an
empty 500 gallon tank with a hammer
has never been busier.
John (“Hamlet”) Bell was a disappoint-
ment as Ned Kelly. Admittedly the
script gave him little chance, but what-
ever of Ned’s character it did allow he
failed to develop, and the “change of
motives and attitudes” did not shine
through. The line of the play was as criss-
crossed as the tracks on Nolan’s sym-
bolic desert, with Captain Standish
(Walter Sullivan) playing it old-fashion-
ed while his enemy Ned wandered be-
tween Method and madness, and with a
curious mixture of anachronism and
authenticity and symbolism that had this
viewer reeling like a rudderless ship in
a running swell.
Taking the Nolan landscape as a
datum point, it should have been possible
to create a startling new “Ned Kelly”,
if the writer had been as game as N.K.
But he settled for a cocktail which might
be described as a Gore Hill Gutser, with
a dash of Nolan, a good splash of “The
Patriots”, a jigger of “The Wild One”,
a twist of dialogue such as Ned’s, “The
die was cast a long time ago, the day we
were born,” and Kate Byrne’s succinct
appeal to “Give it away?” for garnish.
The result, “Ballad for One Gun”. A loud
misfire.
FRANK ROBERTS
Feiffer
mo DM Af
iw gut?^r
HFAMIM6F
AMBOPM (Stff
THS STPRM?
I if r oioppev pm
MM oJAM TF* '
gARBFf? tHOP.Hmt
TUB PRFSS REPEAL
'Em me haw moot
«.•
IMFFP
THAT.'
iom tor immi
6Ecmn?i mo
iuffrmal. temmt
THWJIK, £U$.
iOAjr a more
AMP IU 6(i/F
MOM MM
HANW FROM
THF A-e.C.- A
601.
It-
i*jfme
you
60T
foz
mw oo w mo?
i m r mev op
roms pemooti
FROM A 60H FPO M_-
R6OT6PS. n
m Afjw
HfRF fiAVg
FOMI6U „
RECA7IOW ?
m met, mi-m
GIVE HOU MV mG AM?
M6AW9 AfJP RIVERS AIUP
Harbors •
FOR YOUR
. FOREIGN
REItfIOUS;
J me Fornax uiKFm^;
BUT WU STtU owe Me • •
from wtreRDM whom i
6nj6 hou seme Juvt
c\m. .
MU, FNT'S
FAIR. MoWAU-
i Meet? i* a
(*)WTg House
. mss REUSST-
1U PICK IT UP, 6US. 1 HAV6
TO STOP m FOR A PP£C5>
paCAAC <9M MCWC’
MAMA6CM6MT. AWW4
MCCP AMPTHIU6
PCSS f
w-
Me
BACK’
A HAM
OW
m. ,
THC
WCWA MAMA6C'
MPMT AMP A
HAM OM PM£-
H 64, WHO KHOOC
A 6001?
tPMCH6OM£TT£ '
AROUUP H£Pe- ? /
iVf WCVCB BCFfJ
ABTC TO f/UP OM£.
UTS U)AIT FOR A
PRKS PetPAAp.


RED PAGE
Russia’s Savage Eagle
Close-up on Ivan the Terrible
By CATHERINE de la ROCHE
(author of “Soviet Cinema" “Rene Clair," ete.)
Ivan the Terrible, a screenplay by
Sergei M. Eisenstein, translated by
Ivor Montagu and Herbert Mar-
shall. Seeker and Warburg. 60s. 9d.
tI%E great Russian director Sergei Eisen-
■*- stein’s screenplay of “Ivan the Ter-
rible” (perhaps the most famous sound
film in Russian history) carries the read-
er forward in a compelling movement,
from the prologue to the grand climax
of the uncompleted third part of the
picture, never shown publicly and pos-
sibly lost. Not only is this book a
unique record, but it is also a work
of art in itself. Sergei Eisenstein wrote
his original screenplays for easy read-
ing: the technical shooting script came
at a later stage in the production of his
pictures. He wrote with a poet’s imagery
and economy, in brief lines, which
sometimes resemble free verse, so that
the entire screenplay, including over
100 illustrations, is contained on 262
of the 320 pages of this handsomely
produced book.
The Russian text was published in
the USSR in 1943. about two years
before the release of “Ivan the Terrible,
Part I.” Building the entire screenplay
on Ivan’s sense of mission in unifying
Russia, and making his passionately
reiterated words, “For the sake of the
great Russian realm” a dominant motif,
Eisenstein maintains a fairly even balance
in portraying the conflicting elements in
Ivan’s character and reign. Other cor-
nerstones in the structure are his life-
long feud, as first Tsar, with the ever-
plotting boyars or noblemen, from
whom he had taken power to enhance
his own (they attempted to assassinate
him and caused the death of his first
and dearest wife the only one in-
cluded in the screenplay). Coupled with
this is his strange association with the
notorious oprichniki, “an iron brother-
hood” consisting mostly of commoners
with ruffians and worse among them,
which he created in opposition to the
boyars, as an “estate apart,” outside
Moscow’s jurisdiction.
The Tsar’s roles as diplomat, strate-
gist and commander are memorably il-
lustrated in the siege of Kazan and his
thrust to the Baltic, and linked with the
interminable intrigues within the palace
and monasteries he inhabited, intrigues
which at the same time made him lose
his friends, including those he had ele-
vated, and which, above all, made him
incapable of trusting anybody. As a
complete work, the screenplay clearly
shows how everything in the Tsar’s pub-
lic life had its origins in the intimacy
of his home, starting with his idealistic
visions of national unity and eventually
continuing with the gnawing torment of
his loneliness and suspicions, which
made the pathos of the 69th Psalm of
David so apt at the lying in state of
his adored wife. This in turn led to his
periodic escapes to the oprichnik car-
ousels, with their hideous rites, and to
the recurring hcfrror of the arbitrary
executions, recorded in the famous obit-
uaries, and followed regularly by per-
iods of agonising remorse and doubt.
'CMsenstein’s reinterpretation of history
(a Marxist one, of course) is mainly
confined to a partial reversal in the
characterisation of boyars and oprich-
niki. If for political reasons, some con-
temporary writers and early historians
painted the oprichniki as unmitigated
terrorists, and the boyars as noble vic-
tims (as some of the people in both
groups still are in the screenplay), Eisen-
stein, also for political reasons, presents
the oprichniki mostly as simple rogues
with the right sympathies, and the
boyars as scheming and corrupt rogues
with wrong sympathies. He does not,
however, significantly whitewash either
Ivan or the oprichniki. In the case of
Ivan IV, in fact, I believe there is
not much disagreement between Marx-
ist and other modern historians (vide
“A History of Russia” by Bernard
Pares).
Though the screenplay was origin-
ally constructed for division into two
full length films, in course of produc-
tion Eisenstein extended its scope to
three full-length parts, the middle sec-
tion forming “Ivan the Terrible, Part
II,” which was rejected by the authori-
ties in 1946 for reasons widely quoted
in the Press. “Soviet Art” wrote: “The
historical interpretation in this film is
false ... the oprichniki, who supported
Ivan in his struggle against reactionary
boyars, are shown as a band of cut-
throats. The film is dedicated not to
Ivan’s efforts to strengthen Russia’s
might, but to boyar intrigues and the
plotting in his court. It is clear from the
very structure of the film, that history
has been used as a mere pretext for
formalistic experiments in montage, in
the contrasting effects of black and
white in the lighting, etc. . . . ‘lvan
the Terrible, Part ll’ illustrates the re-
sults of irresponsibility ...”
In his scholarly introduction Ivor
Montagu draws attention to the liter-
ary problems of dividing into three a
two-part screenplay and of maintain-
ing thematic balance in each part, es-
pecially in view of what were probably
political cuts. The excellent ‘'Notes on
the Film Transcript” indicate all the
omissions, which include scenes of
oprichnik excesses. And, as the Baltic
campaign is in what becomes the un-
finished Part 111, it is almost inevitable
that Part II should have shrunk in sig-
nificance to something in the nature of
an intermediary episode, aptly titled
"The Boyars' Plot.” The criticism that
the film lacks balance in content, there-
fore, was justified (and partly accepted
by Eisenstein vide “Select Biography”
para. 19). But the renewal of old com-
plaints against him for “formalistic ex-
periments” and “irresponsibility” was
not, and I mention this (though Mr
Montagu’s introduction does not) be-
cause it seems to me that this book,
combining as it does Eisenstein’s words
and drawings with production stills from
all three films, gives to the broad pub-
lic new evidence of the purposefulness
of his researches in form and of his
unshakeable artistic integrity.
In his screenplays, Eisenstein puts
words into an order and rhythm that
immediately suggest the order, speed
and emphasis of the things to be seen
and heard on the screen his verbal
images, like films, are images in motion.
Sometimes this makes his language
sound odd, especially in translation, but
it always moves forward, and there is not
a sluggish line in the book. Here are
some examples: “Into the clamor of the
music there gradually blends a melan-
choly bell.” “Between them as they
quarrel there flies past an arrow.” “With
her staff she has pushed away Basmanov
. . . From the gorgeous, golden, boyar
flood he draws aside.” “In the darkness
below the fresco of the Last Judgment,
in a corner, where most insatiably of all
the eternal fires devour sinners, lies
prostrate Tsar Ivan.”
Eisenstein’s stylised 16th century Rus-
sian dialogue is immensely impressive,
and, though inevitably something is lost
in translation, it seems to me that the
English text is about as good an equiva-
lent as could be made. The book is
beautifully edited by Ivor Montagu,
with each drawing and still appropri-
ately placed, both for meaning and bal-
ance of lay-out.


FREE Search for out-of-print and second-
hand books address enquiries to:
"The Book Scout"
Box 1044, G.P.O.
Sydney
Bubbles
Great Australians. Philip Gidley
King. Michael Roe. Richard
Bourke. Hazel King. Oxford. ss.
each.
fThiESE two brochures, each of about
8000 words, are important only be-
cause the authors were the ones chosen
by the Editorial Board of the “Australian
Dictionary of Biography” to write the
authoritative articles on their two sub-
jects for that important national En-
cyclopaedia, sponsored and vouched for
by the Australian National University.
Neither of them can be called impres-
sive, save as indicators of National Uni-
versity standards at doctorate level. Dr
Roe’s effort is a somewhat garbled nar-
rative full of mistakes. One might for-
give, in an ordinary student who is
not a military historian, the fact that
he calls the Marines “Royal” a decade
before they received that title. But what
does one say of a senior lecturer and
owner of a doctorate from our post-
graduate university who describes HMS
Sirius, command ship of the First Fleet
and carrying the Commodore and a
post-captain as “one of the storeships
of the First Fleet”?
One might, also, expect more care
from a leading authority than to identify
Joseph Wright’s portrait of King as
“King in 1789.” It is true that the
portrait was printed in Phillip’s Voyage,
in England, in 1789; but if Joseph
Wright, the American artist (who must
have made the sketch sometime before
1780), had painted it in 1789 he would
deserve credit for being the first artist
to swim the Pacific Ocean since no ships
arrived here that year.
These matters and a good many more
of the same sort are merely the froth
on Dr Roe’s bubble. More serious are
his exaggerated and often inaccurate
generalities. For instance he quotes
W. C. Wentworth as writing that “round
the year 1804,” the height of King’s
governmental period, was “the Golden
Age of the small farmer.” What Went-
worth did write was that “the harvest
of that year was so abundant, that no
sale could be found for more than one
half of the crop” and that the abun-
dance of 1804 and 1805 “involved the
whole agricultural body in the great-
est distress,” so that if the floods of
March, 1806, had not put up the price
of grain, “the majority of settlers must
have abandoned their farms.”
Dr Hazel King’s life of Governor
Bourke is apt to remind one of the
biographies of Anne Askew and Mary
Queen of Scots that used to be writ-
ten in the 1870 s to be presented, in
giP.-edged tomes, as prizes for good
conduct in young ladies’ seminaries.
The impression one gains from Dr
King’s biography of one of the ablest
of our Governors, ruling in a seething
age of expansion, development and
rakish contention, the age which saw
the real birth of industry and of the
era of steam is scarcely accurate
or satisfying. (She paints the picture of
an unambitious and rather pawky mili-
tary dilettante who became “soon a cap-
tain and then a quarter-master general”
which he never was and who was
for ever retiring to his Irish estate with
his beloved family of five, including his
younger son “named Richard after his
father (but who was always called
Dick).” Once the family travelled “by
sailing ship, a man-o’-war called HMS
Rainbow and had a very enjoyable trip.”
Sometimes, in wild foreign parts, one
beholds the gentle Bourke blessing the
heathen Kaffirs by “sending Christian
missionaries among them to teach them,
and British soldiers to help them de-
fend themselves when they were at-
tacked by enemies”; or finding it
“one of the reasons why he was so
anxious to promote law and order,” that
he wished to “try and prevent squatters
and aborigines from attacking and kil-
ling each other.”
Even though, it appears, “hundreds
of gentlemen came to Government
House to pay him their respects on the
day that he left Sydney,” I fail to see
in him the greatness of reality after
reading this brochure.
M. H. ELLIS
Petty Parties
Forces in Australian Politics. Austra-
lian Institute of Political Science.
Angus & Robertson. 17s.
A ustralian politics are largely prag-
made, and hence muddled. Of the
issues which might claim to be linked
with ideologies sectarianism, con-
scription, Langism, bank nationalisation,
and Communism only the conscrip-
tion split had a long-range impact in all
States, and was felt intensely. And its
ideological component varied as between
groups and States.
The papers in this report of the 29th
Summer School of the AIPS by
Peter Coleman (The Liberal Party),
James Jupp (The ALP), H. B. Gullett
(Parliament), P. B. Westerway (Pressure
Groups) and Joan Rydon (The Elec-
torate) fall into two groups: Coleman
and Gullett, dissatisfied with our hit-and-
miss politics, yearn for principle and
firm leaders, and are convinced of the
presence of a real crisis. Westerway and
Rydon imply that there is no chance of
any reconstruction, nor do they feel any
need for it. Jupp occupies a middle posi-
tion.
Coleman’s lively analysis of tensions
in the Liberals, their “state of stunned
shock, or indecision between abandoned
policies and consistent endorsement of
new ones” calls for an intellectual re-
orientation to conform to “abrupt
change”. Gullett, rather pedestrian on
Parliament, indicts both parties as ob-
sessed by “health, wealth, and the pursuit
of happiness”, blind to the “very great
peril” from Russia and Asia which con-
fronts us. Parties don’t count, Cabinet
and especially the PM does. We need
new tough leaders to tell the electors
what is unpopular. Jupp does not seem
much concerned after he has demonstrat-
ed that in the last 60 years “the basic ap-
proach of the ALP has not undergone
any major orientation”. There is one flash
in a rather dull paper when he attacks
the claim that the ALP’s foreign policy is
“Communist inspired”.
Westerway furnishes a lucid case-study
of controversies over secular education,
immigration reform and the RSL. He
shows how an unchanging law may be
circumvented by changes in administra-
tion, how small groups use larger ones
as a lever, and new ones attempt to ac-
quire the “patina of professionalism”.
Rydon gives new and important informa-
tion on swings, distortions in the electoral
system, and the donkey vote.
Coleman and Gullett may well be right
in their conviction that there is a crisis
in Australian politics. But neither gives
even a hint of how to convince Cabinet,
and the parties, let alone the electors.
Their analysis hangs in a political void,
and in both cases fails to take account
of the framework within which parties
work, the diversities of interest within
them, and the impact of ideas on electoral
support. Inconsistency and muddle in
party policies are one of the major ways
by which votes are gained. Coherence
and clarification, given the heterogeneous
basis of party support in Australia, can
only mean alienating a particular wing
of the parties, which now is told openly
that its demands are “nostalgic”. Cole-
man surely grants this point at least in
part when he states that the “DLF’s ex-
traordinary ideological fertility is per-
haps really an index of the fact that it
will never be called on to put its ideas
into practice”. But he continues as if he
had not written this.
Logical arguments, while necessary for
analysis, have no force of their own by


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types (including
Poems) for book publication. Reason-
able terms. STOCKWELL LTD., Ilfra-
combe, England. (Estd. 1898.)
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D', Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
which they could impinge on Australian
politics. Perhaps Rydon’s conclusion
that, under compulsory voting and given
the existence of the donkey vote, govern-
ments are made and unmade by the
“scum and dregs” of political life
provides the best comment on the appeals
of those who would like to see our
politics infused by clear principles and
who yearn for tough leaders.
HENRY MAYER
Fake Images
Images of Truth. Glenway Westcott.
Hamish Hamilton. 265.
“As you may gather, I am a believer
in style,” says our author, in one
of these essays about authors whom he
has known. One kind of style is the per-
fection that springs from intellectual
energy and fineness of sensibility. But
another kind of style is mere literariness:
the art of making silk verses out of sow’s
ideas, or otherwise producing elaboration
out of triviality. To this second and more
common kind the present book of essays
belongs.
Westcott in another place, in praising
Katherine Anne Porter’s spare lucidity,
contrasts it with his own way of writing,
“with effects of cadence and pace,
harmoniousness and dissonance, based on
my way of reading things aloud with ideas
that I sometimes let language itself pro-
vide ...” Perhaps some of the false
tonality and embarrassing floppiness of
the prose would be adjusted if read aloud
by the author some of these essays
were first given as talks or readings
but I fear that much is beyond help.
As usually happens with mediocre
minds who wage style upon us, dreadful
and revealing lapses occur, for native
flatfootedness or vulgarity will out. West-
cott can use a phrase like “with my over-
all appreciation at its peak” (in talking
of Thornton Wilder). He can sink to
critical inanities like: “ ‘Ship of Fools’ is
a phenomenal, rich, delectable book”.
He can commend Colette’s textbook of
sensuality, “Le Pur et l’lmpur” in the
following words: “It is a work of gospel
truth to my way of thinking, and has
greatly guided me in my own life and
love life.”
I’m being a little hard on the book
in singling these things out. There are
some interesting pages and well-observed
comments about the writers he has
chosen: in addition to the three already
mentioned, Isak Dinesen, Somerset
Maugham and Thomas Mann. But I find
it hard to forgive a writer who, in trying
to endear his acquaintances to us, puts
us off them. He begins his discussion of
Katherine Anne Porter by saying: “I have
been rereading my precious file of long
letters from her . . . Yes, yes, probably
she should have repressed or restrained
this long-distance friendliness somewhat,
in order to produce more for publica-
tion.” With this preliminary setting of
our teeth on edge, he proceeds to make
his friend seem neurotically pretentious
and insufferable, an impression which
he does not intend, and which we need
not take to be true. But while we can
let Miss Porter escape, such an involun-
tary desecration of what is evidently a
real friendship is hardly a commendation
of Westcott's performance, style and all.
JAMES McAULEY
Snakes & Ladders
The Pyramid Climbers. Vance Pack-
ard. Longmans. 31s.
Tf you are getting a bit bored with play-
ing Hunt-the-Hidden-Persuader and
Spot-the-Status-Symbol you will no
doubt be glad to know that Mr Vance
Packard has invented a new parlor
game. It is called Who’s-Going-Up? and
you play it like this: Take a group of
your friends, preferably ones who are
actually employed by business firms as
it will be more real for them. Then pre-
tend that you are the head of a manage-
ment-consultant firm evaluating them
for executive promotion. Subject them
to a gruelling cross-examination. Are
they white, Anglo-Saxon and Protest-
ant? Do they wear long socks? Can
their wives hold their liquor? Are they
at least mildly anti-intellectual? Are
they putting on weight? Tell them the
best joke you know and if they seem
genuinely amused penalise them heavily.
Penalise them too if they wear bow-
ties, colored shirts, moustaches or red
hair. If they are slow speakers reward
them, as this is evidence of “weight”
(use your discretion, however, as it is
obviously possible to over-do slow
speech).
And what sort of game is Mr Packard
playing? In the last six or seven years he
has produced a series of books aimed at
scaring the wits out of us by pointing to
vague, menacing threats to our individu-
ality. The way he does this is by scan-
ning through the latest sociological and
psychological research into business cor-
porations, or the mass media, or what
have you and picking out the most start-
ling bits. These are then taken out of
context and, divorced of the qualifica-
tions and reservations which originally
surrounded them, are presented as defini-
tive conclusions. In this particular book
he is concerned with describing the
training, selection and promotion of
American company executives and with
showing the “dehumanising, de-indivicK-
ualising and manipulating” involved in
the process. This is an interesting sub-
ject and, as Whyte showed in his “The
Organisation Man,” a good book can be
written about it if the author is pre-
pared to think seriously about his mat-
erial. Thinking, however, is not Mr
Packard’s strong suit.
His books do not develop a thesis.
There is no argument in them, no con-
sideration of alternative views, no criti-
cal examination of evidence, no indica-
tion of a general position. Instead he
reiterates over and over again a few
simple assertions and buttresses them
with a mass of quotations, illustrations
and personal observations until, unless
one is unusually resilient, one is likely
to feel overwhelmed by the sheer ac-
cumulation. One result of this is that
although his books are full of bright
paragraphs and anecdotes which catch
the eye as one flips the pages, as things
to read consecutively they are extremely
boring because there is no progression.
It is rather like reading a three hundred
page “Reader’s Digest” article.
As a critic of Big Business Packard
cannot be taken seriously. He merely
attacks surface features of the system
without relating them to the system as
a whole and without considering what
their removal would entail. Moreover
his dislike of those he is attacking is
curiously mixed with admiration and
awe so that he frequently seems to be
selling that which he claims to be criti-
cising. It is generally accepted, for ex-
ample, that “The Hidden Persuaders”
gave motivational research a powerful
shot in the arm. Mr Packard’s ambiva-
lence comes out, too, in the way in
which he is prepared to accept those
he is “exposing” at their own evalua-
tion. Without any scepticism he takes
what they tell him about themselves at
its face value, and includes it as “evi-
dence” alongside the findings of socio-
logical and psychological researchers.
It is no wonder that they are prepared
to co-operate with him so whole-heart-
edly in the preparation of his books
and this book is dedicated to “those in
the business world whose generosity and
cheerful candor contributed so much to
this exploration” for he is helping
to recreate the mystique of Big Business
in a form suitable to the 19605.
OWEN HARRIES


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time In-
come There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
Kiiiiikiiiiitdiluiiiinina
159 Flinders Lane Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street. Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
Fo STOTT'S- Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 1563)
S T OTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry
Outward Look
Contemporary American Poetry.
Selected and introduced by Donald
Hall. Penguin. 9s. 6d.
Ts anyone still in doubt about the
superiority of recent American
literature over what the English have to
offer? Such doubts would rapidly be dis-
pelled by a comparison of Donald Hall’s
admirable anthology, “Contemporary
American Poetry”, with the English
contributions to Alvarez’s “Poetry Now”.
To begin with, the Americans have in
Robert Lowell a poet whose greatness
is already evident; where else among our
contemporaries can we find the power of
Tamed by Miltown, we lie on Mother’s
bed;
the rising sun in war paint dyes us red;
in broad daylight her gilded bed-posts
shine,
abandoned, almost Dionysian.
At last the trees are green on Marl-
borough Street,
blossoms on our magnolia ignite
the morning with their murderous five
days’ white. (“Man and Wife”).
From the dandyish Wilbur to the
iconoclastic Robert Bly, these poets be-
lieve that they are still alive and that the
world about them shows powers of self-
regeneration. Their universe is far remov-
ed from the London-Oxbridge preoccupa-
tion with social vacuity, desiccation of
feeling and grimly piecemeal self-aware-
ness.
Yet, as might be expected, “Contem-
porary American Poetry” has its share
of the banal, the silly, the merely ephe-
meral. Hall’s taste is uneven: he doesn’t,
in ten pages, give a real sense of Lowell’s
capacities, and his selections from Wil-
bur are unnecessarily trivial. Against
these weaknesses, however, we can set
his excellent sampling from that strong
poet, W. D. Snodgrass: here we have
three sections from Snodgrass’s eloquent
autobiographical sequence, “Heart’s
Needle”, together with a stark moral
fable of our time called “The Examina-
tion” and, in a different mode once
again, a Monetesque lyric of extraordi-
nary rhythmical and syntactical delicacy:
O all things rising, rising like the fumes
From waters falling, O forever falling;
Infinite, the skeletal shells that fall,
relinquished,
The snow soft sift of the diatoms, like
selves
Downdrifting age upon age through milky
oceans;
O slow downdrifting of the atoms;
O island nebulae . . .
There are also good selections from
Simpson, Robert Duncan and James
Wright.
“Contemporary American Poetry” is a
lively and forward - looking collection.
Broadly speaking, it marks a turning
away from the poetry of le musee im-
aginaire and a reaching toward the local
and the personal. And even the more
wrong-headed contributors show a
serious involvement with “this damned
profession of writing” together with a
renunciation of the meretricious charms
of nostalgia. One can particularly admire
the fact that these poets, for all their
professionalism, do not feel obliged to
write poems about the difficulty of writ-
ing poems.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE
Brer Babbitt
Sinclair Lewis. An American Life.
Mark Schorer. Heinemann. 795. 3d.
T|/lark Schorer tells us this book took
nine years to write; and very likely
it must now be considered the definitive
biography of Lewis. But the biography
is bigger in size than content, far more
voluminous than interesting.
A book of this length can only be
justified if it gives us new insight into
the subject. There is a reasonably full
account of even the nastiest events:
Lewis’s boozing, his divorce from Grace
Hegger, his treatment of Dorothy
Thompson, and his liaison with the
youthful Marcella Powers. It is to
Schorer’s credit, too, that he refuses to
gloss over Lewis’s unlikeable traits; his
boorishness, his pettiness, his intolerance,
and his ignorance. Schorer not only
accepts this, but central to his analysis
of the man and writer are the extra-
ordinary contradictions Lewis mani-
fested. He writes of “a profound and
provincial Puritanism” in Lewis the
author of “Main Street,” “Babbitt” and
“Elmer Gantry.” And Schorer convinces
us completely if the conclusions of
“Babbitt” and “Main Street” hadn’t
already convinced us. “In his novels,”
Schorer writes, “he loved what he
deplored.” Exactly!
About Gopher Prairie, the town
“attacked” in “Main Street”, Lewis once
wrote: “I like G.P., all the G.P.’s; I
couldn’t write about them so ardently if
I didn’t.” He told a European audience,
“I wrote ‘Babbitt’ not out of hatred for
him but out of love.” He wrote to
Mencken to say that he loved “the im-
becile, Lewell Schmaltz” (the satirical
target of “The Man Who Knew Cool-
idge”). And in an article written in 1928,
Lewis said: “I like the Babbitts, the Dr
Pickerbaughs, the Will Kennicotts, and
even the Elmer Gantrys rather better
than anyone else on earth. They are good
fellows. They laugh really laugh.”
Surely the failure of even Lewis’s best
novels, “Main Street” and “Babbitt,”
stems directly from the satirist’s ambiva-
lent relationship with his targets. Thus
Carol Kennicott is essentially without
ideals, and Gopher Prairie ultimately
proves steadier and more enduring than
her temerity; thus Babbitt in the end re-
joins the Boosters of Zenith, and is
heartily glad to be allowed to do so.
Schorer refuses to exploit the psycho-
logical data he amasses: Lewis’s extreme
ugliness, his loneliness during his for-
mative years at Yale, the fact that Lewis
was nowhere much liked as a child or
adolescent, or that Lewis made so much
money so rapidly. Nor does Schorer ex-
plore Lewis’s religious backsliding to
the point where he publicly blasphemed
by ascending the pulpit of a Kansas City
church and daring God to strike him
dead. Schorer documents but does not
much speculate about Lewis’s literary
provincialism, a sort which permitted
him to find Dos Passos superior to Proust
and Joyce. Finally, Schorer notes, though
it is something of an understatement, that
“it is difficult to locate [Lewis] in the
intellectual life of the time and place.”
Unable to take Lewis seriously as a
literary artist, unable or unwilling to psy-
choanalyse his subject, not prepared to
foreshorten Lewis on a broad historical
and cultural canvas, Professor Schorer
leads us to wonder if his nine years’ effort
was worth the candle.
STANLEY TICK


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Bonds and the Budget
F\r more than normally the design of the coming Federal
Budget is obviously going to be influenced by the tre-
mendously sound tone of the bond market. Highly suc-
cessful raisings during 1962-63 present the Treasurer with a
flexible area for manoeuvre in his fiscal policy.
He may still have to meet a wave of recrimination for
appearing to push loan oversubscriptions beyond necessity at
a time when the private sector required enlivening from bank
and other funds. He may still need to restrain a temptation
continuously to overwork bonds, which by all estimates will
be at least in equal demand throughout the current financial
year.
Mr Holt could finally decide to take as much, £317 million,
off the market as he did last year. At last, however, he has
recognised the market drive towards lower interest rates.
The “little” July loan, unprecedentedly popped in before the
Budget, offers a long-term coupon at 4} p.c. to yield, on a
discounted issue price, £4 11s. Id. p.c. Further implications
of this move are discussed by “Croesus” on page 49.
On the most charitable explanation Mr Holt probably
decided to make assurance doubly sure on both volume and
interest rates. He should scarcely fear any disillusion on
either count.
It is surely becoming clear that such devices as the 30/20
rule applying to life offices and superannuation funds, the
growth of the short-term money market and the savings
bank regulations have succeeded in establishing a large and
continuous built-in demand for bonds. Everything, too, sug-
gests a back-log waiting to be satisfied right now.
It might therefore seem that the traditional theory of
financing the greater proportion of public works from loans
could be safely applied by the Government this year.
Naturally a good deal of the bond market’s vigor rests
on the hesitant requirements of private finance. That situation
won’t last much longer, it is to be hoped.
Mr Holt must also face higher Government spending, in
his Budget, on defence, development, territories, and so on.
But, all in all, a happy and more calculated use of the
money market must permit a range of Budget concessions
directed to the better stimulation of business.
Wool Receipts Point
Graziers’ Case
llfiTH industrialists vigorously trying to call the tune on
" Budget concessions, woolgrower and grazing interests
generally are just as energetic in pressing a case to guarantee
a continuance of stability. They play from a strong hand.
In the words of Mr T. L. Bull, president of the Australian
Woolgrowers’ and Graziers’ Council, “exports of the grazing
industry finance nearly half the nation’s imports, over three-
quarters of which, in turn, consist of materials essential for
the maintenance of industrial activity.”
Wool, of course, furnishes the lead point of the graziers’
argument. And once again, as for 1961-62, the value of
1962-63’s wool exports represented some 36 p.c. of total export
income. The selling season just finished gave the best returns
for three years.
Australia’s wool cheque reached £359,695,646 in the
year to June 30, nearly 6 p.c. higher than the £338,589,617
realised in the previous year. The peak of recent times was
1956-57’s £482,859,860.
The latest receipts actually came from a smaller disposal
4,778,773 bales against 4,875,957 bales. But the average
price of greasy moved up from 54.13 d. to 58.96 d. a lb. June’s
average, at 6L75d., stood 25.3 p.c. above the average 12
months before.
At the season’s close prices were still making gains and
finished fully equal to their best levels. There is a feeling
that the start of 1963-64 may droop a little. On the other hand,
the clip itself should be greater, going to 1700 million lb.
greasy compared with 1962-63’s 1670 million lb.
Japan and the United Kingdom remained our first and
second overseas customers. France and Italy changed places
to become third and fourth respectively. Japan’s improving
economic situation suggests even stronger buying this year.
Mr Bull grinds a heavy axe by maintaining that “a con-
siderable section of the wool industry, particularly the high
rainfall area producers, is in difficulties.” He complains that
‘‘this must adversely affect the maintenance and expansion of
wool production on which levels of employment and standards
of living generally are largely dependent.”
Trading Banks Face
The New Year
is happening to the pattern of business recovery
" during the pre-Budget hiatus, calls on the trading banks
maintain themselves with all the impetus of the last few
months. Indeed advances have marched almost continuously
ahead since the end of 1962.
Optimistic intentions also prevail, since the advances trend
continues to be supported by a lift in outstanding overdraft
limits. However, as the ANZ Bank observes, “the level of
utilisation still remains relatively low, leaving ample scope
for further increases in advances over the forthcoming months,
if economic activity accelerates.”
Borrowings from the major trading banks hit a record
£1102.2 million in June to show a £69.8 million rise
through 1962-63. June alone added £lO million, well ahead
of the average May-June rise over the last 10 years at
£7.6 million.
Throughout the whole 1961-62 year advances had only
moved up £11.3 million. Most of the June increase is
attributable to the sugar industry, with the Bank of NSW
and Commercial of Sydney especially concerned.
Actually these two, together with the Commonwealth


Trading, are responsible for more than the total month’s rise,
the five other trading banks’ advances falling on the month.
Deposits closed the year at £1923.4 million, £99.2 million
ahead of June, 1962 after the previous year’s £lO9 million
rise. The June month saw them £8.5 million under May’s
level against a 10 year average May-June fall of £9.7 million.
The usual seasonal pressure on bank liquidity has brought
the average combined liquidity ratio down 0.7 p.c. on the
month, to 23.9 p.c. A year ago it stood at 24.5 p.c.
Individual banks are showing considerable differences here,
with every indication that the ANZ has been into the
Reserve.” The ESA could go in soon.
Nevertheless, the overall position appears quite healthy.
There’s plenty of room to cope with any additional pressure
by releases from statutory reserve deposits which are now
around £208.2 million, £13.6 million more than at June,
1962.
What is the Future of
The Sugar Market?
Riding the crest of an imbalanced world statistical position,
Australia is enjoying a boom in sugar. During 1962 the 34
mills in Australia produced 1,800,000 tons of the raw com-
modity, which at an average of, say, £SO a ton, gives the total
crop a value of £9O million.
One-third of the crop has
found a market locally, with
about 600,000 tons of raw sugar
being refined here. Local price
appears slightly better than last
year’s average export price, and
the local raw sales in 1962 were
worth about £3B million.
Local (Australian and New
Zealand) sales of refined sugar
continue to increase steadily
but not spectacularly. Certainly
not quickly enough to provide
the outlet for the whole of the
increase in production resulting
from the expansion in the
nation’s raw sugar milling
capacity planned not for this
year but for 1964 and 1965.
So, to exports and export
prices must one turn to assess
short to medium term prospects
of sugar. The graph on this page
shows clearly the importance of
the export market. Forgetting
price momentarily, the export
market took two-thirds of total raw sugar production in 1962.
With total production for 1963 listed to be at much the
same level as 1962, perhaps slightly less sugar will go abroad
as local sales continue the slight upward pressure. But, in 1964
and later, markets will have to be found abroad for more
than 1,200,000 tons as mill capacity will be increased to allow
greater output, and since it is already ordained there will be
no restrictions on cane production.
The fluid situation, involving the European beet crop
recovery this year, better production and more orderly market-
ing by Cuba and an attracted (by high prices) increase in all
sugar producers’ output, may result in marketing difficulties
after 1965.
But in the meantime the degree of “boom” will depend on
world prices for the next two crops. Already it seems likely
that 1963’s harvest will bring a higher average price abroad
than the 1962 harvest average of £42 a ton.
So, Australia can feel fairly saffi in counting on at least
one more boom year in sugar. What will be of greater benefit
will follow the cementing of new markets opened abroad by
the statistical position of 1962.
If Australia is assured of at least 1,200,000 tons of raw
sugar exports a year, the industry will stay in a reasonably
happy state, for cost of export production is well below
reasonable sale price levels.
On page 59, our investment staff reviews the sugar industry
in relation to investment in the leader of it, CSR. The sugar
company’s balance sheet came to hand this week.
Projected Demand
For Petroleum
'C'stimates of the rise in consumption of petroleum products
in Australia over the next ten years, as given in the latest
number of the Petroleum Gazette issued by the Petroleum
Information Bureau, should act as a spur to the Federal Gov-
ernment in giving additional hand-outs for oil search in the
coming Budget.
The implications for the balance of payments of these huge
estimated increases in petroleum consumption in the absence
of more and bigger local supplies of crude oil are quite
alarming. Mr E. N. Avery said the other day that he envisaged
the bill for imports of petroleum
,as high as £375 million in ten
years’ time.
Naturally the biggest volume
rise among petroleum products
is expected to be for petrol
from 1,382 million gallons last
year to 2,394 million in 1972,
or 73.2 p.c. Not so far be-
hind percentage-wise is furnace
oil estimated to increase 68.5
p.c. from 700 million gallons
last year to 1,179 in 1972.
These are the heavyweights,
the next being automotive dis-
tillate, expected to go up to 558,
an increase of 111 p.c. on
last year’s 264 million gallons.
After that the volumes of the
various products tail off some-
what, though some of the ex-
pected percentage increases in
consumption are significantly
higher than the above; for in-
stance, heating oil 344.6 and
liquid petroleum gas 190.2 p.c.
Commenting on the factors underlying the expected rise
in petrol consumption, the Bureau points to the fast increasing
vehicle population here. The number of motor vehicles in
Australia has been increasing at twice the rate of increase
in the United States in recent years and, if the current rates
of economic and population growth continue, Australia’s
persons per vehicle ratio could well reach the present US
level of one car to 2.4 persons by the 19705. Australia tends
to lag about 12 years behind the US in its vehicle/population
ratio.
While per capita consumption of motor spirit is increasing
steadily, consumption per vehicle tends to fluctuate. Over
the last 10 years there has been only a mild rise in the average
consumption of fuel per vehicle.
The Bureau says that several other factors are likely to
influence average consumption in the future. Greater con-
sumption per vehicle is likely to come from the trend to


more powerful engines and automatic transmissions, increased
leisure due to shorter wot king hours, longer holidays and
earlier retirement, more towing of caravans and boat-trailers,
and rising traffic congestion.
This, however, could be offset by the growing number of
two-car families, improved efficiency of modern engines and
fuels resulting in more miles per gallon, and, because of
greater traffic congestion, increased use of alternative means
of transport.
Revolutionary new engine designs are not expected to
achieve significant market penetration during the next decade.
Bank’s Plea For Better
Use Of Words
HThe “Monthly Letter” issued by the Royal Bank of Canada
is rarely a dissertation on economic trends or banking
problems, as might be expected. Instead, it invariably con-
tains a sort of sermon to business executives full of sound
commonsense, or a lesson to young men setting out on a
business career, pointing the way to successful negotiation of
life’s hurdles.
The latest issue to hand is devoted entirely to the use of
words in business letters, some of which “are badly down at
heel, saying things that do not need saying, while others are
as indigestible as a gaudily iced cake filled with concrete”.
Let’s quote a few passages:
“One of the graces of a rich language like English or
French is that its words may be put together so as to say
the same thing in many different ways. There are earthy
words, carrying weight; airy words as light as soap bubbles;
missile-like words, speedy and explosive. All of these have
magic in them, the magic of carrying your meaning weightily,
lightly, or crackingly into your reader’s mind. Language did
not start in the grammar book; it started because people wanted
to talk with one another. Everything we write . . . should
take account of the reader’s comfort, interest and capacity
to understand.
“The words you use will be different if you are writing a
letter of exactly the same meaning to two persons of widely
different positions and interests; for example, a stockholder
who has investments in a dozen concerns and a mother who
spends ten minutes judging the relative value of two pairs of
children’s shoes with a price spread of a quarter. But this is
a truth often obscured by our present passion for form letters
and the low standard allowed to prevail in business corres-
pondence . . .
“If you talk too much about yourself, your firm or your
product, you will find yourself talking to yourself.
“Write simple words, expressing meaning as purely, clearly,
definitely and shortly as possible. Churchill’s famed ‘Blood,
Sweat and Tears’ would not have sparked the nation if ‘sweat’
had been dressed up as ‘perspiration’ . . . Instead of writing
‘lt was understood that shipment would be made by March 6,’
write ‘You said you would ship by March 6’. George Wash-
ington didn’t say about chopping down the cherry tree ‘lt was
performed with a sharp-edged instrument’. He said ‘I did it
with my little hatchet’. ... Do your letter-writing pains-
takingly, but don’t let it show.”
Retailers’ Larger Role In
Consumer Credit
A ccompanying the better economic climate of the past 12
months has been a marked upswing in consumers’ use of
credit. While figures are not yet available for the close of the
year (June 30), it seems certain that the Australian public will
have gone into debt at a much faster rate in the two previous
years.
In fact, projecting the nine months’ figures now available,
giving the position up to March 31, the year just concluded
will be second only to the boom 1959-60 year in the amount
of debt incurred in purchasing a wide variety of goods.
And, because of a slower rate of repayment now apparent,
the public’s debt as at June 30 seems likely to be the highest
it ever has been at that time of the year. Indeed, the debt
outstanding at June 30 will not be far below the £640.5
million record of December, 1960.
The revival in credit is most marked in the use of credit
(other than hire purchase) in the purchase of household and
personal goods. This type of credit is the main offering of the
retail world, and, contrary to the credit pattern of the past
three years, has not levelled off in the slightest during the
economic downturn.
HOUSEHOLD GOODS FINANCED ON OTHER THAN HIRE PURCHASE
Amount Balance
Financed Outstanding
During at end of
Period Period
Period Emill. £mill.
1958- 57,359 47,141
1959- 71,263 68,311
1960- 85,304 90,911
1961- 93,128 109,246
9 months to
March, 1963 73,460* 122,093
* The June quarter is almost the average for the year. If this is so, total
amount financed in 1962-63 will be £9B million.
About half the current credit offered on these items is from
retailers themselves. The balance a reducing one is
provided by financier groups.
The Commonwealth Statistician’s new series on credit is
most comprehensive and useful even in its present formulative
stage. The figures for retail financing do not include lay-bys,
credit accounts not involving repayment by regular predeter-
mined instalments, financing of sales of land and buildings,
services (repairs, etc.), travel schemes, property improvements
and, unfortunately, leasing arrangements.
The financier, for a variety of reasons, played a minor role
in maintaining credit during the difficult period. For instance,
his share of the total debt fell from 67.8 p.c. as at December,
1960, to 64.1 at March, 1962.
The following table illustrates how the retailer in recent
years is writing a greater percentage of the new business
overall than in the past.
TOTAL AMOUNT FINANCED
Retailers
Finance Financier Total P.c. Retailer
£mill. £mill. £m ill. to total p.c.
1958- 125.5 251.8 377.3 33.2
1959- 150.2 293.5 448.7 33.5
1960- 152.5 257.3
1961- 150.5 232.3 382.8 39.3
9 months to
March, 1963 117.8 214.5 332.3 35.4
The March quarter is seasonally quieter in retail than in
finance (although it is the worst quarter for both). The retailer
will pick up in the June quarter.
The retailer, then, is emerging as a major financier of his
own sales, and, from the trend over the last three years, is
using more extensive credit “baits” to gain sales.
Pressure must now be on those retailers of goods such
as electrical appliances to provide their own credit resources
in the competition for sales. All the major retailers appear
to do so already.
Outside financing of sales appears to allow competitors
financing internally a greater play with margin on list prices.
It is logical, then, to expect the pattern of credit financing
to extend with the retailer playing a larger part in the writing
of new business.
The established new and used motor vehicle business is
unlikely to be affected. Ties with existing financiers appear
too strong for retailer intrusion to have much impact; and
decidedly the motor vehicle industry enjoys more orderly
retailing than does appliances.


EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Auditors Defend
Their Standards
"Dress and public criticism of auditors
has received a rather belated reply
from one of the profession’s leaders,
Mr R. A. Irish.
Mr Irish presented a calm and
meticulous paper, “Should we blame the
auditing profession?” to the 11th annual
conference of the Australian Chartered
Accountants’ Research Society (NSW
Division) at Terrigal. A panel of
financial journalists also put their views
to the conference.
Lest it be felt that these proceedings
were somewhat closeted, the Institute is
making copies of the paper available
from its Registrar, at 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. Those interested are warmly
advised to study the whole text.
When The Bulletin took up this
issue in October and November last year
it was not only provoked by a disastrous
crop of company failures which
apparently took a “credit squeeze” to
uncover.
Naturally from affairs like Stanhill
and Reid Murray there arose quite
incensed feelings that auditors should
have caught a breath of internal un-
soundness some time before the crashes
became obvious. Qualifications to pub-
lished accounts might have been allowed
earlier expression and, at the very least,
been used more frequently.
Equally at stake, however, was the
seeming desire of a professional body
to ride out the storm, to ignore the
plight of shareholders, to avoid answer-
ing the implications concerning auditing
standards. The institutes remained
dumb.
It is now good to learn that much
soul searching occurred in private. It is
even better to know that the Chartered
Accountants are working on methods of
making public pronouncements on
matters of moment concerning their
profession.
Mr Irish’s first step on behalf of his
institute largely presented a detailed
survey of the whole procedure of com-
pany accounting, working out the
respective responsibilities for the pro-
duction of that oft-unread shareholders’
and investors’ bible, the balance sheet.
He attempted specifically to delineate
the joint tasks of directors and auditors.
A clear distinction was asserted that
“a balance sheet is not of itself a guide
to the future financial strength or the
finance requirements of a business.
“It may well be that in many cases
where the accounts have been attacked,
there is nothing wrong with the accounts
at all, but it may well have been that
the directors’ report did not expose what
it should have exposed as to the financial
issues involved,” Mr Irish maintained.
If that perhaps sounds like purist hair-
splitting, he did attempt a real allocation
of responsibilities. “Unquestionably,
directors have the primary responsibility
and they are not sheltered because there
is an audit.”
But the position of an auditor is firm
and plain as well:
• “By law, he owes his duty and
allegiance to the shareholders and to no
one else. He is not there to guard the
company or its directors, but to inform
the shareholders on the accounts.”
• “His duty is to report to share-
holders his opinion on the balance sheet
and accounts and he must do this in
explicit terms, especially where qualifica-
tion of his report is necessary.”
• “He is responsible to see that the
accounting facts which ought to be dis-
closed are disclosed clearly, but he has
nothing to do with the form of presenta-
tion, except in so far as he can persuade
the directors.”
• “He has no right to report on the
quality of management or the wisdom of
business and financial decisions. It is
completely outside his province to com-
ment on the degree of prudence or
imprudence in the conduct of the business
and likewise whether its financial future
is or is not on a sound footing.”
With The Bulletin’s previous articles
in mind it is nice to know that “stocks,
debtors, depreciation and unearned
income seem to be areas where we
must be doubly vigilant.”
Staggering of
Annual Leave
FPhe Victorian Employers’ Federation
has been quizzing its members on
the question of staggering leave of their
employees. This has assumed a rather
bigger importance following the Arbi-
tration Commission's decision to award
an additional week’s leave.
Answers so far indicate a strong
majority (65 p.c.) preference for the
complete staggering of annual leave
throughout the year. Under this system
full leave would be taken in one con-
tinuous period by employees at different
times of the year.
Next most favored (17 p.c.) was one
close-down for the granting of a portion
of annual leave for all employees with
the rest staggered throughout the year.
One annual closedown for all annual
leave was favored by 15 p.c. Only 5 p.c.
voted for two close-downs at different
times of the year.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Rethinking Migration
Wanted: Jobs for migrants and migrants for jobs
A lthough it escaped the notice of the
** daily Press, the address of the Sec-
retary of the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Immigration, Mr P. R. Heydon,
to the Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association in Melbourne recently
gave a strong pointer to the need for an
expansionary Budget by underlining the
vital role of immigration in national
economic expansion.
He did this in a single sentence by
saying that “I think it can be claimed
that industry gradually over the years
came to base its plans for expansion on
a regular annual intake of migrants as
an immediate stimulus to both demand
for goods and supply of labor.”
However, one wonders whether even
the Department of Immigration is taking
a positive enough view of the role of
immigration in the process of forcing
up the rate of economic expansion,
though this is not of course saying that
the department’s efforts to get migrants
are not well directed. It is more that
something of the old Calwell and Chifley
attitudes of bringing new people here in
droves is missing.
For instance there is a passive sort of
ring in Mr Heydon’s further statement
that “with a period of prosperity loom-
ing, as revealed by various favorable
economic and demographic indicators,
immigration will continue to aid industry
by ensuring a steady build up of demand
(outside the normal demographic factors)
and at the same time help to solve labor
shortages whenever, and indeed, wher-
ever they should occur.”
course, it is possibly not so much
the department’s job to think out or
even express Government policy on im-
migration as it is for it to carry it out
in the search for migrants on the scale
dictated. But nonetheless what it does say
clearly shows that the policy is not posi-
tive enough. Immigration is not so
much setting great problems as it used to
do but rather, in the department’s view,
helping to solve locally created prob-
lems, to wit, filling labor shortages and
adding to effective demand. There is a
vital difference here.
If expansion is the Government’s aim,
its immigration policy needs re-thinking
at this stage in the general context of
economic policy. For instance, as Mr
D. E. B. Callinan, Repco’s director of
manufacturing, pointed out: “While Mr
Heydon mentioned that the Government
feels very confident about the future and
that the economy is developing nicely,
yet there are some very disturbing
factors, particularly in relation to the
capital growth of this country. I do not
mean the inflow of foreign capital, which
I think is running at an all-time high like
our immigration policy. The lack of
capital growth in industry is very dis-
turbing and if this is not rectified I am
sure that the immigration intake in the
next few years is going to take a down-
turn.”
In other words, without a vigorous
climate for private investment the future
rate of labor absorption in manufacturing
industry is unlikely to be compatible
with the maintenance of a rising migra-
tion intake. The implication is that the
coming Budget should aim to infuse as
much life as possible into private invest-
ment, or as Mr Callinan put it, “the
challenge facing the Government is this
co-ordination between immigration and
secondary industry. There is no doubt
that our primary sector cannot provide
the employment for both our natural
growth and for our intake of migrants.
Our tertiary sector certainly can make
some contribution but in the main we
have to look to the secondary sector.”
Co one would like to see the “filling the
gaps” approach to immigration re-
placed by a positive drive to create
employment opportunities, to create more
and more gaps. At times in his address
Mr Heydon’s thoughts seemed to be in
this direction. He said at one time
“migrants do not just fill empty places
in our economy; they expand it and they
generate the process of expansion. Se-
lected properly they both fill jobs and
make more jobs.”
This is more in line with the late
Sir John Storey's dictum (he was chair-
man of the Immigration Advisory Coun-
cil in the early post-war years) that the
country should not be afraid of creating
industrial bottlenecks in pushing out
new salients of expansion.
On the other hand, Mr Heydon
seemed to be looking at the creation of
new jobs by migrants as stemming from
the addition to disposable incomes en-
tailed by their employment. Sir John
looked at it more from the viewpoint of
increasing the supply of new jobs by
vigorous private investment, which
would seem to be a more positive ap-
proach to bolstering disposable incomes
through additional employment of labor.
So in a most pertinent sense a really
big step-up in immigration awaits a sub-
stantial strengthening of private invest-
ment though, as Mr Heydon stated, the
availability of migrants, particularly
from Europe, presents a mixed and not
altogether encouraging picture.
For instance, Western Europe’s pros-
perity has created a very lively sense
of the future among Western Europeans
generally and this, through the actual
recruiting of labor and through the
spirit attending the prosperity, has in-
creased the flow of migrants within Eur-
ope itself and diminished the urge to
migrate to our part of the world. Euro-
pean industrialists want to discourage
the flow here and their pressure on Gov-
ernments has affected their co-operation
with our immigration offices, even to
the extent of embargoes on publicising
job opportunities in Australia.
Summarising the present position, Mr.
Heydon said that applicants from
Britain were an exception. “This year
will, I think, show the arrival of 15,000
more settlers from Britain than last year
and a lower rate of departures, which
brings us back fairly close to the figures
for 1960-61.” Though it is still good,
the rate of applicants from Britain has
subsided from the high level of January
and February. For continental Europe
“the rates of application from Italy and
Greece are steady, and in other Euro-
pean countries, particularly Holland,
Germany, Austria and Switzerland, there
has recently been more than a seasonal
improvement in the overall rates, which,
while the numbers are very small in
relation to the British figures, is still
heartening,” Mr Heydon said.
Interpreting the gross figure for im-
migration in 1962, Mr Heydon said that
Australia gained 90,464 settlers, that is
migrants who came to stay. On that
basis he thinks the figure for 1963 will
top 100,000 and even exceed it. How-
ever after the departure of 8500 former
settlers last year, the 90,464 reduces to
81,946 and other overseas movements
reduced this gain still further. But, he
said, “I myself believe, as an immigra-
tion practitioner, that I can say with
a clear conscience that immigration gave
us a net gain of 81,000 last year.”


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
817.
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7\% P.A. 3 YEARS
7i% P.A. 2 YEARS
6*% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B£% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney. Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CCI66/AB
CUP AND POST COUPON
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDRESS.
“CROESUS”
Mr Holt Gets In Early
Unusual Features of the Latest Approach to the Loan Market
Federal Treasurer (Mr Holt) is
very wise getting in early on the loan
market this year with his three bond
issues calculated to bring in a total of
£45 million. It is not only because in
the absence of a May loan in 1962-63
he is striking while the iron is hot and
mopping up the considerable volume of
present funds seeking a home in bonds,
but rather that if the Budget fulfils
the expansionary expectations of the
various organisations who waited on the
Cabinet junta last week, it is conceivable
that he could be scratching for loan
money to meet his target before the end
of the financial year.
But before getting on to that there
are one or two unusual features of his
latest application to the capital market.
One is, of course, the early entry itself.
Though the experiment is not of great
significance this particular year because
its success is assured and the terms of
the issues very closely follow the rates
established by the market; but normally
there would seem to be a distinct advan-
tage in testing the strength of the bond
market immediately before the Budget
now that the Budget has ceased to be
merely a statement of the Federal Gov-
ernment’s own revenue and expenditure
expectations and has come to embrace
all Federal incomings and outgoings from
loan account as well, under the title of
the so-called “cash” Budget.
llThen one talks of a surplus or a defi-
cit on the Budget these days, the re-
sult of the “cash” Budget is the one that
counts as indicating the net impact of
Federal finances on the economy. In this
respect it is interesting to note that the
British Treasury is scrapping its old
traditional style of Budget accounts after
this year and conforming to our pattern
by merging the “above” and “below” the
line dichotomy of its accounts.
True, the strength of the bond
market at the beginning of a financial
year is not necessarily an accurate
guide to the likely performance over a
full year, but then, as the last Budget
demonstrated, the estimates of ordinary
revenue and expenditure, which form the
great bulk of the Budget, are also likely
to be belied by events.
Another advantage, particularly this
year, is that a July loan imparts more
certainty and continuity into the semi-
Governments market, which has lately
been a victim of the failure to have a
loan last May. Of course, it has meant
the postponement of a couple of big
semi-Government loans, but that inci-
dental damage should soon be repaired
once the July bond issue is out of the
way.
It could be expected also that the
authorities would gain something in flex-
ibility of approach to the market and
even strengthen their control over inter-
est rates by having this early loan, par-
ticularly if it means more frequent appli-
cations and for less massive amounts in
the course of the year. However, as the
absence of a May loan this year indi-
cates, the Treasury would seem to have
an open mind on the question of frequ-
ency of issues and it seems too early to
assume, as one Sydney commentator
has done, either that we will have four
bond issues this year or that their pro-
ceeds could approach last year’s.
the contrary the frequency of issues
would seem to have little to do
with the latter, which would appear to
depend on more fundamental factors
such as the degree of expansionary stimu-
lus imparted by the Budget, the extent
to which this will be reflected in the in-
ternal price level, changes in the propen-
sities to save and consume and so on.
Equally it could depend to some de-
gree on the extent to which the Govern-
ment is prepared to relax some of the
present “captive” devices which so
greatly helped the loan result last year.
In the Treasurer's shoes, we would not
at this stage be very enthusiastic about
weakening these devices because it is
quite possible that a change in the pro-
pensity to save will alone militate against
bumper bond raisings if the Budget
comes up to expansionary expectations
The importance of this can be measur-
ed by the fact that 70 p.c. of the mas-
sive flow of savings into savings banks
last year perforce went straight into
loan raisings (Government, semis and
locals). The Treasurer can hardly expect
savings banks deposits to stand him in
such good stead this year.
It must be recognised that partly as a
result of not having a loan in May com-
mercial investments have become more
competitive with bonds and the acknow-
ledgment of the 4£ p.c. long-term rate
in the July loan puts the stamp on this.
In present circumstances, it is highly
probable that this is just about as low as
the Treasurer can afford to let bond rate
go if he is to realise his loan target for
the year.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19 th December, 1929 )
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
T?
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS,
f HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8388 N
Flutter Over Power Costs
Political Parties Wrangle About Oil, Water and Coal
"Deports that Victoria’s 1200 mega-
watt power station at Hazelwood
will produce electricity at 0.49 d. a unit
compared with the estimated 0.52 d. of
the projected Mersey-Forth hydro-elec-
tric development have caused a flutter
in Tasmania.
Tasmanians with justification sub-
scribe to the belief that their hydro-
electric power is Australia’s cheapest.
In size, in scope and in cost per kilo-
watt-hour it shades the more widely
publicised Snowy Mountains scheme,
and as it has been created without direct
Commonwealth help Tasmanians feel
possessive as well as proud of it.
The Liberals have reservations. They
suggest that the huge blocks of power
sold to base-metal industries bring little
employment relative to the State capital
invested in harnessing the mountain
waters. Some of this money, they say,
could more profitably have been in-
vested in developing the State’s tourist
assets. And the thought is put forward
that Tasmania’s abundant fresh water
in a largely arid continent has a special
value simply as water.
The low cost and availability of
power was certainly a determining fac-
tor in the siting of BHP’s electro-metal-
lurgical plant and the still-expanding
Comalco aluminium refinery at Bell
Bay. Nevertheless, cost of power could
not have been decisive: the bait has
failed to hook a number of other indus-
tries seeking sites.
Furthermore, Tasmanian faith has
been shaken by Alcoa’s decision to
press on with its reduction plant at Gee-
long. It is thought that Mr Bolte must
be making a favorable bargain rate for
the power he is supplying; but then
Tasmania’s Hydro-Electric Commission
also has offered big discounts in its
under-the-counter deals with bulk power
consumers.
Conversion of a number of industries
to oil fuel has imperilled the existence
of the coalmines in the Fingai Valley.
Tasmanian coal generally is not as good
as NSW coal, but it’s distinctly better
than the produce of the Victorian open
cuts. However, quality has not prompted
the decision to turn to the more econo-
mical and much more easily handled fuel
oil.
several occasions the mineowners
and miners of the valley have
clutched at the hope that the Govern-
ment would build a large thermal power
station in the district, but the Labor
Party has shown an unusual indifference
to the pleas of the miners. It spurned
the first suggestions that coal-fired boilers
could generate power economically.
When its opponents claimed that the
HEC would naturally find figures to
prop its own case, the Government set
up an independent board of inquiry
which confirmed the statement that a
120 megawatt thermal station would
add £400,000 annually to the State’s
electricity bill than a comparable hydro-
electric station would.
Now, with Comalco’s alumina plant
converting to oil, the mines face ex-
tinction, but the Government says that
nothing has occurred in the last couple
of years to change its views. If its
opponents push their case the Govern-
ment may be pressed to sustain the cost
argument since the Victorians have ap-
parently proved it fallacious.
Its position is awkward, especially
now that the newly-formed Tasmanian
Country Party has come out in support
of saving the coal industry. The fledg-
ling party has succeeded in shocking
Premier Reece into an unguarded first
outward sign of recognising its ex-
istence.


INVEST
NOW
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
)/
/G
20
10
years
7 Mo
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
62 °Jo
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached. to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6%
12 months
5%
6 months
4fo
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
EE
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated in The Australian Capital
T erritory.
CAS 23 18b
INVESTMENT SECTION
Leaders Reap Their Reward
Without any shadow of doubt it was
leaders, leaders all the way last
week, BHP and ACI both beating the
big drum very handsomely. Some sage
and cheerful ruminations must ensue
when more details of these fine results
come to hand.
Everyone expected the best from BHP
and the disclosed group profit barely
told part of the tale. The £1.9 million
advance to <£16.5 million is an ob-
viously veiled beginning to a story of
striking progress.
One hint may be taken from the mas-
sive lift in depreciation, up from £24.4
million to £26.9 million. Adding back,
a real earning rate somewhere close to
25 p.c. is suggested. Perhaps directors
can take a bigger bite at the public
profit cherry in the 1963-64 year.
Their remarks on investment allow-
ances and exports must be appreciated
too. with tax down £1.2 million to
£13.7 million. Investors naturally
shouldn’t bother waiting for all these
points. Indeed they didn't, for market
tremors began early, some hours before
BHP's preliminary statement came to
hand.
Australian Consolidated Industries’
ripe performance in the 1962-63 year
also shows what a genuine leader can do.
There's more to it, however, than a
widely hailed recovery by one particular
company.
That may be just as well, perhaps,
since investors expressed a drab con-
servatism by actually putting the shares
down 3d. the day after the results be-
came known. Still and all they must
have no doubts about status. Even at
665. 9d. the yield remains a super blue-
ribbon 2.5 p.c.
Prices did go up to 70s. earlier in
1963. That gives .room for upward
manoeuvre yet and the markets should
be carefully scanned. The cumulative ef-
fect of CSR, ACI and BHP will un-
doubtedly exercise a distinctive influence
over the now-occurring market restora-
tion.
From ACl’s purely domestic angle,
the ability to hold its earning rate on
bigger capital looks most important. The
rate really crept gently ahead from
14.3 to 14.4 p.c.!
What must be far more significant, as
the economy rebounds, is directors’
decision not to call any halt to capital
expansion at a time when so many were
crying woe. With BHP and Mount Isa
this kind of expansiveness may be taken
for granted.
But ACI, like ICIANZ also, decided
not only to hold the fort during the
“squeeze”. Fresh opportunities were seen
and confidently taken. One result is a
quick capacity to reap better conditions
when they arrive.
There seems more as well to the
£435,489 jump in profit to a record
£3,315,000. In September last the
chairman (Mr J. A. Forrest) drew atten-
tion to trading subsidiaries’ improve-
ment, yet had to add that earnings were
then under 1960-61’s figures.
Plainly the second half of 1962-63
contributed most of the kick. ACl’s enor-
mous range glass, plastics, packaging,
engineering lends further confirma-
tion to the economy's acceleration.
Ford’s Locked Treasures
Tnvestors could be casting gloating
A eyes on the Ford Motor Company of
Australia's first published profit. Pre-
sumably its best earnings up to now, the
£3,083,161 for the year to December last
represents 22.26 p.c. on the £13,853,193
capital.
Sooner or later one of these successful
overseas giants has to crack itself open
a little to allow some local shareholder
participation. Ford has been well rumor-
ed among these fond hopes.
In their brief formal report directors
state that no dividends went to the Cana-
dian principal from 1962 “because of the
high level of investment of earnings by
Ford in Australia to fulfil the concept of
major facility expansion.” Nothing ap-
pears to have gone overseas for some
years, so far as can be told since 1958.
Directors explicitly remark that: “In
all, since 1958 the company has spent
and allocated nearly £54 million for
new plants, facilities and other assets, a
sum substantially in excess of its earn-
ings.”
They add feelingly: “In that time,
during a period when there have been
constant public appeals for the reinvest-
ment in Australia of money earned in
this country, it has not remitted a single
penny of dividends overseas.” The con-
trast with you know who is fairly evi-
dent!
Ford claimed 19.4 p.c. of the market
in 1962 and sales totalled an admitted
record of £69,239,391. The Falcoln
achieves “continuing and growing suc-
cess,” while the Cortina, available from
last November, has made a perceptible
dent in the market.


Mr . Johnston: Export Expert
Bill Johnston is an expert. Not
a chair-borne theorist but a
“ get-out-and-find-out” man. Over
the past 30 years he has
visited some 15 oversea markets as a
trade representative of the Bank of
New South Wales. He has also been
an executive participant in several
official Australian Trade Missions.
There are many such experts at the Wales.
That’s what keeps the Wales ahead
first-hand expert information, always up
to the minute. Export assistance is only
one of the many services the Wales
provides. You’re welcome to use them all.
Business men are invited to write, ’phone,
or call for the free Wales booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and
“Planning a Business Trip Overseas”.
.. .the
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
m
AUSTRALIA’S FIRST BANK
A 63138


Noble Minster
markets felt healthy enough to
take Minster’s record result with-
out any excitement at all. This bluest
of blue chips had in any case already
benefited from post-June 30 euphoria.
Since the beginning of July the 10s.
shares were sent up Is. 6d. to reach
725. They remained around that level
after the profit announcement.
No immediate impetus seems avail-
able to push prices much closer to
1963 s 765. peak. Investors were clearly
expecting good earnings from a com-
pany very close to the accepted leaders
in their esteem. On the 20 p.c. divi-
dend established in 1959 yield becomes
2.8 p.c., with earnings yield 6.1 p.c.
The shares are always worth holding,
for market favor has been well sus-
tained not only by attractive dividends
but by bonus issues, the last in a ratio
of one-for-two occurring in 1960. Earn-
ings a share have risen strongly and
almost continuously.
Latest profits, up by £54,632 to
£717,825, give an earning rate of
40.4 p.c. The dividend needs £327,974,
well under half the profit.
Directors did not attach any clues
on trading patterns to their preliminary
statement. The rubber-bonded carpet,
well in demand by the building and
motor industries, may be taken for
granted.
Shareholders, however, will be in-
terested to learn about the felt-based
linoleum project, Bulatum (Aust.) Pty
Ltd. Minster has a 49 p.c. interest here,
the remaining capital being owned by
Thomas Witter and Co, England. Ex-
ports also can claim some attention.
Retained profits were bumped up be-
yond £1 million for the first time last
year and hit £1,096,383. They will
gain handsomely this time.
Gerrard Rebounds
brief profit report in the dailies
failed to convey the really splendid
recovery made by Gerrard Co. of Aus-
tralasia Ltd.
True, the earning rate of 19.3 p.c.
is not back to the 25 p.c. and 27 p.c.
rates common in pre-recession years.
But it is a long way from last year’s
11.6 p.c. rate, which forced a dividend
cut from 12 to 10 p.c.
Absolute profit of £303,103 (after
£218,679 tax and £127,681 deprecia-
tion) is far in excess of the previous
best of £210,927 in 1959-60.
Of course, the group has expanded
since then: J. Sankey Robinson, an Ade-
laide steel merchant, was bought from
Kauri Timber in April 1961, and four
months later Westons Pty Ltd and
N. W. Thomas and Co.. Ltd were bought
out. Apart from the shares issued to
finance these purchases, shareholders
have twice been called on for premium
issues, in the last three years.
The Daniel Harvey subsidiary, which
was bought in December, 1959, was sold
early in 1963. Gerrard was not prepared
to spend a lot of money in extending its
product range.
Gerrard seems well out of the woods
now, with some valuable lessons learned,
too.
Shareholders who held on grimly
when the 10s. shares slid to 14s. lOd.
can be well content to see them rebound
to 255. 6d., where on the advanced
dividend rate of 12} p.c. the yield is
4.9 p.c. There could be some quiet
profit-taking at this level.
And So To Blue Metal
announcement from Kathleen
A Investments Ltd that future divi-
dends will be reduced to assist financing
a programme of diversification should,
if anything, bring comfort to investors
wondering what will happen when
uranium income peters out.
The dividend payment for the year
to December 31, 1962 exceeded earn-
ings by £10,935. At ss. Bd. per ss.
share, distributions since inception now
total 15s. lOd.
Directors expect income from the
beach sands industry and other projects
to “materially replace” income from
uranium, but there will be a couple of
years’ interval before other activities
are fully productive.
The contract with the UK Atomic
Energy Authority will probably be com-
pleted in September. (The only outstand-
ing liability on the original loan of
almost £13.5 million from this author-
ity is about £1 million of redeemable
preference capital).
The use of uranium for commercial
purposes is increasing so significantly
that estimates on exhaustion of uranium
stocks in USA and the UK are being
constantly revised. There could be a
shortage by 1970, according to US esti-
mates, so the Mary Kathleen mine
could reopen some years before this
date.
Australia’s second largest uranium de-
posit, Anderson’s Lode (not far from
Mary Kathleen), may not be brought
into production for some years yet.
(This will be developed by Queensland
Mines Ltd, which is 49 p.c. owned by
Kathleen Investments).
Rutile and Zircon Mines (Newcastle)
Ltd has been profitable since March,
but substantial dividends will not be
paid to its parents Peko-Wallsend In-
vestments Ltd and Coffs Harbour Ru-
tile (94 p.c. owned by Kathleen Invest-
ments), until 1965.
Slackness in the building industry has
retarded exploitation of two blue metal
deposits in the Brisbane area, which
have been acquired at a cost of
£17,500. Reserves are estimated at
seven million tons.
The ss. shares are currently chang-
ing hands around 14s.
"We speak to Moscow in English, Moscow's to reply in Russian. And
just pray we understand each other."


p
m
2
TJ
-3-5
m
' 4
4
o :
JL
“You’ve no idea the trouble we go to . .
... Not to make a cup of coffee, of course. But we do
go to extremes to make good petroleum products
and petroleum chemicals and to ensure at all times
that Shell people everywhere
are always ready to help you
with the best products on the market.
It's got to be good to be Shell
SHELL
Iron Resolutions
Hamersley Holdings Pty, the Con-
zinc-Riotinto-Kaiser Steel iron ore
venture, may soon be pressing the West-
ern Australian Government for a long-
term lease of the Pilbara deposits. That, in
the optimistic words of the London
“Financial Times,” could “profoundly in-
fluence development in the North-West.”
The 1100 square mile area is at
present being examined under tempor-
ary lease. With exploration far from
finished, latest estimates suggest that it
contains about 8000 million tons of
ore. Only recently this figure was
thought to cover the whole north-west
T , tir ,.
I he Financial Times believes Pilbara
to be “the world’s largest and best de-
nosit of iron ore”
‘
Last March CRA directors quietly
described progress in their 1962 report:
Proving of ore reserves is proceeding
and results to date have been very en-
couraging. Deposits of higher grade
than those known at the time of the
(Consolidated Zinc-Riotinto) merger
have been discovered, and are now being
tested ‘
“At the same time, feasibility studies
are being made of various port sites,
and of railway routes to those ports.
Preliminary discussions have taken place
in Japan with steel interests on long-
term ° re SU^' y contracts.
The § rou P s a PPetite must now be
whetted by seeing the Western Mining-
Hanna-Homestake consortium well on
the way f 8"! the first Ja P anese con '
tract for 5.1 million tons from Tallenng-
00 a ?,° j^ a s ' These negotiations
ar f, stl dragging out on a narrow price
d ‘ erentlal
ad essees testing the various
deposits need to be able to argue
from a firm supply base, for their over-
seas I nvals are many and with anxious
eyes lookin g at Japan’s expansion. Ham-
ersley Holdin S s will wish to make full
use of the Federal Government’s relaxed
export conditions.
„ „ „ _
Buyer-Seller Disparity
{Confirmation of John A. Gilbert’s
successful trading for the year to
March 31 did not encourage trading
in the ss. shares. About Is. 6d. still
separated buyer and seller the following
day, but the 6 p.c. convertible notes
sold at 13s.
N 0 bonus will be made before De-
cember 31, 1964, when the notes con-
vert, and noteholders participate equally
with shareholders in any cash issues—
which are unlikely. So until the final
dividend for 1962-63 is paid, the theore-
tical difference between shares and notes
is approximately one shilling.
Motor distributors seldom have the
wherewithal for bonus issues, and re-
tamed profits usually take care of work-
mg capital needs, so their shares are
mostly bought only for income.
At 15s. 3d. or thereabouts, the yield
i s 4 9 p. c ., so it would take a bonus
dividend to justify a further price ad-
vance.
Decorated Cement
» “ T
Cement Holdings Ltd con-
t,nued its procession of profit m-
creases tor the 15th year by recording
a profit of <£251,051 for the period to
May 31
A f ,
, A one-for-three bonus was made on
the last day of the financial year, but
new shares do not rank for any of
the 1962-63 dividend.
The dividend, in fact, has been raised
from 111 to 12! p.c., making the fourth
successive annual increase. No pro-
nouncement has been made on future
dividend policy but as the company
lifted dividend from 8 to 8! p.c. in
1960 after formation of the holding
company, in what amounted to a two-
for-one bonus, shareholders may rea-
sonably expect at least a 12! p.c. divi-
dend for 1963-64.


ANSETT FREIGHT
EXPRESS
AUSTRALIA WIDE DOOR-TO-DOOR
TRANSPORTATION BY -
ROAD - RAIL • SEA • AIR
Ansett Freight Express caters for the smallest
to the largest shipper.
Consignments from 1 lb. upwards. Ring for
service and competitive rates.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 533 7
Canberra 9 4091 • Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4434
Tasmania —Devonport 2 2659
894 IN
AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
A Member Company of the Australian
Hire Purchase and Finance Conference
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
%
8
1
2
p.
5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
O Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
9 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
Q Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
% Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3941
Oil Refining Profits
YlTith the appearance of the profit
” figures from Petroleum Refineries
Pty Ltd (74 p.c. Mobil and 26 p.c. Esso),
the 1962 picture of Australian oil refin-
ery profits is about as complete as it
will be for some months because BP,
the only group not to report so far, ends
its year on June 30 and takes its time
about filing results. Like Caltex and
Shell, the now split Standard-Vacuum
group takes the calendar year for ac-
counting purposes.
If there were any Australian share-
holders in the overseas-owned refining
companies they would not be much the
wiser for a study of the Caltex and Shell
profit figures. To get any sort of answer
to the results from Petroleum Refineries’
operations at Altona (54,300 b/h) and
Halletts Cove (42,000 b/d) it is neces-
sary to add the refining profit figures of
Mobil and Esso to that of Petroleum
Refineries itself.
Since the big Standard-Vacuum inter-
ests in Australia (also world-wide) were
split between Mobil and Esso as from
January 1 last year, Petroleum Refineries’
profits have come almost solely from
fees paid for refining the crude owned
by the two parent marketing companies,
Mobil and Esso. Profits on the crude ac-
crue direct to the parents. Thus last year
Petroleum Refineries showed only the
modest profit of £178,395 (after
£160,000 tax and £1,782,886 deprecia-
tion), whereas Mobil's refining profit for
the year was £1,024,652 and Esso’s
£199,686, giving a total of £1,402,733,
as against Caltex’s declared refining pro-
fit of £314,656 (after tax of £144,384
and depreciation £2,585,013) and Shell’s
total net profit from all operations of
£652,000 (after deduction of the mas-
sive tax provision of £2,019,000 which
the company now seems to have a good
chance of getting a very substantial let-
off).
Bank Progress
npRANSFER of domicile of the Australia
and New Zealand Savings Bank
Ltd from London to Melbourne, and
a change in its directorate, marks an-
other step towards more effective and
efficient operation of the ANZ Bank
group.
The new board is predominantly Aus-
tralian (five out of seven), and unlike
other Australian private bank boards,
is constituted entirely of bank execu-
tives.
The parent trading bank is still head-
quartered in London, and likely to re-
main so as long as most shares are held
in England, and so much of the bank’s
business is concerned with UK-Austra-
lian trade.


THE MUTUAL
ACCEPTANCE
COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W sth MARCH, 1936
Paid-up capital, £2,108,235
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
P.A.
6-10
YEARS
Applications accepted only on the form referred to in
and attached to the printed prospectus which is available
from:
Bank of N.S.W. at any of its branches
Any Member of a recognised Stock Exchange
THE UNDERWRITERS—IAN POTTER & CO.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
44 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE MUTUAL ACCEPTANCE COMPANY LIMITED
316 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 61 9701
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders: Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6-NSW
Pioneer Concrete’s Purchases
Oioneer Concrete Services Ltd con-
tinues to expand by acquisitions
which necessitated the issue of 232,000
ss. shares at a substantial premium.
The issue brings paid capital very
close to the £2 million mark, but the
new shares do not rank for dividends
in respect of profits, as yet unpublished,
for 1962-63.
The market was immediately im-
pressed with this expression of directors’
confidence in the business, putting the
shares up a few pence to 13s. 9d.
(yield 4.5 p.c.). The new shareholders,
however, may not be such loyal com-
pany supporters as voluntary investors,
as has been proved for many another
takeover merchant, during the recent
recession period.
The trading result for 1962-63, due
out in October, will decide the problem
for most new investors.
Jantzen’s First Loss
llne loss after 34 years of profitable
trading was a great disappointment
to directors of Jantzen (Australia) Ltd.
The American parent received no ord-
inary dividend in respect of the year to
March 31, 1962, but holders of the
preference shares (listed in Melbourne
and Sydney) received their dividends as
usual.
Best known for its swimwear, the
company also makes and markets sports-
wear and knitted outerwear.
The loss of £.36,264 was attributed
to “difficult trading conditions, discount-
ing by manufacturers as well as re-
tailers, greater competition (resulting in
finer profit margins), unseasonable
weather (resulting in reduced business)
and the comparative slowness of the re-
covery to normal of the fashion trade.”
In short, clothing is a tricky trade.
Rothmans Advancing
Shareholders of Rothmans of Pall
Mall (Aust.) Ltd are still waiting on
directors’ final dividend recommendation,
but the results leave little doubt that the
final will repeat the interim 10 p.c. pay-
out.
A 16.5 p.c. rise in absolute profit,
after greater provisions, and a climb in
earning rate from 33.1 to 39.1 p.c. on
steady capital are matters for con-
gratulation.
The shares retreated to 325. 6d. on
news of Gallaher’s intended entry to
Australian markets, but have now fully
recovered. At 375. 6d. the 10s. units give
an income yield of 5.3 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of 10.4 p.c.
In February directors declared that
Rothmans enjoyed more than half of
the Australian cigarette market. They
now refer to volume sales as “very
satisfactory.”
Use of Debenture Funds
Interesting sidelight on the use of
tax-loss companies in receiver-ridden
Reid Murray group was thrown up
amidst the shocking revelations of
auditors on the inadequacies of account
and record keeping in the finance sub-
sidiary, Reid Murray Acceptance Ltd.
The function of the group’s subsidiary
Remur Finance, which was a partner-
ship of tax-loss companies, was to act as
intermediary in channelling on to other
companies in the group the publicly
raised debenture funds of Reid Murray
Acceptance Ltd, acting as a sort of bank-
er for the whole group.
Remur would borrow from the ac-
ceptance company at a certain rate of
interest and lend to other group compan-
ies at a higher rate, using the tax losses
of its own nest of tax-loss companies as
offsets to taxation on profits.
This operation seems worthy of close
study by stock exchanges in their present
attempt to close the avenues for the un-
secured on-lending to subsidiary com-
panies of debenture funds raised by
parents. Such funds (in Reid Murray’s
case £32.3 million) can start off by being
secured by trust deeds, but once out in
the stream of subsidiaries they lose this
attribute and, in this instance, through
the tax-loss partnership, are made to
work overtime to bolster profits.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
291 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVUTCO”
Phone: 31-2161
(4 lines)
P.o. BOX
No. 1887 W
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
SECURITY ANALYSIS
What Price Mount Isa?
T'he announcement that Mount Isa
Mines Ltd is to re-organise its capi-
tal and issue free scrip to shareholders
in the ratio of three-for-two has had
the effect of pushing the company’s
shares up to as high as 83s. 6d.
One can only wonder if the pur-
chasers at these high levels have read
the announcement which states that divi-
dend income will not be increased by
this issue nor do the directors intend
to increase the total amount of the cash
dividends “for the duration of the pres-
ent expansion plan.”
Some consideration of future pros-
pects is very necessary when buying a
share with a dividend yield of only
1.5 p.c. and an earnings yield of only
2.2 p.c. Although “the duration of the
present expansion plan” was not given in
the recent statement, it seems fairly
clear from earlier statements that this
period extends until 1965 at least.
Investors must therefore try to make
some appraisal of the dividend increase
which they are expecting in 1966-67 to
justify the purchase at present prices.
If they are expecting to receive the in-
crease all at once and they are really
looking for a 7 p.c. return on their in-
vestment, then they are expecting the
present dividend to increase from 6d. per
share (after the new issue) to 2s. 9d.
per share. This would mean increasing
the dividend rate from 10 p.c. to 55 p.c.
or making an ELEVEN-for-two bonus
issue. It would also mean raising the
cash dividend payout from the present
£2.4 million to £13.2 million. This
latter figure is 50 p.c. greater than the
apparent cash revenue for 1961-62, that
is before deducting depreciation, pros-
pecting and exploration expenses, losses
on sales of assets, taxation and minority
interests.
Tt is hard to believe that even the most
A unsophisticated of investors is ex-
pecting this sort of growth!
The expectations are probably run-
ning along the following lines:—
When the expansion plans are com-
pleted in 1965-66, the company will
make a substantial bonus issue and
maintain the dividend rate. Thereafter
the company will continue to make
bonus issues while maintaining the divi-
dend rate. They would hardly be expect-
ing a repetition of the 1957-1959 years
when their cash dividend was reduced
but they received compensation in the
form of bonus issues.
Perhaps an attempt might be made
to bring these expectations down to
numerical terms rather than the usual
hazy suggestions which say the shares
are worth £5 each.
If we continue to accept that, even
with the obvious risks involved with any
equity investment, an ultimate return
of 7 p.c. is adequate, then we can make
some estimate of what must be achieved
by way of dividend receipts if we are to
obtain this return. The increase in divi-
dend income on completion of the ex-
pansion period is conjectural but we
will assume that it will be 100 p.c. In
other words, the company will make a
1-for-l bonus issue. This would raise
the cash dividend payout to over £4.76
million and although a 50 p.c. increase
on 1961-62 earnings would be neces-
sary to cover this amount, we can as-
sume that it could be paid in view of
the earnings in the three years preceding
1961-62.
\ fter this substantial lift, it would still
be necessary for dividend payout
to increase at the average annual com-
pound rate of 9 p.c. from 1967-68 to
1976-77 and thereafter at 3 p.c. per
annum. Whether this can be done or
not is a matter of personal opinion but
with increases of this order it must
surely be obvious that the future has
been fully discounted at present prices.
It might be pointed out that if a
one-for-three bonus is made again in
1965-66 instead of the one-for-one as-
sumed above, the rate of growth for
the next ten years would need to in-
crease from 9 p.c. to 15 p.c. per annum.
A 15 p.c. increase would mean that the
company would need to make a l-for-7
bonus issue each and every year for
10 years, maintaining the same rate of
dividend or a l-for-3 issue every other
year.
No doubt in the case of this dynamic
company the past is not a measure of
the future, but as no one can foresee
the future we tend to look at the past
if only as a bench mark.
It is hardly relevant to trace the com-
pany’s history from its formation in
1924 until it paid its first dividend in
1947. In fact, as the success has been
based on copper and, as apart from a
period during World War 11, copper
production commenced in February,
1953, it seems that only the years from
1953-54 to 1961-62 should be con-
sidered. Over this period both dividends
and earnings have increased at the rate
of about 10 p.c. per annum. While the
earnings figures may be somewhat sus-
pect in view of the varying treatment
which can be accorded to large items
such as “Provision for income tax
equalisation,” the dividend record is
factual and is an impressive one.
The following table shows the divi-
dends received in a year plus capital
appreciation expressed as a percentage
of the price at the beginning of the
year:—
“Return”
p.c.
1955- 68.8
1956- nil
1957- 21.6
1958- 144.0
1959- 8.2
1960- 21.1
1961- -(6.9)
1962- 34.7
It can only be said that these per-
centages do not help much in forecast-
ing the future. They do indicate quite
forcefully that Mount Isa Mines shares
came into favor as recently as 1959
after a 12 years dividend record and
25 years after foundation.
Investors should evaluate future pros-
pects very carefully before making pur-
chases at prices over 80s.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Prestige Full of Confidence
Internal financing is the key to the
success of Melbourne-based textile
company Prestige Ltd. In the seven
years 1957 to 1963 the group provided
£1,844,603 for depreciation of plant
and equipment, and retained £670,000
odd of profits.
This allowed the company to make
a one-for-five bonus in July, 1960, which
it has repeated this year.
Furthermore the 10 p.c. dividend paid
in that three-year period was lifted for
1962-63 to 12} p.c., and directors anti-
cipate that, provided the economy does
not deteriorate, and tariff policy re-
mains unchanged, this rate can be held
on bonus-enlarged capital.
Though “Prestige” means hosiery to
most people, in fact 60 p.c. of the
group’s business is concerned with sup-
plying semi-raw materials and services to
the textile trade and clothing manu-
facturers.
Operations cover hosiery, lingerie,
rayon fabrics, woollen and worsted
fabrics, furnishing fabrics, knit-
ted fabrics, yarn processing, dyeing and
finishing, and tufted fabrics.
There are two manufacturing plants
in Melbourne and two decentralised
plants in Victoria, and three in New
Zealand.
Profit for the year to March 31, 1963,
of £312,786 almost doubled the 1962
result of £166,588, and was far and
away the best performance in the com-
pany’s history. But directors refrained
from describing it as a record, and were
generally modest about this achievement.
The result was arrived at after pro-
viding £249,499 for tax (previously
£168,267) and £260,845 (£283,973)
for depreciation.
Directors stated that Prestige had
weathered the longest recession the Aus-
tralian textile industry had experienced
since the war. Improved results were
obtained from supplying the trade with
goods and services. On the other hand
the consumer goods division was far
from buoyant.
The profit improvement was obtained
in Australia and New Zealand. Turnover
increased and so did efficiency. There
were no price increases.
Directors declare that the company
has discharged its responsibilities to the
Government for tariff protection by in-
creasing productivity and reducing prices.
Plant and equipment have a net book
value of £949,506 after the generous
depreciation noted earlier. Incidentally,
in the same period 1957-63, £1,655,169
was spent on additions to plant, mainly
for diversification.
Present price of around 13s. 3d. for
the ss. ordinary stock units, cum the
one-for-five bonus, gives an ex-bonus
price of 11s. Yield on a 12} p.c. divi-
dend is then 5.7 p.c., which still re-
mains very attractive, considering the
confidence with which directors lift divi-
dend and make a bonus at the same
time. The earnings yield is 13.0 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY — (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2469 2492 2737 2502 2932
Less current
liabilities 1145 1038 1216 942 1252
Working capital 1324 1454 1521 1560 1680
Investments 75 85 50 50 50
Fixed assets 1917 1847 1894 1853 2141
3316 3386 3465 3463 3871
Loan capital 1011 995 1064 1004 978
Minority interests • 68 71 66 69 89
Preference capital 478 478 478 478 478
Ordinary capital 702 702 842 842 842
Reserves 1057 1141 1038 1096 1511
3316 3387 3488 3489 3398
Less preference capital
held by subsidiaries — 1 23 26 27
3316 3386 3465 3463 3871
Depreciation 255 266 301 284 261
Taxation 141 159 117 168 249
Net profit 147 177 130 167 313
Net profit for ords. 120 150 103 140 238
Dividends 70 70 84 84 105
Surplus 50 80 19 56 183
Earning rate 17.2 21.4 12.2 16.8 34.1
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 12£
Dividend yield (a) 6.9 6.7 5.0 6.7
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.4 7.0 9 4 9.0
High price (b) 8/3 10/9 9/10 7/- 8/6
Low price (b) 6/- 6/- 6/3 4/4 5/1
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
SEBELS (AUSTRALIA) LTD
Dividend Lift Coming?
An average compounded growth rate
of 10 p.c. each year for sales and
profits, since 1955, is a remarkably
sound performance by the smallish Syd-
ney company, Sebels (Australia) Ltd.
That this was achieved despite aban-
donment in 1957 of the toy business,
which accounted for about 20 p.c. of
turnover, is all the more noteworthy.
The Sebels business is now entirely
devoted to furniture of tubular metals.
Most products are covered by patents
or registered designs, and the firm jeal-
ously guards its original designs. An
active development department is con-
tinually adding to the company’s pro-
duct range.
Overseas visits by management assure
adoption (with the necessary adaptations
for small scale) of the latest production
techniques.
Furniture stocks and work-in-prog-
ress are resolved several times a year.
Closing stocks of £118,962 were rather
lower than the opening balance of
£127,547. Debtors, on the other hand,
were slightly higher at the end of 1962
than for 1961.
Profit for the last year to December,
1962, improved to £59,385, after pro-
viding £39,368 for tax and £15,867
for depreciation. Comparable figures for
1961 were profit, £53,023; tax, £34,907;
and depreciation, £16,971.
The earning rate strengthened from
22.0 to 23.8 p.c. on ordinary capital,
but directors left the 12} p.c. dividend
unchanged as this was the first year
for which the higher capital had to be
serviced. However, it is obvious from
the chairman’s statement at the thir-
teenth annual general meeting that
12} p.c. is not the upper limit for the
dividend.
Profit as a percentage of shareholders’
funds is 14 p.c., a very satisfactory rate.
In October, 1961, the company made
a one-for-nine bonus from revaluation


PUBLIC NOTICE
Commonwealth Literary Fund Fellowships
Attention is drawn to the fact that the Commonwealth Literary Fund
offers a number of Fellowships each year to enable writers who have proved
their ability in the field of creative literature to devote their time for a period
to a literary project they may wish to carry out.
The Fund will consider all applications made to it.
Forms of application, which set out the conditions of the awards, etc.,
may be obtained from the Secretary, Commonwealth Literary Fund, Prime
Minister's Department, Canberra. Any further information is also available
from the Secretary.
Applications for Fellowships close on 31st August next.
reserve, bringing capital to its present
level of £250,000.
In April, 1963, the company reported
that production was up 11 p.c. in the
current year to cater for new sales
records. Several new products have been
developed and are in the tooling-up
stage.
Although the furniture trade is gen-
erally conceded to be sensitive to econ-
omic recession, Sebels has proved itself
capable of rising above outside diffi-
culties.
A yield of 4.4 p.c. on a price of
14s. 1-d. for the ss. shares indicates
the high market rating for a furniture
maker.
The interim report is due very shortly,
which could confirm the market’s op-
timism of a lift in dividend, perhaps
to the annual rate of 15 p.c. The present
high price level seems hardly justified,
if this does not eventuate.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 206 197 266 270 265
Less current
liabilities 91 76 132 101 100
Working capital 115 121 134 169 165
Fixed assets 228 237 278 291 311
343 358 412 460 476
Loan capital 47 45 53 78 65
Ordinary capital 225 225 250 250 250
Reserves 71 88 109 132 161
343 358 412 460 476
Depreciation 10 11 13 17 16
Taxation 24 23 31 35 38
Profits 41 40 47 53 59
Dividend 23 23 28 30 31
Surplus 18 17 19 23 28
Earning rate 18.4 17.5 20.8 22.0 23.8
Dividend rate 10 10 12£ 12J 12^
Dividend yield (a) 8.8 7.7 6.8 5.8 4.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 6.2 7.5 8.9 9.8 11.4
High price (b) 6/4 7/3 9/3 11/3 13/9
Low price (b) 5/2 5/2 5/10 7/6 8/-
(a) End of following April, month accounts pre-
sented.
(b) Calendar and financial year.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Bumper Year But How Long?
heights in world sugar
prices brought a bumper year for
the Colonial Sugar Refining Co Ltd in
the period to March 31, 1963.
At the beginning of 1962 the c.i.f.
UK price was about £stg2o per ton.
By the end of 1962 it had doubled to
£stg4o, and soared to £lOl by late
May 1963. There has been some re-
action since to about £Bl per ton.
Directors cautioned shareholders in
their annual report: “Informed opinion
is that prices will fall still further and
very materially, but it is not possible to
predict by how much or when.”
Factors contributing to the generally
higher prices were the increase in world
sugar consumption (especially in the
USSR), the poor beet sugar crop in
Europe and North America, due to the
severe winter, and the drastic fall in
production in Cuba, which was the
largest exporter. Stocks are now low
enough for short-term changes in pro-
duction to have very strong impact on
market prices.
Production at CSR’s Australian mills
rose by 16 p.c., and in Fiji (where 1961-
62 production was very low) by 73 p.c.
Refined sugar sales increased moderately
in Australia and New Zealand.
CSR’s seven Australian raw sugar
mills handled about 20 p.c. of total
Australian production, but it handles
about 95 p.c. of Australia’s refined
sugar requirements in refineries at all
capital cities.
The company markets all Australian
exports of raw sugar, under contract
with the Queensland Government, and
in 1962 Australia was the world’s second
largest exporter of raw sugar. About
two-thirds of our production is exported,
to the value of about £5O million re-
cently.
New markets have been penetrated.
In May agreement was made for Aus-
tralia to supply Japan with from
350,000 to 450,000 tons a year in the
next three years (about one-third of our
export tonnage). Australia and Fiji
gained continuing access to the US
market for the first time last year.
CSR’s Fijian subsidiary, South Paci-
fic Sugar Mills Ltd, stepped up raw
sugar production by 105,000 tons to
248,000 tons, and next year production
is expected to be about 270,000 tons.
In Australia, expectations are that
the company’s mills will be handling
tonnages in excess of the 1962 record
of 350,000 tons. The next crop should
be equally as good as the last, and all
cane will be harvested and crushed.
Yields of cane per acre and raw
sugar per acre were vastly superior in
1962 to yields for the two preceding
years.
The building materials division •—■
floor tiles, fibreboard, gypsum products,
Pyneboard, mineral fibres and Ruberoid
—increased sales by about 10 p.c. This
increase was fairly evenly distributed
over most products, although the sub-
sidiary, Australian Blue Asbestos Pty,
made a loss for the first time in seven
years.
No progress has been made with
representations to the Tariff Board for
protection against dumping of hard-
boards by overseas producers.
Plans are going ahead for a Pyne-
board factory near Tumut, NSW, and
a second Victorian Pyneboard factory
is to be built in Gippsland, to be half-
owned each by CSR and APM.
The chemicals subsidiary (60 p.c.
owned by CSR) was still finding imports
competition tough, and sales were about
the same as in the previous year.
Sales of styrene for synthetic rubber
were not up to expectations, and pro-
duction of polyvinyl chloride by B. F.
Goodrich-CSR Chemicals Pty was
troubled by mechanical difficulties in the
second half of the year. Directors said
the profitability of the chemicals sub-
sidiary was not yet commensurate with
material and managerial resources em-
ployed, nor with the important place
it occupied in Australia's industrial de-
velopment.
After the public issue by United
Telecasters Sydney Ltd, CSR will hold
about 12i p.c. of issued capital.
Group net profit, which has been
published only for the last three years,
rose 44 p.c. or £1,377,138 to
£4,506,817 after providing £1,207,154
more for tax at £3,453,040, and
£253,298 more for replacement of
fixed assets at £4,112,605.
Preparation of the first consolidated


accounts in 1960-61 resulted in a
£10 million (or thereabouts) increase
in reserves.
The company provides for replace-
ment of fixed assets, and amounts for-
merly at the credit of provision for
replacement and depreciation have been
transferred to the provision for re-
placement.
The new shares resulting from the
July 1962 issue (one-for-seven at 10s.
premium) ranked for half the final divi-
dend, and total dividend commitment,
at the increased rate of 10 p.c. per an-
num, was £2,195,991. Paid capital
since April 1, 1963, is £24,190,348.
Despite diversification, CSR’s major
business is still sugar. Directors have
stated that sugar prices are likely to fluc-
tuate in a fairly high range during 1963,
and probably through to 1964. They
are aware of the dangers of excessive
optimism in a period of strong demand.
Raw sugar production requires a great
deal of new capital, which should not
be expended without due regard to
adequate returns.
Nonetheless, the price obtained for
sugar in CSR’s current financial year
— already four months old — is run-
ning well above the 1962-63 level and
a higher average return must be con-
sidered more than likely. The current
crop (harvesting is now in full swing)
will be much the same as last year.
Next year — the 1964 season —
production is expected to rise quite
sharply providing some cushion to the
impact of a possible lower average price
in the next financial year.
Investors, however, should not ex-
pect the present sugar prosperity to con-
tinue indefinitely. But the present share
price of 66s. to return 3.0 p.c. (earnings
yield 6.2 p.c.) is not taking too much
for granted. There still seems scope for
price improvement in this tried and true
blue chip.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY — (£'000)
March 31 Parent Consolidated
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets — — 30879 30329 38722
Less current
liabilities — — 31333 32301 30570
Working capital — — -454 -1972 8152
Investments — — 2473 4898 5301
Fixed assets — — 61474 61679 62040
Intangibles — — 190 186 175
63683 64791 76163
Loan capital — — 1971 1971 7337
Minority interests — — 3107 3172 3350
Capital in advance — — — — 1185
Ordinary capital — — 21166 21166 22678
Reserves — — 37439 38482 41618
63683 64791 76168
Depreciation not available 3711 3865 4113
Taxation not available 2086 2246 3453
Net profit 2539 2883 2618 3023 4507
Dividend 1591 1901 1903 2011 2196
Surplus 948 982 715 1012 2311
Earning rate 13.6 13.7 12.4 14.3 20.50
Dividend rate 8£ 9 9 91 10
Dividend yield (a) 2.8 2.2 2.7 3.8
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 22.2 30.3 27.8 18.5 —
High price (b) 44/3 76/9 88/- 92/- 62/8
Low price (b) 39/- 42/3 64/9 54/6 46/3
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Conflict Over Sugar
QJugar shares are not for the weak
hearted. With rumors of anything
up to a one-for-two bonus issue, Milla-
quin is soaring up in the sixties. Pioneer
Sugar, on the other hand, is down five
shillings in as many days.
To aggravate an already speculative
situation, there have been the conflict-
ing statements by the pillar of the
industry, CSR. A couple of weeks ago
CSR expected a substantial fall in the
world sugar price. Now the chairman,
J. W. Dunlop, talks about prices being
likely to fluctuate in a fairly high range
during 1963 and most of 1964! As
sugar is still the mainstay of CSR, it
looks like another couple of good years
coming up.
However, another leader, Mt Isa,
should eclipse this projected per-
formance. Almost nonchalantly the
directors announced a three - for - two
bonus issue. Although it was stressed
that the dividend would be reduced from
25 p.c. to 10 p.c., this simply provides
a base to increase the dividend in future
years. With a very good year coming
up, the bonus issue was inevitable.
Otherwise the earning rate would have
been a political embarrassment.
Future prospects could not be better.
The expansion programme will lift pro-
duction 50 p.c. by 1966. World prices
for the metals mined—copper, lead and
zinc—continue to look firm. Even if
demand slackens off for one of the
metals, production just swings across to
the others.
The share price of 84s. seems an
abnormal amount to pay for a ss. share.
But after the bonus is made on August
13 the price will come down to a more
sane level of 335. 6d. From the current
market price point of view, one factor
is perhaps overlooked—if the share, cum
the issue, rises ss. (as it has done from
80s. to 855.), this in effect is only a 2s.
rise on an ex-bonus share basis.
Being in debt to the tune of £574
and then buying 200 Mt Isa is pushing
the generosity of my broker too far. So
out with the bush knife to trim down the
portfolio. Firstly, those James Hardie
did move up and very nicely, too. At
£5 14s. ex-div. the profit was £6O. I
was also pleased at the profit of £49 on
Carrier. It was one of the many shares
caught in the upsurge. Providing more
funds but alas no profit were the sales
of Felt and Textiles and ANI. Each was
sold at the break-even point.
The sixth and last transaction of the
week was the purchase of 200 W. J.
Manufacturing at 17s. 6d. When every-
one else was revelling in the 1959-1960
boom, W.J. could barely scrape up a
profit. Working against the pattern
again, the company showed an earning
rate of 11 p.c. in 1961 and 16.4 p.c.
in 1962. The earning rate for the year
just passed could be over 20 p.c.
The company credits this recovery to
a successful policy of diversification.
Once a manufacturer only of industrial
laminates, it has branched into the
chemical and building materials field in
the last five years. This small company
(ordinary capital is only £250,000) now
has some very big tie-ups. One is ACI
which is a joint partner of Alsymite
(Australia) Pty Ltd, manufacturer of
translucent fibreglass sheeting. The
partner of another joint venture, Waratah
Chemicals, is an American giant, W. R.
Grace and Co.
It was Waratah’s announcement of a
loss of £24,000 for 1962 which put the
shares down from 19s. to 17s. 6d.—a case
of unnecessary panic as losses must be
expected for a company of this nature
in its developmental stages.
Details of the week’s transactions are:
SOLD
1000 ANI, 4/5 £212
1000 Felt and Textiles, new, 8/9 £427
1000 Carrier, If- £339
100 James Hardie, £5/14/- .. £563
BOUGHT
200 Mt Isa, 84/- £853
200 W. J. Manufacturing, 17/6 £ 179
The debit of £6O looks a little
better, especially now that my two oldest
holdings, Hanimex and Courtaulds, are
building up strength again.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 14/1/63 16/1 18/3
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/9
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/4
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/3
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 24/-
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 - 11/3
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/3
1000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/10
2000 Ampol rights 18/6/63 lOd. 2/-
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/11
1000 Waltons rts 3/7/63 10/9 11/3
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 13/9
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-
200 Assoc. Minerals 8/7/63 35/6 35/-
400 Waugh & Josephson 10/7/63 12/- 12/6
200 Mt Isa 16/7/63 84/- 85/-
200 W. J. Manu. 17/7/63 17/6 17/6


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Red China Wheat Trade
Needs Re-thinking
Tt is once again time for Australia to
take a long hard look at its wheat
trade with Red China.
The Australian Wheat Board has just
completed a highly successful year by
disposing of the last of a big export
surplus from the 1962-63 crop.
And once again China was the major
buyer.
In 21 years China has bought wheat
worth more than £l6O million from
Australia a country with which it
has no diplomatic link.
In 1961, 1962 and 1963 China has
been our major wheat customer and has
also been a substantial buyer of Aus-
tralian wool.
Both these trades are expected to
continue.
At present China is worth approxi-
mately £lO5 million a year to the Aus-
tralian economy.
Reports indicate, however, a subtle
change in our China trade, especially in
wheat, the commodity which accounts
for three-quarters of our Chinese sales.
There is no longer, it would seem, the
same urgency for China to buy wheat.
Its crops are reported to have fared
better recently and its wheat purchases
are no longer emergency measures to
avert starvation.
There is every indication, however,
that China will continue to buy wheat
on the world market. It is apparently
the intention of the Chinese Government
to continue expanding wheatgrowing
but to concentrate on the production of
rice for export.
It reasons that it will pay China better
to export rice (at a higher price) and
continue to import wheat to supplement
domestically produced foodstuffs.
China will, in the future, therefore be
in a stronger position as a wheat buyer.
She will be able to pick and choose her
suppliers and, to a greater degree, dictate
her credit terms.
So far Australia has been in a favored
position as a supplier of wheat. For no
obvious reason, other than the good
reputation established in Hong Kong and
Peking by the Australian Wheat Board,
we have obtained Chinese orders ahead
of other countries especially our major
competitor, Canada.
We cannot count on this favored-
nation treatment continuing, however.
Canada has already received sharp
warnings that it must redress the present
imbalance in its trade with China if it
expects to get further wheat orders.
Hints have been dropped that Aus-
tralia may get a similar reminder unless
it too examines its China trade.
At present our sales to China are
twenty times our Chinese imports.
This imbalance is not limited to our
trade with China, of course. But it is
plainly a matter which will merit Com-
monwealth Government thought in the
near future.
The Australian Wheat Board also
has some problems to consider. All its
credit sales to’China so far have been on
terms extending over 12 months. But
other countries are offering China wheat
on terms extending over 18 months and
longer.
Possible Chinese default on payments
is no longer an issue here. In the past
2i years every Chinese wheat payment
has been received on the due date . . .
or even in advance.
But the Wheat Board will have to
consider whether the Australian wheat
industry will stand the further delays in
its payments inherent in longer credit
terms.
The Fight Against Skeleton Weed
VTow that skeleton weed is becoming an
Australia-wide problem, should not
other States join in Victoria’s campaign
against it? The £50,000 a year from re-
search funds which Victoria spends fight-
ing skeleton weed benefits the whole
Commonwealth. So does the Victorian
Wheat Research Committee's fight
against such menaces as yellow burr
weed and weevils.
So far, Victorian experiments, initiated
at Rainbow in the Mallee in December,
1959, have shown that the chemical
TBA (Trysben 200) will kill skeleton
weed. But, over large and heavily in-
fested areas, its present price makes its
use uneconomic.
Fifteen months after the skeleton
weed had been successfully treated at
Rainbow, beans, extremely susceptible to
TBA, were sown in samples of soil
taken at varying depths where TBA had
been used. In all samples up to a depth
of three feet the beans grew well, indi-
cating that the TBA had already sunk to
such a level that the treated soil was safe
for wheat and pasture crops.
Apparently TBA then is a skeleton
weed killer which causes only temporary
soil sterility.
MARIEL LEE
“Magic Eye” Helps Potato Harvest
A N automatic electronic device for
separating potatoes from stones and
clods claimed to be entirely new
was recently on show at the Royal High-
land Show at Edinburgh, Scotland.
The sorting mechanism is controlled
by a device which can differentiate be-
tween potatoes and other objects by
X-ray. Its principle is that X-rays pass
through a potato much more easily than
through a stone or clod. Thus, when a
stone or clod falls past an X-ray beam
it is allowed to pass a row of nylon
“fingers.” When a potato is detected the
fingers remain rigid, bouncing it into a
receptacle. In the field, the device would
be operated by current generated on a
tractor.
The Scottish station of the National
Institute of Agricultural Engineering,
which has developed the device, has
been carrying out research for some time
into this perennial problem of potato
producers. It is expected that the new
device will be used shortly in the field.
PONY CLUBS GROWING
pony club movement has grown
A phenomenally during the last two
years in NSW. There are now 178 clubs
in the NSW Pony Club -Association.
In the last year two new zones have
been created—No. 17 in the far west
and No. 18 in the far south.


BARKER COLLEGE
Hornsby, N.S.W.
Vacancies exist for the following appoint-
ments from January, 1964.
Senior School LANGUAGE MASTER to
teach primarily Latin, offering also French
or German.
Senior School ART MASTER.
Junior School MASTER to teach in upper
classes of Junior School.
Salaries comparable with those of N.S.W.
Education Department. Superannuation
Benefits.
Applications, stating academic and pro-
fessional record, together with two refer-
ences, in writing, to ACTING HEAD-
MASTER by WEDNESDAY, August 7.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
NORTH SYDNEY
Vacancies exist for two masters to teach
Science (any branch) and Mathematics
one vacancy from beginning Term 111,
1963 (17th September), the other from
beginning Term I, 1964.
Apply in writing to
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: HARRY CAMERON GRAHAM, late of 146
Roberts Road, Greenacre. TAKE NOTICE that
DULCIE GRAHAM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2613 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the Third day of August, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from WALL ABBOTT & WHITE with MARK
MURRAY, Solicitors, of 187-191 Macquarie
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
TO: JOHN ROBERT HARRISON, whose
present whereabouts are unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that ELEANOR JESSIE HARRISON
of Toorbul Road, Caboolture, in the State of
Queensland, has commenced an action against
you for the dissolution of marriage by Mat.
Pet. No. 372 of 1963 on the ground of deser-
tion. If you wish to defend this action you
must file an answer in the Registry of the
Supreme Court at Brisbane aforesaid within
twenty-eight days from the date of publica-
tion hereof You may obtain without charge
a copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
from MESSIEURS STEPHENS & TOZER,
Solicitors, of Manchester Unity Building, 231-
235 George Street, Brisbane aforesaid.—W. G.
FOSTER, Third Deputy Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOSEPHINE MARIE FLETCHER, formerly
of Charters Towers, Queensland, but whose
present whereabouts are unknown TAKE
NOTICE that your husband TERRENCE
FLETCHER has commenced proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of Queens-
land for dissolution of marriage on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you should file an Answer at the Supreme
Court Registry, George Street, Brisbane,
within twenty-eight days from the date of
this publication otherwise the Court will hear
the suit in your absence. You may obtain a
copy of the Petition and Notice of Petition
without charge from HOLLAND AMOS &
FOSTER, Solicitors for the Petitioner, A.N.Z.
Bank Chambers, corner Queen and Wharf
Streets, Brisbane. W. G. FOSTER, Third
Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: KEITH FARMER, late of Carrington
Avenue, Hurstville. TAKE NOTICE that
BETTY MARIE FARMER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3215 of 1962 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before Ninth day of August, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from WALL ABBOTT & WHITE with MARK
MURRAY, Solicitors, of 187-191 Macquarie
Street, Sydney c. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 755
ACROSS
I—Slovenly fieldsman with shoes on. (8)
s—Bone silent about one metal. (6)
10— No crime is to be expected of this entrant. (7)
11— Intensely sincere and serious-minded bird’s home
visited by a listener. (7)
12— Hard case taking part in party games. (8)
13— Joint comment on the mistake of Wilbur and
Orville Tight. (5)
15— Father gives heart to an initiate into the Eleusinian
mysteries. (5)
16— Americans would tell you that he retires! (9)
19— Ban sent me among missing
persons. (6, 3)
20— Parent by way of an Italian
city. (5)
21— What’s to be made of the
remnants of Kathleen without
the joint? (5)
24—Efts may be hatched from
them. (4, 4)
27 Knightly splendour suggests
the discomfort of the pastoral
flautist. (7)
28— It’s famed for its stone toaster
when adjusted. (7)
29 Archaically says this as they
change. (6)
30— Setbacks concerning poetry.
(8)
DOWN
1— Petticoat error of a slight
kind. (4)
2 Conspiring to produce hostile
barracking in Peru. (2, 7)
3 A man of charity and sex-
appeal associated with the
Mother Hayworth article. (9)
4 Love, a communist had a
row. (5)
6 Skin blemishes upset the old-
style mattress filling. (5)
7 Hard water turned in
Boadicea’s folk. (5)
8— Encountered a sailor girl
referring to 21-across. (10)
9 Vivid fabric is strained badly.
(3, 5)
14—13-across ran into a fish
country. (10)
16— About one who looks after a
memory jog. (8)
17— Non-stop Queen who finds
words for the thought? (9)
18— Prima donna entrances, but
wanders also. (9)
22 Sweet show-place of Ceylon.
(5)
23 Tax the bed of Esmond. (5)
25 Injured sower is not so good.
(5)
26 Vocalist strait named after
this fish drink. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 754


I
%
it
r
Wmm
at*
%. ••
2»8
M
■: ■
1
.
1® mimrnmm
, .1 A fc-.-.i V&l
si
wmt
■^S£s
•|i
-
:■ «
:.
as
SS
«W-«
■ m
Make sure of receiving
your new, brighter
Bulletin regularly
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscription? to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Pleaue tick whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription? |~j
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.


w
fi
«§ #
I
i®
n
&
AS
■
-
.
■
.
.
•r.
/
, ,
BT3?
"How to achieve conviction
and a point of view
in troubled times”
Qjju-
Adlai E. Stevenson, United States Representative to the United Nations
Member, Board of Directors, Encyclopaedia Britannica
jkz,
“When I visited Dr. Albert Schweitzer in his primitive jungle
hospital in French Equatorial Africa, he told me he considered this the
most dangerous period in history —not just modern history,
but all human history. Why? Because, he said, heretofore nature
has controlled man, but now man has learned to control elemental
forces —before he has learned to control himself.
“Striving to understand how our mastery of elemental forces can be
made to serve humanity in these troubled times, we instinctively
turn to the sources of Western thought, to the searchings
of great and immortal minds on the origins of government, the
tenets of philosophy, and the nature of man. F or man can control
himself only if he understands both himself and the civilization he has
created out of his longing for justice and peace.
'Here, in the great books, is the mainspring of our civilization
the collective conscience which makes it run. In the pages
of these beautiful volumes truth stands out ready to
guide anyone concerned with where our world is going.”
Published by the
Encyclopaedia Britanmca
in collaboration with
the University of Chicaqo
GREAT BOOKS
%L
Now available direct from the
publisher with great new
SYNTO PICON
A mind is filled and enriched by a new concept
only if the concept is fully understood. And
only a scholar with long years of disciplined study
behind him can ordinarily stick to the task of
absorbing the great abstract ideas without an
instructor Guidance, interpretation and discussion
are usually necessary to
give these great ideas
. meaning and application
to one’s own life. That is
why this Private Library
Edition of the great
books was published.
The key to its enormous
value is the “teacher” it
provides— the amazing
syntoi’icon pictured here.
The syntoi’icon is a new concept in self-education.
It is the product of 400,000 man-hours of research
by 100 scholars over a period of eight years. It is
quite literally a great “teacher” living in your home
. . . always at your disposal to interpret to you the
great ideas contained in the great books.
As you begin to absorb and understand these great
ideas by which man has survived and progressed,
THE SYNTOPICON
you will begin to reflect their greatness in your own
ability to think, speak, and act with new and
impressive w'cight. You will have sounder judgment
on political and economic issues as the great minds
who conceived and contributed law' and justice
make the whole great idea of government clear to
you. You will develop a sounder philosophy of
life as your mind is illuminated by the great minds
of the ages.
Where there are children, the great ideas
programme is most essential. Nothing can so
help and inspire the enquiring child than reading
and discussing Great Books at home from an
early age.
Even in your own personal life, a knowledge of
mankind through century on century can guide you
to the decisions and actions which have eternally
resulted in the greatest success and contentment.
Don't miss this opportunity to learn all the
details of this handsome Private Library Edition
of the GREAT books. Mail the coupon for a free
descriptive booklet. It will explain how you can
find new understanding of yourself and the world
through the great ideas which have engrossed men
since the written record of man began. It is in
this way that one stetches mind and soul. It i*
in this way that one grows in wisdom.
GREAT BOOKS OF THE WESTERN WORLD G.B. C!)
300 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me. free anil without obligation, your colourful Preview Booklet
which pictures and describes the latest edition of GREAT BOOKS OF THE
WESTERN WORLD—and also complete information on how 1 mat obtain this
magnificent set, direct from the publisher .
Name.
A ddress.
(please print)
Zone State.
'•'’rife E.B . Post office Box 1303. Wellington
City
In New Zcalnnd.
