

The Bulletin
PJfV IJUJ
HHHPTRALIM
kjND OPiHOte EST.jmO
West New Guinea
THE BIG SELL OUT
BOADiCEA • THE FIGHT BUSINESS • LIBERALS' DILEMMA?


The Symbol of the World’s Best known Largest Selling King Size Virginia Filter
■I -•
FILTER
gOTMMANS OF PALI. MAU. AUSTRALIA LTD.
the
of
Rothmans
King Size
Filter:
2°
V t
ROTHMANS OF PAIL MALI,.
E ST. 1890
ti i. IN i) ini 01 Si H l ijt-A K t, 111
THHOUtH iIX HIK-MJ.
DOUBI-V SMOOTH-FSI.TER TIP
FUSS THE EXTRA lEMGTH
Over the years the distinctive blue band has become
synonymous with the high quality of Rothmans King
Size Filter—Australia’s most wanted cigarette.
Numerous brands have attempted to imitate the speci-
fications and design of Rothmans King Size—in certain
instances even the blue band has been copied. But no
other cigarette has been able to equal the quality
Rothmans King Size Filter.
So long as Australians continue to compare the tobacc
to compare the filter and to demand true King Si
Flavour, Rothmans King Size Filter will contin
to be FIRST IN AUSTRALIA - FIRST IN THE WORE
m


National Notebook
Le a jolly swag
L bulletin building in George
I street) Sydney, now belongs to the
arising agency, George Patterson,
“ Lt d, who apparently plan to re-
L it into an advertising agency’s
ta of a Victorian building. The progress
r jehed with interest by members of
to BULLETIN staff, who will eventually
‘ other offices themselves,
flie stonework of the facade has been
,| iane d and makes a strong and charm-
contrast to the glass-walled buildings
l U p in the Hunter Street-Bridge
j ree °t a rea. There was talk of a fountain
laying in the mezzanine floor, but there
sno sign of this yet. Heavy carved doors,
rich had in years gone by been ban-
sled to the basement, have been in-
filled at the main entrance again. How-
Kr , Bulletin staff members have
ited by the position of the decorative
lag that for some reason the doors have
tenput on upside down.
[lie Bar in the Bank
js the doleful saga of Melbourne’s
vanishing pubs, the banks have
ken the most voracious villains. Since
lie end of the war many
of the city’s most revered
landmarks have gone down
under the onslaught of the
rockers: Phair’s, Jimmy
tichardson’s, the Swans-
ta Family, the Royal
1, the Occidental,
tor’s and Scott’s. Even Young and
Jackson’s is living on borrowed time
since the site was acquired by the Com-
■wealth Trading Bank. Insurance com-
mies and department stores have wreak-
their toll, but the banks have been
He worst offenders. Even the lordly Re-
i[te Bank of Australia has taken a
tol in squeezing more and more
Hfes into fewer and fewer bars: the
*ifas are now at work on its behalf
11 a block where the Occidental once
W,
Tbe latest coup of the banks in their
™ss advance was when the ANZ
recently bought Johnny Connell’s
c °rner of Elizabeth Street and
'"Hers Lane, where good cheer has
dispensed continuously since 1838.
“ n,lells customers were gloomy and
i! W, but then came the startling
Lj* s the ANZ bank plans to re-
in the new 12-storey building
. ' erect - Banking will go on on the
lent “l CVe l anc * drinking in the base-
■ Somewhere in the bank,” said
, J orner > “there must be a man with
conscience.”
Deserted village
¥>erth’s £870,000 Commonwealth
■*" Games village is showing all the
signs of becoming an expensive white
elephant. Tenders were invited for the
150 houses it contains. They were thrown
open for public inspection to the ac-
companiment of a lavish Press, TV and
radio advertising campaign. Thousands
flocked to look over the village situ-
ated close to the sea in the fashionable
suburb of City Beach and last week
tenders closed: all 28 of them. Under-
standably, Premier David Brand des-
scribed the response as disappointing.
But possibly the Premier was not
really surprised at the poor response. It
was not unexpected because the houses
are not strictly new. They are a sort of
brick-and-tile equivalent of a demonstra-
tion car, yet were priced as new, from
£4900 to £6985. Backyards of some
houses were smaller than those usual
with Perth blocks. The frantic pace clap-
ped on as the athletes packed their bags
to come to Perth gave rise to fears that
hasty work might have gone into at
least several of the houses. There were
also suspicions that some of the snootier
residents of City Beach would tend to
look down on the “vil-
lagers.”
So, despite the alluring
factors of being offered a
house on one-sixth deposit
with repayments of about
<£6 a week for 25 years
on a £5OOO house at
51 p.c. reducible bank interest, most
people said: “No go.” The 28 who ten-
dered will be sold the homes at upset
prices, whether or not their tenders were
higher. In the circumstances, said Mr
Brand, the Government did not wish to
take advantage of these people.
The fate of the remaining 122 homes
is uncertain. They will be offered at
upset prices and Mr Brand no doubt
has his fingers tightly crossed. Also, the
28 buyers may have to wait a while be-
fore the village looks less like a ghost
town.
Say cheese
other day we heard of a cheerful
Australian in Paris who at a cock-
tail party asked a woman guest the
French word for “cheers.” She told him
and for the rest of the evening he rushed
around drinking like mad and cheerfully
toasting everyone in sight with the word
“fromage!”
HAROLD WILSON Page 23
A cat that walks by itself
«
Royal Tour: Adelaide was the Test 0
West New Guinea—the Big Sell-Out 13
Borelli: the Calm Centre of the
Spinning Tops 10
150 Programmes—But No Plans .. 18
Television: Pin Money or a Pro-
fession? 19
Of Roads and Men 21
What Happened to the Liberals? 27
Points in the Margins Case .... 44
Britain After de Gaulle 45
Bonanza in Bauxite 54
0
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO «
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 11
OUT AND ABOUT 10
OVERSEAS 23
FORUM 27
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 30
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS .... 41
FEIFFER AND X-WORD ... 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. j
PTY LTD i
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney. )
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone ;
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691. !
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4333


Cultivating the Minority
]M[elbourne’s Moomba Festival opened
this week and its organisers have
obviously been budged by the highbrows
Who have harped that Moomba was a
cultural fly-weight. In the official pro-
gramme booklet, culture is well to the
fore. After a brief, formal foreword from
the Moomba chairman, Mr T. Pettigrew,
the running is taken up by Mr W. John-
son, chairman of the festival’s Arts
Advisory Committee, with an article on
“Festivals and Culture”. Mr Johnson
partly concedes the criticism that
Moomba ignored “the cultivated tastes
of the more sophisticated minority” and
promises to do better in future. Then
follow articles by Laurel Martyn of the
Ballet Guild, Mr John Gilfedder (on
folk music), John Sumner (theatre),
Chris Wallace-Crabbe (literature) and
John Hetherington (nothing in particular,
but announcing that these days “a Mel-
bournian can devote himself to intellec-
tual pursuits, without being viewed as a
preposterous crank.”)
Only then do we get to the catalogue
of marching girls, fireworks, hillbillies,
go-kart and greyhound races, trampoline
contests, square dancing and displays of
stamps and cats. For all that, Moomba is
putting on its best face by giving pride of
place in the programming to its seven art
exhibitions (which include Italian, Jewish
and aboriginal painting, as well as an
Australian show at tne National Gallery),
its classical music concerts and its only
opera ■ — “Die Fledermaus”.
The mocking bird
A suburban correspondent reports that
mock chicken legs have recently
made their appearance. They are sausage
meat, seasoned with “chicken taste,” put
into a chicken-leg-shaped mould with a
skewer inserted to represent the bone.
The mock chicken legs are ninepence
each (compared with sausages Is. lOd.
a pound, and about six to the pound),
and it is hard to see who they would
fool, except the chicken.
Weighing in
11/E were interested to learn that air-
" craft scales are now a profitable ex-
port line. It appears that light aircraft
and helicopters are frequently modified
with additional equipment for crop dust-
ing, fertilising, sky-hook operations and
such like. All this alters the original
weight of the plane, upsets the trim and
plays havoc with the centre of gravity.
For safe flying the pilot must know
what his machine currently weighs and
adjust accordingly. This need has promp-
ted a Melbourne company to come up
with portable scales not unlike the
bathroom weighing machine which
can accurately give the plane’s weight.
John Timlin told us of his adventures
in Canberra the other week when he
bearded trade commissioners, air attaches
and first secretaries.
Most were interested, recognising
some truth in his contention that the
Aussie appliance was lighter, cheaper and
more accurate than anything e l se
market. But the Russians were Wr
enthusiastic. They could see no needf
such a device, Timlin was told, an d °'
way a Russian had already invented
His firm having checked such m l
both sides of the Iron Curtain, hepota
doubted this information, but receiv
yet a further stolid ‘Niet’ and ft
presumably, was that.
Timlin claims his scales are 50 ti®
more accurate than the American equivi
lent an electronic model and |
export agents foresee a nice little bus!
ness future.
Invitation to an inaugural
luncheon
T ast time I went to an inaugura
luncheon
I didn't hear any of the speeches becaus
I was so busy muncheon.
I remember one inaugural luncheon
went to
Where 1 didn't hear one word althougl
I meant to.
The thing I notice most at inaugura
luncheons is the food
Of which I can usually be found in 111
neighborhood.
Another thing—thanks, don't mindi
do—is the liquor
It's quicker.
Now I come to think of it perhaps
should have put liquor first
Because a man can live longer d
hunger than with thirst.
“We must build up arms
in order fo confront


This week’s cover
Anly eight weeks remain before Indon-
” esia takes over West New Guinea
from the United Nations Temporary
Executive Authority. Heading that exotic
and hard pressed organisation is Iran’s
Dr Djalal Abdoh. The picture was taken
in Hollandia in the former Dutch Gov-
ernor’s palace by Mr Hal Wootten of
Sydney. A report on West New Guinea
today starts on page 12.
Thanks, old man.
T . re’s something about inaugural lunch-
eons I’m very fond of
Rcrause good fellowship is a thing they
* cement the bond of.
Thanks, old feller. Thanks. The same
to you.
once i went to an inorganal lunch
And met a very jolly bunch.
Shame to you, too, old man
Not s’nice as you fellers . . .
Nice, but not s’nice as you fellers.
Thanks, old pal.
Ever been to an inau—inau —to a lunch?
Naugural lunches oughter be extended,
Naugral lunches oughter be neverended
Ta...
Oughter be new factory for inaugul
lunges . . •
Factries all over the place in big bunges
Oughter be congratulated
I’m intoxshicated.
PAT FLOWER
Tanner
countries alarmed at our arms
build-up."
PLAIN ENGLISH
STOPPING THE SLANGING MATCH
I REATER MALAYSIA will almost certainly be launched on schedule on
August 31. But even to the most fervent addicts of the idea that
Malaysia offers a stable, much desired anti-Communist bloc in South
East Asia it must now be apparent that the new State is unlikely to
prove viable unless the unnatural Philippine - Indonesian alliance can
agree to live and let live. Indeed if President Soekarno and Tungku
Abdul Rahman cannot stop their personal slanging match Malaysia doesn’t
stand much of a chance of surviving. The reasons for creating Malaysia
are now well known in this country the political and economic necessity
of merging Singapore with Malaya, the need to balance Singapore’s
uncertain Chinese population with the indigenous peoples of the Borneo
Territories (not particularly pro-Malay but wary of the Chinese) and the
further necessity to create a political entity out of the power vacuum
which Britain’s withdrawal from Singapore must create. The Tungku’s
plan, more enthusiastic than thoughtful, paid little attention to the
inevitable opposition which would emanate from an Indonesia suspicious
of Malayan encroachment into a natural sphere of Indonesian influence
the Borneo Territories. More particularly the Malaysian concept paid
little attention to that very real Indonesian disease fear of the Chinese.
In Indonesian eyes the Chinese occupy a uniquely powerful position in
the Malaysia region they live in the main population centres, largely
control commerce, and are more highly educated, more energetic and
more capable than their Malay partners. Behind the current fuss and
fury of aggressive Indonesian statements lies a shrewd fear that an
unstable Malaysia may fall prey to eventual Peking manipulation of its
Chinese population. Despite the claims to North Borneo, Philippine
objections are probably based to some extent on the same fear that
Malaysia may be dominated by the uncertain Chinese plus, as in
Indonesia’s case, some wounded aspirations to Pan-Malaysian leadership.
While British and US military support would undoubtedly help bring
Malaysia into being, neither may be enough to maintain it in the rough
days ahead. In any case there is sound evidence for doubting just how
far the US is prepared to help launch Malaysia.
It is important that Malaysia is safely launched, and what is needed
before positions have hopelessly hardened is for Britain—with such Aus-
tralian help as is required—to get Indonesia and the Philippines to discuss
Malaysia constructively. Both countries have much to gain by a stable
Malaysia. Both countries have a right to expect that Malaya and Britain
will consider their legitimate fears. The best long-term chance for a
Malaysia of 10,000,000, next to an Indonesia of 100,000,000, will come
through a lessening of tension and suspicion rather than a militarily backed
fait accompli.
A Malaysia that fails is likely to prove more perilous than one that
never gets launched.
MR DIXON'S APPOINTMENT
THE appointment of the Negro conductor, Dean Dixon, as resident
conductor of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra will delight music
lovers throughout Australia. Mr Dixon is one of the world s foremost
conductors and both Sydney and Australia are lucky to get him.


THIS AUSTRALIA
ROYAL TOUR
ADELAIDE WAS
THE TEST
Why not televise the last quarter?
ELIZABETH II
In the right light ...
4 t this stage of the Royal Tour it is
difficult to give you an exact baro-
metrical reading of our Royal fervor.
Even so, we are wagging our flags with
a certain amount of vigor and the trip
to date has been most intriguing.
Now about this flag-wagging . . . the
thought that has been worrying the
Royal Party all through is this: “Was
an absence of nine years too long? In
nearly a decade has the love for the
Throne begun to die?”
Commander Colville, the rather
owlish-looking pinstriped Press secretary,
has forever been asking reassuring ques-
tions and trying to make sure quite liter-
ally that Her Majesty is seen in the right
light. For example, there was terrible
concern over the TV cover of the night
reception at Canberra. Those awful
lights. No beauty queen would be treated
so harshly, why do it to a real Queen?
The first lines of worry on the Com-
mander’s brow came from the New
Zealand tour. The London “Daily Ex-
press” said the Queen looked pale, wan
and tired and the Auckland man insinu-
ated the tour was virtually a flop. The
London “Daily Mail” man immediately
lashed back, saying that the Queen was
having a ball and made it clear, no
doubt to the embarrassment of the “Ex-
press,” that everything was pretty jolly.
English reporters on Royalty have all
the throat-cutting capacity of English
reporters on cricket. Both sports have
their moments. The truth of it was that
the New Zealand tour was slightly below
par.
On top of this came the depressing,
damp arrival in Canberra, with its limp,
small crowd on the tarmac. Already
there was a good joke doing the rounds
among the Canberra sophisticates. Mr
Skripov was alleged to have said: “Ac-
tually I have only one terrible regret
about leaving Canberra at this stage . . .
I’ll miss seeing the Queen.” Well, Can-
berra didn’t turn out as it should and
this also happened for some of the day-
time events in Adelaide. Yet it Woi]ll)
be a mistake to put this down to u
of loyal interest.
It was the television. You could
the lot a darned sight clearer and mud
more comfortably on your
inch screen. If they want to get
crowds on the streets I think they will
have to adopt the old system as for the
footy just telecast the last quarter,
Certainly on an official basis no ex-
pense was spared to make the Royal
arrival a success. Over 170,000 plants
were put in for Her Majesty to observe
for the reception at Parliament House
every ladies’ lavatory received a charm-
ing new title, “Powder Room,” and how
will we ever forget the plastic koala
and kangaroo at the Prime Ministers
lodge. These were made out of wire and
papier mache covered in plastic and they
had bulbous eyes that lit up in the dark
One rather suspected that they were
there to ward off evil spirits.
The real test of course was Adelaide,
a city unchallenged anywhere for its un-
swerving loyalty. Here the Adelaides
really turned out for the garden party,
the music festival, and the farewell.
But let’s talk about this garden party,
There were 9500 people present which
made it undoubtedly the biggest garden
party since Nero entertained the Christ
ians, although just possibly there were
more Christians present on that occasion,
For anyone interested in mass crowd
behavior, it was most interesting. Almost
at the one time a curious mystic passion
possessed 75 p.c. of the women there,
No matter how, no matter what, they
had to get close to the Queen, perhaps
even touch her.
These women homed in around tit
Queen in such a crush that the scent
was like a stop-work meeting out in tit
Domain. The ladies sprinted across the
flower beds, they dashed through tit
sprinklers, their stiletto heels sank JP
to their scabbards in compost. Oh! H
damage that was done to the begonias
and the salvia splendens.
The thing to do was to grab a cbj
and some of these were stolen virtua
from under the bottoms of o en jf nl i
in the marquees. So the girls w !^.l ;
off their shoes and used the seats
a mobile grandstand. Word of®'
some of the girls climbed trees. us
make it authentic one of the treeS , .
climbed was a Kaffir boom tree
South Africa. . i
But particularly I admired theW. ,
who were looking for an adsa r i
tion, the way you would see faiv /
THE NEAR NORTH
T ife is not all rum and dog-fighting
in the far North. A Queensland
paper has a long paragraph regard-
ing a raid that was made upon the
township by certain original owners
of the soil, in which they speared and
carried off two cows, crawled with
felonious designs through a house
towards the kitchen, and cleared all
the clothes-lines in the town. This is
dreadful. But when several black-
fellows were shot in sport by some
dashing young blades, the fact was
cursorily mentioned as an affair of
small importance in two or three
lines.
ITere is a case of clerical cunning.
A clergyman down in Milton
objects to the “Three Musketeers,”
“The Lollards” and “The Romance
of the Harem” being retained in the
local School of Arts library “on
account of their immoral tone.” The
sly dog! First he read them —as he
must have done to know that they
were immoral and then objects to
their being read by anybody else.
This is much like the case of a gay old
father who should make love to his
pretty housemaid and then warn off
his son from her, on the ground that
she was a person of easy virtue. Oh,
these giddy holy men!
March 3, 1883


nine up here and there through the
i quote all this just to prove that
!ur interest in Royalty is still at a high
, for the famous couple them-
ekes, they are trying awfully hard to
do everything right to make the best
possible impression on all.
Maybe the most revealing moment
0e when the “Britannia” was about
lo sail from Adelaide. The innermost
tJ iictum of the Adelaide establishment
had been dined aboard, including such
figures as Sir Edric Bastyn and Sir John
Mellis Napier. We had a glimpse of the
Queen through a doorway as the last
figure went ashore.
The Queen dropped her hands, wilted
and turned to the Duke. One wouldn’t
mind betting she said, “Thank God that’s
over.” The feeling could be stronger by
the end of March.
BATMAN
RELIGION
OPUS DEI MOVES
INTO SYDNEY?
When in Rome ...
CARDINAL GILROY
Approves?
It a recent Newman Society week-end
conference held in one of the
Catholic colleges at Sydney University, a
few Catholic intellectuals discussed, with
mixed feelings, what they regarded as a
potentially alarming piece of information.
They had just heard that a branch of a
Catholic organisation calling itself Opus
Dei was going to be formed in the
Sydney Archdiocese and would probably
seek to establish a college at the Univer-
sity of New South Wales.
The few people who knew, or thought
h knew, were alarmed because Opus
Dei (the Work of God, generally known
as The Work) is regarded by a large
| number of Australian Catholic intellec-
ts as a quasi-Fascist organisation.
Their fears of Opus Dei’s arrival in
Australia were strengthened by a small
photo of Father Ferigle which appeared
the January 21 issue of the “Catholic
1 the official organ of the Sydney
Archdiocese. The caption appearing
ter the block of Father Ferigle read:
An Opus Dei priest, Fr Salvador M.
™gle, D.Ph., STD of Chicago Univer-
Slt y, who has been stationed in Tokio for
ijyear, dropped in to Sydney on his way
ooie to the USA via Rome. During his
Nweeks. sojourn Fr Ferigle will visit the
, W University. He is in charge of
I? ® ts hostels and besides being chap-
el lectures at Chicago University. Opus
[|. e ! ests are attached to all State
niv ersities in the USA.”
ferigle, according to one priest
s j v met h‘m, is an “extremely impres-
arK* is himself a product of
i e ‘- He was known to be in Sydney
just to “have a look around,” and the
normal clerical gossip going the presby-
tery rounds was: “Norman thinks highly
of him,” a reference to Cardinal Gilroy
who is thought to have met Fr Ferigle
and been impressed by him and Opus
Dei.
Opus Dei has become one of the best
known Catholic organisations in the
world and its appearance anywhere
generally causes mixed reactions. It was
founded in Franco’s Spain in Madrid in
1928 by Monsignor Jose Maria Escriva
de Balaguer and was one of the first of
what have become known in the Catholic
Church as Secular Institutes com-
prising laymen who live an “ordinary”
life of dedication to the ideas of the
Gospel while taking vows of poverty,
chastity, and obedience. Often they live
a corporate life but in dress they are
indistinguishable from other people.
Members of “The Work” study philo-
sophy and theology and about two per
cent of its members become priests.
Opus Dei, in its 35 years existence has
spread to about 30 countries (officially
it claims 50) and its main influence lies
in academic circles. Throughout the
world it has more than 200 residences
for university students, some international
in character, such as Netherhall House
in London, Trimount House in Boston,
Residenza Universitaria Internazionale in
Rome. According to one of its few offi-
cial statements it “devotes itself to other
activities of a social nature, for the
professional training and religious, cul-
tural and human formation of workers
and farmers.”
The belief that it is quasi-Fascist lies
in its vigorous growth in Fascist Spain.
In the Cabinet re-organisation of Febru-
ary, 1957, the Minister for Finance and
the Minister of Commerce were both
members of Opus Dei. Other Cabinet
officials were known to be sympathisers.
However, Opus Dei claims to be non-
political and one of its most prominent
members in Spain, Rafael Calvo Serer,
published a statement in the Paris news-
paper “Le Monde” on May 4, 1958:
“Opus Dei is not a social caste, nor a
group of aristocrats or monarchists, nor a
coterie of intellectuals . . . Each member
is absolutely free to think and act on the
political level according to his personal
convictions.” But it has also been des-
cribed in an article, widely circulated by
Opus Dei, as . a spiritual, and even
intellectual elite.” And this is partly
where the trouble lies. It certainly is elite
and it has an unfortunate characteristic
of secrecy about it. It rarely replies to
attacks on it, and it never releases its
membership figures. One of its members
observed that “if our numbers are small,
our work will be disregarded; if large our
influence will be exaggerated”.
The word secrecy is never used by
Opus Dei and it repeatedly claims that it
is not a secret organisation. It prefers the
word “discretion” which is greatly
stressed in official Opus Dei literature.
Moreover, although it makes no secret
of its aims, it is hard to discover exactly
what sort of organisational structure it
has, or indeed how one goes about
joining it.
Even though the word discreet more ac-
curately describes Opus Dei and its opera-
tions, secret organisations are far from
unknown in Sydney’s Archdiocese. The
Knights of the Southern Cross is prob-
ably the most notorious and it is probable
that it although obviously approved of
by Sydney’s Hierarchy—actually offends
that part of Canon Law forbidding the
establishment of secret societies within
the Church and society.
The mixed reaction given the notion
of founding an Opus Dei college at the
University of New South Wales is similar
to that in England early in 1961 when
the organisation purchased a house for
Afro-Asian students studying at Oxford
University. It stirred up a storm in the
pages of the conservative “Spectator.”
The London “Catholic Herald”, although
defending Opus Dei from the attacks of
“white freemasonry”, issued a rather
severe rebuke: “(it) seems clear that
Opus Dei, in its apostolic work, especially
in university circles, could sometimes
study with more care the habits and
customs, whether ecclesiastical or secular,
of other countries in the pursuit of its
excellent spiritual aims.” It went on to
say “work and behavior suited to Spain


and Spanish Catholicism may well be
unsuited both to Catholics and non-
Catholics in this country . .
It is unlikely that Sydney’s
“Catholic Weekly” would carry a similar
warning, especially as the advent of Opus
Dei will probably receive support from
the members of Sydney’s Catholic
hierarchy. But unless Opus Dei proves its
bona tides openly to Sydney’s Catholic
intellectuals and endeavors to prove con-
clusively that it is not another secret
quasi-Fascist organisation it will have a
fight on its hands if and when it moves
into the University of New South Wales.
PETER KELLY
PARLIAMENT
STORM WARNING
Just a matter of Co-operation ...
“BOB” HEFFRON
A plot?
MThen the NSW Parliament resumed
"" last week it showed it was in for
an extremely stormy session. Allegations
of plots against Premier “Bob” Heffron
were extensively circulated around Par-
liament and in the daily Press; one Min-
ister said he had instructed the Com-
missioner for Motor Transport to suspend
a motorist’s licence; a priest lobbied in
Parliament precincts saying that a Bill
to amend the Co-operation Act, which
governs co-operatives, was as big a sin
as committing adultery, and the archaic
Factories, Shops and Industries Act was,
as usual, under attack.
The Minister for Agriculture and Con-
servation, Mr Ambrose George Entick-
nap, had, as the Leader of the Liberal
Opposition, Mr R. W. Askin, so aptly
put it, “let the cat out of the bag” by
making one of the most extraordinary
statements ever heard from a Minister.
On the opening day of the session Mr
Enticknap admitted that while he was
Minister for Transport (1956-62) he had
once ordered the Commissioner for
Transport, Mr W. A. Walsh, to suspend
a motorist’s driving licence. Mr Entick-
nap went on to attack magistrates for
shirking their duty in not imposing ade-
quate traffic penalties. This not only sent
Parliament into an uproar but immedi-
ately drew forth a denial from the presi-
dent of the Magistrates’ Institute of
NSW, Mr A. E. Stonham: “Magistrates
have always attempted to uphold the
law, and have been very conscious of
the road toll.”
Mr Enticknap’s main point was that
he knew of one drunken driver who
had “almost killed two children” and was
only fined £ 1 because he had an effici-
ent lawyer. This, Mr Enticknap main-
tained quite vigorously on the Tuesday,
was why he told the Commissioner for
Transport to suspend the motorist’s
licence.
The next day, Mr Enticknap changed
his story completely, and although he
said: “Hansard says I did say what was
reported, I still did not think I said that,
but Hansard and the Press took it and
I 'do not doubt it. I did not mean it
because I did not issue instructions to
Mr Walsh on an individual case. I did
tell Mr Walsh at the time that he would
have to get tough to stop this road toll
and use the powers he had.” The lesson
which Mr Enticknap apparently learnt
from all this was: “I will be very careful
in future to stop speaking when I am
being heckled and wait until the heck-
ling ceases. Then I will know what I
did say.”
The alleged left-wing plot against Mr
Heffron which was to involve a solid
right-wing Cabinet member like Health
Minister Billy Sheahan was described
as a “palace revolution.” It now seems
to have been a story designed by Mr
Heffron’s Cabinet colleagues to convince
him that the “left” wing in Caucus had
lately won too many victories. This anti-
Cabinet faction normally accounts for
about 23 of the 54 members of the
Parliamentary Party. Three times in the
last couple of months it has defeated
administrative measures coming from
Cabinet on each of these occasions
the measures were supported by Premier
Heffron. It will need more than a “left-
wing plot” to get rid of Mr Heffron.
But possibly the most important issue
confronting the Government, and ''
which won't die down during thi
sion, is the probability of an openly
with the hierarchy of the Catholic (vlj
in Sydney. As reported in p HE » 1
LETIN of December 29 last, the Mink!
for Housing, Mr A. Landa, is i n trou
with a Catholic organisation known
the Australian Antigonish (Co-operative!
Movement. Last week in ParliamJ
after appeals by a priest to Labor men,!
bers of Parliament on the groundsel
conscience had failed, Liberal mem-
bers, led mainly by the member for Bu r .
wood, Mr B. Doig, attempted to get the
Government to delay the amendments
to the Co-operation Act which, so it |
said by Catholic spokesmen in Sydney
are clearly immoral.
Mr Doig, a Protestant, told the House:
“I say within a couple of weeks the Labor-
Party will find itself met with the autho-
ritative opposition in this matter of the
Roman Catholic Church.” And when
one Labor member interjected with: “Is
the honorable member threatening the
Government?” Mr Doig replied: “No,
If the Government wants to find out
what is likely to hit it, it could wait!
month and see.”
To make it perfectly clear that It
knew what he was talking about, 1
Doig went further: “I am authorised!!
say that there will be a serious embarrass-
ment to the conscience of every Catholic
member who does not give this matter
his serious consideration.”
In what must be an unparalleled
happening in the New South Walts
Parliament, Mr Doig went on to quoit
from ‘'Quadragesimo Anno,” one of tin
social encyclicals of the Catholic Churcl
which deals with the principle of sub
sidiarity the principle that bigger oi
State - owned enterprises should ne«
usurp the functions of smaller and more
natural groups. It is claimed by Sydney
Catholic theologians that the currentßi
violates this principle.
During the week, a 5000-word article
was shown by the “lobbying” P r ' est ’f' j
those members of Parliament who con
be persuaded to look at it. The article,®
which it was alleged at the time t a j a
would be printed in the next issue p
the “Catholic Weekly,” claimed: j
• that the Bill violated the tio
rights of free association;
9 it was deliberately aimed at smash-
a Christian form of integrated
Union; /
• it gave the Registrar of Co °P j
tives, Mr A. R. Crosky, the r#j
wind up co-operative societies o
he personally disapproves wit o j
appeal; , a;
1 “bUSIP
• it gave sole approval w y
type” or State-sponsored Co-op e I t


shmehow or other the article never
eared in the “Catholic Weekly” and
j P L ng Labor members of Parliament
L, boasting this week that this was
linly because of the influence of Bishop
j Carroll and Monsignor Tom Wallace
\ ot [j of whom are known to be more
0 favorably disposed to the Labor
Instead of printing the article the
"Catholic Weekly” contented itself with
a pa„ e 2 boxed note in its issue headed
few Bill Will Need Careful Study,”
md went on to advise caution without
, lucking it on moral grounds.
Catholic theologians in Sydney are so
confident that the Bill violates Catholic
teaching it seems likely that Cardinal
Gilroy will be forced to intervene and
restrain at least one of his Bishops from
being too greatly influenced by his love
for the Labor Party and as a result stifle
the issue.
Those members of the Liberal Party
who have long believed the rather ob-
vious fact that Liberals will never govern
in NSW until they win some of the
large Catholic vote away from the Labor
Party are watching developments with
keen interest.
MUGGA
LABOR
SURFACE UNITY
IN TASMANIA?
Sweetness and light ...
ERIC REECE
A happy man
“The Feds are on the job,” was an
1 undercurrent murmur at last week's
Tasmanian State conference of the Aus-
tralian Labor Party in Launceston.
Whether in fact the Federal forces op-
posed to the Victorian State Executive
were directly intervening is questionable,
but it was plain that a lot of the Labor
Party chiefs were hoping that Tasmania
»'ould elect delegates to the Federal Con-
ference and the Federal Executive who
would be reliable allies in any show-
down with Victoria.
Tasmania’s long history of Labor soli-
darity was encouraging to them. The
Party machine escaped Victoria’s disasters
Uhe time of the split, when, incident-
al the Federal president was Eric
eece > n ow Premier of Tasmania.
Mr Reece himself was a happy man
a f e conference. The general atmos-
ye Un ity and the lack of open
nticism of the Government was wel-
c °me to him.
J n Federal line-up Tasmania may
Jr , Cnt ! ca Hy important. It could be
L J. tled U P with NSW and SA against
And 'f tor ' a " Q ueen sland -WA alliance.
Plsw\ Tasmanian deviates the
p ' ed forces could be out-voted.
| et | c r received a warmly sympa-
he SD , ear ‘ n § from the delegates when
thin °h Wednesda y- l°°ked tired
n > but it was not his appearance
which drew gasps of dismay from dele-
gates as he entered the hall. A wag had
just released the (bogus) news that Aus-
tralia was 8/142, and delegates were
digesting this dire information when Mr
Calwell appeared.
On Thursday, Deputy-Leader Whitlam
got a great reception. In two previous
visits to Tasmania Mr Whitlam has built
up a big reputation. His address was
rather too erudite for a conference
audience, though he obviously tried to
capture the spirit, and Mr Reece thanked
him so warmly that it was immediately
apparent the political forces had been
committed to him.
The Arnold Currie affair was kept out.
President V. S. C. (Paddy) Williams had
earlier ruled that the executive could not
consider charges made against Currie by
a party member since only branches or
unions could make such complaints.
Word had gone round quietly that were
anyone ill-advised enough to open the
question of the former Communist as-
sociations of Currie, now president of
Hobart Trades Hall Council, some
equally difficult questions might be asked
of the questioners, some of whom were
smeared inevitably and predictably with
supposed National Civic Council and
Democratic Labor Party affiliations.
It became very apparent that Currie’s
opponents had overplayed their hands.
Whereas a big body of moderate
unionists had rallied to Currie’s support
in the Hobart Trades Hall Council elec-
tions, they swung soliuly behind his
Trades Hall Council opponent, F. Mc-
Queeney, in the ballot for the State ex-
ecutive. The move was the more notable,
because both the very moderate Me-
Queeney and Paddy Williams are Water-
side Workers’ Federation members, and
the conference is traditionally opposed to
having two men from one union on the
executive.
Launceston Trades Hall Council presi-
dent Frank Taylor, whose good sense had
prevented the hotheads of Right and Left
from becoming involved in a direct open
clash on the Currie issue, emerged at the
conference as a man to be watched in
Tasmanian Labor affairs. He goes back
to the Federal field which he heatedly
left when he quit the Federal Executive
in protest against the Federal parliamen-
tarians’ salary grab.
The confident smile and equanimity of
the Premier throughout proceedings, even
when the union bloc appeared to have
won encounters with the political wing,
was explained in the closing hours of the
conference. Then it suddenly emerged
that the branches and the politicians had
scored a thumping victory. The unions’
well-organised ticket, aimed at securing
the return of a broadly representative
body of union officials to the executive,
had been defeated by an effective, but
very subtly organised, mustering of
branch votes, backed by votes from some
back-sliding right-wing unions.
Mr L. H. Barnard, MHR, won the key
post of Vice-President from the unions’
strongly-fancied Frank Taylor, and State
Education Minister W. A. Neilson took
the position of Treasurer, for which the
unions backed Senator Poke. Mr E. Bar-
nard, MHA, Mr J. J. Britton, MHA,
Mr R. Davies, MHR, and Mrs Benjamin,
MLC, all won office.
Most significantly of all, Mr W. Ram-
say, of the AWU, who had worked
behind the scenes to switch some of the
union votes, emerged at the top of the
poll in voting for the delegates to the
Federal executive of the party.
Observers agreed that he would give
a stoutly AWU tone to the Tasmanian
vote on contentious unity-ticket and other
issues involving the Victorian executive.
They said that the newly disclosed
power of the AWU in Tasmanian Labor
politics would compensate for the union’s
failure to beat the left wing in the
Queensland ALP conference elections.
Tasmania, on the evidence of the con-
ference, will be staunchly allied with the
moderate element in ALP Federal Execu-
tive and Federal conference affairs.


: >Vv
S>:
m
m
■
s
■
' &
■
Qr|
©
I
H
■
f§|§
M
vT*
THI?
PIL US
COUPON
We’ll send
Australia
ye3l’
*2 times
Vivid? *?’ past and pl
y *° life each 1
SepnV of Walkabou
forpL t^rou 8 h eyes ol
thj?° s t authors...
Dhrri enses °f leacll ,
bigger, it;
'Vav-nfr? ever - ! l:
>an t °V' ,fe . magazine
1 *o miss.
All we need is your:
NAME: „
ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE:
Anywhere in Australia: 12 Issues,
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed
Send me an account later,
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb.
•J
iIJLIL • • • • %JlJa
V,: : ,
MS 582
CRIME
WANTED: THE MAN IN
THE POINTED SHOES
And Perthians now lock their doors...
D. BRAND
Embarrassed
Whether or not the police have fallen
down on their job in not catching
two out of the three killers is a major
talking point in Perth. Newspaper edito-
rials have suggested that the number of
unsolved murders in WA, amounting to
six in the last ten years, is disturbing.
The public cannot know whether the
police are doing all they can because
they have released very little information,
apart from constant appeals for public
information. Nobody knows just how
much evidence they have on the identity
of the murderers.
At any rate, the Premier, Mr David
Brand, is undoubtedly embarrassed by the
reflection inevitably cast on his police
force.
The suggestion of Deputy Labor
Leader Jack Tonkin that Eastern States
detectives should be brought to Perth to
help solve the city’s current crop of
murders has been met by a stony official
silence, but a lot of citizens are beginning
to think that something ought to be done.
They are not quite sure exactly what
but they do know they find the present
situation disturbing in a city which is
not attuned to the idea of violent crime.
The current bloodbath of five murders
began on January 27, when a gunman
ran amok in the early hours of Sunday
morning and shot at five people, killing
two of them. A third victim is still on the
danger-list at Royal Perth Hospital. The
apparently senseless nature of these
shootings threw the community into a
mild panic. Perthians who have boasted
that they can leave their houses wide
open when they go out began locking
their doors and windows against a re-
appearance of the night killer. Police
combed the city and Kings Park for a
man who could not be described accura-
tely because none of his victims had
seen him clearly.
Community and police jitters reached
their height when two employees on a
lonely pumping station on the eastern
wheatbelt reported that a man had fired
at one of them from the bush and
escaped after fighting with the second.
Police found tracks in the area, and the
hunt was on for what one paper joyfully
described as “The Man In The Pointed
Shoes.” Road blocks were set up and
reinforcements were rushed from Perth
Detectives began sifting an 80-toe
load of wood at the pumping station ia
their search for the bullet fired from
the bush. If they could establish that this
bullet had the same markings as the cart-
ridge they had found earlier at the scene
of one of the Perth killings they would
have their man.
At the end of three days they trooped
back to Perth, and Police Commissioner
O'Brien announced that no shots had
been fired at the pumping station, and
the “Man In The Pointed Shoes” was a
local who had gone parrot shooting. The
same day a Katanning farmhand was
charged with making a false report aftei
he claimed he had been shot at by aj
masked gunman on a lonely country
road. Police investigations revealed that
he had shot himself. Police also proved
false a claim by several motorists that
their wind-screens had been shattered by
bullets from a passing car on the Great
Northern Highway near Three Springs,
The “bullets” turned out to be stones.
The State was just beginning to regain
its sense of humor when on Saturday,
February 9, a second double murder
occurred. A gunman fired at a policeman,
who had been sent to a house in Belmont
to investigate a report that a man had a
rifle, killing him instantly. As he fl®
from the house he killed a second man I
a passing car. He was caught the nd
day after he had been cornered and s
in the biggest manhunt in the city!
history. The next week he was charge
with murder after an emergency op eli
tion at Royal Perth Hospital.
The fifth murder occurred on Saturday
February 16, when social worker 0
stance Madrid was sexually assaulte
strangled in her West Perth flat. Her
was dragged across a laneway
dumped in the yard of a neig 0 ■
house, a whisky bottle
crooked in her arm by the killer.
An indication of how unifo ‘
policemen felt about the situation ,
from a meeting of the Police
which members complained t a ,
uniformed officers were not m
about the progress of CIB
In many cases, they said, they n
what they read in the papers.


MOTORING
MR BOLTE'S TRAFFIC
HOLD-UP
Turning attention from bad drivers to bad cars
HENRY BOLTE
A blemish?
wijth the Victorian segment of the
I Royal Tour over, Mr Bolte and his
Ministers will return to the problem of
Victoria’s traffic problems more par-
licularly, the road toll which is the
„ ors t of any State in proportion to
filiation. To Mr Bolte, with his
iondness for facts and figures on the
ireatness of Victoria, this is a blemish
ihich must be removed.
The Government's concern over the
rodent rate has at this stage merely
Based confusion and controversy. As
from January 1, eight new traffic rules
came into force. The speed limit in built-
ip areas was lifted from 30 to 35 mph
(except for vehicles of over three tons
trass weight) and penalties were intro-
duced for drivers or passengers who
lowed elbows to protrude from car
windows. “Gutter-grippers” are also af-
fected by this rule which prohibits “any
occupant of a car allowing any part of
is body to protrude from a window or
tor while the vehicle is on the road,
cscept while the driver is giving a hand
signal”.
Hand-signals became optional under
another new rule. They need not be
given if a car’s stoplights or flashing turn
lights are visible for 100 feet in normal
sunlight. Another change was to oblige
drivers making left-hand turns to give
right of way to all other traffic.
Drivers had no sooner adjusted their
reflexes to these new rules when the Chief
Secretary, Mr A. G. Rylah, announced
“proposals” for on-the-spot fines, owner-
onus and probationary licences. The latter
scheme would involve new drivers being
given a provisional licence for 12 months,
which would be automatically cancelled
if any traffic offence (except parking)
was committed. If the novice’s record
was clean during the 12 months, he
would then undergo another test for a
full licence.
The other two proposals, however,
were soon under fire from the Royal
Automobile Club, the Victorian Auto-
mobile Chamber of Commerce, the
Motor Transport Union, and the ALP.
The owner-onus plan would oblige car-
owners to prove that they were not
driving at the time when their vehicle
was booked for an offence. This would
enable police to lay charges on the basis
of seeing an offence committed, without
actually apprehending the vehicle’s driver
and asking the usual questions. A police-
man would merely need to note the car
number.
Opponents of the changes pointed out
that the owner-onus system carried the
danger that a policeman, in noting the
number of a moving car, could easily
misread it. The on-the-spot fines were
attacked as a possible route to bribery
of the police. In the debate, however,
Mr Rylah scored one point: when the
ALP attacked owner-onus, he pointed
out that it was a Labor Government
which empowered the City Council to
use this system for parking offences back
in 1953.
The Government, however, is not
firmly committed to the Rylah proposals.
They would need approval of the
Government’s parliamentary supporters
before being incorporated in legislation.
In view of the hostile reaction, only the
probationary licence suggestion seems
likely to survive a meeting in the party
room.
In fact, the Government has already
implied its capitulation by flying another
kite, this time for compulsory inspection
of vehicles. It represents almost a major
philosophical shift to turning attention
from bad drivers to bad cars, but the
drawback to such a system in Victoria is
apparent even at this stage: it will in-
crease, rather than lighten the work to
be done by a numerically inadequate
police force.
"Well done, Farnwell. But why are you late?”


WEST NEW GUINEA-THE BIG SELL-OUT
"I shall come with the first wave of paratroopers to Port Moresby,"
said the smiling Major.
By PETER HASTINGS
There was a story going around Hoi-
landia when I was there recently of
an exchange between a slim, attract-
ive Javanese school-teacher and a US Air
Force corporal attached for special duties
to the United Nations’ Temporary Exe-
cutive Authority. Sitting at a table drink-
ing after dinner coffee on the tiled veran-
dah of the Noordwijk Hotel she asked
him how he liked Indonesia.
“I can’t rightly say m’am,” he replied
courteously, “seeing as how I’ve never
been there.” “But this is Indonesia,” she
insisted mischievously. For added em-
phasis she traced with outstretched hand
the immense sweep of Humboldt Bay
with its flaring yellow harborside lights
and backdrop of mountains. “After all,”
she added with a smile, “this is one of
Indonesia’s finest harbors.”
As it happened she was technically
wrong. Even after UNTEA hands over
on May 1, Indonesia becomes only the
administering power and cannot become
sovereign power until the Papuans choose
Indonesia in an “act of self determina-
tion” provided for in the Dutch-
Indonesian Agreement to take place
before 1969.
However, there will never be an “act
of self determination” for the Indone-
sians are not interested in technicalities
over West New Guinea. After a long and
extremely costly struggle including a
ruinously costly arms build up they
have won West New Guinea, and they
mean to stay there. Everything that they
are now doing confirms the fact.
The little Indonesian schoolteacher was
hardly less forthright than Mme Suban-
drio wife of Indonesia’s able foreign
minister when she paid her celebrated
visit to the Territory (with a dancing
troupe) and stormed from town to town
flinging gratuitous insults at the Dutch
and announcing to all and sundry that
the millenium was about to start. Her
message was made rather less attractive
by her desire to stamp all over the
feelings not merely of the departing
Dutch and the bewildered and apprehen-
sive Papuans but on those of any Aus-
tralians who happened to be around.
She was no more tactful with UNTEA.
Even though it is the officially sanctioned
agency of a world sell-out on West New
Guinea it still cherishes illusions that it
represents a “United Nations presence”
in the area. Moreover, such is the
euphoria of the professional careerists
of New York that some of its top people
see a future for yet other UNTEAs in
the Borneo Territories, Timor and else-
where in this troubled world. West New
Guinea apparently is only a dry run.
Mme Subandrio’s behavior was therefore
variously described as “disgraceful” and
“scandalous” by many who forgot it was
merely characteristic of the tough side
of Indonesia.
At a reception given in her honor by
the UN Administrator, Dr Abdoh, an
American typist of Dutch descent humbly
waited by to present her with a bouquet.
Mme Subandrio brushed her aside on
two occasions to lead her dancing troupe
in a sort of Indonesian national song
while the poor girl waited scarlet with
embarrassment until she could carryout
a distasteful duty delegated her by the
nominal, if temporary, government of the
island. Too much even for the Indone-
sian Mission representatives, Mme Su-
bandrio was taken aside and told that
even the hard facts of Indonesian occupa-
tion could not excuse such behavior,
Next day everybody who had been at
the reception was invited back for yel
another cocktail party where all ffl
sweetness and light. Not that Mme So
bandrio escaped entirely unscathed. Ii
Manokwari she and her dancing troupe
were given a public reception where sti
was again presented a bouquet, t is 1
by two tame Papuan members o
former New Guinea Council w o >
as fervently welcomed the In ones
takeover as they had tearfully ame
the Dutch departure. The
tastefully wrapped in oran e e p P
bed with an orange ribbon, u «
There was a breathless pause. ,
deliberate insult. Sabotage.
that the two Papuan gen e ,
didn’t know any better; lhOUD ht ,| (
was probably the real reason o
story provided anti-Indonesia v
with plenty of laughs,
UNTEA is another source 0
giggles and if Mme Suban no
temptuous attitude towards b
based on exuberant Indonesian n
ism it was not entirely ur v ese {aS j e fu
other grounds. For those with a
the macabre UNTEA
cinating example of makeshit P
administration. The admimstra >


, Ab dob, is a Persian of consider-
?!rharm and wide political experiencs
f has been Iranian foreign minister
■ n nlebiscite administrator in the Came-
li He is an efficient and not lin-
kable UN careerist who finds him-
E a singularly wild country with an
lemely unpleasant climate trying to
4an interim administration which has
n o b ody’s support. He lives in the former
90Ve mor’s flashy palace and while stir-
-4 bis after-lunch coffee with a silver
spoon bearing the images of Juliana and
Bernhard likes to gossip about UN per-
sonalities like the late Aly Khan. He has
ak) wary habit of issuing a precis
of any Press interviews he grants which
contain some of his answers but none of
the questions.
Frustration and Dedication
A shrewd and cautious Scot, who until
last year ran Ghana’s police force,
directs the Territory police force which
for the most part is now thoroughly In-
donesianised. An Egyptian runs the In-
formation service. A Russian is director
of public works. A West German runs
Civil Aviation. A New Zealander is in
charge of economic affairs. A few Dutch
- fewer every week are scattered
around in specialist jobs and in field
administration. Most of the District Com-
missioners with the exception of a
Burmese are British. With the excep-
tion of a few of the District Commis-
sioners and the Dutch not one UNTEA
official other than Indonesians
speaks Malay.
This helps to make the atmosphere
of UNTEA headquarters in Hollandia
curiously remote from the problems on
ground. The accents and interests
ore those of New York, London and
Paris and in the harsh tropical light
professional UN careerism shows up
cracked around the edges. Few are
Interested in their jobs or the problems
% have to deal with which are for-
cing enough in all conscience, and the
j? a ® inducement to offset the climate,
e bad food and general inconvenience
double salary which isn’t a bad way
01 ®ing money if you need it.
4Jose dedicated, frustrated UNTEA
, lals.on whom falls the real burden
a ministration technical and other
m perts ’ officers, medical officers,
munications people and so on
justifiably cynical. They know that
n onesian Army is the real politi-
j, ° rce on the island and that UNTEA
cm M Wmdow dressi ng. UNTEA has
Ecnnn react i v ated what passed for an
11 m est New Guinea and un-
Jl attest? * n tPle ma in towns has been
5 resumed or example, has been
ipo .■. 0n the absurdly grandiose build-
* 0n Hollandia’s waterfront
( as to have been the New Guinea
Council chamber. The shipyards and
timber mills at Manokwari are function-
ing again and work has been resumed
on the rice and rubber projects at Mer-
auke. This has restored a measure of
confidence among the town populations
which find that until May 1 they will
have money, after all, to spend on the
rapidly dwindling supplies of goods in
the shops.
The Dutch economy in West New
Guinea supported large numbers of Pap-
uans in the main centres on surprisingly
high labor rates which in turn created a
type of urbanised proletariat between
whom and the village peoples of the coast
there existed a wide gulf. [An immeasur-
ably wider one existed between these
two classes and the primitives of the
interior.] The town Papuans are relatively
sophisticated and many of them are not
much better than shanty town spivs lust-
ing after multi-colored shirts, consumer
goods and Vespas. These are the people
who by and large have the liveliest fears
of an Indonesian takeover in May; not
necessarily from loyalty to the now de-
parted Dutch or even because they have
been deprived of the chance of self de-
termination but because they fear a rup-
iah economy and worry about their jobs,
their families, and their standard of liv-
ing.
Beer was a large incentive in Dutch
days, and Papuans throughout the island
heard with dismay a Radio Djakarta
announcement that after the takeover
Papuans would have to make a sacrifice
to the common cause by limiting them-
selves to two bottles a day. They also
know that after the takeover, unless
Indonesia makes West New Guinea a
special currency area, goods and food
will become scarce. All along the coast
Papuans are hoarding Dutch coinage
which is legal Dutch tender and hard
currency unlike the notes which are local
currency only.
It is difficult to gauge true Papuan
feeling. Most of the Papuan elite, the
several hundred “dynamic few,” have
jumped hard on to the Indonesian band-
wagon in a rush for jobs and patronage.
Belonging to pro-Indonesian organisa-
tions, or organising phoney demonstra-
tions in favor of immediate incorporation
of West New Guinea into the Republic of
Indonesia, is a sure way of getting a
trip to Djakarta or a safe position in the
takeover government or maybe of just
getting a bit more money.
It is easy to moralise in tne situation, as
many Australians in East New Guinea
are currently doing “that’s just like a
Papuag.. He will go to the highest bid-
der.” There is only one bidder and therS
are no alternatives. Of the elite created
by the Dutch in their desperate attempts
to get self determination on the road I
would say that 90 p.c. have turned their
eyes on Djakarta. Only a fraction of
them have remained actively anti-
Indonesian.
It is no longer easy to talk to Papuans.
Many whom I had known in years gone
by, including some with whom I had oc-
casionally corresponded, were not able to
be contacted. One who had been ardently
anti-Indonesian in years gone by was
actually editing a pro-Indonesian news-
paper. I bumped into another in the
corridor of the hotel at Biak. He shrug-
ged his shoulders in comic dismay and
brushed past me without saying a word.
A few days later his name and that of
yet another member of the New Guinea
Council appeared on a leaflet calling for
a demonstration in favor of immediate
Indonesian takeover. The demonstration
duly took place, Radio Djakarta claim-
ing that there were 1000 marchers. A
European observer told me that there
were 250 at the most. Later the same
man told me that the Indonesian Army
officer responsible for the demonstration
rang up and demanded to know why it
was 10 minutes late in getting started.
One of the big guessing games is
what will happen to Womsiwor, Kaisiepo
and Jouwe the big three of the former
New Guinea Council. Kaisiepo with his
strict religious outlook will almost cer-
tainly stay in Holland. Womsiwor seems
to have accepted Indonesian guarantees
that he can pursue his business interests
under the new regime unhampered.
Jouwe, ablest of them all, is still in
Holland despite rumors that occasionally
sweep the island like a breath of magic
that he has secretly returned to lead
guerrilla war against Indonesia. He never
comes.
The Flag of Papua Barat
VTevertheless, while leading Papuans,
with the exception of a relative hand-
ful, have firmly set their hopes on Dja-
karta, the towns and urban villages
around Hollandia, Manokwari, Biak, So-
rong and Merauke remain far more di-
vided than either UNTEA or the Indon-
esians admit. There are many incidents
most of which concern either the Indon-
esian or Papuan flag. Under the Agree-
ment the Indonesian flag may fly only in
designated official places, to the right and
just below the large blue and white UN
flag. The Papuan flag—a particularly for-
lorn symbol of unattained national sover-
eignty even in today’s world—-was given


to West Papuans about 18 months ago.
It became for a surprising number of
them an emblem of unity to which, only
half comprehending the notions of state-
hood or the world about them, they
rallied.
Many youths wear the Papuan flag
sewn to the back of their multicolored
sweaters or shirts. Some carry it on a
stick or tacked to their bicycles. Others
carry it in their pockets and whip it out
daringly when they feel themselves unob-
served. The Indonesians do not object to
this too much, although they will halt
anybody seen wearing it, rip it off them
and send them home with a warning.
But they will not tolerate any insults to
their own flag. Even though the red and
white Dwi-Klarna is supposed to fly only
from official flagpoles, pro-Indonesian
villages fly them in rows which you see
in clearings in the bush or hanging from
bamboo poles stretching across the placid
waters of lakeside villages. Pro-Papuan
youths will steal out at night and cut
them down. If caught by Indonesian
soldiers, they are taken up into the hills
and thrashed with bicycle chains or sticks
and then sent home. There have been
some alleged deaths and beatings occur
all over the island. If the victims of
beatings complain to the police now
largely Indonesianised at lower levels
they are ignored. Even if they can iden-
tify their assailants they have little chance
of making their charges stick.
UNTEA is fully aware of the beatings
but is indifferent to them. I asked Dr
Abdoh whether there were any incidents
on the island. He said thankfully that
other than the shooting of two Dutchmen
at Sorong and “some trouble” at Merauke
everything had been quiet. “What about
beatings?” I asked. “We do not regard
those as incidents,” he replied blandly.
This sort of evasion a witty and irreve-
rent Indonesian described as symptomatic
of a new language UNTEASE.
“We Didn’t Expect Paradise . .
"1%/ff any of the clashes that take place
are between pro-and anti-Indonesian
Papuans. Noses are bloodied and occa-
sionally heads are broken but in most
cases the clashes come about not so
much through intense political feelings
as traditional tribal rivalries. The most
advanced of West New Guinea peoples
- and the most pro-Dutch are the
Biak islanders. The most pro-Indonesian
people are the neighboring Japen islan-
ders. In the old days they would have
taken canoes and fought each other. Now
they take sides on political issues. It is
as simple as that.
But if the Papuans are politically som-
nolent the Indonesians in the Territory
are not. Charming, gregarious, intelligent,
they have swarmed into the island and
one sees them everywhere smart
looking Air Force officers careering
around in jeeps, attractive secretaries in
western dress, schoolteachers in towns
and villages, doctors, lawyers, agricul-
tural experts, administration personnel
and, of course, übiquitous in jungle
green, the Army.
It is one of the few enjoyable ironies
of the West New Guinea debacle that not
even the hapless, sweating expatriates of
UNTEA can vie with Indonesians in
detesting the island. Homesick for the
beauties of the main island and the at-
tractions of their big cities, Indonesians
regard West Irian and its people as just
about rock bottom which is not surpris-
ing although it is significant that so
many were taken in by their own pro-
paganda. “We didn’t exactly expect
paradise when we came here,” an Indo-
nesian told me glumly, “but we didn’t
expect hell either.” Many of them came
simply for the money. Under the
Agreement all officials are paid
double salaries and in exchange short
Indonesia a double salary on a hard
currency is nothing to be sneered at even
if Djakarta takes between 20 and 30 per
cent of all Indonesian salaries as a
“voluntary” gesture. Still the money is
good and most of the Indonesians are
sending money home by the simple expe-
dient of getting foreign friends to
exchange their guilder salaries into US
$lOO bills which can be smuggled
through Indonesian Customs. On the
blackmarket in Djakarta a single US
dollar will fetch 1000 rupiah against the
official rate of 45. A man could save
enough to live for a year in Indonesia.
But despite the smuggling, the amused
despair over the island and its people,
most of the Indonesians regard West
New Guinea with a good deal of mis-
sionary fervor. They are determined that
it shall quickly become an integral part
of the Republic and that if possible the
money will be found even if it comes
from Russia for maintaining at least
some semblance of the standard of
development left behind by the Dutch.
New projects are unlikely to be started,
but an effort will be made to maintain
old ones, including the magnificent
Manokwari experimental station built
with EEC funds. For the moment
the accent is on consolidation and
the Indonesians are in a hurry.
Indonesian Air Force and civil air-
craft go in and out of the island at
will for, despite UNTEA, there are no
Customs or immigration checks on
planes, personnel or freight. Papuans
carted off to Djakarta and other Indon'
sian centres for indoctrination without
any reference to the nominal governtnen
of the island. No one knows the composi
tion of the Indonesian Army i n \y es |
New Guinea (although UNTEA claims it
does) any more than Dr Abdoh can be
sure that if he demands a court martial
of Indonesian troops over an “incident”
that the troops will be brought to book
There is intense, undisguised Indone-
sian political activity on all levels
throughout the island. There are special
indoctrination schools for Papuans and
Indo-Europeans. There are police “black-
lists” for Papuans who won’t play
ball and trips for those who will. Not
least there are what are lossely termed
“cultural missions,” most of them (not
all) fairly third-rate entertainment groups
of sexy-looking singers and mediocre
performers. All of this has had its effect
and for every Papuan game to wear his
own flag or a Dutch emblem there are a
dozen who wear a green Indonesian para-
troop beret, a Garuda Airways badge or
a pair of Air Force wings.
A Mixture of Attitudes
4 nd that is the way it’s going. Nothing
can stop it. For the majority of
Papuans it may prove a good thing. They
will be educated, fed and carefully incul-
cated with the sense of belonging to a
great national entity. Had the Dutch re-
mained a few years longer to see the birth
of a real movement towards political in-
dependence a genuine tragedy may have
been enacted. As it is there will un-
doubtedly be hardship and suffering for i
some and for a time bewilderment an
uncertainty for others —how much is
hard to say. .
I remember a Papuan to whom l
talked late one night. He was dressed in
a snowy white shirt and smart slac s
and affected great bitterness. As “
sipped fruit juice his eyes gleamed sa y
behind huge spectacles. He an
friends were organising “undergroun
movements against the Indonesians,
said, to conduct psychological war n
against them. Papuans would e
the truth about Indonesia. Papuan c'
ren would be warned against what n
nesian teachers might tell them,
ually there would be a plebiscite ,
everyone would vote against n 0
for a free Papua Barat. Of c ° urse ''J
tralia would help and “our, Me
brothers across the border.
primitive Papuans would be
against the invader. It wasJ
nonsense which he himselt j .
believed like his reference to t e
ive Papuans who have never en
anybody’s political calculations
of all his.


Of far greater significance than the
derstandable efforts of Indonesians in
1 Territory speedily to reorganise West
0 Guinea politically are the attitudes
3 finds among them their tough
1 for UNTEA, for example, and
for Pakistani Security Force express
|eir contempt for the myths of UN
suctions. Their attitudes to the Dutch
.•fie hour of victory are equally tough.
Djtch-Indonesian feelings for one an-
L are different from those, perhaps,
found in any other colonial relation-
sfiip. There is a curious sympathy
ietween the two, a compound of love
ud hate, which it seems can never
0)lve itself into a reasonable association.
Oae felt it watching the forlorn little
Dutch groups depart from Biak by KLM
each Thursday. There were always
[Papuans to watch them depart in a
[letter of handshakes, derisive laughter
ud occasional tears. And there were
ilways Indonesians, watchful and amus-
d I remember a senior Indonesian
oficialturning to me and saying quietly:
‘And that is the end of 400 years of
Empire a group of friends and a
niting jet.” And then he excused him-
slf to go and say goodbye to a Dutch
fad, to shake his hand and speak to
tain. . . Dutch. Not that incidents
le these prevent others of a different
it. Indonesians are intensely suspicious
lithe Dutch on the island. On UNTEA
lip levels, and in the Netherlands Mis-
P, the Dutch have played the game
rcry carefully. Here and there they have
tt Some Dutch officers in the field have
fen quietly stirring the embers of
Ipn discontent and recently a Dutch-
Mu either through stupidity, or some-
worse, incited some 30 or so Papuan
High School students to make their way
loVanimo across the Australian border
ta seek asylum. They were refused,
% beaten up on their return and a
wlanded in hospital. Indonesian police
JWs arrested the Dutchman, threw
* into gaol and then deported him.
j ot feast in significance is their attitude
0 Australians, a strange mixture of
(® Ulne friendliness, curiosity and the
** perhaps we are not to be
® seriously. Perhaps we aren’t. And
. !| ls the Indonesians who tell one
that Australians and 1 Indonesians
earn to live with one another.
siSiLyith Indonesia
jy , ING to live with Indonesia is
awkward and difficult
m P ractlca f terms of day
C e West coas h in the swampy
feduc ? Indonesian paratroops in-
)l c y a Particularly virulent strain
er a which spread slowly up
and down the coast and inland
through the rivers and streams. Of
1000 cases reported there have been
nearly 500 deaths, which is something
in the nature of a world record. At
Pirimapoen a tiny west coast centre
in the Rockefeller search in 1961
despite inoculation of the entire village
population of 250, I was told that there
were 76 cases and 20 deaths. Despite
prompt action by UNTEA doctors (and
Australian help with helicopters) the
disease is still thought to be spreading
and almost bound in the future to make
its appearance in East New Guinea
where a large scale border inoculation
campaign has been undertaken.
Apart from human diseases, Indonesia
has about 51 animal diseases and 44
plant diseases unknown to the island of
New Guinea. Some of them are ex-
tremely serious and include foot and
mouth disease, rabies, glanders, trichino-
sis and Newcastle’s (poultry) disease.
Foot and mouth disease must pose a
grave threat to the Australian cattle in-
dustry owing to the difficulties of impos-
ing quarantine. Of plant diseases preval-
ent in Indonesia and so far unknown to
New Guinea, five attack bananas, rub-
ber, rice, coffee and cocoa. Even given
Indonesian quarantine co-operation
many of these diseases must eventually
make their way into New Guinea and
some of them into Australia.
These are merely long-term practical
problems. Greater problems remain in
the political field. At this stage, with a
deteriorating internal economy, a “con-
frontation” with Malaya over Brunei
boiling into a major diplomatic and semi-
military campaign, all Indonesia wants in
West New Guinea is to consolidate its
position and fix the eyes of the West
Papuan elite firmly on Djakarta and to
co-operate with us in East New Guinea.
They are naturally curious about our
side of the island, and it is difficult to
find an Indonesian in West New Guinea
who does not wish to visit East New
Guinea. It is hard to see how they can be
prevented. Garuda Airways has already
established a weekly service between Hol-
landia and Lae and we may in the
ordinary course of events expect tourists,
visitors and officials in the Territory.
There will also certainly be an at-
tempt to establish an Indonesian mission
in Port Moresby and facilities for the
exchange of personnel on technical and
developmental problems affecting both
sides. Indonesians also want to learn
about East New Guinea’s economic po-
tential (which they know is far greater
than that of West New Guinea), its com-
munications, and its people. They are
curious about political development on
our side and some are sceptical of its
rate of development. In all of these
things they display a lively and, at this
stage, scarcely sinister interest. From
their own point of view such interest is
both natural and justified. “After all,” an
Indonesian said to me, “you Australians
showed a very lively interest in an Indo-
nesian territory (West New Guinea) for
years and years. You even tried to pre-
vent us getting it back. You must not
complain if we are interested in your
side.”
East New Guinea is worked into a
number of little jokes, some subtle, some
on the level of schoolboy humor. When
Major Bembang (the paratrooper who
made a daring midnight jump over
Merauke) was laughingly asked by an
Australian if he would like to visit East
New Guinea some day he replied with
equal good humor that he fully intended
to —“in the first wave of paratroopers.”
Jokes range all the way from, “Now
we're here you’ll really have to get a
move on with your self-determination
plans,” to “West Irian is the end. It'll be
even worse if we have to take over your
side as well.” To read too much into this
sort of thing is fatally easy. To ignore
implications for the future would be
folly. Indonesians now regard themselves
as members of a great nation with a
stake in the Pacific area.
They are acutely aware that their
country lacks skills, technicians and ef-
ficient management. They are sensitive to
criticism and condescension. Individually
they will complain of Soekarno, worry
about the Communist Party, denounce
corruption in the Army, bemoan that one
of the world’s richest countries is heading
for economic collapse. They will list the
tremendous economic problems waiting
to be tackled in the home islands, point
to a map of West Irian and shrug their
shoulders in comic despair. All of this
can be extremely misleading. Scratch an
Indonesian of almost any political com-
plexion and you find a nationalist. Indo-
nesians are consumed by a ruthless and
restless dynamic, set loose at the end of
400 years of colonialism, which in the
final count, despite civil war and inter-
nal disorder, will hold them together.
They regard themselves as citizens of
a big, powerful and important nation in
the Asian and Pacific areas and naturally
regard East New Guinea as a legitimate
area of Indonesian interest. While it is
true that they will have their hands full
on their own side of the border, it would
be silly to think that they will not be
interested in developments on our side of
(Continued on page 25)


OUT AND ABOUT
BORELLI: THE CALM CENTRE
OF THE SPINNING TOPS
"Poverty is solely a spiritual condition"
From DESMOND O'GRADY in Naples
Morris West’s “Children of the
Sun” described the desperate lives
of children whose only home is
the streets of Naples and Father Mario
Borelli’s efforts to help them. What has
happened in the six years since West
made his report? Has Father Borelli
solved the problem of providing these
children with a skill so they can earn a
living? What is the effect of the economic
boom? Has the Church in the South
shown a new social conscience? Above
all, has the venture lost its impetus, its
pioneering spirit now that it is established
and has received wide publicity?
The answers come from Father
Borelli who, from his office at the Cas
dello Scugnizzo in Naples where I inter-
viewed him recently, still directs the
enterprise. The six years have changed
Father Borelli to some extent. Photo-
graphs from the time he put aside his
priest’s habit to live as a scugnizzo (or
spinning top) on the streets of Naples,
show him as sharp-faced. Now, about 40,
he has filled out but he still looks boyish.
He is unusually fair; mousey hair curling
in a forelock, grey eyes, a skin which
suffers in the sun. It looks as if some-
one has placed their heel in his nose.
One of the most noticeable changes in
the past six years is that the more senior
of the 80 boys are now accommodated
at the Oratorian Fathers opposite the
Cathedral San Gennaro. Previously a
secular priest, Father Borelli has become
an Oratorian and in the Oratorian
Fathers building he has established a
school for mechanics. Here some of the
older boys are trained while others at-
tend a pottery school, still others are
taught plumbing and four are at second-
ary school.
Still further developments are in store.
Father Borelli plans to leave the old con-
verted church the Casa occupies and
transfer to Posillipo where up to 200
boys will be accommodated in cottages
which will take groups of 10 or 12. He
also wants to establish a school to train
“educators.” These would be specialised
social workers who would live with the
boys like elder brothers. At the moment
university students are paid to do this
work but the supply of properly trained
assistants is one of the major problems
Father Borelli faces in expanding.
Money is another problem. The land
he has bought at Posillipo on the Gulf
of Naples cost £28,000. That is where
the friends of the House of Urchins
come into the picture. The most import-
ant of these is in England where, ex-
pertly organised by a Scotch Presby-
terian woman, there are numerous and
energetic regional committees working
to assist Father Borelli. An American
group helps also and there are others in
Germany, Holland and Canada but.
third most important is the Au t '
committee with its New Zeal d
spring. and
Father Borelli will fly to Australia •
April to meet his supporters ins,
and Melbourne so that ‘we won’t h\
ing them to help beyond their pc**?
and they wont be expecting the j*
sible from us it’s not satisfactory u
mg people 10,000 miles away if J!
never seen them.” J
He thought it only natural that some
Italians in Australia may not welcome
his visit because it will remind them i
a poverty they would rather f O J
“There is no need for them to f ee |
inferiority because of this poverty b e .
cause Italians are combating it fl> s M
use behaving like an ostrich. R ea j
Dickens or Jack London; England had
the same problem 80 years ago and
people such as Dr Barnardo beat it,
Besides, nowadays misery is everyone’s
responsibility.” (In fact the House of
Urchins helps a similar group j|
Bombay.)
“Poverty is a form of moral prostitu-
tion whenever it is accepted,” Father
Borelli said. “I’m convinced that poverty
is mainly a spiritual condition - no,
solely a spiritual condition When «
talk about it, when we react to it, we art
on the way to overcoming it. It’s a re-
nunciation of dignity and there is so
much exploitation involved.”
Had the Italian economic miracle
eased the pressure of unemployed? Father
Borelli believes more in the miracle ol
San Gennaro than in the economic
miracle but admitted that the Comm
Market provided a demand for work-
ers. Had the Church in the South show
the increased social conscience which
West claimed it needed? “I am in tht
Church in this situation,” he said. Thea
all the other situations. . . ? “It’s a mat-
ter of creating an awareness. If you Ifa
we’re an alarm signal.”
Or a distress signal. It was a day of
fitful sunshine but only a week age out
could have skied down the slopes of
Vesuvius. Half the boys had spent, the
bitter winter in a wooden sleepout w®
out heating and with wooden shutters
but no glass in the windows. It was I f
very bare minimum: chipped paint on t e
iron bed-frames, sagging mattresses, or*
cold-water basin for the 20 boys, but)
must have looked well appointed to so®
one who has slept on the grates over
baker’s oven.
There seem to be more stairs
rooms in the centuries-old building- a '
rock-like and cold. Father Bordli ,s s
ing more suitable quarters in os '
but he is aware of the dangers of con
and respectability, of giving
orate accommodation rather


Imagine the world
without pipe
■ ■ 1
MiSiMl
HU
•"% • - ' * «r**
n H
***%
I
4
Hi
II
SSSS
HHi
• • •■: . J
H |
HI
:: f*
.
■
4l ; i si si
■HP 8
Hi
fs
:• ' i
ili
111!
m.
HH
Mali
4^
' i i : «
'is
I
s SS .
■I
■S;*:
mm
■
The first primitive pipe was,
probably, of hollowed-out
bamboo joined together.
Since then man has experim-
ented with many materials
clay, earthenware,copper, lead
and even the hollowed-out log.
It’s an awesome thought that
without the simple tube or
pipe-much of the world's pop-
ulation could soon perish
great cities become silent;
without it industry would be
paralysed and vast areas of
richly productive land revert
to desert.
Today, the pipe of steel pre-
dominates almost universally
- steel, of course, being used
for its strength, its long span
of life, its all-round adaptability
and, above all, its basic econ-
omy.
S& L have been engaged in making steel tube for over a century. In their
Australian factory are specialists who will be happy to advise and help you
with any tube problems you have whether industrial, agricultural or domestic.
§&IL
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES : All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES : Mackay, Kalgoorlie. 5PG.4.63


creasing the number under care, of mak-
ing the venture a show-place and a
refuge which would weaken the boys
who must make their way in a tough
world outside.
He is worried about the Negro boy
of about 13 in his charge, son of an
Afnerican serviceman. “When they come
here they are more American than
Negro,” he said, “but in their own coun-
try they’re more Negro than American.
There will be a color problem here too
in a few years there must be thou-
sands of these children. What will happen
when a boy is 22 and he needs a woman?
You can imagine the reaction in one of
these Neapolitan families if there is talk
of marriage with a Negro ...”
There is no measure of the results
Father Borelli attains but some experien-
ces such as that of Domenico are en-
couraging. On his mother’s death his
father turned him and his elder brothers
out of the house and lived with another
woman. Domenico was at the House of
the Urchins for seven years and eventu-
ally persuaded his father to reunite the
family again.
That is a story with a happy ending
but the next is one without any foresee-
able conclusion. Ten years ago a woman
called on Father Borelli and asked him
to look after her boy for half an hour.
She has never returned and the boy is
now a young man. Not only that, he is
an epileptic and retarded; Father Bor-
elli had never known his name. Only
once in these 10 years has Father Bor-
elli seen the mother. He was driving a
car and stopped to talk to the woman but
she fled down a flight of stairs.
She feared that he wanted to return
the boy to her whereas he merely
wanted to tell her that the boy had a
right to see and know his mother.
Whether one thinks of Father Bor-
elli speaking on the BBC with his “very
inaccurate but indescribably fluent” Eng-
lish, or joking with a scugnizzo in Nea-
politan dialect, or handling the running
of the House of Urchins with efficiency
while agilely handling a discussion, the
basic image of him is at the top of the
flight of steps, no longer running but
watching that mother run away because
he represented her son, and aware that
he had yet another responsibility to
which there seemed no end.
150 PROGRAMMES -
BUT NO PLANS
Broadway ”immediately and chronically a disappointment"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
TI/Ir Robin Lovejoy, artistic director of
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust’s
drama company, has returned home after
18 months’ travel and study in America
and Europe. He has come back to the
usual chorus of “What brought you back?
Couldn’t you get any decent offers over-
seas?” But this welcome-home chorus this
time sounds fainter to his ears than when
he came back eight years ago after his
first trip.
Mr Lovejoy also comes back to find
that the great enthusiasm he has brought
back to his job (although he does wish
they would call him something which
didn’t make him sound like the head
window-dresser) is tempered by current
uncertainty at the Trust. This is simply
because the new executive director, Mr
Stefan Haag, has only recently taken up
his appointment. Until he makes up his
mind about things, Mr Lovejoy has
little to do except riffle through the 150-
odd programmes he brought back and
talk in fairly general terms about what
he hopes to do with anyone who will
listen.
“It might be a month before I know
what I shall be doing,” he said, “but I
would rather wait until we are absolutely
sure about things. And I would like to
think that I have now gained enough
stature not to be forced into something
which I don’t believe is absolutely right.”
With Mr Haag in the chief executive’s
chair and Mr Lovejoy back, a fresh
breeze seems to be blowing through the
draughty corridors of the Trust’s offices
in Dowling Street, Woolloomooloo. It
seems as if the Trust is making an-
other new beginning. However, Mr
Lovejoy is too modest to see his return
as representing anything so significant.
He merely hopes that he and his associ-
ates can profit by some of the past mis-
takes. He might go as far as to guarantee
that if mistakes are made they won’t be
the old ones.
Mr Lovejoy was overseas on a Hark-
ness general fellowship. He spent four
months at the theatre centre in Dallas,
Texas, and visited theatres in Chicago,
Cleveland, Washington, Maine, New
Orleans and other American cities. The
main part of his study was to go to the
theatre and this, of course, was mainly
concentrated on Broadway and New
York. However, in relation to his job he
regards the time spent in smaller places,
where the problems and answers are
more closely related to the Trust’s, as
more valuable.
The paradox of his theatre-going '
that he found that on Broadway five
of the eight plays most highly acclaim?]
by critics and most popular with
audiences were from London. wu °
he went to London he found that manv
of the best plays were imported from
New York. 1
However, he found Broadway “j mnie .
diately and chronically a disappoint',
ment.” “Broadway is economically ter-
rified,” he said. “It constantly i m jt ates
last year’s pattern and fails, simply be-
cause of that. Plays fold daily, s j m piy
because they are too much like last
year’s. And off-Broadway, which I had
believed w'as able tc ‘feed’ plays and
players to Broadway, is now almost as
expensive as Broadway and almost as
terrified of failure. As well, the off-
Broadway theatres are extremely dirty
and uncomfortable, compared with our
own little theatres.”
However, Mr Lovejoy said he felt sure
that Broadway snatched so eagerly at
anything that might succeed that anyone
with anything to say somehow got a
hearing. A short time before he left he
saw Albee’s “Who’s Afraid of Virginia
Woolf?” which he called an “assault on
my emotions.” “It is a magnificent piece
of dialogue-writing,” he said, “although,
surprisingly, it is right in the old tradi-
tion of the drawing-room play.”
Perhaps the most heartening thing for
him was to find just how many cities in
America were now developing their own
community theatre, either attached to a
university or standing on its own feet.
This, he said, had meant the virtual end
of the touring company which used to
take last season’s Broadway success
across the country. “I don’t quite know
whether the companies stopped touring
because the smaller cities were growing
theatrically self-sufficient or vice-versa,’’
he said.
However, he found that one respect in
which the American theatre differs radic-
ally from ours is that often money is no
object. Mr Lovejoy rattled off the grants,
including 1,000,000 dollars to the Wash-
ington Arena Theatre to build a theatre
in the round, 2,000,000 dollars to the
Guthrie Theatre in Minneapolis, an
sums of up to 700,000 to college theatres,
which the Ford Foundation has ma e.
“Of course, the foundation does notjus
throw its money out the window, e
said. “Theatres are subject to ail sorts o
scrutiny first. In fact, Americans use
to throw up their hands in horror w e
I explained that we received G°
ment money, but I’m not at all sure
the Ford Foundation would be any eas
to deal with.”
What, after the varied experience I*
had gained overseas, did he feel the
tralian theatre needed? “Population is


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
1961 m
¥iN f a t , &
mm t
BURY ESTATE)
? hite burgundy
,y
«'t. \f.T > *•
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Ar
ini
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
MBS
thing,” h e sa *T “The theatre can
I ji only as the country grows. It is
? possible to defeat this. And we must
the writers. Australian theatre begins
| there.
' «n u t I think, too, that we should
realise we are not as badly served as we
We came to Sydney from San
Francisco, which is spoken of as the
coming Broadway,’ yet there is no com-
parison between what is on there and
l, ere I went down the local entertain-
ment list. Marceau I missed him in
New York but I can see him here.
Googie Withers she’s a world name.
The Ceylon ballet. And that’s apart from
the Independent, the Ensemble or half a
dozen small theatres.
“Australians seem to expect every
darned thing they see to be as good as
Broadway. Frequently individual perfor-
mances are, but we must realise we can’t
have everything at once. We want to stop
demanding champagne on a beer income.
And if we wear a hair-shirt, we should
know that we do.”
TELEVISION: PIN-MONEY
OR A PROFESSION?
The field is buoyant but limited
By CHARLES SRIBER
The classified columns of the Sydney
Morning Herald recently carried
four advertisements each of which
suggested that new talent was urgently
seeded for TV commercials.
"All males and females, between 16-45
years, sincerely interested are wanted
for TV and photographic com-
mercials.”
"Additional inexperienced men and
women and girls urgently required for
highly paid TV commercials.”
“Men, women and children required by
recently established Model Agency for
full or part-time work in fascinating
and profitable field of photographic
and TV commercial modelling. FREE
TV screen test and assessment to all
interested.”
fte are seeking men and women over
18 years of age who would be in-
terested in a career covering all fields
of commercial television and photo-
graphic modelling.”
So run the advertisements and one
®ight be pardoned if suspicions were
aroused by such glowing and promising
flames. Is it true that a constant
emand exists for new TV commercial
a ent? The answer, gleaned from the
managers of Sydney’s leading adver-
ts agencies, add up to a resounding
I( is perfectly true that radio and TV
managers of the various agencies are
constantly on the lookout for new talent.
onie out scouts to pick up a
paired type from the busy city streets.
ers comb amateur dramatic societies.
, see ms that every type of human kind
needed some time or other in some
0r Comr nercial or another. But for one,
at.most, a few commercials only! The
four'll o< *’ f° r a s * n §l e ca^
hours. Good money by any stan-
dards! but a career? a full-time job? a
constant source of additional money?
that’s another thing.
Yet the agencies continue to do
business and multiply. They seem to
divide themselves into two types; the
older agencies which charge a fee of 10
per cent of what is earned through their
efforts and which do not advertise, and
newcomers, lately in the field who
advertise daily and offer to take photo-
graphs for circulation. There is a charge
for these photos often quite a steep
one. In the two weeks of investigation
that preceded the writing of this article,
two new agencies began business and
one, established four months, moved into
new and spacious premises.
Interest in these agencies was sparked
by an incident mentioned by Mr lan
Macdonald, the director of Willmott’s
Advertising Agency in Sydney. A
woman got in touch with one of his
clients specialising in baby products and
demanded to know when her baby would
be used in a TV commercial advertising
their products. The company, naturally,
referred her to their agents and she told
her story.
She had read a newspaper advertise-
ment, called at the agency with her 2\-
year-old baby and was told the infant
was “just the sort we are looking for to
use in a TV commercial.” Here the
interviewer named Willmott’s client. She
was asked for eight guineas for special
photographs—three dozen in all —which
would be distributed to TV producers
who might be interested in using her
child. The woman was apparently so
sure that at least one engagement was
coming her way she asked where the
film would be made.
“At Artransa Park studios,” the inter-
viewer told her. When the weeks passed
and her telephone remained silent, the
woman stormed the baby-products firm
and then the agency.
The manager told her that he had
never heard of the agency, had never
received any photographs of her baby
and in any case the Child Welfare De-
partment prohibited the filming of child-
ren between the ages of 18 months and
seven years except in special circum-
stances, which her case did not appear to
govern. Artransa Park, one of Sydney’s
biggest studios, had likewise never heard
of the agency.
Miss Judith Johnson, an 18-year-old
secretary of Castle Hill, visited a TV and
film agency on January 21. This agency,
unlisted in the building directory, was
doing business in a small office.
After waiting in the outer office Miss
Johnson was shown inside. Miss Johnson
is slim, attractive and young. She was
told she was a “Rothmans” type. Had
she considered mannequin modelling for


David Jones or Farmers? She hadn’t.
The man she spoke to made no specific
promises but gave her a pink “contract”
form which detailed her measurements,
coloring and qualifications and experi-
ence. She signed her willingness to pay
the agency 10 per cent of any money
she might earn through them.
Head and shoulder
Qhe would need photographs. She was
shown an example of a head and
shoulder shot. Normally such photo-
graphs would cost between £l5 and
£2O the man said, but his studio was
ready to take them for a modest eight
guineas. When Miss Johnson looked
doubtful, he reminded her that as a
fashion model she could earn around
£l5 for two hours work.
When she still didn’t reach for her
purse he suggested a deposit of 10s. and
the balance later. She told him this
would eat into her fare home to Castle
Hill and he was prepared to stretch a
point and let her drop in and pay the
following day. Miss Johnson decided
against pursuing the matter.
A phone call to the agency handling
Rothmans’ account brought the informa-
tion that they had no knowledge of the
agency, but that they would be interested
in meeting Miss Johnson or anybody
else who might really be a “Rothmans”
type.
I visited the agency. They apologised
for the part-furnished state of the new
premises (they were spacious, curtained
and very pleasant). I was told they were
a registered agency, founded four months,
and at this stage their work consisted
mostly of research.
This consisted of getting in touch with
the advertising agencies. So far they
had found work for 10 of the people
registered with them. There was some
uncertainty about this.
Those who applied were asked to
bring photographs with them. Only if
those photographs were not suitable did
the agency offer to supply them. They
charged £8 10s. for six useable photos.
Didn't they consider this a trifle ex-
pensive? Well, the charge for the photo-
graphs included the cost of service. If
the photographs were no good, they were
retaken.
Wondering,whether this was the usual
procedure in modelling and TV casting
agencies, I called on Central Casting.
This agency operates in a modest par-
titioned room. The artists are dealt with
over a business-like counter. Behind
this in a cramped space sit the two
principals, Mr Jack Cover and Mr
James Joyce.
The role of Central Casting is “to
represent our client exclusively. To pay
the artist before the studio pays us
thus avoiding delays. To act as un-
official tax collector by deducting tax
with the approval of the Department of
Taxation. To ensure that actors get their
call and keep their appointment with the
TV or recording studios.” As Mr Joyce
and Mr Cover put it, their agency acts
as friend and adviser to actors registered
with them. “Many actors run up huge
tax debits. We’ve frequently put an
actor ‘on a pension’ giving him enough
to live on while we pay off his debts and
get him in the clear. On one occasion
we paid back taxation amounting to
more than £2500.”
Central Casting has direct lines to the
principal studios and claim to be able
to supply most needs within a matter
of hours.
What was the position for the new-
comer who wanted to break in? They
were cautious. As they saw it, the field
was already overcrowded. Work was
not plentiful. However, they interviewed
any casual applicants, sized them up as
potentials or no-hopers and either took
their particulars or gently tried to
dissuade them from further action. Suit-
able applicants are registered and asked
for photographs. If they have none they
are directed to Leicagraph or any other
efficient, low-priced photographic salon.
Leicagraph charges 255. for a suitable
set of shots. Central Casting take 10
per cent of earnings from those for
whom they find work.
The waiting room of another agency
was full when I called. A receptionist
asked me to wait. The assembled hope-
fuls regarded me with mixed hostility as
a possible rival for TV fame. They
ranged from quite elderly women,
through middle aged of both sexes to
young and very brassy. One woman sat
beside an apathetic child. Nobody spoke.
I was ushered into a small office to
meet a personable young man with
glasses, who hoped I didn’t mind him
smoking Rothmans. He’d developed a
taste for them, he said, “when we were
doing some work for them a few months
back.”
The agency, the man told me, was
registered as an employment bureau.
He believed people were sick of the
same faces on TV and a need for new
models had been created. This, his
agency was in business to fill. All new-
comers were interviewed and then given
a “closed circuit television test.” There
was no charge for this and it gave a good
idea of the applicant’s potential w
said 80 per cent of the callers Li
photos with them. “If they don’t
the photos are not suitable, we tell tli
what’s needed. We can take the requiSd
photos.” Charges, he said, were between
eight and ten guineas for six. D
Similar story
A gency casting directors have a re-
markably similar story to tell. Mr
Ken Fowles of Lintas said he deals
primarily with the old-established
agencies, but he keeps a list of semi-
professionals he can call on if the
agencies fail to supply the types he seeks
Callers to Lintas are all interviewed and
the company is constantly on the look-
out for new faces.
Mrs Phyllis Hall of George Patterson
said she uses the five main agencies, but
if the newly established agencies came
up with a suitable type she would cer-
tainly be interested. Her agency required
photos at all times. Where they were
taken was not her concern.
Mr Eric Merchant ot Jackson Wain
said bis agency had need of hundreds of
photos and was constantly on the look-
out for new faces. Some of the newly
established agencies had sent photo-
graphs to him and he had seen one or
two possible types.
Mr Hal Alexander, general secretary
of Actors Equity, said his organisation
would never recommend an agency that
asked for money in advance for any
purpose. He had heard of newly-
formed agencies asking for large sums
of money for photos and other alleged
services. He knew of one case in which
a girl had paid out £2O without getting
a single booking.
Mr Bernard Holt, secretary of the
Australian Association of Advertising
Agents, was outspoken on this question
of casting agencies. In his Wynyard
Square office he told me emphatically
that no reputable agency asks for cash
in advance. “If they do they’re not oper-
ating squarely,” he said. “As for photo-
graphs the agencies don’t want art
studies. They want a simple un
retouched shot which any good amateur
photographer can take. It’s a matter o
deep concern to my association t a
snide practitioners are taking people lll
by charging large sums for P o<y
graphs.”
With Australia spending more on
proportionately than the United ta
the future might bring considerable!
provement. But that is the future,
the time being the field is buoyant
limited.


OF ROADS AND MEN
How to save lives and money
By BOADICEA
rtrrHAT it calls the “road toll” rightly
Vi/ ranks high among the perennial
topics of Australia’s daily Press.
Bad roads and speeding are usually
blamed. Super highways, dual roads and
flyovers have been among the suggested
remedies. But the truth is that we cannot
afford these luxuries and, even if we
could, it would take years to build them
at the rate our State Governments move.
I believe a little clear thinking could
improve things, without spending mil-
lions of pounds. The current phrase
“speed kills” has a limited truth. Blind
Freddie knows that if he runs into a
wall he hurts himself more than if he
walks into it. But most drivers speed
occasionally; to expect them not to is
like expecting a child not to pull a cat’s
tail or not to strike a mischievous match
when no one is looking. To be practical
we must assume that people will speed
-some more than others; it is a pretty
dud car nowadays that won’t motor at 70
and better. In fact, most of the motor
industry’s advertising is directed to their
cars’ performances.
We live in an era of rapid motion,
and he who potters is either going to be
run over or left behind, whether it is
in everyday business or in everyday
motoring. So what can we do to remedy
this quickly and cheaply?
p IRST » there is the old problem of
licences. We know they are too easy
*° get, and that many people drive on
one licence, particularly New Australians,
'' ose language problem is sometimes
urned to advantage to confuse the
aiJ thorities. If we accept the fact that
ICe nces are too easy and still do nothing
| °ut it, then we aren’t really tackling
e problem of the road toll at one of
® sources.
A woman of my acquaintance passed
J nv * n & test, yet openly confessed to
e ,mat she could not “for the life of
J’ rem ember which pedal to push to
Jni fl 6 , Car in an em ergency. This was
ta/ * 6 u 0r er w hen she bought a
juv Wlta ai) tomatic transmission. But
“ an . ne P as sing their test on an
c »dor?ed 1C “ Sh ° Uld haVC their licence
liable aut °matics only,” and be
manu a i°t & fine if cau S ht driving
transmission cars.
I would issue probationary licences
for a year. The issue of a full licence
would be withheld until a further and
stiffer test was passed, and any serious
offence during the year’s probation
would mean an extension of the proba-
tionary period. A further step which,
of course, would be unpopular with the
motor trade would be the issue of a
special licence for anyone driving high-
powered jobs such as sports cars, big
American cars and European “grand
tourers.”
Another simple and effective brake
on accidents would be stricter control
of the roadworthiness of vehicles of all
types lorries, cars, buses, and towed
contrivances. This would be unpopular
with those who put off buying a new tyre,
fixing a light, replacing a wiper blade,
or relining the brakes until it is too late.
The junking of cars over a certain age
has proved effective in many countries,
but it would take a more road-toll-
conscious government than we have at
present to enforce such legislation.
Australia, because of her size and
small population, can never have the
highly developed road systems of Europe
and America, but our roads could be
improved out of sight by the use of
that commonsense which seems to be
lacking in the departments responsible.
The markings, placement of warning
signs, and the normal maintenance of
road edges could all be so much better;
it is tragic that so little is done. At too
many danger spots there should be
double lines instead of dotted ones. So
many drivers use road markings as
guides to safe overtaking that these lines
should be placed most carefully. Road
signs are often far too small and too
near the danger of which they are sup-
posed to warn the driver.
Some signs are obscured by overhang-
ing branches, or placed where the
motorist, with his eyes fixed on the road,
would never see them. Many of these are
30 mph warnings, and it gives rise to
the uncharitable suspicion that they are
mainly used as revenue catchers by the
police.
Road signs in NSW are the responsi-
bility of the Department of Main Roads,
which seems to lag behind those of other
States. Western Australia must have a
particularly bright bunch of engineers,
for their roads are probably the best
designed in the country. Granted they
get a goodly portion of Federal aid; but
they make first-class use of it. Their
expressways are well designed, in con-
trast to ours; the Cahill expressway, with
its dangerous Automobile Club corner,
is an outstanding example of how not to
do it. Perth has overhead bridges for
pedestrians the aged and the very
young are considered. There are no
steps, only a gentle gradient up and
down which prams can be pushed.
Again, the level crossings in WA are
safer—safer certainly than those of
Victoria. In the West the road doesn’t
follow the line and suddenly cross it
without adequate warning. It swings
away in a wide arc, and then approaches
from a distance in a straight line with
plenty of warnings. He who has an acci-
dent there doesn’t want to be saved.
South Australia has some good roads,
but it was there that I saw an incredible
“open go” sign placed a hundred yards
or so before the minor road joined an
expressway!
Queensland has long had the worst
roads in Australia, but even with their
limited resources the authorities there
do make sensible and earnest attempts
to widen roads at danger spots, and to
label their few expressways clearly, as
is done in Europe.
NSW is by far the worst served by its
Department of Roads. Perhaps if it were
possible to sheet home to the department
the actual deaths caused by their poorly-
maintained roads something would be
done. I remember a particularly dan-
gerous corner in a certain shire which
had claimed three lives in less than a
month. Its surface became glass-like
in wet weather, and was long overdue for
attention. The question of when it was
to be resurfaced came up at a council
meeting, and the engineer replied it
would be done some time in the next
few months. One councillor, stung by
such indifference, asked the engineer to
assess from past records how many deaths
were likely before the work was done.
The question was hotly resented, but it
had the desired effect. The road was
resurfaced the following week.


PEARLS
FROM
SWAIN
"Channel Two makes my feet tickle."
''"Can / have the chariot tonight? It's my first orgy."
"Without medical benefits he works out at
eighteen guineas a pound."
"Haye you got a rose-colored pair?"


OVERSEAS
HAROLD WILSON
Vain, industrious, witty and... enigmatic
It may seem ironic that the party
which was so shaken by Hugh Gait-
skelfs death should now elect as his
successor the candidate who most con-
sistently opposed him and who less than
tee years ago openly challenged his
leadership.
But Gaitskell left the British Labor
Party, at any rate temporarily, united,
poised for power and so, passing over
old divisions, free to choose its ablest
®ao for leader. Some may dispute
te description of Harold Wilson. They
ma y feel that George Brown has
a sharper, if less tutored, intelligence.
u | even these, most of them, will con-
that in the world of Kennedy and
rushchev and de Gaulle it is Wilson
0 Can m °st be relied on to hold his
a "n as Prime Minister of a Labor
wernment.
th r aS ° w h en his handling of
jjj r oscow trade talks in 1947 provided
i rs ast f °f the toughness and tenacity
c adeN^ S srno °th-skinned, chubby fa-
tec ii a fter night, as he loves to
' al1 ; ff om 10 till as late as six in the
Ijjj, ln £’ he wrestled with the master,
for an agreement worth <£4o
jj '
would send for his plane and keep
Propellers revving up, while one by
one the outstanding issues were settled,
Finally, when only one difference re-
mained, rather than concede the point,
he broke off the talks, though the temp-
tation to fly home with an easy triumph
under his belt must have been strong,
Ten years later, in very different cir-
cumstances, his speech in the debate on
the report of the Bank Rate Tribunal
showed how strong and aggressively
armoured he could be when his back was
to the wall. His apparently deliberate
dropping of Lord Poole’s name when
pressing a reluctant Government for a
judicial inquiry into the alleged Bank
Rate leakage had deeply angered
Conservatives,
When the report found everyone con-
cerned innocent they were looking for
their revenge. Wilson rose to face im-
placably hostile benches, and for 90
minutes, in the longest speech of his life,
he not only defended himself but beat
back the opposition and sat down with
a temperature of 102 and the grudging
respect of his opponents.
Face to face with an adversary, Wil-
son has often shown courage as well as
skill. It is when his position in his own
party has been at stake that he has
incurred charges of weakness and want
of loyalty.
He resigned from the Labor Govern-
ment with Aneurin Bevan; but three
years later, when Bevan walked out of
the Shadow Cabinet, Wilson, next in line,
stepped up into his place. He stood
against Gaitskell for the leadership,
after the victory of the unilateral nuclear
disarmers at Scarborough in 1960 and,
though never a unilateralist himself, ac-
cepted their support.
It is actions such as these that have
won for Wilson a measure of distrust,
not only on the right wing of the party.
Now that he has triumphed by the free,
secret vote of his colleagues, he has his
chance to answer his critics, for each
of these incidents can be explained with-
out imputing to him any ill motive.
Politics is the one overmastering pas-
sion of Harold Wilson’s life. He is a
most assiduous campaigner in the con-
stituencies. At home he works early and
late and feels almost guilty if he catches
himself reading a book even on a Sun-
day evening. He is no music-lover, no
theatregoer, and he has never been so
often to the cinema since he used to
enjoy a visit as part of his duties at the
Board of Trade. His one relaxation is
an occasional round of golf at the Hamp-
stead Golf Club, where, characteristic-
ally, he prefers to play by himself against
bogey.
Politically and personally, Wilson is
a cat that has always liked to walk by
itself. He keeps his private life entirely
to himself and has probably never en-
tertained more than half a dozen poli-
ticians in the modest semi-detached
house in the Hampstead Garden Suburb
where he lives with his wife, a daughter
of the manse, and his two sons, the
elder at Balliol doing pure mathematics,
the younger at University College School.
Quiet, contained, rather nondescript in
appearance, Harold Wilson has a self-:
disciplined, single-minded approach to
life that stems from his Nonconformist
northern upbringing.
Though his father and mother were
both Lancastrians, three of his four
grandparents came from Yorkshire and
it was there, at Huddersfield, that he was
born, 46 years ago, into a Congregation-
alist home.
When he was 14, the family moved
to Cheshire and Harold went to Wirral
Grammar School. The following year
A. V. Alexander, now Opposition leader
in the Lords, speaking at the school’s
speech day, wondered aloud whether'
there might not be a future Cabinet Min-
ister among the boys. Harold remembers
thinking that very far-fetched: 16 years
later he became the youngest man in the
Cabinet since Pitt.
From the Wirral he went up to Jesus
College, Oxford, as an exhibitioner,
worked hard and got an excellent First
in politics, philosophy and economics.


Visit Victoria
Beaches that shine like gold
in the sunshine swimming,
surfing, water ski-ing, sailing
• everything to suit the timid
toddler or the adventurous
teenager. Victoria’s Peninsula
Paradise where summer lingers.
Come and enjoy its best beach
weather in February & March.
-
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon .
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
n
m
mm-
m
y
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
35748
LEASE
tfmna
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita-1.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING COUP.
MV. ITD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
his spare-time study being Miv ,
essay prizes, two of which he won t?
kept himself fit with long-distance'W
nmg but did not manage a Blue “t 7
not run fast enough,” he explains drvl!
He was too busy to bother with V'
Union. Qe
He allowed himself a little politic
But, thinking the Labor Club unde
Communist influence, he joined the Li)] 1
eral Club and served on its committee
He hoped, it seems, to convert them to
Socialism, but there was nothing doing,
After his degree he stayed on as a
don, at New College, and a year later
at University College, where he did
research for Lord Beveridge, the new
Master. Beveridge was once heard to
say that Harold Wilson was the ablest
research student he had ever had. He
lasted the longest: two years.
The morning war was declared, Wilson
was reading a paper on trade cycles to
the British Association. Soon afterwards
he was drafted into the Civil Service,
where he served in the Cabinet Secre-
tariat and later in the Ministry of Fuel
and Power. It was there that he first met
the leader he has now succeeded. Gaits-
kell was an administrator; Wilson be-
came Director of Statistics. His approach
to economics has always been statistical,
more concerned with production than
with banking: which is why he was bet-
ter cast later at the Board of Trade while
Gaitskell was at the Treasury.
Wilson left the Civil Service in 1944,
when he was adopted as the Labor can-
didate for Ormskirk and spent the time
until the election writing his Plan for
Coal, which prefigured Labor’s national-
isation proposals. He was one of the
only three new Labor MPs in the 1945
Parliament who went straight on to the
Front Bench, serving at the Ministry of
Works before he began his long stint at
the Board of Trade.
As a Minister Harold Wilson did not
specially shine. He worked hard, waj
very accessible and made rather dull;
donnish speeches both in the House and
the country. But all the time he wa?
learning. His grasp kept pace with his
reach. He negotiated trade agreements,
boosted exports and one Guy Fawkes
day had a great bonfire of controls: which
the “New Statesman” thought a very
non-left thing to do.
Sevan’s resignation in April, 195,
was a great blow to the tottering Gov-
ernment, and it set the pattern for t e
long years of civil war ahead. But in t e
splash of his departure the ripples cas
by Harold Wilson and John Freeman
counted for little. Wilson found himse
typecast as a sort of satellite, the P rince
of the Bevanites. .
This was probably unfair from
very start. Bevan resigned out o
vulsion at the charges on his Hea


the border or that they will not prosecute
with skill and vigor a ruthless type of
propaganda designed to show two things:
that West Papuans are happy as larks to
belong to one of the world's most po-
pulous and potentially powerful nations
and that brown skins are common from
the northern tip of Sumatra to the eastern
islands of New Britain.
To ignore the effects of this type of
propaganda on the emerging peoples of
East New Guinea would be madness.
Many Australian both in New Guinea
and on the mainland desperately want to
believe that somehow because New
Guinea has had a different colonial his-
tory from other areas, and because at
this stage its peoples are passive and
dependent on white skills and help that
somehow New Guinea can escape the
disagreeable problems and events inevit-
ably associated with colonial disengage-
ment. Indonesians know better they
know that when independence really starts
to take shape in East New Guinea it will
include New Guineans who are specific-
ally anti-white and anti-Australian as well
as those who for political advantage will
pursue a pro-Indonesian line. To these
people both Indonesians and their indoc-
trinated West Papuan stooges will offer
moral and material support. It is certain
that indoctrinated West Papuans will
proclaim in the name of “the sacred
principles of anti-colonialism” every pos-
sible help to their brothers across the
border who are the helpless victims of
Australian colonialism. Those who fear
armed aggression from Indonesia in the
ordinary course of events are perhaps
being unduly pessimistic. The possibili-
ty remains but it is more likely if there is
ever a struggle between us over New
Guinea it will be fought in the now
familiar terms of anti-colonialism, propa-
ganda and subversion a struggle for
the allegiance of the emerging East New
Guineans.
What can we do about this? The
answer is plenty. We can start spending
far more money in New Guinea. The
present yearly budget of <£23,000,000
is chicken feed. We can hasten not only
the rate of material and welfare develop-
ment but that of education and policital
responsibility. We can make it worth-
while for new investors to come into the
Territory and for old investors to remain
by offering reasonable guarantees. We
can accelerate the building of air strips,
roads and communications. We can
match Indonesian propaganda with our
own without being apologetic or half-
hearted. Above all, we can make it
crystal clear both to Indonesia and to
“our great and powerful allies” that we
regard East New Guinea not only as a
trust to be developed but also as a vital
and strategic area of national interest
over which we will not submit to intimi-
dation and subversion. This should be
conveyed to our allies with maximum
force. We have already had one experi-
ence of what happened when our allies
doubted where we stood.
We should not be dismayed by events.
We have several things in our favor.
Indonesians still have a reservoir of
goodwill towards us—a legacy from our
stand over their bid for independence —-
even though they regard us having been
incomprehensibly stupid in our support
of the Dutch. But they also think of us
as part of the area, as part of Asia, not
as transient European colonialists. We
should not be led into a fearful ovep-
estimation of their military power based
on Russian equipment which will become
obsolete, and for the maintenance and
functions of which Indonesia has no
industrial skill. Neither should we over-
estimate the support they enjoy among
the Afro-Asians who show signs of be-
coming fed up with them. And we should
not dismiss the possibility that the
present expansionist dynamic may
with a change in leadership turn in-
wards and deal with domestic problems.
Above all, we must state our own
vital interests. The slightest hesitation on
our part to commit ourselves to a posi-
tive policy will be ruthlessly and skilfully
exploited. If that should happen we would
have no one to blame but ourselves.
j ce Wilson and Freeman were more
f ctly concerned with the rearmament
Iramme, which they thought wildly
excessive. As Wilson put it: If you try
move a piano that’s too heavy, you
* n ’t move it; you’ll just strain yourself.
In fact the Bevanites never did form
ne movement. There were those who
Lt wanted to make Nye king; and there
Lre the policy makers such as Wilson
j pick Crossman. Often they made
common cause Wilson moved the
amendment opposing German Re-
armament at the Parliamentary Party
meeting in February, 1954; it was lost
by only two votes.
When, in April, Bevan left the Shadow
Cabinet Wilson, the runner-up, had a
difficult decision to make. When they
passed in the corridor that evening Bevan
hardly seemed to notice him. A weekend
w t by and they did not meet. On the
Monday Dick Crossman brought them
together and they talked for hours at
Sevan’s London home.
Bevan said Wilson would lose his seat
on the National Executive. Wilson re-
plied with spirit that he would not: he’d
come top. He did.
To the Left this was treachery. To the
Right it was the beginning of the crawl
towards the Centre. To Wilson it was a
demonstration of independence. From
low on everything he did was liable to
have at least two interpretations put
upon it. If he opposed Mr Gaitskell’s
attempt to rewrite Clause 4 of the party’s
constitution because, as he thought, it
was an artificially created divisive issue,
itwas really because he could not bead to
lose popularity. If he stood against Gaits-
lellthe following autumn because, in his
view, the nuclear issue was being falsely
polarised, it was really because he saw
a chance of power.
It may be in the first case he was
light and in the second wrong. He may
well have taken both stands because he
is earthy and cautious, likes to placate
and listens to too much advice. He
hesitated a long time before he opposed
Gaitskell and, again, Brown last No-
vember. Perhaps, in the end, he feared
lo be thought indecisive. Perhaps he was
afraid of seeming afraid.
Today this enigmatic man is among
dtain’s best parliamentarians. His
speeches glitter, cascade with wit. Some-
toes too many jokes spoil the flow; but
js almost freakish memory comes to his
J 1 There is nothing visual about it.
figures, dates, names: he never for-
|ets them.
, but not conceited, with a hard
toer assurance, dependable and indus-
hv ~~ was not a King’s Scout for
0 ln § Harold Wilson is a contem-
orary, classless figure. What sort of a
7 will he make?
e will take advice: he has no inhi-
bitions, no inferiority complex about
that. He will concern himself more with
science and technology. His supporters
see him as a sort of homespun Kennedy,
complete with brains trust. Or, perhaps,
an amalgam of Kennedy’s cool unfussed
radicalism and Lloyd George s fiery
demagoguery with a dash of Attlee’s
inscrutable pulse-taking for good
measure.
The two Harolds, the best pros in the
political game, will be well matched at
the head of the two great parties; in their
approach to politics they have more in
common than Gaitskell had with either,
But, when it comes to leading the coun-
try, Wilson has one great doubt to dispel,
Has he the capacity for imaginative
leadership? He often seems like a man
with few convictions, searching for the
point of balance in his party and perch-
ing on it. If true, this may take him to
Downing Street, but it would not make
his stay there memorable.


The
Classic Wines
of Dal wood
Hunter Val i ey Austr^H*
CIAEET
Reserve Bottling
RIESUNG
burgundy
Reserve Bottling
SJj i
I I
I§)MSZ
Vr
sr 1
VINTAGE 1960
VtN.TAA.fc
ntac
VINTAGE 1959
1 4
CHABUS
Reserve Bottling
NETW6RCHS
Reserve Bottling
I*o4 lollleg by •entoMsWwMftel't
Dalwood in the Hunter Valley of New South
Wales has long been known to wine enthusi-
asts for its outstanding table wines. This
historic vineyard established in 1831 by a
gentleman from Wiltshire named s George
Wyndham, was later a£quired and exten-
sively developed by Penfolds. Dalwood
Wines are classic examples of the table wines
that have made the Hunter Valley famous.
The Maurice O’Shea
Memorial Trophy
Australia’s most sought -
after table wine award —
the Maurice O’Shea
Memorial Trophy—was
won by Penfolds at the
1963 Sydney Royal
Show.
PW4&I
WHEN A BOXER
BOUNCES
ONCE TOO OFTEN
Wanted: medical supervision?
IT*he Gary Cowburn who won the welter-
weight title early in 1962, from a help-
less, terribly game George Barnes the
Cowburn who punched with power and
precision, and almost begged Victor
Patrick to stop the fight was not the
same man as the one who regained the
title early in 1963, against a helpless and
game Tommy Collins.
During the year between Cowburn’s
two triumphs he had fought punishing
bouts against J. D. Ellis and Alfredo
Cota, and finally left his title on the
floor for Sid Prior to take up, examine,
and throw down. It was not a hard
year, as fighters’ years go, although it
had too many bounces on the canvas in
it for Cowburn’s good.
In the main events, a boxer can be
concussed several times in one fight,
each time to a degree that would 1
a doctor to recommend days i n bed ?
any ordinary patient. Boxers who rea !
the top are not ordinary people u
can take punishment. But each of tt
must have a different limit, or thresh*!
of damage. 0 .
There have been plenty of signs that
Covvburn’s limit is less than, say e!
Prior’s or Alfredo Cota’s. Both of th,'
men were built like young middleweight
Cowburn has the slim classic welter’s
build. Too often he has been bustled to
the ropes and hit at will. In fact, he j s
literally a “sitter” for that, unable’ to do
anything but sit on the rope and be
beaten until he goes down or can slip
out when the other man tires. Fear or
confusion, assails him. Cowburn mav
have suffered damage which makes any
succession of buffets to the head more
than he can stand, and that may be why
he seems to panic when it happens.
If so, he should stop fighting now, but
not every boxer has Sid Prior’s good
sense. Prior made some money and took
some hard blows and won a title, and
then called it a day. He will live longer
for that. Cowburn was rematched for
the vacant title with Tommy Collins, a
spoiling fighter who works in close and
uses any means the referee will allow,
Eventually Cowburn’s occasional short
punches, the best remaining in his
armament, dazed Collins until he was
merely someone standing there, too
game to fall, punching at anything he
could see, which in the end happened to
be the referee. Collins, certainly, should
hang up the gloves, for boxing’s sake as
well as his own.
Whether Cowburn should is another
matter. He is the champion again.
Fewer than 3000 people went to see his
title fight. They got their money’s
worth. But on the ‘gate,’ Cowburn did
not get his worth’s money. His next
fight may easily mean another £lOOO for
him, hard to resist.
A year ago Cowburn had a good quick
left and a big right at long range, and
now he is missing badly with them. It
could be simple lack of confidence,
after his beating at Prior’s hands. The
Collins fight may have restored it. The
trouble could as easily be the effects of
damage, and that should be decided. It
should be decided now. There is no
power to decide it.
Doctors associated with the Sports
Medicine movement could test every
boxer in Australia from his first fig
until they had to recommend against
last, with little difficulty and at no g rea
cost. It could only be done under a
Commission with power to control a
least this aspect of the sport. I t i s “ 0U .,,
be done. It must be done, or boxing 'f
die instead of changing and progressin
DISCUS


FORM
WHAT HAPPENED TO THE LIBERALS?
A state of stunned shock
By PETER COLEMAN
n W as Napoleon I think who ordered his lawyers to draw up a constitu-
tion that both sounded good and was vague enough to let him get
odtj with anything. In some respects Tarty platforms are similar to
constitutions of this type by the generous use of such jargon as
*appropriate ”, “adequate”, “whenever possible”, “when desirable”, almost
anything any party does can be defended as compatible with the plat-
form. By the use of words like “public interest”, one can include incom-
patible policies such as free enterprise and price stabilisation. Since no
one takes them too seriously one can also throw in some most-unlikely-
lo-succeed policies such as New States.
Nevertheless they ire more than mere
window dressing. If they were only that,
[he Labor Party would not have split
over its platform. In the Liberal Party
too the platform was considered impor-
tant enough to be overhauled in 1962.
Platforms are useful as indicators of a
party’s basic ideas and values: you need
much more than the platform to get the
full picture but platforms have their
place.
In this paper I am to examine some
of the ways in which the Liberal Party
(and also the Country Party) has “out-
grown” or “betrayed” depending on
how you look at it its platform; at the
ways in which the Federal Government’s
actions clash with the Liberal Party’s
Basic ideas or values; or, putting it an-
other way, to raise the question to what
extent the Party’s basic ideas have be-
come fixed ideas, setting up mental block-
ages which impede the Government
giving the sort of leadership it should be
giving.
The basic point I hope to make is that
the Liberal Party has in fact reached a
% in which its platform or ideas have
Become one of the main hindrances to
the execution of Liberal policies. Like all
Australian parties, with the possible ex-
ception of the Democratic Labor Party, it
as reached a stage of ideological exhaus-
l(w. Its “conventional wisdom” in Gal-
Mhs terms has been undermined by
march of events. (The DLP’s extra-
J inar y ideological fertility is perhaps
a y an index of the fact that it will
ever be called on to put its ideas into
Practice.)
iJP 16 Party which came to
I er m 1949 was formed in 1944 in
,J anie atmosphere in which all great
lnc l ut fing the Labor Party, have
tick ° rmec *’ an atmosphere of fear and
[L e ° usaess in the case of the
a Party, fear of the country’s
sudden move to Socialism, and a right-
eous belief in the value of freedom for
producers, consumers, traders.
In organisation, it avoided the looseness
that encouraged the gang-warfare of the
UAP. In membership it attracted a type
of liberal idealist and intellectual who
had been repelled by the UAP, who were
destined to conflict later with some of
the Party’s UAP carry-overs, and who
shared little of the UAP’s in-the-bone,
mean-minded hostility to the traditional
This is a condensation of an address
on “The Liberal and Country Parties
Platforms, Policies, Perform-
ances,” recently given at the Aus-
tralian Institute of Political Science’s
Summer School in Canberra on
Australian Politics. The full text
with all the other papers will be
published in the Institute’s forth-
coming book on the Summer School.
Labor Party. In ideology it had a pro-
gramme of welfare capitalism and a
combination of two basic incompatible
policies that was the source of many of
its later troubles: a fight against inflation
combined with a policy of immigration,
development and full employment which
intensified inflation.
But although it had a comprehensive
social services programme, its essential
spirit was probably best expressed in the
various Presidential addresses of Mr
W. H. Anderson with his themes of 100
per cent freedom of enterprise; his hosti-
lity to the idea of a “mixed economy” (“If
we take the first step towards socialism
we will end up as socialists. Our way of
life brooks no compromise”); his refusal
to concede any real difference between
socialism and communism (“The Socia-
list is merely a Communist without
guts”); his fear of all Governments, even
Liberal ones; his concern that the genera-
tion of children at school in the 19405,
never having known in those years a
free society, would never fight for one in
the 1950 s and 19605.
Out of this came a platform emphasis-
ing free enterprise, national development,
dedication to the British Empire in de-
fence and foreign policy the policies
we are to discuss now.
With, as already mentioned, its poli-
cies of both countering and encouraging
inflation, and the increasing Govern-
ment interference in business or eco-
nomic planning that this has involved,
tensions and criticisms were inevitable,
particularly after the earlier sense of
delivery from socialism was forgotten.
British withdrawal from Asia and nuclear
armaments also in due course under-
mined traditional foreign and defence
policies. These,criticisms took some time
to crystallise. For several years after the
1949 victory the Party’s followers were
so satisfied with the Government’s perfor-
mance that the non-parliamentary party
did not feel any need for a policy com-
mittee of its own. Things were proceed-
ing as expected.
The Government worked out a set of
techniques in the 1950 s which were
reasonably successful; it was anyhow one
of the greatest decades of development
and prosperity we have ever had, and
even if we should give credit for this to
the enterprise of the producers, the
Government's economic, trading and im-
migration policies made it possible. In
reaction to Labor controls it committed
itself to industrial and rural expansion,
to the mass production of consumer
durables, to enjoyment. It combined the
two liberal ideals of enterprise and a
good time.
It saw its economic role as holding the
arena while men made money, developed
the country, and enjoyed themselves. It
was one of the great periods of what I
suppose is called bourgeois life or, in
Australian terms, suburban life.
But by the end of the fifties two co-
herent sets of tensions, or lines of criti-
cism, emerged.
The first vocal Liberal critics of the
Government were the Men of 1949 who
had looked forward to the elimination
of bureaucracy and Government con-
trols. Their basic criticism is that the
Government has betrayed the ideal of
free enterprise. In the past 13 years, they
say, it has so increasingly undermined
free enterprise that, by following and
completing Liberal precedents, a socialist
Government could largely socialise the
country.
Another fervent line of criticism by the
Men of 1949 concerns defence, or rather,
since there are so many criticisms of the
Government’s defence policies, the aboli-


tion of compulsory universal training.
Since Alfred Deakin fathered universal
military service in Australia, it has been
an essential plank of Liberal and Country
Party platforms. It was emphasised in the
1944 Liberal platform, it still is in the
Country Party platform. It was a product
of the period before contemporary weap-
ons, when the value of armed services
were measured largely by the numbers of
men in them. In abolishing—as well as
maintaining a very small defence budget
(which raises a quite different line of
criticism) and putting defence into the
hands of the Regulars, the professionals,
it has reversed what was considered a
settled policy.
Foreign policy
A third leading example of tension be-
tween the Government and the Men
of 1949 is in foreign policy. Mr Menzies
in the 1940 s was one of the most
eloquent champions of the British Empire
and he expressed the feelings of the
Party. As another leader, the Country
Party leader, the late Sir Earle Page, put
it, either we are in the British Empire or
“we turn aside upon some lonely road
of our own never knowing where it will
take us”. As well as being the traditional
policy of the Party, Government impe-
rial ideas had only recently been given
majestic expression by Winston Churchill
and the map of Asia was still largely
pink. After the war it was the British in
Malaya who had the most significant
victory yet over the Communists in
Asia, apart from the Philippines case.
Since then however, the British have
been withdrawing from Asia; the last
major imperial adventure, Suez, was a
failure, and the British Government de-
cided to abandon the Empire’s trading
system. These decisions have been largely
out of Australia’s hands and do not lead
to the sort of criticism of the Government
as is found in the fields of defence or
economic policy. They indicate rather an-
other strain in the confusion of the Men
of 1949, another tension between their
basic beliefs and the Government’s at-
tempt to find a new Britain in America
for defence or in Japan for trade.
It may be that someone who believes
in these 1949 ideas could give a better
defence of them than I can do, but
they seem to me to be simply the
products of political nostalgia. The days
of 100 per cent free enterprise are over
(assuming for the moment they ever
existed) and the Party implied this when
it committed itself to full employment,
migration and development which
require regular interference with the
economy ranging from budgetary and
monetary measures to a variety of regu-
lating authorities and boards. Attacks
on the Government action from this
standpoint cannot be taken seriously
though criticism of this type, timing, con-
sistency or adequacy of the action is an-
other matter and while this sort of
tension in the Party may continue some
time I think it is bound to disappear as
the Men of 1949 face the unavoidable
Government participation in business.
They may, as Mr W. H. Anderson
sometimes implies, accept it philosophi-
cally as the sign of a decadent age; they
cannot nov as practical men expect any-
thing else. The Party’s real attitude is
indicated in the remark of Professor F.
A. Bland, one of the most distinguished
Men of 1949, who after he left Parlia-
ment said that “I’d get up in the party
room and say what I felt. It would be the
sort of thing that would have had thou-
sands cheering in the Town Hall and
then I’d sit down. Stony silence. It was
enough to make you feel like the Arab
and slowly fade away.”
In the examples of defence or com-
pulsory universal training, the tension
will be less easily resolved. A strong case
can be made for universal training, but,
when pressed, if its advocates do not
simply repeat a traditional dogma that
numbers matter most, without regard to
the nature of modern wars, they either
move across to some such argument as
that it is humiliating for us to sit back
while American young men fight our
battles for us, which may be true but
does not settle the question how best we
should fight our own battles, or the
argument that the Government is not
spending enough on defence. But if it is
a matter of finance they must refute the
argument that the money would be better
spent on weapons and much bigger Regu-
lar Army, or face the question how best
to allocate limited resources between
economic development with military im-
plications, and direct military training.
This they do not do.
As for the British Empire, we need not
say much now. It is the ultimate in nos-
talgia and is recognised as such. Its in-
fluence is better discussed when we come
to the second and I think more valuable
Liberal criticisms of the Liberal Govern-
ment.
second line of criticism or source
A of tension among Liberals is based
not on nostalgia for 1949 but on hosti-
lity to the lingering influence of the ideas
of 1949, on impatience with out-dated
Liberal fetishes which prevent it
ting to what the critics consider
urgent needs of this period. Th e g '
ment has rejected the traditional X'
still maintained by the Men of 1949 7 s
has no real worked-out alter™-
beHefs. It no longer believes seriously™
100 per cent free enterprise, i n f ed
lism, in the British Empire, but th
ghosts of these beliefs prevent it d •
the sort of rethinking that led for?
ample, to the formation of the Liwi
Party’s policy in 1944.
This, it seems to me, is a more fruitful
line of criticism. A typical example of
what is meant is the Government’s fetish
of federalism, considered as a political
principle which should limit the Federal
Government’s role in any field including
economic planning. Every Liberal was
born, as it were, an out-and-out federa-
list, not because he believed the States are
really centres of local patriotism local
patriotisms are obviously centred more on
particular regions than on the States -
but because he saw it as a bulwark
against socialism. Section 92 prevented
nationalisation of the banks, would pre-
vent the nationalisation of any big inter-
state business, and has freed enterprise
from Government control in the past. It
commands an historical loyalty. Yet
otherwise no Liberal is a federalist any
more: he does not seriously want to re-
turn taxing powers to the States, he
does not want to abolish central banking,
But more than this it has now become
clear that federalism is not even a reli-
able bulwark against socialism. A
Commonwealth Government, under the
Federal constitution, could ruin business
by tariff policy, by taxes, by Government
competition. By its control of banking it
could reduce other banks to its agencies
and with them the traders dependent on
them. (This is apart from the possibility
that section 92 might be reinterpreted.)
Fighting old battles
Tt is conceivable that a Labor Govern-
A ment would do these things. The
Federal constitution could not stop them,
The only defences against socialism are
the electorates and regular elections,
While the electorate is against socialism,
any Labor Government move towards
socialism will be defeated. So what we
get in Liberal minds is a ritual refighting
of old battles between federalism and
socialism when neither can do what is
expected or feared of it. Meanwhile the
fetish of federalism blocks attempts to
think not only about constitutional re-
vision but about how to use the powers
the Government already has 0
economic planning. It becomes a furt c
excuse for stunned inaction. ,
Also typical is the Government s a
tude to economic planning. It alre . j
plans one third of the ceonomy ■ j
public sector and through irnmigt 2


. t jj 6 Tariff Board and pressure on
l 1 Arbitration Commission, stabilisation
‘tmes subsidies, banking policy it plans
» parts of the rest. But it is ad hoc
'fning with little sense of direction.
Cis has led to two types of demand
planning. One comes from those busi-
ess circles for whom November, 1960,
" not provoke a nostalgic demand for
1949 but f. demand for an end to stop-
-go policies. They no longer identify
planning with socialism particularly in
jj, e light of French and Japanese plan-
-00, or the more recent British Con-
servative Party’s conversion to Planning
(not to mention the Federation of British
Industries).
The other planners are motivated less
l, a sen se of the inconvenience of stop-
and-go than by a sense of urgency
provoked either by the proposed British
entry into the Common Market, con-
tracting export markets, inadequate in-
vestment in basic industries; or by the
increasing Communist threat to our sur-
: rival.
There is, I think, some justification for
the Government’s scepticism about plan-
ning, Some of the most enthusiastic plan-
ners are socialist puritans who despise
the “TV-refrigerator” etc way of life
i(although in fact planning need not inter-
fere all that much in popular pleasures);
others gloss glibly over the amount of
economic regimentation needed for “A
Plan,” even a Liberal one that avoids
Governmental direction of details. They
refer airily to the French and Japanese
plans, forgetting these were the products
of wrecked economies where there was
an agreed-on set of priorities. But no
democratic prosperous country has ever
had “A Plan” in peacetime and it
■ would, short of war, certainly be diffi-
cult to find agreement now in Australia.
But what the new critics require is
not socialism or rigid physical planning
hut that the Government go about its
Present business more systematically,
tee is of course a problem for reaching
agreement on priorities and no one
planning can be absolutely painless
"hut this is what leadership is for.
A mental blockage
| F we are not to attribute the Govern-
ment’s performance here to sloth or
s l°th of its departments and we
jannot attribute it to lack of courage: a
overnment without courage would not
ave adopted the November, 1960, mea-
jures j t a pp ears we have a mental
ockage on the very idea of planning
Wept in immigration where its policies
“plans have been exemplary). Gener-
-1 speaking, when the word “planning”
we get another ritualistic
gating over old battles of socialisms
' re e Enterprise, when neither is in
a ,;^ tlon another case of “conventional
* S ° m ” losing its point.
The Government’s performance mean-
while has the worst of both worlds. It has
abandoned the old free enterprise ideo-
logy (no one can ever accuse it again of
being a tool of big business; in that res-
pect at least the Government was never
more Liberal than in November, 1960)
but it will not commit itself in any co-
ordinated way to the directing function
it has assumed. This is a tension between
performance and policy that will increase
until the Government commits itself.
Another example is in the field of
foreign policy. The Government’s tradi-
tional guiding ideas have been participa-
tion in the British Empire as a power
bloc, contempt for utopian ideas of an
independent foreign policy, and an
awareness of the limitations of small
power diplomacy.
But the old ideal of British unity is
now as utopian as the old alternative of
independence. Indeed the position has
arisen that the British could possibly
pursue in Asia policies directly opposed
to Australian interests; in their with-
drawal from Asia and their anxiety
to avoid deep military commitment
there they have certainly opposed Ame-
rican policies from time to time, and it
is at least arguable that the American
policies were more in Australia’s inte-
rests. The British Government at the
same time is also attempting to eradicate
the last remnants of imperial sentiment in
Britain which prevent it adjusting itself
realistically to contemporary problems.
The Liberals, more reluctantly, have
also adopted their policies accordingly.
The Government showed an early
awareness of British withdrawal from
Asia when it joined SEATO, and even if
SEATO is less powerful than NATO and
does not guarantee us the highest priority
in American strategy, it still represents a
realistic direction of policy. The Gov-
ernment also showed its awareness
of our Asian geography by its sup-
port of the Colombo Plan and the
Technical Assistance Programme of the
United Nations. Its basic policy —an
American and Asian alliance combined
with internal development is indeed
the only possible policy for any Austra-
lian Government. This is not to say that
it should not spend more on defence or
participate more in Asian affairs, but
these are matters of detail, however im-
portant.
However, as in economic planning or
federalism, the Government has failed to
follow through its reversal of traditional
policies. Despite the policy implied in
SEATO (and the Colombo Plan) it did
continue to supporting Britain’s doomed
bid in Suez, warning he Indonesians in
imperial tones against the use of force
in West New Guinea, supporting up to
a point the South African Government
regardless of our lacking the power ne-
cessary to make such policies realistic
and regardless of the effects of these deci-
sions on our Asian allies.
Clash of policies
/\ne should also refer here to the
Government's failure to co-ordinate
the policies of the relevant Departments:
while External Affairs executes the Gov-
ernment’s policy of friendship with Asian
powers, Immigration, at least in such
cases as the Malayan pearl divers or
Willy Wong, pursues policies that seem
calculated to arouse Asian ill-will; or
certainly to minimise any good will
developed in other ways.
The imperial ghost is also present in
the lack of serious discussion of foreign
policy in most Liberal circles. Tradition-
allly, as part of the Empire, Australian
Governments had little reason to discuss
foreign policy. One gathers that foreign
policy is still rarely discussed in Cabinet
or at the Party meetings. The External
Affairs Committee has had little influ-
ence. There is no adequate research or-
ganisation along the lines recommended
by Lord Lindsay of Birker.
Other cases can be given of this Liberal
state of stunned shock, or indecision be-
tween abandoned policies and consistent
endorsement of new ones. New Guinea is
a good case, where the Government is
committed to a goal of self-government
—and “sooner rather than later” as the
Prime Minister put it —but still pursues
policies which imply we will stay in con-
trol for some generations; and even the
Foot Report seems to have added only
a little sense of urgency to its policies.
Since we have been talking about
the Liberal “philosophy” of politics,
there are two other matters I would like
to mention, to illustrate some philosophi-
cal inadequacy in the Liberal outlook,
which will become increasing sources of
tension the Liberal attitudes to com-
munism and to Roman Catholicism.
The Liberal Party came to power when
the Communists were around one of their
peaks of public power in Australia a
peak only equalled more recently in the
era of unity tickets. The Liberals are
uncompromisingly hostile to Commu-
nism, and in the secret ballot legislation
and some of the Crimes Act amend-
ments have taken important steps against
it. Yet despite this many Liberals re-
main ignorant of the real character of


WORLD-WIDE
R£GO.
: - |
iron that travels...
The Tilley Domestic Iron goes anywhere, tackles any-
thing. NO flex to get in your way; it is entirely
self-contained, and runs for 4 hours on one filling
(i pint of ordinary kerosene). Clean, easy to use, with
exact heat control.
100% British Made
For trouble-free ironing, anytime, anywhere, you
can put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores, in
case of difficulty write to:—
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street, Moorabbin, 5.20, Victoria, Australia.
the Communist movement. One clue is
that in the speeches and pamphlets of the
1940 s and 1950 s the Communists were
pictured above all as strikers, men who
for evil reasons undermined production.
Whenever the Communists abandon a
strike policy many Liberals cease to be
interested in them, some even satisfying
themselves with the comfortable illusion
that prosperity undermines Communism.
Many of their actions against the Com-
munists were accordingly ill-judged. In
1950 it set out to ban not only the
Communist Party but all its fronts, ap-
parently without real appreciation of how
fronts operate or how dangerous this was
for the liberties of non-Communist mem-
bers of fronts. It was so ambitious, if that
is the word, that it seemed more a wild
gesture than a serious attempt at a solu-
tion.
Again in 1953 it raided Communist
offices because the “Communist Review”
carried a fairly innocuous socialist-repu-
blican type criticism of the Royal Family,
a move more likely to make opposition
to Communism look ridiculous. In recent
years its interest in local Communism has
seemed perfunctory and while it knows
that other organisations, including some
Labor ones, are doing the work of de-
feating the Communists in trade unions,
it does little to help them. It leaves the
matter of public education about Com-
munism to small organisations with in-
adequate resources, when the Govern-
ment with its resources would be of tre-
mendous help. Meanwhile we get natural
Liberal supporters, such as businessmen
or primary producers, speaking with great
naivete about trade with Communist
China.
It is interesting to contrast its perfor-
mance with that of the last Labor
Government. It was the Chifley Govern-
ment which established the Security Ser-
vice, which successfully threatened to
use the Defence Projects Act against
Communist union officers who tried to
withdraw labor from Woomera, which
broke the Communists during the 1949
coal strike and thereby helped lay the
basis for the reorganisation of the coal
industry that contrasts strikingly with
the Liberal Government’s handling
the stevedoring industry: one wonder/
Mr Chifley had remained Prime Mini/
whether stevedoring would still be as li
organised as it is.
The Roman Catholics
ThtE other Liberal blindspot is the R 0
A man Catholics. The point can best
be made in relation to the NSW Lib era i
Party. There the Catholics are probahlv
the key to the winning of elections. Their
loyalty, however, is to Labor which has
avoided the errors of weakness of the
Labor Party in Victoria and which has
among other things set out to advance
the cause of Catholics in NSW. Twenty
years ago Catholics seemed to have
chips on their shoulders, today the Cath-
olic elite has a considerable say in the
running of the State. It is an historic
achievement and has cemented Catholic
loyalty to Labor. The Libera] Party, how-
ever, needs only a few Catholic votes
to win power, but although it has placed
some very able Catholics in key posi-
tions in the Party its basic attitude can
be seen in the controversy over State Aid
to Church schools. I am not suggesting
that a good case cannot be made out
against State Aid of course one can
—nor that such a policy would auto-
matically win Catholic votes. (This has
not been tested, since although the
Country Party in NSW seemed to win
few new Catholic votes in the last NSW
election after it adopted a State Aid
policy, voters knew that with Liberals
opposing State Aid the Country Party
policy could not be put into operation.)
But after the NSW Liberal policy com-
mittee adopted a State Aid policy the
reaction among many Liberal supporters
was so bitter that the parliamentary
party dropped the idea. The bitterness
was not usually based on argument
but on traditional prejudice against
Catholics.
Liberals in NSW, in other words, seem
to prefer remaining out of power in-
definitely to accepting the idea of Cath-
olics as a major part of the community,
This does not apply to Liberals in the
Federal sphere nor to many leading
Liberals in NSW, but the leadership
as a whole seems unwilling to undertake
a basic change in the Party’s ideas and
policies even to win power. This is a
ritual fighting of old battles, at its worst,
Both Communists and Catholics are
outside the traditional Liberal li ne
vision, though for completely different
reasons. But these blind-spots in both
cases indicate this refusal to readjust
which is the Party’s biggest weakness at
the moment.
The Liberals’ problem is not basically
practical, it is intellectual.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
OUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
more
tfjan a
ikotcf)...
a tradition
ASK FOR VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
NZLI/9 ! / 4 .2
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE EARLE PAGE MEMOIRS
Sir,
Lady Page’s letter, published in your
issue of February 6, contains many in-
accuracies. The facts, briefly stated, are
these:
(1) That at the discussion in Canberra
between Sir Earle, Lady Page and my-
self, a verbatim extract containing the
critical passages of Sir Earle’s parlia-
mentary speech of April, 1939, already
formed part of the text of the chapter
'[he Nineteen Days,” and there was no
Appendix;
(2) that after Lady Page’s departure
we discussed the matter further, and Sir
Earle gave his reconsidered decision,
which I endorsed, that a paraphrased
account of the contentious parts of his
speech should be included in the body of
the book, and a full verbatim extract
together with Mr Menzies’s reply should
leadded as an Appendix;
(3) that this material was at once in-
corporated into the manuscript by his
typist and was submitted by Sir Earle
to the publisher in November, 1961.
Whether Sir Earle Page chose not to
communicate this change of plan to
Lady Page, I am not in a position to say.
Had he wished to alter the manuscript
■self he had two months with re-
nted rereading in which to do so.
lady Page was informed of these cir-
cumstances when she indicated her in-
tention to withdraw the material from
toe book in April 1962. For reasons of
« own, she chose to ignore them.
the allegations contained in the last
P®§raph of Lady Page’s letter con-
ternjng the nature of my work on the
autobiography reveal that she has
entirely misunderstood the role of an
academic editor. Since my motive in
raising the matter publicly in your
oumns was to serve the memory of Sir
, e ’ I believe that nothing can be
I leve d by making her misunderstand-
ta matter of public controversy.
ANN MOZLEY
Herra.
KNOPFELMACHER V. CAIRNS
11, ansWer to Mr Cairns’s letter
Col N ing FebrUary 9) ’ 1 Wish t 0 State
»!! I^ e Stor y at Cairns was listed
isetin 6r or t^le Communist-organised
§ a t Sunshine Town Hall, which
was subsequently cancelled, and that he
refused to speak had been widely circu-
lated in Melbourne before the Laverton
march by those enjoying friendly rela-
tions with the Victorian Central Executive
of the ALP and Mr. Cairns. It was also
contained in an unsigned Bulletin
article (The Passing of the Peace Fronts,
Bulletin, December 22) and in a rather
similar piece in “Nation” (Down the ALP
Centre, January 12), by K. D. Gott.
Both articles attempted to interpret
Cairns’s alleged refusal to speak and the
Central Executive’s alleged decision not
to support the Laverton march as
evidence that Communist “peace” fronts
are losing their grip on the Victorian
Central Executive. In my own article
(Bulletin, January 19) I disputed this
thesis though I felt that, in fairness to
Cairns, I should mention his alleged
gesture of defiance towards the Com-
munists.
Mr Cairns now says that there was
no gesture of defiance, that he did not
refuse to speak, and that, presumably,
The Bulletin and “Nation” articles
mentioned are inaccurate on this point.
There are now three possibilities:
(a) Mr Cairns is not telling the truth;
(b) the Laverton march organisers have
used his name without his consent or
knowledge: and, (c) Mr Cairns would
have spoken had it not been for the fact
that the Sunshine meeting was cancelled.
I for one am only too pleased to accept
Mr Cairns’s word on this but he should
disclose whether (b) or (c) are true; that
is, whether the Communists have used
his name fraudulently or whether he
would have gone along with them had
the meeting not been cancelled.
(2) The proposition that the Sino-
Indian conflict is a mere “border issue”
and not an invasion of India and that
India should be urged to negotiate rather
than to contemplate military action was
the official view of the Soviet govern-
ment at the height of the crisis. It was
reflected in the local Communist press
and it was ably supported in Mr Cairns’s
letter (Bulletin, February 9). Aid India
committees were formed throughout the
world to support India’s stand in her
hour of need. The Melbourne com-
mittee, judged from its published leaflets
and circulars, was certainly no exception.
There is nothing in Mr Cairns’s letter
indicating his support for the committee
or for the stand of the Indian govern-
ment, but there is ample evidence in it
that he supported the policy of the Soviet
government.
(3) I have indicated what Mr Cairns’s
opinions and actions were in relation to
the current Communist-instigated cam-
paign against the radio base at Exmouth
Gulf. Mr Cairns should now state quite
clearly where he stands on the matter
of existing and projected American
military installations in Australia and in
the Pacific and how he views Australia’s
military co-operation and alliance with
the USA.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne.


WHAT SECRET POWER
DID THIS MAN POSSESS
n
wmmmzl
mi
msi
FRANCIS BACON
w HY was this man great? How
does anyone —man or woman —achieve
greatness? Is it not by mastery of the
powers within ourselves?
'Know the mysterious world within
you! Attune yourself to the wisdom
of the ages! Grasp the inner power of
your mind! Learn the secrets of a full
and peaceful life! Francis Bacon—?
world famous English, philosopher,
scientist—like many other learned and
great men and women —was a Rosi-
crucian. The Rosicrucians (NOT a
(A Rosicrucian)
religious organisation) includes in its
membership people from every walk
of life—from every race and creed.
Today, headquarters of the Rosi-
crucians send over
seven million pieces of
mail annually to all
parts of the world.
THIS BOOK FREE!
Write for YOUR FREE COPY
of "The Mastery of Life"
TODAY. No obligation. A non-
profit organisation. Address:
Scribe Z.H.K.
MASTERY OF LIFE
ref
LI
me ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC) Box 3988, G.P.0., Sydney, Australia
SEND THIS COUPON
Scribe, Z.H.K.
The ROSICRUCIANS (AMORC),
Box 3988, G.P.0., Sydney, Australia.
Please send me the free book, "The Mastery
of Life,” which explains how I may learn
to use my faculties and powers of mind.
The initials A.M.O.R.C. indicate the true, and authentic Rosicrucian Order
AN EXCHANGE OF LETTERS
When winemen fall out ...
Sir,
I have been a
subscriber (and
advertiser) of
yours for a long
time, having fol-
lowed “The Ob-
server” into your
journal.
I have watched
the changing
character and
style of The Bul-
letin with great
interest and on
the whole support all that you have done,
including the introduction of the “Cellar-
master” feature. I am all for the en-
couragement of an interest in wine and
a well-informed feature article, such as
“Cellarmaster” sets out to be, deserves
every encouragement.
But “Cellarmaster” is far from being
well informed or if he is then he has an
axe to grind.
An article a month or two ago on
claret and the growing importance of the
rare variety Cabernet Sauvignon makes
no reference to Coonawarra Estate'
although about half the total acreage in
Australia is owned by us. To writ? u
Australian clarets avoiding all ra f Ut
to Coonawarra Estate is a delibenf?
tortion of the subject. e IS '
Your issue of the 16th Febn
carries an advertisement on nag P o r
Modbury Estate White Burgundy *
when your readers get to page 14 tu
find under “Wines to Buy AmJ
White Burgundies” that “Cellarmast?
has avoided references to what th
therefore must think is a poor prodS
and that “Cellarmaster” is being dS
made towards an advertiser. They ari
not to know that he is doing a pr ; h
Who is he? 1 Dl
. D. Wynn
Managing Director
S. Wynn and Co. Pty. Ltd!
Melbourne.
* * ★
No axe to grind, Mr Wynn, neither chin
on shoulder nor bee in bonnet. “Cellar-
master’s” column has never set itself up as
a comprehensive, encyclopaedic reference
on Australian wines and consequently omis-
sions frequently unashamedly occur. The
object of “Cellarmaster” has not changed
since I just stated, “this column is designed
to help those people who are looking-for
the best of currently available specials,”
In my article on the various Cabernet
Sauvignons available I omitted to mention
your wine. I regret this, since you long
ago recognised the value of this grape
type and I regard Coonawarra as one of
the most important wine producing areas in
Australia. But to accuse me of deliberate
distortion when in fact there were dozens
of other wines and makers that I did not
mention is absurd. The article merely tried
to draw to the attention of people the
value of Cabernet Sauvignon.
As far as the White Burgundy is con-
cerned, I did not know you had such a
wine on the market, and in fact found out
for the first time when I read your adver-
tisement in “The Bulletin”. Such is the
power of the Press. Research proved this
wine largely ignored by local retailers but
I have since obtained a bottle and tasted
the wine. In my opinion there is far too
much sulphur evident on opening. This so
obscured the quality of the wine that we
decided to let it breathe for an hour before
trying it again. On re-tasting the sulphur
was still too aggressive though it had some-
what diminished. The wine has an excellent
straw color, delicate flavor and soft finish.
However, the bouquet and flavor, though
pleasant, are neither big enough nor fruity
enough for this type of wine at present.
I think twelve months in the bottle will see
a big improvement. B
I could not quite understand the "K
job point but would like to get one or two
things clear. As far as diplomacy is con-
cerned, as an unfettered contributor to
“The Bulletin”, I do not know of t*
advertising content of the magazine bet
publication. As a wine buyer for one ot
country’s largest retail wine outlets (P
cularly table wines) I seek no favors f
wine companies. I obviously do not
to. I have no fear of saying what ~ •’ J
as was evident in the November }'
of last year wherein I argued agains
rent nomenclature practices, some ot
employed by substantial advertisers.
Finally, in answer to your pum' •
query, lam a wine lover. Not a c a
seur, a word which I deplore, but J
man who loves the talk, tradition an
of wine — and who wishes to share
CELLARMASTER


REVIEWS
THE BUSY GOOSOCRACY
GEOFFREY GRIGSON, an Englishman looking at the Australian Art
Exhibition at the Tate Gallery, London.
im me any day the dealer whose pro-
I motional powers are limited, rather
jj the art official promoting the day’s
(, w ho becomes more and more power-
i and dangerous, without any percep-
|or likely increase in vision or in
jhtness.” Art promotion becomes a
inch of politics, no matter what rea-
ls are piously advanced for “taking
{overnmental interest in the living
s” or for “official patronage of art-
i”; the art official becomes an execu-
tofficer of policy, losing some of his
jhetic rights, the exhibition becomes a
Itical instrument. I suppose it is
ighly the purpose of the Australian
ftition at the Tate to say “Look,
iiave arrived, we can do it, at last” —
:not being artists, but the politicians
iart officials representing a feeling
:t Australia hasn’t been able to do it,
feling among those who care for such
? (or for such a kind of prestige)
none would be more complete Aus-
lian, a better Australian, more an
ttalian of the world if —if it could
shown that “we too” have art and
trature.
toe at any rate you have at the
>ts an exhibition selected by the Com-
mwealth Art Advisory Board, and a
“uptiious catalogue (“wholly set up
Sprinted in Australia”—as if to say
can also print”?) introduced with
“table illiteracy by the Federal Prime
%er: “The exhibition and this book
catalogue) may well serve to remind
j 1 lovers that behind the success of
“names now so well known abroad is
«°ry of artistic development in which
the art lovers: as
SJ y> this exhibition is their political
t: °boree— “are playing a proud part.”
’^ er t long ago said—with some
i °* the Cassandra—that “whether
eventually give the accomplished fact
|! ca l recognition or not, we Occiden-
ave already long been living under
raocracy.” He said it was unfair
Ntocise the painters who had taken
the goose’s shilling; and I wouldn’t waste
too much time criticising our art of-
ficials who have also taken their goose’s
shilling, and have a living to make. But
I would urge that we, the rest of us,
shouldn’t be taken in so much by their
antics, or by their costly pretence to be
able to see and know. The Australian
idea, in which they support their Aus-
tralian colleagues and Australian politi-
cians, is that there has been an Aus-
tralian miracle: there has been a sudden,
valuable, exciting upsurge of Australian
art. It is a miracle (like other miracles)
only because the realisation of the fact
or the fancy is sudden.
Goosocrats examine the art, that is to
say, the boiled-together hash of all the
separate artists and separate pictures,
and look for common Australian char-
acteristics. In the last “Monitor” an
Englishman a little plaintively asked an
Australian artist if the ancient fossil
quality of the Australian scene was not
reflected in the character of “Australian
art”; and received, I was glad to ob-
serve, something of a polite brush-off
from the artist, Leonard French, who
said that Australian artists suffered from
the “pressure-cooked Australiana built
up over here”; and that painting —pre-
cisely and obviously so. O European,
Transatlantic, Trans-Indian-Ocean, in-
escapable flock of pink-eyed, white-
feathered, grass-eating, meadow-fouling,
incessantly cackling, thoroughly up-to-
the-moment super-goosocrats —consisted
either of good painting or bad painting.
‘Australia” does not mean much to
me. I know only what I read and hear
about the maturing of Australian civili-
sation (try, if you are that way inclined,
Peter Coleman’s “Australian Civilisa-
tion”, a symposium in which one con-
tributor has plenty to say against the
unicorn myth of “Australianity” in the
arts, against “a promotional device in
the interests of particular individuals, or
a politico-ideological manoeuvre, or
both”). I do not particularly want to
know about the history of Australian
white art (on which you may find gooso-
cratic information—“ Australian art has
gradually acquired qualities as distinc-
tive as the social attitudes and speech
of Australians” —in Bernard Smith’s Aus-
tralian Painting 1788-1960); also I
haven’t been to Australia and haven’t
seen Alice Springs or Ayers Rock or a
dead gum tree. Equally I haven’t seen
the peculiarities of the countryside and
the dripping conifers around Regensburg,
which are no doubt involved in the
paintings of Altdorfer, and I do not
know about the character or history of
the civilisation of Regensburg on either
side of 1500; and it would only be super-
goosery to pretend that either know-
ledge is essential to an appreciation of
Altdorfer’s landscapes or semi-land-
scapes, which, as good art, transcend
their accidentals or local constituents or
national origins. Anyone therefore who
goes to the Tate needs to have with him
a bottle of solvent to get rid of that
epoxy resin high-stress glue of Austra-
lianity.
Sixty-two exhibits are by artists born
before 1870. Forgetting these (though
they include some pleasant pictures),
152 paintings are by artists born be-
tween 1890 and 1939, divided, as one
would expect, between the possible var-
ieties of figurative and non-figurative.
Bad naturally ou'.weighs good. If it is
at all profitable to speculate on the
nature of selected badness, I should say
that the worst reiterated element is ex-
cessive impact, whether figurative or
non-figurative; an elevation of subject
(any shape or congerie of shapes
amounts, after all, to subject) into stri-
dency; I would agree in the frequent
goodness of Sidney Nolan, who paints
—simply paints—at times well enough
to subdue that kind of stridency of im-
pact.
Impact is Nolan’s danger. All the
same, if this wasn’t a goosocratically or-
dered exhibition, compelled ipso facto to
be “fair” rather than concerned, there
would be not six, but 20 Nolans, and
correspondingly fewer cheapnesses and
horrors, shall I say, by Russell Drys-
dale, or by William Dobell, whose im-
pact portraits are coarsely sardonic,
coarsely painted pieces of formula. Of
Nolan’s six, if the ghost pictures of
Convict in Swamp, Rain Forest and Fig-


Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
ures in Jungle hit first, they very soon
after captivate by true qualities of line,
tone and composition.
I would say yes, if not with the ex-
citement occasioned by miracles, to lan
Fairweather’s Figure in Hat, Godfrey
Miller’s Unity in Blue, Andrew Sibley’s
rather Ernstlike townscape images, espe-
cially Hotel, Mt. Garnet; and to The Old
Hulk by John Perceval. These few paint-
ings, together with the few by Nolan,
do not have much difficulty in silencing
their nearest loud neighbors, although
the effect, as you walk through, remains
generally and overwhelmingly one of
decibels and road-drills, of color-clatter
and eye-bashing, there being nothing so
stupid as a larger than usual giant, with
clumsy limbs. When you walk out, at
last, into the other galleries of the Tate,
it takes only the slightest whiff of Mat-
isse, or any other tolerable painter who
is hanging around on the walls, to re-
store the confidence that painting is—
something else.
The miracle of upsurging “Australian
Art” is a promoter’s cover-name for a
humble enough fact —that art from
everywhere has for some time now pre-
sented a more or less contemporary sur-
face. The lag is shortened, air lines
go fast, books reproduce more art, and
circulate more. But in spite of busier
and busier goosocrats, good painting does
remain—and let us not forget it —the
product of a very few peculiarly con-
stituted and in their development pecu-
liarly lucky individuals, in a very tenu-
ous set of uncommon circumstances,
active in a very few centres. Wider,
quicker circulation of influences, modes,
examples, should increase the chances of
the emergence of good painting? Yes,
but very slightly, whatever goosacracies
and their agents pretend, and so far
Australia’s best art (not acknowledged
at all by the white policy-pushers at the
Tate) has been by other aboriginals of
much higher degree. Still, they had a
long start in Arnhem Land and else-
where.
CREEPING NIHILISM
Jose Guevara. Barry Stern Gallery.
Sydney.
Tn an interesting quote from a criticism
A of a Guevara show in Spain (in-
cluded in the Melbourne Museum of
Modern Art catalogue) Carlos Antonia
Arean claims “the sensuous excitement
and the discovery of a new form of
subtlety or refraction of the chromatic
surface are not an end in themselves, but
are intended primarily to convey in
plastic form a psychological process that
has been forming in the artist during
the course of his artistic development as
a human being, beset by individual, in-
transmissible problems and desires of
discovering some way of communicating
those to any other human being in a
similar situation to his own.”
Fortunately for us the particular con-
tents involved in Mr Guevara’s psycho-
logy are no hindrance to his expression
in paint, which for all the import of the
foregoing remarks one finds interesting
in itself. If, on the other hand, the
artist’s personal experiences being sad,
bad or glad form the mainspring of his
art one can always argue that his voca-
tion could well be one of an autobio-
graphical novelist or expressionist com-
poser, where these experiences would
then attain a greater degree of ckrit,
than they do here.
One presumes life has been rathe
difficult by the presence of soleJ
textured black as the grounds or en’
velopes for globular, amoebic and
crepuscular areas faintly impregnated
with subdued ghosts of color, and heavily
fretted, cracked and eroded with cinder-
like masses of ex-paint. Landscape, the
main theme can be disregarded as a
motif but surely these desiccated maps
fading nebulae, blistered homunculae
are going to address themselves first to
the aesthetic sensibilities. The swaying
vapors in No. 1 indicate the extent to
which colour plays a more important
role than texture in conveying the im-
pulses, which, according to critic Arean,
Guevara wishes. If one detects a creep-
ing nihilism in these 25 paintings which
is a denial of life, there is the comfort-
ing thought that the moon (also we are
told largely burnt-out landscape too) has
become the most desired object of the
1960’5. Guevara’s work might have
wider implications but the “how it was
done” is more fascinating than his per-
sonal whinges. There are after a!!, other i
more universal human experiences.
JOHN HENSHAW
PHOTOGRAPHY AND FASHION
Mark Strizic. David Rose. Argus Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
Louis Kahan. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
HThe photography of Mark Strizic is im-
pressive and appealing. In large
measure its strength is due to Mr Strizic’s
uncompromisingly honest and direct
methods. His work is a record of the
world immediately around him, of the
city, the inner suburbs, the back fence,
the country, the people in the street. Both
in his subjects and in his methods he
makes his conviction clear that life can
compose itself into art for the perceptive
onlooker. For his part he does no com-
position after the event, no studio framing
or cutting. All his studies are full-frame
enlargements. The only embellishments
of reality occur in some highly contrasted
light effects and some drastic fore-
shortening, which in street scenes results
in a strong accentuation of crowded
detail. The photographer himself intrudes
personally, and directs the viewer, by the
consistent themes of his subjects and by
his predilection for studies in series. Thus
his themes are developed into clear state-
ments of belief. He does not pop up
everywhere clicking his machine, but
contemplates the life and the world
which attract him.
In the same gallery there is an exhibi-
tion of paintings and prints by David
Rose. Compared with his previous per-
formances in printmaking, the paintings
are disappointing, to say the least. They
have a most curious quality of seeming to
be studies for prints. Virtually the only
distinction he makes in his approach to
t&e two media consists in trying to give
the painted surfaces a texture, but even
here the texture usually resembles wood
carving. Such researches may have some
point, but if they are to be more than
tricks they need to be justified by strongei
forms and more convincing ideas than
the present works have.
It would not be surprising if Louis
Kahan’s painting became fashionable, if
indeed it is not already. The prize exhibit
is the Archibald Prize winning portrait o
Partrick White, which has already been
commented upon accurately by others.
Like the rest of Kahan’s painting it u
competent without being remarkable-'
good painting tends to be flattened m
by rather mundane intentions. The samj
<sau he said of the series based °
“Waltzing Matilda.” It is not a theme
one immediately enthuses over and w e
the bull is simply taken by the hor
there is no reason for enthusiasm to
velop either. Moreover the ghoss
Nolan and Tucker can be heard lou a
clear as you pass by.
BILL HANNAN


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS
O'SULLIVAN
PTYL7D A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
19 12 1962
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED S. WHITE Esq. (Chairman),
H. H. MOULTON Esq. (Managing Director),
E. G. CONEN Esq., T. K. MAGNEY Esq.,
A. G. PARKER Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY Esq.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27.7401
MUSIC
TCHAIKOWSKY'S SEVENTH
miner Festival Concert. Sydney
"symphony Orchestra conducted by
Charles Mackerras.
i noteworthy event at the last orches-
-1 tral concert of the ABC Sydney
Summer Festival” was the first Austra-
-IJO performance of Tchaikowsky’s
is even th Symphony”. This work is a
(construction by the contemporary
[ussian composer Semyon Bogatyryev of
ifour-movement symphony in E Flat for
,|ich Tchaikowsky wrote sketches in the
jst year of his life but never orches-
lated or released.
Tchaikowsky after finishing the sket-
hes wrote to a friend that the symphony
Etmed to have been written just for the
ake of writing something and contained
lothing interesting or appealing. He may
iot have meant this altogether seriously,
is he continued work on the material he
pi assembled, completing the short
m of a piano concerto made out of
ie first, second and fourth movements
lithe symphony. The first movement of
iis was published as his third piano con-
certo and Taneiev later orchestrated the
remaining two movements. The third be-
came one of a group of piano pieces by
Tohaikowsky.
Bogatyryev’s reconstruction seems to
have been fairly faithfully to Tchaikow-
sky in some ways. He appears not to
have toned down the emotionalism or
lightened up the form and his orchestra-
tion sounds much like Tchaikowsky’s.
However, there are a number of passages,
especially in the first and second move-
ments, that suggest that his method of
turning a piano concerto into a symphony
has been to orchestrate the piano part,
usually for woodwind and horns. This
results in the work sounding at times like
a concerto for wind band, while in the
second movement one of the horns has
an unmistakably pianistic melody.
It is probably better to have heard the
work in Bogatyryev’s version than not to
have heard it at all, but as far as fidelity
to Tchaikowsky’s intentions goes it would
have been far preferable to hear the
concerto with Fancier’s orchestration.
JOHN SMALL
ELEVISION
A FAVORABLE REVIEW
Flowering Cherry.” Robert Bolt.
ABC.
ABC producer, William Stirling,
told a recent seminar that Aus-
ilian television critics are unconstruc-
Another speaker said Australians
is compulsive knockers, with television
fcs leading in brass. Perhaps I can
M that illusion.
I was all set to write a favorable re-
of “Flowering Cherry” the morning
* r Sydney and Melbourne viewers had
8(11 it on Channel 2. Then someone
®teed in and said, “Did you see
Flowering Cherry’ last night? Wasn’t it
mible?” The person in question is a
Player and was considering the
•ality of the acting in this television
B ®a, which was the second she had
sen.
to tell her it was a better tele-
tloll play than most we’ve seen. It
Moo. The sets were good. The light-
illuminated them. The dialogue was
J tier an average and sometimes the
■ H illuminated it too. And that’s a
"Wable review.
Play was about a family of kooks
Durban England. Dad has spent his
.laming of owning an apple orchard
, , 11 la Somerset. Meanwhile he works
prance and consoles himself with
tig talk, and an occasional test
ten gth with the thinner of two pokers
on the wall. Mum Cherry has just about
had him, for several good reasons, and
she isn’t too fond of the kids, either.
Her son is about to do his National
Service. He paints, reads T. S. Eliot, «
The daughter of the house is studying
design, but her work is cold and geome-
trical because she looks at men through
Dad. She dreams of winning a prize,
living in a flat, and earning four figures,
like £1 16s. 9d. a week. Daughter has
a friend, a dish who finds Dad’s surface
masculine appeal worth mild investiga-
tion. Then there’s an apple seedling sales-
man, if I have it right, who, the second
time he calls, offers Mum a new life.
The players, in that order, were Grant
Taylor, Margo Lee, Peter Adams, Rosa-
lind Seagrave, Elizabeth Ferris, and Don
Pascoe, who used a different regional
dialect for each appearance. The pro-
ducer was Colin Dean, who did well,
considering. It was written by Robert
Bolt of “A Man For All Seasons,” who
must regret it bitterly.
As you can see, it had a trite, shop-
worn plot, not worth the fair dialogue the
playwright wrought for it. The players,
as usual, felt they were on stage but
realised they were on television, which
resulted in some confused acting. The
cameras, used as spectators rather than
as participants, were efficient. The drama
was a bit melo-, ending with Mum
joining Johnny Appleseed, leaving Dad
to kill himself trying to bend the big
poker.
Given a stronger plot, livelier dia-
logue, less stagey sets, more imaginative
cameras, some television actors, and
better make-up, it could have been a
good play. Lacking them, it was still
tolerable, because the viewer could feel
that at least everyone was trying, and
that is not a bad beginning for ABC
drama production in 1963.
FRANK ROBERTS


THE RED PAGE
BRENNAN'S PROSE
Poet As Philosopher
By JAMES McAULEY
The Prose of Christopher Brennan.
Angus and Robertson, 425.
nPHE hitherto scattered and rather in-
accessible prose writings of Brennan
make a substantial and important addi-
tion to his work when they are brought
together. We still need his corres-
pondence.
The first thing one may note about the
contents of this volume is the merit
closest to Brennan’s poetry, namely, his
ability as a translator. His rendering of
Novalis’s “Hymns to the Night” can be
offered as really giving some notion of
the original. He is not so highly or uni-
formly successful with French poetry;
but it is in general far harder to translate
French poetry into English than Ger-
man poetry. All the same, he does
pretty well with poems of Baudelaire,
Verlaine, Regnier, and Nerval less
well with Mallarme, because what he
calls Mallarme’s “difficult simplicity” and
“sinuous and ductile music” simply show
up the heavy, conglomerated and dated
qualities in Brennan’s style.
The second thing the new volume re-
veals is Brennan’s merit as a general
interpreter of the poetry that interested
him most. When we read his confident
and masterly exposition of Mallarme’s
poetic we should remember that, even
in France, understanding of Mallarme
was then still rather undeveloped. Simi-
larly his exposition of the main lines of
Blake’s thought and symbolism is cer-
tainly in advance of what most scholars
were capable of in regard to Blake at
that time.
In general, one can say that his ex-
position of the theory and practice of
German romanticism and of French sym-
bolism represents the office of literary
guide and interpreter exercised at a high
level. And since Brennan’s own literary
doctrine is an adjustment of the main
ideas in these related 19th-century tradi-
tions, his interpretative work is at the
same time a revelation of his own basic
theory of literature and philosophy of
life. In this way the prose has a complex
relevance to the poetry, and the next
stage of Brennan scholarship will be to
explore this more thoroughly indeed,
with deadly, unrelenting and stupefying
earnestness unless we’re lucky.
The third merit to be noted is Bren-
nan’s capacity as a critic of individual
writers or works. This is because he has
the true critic’s eye for the significant
detail. He says (in an article on Pod-
snappery or arrogant English provincial-
ism in criticism which incidentally is
still, or again, relevant) that “things be-
come interesting and generalities only
get sap and savour for me when one
can pursue them into that fine detail
which furnishes the crucial instance and
the vital test” (p. 257).
This attentive approach ensures bal-
ance. Repeatedly one sees Brennan ack-
nowledging the negative aspect of a
writer without in the least surrendering
every positive value he can find, and
vice versa. So, after speaking of W. E.
Henley’s manifold faults he saves cer-
tain lyrical delicacies for praise (though
I can’t join in the praise). More notably,
in his late article “Blake After Many
Years” his enthusiasm for Blake is bal-
anced: “The more Blake is controlled by
tradition the purer and more valuable
the beauty he brings forth; but when
he abandons himself to belief in the
literal truth of his inspired visions, the
more does he tend, not, as was once
thought, to madness, but to incoherent
pedantry. We may see it in his designs.
See how he gains, when he is constrained
to turn from the ornamentation of his
own text to the ‘illustration,’ say, of Mil-
ton’s Nativity Hymn, Dante or Job. The
vision is there, and unmistakably Blake’s
own; but how the necessity to follow the
words of another re-acts on his powers
of design and both strings them up and
refines them!”
This is notable and just. I should ilke
to go on quoting bits and pieces of
Brennan’s criticism. He is good on Hous-
man, for instance, and excellent on H ft
mann; challenging on Virgil, right abom
Verlaine. On one occasion he deliberate!
laid aside his critical instruments 2
took up, as he said, the bludgeon- wh!
he wrote to The Bulletin t 0 rebut!
A. G. Stephens: “The man who question
the supremacy of Homer, Dante Mil
ton and I will add Tennyson -1 puh
himself outside the pale of poetry and
humanity.” Such a mode of arguing j s
he admits, “merely the bludgeon.” But
in some cases, he adds, “I hold that
merely the bludgeon is required. We
argue with the enemy of humanity _
after we have laid him.”
My reflexes respond in sympathy with
this. But it won’t do, really. There are
no closed cases and settled judgments
in literature, and no exemptions from
scrutiny can be granted. All writers fluc-
tuate in our interest and estimate; and
even those who continuously survive do
so because, like Shakespeare, they con-
tinue to satisfy different sorts of demand.
However indignant one gets at those
who disturb our literary devotions by
iconoclastic remarks, we have to admit
that occasional radical challenge is
needed to stimulate us into seeing deeper
and more freshly into a classic yvork.
While I think highly of Brennan’s lit-
erary prose, I cannot see like merit in
his philosophical excursions or his in-
quiries into the mystical or visionary
domain. Here he is eclectic, period-bound
and amateurish to a disabling degree.
However little we may be satisfied by
the prevailing style of philosophy we can
at least be thankful that a paper read to
a learned body today is not likely to begin
with such a sentence as: “COGITATUR
is the most comprehensive statement of
the Universe.”
My feeling is that Brennan’s prose on
literary subjects is relatively better in its
kind than his poetry is in its kind. That
does not stop me from regarding Bren-
nan as important first of all to the degree
that his poetry makes him so. For poetry
is a good deal more important than
criticism.
LONG DAY'S JOURNEY
O’Neill. Arthur and Barbara Gelb.
Jonathan Cape. 68s.
O’Neill is a writer who has
been beyond most critics. The ten-
dency has been for a retreat to respectful
generalities in the use of words like
“genius, giant, obsession, power,
grandeur”. In the extensive bibliography
acknowledged in this biography there is
no one book that attempts a total assess-
ment of O’Neill’s work, play by play.
Barret Clark’s “Eugene O Neill: The Man
and His Plays” (recently re-issued in
paperback) is still the only book-length
attempt to assess all the plays and il
has something of the guide-book method.
O’Neill’s twin themes are despair and
love. In an age where people are likely
to declaim the death of the drama on the
quaint argument that there are no big
themes left any more, O’Neill is some-
thing of an anachronism, who confronts
his audiences with anguish rather than
anger. .
As O’Neill’s work was always closely
linked to his experience, a virtual incar
nation of his life, this biography is * *
story of his despair and love, a con j l ” 1 ?
ing conflict from the unhappiness ot i


Buy Octal
MOUTHWASH
from your Chemist
After meals refresh with Odol.
A few drops provide protection
against bad breath and germs.
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA
by SCOTT & BOWNE (A/ASIA) Ltd.
for Compfele Oral Hygiene
\
\
MOUTH
WASH
Htghi y Corscfe nti a ;£ci
and
iilllaidraregisig it|sg£
NETT CONTENTS: 21 R. OZS.
! OOC I to the physical and mental
lof his last years.
es sential background of his life
flo w well-known. O’Neill was the
' o f James O’Neill, an Irish-American
can ie out of poverty to become one
s t a r actors of his time, but who
j [ns talent and his life by playing
Coiint of Monte Cristo nearly 6,000
. f[ e had married Ella Quinlan,
l 3 wealthy Irish-American family,
ii she was little more than a girl. She
nie a morphine addict. One brother
; young; and the other, the eldest
| { was a philanderer and alcoholic
led insane.
gene, the youngest, abandoned God
j, e age of 13 after his prayers for a
julous cure of his mother’s addiction
K n ot answered, turned to Nietszche
Baudelaire, lived off his father, spent
e time at sea, suffered a mild case
überculosis and then turned to writ-
He married three times, finally for
tears to Carlotta Monterey, and had
g children, one by his first wife and
(by his second.
Jut of O'Neill’s life came his work
[lays published and 37 performed. It
ie size of the body of O'Neill’s work
ich as its unevenness which hampers
(cal assessment. While it is proper to
iof this unevenness and inconsis-
l his themes remained constant,
sin the bad dialogue of “Dynamo”,
ie clumsiness of “Welded” or the
leria of “Days Without End”, O’Neill
till struggling with the same two
iems. Arthur Miller once described
(ill as a cripple in dialogue, and it is
fault that pushes the weaker O’Neill
(towards banality.
ie Gelbs’ biography is too long—
pages of text but it is not so
ithe length that nags as the refusal
ie husband-wife team to take any
other than that of reporters. Other
pie's opinions of O’Neill and his
fare quoted without discrimination,
tie Gelbs plod on without commit-
tthemselves. Much medical opinion is
®t one psychiatrist solemnly declares
! after seeing one play he knew all
at O’Neill’s family background, with-
fnowing him personally. The book
Wrloaded with trivia. Who cares
ier one of O’Neill’s many old girl
ads never became a secretary because
couldn’t spell, or that O’Neill thought
( were poetic implications in Lind-
i’s flight?
•t despite its faults “O’Neill” is a
filing book. O’Neill’s stature is such
out above the soggy prose
t Gelbs.
tw far “The Iceman Cometh” is a
ct ' on that in his life with his third
O’Neill has journeyed from hap-
■s for a time into the night is a
:r for speculation, even after the
:mce in this biography. Carlotta is
a woman for whom one is either for or
against. Another recent biographer of
O’Neill, Croswell Bowen, was against
her almost to the point of libel, and the
Gelbs make it clear that she split
O’Neill’s friends, forcing him to disown
those who were against her.
RICHARD HALL
HOW, WHO, WHAT AND WHERE
How, Who, What, Where in Sydney.
Charles Sriber and Les Tanner.
Shakespeare Head. Bs. 6d.
Perth and the South West. John
Graham. Jacaranda Guide Series.
17s. 6d.
'E'Uch of these books is in its way a
good example of the new range of
non-fiction volumes being published in
Australia, and their ways are very diffe-
rent. The first, in hard covers, is a slim,
light and bright introduction to Sydney
and its pleasures, with enjoyable cartoon
illustrations and end maps by Les
Tanner. It is written by an American
who came visiting years ago, stayed, and
can show his distinct affection for “the
biggest, noisiest, oldest and most leaping-
ahead city in Australia” without diffi-
dence. In contrast, John Graham looks at
Perth and its environs through locally-
tinted lenses which show him that “club
life is the big social indicator”, and that
“though Melbourne has claimed the title
of the garden city of Australia, it ought
to go to Perth by right of perseverance.”
Sriber’s guide would be excellent for
overseas visitors, not so good for the
interstate motorist the traffic rules are
on page 90 and petrol hours on page 82,
miles from “by your own car” arrival
information on page 21 and a very
useful companion for all visitors with
leisure, thick soles, a fair amount of
spending money, and a desire to enjoy
Sydney thoroughly while they are there.
But more than that, the book is almost
a “must” for Sydney people, and particu-
larly for those who are, by adoption, the
real “critical, loving-eyed residents.” I
can quote one of them who read the book
and was moved to jot down: “I feel I
belong to this great, wonderful, confus-
ing, dirty place, and the book was just
what I wanted, with the praises that I’ve
wanted to sing and hear sung for nearly
13 years.”
Graham’s guide to Perth would be un-
likely to evoke such a strong reaction
from the people who love Perth. It is
more strictly a visitor’s book, and a new
settler’s book, living up to its soft cover’s
workmanlike promise of “pleasant, in-
formative reading before, during and
after any journey or visit.” Its traffic laws
are on page 18, and its illustrations are
good, sober color and black and white
plates.
FRANK ROBERTS
POLITICAL PHENOMENON
Truant Surgeon. Sir Earle Page.
Angus and Robertson. 635.
HPhere has been no phenomenon in
A Australian politics like Sir Earle
Page. He was essentially a “truant sur-
geon” as he wrote in his autobiography.
He came of a pioneering family of the
hard-toiling, hard-living dairying country
of the North Coast, a dynasty which
sprang from a highly educated school-
master with Huguenot antecedents and
an active father who was mayor of Graf-
ton the year the famous jacaranda


avenues were planted and who was active
in the field of water supply. He had a
mother whose father, Edwin Cox, had
come to Australia after helping to build
the first iron bridge in England over the
Severn. She claimed to be descended
from Mary Queen of Scots, though her
irreverent family “could never under-
stand how this occurred on either side
of the blanket.” She reared Herodotus
and Josephus and, bringing them up in
a primitive country town, succeeded
without much means in pushing four
sons, including two who became dis-
tinguished surgeons, and two daughters,
one an MA at 19, through the
universities.
This did not halt his whirlwind pro-
gress in his years as a student during
which medicine underwent a revolution,
the microscopic causes of diseases, such
as tuberculosis, plague, typhoid, diph-
theria and many more, were discovered
and asepsis revolutionised surgery.
By the time he came back from
World War I, during which he had per-
formed extraordinary surgical feats both
of endurance and skill and acquired a
tremendous range of operating experi-
ence, he had thrust his way into the local
public life, made himself a champion of
the new State for New England move-
ment and of the Clarence Gorge Hydro-
electricity project which (according to
his dream) Was to turn the new state
into an earthly paradise. He visited the
United States and Canada on his way
home to study water conservation.
The sequels to his election for Cow-
per at the 1919 poll in which he secured
more votes than poor old John Thomson,
the Federal Government whip, so strongly
entrenched that nobody had thought it
worth while to oppose him for two
elections past, and the Labor aspirant,
are surely unique in British Com-
monwealth political history. He was an
independent among a gaggle of less than
a dozen country MPs who as yet had no
party to swear allegiance to. He and his
colleagues were looked upon generally
as flies on the wall in a political room
in which a battle of professionals was
at its hottest. Nobody expected any of
them to last very long his own medi-
cal colleagues in his partnership at Graf-
ton gave him three years’ leave, but, as
he put it himself, he “played the wag
for the rest of his life.”
At the outset of his political career
he was more concerned with committing
political surgery on a few people and
bodies in Parliament than on his dairy-
farmer patients. He first sewed the dis-
parate group of country independents
ranging in nature from Edmund Jowett,
who shore a million sheep, to Percy
Stuart, who had sold newspapers on
street corners into a Country Party
which became the most enduring thing
in Federal politics without ever holding
the leadership of the House in 40 years
save for a few days.
Page and his “sombre hayseeds” knew
their hope of securing results lay in alli-
ance with a leadership of the Liberals
to form a coalition, since they were not
strong enough to hope to control Parlia-
ment alone.
This hope seemed to have its main
substance in the person of a seemingly
guileless young member who was in the
House by grace of a nice little piece of
bargaining which had changed the whole
character of Parliament. One of the
Farmer sections had agreed to withdraw
their candidate for Flinders in a by-
election to allow S. M. Bruce to win,
the quid pro quo being Hughes’s under-
taking that preferential voting at Federal
elections would be introduced. Had
Hughes even imagined the consequences
to himself and to Parliament he would
have dived off St Kilda Pier into a
shoal of sharks (so he later averred)
rather than make the concession he did.
It says something for Page’s discern-
ment that he found promise in Bruce
as one who could be depended on to
further the modest programme, which
he had enunciated to the Press a couple
of years before entering Parliament.
Under this scheme he proposed to
“strike at the root of the whole (national)
evil” to “give the Commonwealth com-
plete control of immigration, federalise
the Crown lands, subdivide the States
into areas whose outlines are determined
solely on the lines of community of
interest and big enough to attack
national schemes in a large way, but
small enough for every legislator to be
thoroughly conversant with every portion
of the area.” Thus he would assure that
“land settlement and proper develop-
ment” would follow on the unification of
national policy through federalising the
land laws and taxation laws and railway
gauges.”
Bruce, son of an enriched erstwhile
night watchman, had no desire to be in
Australia, much less to govern it as a
Prime Minister. He put up for nomina-
tion in Flinders on a pledge that he
would be allowed to withdraw if a more
suitable candidate became available. He
later declared that he “had no political
knowledge whatever and, although it
sounds like an exaggeration, not being
too clear as to exactly what Parliament
I was standing for.”
It would have seemed mad to prophesy
in the spring of 1921 that an alliance
between a rusty-headed Grafton surgeon
and this neophyte whose garb was that
of the London West End and whose
spats were often the only ones present
in Australian gatherings. They were
very tall spats and very white, stood out
like a ringbarked salmon gum 0 n
bright moonlight night.
Within a year of his entry on the stae
Billy had sealed his political fate by f a j|
ing to plump for a new New England
State during a visit to Grafton (wh ere
he broke a collar-bone through fallinl
off a horse which Page provided, after
wards patching up his victim). Within
two years Bruce was the head of
Government of which Earle Page (look,
ing more like a large and busy bee than
ever) was Deputy Leader, enjoying aa
experience which “inspired the forma-
tion of other composite Governments
with an aggregate life of 27 years in a
period of forty . . . (six) combinations
(which) enabled the non-Labor parties
to win twelve elections in a period
when the Labor Party won only three.”
The first of these combinations had
survived longer than any other Govern-
ment in Australian history up to that
time, only to be defeated on mean issues,
such as entertainment tax. The strange
pair lived and worked together in
perfect amity, with Page in the key
position of Treasurer, the atmosphere
“intimate and cordial.” Bruce soon
showed himself to be a man of great
ability and industry.
“Truant Surgeon” gives little inkling
of the drama of those years with the
Jock Gardens and their agents trying to
break on to the stage through industrial
riot and lawlessness. What the duo
accomplished was revolutionary. It was
Page who introduced central banking;
Page who planned the amendment of the
Constitution which brought about the
financial agreement with the States, the
formation of the Loan Council and
unified tax collection and forged the first
set of handcuffs for the States. The
taxation laws were liberalised with
special developmental allowances to
primary producers introduced. The
Council of Scientific and Industrial Re-
search was founded, leading in the end
to co-ordination of effort which inter alii
in the end virtually wiped out the rabbit.
The beginning of national electrical
development stems from this period, as
did the active participation of the Com-
monwealth in encouraging air develop-
ment. Also, Canberra was born as a
parliamentary city.
Though Page served in many other
Ministries afterwards he always yearned
for the return of the Bruce-Page era
which, if it had continued and there ha
been no depression, might have realise
nearly everything in his original P 1 0"
gramme.
He himself had the good sense to
understand that he was more powerm
as the second string in, and inspiration,
of, a coalition than as a leader a
Government. V
He had a great affection for J-


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stott's can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
si
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE 8563
PRESS CUPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informea by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter —your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, ■jress releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify.
WRITERS' AND PHOTOGRAPHERS'
MARKETING GUIDE (1962-3 ed.)
Aust., N.Z. and Oversea Markets fcr all
classes of MSS and photos. Also publishers,
literary agents, etc.
Complete detailed data, 15/- (post lid.)
Most booksellers, or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Box 28, P. 0., Collins St., Melbourne.
L nS and the latter’s sudden death
| eC ted him to a more emotional degree
| an those who did not know him well
could have suspected. In his short Prime
Ministership of a few days after Lyons’s
death his only objective was to restore
ju gruce-Page duet to office. He went
L great lengths to persuade Bruce to
[onl e back to Australia. A man who
tarely had any personal feeling toward
apponents, his attack on R. G. Menzies
jt the time, completely out of character
jjd so fierce that Archie Cameron
christened him The Old Red Hornet,
0 motivated not by any desire to
destroy R G. Menzies because the latter
stood in the way of his own personal
ambition but as the only man who stood
in the way of a second Bruce - Page
coalition. It took all the firmness of
Archie Cameron and some intricate
manoeuvres to make it possible for Page
to serve with Menzies in 1940.
He personally had no ambition very
much except for performance. He had
lie taste for honors. In 1957 he
attended his first annual church service
of the Order of St Michael and St
George, though he had been a Grand
Cross Knight since 1929. It was then
discovered that except at his investiture
he had never worn the resplendent gold
collar of the Order and did not even
know how to put it on and attach the
badge to it.
He was not an orator. He had two
modes of speaking. One seemed to be
designed to confuse his hearers and
embalm whatever he wished to place on
record in a mass of disjointed irrele-
vancies which bewildered the minds of
his hearers. In other moods he could
be as clear and lucid as distilled water.
He was beyond anything practical and
the remarkable fact that emerges from
his book is the versatility of his interests,
and the length of his reign as a senior
leader of Ministries —without parallel in
any other Australian politician in all
history—and his thoroughness in every
field of activity which he entered.
M. H. ELLIS
CATCHING THEM ALIVE
Forty-two Faces. John Hetherington.
F. W. Cheshire. 355.
Dead as a collection of newspaper arti-
* cles designed to give a general idea
of the personality, career and literary
achievement of each of 42 contemporary
Australian prose writers, these lightly
written chapters, averaging each a couple
of thousand words, w ith photos and lists
of publications to date, add up to an
entertaining and informative book.
Hetherington has interviewed or cor-
responded with each of his chosen lot of
ping men and women authors, and has
set down his impressions in an easy, con-
versational style; a varied bag, including
most of the familiar names, along with
toe that would be a shade risky under
the Fisheries and Gaming Act.
The fact that he is dealing with living
authors a touchy breed at times
6 one of the biographer's obvious handi-
It, with an apparently deliberate
Widance of anything like downright
®tical appraisal, tends to give his chap-
es a uniform scent of the bouquet.
®se are all heroes and heroines, saints
angels, models of behavior, shining
Ka mples for the many-headed monster to
if it can. Evidently authors have
tonimously become respectable, and
®°nt time, too.
Other obvious handicaps no doubt also
"hted the biographer. For one thing, the
! il ' ar ds of his praiseworthy chasing after
rst -hand information would naturally
Pend on the degree of co-operation he
able to get from his chosen authors.
MBts a few notable ones who, presum-
! y, were not willing to be in it at all;
and, again, of the cheerful givers, a great
deal would depend on what, anyway,
they actually had to give, even of a
favorable kind.
Probably Hetherington could name
other difficulties encountered in doing his
very satisfying job. Still, with all allow-
ances, it seems rather surprising that one
of the greatest writers among his inclu-
sions the author of “Working Bul-
locks”, “Coonardoo” “Haxby’s Circus”
and other distinctively authentic contribu-
tions to the best in Australian literature
—should be the subject of one of the
thinnest chapters. Aside from original
research, one would have throught that
enough had already been written about
Katherine Susannah Prichard to provide
ample material for an exceptionally rich
piece of portraiture.
Perhaps, though, a fairer illustration of
the merit of Hetherington’s book can be
drawn from the fact that every one of the
half-dozen or more of these authors per-
sonally known to the present reviewer is
hero or heroine of an excellent chapter.
Their brief biographies, and some of the
others with them, deserve a better des-
criptive tag than either “faces” or “pro-
files”, as Hetherington modestly calls
them. You may miss this or that little
touch of character, but you may also
even learn something new about them.
These old friends and acquaintances,
some of them not seen for years, come
fairly visibly alive on the page, and, using
this as a touchstone, Hetherington’s book
would seem a generally sound introduc-
tion to his extensive list of living Aus-
tralian authors.
CECIL MANN


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
CLOSER FARMER-SCIENTIST
LIAISON IS VITAL
Tnsufficient reciprocal exchange of
-*■ ideas between farmers and scientists
has in the past led to misunderstandings
and misuse of technical discoveries, ac-
cording to Mr R. A Brewer, of “Green
Hills,” Marulan (NSW), one of those in-
vited to submit papers at a national con-
ference of agricultural scientists in Syd-
ney this week.
Mr Brewer, a practical grazier, ap-
pealed to agricultural scientists and
primary producers to get together and
create a closer liaison on agricultural
problems in the best interests of Aus-
tralia.
“We feel that agricultural science is
vital to the survival of humanity—more
so than the more glamorous sisters
atomics and space,” said Mr Brewer
in the course of his paper. “One of the
most important benefits is the better
understanding of nutritional requirements
of plant and animal life.”
He instanced the study of the relation-
ship between rhizobium bacteria and
leguminous plants, and the resulting in-
crease in soil fertility to allow more
nutritious plants to be introduced, as
one of the great benefits.
Another example was the study of the
ruminant animal and its requirements to
get higher production of wool, meat and
milk.
“This has been of great value because
ruminants are largely responsible for the
well-being of humanity,” Mr Brewer
said. “The efficiency of that study has
enabled the farmer to have a better
understanding of his animals’ require-
ments so that he can fulfil his role to
the advantage of mankind in general and
himself in particular.”
Other examples cited by Mr Brewer
included:—
• Pinpointing and overcoming trace
element deficiencies in soils to make it
not only possible, but profitable, for plant
and animal production where previously
this was not so.
• Studies of climate and environment
which enable the farmer to time his
activities and enterprises to best advant-
age.
• Study and breeding of improved
species of plants and animals to extend
production further under extreme condi-
tions of heat, drought and cold.
• Development of new drugs and
methods of management to control both
internal and external parasites of
animals.
“The study and breeding of improved
species has been of great benefit not only
to the grazier but to humanity in gen-
eral,” Mr Brewer said. “I feel that this
is a study which can ultimately mean
the survival of humanity on this planet.
“On the other hand, we have scientific
discoveries and theories which appear to
be perhaps the most spectacular, but may
be the most short-lived and the most
dangerous to the industry and in some
instances mankind.”
Mr Brewer said that the use of chlori-
nated hydrocarbons for control of insect
pests, particularly the sheep blowfly, was
without restraint or regard to the con-
sequences of insect resistance and consti-
tuted a danger to life. Hormones had
been used to produce extra animal pro-
tein, but it was now evident that this was
unsafe, and that better nutrition could
achieve the same results.
“We all have the greatest admiration
for the agricultural scientist and under-
stand to some extent his dedication to
this field,” he added. “But agricultural
scientists must become more united in
every field throughout the world, with
closer liaison with the farmer, his en-
vironment, his problems, and a thorough
understanding of the economics of the
industry in their particular field.”
INSTANT-WETTING DIP
A sheep dipping powder which has
been used in Australia for genera-
tions has now been prepared in an
instant-wetting, concentrated form, to
make it easier for sheep owners to use.
The powder is merely poured on to the
water in the sump of a shower dip or
plunge dip, instead of having to be pre-
mixed by hand before use.
In all trials lice were eradicated
including an infestation on rams carry-
ing four months’ wool. There was no
scalding or toxic reaction.
STRANGE DISCOVERIES IN
STOMACHS OF CATTLE
A pparently cattle beat even ostriches
for the number and variety 0 {
“foreign” objects they swallow.
Melbourne veterinary surgeon Dr D
Murnane, writing in the “Victorian
Dairyfarmer,” says interesting collections
of objects are often found in the four
stomachs of a cow after slaughtering.
He cites the instance of an animal
which had grazed for four years in a
paddock used every Saturday for clay
target shooting. Post-mortem examine
tion found 21b of lead shot in the beast’s
stomach.
But the best collection of all, accord-
ing to Dr Murnane, came from a bull’s
stomach. It comprised: A piece of rub-
ber tube, two plastic bags, a rubber doll,
nine pennies, a toy watch, a fishing
spinner, five clothes pegs, six can lids, a
card of bobby pins, two dozen bottle
tops, two non-matching earrings, two
hypodermic needles, several .22 cartridge
cases, two well-worn rubber heels, five
coffee can tops, a broken soft-drink bottle
top, several safety pins, a key chain, a
gold watch band, 16 nails, and, to cap it
all . . . one set of false teeth!
Most animals, like humans, chew their
food when they first take it into their
mouth, but not the cow. Ruminants
simply swallow without chewing.
In the rumen, or first stomach, the
food is divided into pellets or boluses,
and these are regurgitated one at a time
for chewing. Heavy objects, such as
metal, lodge in one or other of the four
stomachs usually the second. Sharp
objects, such as baling wire, can migrate
from the stomach through the cow’s
body and cause injury or death by pierc-
ing vital organs.
TRAVELLING AWARDS FOR
AUSTRALIAN FARMERS
TPhe Nuffield Foundation is continuing
this year its practice of offering two
travelling scholarships to enable pro-
gressive Australian farmers to spend a
period of not less than six months gain-
ing experience in the UK.
The Foundation will pay the return
travelling expenses, at tourist rates (by
air if really necessary) and will provide
a living allowance. Candidates, male or
female, should be over 25 but not much
more than 35.
This year’s scholarships, to be taken
up early in 1964, are being offered to
farmers in Victoria and Tasmania. Next
year awards will be offered in NSW,
Queensland and the ACT.
Application forms may be obtained
from the Secretary of the Nuffield
Foundation Advisory Committee, Uni-
versity of Melbourne.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
What more does business need?
P|OTH Government and private enterprise are continuing
K their prolonged, though perhaps still too gentle assault
on the strange bird public confidence. Despite all the
Handishments of recent months, many sources repeat a con-
ation that the bird, in the virile plumage of a growing
Australian economy, really refuses to budge very far off the
round.
Last week in particular saw a veritable outpouring of finan-
ial stimulus, homily and complaint, ranging all the way from
time Ministerial confidence to measured scepticism by the
liistralian Council of Trade Unions. Among these various
ferences of opinion it remains hard to convince the ordinary
ian in the street that he can turn hopefully towards a genu-
iely established future buoyancy. Somehow, with so many
sources at his command, he disdains to take fire.
It scarcely sounds sufficient for Mr Staniforth Ricketson to
lone an undoubtedly true gospel: “Public confidence in the
mediate and long-term future of Australia has shown a
pificant revival over the last few months and particularly
ince the opening of the 1963 calendar year. This has been
fell justified by the evidence of strong economic recovery
applied bv official statistics and company reports.”
With justice Mr Ricketson can proceed to draw his moral:
Perhaps the most gratifying feature of the position is that the
nprovement has been achieved during a period of almost
iprecedented stability of costs and prices, with an entire
bsence of the hectic conditions w'hich characterised the in-
ationary boom of 1959 and 1960.”
Yet business and individuals don’t dance vigorously to
tch a guarded tune. Have they, during the past fortnight
iso been given more of what they feel has been lacking?
Before briefly listing the most recent baits, it is surely
wthwhile to present the not unattractive picture revealed by
k latest estimates of national income and expenditure, now
liable for the final quarter of 1962. On this firm basis,
bs hard to discover why forward impetus should not appear
nore certain, especially with the obvious reserves of consumer
Ming power waiting to be provoked.
Even so, over that December quarter, personal consump-
#|i expenditure, went ahead by 5 p.c. compared with the
Responding 1961 quarter. Food, clothing and household
tas took a record £ 1258 million, against £1202 million
‘the December, 1961, quarter and £1193 million in 1960.
* J ?es and salaries moved up £47 million, or 5 p.c., above
k 1961 levels.
Farm income gained £39 million, while the gross value of
Auction reached £56 million —a 12 p.c. advance. The
lest production statistics, examined below 7 , predominantly
these better trends.
Those few figures selected in this instance concentrate
Wy on the consumer side, where confidence is apt to
itself most vividly. The improvement is there, with-
-51 any doubt. Yet plainly business and industry does not
“Tupon it with a genuine glow. Admitting spots of over-
fWty still to be caught up, banking and other figures display
the postponement of any drive towards significant capital
expenditure.
Perhaps the new encouragements to be given to home-
building, announced by Mr Menzies, will furnish the necessary
jolt and multiply widely throughout the whole economy. The
Prime Minister is certainly correct in declaring the economy
to be “currently well situated, balanced internally and extern-
ally and moving forward at a good rate.”
But everybody appears to want assurance upon assurance
about this patent fact. With its previous stimulatory measures
in mind, the Government is clearly depending on the present
smaller goads to produce a more confident reaction. To the
building votes, Mr Menzies added the necessary announce-
ment that export incentives are to be renewed and that the
investment allowance on manufacturing plant is to continue.
Best news of all might well be the signs to be drawn from the
climb in immigration. That is one indicator businessmen have
previously known how to evaluate.
It could be that business is right to demand even clearer
pointers from the Government, especially, say, some official
action to influence interest rates. Here business may also be
correct in joining hands with the ACTU and asking for more
effective economic planning. That kind of overall dependence
looks like becoming an increasing feature of a mixed economy
in coming years.
FACTORIES MAKING BETTER
USE OF PLANT
rpHE private sector of the economy may not be pushing forward
with needed spending and investing, but it is producing
goods efficiently. If we believe that growth is sluggish and
abnormal, then the production figures coming to light reflect a
more stable and efficient use of existing plant capacity.
This accounts for the better profitability of companies clearly
apparent in interim reports to shareholders in recent weeks.
Behind the facade of dullness, disinterest and caution by our
industrial community, there has been, and is, considerable
activity in getting better and more work out of existing
resources.
Looking at the position overall, it would be fair to lay
the blame for the present apparent growth inertia with the
past carefree inefficiencies. So, production figures of recent
months are showing solid improvements yet industrial invest-
ment (in plant, equipment, and raw materials) is, indeed, lack-
ing. We are really still mopping up the sloth of earlier days.
If true, this means that industry is more efficient and more
profitable, and consequently is in a better position to grow than
it has been for some years. It, then, is not a matter of Govern-
ment stimulants but of catching up with peak use of existing
resources before growth gets under way again.
The improvement in production efficiency can be weighed
from the following tables, for, if investment is held to have


been fairly steady over the past 12 months then better use
must have been made of the previous assets.
STEEL INGOTS
1961-62 1962-63
tons tons
November 311,000 364,000
December 348,000 354,000
January 339,000 318,000
Three months total 998,000 1,036,000
ELECTRICITY
1961-62 1962-63
million k-w million k-w
hours hours
November 2094 2298
December 2002 2200
January 2017 2201
Three months total 6113 6699
CLAY BRICKS
1961-62 1962-63
millions millions
November 82.8 97.2
December 64.2 69.8
January 53.7 61.9
Three months total 200.7 228.9
• Note the seasonal decline from November through January.
HARDBOARD
1961-62 1962-63
sq. yds sq. yds
November 2662 3035
December 1728 2445
January 1711 2157
Three months total 6101 7637
• Note seasonal decline December-January.
SULPHURIC ACID
1961-62 1962-63
’OOO tons ’OOO tons
November 73.2 98.0
December 85.4 100.7
January .... 88.4 103.9
Three months total 247.0 302.6
This sample of basic industry shows stout improvements in
output. Others, such as pig iron, timber, floor coverings, can
be thrown in. Tinplate, in which we have become self-
sufficient in quick time, has more than doubled output in the
last 12 months.
Most durable consumer goods the niceties of the Aus-
tralian way of life continue to be produced at a high rate.
Here, of course, is extended usage of previous overcapacity.
It is said that existing plant would allow a twofold increase
on present output. Nonetheless, the cost structure of the
industry has improved to allow some of the capacity slack to
be taken up.
Peak production in washing machines and refrigerators
passed (for the present anyhow) earlier in 1962 with, especially
in the case of washing machines, a temporary lull in peak
demand.
This sector of the national industrial front is subject more
to the vagaries of public spending, influenced by such things
as saturation points and fashions as much as by the economy
ups and downs. Movements in output here are not truly repre-
sentative of the economic weather.
WASHING MACHINES
1961-62 i 962 . 63
November - .... 21,000 179^
December 15,100 13jqq
January 13,500 12,300
Three months total 49,600 43399
'• Note “holiday” period decline in output.
REFRIGERATORS
1961-62 1962-63
November 27,900 23,600
December 20,100 15,599
January 16,300 14,200
Three months total 64,300 53,300
• Note off-season decline in production usually December-
March.
TELEVISION SETS
1961-62 1962-63
November 19,200 25,600.
December 15,500 17,600
January 13,000 16,200
Three months total 47,700 59,400
• Note seasonal decline in the “holiday” period.
RADIO SETS
1961-62 1962-63
November 46,000 68,400
December 34,300 48,100
January 20,100 38,100
Three months total 100,400 154,600
• Note seasonal tapering off towards December-January.
The motor industry continues its buoyant way. Motor
bodies, for instance, are being produced at record levels Id
the three months November-January, 62,900 bodies came from
under presses in Australia 16,400, or 35 p.c., more than
in the same period of 1961-62.
Most textiles have held this improved productive position,
with synthetic fibres showing greater activity than the natural
fibres.
COTTON YARN
1961-62 1962-63
’ooolb. ’OOO lb,
November 3,972 3,974 j
December 2,925 3,03 Is
January 3,159 2,842|
Three months total 10,056 9,847
WOOL CLOTH j
1961-62 1 962-63
’OOO sq. yds ’OOO sq. yd#
November 2,423 2,751
December 1,788 2,02-
January 1,810 2,09
Three months total 6,021 6,87-
RAYON CLOTH
1961-62 1962-63
’OOO sq. yds ’OOO sq. Fj
November 1,769 22 -
December 1,502
January 1,314
Three months total 4,585
—i


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New
South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
lq
PER
ANNUM
FOUR
YEARS
REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
6mths....6°op.a.
kl2mths..7^p.a.
c*EC:
Funds may be with-
drawn in a personal
emergency as set
out in the pros-
pectus.
Applications for
these notes must be
made on the form
attached to the
prospectus, which is
now available from:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. Georges Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Meib.).
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCISB/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with
application forms.
ADDRESS
ONCE MERGER TO BRING
OSTMENT MARKET CHANGES
M implications of last week’s merger
1 0 f Australian United Corporation
L an d Anglo-Australian Pty Ltd did
2 o unnoticed in the “cities”. On the
lC£ of it, the merger added grist to Sir
(t potter's growing stature in the in-
giment markets of Australia. But there
oS even more than that to prickle the
| er members of this now thoroughly
Kisticated industry of money,
for the merger, in one swoop, gives
istralia its first English-type issuing
juse, Issuing in Australia has been the
(tserve of member-firms of the Ex-
lange —a natural aside to the main
usiness of buying and selling shares.
Anglo-Australian has fared quite well
;a background sub-underwriter (and
imed underwriter in a few instances)
Australia. With the resources of Mor-
gCrenfell, Lazards, Freres and Mor-
in (juaranty of UK and US, there
rtvery reason for success here. But
p these world financiers join with
UC (as 35 per cent shareholders)
nubtless to expand the breadth of their
nstralian operation.
Within days we can expect first use of
1)C as an underwriter to a listed Stock
ichange company; possibly Kauri
imber which is about to raise funds.
Other enfant ( terrible) merchant
inkers will follow 7 quickly as the listed
sderwriter of fund gathering, both
pity and fixed interest. In Sydney,
relopment Finance Corporation is
til enough established to act as nominal
well as real underwriter. So, too, is
Darling Pty, a newer investment
nker owned by Charles A. Ord, Min-
# & Partners, Herbert Wagg and
iroeders and other Australian institu-
ms.
hie member firms of the Exchanges,
®> must be prepared to bow to these
*r equipped (in terms of capital and
stion) underwriters.
More important to the broking frater-
ty will be the natural development
:tw een these merchant and investment
“tars and other institutions of “off-
set” business. The altogether too-
l*l' brokerage rates charged by Ex-
Bn ges will have to be closely examined
Iflte members if they are to compete
![ this fringe off-market business.
Appears inevitable that before very
a sliding scale brokerage (the more
shares, the less the brokerage) will
*" e into force in Australia as it is over-
is,
Wither direct impact of the develop-
* of the issuing house system will be
Jj* e gathering of fixed interest funds.
,ru e” market could eventually re-
place the present haphazard shovelling
of investible funds.
Not only could the new system present
us with a more flexible market for both
equities and fixed-interests. It should also,
especially on new flotations, provide a
much more exact market.
It need hardly be stressed that some
laxer and purely broker-inspired first
dealings in the past have produced some
very artificial stagging, to the particular
detriment of many small investors. While
our so-called free market is frequently
conditioned by the large institutions, and
will continue this way, accurate and
knowledgeable underwriting can only
benefit everybody.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
POINTS IN THE MARGINS CASE
A t one stage in Mr R. J. Hawke’s sub-
■*"*' missions before the Arbitration
Commission in Melbourne last week he
came pretty near to hanging the union’s
hat on the peg that “the true valuation
of wages is what is being paid in the
market,” for he went on to point out
that, in effect, the unions were asking
that the average of current over-award
payments should be written into the
award.
This is an altogether different argu-
ment from the others in his bow that
considerations such as consumer price
index changes, productivity and capacity
to pay justify the unions’ demands, in
that it puts a premium on the scarcity
value of skilled labor which is, of course,
recognised throughout the economic
structure.
The real question is: How much
premium? Employers are bound to say
that the award simply sets the minimum
wage, that it is a stepping stone from
which the criterion of scarcity value is
used to determine future over-award
wages in both skilled and unskilled
employments. They are bound to say
that the unions cannot have it both ways,
and the prime consideration in determin-
ing payments for skills lies in the basic
wage itself, even recognising that an
argument along these lines implies that
margins should also be varied according
to changes in the consumer price index
to obviate erosion of margins.
The danger in Mr Hawke’s line of
reasoning is that in times of acute
scarcity of skilled labor, such as at
present, high scarcity value over-award
payments would be written into the
award structure and the economy saddled
with them through thick and thin. It is
better business for the economy to leave
this upper layer of wages in skilled
employments flexible, and though it is
easy to see why the unions want to con-
solidate them into wages awards,
from an economic point of view the pro-
cess should be resisted.
For whereas there is at present a
scarcity of skilled labor in many in-
dustries, there is a superfluity of unskilled
labor seeking employment and it is going
to be all the more difficult to accom-
modate them with employment if em-
ployers are compelled to pay higher
award margins to skilled workers.
Any increase in award margins at the
present time would almost automatically
lead to pressure for payments higher
than the new awards and in given con-
ditions it would be difficult to resist it.
Such payments would weaken the labor
absorption potential of industry for other
types of labor, and would therefore seem
to be against the broader interests of the
unions.
This point can be taken further. While
not going so far as to suggest a
renascence of the Wages Fund theory
of wages, it has to be recognised that
firms are the less likely to plan expansion
and so relieve not only the surplus of
unskilled labor but also create job
opportunities to absorb a bigger immigra-
tion flow when they are saddled with
rising payments for skilled labor.
However, when all this is said it is
more than likely that the Arbitration
Commission will focus its main attention
on the matters of productivity and the
country’s general capacity to pay the
increases in margins being sought by the
unions.
On these, first it should not be blinded
to the fact that the apparent rise in
productivity in the last two years is
largely a cyclical phenomenon arising
from the more economic use of labor
following (to put it no stronger) its less
economic usage in the few years up to
1960.
This sort of increase should not be
stamped into the structure of wages
awards but rather its benefits should be
allowed to remain in the cost structure
of industry. This consideration becomes
all the more important in the light of
the need to improve the competitive
position of export industry.
11/I'r Hawke is quite right in saying that
there is always some economic
indicator or other to jam up the unions’
cases for higher wages on the grounds
of sufficient capacity to pay, and he is
quite right also in saying that the Com-
mission should look to long-term trends
rather than day-to-day indicators putting
good or bad complexions on the immedi-
ate economic horizon.
One is always puzzled by what route
the Commission arrives at its findings on
the score of capacity to pay. Probably
it rubs its thumbs to get its answers.
However, one sees no reason on this
score why, in present circumstances, the
economy would not benefit by the
exercise of considerably more spending
power, say, in the next few months or
so, though whether this would best be
achieved by increasing wages is another
matter.
One would have thought that to speed
the process of taking up the still con-
siderable slack in the economy, par-
ticularly labor slack, a much better idea
would be to give incomes a boost thromi,
lower income tax and sales tax tv
trouble with doing this by increasing
wages generally is that it militates against
the absorption of surplus labor and so
defeats its own purpose. Better still
though one has been harping on this J
nauseam lately, all-round reductions jg
interest rates would work miracles in
slack absorbing. A pity the Arbitration
Commission’s powers don’t run to that
hears that the Commission loofo
pretty closely at the balance of pay,
ments in considering capacity to p a y
and, if so, it is quite right. As Mr Hawlo
pointed out last week, it was because o
unfavorable portents in this directio
that the Commission adjourned the cas
on the question of three weeks’ holiday
with pay in 1960. However, all look
quite assuring on that front at the presen
time, so this should be no bar to succes
for the unions. Nor should the phanton
of Britain stepping into the Commoi
Market, which the Commission saw ai
a bar to the unions on the same mattei
a year ago.
One would suggest, however, that ii
the light of the considerable lata
absorption problems now facing thi
country, the Arbitration Commissioi
should look rather beyond the criteria
has used in previous wage and margin
cases and view the matter of increasin
award margins also in the context o
labor absorption, not only the curren
one of absorbing the seasonal addition
of school leavers to the labor market, bu
also the general one of absorbing a risinj
inflow of migrant workers into the labo:
force.
NZ INVESTORS
AVOID
AUST. SHARES
VTew Zealanders, who have millioi t
of pounds invested in Australia
companies, are presently showing muc |
less interest in buying Australian share j
than in recent years. t
As a result, the “free market” premia! |
paid for Australian and sterling casl (|
bought from other residents and used fe
buying shares, has dropped to its k weS tl
point for many years. |
At the moment, investors wanting f 1
buy Australian shares not available «
the local stock exchanges can get £ t(
for £NZB3 or slightly less. A few month


\£oq Nv
Ml
A happier choice for every occasion . • •
ArGOYCS wine
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET.
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT*
and ST. AGNES BRANDY cf course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES BRANDY
jjothey would have had to pay at least
j 506.
This represents a present premium of
[, e tween 31 and 4 p.c. The highest paid
ju the last two years or so was 11 p.c.,
file a few years ago, before the Govern-
restricted the use of overseas funds
lor buying cars (still in very short sup-
pjy) , the premium was as high as 22 p.c.
Transfer of funds held overseas by a
|j e w Zealand resident to another resident
,1 a price higher than the official ex-
change rate <£AlOO- £NZBO is
strictly illegal. But there is nothing to
slop a New Zealander using funds held
ii a Sydney bank to buy Australian
Government bonds and to sell them
through a New Zealand broker to another
New Zealander at a premium, settlement
being in New Zealand currency. The
buyer’s broker then sells the bonds for
the normal market price through his
Sydney or Melbourne agent and the pro-
ceeds are used to buy shares.
A consequence of the lagging interest
in Australian shares has been that more
funds are available for investment in
New Zealand shares,
It is believed that there are two main
reasons for the lack of interest.
The predominant one is that many
New Zealanders have been put off buying
Australian equities by failures such as
those of Reid Murray (one of the most
frequently traded stocks on New Zealand
exchanges), Factors and Latec and the
difficulties of Kauri, once a very popular
share in the Dominion.
Another major reason is the high cost
of and the many difficulties involved in
getting probate in Australia on share-
holdings by New Zealand residents
BRITAIN AFTER DE GAULLE
By “CROESUS"
Having been lifted somewhat peremp-
** torily into the leadership of the
Iritish Labor Party, Mr Harold Wilson
las lost no time at all i telling the
country, which has pretty close to a
million unemployed, that the present
"laissez faire, soft-centred, speculative,
lire-purchase, advertiser-controlled” sort
([economy has no future in his political
plans.
In its place he wants to see a system
of State guaranteed orders assuring
various industries that a Labor Govern-
ment would buy up any products they
made but failed to sell and ship them
iff as aid to the under - developed
countries, who would also be assisted by
talk purchase contracts for their raw
materials.
After the arduous post-war experiment
in which the Labor Government essayed
i nationalisation programme, one should
hesitate before believing that Mr Wilson,
is President of the Board of Trade in
tee days, would have been overkeen to
unscramble the present system for all its
shortcomings and, anyway, the present
Government has another 18 months to
run and is unlikely to go to the hustings
Nil October this year at the earliest.
It is a bit too early for Mr McEwen
*° be licking his lips at the prospect of
He Wilson establishing another Ministry
°I Food and handing out bulk contracts
I° r the purchase of Commonwealth
and raw materials, though
ho could indulge a few pleasant thoughts
tn a possible dramatic change in
Britain’s attitude towards world com-
teiity agreements, notably on wheat.
h the meantime, with its plans to find
gnomic salvation via the Common
Market in ruins, neither the Macmillan
Government nor various economic ad-
visory bodies which abound around
Whitehall have been sitting by idly
awaiting the Wilson revolution, but seek-
ing ways and means to give the old
system a new lease of life.
With the Budget coming up in about
six weeks time naturally emphasis is
being given to the idea of injecting more
spending power and argument is raging
as to just how much and by what means.
The National Institute of Economic and
Social Research has come up with a
figure of <£stg.4oo million and sees the
best way of giving the stimulus as relief
of income and other taxes, a method
fully approved by the London “Econo-
mist” which thinks that this would pro-
duce a multiplier addition of something
over £lOOO million in new income.
It is interesting, by the way, to see
the Institute is in favor of a growth rate
of 5 p.c. for the coming fiscal year April,
1963, to March, 1964, this being an
advance on the 4 p.c. recommended by
the National Economic Development
Council for the last two years but not
achieved.
More interesting, however, is to note
that the Macmillan Government fully
recognises that a revitalisation of the
British economy will depend not so much
on an injection of spending power to
stimulate home demand, but funda-
mentally on expanding exports in face of
the shut gates of western Europe.
There have been one or two interest-
ing developments on this since the de
Gaulle demarche. One is the step taken
by EFTA to beat the EEC in the speed
of its internal tariff reductions, though
this is probably of secondary importance
to the wider possibility of a challenge
being made through GATT to the ex-
clusive nature of the internal tariff re-
ductions being implemented by the EEC
itself.
One might think that such a challenge
by Britain on this score after being re-
buffed by The Six smacked rather of
sour grapes, but at any rate the London
“Economist” sees some future in the
idea.


*»K<.»yAv.v.v.-_: ••• •••
rr\
V.-,
x
i
-
I
■
-•
i
X..
<
■ME
,
.1*
ki
' -
F.C.A. LEASING will
expand production
and conserve capital
at the same time
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capital
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing
■ frees working capital for
more profitable use.
■ allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.C.A. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objectives through leasing—and why it pays
to lease from F.C.A.—write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St. Telephone: 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St. Telephone: 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts. Telephone: 27 7003
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St. Telephone: 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone: 21 3181
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
-
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
FL


F
>
For my money
tt s o • • •
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
317 c
it 70 INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
AEI's MOVE FOR THE BEST
(Phe inevitable return of AEI into the
| of its London parent, As-
!Sciated Electrical Industries Ltd, does
I a ppear to be creating much local
| BSS Such relative indifference stands
i marked contrast to the great en-
josiasm which greeted the Australian
j er j n g of 1,267,160 20s. ordinary
lares in 1955.
That issue, made at 20s. 4d. and giving
,32 p.c. interest, was gobbled up, with
)0 pre-vision of any perils awaiting the
dectrical industry. Apart from domestic
ippliances and heavier engineering, tele-
port beckoned along a bright path.
But AEI never got properly going from
lie start. Now the shares are being
taught back again at exactly the same
price.
In the hindsight of a disillusioning
seven years, the cash bid looks reason-
illy generous. Perhaps it serves to
jollify disappointment at past opera-
ions, even to cancel impressions made
if a very recent report of better profits,
for the situation at the moment seems
lobe that present profits are not realising
lie expectations.
It might be a little more difficult to
issuage some previous shareholders for
le pickings that have been going on
since about last September. At that time
market prices reached a low of 9s. 6d.
1 climb to 15s. 6d. early in December
iicited a statement that no takeover offer
ad been received, nor was any known
the impending.
The statement could not extinguish
be investment sprees, since the shares
tn 1963 at 16s. 6d. and had touched
3d. just before Associated’s an-
Mncement. Some outsiders continued
bguess well!
Maybe they were assisted early on by
‘few bare hints dropped by the chair-
of Associated, Viscount Chandos,
Wng his visit to Australia last year,
discount Chandos felt inclined to admit
the local issue had been made some-
prematurely and there were even
J® distant prospects of buying back
® shares again.
These observations received by no
bns wide reporting nor a breath of
formation. Some lucky speculators
-' e Pt on playing the rumors!
this as it may, and all local con-
‘lllons taken into consideration, Associ-
! tds m °ve appears the wisest under the
Shareholders can hardly
tex pected to contemplate with great
only s i ow f ru it s from a necessary
! Citation and reorganisation. Direc-
ting hardly any consolation by
‘luting “it i s extremely difficult to
l£Cas t future earnings.”
In fact, on the largish £4 million
capital, AEI attained its best earning
rate of 9.1 p.c. in 1955-56. The rate
drooped to 3.04 p.c. in 1960-61, while
last year’s profit at £167,281 yielded
earnings slightly up at 4.2 p.c. After
two years of dividends at 7! p.c. and
three at 5 p.c., shareholders have had
to be content with 2! p.c. for 1961 and
1962.
There is no need to disbelieve London
directors when they assert Associated
“would have preferred to maintain Aus-
tralian shareholdings in AEI.” They also
must feel that a centralised drive can
accomplish what local directors are un-
able to do.
For other interests of Associated in
this country call for knitting together as
well. They comprise Siemens Henley
Pty Ltd and Gala Appliances Pty Ltd,
both run separately from AEI and “also
not earning a reasonable rate of profit.”
Directors seem to have in mind quite
a sizeable degree of rationalisation, along
the lines of divisional groupings. Far-
flung empires demand that medicine from
time to time, when the looser and hap-
hazardly gathered subsidiaries grow slack.
The cure is now in process of achieving
wonders at Email, to furnish but one
example in the same trade.
So far as AEI itself is concerned, the
struggle has definitely engaged both the
remaining major sections—home appli-
ances and electrical engineering. The
TV section, of course, went by the board
last year. In spite of that clean-up, how-
ever, competition must still be met along
a broad front, with the additional com-
plication of allegedly subsidised imports
of large contracted electrical apparatus.
It so happened last week that we heard
two pleas for the retention of reasonable
local equity in overseas undertakings
within this country. Mr Staniforth
Ricketson and Lieutenant - General
Howard Graham (president of Toronto
Stock Exchange) firmly argued for such
permitted participation.
As affairs have turned out, AEI prob-
ably constitutes a clear exception to the
case for thus protecting our assets.
Shareholders have no real reason to think
unfairly of the bid they are getting.
Possible issues
HPhere’s talk around the electrical trade
that H. G. Palmer (Consolidated)
Ltd will shortly make a one-for-four
bonus issue and a one-for-two cash issue
at 2s. 6d. premium.
The group’s borrowings must now be
getting out of proportion to the equity
capital.
The January debenture issue for
£•500,000 has been oversubscribed, and
the company is now only accepting sub-
scriptions to the 12 months’ notice and
long-term stock.
At September 25, 1962, subscribed
capital of £1,824,082 (including
£830,000 in preference shares) was sup-
ported by capital and revenue reserves of
£2,198,880. And the last earning rate
of 34.8 p.c. (dividend 12! p.c.) leaves
plenty of margin for a bonus.
The ss. shares are currently bringing
about 16s. 3d.
The equity issues, of course, provide
the material answer to the ill-informed
criticism that Palmer’s gearing is out of
order. The bonus will only go partially
towards aligning capital with real assets,
for this has been one of our more
thrifty companies, paying dividends well
below earnings over its whole history.


Ardlethan hopes
T)rospectus for the flotation of Ardle-
than Tin NL by the Aberfoyle Hold-
ings group foreshadowed in The
Bulletin last October takes a favorable
view of the prospects for tin prices back-
ed by the noted minerals economist Dr
J. A. Dunn. It says that prices should
fluctuate between £stg.Bso (the present
price) and £stg.9oo a ton, while disposals
from the US stockpile continue and then
move higher.
The company expects production at
Ardlethan (350 miles west of Sydney) to
be around 650 tons a year, which would
lift Australian tin output by a quarter
to about 3250 tons annually as against
current consumption of a rising 4500
tons. The venture should save Austra-
lia £700,000 a year in imports at the
current price of tin. Mining will be
by open cut, the overburden being
negligible. Production is scheduled to
start by January next year.
An annual net profit of £135,798, of
which £40,735 would be tax exempt,
is expected on the basis of £stg.Bso a
ton and a head grade of 0.40 p.c. of
metal with recovery rate at 65 p,c. The
dividend rate is not forecast. Net profit
is expected to rise by increments of
£27,625 a year for every £5O increase
in the price of tin above £stg.Bso a
ton.
The issue is being underwritten by
Patrick and Company, Leonard G. May
and Son and Eric R. Jeffery and Son,
1,420,000 ss. shares being offered to the
public and 1,400,000 to Aberfoyle Hold-
ings, both at par. The Commonwealth
Development Bank is putting up
£lOO,OOO and other bankers £50,000.
Space to let
Come of the loudest complaints about
the economy’s failure to go on from
the recovery stage are being made by
estate agents, particularly in Melbourne,
where one and all declare the industrial
property market to be dead flat. In the
inner city a curious position has arisen
where many prosperous and expanding
concerns have moved out of old cramped
premises in such alleys as Flinders Lane
into new buildings, in some cases only a
few blocks away, but have failed to find
either tenants or buyers for their vacated
buildings. This was a cost of develop-
ment they hadn’t reckoned on.
This week’s special
/Companies mostly don’t bother to give
profit figures in interim reports
unless they are doing particularly well.
But Larke Consolidated Industries Ltd,
Sydney engineer and motor vehicle dis-
tributor, filed last week one of the
brightest interim reports in which it
declared after-tax profit for the half-year
to December was £120,780 or 22.3 p.c.
per annum on capital, compared with
£157,583 and 14.6 p.c. for the year to
June 30, 1962.
Two new acquisitions, Neal W,
ments Ltd, Fiat concessionaire Jj
Rogers Chain Holdings Pty Ltd, ’which
makes heavy industrial chain and eau&
ment, were important contributors to
group profit for the latest half-term. °
Engineering and manufacturing activi-
ties produced more profit than any othei
sector, but the company was also success*
ful in wholesaling automotive replace*
ment parts and distributing motor
vehicles.
Only the building construction sub-
sidiary was less active than before, and
new contracts recently obtained should
correct this in the second half of the
year.
Motor vehicle distribution began in
Melbourne in November last, through
Willcastle Pty Ltd.
If the company can maintain this level
of profit-making for the rest of the year,
the present share price of Bs. Bd. (inctme
yield of 5.8 p.c. on unchanged dividend
of 10 p.c.) would show an earnings yield
of 12.7 p.c. The shares look like this
week’s “special.”
Repco boosts dividend
T>epco Ltd, automotive parts and equip-
ment maker, followed National Con-
solidated Ltd’s lead with an interim re-
port of improved trading.
What’s more, it boosted the interim
dividend from 5 to 6! p.c. (Last year an
anniversary bonus of H p.c. was added
to the standard 10 p.c. dividend rate.)
While it may be a little premature to
look for a 15 p.c. total payment this
year the rate paid from 1951 to
1957 shareholders seem assured of
13J p.c. Directors forecast that results
for the full year will be “very satisfac-
tory.”
The ss. shares immediately jumped 6d,
Market premonitions
|\ne-time growth stock, Carrier Air!
Conditioning (Holdings) Ltd, is being
rapidly down-graded by the stock mar-
ket.
The ss. shares which brought 12s. in j
the middle of February were recently ]
traded in at 10s.
An interim report is due about March j
7, and shareholders may learn of trading >
difficulties in the December six months. ]
Since the holding company was form*
ed in 1958 by a 20-for-12 share ex- ’
change, the company has made no pro* l
progress, and had to make a premium
share issue in 1960. Earning rate tn ere
fore descended 17.2 p.c. for 1961-6
Could the 12i p.c. dividend be i»j
danger?
the world of business
"Do you know what I like about art? What's in the wall-safe behind
that Picasso thing up there!"


Capital repayment possible
d LY p E Industries Ltd would bolster its
J share market if it were to follow
flC’s lead in repaying some of its share
jnital- . , #
(jj fl ce the sale of its shareholding in
Volkswagen (Australia) in February
jflfora capital profit of £l.l million,
j E company has been extremely liquid
I, investments on and off the stock
Whether the personality of the direct-
j, w ho are rightly proud of the organi-
piion they have amassed, would favor
iieturn of capital is open to some doubt.
j B t a return of 2s. 6d. per ss. share
rid possibly be within scope of the
ompany’s finances, and would immedi-
lely reinforce the earning rate which
toggled down to within a fraction of
it 15 p.c. dividend rate.
Speculators might anticipate such a
iove by buying in at the present price
(9s. 3d.
Shy of Ampol
>he enormity of the refinery project
announced by Ampol Petroleum
lion February 15 has frightened in-
istors. The shares were run down
p 10s. lid. to 9s. Bd. on several
iccasions in heavy trading.
Solder investors then stepped in to
like the shares up around 10s. 3d. At
sis price they would average down to
i lOd. ex - rights to the three-for-eight
it issue of deferred shares.
As there is a dividend iifference of
i lOd. until 1967, the rights would be
tth about Is. If these were sold, the
rotor would average his cost down to
Ud., which would give a yield of 8.3
£■ on the apparently sacrosanct 14
£• dividend.
The three and a half months’ notice
Intention to make the issue contributes
] k market waverings, but if the shares
J again below 10s. they must surely
®dde cheap entry to what will be Aus-
fe’s third biggest publicly listed com-
iny.
Long way yet to go
Jwes Coop and Co. Ltd, Victorian
cotton textiles maker, reported break-
even in trading for the six months to
Member 1962, and sent the ss. shares
® Is. 9d. to 2s. 3d.
Mer a hefty loss in 1959-60, a small
®* n 1961 and a sizeable loss again
s *>2, this heavily capitalised concern
*“ s m uch more time in which to get
! a Position for paying dividends to
IDar y shareholders who have been
Jen since March 1960.
Uc ft depends on the Government’s
iU( fe to protection for the industry as
‘'ole, the directors reported at the
( at >nual meeting.
Gilding the lily
As if to gild the attractive lily whose
attributes The Bulletin reviewed
last week, ICIANZ has come up with
yet another new project, this time to
build what will be the largest sulphuric
acid plant in the Southern Hemisphere
at its already vibrant Yarraville works
in Victoria. This plant, which will super-
sede seven other scattered sulphuric acid
works of the group, is to have a capacity
of 500 tons of concentrated sulphuric
acid and oleum a day. It will cost
£li million and its construction is timed
to start in April.
Inter. Combustion’s progress
fJbiE Sydney specialist in boiler plant
and associated equipment for power
stations, International Combustion Aust.
Ltd, continued along the path of pro-
gress with a 5.6 p.c. rise in profit for
the latest year to September 30.
Its earning rate is down slightly to
30.8 p.c., still with 100 p.c. margin
over the 15 p.c. dividend paid for the
tenth successive year.
The ss. shares bring about 21s. 3d.
to return 3.5 p.c. and double that on
earnings.
Myers in Sydney
tVRMERS (Holdings) Ltd, the Sydney
member of the Myer empire, re-
ports record sales and profit for the six
months to January 31.
No revolutionary changes have yet
been made in the store, although critical
Sydneysiders deplore the Myer clutter on
the ground floor, and one hears mutter-
ing from customers that “this used to be
an exclusive store.” But the piecegoods
and haberdashery departments on the
first floor show distinct improvement
(copied by competitors).
The most remarkable improvement,
however, is the greater variety of merch-
andise obtainable. Whether one is “for”
or “agin” the Myer methods of sell-
ing, one usually ends up buying from
Myers.
Engineer faring better
Tnterim report by Newcastle engineer,
A. Goninan and Co. Ltd, of business
comparing favorably with the previous
corresponding period to December, 1961,
left the 12s. shares temporarily unmoved
at 68s. 6d.
This year’s accounts will show if the
company has used fully the £435,000
introduced in the premium issue of
November, 1961. Those shares were not
fully paid until the end of the following
March, and at last balance date the
company had £325,000 in interest-bear-
ing deposits.
Refractory business held
HThe firmness of the market for the ss.
shares of Newbold General Re-
fractories Ltd is a measure of the high
regard held for this company.
The year 1961-62 saw the first profit
reversal since 1944, and, according to
the interim report, trading has been no
easier in the six months to December.
Sales of refractories were “main-
tained,” but shareholders naturally hoped
for something better than this. Further-
more, sales of building bricks were lower
than in the previous corresponding
period, which, of course, only confirms
what everyone else associated with home-
building says about continuance of
depressed conditions.
No doubt the refractory division is
still feeling the cold winds of com-
petition from imports.
No early advance on the present share
price of 19s. 9d. (yielding 3.1 p.c.)
appears likely, and the shares could slip
lower if any definite news on ACl’s
association with Harbison Walker to
make refractories here comes to the
ears of investors.
Boral climbs the ladder
A fter nine months of market hesita-
tion about the proposed wedding of
Bitumen and Oil Refineries (Aust.) Ltd
with H. C. Sleigh Ltd last year, investors
are now given the impression that Boral
is very happy to retain its freedom.
The company’s interim report said
sales and profit for the December, 1962,
half-year exceeded those of the previous
corresponding period; but then one would
have expected this because capital rose
from £2.3 million in June, 1961, to
£4,027,660 in 1962 following the Hud-
dart Parker takeover, an issue to Caltex,
and another to shareholders.
Further, the 1962 tax provision was
very light because of Boral’s subscription
to Oil Development N. L., which allowed
the company to show a good profit in-
crease last year.
What impresses observers is the
decision to raise the dividend rate from
171 p.c. to 20 p.c., with an interim pay-
ment of 10 p.c. The annual dividend
commitment will now be £845,532,
against last year’s £744,095.
Based on last year’s dividend obliga-
tions, the 1962 profit represented an
earning rate of 24.9 p.c., but directors
contended that the earning rate on aver-
age capital employed was 32 p.c. One
assumes that this year’s earning rate will
be nearer 30 p.c. than 25 p.c.
The company is on the way up the
market ladder, and the shares, now at
275. to yield 3.7 p.c., are worth following.


HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 200 1 .
Sleigh advances
TT. C. Sleigh Ltd raised pre-tax profit
by 28 p.c. in the six months to
December, under the incentive provided
by the merger talks with Boral.
The advances made in sales and pro-
fits prove that H. C. Sleigh, married or
single, is no slouch.
Petroleum products sold 7 p.c. higher,
Hardie rubber goods 17 p.c. (Ampol
Goodrich cannot be deflating Hardie's
share of the tyre market.)
Export turnover rose a solid 30 p.c.
in the latest half-year. Apart from Har-
die tyres, H. C. Sleigh exports meat,
dairy produce, metals and foodstuffs, and
last financial year export sales were £4.3
million of a group total of £39.5 million.
Is this a record?
“Detail records are rather like those
registered by the Weather Bureau.
Woolworths Ltd, reporting for the
year to January 30, is declared by com-
mentators to have the Australian record
for retail sales at about £llO million.
As G. J. Coles balances its accounts
on June 30, and the Myer Emporium the
following month, each can claim the cup
for part of the year.
Further prizes can be awarded through-
out the year for the biggest profit of
any Australian retailer.
At present the relative size and profit-
ability of these companies can be
measured thus: --
Net Profit Sales
£’ooo £million
Woolworths .... 2479 110
Coles 3296 97.4
Myers 4490 104
The ratio of Myers’ pre-tax profit to
sales is approximately 7.6 p.c. That of
the two variety and food chains, whose
businesses are strictly comparable, was
5.6 p.c. for Coles and an estimated 3.6
p.c. for Woolworths.
Whether this proves Coles is more
efficient than Woolworths, or Woolworths
is satisfied with a lower mark-up, is im-
possible to judge from Woolworths’ pre-
liminary figures.
Tax-free attraction
Investors searching for tax-free benefits
may find some attractions in Mount
Morgan’s new issue of one million 10s.
second preference shares, carrying a 7i
p.c. dividend. They may have to move
fast to underwriter J. B. Were and Son,
however, for the issue gives priority to
present ordinary and preference share-
holders, and its ratio to total stock units
already in issue is a mere one-to-four.
The company’s existing reserves of
tax-free income amount to £1,143,382.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
TTisiting representatives of Great
* Britain last week received a mixed
bag of criticism. The elegant but em-
barrassing speech about the Queen by
our most eminent politician (and the
world’s best orator according to Mr Mc-
Mahon) makes quite a contrast against
the statements being heard in the cricket
fraternity about the once mystic Ashes.
Whatever our faults, sincere criticism
is one of the great rights afforded us. I
am thus joining another bandwaggon by
expressing disapproval of very strong
share price moves, up or down, with no
explanation from directors. A very posi-
tive move generally means that someone
knows more than the general run of
shareholders, especially the small share-
holder who in the case of a heavy fall,
suffers in bewilderment.
Carrier Air shares, selling at 13s. 3d.
at the beginning of the month, plum-
meted to 9s. last week. The only infor-
mation from the company at this stage
is that the interim report will be released
after a directors’ meeting on March 6.
Not a great deal of consolation you might
think.
Other interim reports pour in thick
and fast. The market was a little dis-
appointed with Hunter Douglas when it
announced that sales and profits were
not up to expectations. Yet this state of
affairs looks understandable. Building
activity, upon which Hunter Douglas is
so dependent, still languishes behind the
tempo of other industry groups. At 40s.
it would appear an excellent opportunity
to buy into this company, especially as
the Government is now directing much
more attention at home building. But I
felt I had my quota of high priced shares
in ICIANZ and John Lysaght. The
market unfortunately continues to be a
little slow in realising what good com-
panies these two are!
So it was a low-priced share that took
my fancy this week. Its name brings
back fond memories of my lost youth —-
Bennett and Wood. Although the com-
pany still manufactures and markets the
Speedwell bicycles, it now concentrates
on the wholesaling of automotive spare
parts in NSW. On a capital of £563,000,
B. and W. eclipsed a recent mediocre
record by making a loss of £81,500 in
1961/62!
Those analysts who emphasise the his-
torical aspect would condemn the 10s.
share, now selling at about 14s. But
1961 was a crucial year. Sydney opera-
tions were moved from the crowded
multi-storied warehouse in the city out
to a modern one-storey warehouse at
Zetland. The company has also been
implementing a modernisation p o li cy
among its 11 branches scattered through-
out NSW and the one branch in Bris-
bane.
The chairman made a not unreason-
able statement last June when he said '
that annual expenses would be reduced I
by at least £lOO,OOO as a result of the
move. Apart from a considerable reduc-
tion in employees owing to more efficient
operations, there must also be a tremen-
dous saving in transport costs the
greatest element of expense in the whole-
saling business.
It all looks like a new era for this
80-year-old firm. Up went that debit
balance when I bought 800 at 14s. 3d.
To stabilise my account I sold out
those 1000 Functional at Bs. 9d. and the
600 Tutt Bryant notes at 7s. 6d.
Functional has lived up to its name by
rising rapidly to its present level. It
would not be surprising to see some sort
of reaction. At any rate it was a very
pleasant reaction for me when I figured
the profit to be £67.
Tutt Bryant constitutes a similar case,
The profit here of £27 seemed pretty
fair for two weeks holding.
SOLD
1000 Functional, 8/9 £429
600 Tutt Bryant Notes, 7/6 .... £222
BOUGHT
800 Bennett & Wood, 14/3 .... £5Bl
Perhaps I am getting rash in taking
the profits on my better performers. It
does leave a lot of shares in the port-
folio that are very close to the purchase
price. Time will prove this judgment.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/9
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 I
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/4
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- to/
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 \°r
200 ICI ctg 7/1/63 43/- 43/6
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 59/9
1000 Tasman New 7/1/63 1/2 I',
400 CRA 7/1763 16/- W
1000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
200 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/-
600 David Jbnes notes 21/1/63 17/3 .7
2000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 M~ .7
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 J\ [ '£
1000 Petroleum Inv. i/2/63 5/4
100 G. E. Crane 8/2/63 77/6 W
200 Philip Morris 14/2/62 34/6 .
800 Bennett & Wood 20/2/62 14/3 |,/J


BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENTS
(£’000)
tJ r to 30th June
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Went Assets
1363
1378
1483
1604
1585
Went Liabilities
859
847
991
861
857
ttng Capital
504
530
492
743
728
Assets
420
407
512
521
529
tangibles
—
—
10
17
17
Ila i Capital
presented by:
....
924
937
1014
1281
1274
Capital
250
250
250
358
358
Convertible Notes
—
—
—
60
60
332
350
393
409
411
preference Capital
200
200
200
200
200
Capital
142
137
171
254
245
tinted Operating Income
J nings
, ■, ° • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
108
121
124
135
121
36
42
51
53
38
trends
25
25
25
36
36
jog .... "" ’’’’
11
17
26
17
2
; vide nd Yield (a)
4.9
4.5
4.5
5.0
5.3
Ice /Earnings Ratio (a) ....
(n) Based on last sale
in
14.2 13.1
month accounts presented.
15.1
15.5
19.4
MEL P
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. 8M.2001.
AN ANALYSIS IN PAPER AND INK
By “SECURITY”
UK February 15 last B. J. Ball Ltd’s
) |, oO ks closed for a new rights issue
I ordinary shares at par on a one-for-
-1 b as is. During the last ten years the
jpany has made four share issues
finding the present one) and one con-
,,jible note issue, three of which have
Sll made in the last three years. Despite
| IS record, the last sale cum rights was
)s, 9d. and will show a dividend yield
(51 p.c.
j j Ball Ltd is a long established
isiness going back to 1906. A branch
as established in Brisbane in 1911, and
tliveen the two World Wars branches
(te opened in the other State capital
lies and in London The company is
jsically a distributor of fine papers, but
is also an agent for other stationers’
>ais and for printers’ machinery.
The company’s policy in the post-war
ars has been to support the local paper-
ing industry, and Associated Pulp &
iper has been a major supplier. A new
reement was entered into with this
npany during 1959/60. It seems that
is agreement was probably entered into
#rtly after import restrictions were
moved in February 1960.
Earlier B. J. Ball's directors had said
itthe inadequacy of import quotas had
ten making it difficult for the company
meet the demand for grades of paper
at were not manufactured locally. It
tald appear that, although the company
tognised the possibility, relaxation of
iport restrictions produced intense com-
ttition, which had the result of reducing
A margins.
The 1961/2 year brought reduced sales
and there was a fairly marked drop in
the company’s earnings for that year,
although gross profit margins were
maintained, “at rates comparable with
the previous year”. Unfortunately this
was the second occasion in the last five
years that the company had suffered a
reduction in earnings, the previous oc-
casion being in 1957/8 when apparently
sales were affected by a tendency on the
part of processors and consumers to
reduce inventories.
However, over this period the company
has continued to expand and modernise
its facilities. A new warehouse was oc-
cupied in Adelaide during 1957/8. In
September 1959, S. E. McGregor Pty
Ltd, a wholesale paper merchant in Mel-
bourne, was acquired. During 1960/1,
McGowan & Best Pty Ltd, printer and
engineer, was acquired. At the annual
meeting on November 30, 1962, it was
announced that an agreement had been
entered into with the largest manufac-
turer of printing inks in Japan for the
manufacture under licence in Australia
of high grade printing inks. B. J. Ball
had also signed an agreement with Aus-
tralian Paper Manufacturers to distribute
that company’s products.
In January 1961, B. J. Ball received
a take-over offer from Dalton Brothers
Holdings Ltd which was rejected. At that
time Daltons shares were around 11s. 3d.
and, as the offer was on a one-for-one
basis including the convertible notes then
in the course of being issued by B. J.
Ball, it suggests that Daltons valued the
ordinary capital at about £BOO,OOO or
slightly above the then net tangible asset
backing. Even so, as earnings turned out,
the earnings return of this ordinary
capital value would have been only
about 6.6 p.c.
Unfortunately, the per share earnings
record of B. J. Ball has been a rather
gloomy one on almost any basis of
calculation. On the other hand, despite
the lapse in 1957/8, when the dividend
payout was reduced by over 17 p.c.,
dividend income has increased so that
over a period of nine years it has shown
an average annual increase of 4 p.c.
The trends of earnings and dividends,
after making adjustments for the bonus
contents of rights issues, are as follows
when compared with the current rates,
i.e., for the 1961/2 year:
Year to
30th June 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Earnings 22.7 19.4 16.5 11.9 13.8 13.4 14.9 10,6
Dividends 9.3 9.8 9.8 8.1 8.1 8.9 10.0 10.0
(no adjustment has been made for convertible notes)
Looking at another profitability ratio,
namely the ratio of net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest to total capital,
the following pattern emerges:—
Year to
30th June 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
21.1 16.7 15.3 11.4 12.5 12.6 11.4 9,5
In view of these trends one finds it
difficult to suggest that this is likely to
be a growth stock of the future. But it
is difficult also to escape the feeling that
B. J. Ball is continually trying to improve
its position while staying well within the
business it knows best. Competition has
undoubtedly been very keen for a number
of years and will probably continue so
for some time.
If the company is to maintain the 10
p.c. dividend rate on the new capital,
earnings will need to be raised by 5 p.c.
in 1962/3 over 1961/2, and for the
1963/4 year will need to be at least 14
p.c. higher than 1961/2. The directors’
confidence in the maintenance of the 10
p.c. rate seems to indicate that such in-
creases in earnings are possible in the
future, so it may well be that the past
growth rate to look at is the 4 p.c. in-
crease in dividend income. Even so, one
would hesitate to pay very much more
than current prices for the shares.


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'0001
June 30
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
Less current
710
1224
1692
1835
1689
liabilities
432
781
808
1349
1117
Working capital
273
443
884
486
572
1938
260
Fixed assets
1157
1291
1251
1799
Investments
—
—
150
Represented by
1435
1734
2135
2435
2770
Ordinary capital
1079
1079
1619
1640
1640
Reserves
356
655
516
795
1130
1435
1734
2135
2435
2770
Stock fluctuation
—
—
58
Depreciation
65
93
132
129
152
Taxation
196
341
529
444
501
Net Profit
348
538
661
614
663
Dividends
161
216
270
328
328
Surplus
Earnings rate
187
322
391
286
335
p.c.
34.0
49.8
49.9
37.5
405
Dividend p.c.
Dividend yield
15
20
20
20
20
(a)
4.4
2.9
3.0
3.4
2.9
High price (b)
34/3
78/-
88/-
71/9
88/-
Low price (b)
(a) Sept., month
23/4J 34/- 53/3
accounts presented.
54/9
65/-
(b) Calendar year.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MINSTER LTD
PRICED LIKE A LEADER
11/ITnster Ltd has been priced into the
class of a market leader by discern-
ing investors and has really justified the
market’s confidence.
In only one year since 1954 has earn-
ing rate on capital been below 30 p.c.
All this has been done on capital
increased by several bonus issues.
The company was formed late in
1952 to acquire the issued shares of
Westminster Carpets Pty Ltd and White-
head Chemical Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
Whitehead made reclaim rubber dis-
persions and latex-based adhesives used
by the carpet company as one of its
basic raw materials.
From these two companies Minster
has branched out into allied fields until
today it operates through 13 different
subsidiaries in a fairly wide but allied
range of interests.
One, Rayon (A’asia) Processing Co.,
makes, under licence from the US, flocks
and flock-coated materials. It manu-
factures the striking suede-finished covers
on the group’s annual accounts.
Linatex Linings and Engineering Co.
Pty Ltd, based in Brisbane, makes a
special rubber compound for lining
pipes and tanks used in the chemical
industry.
The .group was the first company in
the world to use radioactive cobalt to
sterilise goat’s hair and other materials.
This activity is handled by Gamma
Sterilization Pty Ltd.
Besides coping with a considerable
market in Australia, the company has a
large overseas business. Its distribution
and sales are handled on the Canadian
West Coast by another subsidiary of
Corroboree Carpets Ltd.
Shareholders have been well catered
for, with a three-for-four bonus issue in
1956 and a one-for-two in 1960, both
from a revaluation of shares in subsidi-
aries. Dividend has not been below 15
p.c. since its first full year and has been
20 p.c. since 1959. This rate was con-
tinued after the 1960 bonus.
Paid up capital at June 30 last was
£1,639,873 in 10s. ordinary shares and
was almost equalled by reserves of
£34,308 and surplus profit of
£1,096,383.
Despite the setback generally to in-
dustry following the credit squeeze, pro-
fit showed only a mild downturn (the
first since formation) from £661,142
to £614,040 in 1961 but the 1962 result
of £663,193 more than made up the
fall and set a new record.
Earning rate since 1958 has moved
up from 34 p.c. in 1958 to a peak
49.9 p.c. in 1960, 37.5 p.c. in 1961 and
last year was 40.5 p.c.
The group began the current year in
a healthy state with debtors up (from
£333,657 to £436,991), and stocks
down (from £1,455,491 to £1,248,418).
The Company’s factories have operated
at full pressure since. Reliance on bank
loans was also down (from £420,471
to £122,663) while trade creditors were
up from £270,817 to £289,151.
Despite its success the group has not
rested on its laurels. Early last year it
entered into the linoleum field to make a
felt-based linoleum with Thomas Witter
and Co. Ltd of England. Minster holds
49 p.c. of the capital of the new com-
pany, Balatum (Aust.) Pty Ltd, and
Thomas Witter the remainder.
With home building on the increase
and the motor industry back to normal
(the group is a major supplier to motor
manufacturers) sales in the half-year to
December last showed a good increase
over those of the previous
period. 8
The shares are currently selling around
755. 3d. to show a dividend yield of
2.6 p.c. and an earnings yield of 54
p.c. This is only 'slightly better than
BHP but even at these prices they have
proved in the past to be a good lock-
away proposition. The same still applies
A. J. BENJAMIN LTD
SUBURBAN RETAIL STRUGGLES
iV/fosT firms catering to the building
trade have found the last couple of
years a trying experience, and A. J.
Benjamin Ltd is no exception.
A trading loss of £216,259 was
chalked up by the group for the year
ended August 31, 1962, compared with
a profit of £-50,065 for the previous 14
months. Bad debts of £53,786 were
written off during the last year, due to
depressed conditions in the building
trade.
Originating in 1906 at the Sydney
suburb of Chatswood, Benjamins began
with hardware, but since the 30’s the
company has aimed to avoid the chronic
boom and slump conditions associated
with that trade by handling other goods
as well.
Three stores in Broken Hill —a depart-
ment store, furnishings and hardware —-
have been run by the company since
1953, and Sydney suburban stores have
been opened at Blakehurst in 1955, Top
Ryde (the first planned shopping centre
in NSW) in 1957, and Hillsdale in
November, 1962, plus one at Campbell-
town, a satellite city of Sydney, opened
in 1960.
The main department store has in
recent years faced intense competition
from Grace Bros, and the Top Ryde
store from Anthony Hordern’s at West
Ryde, despite Benjamin’s belief that
prominent city-based retailers did not
understand conditions of suburban
retailing.
(There is also the prospect that
Farmers’ new store at Gordon will
detract from shopping in Chatswood in
future.)
Benjamins believe that the public
expects a much greater standard of
service from suburban stores than city
stores, but a director admitted at the
annual meeting this month that he
thought the service in the Chatswood]
store had been “shocking.”
Directors were also aware that the
firm’s display and advertising was un-
sophisticated and the Chatswood store
needed alteration, so management con-
sultants were engaged in 1962. Hard-
ware has been moved to lower - cos
premises so that the Chatswood depar-
tment store has greater selling space f° r
departments with a higher profit margin.
Questions revealed that the Top
Ryde store has not yet been a satisfactory
profit earner because of its j
occupancy costs and capital structure (
large proportion of borrowed fi xe
interest money.) J
Earlier it had been announced tna


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'QQ0)
August 31
June 30
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
1188
1180
1453
1705
1594
Less current
liabilities
911
787
776
781
823
Working capital
2 77
393
677
924
771
Investments
31
31
28
3
3
Fixed assets
1356
1371
1438
1519
1511
Intangibles
59
59
59
64
64
1723
1854
2202
2510
2349
Loan capital
629
746
1016
1105
1162
Preference capital
20
20
20
15
15
Ordinary capital
697
697
702
918
918
Reserves
377
391
464
472
254
1723
1854
2202
2510
2349
Depreciation
27
36
40
49
50
Taxation
15
37
47
25
—
Profit
27
70
81
50
Dr216
Net profit
for ords.
26
69
80
49
—
Dividends
44
56
60
49
—
Surplus
-18
13
20
—
—
Earning rate
3.8
10.0
11.4
6.0
—
Dividend rate
64
8
8J
6
—
Dividend yield (a)
5.2
5.9
7.4
6.7
4.8
Price earnings
ratio (a)
31.2
13.5
10.0
15.0
—
High price (b)
9/-
8/9
8/-
6/-
4/11J
Low price (b)
5/9
5/3
5/6
3/10
2/7
(a) End of December.
(b) Calendar year
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
A
Parent company
Consolidated
December 31
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
Less current
1599
1688
1901
1958
2147
liabilities
881
945
1064
1042
1286
Working capital
718
747
837
916
861
1 nvestments
558
1682
1738
1777
1930
Deferred assets
—
—
160
104
67
Fixed assets
1317
2034
2293
2783
3062
Intangible assets
500
500
500
500
500
—
—
—
—
—
3093
4959
5528
6080
6420
Loan capital
600
1566
1573
1606
1591
Preference capital
168
168
168
168
168
Employees' capital
—
—
75
71
70
Ordinary capital
1008
1008
1008
1112
1113
Reserves
1317
2217
2704
3123
3478
—
—
—
—
—
3093
4959
5528
6080
6420
—
—
—
—
—
Depreciation
100
100
150
179
184
Taxation
u/a
u/a
223
187
222
Net profit
302
389
552
442
523
Net profit for ords.
289
376
539
429
510
Dividend
134
151
162
177
177
Surplus
155
225
377
252
333
Earning rate
28.7
37.3
50.0
36.3
45.9
Dividend rate
13*
15
15
15
15
Dividend yield (a)
Price earnings
3.1
2.5
3.2
2.1
ratio (a)
14.9
16.4
9.1
19.2
High price (b)
28/9
37/-
33/-
38/3
Low price (b)
23/-
21/-
23/-
28/2
(a) Following February month accounts
(b) Calendar year.
presented.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 18871 V
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
S Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
| e Broken Hill subsidiary had been
its profits in past years, and
u overstatement had been written back
linst the 1961-62 result.
'interest payments on heavy borrow-
-10 have strained liquid resources to
|e utmost. At balance date the group
j a( l £139,500 in notes which converted
lo ordinary shares in November, 1962,
jsimilar amount converting in 1967, and
£538,100 in fixed deposits of which
11321,200 mature within the year. Bank
overdraft was also extended over the
jear from £422,509 to £526,236.
The group had £1,042,105 tied up
i freeholds at last balance date
£550,000 at 1961 valuation) mortgaged
to £345,000. Sale and leaseback
irrangements would relieve the strain of
iea vy borrowings, otherwise the group
rill have serious trouble financing its
iperations.
No dividend was possible for 1961-62,
jd with ordinary capital increasing to
11.057,919 as from November last, the
ompany will be hard pressed to pro-
duce a fair return on capital in the
current year. No early return to the
dividend lists is likely.
DVERTISER NEWSPAPERS LTD
DOUBLED CAPITAL A CHALLENGE
quote the company’s chairman, Sir
Lloyd Dumas, “there are few
krometers which show more quickly the
rise and fall of business activity than
4e barometer of advertising volume.”
Advertising in the Fress, on radio and
television and in general printing suffers
ikn money is tight.
Advertiser Newspapers Ltd, publisher
if the Adelaide Advertiser, was there-
in able to stage a good recovery in
(tofit for the 1962 calendar year after
tot appeared to be a sick trading period
*1961 when for the whole 12 months
ksiness was influenced by the credit
squeeze.
Most other businesses, balancing on
™ e 30, have found they have had two
«ncial years with six months of
® CL| lt trading in each. Advertiser
Newspapers’ troubles have been con-
tied to one.
the latest profit of £523,035 falls
‘little short of the 1960 figure of
552,172 despite the inclusion of a first
J'idend from the group’s investment
| in Television Broadcasters
fid,
jße chairman’s review is not yet
Jatlable, but the directors report that
! e company shared in the general
jWovement in economic conditions,
‘,‘ ou gh the net advertising return was
11 Below 1960.
Advertiser claims that in the 1962
j, enc *ar year it carried a greater volume
advertising than any other Australian
" s Paper, with the Sydney Morning
Herald, the Melbourne Age, the Mel-
bourne Herald and the Brisbane Courier-
Mail following in that order.
Directors were particularly pleased
with the growing circulation of The
Advertiser.
Since the takeover of Vardon Price
Ltd in January, 1961, printing has
assumed greater importance to the group.
A modern printery will be erected at
Netley to consolidate printing activities,
which should be finished this year.
Investment in Queensland Press Ltd
was increased during the year to 110,000
10s. shares, and 50,000 BHP debentures
were bought.
Investments held contain a very large
inner reserve. Those dealt in on a pre-
scribed stock exchange appear in the
books at £1,910,502, whereas their
market value at last balance date was
£6,231,215.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries to which
the latest accounts relate were Griffin
Press Ltd, Vardon, Price Ltd, Leaden-
hall Stores Ltd, Alderbaron Ltd, Marl-
way Ltd, Waybuild Ltd, Midlands
Broadcasting Services Ltd, Murray
Bridge Broadcasting Co. Ltd, and South
Eastern Broadcasting Co. Ltd.
An event of great importance to the
future earnings capacity of the com-
pany is the conversion on January 1,
1963, of £1,008,000 notes to ordinary
shares, bringing paid ordinary capital
to £2,120,833. The £80,640 interest paid
in the past was a deduction for tax
purposes, whereas a 15 p.c. dividend will
require £252,000 profit before tax to
pay additional dividend of £151,200.
This will not place any great,burden
on the company as the latest earning
rate was 45.9 p.c. on capital, or three
times the dividend obligation of 15 p.c.
The chairman said in February, 1962,
that the board saw no reason to expect
that the same rate of dividend would
not be paid on the larger capital.
The group will, of course, have less
money to retain for future profit genera-
tion, but the. group’s working capital
position will still be very healthy, and
investments greatly strengthen liquidity.
The enlarged capital will have an asset
backing per ss. share of 12s. 10d., and
the undervaluation of the investments
(compared with the market) represents
another 9s. lOd. per share. Revaluation
of the investments is the most likely
source for future bonus distributions.
The company will hesitate to make
any bonus, however, until the earning
rate is built up. If there is no great
improvement in trading the 1963 earn-
ing rate could be knocked down close
to 20 p.c. on the almost doubled capital.
At 31s. 6d. the ss. shares show a
return of 2.4 p.c. so are not for the
bargain hunters.


BONANZA IN BAUXITE
HThe Australian aluminium scene grovvs
more intriguing as every day passes.
Until a few weeks ago Comalco Indus-
tries, jointly owned by Kaiser Aluminium
and Chemical Corporation (US) and
CRA, and Alco of Australia, a partner-
ship dominated by Alco of America with
three Australian mining groups, Western
Mining, Broken Hill South and North
Broken Hill, were making all the running.
But it was always on the cards that rival
overseas interests to Kaiser and Alcoa
would soon try to get into the act —some-
how to get into the bonanza in bauxite
at any rate —even if being shy of building
smelting capacity here.
Now it is evident that there has been
a great stirring in the camp of British
Aluminium in recent months, while a
French group has also been quietly nego-
tiating to make a surprise appearance on
the scene.
Both Alcoa and Comalco have been
going at high speed in the last two years
to build up smelting capacity ultimately
to be fed from alumina refined on their
respective bauxite leases in south-west
Western Australia and Weipa in northern
Queensland.
Starting from scratch late in 1961
Alcoa’s aluminium smelting venture at
Port Henry, near Geelong, is almost
ready to start producing aluminium metal
at the rate of 20,000 tons a year. Its first
metal will be poured at the end of March,
using imported US bauxite and electri-
city from the SEC grid.
Preparations on the same site for
doubling this capacity are well in hand
and the company’s alumina refining plant
being erected at Kwinana (WA) will be
ready to start supplying alumina to Port
Henry in October, three months ahead
of schedule.
Comalco’s flying start
T)y its assumption of control over the
former Commonwealth and Tas-
manian Government owned smelter at
Bell Bay in January, 1961, when its out-
put was a bare 11,000 tons a year,
Comalco had a flying start on Alcoa.
When the latter appeared on the scene
Comalco started to pull out all the stops
to keep well ahead of it.
As a result, output from Bell Bay has
been trebled since Comalco took over
and when The Bulletin flew over from
the mainland to see the plant last Decem-
ber its capacity was 35,000 tons a year,
representing a trebling in less than two
years. At the end of March it will be up
to 45,000 tons and by June to 52,000
tons a year.
With Australian aluminium consump-
tion running at acpund 50,000 tons a
year (a five-fold increase in five years)
and a world surplus restricting overseas
outlets, it is obvious with 72,000 tons of
metal capacity in sight for June this year
and another 20,000 tons coming up by
the year’s end, a sizeable marketing pro-
blem is ahead of the producers who are
waging a battle royal to get local custom
and expand consumption here.
In the interim, with Alcoa and Kaiser
behind them, the two producers would
probably have little difficulty in disposing
of small surpluses over local consump-
tion, but it would be essential to dispose
of the bulk of their metal in Australia.
The big poser before the companies is
what will happen when the guaranteed
local price, supported by a high import
duty, ceases to be operative next year.
The presumption has been that imports,
which largely come from Alcan and
Kaiser in Canada and the US and cost
about £ 11 million last year, will be
confined to special fabrications not made
in Australia. It was thought that imports
of unwrought metal would cease, though
this presumed that Australian Alu-
minium, the biggest fabricator and user
of about two-thirds of the metal con-
sumed, would draw all its metal needs
from local sources when protection was
lifted.
Taking a closer look
A lcoa and Comalco saw themselves as
sharers of Australian Aluminium’s
(Australuco’s) requirements, even though
without a duty to pay on metal from
Kitimat in Canada, for instance, one
would have thought that supplying from
there would be more attractive to the
company than before.
Be that as it may, it is pretty clear
from events since early February that the
international aluminium interests, which
up to then had appeared to be leaving the
field to Alcoa and Kaiser, have been
taking a closer look at the situation.
Surprisingly enough the first to move
was British Aluminium (in which Rey-
nolds has 45 per cent and Tube Invest-
ments 47 per cent) and superficially this
seemed to be against the stream because
it was to sell its half interest in Austra-
luco to the other partner in that enter-
prise, Aluminium Ltd of Canada (Alcan).
It was all the more surprising since
Australuco had just reported a strong
recovery for 1962, turning in a profit of
£392,310 as against a loss of £46,129
in 1961, when Australian aluminium con-
sumption dropped to 36,000 tons as
against 44,000 tons last year.
However, this divorcement may have
more in it than meets the eye, and the
suggestion is that the couple could well
come together again at a later date. This
arises from the strong possibility that
British Aluminium is to get a pn r
from the Federal Government to build?
alumina refining plant in the Norther!
Territory to draw bauxite from its l ea J
in the Gove area.
The idea goes further to suggest that
eventually British Aluminium will build
a metal smelter in Australia (though not
necessarily at Gove) and that, once this
is established, it will link again with
Alcan in Australuco.
Naturally this is not a prospect alto-
gether relished by Comalco and Alcoa
who were understandably relieved to find
that the next move on the somewhat
bewildering aluminium scene was to be
by a most unlikely group headed by an
Australian, Frank Duval, who has long
been associated, inter alia, with Japanese
metal interests and a previous Australian
Treasurer, Sir Athur Fadden, and has
now brought in Europe’s biggest alumi-
nium producer, the Pechiney group, to
put up the money for his latest venture,
Whereas everybody was expecting
British Aluminium to announce plans to
develop its bauxite lease around Gove,
in fact it is Duval and his newly acquired
French associates who are now to pro-
ceed with a £A4S million project to
build an alumina plant at Gove to refine
up to 500,000 tons of bauxite a year
from his lease on deposits adjacent to
those of British Aluminium with the
prime object of supplying Pechiney,
smelters in Europe and then the world
market in general. There is no apparent
thought of an Australian smelter being
erected by the group.
£300,000 survey
'C'rom all accounts, Pechiney intends to
proceed pretty slowly in its Gove pro-
ject, its first step being to undertake an up
to three-year survey involving expendi-
ture of about £300,000 before actually
deciding whether to build an alumina
refining plant.
If, at the end of this period, it decides
to go ahead it would expect to have the
plant in position by 1970, which 100 j
to be the earliest we can expect the expor
income of £l2i million a year envisage
from the project.
Before then, however, a logical more
would be to get an integrated Brnsj
Aluminium-Pechiney arrangement s* nC ■
the most economic development of G
adjacent leases would appear to e
joint one. .jj
Another idea is that Pechiney iMbJ
decide to confine itself to the expor
bauxite, for which its lease provr es
the export of up to 10 million tons
an 18-year period.


ONE TO BUY
INCOME AND
GROWTH HERE
i five shillings stock selling around
A par to return 10 p.c., in a company
siting steady but unspectacular pro-
ffess and having good long-term pros-
ps, should interest Income - minded
investors.
Such an investment is Stocks and
Realty Corporation Ltd, which probably
suffers on the market at present because
investors wrongly associate it with
speculative ventures.
Stocks and Realty was carved off
Slocks and Holdings Ltd to handle the
leasing of properties. Stocks and Hold-
jngs is the construction and develop-
ment company which depends for profits
on selling the properties on completion.
| was decided that Stocks and Realty
could take over certain properties in
tiller Sydney, and lease them to retailers,
iothat it could participate in the capital
ippreciation of the developed areas.
The company’s funds were to be in-
lested basically in three avenues —to
icquire commercial properties in selected
leas, to discount real estate mortgages
aid lend on real estate securities on a
lort-term basis, and to develop new
commercial centres.
Properties at Liverpool, Cabramatta
*1 Blacktown are wholly owned, while
fas are owned jointly with Stocks and
Holdings at Carlingford, Merrylands
»d Toongabbie.
Lower retail turnovers during the
fat squeeze caused a deferment of
construction of the large Carlingford
%>ing centre, and presumably slowed
l° w n other projects.
Last year the profit of £30,957 was
faly derived from rentals from the
Sacktown, Cabramatta and Liverpool
properties and interest on loans. Earning
* was 12.4 p.c. to allow a 10 p.c.
Wend as forecast.
funds are being progressively invested
•commercial properties which will be
? ore productive after the initial estab-
inient period.
,^ e 1962 balance sheet showed free-
Properties as a fixed asset of
‘ z, 401, and advances to joint venture
Janies of £258,820. The company
fa encumbered by heavy fixed-interest
P'tal other than the 8 p.c. unsecured
J' SSUe which could double capital to
0,000 at the end of 1964 if no
ers ex ercise their right to take cash,
san investment company rather than
cveloper, shareholders can expect no
v ’ dramatic results, but income and
Jiti h s h° u ld please the long-
MARKETING
COURSES IN ADVERTISING AT
LAST CO-ORDINATED
Persistent efforts for many years to
A co-ordinate standards of advertising
education in Australia have at last been
rewarded with the preparation of a
Commonwealth standard teaching syl-
labus, which will soon be available.
As the examining body of advertising
education throughout the Commonwealth,
the federal council of the Advertising
Institute of Australia undertook the co-
ordination of all advertising course sylla-
buses, and the new syllabus, which has
the approval of all sections of the in-
dustry, will now provide a uniform stan-
dard of instruction by all technical col-
leges.
The success of the co-ordinating work
was announced at the last meeting of the
institute’s Federal Council in Melbourne,
by the federal president, Mr Noel Grif-
fiths.
A highlight of the meeting was the
election of Mr Ray Cox (O'Brien Publi-
city Pty Ltd) to life membership in
recognition of his services, as chairman
of the Education Board of the institute,
in the co-ordination of the teaching syl-
labuses.
Mr Noel Griffiths paid tribute to the
ready response received from radio, Press
and television interests as well as the
AAAA and AANA to an appeal for ad-
ditional funds. Mr Griffiths said that the
preparation of the syllabus had involved
the expenditure of more than £2OOO to
cover interstate consultations, expert
advice and professional assistance. The
whole advertising industry had responded
magnificently.
Mr Griffiths announced that the Fed-
eral Council would soon submit proposed
constitutional amendments to allow
present licentiate holders to retain their
existing privileges while at the same time
discontinuing these diplomas.
Mr Griffiths said that the associate
diploma would become the ultimate goal
of future students, although it was pro-
posed that certain membership privileges
would be available to students who com-
plete part one of the diploma course.
STAFF FOR AGENCIES
4As is introducing as an experi-
ment a system of notifying staff
availabilities to all member agencies.
These fall into three categories, viz.,
school leavers, personnel from overseas
desiring to enter the advertising profes-
sion in Australia, and persons with some
experience wishing to reshape their
careers. Agencies will soon be sent lists
of names of those already examined by
the 4As.
the world of business
"By prudent manipulation of its resources, sir, the staff investment club
has been able to acquire controlling interest in the company!"


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
T>eaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
lIMITIS MRS
MISS
ADDRESS
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Could you tell me something of the
history and activities of Clarkson Ltd of
Adelaide. The ss. shares had a last sale
at 3s. 6 d. Do you consider they will
return to par, and be worthy of a small
investment? R.L.W., Crows Nest
(NSW).
Clarkson Ltd operates as merchant of
glass, hardware and electrical goods. The
company had a satisfactory record of
annual profits and dividends up to 1960,
but in 1961 profit fell from £60,023 to
£14,212 and the dividend was cut from
10 p.c. to 2 p.c. In 1962 (year ended
June) the company rallied a little but
profit of £27,060 was still well below
the usual figure. A 2 p.c. interim ordin-
ary dividend was all that was paid. The
credit squeeze, which was particularly
severe for the building trade, was the
cause of this two-year trading reversal.
Most others in the industry report only
a very slow improvement in trading con-
ditions, so one would not expect Clarkson
to make a great deal of progress in
1962-63. But if the interim report is
healthy, the shares may be worth picking
up, for a small investment. However, it
is not so easy for you to watch a com-
pany only listed in Adelaide.
* ★ ★
I am contemplating buying some shares
in W. Thomas. What do you advise as I
only have £2OO to spare? Do you think
they are fully priced at present? D.T.,
Scarborough (WA).
Shares of W. Thomas and Co (WA)
Ltd look quite an interesting proposition
during the current rights issue. From
275. 6d. cum rights the shares dropped to
235. 3d. ex rights, which was slightly
above their theoretical value, and the
rights sold at 7s. 9d. with 15s. (7s. 6d.
on April 30 and 7s. 6d. on November
1), including ss. premium, to pay. This
issue, which is in the ratio of 2-for-5 10s.
shares held, should not strain the earning
capacity of the company. Earning rate
has been increased from 23.6 p.c. in
1960 to 27 and 30.5 p.c. in succeeding
years, and directors expect to maintain
10 p.c. dividend on the higher capital.
The company is primarily a flour mil-
ler, but has ventured into stock feeds
and breadmaking, and a subsidiary,
Joyce Bros Pty Ltd, makes furniture, mat-
tresses, upholstery and steel products.
Without knowing more of your finan-
cial situation, and your investment re-
quirements, we would not know if this
company is the most suitable stock for
you, so suggest you discuss your position
with a broker in Perth.
A parcel of 200 W. Thomas shares at
235. 3d. would require almost £240, but
if you bought 200 rights, the final call of
£75 would not be payable until Novem-
ber 1.
★ ★ ★
7 have a number of shares in Savoy
Corporation purchased about 18 months
ago at 11s. 3 d. Is this a worthwhile
investment or should I cut my losses and
sell? — R.M.P., Moree (NSW).
Savoy shares are now selling at 4s. 6d.,
showing a considerable loss on your pur-
chase price. At the 1961-62 annual
meeting in December last, directors said
no interim dividend would be paid tk
coming April, but that a final dividend
would be considered when results f
the full year were known.
The tenor of the chairman’s address
was one of frustration and gloom. Diff
culties were experienced on every side'
real estate activities. The directors’ nJ
to broaden the group’s scope, involving-
extensive home building, does not encouj
age investors, very much aware of the
unfavorable climate for this type 0 [
activity.
With the company’s shares below par
the raising of fixed interest money from
the public would be expensive and diffi
cult. The company will have to rely
largely on debt collections to finance new
projects. It openly admits that profits'
will be lower until reinvestment of these)
funds becomes effective.
You don’t say how many Savoy shares
you hold, or what other investments you
have, on which to base our advice. But
in view of the possibility of future write-
downs on subdivision properties bought
in boom times, we would be inclined
to take the loss and sell.
★ ★ ★
On September 27, 1961, 1 bought 200
shares in Broken Hill South, wind
entitled me to a one-for-two issue at
7s. 6d. and to a one-for-four bonus «
As 1 have received no scrip for the 50.
bonus shares, would you advise if sucl
bonus Jssue has taken place? R.C,
Miles ( Q’ld ).
If you bought 200 Broken Hill South
shares on September 27, 1961, we take
it they were of Is. denomination.
On October 30, 1961, the capital of
the company was reorganised, so that
holders of each Is. share were given Jj
four-for-one bonus, then the five Is.
shares were consolidated into one ss.
share. Shareholders were then asked td
subscribe to one new ss. share at ij
premium of 2s. 6d. for every two ssj
shares held.
You should therefore now hold serf
for 300 ss. shares. If you do not, wl
suggest you check with your broker, I
write to the share register office o 1
company at 360 Collins St., Melbournej
★ ★ *
Is it necessary to make a
claim to the Receiver of Latec nves ‘
ment for unpaid debenture money a ,
if so, what form should this letter a
8.5., Wynnum (Q’ld).
As the company’s debenture regisj
have details of your loan to t e J
pany, there is no need for Y oU 0 • er
municate directly with the e j
and indeed if you do so, y° u j
complicate his task.


Legal Notices
Charles william PECK, late C/- Post
Blinman, in the State of South Aus-
-o ®c e’hpiipved also late of 40 Nicholson Street,
r« iia ’ th e State of Victoria, TAKE NOTICE
fitf 0 /’ t he said CHARLES WILLIAM PECK
11 the Defendant in a Writ No. 20 of 1962
a nut of the Supreme Court of Victoria
in which PHILLIP J. SWEENEY
VffIANCIS THOMAS CASSIDY are the
S’ntiffs claiming damages from you in
of personal injuries suffered by the
jLjffs when a motor vehicle driven by you
turned on the Hume Highway near
Jlnea in the State of Victoria on or about
13th day of March, 1932. By Order of
Ler Jacobs made in the Supreme Court of
Eoria on the 11th day of February, 1963, in
bof personal service on you of the said
L it was ordered that there be substituted
Slice of a copy of the Writ and of the said
U on the Club Motor Insurance Agency
L Limited of 94 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Itlie State of Victoria, on or before the 25th
«of February, 1963, and by the publication
/this advertisement on or before the 4th
LOf March, 1963, AND TAKE NOTICE that
* have until the Ist day of April, 1963, in
[J} C h to enter an appearance to the said
(tit at the Deputy Prothonotary’s Office,
a Courts, Wangaratta, in the State of
lictoria, failing which judgment in default
.< appearance may be entered against you.
JVERS DICKINSON & STIRLING, Solicitors,
I Queen Street, Melbourne.
Legal Notices
A Divorce Petition has been filed against
CRIPPS, THOMAS HENRY, late of 46 Spring
Lane, Kenilworth, England, who may apply
to the District Registrar, District Registry
of the High Court, Greyfriars Lane, Coventry,
England, for a copy of the Petition. If
within twelve weeks he has not communi-
cated with the Registry, the Court may hear
the case in his absence. E. L. PROUD,
District Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES IN DIVORCE
To: KEITH WOOBY, formerly of Flat 4,
“Lallwoon,” Railway Terrace, Burwood.
TAKE NOTICE that COLLEEN AQUIN
WOOBY has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
138 of 1963 on the grounds of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
19th day of April, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from Mc-
DONELL & MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 6 Wyn-
yard Street, Sydney. If you do not wish to
file an Answer but wish to receive a copy of
each document filed in the proceedings you
should file a notice of address for service on
or before such date. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
12
11
HELP
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2061 %
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES —IN DIVORCE
To CHARLES ALLAN DAVIS, formerly of
Arncliffe. TAKE NOTICE that DOREEN
NORMA DAVIS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2848 of 1962 in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the Fifth day of April,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. S. T. HODGE &
CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
Launceston District Registry
No. M.C. 112 of 1962
BETWEEN IRENE JEAN DARE, Petitioner,
and CLAUDE HILDRED DARE, Respondent.
To CLAUDE HILDRED DARE at one time of
41 Holbrook Street, Launceston in Tasmania.
TAKE NOTICE that IRENE JEAN DARE has
filed a Divorce Petition against you on the
grounds of desertion and separation AND
TAKE NOTICE that if you intend to defend
the Petition you must file an answer within
twenty-eight days of the publication of this
notice at the Launceston District Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Cameron
Street, Launceston, from which address
further information can be obtained other-
wise the Court may hear and determine the
proceedings in your absence. Dated this sth
day of February, 1963. J. V. TANNER,
District Registrar.
Missing Persons
Would MRS. IRENE FLORENCE
MOORE kindly communicate with her
husband to her advantage.
People are talking
about the new
BULLETIN
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (,/) whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my
order for months
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y a year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other cdffntries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington. N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. Njs.
currency, »<j year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
chequ£/gioney
subscription to
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge if to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
Th.e
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880.


Feiffer
m r tHiuic r jwt
IWERSTAW? w
ICXAMSTS. I WAS Af)
IKASIST HKSftF
BEFORE I CfofMet?
the apmioistraM
m m) I LEAfm
politico is the \
art of the possible'
SHMOtL
vem
SHREW?.
You'D me os to me a smo t
mtoovce A6 u SUPPOR tiug
that smv,oFFew m
weciM mepesrs aup
aoe&ezev- K>o,
51 r we iu w-mm-
KTABKSHMgUr Ate A
BIT Ctmteß THAM THAT
-mm-
ftrmmeur.
w£ mm ow STA(O( i mwoce
A m MIIMR THAU THff
6Taw toe m
IA(©J, MAKE A
im to WAraa (T
RXnik! WITH AMEUp-
Hara in) «t?ep
t> 6or amothe£
tiAmec W)
m we wAur
00 r OF COMMITTED
I see'
\set-
-1
m them 6er both
BILLS OR TO m FLOOR?
Mr a me where \
THeW PEFEATEP. /
ci l l sex it
1 6er it
this aves us ap issue ro
•CAHPA6U or me Fmm
VS FROM HAVW6 TO IMPLEMEHf
AMFAUIU6ITSS BILL
which w ouiv me, i
cos r us coucßessmo
VtfTES OR FUTURE
WMVRSS, 'THAT we
micht m eautuv
Sltoafc as wrf
BRiurn
tactics/
its ew ro bc
PRIUCIPLEO Bur
ixs timed
thhjg to oer
HOUR PRO6RW
THROUGH. I
«f<W ttmW;
m IMK
CHIU?.
s'
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 734
ACROSS
I—Comment on those who are petty with petty cash
makes a copper sagacious. (9)
s—Silent with my mother. (5)
B—Men mentioned in the epigram portent in the empty
instant. (6)
10—A danger I concealed in a flower. (8)
12— Clans and such-like radicals who are of sympathetic
disposition. (8)
13— Husbandman who is a money changer. (6)
15—Nine fists, (anagram) (9)
17—Employed the editor after you and me. (4)
19— The top of a tooth puts you
and me into the Country
Party. (4)
20— Sheep mire spoilt a daily
journal or log-book. (9)
23— Holy office makes dad quick.
(6)
24— Festering regime in a vessel
for taking traffic across a
river. (8)
27— Idol asks for a change in
slave-girls. (8)
28— Assault an animal and go
crook. (6)
29— Stalk containing a form of
power. (5)
30— Cook on this—try, anyway.
(9)
DOWN
1— Vegetable to press for in-
formation from relatives. (7)
2— The second name of a
Roman notice which doesn’t
deter the ladies. (5)
3— You and I having tea soaked.
(3)
4— Made-up cheese. (4)
5— A thousand I would obtain
for an undersized person. (6)
6— I’m upset likewise in a skin-
flint who makes the least of
it. (9)
7— Hankered for some time with
Kelly curdled. (7)
9—Watersprite in the North-East
suburb of Canberra. (6)
11—Stuck with publicity on no
lady communist. (7)
14—His turn’s disturbed by Pan-
ama, for instance. (7)
16—The restaurant’s Friday
special is part of the per-
manent way. (4-5)
18— Ours associated with morn-
ing affairs. (6)
19— Very plentiful business and
devout. (7)
21— He pays a resident in new
territory. (7)
22 South Carolina gets his
thousand split. (6)
25 A considerable period to
muse. (5)
26 Keys changed one of the
Hebrides. (4)
28—Honour with a single spot.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 733


mm
nr"
$
Mf,
m
m h
A
mi
m
u
van is buying THE BULLETIN and so are thousands of new readers because they
HE BULLETIN, each week gives them something they can't get anywhere else in Australia —
ficant news; informed , factual reporting; a wide overseas coverage; short stories; debate
discussion on topics of interest to thinking Australians everywhere. More and more people
'HE BULLETIN for Tanner , Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster f its Out and About Profiles ,
re, book and music reviews. Because of
look more and more people are buying
The Bulletin


BY APPOINTMENT TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS JOHN WALKER a SONS, LTD.
FOR THE SCOTCH WITH A CHARACTER ALL ITS OWN
nojp TOl*
“Johnnie Walker”
THE SCOTCH OF SCOTCH
Now in miniatures, 5 oz.
flasks, 13 oz. in flasks and
square bottles, and the pop-
ular 26 oz. square bottles.
BORN 1820 —STILL GOING STRONG
