

The Bulletin
U 4 *—-» «v . m & * s*** i a | -r** jsr-"*-”
IG THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL TIMES


DON'T MISS
The Australian
WOMEN’S WEEKLY
HOLIDAY EDITION
COMPLETE
LIFT-OUT
THRILLER
Hr
The Ordeal of Mrs, Snow
Exciting mystery novel by Patrick
Quentin, ideal for your holiday
reading.
FLOWER-
ARRANGEMENT
CALENDAR
for 1964, for you to keep! Twelve
different flower arrangements—
for each month of the New Year.
THE
PRINCE PHILIP
I KNOW'
Famous painter Pietro
Annigoni tells the stories behind
his three portraits of the Prince.
IK CUM fhok
WOMENS WEEKLY
cfijji 93


National Notebook
Staying the Course
Tf your digestion, lungs and stamina
are impaired by Christmas cheer,
take heart. Things may get better as
you grow older. “There’s nothing the
matter with him but hunger,” said Rudy
Komon proudly when we asked how
his protege, 87-year-old French gourmet
and founder of the Wine and Food
Society, Andre Simon, was facing up to
his first Australian Christmas.
Simon has none of the usual octogen-
arian ailments. Goutless, and lionhearted
after 40 years of gourmetising, he plans
to spend the holidays with his Sydney
host Sir James McGregor before setting
out on a five months tour of vineyards,
cellars and restaurants to collect material
for a book on Australian gourmet stand-
ards.
On his first working day M. Simon
breakfasted on orange juice, rolls and
coffee before putting away a lunch
of freshly opened oysters, green buttered
lobster and rice and a full complement of
wine at a Sydney Wine and Food Society
luncheon.
By evening, at the Chevron cocktail
party and all-Australian
dinner given by the Wine
and Food Society of NSW,
he was shaking 190 hands
of such varying tempera-
ture that he feared his ap-
preciation of the wine
might be hopelessly fud-
died. But he completed the course with
honor and went back to the Belvedere
with pleasant memories of creamed oyster
with grapefruit and mushroom, snapper
meuniere, saddle of lamb, passionfruit
bavaroise and cheese, accompanied by
seven wines and a brandy.
M. Simon has no word of wisdom for
those who wish to grow older gracefully.
It is believed, however, that he never
touches water.
The Loneliness of the
Long-distance Runner
Tn undoubtedly the best-ever achieve-
ment by an Australian athlete, ex-
Olympic torchbearer Ron Clarke running
out on his own the whole way broke
world records for both the six miles and
the 10,000 metres at a twilight meeting
in Melbourne last week. The Bulletin
had watched Clarke help Alby Thomas,
the NSW long distance star, to an Aus-
tralian 5000 metres record at the same
venue three days earlier, and went along
to join the other 22 spectators see his
twilight triumph which was not even
acclaimed over a loud speaker.
As Clarke said afterwards most of
those watching his solo effort were
relatives of his. One of these we noticed
was his small son who was, however,
more interested in the favorite Melbourne
sport of rolling beer cans down stone
steps while Mrs Clarke herself was literal-
ly holding a baby presumably allowed up
for this very special occasion
In Good Voice
HThe Hurlstone Choral Society, for
-*• many years the heavy artillery in
the army of Sydney choirs, is having
an overhaul of membership under Ivan
Rixon, its new conductor. This associate
choir of the Sydney Symphony Orch-
estra used to have about 200 on its
books, and is being reconstituted with a
lower strength. “Top register now unre-
liable” is the sort of confidential judg-
ment that will silence many of the older
voices. A sad fate for some after a life-
time of the “Messiah,” but perhaps over-
due. Former and aspiring members have
been undergoing auditions for the new
choir, and those who get in will receive
for the first time an honorarium of £36
a year.
Last week we looked in
on an audition at the
YMCA Hall, Pitt Street.
On the stage behind drawn
curtains, Mr Rixon, with
an accompanist and an-
other adjudicator, was
putting the applicants
through at the rate of 15 an hour. It was
nice to see the reassuring courtesy that
he had for them all, from the strong,
young Scottish bass, ex-Glasgow Or-
pheus, to the untrained housewife whose
soprano swooped brightly through “The
Blue Bird of Happiness” but crashed
when it came to sight-reading from
“Elijah.”
Mr Rixon told us that the response
of singers had been much bigger than
expected. He doubted if six three-hour
sessions would take care of them all.
“Choral work has slipped out of popu-
larity,” he said. “As young singers have
turned to opera, it has become the Cin-
derella of music at level of professional
performance.” He thought the situation
could be changed, and welcomed the in-
troduction of honorariums, which recog-
nised a standard of achievement just as
did the payment of instrumentalists. He
said he wanted a choir to which it would
be an honor for any singer to belong.
“I’ll aim to field 80,” he told us, “but
we'll keep a few permanent vacancies.
We’ll always have room for the out-
standing voice that turns up.”
Page
SYDNEY SPARKES ORR . . 17
The inevitable settlement
•
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 25
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . . 42
CROSSWORD 50
FORUM 17
LETTERS 26
MAN ON THE LAND 47
OUT AND ABOUT 12
OVERSEAS 19
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PAGE 90 -50
REVIEWS -95 .2*1
SHORT STORY 21
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA ...... 6
•
A Survey of Civil Rights: 1963 ..6-11
The Financial World of Staniforth
Ricketson 12
Talking to Edward Teller 15
Kenya: Test Case for the World 19
LBJ Takes His Time 20
Short Story: ‘‘Mr. Harp” 21
What Makes Pansy Growl 25
Films: Year of the Locust 27
Business: Looking Into 1964 34
1963: A Year of Reluctance 36
Wages in the Melting Pot ........ 37
Wool Awaits a Change 47
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4376


Air Veterans
'W'ith greying hair, more wrinkles than
of yore, and with some appre-
hension, seven war-time flying types took
to the air again at Wangaratta (Vic.)
this month to see whether their air-sense
was rusty. None had done any flying
to speak of since '1948 at the latest, but
the pilots of 1963 conceded that the
veterans hands still had a fair measure
of cunning.
The seven ex-pilots, with a total flying
experience of 14,000 hours behind them
in everything from Tiger Moths to Cata-
linas and Kittyhawks, were guests of
Wangaratta Aero Club for a circuits-
and - bumps competition in a tiny,
Sydney-built Victa Airtourer trainer.
Spectators included the Airtourer’s
designer, Henri Millicer, himself a pilot
of 31 years’ standing.
The competition winner: Wangaratta
insurance representative Norman Dodg-
son, who had bade farewell to active
flying when he parachuted from a
crippled Halifax bomber of No. 466
Squadron, RAAF, over Germany in
1944.
Among other entrants: former RAAF
flying instructor and test pilot Mac
Holten, declared re-elected only the day
before as Country Party Federal mem-
ber for Indi after winning a massive
primary vote, only 1100 short of an
absolute majority. He made an impec-
cable take-off amid jocular speculation
about the imminence of a by-election in
Indi and came in for a respectable land-
ing, leaving both himself and the air-
craft in good condition.
Singing Success
HThe Australian baritone John Cameron
writes from Germany that he has
been asked to renew - for another year
his year’s contract with the Oldenburg
Opera. Oldenburg, which he finally
chose after a toss-up between it and a
tour of Australia for the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, has proved very reward-
ing, Mr Cameron says. His last letter
contained a bundle of German Press
cuttings, unsparing of praise for his
singing. Of his performance in the
little-known Handel opera “Arminio”,
the Nordwestzeitung wrote: John
Cameron . . . has at his disposal a
sonorous baritone voice of great flexi-
bility. At all times he presented his
arias with real conviction and genuine
emotion.
As he wrote he had just stepped
(successfully) into the role of another
singer in a performance of “The Tales
of Hoffmann'’ and was preparing for
“Zaide and “Hansel and Gretel”. In
between the two last he was to go to
London to sing in Berlioz’s “Beatrice
and Benedict”. As he says, he is having
a hectic time.
Cameron left Australia in 1957 and
was sufficiently busy in London to have
acquired a Regency house in Holland
Park and to have renovated it for his
wife, Pat, formerly of Perth. He recently
sent to his parents in Sydney the taps
of one of Scarlatti’s operas which he and
Joan Sutherland sang for the BBC.
Acknowledgment
wish to thank Mr Ivan Southall for
the color transparencies of Indo-
nesia which we used in our issue dated
December 14. Mr Southall, author of
“Woomera”, was in Indonesia working
on a book, tentatively called “The
Bridge,” which will record the experi-
ences and work of Australian volunteer
graduates in Indonesia.
NEXT ISSUE
There will! be no January 4 issue of
THE BULLETIN. Next issue will
be January II on sale Wednesday,
January 9.
Tanner
“It says a Happy Christmas to all our readers."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wisdom of
the Orr Settlement
IT is a great relief to everyone in-
terested in Australian univer-
sities that the Orr case has at last
been settled. Inevitably many par-
ticipants are bitter over the settle-
ment: some of Mr Orr’s supporters
are angry that he agreed to less than
reappointment; some of the Univer-
sity of Tasmania’s partisans are
bitter that any compromise was
reached. But the leaders of all the
main factions and organisations
wisely saw that a situation had
arisen which was destroying univer-
sity education in Tasmania and
thereby indiscriminately punishing
the obviously innocent as well as
those alleged to be guilty.
All parties have gained from the
settlement. Mr Orr will (despite
an unfortunate impression no doubt
unintentionally given by the Premier
of Tasmania) receive a substantial
sum of money which entitles him to
claim that the University of Tas-
mania at least admits improper pro-
cedures were adopted in his dismis-
sal (though he cannot claim the
further admission that he was
“framed”). He is also now in a
position to recommence his acade-
mic career with his reputation reha-
bilitated.
The University in its turn can
proceed with its plans to turn itself
into one of the leading academic
centres in Australia, and Tasmania
can get on with the education of its
students.
Looking back, obviously the most
remarkable feature of the case was
the campaign against the Univer-
sity. This has been unique in Aus-
tralian history and now has the
sanction of success. It is this very
success which may give rise to con-
cern. The University of Tasmania
was obviously damaged by the cen-
sure passed by the Federal Council
of University Staff Associations, the
boycott on the Chair of Philosophy
by the Australasian Association of
Philosophy, and the threat to boy-
. , , TT . .
cott the whole University, even to
advertise overseas against the Uni-
versity. This led the University to
consider compromises. It also
seems clear now that many Austra-
lian academics who went along with
this campaign found themselves
more deeply committed than they
ever intended to be and were un-
happy about its effect on general
education in Tasmania. This was
a factor influencing them in the
direction of a settlement. The cam-
paign’s success should not blind us,
and later generations, to the harm
that can be done by these tactics.
Equally, of course, the University
may be blamed for having prpvoked
the campaign; one assuiries that the
proposed rules governing tenure of
academic positions will prevent
such situations arising again.
But having distributed blame on
a ff sides, one can only congratulate
all parties on their compromise,
The University Council has shown
courage and intelligence, and so
have Mr Orr’s supporters. As with
a general strike or lock-out in in-
dustry, there is no point in prolong-
ing the fight forever while arguing
about the absolute rights involved
on either side. There is no choice
in such situations except to find a
settlement. This at last they have
done. The argument will go on for
years but not at the cost of des-
troying Tasmania’s education.
Defence and
External Affairs
The two most significant appoint-
ments in the new Cabinet are
those of Mr Paul Hasluck, who
leaves Territories to go to the vital
Ministry of Defence, and of Sir
Garfield Barwick, who takes over
the Ministry of External Affairs
exclusively at a time when his drive,
insight and capacity are badly need-
ed. Mr Hasluck, Sir Garfield and
the Prime Minister are, with due
deference to others, Cabinet’s three
big intellects. It is therefore interest-
ing to note that Mr Hasluck, when
Minister for Territories, and Sir
Garfield, as Minister for External
Affairs, had no official relationships
with each other outside Cabinet
over New Guinea although both
were vitally interested from different
aspects. Although Territories was
primarily responsible for New
Guinea in terms of its internal ad-
ministration and development, Ex-
ternal Affairs was responsible for
it in the United Nations and, more
vitally, in the conduct of our rela-
tions with Indonesia, the unpredic-
table successor power in West New
Guinea. The position in the past
was full of anomalies. Because the
implementation of the ever-ailing
Administrative Co-operation Agree-
ment over New Guinea with the
Dutch in the old days rested largely
with Territories, there has been
a natural suspicion in that Depart-
ment of any meddling by External
Affairs in its administration and
mandate. A very different position
has now arisen. The operations of
External Affairs and Defence con-
verge and are, inevitably, converg-
ing more. There has always existed
a ,close liaison between Defence and
External Affairs at all Departmen-
tal levels and New Guinea and its
future is of vital concern to both
Departments and Ministers concern-
ed. In that sense the elevation to De-
fence of Mr Hasluck, an intelligent,
competent and extremely hardwork-
ing Minister with an intimate, de-
tailed knowledge of New Guinea, as
well as wide experience in UN dip-
lomacy, is particularly welcomed.
Both Mr Hasluck and Sir Garfield
undertake big responsibilities, in dif-
ferent but related fields, for our
policies in relation to Indonesia,
Malaysia and New Guinea.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ORR CASE
Dropping the Albatross
The eight-year tear
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
S. S. ORR
the end?
Tf some of the six members of the
Council of the University of Tas-
mania who resigned over the settlement
terms put forward in the Orr case were
given to second thoughts they might be
wishing they had been more flexible
earlier this year in their attitude towards
a draft put forward by the University’s
Staff Association to settle the question
of staff tenure. Frustration among staff
members at the unsatisfactory state of
affairs after eight months and eight
drafts, since their first proposals, led to
the forced resignation of the Associa-
tion’s executive and the election of a new
group of officers prepared to take a
tougher line on tenure and, most im-
portantly, prepared actively to pursue a
settlement of the Orr case—the eight-
year-old albatross around the neck of
the University of Tasmania.
The resignation of the Association
executive on June 14 resulted in the
election of Professor G. Firth, holder of
the Chair of Economics, as president, and
a senior Law School lecturer, Abraham
(Abe) Harari, Israeli migrant, Master of
Laws from the Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, as secretary. In the compli-
cated manoeuvres and the string of
meetings which culminated in a favor-
able Council vote for the settlement last
Saturday week, Abe Harari played a
prominent part, organising, talking to
waverers and even the unconvinced,
speaking the language of realism. It
was only the vital election of Firth and
Harari that opened the way for the
December settlement that few would
have foreseen in June.
Hindsight can now enable an observer
to say that the foundations of the
structure of settlement were laid in
October, 1962, when about 50 full-time
teachers of Philosophy, meeting in
Sydney at their annual Council meeting,
approved tentative conditions for the
lifting of the ban on the Chair of
Philosophy at Tasmania. The ban had
been imposed in 1958 by a vote of 28-0,
with 3 abstentions at their annual Coun-
cil meeting. Visiting professors had
kept classes going for years with the
consent of the Australasian Association
of Philosophy (AAP), and with one
lecturer, Dr Milanov (who had been an
anti-Orr witness). However, as Dr
Milanov was due for study leave and
there was no retired professor available,
the prospects for next year were for the
abolition of the subject.
In the weeks following the 1962 AAP
vote the Vice-Chancellor, Professor K. S.
Isles (one of the legendary war-time
group around Dr Alf Conlon) was in
telephone contact with Professor A. K.
Stout, of Sydney, the chairman of the
AAP executive (also chairman of the
NSW Civil Liberties Council and drama
critic for the “Australian Quarterly”),
and a meeting was arranged in Sydney
for early October. But a last-minute
telegram from Professor Isles cancelled
TpHE “This Australia” pages of this
issue deal exclusively with some of
the main civil liberties and civil rights
cases of 1963.
the meeting without explanation. In a
University Council meeting about that
time the Vice-Chancellor cited a pend-
ing £50,000 libel suit by Orr against
him in NSW as a reason for not pro-
ceeding to negotiation on the AAP
terms.
But about the beginning of July this
year the revolt in the Staff Association,
threats of strikes and unrest among the
students, the prospect of the abolition of
Philosophy altogether and a change in
the attitude of a key figure, Max Clark,
chairman of the Professorial Board, and
in the absence of Isles, Acting-Vice
Chancellor, all combined to start things
moving.
On July 24 the Professorial Board
passed a motion concerning possible
advertisements for the vacant chair.
More significantly they approved talks
with the AAP. Professor Clark and the
Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Professor
Smith, flew to Sydney for talks with
Professor Stout and W. J. Ginnane, sec-
retary of the AAP. Although the meet-
ing was important in being the first con-
tact with the philosophers, there was no
agreement reached and there was some
suspicion among some philosophers
afterwards that the talks had been a
“blackmail” attempt to use the threat
of the abolition of Philosophy to get the
ban dropped.
About this time Professor R. D.
Wright, of Melbourne (known affection-
ately as “Panzee” or Pansy because his
heavily masculine physique and aggres-
siveness are said to be reminiscent of a
chimpanzee), who has acted as Orr’s
“friend” and adviser, a role bringing him
into near-bitter conflict with his brother,
Senator R. Wright, legal adviser of the
University, stepped up his campaign in the
University Staff Associations, gaining
Melbourne approval and circularising
others for a ban on all academic jobs
at Tasmania. At the Federal meeting of
the Associations in August he failed, but
the Staff Associations’ censure remained.
At another meeting in August the AAP,
still suspicious of the motives of the
Tasmanian senior academics, stiffened
its ban motion to cover lecturers to block
any back-door attempt to obtain a pro-
fessor. At the same time Harari moved
in Tasmania and a general meeting of
the Staff Association reaffirmed support
for the Federal body’s censure and ex-
pressed support for the AAP terms of
1962.
After the formal meetings of August,
September saw further private talks and
phone calls. By now some of the staff
members at Tasmania who had been
sceptical of any settlement months be-
fore were beginning to come on side,
even if guardedly. It was late this month
when Professor James McAuley (also an
old Conlon man), now chairman of the
Professorial Board, was converted for
the first time to the possibility of a
settlement.
Then on October 13 came what was
probably the most vital meeting in the
talks, held in Melbourne. Orr himself
was there together with “Panzee”
Wright, Ffarari and Firth. At that meet-
ing terms of settlement were put for-
ward, which were basically the final
ones. Next day, at another meeting in
Sydney, Stout and Ginnane represented
the AAP, lan Somervaille, as Federal
secretary, the Associations, and Wright
was present for Orr, who waited outside
on legal advice.
There has been some dispute since as
to how far Orr and Wright were actually


engaged in the negotiations and how far
they were observers. Whatever the truth,
the Tasmanians went back to Hobart
and back to work. Already Council mem-
bers were being lobbied. In this Jim Me-
Auley, even though a late convert, was
to play a significant role.
Then on December 10, Wright, Stout,
Somervaille, Harari, Firth and Professor
Scott, also representing the Tasmanian
Association, met in Melbourne and the
final terms were approved. The matter
was already on the agenda of the next
Council meeting on the following Friday,
ut it na y came to e ate on t e
. . , n .. , ,
The division in the Council and the
statements accompanying the resignation
of six of the seven Council members who
voted against the settlement have been
widely publicised by those members.
However, those who supported the settle-
ment have stayed tight-lipped. In the
meeting when the aged Chancellor, Sir
Henry Baker, put the vote it was passed
on the voices without division. The
actual names of those who opposed the
settlement came later, when they regis-
tered their names against the decision.
Sir Henry Baker, who in a public state-
ment, said that he spoke for nearly an
hour, was the most bitter opponent, but
he was backed strongly by the influential
top public servant, A. W. Knight, who
was once tipped to replace Baker as
Chancellor.
The call by Premier Eric Reece
for the documents in the case caused
some rumors that the Government would
block the settlement. But Professor Isles,
in a careful phrase, spoke of the docu-
ments as being “for the information” of
the Government. Furthermore the rele-
vant portion of the University Act, 1951,
[Section 9, sub-section (1)] makes it
clear that the University Council “may
do all such acts as it may think best cal-
culated to promote the interests of the
University.” Some Hobart observers now
say that Reece regrets an impetuous
action.
The same ambiguities as to the attitude
of Orr and Wright to the October meet-
jngs arose again in regard to the Decem-
ber 10 meeting after the Council vote
was made public.
YlTrtght went into smoke but Orr talked
TT flrs , off , he record then on jt _
disclaiming knowledge of the terms, and
finally saying he would reject them. This
, , . . „. , ,
brought open exasperation from Firth of
Staff Associations and barely con-
cealed exasperation from Stout. Harari
anc * McAuley flew to Sydney to give
their version of the key meetings to the
philosophers and the Federal Staff
Associations’ officers. There were
rumors and counter-rumors but by
Thursday evening it was over. After
an all-day meeting of the AAP executive
in Sydney and a very brief meeting with
the officers of the Federal Council of
the Staff Associations, Orr :ame out to
speak to the Press. Stooped, in a
hesitant voice, he read a prepared state-
ment held in badly-trembling hands. He
had been “persuaded” to accept the
terms for the good of the University and
students. There were statements from
the AAP (finally only two philosophers
had held out, Sandy Anderson the
late John Anderson’s son and Harry
Eddy) about the procedure for lifting
the ban and from the Staff Associations,
but it was the end. After eight years
the Orr case had become a matter for
the judgment of history.
“RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES”
The Assault on Business
A cure worse than the disease?
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
W. M. SNEDDON
a big task
/Conservative defenders of established
rights in the business world
have been under heavy and continuous
fire throughout this year. The attacks
have been on two broad but intimately
connected fronts—restrictive practices
and company law—the one having been
sparked by Sir Garfield Barwick’s pro-
posals in the House of Representatives
in December last, the other by an unpre-
cedented series of company failures show-
ing up chinks in the Uniform Com-
panies Acts promulgated as recently as
1961.
Enough has been said for the time
being in recent issues of The Bulletin
on the latter aspect. In the case of
restrictive practices, the year ended with-
out legislation having been brought for-
ward. But after a long and bitter public
debate on the subject, Sir Robert Menzies
intimated in an election speech that he
intended to do this in the new parli-
ament. One must assume that he will
do so, although, Sir Garfield no longer
being Attorney-General, the job will now
presumably be left to Mr W. M. Sned-
don, his 37-year-old successor, no mean
task for a 37-year-old in his first Cabinet
appointment.
As a writer in the latest issue of the
Institute of Public Affairs Review put
it, there is room for a great deal more
public understanding of the basic aspects
of the proposals.
It must be assumed at the outset that
some undesirable and untenable business
practices do exist in Australia, but to
judge from known evidence they are
the exception. Were it not so our seven
Parliaments would have been ringing
with the news before now.
As far as is known, however, legislation
could succeed in correcting only a small
amount of public detriment in commer-
cial practice. Therefore, the gain to
the economy from eliminating small
pockets of exploitations is likely to be
small.
If the machinery set up in respect of
restrictive practices to catch the occa-
sional wrong-doer amounts to a vast and
complex system of finger-printing, in the
commercial sense, all of the techniques
used to market goods in this country,
the cure could give rise to much more
serious economic consequences than the
disease.
T'he true nature of these likely conse-
A quences seems to have been given
insufficent attention, both in the legisla-
tures and in the community generally.
To begin to examine them it is first
necessary to observe that the proposed
scheme sets out to bring within its scope
practices which have always been accept-
ed in Australia as part and parcel of
responsible business activity.
The second point is that the proposed
scheme sets out to call to account not
just some of our trading principles, but
all of them. Here lies the real and grave
danger of accepting the scheme as it
was outlined a year ago.
Somewhere along the line the liberal
philosophy of Sir Garfield, who is as
strong a supporter of civil rights and
liberties as anybody, seems to have led
him to a wrong conception of the nature
and benefits of the free enterprise system
as it works in this country. Examining the
real benefits of free enterprise the IPA
writer says that it is one of the facts of
life that if these benefits are to apply
in practice there must inevitably be a
great deal of “big business” in Australia.
But big businesses, and the benefits that
flow from them, cannot exist unless they
gain large volumes of sales which, in
Australia, would often amount to a
considerable portion of the total market.


CENSORSHIP
A Stand-still Year
The balance sheet
FROM PETER COLEMAN IN SYDNEY
SENATOR HENTY
Whose fault?
VTineteen sixty-three was a stand-
still year for censorship charac-
teristic of an over-long period of “con-
solidation” after the liberal break-
through in those halcyon days after 1957
when Senator Henty released scores of
formerly banned books, and implied
better things were still to come.
On the credit side this year, for what
it is worth, a few more books were
released in the triennial revision of the
banned list, books such as Celine’s
“Guignol's Band”, Vance Bourjailly’s
“The Confessions of a Spent Youth”
and John O’Hara’s “Butterfield 8”. These
should never have been banned at all
and in any case books such as “Lolita”,
“Tropic of Cancer”, “Lady Chatterley's
Lover” were left on the banned list. (It
is worth adding that one book, James
Jones’s “The Thin Red Line”, was re-
leased on the initiative of Senator Henty
himself and against the advice of his
scholarly and sometimes liberal Advisory
Board.)
Otherwise there is little change to re-
port: following a public outcry, “Child-
birth Without Pain” was released, after
having been banned by Customs on the
fatuous advice of the Federal Health
Department (which with true Canberra
arrogance decided that “a little know-
ledge is a dangerous thing”). An over-
officious Customs official who seized
a novel, “Key to the Door”, from
the Newcastle City Library was put in
his place and told the book was not
banned. The Queensland Literature
Board of Review has remained fairly
inactive (with the exception of a prohi-
bition on “Playboy”).
The most surprising turn-up in the
anti-censorship field this year was not in
publications but in art —in the defeat of
the police case against Bernard Lake for
exhibiting in a shop window, with view
to sale, an allegedly obscene New Guinea
statue. The magistrate dismissed the
charge in what seemed an eccentric
judgment that conceded to the police
that if it had been a painting (and there-
fore “warm”) and not a statue (“cold”)
he would have found it obscene. But the
main thing is the statue was saved from
the police bonfire and the right to deal
in certain controversial types of primitive
art established.
There is a much fuller picture on the
debit side this year. Early in the year
the Post Office took another of its
occasional sorties into censorship, seized
a book of bawdy songs which a pro-
fessor at the Australian National Uni-
versity had posted to a professor in
America, and prosecuted the sender. He
was fined £2O. In the course of the year
the NSW police prosecuted the editors
of the satirical magazine “Oz” (they
were fined £2O each) largely because of
articles on chastity belts and abortion,
Victorian police seized some copies of
“Playboy” and the Queensland Board of
Review prohibited its circulation in the
State —a decision which the publishers
are challenging in the Supreme Court.
Thirty-five libraries in the north-west of
NSW banned “The Thin Red Line”.
(The south-west may follow suit.) An
RSL delegate at the State Congress
demanded that all subversive literature
be banned. Mr P. R. Stephenson of
Sydney gave a spirited defence of censor-
ship: “There is no good reason,” he
wrote, “why standards of taste in Aus-
tralia should be lowered to suit the com-
mercial interests of exporters of porno-
graphy from London and New York
\ who in recent years have given those
great centres of cosmopolitan culture a
reputation that formerly belonged only
to Port Said . . .”
More significantly the importing of a
number of new books was prohibited by
Customs—especially William Burroughs’
“The Naked Lunch” and James Bald-
win’s “Another Country”. (“The ABZ
of Love” was also prohibited but is now
subject to an appeal.) Further, there has
been an intensified Customs blitz on
booksellers, with all sorts of unlikely
books being carried away for closer in-
spection.
Alarming, too, is the use being made
of Customs’ right to decide whether
“doubtful” books have literary or
artistic merit. If it decides a book has
such merit, it will be referred to the Ad-
visory Board whose advice is usually
accepted (it was not followed in the case
of “Lady Chatterley’s Lover”), and if
banned, this will be made public. But
if the department deems it has no such
merit, it is secretly banned. This can
easily undermine the progressive in-
fluence of the Board: already one im-
portant book, “The Trial of Lady
Chatterley”, by C. F. Rolph (the former
Chief Inspector in the City of London
Police), has been banned without the
advice of the Board, and its name is not
on the banned list. Yet one of Senator
Henty’s claims has been that, for the first
time, all banned books of any merit are
now publicly listed: he now admits that
the public list is only of books of “literary
and artistic merits”, these words being
narrowly defined.
Senator Henty, however, has often
pointed out that the prohibition of books
for their obscenities can always be chal-
lenged in the courts. Legal “obscenity”
is a matter of opinion and anyone can
take court action on the ground that the
Government is wrong. In other countries
censorship has been dramatically re-
duced by action of this sort in the courts,
but—apart from some dramatic cases
under State law—no one in Australia has
yet attempted to take the Customs De-
partment to court on an important book.
If censorship is still a nuisance, the fault
is largely our own.
BUREAUCRACY
Ombudsmanship 1963
Lessons from New Zealand
FROM TOM TRUMAN IN BRISBANE
most interesting and significant
development in the Ombudsman
movement for 1963 is that as far as can
be judged on 12 months’ experience this
Scandinavian institution has been suc-
cessfully incorporated into a government
of the British Parliamentary type. Sir
Guy Powles, ex-soldier and diplomat,
the New Zealand Ombudsman, has
convinced most of his critics that
he is not only effective in satisfying
the majority of complainants of adminis-
trative injustices but also that he can
do it without disrupting the process of


government. Canada and the United
States have shown an interest in the
Ombudsman. There several articles
have appeared in both learned journals
and the popular Press favoring adoption.
A committee appointed by the Mayor
of Philadelphia recommended the system
for the city of Philadelphia. The Ad-
ministrative Conference of the United
States is considering the idea for the nat-
ional government of the USA and will re-
port to the President at the end of the
year.
In the Netherlands a semi-official com-
mittee is considering the question of a
Dutch Ombudsman.
In Australia the chief point of in-
terest to report is that the New Zealand
Ombudsman, Sir Guy Powles, addressed
a conference in November at Canberra
of the Institute of Public Administration.
In his paper “The Citizens’ Rights against
the Modern State” Sir Guy said that
from the beginning the office in New
Zealand has been regarded not only as
a way ot checking administrative abuses
and righting wrongs but also of securing
changes in administrative procedures so
that they operate more fairly.
During the first 10 months of his job
Sir Guy Powles and his staff received
a total of 628 complaints. Of these 270
were unsuitable for investigation, 228
were investigated, and 130 remained un-
der investigation at the end of the 10
months period. Of the completed investi-
gations 54 complaints were found to be
justified, which is a much higher pro-
portion than occurs in Denmark. Of the
54 injustices done about half were im-
mediately rectified by the departmental
heads when they were brought to their
attention. These officials, says Sir Guy,
showed a “high-principled willingness”
to do justice to individuals despite prior
decisions by their subordinate officers. In
the discussion that followed his address,
Sir Guy said that now practically the
only opposition to his work came from
the lower ranks of the public service.
In Queensland a sub-committee of the
Liberal Party is investigating the opera-
tion of an Ombudsman and will report to
conference next year. But some Liberal
Ministers are cool, saying initiative should
come from the Federal Government.
But Sir Robert Menzies has expressed
emphatic opposition to the notion.
ABORIGINES
The Year of the Break-Through
A remarkable series of “ firsts"
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Tn July of this year the then Minister
for Territories, Mr P. Hasluck, gave
the first official public recognition of the
increasing importance of Australia’s
colored minority when opening the con-
ference of Ministers on Native Welfare in
Darwin. He said: “We w'ould ... be
blind and foolish if we did not recognise
that matters affecting Australian Abori-
gines have entered into world politics.”
At this conference it was clear that
there is a growing convergence of legisla-
tion from State to State. During the year
New South Wales and South Australia
overhauled their legislation relative to
Aborigines and it was announced from
Western Australia and the Northern Ter-
ritory that similar moves were anticipated
shortly in those areas. Increased liberty,
including the right to drink, is the theme
of this new legislation; not discrimination
against Aborigines but rather discrimina-
tion for them. Only Queensland now re-
mains shrouded by primitive and repres-
sive law concerning Aborigines.
Because of changes in the Common-
wealth Electoral Act in 1962, this year
has seen the first Federal election at
which all Aborigines have been entitled
to enrol and vote.
Another first was marked up when a
Commonwealth Parliamentary Select
Committee was appointed to report on
complaints by Aborigines from Yirrkala.
The Committee’s report recommended
that certain protections should be guar-
anteed to the Yirrkala people, ft was in
this report too that for the first time we
find a clear official statement admitting
that “although the Aborigines have no
legal tenure of their tribal lands some
form of compensation is due to them.”
Academics have also been more active
than ever before in their concern for
Aborigines. Through the Institute of
Aboriginal Studies much new research
is being sponsored throughout Australia
involving studies of linguistics, art, pre-
history and structure of Aboriginal tribes.
The Social Science Research Council
announced a major research project to
investigate the place of Aborigines in
Australian life. This research, under a
top-flight director, is to take three years.
Professor Geddes, of Sydney Univer-
sity, announced the commencement of a
detailed survey of all persons of Abori-
ginal descent living in the Sydney area;
and the first conference of prehistorians
was held in that city during May.
Victoria and South Australia each had
a man of Aboriginal descent standing as
a candidate in State elections for the first
time. Sydney University had its first two
students of Aboriginal descent enrolled.
An Aborigine won a UNESCO scholar-
ship to study abroad and another was
nominated to represent Australia at a
youth conference in France.
The first full-time worker in adult
education for Aborigines was appointed
to Sydney University during the year.
Aboriginal art continued to attract pub-
lic interest despite increased exhibitions.
Traditional Aboriginal dancers performed
commercially on stage in both Melbourne
and Sydney for the first time.
A full-blood Aborigine was appointed
to the Aborigines’ Welfare Board in New
South Wales for the first time in nearly
20 years and the Board received a
record eight nominations for the single
vacancy for part-Aboriginal member.
Queensland's law on Aborigines is
overdue for drastic change; most edu-
cation for Aborigines remains at the
primary level and even by next year
20 per cent of Aboriginal children in the
Northern Territory will be receiving no
schooling at all. Adult education for
Aborigines has barely commenced. All
States have either inadequate or no
Aboriginal representation at the plan-
ning and administrative levels of Abori-
ginal affairs.
Aboriginal art is the latest area in
which Aborigines are being exploited,
with reports of bark paintings costing
£2 in Arnhem Land selling eventually in
Europe for as much as £5OO.
Almost all official workers with Abori-
gines have had no special training for
their task, which is widely admitted to be
one of the most difficult jobs of human
relations in the world. The Common-
wealth Government makes the only
attempt at providing academic training.
While individual achievements and
legal manoeuvres lead to a more favor-
able Press, it is clear that Aborigines are
only on the threshhold. The changes that
matter are taking place in men’s minds.
When values change and attitudes
change, the day will come when the
debate on assimilation or integration will
have no significance. All Australians, of
whatever origin, will demand the right to
live as they please within a guaranteed
framework of equal social and economic
opportunity. Then the Mayor of Moree
will not find it necessary to deny his
town is a Little Rock, nor the Minister
for Territories to warn of Communist
infiltration in Aboriginal affairs, nor the
Director of Welfare in the Northern
Territory to report that only 54 Abori-
gines in that area receive the basic wage.


There’s a
Better Deal In
Fuel Oils At
AMOCO
Wfc
r«
I :A /;
• *r
*^?S. l
WM
.y
x~.
\ ?x
Wv
/
y
tfmtm
C
V
What’s your fuel oil problem? Price? Delivery?
Storage? Handling? Combustion troubles?
We at Amoco have the specialised knowledge
concerning all industrial fuel oil requirements,
and can assist you to reach the highest
standard of oil-firing performance at lowest
cost.
AMOCO
OIL FUELS AND INDUSTRIAL TECHNICAL SERVICE
Amoco has the right fuel oil for your furnace
and our technical staff, backed by our fine
laboratory, are ready to help you with any fuel
oil problem.
Phone your nearest Amoco Branch Office (listed below) and
ask about the “better deal in fuel oils at Amoco."
SYDNEY:
201 Botany Road, Waterloo. Phone 69-7651
BRISBANE:
119 Leichhardt Street Phone 2-2781
MELBOURNE:
34 Queens Road. Phone 26-4043
ADELAIDE:
38-40 Currie Street.
Phone 51-2692
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
AI.FP.3


: mr.
r-
«
J
m i
Pink
for
girls
If she says "gorgeous”, "delightful”, "heavenly”,
chances are it’s Romato Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
COURTS-MARTIAL
The Case
of the Four Carbineers
The Fight for Reputation
By EK DUM
LORD KITCHENER
a false version
rpHE name of Lieutenant P. J. Handcock
-*• of the Bush Veldt Carbineers (South
African War) is to be restored to the
Bathurst War Memorial.
Handcock's case would have been lost
in the mists of history if, in his tragedy,
he had not been associated with that
celebrated bush rhymer of the halcyon
days of The Bulletin’s balladry, Harry
Morant, alias “Tony Lumpkin,” alias
“The Breaker”, who was executed with
him in Pretoria on February 27, 1902.
Morant was one of the very many too-
gay younger sons of English county
families who had been exported to Aus-
tralia; men whose lives followed the
general pattern of that of their blood
brother, Adam Lindsay Gordon, trans-
ferring the dash and skills of the hunting
field to the bush and ending up almost
universally with broken necks, suicide, a
“perish” in the Never Never, or just plain
alcoholism.
Harry Morant varied the pattern by
standing before a firing squad, eyes un-
bandaged, advising his destroyers to
“shoot straight, you bastards!”
During the South African War he
eventually joined the Bush Veldt Car-
bineers which were mopping up the last
desperate Boer commandos.
One day Morant, Handcock, of
Bathurst, G. R. Witton, of Melbourne,
and a young Englishman named Picton.
came upon the corpse of a fellow officer,
Lieutenant Hunt, Morant’s closest friend.
He was found murdered “by foul play
... his neck broken ... his face
stamped on with hob-nailed boots, his
legs slashed with a knife, his body
stripped and lying naked in the gutter”
and his uniform stolen to disguise a
murdering Boer commando.
Morant and his comrades seem to
have gone berserk at the spectacle and
several Boers paid with their lives sans
regard for the articles and civilised cus-
toms of warfare. But the circumstances
might have been passed over by the
British had it not been that a German
missionary, who was said to have been on
his way to “inform” at Pietersburg, also
disappeared and the officers of the Car-
bineers were strongly suspected of
knowing how.
Unfortunately for them, with the
Kaiser at hair-trigger cock waiting to
use any pretext to raise a quarrel with
the British over South Africa, this was
the wrong moment for members of the
British forces to make away with Ger-
man missionaries—especially for mem-
bers of unpopular irregulars.
The most peculiar proceedings followed
• hole-and-corner inquiries, action at
Commander-in-Chief level, separate
courts-martial for the accused under a
veil of secrecy.
Morant, Handcock and Witton all
found themselves sentenced to death
before firing squads and Picton to be
cashiered. This was even more peculiar
since they had been found not guilty of
doing away with the German. (Witton’s
sentence was commuted to a life
sentence.)
was an uproar in Australia
only. Kitchener gave a false version
of what had happened in a telegram to
the Commonwealth Government, as yet
in its feeble infancy. The whole thing was
hushed up in the same underground at-
mosphere as that which had marked the
trials.
When the storm broke and the Aus-
tralian Press reacted violently, the whole
thing was smothered under another cloak
of silence. The British Press seemed to
join with the War Office in hushing the
whole thing up. The “Times History of
the War,” a very detailed story, did not
mention the incident. When the agita-
tion was revived in 1914 the Common-
wealth’s queries were met by the WO
with the bland assurance that the papers
were no longer in existence!
By that time Lord Kitchener had
come to Australia in 1909, and his com-
ing had produced conjecture whether
he would agree to unveil the Bathurst
War Memorial on which Lieutenant
Handcock’s name had been inscribed.
Kitchener refused to unveil the Mem-
orial at Bathurst unless the offending
name was removed. The docile Bath-
urstians complied.
One man continued to fight for the
memory of the two subalterns lying in
graves at Pretoria, where their names
and the date of their executions are in-
scribed on a stone with the words: “He
that loseth his life shall find it.” This
was my old friend Fred Cutlack, for-
merly of King Edward’s Horse, an Aus-
tralian war correspondent of World
War I and author of the Australian Fly-
ing Corps volume of the War History.
He continued through the years to
plead the cause of Morant and Hand-
cock and after World War II wrote a
short and analytic book about their case
which it took him over a decade to get
published.
Publication of the book last year re-
vived interest in the almost forgotten
events of 1902, and renewed agitation by
Handcock’s family and the RSL fol-
lowed. It has now resulted in the re-
inscribing of Handcock’s name on Bath-
urst’s War Memorial in King’s Parade
whence it has been missing during the
53 years since Kitchener was here, and
more than 60 years after the poor lieu-
tenant’s tragic death.


OUT AND ABOUT
Through the Eye of the Needle
The financial world of Staniforth Ricketson
By J. C. KAYE
Can the camel pass through the
needle’s eye? Can the wealthy
enter heaven? Christ, apparently,
thought not. In financial circles in Mel-
bourne, however, the matter has never
been regarded as closed. Melbourne’s
ideas on ethics and money can be broken
down into three main classes. This is
possibly true of most cities.
There are the sharks and would-be
sharks who are out to get away with it
if they can. These fight hard and foul
and, sometimes, tumble. We name no
names.
There are the middle-of-the-roaders
who wed ideas of wealth and respecta-
bility without much concern, abiding by
the laws as laid down or amended. They
include several millionaires who are also
well-known churchmen. They are never
in the courts, but urge no great reforms
either. Their motto is “Respectable ex-
pediency.” They are supported by many
church leaders, who agree that the New
Testament's rather discouraging text is
open to re-interpretation.
The third class is rather thinly popu-
lated. It consists of those who, while not
doubting that the camel can get through
all right, accept that there are rules of
“fair play” and “decency” to be obeyed,
whether they are written into the laws
and regulations or not. Within this class
there is a sub-class of even rarer people.
These are prepared to lose money in
large quantities rather than violate their
principles. The camel, in their view, can
still make his way through the needle,
but the requirements to be observed for
this journey are strict.
In this sub-class we find the self-
effacing and somewhat baffling figure of
Mr Staniforth Ricketson, now 72.
Whether he has solved the money-power
morality problem which has troubled the
city for so long is doubtful. But he has
had his own sort of try. His attempt has
long influenced the business ethics of
Melbourne, even of Australia, just as his
financial operations have influenced its
economic history. What proportion of
his attitude has been his high idealism,
and how much hard-headedness, no one
has yet sorted out.
Investment companies
Otaniforth Ricketson is the senior
partner of J. B. Were Sons, stock-
brokers, underwriters and financiers,
whose head office is at 375 Collins Street,
Melbourne, in Capel Court. Part of his
Melbourne staff of 400 or so is in the new
Colonial Mutual Life building at the cor-
ner of Collins and Elizabeth Streets.
There is also a Sydney staff of about 70.
The Capel Court Group under J. B.
Were’s includes nine investment com-
panies, the largest of them being Aus-
tralian Foundation Investment and three
underwriting and development com-
panies, as well as a company called
C.N.F. Managers Ltd. This manages
the affairs of Capel National Fund, de-
signed to invest in long-term growth
stocks, and C.N.F. Income Trust,
which aims at “high immediate income.”
The lormation of C.N.F. Managers was
sponsored by the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia Ltd and J. B. Were together.
Staniforth Ricketson, in terms of
authority, if not always of titles, is the
boss of the lot. He has been powerful
now in the financial world for more than
40 years. His firm, apart from its stocK-
broking business and the handling of tens
of millions of pounds in government ana
semi-government bond operations, has
particularly since 1927 under-
written or financed a major part of the
industrial development of Australia.
Yet, by choice, he is little known
outside his own environment. He never
gives an interview. He writes no news-
paper articles, gives no lectures, is not
a traveller, and for many years has
associated his name with no causes. In
the handbook issued to new staff mem-
bers, his name appears once, in small
type, and he is otherwise referred to as
the Senior Partner and ‘head of the
office family.”
Newspaper files on him consist almost
entirely of reports of his annual ad-
dresses to his companies, which are
valued throughout Australia as studies of
financial trends. In these he has hardly
ever been known, perhaps never been
known, to use the word “I” where any
twist of language could avoid it.
Employees who accept the invitation
of the Senior Partner to discuss their
serious personal problems with him find
him a kindly man. As an employer he
is the sort who pays no overtime, but
makes it up with generous bonuses, a


handsome retirement benefits scheme, and
golden handshakes to valued people who
depart.
Were people don’t make money on
inside information. Both employees and
partners are forbidden to trade in se-
curities, or to make the slightest use for
personal gain of any information their
work brings them. In fact, it is only
rarely, for special reasons such as ad-
vance buying for a client, that J. B.
Were’s buy shares on their own account
in any way. When the firm is the prin-
cipal in a deal, SR insists that the fact
must be disclosed. That is typical of the
J. B. Were picture.
Staniforth Ricketson is tall, soberly
dressed, with a domed head and a fine,
strong nose and strong, wide mouth. He
has been fairly deaf for many years,
and wears a hearing aid, which he sup-
plements with lip-reading. His smile,
when it comes, can be charmingly boyish,
and he speaks with a consistent modesty.
He is teetotal and anti-drink. J. B.
Were’s don’t do business with any facet
of the liquor industry. There’s no alco-
hol at office parties. An employee found
drunk on the job might just as well walk
as straight as he can to the hatstand, and
leave.
One of the points of character in
Staniforth Ricketson which it is unwise
for anyone to overlook is his perhaps
old-fashioned capacity for Wrath. It’s a
by-word in Melbourne, among men who
know, that if anyone, friend or foe,
deeply offends Staniforth’s principles,
Ricketson can be a hard and unrelenting
enemy.
Even, as I say, if anger costs money.
There is the case of a big Melbourne
company we shall call X, which in-
tended to take over a firm we shall call
Y. The firm had J. B. Were as under-
writers. It was a wealthy and important
account.
Staniforth Ricketson found that a top
man in X was buying up shares in Y,
for his private account, at a time when
the proposed deal was believed to be
confidential. SR dismissed the X outfit
from his life and from his books, and
from all his investment company hold-
ings. Totally.
Jonathan B-ware
of the strongest factors in the
make-up of Staniforth Ricketson, and
in the atmosphere of his firm, is that he
is the great-grandson of the firm’s
founder, Jonathan Binns Were, the
Somerset man who came to Melbourne in
1839. Capel Court is on the site of the
first Melbourne Stock Exchange which
Jonathan Were (known to his enemies
as “Jonathan B-ware”) brought into being.
Jonathan, 30, arrived in Melbourne
with £9OOO worth of goods and turned
these into £70,000. He had his set-
backs but he grew in riches. Part of
his cargo for trade was a large quantity
of port wine in gallon decanters. Jona-
than Were was an Anglican and became
president of the British and Foreign
Bible Society in Melbourne, among many
other offices. His wife was a Quaker.
A photograph of J. B. Were, inside
the cover of the staff handbook, shows
a frock-coated gentleman in rather baggy
trousers, with a superb white or light
grey topper hanging in his gloved left
hand, and a tassled umbrella supporting
his right. He looks the essence of the
Master of the House, a figure to become
so typical of respectable life as the Vic-
torian Age went on. J.B. and his sons
were long-lived, and it was a son, Fran-
cis Wellington Were, who invited grand-
nephew Staniforth to enter the firm of
J. B. Were and Son in 1911. The family
is even more interesting on the Ricketson
side. Henry Ricketson, SR’s grandfather,
came to Australia from Nova Scotia in
1852. One of his forebears was William
Ricketson, an English yeoman Quaker,
who emigrated to America in the 17th
century. The family line is rich in names
like Jonathan, Abigail and Abednego.
Henry’s first wife was Georgina Stani-
forth, the daughter of a Sheffield doctor.
She died in 1882, after 24 years of mar-
riage. The couple had four sons and a
daughter. Henry Ricketson’s second wife
was Edith Binns Were. She was the third
daughter of Jonathan Binns Were. She
and Henry were married at St Peter’s,
Eaton Square, London, in 1884. She
died in London in 1931. This marriage
produced a son and a daughter.
One of the sons of the first marriage,
between Henry and Georgina Ricketson,
was Henry Joseph Ricketson, who was
born at Brighton, Melbourne, in 1862.
Henry Jr. was educated at Geelong
Grammar, and early showed that he had
inherited his father’s physical strength.
In 1890, he was amateur heavyweight
boxing champion of Victoria.
At Brighton Beach, in 1883, he mar-
ried Sophia Sheppard. Her father was
Sherbourne Sheppard of J. B. Were and
Son. Her mother was Sophia, daughter
of Jonathan Binns Were himself. The
couple had two sons and four daughters.
The second son was Staniforth. The boy
was born in Malvern, Melbourne, on
August 1, 1891. Through his mother,
then Staniforth Ricketson is the great-
grandson of J. B. Were, and his father's
stepmother was also a Were.
The religious background has been
strong Anglican and Quaker on both
sides. SR is well known in Anglican
circles. He sponsored a memorial to
Jonathan Were at St Andrew’s, Brighton.
Staniforth Ricketson went to Prahran
State School and got a gold medal as
dux of the boys in 1905. He went on to
Wesley, on scholarships, and then worked
on stations in Victoria and NSW. His
first desk job was as a clerk with the
Australian Mercantile and Finance Com-
pany.
He had ideas of being a journalist, and
in 1910 became a reporter on the “North-
Western Advocate and Emu Bay
Times.” He was 20 when he accepted
the invitation of Francis Wellington Were
to join the firm, and only 22 when he
became a partner. When SR moved into
stockbroking in 1911, Billy Hughes was
Attorney-General in the Fisher Labor
Government. Among other things,
Hughes was talking of nationalising the
monopolies. That's how long ago it was.
Wounded three times
Tn 1914, SR and four of his cousins
A joined the public school company of
the sth Battalion AIF. Two of the five
young men died in action. The other
three were wounded Staniforth three
times. SR began as a private, won a
commission at Gallipoli, and the DCM.
He was invalided to Australia in 1916.
Francis Wellington Were retired and sold
his business shares to his three partners
Staniforth Ricketson, F. J. Fleming
and W. F. Geach.
Staniforth Ricketson went back to the
war, fought in France and became a cap-
tain. In 1918, he was one of the Aus-
tralian officers lent to the American
forces for the attack on the Hindenburg
Line. He returned to Melbourne and to
J. B. Were and Son in 1919. He’s been
the power there ever since.
He has maintained high regard for
ex-servicemen. More unusually, he has
a lot of time for journalists—outside of
newspapers. Former journalists who
have done well in his firm, and even
reached eminence, include R. S. Clayton,
now a partner; Bernard Grennan, resi-
dent partner in Sydney; and A. C.
Goode, a former partner, now with his
own stockbroking firm, in fierce com-
petition with his former master.
Apart from his own early journalism,
and his liking for journalists as employ-
ees, SR has had another memorable con-
tact with the Press. In 1936, the Mel-
bourne ‘'Argus,” owned by Wilson and
Mackinnon, was staggering under the
losses of mismanaging an evening news-
paper, the “Star,” in competition with
the “Herald.” Wilson and Mackinnon had
a mortgage of £IOO,OOO and a bank
overdraft of £242,000.
The company asked Ricketson to
handle the flotation of a public com-
pany to take over. SR agreed to con-
sider the question if the “Star” was
closed down at once. It was. I remember
the night very well. J. B. Were went
ahead with the flotation of the Argus and
Australasian Ltd, which was oversub-
scribed. Staniforth Ricketson became
chairman,of directors, with Kingsley A.
Henderson as vice-chairman. He stayed


there until 1939, then resigned. The
“Argus” floundered into ?he arms of the
London “Daily Mirror.”
It died forever as a paper early in
1956.
There was an untypical piece of be-
havior, too, in 1931, those depression
times when Scullin was in power and
Jack Lang was demanding cuts in in-
terest rates. While R. G. Menzies was
orating about “theft” and “hypocrisy”
(A. G. L. Shaw recalls this in his work
“The Economic Development of Aus-
tralia”), J. B. Were and Son were crying
that public honor was being sacrificed
and public credit ruined.
A meeting of 3000 people (with 1000
others turned away) gathered at Mel-
bourne Town Hall to set up an Austra-
lian Citizens’ League, dedicated to a
restoration of confidence in the future of
Australia. The slogans of the meeting
were “Honesty” and “Courage.” The of-
ficial J. B. Were history, “The House of
Were”, says that before this public gather-
ing “many meetings” were held in the
firm’s offices, then in the New Zealand
Bank Chambers.
The Australian Citizens’ League later
became the All for Australia League. It
died quietly as economic conditions im-
proved, and as Scullin departed in favor
of the more acceptable Joseph Lyons.
In 1936, SR gave evidence before the
Royal Commission on Banking and
Monetary Affairs at its request. But
that also was unusual.
After the last war Staniforth Ricketson
was angry when Ben Chifley wanted to
nationalise the banks, but J. B. Were
and Son kept its activities private. And
although SR is said to have quarrelled
with other members of the Exchange,
urging stronger anti-Chifley action, he
organised no public meetings.
The crystal ball
Tn modern times, now that Labor has
dropped its nationalisation platform,
Staniforth Ricketson, in at least one
chairman's address, has said that, from
a purely financial point of view, his
firm is not all that much concerned
whether Liberal or Labor is in power in
Canberra.
Times do change.
As a prognosticator, Staniforth Ricket-
son has a reputation. His “Weekly
Letter” scored a big success in predic-
tion in 1925 when it anticipated Britain’s
reversion to the Gold Standard by four
months.
The “Weekly Letter” to clients of Oc-
tober 4, 1929, spoke of a coming period
of “industrial and financial readjust-
ment,” a time of strain for the money
market, and of unrest for secondary in-
dustry, plus lower prices for primary
products. The company history records,
with perhaps justifiable self-satisfaction,
that those who heeded J. B. Were advice
“suffered little loss.” But others “had the
chagrin of seeing a substantial deprecia-
tion in their assets.”
In 1951, he cautioned clients and the
public against the dangers inherent in
the Korean war boom. That was several
months before industrials took one of
their biggest dives since 1929. Two years
before the end of the last war, he fore-
cast big expansion in the engineering,
drugs and chemicals, plastics, electrical
goods and other fields.
Ricketson’s crystal ball was clear again
in 1960, when he gave a good advance
tip on the coming credit squeeze and
slump.
None of SR’s occasional errors at the
fortune-telling game, and not even his
failure, along with others, to foresee the
Reid Murray collapse, have seriously
shaken his reputation and the reputation
of his house for probity. He is always
“anti-stag,” and always deplores specula-
tion, even when he can see the green
light clear to profits. Were’s tell their
clients that, although buying and selling
must of course go on. they’re interested
in investors for growth not for quick
money —pace the C.N.F. income trust
and its “high immediate income” aim.
Of course, in the world of morals and
money, as we said before, it’s hard to
know w'here to come down. As one ex-
ample, I. B. Were discourages oil specu-
lation, but has backed Ampol heavily,
as underwriter, and, it is said, financially
too. It also welcomes the Moonie develop-
ments. But there is no welcome at Capel
Court for risk-capital in mining.
The standing of J. B. Were in the
financial world has been affected by the
fast rise of powerful competitors includ-
ing a consortium of Sydney brokers. As
one Melbourne expert explained it to
me, the Ricketson firm at one time “had
the bond market sewn up.” Now other
firms have captured almost entirely the
big business in semi-government bonds.
This is said to go back to 1951, when
J. B. Were underwrote a Victorian State
Electricity Commission loan of
£6,000,000, following its successful
handling of an earlier SEC loan of the
same great size. The SEC loan was put
on the market at 3! per cent for six
years. When it was part-subscribed, the
Loan Council increased the coupon rate
for a pending Commonwealth loan from
3i per cent at par to 31 per cent. Bingo!
J. B. Were had to take up an unsub-
scribed balance of the SEC loan totalling
£3,346,800.
Be that as it may, J. B. Were’s under-
writing this year for the new Ampol re-
finery at Lytton, near Brisbane, showed
ingenuity and financial power. The issue
was for £7.8 million, with dividends
payable only after June 30, 1967.
In the refinery project, to cost at least
£2l million, J. B. Were’s have enlisted
the co-operation of four major banks and
a galaxy of insurance and institutional
finance houses. At Capel Court they’re
very proud of this achievement.
Where Staniforth Ricketson comes
under criticism from some of the younger
men, is that he is said not to have
quite anticipated, or been able to exploit
properly, the sudden post-war upsurge of
“little man’s capitalism.”
It was not, they say, that SR failed to
see what was coming, merely that he
failed to judge it as well as men like Sir
lan Potter and other rising or risen stars.
These critics say that things at J. B.
Were's have been too long under the
domination of one man.
Perhaps it is with something like this
in mind a reluctant admission that
everyone becomes old that SR speaks
of retiring in three years or so. He had
a setback in health about three years ago,
and handed over one or two of his minor
directorships to partners.
The succession
is already tossed about as
to who is likely to succeed to the SR
seat of power. Two of his sons, Anthony
Staniforth Ricketson and Michael Stani-
forth Ricketson, are in the firm, and have
two of the firm’s 14 seats on the Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange. But they are not
yet full partners.
SR’s favor, at the moment, is seen as
tending towards Mr W. K. Olver, one of
the partners, who was appointed in 1960
after SR's illness to be chairman
of the Capel National Fund and C.N.F.
Managers Ltd, the board of which con-
sists of representatives of the National
Bank, J. B. Were and ihe investment
companies in the Capel Court Group.
Staniforth Ricketson has been mar-
ried twice, and has four sons and three
daughters. The Ricketson family is
linked closely by marriage to the Alder
family of .Sydney.
An old friend of SR’s is Allan Spowers,
a director in the Capel Court group and
chairman of Colonial Mutual among
other things. They were together in the
“Argus” venture. SR does not seem to
have any special love for or interest in
politicians, although both R. G. Men-
zies and Mr F. B. Menzies, former Vic-
torian Crown Solicitor, and the Prime
Minister's brother, have both been
directors of J. B. Were companies at
different times.
SR shares with Sir Robert Menzies
a great veneration of the Royal Family
and of Sir Winston Churchill. Recently,
in one of his company addresses, he sug-
gested that Churchill should be called
officially “Winston the Great.”
As a person, and because of his role in
Australia, Staniforth Ricketson might
reasonably be held to have a touch of
greatness himself.


Talking to Edward Teller
Keeping the West's powder dry
By PETER KING
Imet Edward Teller one sunny morn-
ing last year in the midst of an
anxious group of youthful question-
ers outside a lecture theatre at the Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley, where
he holds a chair in physics and pursues
research at the Livermore Laboratory.
He had been lecturing to undergraduate
physicists, but a pregnant young woman
was questioning him anxiously about nu-
clear fallout, and an ardent and bearded
peace-lover was denouncing his views on
the same subject.
He shut up the man of peace
rather peremptorily, I thought and
assured the young wife that Linus Pauling
(since awarded the Nobel Peace Prize)
was most certainly in error about radia-
tion levels that, indeed, there was
greater risk of radiation from living in
a stone (as opposed to a wooden) house
than from being exposed to all the fall-
out caused by all previous testing. (This
was in May, 1962.)
Later I heard Teller argue confidently
and emphatically that testing was less
serious than either
(a) living 50 feet nearer to heaven
than normal (where there is less atmos-
phere to stop cosmic rays), or
(b) wearing a fluorescent wrist watch,
or
(c) changing to heavy underwear!
(Radiation damage to the gonads is ap-
parently intensified by heat.)
At lunch-time on the same day Teller
capped these arguments at a student
meeting on “World Stability” when he
announced that specially irradiated mice
had been found to live longer in the
laboratory than their less fortunate breth-
ren who had merely been exposed to in-
significant quantities of strontium 90 and
iodine 131. At this meeting he insisted
that his “real” argument with Linus Paul-
ing (who had spoken in the same series
of talks) was about war and peace, not
fallout; and he proceeded to outline the
Teller programme for world stability.
The emphasis, as 1 had expected, was
heavily military. American willingness to
retaliate on Soviet cities (which would be
permitted to evacuate) and permanent
nuclear testing (chiefly to develop an
anti-missile-missile) were the heart of
Teller’s proposals, but he also favored
community fallout shelters within 15
minutes of every American home.
At the altruistic end of the policy scale,
he favored a foreign aid bill of 25 billion
dollars, and a rather shadowy “openness”
in science everywhere, cautioning his
audience, however, that it would take
20 years to convince the Soviets that
the West cannot be subverted.
I kept my questions until he and I sat
down to lunch together a little later at
his home which overlooks the Berkeley
campus with San Francisco Bay and the
Golden Gate Bridge visible in the dis-
tance. Somewhat apprehensively, bear-
ing in mind the fate of the peace-lover
after the physics lecture, I suggested that
bombing even evacuated Soviet cities
would cause vast dislocation and misery
even if it did avoid many casualties. I
argued that retaliation would be especially
futile, and hence unjustified, if Soviet
nuclear attacks had shattered American
society and killed most of the people,
since there would then be no American
nation to have an interest in weakening
Soviet power, and since Soviet industrial
resources would be vital for the economic
well-being of the world, including the
United States.
Without rejecting this argument, Teller
said he could hardly bear to think about
it. He said he assumed that “considerable
numbers” of people would survive any
total war in the near and middle future.
(Putting these same arguments earlier in
1962 to officers of the Strategic Air
Command, who assume an absolute
right and duty to kill millions of Soviet
• and Chinese citizens in big war,
I found that, at best, they would come
round to Teller’s view, that cities should
be permitted to evacuate before being
erased. The chief point of wiping out
cities seems to be that it, in effect, would
retroactively demonstrate that the prior
threat to retaliate had been genuine, that
deterrence wasn’t “a phoney.” The con-
sequences of demonstrating sincerity have
rarely seemed likely to prove so unfor-
tunate.)
I also questioned Teller about “open*


3jj
*7
COGEDAR LINE
T.V. FLAVIA GRAND PACIFIC CRUISE TO
HONOLULU, HILO
& TAHITI
ALSO CALLING AT AUCKLAND,
SUVA, SAVU SAVU, BORA-BORA,
& RAROTONGA, WITH 5 DAYS IN
HONOLULU-4 DAYS IN TAHITI
JUNE-JULY, 1964
Enjoy every comfort aboard the luxury, one-
class liner T.V. FLAVIA; the finest European
or Australian Cuisine, air-conditioning
throughout, stabilizers for smooth sailing,
and cabins with their own private facilities.
FARES FROM £345
See any authorised Travel Agent or Cogedar Lina
General Agent: H. C. Sleigh Limited
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Hobart • A.P.T. Shipping Pty. Ltd., Perth
HONOLULU
b HILO
SUVA
SAVU SAVU
TAHITI
SYDNEY
BORA-BORA
RAROTONGA
AUCKLAND
MELBOURNE
T
539-63
ness.” How open should it be on the
Western side under conditions of arms
race and Cold War? Should new warhead
and missile designs be published immedi-
ately and unilaterally, or only new laws
of nature? “I don’t quite know where
to draw the line,” was Teller’s answer,
but he declared that, in general, “prin-
ciples” should not be kept secret, and
when we came to discuss the military
significance of bomb testing, he seemed
to extend even this formula when he
deplored the fact that he could not go
into details about “clean” (fallout-free)
weapons and so-called weight-to-yield
ratios because of the security restrictions
imposed on him and all weapon scien-
tists. The father of the H-bomb still does
not feel free to discuss the character of
his child.
(The notorious American security re-
strictions are celebrated in two classic
stories, one of which concerns a scien-
tist who was denied a clearance to read
the results of his own- research. The
other tells of an article in an “open”
American journal which was translated
into Russian, circulated in Moscow,
brought back to Washington, re-translated
and classified top secret.)
Leaning heavily on his reputation as a
weapons scientist, which has brought him
vast publicity and repeated invitations to
give evidence hostile to arms control be-
fore Congressional committees. Teller has
lately assumed leadership of the forces
opposed to the partial nuclear test ban
treaty. Publicly, he maintains the tech-
nical argument that American atmos-
pheric testing is necessary to overtake a
supposed Soviet lead in super-large wea-
pons and anti-missile systems, but it be-
comes clear in conversation with him that
his reasons for opposing agreements with
the Russians are mainly political.
He simply does not trust the Russians
to keep an agreement and he believes
their political capability for deceit is
vastly superior to that of any Western
country. I suggested that perhaps the
West could hope for an important defec-
tion among Soviet scientists if their gov-
ernment planned an illegal nuclear test
series. Teller declared that Soviet se-
curity and screening procedures were al-
most water-tight, even though roughly
500 men might know of a test series
well in advance.
He believes that the Russians did cheat
during the informal moratorium on tests
of 1958-61. In his opinion the Russians
opposed on-site inspection of the test
ban in those years partly because their
cheating might have been exposed.
Above all Teller wants the West to
keep its powder or rather all its
powders dry. His political mission
might be summarised as the Westernising
of the East and the Easternising of the
West.


FORUM
Orr The Inevitable Settlement
Not just a sordid cash deal
64T ts just a sell-out all round. Orr
has sold out his position for a few
thousand quid; the philosophers
have sold out Orr and justice and
academic principles for the sake of peace
and quiet; the University of Tasmania
has cynically bought its way out of
trouble on the cheap.
“Orr clearly had justice on his side.
He should have stuck to his principles
and the philosophers and the other
academics should have stuck by him.
The University of Tasmania should have
been forced to do the only really decent
thing open to it—reinstate Orr, compen-
sate him for his losses in the whole affair,
and implement at least all of the reforms
demanded by the Royal Commission of
1955. As it is, it has all just turned into
a sordid cash deal.”
I brooded long over this remark made
to me after Thursday’s climactic series of
discussions at Sydney University resulting
in the philosophers, the University Staff
Association and Sydney Sparkes Orr
accepting the much-publicised “terms of
settlement” adopted by the Council of
the University of Tasmania on Decem-
ber 14. In point of fact I had been
brooding on similar thoughts of my own
for much of the preceding week. For
Thursday’s decisions were really already
a foregone conclusion in the light of the
events of the previous vveok. The “Orr
case” was for all practical purposes end-
ed then, and it only remained to endorse
the inevitable.
This endorsement was carried by the
philosophers on Thursday in terms of
the motion:
“This executive of the Australasian
Association of Philosophy hereby decides
to recommend to the members of the
Council of the Australasian Association
of Philosophy that opposition to the fill-
ing of the Chair of Philosophy in the
University of Tasmania be withdrawn in
accordance with item 4 of the reported
‘terms of settlement’, provided that the
W. J. GINNANE, who wrote this
article, is a Lecturer in Philosophy at
the University of Sydney and as
Secretary of the Australasian Associ-
ation of Philosophy has played a
forceful and sympathetic role in the
Orr dispute. His views on Mr Orr,
on the settlement and the considera-
tions which led to it are not neces-
sarily ours although we welcome the
chance to publish his point of view
just as we would have welcomed the
chance to publish a point of view
more nearly in tune with that of the
academic body of the University of
Tasmania had we been able to obtain
it.
other items of the reported ‘terms of
settlement’ are implemented. However,
we express our conviction that a more
satisfactory solution would need to in-
clude further steps by the University of
Tasmania designed to secure the
academic rehabilitation of Professor
Orr.”
As it turned out the crucial step had
been taken on Tuesday, December 10, in
Melbourne. There, certain influential
members of the academic staff of the
University of Tasmania had flown in to
meet Professor R. D. Wright, Orr’s
academic “next friend”, and representa-
tives of the philosophers and of the
Federal Executive of the University Staff
Association. Proposals were hammered
out which the Tasmanians took to be
acceptable to Orr, the philosophers and
the Staff Association and which if accept-
ed by the University of Tasmania would
result in the removal of the academic
censure of the University and in the lift-
ing of the so-called “black ban” on the
Chair of Philosophy.
Armed with this potent weapon the
Tasmanians flew back to Hobart and
organised a successful palace revolution
within the University Council. As the
world now knows, they carried the day by
12 votes to seven at the Council meet-
ing on Saturday, Decemberl4, and form-
ally adopted the Melbourne “terms of
settlement”. The Chancellor, Sir Henry
Baker, and several other members or
supporters of the “old guard” resigned.
The struggle which had ground on hope-
lessly for almost eight years had taken a
sudden and completely decisive turn. It
was inevitable then that Orr, the
philosophers and academics generally
would accept the result. The Tasmanians
would never have acted and certainly
could not have been successful in muster-
ing sufficient local support for their coup
unless they had been convinced that the
terms would not be rebiiffed. In this
they clearly acted in good faith and
could not be left in a hopelessly exposed
and indeed dangerous position.


What, then, can be said of the terms
involved in the settlement? Is it all in
fact just a sordid cash deal to bury the
affair at the expense of Orr and the
principles for which he has fought so
courageously for years? In my view the
answer to this is clearly no. Whilst the
solution is not ideal it nevertheless does
represent a genuine vindication of the
stand taken over the years by Orr, the
philosophers and the University Staff
Association.
Certainly in the public mind there is
no doubt concerning Orr’s vindication. A
University cannot pay out £16,000 to
an individual who claims he has been
seriously wronged by it without thereby
admitting to the world at large that he
has indeed a genuine case. This is in
itself a startling new development. Under
the old-guard regime, now so mercifully
removed, the University of Tasmania
had intransigently refused to, make any
move towards the rectification of a
wrong that was obvious to the rest of
the academic world and to a consider-
able section of the public at large. As
Orr himself has stated: “I appreciate that
the amount carries its own implications
to the world at large. They offered it—it
is big enough to be symbolic—l will not
haggle.”
Orr himself had never primarily
sought money as a solution to the case.
He has always consistently sought his
own reinstatement to the Chair of
Philosophy in Tasmania both as a recti-
fication of the injustice done to himself
in the manner of his dismissal from that
Chair, and also as a vindication of the
proper academic principles governing
the conduct of a university. He has
maintained this position for years despite
really severe economic hardship to him-
self and his family. He does not need
to fear being branded as a money-
grubber in accepting the £16,000 settle-
ment. (In point of fact, of course, the
majority of this amount will be swallowed
up in meeting the accumulated debts of
years of unemployment.)
Attacks on administration
Tt was his defence of academic prin-
ciples that got him into trouble in
the first place. He had made outspoken
attacks on the administration of the
University of Tasmania, culminating in
his publication of an open letter to the
Premier in the Hobart “Mercury” in
October, 1954. Eventually, in 1955, a
Royal Commission was instituted to
enquire into the conduct of the Uni-
versity. Its findings completely justified
his position. The Government did not,
however, carry out the sweeping reforms
recommended by the Commission and
Orr himself became a marked man. A
long series of intrigues, secret dossier
compilations, and star-chamber enquiries
eventually culminated in March, 1956,
in his being summarily dismissed on un-
corroborated charges of sexual mis-
conduct. His subsequent attempts at
obtaining legal redress were unsuccess-
ful. Since his dismissal he has been
ostracised, vilified both verbally and in
print, shot at, and hounded in count-
less ways. The £16,000 offer does
not rectify all that, has befallen him
directly or indirectly as a result of the
University’s actions. But nothing could
do that. The <£16,000 is at least, as he
says, symbolic.
Furthermore, Orr is now clearly in a
better position to get back into the main
stream of academic life as a pro-
fessional philosopher. He has been
relieved of the terrible strain, both
physical and spiritual, of carrying on
what seemed to be the endless “Orr
case” in which he was always in danger
of becoming a kind of semi-institutional-
ized victim. He has the assurances of
his academic colleagues that his return
to full professional life will be smoothed
in every way possible. It is difficult to
see how any university administration
could now exclude Orr from any position
for which he is academically fitted. The
settlement removes any plausible grounds
that might otherwise have been con-
cocted to exclude him from a particular
university.
Also, the whole train of events of the
“Orr case” has demonstrated the con-
fidence of his academic colleagues in
him and his cause. It is, I think, fair to
say that in the minds of most of the
philosophers present at Thursday’s dis-
cussions it was Orr himself who stood
out as the telling figure. He spoke at
length and with force and clarity—but
above all with patent sincerity and sim-
plicity. He reacted generously to a
situation that had developed in a way
other than that in which he himself
would have chosen. A great many
appeals had been made to him by various
persons and bodies —ranging from the
Archbishop of Hobart to the National
Union of Australian University Students
—to accept the terms of settlement so
that the work of reconstruction within
the University of Tasmania might get
under way. He lost nothing in stature
by agreeing.
Strains
'True, he has not returned to his Chair
at Tasmania and that was what,
strictly speaking, was morally owing to
him. He could, however, hardly have
been happy there after all that has hap-
pened, whichever way one looks at it. The
strain of being a conquering moral hero
is perhaps just as great as that of being a
moral leper. It is perhaps just as person-
ally corrosive and just as much a source
of disquiet to colleagues. At another uni-
versity he can again become in fact
simply what he is and most wants to
be—a teacher of Philosophy. In Tas-
mania he would inevitably be something
else a cause celebre.
Even at this stage, however, one hopes
that the University of Tasmania might
give some further token of the new,
freer, more realistic and more positive
thinking that has begun to arise in its
Council and that made possible the
settlement. It should not be hard to
think of ways in which the University
might, by some formal act or statement,
demonstrate that its settlement was not
merely some grudging pay-off made
simply in order to have certain academic
sanctions against it removed, but was in
fact an act dictated by principle. The
University would, in fact, be con-
ceding nothing further by such an act
and would indeed greatly enhance its
own prestige and do an incalculable
amount towards sweeping away the
memory of years of acrimony.
One feels that the erstwhile opponents
of the University of Tasmania will now
wish them well in the task of academic
reconstruction, particularly in the disci-
pline of Philosophy which has gradually
lapsed over the troubled years. A
vigorous department of Philosophy is a
crucial factor in the academic health of
a university and in the generation of a
radical spirit of inquiry and the search
for truth. One hopes that the University
of Tasmania will receive a flood of first-
class applications when it now re-
advertises the Chair of Philosophy.


OVERSEAS
Kenya: Test
Case for
the World
Harambe instead of Uhuru
By BARBARA WARD
So many States have reached inde-
pendence in the last decade that it is
not always easy to summon up a
proper sense of occasion to greet another
new arrival on the world scene But in the
case of Kenya, independent a fortnight
ago, the achievement of nationhood is
profoundly significant not simply for the
country itself but for its neighbors, for
Africa, and even perhaps for the world
at large.
In some measure the land is a curious
microcosm of our planetary life. All
the climates, all the flora, all the wild
life of the globe coexist between the
ice-cap of Mount Kenya and the tropical
coasts pines and trout streams in the
highlands, palm and arid laterite on the
plains, cattle on the green slopes, lions
among the tawny rocks. And three great
races African, Asian and European
live side by side and face the tasks of
freedom, at the moment when, by his-
torical coincidence, the question of race
has become a burning central issue in
the world's political dialogue.
Few small States can have been
launched on independence with such a
freight of variety, possibility, risk and
hope. No small State, simply by its per-
formance, has ever had the same cer-
tainty of affecting, profoundly, the poli-
tics of other lands. A smooth transition,
reasonable harmony, hopeful prospects
could revolutionise racial politics in
Southern Africa. Full success in racial
partnership would even bring a perturbed
and questioning humanity to Kenya’s
door.
How hopeful are the prospects? If the
question had been asked a year ago,
there would have been no very reassur-
ing reply. In the aftermath of droughts
and floods, the economy had to carry
extra burdens just as confidence reached
its lowest ebb. Then it seemed that the
extraordinary structure of Kenyan society
had produced a completely irreconcilable
conflict of interests. In the upper reaches,
60,000 Europeans held virtually all the
managerial positions, ran much of the
commerce, lived in the big houses, owned
over 7,500,000 acres of land and on it
produced four-fifths of the cash crops
and virtually all the country’s export
income.
At the next level, mixing neither above
nor below nor very much with one an-
other, were some 200,000 Asians, filling
up all the early rungs of the ladder in
commerce and administration retail
trade, small-scale produce-buying, cleri-
cal jobs. Then came the Africans, over
eight million of them, largely unskilled
- the laborers, the subsistence farmers
and divided by tribal hostilities, rooted
in land hunger.
So explosive a combination had al-
ready produced Mau Mau. In 1961, with
Europeans leaving, capital ebbing away
and African politics dividing on tribal
lines the Rift Valley and the Coast in
Mr Ngala's Kenya African Democratic
Union (Kadu) opposed to the Central
Provinces in Kenya African National
Union (Kanu), while the Somalis claimed
the right to secede in the North a
repetition of disaster seemed inevitable.
'V’et independence has been launched
A in a mood of renewed confidence. If
one cause more than any other can be
singled out for the change, it is the
emergence of Mr Kenyatta’s Kanu Ad-
ministration as a strong and conciliatory
Government. Mr Malcolm MacDonald’s
great achievement as Governor in estab-
lishing close and trustful relations with
the Kanu Ministers was followed by
sweeping Kanu victories in this year’s
general and municipal elections. Mr
Kenyatta used his new authority to re-
assure the worried settlers and the
hesitant businessmen. His speech to the
European farmers at Nakuru—which
brought them to their feet in a standing
ovation—seems to have been a turning-
point.
At the same time, in spite of threats
of secession, Mr Ngala has at least
decided to give the new Government
time to reveal itself. Some of his fol-
lowers go further and speak of the need
for co-operation and national union.
Only the Asians remain silent and un-
assured.
Is this simply a truce? Or can all
Kenya’s races rely on some degree of
continuing political stability? The social
“mix”, after all, remains explosive.
Class, wealth and opportunity follow
racial lines still and at the bottom of
the pyramid, particularly among the
vigorous Kikuyu, two kinds of pressure
interact —the pressure for land and the
pressure for work. No political system
can peacefully survive more than a
certain degree of such rooted discontent.
The thousands of young men without
jobs in Nairobi and the landless laborers
beginning to squat on land only recently
allotted to African farmers make up a
formidably radical wing to any political
movement.
The Kenya Government seems to
have no illusions about these pressures.
Its efforts to restore confidence among
European farmers and businessmen are
based on a perfectly realistic assess-
ment of the economy’s dependence upon
their efforts. The Government is also
trying by its propaganda to discourage
any idea that “freedom” means a free-
for-all. Harambe —pulling and working
together—has taken the place of Uhuru
—independence—as Mr Kenyatta’s pre-
ferred slogan.
The two challenging tests are to make
a success of an agricultural policy based
on cash crops and to stimulate the
growth of light industry.
If agricultural prospects are uncertain,
the outlook for industry is not much
clearer. Kenya’s light industries have
expanded as the “growing point” of a
whole East African common market.
If the drive for East African federation
slackens, then Kenya could find itself
with further industrial redundancy just
when the need for wider employment
has become even more acute.
If these external pressures on the
Kenyan economy continue unchecked,
the rising discontent of the dispossessed
may force the Government off its
present course of conciliation and good
will. The wealthy Europeans, the Asian
traders would become obvious targets
for African discontent and a racialist
tinge could be imparted to Kenyan
politics—with fateful consequences for
the race issue in Southern Africa and
even farther afield.
At present the Kenya Government
has not many resources with which to
stimulate industrial activity—particularly
in urban construction —or to diversify
agriculture and maintain its extension
services. The scale of debt repayment
all but swallows up the existing level of
external aid.
It is rare in human history for a test
case to seem so clear as it does in Kenya


or the means of coping with it to be so
readily available. But in the Western
world today, the issue, again and again,
is not the availability of resources but
the political vision needed to use them
with generosity and speed. Kenya offers
an extraordinary opportunity. It is not
yet clear that it will be seized in time.
(OFNS.)
LBJ Takes
His Time
Tough, patient, cunning
From GODFREY HODGSON
in Washington
“Tj\)REiGN policy?” said the old
friend of the new President “he
doesn’t have a foreign policy, and a good
thing too.”
Other old friends or new subordinates
of Mr Johnson disagree. They say he will
have strong ideas of his own: he will
behave like LBJ, not like JFK. Others
lay emphasis where the President has
laid it himself in his public utterances
on continuity.
Probably all these things are true.
Everyone round the new President is
aware that the basic policies of the
United States cannot change much. Nat-
ional interests have not altered since
November 22, the world has not
changed, nor have the limitations of US
power.
The one thing that has changed is the
man in the White House, and he is a
different man. All those who know him
agree he is a practical activist
The same phrases come up in conver-
sation after conversation. What does this
mean in terms of the problems that he
will have to face in foreign affairs? Top
priority on the agenda is still dealing
with the Communist world, a world that
is changing at bewildering speed, a split-
ting between Russia and China and be-
tween Russia and her East European
allies, faced with all sorts of problems
in economics and agriculture but
still essentially the “other side.”
Mr Johnson is no unthinking cold
warrior. In a speech at Miami last July
he said it was “a tragic perversion of
American leadership ... to ask the
people to greet with suspicion any talk
of peace.”
In his first speech to Congress, he re-
peated the double theme of President
Kennedy's speeches on East-West rela-
tions: “We must be ready to defend the
national interest and negotiate the com-
mon interest.”
Mr Johnson is in no hurry to negoti-
ate an agreement with the Russians. But
this is not because he is ideologically anti-
Communist which he is but be-
cause all the advice he is getting is that
the Russians are not offering any agree-
ment that is worth having.
There may be an exception to this.
The Administration’s experts believe that
Mr Khrushchev would like to save on
armaments to invest in fertilisers. Mr
Johnson means business in giving Mr
McNamara his head to prune the mili-
tary budget. The official view is that
there can be no agreement on this: but
tacitly both sides may cut arms expen-
diture.
If the experts do see any sign of a
specific agreement, Mr Johnson's friends
believe he will carry into diplomacy the
motto of his Senate days “Let us
reason together.”
But for the moment he has decided
not to meet Mr Khrushchev or to make
a tour of Europe until he can win re-
election.
Towards Europe he is expected to be
both more relaxed and more active than
Mr Kennedy. He may provoke fewer
arguments. But he is expected to push
firmly for progress on the multilateral
force, and for successful negotiations on
tariff reduction which will be near
the surface of the President’s mind be-
cause of the potential impact of agri-
cultural negotiations on food prices and
farm income.
His tactics with General de Gaulle
will be to try to "box him off"’ to leave
him alone while trying to give him every
incentive to sit down and talk business.
There is no sign of any disposition to
help France achieve nuclear independ-
ence, or to interfere in a domestic Brit-
ish political argument about nuclear in-
dependence.
Mr Johnson is concerned about im-
proving the balance of payments, but
he is unlikely to upset the apple-cart by
ordering significant cuts in US forces
overseas.
One strand he is expected to cling to
is the US relationship with Germany.
With German goodwill he is expected
to tell Dr Erhard that negotiations can
be worked out and any opportunities
to talk to the Russians taken up; without
goodwill Mr Johnson’s advisers are
telling him trade and diplomacy and
the basic strength of the Western alli-
ance will all run into trouble.
Almost as important in Mr Johnson’s
mind as European problems will be those
of US policy in Latin America. At least
until the election he is unlikely to disturb
the uneasy status quo on Cuba. But all
over Latin America the Administration is
likely to face new situations requiring
dangerous decisions.
These new situations will test both
the character of the Johnson Administra-
tion’s foreign policy and the man’s in-
ternational stature.
In Africa, at the United Nations, in
the struggle to preserve the foreign aid
programme, Mr Johnson has already
made it clear that he will continue the
Kennedy policies. But how will he react
where there are no guidelines to follow?
Part of the answer will lie in his use
of his advisers. The key man is Dean
Rusk. Mr Johnson likes him. They have
much in common. Both are Southerners
of the same age, and have deserted the
strangling traditions of the South without
entirely losing its style of thought and
personal relations: both are quiet liberals.
Mr Rusk has a great opportunity.
But does he want to use it? He doesn’t
have the thrust and certainty of Mr
McNamara at the Pentagon, which has
to have a foreign policy of its own in a
nuclear age, and which provided Mr
Rusk with his biggest crises of the last
three years.
Another key relationship will be with
Mr George Bundy, on whom Mr John-
son has relied and not been disappointed,
but who is expected to be kept on a far
tighter rein as far as his personal inter-
ventions into foreign policy are con-
cerned. Third will be Mr Johnson’s close
friend Dean Acheson, who has already
had several earnest talks with the Presi-
dent. Mr Acheson is as sceptical as he is
subtle, and he stands for the tie with
Germany and against any running after
agreement with the Russians.
These influences will be present. But
those who know President Johnson do
not suppose that Mr Acheson or anyone
else will dominate him, still less that
anyone will be allowed much licence for
private diplomatic initiative.
As far as one can tell so early, Mr
Johnson's foreign policy will be Mr
Johnson himself. He will rely less on
theoretical lines of policy than on his
own ability to judge.
He will be tough, patient, cunning,
fair, and unburdened with prejudices
that’s the kind of man he is. The ques-
tions are whether he will have the
sensibility to see how US policy looks
to other people, or the flair to grasp
changing situations. If he has those, his
friends might say “Who needs a policy?”
(OFNS.)


MR. HARP
A SHORT STORY BY PAT FLOWER
jyjRS. HENDERSON went into the kitchen. She felt dreary. She
looked ghastly. A bad cold does things to the nose and eyes and
hair, as well as to the spirit. She felt mean with sniffles. And it was
Rosetta's day off. And the butcher boy was late. Almost one o’clock.
Really, it was too bad. Supposing she’d wanted the meat for lunch? For
a patio party or something? Just the thought of all that gaiety made her
feel worse.
Should she make a pot of tea? Coffee? An egg-nog? She sat
down at the table to think it out.
The back doorbell pealed: a sudden
shrill paralysis along all her nerves. The
boy with the meat, late. But thank good-
ness, the last of the tradespeople for
today. At least she no longer had to see
and listen to Mr Harp now that she had
the meat delivered. What a brilliant,
simple notion that had been.
It was shameful to be so at the mercy
of a butcher, but where else could she
go? He was masterly about meat, he
kept good cuts for her, it would take
ages to build up that delicate under-
standing with another butcher. Besides,
he’d start a whispering campaign about
her if she forsook him. ‘That poor Mrs
’enderson . . . broken home . . . ’er poor
’usband . . .’ She could hear it all. She’d
endured his person and his vagaries for
ten years. Yet each shopping expedition
was worse than the last as she tensed
herself for his idiot opinions, his fey
harangues, awful and flawful. His views
remained fixedly pixilated, his only con-
cession to progress and clear thinking
the addition (non sequitur ) of new words
such as fluoridate or confrontation. She’d
even thought, at one stage, of selling
their house, moving the children to dif-
ferent schools and universities; even,
once, of leaving the country. Then just
in time, just before astounding her hus-
band with a plan which would have
aligned him with Mr Harp against her,
she’d conceived this beautifully neat solu-
tion of having the meat delivered. The
relief never lost its poignancy; each piece
of meat brought a new sense of freedom.
She opened the door.
It was Mr Harp himself, Harp the
Better Butcher, wearing a stained, veal-
colored felt hat and carrying a white
paper parcel tucked under his arm like
a roll of blankets. Tucked very close
among his shirtsleeves. Deodorants? Mr
Harp would never approve of such scien-
tific, new-fangled things. Feeling faint,
she held out her hands for the parcel.
“Thank you, Mr Harp.”
He affected not to notice. “So this
is where you hang out? Nice little place
you’ve got ’ere bit damp for my
liking.”
“It’s not damp.”
“Matter of opinion, ’aving a bit of an
off day, are we? It’s some time since I
seen you, Mrs H, and you don’t look
so good to me.” He rolled his washed-
out blue eyes in mournful sympathy,
showing the bloodshot whites.
“Just a cold, that’s all.”
“Bin sick, ’ave you?” he said with his
relish for disaster.
“Oh, just a touch ...” She looked at
the parcel, still firmly in place.
“My boy’s ’ad it too.” His pale eyes
flickered round the kitchen as if looking
for something. Microbes? Cobwebs? “My
boy Charlie.”
“I’m sorry your son’s ill . . . ”
“Not the son. Charlie, me boy oo does
the deliveries. That’s why you see me
’ere, Mrs H,” as though the apparition
were something to be prized. “At least,
that’s what ’is Mum says he’s got. Still,
it’s going about.”
“Is he very ill?” Mrs Henderson man-
aged to get one hand on the door frame
to support herself; Mr Harp had the
rest of the doorway. She was too close
to the fleshy body whose only blood
seemed congealed in the whites of his
eyes (she no longer ordered veal), to the
putty-colored hands with their big brown
spots on the backs.
“On’y this Asian ’flu, same as you.”
“Oh, I haven’t had Asian ’flu, Mr
Harp.” There! Why did she have to
counter the man? Why couldn’t she just
let it be Asian flu and be done with it?
What a time to arrive, anyway: one
o’clock. Just when she was about to have
her snack and then lie down for an hour
or so, then a shower and then ... it
tailed off into an absurd dream as Mr
Harp settled himself more comfortably
against the door-jamb, cosily tucked up
the parcel of meat and prepared to
diagnose.
“It’s all the same, Mrs Henderson.
Call a thing by different names it’s all the
same. Why don’t they keep it where it
belongs? Tell me that. And ’ow’s your
good man?”
She gritted her teeth. “Which one?”
Mr Harp laughed heartily, a chilling
thing to watch, noiseless and inanimate:
with just the suggestion in it of the
honing of long knives. “Mr Henderson
would appreciate your little joke.”
Mrs Henderson steeled herself. She
was on her own ground and ought to
have the advantage, just as he had it in
his sea of sawdust. She could feel a
sweat creeping over her body, a sort of
joint attack by her weakness, her age
and her rage. (No, she mustn’t think of
joints.)
“You’d better be on your way, Mr
Harp, hadn’t you? You’re very late and
I expect you’ve got other deliveries.”
“AH right, all right.” He seemed to
feel for his absent cleaver with his free
hand. “It’s a pretty poor state of affairs
if we can’t ’ave a bit of a natter now
and then. Too much rush, that’s the
trouble in the world these days. That’s
’ow you get run down and pick these
germs up. Take me, now. I got nothink
wrong with me.” He brooded for a
moment over her left shoulder.
Mrs Henderson held out her hands
again for the meat. She smiled at great
cost.
“Yes, it’s going about a lot,” he said,
ignoring her. “It’s all these injections
they’re ’aving, that’s what does it. Costs
me a bit, having Charlie off. Not that
’e’s very bright. Like all the teenagers
these days, think they know everythink.
You ’ad a fire ’ere?”
Startled, Mrs Henderson looked about.
“No. Why?”
“Heard there was a fire up this way.”
He made her nice select suburb sound
like the never-never. “Probably just one
o’ them rumors gets about. I said to the


wife on’y the other night . . . don’t you
feel well, Mrs ’enderson?”
“I think perhaps I’ll just take the . .. ”
“Well, you don’t want to go standing
about in draughty doorways, not in your
condition. You don’t look too good. I’ll
bring it in for you, no need for you to
bother.”
She fell back before his advance. He
looked around the kitchen with a super-
cilious smile for the gleaming white labor-
saving equipment.
“You can put it there,” Mrs Hender-
son said, pointing to a bench. The parcel
was still tucked under his arm, like a
sausage dog or ... a sausage dog .. .
heavens . . . did he ... ?
T)ortentously he placed the parcel on
the bench. Resting one hand upon it,
he said: “Now you don't want to keep it
in the fridge too long now you've got it
’ome.” He fixed her with a distrustful
look. “You won’t freeze it all up again
now it’s been orf, will you? That’s what’s
wrong with meat today: freeze, freeze,
freeze, ’eard a man on telly the other
night talking about it. I could ’ave told
’em that for nothing but they wouldn’t
arst me. Ho, no, they rather ’ave a bloke
’o doesn't even need the money. One o’
them diet cranks.”
Mrs Henderson, watching the parcel,
said: “How could you know he doesn’t
need the money?” As if she cared.
“Well, ’e wouldn’t be on the telly if
’e did, now would ’e? ’e’d be working at
’is job.” Triumphant and startling logic:
unanswerable.
But she felt obstinate. “He may be
an expert.”
“Expert! The world’s full of experts
and look what they done to it. ’ydrogen
bombs and all them foreigners. And now
France. Them and their experts. I tell
you, Mrs ’enderson, I wouldn’t spit on
’em. Nothing but germs going about
everywhere. The whole world’s recum-
bent with ’em.”
Mrs Henderson sat down. Sort of gave
way.
“You don’t want to go standing around
too much, not when you’re off color like
you are. Look at you. Come all over
white, you ’ave. Yes, experts,” he added
ruminatively, “they go their own sweet
ways and be buggered to us, if you’ll
forgive the language, Mrs Henderson.
They wouldn‘t give you a fairy off last
year’s Christmas tree. Advice, yes, plenty
o’ that. They ain’t human. They ask no
quarter and they give no quarter so it’s
no good expecting it. Get on with ’er
all right?” he asked with an expert
change of subject, nodding towards her
neighbor, Mrs Gray.
“Yes, thank you.”
The Harp eyebrows lifted in sardonic
disbelief. “There’s a lady, I'd say, who
never knows ’er mind from one minute
to the next.”
Mrs Henderson remained circum-
spectly silent, praying for it soon to come
to an end. She had no strength of char-
acter. She was worse off, more at his
mercy, here in her own house than in
his shop where at least other customers
came in and out, and from which she
could run out into the street.
“Know what? She rang three times
yesterd’y, three times, shop full o’ cus-
tomers, changing ’er mind every time.
Didn't think she’d ’ave the pork,” he
did a grotesque mimicry of Mrs Gray,
“thought she’d ’ave the silverside, then
thought she’d ’ave the beef. Look, Mrs
Gray, I said, I can’t wait around for
you all day. And she says, Ho.”
This seemed unlikely to Mrs Hender-
son. “Ho" was not a thing Mrs Gray
said, ever. But never mind. She supposed
he told these awful lies about her, too.
“Got a pumped leg for ’er down the
street. You know?” Mrs Henderson
didn’t but wasn’t going to say. “All the
goodness pumped out of it. You’d think
with ’er money she’d ’ave a bit more
taste. Still, taste don’t go with money,
we know that. They’re all the same, you
tell ’em and they won’t listen. Nothing
like that about you, Mrs H.” He smiled
at her, brooding benevolence over her.
“Bears no resembullance to meat.
Wouldn’t do it to a dog.”
IV/I RS Henderson crept to her feet, hop-
ing he wouldn’t notice. Swiftly she
began to unwrap the paper on the meat.
Mr Harp was at her side immediately.
“Lovely bit in there. You need that fat,
I say you need that fat, gets too dry
otherwise.”
Mrs Henderson stopped halfway. It
seemed too intimate a thing to do, to
unwrap this man’s meat all alone with
him in her kitchen. Was she mad?
“What’s up? Aren’t you going to ’ave
a look at it?” She could feel his horrible
eyes upon her. “We are ’aving a bad
day, aren’t we?”
Mrs Henderson went to the refrigerator
and opened the door, just for something
to do, just to get away from him, pre-
tending she was assessing her provisions.
“What’s that rubbish?” he asked over
her shoulder.
Could he mean the ham? Or was it the
leftover pilaf? Probably the chicken
liverwurst.
“You never want to eat them made-up
things, Mrs H. You don’t know what’s
gone into them.”
She shut the door, ducked away and
went back to the table. He turned and
looked at her. He hadn’t removed his
hat, for which she was grateful. Nasty as
it was, it was preferable to his scant pale
greasy hair combed piece by piece over
his pale bald pate. She sat down. If only
she were wearing something different
she’d feel more on top of things. This old
number she’d meant to put with the stuff
for the collector, and hadn’t, and had
seized this morning because it fitted so
exactly her sniffling mood. Made her
feel a sort of under-dog, a verbal fen-
cing under-dog. Dreadfully shallow it
was, to be so influenced by a dress. . . .
“Mr Henderson did very nicely for
’imself.”
Oh dear, more gossip. “Did he?” Her
evasive glance flickered across his face
and was brought back and trapped by his
admiring leer. Dear heaven, he meant
her husband, her Mr Henderson; he
meant her. Herself. Her. Oh, dear Lord!
Odiously ogling, that’s what he was doing.
“Yes. Very nicely. Consulting engineer,
isn’t it? I come across some reference to
im the other day in the newspapers,
wrapping up. Must be money in it. Nice
’ome, and the kiddies being educated
nice. ’Course, you don’t get as close to
things as you do with meat. Still, that
ain’t ’is fault, is it?”
Oh, thank heaven, it wasn’t her after
all.
“Yes,” he said judiciously, “that color
suits you. Mind you, you’re looking a
bit washed-out just now, understandable
with this Asian ’flu you’ve been
’aving. ...”
Oh, it was. He did mean her. A greasy
beautician, he was studying her face and
skin and hair as though about to leap
upon her with pomades and lotions and
... or animal fats. Boil her down, per-
haps. She giggled weakly.
Mr Harp studied her with compassion.
“Takes it out of you. Weakening. Why
don’t they keep it where it
They’re all the same, these Wops.”
/\h, no! Not Mr Harp’s chauvinism! Not
his muddled and muddied views on
international affairs and the world’s
peoples! Full of indiscriminate hatred
for all foreigners, he confused and
damned them all together with the first
epithet that came into his narrow head:
Pommies, Frogs, Yids, Yanks, Niggers,
Dagoes, Tykes, Reds, Chinks, Nips, Yel-
low Devils most often just simply
Wops. Everyone, indeed, who made the
mistake of living beyond a radius of
about half a mile from his shop came
under his contemptuous fire. Fire? Ice?
Icy fire? Frice? He burned with a blood-
less white ignorant anger among the
blood of beasts spattered in the sawdust
of his shop. Mrs Henderson felt close
to swooning.
“Oh, well,” he said, “I can’t stand
about ’ere all day talking to you, can I?”
Careful now, Mrs Henderson told her-
self. You’ll have him here all afternoon
if you do or say the wrong thing. As
obstinate as his beasts, he'll stay on pur-


pose if you show relief or joy or even a
mild interest. She remained impassive.
He said: “I could sit down if somebody
arst me,” and laughed his silent laugh.
Mrs Henderson continued her silence.
“Oh, you mustn’t take offence at my
teasing, Mrs H. I am a bit of a tease,
they all says so. The wife said only the
other night, Stop your teasing, Bert, she
said, when I said I was of the stuff of
dictators.”
Mrs Henderson smiled politely, dying
to spring up and rush from the kitchen
but fearing year-long recriminations. So
his name was Bert. H. Harp. Herbert
Harp. Harp, the Better Butcher. “It’s a
Pleasure to Serve the Best.”
“It was one o’ them telly programmes
about de Gaulle and all that rubbish.
France!” He sneered. He seemed to have
it in for France today, France especially.
“Showed one o’ them dirty great big
palaces, if you’ll pardon the language, as
big as Anthony Hordern’s.”
“Versailles?”
“Eh?”
“I said, was it the Palace of Ver-
sailles?”
“No.” He shook his head in positive
negative. “No, that’s not it. But if you
didn’t see the programme you wouldn’t
know, would you? All very fancy, it
was.” He stretched, and Mrs Henderson
averted her eyes. “Oh, well, I’d better
be going, I suppose.”
He moved over to the door. Slowly.
There he turned, “’ow you going to do
it?”
She thought rapidly. Some way he’d
approve. “The meat, you mean?”
“Course 1 mean the meat.” He
chuckled.
“Roast, 1 think.”
“Ah, that’s the way, Mrs ’enderson.
Can’t beat a nice roast. An’ don’t overdo
it whatever you do. Better to ‘ave a bit
of blood than all that burnt-up stuff.
People cook all the goodness out o’ their
meat these days. What with the freezing
and the cooking there’s no meat left,
not what you’d call meat. Mrs Browning
over in Smith Street is a lady oo knows
’ow to cook a nice bit o’ meat. Know
’er?”
Mrs Henderson shook her head.
“Nice woman. Many’s the recipes
we’ve swapped. On’y they all boil down
to the same thing: keep the juices. That’s
where the goodness is, in the juices. She
was telling me the other day about that
there old Miss Swainton. Fell down, she
did. Just old age ...”
“Mr Harp. ...”
“She’d fall heavy, too. She’s a big
woman, that.”
“Mr Harp.” Mrs Henderson stood up.
There was a panicky purpose in her
movement.
Mr Harp was staring out into the back
garden, ruminating. “She’d cut up into
about a hundred and twelve pounds, I
reckon.” He turned to explain: “O’
course, that would be good solid meat,
she’d be more with the bits and pieces.”
“Mr Harp, I don’t feel very well. . . ”
“Course you don’t. I seen that, ’ow
could you with Asian ’flu? You ought to
be in bed.”
“I’m going to lie down for a while,
so if you don’t mind. ...”
“/ don’t mind. I’ve bin telling you,
’ven’t I? If it takes it out o’ young
Charlie it’s bound to take it out o’ you.
What I mean is, after you reach a cer-
tain age ...”
“Mr Harp,” Mrs Henderson said with
real anger, “I don’t care to discuss it
any more. I haven’t had Asian ’flu al-
though you keep on stupidly persisting
in saying I have. Just a slight cold, that’s
all. And the germs are at their most
active, so I expect you’ll get it now, too.”
“Hoity-toity, eh? There’s no call to
take on, Mrs Henderson, no call at all.
I just called in ’ere to deliver your
meat, I needn’t ’ave, with me boy away
and everythink, just out of the goodness
of me ’eart ...”
“You’re an old gossip, Mr Harp, that’s
what I think of you. And you needn’t
expect any more orders.”
“Oh, so it’s to be war, is it? An’ where
you going to get your meat, then, eh?
That fancy butcher’s up the street, I
suppose? All done up in cellophane so
you can’t see what it’s like. You’ll like
that, won’t you? The people oo go there
deserve all they get. Just bone and gristle.
And it’s not fresh, neither.”
TTe stood belligerently in the middle of
the doorway, his fat sloping shoulders
hunched dangerously, gorilla-like, and his
pale eyes furtive and menacing. Eyes
which had watched unmoved the last
desperate struggles of animals. Ears, hori-
zontally protruding from beneath the
hat, which had heard the last faint whis-
pers from strangled throats.
“I’ve decided to be vegetarian,” Mrs
Henderson said with cool hauteur (fail-
ing haute couture). She walked towards
him fearlessly. She expected blustering
anger and was prepared to cope with it.
She got derision.
Mr Harp laughed his silent laugh till
his shirt and trousers shook with him.
After this bout of amusement he calmed
down a bit and said: “Your good man’s
not going to like that, then, is ’e? Oho,
dear, no, Mr ’enderson likes ’is bit of
meat, told me over an’ over ’e ’as, my
meat’s the best you can get anywhere.
An’ that’s a fact, Mrs H. An’ you know
it. So ’ow you going to explain to Mr
’enderson, now, eh?”
“There’s nothing wrong with your
meat, Mr Harp. It’s what one has to
go through to get it that’s such a trial.”
“What d’you mean by that? Never
kept you waiting, ’ave I? No queues in
my shop. Swift silent efficient service,
that’s what you get and always ’ave got.
And you know it, Mrs Henderson, ’ere
now.”
He moved (it was impossible to think
of Mr Harp as walking) over to the bench
where the parcel lay.
“Leave that alone,” Mrs Henderson
snapped. “Thank you for bringing it
and good afternoon.”
TTe gave her a very nasty look up from
under his hat. “It’s mine, I think;
you’ll agree, Mrs Henderson. You ’aven’t
paid for it yet, ’ave you?”
“I’ll pay your monthly account when
you send it in.”
“Oh, yes, I’m sure. Money no object.
But that’s just what I’m saying, isn’t it?
You aven’t paid for it yet, so, legally
and judicially, it’s still mine. It’s the same
sort o’ thing as these ’ere frontier dis-
putes. Oo owns it, that’s the point.”
“Very well, I'll pay you now.” Mrs
Henderson went to a drawer where she
kept cash handy for sundry tradesmen
who had no faith in human nature. “How
much is it?”
Mr Harp turned the parcel over. “I
don’t seem to ’ave marked it. P’r’aps I
never. It might be inside though. Now
look, Mrs H, we’re good friends. Why,
you’ve bin dealing off me for years, ’ow
many is it now?” His eyes grew moist
and dreamy with the memory of all the
good years. “It must be, goodness, ’ow
old is your eldest?”
“It’s none of your business, Mr Harp.
We’re certainly not going into all that
again. Leave the parcel and go. Please.”
“I ’ope you’re not going to ’ave a turn.”
Deftly, as he spoke, he was unwrapping
the parcel. He snatched up a small piece
of bloody paper, “’ere we are. It looks
like 79/6 but that can’t be right.”
“I don’t see why not, the way you
overcharge.”
A dull flush the color of ox blood
crept all over Mr Harp’s face and neck.
Mrs Henderson could have bitten her
tongue out, angry though she was. This
was the unforgivable thing to say to Mr
Harp. She didn't mind that so much, but
she did dread the tearful acrimony which
was bound to follow.
“Mrs ’enderson.” He seemed unable to
say more. His head was bent and he was
staring at the floor. Was he really so hurt?
But how could you hurt such a . . . mule
of a man. Standing there with his right
hand pressed flat on the exposed meat.
“I’m sorry, Mr Harp, that was unfair
and untrue. You don’t overcharge. I
was angry. And your meat is excellent.


But really and truly I’m going to give
it up. My doctor says ...”
“Come now, Mrs H, you don’t want
to take no notice of them fellers. I’m the
best doctor you ever ’ad. Now, come,
aren’t I?” He looked all cosy and inti-
mate. “I’m prepared to forgive what you
said. I can bury the ’atchet the same as
the next man. Cos I know you didn’t
really mean it. . . . ”
“What’s that?” Mrs Henderson said,
sharp as one of his knives. She’d come
over to the bench to try to wrest the
meat from his grasp. She stared down
at it. Mr Harp followed her gaze.
“Now ’ow did that ’appen? That’s Mrs
Carruthers’ pumped leg. What a funny
thing. I musta got yours mixed up. I’m
real sorry about that, Mrs ’enderson,
it’s ’aving me boy Charlie orf . . . but
don’t you worry, I’ll just get along with
the rest of what I’ve got an’ I’ll ’ave
your order back in ’alf a jiffy, won’t take
a mo, just two shakes. ...”
“No, Mr Harp. I’ll go down and get it.
Thanks all the same. I think a little fresh
air will do me good.”
“You don’t get no fresh air in that
car. What you want’s a nice walk.”
“Yes. Thank you. I might do that. I’ll
go now.”
“Wouldn't like a lift with me, would
you? I’ve only got a few more to do.
Be a bit of a change for you.”
“No, thank you.”
He shrugged. “Just as you say. And
what’s it to be on Thursday? Rump?
Fillet? I can get you a lovely rump.”
“Rump, I think, Mr Harp. We always
like a grill on Thursday for some reason.
But I’ll call for it. It’s just sheer laziness
having everything delivered. I must get
out and about more.”
“Nothink like it. Why don’t you get
a new little dog? Take ’im for walks?
That old thing you got out there don’t
walk anywhere, does ’e?”
“No. Yes. Sometimes. I’m going to
get ready now, Mr Harp. Good after-
noon.”
“Good afternoon, Mrs ’enderson. Nice
little chat we’ve ’ad. Breaks up the day a
bit, don’t it?” He was actually beyond
the door now.
“Yes, it does. Goodbye for now.”
Mrs Henderson shut the door, cau-
tiously slid the bolt into place, walked
silently back to the chair at the table
and sat down.
A cup of tea? Coffee? Egg-nog?
Brandy? .
Brandy. She stood up, unzipped the
dress, stepped out of it and kicked it
aside with some force. Once she had
thought its color burgundy, but now it
was the revolting color of the bver sold
by Harp the Better Butcher.


Around Melbourne
WHAT MAKES PANSY GROWL
HPhe University of Melbourne has no
great reputation as a producer
of firebrands. Some of the students
might become bold enough to let
down the tyres of the Premier’s car,
to carry placards against hanging, or
picket apartheidist cricketers. They
are a minority. The rest, caught in
the rat-race for careers, have no time
or spirit for it.
The soul of Melbourne is so
shocked at the thought of a student
clenching a fist or knocking a copper’s
cap off that the student bodies have
obliged by becoming as mild as choco-
milk. Neither is there any bawdiness;
Rabelais, too, is dead. As a result,
the public looks on students without
fear, dislike or admiration.
The University Council deprives
the University of the faintest radical
color. The University depends
pathetically on Government money
and on aid from the big people who
kick in so generously to appeals for
cash. The teaching staff are harassed
by over-crowding, and pressed by the
need to publish the books and learned
articles on which their careers depend.
Much time goes into dreaming of the
next sabbatical, and into wondering
how to wangle another travel grant
from Rockefeller or Guggenheim.
To most of the public the pro-
fessors appear as voices or faces
voices on radio and telly, pontificating
on this and that, in commentaries
which begin at A, circle to B, and
gently return to A. They know well
that if any offence is caused in high
quarters, their hash is cooked. A
personal call from a Prime Minister
to the ABC, everyone of them knows,
once put a professor off the Nationals
for good. It’s as electric as the impact
of two wet gowns flicked tiredly to-
gether.
We find it heartening, then, that in
the conventionality and banality of
Melbourne University, at least one
turbulent spirit does survive. It’s
within the glowering head and chunky
body of Roy Douglas Wright, called
Pansy Wright, Professor of Physi-
ology since 1938. As everyone in
Australia knows now, he has been the
closest person to ex-Professor Sydney
Sparkes Orr in the Scandale D’Orr,
now ended after nearly eight inter-
mittently interesting years.
Although many people had a hand
in the Orr business, it is Pansy Wright
who has done most to keep the fight
alive, and to provide or raise money
for the offended philosopher. Pansy’s
office in the Physiology Building at
the north-east corner of the University
has been the national fighting HQ.
Roy Douglas Wright, 56, was born
in Tasmania, one of the intellectual
apples of the isle. He began his
academic career in medicine, surgery
and science at the University of Tas-
mania, that well-publicised academy.
He is two years younger than his
brother, Liberal Senator Reg Wright,
who did his law at the same Uni-
versity, and who is now widely re-
garded as a member of the Hobart
Establishment which Roy hates with
all or most of his guts.
VI/hen he came on to Melbourne,
” Roy was the sort of student who
corrects mistakes in the text books.
In 1934 he became Senior Lecturer
in Pathology. He went overseas for
research with Florey at Oxford. In
1938 he became Melbourne’s Pro-
fessor of Physiology in succession to
Professor W. A. Osborne. He was
only 31. His seniors, on his appoint-
ment, all said much the same of him:
“He is clever: and he thinks.”
In appearance he is dark and
chunky. In a bon mot since oft-
quoted, a Melbourne journalist once
described him as resembling both a
caveman and a genius. Another
journalist, a woman, wrote of him
that he has as much use for charm
as a bear has for perfume. His nick-
name, he says, comes from his home-
liness. The suggestion is that Pansy,
given as Panzee, comes from chimpan-
zee rather than the flower. It is part
of his rugged attitude to life that he
shows no open sensitivity to this sort
of badinage unless in fact it is,
beneath everything, one of the reasons
for his own particular combination
of surliness and humanism.
What makes Pansy growl? Primar-
ily, he is for the individual, rebel-
liously so, even absurdly so. He
decided that Orr was innocent and a
victim of the Hobart Establishment’s
Machiavellian puritanism an in-
teresting combination. He had the
additional interest that the locale of
the fracas was in Hobart, and that the
would-be gentry of the capital were
the villains. And since the battle
began he has never let up.
Looking for highlights, so far as
public drama is concerned, one might
choose his appearance in Hobart
Police Court when Henry Robertson,
29, hire-purchase repossessor and
wrestler, was acquitted on a charge
of having attempted to murder Orr
by firing a rifle through a window
at Orr’s home at Sandy Bay. Pansy
told the court he had held his hand
against a 300 deg. hotplate to gather
evidence to refute the defence sugges-
tion that the shooting story was a
hoax, and Orr’s wound self-inflicted.
We remember, too, the night when
’‘Meet the Press” panel was pressing
Orr for comment on a document
allegedly showing that he had a false
claim in his qualifications. Pansy
Wright advanced angrily from the
background of the studio and took
the panel on. He shepherded his
charge like a father.
When the £16,000 make - peace
offer came up, Pansy was against
acceptance, although it could mean
that he might get some of his money
back. He has now been overwhelmed
by the general spirit of let’s forget.
What now? We can predict, for
one thing, that he’ll soon be getting
savage with officialdom or establish-
mentarianism on some other issue,
from safety belts to blood tests and
beyond. For another, we can pre-
dict that if he ever reads this and
catches up with Higinbotham, he’ll
spit in his eye.
HIGINBOTHAM


letters
to the
editor
INDIA
Sir,
Mr Peter Coleman’s article on India
(16/11/63) was a great disappointment
for those who know India more thor-
oughly. It seemed that Mr Coleman has
tried to base some of his judgments on
the few instances and on some irres-
ponsible statements, though made by
responsible persons, which he could
gather during his short and hectic tour
to India.
True it is that Mr Nehru has been
criticised by his colleagues in the Cabinet
as well as by his Opposition fellows, but
it does not mean that what Mr Coleman
calls the “magic of Nehru” has gone.
In fact, it was his magic which sustained
the unity of the country and maintained
the continuity of the Government, at the
time of national crisis of such magnitude
when the security of the country was in
danger and for which he was respon-
sible as the Prime Minister. Had there
been any other Prime Minister he would
have been overthrown.
Further, Mr Coleman’s judgment on
the importance of caste in the social and
political system of the country rather
seemed to me lacking the basis of deeper
insight, though on superficial ground his
remarks are correct. 1 myself being a
member of the staff of a centrally-
administered university and member of
the Arts faculty, never heard of any
Government circular in which examiners
were asked to lower the percentage of
“pass marks” for the Scheduled Castes.
True it is that in case of admission to
schools and colleges some preferences
have been given to them. But this has
been done just because the Government
wants to provide them with the oppor-
tunities to come up to the level of other
advanced sections of the community.
Further, Mr Coleman confined his ob-
servation on caste only to Bombay and
Madras where, unfortunately, Brahmins
and non-Brahmins feelings are very
strong.
Mr Coleman’s ready acceptance of the
view that no Muslim can get ahead in the
Indian Army again shows the lack of
proper scrutiny and neglect of the history
of the Indian Army. Late Brigadier Us-
man, who was killed on the front of
Kashmir, was not a Hindu.
Mr Coleman’s remarks on the Press
are most injudicious. I am constrained to
say that he met only those editors of
newspapers who take pleasure in making
everything sensational, even their per-
sonal remarks.
R. H. SHARAN, MA
Sydney (NSW).
SCIENTOLOGY
Sir,
I protest against the somewhat emo-
tional reporting in your article, “The
Scientologists” (7/12/63).
Apparently your Melbourne corres-
pondent thinks someone is fleecing the
public and dabbling in an aspect of life
best left to the psychiatrist, with his
unenviable “cure” percentages. Any
science has its host of self-invented
terms. Scientology is no exception. Any
person may toss mud and deride some-
thing outside his sphere of understand-
ing. The motivation is usually fear.
Perhaps Mr Galbally will be willing
to present his evidence of intimidation
and blackmail at the forthcoming en-
quiry. Certainly the scientologists wel-
come the enquiry.
L. J. JOHNSON
Sydney (NSW).
COMMUNISTS IN INDONESIA
Sir,
Professor Legge’s generally misleading
article on Indonesia (14/12/63) con-
tains a passage which seems to underline
more than any other the inadequacy of
his approach . . . “The last few years
have seen the establishment of a delicate
balance of forces the President and
the Army forming the principal axis of
power but the parties, particularly the
Communist Party, able still ( sic) to make
their presence felt.”
The following are factors in the situa-
tion ignored or avoided by Professor
Legge: Indonesia displays all the classical
features of pre-bolshevism; an utterly
corrupt and incompetent ruling class,
growing economic misery and disorgani-
sation, failure to cope with agrarian prob-
lems, an impoverished peasantry, a mas-
sive, growing and very ably led
Communist Party, and Soviet military
presence. Since the writ of the Govern-
ment does not run in many areas and
does not extend very much into the
countryside, the Communist Party has
managed to develop the most impressive
system of peasant organisations in Asia.
It simply fills the gap left by a corrupt
Government, extending its activities to
such things as technical help and instruc-
tions in fertilising and other technolo-
gies to peasants.
In these circumstances it is illusory to
counterpoise the Army and the peas-
antry. The Army consists of peasants
and in a show-down it will not fight
what it perceives to be the movement
of bread and hope.
A precondition for Indonesian Com-
munism is the existence of a competent,
firm and genuinely progressive Govern-
ment in Djakarta: in other words the
disappearance of Soekarno and his
clique. Until such a time a policy of
utmost military vigilance towards Indo-
nesia, combined with firm resistance to
any further “territorial demands” seems
the only rational policy consistent with
our political interests and military se-
curity.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne (Vic.).
BIB STILLWELL
Sir,
Discus, in his timely plea (2/11/63)
for public and newspaper recognition of
motor racing in Australia as a sport, not
a spectacle, must have misread that
“buried” paragraph about “Bib Stil-
well's run at Mullala, which clinched
the drivers’ championship for him”.
Bib Stillwell, champion road racing
driver and prominent Melbourne busi-
nessman, clinched his second national
title at Mallala, South Australia, in
October.
Bel rose (NS W).
MIKE KABLE
LONG, LOW VEHICLES
Sir,
Like Mr H. R. MacFa r 1 a n d
(14/12/63) I find “Boadicea’s” extolling
of the virtues of the latest Holdens to be
rather too lulsome. My comment relates
not to mechanical matters but to design.
The American trend to long, low vehicles
has been slavishly followed by General
Motors in the design of its models re-
leased in 1962 and 1963, and also, of
course, by the manufacturers of other
six-cylinder compact cars such as the
Ford Falcon and the Chrysler Valiant.
The result is that any person over six
feet tall cannot sit in such cars with any
degree of comfort, and any person over
six feet two inches will find that his head
is flush with the roof. This is a matter
not merely of discomfort, but obviously
of actual danger through diminished
driving efficiency and reduced range of
vision. Ironically, statistics show that the
average height of Australian adult males
is steadily increasing whilst the height
of their motor vehicles is steadily
decreasing.
BRUCE H. BERRY
Sydney (NSW).
PROGRESSIVE TAXATION
Sir,
The hair-splitting of Mr John Carmody
(7/12/63), who is “no economist” and
not “particularly interested in the dis-
agreement on taxation”, seems to me
entirely irrelevant to the discussion. I
was quite innocent of any deliberate
attempt to misquote Jonathan Pincus
and I willingly restore the missing quotes
if that helps. If Mr Carmody had read
my letter more carefully he would have
seen that I was concerned with Roger
Randerson’s views rather than those of
Mr Pincus, who Mr Carmody wrongly
accuses me of “attempting to rebuke.”
E. P. MIDDLETON
Sydney (NSW).


REVIEWS
FILMS
Year of the Locust
But still some splendor in the grass
By CHARLES HIGHAM
TTirtually the only consolation to be
’ found in the English - speaking
cinema of the 1960 s is that it’s not as
terrible as it was a decade ago; yet look
back another decade and you can see
how far it’s fallen from a time when 30
good pictures a year was by no means
an impossibility. This has indeed been
the year of the locust in Hollywood and
Britain. In 1943, Wyler, Huston, Ford
were all at their peak; Capra had only
just passed his own (and would brilliantly
return to it a few years later with “The
World and His Wife”), and Lean, Zinne-
mann, and Carol Reed were beginning
to emerge. Today, Wyler’s talent has
collapsed, Huston just gets by with “The
List of Adrian Messenger”, Ford grows
more flabbily sentimental with every
passing year, Capra appears to be
finished, Zinnemann and Reed are mark-
ing time and only Lean, with the in-
tensely romantic “Lawrence of Arabia”,
retains a strikingly individual talent.
Of the newcomers John Franken-
heimer (“Birdman of Alcatraz”, “The
Manchurian Candidate”) alone has real
promise, and he has never matched his
one masterpiece, “All Fall Down”. This
year we have to content ourselves with
just two first-rate Hollywood produc-
tions, both by directors of the second
rank: Robert Aldrich's “Whatever Hap-
pened to Baby Jane?” and Elia Kazan's
“Splendor in the Grass”.
“Splendor in the Grass”, originally
-eleased in America in 1961, is set in
its script-writer William Inge's special
territory: small - town America. A
sensuous evocation of a youthful love
affair, the film moves with a supple and
dynamic rhythmic power, Ted McCord’s
color camerawork imparting a rich glow
to stifling provincial houses, school-
rooms, and the local dam whose rushing
waters become a symbol of the passion
of the lovers (Natalie Wood and Warren
Beatty). Several sequences remain
especially memorable: a madcap party
during which a frustrated girl runs
hysterically through the revellers; a
suicide in New York, shot in pale blues
and greys; the final sequences in the
country when the lovers meet again, he
married now and she, seeing that youth
has passed its golden zenith, quoting
Wordsworth's:
What though the radiance which was
once so bright
Be now for ever taken from my sight,
Though nothing can take back the
hour
Of splendor in the grass, of glory in
the flower . . .
A fter this masterpiece, the one other
success of the year, “Whatever Hap-
pened to Baby Jane?”, seems rather
shoddy, but its story of two warring
sisters, ex-movie queens (Bette Davis
and Joan Crawford), and its examination
of a decadent Los Angeles, entertain
richly. Aldrich and his veteran camera-
man Ernest Haller hugely enjoy them-
selves exploring the rotting falcon's lair
where the sisters live, slyly and wittily
observing their frantic quarrels. This
agreeable curio is at its most watchable
when Victor Buono, as a gross, effeminate
English accompanist, is on the scene,
mincing about and flattering his would-
be employer (Davis) or icily fixing the
price for his rather ambiguously stated
services at 100 dollars a week.
“Lawrence of Arabia” seemed to me
of interest chiefly as a series of aestheti-
cally pleasing if rather static shots of
the desert: the most elegant sand opera
ever staged. Two minor films gave
pleasure: Bryan Forbes’ “The L-Shaped
Room”, about young people in London
bed-sitters, truthfully observed, flawlessly
written; and “Hud”, handicapped by
pretentious writing (Irving Ravetch and
Harriet Frank) and direction (Martin
Ritt) but saved by Patricia Neal’s and
Brandon de Wilde’s performances as
flotsam of the Texas desert and some
pungent lines relieving the heavy
philosophising of the rest. A number of
films had individual points of interest:
the brilliantly shot and cut hunting
sequences in “Hatari”, some sharp
dialogue (by Edward Anhalt) in “Wives
and Lovers”, Harold Lipstein’s closeups
of Claire Bloom in “The Chapman
Report”, Keir Dullea’s performance as
a neurotic in “David and Lisa”, several
delicate color compositions in the early
footage of “In the Cool of the Day”. I
should also like to mention Ronald
Neame’s reverent direction of a Judy
Garland vehicle, “I Could Go On Sing-
ing”, in particular one magnificently
handled long take, Arthur Ibbetson’s
camera dollying closer and closer as the
star sings Kurt Weill's “It Never Was
You”, then swinging round at the end
to hold her in profile in an unforgettable
glimpse of star quality. I also liked
Blake Edwards’ direction of “Days of
Wine And Roses” (a welcome return by
Warner’s to the craftsmanship of their
earlier black-and-white films); Lewis
Milestone's wholeheartedly romantic
response to Tahiti in the South Seas
sequences of “Mutiny on the Bounty”;
the recreation of Boxer court and
city barricades in “Fifty-Five Days at
Peking”; Antony’s lone confrontation
of Octavian’s legions in “Cleopatra”;
Marilyn Monroe’s make-up tests in
“Marilyn”; and Angela Lansbury’s per-
formance in the Capraesque “Man-
churian Candidate”.
Finally, some films I did not enjoy;
“Billy Budd”, “Critic’s Choice”, “To
Kill a Mockingbird”, and “The Birds”,
Hitchcock’s cynical play on that un-
nervingly cheerful behest from our
schooldays, “Watch the birdie . .
Continentals
A reviewer looking back over the
year’s foreign films is supposed to
discern a “trend.” But since we in Aus-
tralia see some of them years after their
original release, others almost at once,
how can we judge their development?
In Australia, 1963 wasn’t a vintage year
for foreign films (which means almost
exclusively Western European films. The
flourishing film industries of the Eastern
countries were hardly represented). But
though quantity was more noticeable
than quality, the year did bring some
first-class films.
Michael Cacoyannis’ “Electra” was
one of the most impressive films of any
year, a splendid cinematic treatment of
the classical tragedy and a striking con-
trast to Jules Dassin’s “Phaedra” (shown
here at almost the same time) which
reduced a great tragedy to a trivial and
not even amusing melodrama.
Two fine, strongly contrasted films
came from France. Serge Bourguignon’s
“Sundays And Cybele” was a poetic
tragedy of a man destroyed by a society
with which he has lost touch. Cayatte's


“Tomorrow Is My Turn” was a full-
throated hymn to human liberty.
Pietro Germi’s outrageously funny
“Divorce, Italian Style” was a deft, so-
phisticated essay in comedy, with implied
comment on a society that shuns divorce
but is ready to condone murder for
reasons of “honor.”
The apparent ambiguity and discur-
siveness of “La Notte” concealed a mem-
orable statement on Antonioni’s obses-
sive theme, spiritual loneliness.
“La Notte,” like “Sundays And Cy-
bele,” was photographed with an extra-
ordinary feeling for the nuances of nat-
ural light.
Both “La Notte” and “Divorce, Ital-
ian Style” boasted fine central perform-
ances by Marcello Mastroianni, who also
shone in the subdued but moving “Family
Diary”.
The worst films were not the honest
bits of rubbish but the pretentious ones,
of which the much-publicised “Last Year
At Marienbad” heads the list. This de-
liberately enigmatic film, inflating a fairly
simple theme to ludicrous proportions,
struck me not as a work of art but as a
smart-alecky confidence trick. Alain Res-
nais and his script writer Robbe-Grillet
are a clever pair, but I dislike being
got at.
Rolf Thiele’s attempt at satire, “Lulu,”
used all the camera devices in the world,
but instead of being smartly cynical it
was a tricked-up bore.
“Non Uccidere” was probably the
year’s most irritating film a strong
and important theme made meaningless
by scruffy production and a script which
grotesquely underlined its argument by
turning the characters into either sym-
bols or caricatures.
I must confess I squibbed seeing the
long-running “Mondo Cane,” whose
trailer seemed to me to be a colossus of
unappetising bad taste. Devotion to duty
goes just so far.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Round Dozen
/\f about fifty Melbourne productions
that I attended this year, there were
only twelve that I consider were really
worth seeing. These comprised three
new Australian plays, three new plays
from overseas, four revivals of classical
plays and two revivals of modern plays.
If, as is often said, what is needed for
a flourishing theatre is a discriminating
audience of regular theatre-goers, there
is clearly not enough good theatre in
Melbourne to provide a diet for such an
audience.
The theatrical event of the year was
Patrick White’s new play, “A Cheery
Soul”, presented by the Union Theatre
Repertory Company and directed by
John Sumner. I do not think this play
altogether succeeds, but it is interesting
as an examination of Australian life by
a major Australian writer. The UTRC
also produced “And The Big Men Fly,”
by Alan Hopgood, a gentle satire on
Melbourne football mania. This play,
a modest mixture of farce and fable, is
a departure from the usual social realism
produced by aspiring Australian play-
wrights.
Of the new plays from abroad the
most interesting was Durrenmatt’s “The
Physicists” in a lively production by
George Fairfax at St Martin’s. This play,
like “A Cheery Soul”, is a black comedy,
but it is very funny, while Patrick
White’s play is more appalling than
amusing. Yet another black comedy was
“The Zoo Story,” by Edward Albee, pro-
duced by George Whaley at Emerald
Hill. All three plays warn of danger and
threatening evil. In Patrick White’s play
evil is embodied in the insensitive and
vulgar Miss Docker who is always
“doing good.” In “The Zoo Story,”
again, we are warned of dangerous in-
sensitivity represented by the smug, con-
ventional, good citizen, wrapped in com-
fort arid security. In “The Physicists”
the danger is seen in irresponsibility in
the face of the destructive powers of
modern science.
TPhe best of the classical revivals was
Raymond Westwell’s production of the
Union Theatre Repertory Company in
Shakespeare’s “Richard II”. By con-
centrating more attention on the warring
nobles and less on Richard himself. Mr
Westwell emphasised the place of this
play in the pattern of Shakespeare’s
histories. It was an interesting inter-
pretation and a well-drilled and well-
spoken production. But two other
UTRC productions that of Shaw's
“Devil’s Disciple” by John Sumner,
and Moliere's “Imaginary Invalid” by
Wal Cherry were not simply different
interpretations but distortions of the
whole style of the plays. Mr Sumner
romanticised Shaw and Mr Cherry
vulgarised Moliere. By contrast, a revival
of Gay’s “Beggar’s Opera” by the
students of Trinity College, under the
direction of Ronald Quinn, captured the
robustness and the gaiety of this
eighteenth-century satire.
George Dixon’s production of
Sophocles’ “Oedipus The King”, although
an amateur production, conveyed some-
thing of the greatness of the play and
reminded us how rarely we see Greek
drama in our theatre. Irene Mitchell's
production of Anouilh’s romantic, un-
historical “Beckett” at St Martin’s, lan
Westcott’s production of Russell Brad-
don’s “Naked Island” at the National
Theatrette, and Wal Cherry’s revival of
“Cat on a Hot Tin Roof” at Emerald
Hill, make up the dozen.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Year of Promise
Jn 1963 our theatres have stepped up in
the world. Appearance, seating, ameni-
ties, front of house poise and politeness
all have settled comfortably into new
standards. The charming practice of free
programmes seems to be growing apace;
special thanks to the Ensemble and the
Old Tote’s Lunch Hour Theatre for
this. On the stages themselves, costume
design, decor, settings have a finish and
sparkle, a feel for period, a correctness
of style and a quality of finish that was
once quite exceptional in this rough-and-
tumble town.
We seem to have a better supply of
actors around the trade, and supporting
casts, by and large, now have batting
strength well down the list whereas
once, and not so long since, a fearsome
thinning out of talent was plain once
one moved past the leading players. (To
be ruthlessly fair, I have to slate the
Ensemble for their bad supports in “The
Physicists,” but also to praise their
strength in “Fairy Tales of New York.”)
We are. though, running shamefully
short of actresses who look the part. Let’s
not be coy about this. A pretty actress
is a fine thing—and a beautiful actress is
a damned fine thing!
Why then, in Sydney of all cities, are
our beautiful women not taking to the
stage? Our theatres must get some
glamor back into them in 1964.
I shall end, not by calling a roll of
plays or players, for this year nothing
sticks in my mind with the warm glow
of Robert Speaight and “A Man For
All Seasons” or the Mrs Lusty of “A
Ham Funeral” of last year. I merely
record that the Old Tote Company is a
proud achievement in Australian theatre,
and that it has had exceptional luck in
its devoted staff; that the Phillip Theatre
is breaking fine new ground and
should keep Miss Judith Stott busy for
some years; and that the Ensemble could
be an even finer theatre if it went after
more plays with the guts of “The
Physicists,” and eschewed some of its
more gimmicky vehicles.
I look forward to 1964 with enthusi-
asm. I believe 1963 took us into a new,
far more professional era.
KEVON KEMP


ART
Establishment,
’63
HPhe new Establishment in painting
-*■ dominates the scene throughout the
country. Apart from notable exceptions,
like lan Fairweather, the bulk of them
are comparatively young. Usually they
have passed through some degree of
abstraction and through a tremendous
welter of violent and rapidly changing
international influences. Most have trav-
elled and all can get the latest from
Europe or America, in reproduction,
within a month of its appearance. Not
surprisingly, then, it is rare to find an
adventurously original painter in Aus-
tralia, but it is normal to find that we
keep pretty much up with the rest of
the world. Moreover we now keep up
with ourselves. A few years ago I wrote
at some length on the gulf between ab-
stractionist Sydney and Antipodean Mel-
bourne a gulf which was as much
ideological as geographic. It would be
nonsense today. Melbourne in 1963 had
exhibitions of some note from every
State but Tasmania, and anyone would
struggle to define any important differ-
ences.
It’s a struggle, too, to define any im-
portant similarities. Basically figurative
painters Nolan, Boyd, Sibley, Tucker
perhaps stand a trifle apart, but the
term is no longer very meaningful. Per-
haps it means only that they have not
attempted any substantial abstraction,
whereas a majority of their contempor-
aries have to take a random list:
Williams, Olsen, Fairweather French,
Kemp, Passmore, Miller, Hessing, Rapo-
tec, Reddington. But that list cannot be
sorted out intelligibly into either cate-
gory. All I can see to mark these painters
out as a group is that they each
pursue markedly personal themes, and
a large number of them draw a lot on
landscape. What they communicate is
their own sensibility, and for the most
part they relate this very strongly to their
physical surroundings. French, perhaps,
alone among them aims to use general
symbols, but he is up against a world
of such uncertain traditions that he
turns just as much to personal imagery.
Williams and Olsen, on the other hand,
have this year shown the main trend to
perfection, Williams especially.
The settling down of painting could
be caused by the absence of rebellion
from the young. Of those who have at-
tracted my notice Aland, Moriarty
and Matthews from Brisbane, Lanceley
and Raft from Sydney and Sansom,
Rooney and Senbergs from Melbourne
only Lanceley has produced work
massive enough to stir things up. He has
taken up pop art with splendid results.
Sansom, Raft and Rooney have ex-
ploited a possibly Bacon inspired horror.
There is promise in all of them, but
they will move, I think, steadily into ac-
ceptance rather than create a new wave.
The best news of 1963 has been the
arrival of some notable sculpture. Norma
Redpath and Robert Klippel both held
extraordinarily good exhibitions, Red-
path in Melbourne only, Klippel in
Sydney and Melbourne. They are as
diverse as can be Redpath monu-
mental and imposing in bronze (even
in bronzetti), Klippel infinitely subtle
and delicate in junk. The next couple of
years seem certain to produce a lot
more sculpture of quality, more prob-
ably from Melbourne than from any-
where else.
BILL HANNAN
Boom Year
A uctions became a spectacular feature
of Sydney’s art world in 1963.
While Schureck and Voss-Smith Dobells
rocketed to enormous figures and the
Clune collection of recent European art
met with success, subsequent sales re-
vealed no stable assessment as yet of
equivalent contemporary Australian
work. In a swiftly changing art scene,
finality seems unacceptable; contempor-
aries, unless established beyond any ques-
tion of doubt, remain too close to be
coldly measured by cautious collectors.
This attitude induces in competition
judges a timid name - picking con-
servatism. All too often their choice
reflects confusion rather than artists’
merits. The Archibald, despite the
questionable award to Kahan, deserves
serious attention by painters in quest of
a new slant on the human image. From
another viewpoint a revived Blake prize
offered a like challenge, amid the clank
of gold at the Commonwealth Bank.
Patronage, shown by Godfrey Phillips
International, may replace prizegiving,
with the commissioning of selected
artists. Being a more discriminating
practice, it eliminates competitive
futilities, increases likely “hits”, pro-
ducing a welcome spread of money. How
often does a prize exceed the actual
value of a painting?
Though competitions like the Trans-
field helped raise standards in 1963’s
still-life subject, the Helena Rubinstein
through greater selectivity managed a
different set of names, and a different
aspect with winner Fred Williams and
assemblagiste-painter Lancely. Here, for-
tunately, retiring committees ensure a
new face each year.
A predominantly contemporary show
selected by Laurie Thomas will travel
to Europe next year, and which it is
hoped would be of equal interest to the
excellent British sculpture shown also at
the NSW Art Gallery. Klippel at
Clune's and the Sculptors’ Society at
David Jones raised queries as to why
sculpture lags behind painting in public
estimation. Ceramics likewise is active,
with new names and more varied tech-
niques especially with Leekie, Fred
Olsen and Bernard Sahm.
One comes to the conclusion that
big mothering societies are entering the
smothering stage now. when one-man
shows are so easily secured. In them an
artist’s range can be seen without dis-
traction, and they remained the strength
of 1963.
At Komon’s, Whitelev and French,
the first with a highly personal interpre-
tation of figure and landscape screened
through an able, facile, if sensual im-
agination, the second, extracting new
expensive content from a highly con-
ventional set of forms, deserved atten-
tion.
Quite remote from the gravity of
these trends, two superb exhibitions at
David Jones Fine Art Gallery evoked a
rich world of sensibility, in Thai bronzes
and in Phillip Sutton’s English interior
pieces of drastic simplicity and rare
color quality. Other notable shows
amid the dozens one could mention in-
cluded those of Lloyd Rees. Ken Hood,
Louis James, Leonard Hessing, Coburn,
Ben Hall, Upward, Olsen, Lynn and
Reddington.
JOHN HENSHAW


RED PAGE
The Great Adventurer
Translating the Thousand and One Nights
By ALEXANDER PORTEOUS
Burton. A Biography of Sir Richard
Francis Burton. Byron Farwell.
Longmans. 675. 6d.
A mong the happier features of life in
the second half of this century is
our delighted rediscovery of the Vic-
torians. The word “Victorian” itself is
no longer a dirty word; and we can even
talk cheerfully of “Victorians” without
ritual gestures towards the squeamish
shade of Lytton Strachey.
Since the War, a stream of biographies
and studies has appeared, many of the
most scholarly attaining wide sales;
learned journals have been founded, de-
voted to the period; cults of Victorian art
and architecture are becoming so gener-
ally popular that their OK-value is threat-
ened. In the midst of all this activity
the true lineaments of the period begin
to emerge, we fondly hope; and of
course they turn out gratifyingly different
from the characteristics our fathers were
denouncing.
Strong-minded to the point of para-
noia, individual to raging eccentricity,
morally robust to a frightening degree,
incredibly industrious and productive,
the roll-call of the great Victorians pre-
sents us with giant after giant in one field
after another. It was in fact an heroic
age: it is very doubtful now whether such
intransigently individual heroes would be
allowed to operate today it took a
World War to allow a Churchill to
flourish: and what was his background?
It’s doubtful whether our gentler, pro-
tected society could produce more than
a few figures of this stature; almost to
a man (and woman) then they were sub-
ject from childhood to the strongest of
pressures, and usually hardships.
The astounding Richard Francis Bur-
ton takes a special place even in this
galere. Indeed the breadth and ferocity
of his character, no less than his packed
and wildly adventurous life, make him
an exotic even among his great contem-
poraries; he smacks more of Elizabethan
than of Victorian, perhaps. Any one of
his achievements would suffice a whole
distinguished lifetime in a low-pressure
age. He mastered, finally, some thirty
languages, many of them rarely acquired
even individually by Westerners; and he
amassed enormous volumes of materials
on the various peoples and societies he
encountered. (Tragically, most of this,
including a vocabulary of the 40 mon-
keys he trained in 1846, was destroyed
in a fire during his lifetime; much of
his subsequent collections were destroyed
by his wife after his death.) He wrote
35 books and translated 18 (including the
16-volume “1001 Nights”). He was the
eleventh European and the second Eng-
lishman to enter, at the risk of his life,
the holy city of Mecca; he entered the
forbidden city of Hagar; he discovered
Lake Tanganyika, and only avoided
through laziness discovering Lake Vic-
toria; he was honored by the ceremonial
crucifixion of slaves by the King of
Dahomey, and studied his army of Ama-
zons and so on.
Oy far his greatest achievement, how-
ever, was his “plain and literal” trans-
lation of “The Arabian Nights”, which is
surely among the half-dozen great trans-
lations in English, ranking beside Urqu-
hart’s “Rabelais” in its blend of fidelity
and invention. Burton’s version is in fact
neither plain nor literal; but its adorn-
ments are careful attempts to suggest
the changing spirit of the original, even
if he inevitably creates a new work as
he goes. Of equal importance with its
literary excellence is its completeness:
here is one of the world’s great story-
collections, the common treasure of a
great culture and language group that
includes many nations, made fully avail-
able to the English reader. Anyone could
have found the source of the Nile
someone inevitably would; but very few
could translate the “Nights.” (One of
those who could, John Payne, in fact did
so two or three years before Burton. The
latter cheerfully and frankly borrowed
many of Payne’s felicities; but it is Bur-
ton’s version that has established itself
as the “Arabian Nights,” for English-
speaking readers.)
What kind of man was it who thus
gave us access to one of the richest
treasures of ribaldry, piety, tenderness,
brutality, insight, humor and marvel that
we possess? Mr Farwell doesn’t really tell
us. He presents Burton rather as a self-
motivating natural phenomenon, crash-
ing about in the world of more ordinary
people like a human avalanche or thun-
derstorm. He makes no real attempt to
work out what made Burton tick, or to
explore the quality of life for Burton
himself, or even approach the inwardness
of the man.
There is some justification for such
self-denial: apart from the loss of much
of the materials, the story of the mere
events of Burton’s life is an enthralling
one, and Mr Farwell tells it well. And
for his contemporaries as for us, if to a
lesser degree, Burton’s career and per-
sonality did seem a unique and inexplic-
able phenomenon. Simply to map their
dimensions is a considerable service; and
there is something refreshing about an
author who doesn't feel called on to
plumb the depths.
Nevertheless, there would seem room
for a brighter and more penetrating treat-
ment of Burton’s personality than Mr
Farwell gives us. One needn’t go so far
as to study deeply his married life,
though in itself it provides fascinating
material: his wife pursued him, perfectly
openly, for years before they married,
and after not so many years was cheer-
fully inviting friends to visit their “bach-
elor household” (they had no children).
And Burton’s deathbed had a Dickensian
monstrosity about it • the distraught
wife attaching an electric battery to the
heart of the dead man for three hours.
Even short of this, there are legitimate
questions that necessarily arise which
we would like to see discussed. Burton’s
attitude to religion, for instance: he suc-
cessively qualified and was recognised
as a Brahmin, a Sikh, a Haji; was his
position quite as intellectually lazy as
Mr Farwell’s brief discussion suggests?
All he gives us is a few jejune quotations
of the kind one expects in sixth-form
essays. It may be as simple as that (as
simple as Burton’s political beliefs seem
to have been, a caricature of the beef-
steak Englishman’s), but more study
would establish this.
And, particularly important surely,
Burton’s performance in the study of
what he called “anthropology” the
study and documentation of the sexual
habits and institutions of various peoples
in India, Arabia and Africa. Here Mr
Farwell seems to go astray on the evi-
dence he himself appeals to. His sugges-
tion is that, so far as Burton was con-
cerned, anything went • a “fay ce que
vouldras” philosophy; but the tone of
his famous “terminal essay” in Volume
10 of the “Nights” suggests something
more interesting a scrutiny that is
strong and self-assured precisely because
it used a (generous) conventional moral-
ity as a basis, but at the same time is
briskly unemotional about the bizarre
material it discusses. Burton may have
swapped curious lore with Lord Hough-
ton and A. C. Swinburne; he also helped
to found the Anthropological Society of
London, and treated this new study with
scientific seriousness and thoroughness
as well as cheerful enjoyment of human
oddity.


Perhaps then Mr Farwell fails us in
some ways; but he gives us within its
limitations a thorough, colorful and well-
documented biography.
Divided Island
New Guinea: The Last Unknown.
Gavin Souter. Angus and Robert-
son. 425.
the great island lies with its
-*■ archaic bird-reptile shape, the
smoking mountains speak low thunder,
the earth shakes lightly, the sun glares
down on the impenetrable dark-green
mantle of forest with its baroque folds,
the cloud-shadows pass over the green,
a white cockatoo rises off the tops of the
trees like a torn scrap of paper, like an
unread message ...” So wrote James
McAuley a few years ago evoking both
the wonder and beauty of New Guinea
for all those who have ever been in
thrall to the island, and, at the same
time, the mystery of its political destiny.
Gavin Souter’s admirably written,
painstakingly researched book with
its occasional irony and good, plain re-
porting does rather more to evoke
the wonder and beauty of New Guinea
than it does to answer the sort of ques-
tions now being asked about the political
development of a divided island with its
emerging, primitive peoples, although
Part 4 of his book has a go at that, too.
He is a reporter with an eye for the
absurd, the heroic and the bizarre who
does ample justice to that strange band
of bums, adventurers, traders, gold-
seekers, pro-consuls and eccentrics who
sought, for one reason or another, to
explore the last great unknown, from
the Bth-century Indonesians who sought
slaves on the Vogelkop to the mission-
aries who made the last traverse of un-
known ground west of the Baliem in
1951.
Mr Souter likes facts, any sort of
facts, and he deals skilfully with them.
His account of the epic voyage up the
Fly in 1876 by Luigi D’Albertis in a
small steam boat, the Neva, is at once
an account of a very courageous piece of
exploration and an entertaining story
of a romantic bearded madman sing-
ing snatches of Don Giovanffi, using
a cane on his crew, firing off rockets
and fireworks across the broad and
muddy Fly to see their reflected
beauty and to bring terror to the natives,
collecting beetles and birds with inspired
enthusiasm and lusting for the high,
unattainable Victor Emmanuel Ranges
which he could see from the farthermost
point he reached upstream, which was
a good way up in point of fact, 580
miles from the mouth. Poor D’Albertis.
He retired to sullen recollections in
Rome.
Another of the great legends of New
Guinea with which Mr Souter deals with
great skill is the bizarre story of Captain
Herman Detzner who conducted a one
man “war” against British (Australian)
forces in German New Guinea from
1914 to 1918. He was a narrow-minded,
self-satisfied conventional German chau-
vinist of his period but, like D’Albertis,
some stubborn fires of sheer endur-
ance burned in him. It is no easy feat
to live off the land in New Guinea at
any time but to go marching up and
down those great ranges, carrying the
German flag, patriotically urging his
police boys to sing lch hab’ mich erge-
ben mil Herz und mit Hand, dodging
capture and betrayal, attempting to reach
the Dutch border and nearly succeeding
was a feat of great, if comic, single-mind-
edness.
His “war” was one of evasion and
rhetoric but it is nice to think that when
he finally surrendered to an Australian
officer at Finschhafen he wore a white
uniform which he had carefully pre-
served over the years. With the more
recent and more startling exploratory
patrols of Papua-New Guinea, Mr
Souter deals more matter-of-factly, per-
haps because they were matter-of-fact
affairs which, although frequently achie-
vements of great skill, courage and en-
durance, were carried out by fairly
matter-of-fact men.
The three greatest of these were
probably the 1927 exploratory patrol of
Karius and Champion up the Fly in
Papua, across the cordillera and down
the Sepik to the New Guinea coast (Sir
Hubert Murray who rarely wrote more
than a laconic “Good,” or “Seen,” on
reports of the most exacting of patrols
let himself go and described the feat as
“being by far the most important and
the most difficult” ever undertaken in
New Guinea), the exploratory trip by
O’Malley and Hides in 1935 which dis-
covered the hitherto unsuspected South-
ern Highlands with its large and ferocious
population and New Guinea's last really
great feat of exploration other than
the discovery of the Baliem system in
West New Guinea that of the West-
ern Highlands with its huge gardens and
dense populations of a tall, Semitic-look-
ing people who were and still are the
most brilliantly decorated in all New
Guinea.
Mr Souter has, as I say, an eye for
people, events and achievements. He also
knows what is worth quoting and what
is not. Nothing he quotes from all the
voluminous sources he has consulted in
getting together his book sums up its
charm and interest more than a state-
ment by Jack Hides, when at 7000 feet
in a break in the forest he, Cortez-like,
saw a world never before seen by civil-
ised men:
“On every slope were cultivated
squares, while little columns of smoke
rising in the still air revealed to us the
homes of the people of this land. I had
never seen anything more beautiful. Be-
yond all stood the heights of some
mighty mountain chain that sparkled in
places with the colors of the setting
sun. As I looked on those green culti-
vated squares, of such mathematical
exactness, I thought of wheat fields or
the industrious areas of a colony of
Chinese. Here was a population such as
I had dreamed of finding.”
PETER HASTINGS
Dissent
Dissent. A Radical Quarterly. Vol. 3.
Numbers 1-4. 2s. 6d.
“TYssent” is a periodical of some im-
portance, since it is the only Left-
wing magazine in Australia about which
it would be quite wrong to say that it
is orbiting around the Communist sun.
At present “Dissent” is edited by jLeon
Glezer and Peter Samuel, two young
academics who have learned much qf
their politics from the late Bill Thomas,
under whose presidency the Melbourne
University ALP Club enjoyed a brief
period of nation-wide fame. It is, there-
fore, right and proper that the first
Thomas Memorial Lecture delivered at
Melbourne University by C. A. R. Cros-
land, MP, and discussions of it, should
figure very prominently throughout this
year’s volume. An abridged version of
Crosland's lecture is by far the best
single contribution. Yet, otherwise, the
faults of “Dissent” are many and they
are serious.
The very name of the magazine with
its overtone of fearless defiance is a mis-
nomer of a journal whose main fault
is excessive caution and an obvious edit-
orial policy of trying not to displease
anybody too much. Both editors are im-
peccably anti - Communist Gaitskellite
social democrats, and in an ideal world,
free from pressures of the forces of
darkness on the children of light, they
would produce an outstanding magazine.
Yet in such a world magazines of social
criticism would be unnecessary. And the
editors are not living in an ideal world:
they are members of the ALP in a State
where the ALP Central Executive is
little more than a Communist front and
they are young academics in an intellec-
tual climate corrupted by 20 years of
Communist Leftism. And, to survive in
such a world, concessions in matters of
principle and at the expense of intellec-
tual integrity may appear to be necessary
(wrongly I believe) which are bound to
paralyse the intellectual and moral force
of a journal whose object it clearly ought
to be to convince and not to manipulate.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
This is not to deny that the journal
contains some excellent contributions.
Samuel’s article on India and Glezer’s
coldly furious piece on Soviet Jewry,
quite apart from very competent articles
on New Guinea, on Chinese economic
development, and on modern economic
planning are as good as they can be.
Yet Glezer’s article is overshadowed by
two very silly bits of “Leftist” ritual on
South Vietnam and on Formosa, written
with much disregard for Australia’s de-
fence requirements. And Samuel’s con-
tribution is flanked and neutralised by an
amorphous article on the same topic
from a member of the Melbourne poli-
tical Science Department. A symposium
on the Base comes down for conditional
support in articles by Don Dunstan,
James Jupp and Tony Clunies-Ross. Yet
instead of including an article justifying
also the unconditional support for the
Base of the ALP Right wing and of
the DLP, Messrs lan Turner and Brian
Fitzpatrick were given space to state
once more their oft-repeated programme
of camouflaged surrender. A clear state-
ment of the Communist position by a
member of the Party’s Central Committee
would have been a more helpful con-
tribution.
The review section, in so far as it deals
with politics and with the social sciences,
is inadequate and inept, though I under-
stand that it will improve. The paralysis
induced by political caution may be re-
sponsible for some glaring omissions
little or nothing on the Sino-Soviet split,
the gaoling of Djilas, the cultural and
political situation in the Soviet bloc,
Cuba, the Profumo affair and it ex-
tends to the editorials. Thus, a good
editorial statement on Australian politi-
cal parties will be marred by an obse-
quious and insincere reference to Cal-
well’s impossible book and by a juxta-
position of the Communist Party and
the DLP which the editors know to be
incorrect. The expulsion of the unity
ticket man O’Brien from the ALP will
be greeted with jubilation (variation on
the theme “how wrong is Santamaria”)
though the news of his subsequent re-
placement on the Executive by Mr
Nolan who is, if anything, much worse,
will not qualify for comment. Generally,
the requirements of intellectual honesty
are crudely flouted whenever Santamaria
Catholics are in any way involved.
It would be quite wrong, however, to
blame the editors for attempting to sur-
vive in the ALP. It is the alternative
government party and they certainly help
to articulate, through “Dissent,” much
of what is still good inside it. The flame
of absolute moral purity is out of place
in politics where actions have to be
judged by their calculable consequences.
To work for the good of social democ-
racy inside a corrupt political party with
one hand, holding one’s nose with the
other, is morally permissible if one has
the stomach for it, and if one is quite
sure who is using whom. Yet tc assume
that a good magazine can be produced
in this way is another matter In the
field of social critique to which “Dissent”
is devoted, there is absolutely no sub-
stitute for unqualified intellectual in-
tegrity.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Stardust
The Lonely Life. Bette Davis. Mac-
donald. 445. 9d.
The Fifty Year Decline and Fall of
Hollywood. Ezra Goodman. Mac-
fadden. 6s.
“T’m afraid,” writes Bette Davis, “I am
a Queen —with all the prerogatives
of that station. All except one. With it,
heads would have rolled.” With this frank
assertion of her stature she introduces
her undistinguished autobiography, “The
Lonely Life.” And though the book is
mawkish and over-emotional, and filled
with the wrong kind of detail, Bette
Davis emerges as every inch the monarch.
Bitter, and fallen now, but still fired by
the spirit of a tyrant, or perhaps, one sus-
pects, a very fascinating monster. She is
not so much concerned with the world
she ruled as with her rise to its throne,
motivated only, she insists, by artistic
endeavour; in fact her continual empha-
sis of her integrity and highmindedness
becomes just a little embarrassing and
sounds a little like over-compensation.
Probably this is unfair, but after Ezra
Goodman’s “The Fifty Year Decline and
Fall of Hollywood,” it is difficult to be-
lieve in anyone's integrity in Hollywood,
and Goodman certainly does not intimate
that Davis is any exception. On the con-
trary, his conflicting accounts of incidents
she relates in her book suggest she is
very much part of the rule.
It would not be just to criticise “The
Lonely Life” for not being what it never
set out to be, but one can’t help feel-
ing that it is a pity. Bette Davis has told
us about Bette Davis, her successes and
her failures, and the precarious path she
climbed to the top. There is little about
the world of the theatre and films through
which her story moves that is not strict-
ly incidental to her. One might have
hoped for more extensive comments on
the films she made and the people she
worked with, but she never lets her sub-
ject out of sight and allows herself too
few digressions. Whenever she does, she
is often self-pitying, too proud to be
humble, not proud enough to be happy.
Her comments on the art of acting are
perhaps the best indication of the Davis
personality. She has no sympathy with
the naturalistic approach (although she
admires Brando, because she feels he has
not adopted the method so much as used
it with style) for the job of the actor is
to act, and, she maintains, there must
be a strong awareness of the fact that she
is acting and not becoming a charac-
ter. “The public,’' she writes, “must be
ennobled.” Bette Davis is a heroic and
an excessive actress, more simply and
less kindly, she is a ham, but a marvel-
lous one. It is the grand theatricality that
made her the queen of films that she
was, and the dowager she is, a theatri-
cality not missing from this book. Her
performances are always larger than life.
Perhaps because she is too large for life,
Bette Davis has made her own such a
lonely one.
I remarked that Ezra Goodman im-
puted no good motives to Bette Davis, no
more than he does to anyone else. “The
Fifty Year Decline and Fall of Holly-
wood” is a snide and vindictive book,
written by a man with a personal grudge
against Hollywood and its people, and
throwing all the dirt he can lay his hands
on. Undoubtedly the dirt is there, and
undoubtedly Goodman, a veteran critic,
columnist and reviewer for American
magazines and newspapers, knows where
to find it. But it is the tone of the book,
the insidious scandal-mongering that un-
derlies much of what he has to say, that
is distasteful. This does not prevent it
from being vastly entertaining at the same
time. The public and private hypocrisies
of the movie moguls and their parasites,
the fads and fetishes of the film capital
all make amusing reading, and Goodman,
in his slick, journalistic style lists them
with pace and wit. Where else would
you learn that Ray Milland, Billy Wilder
and others used to lie around in togas for
dinner at their Roman Room, or that
Errol Flynn and others dressed up as
Vikings for a drink with a rival cult? Or
that mink and ermine toilet seats, from
two hundred to four hundred dollars
apiece, are a popular commodity? Or
that Eva Marie Saint said “that word”
at the Screen Producers Awards dinner?
But behind the gossip, Goodman has
a thesis. D. W. Griffith is the great
genius of American cinema and since him
there has been an accelerating decline.
Goodman unfortunately spends so much
time purporting to expose the corruption


u;
NO LIMIT
to the pleasure
you’ll get from this
distinguished tobacco
cool-rich taste
pleasing aroma
NDVStt
U
OB
VI)
BLi
£
TABAK
PIPE OR CIGARETTE
IN 3 DISTINCT BLENDS
MILD • NUT SWEET • RUM
D. CAVENDISH
u/v From Your Tobacconist
2 02. IN EXCLUSIVE "LIMP-TIN" POUCH
TIB
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can help you discover your
British Ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S brings
professional report with documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON
Genealogists
5 FENCHURCH STREET, tONDON, E.C.3
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D', Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for reoders. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
and venality around which Hollywood
revolves and gives such sparse considera-
tion to the films themselves, that he fails
to argue his case. He is more concerned
with personalities than films. His pro-
files of Monroe, Sinatra, Holden, Bogart,
Dean, Garbo and others are biting and
well-documented, but rife with bad puns
and irresponsible cuteness. The whole
book is like a parade of coterie jokes and
dubious habits, no more than a kind of
journalistic party-trick.
Bette Davis is a grand lady, and Ezra
Goodman is a little man. She rose and
fell, and her autobiography traces her
course, he was rebuffed and struck back
the only way he knew.
MICHAEL THOMAS
From the Life
A Life. Italo Svevo. Translated by
Archibald Colquhoun. Seeker &
Warburg. 31s.
Tt has been said, by Marcel Proust
among others, that a writer in his
whole output writes but the same book
over and over again. In Proust’s own
case this goes without saying, but it is
hardy less obvious in the case of Italo
Svevo whose earliest novel now appears
for the first time in English as the third
volume in a projected uniform edition of
his works.
“A Life” was published in 1893 at the
author’s expense and was followed in
1898 by “Senilita” (“As a Man Grows
Older”) and in 1923 by “The Confessions
of Zeno”. These three novels form a
remarkable and unique trilogy. Each has
basically the same character in much the
same situation a weak-willed, inept
man in love with a woman who despises
him; the similarity of plots throws into
striking relief Svevo’s progressive change
of attitude. Read together the novels
form an exceptionally vivid account of
a writer’s development. Not to say that
each is not an absorbing work in its own
right.
In “A Life” the hero, Alfonso Nitti,
is a young man from the country who
works at a bank in Trieste. Discontented
with his job he at first tries to persuade
his mother he ought to return to their
home but failing in this he turns more
determinedly to his daydreams of liter-
ary fame.
His studies in literature and philosophy
at the city library lead indirectly to an
involvement with the boss’ daughter, a
snobbish and heartless girl called
Annetta. He becomes convinced that
he loves her and, with some encourage-
ment from Francesca, her father’s mis-
tress, he succeeds in seducing her. From
that moment, to his dismay, he finds that
in fact he does not really love.
Ostensibly in accordance with their
plan he goes away, while she is supposed
to win her father’s consent to their mar-
riage, but he is banking on the possi-
bility which Francesca points out that in
his absence Annetta will cease loving him.
At home he finds his mother desper-
ately ill and for over a month he watches
her slowly die. Profoundly disturbed by
his unexpected behavior in the love affair,
poor Alfonso is further enervated by his
mother’s death and his own subsequent
illness.
But returning to the bank he is only
momentarily upset by the discovery that
Annetta has indeed changed towards him.
For a while he seems to find satisfaction
in the routine of his work. “A balanced
life, a hard-working existence with mod-
est aims, was worth more than all the
pleasures that riches and love could give.
. . . Simplicity of habits was happiness,
peace was happiness, goodness was
happiness. And nothing else”. So he tells
his landlady’s daughter. And in an act of
genuine compassion, he gives the greater
part of his inheritance as a dowry, to save
the same girl from dishonor.
But his gesture brings her no happi-
ness, and gives him no satisfaction. His
kind intentions always seem to prove dis-
astrous.
A demotion at the bank destroys his
uneasy complacency. Destitute of inter-
est in his own life he commits suicide
because he believes this is what Annetta
would like.
Alfonso is shattered by the irrationa-
lity of his behavior, by the impotence of
reason. Emilio, his older counterpart
in “Senilita” is numbed by this same
realisation. But Zeno, the old man of
the third novel looks back on it with
irony, sure that it does not matter.
Svevo’s novels are perhaps best read
in the order in which they appear in this
series, that beginning with the irony of
“Zeno” and ending with the deep pessi-
mism of “A Life”. Of the three “Zeno”
is unquestionably the greatest. In many
ways I find “A Life” more interesting, if
less perfect, than “Senilita”. The latter,
which is more transitional perhaps, is a
little inaccessible, especially in its con-
clusion, though James Joyce who was
Svevo’s friend and who did much to
promote his works in France, is said to
have learnt this by heart, so good did he
find it. But in both these earlier books
one misses the equanimity, the tremend-
ous maturity of his masterpiece.
In “A Life” Svevo is hampered by the
conventional form of his novel. He gets
off to a slow start with the pedestrian
description of life at the bank. It is not
until the death of Signora Nitti that the
novel begins to grip. The prolonged death
of a relative is vital to each of the novels
and Svevo puts his best into each of these
episodes, culminating in the exquisitely
poignant chapter in “Zeno”, entitled “The
Death of My Father”.
But even in this early novel Svevo’s
grasp of character is remarkably firm.
The splendid gallery of characters is
handled with marvellous assurance. One
is astonished that the book has had to
wait so long for an English translation.
Svevo’s three completed novels have
now appeared. The fourth volume will
present stories and fragments from his
last period, (he died in a car accident
in 1928). “Zeno” is one of the great
books of this century and it is to be hoped
that Seeker & Warburg’s admirable pro-
ject will give Svevo the limelight he
warrants.
R. G. HOWARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Looking into 1964
Taking the current economic indicators at their face value,
1964 should see further strong growth for the Australian
economy.
Investors instinctively look for the adverse influences likely
to occur. It can’t all be good, they reason. The super-optimism
of 1960 proved to be short-lived, so now they are inclined to
be cautious at a time when, statistically, the situation never
looked better.
Caution is natural when it is considered that the share mar-
ket reached an all-time high in December. As share prices dis-
count the future at least six
months in advance (and also an-
ticipate many years of divid-
ends) the investor must convince
himself that further price rises
are justified.
If things are so good and
there is excess liquidity in Aus-
tralia (and the world) the in-
vestor is bound to ask if credit
restraints are needed to curb in-
cipient inflation. Also, looking
farther afield, he must ask if
overseas conditions will remain
buoyant and support the com-
modity prices now being en-
joyed by Australia’s exports.
He has been told there is excess production in many parts
of the Western world and that most nations are fighting the
battle of an adverse balance of payments. Nations are to be
asked next year to lower their tariff barriers to promote more
world trade. But this won't alter the fact that each nation will
be striving to export more than it imports if it is to keep its
balance of payments in trim.
The layman, therefore, may come to the conclusion that if
there is surplus productive capacity in the world (and certainly
in Australia), will the Western world be able to capture suffi-
cient export markets to maintain a prosperous equilibrium?
The answer seems to rest on whether the undeveloped nations
can afford to buy the products of the Western world.
Increased production in Australia would more than cater
for the 11 million population in this country. And America’s
economic activity, heavily involved with non-productive space
age and defence projects, already has illustrated a capacity
to over-produce farm products and other items which America
seeks to dispose of under tied loans, foreign aid and similar
deals which have disrupted or at least undercut the export po-
tential of other nations.
This, then, becomes a major consideration when assessing
the current potential for a boom in Australia. What form of
local restraint will be used to contain that boom and, if Aus-
tralia’s 1964 boom is guided in an orderly fashion, what are
the likely overseas influences on our vital and much-needed
exports?
The banks expect a call-up of funds into Statutory Reserve
Deposits, and the Reserve Bank is expected to wield its new
found power of flexible interest rates. Interest could be charged
on unused bank overdraft limits and, of course, the motorist
will get slugged with higher insurance charges.
The Menzies Government stated during the recent election
campaign that there would be no credit squeeze. So, on the
local front (and considering the large amounts of money re-
quired to be spent by the Commonwealth Government on its
election promises) a development of the local boom seems
inevitable.
Overseas, where post - war
booms in Europe have been
tapering off, a special situation
has been created by drought and
starvation in China and the un-
expectedly high windfall prices
paid for wheat. Also, windfall
profits to sugar producers came
with the devastation of Cuba’s
crops, while beef exporters are
reaping a harvest from exports
to America.
Metal prices also are creeping
higher, but the special situation
attending several commodity
prices could induce over-optim-
ism on the export front.
This aspect seems to be the key item to watch closely, allied
with America’s efforts to sustain a boom in 1964. Studebaker’s
experience, by shutting down in the US and transferring to the
more prosperous Canadian plant, shows there can be casualties
even during a boom.
National Economic Planning
Gets Fresh Advocacy
Advocacy of indicative economic planning for Australia
seems to ebb and flow, the only constant factor being an
attitude of masterly non-commitment by the Federal Gov-
ernment.
The case in favor has just received firm support from two
distinguished parties the Commercial Bank of Australia
and the Stanford Research Institute in its report “The Develop-
ment of Australia” prepared for the Australian Development
Research Foundation.
“Australia needs a formal national economic plan drawn
up by a permanent independent economic development coun-
cil,” the bank asserts, though plaintively remarking on the
lack of novelty in the suggestion. “But the re-elected Govern-
ment has now the clear opportunity to act in terms of the
Prime Minister’s stated policy.”
That policy inferred adequate organisation to embrace north-
ern development, water resources, secondary industry and an


investigation of transport costs. However, “what is not known
is the overall plan for the future.”
The bank sounds perhaps a trifle cheerful in believing “the
foundations for an overall plan are being laid by the Com-
mittee of Economic Enquiry and it is quite possible that the
findings of the Committee could lead to new thinking on the
role of a permanent advisory council.”
It does not attempt to decry private enterprise’s imagination
and initiative, simply urging that “known plans and targets
will assist in the most efficient use of our national resources.”
Stanford's thorough and comprehensive report (much of
which should have been quite within the capacity of some
local academic or research body) notes “a widespread feeling
that development is slowed up by political bargaining in which
local and regional rather than national interests contend for
available public funds. Added to this is the feeling that civil
service influence operates both to limit the funds available
and to slow up the development initiatives.”
It boils down to “whether Australians regard the necessity
for development as sufficiently urgent and compelling to war-
rant a delegation of power to a specialised institution.” In blue-
printing a scheme for a development council, the Stanford
report argues from the tremendous variety of problems at the
back of integrated regional development designed to serve
national purposes.
Functions of any such body take in coherent long-range
planning, the establishment of priorities, negotiation of devel-
opment ventures, advice on policy, pilot support of applied
technological research.
“If development means as much to responsible Australian
leaders of opinion and action as their public pronouncements
seem to indicate, it ought not to be impossible for them to
devise effective means of organising and financing an effective
means of getting on with it,” this section of the report con-
cludes.
International Banking Forges
New Mechanisms
/~\ver the last few years the financial world has grown used
to open co-operation between the major international
central banks, especially on currency matters concerning
sterling and the dollar. Now the ordinary trading bankers are
joining in the swim of declared and publicised linkings
The consortium which the Commercial Bank of Australia
joins, Midland and International Banks Ltd, follows very
closely upon a new and significant European grouping with
the English Midland Bank also a member. In this case its
partners comprise the Deutsche Bank, the Amsterdamsche
Bank and the Banque de la Societe Generale of Belgium.
That CBA partakes in these kind of moves is a further
tribute to the reinvigoration of commercial banking, lately so
noticeable in Australia and Britain after a longish period of
quietude and even stodginess. CBA, too, is probably the
Australian bank with the fewest overseas connections, so its
benefits will not be only long-term.
Apart from Midland (holding a 45 p.c. interest) and CBA
(10 p.c.), the remaining members of Midland and International
are the Standard Bank Ltd, of London and South Africa
(19 p.c.), and the Toronto-Dominion Bank, of Canada (26 p.c.).
Of the nominal capital totalling £stg2o million, £lO million
is to be issued CBA. interestingly enough, secures its holding
by issuing one million 10s. ordinary shares at £stgl each.
Actually three-quarters of the initial paid capital comes in
the form of equity from each of the partners, but there’ll be
no lack of access to abundant liquid funds. The four banks
between them control capital and reserves of £AIBS million
and assets totalling £A4,264 million.
The consortium starts operating in March next year. It
aims to enter long and medium term export financing, assist
the financing of new and existing projects (principally in the
members’ countries), and also handle underwriting propositions.
This last function is traditionally a role of the British
merchant banks, though many European commercial banks
regard it as well within their ambit. Midland and International
proposes, as well, to take term deposits to channel into
industrial financing.
Many fields of banking give more and more evidence of
creating the mechanisms to allow a wider, international flow
of funds. Perhaps Australian banks may soon be directing
a co-operative drive into the South-East Asian area.
Finding the Equity of
Factors Ltd
Tnvestors in Factors Ltd found some comfort from the
figures issued to the Melbourne Stock Exchange by the
directors of the company last week. But it must be remembered
that the Receiver is still in charge, and will continue to be
for some time, despite the obvious progress towards his with-
drawal.
What shareholders want to know—and it is obvious from
the rise in the share price in recent weeks that they are doing
a lot of guessing —is what assets will be left after all the
realisations are made and the creditors paid off.
The board is now saying that the total equity of the share-
holders in the company that is, Factors Ltd will be in
excess of the amount of £1,350,000, the amount stated by
the directors in July when the latest statement of affairs was
drawn up consequent on the appointment of the Receiver.
Neglecting unpaid calls on a fragment of the 14,605,032
issued ordinary ss. shares, this works out at approximately
Is. lOd. a share compared with the market price of around
Is. sd.
However, it is worth remembering not only that the
Receiver is still in charge but also that this estimate has been
arrived at, inter alia, on the directors’ assessment that the
value of the Factors Ltd interest in the subsidiary Holeproof
Industries (NZ) as a going concern is not less than £2 million
in excess of its book value.
On this it is also worth remembering that this subsidiary
was put out for tender at the same time as Holeproof
Industries Ltd (Australia) and could still be sold by the
Receiver at his discretion at a price which would realise
possibly less than the figure now put on the company by the
directors.
The NZ subsidiary (which is the parent company of Hole-
proof Mills Ltd, Holeproof New Zealand Ltd, Colonial
Ammunition Co. Ltd, W. H. Bond Ltd and Jaquard Textiles)
had a net trading profit of £337,756 in Australian currency
last year before deduction of a portion of £42,076 minority
interests attributed to the two Holeproof subsidiaries which
together brought in a net £575,410 for Factors Ltd.
Clearly it is the best earnings asset of the group and would
form a solid core for future profitability if its sale can be
stayed, but that again is up to the Receiver, not the board
on whose figures one is now working.
The board has stoutly maintained all along that share-
holders in Factors have no concern with current or future
losses of Rockmans (also a wholly owned subsidiary of Factors
Ltd and which lost £816,173 last year according to the latest
statement of the Factors’ directors). They nonetheless haven’t
explained how Factors is going to meet these still recurring
losses of Rockmans. but simply say that Rockmans has been
brought into the consolidation of the Factors group “owing
to the inflexibility of the Companies Act”.
The best course for shareholders in Factors Ltd is to try
to forget the various interpretations of the profit figures for
the whole group (inclusive of Rockmans) for the latest year.


HELP
LEGACY
all
the
round S
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
1963 A Year of Reluctance
Why Consumers and Companies, too Hesitated to Lift Their Spending
T ooking back on 1963, probably the
most intriguing feature of economic
behavior was the reluctance of con-
sumers and companies, too to lift
their spending in face of an almost un-
interrupted improvement in the general
economic prospect. The emphasis is on
“reluctance”, because it was not that
consumer spending or private invest-
ment failed to increase, but rather that
each showed only a temperate rise
one which belied the forecasts of most
of the prophets.
An acceptable general explanation of
this reluctance would be, first, that the
lesson of the last boom has been dying
hard, and, second, that the existence of
high liquidity and mild inflationary
pressure without manifest inflation itself
has not speeded the general community
to “get into goods”. Nor and this is
probably a corollary of the latter—has
it made industrialists hasten to buy new
plant and equipment.
TlPhe community’s main lesson from the
A 1960 boom was that it is madness
to run into debt without the assurance
of continuity in the rising flow of
personal income on which debt creation
and expectations of liquidating debts are
founded. Perhaps the community could
reasonably have expected to get more
warning of the Government’s measures
to cut back personal earnings in Novem-
ber, 1960. This may well explain not
only the high degree of shock produced
by these measures, but also its long,
lingering effects in a period when per-
sonal incomes were rising strongly
again, as over the last year.
For most of 1963 it wouldn’t have
been surprising if the propensity to
spend had increased sharply. Indeed, in
the six weeks or so before the Budget
in mid-August that was general thinking.
And Mr Holt in his exuberant Budget
heraldings seemed to be signalling it,
despite its open threat to stability.
Although, admittedly, Mr Holt threw
very few hostages to personal spending
in the Budget, his huge increase (£197
million) in Government spending,
coming in the context of buoyant in-
come generation from exports, capital
inflow and industry (via the margins
increases and the return to full employ-
ment), could well have incited the com-
munity to drop its caution in spending
and, at one remove, prompted a
heightened level of expectations for
investment spending.
As a matter of fact, the final months
of the year have brought some increase
in the rate of spending both by personal
consumers and industrialists. The latest
retail sales figures for Australia show
an £lB 8 million jump in October over
September this year compared with a
rise on the month of £12.7 million the
previous October and a drop of £0.5
million in October, 1961. This is not a
startling increase and, in fact, is no better
than the rise of May over April this year,
which was followed by four very mixed
months showing only small percentage
increases over the like months of 1962.
It would be preferable to wait for the
figures for the freer pre - Christmas
spending months before judging whether
the October figures indicate an increase
in the propensity to consume. To
establish that, it would be necessary for
retail sales to rise by more than, say,
6 p.c. on the same two months in 1962,
which in turn were up only 3.7 p.c.
on the last two months of 1961. (Most
of that increase was in November, 1962,
sales in December that year rising less
than one p.c. over December, 1961).
However, as was stated in this column
on December 7, some increase would
be expected in the propensity to consume
and certainly a return to more normal
patterns of spending.
On the other hand, look back over
the 12 months to January this year,
for -better or for worse the spending
situation appears to have changed very
little over the full year.
the score of investment spending,
the Bank of New South Wales in its
latest survey professes to have seen some
livening in recent months. But here,
again, the year has been relatively dis-
appointing, though, with many firms
carrying excess capacity, few observers
were really confident at the beginning of
the year that fixed investment in industry
would rise much unless there was a big
increase in retail sales to induce a sub-
stantial improvement in orders for in-
dustry.
What has happened, however, is that
the gradual improvement in orders
during the year has made it possible for
many manufacturers to employ their
plants much nearer full capacity and in
some industries, like motor vehicles and
accessories, to be fully employed so far
as available supplies of skilled labor
permitted.
But even given the drag of surplus
capacity, it might have been expected
that industrial investment would increase
more than it did during 1963 and to
start to move faster earlier in the year
if there had been, first, a more favorable
climate in the capital market in the first
half of the year and, second, if down-
ward pressure on commercial rates of
interest had come earlier.
A s it was, the dice in the capital market
were loaded by the 30/20 rule all
the year and by the failure up to the
end of March to make any official breach
in interest rates at all, the first break
coming via the Reserve Bank with a cut
in bank interest rates, not to be followed
until May by a cut in bond rate.
Though coming very late in the day,
the reductions in bank and bond rates
certainly had a very good effect on the
capital market climate from May on-
wards. Given the possibility of an
expansive Budget it improved radically
after June, prompting not only a bigger
demand for funds by industry but at
increasingly attractive rates. This situa-
tion reflected both a more realistic yield
structure in bonds and lush liquidity.
But as the year drew to a close there
were no signs that industry had stepped
up its borrowing as much as might have
been expected in the light of economic
horizons looming up for next year. The
impression persisted that, following the
bountiful profit harvest in 1962-63 and
the further improvement since then,
industry’s cash flow from its own
activities was a strong limiting factor to
its interest in the capital market.


“CROESUS”
Wages in the Melting Pot
Stirring Debate Likely in Court Case
T>oth sides having put their cards on the
table —the trade unions with a de-
mand for a 525. increase in the basic
wage and the employers with an offer
which would be the equivalent of an Bs.
rise in the wage of a fitter earning £2O
is. a week —there is obviously going to
be a stirring debate in the basic wage
case set for February 19.
The employers have not indicated what
they think would be an appropriate rise
in the basic wage for the simple reason
that they want to abolish the fiction of
the basic wage altogether in favor of a
new concept for determining wages ad-
justments.
In effect, they are going to argue be-
fore the Commission that Australia will
be able to afford only a maximum 2 p.c.
increase in its total wages bill next year.
They base this estimate on productivity
increases discounted for the full cost
effects of this year's increase of 10 p.c. in
wage margins and the granting of an ad-
ditional week's leave.
The idea seems to be to apply this
2 p.c. increase on a flat basis to all wages,
including margins and allowances, and
to ask the Commission to do away with
separate determinations for margins al-
together, and henceforth to drop periodic
cost-of-living adjustment in favor of what
might be called the roll-up method, as
now used in New Zealand.
From the sound of it, the employers
have arrived at their new approach from
three different routes. One is their basic
objection to cost-of-living adjustments,
which they maintain have a wage-price
spiralling effect. Secondly, they say that
margins adjustments cannot be considered
in isolation from the capacity to pay the
basic wage, and that the two should be
considered together in the light of move-
ments in productivity. Thirdly, following
the Commission’s margins decision this
year, the increase was translated into an
almost nationwide wages increase. The
employers consider this ridiculous.
T>asic to all these considerations is
the notion that the sole criterion for
wage increases should be rises in pro-
ductivity. That sounds a very good idea
on paper, but the Arbitration Commis-
sion is unlikely to accept it, even if its
members must have a sneaking suspicion
that, in times of rising consumer prices,
wage increases, geared to rises in the
cost of living, exert an independent
influence on price movements in the
manner most other people think they do.
Of course, if we could be assured of
continuous stability in consumer prices,
such as we’ve had over the last two
years, the trade unions might well admit
that they lose as much as or even more
than they gain by cost-of-living adjust-
ments. But to be realistic, having got
the Arbitration Commission to resume
cost-of-living adjustments they are not
going to treat the possibility of scrap-
ping them again lightly, nor, as a matter
of fact, are the Commissioners them-
selves likely to change their minds again.
The employers in turn have to recog-
nise that in times of rising prices and
many economists are predicting that
next year may well be one of these
real wages stand to be eroded unless
cost-of-living adjustments are made. In
fact, even when the old quarterly ad-
justments were in force (say, in 1950-51
when consumer prices were rising very
rapidly) the standing cry of trade union-
ists was that the adjustments were always
in arrears and nobody could deny that
this was the case.
Tt is all very well for the employers to
say that rises in wages simply to
keep in step with rising prices without
regard for movements in productivity
are bad for the economy. Nobody denies
that, unless they happen to favor periodic
devaluations and have no regard for
those living on fixed incomes But it
so happens that in times of rising prices
capital gains and the increases in profits
accruing to the employing and property
classes more than compensates them for
their own cost-of-living increases, and,
indeed, swing the balance of economic
advantage ever more strongly in their
direction at the expense of wage-earners.
One imagines that this aspect has not
been neglected by the Commissioners in
deciding to revert to cost-of-living ad-
justment or, indeed, sticking to them
through the inflationary period 1950-52
before their decision to drop them in
1952 (when prices were fairly stable).
The employers could be in danger
of overstating their case in not allowing
for some adjustment of wages to prices,
for without that they would seem to be
saying “we will share productivity in-
creases with the wage-earners, but higher
profits arising from price increases we
will keep for ourselves.”
In the last margins case it would
seem that, contrary to what employers
might think, the Arbitration Commission
did base their judgment largely on move-
ments in productivity, and the only valid
objection to it was that it was translated
so widely into wages throughout the
country with a rapidity and easy accep-
tance by wage-fixing authorities which
was astonishing, not only to employers
by also to many of the recipients.
After that there can be no possible
justification in having separate cases for
the basic wage and margins. Indeed, one
would have thought that the balance of
advantage to the trade unions would lie
in a single determination, especially if
they could get the Commission to adhere
to cost-of-living adjustments. One of the
anomalies of the margins awards has
been that they have not been subject to
cost-of-living adjustments.
Finally, there is the question of de-
termining movements in productivity it-
self. By some undisclosed formula the
employers have arrived at a figure for
a 2 p.c. increase since (presumably) the
basic wage case in 1961 discounted for
the extra week holiday and the 10 p.c.
margins increase this year.
One thing is very certain about that
figure it makes no sense at all when
related to Gross National Product in-
creases over the last two years. On the
face of it, the employers will have a
tough time reconciling this figure not
only with rises in GNP but also with
increases in company profits since 1961.
Amalgamated Caution
Shareholders of Amalgamated Wire-
less (Australasia) may be inclined
to see some writing on the wall when
the chairman, Sir Lionel Hooke, speaks
about the need to conserve funds against
future development and expansion.
If any temporary break in the divi-
dend has to occur, directors can always
point to their repeated emphasis that
they have always regarded 10 p.c. as
the group’s basic annual rate. Since
1958 the “bonus” additions have oscil-
lated between 4 and 6 p.c., returning
to 6 p.c. for 1962-63 in honor of the
50th anniversary.
Nobody would expect any very ruth-
less reduction and, indeed, directors are
really stressing some circumspection in
the face of competitive consumer markets
and the high demands of technical
progress.
Certainly Sir Lionel gave to the
annual meeting a far from pessimistic
account of past and future activities.
Television receiver sales held their levels
last year, while sound broadcast receivers
reached a peak.


A New Survey by AIDA
Useful Light on Electric Wires and Cables Industry
Tn what is hoped to be the first of a
series of industrial surveys covering
the less familiar segments of Australian
industry, the Australian Industries De-
velopment Association has thrown some
very useful light on the electric wires
and cables industry. The ramifications
of the industry have up to now been very
skimpily documented and, being largely
in the hands of proprietary companies
owned by overseas groups, are somewhat
of a mystery to the general public.
As the survey finds no difficulty in
demonstrating, this industry is of major
importance in the Australian industrial
structure, not so much as a labor
absorber—it is a highly mechanised in-
dustry and most of its processes are
automatic but more because its pro-
ducts are vital for the development of
some of our key industries, notably
power transmission and distribution, tele-
communications, building construction,
motor vehicles, mining and quarrying.
By far the largest users of wires and
cables for power transmission and dis-
tribution are the governmental or semi-
governmental electricity supply authori-
ties in the various States (a limited
quantity of high-tension cables is used
in some large-scale industrial enter-
prises). Generally speaking, the market
for these types of cables and wires
depends largely on the level of public
spending for electricity works. In recent
years this has risen quite steadily and
provided a fairly stable sales outlet. It
has been estimated that these products
provide 15 to 20 p.c. of the total market
for electric cables and wires (excluding
winding wires).
HThe building industry is sensitive to
variations in the general level of
economic activity, consequently demand
for electric cables and wires for in-
stallation in new buildings can vary quite
considerably from year to year. This is
an important market for lower-voltage
cables and wires, and the instability of
demand in this section of the market can
be a source of cost increases, especially
as a similar pattern of demand variation
exists in the market for electrical
appliances which go into homes and
other buildings.
The motor vehicle industry provides
the major market for cables and wires
in the transport equipment field. Other
users are the shipping, aircraft, tram-
ways and railways services.
Like other consumer durable goods,
the market for motor vehicles varies
with general levels of prosperity and
employment, and is strongly affected by
availability of hire-purchase finance, and
by the Government’s variations in sales
tax levels.
Trailing cables are used mainly by
the mining, quarrying and construction
industries. And these, together with the
demand from manufacturing generally
for a wide range of special purpose
cables and wires, provide an important
source of demand, especially for the
heavier types of cables.
A certain stabilising influence exists
in the governmental sector of demand,
but this overall does not provide a suf-
ficient offset to the other sectors. This
instability of the market is important
to costs.
Australian electric wires and cables
industry is capable of supplying
99 p.c. of Australia’s requirements of
these products. Imports, which come
mostly from Britain, are relatively small,
costing just on £H million in 1962-63.
Some special types are not made here
simply because the market for them is
so small that local manufacture would
be uneconomical. In fact, the world’s
icquirements of such special types are
provided by a very few world manu-
facturers.
There are no detailed figures available
of Australian output of covered cables
and wires (excluding winding wires), but
total value is probably in the vicinity
of between £lsm. and £2om. a year.
Sales of magnet winding wires in 1960
were 3829 tons; in 1961, 3042 tons;
and in 1962, 2678 tons. Optimum
capacity of this section of the industry
in 1963 was about 4500 tons.
Exports of electric wires and cables
as such are small —in 1962-63 they
amounted to 37,857 cwt. of all types,
valued at £489,673. Principal markets
were New Zealand and India. However,
indirectly, these products add consider-
ably to our export receipts as integral
parts of a wide range of electrical goods
e.g., radio receivers, motor vehicles,
electric motors, transformers, electric
shavers, motor mowers, radar, com-
munications equipment, etc.
The industry here dates from 1918
when Metal Manufactures Ltd started
manufacturing copper wire and strand,
and then in 1922 extended its activities
to the manufacture of telephone cable.
Apart from these products, however,
most of Australia’s needs of electric
cable and wires were supplied from over-
seas until the Second World War.
In 1940 two Australian companies
entered the industry. The Olympic Tyre
and Rubber Co. started making rubber
insulated cables, and Rola Co. (Aust.)
Pty Ltd started making magnet winding
wires. These companies were joined by
Cable Makers Australia Pty Ltd in
1941, when a factory was established in
NSW by Metal Manufactures Ltd in
conjunction with the members of the
Cable Makers’ Association of UK.
Olympic Cables Pty Ltd was formed
as a separate subsidiary of the Olympic
Tyre and Rubber Co. to take over the
manufacture of cables in 1947. A new
factory was built and the range of cables
and wires was considerably extended.
The telecommunications cable-making
activities of Metal Manufactures Ltd
were taken over from 1948 by a new
company (formed by MM and Standard
Telephones and Cables Pty Ltd) named
Austral Standard Cables Pty Ltd, which
was established first at Port Kembla.
In 1949 another new company, British
Australian Power Cables Pty Ltd, was
incorporated, being jointly owned by
MM, BICC (UK) and other UK cable
makers to make power cables in high
voltage ranges. Production by this com-
pany began in ,1952. This company
merged with Fairfield Cables Pty Ltd in
1958 and was re-named Power Cables
of Aust. Co. Pty Ltd. It took over the
cable - making activities of Fairfield
Cables Pty Ltd (which began manu-
facture in 1955) while the latter com-
pany, re-named Fairfield Electric Wire
Co. Pty Ltd, from that time concentrated
on manufacture of magnet winding
wires.
TpHUS three Australian companies —•
Olympic and Cable Makers Australia
in cables and Rola in winding wires
started this industry to supply essential
Australian needs during World War 11,
when overseas supplies were strictly
limited. From this beginning the in-
dustry was built up in the post-war years
by the entry of a number of smaller
Australian manufacturers and the in-
corporation of large factories sponsored
by members of the Cable Makers’ As-
sociation of the UK.
The major manufacturers of covered
cables and wires in Australia are thus
Austral Standard Cables Pty Ltd, Metal
Manufactures Ltd (mainly through their
interests in Austral Standard, Cable
Makers Aust. and Power Cables of
Aust.), Cable Makers Australia and
Power Cables of Aust., and Olympic
Cables. The three major manufacturers
of magnet winding wires are Rola, Fair-
field and Insulated Wires (Aust.).
Members of the Cable Makers’ As-
sociation of Great Britain have major
financial control of four of the five major
cable makers, and two of the three major
makers of magnet winding wire in Aus-
tralia.


MARKET POINTERS
More Answers Needed
/Ane of the questions arising out of the
” sorry financial position so far dis-
closed by the AUSTRALIAN FACTORS
group concerns the formation of an out-
side company whose ownership is re-
ported to be entirely unrelated.
A financial man in Sydney said last
week it was not unusual for a lender
to form a separate company and transfer
a debt. If the debt looked like going
bad, but was transferred to a second
company, it became a fresh debt and
the parent company merely showed it as
an investment in a subsidiary. Consoli-
dated accounts, of course, should cover
the full debt position.
If an entirely separate company is
formed, however, with no investment
capital subscribed by the parent or its
nominees, it is completely unrelated. And
if such an outside company is formed
without the knowledge of the directors
and submits an invoice for goods sold
as if it were an independent client, the
factoring company could pay out money
on a bad risk, to say the least.
If this is put forward as an excuse for
Australian Factors, it is hardly reassur-
ing on the likely manipulations possible
within a factoring or financing group.
A note to the accounts by auditors of
Australian Factors indicates that trade
debtors include £600,550 incurred in
transactions outside the scope of the
company’s normal operations.
It is stated also that the company is
in the process of re-negotiating these
outstandings but, because it was not pos-
sible at this stage to assess the adequacy
of such securities as have been or may
be obtained on re-documentation, it is
possible that further losses may be sus-
tained.
After the experience of Latec, Reid-
Murray and others, it was thought that
very close attention was being given by
managements to finance arrangements,
particularly the type of paper written.
Is it any wonder, after the Australian
Factors shock, that the market tended
to be nervous about other companies in
a similar field?
It seems that more explanations are
necessary.
★ ★ ★
TAEmS/r AND INVESTMENT, after
taking a tumble on disclosure of
bad debts, has steadied at around 95.,
at which level it yields 5.5 p.c.
Considering that this stock was per-
sistently recommended by a leading
stockbroker at higher levels and that the
shares generally are in fairly strong
hands, present levels might represent re-
covery value.
★ ★ ★
shares marched up the hill on
"*■ reports from the retail trade that
the elimination of trade discounts would
add <£2m. annually to manufacturers’
profits.
They marched down again when it
was learned that the retail claim would
need to be trimmed slightly to allow for
the fact that the trade discount for
prompt cash payment was not always
earned and, in fact, that trade accounts
would be extended considerably now
that there was no incentive for retailers
to pay promptly. It also was pointed out
that manufacturers will need to meet in-
creased freight costs to country areas.
Another reminder which dampened
optimism was the impending publication
of the US Surgeon-General’s report on
smoking . . . which is unlikely to raise
three rousing cheers from, manufacturers.
Sticking stubbornly to an indicated
earnings yield of 9.2 p.c. and market
yield of around 5.2 p.c., a Sydney broker
said he would hesitate to recommend his
clients to sell ROTHMANS shares and,
come to think of it, BRITISH TO-
BACCO’S earnings yield of 8 p.c. wasn’t
so bad these days if you considered its
attempts at diversification.
★ ★ ★
T>umors kept circulating about CRA’s
* intentions towards KATHLEEN
INVESTMENTS, despite a denial by
Kathleen Investments’ directors on De-
cember 13.
The price of Kathleen Investments
shares reached 26 5. 6 d. at one stage
before reacting to 21 s. and then recover-
ing slightly.
CRA shares also jumped to 21s. 9d.
at one stage before subsiding, so who-
ever started the rumor certainly tickled
the market along.
Reason why the two companies were
linked so closely is that Kathleen In-
vestments holds about 30 p.c. of the
capital of Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd
and CRA holds 51 p.c.
★ ★ M
A nother rumor going the rounds was
A that the COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA might get a London
suitor.
The 10s. shares of CBA at the time
were selling at about 24 times par value.
The only other bank shares which sell
below this ratio are the ES&A. Because
the ES&A is London-registered it was
suggested that the two may merge to
achieve economy of operation. But the
rumor became confused when CBA an-
nounced on December 18 it would take
up a 10 p.c. interest in a new inter-
national banking organisation, Midland
and International Banks Ltd, London.
★ ★ -K
What are sharebrokers saying about
1964? One leading Sydney broker-
age firm stands up staunchly and says
sound stocks stand to benefit in the
period of buoyancy ahead.
On page two of its circular it recom-
mends a list of stocks, each of which is
enjoying continuation of its past year’s
rising profit trend.
Eagerly turning to page two we find
64 stocks listed. But wait. The circular
at least gives a choice of stocks based
on earnings yield. It provides 16 stocks
in the earning yield bracket from 6 p.c.
to 7 p.c., 15 stocks in the 7 p.c. to 8 p.c.
bracket, 11 stocks in the 8 p.c. to 9 p.c.
bracket and 22 stocks in the 9 p.c. and
over bracket.
This has no relation to dividend yield,
of course, because CAPTAIN PRO-
DUCTS, with an earnings yield of more
than 10 p.c. provides a market yield of
only 2.9 p.c. PYE INDUSTRIES, with
10.2 p.c. earnings yield, gives only 2.3
p.c. on the market. These two shares are
tightly held, so a prospective investor
would be in good company.
Looking back among the low yielders,
however, GORDON & GOTCH, despite
its strong price rise, still has a solid look
about it because its earning rates show
an almost unbroken trend after generous
bonus issues.


INVESTMENT SECTION
Running on the Rails Again?
Freighters’ Corrective Action Reassuring
transport specialist Freighters
" Ltd can scarcely be expected to
shed all its troubles very quickly, the
firm resolution of the present board
begins to hold out some hopes for share-
holders.
These do not only proceed from the
fact that 1961-62’s disastrous £289,017
trading loss has been cut back to
£41,375 for the latest year, nor that
directors feel a pre-tax profit of
£150,000 seems capable of achieve-
ment in the current year.
After all, accumulated losses totalling
£356,308 have reduced reserves to
£426,867, against capital of
£ 1,502,647. And two years’ dividends
are already forgone, with no restoration
yet in sight.
However, the new chairman, Mr
Kenneth O. Humphreys, really did give
the annual meeting an honest and com-
prehensive picture of strenuous correc-
tive action. Without desiring to praise
or criticise past policies and actions, he
attained an apparently objective ap-
praisal.
“Far tighter financial procedures and
controls” were not designed just “to
patch up a poor situation temporarily.”
Trading losses have thus practically come
under control and no further excessive
stock write-downs should be needed in
the future.
The group plans to get out of un-
productive merchandising activities. Out-
side distributors for fork-lift trucks now
operate in all States except South Aus-
tralia. The Cameron and Sutherland dis-
tribution subsidiary will eventually be
disposed of.
Further development must be held at
a minimum until liquidity is improved
and manufacturing efficiency lifted. The
sales position was markedly better dur-
ing 1962-63 and all plants now possess
“a satisfactory backlog of orders out-
standing.”
The ss. shares, around 3s. 9d., have
climbed from a 1963 low at Is. lid.
Top price this year was 3s. lid.
Iron Patience
llMestern Mining Corporation has
" required a full year of discussion
to clinch the iron ore contract with
Japanese steel mills. The company itself
must certainly be relieved at the success-
ful termination of negotiations, but the
news did not manage to raise much ex-
citement in the sharemarkets.
Some considerable developments ob-
viously lie ahead of WMC. The alumin-
ium project with Alcoa of Australia Pty,
in which the group holds a 20 p.c. in-
terest, got well off the ground during
1962-63. The iron consortium, whose
remaining partners are American Hanna
and Homestake Mining each owning
25 p.c. interests, must now start to move
speedily beyond the preliminary investi-
gational stages.
Investors, though, believe in waiting
and seeing. WMC’s ss. shares stick close
to 28s. That price was also 1962’s peak.
The ore agreement gives a rate of
£5 12s. sd. a ton for 5.1 million tons
delivered to Japanese ports, deliveries
to be spread over eight years from
April, 1966. The rate is somewhat lower
than WMC’s first quotes and its f.o.b.
equivalent does not suggest a very wide
profit margin.
But the Western Australian Govern-
ment may cut its 6s. a ton royalty down
to Is. 6d. a ton while shipments from
Geraldton port go forward in vessels
of less than 20,000 tons capacity, in
view of uncertainty as to the deepening
of Geraldton harbor.
WMC will take initial production from
its Koolanooka Hills concession, build-
ing a spur railway 13 miles to Morawa
whence the ore may go by rail direct
to Geraldton. First shipments are plan-
ned at 500,000 tons a year, eventually
rising to 800,000 tons.
Larger and more profitable contracts
could subsequently be gained by one or
other of the combines developing the
vast WA iron ore deposits. WMC has
the honor of leading Australia into the
highly competitive international market.
Not Squatting
T>erhaps there’s nothing like wanting
to reject a takeover bid to prod
directors into a more exact determina-
tion of a company’s assets. Perhaps,
too, they may eventually decide to let
shareholders into some of the story.
On both counts that’s precisely what
has happened in Squatting Investment
Co. Ltd, Victorian-based pastoralist
with all its properties in NSW.
Refusing 41s. 6d. a 10s. share from
Marra Development two months ago,
directors revealed an assets backing
above 60s. a share, instead of a
previously accepted 355. Bd. Then came
promise of a current dividend in “the
region of 25 p.c.” after two years at
12i p.c., the last payment being made
on an earning rate of 13.7 p.c.
To cap it all (as a New Year gift?),
March will see shareholder approval
sought for a one-for-one bonus. The
only mystery now remaining appears to
be the post-bonus dividend rate.
Before the issue announcement the
shares were selling at 425.
Lashings of Tin
markets continue to be satisfyingly
A impressed by Aberfoyle Holdings’
recent issue moves. Prices of the ss.
shares, which had previously seen a best
of 15s. during 1963, stay comfortably
close to 18s.
Aberfoyle’s new association with BHP
was probably considered enough reason
to push the shares up to 205., from
which exalted level they have since
eased. But existing shareholders, too, are
coming out of it pretty well in terms
of a one-for-two issue at a ss. premium.
BHP is taking up 800,000 shares at
the same rate and gets an option, valid
for 10 years, to buy up to one million
further shares at 75 p.c. of the market
price ruling when the option is exer-
cised. A limiting condition prevails that
BHP should not hold more than 30 p.c.
of Aberfoyle's paid capital.
Both issues will raise a total of
£934,125, to be used “mainly in main-
taining Aberfoyle's equity in the several
operating mines which are likely to be
established in the near future. These
projects result from the successful pros-
pecting and development carried out by
the Aberfoyle Group on tin fields which
were acquired throughout Australia
from early 1961 as offering potential
from large scale tin mining operations.”
Doubtless the annual meeting on De-
cember 31 may be given more specific
details, though there are actually suffi-
cient of these in the directors’ report
accompanying the 1962-63 accounts.
The Aberfoyle Tin Development Part-
nership (members Aberfoyle Tin NL,
North Australian Uranium Corporation
NL, Paringa Mining, Metals Exploration
NL and South Alligator Uranium NL)
has evidently achieved a fair measure of
preliminary success.
Directors were on the verge of the
capital arrangements when the accounts
were published. Having previously
floated off Ardlethan separately, they
could point to three further definite
prospects “capable of important con-
tributions to Australia’s tin require-


E SAND A.
LIMITED
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase, leasing and other finance operations
as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
E.S.&A. BANK
through the Australia-wide branch system of the Bank
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
CURRENCY
ISSUED AT PAR
INTEREST
O years
6 years
O years
4 years
3 years
6%
5 3 A%
5V4%
5V4%
5%
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
CURRENCY
ISSUED AT PAR
INTEREST
8
6
5
4
3
years
years
years
years
years
interest per annum payable half-yearly
6V4%
6%
5 3 A%
5 V 6%
5V4%
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms of application
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges and at any office of The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited.
ESANDA LIMITED
(incorporated in victoria)
Registered Office: 287 Collins Street, Melbourne
ments” Mount Cleveland (Tasmania),
Greenbushes (WA) and Gibsonvale
(NSW).
All this activity helps to confirm di-
rectors’ hopes that “the possibility of
Australia becoming self-sufficient in tin
in the next few years is very real”.
Current production at about 2600 tons
still has to be set against consumption
approaching 5000 tons, with a conse-
quent heavy reliance upon imports.
BHP, possessing voracious demands
for its tinplate mills, may possibly be
intent to see that predatory foreigners
don’t come too close to Australia’s
proved tin resources. Aberfoyle itself
must be observing the world price posi-
tion happily.
The International Tin Council’s new
ceiling has been repeatedly pierced and
world consumption promises to remain
well ahead of foreseeable production.
US stockpile disposals are being managed
with moderation.
Lubricating An Earning Rate
Ampol Petroleum’s unceasing vigor
will reap a fitting reward if the
earning rate begins to turn upward in
1963-64, as directors feel sure must
happen.
The company has never shirked its
developmental tasks, yet shareholders
have often felt a measure of discomfort
when the 14 p.c. dividend, held since
1960, continued to press close against
earnings. In the last two years, for
instance, the earning rate stayed at 15.8
p.c.
Directors bring reasonable conviction
to their annual report: “Commencing in
1964 and increasing in velocity in sub-
sequent years, investment in projects
previously non-producing will begin to
reflect in our profits and return on
capital.”
At the same time they are forced to
record fierce competition during 1962-
63, with gross profit margins hit in
every product. Strenuous merchandising,
effective advertising and streamlining of
operations came to the rescue, bringing
net profit up by 8 p.c. to a record
£2,507,069.
Optimistically enough, the Brisbane
oil refinery, which goes on stream in
mid-1965, is expected to contribute to
1965-66 earnings. Kurnell lubricating
oil refinery, where Ampol holds a 25 p.c.
interest, starts up very soon and its
products will be marketed early in 1964.
To keep the pot boiling, Ampol is to
build an 18,000 tons deadweight tanker
specially to ship oil from Brisbane
around the Australian coast. Costing
about £l3 million, finance won’t prove
arduous, because the new vessel replaces
others in process of amortisation.


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
Year ended 31st March
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
7721
8019
8417
8371
11201
Current liabilities
7996
8174
8412
6782
5867
—
—
-
Net working capital
(275)
(155)
5
1589
5334
Fixed assets
23236
23258
23331
23446 24310
Investments
202
202
192
192
191
Total capital
23433
23460
23528 25227 29835
Represented by:—
Working capital
deficit
275
155
Loan capital
—
—
—
1211
Ordinary capital
9274
9274
9274
10820
10820
Reserves
13889
14031
14254
14407
17804
Depreciation
866
924
923
937
991
Tax
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
N.A.
1930
Earnings
1322
1368
1470
1505
1911
Ord. Dividend
1182
1229
1252
1356
1488
Surplus
140
139
218
149
423
Earnings per share
(shillings) (a)
2.58
2.62
2.86
3.00
3.54
Dividend per share
(shillings) (a)
2.30
2.36
2.44
2.70
2.76
Earnings yield % (b)
4.9
4.4
4.4
4.0
4.4
Dividend yield % (b)
4.4
4.0
3.8
3.9
3.4
(a) Adjusted for cash issue's bonus content.
(b) Based on last sa
le in
month
accounts presented.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Remarkable Rise in Tooths
Are the Shares Worth Their Present Price?
By “ANALYST”
"VTow that it seems that the large hold-
ing of shares in the Resch’s estate
will not come on to the market, Tooth
& Co. Ltd shares have resumed the up-
ward movement that has been in evidence
almost without any other interruption
since the beginning of 1963.
This movement has carried the shares
from 665. to 945., which means a pur-
chaser in the first week of last January
who sold out during the first week in
December would have seen a return of
33.7 p.c. on his money. This is after
allowing for brokerage and stamp duty
and ignoring the dividends which have
been received during that time.
While this must seem remarkable to
some, it is worth pointing out that
Tooheys’ shares have risen from 7s. 4d.
to 10s. 7d. over the same period and
would have shown a return of 31 p.c.
As Tooheys reduced the dividend paid
in 1963 by 11 p.c. and Tooth increased
it by nearly 4 p.c., it seems that the price
rise is not connected with the per-
formance of the companies concerned,
but rather with external factors.
As Tooth’s accounts have not been
sufficiently informative in the past to
quote earnings per share with any con-
fidence, it is only feasible to make a
comparison of the dividends per share of
the two companies. Using the dividends
paid in 1952 as a base, the index for
the last ten years is as follows: —
'54 '55 '56 '57 '5B '59 '6O '6l '62 '63
Tooth 107 108 120 122 125 127 130 135 149 152
Tooheys 104 126 145 145 163 163 163 163 163 145
Tf it were not for the lapse last year,
there would be no doubt from these
figures that Tooheys was the better propo-
sition for the 1952 investor. But since
1958 Tooth’s dividend increased by
nearly 20 p.c. to 1962 (and looks like
increasing by 24 p.c. by 1964) while
Tooheys’ dividend remained steady and
even declined in 1963.
The business of Tooth and Company
was established about 35 years before the
business of Tooheys and less than 50
years after the arrival of the first fleet.
Although expansion took place by the
acquisition of other breweries before
1929, it was in that year that the major
acquisition of Resch’s Ltd came about.
This deal involved the issue of nominal
capital of £l£ million and must surely
have been one of the most substantial
takeovers up to that time. While most are
probably aware that Tooth owns Resch’s,
there are still a number of Sydneysiders
who will not drink Tooth’s beer but only
Resch’s.
Tooth has been notable not only for
its takeovers but also for the paucity of
information given in its published ac-
counts. Even with the introduction of the
new Uniform Companies Act, the com-
pany has maintained the same balance
sheet format, although the tax provision
is now disclosed on the liabilities side
and the market value of investments in
Australian Consolidated Inscribed Stock
and stock and debtors provisions on the
assets side.
"ITowever, the investing public were no
doubt most interested in the increase
in stockholders’ funds, which amounted
to £2.9 million (after adjustment for the
provision for long-service leave which
was taken out of the reserve account).
This increase is represented in the assets
side by £0.9 million in fixed assets and
£2 million in sundry debtors.
The directors’ report informs us that
about £2.5 million is due to profits on
the sale of fixed assets and excess pro-
visions and has been transferred to the
reserve account, and the balance of
£400,000 is the amount by which net
profit after tax for 1962-63 exceeded
the dividend payment of just under
£1.5 million.
A closer look at the figures for cur-
rent assets would suggest that probably
at least another £ 1 million should also
be transferred to the reserve account,
namely, the whole of the stock provision
(which has been made, although stock is
“at values not exceeding cost”) and about
£300,000 from the debtors provision
which I would have thought was ade-
quate at 5 p.c. of the book value or even
less.
In 1961, the company disclosed for
the first time the depreciation provision
and adjusted the figures for 1960 “to
make them properly comparable with
the year under review.” In view of the
consideration shown at that time, it is a
little unfortunate that the company did
not feel that it could produce comparable
figures for 1962 when publishing the
1963 accounts.
The other announcement related to
the cash issue to shareholders. This was
the first cash issue for over a quarter
of a century.
Prospects are difficult to assess at this
point of time because the consumption
of beer, which had been fairly static
for the three years 1958, 1959 and 1960,
has apparently started to rise again, for
increases in licence fees of 6i p.c. in
1961 and a further 2\ p.c. in 1962 have
been recorded. Nevertheless, we cannot
overlook the decline which occurred in
the licence fees paid by hotels in the
1958-1960 period and which could occur
again perhaps for a longer period.
While “publicans’ ” licences are declining
in number, restaurant and club licences
are still increasing and the licence fees
paid by clubs have trebled in the last six
years. While the fees of the hotels have
been increasing at the average compound
rate of only 3 p.c. per annum, the total
fees have been increasing at the average
compound rate of 6 p.c. per annum.
/"4ver the same period, Tooth’s dividend
has been increasing at the average
annual compound rate of 4 p.c. This rate
hasn’t changed materially over the last ten
years, although there was a tendency for
the rate to slow down somewhat between
1955 and 1960, the period when the
number of licensed clubs increased
threefold.
Generally I feel that, on all the avail-
able information, it is unlikely that the
rate of growth in dividend payout can
be increased and on this basis the future
looks fully discounted at a price of
90s. 6d. to show a 3.1 p.c. yield from
the indicated dividend of 14 p.c. per
annum.
In 1949 the shares sold at 84s. to show
a 3.6 p.c. yield. Today, 15 years later,
the 1949 investor would be receiving a
return of 5.5 p.c. on his investment. If
history repeats itself, the return on today’s
investment will reach only 5 p.c. per
annum by 1977.


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
5861
5625
6033
5707
6569
liabilities
2689
3075
3390
3118
4462
Working capital
3172
2550
2643
2589
2107
1 nvestments
—
25
250
250
250
Fixed assets
4748
5689
6283
6553
7057
Intangibles
285
649
666
659
347
—
—
—
Total assets
8205
8913
9842
10051
9761
Ordinary capital
5391
5837
6567
6567
6567
Reserves
1022
1335
1555
1799
1547
Outside shareholders
192
174
155
137
117
Loan capital
1600
1567
1565
1548
1530
8205
8913
9842
10051
9761
Depreciation
272
333
339
384
399
Taxation
306
404
330
428
283
Net profit
517
623
624
748
604
Dividend
396
467
482
525
525
Surplus
121
156
142
223
79
Earning rate
10.5
10.7
10.4
11.4
9.2
Dividend rate
8
8
8
8
8
Dividend yield (a)
Price/earnings
4.5
4.9
5.3
4.3
4.8
ratio (a)
16.9
15.1
14.7
16.1
18.2
High price (b)
19/9
20/-
17/3
20/-
21/6
Low price (b)
14/1
15/6
14/1
15/-
15/11
(a) End of November, month accounts
presented.
(b) Calendar year;
1963 to end-
of November.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Gadsden’s Bad Debts Due to
Overseas Failure
bad debts incurred in
1962-63 robbed J. Gadsden Aus-
tralia Ltd of the chance to more or less
maintain the previous year’s peak profit.
The sudden failure of an overseas
controlled canning company which oper-
ated in South Australia and West Aus-
tralia for the last two years, was blamed
for the write-off of £127,003 of a total
£134,985 in bad debts.
This was later revealed to be Foster
Clark (SA) Ltd and Great Western Pro-
cessed Foods Pty Ltd, both subsidiaries
of the English Foster Clark group. The
SA and WA Governments suddenly with-
drew guarantees of these companies’
bank accounts, so receivers were ap-
pointed. Nothing was available for un-
secured creditors.
The net result of trading in the year
to June 30, after providing £282,526
(1962 £427,600) for tax and £399,407
(£384,025) for depreciation, was
£603,934 profit compared with the pre-
vious year’s profit of £747,781.
Earning rate of 9.2 p.c. barely skim-
med the usual 8 p.c. dividend. The rela-
tively low tax figure deserved explanation
from directors. Presumably some tax
benefits were obtained from additional
investment in capital equipment.
J. Gadsden covers Australian pack-
aging needs by supplying plain and
printed cans for paint, food, beer and
soft drinks, crown seals for bottles, and
calico, hessian and paper bags.
When the provision of cans for food
became an overcrowded field, Gadsden
was fortunate to obtain new business in
cans for beer it won contracts from
Tooth of NSW and Carlton and United
Breweries in Victoria, and pioneered the
manufacture of cans for soft drinks in
Australia.
The business began in Melbourne in
1879, and became publicly listed in 1954.
It embraced in 1959 the New South
Wales company, Gadsden Hughes Hold-
ings Ltd and has since taken over the
can-making and tin-printing business of
James Robertson Pty Ltd of Sydney.
The company, formed jointly in 1959
with W. E. Smith Ltd to make corru-
gated and solid fibre containers at Staf-
ford, near Brisbane, became a wholly
owned subsidiary on July 1, 1961.
A 50 p.c. interest is maintained in
Australian Packaging Industries Pty Ltd
which was formed with the international
Van Leer organisation, to make 44-
gallon steel drums in Melbourne and
Sydney.
Substantial establishment expenses
were involved here, but the chairman
(Mr N. C. Gadsden) announced at the
1963 annual meeting that this company
(whose accounts are not consolidated in
the group) operated profitably for
1962-63.
Success of the food canning business
is closely tied up with the fortunes of
the stone fruit crops and the state of the
meat export trade.
In 1962-63 there seemed to be some
reluctance to can fruit because of fear of
over-supplying the market, while meat
was not packed because canning type
meat was sold as boneless beef to
America. The paint trade was depressed
by abnormally wet weather in Sydney.
Rothman’s snap-top cigarette packs
represent valuable business for Gadsden.
Group factories are located in Mel-
bourne, Sydney, Port Adelaide, Brisbane,
Fremantle, Hobart, Devonport, and Shep-
parton (Vic). The Shepparton plant was
built in 1961 to service Campbell’s
Soups.
A current development is the
£300,000 extension to the O'Connor
(WA) plant, which will then house a tin-
plate printing plant for beer and soft
drink cans. A polythene extruder was
recently installed there to make poly-
thene material for packing food, includ-
ing vegetables, hardware, insecticides, etc.
At balance date group commitments
for capital expenditure were £713,000
compared with £575,000 at June 30,
1962.
A drop in debtors’ accounts from
£1,991,199 to £1,704,728 and heavy
build-up in stocks from £3,112,372 to
£4,145,526 does not spell buoyant trad-
ing; particularly as it was accompanied by
an increase in current liabilities.
The chairman told shareholders that
the smaller demand for certain lines
caused stock-piling, while increased de-
mand for others required greater stocks.
He said the stock situation was now cor-
recting itself.
Sales in the first four months of 1963-
64 were reported slightly higher than in
1963, and seasonal prospects were con-
sidered better.
Although trade creditors were reduced
from £722,734 to £414,374, money
borrowed in call deposits increased from
£707,272 to £l,l 12,848 and overdrafts
increased from £731,357 to the hefty
figure of £2,094,062.
While the working capital position
gives no cause for concern, it is obvious
that liquidity declined significantly over
1962-63.
The recent announcement that Carl-
ton and United Breweries had bought
Hercules Fibre Containers Pty Ltd from
Fibre Containers Ltd could be a straw
in the trade wind. Such vertical integra-
tion robs the independent packagers of
valuable business.
Two one-for-eight par issues in nine
or ten years is not much growth for a
company so long established in what is
generally conceded to be a growth in-
dustry.
On present information the 10s. shares
seem barely worth the 16s. being asked
in the market place. The yield at that
level is 5.0 p.c.


ACCOUNTS
1 SUMMARY
(£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current ossets
340
415
431
481
487
Less current liabilities
257
318
242
231
226
Working capital
83
97
189
250
261
Fixed assets
148
154
216
216
220
Intangibles
26
104
30
30
30
257
355
435
496
511
Loan copital
44
120
103
90
88
Ordinary capital
105
105
105
210
210
Reserves
108
130
227
196
213
—
—
—
—
257
355
435
496
511
Depreciation
100
122
128
132
131
Taxation
35
36
33
40
29
Net profit
36
40
48
52
43
Dividends
13
13
13
26
26
Surplus
23
27
35
26
17
Earning rate
34.5
38.6
45.5
24.7
20.4
Dividend rate
124
124
124
124
124
Dividend yield (a)
4.0
3.0
3.7
2.8
2.5
Price/earnings ratio (a)
8.8
10.6
7.5
17.8
23.8
High price (b) 15/7^
21/6
27/9
27/3
30/3
Low price (b)
7/9
19/9
18/6
17/9
22/-
(a) End of November,
(b) Calendar year.
month accounts
presented.
NEON ELECTRIC SIGNS LTD
Shareholders Expecting Too Much
Meon Electric Signs Ltd, dis-
appointed with a smaller profit in
the last year to June 30. Trading result
dropped from £52,438 to £42,938 after
providing £29,250 (1961-62 £4O ?00)
for tax and £130,820 (£132,294) for
depreciation.
Earning rate on unchanged capital
slipped from 24.7 to 20.4 p.c., but the
company was untroubled to hold its usual
12j p.c. dividend.
Directors attribute the decrease in net
profit to the lower rental income brought
about by a decline in rental contracts
written in 1961-62, plus certain increased
costs and a higher write-off for bad debts.
They said: “The business failures
following the November, 1960, credit
restrictions have necessitated £23,930
being charged against this year’s income
to provide for bad and doubtful debts.
This matter of bad debts is not peculiar
to your company, but is one that is
causing concern throughout the whole
business community.”
The balance sheet shows trade debtors
at £64,804 after providing £23,784 for
doubtful debts. The 1962 balance sheet
revealed a similar (£23,276) provision
for doubtful debts, leaving the balance
of the account at £79,594.
Rental contracts written were greater
in 1962-63 and this trend has continued
in the first four months. Directors report
that rental income over the next five
years will benefit.
Installations on hire at cost less amor-
tisation appear in the 1963 balance sheet
at £282,845 compared with £293,994 the
year before. Rentals paid in advance
dropped from £47,876 to £44,072.
It would, therefore, appear that con-
tracts now being written are not fully
replacing those, written five years ago,
that are now expiring.
The company claims that it maintains
a sound and conservative accounting
practice of capitalising installations on
hire at factory cost of production and
erection. Selling expenses, except those
relating to unexecuted contracts on hand
at year s end, and administration ex-
penses are charged fully against the
year’s profit.
Liquidity is strong with £72,500 on
short-term deposit and debentures, and
a nominal overdraft.
Melbourne-based, the company was
founded by Mr O. J. Nilsen in 1930,
and, of course, makes neon and plastic
signs and fluorescent lighting. The signs
are let out on a five-year term.
In 1959-60 Rayneon Signs Ltd was
acquired and a Tasmanian business was
begun the next year.
The company, while small, has a
sound record of continuous profit and
dividends since 1941. In 1961 a one-for-
two bonus and a par issue in the same
ratio did not interrupt the procession of
124 p.c. dividends.
Judging from the smaller balances for
installations on hire, the trade debtors,
and rentals paid in advance, it would
seem that business is not particularly
buoyant at the present time.
By contrast the neon signs business of
W. R. Carpenter Holdings Ltd is be-
lieved to be flourishing.
At 245. the ss. Neon Electric shares
yield a microscopic 2.6 p.c. in income
and 4.2 p.c. on earnings. Shareholders
are expecting too much to hold them
at this price, even though they have
already come back 6s. 3d. this year.
CASTLEMAINE PERKINS LTD
More Perks Due from Brewery
of reserves is the
dominant feature of accounts issued
by Castlemaine Perkins Ltd for the year
to July 31, 1963.
Chief item was the creation of a share
premium account of £988,211 from the
issue of £397,906 in share capital to
purchase hotel and other properties.
A capital profit of £28,936 was
realised on the sale of the Albert Hotel
in Brisbane.
The apparent absence of working
capital over the years need not be taken
too seriously. Included amongst 1963
current liabilities is £425,014 provision
for renovations, replacements and con-
tingencies. Though this item has been
largely unchanged for the past five years,
in 1962-63 £130,000 was transferred to
it from profit and loss appropriation
account (which might suggest that it is
more a reserve than a liability). On the
other hand £197,618 was drawn from
this account to reduce fixed assets to
a fair and reasonable figure.
A special provision for depreciation,
of £120,000, which had been classed as
a current liability in 1962, was trans-
ferred to reserves, as directors said the
provision was no longer necessary.
Current assets contain a high pro-
portion of liquid assets £680,000 in
money at call, £55,000 in Common-
wealth Bonds and £72,581 in cash on
hand and at the bank.
Net profit of the parent (that is
excluding the £1564 earned by the sub-
sidiary, Brisbane Bottle Exchange Co.
Pty Ltd) was £804,247, compared with
£649,126 in 1961-62. Tax provision was
£710,000 (£610,000 in 1961-62) and
depreciation £362,380 (£358,924).
A 14 p.c. dividend was paid for the
second year in succession. Earning rate
on the higher average capital rose from
21.6 to 23.4 p.c.
The high tax relative to profit (tax has
been revealed only in the last two years)
confirms the opinion that disclosed
profits are very conservatively stated.
Contracts for capital expenditure on
plant and buildings in existence at 1963
balance date, totalled £736,132 com-
pared with £222,428 the year before.
This suggests the company is in ex-
pansive mood.
The company owns more than 100
hotels in the south-east of Queensland,
and west of Brisbane. The business was
established in 1871. Its only local com-
petitor is Carlton and United Brewery,
since that company beat Castlemaine
Perkins in a takeover battle for Queens-
land Brewery early in 1961.
The advent of the Melbourne giant


ZONE 1
\
6.30 p.m.-10.30 p.m.
or the end of I.M.T.
whichever is the later
GTV9
HAS LARGEST
AUDIENCE
ZONE 1A
6.00 p.m.-7.30 p.m.
GTV9
AHEAD OF
OPPOSITION
10.30 p.m.-Close
GTV9
HAS HIGHEST
RATINGS
Open-6.00 p.m.
GTV9
IS TOP
STATION
GTV9 is top station
in all 4 time zones
Could you seriously consider any
other station for your commercials?
Ring your GTV9 account
executive now!


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
July 31
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
866
1043
1100
1472
1852
liabilities
1304
1562
1628
1738
1838
—
—
—
—
-
Working capital -438
-519
-528
-266
14
Investments
11
11
12
11
15
Fixed assets
5063
5969
6201
6411
7737
—
—
—
—
4636
5461
5685
6156
7766
Ord. capital
2400
2400
3000
3000
3398
Reserves
2236
3061
2685
3156
4368
—
—
—
—
—
4636
5461
5685
6156
7766
Depreciation
162
270
269
359
362
Taxation
—
—
610
710
Net profit
403
509
579
649
804
Dividend
240
288
360
420
476
Surplus
163
221
219
229
328
Earning rate
16.8
21.2
19.3
21.6
23.4
Dividend rate
10
12
12
14
14
Dividend yield
Price/earnings
(a) 3.0
3.1
4.9
3.7
2.7
ratio (a)
20.0
18.5
12.7
17.5
22.2
High price (b)
27/6
33/9
39/9
27/6
42/9
Low price (b)
21/6
24/1OJ
33/-
21/6
29/8 £
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 3t-270t P.O. BOX
(I lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
2 Denham Street Phone 6089
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan , McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243, 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street. Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sidney, Melbourne and
Brisbane
Cost
Cur-
No. of
Name of
Date
Per
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
2000
Hanimex
23/5/62
9/6
13/9
1000
Aeron
14/8/63
7/9
7/3
500
Elders GM
12/9/63
22/-
25/6
400
ISAS
24/9/63
18/-
19/6
200
Gibson & Howes
2/10/63
57/-
67/-
400
Larke
17/10/63
11/-
12/-
500
Holyman Woods
23/10/63
9/6
9/9
2000
Mid Eastern
24/10/63
2/6
2/4
2000
ODE
29/10/63
5/6
6/3
1000
Mobile Equip.
30/10/63
8/4
9/-
800
Tableland Tin
5/11/63
22/-
24/-
1000
Steamship, new
11/11/63
11/9
13/6
400
Malleys
12/11/63
27/3
29/-
200
Tutt Bryant £1
notes
22/11/63
29/3
31/-
200
W. Adams notes
2/12/63
49/6
52/6
1000
Ansett
2/12/63
7/7
8/-
500
Country Television
3/12/63
12/-
13/6
1000
R & N. Statham
11/12/63
10/9
10/9
1000
Martin Wells
12/12/63
13/6
13/9
1000
Commercial
Guaranty
12/12/63
5/9
6/3
to the Queensland scene does not appear
to have hurt Castlemaine Perkins at all.
Its brewery at Milton (Brisbane) has
been extensively remodelled and ex-
panded in recent years, financed from
retained profits.
At the same time Castlemaine Perkins
has been able to make a one-for-one
bonus in 1956 and a one-for-four bonus
late in 1960, and yet maintain hand-
some dividend rates.
At 58s. 4d. the 10s. shares are
historically very high. They were 16s.
cheaper earlier this year. When the
glare of publicity as a result of publica-
tion of 1962-63 accounts moves off the
company, the shares may be obtained at
cheaper levels, but they are not likely
to come back much before the next dis-
tribution from reserves.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Market Guide to Form
Racegoers who read this column
should find the following review of
the portfolio much more direct than if
it were written with the usual financial
cliches.
HANIMEX: Proved a strong stayer in
the last two years. Owner’s pessimism
caused its withdrawal from the Autumn
Carnival Meeting last Easter. Has since
made a promising return. To be raced
in England shortly.
AERON: Two-year-old filly. Does not
like heavy tracks. Has shown good form
on fast tracks recently.
ELDER SMITH GOLDSBROUGH
MORT: Well-bred stayer that should be
in top form for the current season.
ISAS: Still somewhat of an unknown
quality. Will pay handsomely if it
comes in.
GIBSON AND HOWES: Only
Queenslander in this review. Came home
brilliantly at 1 to 3 in the Bonus Stakes
last month.
LARKE CONSOLIDATED: Trainer’s
patience rewarded this year by its re-
turn to form. Expected to be raced over
longer distances in the future.
HOLYMAN WOODS: An outsider
that has surprised a number of times.
MID EASTERN: Having difficulty
carrying the extra weight. May not be
able to stay the distance.
ODE: A most consistent performer.
Will be all the better from recent racing
experience.
MOBILE: Aptly named galloper.
Finds Flemington very much to its
liking.
TABLELAND TIN: A long outsider
but favorably handicapped at 245.
STEAMSHIP TRADING: Bred in
New Guinea. Believed to have been
heavily backed by Indonesian sources.
MALLEYS: Has made a strong re-
covery since the stable fire in 1961.
Latest form hard to fault.
TUTT BRYANT: Often matched
against ISAS on NSW tracks. Has so
far proved the superior horse, but now
carrying much the heavier weight.
WILLIAM ADAMS: Lost form in
1962 but now coming right back into the
picture.
COUNTRY TELEVISION: Has made
some strong runs over the shorter dis-
tances. Easily won a barrier trial at
Orange recently.
ANSETT: Expected to reach peak
when Channel O (Melbourne) goes into
action.
COMMERCIAL GUARANTY: A
young mare that has plenty of ability.
Shaken badly last week when Australian
Factors fell in the straight.
MARTIN WELLS: Making its first
appearance on the Sydney Stock Ex-
change Track. Record book shows that
he is to be reckoned with.
R. AND N. STATHAM: Has per-
formed well on country tracks recently
throughout NSW. Looks set to have a
good season in 1964.
It is a hard field to choose from. At
this stage, Malley’s and Tableland Tin
strike me as two outstanding prospects
for 1964. With the world tin price
through the £lOOO a ton barrier, some
experts now expect this price to run up
to the £llOO post. By buying another
400 at 245. the original holding has been
doubled.
Another large outlay for the week was
the application money on Steamship
Trading. Since purchasing the rights, I
have become most confident about this
investment. In fact, I even toyed with
the idea of increasing the holding.
All this was paid for by the sale of
200 Gibson and Howes and 400 Broken
Hill South. Profits respectively were
£92 and £72. Both these are commodity
stocks. Now that the world prices of
lead, zinc and sugar have all turned
down, it seems likely that the share
prices will even off, or perhaps fall.
This week’s transactions were:
SOLD
200 Gibson & Howes, 67/- £671
400 Broken Hill South, 15/9 £3OB
BOUGHT
1000 Steamship application, 7/6 £375
400 Tableland Tin, 24/- £489
The New Year is faced with a debit of
£384.
A healthy and wealthy New Year to
you all.
The portfolio now is:


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Wool Awaits a Change
Marketing Problems Will Re-awaken Passions
¥l7hen the Australian Wool Industry
" Conference meets early next month
to give its decision on whether to recom-
mend raising the wool promotion levy
to help meet an annual budget of £.17
million for the International Wool Sec-
retariat, attention will return more
strongly than ever to an issue on which
passions have for the time being abated
marketing.
The resurgence of interest, however,
will be underlined by the question not of
whether orderly marketing should be in-
troduced but of what form it will take.
Over the past few years the word
“marketing” has been one of the most
overworked in the industry’s vocabu-
lary. The issue it represents has been
at the hub of a wrangle that has divided
producers, delayed spending on promo-
tion that has been deemed by one author-
ity after another to be vital for wool's
future, and provided so formidable an
obstacle to the industry’s progress that
the Federal Government has felt im-
pelled to help in the hurdling of it by
offering a £ for £ subsidy.
Now, on the eve of the levy announce-
ment, the marketing issue has almost
magically receded, the protagonists still
glaring at each other but with the cause
of their struggle suddenly whisked from
them.
HPhe Australian Wool Growers and
A Graziers’ Council, with which the
Graziers’ Associations in the States are
affiliated, for long upheld the free auc-
tion system with as much determination
as its members would defend their right
to breathe while not, however, deny-
ing the system’s faults. Its stand was
strengthened a few years ago when it
sent a two-man delegation to Britain to
bring back the truth about wool market-
ing. They returned convinced of the vir-
tues of the auction system, and the
graziers’ opposition to changing it re-
mained intact until Mr W. J. Vines came
into the picture as managing director
of the International Wool Secretariat two
years ago.
One of Vines’ first actions was to
round up some senior experts and tour
the market spots of the world. His re-
port said the marketing system must be
changed. Since then, the graziers have
gone into political retreat, suspending
their policy on marketing pending the
outcome of the Wool Board’s committee
of inquiry. Earlier, they had recom-
mended modifications to the auction sys-
tem, including the provision of a fund
to cushion sellers and make them less
vulnerable to the luck of the market,
the controlling of what types of wool
were put on the market at different times
of the year, to avoid overcrowding, and
improving the presentation of the clip
to lift its value and assure buyers of
quality.
graziers have continued to oppose
A the reserve price plan advocated by the
Wool and Meat Producers’ Federation
and its Victorian affiliate, the Victorian
Wheat and Wool Growers’ Association,
as being not worth the cost, and up to
the time they put the marketing question
into abeyance they had not been impres-
sed with any marketing scheme that had
been proposed.
The graziers are widely thought to
favor the appraisement system, but offici-
ally they deny this, pointing out that
they have mistakenly been attributed with
the policy through having agreed with
Mr Vines’ conclusion that the present
marketing system must be changed. At
the same time, graziers’ spokesmen have
said they would not be horrified if ap-
praisement were the committee’s recom-
mendation in six months’ time
Meanwhile, the creaking and rending
that many regard as the breaking up of
the auction system have for a time sub-
sided.
A major piece of disarming occurred
when the chairman of the Australian
Wool Board, Sir William Gunn, de-
clared recently that the Board would
throw as much weight into trying to
secure an orderly marketing system as
it was now putting into the campaign
for raising the wool levy provided the
Board’s committee of inquiry came up
with an acceptable plan. Sir William has
warned the industry to hold its breath
for something that might tend to take
it away. No one will guess how the com-
mittee's findings are shaping, but it is
considered safe to tip that radical
changes will be recommended in the
presentation of the clip so that the in-
dustry can get closer to guaranteeing
quality instead of offering wool in the
broad and sometimes inconsistent lines
into which it is now flung.
Sir William’s pledge of support for
orderly marketing may not have been
enough to take all the teeth out of the
VWWGA’s resistance, but his handling
of the round-Australia levy campaign,
which began with the Hamilton demon-
stration, has done so.
chief president of the VWWGA,
Mr P. Meehan, who is also a member
of the 50-man Wool Industry Confer-
ence, admits the odds are against grow-
ers holding out against the higher levy
until there is a settlement of the market-
ing question because Sir William has not
only presented the Board’s case well but
done so piecemeal, winning growers bit
by bit where they might have proved
indigestible in one lump. The sj'stem of
fragmentation has gained the Board so
much support that it would be no longer
wise for the VWWGA to brandish its
official policy. Meehan says there is little
doubt that the levy will rise by 275. in
January, adding, however, that had it
not been for the strong stand--of the
Association in Victoria and the Farmers’
Union in Western Australia, the Federal
Government may not have come up with
its promotion subsidy and the marketing
issue would not have attracted so many
assurances.
In all the talk of marketing, little has
been said about details. The need for
a floor price has often been mentioned
but appraisement seems a more likely
outcome. This would bring back mem-
ories of World War 11, when all wool
was sold in this way, valuers ascertain-
ing a wool’s description and reading off
its price from a fixed list containing hun-
dreds of types and qualities.
Some see appraisement as a com-
promise between the floor price system
and private treaty. Others regard it as
a counterpart to wheat stabilisation, ex-
cept that wheat payments are tied to
the f.a.q. figure set annually for all the
wheat in the country, whereas in wool
appraisement there would be a different
value for each of a multitude- of types.
Much more intricate classing would
be needed for appraisement, with clips
being torn into their smallest compon-
ents instead of today’s much broader and
vaguer portions, and a problem would
be to find trained staff to man the cum-
bersome administrative and technical
machinery that would go with it. Be-
cause of these and other problems re-


garded in some quarters as almost in-
superable, the marketing question may
finally be answered by a plan that takes
the industry towards the goal of over-the-
counter precision-selling in easy stages.
While the graziers have continued to
oppose the floor price system as a per-
manent solution, it is possible that they
may accept it as a stepping-stone to
something that could not be introduced
abruptly without throwing the industry
into chaos. Some are known to have
turned their eyes towards the British sys-
tem, in which the Government and the
industry each year haggle to fix a guar-
anteed price and then sell the wool by
auction.
The only certainty at present is that
change is due. Which of the many forms
it will take is a question that will give
Australia’s 120,000 wool-growers and
the industries who live off them some-
thing to nibble at for the next six
months.
Blood as Guide to Yield
COuld Lift Dairy Production by £8m.
"jyi’ENTiON of blood in connection with
■L'*- the breeding of livestock has invari-
ably been figurative. But now a Queens-
land scientist has proved that the kind of
blood flowing in an animal’s veins has
a distinct and literal bearing on its per-
formance.
The scientist, Dr G. C. Ashton, did
his work with dairy cattle. If the results
are valid, in less than a decade Aus-
tralia could lift the value of its dairy
production by about £8 million.
Dr Ashton, working with the Com-
monwealth Scientific and Industrial Re-
search Organisation in Queensland,
claims to have established the existence
of a link between a blood characteristic
of dairy cattle and the amount of milk
and butterfat the animals yield.
Blood grouping in animals had been
done before, first as an academic study
early this century, later for such prac-
tical purposes as checking the parentage
of pedigree stock, helping in the diagnos-
ing of identical twins, showing whether
a heifer is a freemartin and tracing the
origins of breeds.
Few people, however, imagined that
blood type could be used as an index
to quantitative characters like milk and
butterfat production. Only by actual per-
formance could they be measured, and
only by such measurement, carried out
in conjunction with refinements like
progeny testing, could selection for them
be accomplished.
T|r Ashton, then of the British Animal
Health Trust, was one who persisted
in a search that was widely dismissed as
futile.
To him the goal was exciting. Con-
firmation of his scientific suspicions
would offer a genetic marker that indi-
cated milk-producing ability, that worked
for bulls and calves as well as cows, and
which reduced the guesswork involved
in deciding whether a cow's merit came
from breeding or feeding.
Most previous workers had grouped
blood according to the properties of the
red cells, but Dr Ashton was interested in
the blood serum the watery fluid con-
taining such things as salts, albumins and
globulins in which the red cells were sus-
pended. He had previously discovered
that only three genes • hereditary units
which an animal receives from its par-
ents determined a certain type-factor
in the blood serum of British cattle, and
that they possessed no dominance.
He called the genes A, D and E. It
followed that only six possible types
AA, AD, AE, DD, DE and EE—could
show 7 up in the progeny of any two
parents. It also followed that blood
analysis would show the genetic make-
up for this particular character.
T'o Dr Ashton the beauty of it was
that, unlike most situations in which an
animal's phenotype or physical charac-
ters, did not necessarily agree with its
genotype, or hereditary potential, in this
case the two aspects were identical. The
simplicity of the set-up prompted Ashton
to investigate whether the genes govern-
ing this particular constituent of the
blood serum were linked with any of
those affecting milk production.
He typed the blood of 141 progeny-
tested bulls in British artificial insemina-
tion centres. All but 11 of the bulls
were of types AA, AD or DD. Daughters
of DD bulls produced 26 gallons more
milk in a lactation than daughters of
AA bulls. Because only half their in-
heritance came from the male side, it
was predicted that the margin of superi-
ority would be even greater if dams as
well as sires could exert the genetic ad-
vantage of possessing this particular
type of blood serum.
After joining Australia’s CSIRO at
Rockhampton, Queensland, Dr Ashton
decided to do direct tests on the female
side. He blood-grouped 225 cows in 13
Jersey herds and 433 in 24 herds of
Australian Illawarra Shorthorns. All
herds were tested for production.
- Both Jersey and AIS cows gave
essentially the same results. On average,
DD cows milked 15 days longer than
AA ones and yielded 4031 b. more milk
and 181 b. more butterfat. Results of
AD cows were intermediate. The E gene
was not present in any of the Jerseys.
Although found in 64 of the AIS cows,
this was not enough to enable reliable
comparisons to be made.
The results of the experiment showed
that the blood-serum factor in question
was responsible for 6 to 8 p.c. of the
total genetic variance in milk yield. Dr
Ashton worked out that simple selection
for this single gene should increase milk
yield by about 5 p.c. in two genera-
tions without affecting the genetic po-
tential for further improvement by other
means. Since the value of milk and
cream to Australian dairy farmers is
about £l7O million a year, this im-
provement could amount to about £8
million.
A report of the work in a CSIRO bul-
letin makes the point that the most
sophisticated methods of selection, aided
by progeny testing, could achieve at
most an improvement of 8 p.c. in
two generations, so the gain that could
come from applying Ashton’s discovery
is appreciable compared with the im-
provement possible by other methods,
and would be additional to it.
Other scientists from whom comment
has been gleaned are impressed with the
possibilities of Ashton’s work but treat
it with reserve. His Queensland project
has been carried out on too few animals
for the results to be accepted at this
stage for what they seem. Their mean-
ing could deepen as part of more repre-
sentative results. So further work is
needed, and this Dr Ashton is doing,
with sheep as well as cattle.
If the results can be assumed sound,
it means that by blood-testing stock and
breeding only from bulls and cows with
the DD blood-serum factor the country’s
dairy cattle could all be converted to
the higher-producing DD types in two
generations, or about eight years.
It is not known what proportion of
Australia’s dairy cattle are already of this
type. In selecting for higher production,
breeders may unknowingly have been
selecting at the same time for animals
of the DD-type blood serum factor.
The promise of improvement that Dr
Ashton’s work seems to hold is enticing,
but it is clouded by reports from New
Zealand, where scientists working on
other aspects of the same line of re-
search have found that the “non-return”
rate (the percentage of matings that con-
ceive at the first attempt) is 10 p.c.
higher with animals that are heterozy-
gous for the blood serum factor (that
is, carrying mixed genes) than those that


Legal Notices
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of South Australia dated the 15th day of
May 1959 and made in the matter of the
Estate of SORENA VANDA CHRISTINA
CHAMBERS formerly of Semaphore in the
State of South Australia but late of Parkside
in the said State Married Woman deceased
whereby the following enquiry was directed,
namely, an enquiry as to who were the next
of kin of the said deceased at the date of
her death and which of them became
beneficially entitled to a one equal third part
of her residuary estate, NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be next
of kin of the said deceased and entitled under
the said enquiry and all persons claiming to
be issue or legal personal representatives of
any person who has since died and who is
claimed to have been the next of kin of the
said deceased are to send by post prepaid to
Mr. J. H. Melville of South Australian In-
surance Building, 26 Currie Street. Adelaide
in the said State within 60 days after the
publication of this advertisement their full
Christian and surnames, addresses, descrip-
tions, and full particulars of their claims in
writing together with supporting evidence
AND IN DEFAULT thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. DATED the 21st day of
October. 1963 L. T. OLSSON, Deputy
Master oi the Supreme Court.
NOTE: The said Sorena Vanda Christina
Chambers deceased died on 15th October,
1950. She was survived by her husband
ROBERT RICHARD CHAMBERS formerly of
8 Young Street. Queenstown in the said State
Fitter who subsequently died on 4th July,
1957 The deceased and her aforesaid husband
had no children. The father and mother of
the deceased both predeceased her. The father
was FREDERICK SMITH, who adopted the
name Smith in lieu of his previous name
Sorensen. He was born in Denmark and died
at Parkside in the said State at some time
before 1925 The mother was CHRISTINA
WANDA HENRIETTA SMITH (formerly
Mengler) who was born at Tanunda in the said
State and died at Ethelton in the said State
in the year 1925. The father and mother were
married once only and the deceased was their
only child The deceased’s mother is thought
to have had four brothers and three sisters
all of whom and the parents of whom pre-
deceased the deceased.
The known names of the lastmentioned
brothers and sisters and of their children
living at the death of the deceased were as
follows:
1. CARL MENGLER. who died having had
five children namely:
(a) Gustav Mengler,
(b) Hermann Mengler (address unknown),
(c) Bertha Mengler (address unknown),
(d) Ida Mengler (address unknown),
(e) Pearl Mengler (address unknown).
2. ROBERT MENGLER, who died having
had foui children namely:
(a) Christian Mengler,
(b) Johannes (John) Mengler,
(c) Edward Julius Mengler,
(d) Carl Mengler.
3. ERNEST MENGLER, who died having had
three children namely:
(a) Ernest Mengler,
(b) Mrs Vanda Alsop,
(c) Mrs Edna Marschall.
4. GEORGINE FARRELL (formerly Mengler)
who died having had two children
namely
(a) Mrs Georgine Neidorfer,
(b) Mrs Wanda Shipton.
5. WANDA ROSEVEAR (formerly Mengler)
who died having had two children
namely:
(a) Richard Rosevear (address unknown),
(b) Mrs Hilda Harris (or Mrs. Hilda
Boden) (address unknown).
6. HENRIETTA COCKS (formerly Mengler)
who died without having had any child-
ren who survived the testatrix. So far as
known the deceased’s nearest next of kin
at the time of her death are such oi her
abovementioned cousins in the maternal
line and such of her cousins in the pater-
nal line (if any) as survived her. The
deceased died intestate as to a one third
share of her residuary estate and left
property in South Australia.
are homozygous for it (carrying like
genes).
The advantage of additional produc-
tivity could be cancelled out if it were
gained at the cost of aggravating a fer-
tility problem that already plagues farm-
ers, veterinarians and research workers,
Dr Ashton, however, is also working
on this side of the subject, and many will
watch to see whether this second chapter
of his work illuminates or darkens the
first.
The Year Added Up Well
Triumphs For Most Branches of Farming
board’s case for getting on with the job
of hotting up promotion and attending
to the marketing issue afterwards. After
years of agitation and struggle, marketing
finally made it on to the plate for
resolution.
The year has also contributed to Aus-
tralian history by being the one in which
the Federal Government decided to make
wool the first rural commodity to receive
a subsidy for promotion—£l of public
money for every £1 put up by the
industry.
For Australia's second biggest rural
export, wheat, 1963 will be remembered
as the first in recent times in which it
could have sold more than it had, dis-
posals in 1962-63 being equal to last
year's record crop of 282 million bushels.
China and Russia confirmed themselves
as the main reasons why Australia has
been able to double its wheat acreage to
about 16 million acres since 1958 with-
out incurring a surplus.
It was a year in which the Federal
Government agreed to renew the wheat
industry’s stabilisation plan for a further
five-year term, increasing the quantity of
export wheat eligible for the guaranteed
price from 100 million to 150 million
bushels.
The year has also smiled on dairying.
Early in 1963, Australia feared a butter
surplus of about 8000 tons, but a few
months ago the British quota of 65,100
tons for the year was increased by 10,000
tons and the whole picture was changed.
It remains to be seen whether we can
produce enough butter to take advantage
of the quota, which applies until next
March.
Likewise, sales that exceeded ex-
pectations to the United States, Italy and
Portugal dispersed a cheese surplus that
had previously prompted the Australian
Dairy Produce Board to ask Australian
factories to cut their production by
10 p.c.
Japan continued to grow as a market
for Australian cheese, and in the same
country the year saw the launching of a
school lunch programme that should re-
dound to Australia’s advantage as an
investment in consumers of the future.
The year witnessed the launching of
Tn the stocktakings that serve as pall-
bearers to the old year, Australia’s
primary industries need not feel ashamed.
The year has contained immediate
triumphs for most branches of farming,
and in the broader span of time could
stand as one of decision for issues that
will shape the country’s rural fortunes
for decades to come.
In the immediate sense, 1963 has been
for Australia’s senior rural industry, wool,
the best season since 1956-57. Figures
released by the National Council of Wool
Selling Brokers indicate that unless there
is a severe slump in what remains of the
season, overall returns will be the highest
in the industry’s history.
Income from sales in the five months
ended November was almost £192
million, a rise of about £45 million on
last year’s period.
The latest estimate for the 1963-64
wool clip is a record 1751 million lb. The
previous record was 1698.5 million lb.
in 1961-62.
Average price for the five months this
year was 68.65 d. for greasy wool, an
increase of 14.33 d.
In the wider view, 1963 for the wool
industry has seen more reorganisation
than ever before. The International Wool
Secretariat presented plans, and their
cost, for a massive stepping up of wool
promotion, and the Australian Wool
Bureau was reconstituted as the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, with not only the old
powers to conduct research and pro-
motion but others enabling it to investi-
gate and report on wool marketing.
A concomitant of this change was an-
other 1963 creation, the Australian Wool
Industry Conference, to which the board
will report its marketing findings about
the middle of 1964.
The year will be remembered as that
in which the chairman of the Wool
Board, Sir William Gunn, endured violent
demonstrations when he launched his
campaign for a higher wool promotion
levy at Hamilton, in the centre of
Victoria’s wool-rich Western District.
Less vivid in retrospect may be the
fact that before the year closed the
opposition represented by the outburst
had been soothed into accepting the


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ROBERT WALTER MITCHELL, late Of
Old Casino Road, Grafton. TAKE NOTICE
that DOROTHY MAY MITCHELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3963 of 1963 on the
ground of desertion and is asking for a
decree notwithstanding facts in her discretion
statement filed. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before 3rd February, 1964. You may obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
mcintosh, Adrian and fellows, Solici-
tors, of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: ROMAN WYPYCH, late of Ashfield.
TAKE NOTICE that ELEANOR SARAH ANN
WYPYCH has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2993 of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 31st
January. 1964, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY,
SEE GILLIS & CO., Solicitors, 28 Martin
Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: JEAN VIOLET HEATHER TIPPING, late
of Caringbah in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that LAURENCE
TIPPING has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4296 of 1963, on the ground of your
adultery with the co-respondent Barry John
Corney. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 25th day of January, 1964, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
C. P. WHITE & SONS, Solicitors', 160 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney, City Agents for P. J.
FREESTONE. BURSON & CO., Princes High-
way, Sutherland.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
a campaign to promote Australian lamb
in the United Kingdom, where the Aus-
tralian Meat Board has set a target of
two million carcasses a year and offered
incentives to producers to supply produce
of quality commensurate with the
opportunities that await it.
On the other side of the Atlantic,
inferior beef continued to fetch superior
rewards on the American market,
although the Australian industry became
uneasy at the increase in protests of
American producers agitating at the in-
vasion of their home market.
Pigs regained the right to come and
go freely from one State to another after
a three-year ban on movement because
of swine fever. The rate at which the
industry has been breeding up stock
numbers in the last part of the year has
been phenomenal.
Barley made a comeback on the
Japanese market after a four-year
absence, and may soon reach a yearly
sale there of 100,000 tons.
For some industries, the year was
notable without being good. Apples, for
example, got into trouble with overseas
customers like Sweden and Germany,
where over-ripeness and bitter pit caused
importers to demand compensation which
the Australian Apple and Pear Board
decided to pay to Australian exporters
embarrassed by claims.
The potato industry formed an
organisation aimed at introducing another
board to lift it out of the chaos it has
lately suffered; the dried fruits industry
for the first time designed a stabilisation
plan to enhance its security and got
Federal approval for it; and the poultry
industry throughout Australia drafted a
plan to unify operations in each State
and defeat over-the-border black-market-
eers with a scheme for levying producers
by the bird instead of by the egg.
More progress than in any other year
was made towards unity among Aus-
tralia’s many farm organisations, and
developments in the wind as the Silly
Season approaches hint at positive accom-
plishments in this field for 1964.
The year was notable for concessions
offered to farmers in the Federal Budget.
For dairymen they included the removal
of sales tax on ice-cream, cakes and
biscuits, and for all farmers a bounty of
£3 a ton on superphosphate and 20 p.c.
investment allowance on plant and equip-
ment.
A year that adds up well for Aus-
tralia’s agricultural industries will be seen
in many quarters as a cushion against
new American legislation to restrict the
export of capital and the repatriation of
tax-free profits from abroad.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 777
ACROSS
I—An Italian drunk with interior decoration. (8, 5)
9 —Run into a vessel. (3)
10— A grower of wool that is an entirely different
fibre. (5)
11— Damaged stublet works as a household servant. (7)
12— A collection of implements, etc., for Christopher.
(3)
13 — Ring Margaret before getting a final letter. (5)
14— Petticoat Lane feature of a shipbuilding yard? (7)
15— A way of egress used to be it. (4)
16—Chant the tin precursor of
the cash register swallowed.
(10)
19— Free globes involved in dis-
missals. (3-7)
20— Morning holding to very little,
but a cat. (4)
23—Not bad sense —its owner isn’t
vulgar. (4, 5)
25 Become liable for the mon-
grel’s food after feeding. (5)
26 Dog makes mother unfortun-
ate. (7)
27 The contradicted won’t suit
material. (5)
28— Drink like a cat circuit. (3)
29 Scalers ignore these fights
which are not rigged? (7, 5)
DOWN
1— Observe change is very
wordy. (7)
2 Anaesthetised Ireland starts
counting. (9)
3 The drastic censorship is all
Greek to us. (6)
4 Diplomacy posts the morning
singer a U.K. film actress
with hips. (15)
5 Crazy run-getters visiting the
campanile? (4, 2,3, 6)
6 Where New Yorkers may
take otf the unemployed sav-
age? (8)
7 Dark of the French heaven.
(5)
8— On a tale edited by France.
(7)
17 — Caper stroke in rock forma-
tion. (9)
18— Black taint contradicted on
modern aircraft it spoilt to
issue and throw overboard. (8)
19— Limb associate appears in a
lawful way. (7)
21— There’s something masculine
about the alternative state of
the confidence, optimism, en-
thusiasm, etc. (6)
22 Orbits taken by a wine-and-
dine saloon. (6)
24 —Sex-appeal has something re-
maining of 100 m.p.h. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 776


-s
I:--
;**: .. . *{*. •*> . ,
! MWO»
5; aljiSljSHC
Mvy? 1
sf<;
V.'t jy
■ ! ’ ,3 . ’
4; f
W -t.
A&-
?*n
foe
ii
»r&
BBS
m
wMt
?■■■ ?
$
m
P- N
111
mi
•; W&V! :•'
Hi,
O/
a-W
Ipll
SJS*: if $
h :
JU-vS
£vl
mm
m
m
A#
::-r-
SiiP
i'S&jt
Wm?m
mimi
?i
Heifer/
illi
S 4
l®W
j.S 1.•-■)>.(VV!-: !.>•»■■.•••<
1
s\Si
fji' l ;
iaiml
wmkmm
wmOM
ftif ■ •?•>•' .''l C &A' w, .v *
Wmiy', •»,: • a i-
/? I i'
:/ •' *
.-!. ■ -Tv:
Uffi
&!
?4‘il
I?. £<;
:/ Hu
IVy fey, S$ J*fc. ;
'i.J-rtj/'y.A.-yy , ;V,-.-i
siMjH
tmim
Hr -rn ;
SiS
11 »i
i ; . • .6'vi!
m
f.v ! »{
II
iv?>
•,’J'
i'n
igsj
'.Wi
'•l'^
L '** '•
H\l‘r
m
Wr
2;
c
-> \
cC
r
9
J
J
GOING
0!
It's just like going
up in a lift when you
v use the SUNDAY
| TELEGRAPH. Your
I sales will go up with
I our sales. And our
\ sales have been climb-
ing steadily for 20
years! The last six
months has seen an-
other 13,000 copies a
week added to the
sale of the SUNDAY
TELEGRAPH.
TO GIVE A SEPTEMBER, 1963, ABC FIGURE IN EXCESS OF
AND IT'S STILL GOING UP!
Sunday Telegraph
ism


Give The Bulletin
this year
• ■
.
•.
-
HI
IS
1
li
m
.
Iros^ees.
Public
NSW
from
Library
. \ in Dix son
origina'
GaWenes by
bind permi ss "'° n
and we will send
this card
with every gift subscription
THE BULLETIN
Box 4088, G.P.0.,
Sydney.
DONOR'S NAME
ADDRESS
\6R
V
O
1964
o
A
RECIPIENT'S NAME
ADDRESS
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription toTHE BULLETIN.
Please tick V whichever is appropriate:
This is a new Subscription? Q
A renewed Subscription? □
★ What better New Year gift can you give than
something you enjoy yourself? Why not give a
subscription to The Bulletin this year?
★ Post the coupon on this page to The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney, OR Box 965, G.P.0.,
Wellington, New Zealand, OR Australian Consolidated
Press Ltd., 107 Fleet St., London, OR Australian
Consolidated Press Ltd., 229 West 43rd St., New
York, N.Y.
★ For 26 weeks subscription, send £2 12s. Australian
or £2 2s. Sterling or New Zealand.
For 52 weeks subscription, send £4 4s. Australian
or £3 7s. Sterling or New Zealand.
Send dollar equivalent to New York Office.
★ New Zealand readers may subscribe to the Air
Freighted edition at £2 12s. for 26 issues, £4 4s.
New Zealand for 52 issues.
