

The Bulletin
—
THE TREASURES
OF ABU SIMBEL
Story by DAVID McNICOLI


m m I
.
MB
t-
m
S*V
i!
*
mM&m
"■‘T'
rs
>—*
——«
** *
~
*
- fyr-.^s^.i
m
m
mimm
'•
j&V £3
'A'
:t '
mm
Geon
Ttyvmyt'/MaZeria/d
Daynide is made by STOREY DAVIES & Co. Pty. Ltd. (Plastics Division) Felt & Textiles of Aust. Ltd.
deserves an audience!
This magnificent new Lecture Theatre at Monash University, seating 250,
features Tierstack seats upholstered in Geon based “Daynide”. The
flexibility of “Geon” based vinyls helps “Daynide” in withstanding constant
use, and architects consider that this type of Lecture Theatre seating is
superior to any other available in the world.
Similar installations of this type of seating have been carried out at
Universities at Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney and Armidale, N.S.W.
CONTACT:
Made in Australia, “Geon” vinyl
improves products and provides
sales appeal where it counts at'
the sales counter. Have you a
product which we can help you'
improve?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.B. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne.
Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319.
GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Qld.
Harrisons & Crosfieid (A.N.Z.) Limited.
M 55028


National Notebook
Privilege?
Dome department stores live in a per-
manent state of having a sale, but
not George’s of Melbourne. Their sales
are rare events, mentioned in a whisper.
The one recently, however, has thrown
up a fascinating case for those who
study status and all that: shareholders
received invitations for a privilege pre-
view on Tuesday, July 9, while account
customers received identical invitations
but for a day earlier, Monday, July 8.
Still in harmony
With today’s emphasis on rock and
" roll music we wondered how old
combinations like the Mills Brothers fare.
Our answer came from Herbert Mills,
of the group who’ve been close har-
monising songs like “Paper Doll” for
38 years. In Sydney with his two
surviving brothers, we found him a quiet-
spoken man who looked as though he’d
treated the passing years with considera-
tion and they had responded in kind.
“The older people still go
for our style, of course,”
he told us, “but you’d be
surprised how many of the
youngsters do, too. To
many we’re old hat, but
they get intrigued by
the interest their par-
ents show, come to listen and then we
have them jumping up and down, de-
manding autographs and generally acting
as though they think our type of music
is pretty good to listen to.”
But things have changed radically in
the US since the days before, during and
just after World War II when the broth-
ers could choose their bookings from any
of a score of vaudeville theatres and
hundreds of nightclubs. “Places like Las
Vegas have altered things,” Herbert said,
“the big name acts play Las Vegas for
terrific fees and then demand the same
money for appearances elsewhere. In
most cases the places just can’t pay that
kind of money. So theatres and night-
clubs outside the gambling belt have been
closing down. Why, I doubt whether
there are more than six vaudeville
theatres left in the entire United States.”
He agreed that legalised gambling
brought the crowds to Nevada. New
places along the shores of Lake Tahoe
had opened and were prospering. These
are strategically placed on the California-
Nevada border.
He spoke of a new move in overseas
bookings. “The US service bases are
finally booking the big name acts and
officers and enlisted men who’ve been
starved for quality entertainment are
getting it. We’ve just played in bases in
Japan, Korea and the Philippines.”
Such bookings, he said, were very
profitable and might keep a few of the
big acts afloat financially. Many of the
smaller people had folded under the huge
pressure of competition from those who
can command their own figure at the
big places.
It’s 24 years since the Mills Brothers
were last in Sydney. Had they made
contact with any of their old friends?
Herbert smiled, “Had a call from a
fellow only today. He said, ‘Hey Herbie,
d’you remember we used to go out to-
gether to that gymnasium in Bondi and
work out? I was round about 1701bs.
then. I’m up to 250 today’,” Herbert
looked ruefully at his own girth. “I’ve
put on a few pounds myself,” he said.
Not their cup of tea
YlT’e never realised before how much
tea drinking is bound up with what
the Tea Bureau terms “socio-economic”
groups. Concerned about the growing
consumption of coffee, the tea people
went to work on a survey
of who drank tea and
when. Dividing the hot
beverage drinking public
into upper, middle and
lower groups, the report
shows that more tea is
drunk by the uppers be-
fore breakfast than by the middles and
lowers.
At breakfast the lowers and middles
come into their own with 70 and 71 per
cent respectively taking tea compared
with 53 per cent of the uppers. The
morning break evidently favors coffee
with 35 to 30 per cent only of tea
consumption for the three groups. At
lunch 63 and 56 per cent of the lowers
and middles take tea compared with the
uppers’ 33 per cent. For some inexplic-
able reason the upper then soar ahead
for the afternoon break with 47 per cent
of them favoring tea against 35 per cent
of the other two groups. Lowest period
tea consumption by the uppers is at
the evening meal a bare 20 per cent
—• while the lowers and middles drink
52 and 48 per cent respectively.
The Tea Bureau people analyse these
and other figures to prove that at meal
times with the whole family present tea
is still the most consumed beverage.
They are also critical of the way tea
is served in cafes and quote comments by
those interviewed. “I don’t like watery
tea,” one remarks, “I never feel the
tea is made right,” says another. “Public
criticism of cafe tea service can hardly
be stronger,” the bureau says, “It is to
be hoped that caterers and restaurateurs
will ponder over this and try to give
their customers the tea they want.’
Page
ENGLAND TODAY 23
Muggeridge versus Fair lie
That £l6 million Surplus 6
Melbourne’s Grand Dame: Mabel
Brookes 13
Divorce Australian Style 16
Around Melbourne: Carping Critics 20
Desiderius Orban: “An Unashamed
Romantic” 22
Is Abu Simbel Worth Saving?—by
David McNicoll (with color in-
sert) .. .. 30
Children’s Books: Tales from East
and West 35
Unhygienic Abattoirs 41
Which Patients are Better? 42
The Changing Trend of Retailing 46
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 13
FORUM 16
OVERSEAS 23
LETTERS 28
REVIEWS 32
FEIFFER 34
RED PAGE 35
MAN ON THE LAND 41
WORLD OF BUSINESS .... 42
CROSSWORD 58
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4352


Back to the books
Tt can hardly surprise anyone now, but
it seems that television does not
stop people reading. The City of Sydney
librarian, Mr. Bell, in his annual report,
says that Australia now seems to be
following the United States and Britain
in a return to reading.
The Sydney municipal library is Aus-
tralia’s largest lending library in terms
of staff (98) and expenditure
(£- 158,000). The total number of books
issued by the library last year was
1,069,000, an increase of over 15 per
cent on the previous year. In the juvenile
section the increase was spectacular.
243,000 books were issued to 8068 bor-
rowers. This was an increase of almost
50 per cent.
But this increase was partly achieved
by a new library drive providing direct
service to three city schools as an experi-
ment. In this experiment librarians went
to the schools, discussed with the child-
ren their interests, then returned next
week with selected books. This intensive
technique achieved at one school a turn-
over of 700 books a week.
The report also revealed interesting
sidelights on reading habits. A biography
of the Marquis de Sade had to be re-
served. Among the most popular non-
fiction books were “Conflict in Marriage”
and “The Human Group.” Partisans of
the Conservative revival might be in-
terested in the fact that a 1929 bio-
graphy of Edmund Burke was among
the most borrowed books. “Machiavelli
and His Times” and Max Beloff’s “The
Age of Absolutism” were also among
the books most in demand.
Guitar in the bush
Qpanish classical guitarist Jose Luis
Gonzalez, who came here about six
months ago in the wake of the enthusiasm
stirred up by Segovia, will do a country
tour next month. He will go to Shep-
parton, Wangaratta and Albury. It is
probably the first time a classical guitar-
ist has toured these areas.
Gonzalez has about 80 pupils in
Sydney and expects to stay here another
year. He hopes to tour Japan next year.
Gonzalez said that more than 400,000
people in Japan own classical guitars
and most of them are very serious stu-
dents. When he was teaching in Spain
he always had a couple of students from
Japan.
Braw bestseller
Otrange things happen to us at times
but few stranger than last week’s
visit from a contributor who marched
in, declaiming, “Wull ye fecht me an’
see if A’m y’r maister, or wull ye gang
y’r ways an’ bide wheer the wummen
bide?” Two office girls fled but we stood
fast, not so much intrepid as rapt, listen-
ing to faint echoes from our youth.
“A ha’ told ye to keep in line,” our
contributor said, “if ye’ll no fill yer ears
wi’ gude advice, by th’ grave o’ ma mither
A’ll fill ’em wi’ horse flesh, an’ if that'll
no do, A‘ll drive it in wi’ ma spurs!
“McGlusky!” we cried, recognising tl
unique vigor of that great man’s oaff
and our visitor produced a copy .
“McGlusky’s Great Adventure”, cor
plete with the familiar old red boa:
that used to single out a Hodder ar
Stoughton novel.
We snatched it from him and for tl
rest of the afternoon there was silent
and pipe-dream as we followed the pr
war era’s nearest thing to Superman fro
New Zealand to London to the Nor
Sea to Egypt to Gallipoli, enjoying tl
prowess of that ham fist and roving e)
and McGlusky’s eternal conflict betwe(
his own potage of religions and the De’
McGlusky, if you are wandering, w.
the ever-roving invention of a rovii
Australian named A. G. Hales who was
best selling author long before Morr
West, and whose books apparently a:
still treasured by many people.
At least that’s the advice from 01
contributor who, having the opportunit
threw McGlusky’s name in to a list <
rare odds and ends a radio station w;
offering prizes for. Seven McGlusl
books turned up immediately and at lea
as many more owners rang to say the
had one or more.
Out-of-town art
A private art gallery opened in Wo
longong last Sunday under tljie d
rection of Mrs Dudley Evans. Mr an
Mrs Evans have been selling furnitui
for 13 years. Although their taste rur
to antiques, in the interests of the
"There have been breaches . . .
But our security isn't seriously threatened


pockets, they switched to laminates and
tubular steel.
Their home, “Crana,” after which the
gallery is named, is built around a Medit-
erranean style courtyard, has foundations
of hand-made bricks from Mary Reiby’s
cottage, and is lovingly furnished with
period pieces.
Mrs Evans believes that with the
broadening influence of continental
migrants, and the advent of a Teachers’
College and University College, Wollon-
gong is ready for a private art gallery.
There is quite a coterie of local artists,
and the Illawarra Artists’ Society is ex-
tremely vigorous.
This Week’s Cover
week's cover shows the inside of
the temple of Rameses the Second
at Abu Simbel, looking towards the
sanctuary. The sanctuary is 200 feet in-
side the cliff and the first rays of the
sun shine straight through the entrance
and fall directly on the statues only
twice a year. On page 30 David McNicoll
writes about his visit to the temples,
which are threatened with flooding by the
Aswan dam He also talks about plans
to save the temple, including the Swedish
one, which now has the approval of the
UNESCO experts who investigated the
temple site. Our color portfolio shows
diverse views of the temples. Our ack-
nowledgments and thanks for the
photographs are due to UNESCO.
Copies of this portfolio will not be
available separately.
Tanner
. . . at least the Chinese aren't
spying on us yet."
PLAIN ENGLISH
MR DOWNER AND PROF. WINKS
TI is symptomatic of our extreme sensitivity on the subject of “White
-*■ Australia” that ill-considered but well-meant remarks from a visiting
American professor should receive such severe strictures from Immigra-
tion Minister Downer. While Professor Winks’ statement that we would
culturally benefit from the assimilation of 50,000 Negroes in Melbourne
is just dangerous nonsense, some of the things he said make sense. While
it is true that, as the Minister says, “White Australia” is not the official
name of our immigration policy, it is in effect just that and it is widely
resented in Asia where it is often not understood and is very difficult
to defend. It is especially indefensible when we present Asians with
the hoary old argument that our immigration policy is not racial but
purely economic to which they can and do reply, with justification, by
asking whether economically we are better off with an uneducated
European unskilled wrMer or an Australian-trained Chinese dentist from
Singapore. Professor Winks is also quite right in saying that “White
Australia” is resented in Malaya and it is not sufficient for Mr Downer
to evade this truth bv pointing to official Malayan attitudes which are
born of the tolerance and understanding that comes from governing a
country which has potentially dangerous racial tensions. The Tungku
himself, in a defence of Australian racial policies, nevertheless saw fit to
add the qualification that he expected our racial policies to change one
day. “Australia can wait,” said Prime Minister Nehru in a memorable
aside some years ago which touched on the same subject. On the level of
leadership in Asia there is quite a deal of sympathy for our preoccupation
with maintaining a homogeneous white population. On levels lower than
that there is more resentment, suspicion and impatience than we like
to admit.
These attitudes, ironically enough, are more often fostered rather
than broken down by the fact that the 12,000 Asian students in this
country find themselves, on completion of their courses, subject to
“White Australia” immigration restrictions.
THE COMMUNIST SPLIT
ll’ is important to get the split in the Australian Communist Party into
the right perspective. It has damaged the party by depriving
it of certain valuable leaders, particularly in Victoria, but it has by no
means wrecked it as is claimed by some optimists and a few others
who are looking for any excuse to justify their own intellectual laziness
on the whole question of Communism and anti-Communism. The party
remains basically united behind Mr Laurie Aarons (Mr L. Sharkey can
now be written off) and its main source of strength and finance, the
Communist-dominated unions, has been only slightly touched. But
at the same time the split has made clearer than ever that the basic
issue for Communists is not the interests of Australians but the question
whether they are to get their orders from Moscow or Peking. Any
publicity given to this split an argument over which way to cut our
throats can only further discredit the Communists and give the ALP
a better chance to regain control of those trade unions on which the
Communist Party really depends. It would be a tragedy if the ALP
does not seize this opportunity. As the article on page 11 points out, it
is this possibility, not the pro-Peking minority, that the Communists are
really afraid of.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET
That £16 million
Surplus
Cabinet eats crow
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
H. E. HOLT
The air is thick
was the main dish on Treasury
tables last week the Federal ac-
counts for 1962-63 having come up with
a surplus of £l6 million in place of the
£llBi million deficit forecast by the
Treasurer, Mr H. E. Holt, in the Budget
last August.
In other circumstances for instance,
if unemployment had been reduced to
a hard core, if the pace of industrial
production and investment had been
much faster over the last nine months,
or if there were more signs of a new
round of growth in prospect the
solidity of Federal finances epitomised
by the surplus would be a legitimate
cause of high satisfaction both to the
Treasury experts and the country at large.
In fact, the surplus represents time and
opportunity lost.
But there has been enough recrimina-
tion on the gross miscalculations of the
Treasury experts who so inexpertly read
the crystal ball of the domestic and over-
seas loan markets, saw their detached
estimates of business behavior and per-
sonal spending go awry and, so, the
structure of the Budget fall apart.
And, in any case, despite the miscal-
culations and maybe as a result of them,
there have been compensations. For one
thing, as Sir John Allison, president of
the Export Council, said at the presenta-
tion of the Hoover awards for market-
ing in Melbourne last week, “Our cost
level has been held steady for a longer
period than at any time since cost in-
dices were established.” That is a solid
gain from the Government’s failure to
spend the deficit it budgeted for last
year.
Moreover, the prospect ahead looks
bright enough, thanks in part, it should
be said, to the monetary authorities,
who have been showing more enlighten-
ment in recent months such as by at
long last acknowledging the need for
lower interest rates; even though their
steps in this direction could well mili-
tate against their own loan results in
the new financial year. Coupled with
their “captive” provisions, by which the
big depositories of savings are obliged
to invest heavily in bonds, the failure to
reduce interest rates in September last
year at once ensured the bumper respon-
ses to their loans cribbed the chances
for a strong revival in private investment,
and denied the economy the stimulus
even the Treasury decided it would need
during the year.
Then, in tardy recognition of the fail-
ure of private investment to pull its
weight as an income generator, we had
the Loan Council recently stepping into
the breach to finance considerably in-
creased investment in the public sector.
All in all, the authorities are approach-
ing the next Budget in a much more ex-
pansionary monetary climate than last
year. The question now is whether they
will tempt the fates in this new direction
by making a series of concessions in
company and income taxation. The air
in Melbourne is thick with suggestions
that they should do so, but before jump-
ing to any conclusions on this score it
seems only sensible to recognise that al-
ready the Federal Government is com-
mitted to very much higher expenditure
this year, notably from salary increases,
higher defence costs and increased non-
repayable grants and other payments to
the Slates.
Also, there is no firm assurance that,
with a lower bond rate, possible amend-
ments to tax concessions attached to the
30/20 rule, and more vigorous private
investment and personal spending, the
loan market will provide the same sort
of bonanza for the Government as last
year.
The Treasury won’t want to be caught
way out of stride two years in succession.
If it comes to a question of a degree of
inflation this year in the interests of step-
ping up the real growth rate, v/hich a
new set of figures for the national
product at constant prices issued last
week from Canberra shows not to be
as striking as popularly supposed, even
in the pre-recession years, the Treasury,
as well as the Government, will be on
the side of the angels and plump for
stability. With the current all-round lift
in wages going on, not least in the public
service, they could be right if they re-
fused to throw hostages to the growing
inflationary tiger in the customers’ purses.
FOREIGN INVESTMENT
Treasury v. Trade
Craivford's legacy
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
nn n rsrpns rrr3 TPhe now °P en con-
as sm i * «« ‘he
Menzies Cabinet
over what should be the Government’s
attitude towards overseas investment is
more than a clash of viewpoint between
the Treasurer, Mr Holt, and the Country
Party leader, Mr John McEwen. In-
volved in the conflict are the two most
powerful departments in the Common-
wealth complex Treasury and Trade.
Treasury and Trade took opposing
sides when the question of whether the
Government should completely lift im-
port controls was decided in 1960.
Treasury, which won the day, advocated
that the controls should be lifted.
The ar g um ent, basically, was the same
then as it is now. Treasury, in effect,
argued that Australia’s balance of pay-
ments problem and the question of over-
seas investment were inter-related. If im-
port restrictions were lifted the influx
of overseas investment into Australia
would cushion the demands made upon
overseas funds by an upsurge of imports,
sufficiently to enable Australia to main-
tain an economically viable position. As
a solution for Australia’s balance of pay-
ments problem, Australia must pursue
the “open door” policy as far as over-
seas investment was concerned, and not
discriminate between types of capital in-
vestment.


Trade argued that the balance of pay-
ments problem and the problem raised
by overseas investment in Australia were
two separate problems. Indiscriminate
entry of overseas investment only pro-
vided a temporary short-term solution for
balance of payments difficulties, and po-
tentially could, in the long term, raise
a larger problem than the one it solved.
If overseas investment took over exist-
ing Australian industry on any substan-
tial scale, it would mean only a re-
placement of ownership and not an ad-
dition to Australia’s industrial and econ-
omic capacity.
Australia sooner or later must run into
trouble in servicing this investment, and
this in the long run must give the country
a worse balance of payments headache
than existed now. This long-term danger
would be minimised if Australia re-
placed its “open door” policy on over-
seas investment with a policy which
encouraged overseas investment, that
added new capacity or brought new tech-
niques and know-how to industry, but
discouraged the type of overseas invest-
ment which merely replaced Australian
with foreign ownership. Investment that
brought new capacity or introduced into
Australia new techniques or know-how
was self-servicing in that it provided the
extra output and extra earnings to ser-
vice the investment made.
Admittedly this approach of treating
the balance of payments problem and
overseas investment as two separate prob-
lems made it more difficult to cope with
current balance of payments difficulties.
But it was better to face the problem
now, while it was still within manageable
proportions, than to have it develop
into a much larger one in future years.
By separating the balance of payments
problem from overseas investment it
would become possible to develop a
policy that would encourage retention of
ownership of existing Australian enter-
prises in Australian hands and make
future overseas investment more valuable,
as it would then represent an addition
to the strength of the Australian eco-
nomy instead of merely a change in
ownership.
Sir John Crawford, then permanent
head of the Department of Trade, lost
this fight, resigned soon afterwards from
the Department, and retired to the
quieter backwaters of the Australian
National University. But he left a
legacy behind him the legacy of an
idea over which Cabinet, and particu-
larly Holt and McEwen, will be joining
issue in the Budget discussions which are
to start as soon as Prime Minister Sir
Robert Menzies gets back from overseas.
DEFENCE
No Gravy for the Navy
Too much inter-service rivalry
BY A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SIR R. MENZIES
Small concessions
T ast week’s cartoon by Tanner show-
ing joint naval exercises between
Dr Soekarno in his dinghy and Sir
Robert Menzies in his under-water fishing
mask was painfully to the point. Any
joint naval manoeuvres between Aus-
tralia and Indonesia could not take place
before next year, however, since the
RAN’s programme is fixed for months
ahead: by that time the Indonesian Navy
may be a little stronger. With the help of
the Soviet technicians who are present
in large numbers, it may have learned
to make its fine new Soviet cruiser go.
The Australian Navy, on the other hand,
will not be any stronger.
It consists of the aircraft carrier Mel-
bourne, the flagship, of which the hull
was laid down during the war, but which
was completed with up-to-date modifi-
cations after the war and commissioned
in 1955. Melbourne’s aircraft are Gan-
nets, Venoms and helicopters. There are
also three Daring class destroyers, Ven-
delta, Vampire and Voyager all mod-
ern ships. Then there are the River class
anti-submarine frigates Parramatta,
Yarra and Stuart, the last of which was
commissioned only last week. A fourth,
Derwent, is being built at Williamstown
and will join the fleet some time next
year. One fast anti-submarine frigate,
Quiberon, survives, but she is nearing
the end of her life. (Her sister ship
Queenborough paid off a couple of
weeks ago.) There are six new mine-
sweepers, a supply ship and some sur-
veying and oceanographic vessels. Such
is the Royal Australian Navy,
Early this year we heard much about
an expansion of the Navy with the an-
nouncement that a third guided-missile
destroyer, in addition to two already on
order, was to be purchased from the
United States, and four submarines of
the Oberon class from Britain. But until
these arrive and they do not start
to arrive until 1965 when the first of
the guided-missile destroyers is due
the Navy is not expanding at all. More-
over, in the latest revision of the defence
programme, announced by the Prime
Minister on May 22, the Navy has fared
badly as compared with the other ser-
vices. The Army has obtained Cabinet
recognition that it has the primary role
although there is a good deal of
doubt about whether its new manpower
targets can be achieved. The Air Force
is to get a replacement for its Canberra
bomber and the Chief of the Air Staff,
Air-Marshal Sir Valston Hancock, is at
present visiting France, Britain and the
United States in search of a suitable air-
craft —which, of course, would be cap-
able of carrying a nuclear weapon if
ever we should find it necessary, and
possible, to borrow one from one of our
great and powerful friends. The Navy, by
contrast, has got only the promise of an
escort maintenance ship to be built in
Australia, and the assurance that Mel-
bourne’s fixed-wing aircraft will con-
tinue to operate until the end of their
useful life, which the technical authorities
in Britain now say is three years longer
than they had originally expected.
The latter would seem on the face
of it to be a small concession, since
it would have been madness to scrap
aircraft that were still operational. But
the assurance did mean the reversal of
a Cabinet decision, and it was obtained
in the teeth of Air Force opposition.
The Government, it seems, was will-
ing and anxious to spend more money
on the Navy but would not accept the
Navy’s recommendation as to how the
money should be spent. The Minister
for the Navy, Senator John Gorton, and
the Chief of Naval Staff, Vice-Admiral
Sir Hastings Harrington, told the Cabinet
that what the Navy wanted most was a
modern aircraft-carrier large enough to
take modern jet fighter aircraft. This
view would have been based not only
on the Navy’s desire to provide its own
air cover (it evidently does not believe
that the Air Force will always be able
to get there), but also its concern to
maintain its role as a strike force,
capable of deliberately seeking out and
attacking an enemy.
The Cabinet blenched at the price of
a carrier which with its aircraft would
cost well over £lOO million. This is
certainly a great many eggs to put in
one basket or at the mercy, perhaps, of
one torpedo attack. And is it really the
major need? The Cabinet did not think
so. They were more impressed by the
need for more escort ships for wartime


convoys. These smaller ships could not
give air cover, but they could shoot at
an attacking aircraft, and seek out and
attack submarines. But their main
advantages would be, first, that they
would spread the risk; and, second, that
they could be built in Australia,
with all the political and economic
advantages that that implies, whereas an
aircraft-carrier could not.
Again, for the support of an aircraft-
carrier of the kind desired by the Navy,
the Cabinet still thinks that we can rely
on our great and powerful friends.
The Navy’s spokesmen, however, re-
fused to be diverted from their main
objective, fearing that if they accepted
escort ships they would prejudice their
chances of ever getting a new carrier,
and they would thereby seal the doom
of fixed-wing flying in the RAN for ever.
As it is, they have an assurance that the
question of a new carrier will be re-
opened at some future date not a very
satisfactory assurance, admittedly, since
if a carrier is to be ready with replace-
ments for the Gannets and Venoms,
which go out of service in 1967, it should
be ordered now.
One cannot help feeling that inter-
service rivalries have played an undue
part in the discussions up to the present.
It would perhaps be possible to re-open
the question of escorts if Cabinet were
first to declare that it did not accept
the RAAF's view that all flying should
be done by that service and that a
decision by the Navy to accept more
escorts would not preclude the purchase
of a carrier at some future date. What-
ever the rights and wrongs of the dif-
fering views on priorities, one thing is
clear. The Navy needs strengthening
and it is not in the country’s interest
that its share should be considered
settled even for the time being.
EDUCATION
Why Academic Salaries
Were Slashed
Forget the Engineers
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
MR JUSTICE McKEON
Magic?
academic engineers on the staff of
the University of New South Wales
must be having some fun with their slide
rules at the present time —as they try to
assess the judgment of the Industrial
Commission of New South Wales in the
Academic Officers’ Case. They will
probably need the help of their col-
leagues from the non-engineering dis-
ciplines. Indeed they could have a fine
“two-culture” seminar about it with tech-
nologists and academics from the humani-
ties all doing their best to understand
what happened to their salaries.
The three judges handed down separ-
ate judgments and, altogether, their
reasons for slashing the salaries previ-
ously decided upon, in generous enthusi-
asm, by Mr Commissioner Gorman, took
pages of foolscap to state. Of course,
everyone at Kensington had already been
told the result in terms of money. Pro-
fessors who thought they had got an
increase of £923 received only £303.
The rest of the academic staff were also
cut back drastically.
To find out why it all occurred they
will have to puzzle their way through
judgments as long as a fair-sized doctoral
thesis full of the myths and fictions
characteristic of the wage-fixing process
in Australia.
The academic staff at the University
of NSW, unlike that of other Australian
universities, sought to obtain increases in
academic salaries by resort to the
machinery of industrial arbitration. This
has meant that first Mr Gorman and later
Mr Justice Taylor, Mr Justice McKeon
and Mr Justice Perrignon had to value
their work. This was done by consider-
ing a great mass of evidence and material
about academic scholarship, teaching and
research, together with a lot of informa-
tion about the conditions prevailing in
the University at the present time. From
all this the “work value” had to be dis-
tilled. To academics it must seem to be
a somewhat magical process. It is cer-
tainly not, and does not pretend to be, a
scientific one.
The tactic of the Teachers’ Federation,
to which the University staff belongs,
wanted to get the new standards set by
the Commonwealth Arbitration Commis-
sion for non-academic engineers extended
to the academic salaries at the University.
In its simplest form the tactic was to
argue that the bulk of the staff at the
University were engineers by training
and "profession,” that university teach-
ing and research in the engineering
field is engineering work similar to that
performed by outside engineers working
at their profession, and that engineers in
the University and with them all
academics should be paid at standards
derived in substance from the Engineers’
Case.
This tactic succeeded before the Com-
missioner who treated the teaching fellow
as being substantially equivalent to the
“raw graduate engineer” and the lecturer
in his first year as equivalent to an
engineer of four years’ experience. Other
rates for other academic officers fell into
place accordingly and in the result very
substantial all - round increases were
awarded.
It was inevitable that one of the big
questions in the hearing before the Full
Bench had to do with the use which
could be made of the Engineers’ Case.
Mr Justice McKeon and Mr Justice
Perrignon held that no use could be
made of it at all. They took the view
THE NEW GUINEA QUESTION
feulletin
80 Years Ago: July 14, 1883
is no substantial reason why
-*■ Australia should play dog-in-the-
manger with reference to New Guinea.
The political excuse for annexation is
chiefly fudge. There is surely nothing
so terrible in the idea of having neigh-
bors. Suppose we did annex New
Guinea, we should not be further
removed from foreign neighbors. We
should jostle the Dutch, and ap-
proximate to the Spaniards in the
Philippines, and to the French in Ton-
quin. And, even supposing that the
Dutch claim to the northern part of
the Island were waived or purchased,
Java is quite as close to New Guinea
as New Guinea is to Queensland.
Politically and strategically, the posi-
tion of Australia would be no better,
Unless it be contemplated that our
own countrymen shall appropriate
the whole globe, we must submit to
have neighbors somewhere. And it
certainly seems ridiculous that, while
we are screaming “Keep your dis-
tance!” we should be stepping out
towards the very people we warn off.


ADVERTISEMENT
TERROR IN SOUTH AFRICA
Desperate Need for Help
"It is alarming that the Government of South Africa has, in its legislation and proposed
legislation, gone so far towards removing one of the main foundations of civilisation, namely
the liberty of the individual. If this trend continues, based as it is on the fear of one part of
the population towards another, it is hard to see how the outcome can be other than violent disaster.
"Christian people in this country must pray that the present rulers take heed before it is
too late, and must also pray that patience will prevail amongst the non-European population.
We can also aid with our contributions to those who suffer from the hardships of the legislation."
—Archbishop of Canterbury, 10th June, 1963.
The policy of Apartheid is being relentlessly and ruthlessly imposed by the Nationalist Govern-
ment on the great unwilling majority of South African citizens. And with the passing of the General
Law Amendment Acts 1962 and 1963 South Africa has now become by Acts of Parliament a Police
State.
The following are some examples of what is now happening in that unhappy land:
• More than 2,000 opponents of Apartheid are in prison awaiting trial under the new repressive
legislation.
® Habeas Corpus is abolished—people may be sent to gaol without trial at the whim of the Minister
of Justice or his police.
® The death penalty may now be imposed for acts which were formerly either lawful or constituted
only petty offences.
• Retrospective acts, lawful when committed, now become major crimes.
® At least 40 people (so far) are detained incommunicado for 'interrogation ' with no charges
preferred against them they may be held for 90 days, and then for another 90 days, and so
on for the rest of their natural lives.
• More than a score of men and women have been placed under 'house arrest / their homes turned
into prisons for up to 5 years.
• The death penalty is becoming common.
Fear is spreading throughout the land. The opponents of Apartheid are harried by the police;
none can feel immune from arbitrary arrest, loss of job, restrictions, banishments, long imprisonments,
even executions.
PUBLIC MEETING
A public meeting is to be held at the Stawell Hall, 145 Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
Wednesday, 17th July, 1963, at 8 p.m., with a view to establishing an Australian Defence and
Aid Fund for the assistance of victims of these inhuman laws. The fund will work in close
association with the well-known British Defence and Aid Fund and the South African Fund. The
meeting will be held under the chairmanship of Mr. Edward St. John, Q.C., who was an official
observer at the South African treason trials, and will be addressed by Professor Julius Stone,
Challis Professor of Jurisprudence and International Law, University of Sydney, and Dr. Derek
Marsh, formerly of the University of Natal, South Africa.
ALL ARE WELCOME
Australian Defence and Aid Fund
GPO Box No. 3316
Sydney


o
‘"'•MIIIIA IS T AII
« \ II tT
I**4
The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as:
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out —it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyorst
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd. Cllfj
that academic work—teaching, lecturing
and doing research—was totally different
work from that of engineers in outside
employment. They also said that as
the claim was also for all the academic
work in the non-engineering disciplines,
in Psychology, History, Architecture,
Accountancy, Philosophy, Political
Science, Sociology, Business Administra-
tion, etc., it was the academic quality of
their work which all these disciplines
had in common w'ith their academic
engineering colleagues, and academic
work, thus generally understood, was
completely different from the work of
engineers in industry and in the public
service. This led Mr Justice McKeon
and Mr Justice Perrignon to discard
completely the salary rates fixed in the
Engineers’ Case.
They also disregarded, and for much
the same reasons, the salaries awarded
by the Industrial Commission itself in
the case of the Scientific Officers in the
NSW Department of Agriculture. They
would also have nothing to do with the
proposition that so-called new standards
or trends were emerging in relation to
the salaries of professional workers gen-
erally and that these new standards or
trends should be applied to the salaries
of academic officers.
The President, Mr Justice Taylor, on
the other hand held that it would be
proper for engineers at the University to
receive “no lesser salaries than those
awarded to engineers generally in indus-
try by the Federal decision.” He, there-
fore, regarded the Engineers’ Case and
the Scientific Officers’ Case as relevant.
The result was a peculiar one. The
two judges who said the Engineers’ Case
should not be looked at and the judge
who said it should, all came to the same
conclusion in terms of money. None of
the judges gave any detailed reasons
as to why he fixed the actual amounts
of the salaries that were unanimously
awarded. In the outcome, therefore, the
judges appear to be saying that you reach
the same result in money terms whether
you have regard to the Engineers’ Case
or not . As to the 178 pages of reason _
ing, they seem to have little causal con-
nection with the figures decided upon,
The real business must be done when
the judges get down to that inevitable
discussion without which they could
never come to an agreement on the
actual salaries to be awarded. And, of
course, they do not tell us what they say
to one another then,
Perhaps the sociologists and the
political scientists of the University of
NSW may be better able than the
engineers to assess what has really
happened about academic salaries. The
slide rule is not enough.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Too Much Industrialisation
A Country Party-Labor Party coalition?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
HPhe recent report on industrialisation in
A Western Australia issued by the Uni-
versity of WA Press throws large bucket-
fuls of cold water on the current in-
dustrialisation drive in the west.
Compiled by Dr Henry Schapper, a
reader in agricultural economics at the
University, it suggests that the benefits
to be gained from secondary industrial
growth in WA are at least partly illusory
and urges a swing back to the State’s
historic pre-occupation with agricultural
expansion.
Starting from the assumption that the
Commonwealth constitution has forced
all States into an economic common
market, it points out that WA is not
likely to become industrialised at a
faster rate than Australia as a whole and
lists some powerful factors operating
against industrialisation. These are main-
ly the equalisation of product costing in
all Australian cities, concessions earned
on large - scale purchases by eastern
States manufacturers, the small internal
market in WA and high transport costs
to eastern States markets.
Though it urges the development of
specialist industries which can be adapted
to the WA economy, it warns potential
investors against a current Government
argument that the proximity of WA to
Asia constitutes an economic opportunity
in South-East Asian countries. Factors
operating against this political hope are
the equalisation of freight rates between
Asia and all Australian ports, increasing
industrialisation in Singapore and Japan
and agricultural and industrial protec-
tionism in Asian countries generally.
It sees no such barriers to agricultural
expansion. WA already enjoys cost ad-
vantages in the production of grain, beef
and sheep over other States and the
potential exists for a substantial and im-
mediate lift in primary production. It
suggests an increase in the alienation of
Crown land, a publicity campaign in the
eastern States about land settlement op-
portunities in WA and speedier provision
of social services such as roads, water,
power, and schooling to the new farm
areas.
Though Industrial Development Min-
ister Charles Court issued an immediate
statement in reply to the report, he
adopted a mainly defensive attitude. He
claimed that some of the findings were
based on inaccurate assessments, but he
did not specify them. Country Party
leader Crawford Nalder said he would
not comment until the report had been
discussed by Cabinet.
The Labor Party had no such mis-
givings. In a long article in the “Western
Sun”, Labor spokesman Bill Hartley
claimed the report could result in a
coalition between the Labor and Country
Parties to implement the policies con-
tained in the report. This reaction is
in line with its long-standing hope that
it can woo the Country Party away from
the Liberal Party.


IN THE RED
The Communist Split
is Labor’s Chance
Aarons ’ main fear is the ALP, not Ted Hill
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
L. L. SHARKEY
Spokesman only
PTlhe publicity given to the split in the
•*- Australian Communist Party be-
tween Ted Hill’s pro-Peking wing and
Laurie Aarons’ pro-Moscow group has
obscured the extent to which the pro-
Moscow group commands almost com-
plete allegiance in all States except Vic-
toria and has drawn attention away from
the real opportunity this split offers the
ALP to recapture Communist-control-
led trade unions.
Looking at the split on a national
basis, what do Aarons and Hill see?
In NSW, where the national leader-
ship is centred, Aarons is completely
in control. L. Sharkey, always a Moscow
stooge, remains the spokesman, but after
his miserable TV performance under
the prodding of Michael Charlton on
“Four Corners” recently, it is now clear
to everybody what was formerly only
rumor: Sharkey, senile and uncertain,
still holds the title of General Secretary
but plays a minor role compared with
L. Aarons. Sharkey’s present trip to the
Soviet Union is to enable him to explain
to his masters what has happened and
bring back instructions. Aarons wisely
remains at home with the important job
of preventing the split from widening.
The only problem case in NSW is
the once-powerful Ernie Thornton. Little
is heard of him now and it is no secret
that, next to Ted Hill, he was the most
fanatical Chinese-liner in the party. In
the interests of purity he must ultimate-
ly go.
Aarons is therefore completely secure
and his only real problem—a minor one
—is the impatience and growing restive-
ness of the younger cadres who see
vacant rooms at the top as Sharkey’s
generation loses its touch. They have
little time for ideological questions when
the alluring prospect of a move up the
ladder of the party hierarchy is in the
offing. But they know who is in a
position to distribute patronage, and
Laurie Aarons has no trouble in getting
the numbers on any point he likes to
raise. Hill has no serious support.
In Victoria, the centre of the pro-
Peking group, the pro-Moscow Secretary
Ralph Gibson has announced that only
45 Communists had resigned as a result
of the split, and most of these are in
Victoria. As in the case of Hungary
this figure is misleading for it recognises
only those who formally tender resigna-
tions, ignoring the much larger numbers
who just quietly sever connections with
the party. But in any case the party can
ill-afford such a loss, for the defectors
include a large portion of the top pro-
fessional organisers. Although Gibson,
Sendy and Taft appear to have the
ascendancy in Victoria a small shift in
loyalties could still cause much trouble.
For the moment the Red China wing
has received an unexpected set-back
when Hill’s principal aide, Ken Miller,
collapsed and died at the Melbourne Law
Courts on Friday. The Pro-Hill trade
union leaders who resigned from the
party are waiting impatiently to be join-
ed by those others of the 20 who signed
the original manifesto condemning Taft
and supporting Flo Russell. Perhaps some
of them have had second thoughts and
are afraid of losing their union positions
without the backing of the party. If so
they appear to have forgotten J. J.
Brown’s performance some years ago
when he won back his position in the
Australian Railways Union despite the
Communist Party’s opposition.
But in any case Ted Hill, leader of
the pro-Peking faction, can look back
to Melbourne from Peking with some
satisfaction and hope. His plans so far
have worked well. Enough pro-Pekingese
have resigned from the Party to allow
him to tell his Peking masters that he
has the nucleus of an anti-Khrushchev
party in Australia if they will help him.
One assumes that he has arranged for
more resignations in his absence so that
in Peking it will look like a landslide.
Tn South Australia, events appear to
have progressed as Aarons planned. Jim
Moss stood down from his position as
Secretary to allow Secretariat choice, New
South Welshman, Hal Alexander, to take
over. While everyone is matey around
the State Committee table, away from
it there are many disgruntled comrades
who are ready to kick at the decision to
give the Secretary’s job to an outsider.
The most bitter are solicitor Elliott John-
ston, trade unionist C. McCaffrey (both
of whom are still far from convinced
that Red China is wrong), and organiser
Jim Moss.
In West Australia, the Branch seems
reasonably stable and pro-Aarons, al-
though seeds of a future trouble are
there. Secretary Sam Aarons, old and
sick, must soon be replaced. His logical
successor would be either Rivo Gandini
or Norm Lacey. Both are young Westra-
lians, pro-Russian in outlook and with
a long record of party service. Since each
considers he has earned the right of
succession, the loser will be bitter and
could make a bad enemy. Should an
outsider be brought in, as was the case
in South Australia, there could be quite
a storm. A lot will depend on whom
veteran Communist trade union leader
Paddy Troy allies himself with.
In Queensland, despite the fact that
the party there has behind it a long
history of “left sectarianism” and that
its leading cadres were to a man sym-
pathetic towards Red China, it has under
the guidance of Claude Jones declared
for the Aarons Secretariat against Hill.
Sent north some years ago to put the
party’s house in order there Jones suc-
ceeded so well that he is now regarded
indispensable in Queensland. Part of his
success lies in the fact that he has never
attempted to impose himself completely
on the Queensland apparatus. E. A.
Bacon is still allowed to keep the Sec-
retary’s job while Jones leads from the
rear. His job has been made much easier
by the grip which the Communist Party
has on the Labor Council in Brisbane.
Tasmania remains much as it always
has. Its minute branch, led by State
Secretary Max Bound, looks to the domi-
nant Aarons group on the mainland for
its line. Generally speaking, provincial
branches throughout the rest of Aus-
tralia reflect State leadership.
Summing up, the supporters of Hill
are only really significant in Victoria
and even if Hill arranges financial and
other support from Peking he cannot
hope to form a party as powerful as
Aarons’. Aarons has little to worry about
from Hill.
But it would be a mistake to assume
this split has reduced the Communist
Party to insignificance. For the Com-
munist Party has the major base left
—the trade unions it controls. From
these it derives most of its strength in
cadres, finance and propaganda. This
is the ALP’s big opportunity. These
unions are ripe for change. Should the
ALP run official Labor tickets com-
posed of capable men untainted by
either the extreme Right or the Left it
could win most, if not all, of these
unions, leaving the Communist Party to
wither into real insignificance.
This, not Hill, is Aarons’ main fear.


RELIGION
The Church versus
the State of Queensland
The Lutherans and the Freemasons
FROM THE REV. K. MARQUART IN TOOWOOMBA
A. W. MUNRO
Theologian?
A brisk Church-State conflict flared
up in Queensland recently which
involves legal issues that penetrate
to the very heart and core of British law
and justice. The dispute, which dragged
out over a year, was between a Lutheran
congregation and the Department of
Justice. It was about the right of
religious bodies to express strictly
religious, theological judgments in their
constitutions. This basic right, affirmed
by the Church, has been successfully
denied by the Queensland Government.
It began when the expanding
Toowoomba Parish of the Evangelical
Lutheran Church of Australia (ELCA)
formed a new congregation, Good Shep-
herd Church, Harristown, and took
steps to incorporate the new body under
the provisions of the Religious, Educa-
tional, and Charitable Institutions Acts,
1861-1959. After the usual documents
were submitted to the proper authorities,
the Church’s solicitors were informed by
the Solicitor-General that the wording of
one of the Church's membership require-
ments (“. . . are not members of such
societies as profess false, anti-Christian
religions [Freemasonry and the like]”) —
a standard feature of ELCA constitutions
—was unacceptable. “The form of such
clause is close to libellous,” wrote the
Solicitor-General, “and . . . any con-
stitution drawn in such or similar form
to this imputing grave faults against
other persons or bodies cannot be
accepted for the purposes of supporting
an application for incorporation.”
Lutheran reaction was one of
surprised amusement. It was conjectured
that the Solicitor-General had merely
signed, as a matter of routine, the work
of some officious underling. So the
Church’s solicitors patiently explained
the legal facts of life. It was pointed
out, for instance (“with great respect to
the worthy sentiments conveyed in your
letter”), that any religion which holds its
doctrines to be true must necessarily
reject the opposite doctrines as false; that
terms like “false and anti-Christian” are
of a purely religious, theological nature,
and that the Government should not
concern itself with purely doctrinal,
religious matters in constitutions of in-
stitutions applying for Letters Patent.
But all to no avail. The Solicitor-
General disdained to continue the dis-
cussion he had begun: “As to the
observations in your letter and the
enclosure, they are of no interest as it
is not intended to enter into any
theological or other argument.” The
Church was given the choice of elimina-
ting either the reference to Freemasonry,
“thereby removing the accusation,” or
the characterisation of it as a “false and
anti - Christian religion.”
ly/foRE exasperated than amused now,
the Church’s solicitors invoked pre-
cedent. They cited the case of St. Peter’s
Lutheran Church, Fairney View, Q’ld,
which was incorporated under the same
Acts in 1931. Its constitution, like those
of other Lutheran congregations, con-
tained substantially the same characterisa-
tion of Freemasonry as that objected to
in the case of the Harristown church.
The special significance of this precedent,
however, lay in the fact that owing to
some strictly technical difficulties and
upon the request of the Fairney View
congregation, this constitution had been
drawn up in the Crown Law Office
itself, by the official who at that time
had had charge of incorporation matters!
The Harristown church also secured
an opinion from the distinguished QC,
Mr W. B. Campbell. Extremely
significant are Mr Campbell’s startling
conclusions in a memorandum:
“Therefore, it is clear that Queens-
landers are without a rule of law
giving constitutional protection to
freedom of religion apart from the
restrictions imposed on the Federal
Parliament by Section 116 of the
Constitution. One cannot help feel-
ing, as the pastor of the Harristown
church feels, that remedial legisla-
tion should be introduced to safe-
guard certain aspects of religious
liberty.”
Since Mr Campbell’s opinion had
suggested a personal approach to Cabinet
level, I, as pastor of the church con-
cerned, wrote to the Hon. A. W. Munro,
Minister for Justice, requesting an inter-
view. In due course the chairman of
the Harristown church and I met for
about an hour with the Hon. A. W.
Munro. He was very cordial, but also
very determined. He discoursed on
matters religious and philosophical. By
means of a sketched diagram he
indicated, as tactfully as possible, the
numerical insignificance of the Lutheran
Church (in Australia), the point being
that the Government had to be fair and
defend the public interest, etc., and
therefore could not very well allow a
small sect’s pretension to speak for all
Christendom! But when we not only
cited corroborative views from other
denominations, but also explained the
Lutheran doctrine of the Church, show-
ing why and in \Vhat sense the Lutheran
Church claimed to represent (theologic-
ally, not statistically!) the Universal
Church and her one true Faith, the
Minister smiled and indicated that he
could not really be expected to hold his
own in a theological debate, and that this
line of discussion had best be dis-
continued. He then exhorted his visitors
to an attitude of tolerance since, while
religion certainly had to be taken
seriously, etc., most sensible people
nowadays realised that denominational
membership is largely determined by the
accident of birth. As for practical
politics, the Minister made it clear that
the Lutheran constitution, so long as it
contained the explicit condemnation of
Freemasonry, simply could not be got
through the Cabinet.
To avoid further delay, which was
becoming inconvenient, the Church
decided to humor the Justice
Department temporarily and to sub-
mit to the Minister, for his approval, a
suitably castrated version of the constitu-
tion. An accompanying letter, however,
ensured that there would be no mis-
understanding. It stated in part: “We
cheerfully concede your political, legal
right to hold your particular theological
opinions; but we must decidedly contest
your right to use the machinery of
Government to enforce your private
theological views on the rest of us!”
The Government endured this with
typical composure, and the Harristown
church has finally received the coveted
Letters Patent.
One last point: Lutherans assure
Masonic compatriots that they regard
honest differences about the nature of
the true, the good, and the beautiful, as
objective conflicts of ideas, not as per-
sonal insults. They ask them to help
safeguard the place of controversy in a
free society.


OUT AND ABOUT
Melbourne’s Grand Dame
Gould's birds , Napoleon's hair , and Georgian silver
By BATMAN
To be honest I was always in awe of
Dame Mabel Brookes. I was born
in Toorak and I went to school just
down the road from “Kurneh,” the huge
white residence in Domain Road, South
Yarra. “Kurneh” was Arabic for Gar-
den of Eden. And that’s the way it
seemed. From my earliest days I knew
that Melbourne’s best parties, the parties
done with the greatest style, always took
place at “Kurneh.” If you were invited
to “Kurneh” you had made it. A guern-
sey from Lady Brookes was, and still
is, really something.
Then there was the story of Lady
Brookes’ eldest daughter, Cynthia, Lady
Gengoult Smith, who died in 1961. Her
marriage in 1933 to the reigning Lord
Mayor, Harold Gengoult Smith was,
possibly, the greatest wedding this town
has ever seen. Over 10,000 waited out-
side St Paul’s Cathedral and another
50,000 lined the route. The wedding
presents under armed guard were on dis-
play at the Town Hall from 8 a.m. The
“Herald” reported: “A large queue filed
past the tables to see the presents. Their
inspection was punctuated with spon-
taneous gasps of admiration at the
splendor and diversity of the display.”
The wedding present of Sir Norman
and Lady Brookes was 102 pieces of
early Georgian silver, described by the
“Herald” as “the most elaborate and
complete collection of silverware in the
Commonwealth.” The Brookes family
could set the pace.
As a reporter I knew it was vital
not to get Lady Brookes confused with
the wife of the former Governor, Lady
Brooks. She was a “no E” Lady Brooks.
The wife of Sir Norman was a “with E”
Lady Brookes. Perhaps the most charm-
ing comment she made on becoming a
Dame of the British Empire in 1955
dealt with this very point. She knew one
woman who would be very happy about
the new honor the “no E” Lady
Brooks. “We’re always getting each
other’s bills, letters and flowers. It
should be easier now.”
Make no mistake, Dame Mabel
Brookes is a dominant, forceful woman.
We don’t normally give our women a
chance to shine. She has a famous hus-
band, but she is famous, too in com-
pletely different fields. Prime Ministers,
Premiers, managing directors, Cabinet
Ministers come to her. It’s fascinating
to hear her name-dropping “Bob Men-
zies,” “Dickie Casey,” “John Latham,”
.... Except that it’s not name-drop-
ping. These are the people she deals
with constantly.
She has been president of the Queen
Victoria Hospital for 39 years (surely
a world record for being a hospital presi-
dent); she has written five books; she is
a world authority on Napoleon; she has
stood unsuccessfully for Parliament
twice and she is a former commandant
of the Women’s Air Training Corps,
Victoria.
The best judgment of her comes from
her good friend Bob Menzies and you
will find it in the foreword to her book
“St Helena Story:” “Inheriting from her
father a lawyer-like capacity for analy-
sis and possessing herself a remarkable
executive capacity, she has, ever since
I first knew her, commanded the minds
and judgments of politicians and of
businessmen so that in the result they
found it easier to agree with her. If
this gives you the impression that she has
any domineering mannerism, I have not
conveyed myself accurately. The truth
is that she is one of those advocates
who not only persuade you that they
are right but leave you faintly ashamed
to have thought temporarily that they
might have been wrong.”
Dame Mabel is a handsome woman.
She does not give her age in “Who’s
Who,” but if anyone is sufficiently rude
to want to know, and is sufficiently good
at mental arithmetic, she doesn’t mind
giving a few clues.
She is the daughter of the late Harry
Emmerton, an equity lawyer, and the
late Alice Mabel Maude Emmerton,
CBE. She says: “I didn't have any proper
education. I was a very reluctant scholar.
Really, I was always taught by govern-
esses. Except that I went to a kinder-
garten.
“The kindergarten was called Miss
Templeton’s School. It was just round
the corner in Shipley Street. Actually
Dick Casey’s father owned the place
and the kindergarten was in a converted
stables. Bill Johnston’s wife was there
too (wife of late Sir William Johnston)
and, of course Dickie Casey. He could
tell you some stories about Miss Temple-
ton’s school.”
It was in 1911 that she married Nor-
man Brookes, the world champion ten-
nis player. “Yes, I have always been
interested in tennis. Norman and I still
get to Wimbledon about every second
year. Of course, I don’t object to lace
panties. They look pretty. I don’t care
what they wear as long as it’s practical.
“Oh, but they get it so easy now.
Expenses? There was no such thing when
Norman started. You know, originally
he went to the university to become a
doctor. It was then that he began to
star at tennis. But his father took him
away, put him into the paper mill to
lick stamps. And when he went overseas
his father wouldn’t pay for it. Norman
had to save up.
“When Norman and Tony Wilding
won the Davis Cup they had to pay
themselves to bring it back in their lug-


gage. We had it on our sideboard for
years. You know the size of the thing.
Big as a bath. It looked awful. I was
glad when they took it away. Though
the last time we had it here I think
we had the Frank Clarkes to dinner
I filled the Cup with red peonies and it
looked very nice.”
The Brookes have spent their lives
at three houses “Kurneh,” the huge
white building at 206 Domain Road;
“Elm Tree,” a few doors up at the
corner of Walsh Street, bought by Dame
Mabel’s father because he loved the
elm tree; and “Cliff House,” a century-
old wooden house overlooking the Bay
at Mt Eliza. “Kurneh” was sold in 1960
for an undisclosed figure. Rumor had
it at the time that the figure was
£IOO,OOO. The wreckers were to move
in immediately to build a block of flats.
However, the credit squeeze has given
it a reprieve and it is still there, un-
occupied.
During the two world wars “Kurneh”
was turned into a hospital and during
the filming of “On the Beach” it was
occupied by the Gregory Pecks.
Dinner for 280
guT most of all “Kurneh” was famous
for its parties. The things to see were
Dame Mabel's collection of silver and
the superb Persian rugs. “The biggest
party I had was 280 for dinner, mem-
bers of the Parliamentary Association.
Oh, yes, it was a proper sit-down din-
ner with the Georgian silver. We erected
a marquee in the garden. The largest
number possible? I think there’s enough
silver to cater for 300. I love silver,
and I’m always picking up some fresh
pieces in the Portobello Road. It’s
amazing what you can find there.”
“Kurneh” became too large and un-
manageable- and one gets the impression
that “Elm Tree” always was Dame
Mabel’s first love. The rooms close to
Domain Road are over 100 years old,
dating from the time when it was a
small house. Now it is large, extending
down past the elm tree. It is packed with
the Persian rugs, the Regency French
furniture and the bookshelves are loaded
with volumes which would make any
lover of Australiana almost sob with
envy.
There are the first editions of “Rob-
bery Under Arms,” White’s Voyage to
NSW, Parkinson’s Voyage, Bligh’s
Diary, Major Mitchell’s works, 10 folios
of Gould’s Birds (“Til get the 12 yet,”
said Dame Mabel), the Complete Mam-
mals of Australia, Prints of Cook’s Last
Voyage. Then there’s the Elizabethan
collection Spenser’s “Faerie Queen”
(1617), a first of Boswell’s “Life of
Johnson,” Shakespearean folios dated
1623 and 1632. There’s a Beaumont
and Fletcher (1647), a Hollingshed His-
tory of Scotland (1571) and the “Dis-
courses of Algernon Sidney” (1704). “I’m
awfully pleased with that. 1 bought it in
Chapel Street, Prahran, for <£l.”
As for her own writing, early she
wrote three novels. In 1956 she wrote
“Crowded Galleries.” (According to her
friend, Sir Robert, “If you omit the
over-kind passages about myself, one
of the most delicious essays in social
history it has ever been my privilege to
read”) and in 1960 “The St Helena
Story.”
“ ‘Crowded Galleries’ was the most
successful,” said Dame Mabel. “It ran
to three editions in England. ‘St Helena
Story’ went to two. But it was published
in America as well and the Americans
liked it better than the English. It’s
coming out as a paperback soon.
"Now they want me to do a book on
early Australian history. I’ve done some
of the research, but it’s very hard.
It’s to be a homespun history. Australian
history is like that, no bright lights.
The only flare-up was Eureka. Every-
thing is muted, like the gum leaves, not
quite green.
“I start writing at 4 a.m. It’s nonsense
to say you can’t get going at that hour.
That’s when your mind is refreshed, re-'
charged. Get up? Of course not. I write
in longhand in bed, then I stop when a
cup of tea is brought to me at 7 a.m.”
Maybe the lonely pre-dawn hours are
the best for thinking about Napoleon.
If her collection of Australiana is good,
her collection of Napoleon relics is even
better. Her great-grandfather, William
Balcombe, Naval Agent and Purveyor
for the East India Company, was host
to Napoleon during his first few months
of exile on St Helena. “St Helena Story”
is largely the story of how Napoleon be-
came the friend and confidant of Dame
Mabel’s great-aunt Betsy Balcombe.
Some of the stories of St Helena Dame
Mabel heard direct from her grand-
father who was Betsy’s younger brother
Alexander.
“Obsessed by the man, devoted to
him? No, I don’t think so. Mind you, he
was no Hitler or Stalin. He could be a
most charming and gracious man, and
he had so many human qualities. I mean
he used to play ‘Blind Man’s Buff’
with my family, and my grandfather
told me a story of how he fed Napoleon
aperients. He had some chocolates and
tablets, laxatives I suppose they were.
He gave them to Napoleon. Napoleon
spat them out, but he took it very well.
My grandfather got a thrashing for that
one. That’s why he remembered it so
well.
“I’m interested because I’m so fascinat-
ed by history. Norman and I bought
the two houses on St Helena and gave
them to the French nation because this
was something we wanted to do. You
see, the Balcombes lived at the Briars and
Napoleon lived in a pavilion on the
grounds. I learned that the then owners,
Cable and Wireless, planned to demolish
both of them. The Briars was pretty
tumbledown, but the Pavilion was in per-
fect condition.
“But can you imagine the problems?
Here I was an Australian, who wanted
to buy some property in an English
colony to give to the French Govern-
ment. It took a year to go through and
it had to go all the way to British Cabinet
for approval. Fortunately, I had some
friends in high places.
“Yes, I suppose it was one of the great
days of my life when I actually made the
gift. It was done at Malmaison, the house
that Napoleon bought for Josephine.
They took away all the rope barriers. It
was the first party there in a hundred
years.
“The representatives of the French
Government were there, and represen-
tatives of the societies that are so keen
on Napoleon. You know they have a big
service for Napoleon in Paris every year.
The church is packed and way out into
the street. The Napoleon enthusiasts,
really, are a bit like our RSL. The French
papers were full of it and it was even
covered by English TV.
“I don't speak a word of French, but
our Ambassador kept by my side all
evening to translate. I didn't feel a bit
awkward. The French are masters of
diplomacy.
“The place was filled with Napoleon’s
things. There were Josephine vases full
of flowers. And the glasses we used! I
looked at them and they all had the
Napoleon cipher. The real thing, just like
the precious few I had in my cabinet at
home. I was terrified somebody was go-
ing to drop one of them.
“One odd thing happened. I had to
hand over the deeds, but they couldn’t
become legal until they were signed by
the French Minister. Every time I went
to get him something else would happen.
Do you know I followed him around for
an hour like a dog. Eventually I gave
up and slammed them down on a desk.
“As it turned out it was Napoleon’s
desk and someone said to me: ‘You’ve
just done a very curious thing. That’s
the first time a State document has been
laid on that desk since Napoleon left’.”
No mention of cost
Mabel remembers all these
things with great clarity. Indeed
she talks like a successful chairman of
directors. Napoleon is her favorite
subject and a personally guided tour of
the Napoleana is the highlight of a visit
to “Elm Tree.” The collection is mag-
nificent, some handed down through the
family, some collected at cost. What
cost? Dame Mabel, unless the cost is


Jar
Q
Q
b
b
b
b
b
FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
MOUTH WASH
C 93
low, never mentions pounds, shillings
and pence.
First we saw the locks of hair. One
lock was in a splendid leather folder
and on the cover were the words “Secur-
ed by Captain Poppleton of the 53rd
Foot English Army while at St Helena
1815-16.” Another set in a locket was
given to grand-aunt Betsy, and there were
further strands of the Emperor’s hair
set in a pearl ring. “In those days,” said
Dame Mabel, “it was quite the thing to
hand out locks of hair. The man did it
so often it’s a wonder he had a hair left.”
These locks of hair have helped con-
siderably to bolster a theory that
Napoleon died from poison. Three doc-
tors in the department of forensic medi-
cine at Glasgow University, Dr For-
shufvud, Dr Smith and Dr Wasser, be-
lieved that Napoleon did not die natural-
ly. They found in one hair, taken from
the Emperor during his lifetime, that
it contained 10.38 parts per million of
arsenic instead of the normal 0.8 parts,
Dame Mabel took two locks to London,
in May last year. Dr Forshufvud met her
and he tested the locks in the Harwell
reactor.
“He found two periods of months of
arsenic. As far as I’m concerned the case
is proved. Napoleon was poisoned with
arsenic on St Helena. Everything points
to it. While he was with my family at
the Briars he got fat and he was happy.
Afterwards they installed him at Long-
wood and it was then he went into a
decline.
“Also, 20 years after his death his
coffin was opened. Now arsenic is cumu-
lative and a preservative. This is the ex-
traordinary thing, his body hadn’t decom-
posed. He looked almost as he did in life.
The only thing amiss was one burst boot.
“It is said Count Montholon did it.
He was a Royalist on Napoleon’s staff.
He was probably acting under instructions
from France. Oh yes, Napoleon trusted
him. He settled a large sum of money
on Madame Montholon while he was
alive and he left quite a fortune to
Count Montholon in his will. I wonder
what sort of a conscience the man had.”
We continued our tour. There was a
cup from the Tuileries, there was a paper-
weight, the Emperor’s snuff box, the
wedding present given by Napoleon to
Betsy, a tortoiseshell-and-silver inlay box;
there was his favorite coffee mug from
the Briars, a huge affair that must have
held a pint.
There was a guitar, another of
Napoleon’s presents to Betsy. “When the
Gregory Pecks moved into ‘Kurneh’ I
put a note in the case asking them not
to touch the guitar because it belonged
to Napoleon. Well they didn’t hurt it,
but later I saw some pictures in a Holly-
wood magazine. And you know what?
The pictures were of young Mr Peck
playing Napoleon’s guitar. I suppose it
made good publicity.”
There were chairs, a superb rosewood
desk and a cabinet, all used by Napoleon.
There was the teak table which he used
at the Pavilion.
“It’s a funny thing but that table also
was used by the Duke of Wellington,”
said Dame Mabel. “Six years earlier he
was cast ashore at St Helena and he
stayed a few days in the Pavilion. Later
he sent a message: ‘My regards to Boney.
I hope he enjoys my old quarters as
much as I do his at the Elysees
Bourbon’.”
We walked round the room and we
came to a cabinet that was gorgeous al-
most beyond belief. It was weighted
down with exotic silver designs, with
tortoiseshell and ivory inlay.
It was the climax that one would ex-
pect from any guided tour. “This is my
proudest possession. It has been handed
down to me through five wills. It dates
from 1660. It’s a credence, a place where
the Church keeps its sacred vessels.
Cromwellian loot, when they were sacking
the churches in England.”
Dame Mabel opened the credence. In-
side there was an ivory chess pattern
with the squares becoming smaller and
smaller to give an impression of infinity.
But well before infinity lay the death mask
of Napoleon. It was of grey plaster of
paris and the powerful features of the
man were instantly recognisable. “It was
taken 12 hours after his death. The
cheeks are sunken. In that climate de-
composition sets in quickly. But I imagine
that’s the way he looked when they open-
ed the coffin 20 years later. The ear? No,
that’s not the fault of the cast. They had
a rat plague at the time and a rat nibbled
a portion of one ear. His heart also
was dragged out of a silver dish that lay
nearby.”
Dame Mabel closed the credence. We
didn't talk for a moment.
It wasn’t until almost the end of the
interview that we got to talking about
Queen Victoria Hospital. “I became the
president of an appeal in 1923 and presi-
dent of the hospital in 1924. Thirty-nine
years. Oh yes, it’s a record in Mel-
bourne, possibly anywhere. I’ve had a
long-suffering committee.
“When I came to the hospital it had
only 70 beds, now it has 520. It was a
sort of left - over from the days of
Madame Pankhurst. No men, certainly
not. In those days women doctors got a
very poor deal. The hospitals wouldn’t
have them.
“And it remained a women’s preserve
until towards the end of the Second
World War. Surgeons coming back from
the war wanted refresher courses in
gynaecology. There are no restrictions
now we’re a training hospital for
Monash University.
“No, I’m not a feminist, certainly not.
I did try to get into politics because I
thought there should be some women in
parliament. I tried as an independent
Liberal for Flinders in 1943 and later
against Mr Petty in Toorak. I didn’t get
in women don’t have much chance
here. That’s because women won’t back
women. They’re not interested in politics,
they slavishly follow their husbands. It’s
a very Australian trait. They’re not like
that in America or France or England.
Though I think they’re much the same
in Italy.
One couldn’t help but feel sorry at
this. Victorian politics could use a lead-
ing lady to star in the Legislative
Assembly. But it was nearly lunch time
and high time to go. There was a faint
glimpse of Sir Norman through a door-
way. Very tactfully he had kept out of
the interview, no mixing of careers there.
Dame Mabel finally thought over her
own many careers and said: “Life is a
very pleasant interlude as long as you
don’t ask for too much.”


FORUM
Divorce-Australian Style
The Berwick Act two years after
By MALCOLM BROUN
When Sir Garfield Barwick intro-
duced his Federal Divorce Act
in 1959 the most controversial
clause was the addition of a new ground
for divorce: separation for five years
without either party having committed
any of the matrimonial offences such
as adultery, cruelty, habitual drunken-
ness, etc. Now that more than two years
have gone by, we can get some idea of
what the effect has been of that new
ground.
Unfortunately, reliable statistics of
how many divorces have occurred on this
ground, which would not have occurred
without it, are really impossible to ob-
tain. The difficulty is that of the mar-
riages dissolved upon this ground a large
percentage would probably have been dis-
solved under previous legislation on other
grounds.
It not infrequently happens that a wife
who has been beaten up by her husband
and who has suffered years of constant
drunkenness from her husband, who
finally has her husband walk out on her,
waits five years or more before presenting
a divorce petition after her husband’s de-
parture. When she eventually presents
her divorce petition the careful draftsman
will probably include as grounds cruelty,
drunkenness, desertion and separation.
Sometimes the husband starts to defend
the case, and thereafter an agreement is
reached between the solicitors as to the
maintenance and property. As the result
of such an agreement, or for one reason
or another, it frequently becomes desir-
able for the case eventually to proceed
to a hearing on the ground of separation
which requires no evidence of any bad
conduct by anyone. Unlike the home
of the parties, where strife has been the
rule, perfect harmony is provided in
the Divorce Court and the petitioner
obtains her divorce on a ground to
which no respondent can reasonably
object.
Similarly, cases occur where a hus-
band whose wife left him for another
man gets around to petitioning for a
divorce more than five years later. He
might present his petition on the grounds
of desertion or adultery or separation. By
the time he gets to court it may appear
to be the easiest thing to proceed upon
the ground of separation. Instead of hav-
ing to spend 15 or 20 minutes in the
witness box giving the harrowing story
of his wife’s association with the milk-
man. of her leaving, of his efforts to
find her and bring her back, and of the
years that have elapsed since, he simply
has to give evidence more or less to
the following effect: “My wife left me
on the Ist January, 1955, and I haven’t
lived with her since. There is no reason-
able likelihood of cohabitation being re-
sumed between us.”
His corroborative witness, if the ground
used were adultery, would have to give all
the gruesome details csf having leapt
through the window with flashlight in
his hand and caught the respondent and
co-respondent in fragrante delicto. On
the ground of separation his evidence
runs more or less like this: “I know Bill
Smith. I have seen him regularly for the
past five years. He’s been living separate-
ly from his wife all that time.” It is all so
much more civilised and quicker.
Being new. the ground of separation
is still suffering a large number of birth-
pains, while the judges work out what the
ground really means. There has, in par-
ticular, been one very controversial
decision given in New South Wales
by Mr Justice Nield, who retired last
year.
The innocent Catholic
Tt was the case of Taylor v. Taylor.
A The relevant facts were that Mr
Taylor and his wife had separated
more than five years before presentation
of Mr Taylor’s petition. Thereafter Mr
Taylor had an adulterous association
with a number of other women. His wife
knew about all of these affairs but none-
theless would have been content to for-
give him and have him back. Mr Taylor
took divorce proceedings on the ground
of five years’ separation and filed a dis-
cretion statement in the court, relating
to his acts of adultery since the marriage,
but unfortunately he did not make a com-
pletely clean breast of it. Mrs Taylor,
being a devout Roman Catholic, believed
that it was contrary to her religious prin-
ciples to permit herself to be divorced.
Her legal representatives relied upon Sec-


Escapists only!
RELAX... UNWIND...
COME ABOARD A
HALVORSEN
CRUISER
SM
Take the wheel. Forget the daily grind. Make up a crew and head sunwards, funwards,
along Sydney’s beautiful waterways. Cowan, Hawkesbury, fashionable Pittwater. No
formalities like licences or boating experience. Just long, lazy days to soak up sun-
shine, fish or beachcomb. Luxury Halvorsen Cruisers are fully equipped. 6" foam
mattresses, modern kitchen with gas cooking, hot showers, separate toilet. Rock the
budget? Never. Reasonable, actually. And a holiday you’ll long remember.
(25-36
Footers)
Send this coupon now for full details*.
Halvorsen Boats, Bobbin Head.
P.O. Box 33, Turramurra. Sydney. 44-1227.
Telegrams: “Cruisers” Sydney.
name
ADDRESS.
STATE
NO BOATING LICENCE REQUIRED
Hire a
HAL
IS17JW
Cruiser
LH.141.52
tion 37 which reads in part: “Where, on
the hearing of a petition for a decree of
dissolution of marriage on . . . the ground
of separation the court is satisfied that
by reason of the conduct of the petitioner
... or for any other reason it would . . .
be harsh and oppressive to the respondent
or contrary to the public interest to grant
a decree on that ground . . . the court
shall refuse to make the decree sought.”
In the course of his judgment in this
case, Mr Justice Nield said of this sec-
tion: —
“I suppose this is the most extraordin-
ary sub-section that has ever been passed
by any legislature in the world. Its mean-
ing is vague and uncertain in the ex-
treme. In my opinion it puts an obli-
gation on the court which should not
be put on the court. Its connotation is so
doubtful and uncertain that I venture to
think that no ordinary member of the
community would have any idea of what
it might or could mean.”
Despite these criticisms, however, when
Mr Justice Nield came to consider the
matter as a whole he felt that he had
to dismiss the petition for a divorce by
Mr Taylor upon the ground of separa-
tion because of this section. There was
no doubt, of course, that the parties had
been living separately and apart for five
years before the presentation of the peti-
tion. There was no doubt also, because
of Mr Taylor’s own firm resolution in the
matter, that there was no reasonable like-
lihood of cohabitation between the parties
being resumed. However, the Judge de-
cided in effect that it was harsh and
oppressive for any woman to be divorced
against her will, and accordingly felt
bound by the section quoted to refuse
to make a decree.
Mr Taylor’s legal representatives
managed to convince Mr Justice Nield,
after his decision in this case, that it was
sufficiently important to merit stating a
case to the High Court, for the expres-
sion of its opinion as to his correctness in
law in coming to the conclusion that it is
harsh and oppressive on any woman to be
divorced against her will. Unfortunately,
owing to some technical defects in the
“Stated Case” the High Court was not
able to express any opinion and the Judge
who was the only person who could
amend the case had retired.
The decision in Taylor v. Taylor has
received a number of adverse comments
from other judges in both NSW and
other States. The majority opinion ap-
pears to be that it cannot be harsh and
oppressive on a woman merely to be
divorced against her will. It also appears
to be an opinion prevalent amongst most
judges, though as yet we have no decided
cases on the matter, that religious
principles of the respondent, no matter
how devoutly held, will not make a
divorce on the ground of separation harsh
and oppressive on the respondent.
While it is hard to tell which way the
judicial wind is blowing, it rather looks
as if that section of the Act is about
to be judicially repealed.
Restitution of conjugal rights
course, in New South Wales, divorce
has been tightened up substantially
by the Federal Act in one respect: the
old system of getting a divorce by using
a restitution petition has been effectively
abolished. In New South Wales, under
the old Act, it was possible for the desert-
ed spouse to present a petition praying
that the respondent be ordered to return
to the petitioner and to render to the peti-
tioner Conjugal Rights. Having obtained
this decree of restitution of conjugal
rights it was then served upon the respon-
dent, and if the respondent did not obey
it within 21 days the respondent was then
deemed to have deserted the petitioner,
and a petition for divorce on the ground
of desertion could then be immediately
presented. This involved two complete
petitions and extensive amounts of legal
time and costs, but was nonetheless quite
a quick system.
The Federal Act provides non-compli-
ance with a restitution decree as a ground
for divorce only when it is disobeyed for
a full year. The result of this is that it
is no longer quicker to present a peti-
tion for restitation, and after non-compli-
ance petition for a divorce on the ground
of non-compliance, than it is to present a
petition on the ground of desertion. The
total time of the restitution method would
be, say, five or six months for each peti-
tion, a few months between the desertion
and presenting the restitution petition and
a year in between the two petitions: Total
over two years. The simple desertion
method takes two years from the date
of desertion and then five or six months
for the hearing of the petition. Desertion
as a ground takes only a little longer and
is half the price.
I think the restitution petition under
the 1959 Act is used substantially less
often by people who really want their
spouses to return than it was before.
People normally want their matrimonial
status clarified and stabilised finally and
quickly. Most people find being married
and separated unsatisfactory. A man who
wants his wife back also frequently wants
to dissolve the marriage as speedily as
possible if it is clearly and definitely es-
tablished that she is not going to return
to him. Such a man took restitution pro-
ceedings genuinely wanting his wife back.
When she didn’t return he then took
divorce proceedings, perhaps reluctantly,
but to resolve his status hiatus.
However, now when people want their
spouses to return the bait of a quicker


LAST WEEK WE STARTED TO SAY . . .
it
is
not
true
that ....
* Despite strong rumours throughout
the Nation we are no-good so-and-sos
willing to advertise anywhere.
* The Princes Highway is in better
condition in summer than in winter.
Quite the opposite.
* Our Viennese chef is on holiday
in July. . . .
* The weather in summer is better
than in June, July and August. . . .
* Merimbula oysters are all now
stamped “By Appointment”.
THE
BLACK
DOLPHIN
k MERIMBULA
• We learnt definitively about a month
ago that the rain is mostly falling in May
this year.
finality is not held out and accordingly
deserted spouses do not make the clear
effort to effect reconciliation by writing
the letter requesting the resumption of
cohabitation and then petitioning for
restitution.
The petition for restitution of conjugal
rights has not, however, died altogether.
It has become the vehicle for ulterior
motives. For example, in the case, decid-
ed by Mr Justice Nield, of Robinson v.
Robinson, the wife left the husband. The
home which she left was owned jointly
by the husband and the wife. After
she left Mrs Robinson sought an order in
the Equity Court for the sale of this home
and a division of the proceeds between
the husband and the wife. It being joint
property, the husband on the face of it
had no possible means of preventing the
sale of his home over his head. His
lawyers suggested that he should present
a petition for restitution of conjugal
rights, he having no ground for divorce
available. He did so, and in the process
he obtained firstly from Mr Justice
Nield an injunction, until the hearing of
the restitution suit, restraining the wife
from continuing with her application to
the Equity Court for the sale of the land.
After a contested hearing, Mr Robinson
was given a decree of restitution of con-
jugal rights and as ancillary relief he
was granted an injunction restraining his
wife from trying to sell the matrimonial
home by Equity proceedings or other-
wise for the period in which the restitu-
tion decree ran, namely a period of
twelve months.
Another way in which the restitution
petition still earns its keep is that it is
useful for husbands who wish to prevent
their wives from taking proceedings in
the Children’s Court at some future time.
If a husband has a decree for restitution
of conjugal rights against his wife that
wife could not then obtain an order for
her maintenance in the Children’s Court.
A further use for the restitution suit
which is growing in popularity is as a
means of circumventing Section 43, the
“no divorce within three years” rule. This
rule does not apply to cross-petitions. For
example, a husband and wife married
one day, separated the next, realising it
is all a ghastly mistake, wish to take im-
mediate divorce proceedings. One party
petitions then for restitution of conjugal
rights and the other party then has the
whole gamut of divorce grounds avail-
able for selection, in the cross-petition.
A few hours’ reading
A part from the niceties of the grounds,
however, probably the largest revolu-
tion that the 1959 Act has introduced is
in the procedure. Whereas, before Bar-
wick in most States, a petition for divorce
stated merely the ground and some
formal matters and said that the peti-
tioner wanted a divorce and wanted cus-
tody of the children, if there were any,
and wanted costs, the petition never
specified anything at all about division of
matrimonial property if any, and about
that all important matter of alimony or
maintenance.
The husband, when being served with
a petition therefore, looked at it, saw
that his wife wanted a divorce from him
(at which he rejoiced), saw that his wife
wanted custody of the children (with
which he was content), saw that she
wanted costs (about which he was philo-
sophic), and observed nothing else. The
wife then proceeded and obtained her
decree for divorce, obtained custody of
the children, and her order for costs.
Then she presented an application to
the Registrar or to some other official
for the assessment of alimony for her-
self. This frequently came as a very rude
surprise to husbands. It also involved the
costs of two separate proceedings.
Now, however, when he is served with
a petition, apart from being given enough
formal matters to occupy his reading
time for some hours, the happy respon-
dent is also given precise particulars of
the matters upon which the petitioner
relies in support of the ground for
divorce, and precise particulars of the
maintenance sought by the wife for hcr-
self and the children and full particulars
of the wife’s present financial situation.
He can then look through this, decide
whether he admits the matters of fact
alleged against him and therefore
whether it is worthwhile defending the
divorce; he can also consider his wife’s
present financial position and decide
whether he thinks the precise figure of
maintenance which she seeks is such that
he ought to defend or ought not to
defend.
If he wishes to defend the case the
husband must state which of the allega-
tions against him he admits and which
he denies and with regard to financial
matters must give full details of his own
financial position. In a contested case,
by the time the pleadings are completed,
both sides normally know so much about
the other party’s case that there is not
really much point in going to court at
all. The result is that they don’t go to
court on a defended basis; some agree-
ment is worked out. Pleadings can, of
course, become very lengthy. Petitions
and Answers of 25 or 30 pages are seen.
Complete pleadings sometimes involve a
Petition, an Answer, a Reply, A Re-
joinder, a Further Rejoinder, and on one
occasion that I recall a document de-
scribed as “A Still Further Rejoinder”.
The matter of including everything in
the petition that the petitioner wants and
the new rule that all of these have to be
dealt with at the one hearing can result
in greatly protracted hearings. Under the
old Act, at the hearing of a defended
divorce, the Judge would simply hear
the issues as to whether or not hus-
band deserted the wife or whatever the
particular ground happened to be. The
issues of custody, alimony and mainten-
ance were all dealt with at separate
hearings. Now, a defended divorce hear-
ing can involve consideration of who
deserted whom, or what adultery was
committed, and the other matters of
the grounds of divorce, and also involves
a full consideration of custody and a
precise consideration of maintenance; and
at the same time the Judge will have to
deal with any matters of property dis-
puted between the parties. The petitioner
may start giving evidence at 10 a.m. and
will still be giving evidence-in-chief half-
way through the next day, the cross-
examination then taking another couple
of days.
The hearing of fully defended cases
has been greatly extended but the pro-
cedural effect of the Act is to produce
settlements more often and sooner than
under the old Act and accordingly to
reduce the number of cases actually liti-
gated as defended matters. There also
seems to be very little doubt that it is in
the interests of justice to both parties
that the one judge should deal with all
the matters between them at the one


Ten years from now
When you choose a
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless . . . ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
MERCEDES-BENS
- - : - - - 1 . -: - - -
: i ':;V
...,.... s-Mi:;!!!*
* j- ! !U
m
illU
a
IBM
■N
m
:;!!!
m
HI!
i ill!
m
ill
462/54*
time, when he has all the facts on all the
isues before him.
Desperate women
1959 Act has not produced any
A great change in the rules relating to
custody and maintenance, but it has pro-
duced a revolutionary effect in two other
respects. Firstly, the power to grant in-
junctions, conferred by Section 124 of
the Act, for some time after the Act was
very widely used indeed. The power is
being used at the present time perhaps a
little more sparingly.
A typical case in which injunctions are
commonly used where they were not used
before the Barwick Act is in circum-
stances such as these:
A husband and wife are living in the
one house. The husband drinks exces-
sively, beats his wife, carries on with
other women, and generally behaves in
a disgraceful fashion. He and his wife
are joint owners of the house. There are
three or four young children. If the wife
were to leave the house with her three
children, she has nowhere else to go.
In fact, she cannot leave. The husband
on the other hand refuses to leave and
comes home as drunk and as violent as
ever, despite his wife’s requests to the
contrary. Under the old law, she either
had to put up with this or eventually
take the plunge, grab her children and
go, relying upon the charity of her
friends or neighbors or relations, if any.
Sometimes if there were no one upon
who she could call, the wife was in a
very bad way indeed. Nowadays, by use
of the power of injunctions, what she
does is present her petition for divorce
upon the grounds of cruelty and drunken-
ness or adultery, as the case may be, and
forthwith seek an injunction that the hus-
band be ordered to leave the matrimonial
home or, more strictly, restraining him
from again entering the matrimonial
home pending the hearing of the suit.
To some it seems unjust that a man
who owns half a house should be restrain-
ed from living in it. But the obvious desir-
ability of giving a woman, in the quite
common position mentioned, protection
such as this far outweighs the property
rights involved. The power of injunctions
granted to the Matrimonial Causes Court
has produced a very great relief to
women in this desperate situation.
The matrimonial home
HThe other revolutionary power is that
contained in Section 86 of the Matri-
monial Causes Act which has been held
by the Full Court of New South Wales,
in the decision in Horne v. Horne, to
mean that the Divorce Court can do ab-
solutely anything it likes with the pro-
perty of either party.
The property most commonly disposed
of is the matrimonial home. One finds a
husband and wife joint owners of the
matrimonial home, the husband commits
some matrimonial offence and his wife
divorces him, retaining in the meantime
possession of the matrimonial home.
There are a number of children. So far,
on a number of occasions, the Divorce
Court has taken the husband’s interest in
the house away from him and given it
to the wife or to the children, or to both.
This frequently has a great deal of justice
in it.
For example, the husband leaves with
a home owned jointly by the husband
and wife and is never heard of again.
No maintenance is obtained from him.
There is no possibility of ever tracking
him down and getting any financial sup-
port out of him. If he eventually were to
die the wife would no doubt be able to
obtain the other half of the home. But
in the meantime it is completely tied up.
If ever she disposes of it, his half interest
cannot be claimed by her. Obviously it
is desirable that the property should then
and there at the time of the divorce be
conveyed entirely to the wife. This is a
power which the Divorce Courts have
exercised.
It can, of course, work the other way.


A husband from his own money buys a
house and puts it into the joint names
of himself and his wife, expecting that
he and his wife will continue to live there
happily until the end of their days. But
the wife runs off with another man.
Having put no money into the house,
why should she then be entitled to claim
for herself and her paramour half the
value of this home? The Divorce Court
in effect will normally say no, and give
the whole property back to the husband
by ordering the wife to convey her
half share of it to him.
The children
A part from all these matters, however,
I think the thing which would strike
a member of the public most, if he were
to walk into the Divorce Court now, and
were familiar with the procedure under
the old Act, would be the application of
Section 71 of the Act.
In New South Wales at any rate, and
the same seems to be certainly the case
as far as the reported decisions go in
the other States, the court will always
require that the party seeking the divorce
give evidence as to the arrangements
made for the children and that those
arrangements are as satisfactory as the
petitioner can make them.
For example, a husband seeking to
divorce his wife, who has in fact the cus-
tody of the children, will ordinarily as a
term of getting his divorce be required
to consent to an order that he should
pay some money to his guilty wife for the
maintenance of the children.
A husband-petitioner who knows that
his wife, to use the Victorian expression,
is “living in sin”, and thereby leaving
his children open to moral corruption,
will normally find himself in great diffi-
culty obtaining a divorce at all, unless
he undertakes to do something or other
about rescuing the children from their
terrible danger.
In some cases it may perhaps work
a little artificially but in the vast majority
of cases the welfare of the children has
become a major concern to the court and
is not a mere formality to be dealt with
in passing while giving a divorce decree.
In one New South Wales Divorce
Court in the average of eight or nine
divorce cases a day where there are
children under the age of sixteen years,
the presiding figure seems to be not so
much a frightening judge, vested with
the mighty power of the law, as a sort
of godfather carefully scrutinising the
arrangements made for the children and
in some cases bullying, cajoling and even
threatening reluctant parents into putting
their desire to get rid of their spouse in
a second place to the welfare of their
children.
Around Melbourne
CARPING CRITICS
I>ack in November, 1961, the direc-
tor of Victoria’s Fisheries and
Wildlife Department, Mr A. D.
Butcher, returned from the US and
said: “European carp could become
the rabbit plague of our streams.” He
said carp had become a menace in
many American rivers because they
“out-competed” other fish. Carp were
prolific breeders, but dirty eaters and
their presence in a river or a lake made
it unfit for other fish.
Whereupon this advertisement ap-
peared: “It is an offence against the
Fisheries (Noxious Fish) Act 1962
(No. 6885) for any person to keep or
to release into any water in Victoria
any European carp (Cyprinus carpio
linnaeus ) or the eggs of such fish Pen-
alty not less than £lOO and not
more than £500.”
All this was a prelude to the dawn
drama of Ararat. Now Ararat had a
magnificent Cyprinus carpio linnaeus.
Some said it was given to the city by
one of the city founders, Dr Frank De
Crespigny Sen., 43 years ago. It had
a life expectancy of at least 100 years
and it was one of the city's finest tour-
ist attractions.
Some called it “Whiskers”, but
actually it was better known as
Napoleon and the ornamental pool
around a fountain in front of the city
hall was its St Helena.
At 7 a.m. one dark morning, while
Ararat was as quiet as a grave, Mr
E. R. Morrish, the Fisheries and Wild-
life inspector at Ballarat, went out by
torchlight and killed old Napoleon.
Can you imagine the uproar? The
Mayor Cr E. W. James said the kil-
ling was a high-handed action. The
Town Clerk, Mr J. L. Grenfell, said
“It’s butchery . . . butchery in secret.
I was astounded when I received a
message when I got into the office this
morning from Mr Moorish saying
he had killed the fish.” Actually, Mr
Grenfell chose his words well for it
was undoubtedly Mr Butcher himself
who gave the order.
Even Premier Bolte was upset for
you must understand that Ararat is the
capital of his electorate. Said the
Premier sadly: “That carp was almost
a constituent of mine. I used to have a
look at him every time I visited
Ararat.” And Mr Bolte suggested that
Napoleon should be replaced with a
fish of equal grandeur.
At the time of going to press Ararat
was still waiting for Napoleon's suc-
cessor, but realising the status of the
local Honorable Member they, the
citizens, are confident they will get it.
seven long years Victorian hotel-
keepers have dreamed of an in-
crease in the price of beer. They have
polished their pots in anguish and
talked of approaching poverty and
ruin. One time the hotel-keepers did
indeed bump up the price from lid.
for a 7oz. glass to 1/-, but the al-
mighty Carlton - United Breweries
forbade brewery-owned pubs to put
up the price. As for the others, sud-
denly they discovered they were left
without beer deliveries. The bold little
move collapsed within a couple of
days.
Last week, apparently by agreement
with the Australian Hotels Association,
it happened. The brewery bumped up
the wholesale price 2kd. a gallon and
the price for a 7oz. glass, for heaven’s
sake, went up to lHd. or in the saloon
bar to 1/Oid.
Suddenly, the dear, old, almost for-
gotten halfpenny came into its own.
On the Monday morning some pub-
keepers hurried to the banks and cash-
ed up to £lO worth of halfpennies.
Some of the customers treated them
with downright contempt. At closing
time on Monday the proprietor of the
Kerry Family Hotel in the city found
279 halfpennies on his bar floor.
And it was difficult for the humble
drinker to work out the logic in it
all. The price went up for only the 7
oz. glasses. So you could do this sort
of thing: The price for two 7oz. beers
at the old rate was l/10d. All right.
Buy a lOoz. pot for 1/3, a 4oz. small
beer at 7d., total price 1/10. Pour
them into two 7oz. glassses and 10,
you had two beers for the old price
Then take it from the angle of deci-
mal currency. The lHd. would be
equivalent of a little over 9.5 cents
Seeing that we are not planning for
half cents the pub-keepers would have
to charge either nine cents (10.8 d.)
or 10 cents (1/-).
It’s all downright curious. Maybe
that’s why they call the Australian
Hotels Association, the AHA.
BATMAN


Here’s the money-making way to
store FEED OATS until you need them
iliilfii
ffSXt
888888888^*
Two 2,000 bushel Lysaght All Purpose Silos installed at Blayney, N.S.W., for the storage of feed oats.
© LYSAGHT
AMERICAN TYPE FLAT FLOOR SYSTEM
* Patent Pending
No. 55007/59
mu
LYSAGHT VERTICAL
AUGERS
FOR FAST FILLING
Why go to the cost of expen-
sive earth ramps for filling
silos when for about £lOO
you can do it faster, more
easily and more efficiently
with a Lysaght Vertical Auger.
There is one to suit all
Lysaght Silos in the 1,200
bushel to 3,700 bushel range.
Operates by flat belt drive
from tractor. Exceptionally
easy to assemble. Fills a Silo
battery from one position.
Prices £97, £lO9, £ll6,
(F.Q.H. Newcastle,)
There are recorded cases where oats have been stored in Lysaght Silos
for 8 and 9 years then brought out when needed and when prices
were at their peak. There are also cases where Lysaght Silos, used in
this way, have shown their owners a better financial return than wool!
That is why more and more farmers are building up substantial
batteries of Lysaght All Purpose Silos, recognising them as one of the
soundest and most practical investments available today . . .
• Full-size “ walk-in ” door ( silos from 1,200 bushels upwards ) enables
silos to be emptied and cleaned quickly and effortlessly.
• Centre and side filling holes complete with hinged lids and positive
fastenings.
• Fully rodent-proof construction.
• Easier, faster, cheaper erection.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for added strength.
• Robust positive-action bagging outlet complete with quick-release bag
holder and steel hood.
• Auger Chute in bottom bulkhead behind the door.
PRICES (F.O.R. Newcastle)
*The 500-bushel Silo is not equipped with a door. Price includes steel
floor.
Post coupon now for complete details to: B
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
(City)
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght Silos and
Vertical Grain Augers.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY ...
ROUTE OR RMB NO
DISTRICT STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide,
and Fremantle.
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
S7CG


n
■
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
m
l ■ -• ~ > i
I MTA X |
SUPERS NEW SV MODEL
with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £90.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C 3348
"An Unashamed Romantic”
From the Paris of Picasso to Henrietta Lane
By JAN SMITH
Winter in Paris, 1906, was a cold
one, and for a 22-year-old artist in
the Rue Jacob it was often a hun-
gry one. With a four-course restaurant
meal at 95 centimes, an allowance of 80
francs a month from your sister back
home in Budapest bought little more
than fuel, oil-paint, bread and cheese.
Circumstances may be grim, but lux-
uries die hard. “Tobacco,” recalls vet-
eran painter Desiderius Orban, “was one
thing I couldn’t do without.” He smoked
a cheap and nasty mixture, Caporale
Ordinaire, so ordinaire that three puffs
left him reeling on a more-often-than-not
empty stomach. The hotel, run by two
eccentric bachelors, was too poor to
afford servants, a good thing because
at the end of the month Orban could
make a reasonable cigarette from the
pieces of tobacco on the floor while
he waited for the next instalment of
sister Golan’s allowance.
Golan, a music teacher, was the only
one of the Orban family in a position
to help Desiderius achieve his aim to
paint in Paris. Orban senior, a postal
clerk, brought up his three children on
meagre civil service pay and thought his
ultimate status had been reached when
Desiderius won a scholarship to study
maths and physics at Budapest Uni-
versity.
But Desiderius desired something else.
At 18, with a painting accepted by the
Budapest Grand Salon, he began to
yearn for the Paris of Gertrude Stein,
Picasso, Braque and Matisse. Pour years
later the dream came true up to a
point. Lor two bewildered, disillusioned
weeks he studied at the Academie Julien,
drawing the same model in the same
pose from eight to five, six days a week.
“Every Saturday they’d have an exhibi-
tion of the week’s output charcoal
drawings all exactly alike row upon
row,” he said. “It wasn’t art.”
His studio today at Sydney’s Circular
Quay, three flights up with a view of the
Cahill Expressway and a waft of ham-
burger, is a typical clutter of half-
finished paintings, dirty rags, and broken
chairs. He teaches here three days a
week, to classes mainly of housewives
“art's a godsend for people at a loose
end” and earlier this year gave an
exhibition at Rudy Komon’s Paddington
gallery. Critics were appreciative. “Re-
markable,” said one, “at a time of life
when most painters are content with
gumtrees.”
There were compensations in Paris in
those early days, talking with other artists
in cafes and visiting Gertrude Stein’s
Saturday afternoon salon. It was here he
saw his first Picasso —“Nude boy leading
a horse” —which impressed him greatly.
Desiderius did a little impressing of his
own, too. “Miss Stein makes several
references in her autobiography to the
‘handsome Hungarians’ who frequented
her salon,” he said proudly, and in ab-
sence of printed proof produced an
ancient photograph to settle the matter.
After a second stint in Paris between
1911 and 1912 he returned to Hungary,
became an officer in the Austro-Hun-
garian Army, and in 1915 married Alice
Vajda, a dermatologist. He painted com-
fortably in postwar Budapest while his
wife built up a healthy practice, taking
time off for the birth of their only child,
Tom, in 1920.
In 1931, with the depression squeez-
ing the art market, he founded the
Arts and Crafts Atelier, with students
from nearly every country in Europe.
Orban ran his atelier until 1939
when Hitler’s menaces made them send
Tom to the safety of an English agri-
cultural college. Six months later,
shakily financed by friends, Orban and
his wife left Budapest for London, col-
lected Tom, and set out for Australia.
Unable to practise in Sydney, Dr Orban
became a chiropodist, then a cosmetic
dermatologist.
Life was harder for Desiderius. In
between painting, he worked as a mas-
seur in his wife’s Strand Arcade salon
“I think I must have been a big disap-
pointment to most of the customers, at '
my age” before deciding on a fling
at Army life. He volunteered for the
Australian Army in 1940, but he was
nearly 60, and the incongruity of the
situation soon became apparent to both
parties “they felt sorry for me having
to sweep latrines.”
After a tactful discharge, he tried a
manpower job spraypainting wool-
presses, and in 1942 established his pres-
ent art school in Henrietta Lane. There
were one-man shows in 1943 and 1944
at the Notanda and Blaxland Galleries,
and by 1946, having made the Mac-
quarie Galleries, he became president of
the Contemporary Art Society for two
years.
Critics, he thinks, were favorable
when he began here, cooled off, and re-
capitulated after this year’s Komon
show. ”1 take my art too seriously to
be a popular artist,” he chuckled. “I’m
an unashamed romantic in an age when
romanticism just isn’t popular. I fight
it, of course, but without success.” But
he insists it’s a pure romanticism, and
objects strongly to the occasional tag of
“gypsy.”
He lives now in the eastside beach
suburb of Bronte, coming to the Henri-
etta Lane studio three days a week. A
little hard of hearing, he no longer goes
to movies but allows himself an oc-
casional fling at theatre first nights. The
urge to criticise was sated long ago, when
he did concert reviews in Budapest at
a tender 22. At 80, he is content to
paint, create and develop in the time
that is left.


OVERSEAS
Current “State of
England” Writing
1. If only the writers would chastise themselves in private
By HENRY FAIRLIE
THE current spate of English critical
writing — from both the Left and
the Right—on the "State of England"
threatens to become an unmanage-
able flood. Tv/ o world wars, the
spectacular decline of imperial power,
low economic growth, national aware-
ness of extreme nuclear vulnerabi i'y
and other factors lave led English
intellectuals to an almost neurotic pre-
occupation with the question of what
Britain is and where it is heading.
Following on the Vassal! and Pro-
tumo scandals—and co-incidental with
the Philby fiasco—the monthly maga-
zine "ENCOUNTER" devoted an entire
special July issue to "Suicide Of A
Nation?" Edited by Arthur Koestler
its contributors included a number of
leading English writers and intellectuals
including Henry Fairlie and Ma'col n
Muggeridge who are reprinted below as
representing two opposed poinls of
view.
Anyone who writes a fair amount
(and we all, these days, write far too
'much) about political and social
issues is always in danger of writing what
may briefly be called “State of England”
pieces: editors, for one thing, like them;
and they are, for a second thing, easy to
write. You only have to make a certain
kind of noise.
This is exactly how most articles on
the “State of England” are written.
I am aware, of course, that this is a
“State of England” number of Encounter;
but it is just this grotesque fact which has
prompted the moderate thoughts which
follow. I was asked to discuss the cur-
rent vogue of “almost nihilist criticism”
—the phrase, I may be allowed to say,
was not mine—and the more I have
thought about it, the more I am con-
vinced that the fault (if fault at all there
is) lies here: right here, in the ceaseless
articles, books and special numbers about
the “State of England”, which we keep
writing and others keep publishing. I
can hope only that this issue of En-
counter will kill the subject.
“State of England” pieces (of what-
ever length) are preoccupied with Eng-
land, with decline, and with crisis. Since
we live in England, it is in decline, and it
is buffeted by crises, this may not seem
surprising. But what ought to be matters
of interest change their character when
they become obsessions. Problems which
are real and manageable become part of
a Problem which can never be tackled
but only constantly written about.
Changes which need to be quietly made
are presented to us in terms of Decision,
demanding the exercise of some kind of
national will.
Moreover, we allow these obsessions
to grow only because we ignore so much
of what is real around us. The most
important facts about England are that it
is as free and orderly and kindly a
country as any in the world. I can see
no reason why it should not remain so:
and I am not sure that I wish it to be
anything more. Before I can share the
concern of the “State of England” writ-
ers, therefore, I need to be shown what
it is they wish to alter in our society or,
to use their own language, what it is they
wish to inject into it. If they reply, as
they usually do, “vigour”, or “dynam-
ism”, or “efficiency”, or “greatness”, I
then need to be shown that these words
do not conceal attitudes hostile to the
kind of liberty I am accustomed to en-
joying and the kind of order I am pre-
pared to tolerate.
The first question to ask, when con-
fronted by any “State of England” writ-
ing, is what we are being asked to ex-
change for what. I agree that the price
to be paid for the kind of liberty and
order we know may, to some, seem
high. It probably means that our society
will have less efficiency than economists
would like, less sense of purpose than
moralists would like, less simple priori-
ties than sociologists would like, less doc-
trine than theologians would like. To
these, unable to shape us as they please,
it is no doubt all a little alarming; to
the rest of us, less so. At least, it means
that we still have some chance left of
doing what we ourselves want to do, and
not what they want us to do. To me,
this seems a civilised state of affairs, if
not the only civilised state of affairs.
A free society is necessarily an un-
tidy, uncomfortable and apparently in-
efficient affair; and I suspect that one of
the troubles with ‘State of England”
writers is that they cannot bear the whole
anxious process. As the American con-
servative, Fisher Ames, said: “Monarchy
is like a splendid ship, with all sails set;
it moves majestically on; then it hits a
rock and sinks for ever. Democracy is
like a raft; it never sinks but, damn it,
your feet are always in the water.” “State
of England” writers seem to me not to
like getting their feet wet: it makes them
jumpy company on a raft.
It is my belief that England’s feet are
no more than ordinarily wet; but, since
this is not a “State of England” article,
that is beside the point. What I am
concerned with here are the language
and attitudes which have helped to
create the stereotyped impression (which
may end up by acquiring substance) that,
sitting on our raft, we are about to
sink, unless we take drastic and unusual
action: that we face some unique Crisis
of Decision. Unless this language and
these attitudes are challenged, we are in
danger of acquiring other attitudes which
should have no place in the thinking and
aspirations of a fortunately free and
orderly people.
Such an attitude appears in a letter
which Mr Correlli Barnett wrote to the
“Spectator” after I had expressed my
doubts about the current cry for “leader


■ / IXS. \
cz. , C 3 J S-J
!'. it..,-..- I:;:;-
> -: ,• 'll
rr n U ca i
Hlk ■■ ilr--;-:: V< f ••-•-"
p*
,£7 4
i-v»
V..
ii'S \ i
St r,;i 7 i F' l -''
yob-
\ 11
>CL^3
,J.v. !
1/
H®
:
RSI
N.I
/
\
'"t.
IN
WORK
I§§Sl
This machine
really earns its keep
No desk flower—this copying machine. It’s a down-to-
earth, shirt-sleeve, day-long worker that really earns its
keep in any office, large or small.
That’s because the “Thermo-Fax” brand copying machine
is so versatile and can do so many office jobs for you.
It produces perfectly dry facsimiles of almost any typed,
written or printed original on a variety of papers both
white and coloured in just four seconds flat. No mess,
no fuss, no inks or chemicals, just four second efficiency.
Multiple copies of correspondence and figures can be
produced quicker than carbons neater and cleaner
too with new “Thermo-Fax” Systems Papers. At least
eight vital office jobs are handled with equal ease,
from speeding up your answering of correspondence,
easily and personally, to producing printed gummed
labels quicker than you can use them.
One of the range of “Thermo-Fax” copying machines can
help solve your internal paperwork problem for you. So
why not ring or write the 3M Company in your capital
city and ask them to show you how a “Thermo-Fax” ma-
chine can best earn its keep in your office.
TRADEMARK
rmo-Fax
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
COmPANY
BRAND
2 WENTWORTH AVE., SYDNEY 2-0930 ■ 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 61-3841 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
LA 5971-6 ■ 178 BARRY PARADE. BRISBANE 5-4131 ■ 238 LORD STREET. PERTH 28-4651 ■ 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART 3-1620


ship” and “sense of purpose.” He took
me to task for what he called my “talk
of open and free societies.” I was, he
said,
faithful to 19th-century humanism,
liberalism and parliamentarianism.
All these are luxuries possible only
to a world empire with a huge navy,
a vast bank account, and few rivals.
What faces Britain today is the
more basic matter of survival, and
survival in terms of developments
in technology (with all their colossal
sociological consequences) that our
political traditions simply do not
encompass. What Britain must think
about is Power. . . . Without it,
you simply do not count.
Mr Correlli Barnett is not uncharac-
teristic of today’s tough young realists.
He throws humanism, liberalism and
parliamentarianism into the dustbin. We
can hardly complain that we have not
been warned. By the time we grow
infirm and elderly, clinging to our out-
of-date humanism and liberalism, what
place can there be for us in the society
which he and “The Times” appear to
envisage?
JPhese quotations could be matched by
many more over the past twelve
months, especially from leading articles
which have called for “leadership” and a
“sense of purpose,” and have sought to
re-introduce the awful distinction be-
tween the “useful and “useless” mem-
bers of society. (This distinction is most
easily resisted by assuming that one is
among the “useless” members.) I have
given these quotations attention because
they help to underline the carelessness
about liberty—about the actual liberty
which we enjoy in this countrv—lying
behind almost all “State of England”
writing.
Its motives can be seen most clearly
in the writings of the economists and
of those who have set themselves up as
spokesmen of the technocrats. Their
trick is an old and familiar one. which
has been most recently described, in
another context, by Sir Isaiah Berlin:
It is one of the stratagems of
totalitarian regimes to present all
situations as critical emergencies,
demanding ruthless elimination of
all goals, interpretations, forms of
behavior save for one absolutely
specific, concrete, immediate end,
binding on everyone, which calls
for ends and means so narrowly and
clearly definable that it is easy to
impose sanctions for failing to pur-
sue them.
We are, of course, nowhere near a
totalitarian regime in this country, but
we are daily getting nearer to using
totalitarian arguments to justify another
large encroachment on our liberty: or,
rather, on some of our particular
liberties.
If this seems to be pitching it too
strongly, it is worth noticing that the
currently fashionable criticisms which
are made of the amateur and the
politician are merely the old and insidious
managerial criticisms of politics pre-
sented in a new jargon. Like Lord Reith,
their dark prophet, they ponder the
deadly question whether it is
undesirable to have elected rep-
resentatives associated with the
management of public services?
Log-rolling; ears to the ground; fear
of the electors; everything submitted
to the criterion of the vote. Timidity,
compromise, mediocrity—are these
the inevitable concomitants of
democracy . . . ?
The voice of the manager then, now
the voice of the technocrat, proclaiming,
as he does every opponent of free in-
stitutions, that freed from the necessity
to consult ordinary people, he could run
their lives for them far more efficiently
and beneficently than they can them-
selves. It is time that, against their evil
doctrine, we re-asserted our right to be
inefficient.
Do I exaggerate the dislike which our
“new men” have for our liberties? I do
not think so. The clearest proof is in
their most familiar comparisons. We are
invited by them to contrast our own
economic performance since the war
with the “economic miracles” of Ger-
many and France. This point deserves,
one day, to be refuted in detail. Here,
I must be caf-kfipd with bald assertions.
• I am extremely doubtful whether
we have am't'->inq to learn from either
the Fifth in France or the
Federal Republic in West Germany
about the manner of ordering and sus-
taining a free society; I am not even
sure whether we have much to learn in
the matter from the French and Ger-
mans as peoples.
© I am extremely doubtful whether
either the Fifth Republic or the Federal
Republic will survive. I hope that they
will develop and so survive. But, for
the moment, 1 am prepared to wager
fairly heavily that our own social and
political arrangements will outlast theirs.
Any takers?
© I am convinced that the strength of
our society lies in the spontaneity of its
social decisions. They are decisions
taken by responsible and independent
societies within our society. The process
is slow, but the experience goes deep.
© I do not expect Continentals to
understand this. But I do expect English-
men and even Americans to understand
it. We have ways of conducting our
affairs which provide our society with
huge reserves of energy when it is
needed: in a crisis.
The result is in history, and I think
again will be. I am not one who is apt
to confuse vox populi with vox dei, but
the one thing which the people of this
country have shown they can do over a
number of years, is sort out their long-
term aspirations. This is their wisdom;
and they are wise also in knowing that
so ticklish a task cannot be left to the
professionals, by whom I mean all those
extraordinary people who are always
wanting to do extraordinary things to us.
Mr Simon Raven may seem an un-
likely character to find voicing the instincts
of the common people, but, when faced
by the fashionable cant of Mr Anthony
Sampson’s Anatomy of Britain , he burst
out that he had no wish to be efficient,
especially at the price which seemed to
be being asked. In this, I believe he
represented a deep and proper instinct
in the English people.
I simply do not believe—and this is
the point I would most like to be
answered by the “State of England”
writers —that either the French or the
Germans have sorted out their long-
term aspirations. I do the Germans the
credit not to believe that they will for
ever be satisfied with the material satis-
factions of the “economic miracle.” But
that only leaves the alarming question
where they will turn when their energy
is once more united to a spiritual hunger.
I do the French the credit not to believe
that they share (although they may enjoy)
the superb fantasies of President de
Gaulle. But that only leaves the alarm-
ing question where they will turn when
his magnificent but irrelevant personal
influence is removed.
On the whole, I am prepared to rest
again on an assertion: that the English
people are working their way, far more
clearly and calmly than those who preach
at them, to a quite realistic estimate of
their changed position in the world and
also, which is much more important, to
the kind of body of common sentiments
which makes a people conscious of itself
as a people. It includes all kinds of rum
things: but, above all, there runs through
it an insistence that consideration for
the weak should never too little inform
public policy. (This was the dreadful
mistake which the Conservatives made
in 1959.) To the charge that they think
that only kindness matters, they would
probably assent. It would be appalling
hypocrisy, but there are many worse
images for a people to hold of them-
selves.
Until we again think of ourselves
individually as members of an enlight-
ened Western civilisation, whose values,
methods, and sense of direction we trust,
we will never learn how to look at our
own society as a member of it. We will
become insularly preoccupied with things
which scarcely matter a whit: with stops


Wm
©AT:
1^
i®
m
m
ggfejs
i Vt«».
I
V:
m
w
Edgeworth the connoisseur’s
choice made from the finest
Kentucky white hurleys. Sliced
or ready rubbed in pocket tins.
At all tobacconists.
iJTHE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH. Virginia, U.S.A.
and goes in the economy; with evidences
of a class structure which are more
imagined than real, and which are any-
how breaking down; with tea-break
strikes; with demarcation disputes; with
an unimportant Communist Party and an
equally unimportant monarchy; with
public opinion polls on this, and mass
observations of that; with traffic jams;
with Mr. Marples; with Mr. Anthony
Wedgwood Benn’s title.
For it is the lack of sense of propor-
tion in “State of England” writing that
most depresses me. Perhaps it is because
the Critic has for the first time become
a well-paid member of society, expecting
services from it which were previously
given only to the most privileged. I
sometimes have the impression that all
their criticism comes from a bad diges-
tion. The thing most likely to set them
off is a tasteless bisque d'homard in a
luxury hotel, or the inability to obtain
a meal when they reach Ballachulish
after 10 p.m. It is all very affecting.
But I do not really think that you
can begin a reformation by nailing the
Good Food Guide to the door of a pro-
vincial hotel. And there, I suspect, is
the cause of it all. Our oligopoly of
“State of England" writers (beside them,
satire is only a home-loom industry) are
consumed with guilt at what they con-
sume from society.
So let it be, but 1 wish they would
chastise themselves in private and, if
they wish to record it all, put it into
novels, or poems, or autobiographies, and
not pretend that they are engaged in an
objective concern for the “State of Eng-
land”.
“State of England” Writing
2. England , Whose England?
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
A s in Cervantes’ masterpiece, one feels
today that things are out of sync. The
conductor is working from one score
and the orchestra from another, with
consequent total confusion in the result-
ant performance. The players have
learnt their lines from another play than
the one which is being performed; they
make false entrances and exits, stumble
over unfamiliar scenery, and turn in
vain to the prompter. There is no cor-
relation between word and deed, between
the aspirations ostensibly entertained and
what actually happens, between (to use
Blake's dichotomy) what is seen with, and
what is seen through, the eye.
On Armistice Day my father astonished
us all by producing a minute Union Jack
w'hen he returned from the City, and
fastening it to the porch of our small
suburban house, where it rather absurdly
fluttered. In our socialist-pacifist house-
hold this action was as staggering as if
he had announced that he was to be
ordained into the Anglican Church, or
that he had joined the Primrose League.
My father’s explanation of so astonish-
ingly flying a Union Jack from our
porch was that it signified on this
occasion, not national pride, but national
redemption; the ending of a war to end
war, and the ushering in of the League
of Nations, a land fit for heroes to live
in, a world safe for democracy; the ful-
filment of all the promises and prog-
nostications dredged up out of Woodrow
Wilson’s Princetonian virtue, and Lloyd
George’s Welsh cunning, and the
fathomless French duplicity of Clemen-
ceau. It was, and to some extent still is,
the fashion to complain that these
promises were all broken and the prog-
nostications all unrealised; my father
soon, metaphorically speaking, lowered
his flag to half-mast.
Yet how many housing estates have
been built for heroes to live in! Hear
old Beveridge’s sheep’s voice enumerating
the benefits which Lloyd George aspired
towards, and Attlee brought to pass! As
for making the world safe for democracy,
when has it ever been safer? Democracy
in India, where millions go to the polls,
choosing between Elephant and Lotus
Flower in the maturest possible manner.
In the USSR and the People's Demo-
cracies, where polls of 95 per cent and
more are regularly registered. In the
USA where, thanks to television, rival
candidates become personally known, a
Real Presence, enabling the electorate to
discriminate nicely between a Kennedy
and a Nixon. In the upper reaches of
the Nile, where tall naked electors stand-
ing on one leg register their votes, and
in our own boroughs and counties where
votes are similarly registered by electors
for the most part clothed and standing
on two legs. Never, it is safe to say, has
there been so much voting, on so broad
a franchise, since the world began.
And the war to end war? After 1918,
there was not, as it happened, another
war, but only the same one, which is
going or still. Admittedly, in that sense,
the 1914-18 War might be better
described as a war to begin war than as
one to end war.
The books about the war, Graves,
Hemingway, Aldington; the poems about
the war (‘‘They have not died in vain”);
the plays about the war, Journey’s End,
men in trench-coats, tin hats, marching,
singing; Edmund Blunden, Herbert Read
(Sir); Lawrence of Arabia, Seven Pillars,
Ross, and all his lies, which, if anything,
only ministered, and minister, to the
cult, grisly, shrinking, scruffily self-
assertive prototype of all the scruffily-
assertive resistance fighters and fighting
resisters to come, filling the deserts and
the maquis and the mountains with
authors in search of a hero; the other


i S
« 1 MirTmi
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner —Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly oa
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
H
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/0.
Amazing new
PANTENE*
Vitamin Hair Tonic
SBP9/68
Lawrence (D. H.), Leavis his prophet,
on the side of life, Saint Chatterley and
all the Devils, in blissful sylvan union
with her gamekeeper, though, according
to perceptive Warden Sparrow, by the
back passage. The clergymen of the war,
Woodbine Willie, Tubby Clayton, Dick
Shepherd, mine hosts at the sign of the
Lamb of God; poppies, graveyards with
all the little identical gravestones stretch-
ing to eternity, the Prince of Wales
fingering his tie; All Quiet on the Western
Front, Old Contemptibles and Old Bill,
cockney humor, to come in handy again
in the underground shelters. Arf a mo’,
Kaiser! Arf a mo’, ’ltler! with good old
“Punch” throwing in its blessing all the
way; minstrel boys, their wild harps
slung behind them, who to the war will
not go, Peace Pledge Unionists, Peace
Balloters, never to fight again never,
never, never, never.
What a spectacular! What (as the
reviewers say) a crowded canvas! What
a yarn or slice of life, with Good Com-
panions (Honest Jack) bringing up the
rear, and, in the vanguard, the torch of
culture borne aloft; Rare Tom Eliot with
his Wasteland, Squinting Jim Joyce with
his vocabulary, Yawning Bill Yeats with
his hive for the honey bee, and, coming
along, Charlie Snow, Dilly Thomas,
Johnny Osborne, Kit Logue, and Ken
Tynan’s Wolf Cub Troop, all wearing
their accredited badges as State
Registered Satirists.
Such a candle, by God’s grace
A repeat performance of the 1914-18
War was called for, and was duly
put on, under the direction of the Old
Impresario himself, his stage cigar stuck
in his mouth; siren - suited, jutting
chinned, a bulldog breed straight out of
Cruft’s if ever there was one. Some of
his fellow-players in the original produc-
tion had to be discarded for their creak-
ing joints and stiff delivery, but there
was plenty of new talent coming along;
for instance, genial Monty, with two
badges in his hat and a heart overflowing
with “binge.” Soon the long, long trail
was again a-winding; the home fires,
thanks to the Luftwaffe, were kept burn-
ing, lighting such a candle by God’s
grace in England as (I trust) shall never
be put out. Russian and American blood
and money sealed the glorious victory.
See the three Architects, met to de-
limit its frontiers, shape its destiny,
decree the punishment of the guilty and
the reward of the virtuous; the Four
Freedoms on their breath, the Atlantic
Charter about their heads, enfolded in
the luminosity of a common cause, a
common dedication to life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness for all mankind.
Roosevelt with his large expanse of
sirloin face, neon-smile lit; Churchill,
British-warmed, fur hat rakishly awry,
cigar rakishly jutting, and Stalin with
his wary, slit eyes, staring, like some
Mongolian shepherd, at a distant pros-
pect, brooding on loot and murder and
vast metal statues of himself to be
erected in distant places. Imagine his
heartfelt delight when Roosevelt, with
the ingenuity of a Talleyrand, managed
to slip out “Uncle Joe”; when Churchill,
shrewdly shaping up to Stalin's simple
peasant shrewdness, demonstrated with
match-sticks how his kingdom might be
enlarged and his subjects increased,
scribbling on a piece of paper the simple
arithmetical division at their respective
spheres of influence, and illuminating
their discussion with primitive peasant
imagery about not stuffing the Polish
Goose too full of German food to the
point of bursting. By way of prepara-
tion, he, too, had thoughtfully lighted
such a candle by God’s grace in Dres-
den as (I trust) shall never be put out.
To be old was very heaven
/''lreat was it in that time to be alive,
but to be old was very heaven. The
Four Freedoms reigned; in the rubble
of Berlin and other demolished cities dis-
placed persons picked their way, and con-
structed weird little caves and shelters to
live in; cigarettes foi currency, calories
for food. In Nuremberg the fallen
tyrants were brought to justice, Ribben-
trop hanging his head and confessing to
his Soviet judges and accusers that he
had partitioned Poland.
It fell to two newcomers to the stage
of history, Harry S. Truman and Clement
Attlee, to make a momentous decision.
The mice labored and brought forth a
mountain. Reading from a typescript,
in a mechanical, expressionless voice,
stumbling, childlike, after the words too
eagerly to discover the sentences, Presi-
dent Truman announced the dropping of
atomic bombs on Japan. Mr Attlee
likewise informed Honorable Members
in the House of Commons, who rustled
their Order Papers to indicate excite-
ment, approval, and perhaps concern.
Thenceforth the mushroom cloud
adorned all deliberations. “Arf a mo’,
Khrush!” But would there even be that
much time? Millions now dying will
never live. Ah! bearded, duffle-coated,
twanging, chanting, Nuclear Disarmers;
ah! Canon Collins in your belted cassock,
and old philosopher Russell; ah! ten-
gallon-hatted Jacquetta, and all you
resolute matrons and tousled girls, your
souls go marching on.
Civilisation has already been saved
twice, once by Lloyd George and once
by Churchill, and is now again in hazard.
Who will save it this time, so that con-
senting adults may go on joyously con-
senting; Cancer, Kama, and Chatterley
continue to edify the young, delight the
mature, and solace the old; no color
prejudice any more, from Bow Group to
Bow, no class prejudice either; an Empire
now on which the sun never rises and a
Commonwealth on which it never sets,
great acts of statemanship performed in
withdrawing here, there, and everywhere;
no poverty any more, bumper to
bumper down to the sea in cars; our
moral influence in the world mightier
than ever before, though, let’s be frank,
our military strength diminished (God
who made us feeble, make us feebler
yet); we Greece to America’s Rome, and,
“Your Royal Highness, Your Grace,
Your Excellencies, My Lords, Ladies and
Gentlemen, as long as we, the two great
English-speaking Democracies, stand to-
gether . . .” with cigar-smoke billowing
upwards and brandy fumes billowing
downwards; Here! here! Here! here!


Letter
to the
editor
AN APOLOGY
Sir,
In The Bulletin of June 29 you had
a piece on the readers’ poll, run by the
Melbourne Herald and the Melbourne
Sun, on “Royal” as the name of the new
decimal currency unit. The correct final
figures to June 29 were 45,190
AGAINST Royal and 2232 for.
Your total figures were wrong, your
percentages did not work out according
to your own figures, and to cap it all
you gave both totals and percentages the
wrong way round, showing that a major-
ity was FOR Royal!
They were 95 per cent against.
A. K. THOMAS
The Herald and Weekly Times Ltd
Melbourne
(BULLETIN’S error. Our apologies to
the Melbourne Herald for an incorrect
story which contained an obvious con-
tradiction. Ed.)
BRITISH MIGRANTS
Sir,
As a recent migrant from the UK, I
feel that Peter Dunn's article (22/6/63)
is at the best misleading and at its worst
a completely inadequate appraisal of the
causes of British migration to Australia.
He made scant attempt to evaluate the
deep-rooted sociological and economic
pressures working in Britain today, but
instead chose a minor cause (the color
problem) and elaborated it because of its
more sensational content.
To understand the pressures which
have led to the massive emigration it is
necessary to appreciate that the UK is in
the throes of a revolution no less intense
than the industrial revolution. Politics
notwithstanding, the nation is divided into
the generation raised before the Second
World War and that raised after it. The
former experienced in some degree the
atmosphere of a still great Britain, still
in control of a huge empire which had
a major role to play in world affairs.
The post-war generation has no cause
to suppose that Britain is great unitarily
or even commercially, but at the same
time recognises her responsibilities and
eminence in legal and educational spheres.
But a root problem is that the pre-war
generation are still in control in all major
spheres of business, politics and educa-
tion. Hence the generation of angry
young men ban the bombers unwilling
to accept an atmosphere which to them
is artificial and unrealistic. This young
generation sees its elders living in the
past, acting in the past and, even worse,
attempting to govern in the past. Here
is an important source of Australia’s
young migrants, who feel that, at any
rate, Australia is trying to live in the
present.
The second factor is economic. The
British economy is expanding so slowly
that very few opportunities arise for
young and energetic people. To improve
one’s position and, hence, salary is, more
often than not, a case of waiting fd\
dead men’s shoes. This is particularly
true of people trained to university or
high school level.
The redundancy in skilled laborers
was exemplified by figures recently re-
leased by the UK Government, which
showed that although production per
man was rising this had been achieved
by automation, which is reducing the
opportunities for skilled workers.
Now to the last category of migrants
the unskilled laborer and his relation-
ship with the colored workers. Very few
colored migrants to the UK have any
trade skill at all, and it is thus the laborer
who sees his job challenged by them.
Colored people were initially employed
in many instances in the heady, unrealis-
tic “never-had-it-so-good” days of full
employment, when it was impossible to
get the British worker to fill the so-called
menial tasks of street-sweeper, toilet at-
tendant and transport worker. Came a
slow-down in the economy and unem-
ployment in the fringe industries artifici-
ally expanded at the time of inflation,
and those now out of work found that the
colored laborers had come in and taken
“their” fall-back jobs. Hence the regret-
table, dangerous increase in color preju-
dice in England. How many migrate
solely because of the color problem is
difficult to say, but it is certainly not as
widespread as Peter Dunn would have
us believe.
With Australia House loudly proclaim-
ing “Australia Land of Sunshine”,
with the population density in England
the highest in the world, with de Gaulle
keeping us out of Europe, with unem-
ployment rife and soccer at its lowest
ebb for years, is it really surprising that
quite a few British give another Common-
wealth country “a go” especially at
£lO a head?
D. W. PETTIT
Melbourne (Vic.).
“CHOICE”
Sir,
Had we provision in our statutes to
bestow an honorary membership,' Dr
Ross Parish would certainly deserve it
for compiling the most complete collec-
tion of abuse on a consumer organisa-
tion generally, and for being the most
uninformed consumer specifically (“A
Consumers’ Report on ‘Choice’,”
29/6/63). When reading “Choice,” you
overlooked the fact that we are a non-
political, non-profit organisation, con-
sumer - owned and consumer - controlled.
It is unnecessary to single out any state-
ment in your report. We can dismiss
them summarily, including the back-
handed compliments.
We welcome criticism from the con-
sumer. We know how to distinguish
between genuine criticism coming from
a disappointed consumer and the usual
cliches coming from carefully camou-
flaged quarters. The prescribed howl
against the comparative testing agencies
is well known to us: “a bunch of crack-
pots, amateurs who do not know what
they are talking about,” etc.
We do not, of course, have sufficient
money to test everything we would like
to test; there is no agency in the world
which has, but that affects only the
choice of goods to be tested, not the
tests themselves. Once a test is decided
on, it is carried out as well as can be.
The results in “Choice” are only a
small part of the test data; it would be
pointless to publish the technical paper
as no consumer, unless himself a scien-
tist, would understand it. It is difficult
to impart even the relevant information;
in your own case, Dr Parish, you do
not seem to have grasped even our
simple reports.
You devote a long paragraph to
statistics, significant sample, etc. You
accuse us of being naive; are you really
so naive yourself to think that a few
expressions you picked up in the highly
complex field of statistics will impress
us? Our readers are not meant to be
what you so improperly call the “intelli-
gent consumers.” This is a misnomer;
we call an intelligent consumer one who
buys by test. The others may be intelli-
gent in many ways, but not as consumers.
It would be asking you too much to
understand the basic principle of the
sample size as a function of the variability
of the product; nevertheless this is true,
although we do not write a thesis about
it in “Choice”. We do not try to impress
our readers, we try to inform them.
Education is never a simple matter; a
lot depends on the pupil and his willing-
ness. Sometimes even the best teachers
fail take your own case.
You are complaining about articles
we test because we test them, about
others because we don’t test them; about
objective tests not being subjective and
subjective tests not being objective. You
criticise the design of our tests because
you don’t know how they were designed
and our interpretation of results because
you don’t know how the interpretation
was carried out. You complain that we
give a “best buy” when we give one,
but also complain if we don't give a
best buy.
You complain that we are inviting
our readers to accept findings as apply-
ing to all samples, yet we say in every
issue of “Choice” that the references
made relate only to the articles tested
and not to any other articles of the
same or similar description. You com-
plain that we do not test enough samples


because our statistical design is not
proper, yet we suspect from your re-
marks that all you know about statistics
is the name of the subject. It does not
even occur to you that for certain tests
one sample is completely sufficient.
You complain that we actually advise
our readers to stick to manufacturers’
instructions. You have apparently never
bought anything in your life and had
the experience of being refused repairs
or refund under a guarantee because
you had not followed the manufacturer’s
instructions.
You state that deceptive packaging is
harmless and to dwell on it to any
length is irritating. You actually state
that misleading the consumer gives him
more choice. You don’t like our “ex-
posing products or practices which are
against the law.” You appear to want
to wait until someone gets food poison-
ing before protecting the public against
the practice of putting toys into food,
and you finish by suggesting that we
try to exclude imported goods from the
country and that the only support we
could hope for would be from the Cham-
ber of Manufactures. You want us to
believe that you say all this as an inno-
cent consumer disappointed in “Choice.”
We don’t blame you for not under-
standing; this is a complex matter, too
big for the individual consumer. It
takes a team of scientists and painstak-
ing planning and research to peel out
the truth mummified by modern sales
techniques.
We don’t claim to be the Grand Jury
telling our readers what to buy and what
not to buy. We are simply trying to give
the consumers that useful, unbiassed
product information which is so sadly
lacking in our present economy, to
enable them to make an intelligent
choice among a staggering number of
products. We cannot prevent people
from spending money foolishly; we are
doing our best to see that money is not
spent ignorantly.
We are doing our best, Dr Parish,
and if you still think it is the work of
amateurs who are not very good at it
- well then, we are sorry that you
won’t join as a member, or will you?
You may be just lucky to be the fifty-
thousandth!
(Dr) H. EPSTEIN.
Deputy Chairman,
Australasian Consumers’ Association.
Sydney {NSW).
COMMUNISTS AND THE NCC
Sir,
It is unrealistic of the otherwise well-in-
formed Alan Reid (22/6/63) to over-
look the dictatorial methods employed
by Mr Santamaria’s National Civic Coun-
cil to achieve total victory in the Labor
Party and the trade union movement
prior to the disastrous split in the Vic-
torian branch of the ALP in 1955. Such
tactics, as Mr Reid should know, were
consistent with the Santamarian theory
expounded in his controversial “Bombay
Examiner” articles some years ago, that
“it is action by way of permeation that
achieves results.”
The excesses and vices of the Com-
munist Party and the NCC make both
unfitted for an acceptable role in the
government of the country, or to play any
major part in the trade union movement.
The influence of the NCC in Victoria is
due to the manner in which it has been
able to have its viewpoint put over to
Catholics in the State through the
medium of the “Sunday Magazine”, TV
programme the “Catholic Hour,” and the
two Catholic weeklies “Tribune” and
“Advocate”. Mr Santamaria is the poli-
tical commentator on “Sunday Maga-
zine” enough said? This blatant ex-
ploitation of Catholic Church facilities
for political purposes has proved an asset,
not a hindrance, to the Communist Party.
Like the Communist Party, the NCC
seeks to obtain results which suit its
own followers, and in view of this any
examination of its present role must con-
fine itself to facts, based solely on past
performance and statements of Mr
Santamaria. In a contributed chapter in
“Catholics and the Free Society” he un-
blushingly stated that the industrial
groups opposed not only Communists
but also those anti-Communists who
wanted to withdraw Labor Party endorse-
ment from the groups. He was equally
emphatic in declaring that the success of
the anti-Communist opponents of the
groups within the Labor Party would
constitute the greatest victory the Com-
munists could achieve.
Here I appeal to Mr Reid’s sense of
fair play. Does he think that the Labor
Party should come to terms with a non-
Labor man like Mr Santamaria, leader
of a dictatorial group with its own con-
stitution, direction and finance, when this
group equates sincere anti-Communist
Labor supporters with the Communists
themselves?
The way out of the impasse is for
every loyal member of the ALP to at-
tend his party’s monthly meetings and
play an active part in his trade union. In
that way the scourge of Communism, and
doubtful influence of Mr Santamaria’s
National Civic Council, can be combated.
J. P. LANIGAN
Melbourne (Vic.).
“THE CODD AFFAIR”
Sir,
Every so often a story such as “The
Codd Affair” (29/6/63) is inflicted upon
Bullletin readers. A preoccupation
with sex and a poor story seem to be
common factors to them all, and at a
time when all responsible people are
concerned about low moral standards in
young (and older) people the publishing
of this type of literature can hardly be
calculated to improve anyone’s know-
ledge or education.
Mr Rickard may feel he is being
realistic about “life,” reporting things
as they actually are. Most of your read-
ers, I believe, are sufficiently realistic
and knowledgeable about shipboard life
not to need this type of story.
L. M. YOUDALE
Gordon (NSW).
PROFUMO
Sir,
I feel that your excellent handling of
the Profumo affair warrants special con-
gratulations. In fact I am sure I cannot
do justice to it in a letter of this sort.
The usual cliches—“clear and objective
reporting”—“restrained treatment of a
sordid affair” spring to mind, to be re-
jected as inadequate. Perhaps it is better
to say, briefly, that the facts were pre-
sented with a dignity which was difficult
to attain with such subject matter. To
say more might be to express less.
And the odious comparison comes up
—because it is inescapable. The treat-
ment by another weekly journal emana-
ting from a non-Commonwealth English-
speaking source provided a contrast
which elevated your story to a lofty
plane.
To provide these good wishes with
some substance I have sent to your NZ
address the price of an annual sub-
scription. Your “new look” is grand
reading.
COLIN W. HARPER, A.P.A.N.Z.
Dunedin ( NZ ).
WHEAT AND RED CHINA
Sir,
I was disturbed at the tone of your
article on wheat and Red China
(15/6/63). It is surely suicidal to ignore
the fact that China has clearly stated
her aims, and these include Australia
becoming the granary of Asia and set-
tling 40 million people on our shores.
Australia has a job to do in Asia,
to think how to answer the causes of
Communism, such as greed, fear and pov-
erty. The wheat farmer can either think
of his own pocket and sell to China, or
really put his heart into the more diffi-
cult task of thinking out how we can
free Asia.
Australia is in a unique position in
Asia at present. We are free, and have
the resources to build up its free nations.
India is one who has actually asked for
our aid. We have given little real thought
to this on a Government level, and instead
have chosen to trade with India’s ag-
gressor. An Australian who is in India
now writes that one of India’s urgent
needs is for cereals. The only nation
who sells wheat for rupees at present
is the USA, which uses them for fur-
ther aid to India and for the cost of her
administration and her embassy in India.
Could the Australian wheat grower and
the Australian Government work out
some means where our wheat could be
sold in this way?
Japan is one of our most potential
allies, and so far her trade balance is
very lop-sided, Japan buying £3,200,000
of Australian goods for every
£1,000,000 we spend with her. If we
are really to build on the sound elements
in Asia, our trade with Japan can be
re-thought on a new level. With our
wool and wheat and coal, and honest
deliveries at the time goods are promised,
we will reap dividends not only of money
but of goodwill.
(Miss) LORNA R. WHITE
Blackburn {Vic.).


Is Abu Simbel Worth Saying?
Millions to preserve a pharoak’s megalomania
By DAVID McNICOLL
It has become rather fashionable
lately to worry about the Abu Simbel
temples. In England, the most un-
expected people express concern. So do
Americans. While in Europe and the
Middle East the subject regularly hits
the headlines in the newspapers and is
up-to-date drawing room discussion.
What is the worry? Well, it seemed
the Abu Simbel temples were to
be drowned, submerged, lost for
ever when the High Dam at Aswan
is completed. As the annual Nile
floods surge from Abyssinia the
water would creep inexorably towards the
temples, would flood them, and finally rise
above them. This would be, from many
points of view, undesirable. From the
viewpoint of the Egyptologist or the anti-
quarian, it would be tragic, for the Abu
Simbel temples, cut into the living rock
alongside the Nile, are perhaps the finest
relics of the past to be found in all Egypt
and one of the masterpieces of world
architecture.
My personal interest in the Nile was
brought on by Alan Moorehead's mag-
nificent books, “The White Nile” and
“The Blue Nile”. I defy anyone to read
these without feeling some desire to see
more of the Nile than the view from
Shepheard's Hotel of the wide brown ex-
panse wandering through Cairo. So I
blame Moorehead for my presence in
April in the dusty overnight express from
Cairo to Aswan, choking dust, rattling
alarmingly and swaying dangerously over
badly maintained permanent ways, and
sleeping somewhat fitfully in a wagon-
lit compartment which had seen many
better days.
The train left Cairo at 7.30 p.m. and
dawn found us roaring south up the
Nile. The river was almost always in
sight, vegetation sometimes miles wide
and lush on either side, sometimes the
river winding through sandy uncultivated
waste, presumably too rocky for the
wooden ploughs of the fellahin who cling,
throughout the Nile’s long journey, like
leeches to a drain.
The town of Aswan, into which the ex-
press pulled at about 2 p.m., is seedy and
dusty but active. A few miles out-
side the town no fewer than 25,000
Egyptians and Russians are working
night and day on the High Dam.
are boring, and statistics confusing to
readers, but some idea of the immensity
of the dam can be gauged by the fact
that it will turn the Nile from a river to
a lake between 10 and 25 miles wide for
the entire distance from Aswan (the first
cataract) upstream to the Sudan border
(site of the second cataract) some 200
miles distant. In the process it will cover
the homes and farms of 40,000 people,
who are being moved to new locations
below Aswan and it will cover the
Abu Simbel temples at the Sudan border.
A smiling Egyptian dragoman, pre-
dictably named Abdul, met me at Aswan.
He spoke good English, indifferent
French, and some Greek. We climbed into
a bus as soon as my bags, which had dis-
appeared in a noisy Hollywood mob
scene on the station platform, suddenly
reappeared unharmed. Half an hour later
I was boarding the s.s. Delta at Shellal on
the upstream side of the Aswan Dam.
s.s. Delta must be seen to be be-
lieved. The skipper told me it was
built to the order of Thos. Cook and
Son 50 years ago, and I feel he was
giving the vessel the benefit of a doubt.
It was the most antiquated, comfortable
and fascinating craft I have ever seen.
The huge stern paddles gave her about
eight knots. Her upper decks were so
high that she made better time upstream
against the current than she did down-
stream against the wind. She was steered
and navigated by a trio of burnoosed
and blackened Nubian Aswans (not
Egyptians, they kept reminding the pas-
sengers) who smoked and chatted through
the days and nights and occasionally
threw scraps to the captive crocodile
which inhabited an old enamel bath
alongside the wheelhouse.
My cabin in the Delta was on the upper
deck. It contained two double beds
brass, solid and very Thos. Cook and
Son. The bathroom boasted a huge, deep
enamel bath, a majestic toilet and a bidet,
an installation which must have been
made over the muttered Anglo-Saxon
protests of Mr Cook. The dining-room
was down on the water level you
could watch the date palms passing as
you ale. The chef was French, the head-
waiter Greek, the waiters Sudanese and
Egyptian. The food was surprisingly
good, the wines Egyptian and no threat
to the Hunter Valley.
The passengers 30 all told were
assorted. Most were German (they are
the world's greatest European and Mid-
East travellers these days), Italians, four
Mexicans, two English, one American (the
Delta is not air-conditioned) and one Aus-
tralian. We lay contentedly in shorts
the ladies in bikinis around the decks
while the never-boring river turned ahead
of us, revealing now feluccas crossing
our bows, now villages, fertile little
farms, camels and donkeys wending their
immemorial way along the banks; and
occasionally, towards the border, we saw
the slither of a crocodile into the muddy
waters.
Twice a day on the voyage up and
down river peace would be disturbed by
the wail of a klaxon. Up the river and
roaring past us like a great beetle sus-
pended above the water went the hydro-
foil Nefertiti. This incredible craft (a
natural for Sydney Harbor) does the
200 mile journey from Shellal to Abu
Simbel in 5} hours, gives its passengers
an hour at the temples, then gets back to
Shellal before nightfall.
We reached Abu Simbel in the cool
of the late afternoon. To say that the
sight is impressive is an understatement.
I personally am not given to enthusiasm
about the ancient. After a diet of Delphi
and Delos I start to suffer from “ruin
fatigue”. But Abu Simbel is different. The
size, the grandeur of these temples cut
deep into the sandstone cliff 3000 years
ago strikes silence on the cynical few,
and draws gasps from the admiring
majority. The larger temple was built for
Raineses II about 1300 B.C. He dedicated
it to Amen-Re of Thebes and Re-Herakhti
of Heliopolis, the god of the Sun. Rameses
did not omit to erect statues of himself
and his family. He is reproduced four
times in solid sandstone 65 feet high.
Inside and outside the temples are cover-
ed with reliefs and hieroglyphics. The
battle scenes, the scenes of daily life, of
death, are breathtaking in their movement
and the fluidity of the story they tell of
battles with the Syrians and the Hittites,
of the 1296 B.C. battle of Kadesh, of the
capture of the enemy and the enslavement
of the defeated.
The main temple, which plunges 200
feet into the cliff, has been constructed
so that on March 20 and October 20 the
rising sun strikes squarely down the
central passage, suffusing the votive
statues at the far end. By the slightly non-
equinox sun’s rays we looked at the


THE TREASURES OF ABU SIMBEL
The Abu Simbel temples from the river. On the left the RAMESES colossi frame the entrance to the main temple. On the right
is the lesser temple, built for his wife NEFERTARI.
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO, JULY 13, 1963
In the sanctuary, 200 feet inside the cliff. The figures are the god RA-HORAKHTI, RAMESES II himself, AMON, and PTAH.
Twice a year the first rays of the sun shine straight through the entrance and fall directly on the statues. This picture was taken
on such a morning.


The dam at ASWAN partly submerges the Temple of Isis. Above is
the colonnade of the MAMMISI. The temple, damaged by periodic
submersion, will be protected by low dykes.
The main entrance. All the colossi are RAMESES II. They measure
65ft in height, and the faces are 14ft across. The head of the second
statue, shattered centuries ago, lies in front of the temple.
The size of the ABU SIMBEL images can be gauged by the toes of
RAMESES. The figures carved in the entrance wall are prisoners-of-
war, tied together by the neck, being taken from the battlefield. The
battle illustrations are considered the finest in Egypt.


Temple of Queen NEFERTARI. This, the smaller of the ABU SIMBEL temples, was built by RAMESES II for his favorite
wife. The small figures alongside those of RAMESES and NEFERTARI are their children.


%
♦
1
1
m
•***>* 9**"X' 35^*1
-w *MH*r#i*t**
S
r//
r
The packet's g01d...
the pleasure’s priceless
...and isn’t that all the time?
BH 19/2/63
100's CARTON: 17/6 20's: 3/6


temple in the early morning, the effect
astonishingly different from that the
afternoon before.
Some distance from the main temple
is the smaller temple to Nefertari,
Raineses’ wife, or “Mrs Rameses” as our
dragoman kept describing her. There are
many unofficial additions to the writings
on the temple walls. Through the centur-
ies travellers have carved their names
about the temple, the Greeks and the
English apparently having field days in
the area in the 1850 s and 60s. And, most
astonishing touch, bang in front of the
side entrance to the temple is a granite-
covered grave of a British major who
died on service during the Sudan war.
There was, in the placing of that grave,
the authentic British ‘lords of creation’
touch which I could only admire more
so as the Germans noisily criticised it.
Some of us wanted to see the temple
from above, so we scaled the cliff and
walked along until we stood directly
above the temple and looking up and
down the Nile a vista stretching miles
to the north and south, and one of the
most wonderful sights I have seen. As
we climbed, three of the sailors from
Delia had followed to help guide us.
When we prepared to climb down again,
they led us instead a couple of hundred
yards south where a sandhill ran straight
down to the river. Signalling us to take
off shoes and socks they jumped with us
on to the sand and we slid at speed 200
feet to the riverside. Quite a sensation.
The more I saw of the Nubian Aswan
crewmen the more I liked them At night
they would gather in the bar and dance
for the passengers to the beating of their
strange drums and the shrilling of a
native fife. It was hard to believe the man
at the wheel in the morning was the
same one who did a shimmy the night
before.
Is Abu Simbel worth saving? “Yes,”
says UNESCO which headed the strong
“save ’ movement. Several plans were
submitted for saving the temples, all
of them involving tens of millions of
dollars.
The French plan was for the “fenc-
ing off” of the temples with a huge
barrage. The Italian plan was to strip off
the thousands of tons of overburden
above the temple, build a concrete coffin
round the temples, insert huge hydraulic
jacks underneath and lift the temple a
quarter of an inch a day until it is safe
200 feet up. A third plan, submitted by
the Danes (headed by the Opera House's
Ove Arup) was to surround the temples
with a light wall which would enable the
water on the temple side to be filtered
and kept perfectly clean. Visitors would
go down by lifts to watertight galleries
from which the floodlit temples could
be viewed. A magnificent conception, and
comparatively cheap.
But the plan which looks like being
accepted has been put forward by the
Swedes: cut the temples into chunks,
carry them up the hillside, and rebuild
them above the new level of the Nile.
The chunks are expected to weigh 30
tons each, and they will be lifted by
cranes and placed on a concrete found-
ation: the temple reassembled accurately,
and a surrounding wall of local sand-
stone put up around it. Total cost: 36
million dollars.
Is the expenditure of tens of
millions of dollars justified? Opinions
are sharply divided. There are those
who believe that the outlay of
millions on the preservation of an
ancient pharaoh’s megalomania is ludi-
crous. But there are others, and I am
one, who feel that a world spending mill-
ions on dubious foreign aid and billions
on the weapons of destruction could well
spare a few millions to retain for the
eyes of future generations the wonders
of Abu Simbp'
“The next thing you know the developers will be pulling them down again."


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Knives and Matches
Playwrights v. the Middle Class
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
The Zoo Story. Edward Albee. The
Fire Raisers. Max Frisch. Emerald
Hill Theatre. Melbourne.
“The Zoo Story” takes place in Cen-
tral Park, New York. Peter is sitting
on a park bench reading a book. Jerry
appears and tries to start a conversation.
Peter is polite but frosty, and tries to
go on reading. But Jerry persists. Peter
is an executive in a small publishing
firm. He is well-read, well-adjusted and
well-intentioned. He has a wife, two
daughters, a cat and two parrakeets.
Jerry is a misfit, an outsider. He lives
alone in a seedy rooming house kept
by a drunken landlady and her snarling
black dog.
To Peter the world seems a neat,
ordered, manageable place. To Jerry it
seems to be full of ugliness, loneliness
and pain. Jerry tells Peter the story of
his relations with his landlady’s horrible
dog. First he tried to win it over with
kindness, but without success. Then he
tried to kill it, again without success.
The final result of all his efforts was
that the dog treated him with wary
indifference.
Peter cannot understand the desperate
loneliness expressed in Jerry’s story. Not
that Peter is unfriendly. On the contrary,
he is unwary, alarmingly innocent, child-
ish. He sees that Jerry is odd, but he still
treats him as just another chap like him-
self who is being a bit perverse and
irritating.
When Jerry becomes aggressive and
tries to push him off the park bench,
Peter’s manly determination to defend
his rights is absurd. Only when Jerry
draws an ugly knife does Peter at long
last realise that the situation is very
different from what he thought it was.
Even now it is not what he imagines,
for Jerry’s final aggression is against
himself, not Peter.
“The Fire Raisers” • is a parable of
the rise of Nazism in Germany. All
over the city houses have been going
up in flames, in each case after a hawker
has been allowed to sleep in the attic.
Yet Herr Biedermann allows two sus-
picious characters to stay in his attic,
and when they fill it with drums of
petrol he invites them to dinner. After
they have feasted on roast goose and
the best wine from his cellar, Herr
Biedermann hands these avowed fire
raisers a box of matches. With these
they light the fire that destroys the
house and incinerates the Biedermann
family. The Greek chorus of firemen
declares that the blame for the disaster
is to be put on man’s mistakes, not
on fate.
In fact, however, the tone of the play
is completely fatalistic. We are not given
any reason why Herr Biedermann is un-
able to resist the demands of the fire
raisers, although he knows perfectly well
they will destroy him.
“The Zoo Story” and the “Fire Rais-
ers” both attack the middle class. But,
while Frisch attacks the German middle
class in the ’thirties, Albee attacks the
American middle class now. Albee's
diagnosis of the failings of the middle-
class American is precisely detailed. He
shows Peter as complacent, unimagina-
tive, dominated by cliches, and danger-
ously innocent.
The message to the American middle
class is: broaden your sympathies, ex-
amine your assumptions, become wise
and wary. Frisch’s message is: if people
tell you they are about to burn down
your house, do not give them a box
of matches. Sound advice, no doubt, but
not much use, for they very rarely do
tell you. They usually claim to be
strengthening the foundation, or repair-
ing the roof.
George Whaley gives a fine perform-
ance as the tense, unhappy Jerry, while
Terry Donovan is brilliantly repulsive
as Joseph Schmitz, the first fire raiser,
husky-voiced and stupidly smiling. I
thought George Whaley, who produced
both plays, was wise to make no attempt
to serve up a real roast goose for the
dinner party, nor to open bottles of
genuine Pommard, nor even raspberry
cordial. But, having taken this stand
against slavish realism in “The Fire
Raisers,” it seemed a pity that he fell
down with all that red ink in “The Zoo
story.”
MUSIC
Rarities
Musica Viva Recital Series. Cell
Block Theatre. Sydney.
11/lusica Viva’s Sunday recital series in
the Cell Block Theatre does the
dual job of giving local musicians a
chance to perform in a fairly well-
patronised series of concerts and of
giving the public an opportunity of
listening to works that are not likely to
be heard on record or at other concerts.
As it is an attempt to serve the interests
of two minority groups—namely, music-
lovers (as distinct from concert-goers)
and musicians—the series is probably
not a financial success, and it would be
pleasant to be able to say that the
organisers could take consolation from
the fact that the recitals succeeded
artistically. But in some respects this
would be too much to say of the second
of this year’s series.
In many ways the concert was first-
rate. The programme was of consider-
able interest, including concertos by
Vivaldi and Stamitz, with Mozart’s trio
for clarinet, viola and piano, violin duets
by Leclair, illustrating this composer’s
gift for synthesising disparate eighteenth-
century styles into a convincing personal
idiom, and two works by Haydn. Most
of the playing was very good the
orchestra and soloists were excellent in
the Vivaldi concerto for four violins,
and Charmian Gadd played an accom-
plished solo in the Haydn serenade
and very little of it fell below a standard
of high professional competence.
The Sydney Symphony Orchestra
recently paid tribute to its one-time con-
ductor, the late Sir Eugene Goossens,
by giving the premiere of his “Divertisse-
ment” at a subscription concert.
Although it was completed in 1960,
the style of the work belongs to the post-
World War I years, when young com-
posers were using all means in their
power to get rid of what they took to
be the nineteenth-century tradition. Its
orchestration, for instance, is “colorful,”
with plenty of work for brass and
percussion, along with such devices as
strummed violins and col legno cellos
and basses. There are plenty of sharp
contrasts of mood and dynamics, some
energetic counterpoint, much acrid
harmony, some regional color (English
folk-song in the second movement and
flamenco rhythms in the third) and a
certain cavalier regard for the classical
forms.
These devices would have made a
piece of music very modish thirty years
ago. Now they give “Divertissement”
the period charm which, together with


The ROSICRUCIANS (A.M.0.R.C.)
The ROSICRUCIANS (A.M.0.R.C.) are the oldest, world-wide, non-profit society dedicated
to the study of MYSTICISM and the search for TRUTH. It began in Egypt over 1300 years before
the Christian era and is non-religious yet the teachings penetrate the very spirit and essence of all
faiths. (It has no connection with or similarity to the Rosicrucian Fellowship started by Max Heindel
and active in Queensland some years ago.)
A.M.O.R.C. promises its members that if they are on the level and seek a philosophy which
has inspired great men and women ihrough the ages our teachings and methods developed over
the centuries by Master Mystics of many lands will develop dormant psychological and spiritual
powers and open a new world of success, fulfilment and peace of mind which passes all understanding,
to Sydney Lodge, A.M.0.R.C., 45 FOREST ROAD, ARNCLIFFE, N.S.W.
Please send free booklet on the History and Teachings of A.M.O.R.C.
Address
Name.
Goossens’ great technical skill, con-
stitutes its main attraction. The work’s
other virtues are limited —the melodies
are often awkward, the harmonies not
very logical (the English folk-song is
harmonised in a quite grotesque way),
the orchestration often just flashy, the
would-be lightness often just tiresome.
Goossens was a fine musician, and
Sydney owes him a great deal; it w 7 ould
therefore be entirely appropriate to do
his memory the kindness of not resur-
recting works like this.
JOHN SMALL
Recovery
Orchestral Subscription Concert. Mel-
bourne Town Hall.
npHERE has been a curious malaise about
several of the concerts Tzipine has
conducted in the current season, but it
certainly did not affect this one. Al-
though there could have been more
starch and neatness in the performance
of the Bb Symphony of Schubert —where
the andante was pushed along rather too
fast for its delicate frame Robert
Hughes’ arrangement of the overture
to an ode of Boyce was treated care-
fully and with dignity. And Alfred
Brendel’s playing of the enormous D
minor Concerto of Brahms, which took
up the entire second part of the pro-
gramme, was thoroughly admirable —the
movements well proportioned, the phras-
ing intelligent and consistent, and the
notes clearly articulated.
But the musical focus of the concert
was, in my view, the second of Roussel’s
“Bacchus and Ariadne” suites. If there
is any flaw in Tzipine's relations with
the orchestra, as I have heard suggested,
it is not remotely apparent in perform-
ances like this, where the conductor is
on home ground and the players quite
evidently respect his authority. Their
playing was fully professional, sensitive
and keen in response: his direction at
once enthusiastic and careful.
KENNETH HINCE
TELEVISION
Tension
Touring the first minute or so of
* “Breaking Point,” a three-part pro-
gramme on human stress, I flinched as
the expected happened and the screen
was crowded with a melange of rushing
people, with sounds of traffic, brakes,
speed, and one man’s agonised face
coming through it all. “This man is at
breaking point why?” Clifton Moore
asked, and a ready answer occurred
to me.
I am glad to report that this opening
was the only extreme cliche in the entire
programme, even though it was mostly a
prolonged interview between Moore and
a Sydney lecturer in clinical psychology
named Wilfred Jarvis, with brief visits
from other workers in the same vine-
yard.
Moore and Jarvis are both photogenic,
which might seem unimportant but is
far from that when you have to spend 90
minutes staring at the same faces.
Clifton Moore is also one of those rare
interviewers, a helpful and intelligent
one. And Mr Jarvis is the most casually
fluent man it has been my pleasure to
view.
So much to the credit of the pro-
gramme. In debit, my notes include the
bold question, “Who the hell is this pro-
gramme for?” And the answer is that it
was clearly for people who could go
along with such terms as acting-out
behavior, psychosomatic, permissive,
psychoses, and so on.
Oh, / knew roughly what they were
talking about. I’ve read Spock and
Bowlby and Gsell and a few more. So
the theories (“we know —” they kept
saying, but I’m not sure they do) were
ones I might well consider if there were
children around. And I’ve read Freud
and Adler and Jung and Ogden Nash,
so I have a surface idea of why that
man could be at breaking point.
Presumably, then, the programme was
not made for the average ABC viewer
who has a smattering of psychology,
whether from books or the women’s
magazines. Nor, surely, was it made for
the viewer who could benefit, but on
meeting an average statement in the pro-
gramme, “we have to come to terms
with the world around us and the pro-
cesses within our own structures,” would
sigh and tune in to “Gunsmoke.”
Most of the trouble seemed to be in
the conception and presentation of the
programme. The ABC will encourage
Professor Baxter, who is a most know-
ledgeable but by no means fascinating
speaker, to lecture solidly for hours
about nuclear energy. Then it finds, a
fluent down-to-earth man and, instead
of giving him the screen and letting him
go for as long as he wants, surrounds
him with an interviewer and an array
of “guests” mostly unable to avoid
psycho-Mandarin.
This programme, “Breaking Point,”
could have been a valuable one. Thous-
ands of people do reach that point each
year, and as the stresses often begin
during childhood, a clear and simple
rundown on children’s problems, and
teenagers’, and adults’, would have been
a useful contribution to everyone’s
understanding.
It needed perhaps 10 half hours, not
three at the rate of one a week. And it
needed to be made for average people
to understand. In the public interest,
I suggest that one of the commercial
channels should ask Mr Jarvis to do
the job. He’s a bonny talker, and set
in front of a camera, with a few in-
expensive film clips to illustrate child
behavior (Dr Gsell’s mob probably
have dozens to spare) and human stress,
he might do more enlightening in one
week than anyone else in years.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
Solid and Soft
John Aland, Neville Matthews, Mer-
vyn Moriarty. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
A N interstate exhibition by three
young painters is a sure sign that
the market for painting is flourishing.
Enough buyers, it seems, are ready to
accept paintings on sight to justify the
gamble of bringing unknowns all the
way from Brisbane to Melbourne. In
the case of these three young men —-
Aland, Matthews and Moriarty the
gamble deserves to pay off. They are
all able and lively painters, and Aland
in particular shows a considerable talent.
The most reassuring quality of Aland’s
painting is its thoughtfulness. Whereas
his two fellow exhibitors are still at the
point of relishing their materials, con-
fidently enough but not with a very
strong purpose, Aland is much more
concerned to give a broad meaning to
his figures. The almond-shaped forms
with which he habitually works are
simple and flexible, and permit him to
compose elegantly without weakening
the strength of his theme. In his best
work the color is warm and soft,


and the figures express a languid
romanticism.
Neville Matthews is still experimenting
with the outer reaches of abstract ideas,
in particular with roughly geometric,
heavily textured shapes with arbitrary
titles. By and large it is solid and quite
imposing work, occasionally melo-
dramatic but at its best tensely and
strikingly balanced.
The third of the young Queenslanders,
Mervyn Moriarty, is a most attractive
and strong colorist who appeals immedi-
ately by virtue of that alone. Although
there are figures present in many of his
paintings the dominant impression is
always that the work has been done
primarily for the bright beauty of the
color. He and Aland share a similar
lyricism, and leave Matthews to do the
barking.
BILL HANNAN
Feiffer
it smrev men i ipae a uxhe kip a wt
m ?mm mi m i ipm im a rmr
spox~ 90 moe. w mo i be6ak
ANNOUNCING MH T«6H
M mi 6m-- -* ox rue couur
19 me aw rxo. m<k otepo
our of the box. e/oo a roe
(OTO THE O/PT ox-ne'e
BACK /B Bom. Be chec/ce
the poxpepe. w ■
The m/bpup. mjp
be peo rue pitch-
Fm that mrott,mve m mv i Aftooouceo m
m mm evemmm! school Foe iusmce' : -
" rue olp seme haw k new akam, wee
Mimes to so im this mm pxam. m camt
seeM to cone up mu am Atjpuiep to Qoesm m.
He LOOTS OUT 7HP IDIUPOU). H£ PICKS AT
A mail. He looks oven at thp othtp
kps- amp WAIT a mi pure - is He ?
yes HP K ' HP PICKS UP PIS PPM!
hw gtm Afm i got our of scmir'm buper.-
Uso{L 16 LOOK!tU6 OVER ft&ft BHOULPER. TCCy
rmretuoo to bo m superior hab
'Foumv a m/btake. joe v cart both to usTerJ.
TUT GUPEEVIBOR ABKB IF BE URPERBTAEPB*
M<E SMi HE WES. tOE<T
6TAEEB . OUT THE MIUPOIO.
M EUPERVtBCE ylOj/ESOE-"
j to AmutJcep Hl4 b)M 'WROU6H hf Hkmkbt:-
*FOEH HAS ROTHIF& TO. SHE. ' JOEF’S UJIFE HAS
lIOW//J6 TOSAH.FOEHE FATHER.-HJ-iALU
EAUS ■ ISR’T IT TIFF HOU E)ERF HAKIF&
SERIOUS pIAW, FOEHR JOEH PIES A
TOE ipfO THE CARPET AW STARES
OUT 7HE iO/UPOLO. MOTS LITTLE
POH Wh ‘FIX. IT, FAPFF"
AM(7 SO IT 60ZS. FAR IH'MOmite TO IhTt
at mr, mtd urn iu /u dwrm mtos
m puolo, tie doses om eoe. He aosee
m ortiee. He feed steer coniee. ire
com& —joeys ioiee fmee. joey
ernes cm&iw& m mes •
W A iWr-
mm to "
Stone Images
Ralph Balson. Macquarie Galleries.
Sydney. 3rd to 15th July, 1963.
Oalph Balson shows 17 fair-sized
paintings which to some extent
amplify the trends in his last exhibition
a year or so ago. All suggest an
absorption in the possibilities of guiding
rather than manipulating paint with any
great control. This sort of thing
excludes image or form in the usual
sense but opens the door wide to the
accidental, and often to results not
possible through any other method.
Balson finds what liquid qualities can
produce in tensely marbled texture.
Indeed if there is a parallel it is in the
slabs of polished stone seen in some new
buildings. There, all is massive, solid,
but once was plastic and flowing. In this
flowing on of paint Balson makes his
point, that the medium possesses a
sensitiveness in the way it moves, pro-
'fided the artist is responsive to its
ootentialities.
Not all the paintings follow this
pattern, especially the heavily textured
ones which have slowed down, as it
were. Torch, knife and other attacks
have been used and control is evident
in the choice of color. The uniform title
of “Painting No. 1 13” evidences
Balson’s statement that he is interested
in just this thing without any other non-
sense. Dark tonalities and the extreme
nervousness of dribbles and splashes
underline the restless agitation which
can in “Painting No. 17” loom as a
threatening black wall. Baroque swirls
of brush and knife keep a lively inter-
play between the will of paint and the
will of the artist. At the moment the
will of paint seems to be the more subtle.
JOHN HENSHAW


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stotts can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON —*
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
81363
RED PAGE
CHILDREN’S
BOOKS
Tales from East and West
By MARIA WOLKOWSKY
(Schools Correspondent, North German Radio)
/Comparing European with English
books for children is like com-
paring Pfefferkuchen with barley-sugar or
torrone with paddle-pops. They are all
made of sugar or saccharine substitute
and some even have a dash of whole-
some spice. But one lick and you can
tell the difference.
When 1 first went to Europe and saw
the sort of juvenile books turned out
there, I was immediately struck by the
absence of patronising patting on the
head by superior uncles. Very few books
seemed primarily designed to send bored
young readers rushing back to the gog-
gle-box or the more sadistic comics. In
Germany, publishers like Thienemann
and Franckh seem to produce a list of
bull’s-eyes every year, such as “Der
gezaehmte falke” (The Tamed Falcon),
a story set in Iceland by Barbara Bartos-
Hoeppner, which won a German Child-
ren’s Book Prize, and the French Prix
Jeunesse winner “Moudaina,” by Andree
Clair, or “Durch die weite welt”
(Through the Wide World), the annual
of annuals, or for younger readers “Kriki
das tapfere entlein” (Kriki, the Brave
Little Duck), by Steiner-Jaruska, honor-
listed by the Hans Andersen Prize, or the
record-breaking best-seller by Michael
Ende “Jim Knopf und Lukas der
Lokomotivfuehrer” (Jim Button and
Lucas the Engine-Driver), winner of the
£550 German Children's Book Prize,
which tells of all kinds of adventures
in China with fiery dragons and glass-
trees and swimming engines. Magic and
fantasy is not as taboo in Europe as it
often seems to be with us.
Adults everywhere hold a mean ad-
vantage. They write, criticise and buy
books not only for each other but also
for a totally different minority-group . . .
children. Children are only expected to
read them. Peter, a normal 9-year-old
of my acquaintance, took the obvious
way out: he recently wrote a book for
himself which I was graciously lent by
the author. Its hair-raising adventures
with skeletons (“alive and dead”) and
with man-eating bears encountered in a
search for a tin of lost strawberry-jam
made me wonder whether the more har-
rowing Grimm tales and the unvarnished
cruelty of old nursery-rhymes did not
really serve a useful psychological pur-
pose and whether we have not come too
far with our disinfecting.
Outstanding avuncular example among
the books under review is “Children of
Down-under” (Hutchinson’s series of
other lands), photos by the Australian
News and Informatoin Bureau “after an
idea by Henry C. James,” author un-
named, and Highly Commended by the
Australian Children’s Book Week Com-
mittee. The story reads as if compiled
from the instant - information - captions
typed at the back of photos. Perhaps it
is. I was reminded of the complaint of
a European publisher: “You Australians
are your own worst salesmen. You just
don’t know how to write about your
country for anyone but yourselves.”
There is a genuine Namatjira but no
genuine barkpainting among the forty-
odd, sometimes strangely pastel-colored
horsy-sheepy photos.
TTowever. “Kingfisher Feather”, by
Elyne Mitchell (Hutchinson), also
Highly Commended by the Book Week
Committee, is that rare Australian bird, a
blend of reality and fantasy. Perhaps a
distant modern mutation of Maeterlinck’s
(for “bluebird” read “blue kingfisher
feather”), only the first too-solid vision of
the old aboriginal woman remains earth-
bound. Otherwise the atmosphere is well
sustained and will cast a spell over any
child of 12 and under.
Another Book Week Highly Com-
mended is “The Feather Star”, by Patricia
Wrightson (Hutchinson), a sensitive study
of girl-unfolding-into-woman, as fragile
and as painfully vulnerable as the star-
fish of the title. For girls over 12 (boys
would despise it) it is the story of Lindy’s
holiday on the remote NSW coast.
There are no adventures, unless the
henny-penny chase of a white cat in a
black chiffon nightie can be so classed,
except for the greatest adventure of all
growing up.
In “Three Girls and a Secret” (English
edition Harrap, original Librairie
Hachette) author Rene Guillot guillotines
the Paris atmosphere; or does the English
translation strangle it? A first-rate plot
about three girls who play “mothers” with
a real baby in a derelict house falls oddly
flat like a doughy crepe suzette.
In contrast, “Jonathan's Children”, by
Constance Heward (Harrap), is a familiar
story skilfully told for 12 and under.
Three children and a dog win over their
sour Uncle Joseph after they are parked


WILLIES WOOLLIES
by
ELISABETH MACINTYRE
This delightful little book tells the story of Australian wool for boys
and girls. In 32 pages, 10-inch x illustrated throughout in colour,
the little boy who has a new overcoat and wants to know how it is made is
told the story, from the sheep's back to the boy's back, with pictures and
narrative. It is published in two bindings, stiff board picture cover at 6/-,
or picture board cover with cloth spine at 10/6, plus Bd. for postage.
From all booksellers
Published by GEORGIAN HOUSE PTY. LTD., Melbourne and Sydney
as uninvited orphans on his bachelor
doorstep.
“John and Namburree”, by Doris Chad-
wick (Nelson), combines information and
adventure into an authentic account of
the days when the food-ships. went down
and the young Sydney Colony almost
starved. John and his friends collect wild
honey, track, spear fish and go to the
Colony’s first play. Convicts are called
convicts and not First Families of Botany
Bay and they wear leg-irons, if necessary.
Bennelong, the Governor's pet abo, has a
bite-wound in his hand inflicted by a
resisting female of another tribe. Older
children will love it.
American author Arthur Anthony
Gladd has written a splendid tale of ad-
venture for the teens in his “Galleys
East!” (Nelson). Dion, a sixteenth-cen-
tury Ithacan, goes through storms, ship-
wrecks, capture by the Turks and the
Battle of Lepanto to become the friend
of Cervantes himself.
In “Karius and Baktus” (English edi-
tion Nelson) Scandinavian Thorbjocrn
Egner treads a drill-sharp edge without
falling into any holes. Recommended to
all youngsters with teeth and to all dentists
with waiting-rooms, the book tells of the
sad fate of Karius and Baktus (alias
Caries and Bacteria), left homeless after
John goes to the dentist. This is a good
example of how to instruct and be en-
tertaining at the same time.
Another book to please the under-tens
is “Moro, the Little Black Donkey”, by
Kurt Eigl, beautifully illustrated by W.
Zeller-Zellenberg (English edition Nel-
son, original Forum Verlag, Vienna)
Unfortunately, another new Austrian
book, one of the most unusual from any
country, seems unlikely to be translated
into English without loss. “Mutze Butz”,
by Josef Guggenmos, strikingly illustra-
ted by Elli Delignon (Oesterreichischer
Bundesverlag), is a remarkable synthesis
of the best of all styles, modern and old-
fashioned, fantastic and matter-of-fact;
part verse and part rhythmic prose, it is
wholly different.
For the same age-group the purely Eng-
lish “Little Laura and the Lonely
Ostrich”, by V. H. Drummond (Nelson),
also has a great deal of charm and some
witty illustrations. Laura, Billie and Nan-
nie and a keeper are riding in a little
cart being pulled about the Zoo by the
Lonely Ostrich when the Ostrich takes off
for his home on the inevitable desert
island. There they are all rescued by the
Royal Yacht. Nannie’s day is made. Nan-
nie loves the Royals.
Young children will enjoy our old
friend “The Gingerbread Man” baked up
again by Barbara Ireson with jolly de-
corations by Gerald Rose (Faber). Magic
is still to be found in the twenty-year-old
reissue “Nothing-at-all”, by Wanda Gag
(Faber). “Nothing-at-all” is an invisible
dog who finally becomes something-after-
all. The author’s illustrations now work
out as quaintly old-fashioned.
“Sunny Bell and the Shrimp Street
Gang”, by Iris Degg (Harrap), meant as a
child's first full-length book, is rather like
the dog and cats of the title. Its front
is endearing but its tail rather peters
out. All the same, lots of fun, especially
the first part.
From Harrap’s “Read with Mother”
series “The Fairground Family”, by Lilian
Davkin, is as light and colorful as the
balloons Tim’s mother sells at the fair.
No one pokes fun at the gypsy-boy
anymore when, in the last of the eight
well-told little stories, Tim and his donkey
Tink make a stage-appearance in the
school’s Christmas play and gaze down
together at the Christ-child in the man-
ger.
So obvious that it is mostly overlooked
is the point that reading is an addiction
in any language. Get a child used to
reading, which really means give him
something he will enjoy, and he will
acquire the taste.
What Makes
a Classic?
T am happy to say that my childhood
* was gratefully bare of “children’s
books”. In the New Zealand bush, our
library consisted of the ancient, stark
translation of the Brothers Grimm, a
King James Bible, and Banjo Pater-
sons poems. Therefore, at a propaganda-
prone age I was never subjected to books
which indicated what children should
be like, and rarely are. I was, however,
in daily contact with a widely-read man,
my father, who in his lucid Scots English
retold the great adult classics of the
Victorian era. Shorn of his turgidities,
Sir Walter Scott became a good yarn-
spinner; tedious Daniel Defoe was reduc-
ed to the skilful reporter he really was;
even Stevenson, that nonpareil of the
sweat-stained sentence, could turn out a
good story in “Kidnapped!” Certainly the
New Zealand vernacular occurred now
and then in these nightly stories. People
were cloven to the wishbone instead of
the chine, Lochinvar scoffed off the wine
instead of quaffing it, and someone pick-
ed up a sword, gave a grand swipe with
it, and off came the knight’s head as
clean as a whistle.
Thus I started literary life with per-
sonal proof that story content, to a child,
is far more important than style. Present
people who know this truth are those
who have to read stories to young child-
ren and find they have to translate as
they go along. Questions constantly hold
up the flow of story, and all fine writing
goes sailing over that little trusting head.
For this reason I challenge the validity of
most children’s classics.
Classics become such not because
children ask to read them but because
adults reprint them and put them on
school curricula. Does a literary work
ever become lastingly good because it
has grown a long beard? (Some, I know,
remain good in spite of the long beard.
“What Katy Did”, the “Anne of Green
Gables” books, “Huck Finn” banned
so long in America “because it was
trash and fit only for the slums” —and
many others are still good because their
style is simple, their story content is valid,
their characters are real, fallible human
children.) We cannot take the verdict of
past generations that a book is one of
the immutables. The very fact that lan-
guage is a fluid thing is an indication that
sooner or later any style is going to seem
artificial or even incomprehensible.
Did you ever meet an honest small
child who really loved “Alice in Wonder-
land”? It mostly begins to seem funny
when one is about 14, yet it is supposed
to be written for very young children.
“The Wind in the Willows” is a delectable
piece of prose but as far as children are


GREAT STORIES OF AUSTRALIA
A new series telling the great stories of Australian History from
the days of the first convict settlement to the present day.
Edited by KYLIE TENNANT
No. 1. TO RIDE A FINE HORSE by Maty Durack
The story of Patsy Durack, who opened up thousands of
square miles.
No. 2. TREASURE FROM THE EARTH ... by Donald McLean
The story of the search for minerals.
For 12- to 14-year-olds. Per volume 187-
Full cloth, coloured jackets, illustrated.
MACMILLAN
concerned it falls down completely in
that they understand the content but not
the style. The style is strictly for the
cultured adult with whom the author as-
sociated practically his entire life. Even
“Winnie the Pooh” has many words in
it that a young child with a good vocabu-
lary falls over. Also, most children think
Christopher Robin is all wet. At the age
of six my own daughter said that if he
was her brother she'd poke buttons up
his nose. The sort of whimsy pooh child
that Christopher Robin is has become
quite incomprehensible.
Flere we strike a very valid obstacle
to a revolution in juvenile book publish-
ing. The child does not buy the book,
therefore publishers put out volumes
designed to catch the eye of the mother
or aunt (influenced subconsciously by the
sort of book she loved or thinks she loved
as a child). This explains soppy jackets,
beautiful scratchy expensive illustrations.
Many of these pictures don’t make sense
at ail to the child. You have only to look
at the crude simple drawings of Helen
Bannerman’s “Little Black Sambo” books
(reprinted practically to infinity since last
century) and also Ludwig Bemelman’s
“Madeleine” books to realise what sort of
pictures a child really enjoys. Publishers
are also constant offenders with format.
They will put out books for older child-
ren in a large size. Children are of the
opinion that only “bubs” have books
printed in large format, and don't like to
carry them around.
What is the publisher to do? Most of
them aren’t young enough still to be
reading stories to children. They don’t
really know the problems. A nice, whole-
some, pretty book seems to them to be
the thing to aim at: this is all too often
an error. They should be advised by
children’s librarians, a very knowledge-
able lot with everyday statistics on
children’s own choices at their finger-
tips; by young parents, who have this
translation business as a nightly chore.
Schoolteachers are often quite innocently
suspect, because a classroom atmosphere
may give the impression of interest,
whereas really the children are bored or
kicking one another under the desk.
In conclusion I wish to say that over
eight years I have conducted private polls
among classes of the 8-12 years old
group all over Sydney. In their reading
choice, non-fiction and adventure fiction
“about places not too far from Australia”
have won hands down. Ask the children
what they wish to read. If you have their
confidence, they'll tell you. Unfortunately
so many of them are so good mannered
they don’t want to disappoint you by say-
ing they long to push buttons up Chris-
topher Robin’s nose.
The librarians know. Let them have
their say.
RUTH PARK
First Prize
The Family Conspiracy, Joan Phipson.
Constable and Angus & Robertson.
17s. 6d.
Thus novel is the winner of the Austra-
lian Children’s Book Week Award
for the best children’s book of the year
for 1963. It was first published in Novem-
ber 1962 and no doubt many young read-
ers have already enjoyed it. It is an excel-
lent book for an age group of (approxi-
mately) 8 to 14—a point that ought to be
made plain before any reservations are
voiced. Margaret Horder’s illustrations
grace and enhance the well written text
her drawings are always outstanding
and have begun, perhaps, to owe some-
thing to Ardizzone, but not at the ex-
pense of her own individuality and sense
of Australia.
“The Family Conspiracy” is written
to the commonest formula for child-
ren’s fiction. “Formula” used in this
connection sounds like a dirty word to
some people I never can see why
this should be so. Most novels for child-
ren or adults when stripped to their es-
sentials prove to follow one or other of
a very few basic recipes. In children's
literature the pattern tends to be more
apparent because such books are usually
fairly short and have necessary straight-
forward narratives.
This novel belongs to the class of
book in which a group of youngsters
find themselves in circumstances that
pose a problem to be solved, adults,
whether sympathetic or not, cannot be-
lieve the children Capable of responding
to the challenge, with success. The prob-
lem might be to outwit a gang of des-
peradoes; or to find a treasure; or to
lead a number of people to safety; or to
steer a submarine, aeroplane or even
space rocket. The author’s problem is
to relate his events closely enough to
the fantasy range of a fairly wide age
group of youngsters the 14-year-old
who wearies of juvenile illogic is ready
for the more sophisticated absurdities
of Eric Ambler, lan Fleming, et al. Joan
Phipson achieves real freshness by ap-
plying this formula to a domestic setting
and using a quieter than common tone.
The “Conspiracy” concerns the ef-
forts of the Barker children to earn suf-
ficient money to send their mother to
hospital for a needed operation to be
followed by a convalescent holiday. The
initial mechanics are rather thin
the author herself seems to doubt whether
the Barkers would really delay quite
so long in accepting medical recom-
mendations and she is at some pains
to explain and justify their financial hard-
ship. In this Joan Phipson is hampered
by another tradition: by and large fic-
tional children are middle-class and at-
tend private schools. Of course in real
life such families are frequently closer
to financial crisis than groups below
them might enviously believe, but ju-
venile fiction is no place for sociological
treatises. I think the author’s explanation
would convince her intended readers and
certainly once this hurdle is crossed the
Barkers’ attempts to raise money are
described with humor and commendable
realism. Belinda who clandestinely sews
for long hours by dim light, injures her
eyesight and puts her exasperated father
to the expense of providing spectacles.
Robbie who seeks gold in an abandoned
shaft is buried in an earth fall, nearly
killed, incurs more medical expense
and worries his already hard-pressed
mother. Lorna takes a holiday child-
minding job, offends her father by seem-
ing not to wish to spend her vacation at
home, and although she is a highly suc-
cessful nursemaid she does get herself
and her charges hopelessly lost in the
city after a trip to the Zoo. By the time
each child has contrived to amass a
sizeable sum their parents are fairly


NEW CHILDREN'S
BOOKS
THE ROARING 40
Nan Chauncy
Badge joins his father and Vik Viking
on a prospecting trip to lonely Port
Davey. Instead of gold, however, the
prospectors find a boy of Badge’s age
—Ned ‘"the dotty boy”. Shortly 18/6
THE GREEN LAUREL
Eleanor Spence
Lesley and Rae used to help their
father with his miniature train which
he took round to country shows, but
when Mr. Somerville had to go to
hospital the family went to live in a
housing settlement near Sydney.
Shortly 18/6
A PICTURE HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA
R. M. Crawford
For this latest volume in the Oxford
Picture Histories Professor Crawford
has written a wonderfully brief
account of our story, running from
prehistoric times down to the present
day. Clarke Hutton has embellished
every page with bold, colorful draw-
ings. Highly Commended; Best Aus-
tralian Children’s Book of the Year,
1962. Price 15/6
OXFORD UNIVERSITY
PRESS
frazzled by the prevailing air of mystery
—but of course all is explained and for-
given for a happy ending.
I have described the book at this length
to show why I consider it very good of
its sort, but scarcely a work of real
originality. Australia can claim two true
children’s classics, “Seven Little Aust-
ralians” and “The Magic Pudding.”
Those books were written years before
Book Week awards were thought of.
It is surely axiomatic that if and when
someone is ready and inspired to pro-
duce a work to set beside these, con-
siderations of eventual honors will
neither hinder nor help him.
NANCY KEESING
Witches and Pigs
art of writing fiction for small
children without either preaching or
talking down to them is becoming a
rarity. Too often writers (especially
women) are turning out dreadfully smug
tit-bits that make one wish upon them
the bad luck that befell a blind Chinese
poet who, after writing avidly for seven
years, showed his completed works to
a friend, only to be told, “The paper is
blank. You neglected to fill your pen
with ink.”
Authors of great children’s books from
the past were along with their other
virtues dauntless in their search for
material capable of moving children to
tears, hilarious laughter and delicious
shudders. Nobility of character was
applauded and cruel stepmothers and
witches were wicked in the grand
manner. Not so, unfortunately, the old
Italian woman in “The Little Grey
Donkey” (Faber), nasty from the first
to the last page, and the little donkey she
owns is never rewarded for his sincerity
and goodness. He is a very nice donkey,
and many adults, on reading the book
aloud to a child, would be sorely tempted
to ad-lib with another chapter in which
the Italian RSPCA enters the story
take stern action against the old woman
and lead the long-suffering animal off
to a field of carrots and daisies.
The English translation of Norwegian
Bjorn Rongen’s book “Qlaf and the
Echoing Cave” (Methuen) is a happy
mixture of cliff-hanging excitements and
cocoa-drinking security. A lovable old
woman gathers her grandchildren by
the fire-side and tells them the story of
Olaf, whose holiday was spent high in
the mountains. He is trapped in a cave
by a landslide, and with a subtle skill—
belonging only to grandmothers the
rescue of Olaf is told in a dragged-out
series of daily episodes, each one packed
with humor, courage and tension. The
illustrations are charming.
Margaret Lowe has written a primer
on racial intolerance. “The Pig Who
Thought Learning Was Fun” (Faber) is a
black and white animal. In his part
of the country only pink pigs are given
top jobs and although he is clever and
willing, he is continuously knocked
back and given only the most menial
work. Fortunately, along comes a kindly
tramp in the guise of a tom-cat. He
advises the pig to run off with him. The
pig does and we are delighted when—
because of a shortage of pink pigs in the
district —he finds work that suits him.
The reader, still belonging to the land
of “and they lived happily ever after,”
will naturally not be concerned about
Piggy’s future should the shortage of
pink pigs eventually run out. The
illustrations are clear and colorful, but
too self-conscious to be endearing.
Exactly who, and what, is Moonface?
Well, it's difficult to explain but he is
certainly more than a grubby old vest
with a Spanish knot tying up his middle.
He has an eye that can’t ever quite be
seen and he is someone to be reckoned
with especially when the moon is
nearly full. Moonface, the obstreperous,
and Matthew, an obsequious toy mouse,
are the brightest characters in Honor
Prime’s “Moonface and Matthew"
(Faber), a rather ploddingly told story
in which a mother, father and grand-
aunt figure too much. Nevertheless,
Moonface, who came into being one
night in a patch of moonlight, never
ceases to intrigue, and Geraldine Spence’s
scratchy black and white illustrations are
rather nice.
Beginning with A for Awkward Ap-
prentice, right through the alphabet to
Z for Zooming Zick-bat, Peggy Stack’s
“Another Six and Twenty Tales” (Faber)
are a child’s delight. She dares to write
of fairies, leprechauns, castles and
giants and she does it charmingly and
with a lovely sense of fun. The stories
are advanced enough for those able to
read for themselves and yet would be
a boon in any nursery where a not-quite-
able to read autocrat demands, “Please—
just one short story!” The author’s own
illustrations are gay and pleasing.
If a child has entered the realm of
Social Studies and New Zealand is
scheduled on his list, Edna Mason
Kaula’s “First Book of New Zealand”
(Edmund Ward) is especially sure to
please. With a lively, comprehensive
pen she presents an amazingly detailed
report on New Zealand. Dairy products
and statistics become interesting data,
geysers spurt, glaciers abound and
tropical flowers bloom in the land where
the mysterious Maori fits into life with
his white brothers. The index adds
greatly to the value of the book, which
is one of a series of “First” books. Maps
and black-and-white illustrations are ex-
cellent.
ELIZABETH KATA
Cloak and Dagger
Men and Nations: A World History.
Anatole Mazour and John Peoples.
Rupert Hart-Davis. 575.
“W HAT monarchies were first founded
” after the Deluge? The Chaldean
monarchy, founded by Nimrod 2221
years before the nativity of our Saviour.
The Chinese, founded by Fohi in BC
2207 . . Thus, with a confident flourish
of chronology and no nonsense about
Neanderthal men and flint choppers, be-
gan the opening chapter of one popular
English children's history textbook of the
early 19th century. The writing of history
for children has come a long way since
then, but the peculiar problems of pre-
senting history in simple, accurate and
palatable terms for the juvenile mind still
remain.
Everyone agrees that it is no longer
sufficient to stuff a child's mind with a


AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN’S BOOK COUNCIL AWARD WINNER
AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN’S BOOK COUNCIL AWARD WINNER
The Family
Conft* rac y
JOAN PHl*** '
M
■'■i-
jf
SS*
:s,*****
A story that will appeal
to hoys and girls
aged 11 to 15
THE FAMILY CONSPIRACY
by Joan Phipson
A fine action plot combined with
a realistic portrayal of young
people makes this the year’s out-
standing Australian book for chil-
dren. The illustrations are by
Margaret Horder.
17s. 6d. (post Is. 5d.)
also by Joan Phipson:
THE BOUNDARY RIDERS
16s. (post Is. 2d.)
AUSTRALIAN CHILDREN’S BOOK COUNCIL AWARD WINNER
AUSTRALIAN CHILDRENS BOOK COUNCIL AWARD WINNER
The Mystery of Secret Beach
GEORGE FINKEL
One of the year’s best books for twelve to
sixteen year olds who like action and excite-
ment in a well-told story with a background
of the sea. 18s. 6d. (post lOd.)
Hills End
IVAN SOUTHALL
A fine story for beys and girls aged twelve
and over, highly praised in Australia and
overseas. 18s. 6d. (post lOd.)
It All Began with Calamity
MEG LEWIS
For all lovers of horse stories, aged ten and
over. Illustrated. 17s. 6d. (post lOd.)
Australian Animals and Birds
SHEILA HAWKINS
A delightful book for children of all ages
illustrating and describing the most curious or
charming birds, animals and reptiles, for
information, enjoyment and help in identifica-
tion. Profusely illustrated, including many
beautiful colour drawings. 18s. 6d. (post Is. 2d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
Published by ANGUS & ROBERTSON
list of dates or depict history as a sort
of glorious pageant of kings and battles
in which “our side” always triumphs over
the dark machinations of foreigners.
Everyone agrees, in theory anyway, that
the teaching of history should help im-
plant in the child’s impressionable
imagination some feeling for the com-
mon experiences of mankind that
transcend national prejudices. But how
far is it possible to translate these pious
beliefs into practice?
Until comparatively recent years there
was little evidence that writers of juven-
ile textbooks had any qualms about their
task. Their attitude to history was un-
complicated and pietistically patriotic. In
British countries they simply boiled down
Green, Hume, Macaulay, Hallam and
others, and the result often left an im-
pression very like that parodied in “1066
And All That”. Kings were “good” or
“bad” (“Henry VII was a miser and very
good at statecraft”; “James I slobbered at
the mouth and had favorites”), enemies
recoiled in confusion from the Thin Red
Line, incorruptible English pro-consuls
shouldered the White Man’s Burden in
distant lands, and meanwhile Democracy
marched on irresistibly from precedent
to precedent, from Witanagemots to Mr
Gladstone. Pre-history was dismissed
with an evocation of a sabre-toothed tiger
prowling round the later site of Trafalgar
Square or a woad-painted Ancient Briton
peering from a rock on Dartmoor.
Outside the schoolroom, children ab-
sorbed their history from fiction or from
such volumes as Hutchinson's “History
of the Nations” and Cassell's popular
encyclopaedias. The fictional works of
authors like Henty and Everett-Green
were generally well-written and informa-
tive and their romantic leaning towards
lost causes probably did no harm. It is a
great pity that this whole class of fiction
seems to have disappeared. Perhaps it
is natural that mid-20th century children
should identify themselves with space ex-
plorers rather than the heroes and hero-
ines of the cloak-and-dagger chronicles.
But good historical fiction can be a won-
derfully imagination-nourishing fare. To-
day it is necessary more than ever to help
preserve the balance between science and
the humanities in the developing young
mind.
Within the limited scope of their cur-
ricula it has always been inevitable that
schoolchildren should concentrate mainly
on the history of their own countries.
French children learn “French” history
and Anglo-Saxon children learn “Eng-
lish” or “American” history. Foreigners
tend to become mere national stereo-
types — immoral Frenchmen, hypocritical
Englishmen, treacherous Italians, wily
Orientals, etc. Religious and political up-
heavals have bedevilled the teaching of
history everywhere, and still do. Ameri-
can and Russian children are taught very
different stories about the events in post-
war Europe, just as English and Spanish
children have widely-differing pictures of
Queen Elizabeth I and King Philip 11.
Simplification without distortion: that is
the challenge that faces modern children’s
historians, and there are encouraging
signs that the importance of the prob-
lem is being increasingly realised.
Concern about standards of historical
instruction is not really new. As long ago
as the 17th century a Czech scholar, John
Comenius, wrote a whole series of text-
books as an idealistic first step towards a
world society that would live in peace and
harmony. An English author named
Pitt wrote an “English History with
the Wars Left Out”. It must have
seemed pretty dull stuff in the days of
Queen Victoria's Jubilee. In 1896 an
American, J. W. Leeds, published a
pamphlet “Against the Teaching of War
in History” that was later described as
“a landmark in the campaign for text-
book revision”.
World-wide interest was aroused by the
Casares Resolution adopted by the
League of Nations Committee for Intel-


TO AUSTRALIA
11,370 MILES
IN LONDON
British businessmen are eloquently
enthusiastic about White Horse. London to
Launceston, there’s no mistaking
White Horse, its mellowness gives it away.
WHITE
HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
SCOT
EST!
LIVE^
TKe Old Blend
3132905 ScolcKWhisky
of tKe
CELLAR
OngirvaJ l<_ccipe
A L EDINBURGH 7o‘LONDO??''of any
c P*ir lolhlr dWHITE
n EDINBURGH, ai which place ihrv rnav be
wei»rd in a STAGE COACH even Monday
ind Friday, which performs the whole |imrne\
n eight days (if God permits and sets f»nh
F*ru,r, tjjj
.WHITE | _ LTD..
WKUY SHTHLED MB HOUREO IN SCOIUfI
KETI ntfT 6 FIUID OUSCtS
TAKE THE LEAD WITH SCOT CH —DEM AND WHITE HORSE
lectual Co-operation in 1925. Nothing
much came of it, however, except agree-
ments between cultural organisations in
some European nations to urge the dele-
tion of “harmful matter” from children’s
history books. Much more important
were the UNESCO seminars held in
Brussels (1950) and Paris (1951) to
consider “the teaching of history as a
means to developing international under-
standing”. More than 70 historians
and teachers from 32 countries at-
tended the Paris meeting, which produced
wide agreement on the need for weaning
children from the worst of the old chau-
vinistic dogmas of national histories.
The book “Men and Nations”, by
Anatole Mazour and John Peoples, is a
good example of the new approach.
Originally published in America in 1959,
it is a most praiseworthy attempt to sup-
ply a simple and unbiased conspectus
of world history for children. Its 800
pages are lavishly and intelligently illu-
strated and it contains an atlas and useful
bibliographies. It is a book that could
confidently be placed in the hands of any
historically-minded teenager.
GEOFFREY SCOTT
Borrowings
The Borrowers Afield, Mary Norton.
Illustrations by Diana Stanley. Puf-
fin Books. 4/6 each.
Tf you perpetually buy needles or
safety pins without knowing how your
old stock disappears so surely and
mysteriously; or if you never have a
postage stamp when you want one, or
can’t put your hand on something you
are certain you put down carefully if
small amounts of food unaccountably
disappear from your kitchen maybe
(though whether they have been recorded
in Australia I have no idea) your house
conceals a family of borrowers. And if
you, or your children, have not yet read
Mary Norton’s books about them —if
you have not seen Diana Stanley’s en-
chanting illustrations, you have a quite
rare experience to look forward to. “The
Borrowers” won the British Carnegie
Medal for the best children’s story of
1952 and perceptive critics have since
unanimously predicted that these tales
of real imaginative genius are destined
to become classics. I have never met a
child or adult who, having once read of
the borrowers can forget them. They
rank with Toad and Rat, Alice and
Christopher Robin and their tale is told
in prose worthy of their marvellous
characters and adventures.
N.K.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Unhygienic Abattoirs Endanger
Meat Exports
Australian public has long dis-
A played a remarkable apathy where
food hygiene is concerned. Nowhere is
this more clearly displayed than in scores
of Australian abattoirs and killing houses.
It is an open secret in several States
that abattoirs handling meat for home
consumption are old-fashioned, inade-
quate and often downright unhygienic.
Export abattoirs, or the export sec-
tions of abattoirs, tend to maintain a
much higher standard because of the
rigorous and continuous scrutiny of De-
partment of Primary Industry export
meat inspectors. These men, conscious
that our multi-million pound boneless
beef trade with the United States de-
pends heavily on hygiene and processing
standards, go over each cut of meat with
an eagle eye.
But State meat inspection, carried out
under different, perhaps less stringent,
State regulations is another matter. The
mere fact that one set of regulations
covers export meat and another deals
with meat for home consumption itself
highlights the ridiculousness of the posi-
tion.
This was underlined in Victoria re-
cently when Melbourne’s Oakleigh muni-
cipal abattoirs had its export meat li-
cence withdrawn an almost unpre-
cedented step by the Department of
Primary Industry. Unable to handle meat
for export the abattoirs lost 70 p.c. of its
trade overnight and 200 men were put
out of work.
In withdrawing the licence, the depart-
ment drew Oakleigh Council’s attention
to an “incomplete” list of 39 points on
which the abattoirs were regarded as in-
adequate, sub-standard or unhygienic.
In spite of this drastic action by the
Commonwealth the abattoirs went on
killing stock for local consumption and
it was more than a week before officials
of the Victorian Health Commission
made a detailed inspection of the works.
By then the position had improved and
the State authorities took no action,
other than to ask one of their inspectors
to make a daily report.
The day after the State inspection
the Commonwealth’s top veterinary of-
ficers made another inspection and told
the council that the abattoirs’ site was
“inadequate” and the works themselves
congested, structurally deficient, and
seriously lacking in maintenance.”
They said the abattoirs could get its
export licence back temporarily if urgent
work was carried out, but that major
reconstruction would be necessary if the
licence was to be retained.
The department also ordered a one-
third cut in slaughtering at the abat-
toirs. The cut was to apply to both ex-
port and domestic killing.
Fortunately few abattoirs are bad, but
many are not of sufficiently high stan-
dard to ensure the safety of our Ameri-
can meat market, where sub-standard
meat can mean instant rejection.
An American meat official is believed
to have told the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment recently that Australia must pull
up its socks in this regard . . . must,
in the near future, bring all its export
abattoirs to top American standards.
Abattoirs operators and meat exporters
are expected to get this bad news
shortly. It could cost them millions.
But, if there is to be a general shake-
up on the export side, why not also im-
prove conditions for domestic killing?
Why should the Americans get all the
benefits? Why not do as the Australian
Meat Board is suggesting and apply the
export standards to home consumption
meat too?
Risks in Home-Preserving
HThe death of a Melbourne woman who
merely tasted (and then spat out) the
contents of a jar of home-preserved
cantaloupe has brought to light some not
hitherto appreciated information about
home bottling of vegetables.
The woman died of one of the most
potent of all poisons the powerful
toxin produced by the botulism organism,
Clostridium botulinum.
The case was unusual in that the jar
of cantaloupe, when it reached medical
experts, showed no sign of any change in
smell or color.
There was virtually nothing, therefore,
to warn an unsuspecting housewife that
the innocent-seeming jar contained a
poison potent enough to kill hundreds of
people.
Although there have been only a hand-
ful of cases of botulism in Australia in
the past 20 years, the latest death has
prompted a warning by the Victorian
Department of Agriculture about the un-
wise bottling of vegetables at home.
The Department’s fruit preservation
expert, Miss Gwen McCrorey, said in-
vestigations had shown that the normal
methods of home bottling vegetables
were not perfectly safe.
She said it was always possible the
vegetables could be infected with the
botulism organism, which is widely dis-
tributed in soils.
Miss McCrorey said in order to kill
the organism by home bottling methods
the packed jar had to be heated and held
at a temperature of at least 240° F.
for at least 30 minutes. In the home this
could be done only by using a pressure
cooker canner in which a pressure of 10
to 151 b. could be obtained and main-
tained for long periods.
A pressure cooker should not be used
unless fitted with a gauge or a special
vent weight to ensure this pressure.
Commercially canned vegetables are
all quite safe to use as they are canned
under the correct pressure.
Miss McCrorey said any preserved
food showing a marked change in ap-
pearance or smell should be discarded.
It should not even be tasted as the merest
smear of botulism toxin on the tongue
could kill.
The greatest danger lies in preserving
non-acid or weak acid vegetables. Home
preserved meats and fish can also be a
danger.
Housewives should not home-preserve
by normal methods peas, beans, beetroot,
carrots, peppers, vegetable soup mix, as-
paragus, mushrooms, olives (unless pre-
served by a salting or pickling method),
rockmelon, cantaloupe, or pawpaw.
Beetroot, processed in a solution of
vinegar, tomatoes and rhubarb are quite
safe to bottle.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Which Patients Are Better?
The 1962-63 financial year is behind us and investors now
anxiously await the annual reports and balance sheets
which usually roll around in full force in September/
October. It is a year when company profitability assumes greater
importance than usual, because it must be related to a slow but
progressive economic recovery
from the recession of 1961.
Companies which failed to
take a realistic view of stock
values in those leaner years
may find they cannot afford to
delay any longer. So values in
1962-63 must be given a care-
ful scrutiny. Reports of profit
recoveries also must be
watched ciosely, particularly if
capital has altered. A rise in
profits has little meaning if it
is not related to an increase in
capital over the year.
The initial joyous rapture of
an investor when he reads that
his pet company has made a
record profit may turn to bit-
terness when he discovers that,
because of a takeover or a
share issue, earning rate on
average capital has dropped.
Even after satisfying himself
that earning rate is satis-
factory, he must look through the balance sheet to assess it
tax or depreciation provisions appear excessive or inadequate.
A low depreciation provision and a small tax provision in
the consolidated accounts may be quite justified in that year,
particularly if a subsidiary in the group has accumulated losses.
But all these special factors must be assessed and related to
earning prospects in a normal year.
HPakeovf.rs deserve special attention from investors. The take-
over that looked so good at the time of the offer sometimes
turns out to be a burden.
The sensible investor therefore does not rush in and buy
a share immediately on the announcement of a record profit
He must check first to discover if that fat-looking profit is
able to maintain the company’s earning rate on average
capital.
With increased competition and pared margins in evidence,
the investor must analyse performance records as well as
listen to optimistic forecasts. Otherwise he may pay prices
which prove to be too high. It is foolish to assume that a
company can haul itself out of a muddy trough as quickly
as it fell in (or was pushed).
It is as well to remember that companies do not get sick
leave on full pay if they have suffered a bad year. And there
is no respite from sales tax, payroll tax and income tax. So
investors should give plenty of long, hard looks at company
reports due to appear later this year, with pencils at the
ready in case some special figuring is necessary.
Companies which have achieved a good record in the
past three years doubtless will
rate more than a second look
from investors. Others may be
relegated to the delayed con-
valescence ward.
STRONG RISE IN
BEEF EXPORTS
T atest official figures of
meat production in Aus-
tralia for 10 months to April,
1963, indicate that total pro-
duction for the full year could
top 1,600,000 tons, carcase
weight. Increased sales of beef
to the US have been a major
factor.
Meat production should eas-
ily surpass the 1958-59 level
of 1,500,595 tons, even allow-
ing for some falling off in aver-
age production for May and
June. Pigmeat production has
shown a steady rise in the past three years but, at this
stage, it does not look as if the 1961-62 production level will
be reached.
Mutton and lamb production, on current figures, should be
about the same as for 1961-62. Until results of the census of
all slaughtering establishments are known after the usual
annual check, all figures are subject to amendment.
Total meat production for the 10 months to April, at
1,329,118 tons, is well in excess of the 1,218,614 tons for
the corresponding 10 months of 1961-62.
Beef export figures show up strongly and the 215,240 tons
of exported beef for the 10 months already exceed the annual
figures for each of the three preceding years. With two months
still to go, 1962-63 beef exports should be well above the
22,945 tons shipped abroad in 1958-59. Export figures for
the three financial years to 1961-62 were 183,850 tons,
132,003 tons and 198,567 tons.
Mutton exports also have shown a recovery in recent
years, rising from 32,037 tons in 1959-60 to 37,087 tons
in 1960-61, to 48,711 tons in 1961-62 and to 51,641 tons
in the 10 months to April, 1963. Lamb exports also have
shown some recovery following a slump to 16,696 tons in
1961-62. But latest figures of 24,108 tons do not look like


matching the 26,460 tons and 28,778 tons achieved for the
full 12 months in 1959-60 and 1960-61, and certainly nowhere
near the 40,711 tons of lamb exported in 1958-59.
The loss of overseas meat markets would be fairly drastic
had they not been offset by the upsurge in US demand for
beef, which the Americans tell us will not last forever.
A FARE FIGHT
FOR TOURISTS
HPhe fight for a greater share of the growing tourist trade in
A Europe involves headaches for governments as well as
tourist agencies and transport organisations. The US balance
of payments problem is aggravated by the average American’s
eagerness to go abroad and spend some dollars. Official figures
indicate that US travellers in 1962 spent 2.4 billion dollars in
overseas countries, while travellers to the US spent only
1 billion dollars.
The Americans spent quite a lot of advertising and
promotion money to encourage that influx of tourists. Perhaps
the US businessman eventually may receive good value on
the cost of his tour, because he may get it back by opening
up new markets. But the immediate score is nearly 21 to one
in favor of the “rest.”
Rail fares (up 10 p.c.) and air fares (up 5 p.c. since April)
have had no obvious effect on European travel bookings,
which are above last year’s level, particularly from American
tourists.
Competition for the lucrative travel business, however, is
bound to cause some price cuts in fares. The current jostling
for business could hardly be described as a Keeler fun party.
Britain threatened to impound all Pan American aircraft
that landed in the UK if Pan American did not agree to the
IATA recommendation that round-trip fares be increased by
5 p.c. Pan American countered this by introducing a new
class of one-way “thrift” service on the Atlantic route. It also
announced that it would introduce the same type of service
between the West Coast and Hawaii. The new one-way thrift
service will reduce fares by 39 p.c. on the Atlantic route from
£ll7 to £7l for a single one-way ticket.
The cut in price from the West Coast to Hawaii is not so
great . . . from about <£so 9s. to £44 13s. .. . but it opens
up some sort of speculation on price cuts in the Australian
Pacific area.
Australia, too, wants to encourage tourists. Although the
jet service now reduces Australia’s geographical isolation to
within 141 hours of the USA, there is still an economic price
barrier which tends to curb travel. If you go to Europe, there
are many countries to see within a short distance of each other.
If you come to New Zealand and Australia, the only other
foreign country you can visit is King’s Cross.
At the moment, round-trip economy fares from Sydney to
the West Coast of USA are about £450 per round trip. The
new thrift fare, if introduced on the Pacific run, presumably
could cut this price by 39 p.c., or £175 10s.
Pan American cannot do this unless Qantas agrees to it.
Also the matter must be referred to IATA. Qantas and other
similarly affected members would have to vote on this, and
then the matter would still need to be approved by the
Government.
On balance, it would appear that Australia would have a
better chance of attracting an increased flow of tourists if air
fares were cut. After all, if it is cheaper to fly the other
way . . . across the Atlantic ... it is easy to understand
European forecasts of a 7 to 15 p.c. rise in American bookings
this year.
A COOK’S TOUR OF
THE GARDEN
JThiosE unable to afford a small car and are a bit timid about
A go-carts may find the new Red Rider motor mower will
fill the need for week-end pleasure. The 4 h.p. 25” wide motor
mower is one of several models to be displayed at the US
exhibition at the Sydney Trade Fair which opens on July 26.
Naturally, there are hundreds of exhibits on display and the
US exhibition features 40 exhibitors alone. But it captures
the imagination to think of mowing the lawn while sitting
astride a mower which carries you round the backyard. The
engine cuts out when the operator leaves the saddle, so there
is no risk of a runaway. Further comfort comes from the
ability of the machine to pick up leaves and grass clippings.
It all sounds too good, so The Bulletin inquired about
the likely price of a machine which sells for 370 dollars in
the USA. We were told the lower-priced model, with a 25”
cutting width, would sell at about £2OO in Australia and would
be handled by Turner Manufacturing Co. Pty Ltd and also
Dangar, Gedye & Malloch. If the machine becomes popular,
local manufacture will be considered.
FAREWELL TO
“SIT BY NELLY”
Tndustrial training promises to be given a much needed shot
in the arm by a new film now being shown around the
country to selected audiences of company executives and train-
ing managers by Personnel Administration.
The film projects a method of industrial training which
shows we have come a long way from the old “Sit by Nelly”
method by which a trainee would sit in with an experienced
worker to learn his job.
Briefly, the film shows how the best practices of all
operatives are adopted and moulded into a new method. The
aptitudes of trainees are tested to ensure that only people who
are likely to be successful commence training. If the aptitude
exists, the method will sharpen the attributes of dexterity,
co-ordination and perception, and apply them to the often
delicate tasks in the industry concerned.
Further, basic exercises are undertaken to develop the
particular skill and dexterity likely to be needed for a
particular job. As with an athlete, graduate operators are
shown how to develop stamina so that they are able to
comfortably sustain output throughout the working day.
In practice, the method has resulted in the average output
at the end of a training period rising by nearly one-fifth over
that of trained operators, and labor turnover being cut by
one-fifth of former average figures.
SHIP’S MAIDEN VOYAGE
FOR TRADE MISSION
Promotion of Australian trade by means of missions to
various foreign countries has become an important part
of the Trade Department’s functions. Such missions have
been most successful in the vigorous drive for new markets,
even if there are still many things to be learned.
The Australian Chambers of Commerce Export Council is
now arranging to despatch another trade mission ship to Asian
countries next April and May with the department’s blessing.
The Blue Funnel Line’s new ship Centaur, now being built in
Britain, will be used to carry the mission of 70 members on
its maiden voyage to Asia. Displays representing 400 to 600
industrial, commercial and commodity enterprises will be
accommodated in special display areas.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Carrots For Private Investment?
Treasurer Holt’s homework must have
A convinced him that problem No. 1
between now and the Budget is whether
to produce some new carrots to dangle
before private investment. He probably
wishes he could enliven this particularly
important income generator whose sticki-
ness has been glueing up the works over
the last two or three years despite his
best efforts to coax it along.
Mind you, Mr Holt has only him-
self (or probably more correctly his
Treasury advisers) to blame for some
of the tares in this part of the Govern-
ment's economic garden where every-
thing else, at least according to the
Treasury’s economic survey, looks lovely.
This refers, of course, mainly to the
ill-advised and entirely obnoxious tax
on interest imposed in the boom-busting
measures of November, 1960. Although
aimed at the hire-purchase companies,
this measure to disallow interest pay-
ments as a deduction from income did
enough damage to the sensitive plant of
new investment to crib its full blooming
again for years. Although the Treasurer
reached quickly for the weed-killer after
Mr John Marks, of DFC, Mr Ray
Purves and several other important finan-
ciers and industrialists, not to speak of
the Press, had exposed the long-term
effects of the error, the damage had
been done.
Bad though it was in principle, its
effect was all the more devastating be-
cause it came when Australia’s longest
and biggest private investment boom,
mounted in the mid-19505, was proved
to be already on the turn and leaving
behind a welter of surplus industrial
capacity which, in any case, would take
several years for the economy to digest.
HThis hastily contrived piece of tinker-
ing with long-established financial
expectations may seem old history to
some, but although the experiment is
not likely to be repeated at any rate
by the present Government the sus-
picion still smoulders that it, or some
variant, might one day be re-introduced
in circumstances which demand some
curb on private investment. It is not
without relevance that the Associated
Stock Exchanges, in their exploratory
efforts to find stronger safeguards for
fixed interest investors, have found want-
ing the suggestion of limiting finance
company borrowing.
Anything that savors of capital issues
control, either through fiscal devices or
straight-out limitation on borrowing,
should be put out of mind in the attempt
to get the necessary lift in private in-
vestment.
Looking back on the Treasury’s ap-
proach to the problem of inducing the
necessary increase in fixed private in-
vestment, it appears that it has under-
rated the difficulty of dealing with ex-
cess industrial capacity and this has led
it into policy errors over the last two
years. The Department of Trade has
been trying desperately to encourage ex-
ports as a means of absorbing some of
that excess industrial capacity but, like
a bloated stomach, it won’t go away.
Whereas in 1961-62 the Common-
wealth Government might have made
bolder efforts to stimulate effective de-
mand to bring more industrial capacity
into use and clear the ground for increas-
ing expectations of the profitability of new
fixed investment, the Budget and Loan
Council public works programmes for
that year failed to give much stimulus
at all. Instead, the Budget offered a
20 p.c. investment allowance on new
fixed investment. This was putting the
cart before the horse.
11/hile industry was burdened with such
a weight of surplus capacity it was
unlikely to avail itself of the new invest-
ment allowances and, indeed, did not
do so to any great extent. In fact, while
the Treasury is now said to be disillusion-
ed about the lifting of investment allow-
ances on fixed private investment, it
really didn’t set the right stage to make
them effective. It should not give them
up, but rather recognise that they were
granted too early in the piece, long be-
fore industry was ready (because of its
surplus capacity) to undertake the neces-
sary new investment.
Moreover, it seems that politics rather
than Treasury know-how forced the
Government at long last (in February,
1962) to whip the horse of effective
demand into fuller stride. This certainly
had the effect of bringing more indus-
trial capacity into use and there were
high hopes that, if continued long
enough, fixed private investments would
also take up the running.
This had certainly not happened (ex-
cept to an encouraging degree in the
motor vehicle industry) by the end of
1961-62, but there was evidence of an
all-round improvement in fixed private in-
vestment in the Budget quarter 1962-63.
It could be argued that, despite the failure
to reduce interest rates, the upward
movement would be encouraged by the
fact that the Treasurer was budgeting for
a deficit of million. This seemed
to indicate a continuance of the neces-
sary rate of stimulation to effective de-
mand (but was belied by events).
However, no one can be too sure that
industry was arguing the same way, be-
cause, in the half-year up to December,
1962, fixed private investment con-
tinued to increase strongly. But the good
figures reported for that period would,
of course, reflect decisions taken con-
siderably earlier. Moreover, the improve-
ment began to lose its momentum to-
wards the end of those six months.
In the following quarter it tailed away
and, despite the assistance of lower in-
terest rates, evidence from industry sug-
gests fixed private investment is still
moving fairly slowly.
T'he question now is whether, despite
the rather false optimism on the score
of private investment in its annual econ-
omic survey, the Treasury still feels
frustrated at the poor response to its in-
vestment allowances and is, in fact,
cooking up, say, a cut in company tax,
to make weight in its measures. This,
of course, is strongly rumored, without
being in any way certain.
It could be argued that, given the
strong upward movement in effective de-
mand that can be read into wage in-
creases, increasing income generation
from production and exports as well as
boosts from the swelling inflow of mig-
rants and anything it has in mind in
the way of personal tax reliefs, the stage
is being well prepared to wipe out the
slack in industrial capacity.
This, it might be argued, at long last
will make the 20 p.c. investment allow-
ance effective in inducing the desired
rate of fixed private investment and,
what is probably equally important in
the present state of surplus capacity in
industry, it will induce a very much high-
er rate of obsolescence. (A cut in com-
pany tax could have the effect of retard-
ing obsolescence by giving old plant a
new lease of life.)
Further, the Treasury could be think-
ing that in lieu of a bigger contribution
to fixed investment by the private sector,
the Loan Council has given the States
more than they asked for in non-repay-
able grants and nearly as much as they
wanted in loans for public works, and
that, coupled with the higher envisaged
boost in incomes from the above-men-
tioned sources, the investment allow-
ances and lower commercial interest
rates taken together will act as a suffi-
cient incentive to fixed private invest-
ment without any assistance to profits
coming from reductions in company tax.
It is as well to bear this line of reas-
oning in mind before jumping to any
hasty conclusions on the likelihood of
company tax cuts.


Travel with
confidence!
. A
4
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CBA/37/24R
“CROESUS”
Enter, Credit Insurance
Asa result of the considerable thicken-
ing of financial services in this
country in recent years, most types of
facilities available in overseas countries
with much longer commercial histories
than ours are now covered here, but not
yet, strange to say, credit insurance,
which is a thriving business overseas.
It is understood, however, that this
gap is soon to be bridged by a British
concern, which has been underwriting
credit risks in Britain since the end
of the first world war and by
last year was covering more than £l,OOO
million sterling of insured business in this
field in Britain alone, not counting sub-
stantial overseas underwriting.
A spokesman for the new venture, Mr
W. G. J. Smeed, told The Bulletin
that the insurance of credit risks was
now fairly general in Britain and he
thinks the idea will catch on just as
strongly here.
“After all,” he said, “the prudent busi-
nessman insures his plant, his stock and
his workers when it is economically pos-
sible, so why not his credit risks?”
He pointed out that this particular risk
was more important now than for many
years. Firms are lending more to custom-
ers and borrowing more from banks and
suppliers to ensure a smooth flow of busi-
ness. The extension of credit is, in fact,
the very basis of modern trade.
More and more firms in Britain are
finding it prudent to insure against the
inability of their clients to pay their
debts. Premiums, which usually range
from 2s. to 10s. per cent, provide for
the protection of the insured's profit and
loss account, safeguarding working capi-
tal from being tied up in bad or long
overdue debts.
The service offered by credit under-
writers also includes the provision of
confidential information on the credit
standing of firms.
Mr Smeed said that few traders would
hesitate to raise commissions paid to an
agent of undoubted financial solidity
from, say, five to six per cent if the agent
agreed to guarantee up to 75 per cent
of any losses accruing through business
placed by him.
Though, in effect, this is the proposi-
tion offered by credit underwriters, in-
surers often meet resistance when first
putting it to possible clients.
Resistance often derives from the
client’s conviction that he knows more
about his own clients than any third
party. But Mr Smeed said that even a
strong firm can become a victim of the
trade cycle. He instanced several glar-
ing recent cases in Australia. The credit
underwriter stands up to the consequen-
ces of the business cycle in the true
insurance function of averaging out the
good and bad years.
Moreover, he pointed out, the credit
standing of a firm with insured credit
risks will normally rank higher with its
bank than those not covered. This dif-
ference in credit rating can help to pay
the premium on the credit policy. The
rights to a credit insurance policy can
even be assigned to the insured’s bank as
collateral.
The introduction of credit insurance
facilities in Australia should fulfil a real
need in the business world here.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION UNITED
(Registered 19 th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6 :
YEARS j
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS
f HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z,
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8388 N
INVESTMENT SECTION
The Changing Trend of Retailing
Two valuable contributions towards
understanding the mechanics of
NSW retailing were made last week,
one general, one particularly specific.
The Commonwealth Statistician pub-
lished an analysis of retail business
throughout the County of Cumberland.
As if to furnish a precise example, Mark
Foy’s annual meeting disclosed what
could happen in one big Sydney city
store.
No real surprise came from the main
drift of the Statistician's revelations. The
accession of a great volume of trading
to outer suburbs had long been recog-
nised. Much of the trend received, and
continues to receive, sponsorship and
encouragement from major city retailers
themselves.
However, the extent of the change,
especially the variable patterns of inner
city dealings, must occasion deep interest
from all concerned, not least investors.
The statistics cover shops, rooms,
kiosks, yards, hotels and motor vehicle
trading (vehicles, petrol and spare parts).
They compare the 1961-62 year with
1956-57.
Over that five-year period sales in the
whole County of Cumberland reached
£BO7 million for 1961-62 against £605
million in 1956-57 a lift of £202
million, or about one-third.
Almost all the increase was recorded in
the suburbs while the value of city trad-
ing displayed a minute change. Whereas
the city accounted for 40 p.c. of metro-
politan-area business in 1956-57, by
1961-62 the proportion had been cut to
30 p.c. Suburban sales took a 55 p.c. lift.
It should be remembered that the gross
figures take in the motor-vehicle element.
Discarding this, city sales went from
£192 million to £l9B million in the five
years and suburban from £297 million
to £428 million.
For the present purpose, with Mark
Foy’s ultimately in view, the principal
concentration is upon the city. In pas-
sing, it can only be remarked that most
of the outer suburban municipalities and
shires partook of the gains.
Changes among the three sectors into
which the city is divided are highly signi-
ficant.
Downtown, the generally accepted
heart between Circular Quay and
Bathurst Street, 1441 retail shops „ sold
£lOB million in 1961-62, compared with
£lO4 million in 1956-57. The number of
separate establishments had declined by
113.
The southern city area (the southern
side of Bathurst Street, both sides of
Oxford Street, Taylor Square, Railway
Square and Broadway to Glebe Road)
saw sales drop by £2 million to £43 mil-
lion and the number of shops by 31 to
702.
In the rest of the city, goods sold
totalled £47 million, a rise of £4 million.
Shops were 149 fewer at 2579.
The case history section may now be
started by mentioning that two of the
problem children of Sydney retailing,
Mark Foy’s and Anthony Hordern (the
Brickfield Hill store), operate in the
sensitive southern sector, which has
clearly lost in popularity both to the
suburbs and to downtown Sydney.
Mark Foy’s chairman (Mr A. V.
Hancock) did not relish pinpointing some
of the causes for the benefit of his con-
tentious annual meeting. In passing, the
contention does not concern this article
except to hope that the now-confirmed
Hancock board be allowed to settle to its
strenuous recovery job. It needs all the
calm and balance it can get.
Remembering the Statistician, let Mr
Hancock list some of his site problems:
“The range and quality of our merchan-
dise, both local and overseas, is in the
main now second to none, but the un-
fortunate fact remains, due to the re-


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
RE6ISTEREB
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
4
A
M
TO
YEARS
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B}% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
corporation, limited
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEVYCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CCI66/AB
CUP AND POST COUPON
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDRESS.
routing and mode of transport, trans-
port costs and suburban development,
the trend continues for the general buy-
ing public to bypass this particular area.”
The burden is not lightened in any
way: “In the period of the past 10 or 11
years expenses such as wages, rates, land
and payroll taxes, etc., have increased
by over 48 p.c. In the same period popu-
lation increased by some 10 p.c. whilst
sales in the Liverpool Street area have
remained virtually static.”
Mr Hancock argues that a minimum
33 p.c. turnover lift would be needed to
justify carrying on the traditional trading
of the two Foy’s stores in this area. “To
do so at the present time, or in the fore-
seeable future, is in your board's opinion
an utter impossibility.”
That, among other reasons, forced this
company also to open “satellite sub-
urban stores at well-chosen sites.” Pymble
and Northbridge, both trading profitably,
begin a sortie which will also extend
quickly to Double Bay, Rockdale and
Eastwood.
The catalogue of city complaints does
not cease though, for it is a case of city
area against city area as well. Rates and
land tax are to go up during the cur-
rent year “the results of increased
valuations of our properties and principal-
ly because of the new method of valua-
tion.”
“Within the city itself, millions of
pounds are being spent on buildings at
the northern end, where a great deal
more construction is planned. All this
building may justify some increase in the
values of the northern portion of the
city, but similar treatment should not
be applied to older properties at this
end of the city.
“Today in this retail area we carry
this burden of extra costs with reducing
chances of recoupment. Our transport
services also have deteriorated during the
last 20 years, and they are more expensive
than ever,” Mr Hancock dismally reflects.
Thus one instance exemplifies the
Statisticians’ longer and general tale
city versus suburbs and, city versus city
No reversal of the tendency is in sight
Crying Out Loud
¥I/ho said: “The country’s economy
has not recovered at the rate nor
to the extent anticipated and in conse-
quence the year was once again a
difficult one”?
And who was able to add: “It is there-
fore most gratifying to be able to dis-
close a record net profit for the fourth
successive year”?
Well, it’s the chairman of United
Dominions Corporation (Australia) Ltd
(Mr E. A. Lloyd) and his company’s
profit for the year to March 31 advanced
from £212,915 to £227,710, to represent
an earning rate of 22.77 p.c. on the
£1 million paid capital.
Since the company is not listed here,
a £225,000 dividend keeps happy the
London parent, United Dominions
Trust, UK’s largest instalment financier.
Barclay’s Bank also may be mildly
pleased, for it owns 25 p.c. of UDT’s
£1 million paid capital.
The profit was achieved on slightly
lower net outstandings, down £5546 to
£7,632,623. But the recently opened
Melbourne branch is already profitable.
Melbourne and Adelaide housing pro-
jects are in train and should contribute
some profit during 1963-64.
“Indications are that the finance
industry will be even more competitive
in the future than it has been in the
past,” Mr Lloyd confesses.
Getting Into Gear
unusual merger between Sonner-
dale Ltd and Richardson David
Brown Gears Pty Ltd has now been
completed, raising Sonnerdale’s capital
from £647,470 to just short of
£1 million.
It was unusual because, from the time
the merger was announced eight months
ago, Sonnerdale 10s. shares have been
below par.
Richardson David Brown Gears is the
oldest maker of gearing and power
transmission in Australia, and is an
associate of the UK David Brown group.
Sonnerdale has been engaged in auto-
motive and general engineering for 51
years, and it was only in the last two
years that it encountered any trouble in
making a profit.
The economic measures of November,
1960, coincided with a removal of the
heavy engineering section to Milperra.
The known revival in the automotive
industry is a factor in Sonnerdale’s
favor now.
The company itself reported very
recently that a “marked improvement”
in all spheres of activity had taken place
during the financial year to date. (The
year ended a few days later on June 30.)
Orders were at “highly satisfactory
levels,” and productive efficiency showed
“considerable and continued improve-
ment,” although the acute shortage of
skilled labor still continued.
At 7s. 3d. the shares could be a satis-
factory punt.
Cement Twins Slrortger
\Tow that the new issues by Australian
x Cement Ltd and Kandos Cement
Co. Ltd are fully paid, the prices of both
old and new shares in each company are
on the up-grade at last
These cement twins theoretically


WILL YOU
GET
THE JOB?
... or will you be passed over?
Today it isn’t enough to
know the mechanics of a
trade or profession. You
succeed, not because of
greater knowledge, but,
through superior ability
to motivate people.
You’re successful when
you can spark enthusi-
asm in others, think and
talk on your feet, “sell”
yourself and your ideas.
Dale Carnegie Training
can give you these quali-
ties of leadership. More
than 1,000,000 success-
minded people (including
10,000 Australians) have
attained new status in life
thanks to Dale Carnegie
so can you!
DALE CARNEGIE
THIS COUPON COULD
BE YOUR PASSPORT TO
BUSINESS AND SOCIAL
SUCCESS SEND IT
TODAY!
To DALE CARNEGIE COURSES
90 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne. 60 1671
90 Barrack Hse., 16 Barrack St., Sydney. 29 7671
and all other capital cities.
Please send me, FREE and without obliga-
tion, details of the Dale Carnegie Course.
Address
Name
ID
Tele a>
Sponsor In A/asia: Hemingway llobert.son p/1. J
should be ranked equally on the Ex-
change, but from time to time a worth-
while difference emerges in the prices of
the two shares.
From a recent low of 13s. 6d. Kandos
Old shares have advanced a shilling or
so on Sydney Exchange, while Australian
Cement in Melbourne is now similarly
quoted.
Last news from the jointly - owned
operating company, Australian Portland
Cement Ltd, was that the dividend of
9£ p.c. was being maintained on higher
capital, in the year to May 31.
Market assessment of Australian
Cement and Kandos as investments has
been considerably dampened by the
realisation that competition will begin
in earnest in Victoria when the Victorian
Portland Cement's plant opens near
Geelong.
Split Among Motels
rivalry between hotels and motels
A may be submerged if the Accom-
modation Industry Association comes into
being. It plans to act for and advise
the accommodation industry as a whole.
Mr C. A. Greenway, managing direc-
tor of Motels of Australia Ltd, forecast
its formation when he announced his
company’s withdrawal from the Motel
Federation of Australia. He considered
that the emergence of referal booking
groups had placed the Motel Federation
in an impossible position.
Mr Greenway believes that concentra-
tion on company legislation, depreciation
and taxation benefits related to the ac-
commodation industry was long overdue.
Motels of Australia, he said, intended
to offer a franchise to motels of accep-
table standards in areas where that
company was not represented. Holders
would receive management experience,
referred trade and advertising benefits.
PK Masonry’s Failure
Vet another company has asked for a
A receiver PK Masonry Ltd,
which failed to raise £20,000 in a par
issue of participating preference shares.
It has asked its bankers to appoint a
receiver.
The company was formed in 1960 to
make concrete masonry and precast con-
crete products.
Paid capital, all in ordinary shares, is
£145,131. The profit and loss appropria-
tion account showed a debit balance at
June 30, 1962, of £55,549.
Directors hoped that the preference
issue would provide sufficient liquidity
to allow profitable trading.
Subscriptions to the preference issue
will be refunded.
No Scraps from Sims
Possibilities still look decidedly glum
for scrap metal merchant Albert
G. Sims Ltd, which has been forced to
allow a full year's preference dividend to
go into arrears. Omission of a final on
"Listen! If you want that account, don't talk, shop
during the floor show!"


INVEST
£l f OOO f OOO
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
m
k
o
20
10
years
7h%
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
6 \°/o
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6%
12 months
5%
6 months
4 %
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
CAS 23 186
the 6 p.c. prefs was announced last
week, bringing the lag to £12,000.
Bids for these 20s. shares have hovered
between 14s. lid. and 16s. lately, with
no sales. The ss. ordinaries linger around
2s. 6d., their low for the year. They have
only been as high as 3s. lOd.
Though directors early in May stated
that the June half-year should be profit-
able, there is no hope of wiping out the
December half-year’s losses of £212,138.
The 1961-62 year also saw a
£295,440.
Shareholders may well be fearing the
news of a capital write-off and at the
least will be awaiting details of sale of
7k acres of the 21-acre Mort’s Dock
property to the Australian National Line.
Flour Float’s Augury
’yiCTORiAN flour miller Robert Hutchin-
* son Ltd got a flyer on the rest of
the Australian company world by pro-
ducing figures, albeit unaudited, for the
year ending June 30, a mere two days
on into the new year. It was probably in
a hurry to show its good hand because
profits shot up by 32 p.c. to a new record
of £66,250.
Turnover also moved up smartly, 31
p.c. of the “considerable” increase com-
ing from the new subsidiary in Bendigo
trading as Tomlins Simmie. (The com-
pany’s main operation is based at Glen-
roy, a Melbourne suburb.)
All this is a good augury for the suc-
cess of the forthcoming float of the
holding company, Robert Hutchinson
(Holdings) Ltd, registered a couple of
months ago. It is to acquire all the
£25,000 issued ordinary capital of
Hutchinson Ltd, which, of course, has
never been listed. (Only the £IOO,OOO of
preferred ordinaries and the £75,000
cum prefs are quoted on the Melbourne
SE.) The prospectus for a public issue
of the holding company’s ordinary capi-
tal expected later this month is likely to
indicate a 10 p.c. prospective dividend
rate and net assets backing a little over
7s. 6d. for the ss. shares.
Union Comment
Commenting at the Sixth World
Petroleum Congress held at Frank-
furt (W. Germany) on the group’s
search in Australia, geologists W.
Moran and W. Gusson, of the Union Oil
Co. of Los Angeles, said: “Concession
areas are large and petroleum laws have
been designed to encourage interest in
what was considered to be a high risk
area.” (Union is the first and only dis-
coverer of commercial oil to date in Aus-
tralia.) They also stated it was too early
yet to determine the significance of Aus-
tralia’s first commercial oil field.
Bare Bones from CSR
C SR fans must still wait until July 17’s
annual meeting to gather complete
details of the bumper 1962-63 year.
Sugar they can take for granted, even
to remaining calm while world prices
adjust to lower levels. But the annual
report just out touches only briefly on
the company’s other prominent activities,
building materials and chemicals.
On the surface results here largely
reflect the purely local experience of the
past year or two. The picture calls for
filling in.
It is something, however, to learn that
building materials sales showed an
overall 10 p.c. increase, “fairly evenly
distributed over most products,” with
financial results substantially better than
1961-62.
On the other hand industrial chemicals
remained at much the same level as in
the previous year. “Profits improved
but remain unsatisfactory under con-
tinued pressure from imports,” directors
mention.
So the bulk of the 44 p.c. profit
advance clearly came from sugar.
CSR’s Australian mills lifted production
by 16 p.c. and those in Fiji by no less
than 73 p.c. Refined sugar sales in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand “increased
moderately.”
The consolidated accounts naturally
bear later close examination. As a fore-
taste, total group assets have gone up
from £115.8 million to £129.1 million.
Listed investments possess a book value
of £2,903,899 and a market value at
March 31 of £4,166,583 (previous year
£2,279,659 and £3,202,5574 respect-
fully) .
Sundry brokers are flooding investors
with evaluations of sugar company pros-
pects. At the moment the markets are
confidently and justly keeping CSR’s
20s. shares close to 655., where they
yield 3.1 p.c. The top price this year
reached 675. 6d.
Prestige Job
lAevelopment Finance Corporation
behaved perfectly in character
when announcing its associates for the
new investment banking house, South
East Asia Development Corporation.
No names, no bankers’ reticence pierced!
Still, it is nice to know that 24 banks,
13 insurance companies, 15 finance
houses and a number of industrial com-
panies are joined together in capitalising
the enterprise. They hail from the UK,
Europe, North America, Australia, New
Zealand and South-east Asia.
Among these “industrial companies”
are rumored to be one or two of Aus-
tralia’s largest, already active in the
area.
Perhaps other local companies will


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
£250,000 issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
%
]_ P.A.
2
5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
0 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3611
quickly prepare themselves to “participate
in projects leading to the assembly in
South-east Asia of many products now
imported.” They can draw on such
services as market studies, the intro-
duction of exporters to agents, develop-
ment of local manufacturing and
assembly plants, and the provision of
capital for major industrial and develop-
ment projects.”
Initial attention goes to the States
making up the expected Federation of
Malaysia.
As mentioned in The Bulletin of
June 1, DFC had not a single refusal
from the partners it sought. DFC’s own
20s. shares have remained remarkably
solid at 88s. lately, to yield 2.2 p.c.
Perth’s Pride
TJerth’s principal department store,
Boans Ltd, has no need to feel
abashed before its rivals, David Jones
and Cox Bros’ Foy and Gibson. Its
45th annual report exudes confidence
in the company and in the State.
“The State Government’s policy of
promoting Western Australia, both in
Australia and abroad, is gathering
momentum,” the chairman (Mr F. T.
Boan) believes. He obviously expects to
share in the acceleration.
Modernisation of the city store
proceeds favorably, a Cottesloe store
within a shopping centre opens early
next year, and the Medina store has
doubled its size.
Profit for the year to February 28
rose from £149,336 to £167,342, and
dividend was taken to 12 p.c. after four
years at 10 p.c.
The 10s. shares are selling around
405., to yield 2.5 p.c.
Concrete Caution
"VTot all the UK enlargements of Pioneer
’ Concrete Services furnish much blan-
dishment for investors, who look content
to keep the ss. shares close to 13s. 6d.
where they yield 4.6 p.c. on a 121 p.c.
dividend.
The shares must still move some dis-
tance to reach this year's peak at 15s. 6d.
Obviously results for the year to June
30, available by mid-October, are to
decide the issue. Though profit finished
up steady in 1961-62, the markets look-
ed charily at a drop in earning rate, on
60 p.c. higher capital from 30.7 to
18.6 p.c.
Earnings went ahead in the December
half-year and production also was at
better levels. The 1962-63 year is expect-
ed to see some dividends from the Eng-
lish ventures with Rio Tinto-Zinc Cor-
poration as well.
With concrete the adage lingers: “You
can’t be too careful”.
Third Sydney TV Co.
third Sydney television licence
holder, United Telecasters Sydney
Ltd, will make available 45 p.c. of its
proposed issued capital to the public with
an issue of 2.7 million ss. shares at par.
Its paid capital will then be £1.5 mil-
lion, compared with £1.9 million for the
other public telecaster in Sydney, Tele-
vision Corporation Ltd.
The new station, Channel 10, should
be operating by 1965 and show a profit
two years after, according to directors’
calculations.
If United Telecasters equalled Tele-
vision Corporation’s profit performance
of £338,000 for the third and fourth
year’s operations, the earning rate of the
new company would be around 22 p.c.
on capital.
TV Corporation started off with a capi-
tal of under £1 million, but made a one-
for-two issue at 400 p.c. premium in its
fifth year, bringing paid capital up to
£1,449,000 by 1961.
The funds were used to buy out Elec-
tronic Industries’ 62i p.c. interest in
GTV Channel 9, Melbourne.
It is therefore useless to draw con-
clusions on United Telecasters’ profit
potential from TV Corporation’s latest
results.
But the public issue, which is under-
written, will be much sought after, and
the stags will have their best coup for
many a day.
A Knock For Kirby’s
A bnormal write-downs of stock, and
lower sales by Beard Watson’s
could result in a loss by this furnishing
subsidiary of Nock and Kirby Ltd in
the year to August 31.
Interim dividend has been cut from
31 to 2i p.c. Last year the final dividend
was 5 p.c., but in 1960-61 no final pay-
ment was made after an interim 5 p.c.
This erratic behavior can be blamed
partly on increased rates on city proper-
ties and the problems which still pre-
vail in home building. Today’s high-
pressure marketing techniques, includ-
ing concentration on high profit lines,
may not fit in with the wide range of
hardware lines stocked by N & K’s
city store. And furniture is tough to
sell when more people are ferreting out
the wholesaler or “straight-from-the-
factory” dealer.
Some critics claim that the main Nock
and Kir.by George Street store could
adopt, with advantage, the variety chains’
display technique.
Directors mention an extensive re-


Spill
Bill
■
iliil-i
mmmm
\
!'
11l
:
'
-
wSm ¥ $f.
.: ' '
■fO"
-X,-
i
v :
T
* ■ j
.>
A
“T
ii
■
*
J
. -•
»7 ‘ V '
<
V
HI
How to swim at Waikiki before leaving Sydney
Simple really. He left Sydney on a Qantas 707 V-Jet at 7 p.m. on Monday—picked up 24 hours
when he crossed the International Date Line—and arrived in Honolulu at 9.25 a.m. on Monday!
With Qantas this sort of thing happens on Tuesdays, too —and on Wednesdays, Thursdays,
Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays with the wonderful Qantas service of a jet a day to the U.S.A.
No other airline offers you such a choice of flights to America—no other airline flies you across the
Pacific via Fiji and Honolulu to San Francisco and then straight through to London via New
York. No other airline flies you so far and so fast, right on around
the world and back home through Europe. You can fly direct or
make leisurely stopovers taking in many extra cities for no extra
air fare on your round trip to London.
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
Q 54.105.63


DO YOU INSURE
YOUR HOME?
PEOPLE would not think of owning a
home without insuring it, nor would
they think of not insuring the con-
tents of the home against loss or
theft.
People who wish to insure their stock
market transactions can use PUT
and CALL options which can pro-
tect them against loss in stock hold-
ings, or in the preservation of sub-
stantial paper profits without selling.
They are written virtually for any
period, but normally for one month,
three months, or six months,
occasionally for one year.
The contract can be exercised at
any time before expiration at the
option of the holder.
It is not necessary to wait until
expiration to act upon or exercise
one's option.
To learn more about this or other types of
option transfers —phone or post coupon today.
To MONTGOMERY HUGHES & CO. PTY. LTD.
324 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 26 1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address.
organisation of management and store
layout at Beard Watson’s.
The last separate profit earned by
Beard Watson’s (for 1957-58) would
have given a return of about 8 p.c. on
the effective cost to Nock and Kirby
nothing to write home about
but economies in buying and operations
were expected from the merger.
However, earning rate has slumped
from the 1958 figure of 23.8 p.c. to
11.9 p.c. in 1962, with a probable re-
duction this year.
Evidently the market forecast the
general pattern of reduced earnings.
News of the group’s sharp drop in
profit for the February half-year left
the market for the 10s. shares around
11s. 9d.
Moteliers Comes to Town
HPhe new motel company to join the
Sydney list, Moteliers Ltd, appears
to be more soundly founded than some
of the other seven public motel com-
panies.
The 1961-62 earning rate of 15.1 p.c.
should be exceeded in 1962-63, and the
newly opened motel in Wagga will bump
up earnings for 1963-64.
Paid capital of £160,000 will be
increased by only £25,000 with a public
issue primarily to residents in the Can-
berra, Wagga and Young districts, where
the company’s Town House motels are
located.
The small size of the public issue
and the information that CAGA Ltd
already holds £35,000 of capital, should
ensure a fair premium on the issue price
of 265. 6d.
Conversion from 20s. to ss. units be-
fore listing will also add to their at-
tractions.
Another Receivership
Shareholders and creditors of A. L.
Vincent Industries Ltd were given
fair warning of trouble by the report
of the auditors accompanying the 1961-
62 accounts.
Auditors said then that, due to staff
changes, vouchers could not be located
for certain transactions, and in their
opinion the £204,457 investment in
subsidiary companies and £47,079
goodwill were in effect unrealistic.
The company, which makes and dis-
tributes plumbers’ lines, incurred losses
of £162,797 in 1961 and 1962, after
eight years of successful trading.
The directors’ report and accounts
presented in March last showed that the
company had experienced difficulties in
production, marketing, administration
and finance.
The company now seems doomed to
receivership. Directors have asked the
chief secured creditor, Mercantile Cred-
its Ltd. which at June 30, 1962, was
owed £208,105, to appoint a receiver
over the group’s assets.
At last balance date Queensland In-
surance Co. Ltd was also a secured
creditor for £40,850.
The ss. shares were recently quoted
around Is.
AnoiSier Chain
C|nce described almost completely as a
general merchant and station sup-
plier, Permewan Wright now rides the
food boom very well on its grocery
chain side. The takeover of Grocery and
General has been thoroughly digested.
Profits in the year to March 31 reached
£273,532, against £156,013 for a pre-
vious 14-month period. Earning rate
goes from 15.2 to 19.1 p.c., while an
unchanged I2i p.c. dividend takes
£177,450 from the profit.
The group functions through a 154-
link chain 78 retail self-service stores
and 57 country stores in NSW, Victoria
and SA, 17 self-service wholesale stores,
and two food making and processing fac-
tories.
Sharemarkets received the profit
calmly. Prices stay close to 415., where
the yield is 6.1 p.c. They have been up
to 425. this year.
Timber Talk
in the timber trade is that George
Hudson Holdings Ltd has had quite
a good year, following reorganisation.
Officially the company postponed divi-
dend payments in March until the full
year’s results were known, although trad-
ing for the December 1962 six months
disclosed a reasonable profit.
The ss. shares may not be available
at 2s. 6d. again, after the 1962-63 re-
sults are published.
At least they look a better gamble
than Kauri, with all its problems, whose
ss. shares are holding at close to par.
Wm. Adams Recovers
Shareholders of William Adams and
Co. Ltd, steel merchant, can breathe
again after news of a major recovery in
profit for the year to April 30. At
£282,931, it was £162,909 higher
than 1962’s result, and about 90 p.c.
of the 1961 profit level.
The company had been badly
squeezed in 1961-62 when demand con-
tracted overnight, but supplies were
coming forward at the normal rate and
could not be altered.
Sales for the latest term were the
second highest in the company’s history,
but the manufacturing division and the
steel reinforcing company had disap-
pointing results, said directors.
On the brighter news, the 20s. shares
put on 4s. to 515., where the yield on
the increased dividend rate of lli p.c.
is 4.4 p.c.
The theoretical price differential be-
tween the shares and the 6 p.c. notes
which convert on April 30, 1965, is
rather difficult to determine since the
company abandoned the traditional
15 p.c. dividend rate.
Directors are wisely exercising great
caution before recommending its restora-
tion.
Shell to Drill?
Qhell Development (Aust.) in as-
sociation with Pacific American Oil
has completed seismic and gravity sur-
veys on Fraser Island, offshore from
Maryborough, Queensland. A reflection
survey is soon to be made south of
Bundaberg. Shell expects to site a well
in the Maryborough basin later this year.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Pye Industries Attractive
"Decent announcement that the con-
solidated group profits of Pye In-
dustries Ltd for the year ended March
31, 1963, “will show a considerable im-
provement on . . . the previous year”
could promote some increased in-
terest in this stock. The company does
not pay an interim dividend, but from
1960 has paid a final of 10 p.c. each
September.
As dividends on the preference capital
are paid half-yearly, it is customary for
the directors of Pye Industries to make
a statement towards the end of Novem-
ber each year. Last November they said
that sales for the parent company and
the main subsidiaries increased and the
outlook for the current year was most
encouraging.
The general indication is that the
group has had a good year. The shares
are not traded frequently, but at the
last sale price of 50s. (cum a 2s. divi-
dend) and showing a yield of 4 p.c.,
they seem attractive when compared
with EMI at 255. 9d. yielding 2.7 p.c
and AWA at 225. 6d. yielding 3.1 p.c.
While it is always difficult to deter-
mine the extent to which companies are
in competition with each other, it seems
probable that the two other companies
mentioned do compete with Pye over
quite a wide range of products. Pye,
however, has a stake in the automotive
component industry through its sub-
sidiary, Bendix-Tecnico (Automotive)
Pty Ltd which manufactures carburet-
tors for motor vehicles and for other
types of internal combustion engines,
including the engines used for petrol
lawnmowers, etc.
The 1962 annual report gave some
considerable detail concerning the activi-
ties of Pye Industries in Australia, say-
ing that Pye could be found “in aviation,
in communications, light and heavy in-
dustries, irrigation, rural domestic water
and power supply, electronics, auto-
motive engineering, building construc-
tion, induction heating, mechanical en-
gineering, space and weapons research,
air conditioning, welding ...”
This list of activities strongly sug-
gests that Pye is not dependent on the
durable consumer goods industry any
more than AWA. On the other hand,
it is difficult for an outside observer to
know precisely the extent to which a
company is dependent on a certain sec-
tion for its profit.
Pye Ltd of the UK made its entry
into Australia by acquiring a majority
holding in Tecnico Ltd. Tecnico had
had a rather unhappy history from 1951
onwards, with substantial losses in 1952-
53, 1954-55 and in 1955-56. During
1955, Pye UK acquired 50 p.c of the
shares in Tecnico from shareholders at
par, and the company also issued 20,500
shares to Pye UK at par, bringing the
total ordinary capital to £650,500. In
1958 a further 75,000 shares were issued
to Pye UK, raising ordinary capital to
its present level of £725,500.
The 1958 year also produced the first
dividend to ordinary shareholders for
six years and the arrears of preference
dividends were paid. The disclosed profit
for that year was by far the highest
recorded at approximately £424,000
after tax of £275,000. While there are
several reasons why the tax provision
should not bear a relationship to the
disclosed group net profit, it would ap-
pear that group earnings were probably
understated in the years 1960 and 1961
at least.
Unfortunately, the interest of outside
shareholders in the group profit was
only disclosed for the first time in the
last balance sheet, and there is insuffi-
cient information from the movement
of the substantial items which appear
in the consolidated accounts in each of
the three years preceding 1961 to make
any estimate of the extent to which
the minority interests had participated
in the profits of the group. It also seems
fairly certain that the net profit dis-
closed was after deducting minority in-
terests in the years 1958, 1959 and 1960.
Another difficulty in making any ap-
praisal of the relationship which the
net profit may have borne to the actual
amount of tax provided in any one year
is enhanced by the fact that the amount
apparently withdrawn from the tax pro-
vision during the 1961-62 year is more
than 50 pc. greater than the amount
provided for tax in the previous year,
and 25 p.c. greater than the amount
provided during the preceding 1959-60
year. Further, it was disclosed in the
1961-62 balance sheet that an amount
of £25,000 was transferred from the
tax provision as being in excess of re-
quirements.
If we make some adjustments which
involve guessing at the “minority share-
holders’ share of profits” in the 1958
to 1960 years, inclusive, and then cal-
culate profitability rates, we find that the
trend of these rates, so far as Pye is
concerned, give a very different picture
to those of EMI. Even disregarding the
1958 year (which seems to have been
a boom year), Pye shows a continuing
downward trend, while EMI, after rising
to a peak in 1960, declined sharply in
1961 and started to rise again in 1962.
Looking at the pattern of earnings
(as disclosed) and ordinary dividends
paid by the three companies, using the
1960 year as a base (100), the following
picture emerges:
Year ended in 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Earnings
AWA 93 97 100 69 66
EMI 46 61 100 56 73
Pye 154 93 100 72 57
Ordinary Dividends
AWA 87 100 100 87 87
EMI 80 88 100 100 114
Pye 49 70 100 100 100
It must be pointed out that the in-
crease in dividend rate of EMI in 1962
was due to a bonus of If p.c. paid
with the final dividend and at this stage
there is no evidence that this bonus
will be repeated. On the other hand, it
is only fair to say that the increased
dividend was covered 2.6 times by the
1962 profit, so that EMI is quite capable
of maintaining the bonus dividend and
even increasing it. This would be the
case even if profits for the current finan-
cial year should be reduced slightly.
In its interim announcement, EMI
suggested that the profit in the second
half of the current year, that is, from
January 1, 1963, to June 30, 1963, could
be lower in view of the intense com-
petition which was developing in the
television industry.
The table suggests that the pattern of
earnings between Pye and AWA is fairly
similar if we disregard Pye’s 1958 profit.
On the other hand, so far as AWA is
concerned, the earnings for 1962 could
be vastly different if the substantial items
provided for other than “depreciation,
renewals or diminution in value of as-
sets” of some £201,000 were in fact an
appropriation of profits rather than a
deduction from them.
However, if we assume that this item
should have been added back to the dis-
closed earnings the adjusted figure would
still only cover the 14 p.c. dividend on
the capital increased by the conversion of
the notes issued during 1956-57 about
1.6 times. Pye’s 10 p.c. dividend was
covered 2.1 times by the substantially
reduced profit of the 1962 year and it
would seem likely that the current year
will show a much higher cover.
Without trying to look too far into
the future regarding trends in earnings
and dividends, it would seem that the
difference in dividend yields between
AWA showing a yield of 3.1 p.c. and
Pye showing a yield of 4 p.c. is too
great in relation to their past perform-
ance. It would seem also that, subject
to the disclosure of the results of the
year due during next month, Pye could
be attractive buying at present prices.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Kelvinator Could Offer a Bonus
A record profit which fully recovered
the ground lost the previous year
was earned by Kelvinator (Australia)
Ltd in the 12 months to March 31, 1963.
Shareholders feel some benefit is due
to them after ten years of dividends at
the steady rate of 15 p.c., and the market
has pushed the ss. shares to 225. where
they yield 3.4 p.c.
Although there was a bonus element
in the one-for-two par issue of Septem-
ber, 1955, no bonus issue has been made
by this highly successful company.
Earnings over the last five years have
averaged 29.8 p.c., and the taxation pro-
visions indicated (but not in 1961-62)
that disclosed profits were conservatively
assessed.
The company, headquartered in
Adelaide, has two main plants in South
Australia, and a highly efficient sales
organisation in all States.
It manufactures household and com-
mercial refrigerators, automatic washing
machines, air - conditioning equipment
and Wayne petrol pumps. Radios and
television receivers, made outside, are
sold under the Kelvinator brand. Auto-
matic vending equipment and plastic
components for Kelvinator products are
more recent additions to the company’s
business.
Directors reported that there was no
real change in total market requirements
for refrigerators during 1962-63, but the
company maintained its position and
expected sales for the current year to
be satisfactory.
Air-conditioning had not made the
progress expected in Australia, but Kel-
vinator had a “major share of the avail-
able market.” Sales of automatic washers
increased, and directors are hopeful of
equal progress this year.
The working capital position is always
very healthy, and at last balance date
the company had cash in hand as well
as £550,000 deposits at interest. The
company does not have to carry a large
number of debtors.
Closing stocks were £2,137,309 com-
pared with the opening figure of
£1,767,308, reflecting the business
recovery.
Long-term liabilities are limited to a
£361,500 loan secured by mortgage.
The company is excellently managed,
but the ’6os may not be as easy as the
’sos for this or any other manufacturer
of domestic appliances. The great re-
frigerator boom is over, but other items
of household equipment will have booms,
if on a smaller scale.
Kelvinator, incidentally, has con-
trolled its business through the violent
up-and-down swings of the consumer
durable market, perhaps better than
most other Australian manufacturers.
Heavy depreciation and retention of
a high proportion of earnings is com-
pany policy to keep abreast of rapid
technological change in the industry.
A bonus from the very strong reserves
seems more likely than a lift in dividend,
and 1964 — being the company’s 30th
anniversary as Kelvinator Australia Ltd
— might be an appropriate time.
The present high price level appears
to over-anticipate future benefits, and
if it moves any higher, shareholders
could withdraw and re-enter when the
shares assume more realistic levels.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2500 3152 3549 3119 3441
Less current
liabilities 1229 1593 1840 1245 1465
Working capital 1271 1559 1709 1874 1976
Investments — — — — 62
Fixed assets 1802 1648 1656 1620 1640
3073 3207 3365 3494 3678
Loan capital 416 402 389 375 362
Pref. capital 230 230 230 230 230
Ord. capital 1013 1013 1013 1013 1013
Reserves 1414 1562 1733 1876 2073
3073 3207 3365 3494 3678
Depreciation 183 200 233 229 251
Taxation 160 344 349 220 332
Net profit 238 313 351 302 359
Net profit for ord. 226 301 339 290 347
Dividends 152 152 152 152 152
Surplus 74 149 187 138 195
Earning rate 22.4 29.3 33.9 28.6 34.3
Dividend rate 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 5.6 3.6 4.7 4.1 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 12.0 13.9 9.4 12.8 —
High price (b) 13/3 17/7 21/9 19/- 20/6
Lew price (b) 9/- 11/8 14/3 15/8 17/6
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
JAMES HARDIE ASBESTOS LTD
Strong in Reserves
T\)R many years directors of lames
Hardie Asbestos Ltd have made pro-
visions for taxation well in excess of dis-
closed profit figures. This is probably
why investors are prepared to place the
stock in the leader class and accept a
dividend yield of around 2 p.c.
In most cases this would indicate that
substantial amounts were going into
hidden reserves and shareholders would
eventually expect to see these come to
light in the form of a bonus issue. But
although shareholders are unlikely to
see any of these reserves in the form of
a bonus, the company is still well placed
to make a sizeable tax-free distribution
and still maintain dividend on the
higher capital.
The company traces back 75 years,
but it was in 1920 that the present com-
pany came into being. It now has
factories in all mainland States as well
as in New Zealand. But despite dullness
in the building industry over the past
few years the company is finding
inadequate the space available in some
of these factories.
The group makes a wide range of
building products from asbestos, in-
cluding pressure pipes, asbestos electrical
conduit and thermal insulation material.
It is also a major supplier to the auto-
motive, mining, shipping, aircraft and
agricultural industries of friction material
for brake linings and clutch facings.
Despite its dependence on such
apparently vulnerable industries in a
time of economic uncertainty, the group
has been able to record continual rising
profits over the past six years. In fact
in that period disclosed profit has more
than doubled from £337,110 to last
year’s record £709,088.
As issued capital has remained un-
changed for four years, earning rate has
shown a continual increase—from 15.7
p.c. in 1960 to 21.3 p.c. last year.
Ordinary dividend has been 10 p.c. for
eight years, and last year was more than
twice covered by earnings.
For the past 10 years, however, the
company has consistently shown a tax
provision usually well in excess of the
disclosed profit. In fact for the year
which ended on March 31 last, when dis-
closed profit was £709,088, tax pro-
vision was £1,081,188. On the basis of
tax being computed at Bs. in the £ (10s.
in the £ in New Zealand), the profit as
viewed by the Tax Commissioner should
have been about £1.5 million.
But, as directors point out, the


depreciation figure of £1,579,430 on
fixed assets, which appear in the books
at £7,441,563, including £4,351,949
in plant, is well above that permitted
for taxation purposes. Still, the wear and
tear on plant is severe because of the
abrasive nature of the raw materials used
and constant improvement of manu-
facturing techniques causes more rapid
than normal obsolescence.
It is much of this improvement in tech-
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 3855 4860 5104 6181 7997
Less current
liabilities 2985 3751 4839 4531 4539
Working capital 870 1109 215 1650 3458
Fixed assets 4933 6537 7834 8022 7462
Investments 300 300 260 255 455
Intangibles 98 98 98 98 98
6201 8044 8407 10,025 11,473
Represented by:
Capital 1997 3331 3331 3331 3331
Cap. reserves 1139 1360 1265 1580 1884
Other reserves 2598 2851 3090 3402 4143
Loan funds 467 477 696 1687 1302
Outside
shareholders — 25 25 25 813
6201 8044 8407 10,025 11,473
Depreciation 565 883 1066 1319 1579
Taxation 442 675 821 862 1081
Net profit 385 523 573 651 709
Dividend 200 331 333 333 333
Surplus 185 192 240 318 376
Dividend p.c. 10 10 10 10 10
Earning rate p.c. 19.3 15.7 17.2 19.6 21.3
Div. yield p.c (a) 3.1 2.5 2.5 2.0 2.0
High price (b) 95/6 85/- 87/- 110/- 106/—
Low price (b) 57/6 58/9 64/- 84/9 97/-
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
niques which enabled the group to shrug
off the effects of the recent credit
squeeze.
Although most of these funds which
at first sight appeared to be going into
hidden reserves will be absorbed in re-
placement of plant, the company never-
theless is still able to make quite a
healthy bonus issue, and this despite five
bonus issues since 1948.
The accounts show capital reserves
consisting of share premiums (£110,000),
assets revaluation (£892,521) and surplus
on consolidation (£856,520) almost
sufficient to make a one-for-one bonus
on the present paid-up capital of
£1,968,896.
The accounts show the company was
in a highly liquid state at the March
balance date. Overdraft was down from
£797,304 to £329,063, creditors from
£2,029,963 to £1,911,245 and loans
on mortgage from £575,065 to £211,646.
On the other hand, the company had
funds on short - term deposit totalling
£1,350,000, while stocks at £3,927,249
and debtors at £2,543,897 were virtually
steady. Investments at £455,348 had a
market value at March 31 of £704,194.
With so much liquid capacity, the
company is unlikely to need additional
cash funds in the near future despite
capital commitments of £489,135.
The 20s. shares are currently selling
around £5 2s. 6d. to show a dividend
yield of 2 p.c. and earnings yield of
4.2 p.c.
PLASTYNE PRODUCTS (HLDG) LTD
Tough Spin From the Start
Olastyne Products (Holding) Ltd
A has not lived up to expectation
since the public flotation in late 1960.
Despite forecasts of dividends of 10 p.c.
the only payment since flotation was
p.c. in the first year paid in an interim
5 p.c. and final 2i.
If everything goes as directors expect,
however, there could be a payout for
the current 1962-63 year although it
would probably be only nominal.
The operating company began in
1950, making plastic covered materials
for industry. In this it was up against
several very large competitors, but it
caters for a rather specialised field of
consumers, in particular the aircraft
industry.
Public quotation was achieved by a
placement of ss. shares at 6s. 3d. in
August, 1960. This was followed about
a month later with a two-for-three issue
at par. This lifted paid capital to
£133,333 all in ss. shares, but on
266,666 of them a call of 2s. 6d. is still
outstanding.
The time of the flotation was rather
unfortunate, only a month before the
start of the credit squeeze, and because
of the exclusiveness of its clients, the
company felt the full effect of it early.
Interim dividend was 5 p.c. at the
forecast annual rate but the final was
only 2h p.c. making 1\ p.c. for the full
year. Profit for the 12 months to June
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Tune 30 1960 1961 1962
Current asset? 114 128 132
Less current liabilities 84 62 68
Working capital 30 66 64
Fixed assets 64 90 93
Intangibles 9 9 9
103 165 166
Represented by:
Capital 75 133 133
Capital reserves — 6 6
Other reserves 15 9 11
Loan funds 13 17 16
103 165 166
Depreciation 3 6 4
Taxation 11 4 I
Net profit 15 5 1
Dividend 8 9 —
Surplus 7 — 1
Earning rate 19.6 4.7 l.j
Dividend 10 7\ —
Dividend yield 4.0 7.4 —
High price 14/- 8/- 5/6
Low price 7/- 4/5 2/4
was only <£5372, equal to 4.7 p.c. on
capital employed, indicating that the
company probably barely broke even in
the second part of the year.
In the following year Plastyne was
able to lift sales slightly, but due to
severe competition from low-priced
imports, the profit position slipped even
further and final result for the year was
a profit of £1429 equal to 1.1 p.c. on
capital. Naturally no dividend was paid.
The downward movement continued
into the current year and a small loss
was incurred in the first six months. But
there was a strong recovery in the
second half.
Sales showed a good rise with a
consequent increase in profit. As a
result directors hope to be able to pay
a dividend for the full year. However,
as surplus profits have been reduced to
£4816 at June 30 last, any payment
is likely to be only smail after making
transfers to reserves.
The last accounts (to June 30) show
the company was in a satisfactory liquid
position with current assets at £132,042,
almost double current liabilities of
£68,230. Stock was virtually steady at
£81,441 while debtors were up slightly
at £47,270.
Total shareholders’ funds of £150,399
include a share premium reserve of
£6250 arising from the original place-
ment. Subject to intangible items of
£9137 (principally goodwill on con-
solidation of £8930), net tangible assets


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R F CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
t Member* nr fimtrane Stork Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-27G1
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
ORD, MSNNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L de Groen, S. R. Ravenserofl
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STkEET. SYDNEY
Te!.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5213
Uranch.e> at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne
350-36!) Queen Street, Brisbane
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
backing of each 5s share was 5s 3d.
The shares have risen slightly in
recent months since the low point of
2s. 3d At prices around 3s. they may
be worth a speculation for possible
short-term gains prior to announcement
of the results for the lull year, usually
made in early September. But full
assessment of their potential must be
reserved until these figures are available.
Sugar Bounty
Otill another recipient of bountiful
sugar conditions is the old-estab-
lished and London-based Australian
Estates Company. Its chairman (Sir
Denys Lowson) singles out the benefits
in his annual review.
“The main feature of our results for
1962 has been the considerable increase
in profits from the sugar mills,” he says.
“The record Australian production au-
thorised by the Sugar Board and stead-
ily increasing overseas prices have given
a very satisfactory result.”
It looks rather more than satisfactory
to see the 1962 profit leap from
£A251,119 to £A392,257. At least
the improvement is shared, for directors
are holding the previous year’s higher
12 p.c. dividend, w'hich includes a 2 p.c.
bonus. This dividend, of course, is sub-
ject to UK tax.
Some idea of what a good sugar sea-
son means may be conveyed by some in-
dividual mill figures. The company’s Kal-
amia Mill crushed 464,000 tons of cane,
against 388,000 tons in 1961, w'hile Pley-
stowe Mill crushed 521,000 tons, against
1961’s 326,000 tons. Sugar output from
the two mills, at 153,548 tons, repre-
sents about one-twelfth of all Austra-
lian production.
Australian Estates w'as founded in
1894. It has an extensive sheep, cattle
and agency business. Two more Queens-
land freehold stations have just been
purchased.
MINERAL PRODUCTS RECORD
The value of Australian mine products
for 1962 is expected to exceed the record
£lBlm. of the previous year.
ONE TO BUY
Elements of a Bonus
VI/hen The Bulletin examined the
1961-62 accounts of Fred Clark
(Holdings) early in May the ss. shares
were selling at 11s. 6d., just 6d. above
their low point for the year. They have
now reached 12s. 9d., with only 3d. to
go to equal the year’s high. At the present
price, dividend yield comes out at
5.9 p.c. and earnings yield a comfortable
8.3 p.c.
The shares warrant undelayed inspec-
tion, since prices appear almost certain
to advance with better profits. These
look not far in the offing.
Under that kind of impulsion last
year, top levels went to 15s. and the
year before touched 16s Exceptional
1960 earnings produced ,a peak 225.,
which was also influenced by a 20 p.c.
dividend
Otherwise dividend has been well held
at 15 p.c from 1954 onwards Directors’
interim statement in Februarv saw no
difficulty in servicing this rate on capital
to be lifted by coming note conversions.
Their report also mentioned substan-
tially higher consolidated profit for the
December half-year, the operating sub-
sidiaries having experienced “most
favorable” trading conditions
January and February were then des-
cribed as buoyant months. From all
advices the bouncing tone is still very
evident and should receive full expres-
sion when accounts to June 30 see the
light in October.
Though the group is closely dependent
on building activities, Fred Clark has
always justified optimism. Even when
the trade is “somewhat static,’ as the
chairman (Mr C. G Maschwitz) branded
it last year, it must be remembered that
the company’s relatively broad range con-
fers distinct advantages.
Not every branch of building suffered
recession Fred Clark spreads through
household requisites to commercial and
industrial demands. Well known for
stainless steel sinks and hospital equip-
ment, concrete wash tubs and kitchen
cabinets, for instance, operations em-
brace as well a wide range of sheet-
metal work and cement goods.
Management has seemed organised to
get the best out of this variety and to
use it economically. Last year’s be-
havior provides a case in point
Mr Maschwitz put it to shareholders
thus: “During such a period of financial
stringency and uncertain material de-
mand ... a policy for the most con-
servative capital expenditure was adopted
in all subsidiaries. It is simple to state
that there was practically no expansion
into new products during the year . . .
“We have many ideas, some to the
drawing board stage, and advantage
will be taken of these when, in the
opinion of your directors, the time is op-
portune. The progress that has been
made in our manufacturing interests and
which has assisted in better trading re-
sults, is in methods of production, re-
sulting in greater economies.”
Directors aim to transfer all NSW
manufacturing subsidiaries to a single
site at Revesby, where land is already
owned and where three subsidiaries so
far operate. Sales branches arc active in
all Australian capital cities, including
Canberra and excepting Hobart, which
is serviced from Melbourne.
The profit for 1961-62 went up from
£43,778 to £65,739, giving an earning
rate at 21.30 p.c. A notable 1959-60
year had sent profit up to £76,674,
with earning rate 38.85 p.c.
A descent the very next year to
£43,778 derived almost entirely from
losses in a newly acquired company.
Affairs did not take long to be righted.
Financially, some concern may be
felt on the conversion of note issues to
capital. But on. past performance invest-
ors can rest content in directors’ con-
fidence in negotiating the hurdle.
The issues are cleverly spaced. An
amount of £69,500 converted on May
31 ranks for one-sixth of the 1962-63
final dividend, while £134.625 con-
verting on December 17 attracts all the
1963-64 final. The moves will bring
capital to £505,000.
The last accounts conveyed a gener-
ally sound impression, especially in view
of the outside building climate.
With half an eye on future rewards,
investors could contemplate a share
premium reserve totalling £249,919,
the root of a handy bonus when earn-
ings move up a bit.
Repeated performance alone, how-
ever, argues for an interest at avail-
able share prices.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: WALTER KEITH RUTLEDGE. TAKE
NOTICE that BARBARA ANN RUTLEDGE
formerly Higgins, has filed a Petition No.
1306 of 1963 for divorce on the ground of
desertion notwithstanding the facts and cir-
cumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street. Sydney, on or before the 12th August.
1963, you may obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from CHARLES T. COMINO,
Solicitor, 126 Phillip Street, Sydney.—C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PETER JOHN ALLAN. TAKE NOTICE
that ISABEL ESTHER BELLISS (falsely called
ISABEL ESTHER ALLAN) has filed a Petition
for a Decree of Nullity of Marriage in Suit
No. 2075 of 1963. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the Twelfth day
of August. 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs.
MOLLOY & SCHRADER, Solicitors, of 149
Castlereagh Street. Sydney, in the State of
New South Wales.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MERCY BEATRICE HARRIS. TAKE
NOTICE that FREDERICK WILLIAM HARRIS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3475 of
1962 on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 9th August,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. K. M. SLATTERY
& CO., Solicitors, 430 Forest Road, Bexley.—
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: lAN JAMES FERGUSON, late of Woy
Woy. TAKE NOTICE that LOIS MARY
FERGUSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1762 of 1963 on the grounds of separation
and desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer or an address for service in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 9th
August, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from ALFRED J.
MORGAN & SON, Solicitors, of 129 Pitt
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GEORGE BAIGENT. TAKE NOTICE
that ELLEN MARY BAIGENT (formerly
LEETE) has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1861 of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before 13th August, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. S T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors,
of 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALFRED WALTER LIONEL OWEN. TAKE
NOTICE that IRIS ISABEL HASTINGS
(formerly Owen) has filed a Petition (No.
1199 of 1963) for Divorce on the grounds of
desertion and separation, notwithstanding the
facts and circumstances set out in the
Discretion Statement filed. If you wish to
defend, you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 9th day of August, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
PHILIP N ROACH, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Position Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
A vacancy exists, beginning Term 111, 1963, for
Master to teach Mathematics and Chemistry to
Matriculation standard.
Apply in writing to B. H. Travers, Headmaster.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
No Ordinary Retailer
Tf things are not going so well with
companies, at least the shareholder
generally has the consolation of enjoy-
ing an eventful annual meeting. Such was
the case with Mark Foy’s.
A week earlier, there was the Latec
meeting and Dr Dan. Last year, two
meetings stood out. A. G. Sims created
modern history by the appointment of
new auditors who had not been nominat-
ed. The other was RMC and we all re-
member that one.
Flexibility or failure has been the stark
choice in the market over the last year.
RMC, once on the black list, returned to
favor a couple of months ago. However,
I have deferred buying into RMC, giving
preference to another company, or
(should I say?) industry. Although not
an avid believer in the so-called balanced
portfolio, I crave again a retailing interest.
Waltons, through the rights, should just
fit the bill.
Waltons is no ordinary retailer. The
Waltons man goes to the prospective
customer before she has a chance to ven-
ture forth to a dozen other retailers. In
Sydney and Brisbane, there is a current
Waltons account in one out of every
five households. Melbourne is also be-
coming a strong domain. All in all, about
60 stores and about 400 outside repre-
sentatives are spread through the eastern
States.
The remarkable feature about the com-
pany has been the very steady growth in
that part of the retail industry (household
goods on credit) which has been tem-
porarily sick.
With an adjustment for Christmas
trading, and using the six months end
ing July 31, 1961, as a base period (100)
the following figure picture emerges:—
PROFIT TREND
6 months ending 31/7/61 £462,000 100
" " " 31/1/62 £628,000 116
" " " 31/7/62 £581,000 126
" " " 31/1/63 £766,000 142
" " " 31/7/63 £720,000 est 156 es
The estimate for the current six
nonths is simply an extension of the
■ rend. On this estimate, earning rate foi
he full year will be almost 30 p.c.!
The rights have not shown any sign of
faltering so I ordered 1,000 at 10s. 9d. on
Wednesday.
On the same day, I bought 400
Pioneer Concrete. That rumor about the
takeover by CRA has come into vogue
again. With all the rain, Pioneer Con-
crete will suffer along with others in the
construction industry. Fortunately, the
first six months of the financial year
should carry them over. At any rate, a
small interest in the shares won’t break
me, especially if CRA does the right
thing.
Another Pioneer is in the news much
more often. Pioneer Sugar has been
recommended far and wide. Survey after
survey on the sugar industry by different
brokers confirm what a good buy sugar
shares were some months ago. Perhaps
the CSR directors go too far in the op-
posite direction but they do suggest rea-
son for caution.
Caution would also apply to William
Adams. Earning rate jumped from 8.1
p.c. to 18.1 p.c., but this is a recovery
not a trend. At this stage, the shares
should not sell for an earnings yield of
less than 7 p.c. so, on this basis, the
shares at 50s. 6d. are fully priced.
I was happy enough to take the profit
of £67. Besides, the money will be needed
to take up 1,000 United Telecasters.
At long last a new float for me. The
backing alone of this third television
station in Sydney will ensure a good
premium.
The last transaction for the week was
the sale of 1,000 ODE at 55., giving a
profit of £.23.
Details of this week’s transactions are:
SOLD
200 W. Adams, 50/6 £497
1000 ODE, 5/- £240
BOUGHT
1000 Waltons rts, 10/9 £552
400 Pioneer Concrete, 13/9 . £2Bl
1000 United Telecasters, 5/- .. £250
An active start to the second half of
he year. That effort of balancing the
account last week was too much as I
im £346 in debit again.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
'Jo. of Name of Date Per rent
hares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/-
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/6
600 A. V. Jeonings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/10
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/3
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
1000 Felt, new 24/4/63 8/3 8/10
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 21/-
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/3
1000 Carrier 3/6/63 5/6 6/6
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/3
100 James Hardie 13/6/63 £5 £5/7/-
2000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/-
200 Harden & Johnston 18/6/63 19/- 19/6
5000 Ampol rights 18/6/63 lOd. 1/5
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/4
1000 Waltons rts 3/7/63 10/9 10/11
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 13/9
1000 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME.
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~J or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
BULLETIN
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and Ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 753
ACROSS
I—He’s a very eccentric fellow in the wage sphere. (9)
6 —Puts a cork in the shipborne spinner and comes to
a standstill. (5)
9—Girl put back some possession of realisable value.
(5)
10 — A reason for one’s isolation if not nice enough
for it. (9)
11— Spanish gentlemen transport everything to Cupid.
(10)
12— —Very closely follows to perform Gilbert and Sulli-
van. (4)
14—Royal figure associated with Menzies. (3-3)
16 —“Risible” bit behind. (3, 4)
18—Ruler has them by the alter-
native Beethoven work. (7)
20—Canal kitchenware given to a
parent. (6)
23 Little devil missing from
impious acknowledgments of
debt. (4)
24 Went fishing but slopped all
over the place uneasily and
unskilfully. (10)
27 Formerly thoughtful, it’s cost-
ly now. (9)
28— When all the orchestra plays
it is back with depreciation.
(5)
29 Weary enough for it to be
backed against a communist.
(5)
30— I’m wrong to murder Menzies
about one of the Hebrides—
losing, anyway. (9)
DOWN
1— It may fatten or stiffen Archi-
bald the Canonised. (6)
2 Laughable. (7)
3 Tan with this question
answered by 12-across. (10)
4 Resembling Capone and
Kennedy’s predecessor. (5)
5 Spinner who should have been
taken off is supremely alone
by accident. (4, 2,3)
6 Falstaff was often full of such
fire. (4)
7 It must drain Venezuela
otherwise I can be seen to
have no business. (7)
8— Prison chant and the same
again. (4-4)
13—When you’re going to this
place in S.A. beware of the
hitch-hiker with the high-speed
string of Australian place-
names. (10)
15—Element which makes Miller
Buy. (9)
17—Sorry, this is the writer who
is canvas-sheltered by me.
(8)
19 —Fatter fruit by the small piano
protuberance and Queen
Elizabeth. (7)
21— Fighting place of Australians
in World War II makes Roy
Rene nonsense first class.
(7)
22 The first person would fish
when not doing anything. (6)
25 Ruses kept secret by these
employers. (5)
26 Eat up, girl. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 752


#i
&;
-
‘ ■
' -
H!i :
**
mIP
>4.
1
it i
?! « 111
st***
"ww
I 4
n
I ,
? s* s
i
-
■ :
gjg|lps
X--:h
. . .
for hale and hearty appetites . . .
Australia can make it
£822 million worth of processed foods a year!
Almost eleven million people take a lot of
feeding. Their appetites keep 113,000 people
employed in the Australian Processed Foods
Industry. This is quite apart from the
thousands producing meat and other basic
foods in primary industry. Australia produces
an enormous quantity and range of processed
foods. Supermarket shelves and freezer cabi-
nets are stacked with Australian canned, pre-
served, packaged and frozen foods. We are
fortunate that, in a world where many go
hungry, Australia can produce more than
enough food for our needs. You keep things
this way when you continue to buy Australian-
made products. So when you’re
shopping look first for quality
and value in Australian pro-
cessed foods. The wise Aus-
tralian buys Australian.
A
AUSTRALIAN
Inserted by ASSOCIATED CHAMBERS OF MANUFACTURES OF AUSTRALIA.


A
rn
mYLE
A
b
~N
z
o
U
««
&
•s
£»
U
f
:;
EXTRAS |
,
20
:'... .
gU^ L£
aNO
CE M 3
,-A
ri
■
Carlyle EXTRASthe distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you thai extra mellow
flavor ot fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
j*
'V./lOJ
isnf qjiM
ff
a
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.10.E
