

The Bulletin
APRIL 4 1963 L
AUSTRALIA 2/-, NEW ZEALAND 2/-, MALAYSIA
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.fSSO
tAKLY AU$l KALIAN I'AIIUINU
CAPTAIN PIPER’S FAMILY by Augustus Earle (?) c. 1826. (76 x 48 in.).


4 f
THE ONLY
FILTER
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
itllilSil
m
81
%
-
mmm
«r i
II p
§p*
HP
Pi
I
FILTER
smmmmm
TOASTED
■»
MM
m
.
after action
2.P121.11.62
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
* Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd.


National Notebook
The Cover
cover picture of Captain Piper’s
Family (original in Vaucluse House
and reproduced by kind permission of
NSW Public Library Trustees) is generally
credited as a painting by Augustus Earle,
who lived in Sydney between 1825 and
1828. His colorful study of the family
of the man after whom Point Piper was
named keynotes The Bulletin’s first
four-page color feature —a portfolio of
Australian colonial painters which, to-
gether with Daniel Thomas’s survey of
the period, starts on page 30.
All pictures have been gratefully
acknowledged to their owners, but we
should like to extend particular thanks
to the Bank of New South Wales, which
kindly lent us two sets of
four - color blocks for
John Eyre’s painting of
Sydney From The West
Side of the Cove and Con-
rad Martens’ painting of
Tempe House, Tempe.
The owner of Tempe House, Mr K.
R. Stewart, an avid collector of the
works of Conrad Martens, hopes that
The Bulletin feature may help unearth
yet undiscovered works of Martens in
Australia or maybe overseas.
In next week’s Bulletin we will pub-
lish details of the next four-page color
feature.
The art of land development
A merican TV star Art Linkletter, who
is already doing the darndest things
to a 22,000 acre slice of sandplain at
Esperance (WA), has bought a 650,000
acre cattle station in the Northern Terri-
tory with his old Esperance partner
Allen T. Chase. Their new property, Fitz-
roy station, is sandwiched between the
massive Victoria River Downs and
Coolibah stations and has a 50-year lease
with freehold rights to be granted by the
Commonwealth Government under what
Mr Linkletter himself has described as
‘"rather easy terms.”
The two have been interested in Aus-
tralian ventures since they bought into
the Humpty Doo rice scheme in the
early 1950s. Chase bought into the Es-
perance district in 1956 with a 1,500,000
acre development scheme which gave
him freehold rights to most of the now
valuable sandplain country in return for
developing the virgin scrub into going
farms for sale to Australian and over-
seas settlers.
Chase bought a freehold grant to pro-
gressive parcels of land for 4s. 6d. an
acre, sold it at about 25s. an acre to
Americans who were to develop it out
of their own capital. Inept pasture es-
tablishment methods turned the scheme
sour, and Chase later sold his interest.
Linkletter was one of the few initial
investors in the Esperance project who
was not put off by the failure of the first
pasture. He went ahead with his own
property and now has a comely farm
about 10 times the size of the average
Esperance property. He was able to gain
this large holding because of the freehold
title given to Chase, who transferred it
to Linkletter.
Linkletter has not let his land lie idle
as other American investors have done.
He has spent between £40,000 and
£50,000 a year turning it into a district
showplace running stud cattle and sheep.
Eventually, he plans to
spend about £500,000
on it, but he should net
about £ 100,000 a year in
the sale of farm products.
In a recent issue
of the show business
paper “Variety” he gave some revealing
reasons why he has persevered at Es-
perance. Explaining the basis of his con-
siderable financial empire, he told of the
“interesting financial formula” on which
his WA interests are based.
“I get land out there for about one
dollar an acre, then I spend about 50
dollars an acre over the next five years.
It returns about 12 dollars an acre after
that. But of the 50 dollars spent on it,
about 35 dollars is tax write-off. Besides,
the Australian Government gives all
farmers a five-year write-off on capital
improvements. So I am making, before
taxes, about 19.5 p.c. on my money.
When you figure how much I’ve written
off on that 50 dollars it makes me so
happy I can hardly refrain from writing
the Kennedys.”
Some of the Esperance battlers on
conditional purchase terms wouldn’t
mind having that kind of formula.
Exporting Books
T ansdowne Press of Melbourne is
turning Australia’s prowess in sport
to good account in its export trade, while
at the same time throwing some light on
how readers abroad rate us in various
sports. It has produced a series of illus-
trated books on cricket, lawn bowls,
Rugby League and swimming, all of
which underline in their titles that this
is the “Australian way” of tackling these
sports. A similar book on tennis is due
to appear shortly.
Manager - owner Lloyd O’Neil said
last week that a third of the 15,000 first
edition of the recently-published swim-
GOD’S WRONG IMAGE? Page 22
Right without mitres,
Good without gaiters.
•
Those Lucky Oyo Men 9
No Room at “The Shop’’ 10
Conversation with a Barrister .. 12
Bali—A Rage in Paradise 15
A Matter of Life and Death .... 17
Is Boxing Murder? 20
Rhodesia’s White Squire 25
Australia’s Colonial Painters 4
page color portfolio 30
The New Dramatists 36
A Problem of Camels 40
UK Stimulant Urgently Needed .. 41
Employment in Service Industries . 44
Turn in Debenture Tide 47
•
FEIFFER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELROURNE ... 9
UNIVERSITIES 10
OUT AND AROUT 15
FORUM 20
OVERSEAS 25
LETTERS 27
ART 30
REVIEWS 32
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
W ORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4333


ming book has been sold abroad in
advance of publication. This is more than
the 25 p.c of the cricket book’s edition,
even alter the latter has been available
foi many months. The tennis book
which has only just been edited, is as-
sured of 5,000 copies going abroad, with
the chance of a separate American edi-
tion.
So we are a nation of tennis players,
swimmers and cricketers as far as over-
seas readers of sporting books are con-
cerned. With lawn bowls and Rugby
League we don’t matter at all, Mr O’Neil
thinks, not having exported any copies of
his books on the Australian way of doing
these things.
Mr O’Neil doesn’t know in detail
exactly where the exported books finish
up. He sells through a London firm which
feeds them out to the English-speaking
world In the case of the cricket book,
however, he did sell 500 copies direct to
India.
In Joe’s Wake
gYDNEY artists and journalists gave
cartoonist Joe ionsson. who died
recently aged 73, one of the biggest
wakes in local memory. They packed in
by the score at the Northern Star Hotel
and vied with each other m telling tales
of Joe.
By popular acclaim, two anecdotes
from the 19205, when Joe w as one of the
leading Bohemians in Sydney, were
accepted as the best of dozens offered.
Joe had been reared tough, first as a
youth on a cold Swedish farm and then
for years as a sailor before the mast.
Though a short man he was enormously
strong and loved a rough and tumble
When he turned to art he sold gags free-
lance to The Bulletin and adopted the
practice of most of the old-time artists
on Bullie pay day of retiring to the
nearby Star Hotel for refreshment and
discussion. This hotel was frequented
by sailors who resented the presence of
allegedly “sissy” people such as artists.
Six saucy tars finally picked on Joe
Jonsson who threw two over the bar and
beat the remainder to the floor with
blows learned from Shanghai to ’Frisco
The second prize story was associated
with the Assembly Hotel in Phillip
Mr Les Tanner will return
from his holidays next week.
Street, beside “Smith’s Weekly” where
Joe worked from 1924 until that paper
closed in October, 1950 Joe asked the
proprietor, an old friend, for the loan of
£l. The money was willingly handed
over and Joe insisted on countering with
an 10U which the proprietor tore up
with a flourish. “So that’s your bletty
attitude is it?” declared Joe as he tore
the <£ 1 note to shreds and threw it after
the IOU.
Selling France
When Australians think of France
they think of perfumes, cham-
pagne, gowns—they seldom consider us
a highly technological nation. But we
are one of the most advanced in the
world.” Roger Levy, commercial coun-
sellor to the French Embassy, sat
hunched over his desk in a largish
office at the French 1 rade Mission in
Sydney.
“I hope we can prove that French
manufactured goods are equal to any.
No, 1 haven’t set myself definite goals.
I only arrived in January. It is too soon
for definite opinions.”
He had always wanted to be posted
to Australia, Levy told me. He began
Feiffer
bD l bMV TO HIM;
HfoO'RE OtO THE
AJROW6 TRACO,
PHIE-MAU 16
not mum
EVIU MAM 16
WHITHER miCkUM
oooD mmu. [
mmriM
msotime.
i m to
MR-simiFYm
PH it- wo owe vmfe
THAT MAW COMMITS
6RCAT 51U5. BUT PONT
TOST HOOK OM THE
PARK S!(?e. IDOR AT x
THE FORCE FOR. X
6000 HCS BSEF)’: A
rmecrw
Rettomie*
1 6k\V To MMr'wm CN&M-
. mimical, phil. mam msuf
VO 600 V TO ALLEVIATE BOMS
FMJCIEV BEDSE OF BUILT
A6Y€U TmK.Lom mam
VO6S 600 V [TO BECAUSE,
HE 1$ 600 V. MM MAM
VOEB EM m becaobe, '
BoatTY HAS HAVE
HIM THAT m."
tmecrm
Rtteomie.
i m fo him -moots foo much
m pe&mr, mi- cen mi%
b)e ms slow* but if ms
of us iu our om ms
wm AS 6000 A M OF If
AS W 6 C AN -AS PAREMTS, AS
TEACHERS, AS BUSIES MSf,
as cmzevs-WtJ'LiTTse
m LI TUP THE TOLP HAS
T) PPCPMP A BETTER PLAEE
TP L/l/E I/O."
vzmcm
Mr kccozme 12
?m. nr u mto
ho mthce kw *
CkllW MB AfJ
WT'UBERAII
MldAltiFUtflMl
pip m co?
LOHAf
COUID
r por
r
Kiuep
HIM.
pemcvM
msctiNae.


his trade career with the Ministry of
Economic Affairs in 1954. They sent
him to Rome as Assistant Trade Com-
missioner and from there he went to
Genoa to open an office called the
Economic Expansion Service Bureau
which he ran from 1958 to 1962.
With headquarters in Sydney and an
office in Melbourne, Levy is cautiously
exploring avenues. “I have been inviting
your businessmen to come and talk about
their requirements. I’m aiming at at-
tracting 20 visitors a day. My concept
is very simple. I ask them what they
want. If France cannot provide it cheaper
than any other source they don’t buy.
Or, if it doesn’t suit them to import
manufactured goods we can sell them
a licence. Already I have negotiated two
agreements for production here under
licence.”
Had he played any part in negotiat-
ing the £45 million bauxite deal recently
announced? He smiled tolerantly. I
should understand, this was big at
government level between the
Pechiney group and Canberra.
Gracious Gift
IVTrs Louisa Jones has offered her
£200,000 property Ripponlea,
Melbourne, to the National Trust
as a gift. Maybe it’s not what it
used to be in the old days, with 19
acres of land, 28 gardeners, and its own
private zoo, but it’s still a beauty. There’s
a magnificent two-storey mansion built
by Sir Frederick Sargood in the 1870 s.
It has a large ballroom and four damned
fine cellars. There are cloisters with
plump classical statues almost good
enough for the Ballarat Park. There’s
a Grecian swimming pool, a lake com-
plete with little bridges, lawns like bowl-
ing greens and, just to make all perfect,
peacocks wander hither and thither. On
the job there are four full-time gardeners.
Mrs Jones is the daughter of Mr Ben-
jamin Jones, who lived in the house from
1910 until he died in 1935 There are
two problems about her generous gift.
The National Trust has to decide whether
it can afford to run it. The Australian
Broadcasting Commission’s little empire
of ABV-2 is right next door. The Post-
master-General, Mr Davidson, has said
that he will make every effort to get at
least 4i acres of the estate so that the
ABC will be able to concentrate all its
Melbourne activities at Ripponlea. Mrs
Jones has made it clear that she wants
the estate preserved intact and that the
ABC is not to get an inch of it.
So you see it is up to the National
Trust whether Ripponlea’s estate will
fall into the grasping hands of television.
In the meantime, Channel 2, perhaps,
could do a charming historical feature on
its illustrious neighbor—while it’s still
there.
PLAIN ENGLISH
EMERGENCIES
IT is not surprising that many doctors see as the last straw the proposed
amendment to the NSW Medical Practitioners’ Act extending the
definition of infamous conduct to include refusal, without reasonable
cause, to answer an emergency call. For years general practitioners have
been pettifogged by a mass of regulations under the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Act involving a vast amount of unnecessary paper work, the
application of an inadequate formulary of drugs, the regular need to
break the law in order to give poor and needy patients the drugs they
need, constant inroads of Government on the old doctor-patient relation-
ship. The upshot has been that, although doctors have done well
financially, cynicism and a loss of self-respect have increasingly character-
ised the profession.
Yet it comes as a surprise to hear officers of the Australian Medical
Association, which has for years silently tolerated this state of affairs,
suddenly protesting at the new legislation. Many people, also remember-
ing the AMA’s defence of the inefficient and out-dated “honorary
system” in hospitals and its condemnation of the employment of full-time
specialists instead of honoraries as “Socialism,” will be sceptical of the
remarks about “civil conscription” and “the dictatorial state” by Dr K. S.
Jones, the retiring president of the Australian Medical Association. Too
often this cry has been raised only when the public’s interest looks like
interfering with doctors’ convenience.
The fact is that at the moment a doctor who refuses to answer an
emergency call cannot be penalised in any way. This is a state of affairs
that cannot be allowed to continue. While there have been only a few
such cases, they are common enough to justify the legislation and of
course there would be no need for such legislation at all if the AMA,
in the best traditions of a self-governing profession, had itself taken
exemplary action against offenders. Naturally it has the right to insist
that the word “emergency” be carefully defined. Any doctor can tell of
2 a.m. calls which were frivolous, or even practical jokes. But that is
a matter of detail, however important.
from the “conscription” sloganeering, Dr Jones had two other
arguments, equally weak. One was that the legislation was “undemo-
cratic,” “contrary to the very fundamentals of British justice,” since, he
said, a doctor would be presumed guilty until he proved his innocence.
There is or need be no such thing. A person lodging a complaint would
have to establish it was a reasonable complaint before the doctor is
asked to explain. One is not presumed guilty when someone else believes
a reasonable, but possibly quite false, complaint has been made.
The other argument that the result of the legislation will be
that doctors will avoid the risks involved by simply not answering the
phone is, if anything, an argument for Government intervention: it
suggests there are many people who are doctors who are not fit to
practise. Fortunately this is false.
When one also takes into account telephone recorded voices
referring callers to doctors who are available for duty or to hospitals,
there is little real ground for complaint about the proposed reform
provided always that the word “emergency” is properly interpreted. It
may, however, remind the AMA that it is its own conservatism, not any
creeping Socialism,” which provokes this sort of legislation.


THIS AUSTRALIA
A FOREIGN POLICY ELECTION
The Lonely Electorate
By ALAN REID
SIR ROBERI MENZIES
Politician to the fingertips
As 1 see it
'TAespite the
flurries
Bidault, no
confidence motion, improper use of Com-
monwealth cars, etc. —Federal Par-
liament is really marking time waiting
for the debate on the proposed United
States Radio Communications Centre at
Exmouth Gulf in Western Australia
promised by the Prime Minister (Sir
Robert Menzies) within the next two or
three weeks.
A majority of Parliamentarians be-
lieve that it is a strong possibility that
the next Federal elections could be
fought and decided on foreign
policy, of which the Exmouth Gulf centre
represents a significant aspect. If the
Parliamentarians are assessing possible
electoral reactions accurately, this means
there has been a revolutionary change in
Australian political mores over the past
year. It has been accepted hitherto un-
questioningly that Australian voters in
peacetime are not interested in foreign
afTairs. More than one Parliamentarian
has complained in the past that when
he mentioned foreign affairs his audience
thought he was mentioning a starter in a
horse event. Even within the Parliamen-
tary parties themselves only a few were
interested in foreign affairs and they
were the ones who shaped Australia’s
approach to foreign affairs issues.
This position has certainly changed as
far as the Parliamentarians are con-
cerned. Now they are all interested.
Parliamentarians who formerly viewed
SEATO, ANZUS and ANZAM (the ar-
rangement under which Australian troops
are stationed in Malaya alongside British
and New Zealand forces as part of the
Commonwealth Strategic Reserve) as
unusual rearrangements of part of the
alphabet, are now studying the terms
and implications of such treaties intently.
Has the Australian voter simultaneously
acquired this new interest?
Nobody can answer that at this stage.
The next general Federal elections might
give an answer. That is why the Parlia-
mentarians are worried. They feel that
they are dealing with an uncertain quan-
tity. They do not know how Australian
voters react on certain foreign affairs
issues such as the Exmouth Gulf pro-
posal.
As I see it, Sir Robert Menzies is
playing very cleverly upon the sense of
loneliness that he detects in the Parlia-
ment in the belief that this represents a
microcosm of the feeling outside the
Parliament. This sense of loneliness did
not exist when Australia sheltered be-
hind an all-powerful British Navy. Even
World War II and the Japanese offensive
southwards did not eradicate psychology.
It lingered on, still a potent factor in
Australian confidence until the emer-
gence of the new nations to Australia’s
north, particularly Indonesia, when it
started to out-rank Australia as a military
power. When Indonesia by threat of
action and a few skirmishes took over
what was then Dutch New Guinea, the
sense of loneliness started to grow. For
the nudge given by Indonesia drew at-
tention not so much to Indonesia as to
another much greater force not so much
farther to the north— Red China.
This sense of loneliness has so inten-
sified over recent months that I doubt
whether, left to themselves, 14 members
of the Parliamentary Labor Part) would
vote against the establishment of the Ex-
mouth Gulf Base. The rest of the
Labor Party would almost certainly vote
for the base.
But Sir Robert Menzies is well aware
that the Parliamentary Labor Party is
not going to be left alone to make up
its own mind on whether it wants Ex-
mouth Gulf on the conditions which
the Menzies Government wants it (which
are broadly the same conditions as those
on which Labor’s Right wing want it). It
is already under pressure of a Federal
ALP Conference decision which sought
to tie its hands pretty firmly and it will
come under further pressure as the Left
wing seeks to exploit that decision.
Sir Robert Menzies undoubtedly wants
Exmouth Gulf because he believes it
will add significantly to Australia’s de-
fence potential and he is also suffering
from this new-found sense of loneliness.
But he also wants electorally to empha-
sise the divisions that undoubtedly exist
in the Labor Party on this issue. Origin-
ally he did not intend to have the agree-
ment with the United States covering
Exmouth Gulf ratified by the Parlia-
ment. There is no constitutional re-
sponsibility upon him to get such ratifi-
cation. But a politician to his fingertips,
he saw what he considered to be poli-
LAWYERS AS SWINDLERS?
ffijfiulCetCn
April 7, 1883
A foolish fellow down in Mel-
bourne has gone to law with a
lawyer in respect of a matter affect-
ing barristers in general. He is one
JOHN MEANEY, and he sues JOHN
FISHER, barrister-at-law, for <£99
damage, for neglecting to defend him
after accepting a retainer of two
guineas to do so. The case involves
what lawyers would call the nice
point, whether grocers are bound to
supply sugar after accepting your
order and cash in advance no,
whether barristers are bound to
appear for a client after taking a fee.
JOHN MEANEY cannot be fully
aware of the fact that for a man to
be an officer of a Court of Justice
has from time immemorial been re-
garded as investing him with a sacred
right to swindle clients. The nearer
the law, the further from justice,
A Victorian schoolmaster was sus-
pended the other day for drunk-
enness. This is mild compared with
the vagaries of our own NSW school-
masters. Which suggest to us that it
is a pity flogging is done away with
in schools at the present time—a pity
for the pupils. If this is not clear it
is not our fault.


tical advantage and reached for it. He
now intends not only to get Parlia-
mentary ratification for Exmouth Gulf
but in an annexure to outline the terms
of the agreement between Australia and
the United States.
His hope is undoubtedly to have the
opposed Labor viewpoints displayed
nakedly to the Australian voters who
historically are prone to discard politi-
cal parties when they are rent by internal
dissension.
UNIONS
A STEP TOWARDS
REFORMING VICTORIA
The first ballot for 14 years
By MUGGA
J. P. BREBNER
Numbered days
/\ne of the more fascinating of the 20
trade union officials who attended
the Australian Labor Party special
Federal Conference in Canberra recently
was 57-year-old James Percy (“Bob”)
Brebner. Although Mr Brebner is only
the Federal Secretary of a very minor
union, the Australian Pulp and Paper
Workers’ Federation which has a mem-
bership somewhere under 3000 (only
1500 of whom are affiliated with the
ACTU!), he has managed to use this
base as a stepping stone to some of the
most important positions in the Labor
movement although he has never
faced an election for his union job since
1949. He is President of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, Vice-President of
the Victorian Labor Party, one of the
two Victorian members of the Federal
Executive of the ALP, and a perfect
symbol of the Communist-manipulated
Victorian ALP which has kept Labor out
of power both in Victoria and in the
Commonwealth.
But after years at the top Mr Brebner
is now in trouble. His days are numbered.
A group of his unionists have formed a
Rank and File Rights Committee. Their
main purpose is to force Mr Brebner to
a ballot for his position for the first time
in 14 years. Their second purpose is to
clear up what they describe as “the sorry
mess the union has fallen into.”
The Australian Council of Trade
Unions, at its February Executive meet-
ing, had before it a letter written by
Mr K. J. Keane (a member of the Pulp
and Paper Workers’ Federation), making
a number of serious charges against Mr
Brebner, some of which were:
• “Seven separate balance sheets were
not lodged with the Industrial
Registrar’s office, until Brebner was
forced to do so”;
• There was no proper auditing of
books by certified auditors, as re-
quired under the Arbitration Act;
• There was inefficient collection of
union dues from members (which
has meant that some members,
being unfinancia! were unable to
oppose “Brebner men” in elections.
The only action the ACTU took was
to inform Mr Keane that he must make
these complaints through his union.
The Rank and File Rights Committee
also claimed that Mr Brebner’s expenses
were unusually high. They stated that
in addition to his salary of “something
over £4O per week” Mr Brebner “was
drawing expenses at the rate of nearly
£l9OO per year.” (The Committee later
claimed that “current audits show that
it [the expense account] has been
suddenly reduced by some £lO per
week.”)
The Committee has also been con-
ducting a pamphlet war with Mr Brebner
since 1960. Mr Brebner was so stung
by two of their pamphlets that he issued
a 5000-word reply. Replying to the
charge of missing balance sheets he
said: “I had inadvertently omitted to
lodge seven half-yearly balance sheets at
the Registrar’s office during the period
he states. I did state at meetings that
my omission was not as serious as Hilton
(of the Committee) attempted to make
out and pointed out that when Elliott
of the Seamen’s Union had been arrested
with a large sum of union money in his
possession, the newspaper reporter
claimed that an examination of that
Union’s files in the Arbitration Court
disclosed that there had been no balance
sheets lodged for 20 years . . .”
Mr Brebner’s comparison of himself
with Mr E. V. Elliott is not really odd
for although Mr Brebner is nothing like
a Communist, or for that matter even a
Left-wing Labor man, he owes his
positions to Communist support and has
openly stated that “the DLP is a greater
enemy to the workers than either the
Liberal or the Communist Party.” (Com-
pare ex-President Victorian ALP Mr
J. V. Stout: “Better Moscow than
Rome”.)
After all this agitation the Rights
Committee has had one major victory:
Mr Brebner will at long last have to face
an election within the next couple of
months for his position as Federal Sec-
retary of the Pulp union, and there will
be a Court-conducted ballot. However,
as a result of a Commonwealth In-
dustrial Court judgment last week re-
jecting the Committee’s challenge to
some of the union’s rules (the Committee
has already successfully amended a
mere 65 of these rules), Mr Brebner’s
main opponent has been disqualified from
standing on the ground that he is un-
financial.
So Mr Brebner will probably win this
time. But it must be obvious, even to
his closest friends, that his days as
Federal Secretary are numbered. When
he is eventually beaten all his positions
in the Labor movement will also be lost
and the Victorian ALP may at long
last begin its reform.
POLICE
MAY A POLICEMAN
CRITICISE?
Not in public
FROM A SYDNEY
CORRESPONDENT
HHhe rights of policemen to organise on
union lines have long been con-
ceded, but last week in New South
Wales its right to criticise the administra-
tion of the force came into question.
Before the annual conference of the
Police Association opened, the agenda
was circulated as usual to newspapers.
One agenda item demanded that: “One
thousand men be recruited into the police
service to relieve the extreme shortage
of men throughout the State, as a matter
of urgency.”
At the Conference the new Commis-
sioner Allan spoke for just on an hour
and said that these criticisms could “only
be regarded by reasonable people as a
criticism of me and my administration,
and probably worse than that, criticism
of our Minister and the Government.”
But the Conference had learnt its les-
son. It took one and half hours discus-
sion in camera but finally the delegates
decided to exclude the Press from dis-
cussion on the motion of an increase in
numbers.
After hours more discussion a motion
on police strength was passed but it, too,
was kept a secret pending a promised
review by the Commissioner.


THE TOUR
POST-MORTEMS
IN THE TERRITORY
"Shut up!" bellowed the Colonel
FROM KEITH WILLEY IN DARWIN
ROGER NOTT
Drowned out
HThe effects of the “first visit by a reign-
ing monarch to the Northern Ter-
ritory” are still reverberating through
this disputative and cranky land. Leaders
of Darwin’s beery “social” set are hold-
ing violent post-mortems over who was
invited to the various Royal functions.
The RSPCA has accused the North Aus-
tralian Show Society of being cruel to
horses. An embarrassed young constable
is still smarting from the ticking-off he
received for taking into custody the
Queen’s Personal Policeman. The croco-
dile population of the north-west has
been depleted by three, shot and taste-
fully arranged on the river bank below
the Ord diversion dam as “local color.”
(The Duke remarked that they looked
as though they were made of bronze.)
And some hundreds of aborigines have
trudged back to their deserts wondering
what all the fuss was about.
Throughout the five days of the “coats-
off” Northern Territory visit, informality
was the keynote. “Good on you Duke!
You beaut your Majesty!” roared drink-
ers, straggling out of the pubs to wave
a cheery welcome as the Royal Progress
bounced through Alice Springs. Next
day, after dutifully inspecting the radio
School of the Air. Flying Doctor Base
and a bunch of Aranda watercolor
artists, the Royal Couple turned up for
The Luncheon in the Stuart Arms Hotel
known locally as “the stockmen’s
pub,” and scene of many a brawl and
epic ear-bashing in the past. Awaiting
them in the dining-room were Centralia’s
Finest, 100 leading citizens of the area,
including various grades of pastoralists,
prospectors, clerks and bagmen.
They were all so busy staring at the
Queen and chattering about her dress
that they quite drowned out Administra-
tor Roger Nott, who was trying to pro-
pose a toast. Waiters hovered uncertain-
ly in the wings. The Royal visitors began
to look embarrassed. Finally Colonel
Rose, the outspoken Member for Alice
in the Legislative Council, ex-Director of
Animal Industry, and the Territory’s
most respected cattle expert, turned the
hubbub to frozen silence by bellowing:
“Shut up!”
He described the incident to news-
men later: “The mob were babbling and
drinking on while Roger Nott was trying
to propose a toast to the Queen. Poor
old Roger was getting nowhere, so I got
up on my pins and said two words. I
told them to shut up, and they shut up.”
Alice Springs Memorial Club presi-
dent Ted Milgate, one of the guests, said
“you could hear a pin drop after that.”
Colonel Rose is not too popular now
among Centralia’s Finest, but he won an
admirer on the Royal Household staff
who thanked him, and a Darwin Legis-
lative Councillor wired congratulations.
surprised everyone with the
pre-war exuberance of its welcome.
Local Greeks built a model of the Par-
thenon. Aborigines, who had walked and
ridden in from as far away as Humpty
Doo and Daly River, looked on, impas-
sive as cigar-store Indians. Chinese Lion
Dancers got their gear out of mothballs
and performed in public for the first
time since the Joss House reopened five
years ago. (All this loyal fervour even
infected the Darwin branch of the Aus-
tralian Republican Party, President Mar-
tin Smith, who earlier had talked of a
petition for “Territory rights” and a
Gandhi-style hunger strike, announced
that his members would refrain from
demonstrations during the visit.)
Next day a Sunday the Royal
Couple flew 280 miles to the south-west,
out to the Ord River irrigation scheme
just across the West Australian border,
to have a look at some real pioneering.
That night in Darwin there was a stir
when a young constable took the Queen’s
Personal Policeman, Chief Superintend-
ent A. E. Perkins, into custody. The
wharf area around Britannia had been
closed to the public during the three-day
Royal Visit. Feeling the tremendous heat
and humidity about midnight Mr Per-
kins went for a stroll in his shirtsleeves.
The Territory constable on guard con-
fronted him and demanded to see his
White Pass. Perkins did not have it on
him and declined to accompany the con-
stable to the police checkpoint. “I’m
not going anywhere,” he said. “Oh, yes
you are sir,” the Territory man said
and grabbed Perkins by the shoulder.
They then went together to the check-
point a few hundred yards away where
the misunderstanding was sorted out.
On the Monday last day of the
visit the Royal Couple attended a
civic welcome on the Darwin Oval (a
thousand balloons meant to be released
during speeches turned up late and were
abandoned in a side street, to be pounced
on by hordes of gleeful children); called
on aboriginal medical orderly Philip
Roberts; presided at an investiture, wat-
ched a buckjumping display; and were
hosts at an evening dinner party aboard
Britannia. (Legislative Councillor Tiger
Brennan refused to attend the function
because he would not wear a dinner
suit). Then the Queen and the Duke
set sail for Broome and points west.
They were hardly out of sight before
the storm broke. A clergyman wrote a
letter to the Press criticising Colonel
Rose. Pat Davis of Hamilton Downs ac-
cused Roger Nott of wrongly implying in
his address of welcome to the Queen
that the Centralian drought had ended.
RSPCA officials said horses had been
tortured to make them buck at the
showground. Greek community leaders
reckoned they hadn’t had a fair share
of invitations to the Royal functions.
As a succession of barneys followed
each other across the front pages of
local papers, Royal Tour officials could
reflect on one aspect: The visit had
drawn bigger crowds than any football
final and the Territory had lived up to
its reputation for being “different.”
SPORT
CAMPBELL ON LAKE EYRE
Between dawn and 10 a.m.
By C. M. MILNE
A rrangements for Donald Campbell’s
world land-speed record attempt at
Lake Eyre, in the far north of SA, are
moving ahead with military precision.
(In fact, the Army, with the SA Police
Force, the Government Tourist Bureau
and sundry others, is playing an import-
ant part in the project.)
During the past month or so, the
dismal, grey surface of the huge salt-pan
which is Lake Eyre has received the kind
of attention that would make a bowling-


green keeper proud. A 20-mile strip in
Madigan Gulf has been ground smooth
with salt-milling machines and graded
to billiard-table perfection. The cost of
preparing and maintaining the track has
been estimated at £lO,OOO.
The overall cost of the speed attempt
has not been estimated, but it is known
that some 84 British companies have al-
ready invested £2 million.
A police party of about 30 men will
stay at Lake Eyre for two months to
keep spectators out of the way. Mr El-
liot Price, who leases Lake Eyre as part
of his station, Muloorina, will be landed
with 50 visitors during the trials and
record attempt. Shearing quarters and
other station buildings are being con-
verted to hostels, and extra staff is being
employed.
Several problems stood in the way
of the speed attempt, but most of them
have been solved. The main one, the
“salt island” lumps of crusted salt
which would have wrecked Bluebird be-
fore it really started rolling on its way
to 450 m.p.h. have been flattened.
But a successful way of marking the
track has not yet been found. The grey
bed rules out the black lines Mr Camp-
bell used in Utah in 1960, and white is
useless. The best color is green, but Mr
Campbell has a deadly fear of green,
so that’s out. At the moment, organisers
are experimenting with multi-colored
balloons.
remoteness of the area has been
A overcome largely with light planes
and a two-seater helicopter. However,
heavy equipment has to make a 400-mile
rail trip to Marree, and then go another
70 miles north over a bush track to Lake
Eyre. At Marree recently, Mr Campbell
was astounded when two local police-
men, some railway workers and other
spectators worked through a good part
of a day to help unload equipment from
rail trucks to motor vehicles, and then
refused any payment.
Weather conditions will play a big
part in the attempt. A still, clear day
is needed before the Bluebird can wheel
across the lake bed, and since by 10 a.m.
the sun has dried out all adhesive mois-
ture from the salt, and heat haze has
turned the landscape into a series of
weird images, all trials and the record
bid must be made between dawn and
10 a.m. Chubby, charming and tireless,
Campbell appears to be taking all with
a casual air of unconcern. (“Dangerous?
I suppose it is, old man. What isn’t?”)
The attempt to be made in May
or early lune will, apart from the
excitement, provide valuable research
into tyres, fuels, lubricants, aerodynamics
and instruments. As for the man in the
street, he might also get a block of salt
which the organisers are selling as
souvenirs!
Around Melbourne
THOSE LUCKY OYO MEN
VIfHENEVER I’m green with envy,
” which is right now, I get to
thinking about which is the best flat
in Melbourne. The caretaker on top
of the Vacuum Oil building has a
“bobby dazzler.” The views in his
flat are so good he can lie in his
bath and look straight down St Kilda
Road. Or how about the manager
of the Consolidated Zinc building?
He’s even higher than the board of
directors, way up about the 26th floor.
He has a lovely balcony all around
and he has the best location for any
flat, bang on Collins Street.
Yet even the Con Zinc man now
has a serious rival, the daddy of all
the Oyos. I see you are not acquaint-
ed with Oyos. An Oyo is an own-
your-own-flat and the Oyo in ques-
tion is “Domain Park,” a 20-storey,
£lm. palace built by Lend Lease De-
velopment Pty Ltd. According to Lend
Lease there is only one bigger in Aus-
tralia, Blue’s Point Tower in Sydney.
Ah, but this is the more luxurious.
Last week the newspaper gentle-
men were invited along to see it all
and it was worth seeing. Everything
was right. The location was right—
Botanic Gardens opposite, Sir Harold
Gengoult Smith’s place next door and
Sir Norman and Dame Mabel
Brookes’ old house on the diagonal
corner.
The architect was right, Robin
Boyd. Indeed the building had nice
clean lines, good taste, no fea-
turism whatever, thank you. The
party took place in a specially furn-
ished display suite on the 15th floor.
For old hands who have put in many
hours looking at specially-furnished
display suites and homes it is fascina-
ting to note how they set the atmo-
sphere. There was a nicely framed
set of old French maps cn the walls.
In the bookshelves there was a leather-
bound collection of 19th-century
books on Theology plus the “Annual
Register for 1823.” Then ever so
casually on the coffee table were
copies of “Vogue” and “Coming
Events in Britain.”
Even better, all the furniture came
from Georges.
The serious information about the
place came from Mr A R. Pearce,
marketing manager for Lend Lease.
He said there were 56 suites and two
penthouses in the building. Prices
went up according to height. If you
started way down at the bottom you
could get one for as little as
£.12,750. If you wanted one of the
two penthouses you paid £37,500.
The three-bedroom suite we were in
right now was worth £24,500. I
thought I heard someone whistle but
it was only the wind howling around
the balcony.
Yet that wasn’t all, maintenance
also went according to altitude. It
started at £4 13s. a week for those
down below and rose to £ll Bs. for
the Oyos in the penthouse.
The suites had everything, man —
air-conditioning, electric disposal in
the kitchen, rotary washing machine
and clothes dryer, separate shower
and bathroom, private lift lobby, and
garage down below. Somebody
asked whether each suite-owner
would get a separate title. Mr Pearce
said no, there would be a share
system. A separate title was only
useful if the owner wanted to raise
a mortgage, and he made it clear that
Lend Lease had not anticipated at-
tracting the type of client who would
need to raise a mortgage. The
Oyo men would be mostly managers,
directors, top company men, nearly all
of them over 50.
After a few drinks at suite camp
15, we struck out for the penthouse
summit. The suite was much the
same in size as the suite on the 15th
floor with plate-glass windows all
around, but there was this incredible
open air balcony half the size of a
tennis court. And the view! You
could see what Sir Dallas was doing
in his back garden at Government
House, how the swans were feeding
in the Botanic Gardens, whether the
MCC was making a quid at the
MCG, the trains arriving at Spencer
Street, the worshippers at St Patrick’s,
the seagulls down the bay. The sun
was going down in the west as we
leaned a little gingerly over the bal-
cony and took it all in.
“Yes, a retired stockbroker has
bought it,” said Mr Pearce. “He’ll
move in next week.”
For a retired stockbroker he was
at least 20 floors on the way to
heaven.
BATMAN


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
■'N
&
us
I#
W/JJh lV'i^v^s§?
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* “Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in France)
ts used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product ol the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
Cl IN
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
UNIVERSITIES
NO ROOM AT THE SHOP
1000 students excluded?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
JOHN PATERSON
4 per cent.
HThe academic year has started at Vic-
toria’s Monash and Melbourne Uni-
versities without anybody yet knowing
exactly how' many matriculated students
have been excluded under the quotas
imposed by both universities. Many
students, quite naturally, applied for ad-
mission to both universities. Some, re-
jected by one, have probably been ad-
mitted at the other. Again, many students
apply to enter several courses, setting
out an order of preference. Some would
have achieved their second or third
preference, after failing to make the
quota for their first love.
For these reasons it is a complex task
to work out exactly how many students
are being denied university entry as a
result of the quotas. The figure can only
be worked out by the Melbourne and
Monash authorities together. Early this
month, Melbourne’s Registrar. Mr F. H.
Johnson, said that Monash had fixed its
quotas independently, but had agreed to
make its figures known so that a com-
posite statement on admissions and re-
jections could be prepared.
The statement has not yet been issued,
but enough is known to show that the
situation is a serious one. At Melbourne,
several hundred had failed to make the
Medicine, Arts, Commerce and Law
quotas and Mr Johnson said that students
had to be “very near Honors standard”
to gain entry. He also claimed that
some students who had made the quota
later withdrew because they missed out
on Commonwealth scholarships. Their
places then went to others with poorer
matriculation results, but with better fin-
ancial resources. Vice-Chancellor Sir
George Paton said there were 38 with-
drawals by students admitted to medicine.
It is not known how many of these were
for financial reasons or as a result of
students having second thoughts over the
long, tough course ahead. But quotas,
clearly, are not the only barrier to uni-
versity study.
]y|ELBOURNE’s first-year student enrol-
ment is about the same as last year
at 2160. Some quotas fixed were Agri-
culture 70, Architecture 140, Arts 750,
Engineering 220, Law 330 and Medicine
180.
All Melbourne faculties, except Music,
imposed quotas and an estimate by the
President of the Students' Representative
Council, John Paterson, puts the figure
of those excluded this year at about
1000 compared with 600 last year. Few
were admitted, he said, without at least
one second-class honor in their matricu-
lation result. He also claimed that only
4 per cent of Victorians in the 18-19 age
group were at a university full-time, com-
pared with 6 p.c. in New South Wales
Monash imposed quotas for first year
—Arts 420, Economics and Politics 200,
Engineering 80, Medicine 120 and
Science 200. While Melbourne relies
solely on matriculation examination re-
sults, Monash introduced an additional
aptitude test for students wanting to
enter its Economics and Politics De-
partment.
The Monash first-year intake was
double that of last year, but still many
students were knocked back. Like Mel-
bourne, the situation was eased by with-
drawals and possibly as a result of
Monash’s less central situation.
On balance, the Monash Acting Vice-
Chancellor, Professor Donald Cochrane,
considers that the quota situation at his
university is not serious. Monash ex-
pected to fill its quotas in Arts, Eco-
nomics and Politics, and in Medicine,
but actually had a few vacancies in
Science and Engineering.
The situation has renewed demands
for a third university. Professor Coch-
rane is opposed to this, insisting that
the solution is to be found in more
scholarships. The Monash Chancellor,
Sir Robert Blackwood, considers a third
university for Victoria would not be an
economic proposition. These comments
may reveal expansionist ambitions by
the Monash authorities, but, if so, they
received a dampener from the Premier,
Mr Bolte. He said Monash should not
be allowed to grow bigger than its plan-
ned capacity of 12.000 because it would
then become “too impersonal.” Sir Rob-
ert Blackwood would like to see it grow
to 25,000.
During the last State election cam-
paign, Mr Bolte wooed Ballarat electors
with a promise that their city would get
either a university or a university col-
lege. The Ballarat electors were reminded
of this recently, but by Mr Calwell in
the course of a Labor Day dinner in
the city. Mr Calwell went further and
urged university colleges for Bendigo
and Geelong as well.
Political skirmishing aside, there is a
strong demand in Victoria for a third
university.
The Victorian Employers’ Federation
and the Country Party both strongly
favor one, but the Government has never
advanced the proposal beyond the stage
of'Mr Bolte’s election promise. However,
a committee under the chairmanship of
Sir Alan Ramsay, a former Director of
Education, has been preparing a report
on Victorian tertiary education, includ-
ing the matter of establishing university
colleges in country areas. The Ramsay
Report is expected tc be finished next
month.
When the report is received, the way
may be clear for the establishment of
university colleges in provincial towns
with all the log-rolling that such a de-
cision would inspire.


TEENAGERS - II
THE ROCKERS
United with Surfies against the rest
By J. R. WESTERWAY
pivot around which Manly (NSW)
-*■ turns is The Corso, a half-mile strip
of shops linking the ferry wharf and the
surfing beach. Here we interviewed 30
Rockers to see how they differed from
their alleged enemies, the Surfies, whom
we interviewed last week.
Their similarities were much more
striking than their differences. As one of
them put it, “The only difference is that
the Rockers comb their hair!” Otherwise
both Surfies and Rockers regarded them-
selves above all as “Manly boys.” Press
stories about their feuds with one another
are phoney.
Manly’s Rockers and Surfies alike re-
sent the recent “invasion” of Rockers
from other suburbs. Indeed, the Rockers
among them regarded it as a snide
attempt to start a fight with “their”
Surfies. For the self-styled “King” of
the Rockers, Martin Chandler, Manly’s
Rockers have a deep and abiding scorn.
“He must be a fantastic gig to get up
and say that. If he came over here,
he’d never get back.”
Most Rockers had had clashes with
the police, usually because of alleged
misdemeanors but one or two on crim-
inal charges. All drank (gin slings with
beer chasers were popular), all claimed
that they stayed out all night if they
felt like it (mostly sleeping under the
pier or with half a dozen others at a
mate’s place), and several spoke know-
ledgeably about “busts” and “jobs”.
Their relationship with the police is
a mixture of cautious respect and al-
most affection. They claim they are often
bashed when the police pick them up,
but accept it philosophically. It is rather
like getting a hiding from their fathers.
The protagonist on the police side, Det.
Sgt. Mathieson, the head of the Juvenile
Squad, they called with respect “Donny”
or “Matho” or Mr Mathieson.
They were mostly from 18 to 20 and
they normally formed into gangs of 6
to 9. (The police had broken them up
by laying down that no more than three
could walk down The Corso together.)
Their jobs were diverse but rarely had
exciting prospects—a printing appren-
tice, laborers, a trainee butcher, motor
mechanics, spray painters.
Their leisure hours were devoted to
the speedway, surfing (the Rockers too)
going to the pictures (often being thrown
out), talking over last night, crashing
parties (“When you’re asked to leave,
you cheek them and start running.”),
discussing smashes, dodging the police,
and of course girls.
Girls occupy an apparently secondary
place in their lives. Girls are claimed
to be the cause of fights. They provoke
the boys in other groups and their boys
have to stand up for them. Later on,
girls play a civilizing role. Like the
"The only difference is that
Rockers comb their hair."
Surfies, Rockers leave the gang when
they start to think seriously about get-
ting married. Many of them were going
steady, but going steady was not a
serious business, marriage was.
Some of the boys owned cars. All of
them wanted to. Generally they bought
cheap ones costing up to £l5O (the
Surfies preferred ’49 to ’5l Fords), but
a few had cars worth £lOOO. Most were
bought through hire purchase, some-
times co-operatively, and were main-
tained by them or their mates. Petrol
and oil costs were shared. “Only one
in a hundred has rich parents.”
It used to be a common sight in
Manly to see boys diving from the wharf
for coins thrown by ferry travellers.
Their pitch was outside the shark net-
ting and recently the local council stop-
ped it. The boys are indignant and claim
that their diving was Manly’s major
tourist attraction. Clearing as much as
£-2/10/- in a day, some of them had
been able to live exclusively on their
earnings. “One day I made 17/- from
one ferry.” They used the proceeds to
gamble in the local snooker club, slept
most of the time under the pier, and
held no job.
When we asked them what they would
like the Government to do for them,
they wanted two things. They wanted a
“drag strip”, about a mile of asphalt
where they could try their cars out in
the “standing and flying quarters”, but
again their ambivalent attitude to the
police came out. They wanted a police-
man to control the strip. And the second,
thing that they wanted was a Police
Boys’ Club. . . .
COMPANY LAW
UNDER THE LIQUIDATOR'S AXE
Not a rash, a plague
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
post-recession rash of com-
pany troubles looked more like a
plague last week. After official investi-
gations by Mr P. H. Opas, QC into the
affairs of the Mutual or Markthorn
group of proprietary building, construc-
tion and finance companies, the Govern-
ment lined up nine of the 13 for the
liquidator’s axe, leaving four to live on
for the present at any rate in the still
pretty doubtful hope of permanent
survival.
As the companies were all private
companies or building societies, com-
paratively small amounts of public
money are involved, the group’s
numerous unpaid creditors, sub-con-
tractors and the like have already aired
their feelings around the building world,
and the direct repercussions on recog-
nised investment markets were negligible
compared with the deep effects, say, of
the situations of a string of listed com-
panies such as Reid Murray, Stanhill,
Factors and Latec where the probable
losses of investors and creditors are so
much greater.
When, in a television interview, the
Chief Secretary, Mr Rylah, used the
word “crook” in relation to certain
companies’ activities, he was making an
attribution which so far no one has
ventured to use in the open about any
of the afflicted big stock exchange listed
companies, though it has been near the
tip of many tongues. If anything it has
been pushed a bit nearer by Mr Opas’s
revelations on the Markthorn group.
In its case the tangled web brought
forth the following from Mr Opas, who
is no tyro in company investigations.
“The more one sees of the multiplication
of companies having no legitimate reason
for being, the more one deplores the ease
with which this state of affairs can be
brought about so that assets and liabilities
may be shuffled with amazing rapidity
and facility between companies, with the
result that anyone seeking at any given
time to ascertain the true position faces
a fantastic picture of unreality.”
What seems to ha/e stung him most
was the revelation by two of the directors
of one of the companies investigated that
they were unaware of its existence. In
the light of all this he could say,
“Having come to scoff, I have remained
to praise.”
Now it remains for Mr Rylah to
prosecute. And an anxious public awaits
more urgent efforts to put stronger teeth
into the Companies Act which was
promulgated less than two years ago to
a chorus of how perfect it was.


The Professions
1. Conversation With a Barrister
“Servants of all yet of none ”
By PETER HASTINGS
What distinguishes barristers from
other professional men?
I’d say three things. We are few in
number for a start. In NSW there are
only about 400 barristers, all but three
or four of them concentrated in Sydney.
We work in a uniquely communal man-
ner; most of us have chambers concen-
trated in a few buildings in one street.
By the end of the year over three-
quarters of the Bar will have chambers
in one big building communally owned.
We all know' one another personally and
professionally and with the introduction
of the Bar Association Common Room,
coffee drinking, lunches together, dining
in nights and so on we are getting to
know each other a great deal better. A
third distinguishing characteristic is the
lone-wolf nature of the actual profes-
sional work. A barrister cannot have a
partner. Nobody employs a barrister as
such nor can a barrister employ legal
staff. A barrister cannot be sued for pro-
fessional negligence, for example, nor
can he sue for his fees. Ethically a bar-
rister cannot even recommend another
barrister for a brief . . .
But surely this happens?
Not all that often. Supposing a soli-
citor asks X if he can take a brief and
X says no. X doesn’t then turn around
and say “I suggest you get Y. I happen
to know that he is available if you want
him.” Although he might say that if
the solicitor contacts X’s clerk he may be
able to help him. A barrister is also per-
mitted to recommend a panel from
which a solicitor may choose.
Why do people choose the Bar?
Various influences operate. Sons of
famous lawyers might well choose the
Bar for example. Some schools, GPS
and State, have had legal traditions or
headmasters who for one reason and
another have urged boys to take up the
law. The drama of advocacy appeals to
many or the glamour of a man like the
late Jack Shand. The connection be-
tween law and politics has been a pow-
erful stimulant you have the exam-
ples set by Menzies, Latham, Barwick,
Spender and Evatt. We also have a fed-
eral constitution and the great constitu-
tional lawyers have been its high priests.
That is another lure. The Bar has been
a good base from which to tackle poli-
tics, in all political parties. Then again
the Bench is recruited from the Bar. The
Bar provides, therefore, important parlia-
mentarians, leading members of all cab-
inets, including the Attorneys-General
and the whole of the judicial branch of
government. All this is fairly well known
in the schools.
Is the law as attractive a career now
as it was?
If you’re thinking in terms of re-
cruitment I’d say it may not be as at-
tractive to school students as it used to
be. In a world of increasing specialisa-
tion the sort of brainy young men we
would like to see taking up the law are
harder to get. In the first place human-
istic disciplines now face the competing
, n , .. r , .
glamours of science. Professor Messel is
• . • ,
just as anxious as everyone else to get
his quota of brainy young men - indeed
judging his recruiting campaigns
more so. Science offers careers and re-
wards undreamt of 20 years ago. In re-
cruiting to the Bar w'e now face the
dilemma of ,he . two in a
real sense. Don t forget, too, that boys
are being asked to specialise earlier and
earlier at SCh °° L The ? make their
choices at an earlier age. If a boy sets
out to be a scientist it is hard to switch
l ° laW ' In addi,ion > c l u ' le a P art from
science there h; an increasing demand
for top graduates in all technological
lds in business and government which
offer big rewards and considerable secur-
ity. That must affect the quality of legal
recruits.
What about security at the Bar?
. . ,
At one time, of course, there was
4 .. . ( ~
none. The first faint glimmerings of the
welfare state can now be seen. We have
our own accident and sickness insurance
schemes and superannuation funds. We
have had a Barrister’s Benevolent Fund


for many years which was needed. Some
members of the Bar don’t approve of
social security schemes. They say that
they rob the barrister of his toughness
and independence. Others believe that a
man is more independent if he doesn’t
have to worry as much about illness and
old age. I must say I agree with that.
What are the financial rewards of the
Bar?
Still quite enticing. A barrister of
reasonable competence and diligence
after seven or eight years’ practice should
earn £.5000 a year or more. Many earn
a great deal more than that. And of
course a few leading silk may earn
£20,000 a year but the majority earn
less and some silk fail to keep in the
big money. The profession has its dan-
gers—ill health, changing fashions. . .
A barrister has to work very hard to
make big money. His health has to re-
main good and there must come a time
when he can’t sustain the effort required.
And don’t forget there are numbers of
young barristers in this city who are not
so busy that they aren’t wondering where
their next brief or cheque is coming
from. The rewards are there but in many
cases they come slowly. Some, of course,
fail. Only the other day a silk told me
that when he was called in the early
’thirties 14 were called and only two are
left. The rest have fallen by the wayside.
Are top barristers overpaid?
Not by comparison with other top
people, surgeons for example. Big in-
comes require very hard work and are
very heavily taxed. There are no ex-
pense accounts or big entertainment
allowances or other fringe benefits. The
barrister, unlike the business man, the
grazier, and most other professional
people has to do all the work himself.
Life at the Bar can be a chrysalis and
butterfly affair. Little is earned before
28 or 30 and after 50 some go down-
hill. There is no long service leave and
no employer to contribute to super-
annuation. A barrister must save for his
retirement and he has no goodwill to
sell. He is completely vulnerable if his
health goes.
Docs the barrister have many bad
debts?
Yes, but not disproportionately. Tech-
nically, to be safe, he should get his fees
in advance but the Bar looks to the
solicitors to protect it and this works
quite well.
What about his overheads?
Way up these days. Even in the late
thirties it was general practice for a
barrister to write his opinions longhand.
I think Barwick was the first barrister in
Sydney to employ a secretary-typist or
among the first. Nowadays barristers
have to have secretaries and dictating
machines. Rents are up. Telephone bills
are up and so on.
What about a barrister’s work load?
Well, more success means more work
which means more tension. A successful
barrister works very hard indeed. He
may be in court five days a week from
10 till four. He will probably see wit-
nesses and confer in chambers between
8.30 and 10 in the morning and between
four and six in the afternoon. Then he
has to read masses of documents, think
about tactics and strategy and get up
the law. This means often working at
night and most of the weekend.
Some even come to Chambers on oc-
casion at daybreak. He is under pressure
most of the time, sometimes very con-
siderable and unrelenting pressure. It’s
a lonely life, too, in a way. A barrister
works alone with his own skills and
generally has nobody to whom he can
talk about the detailed legal intricacies
of the particular case. That is one of the
great advantages of the silk. He can talk
to his junior. Younger men can talk over
their problems in a general way with
more senior colleagues. This helps but
the burden of individual responsibility is
great.
How do you “take silk”?
It largely depends on the barrister
himself. If he becomes very busy he
may apply to the Attorney General and
in the main he will receive his commis-
sion as one of Her Majesty’s Counsel.
Tt is a big decision, not made lightly. A
busy junior may not do well as a silk.
He has to have the weight, personality,
skill and so on. It used to be very
chancy but most who take silk today
seem to make out all right.
What exactly is a junior? What is he
paid? What is his relation to a QC?
Any barrister who is not a silk is a
junior no matter how old or experienced.
A silk must almost always have a junior
briefed with him who as a rule gets a fee
equal to two-thirds of the silk’s fee. A
junior can however accept any brief and
appear without a silk. Experienced juniors
do a great deal of very responsible work.
When he does he gets about two-thirds
of what it costs for a silk and unlike the
silk he does not have to have a junior
with him.
Is there a problem of psychology
involved?
I think there is. The Bar caters for
extroverts. Individuals vary of course,
but by and large the healthily extroverted
type gets on best at the Bar.
Are barristers unusually vain?
I wouldn’t say that. I’ve known vain
doctors and architects, but the nature of
the Bar produces prima donnas. There
is a certain amount of professional
jealousy and many barristers tend when
talking to one another to say, “How
good I was in court today! How bad
was X.” But it all sorts itself out in the
wash. The rigors of professional life,
the competence of rivals, the nature of
advocacy tend to check undue pride, or,
at least, chasten it. After all as many
cases are lost as are won.
Do most barristers want to become
judges?
Undoubtedly. Especially in their for-
ties and fifties. There are various reasons
for it. Security, pensions, status, their
wives who like the prestige of a judge
for a husband combined with the fact
that they can see more of him. And there
is no shadow of doubt that a judge's life
is psychologically and physically an
easier one. A judge can take his time
and interest himself in particular aspects
of the law. He can allow himself to feel
that he is contributing something of
value. If he has a particular sort of mind
the University medallist sort there
are the quasi-logical pleasures of the in-
tellect to savor in his work. Some juris-
dictions offer considerable intellectual
satisfaction . . . Equity and the appellate
jurisdictions for example. Although most
barristers want to be judges and regard
it as their duty to accept judicial office
if it is offered to them a few love the life
at the Bar so much that they prefer to
spend their life at it and refuse judicial
appointment.
Is it true that barristers feel superior
to solicitors?
Well, the Bar is regarded by the gen-
eral public as the senior branch of the
profession, you know, and it is true that
a higher proportion of able graduates
elect the Bar in preference to becoming
solicitors. Some who make successful
barristers would fail as solicitors. There
are about 2700 solicitors in NSW and
between 1400 and 1500 of them are in
Sydney. Theirs is a very different set of
problems. I suppose it is true that some
members of the Bar believe that they are
the front runners in the profession. Just
the same even if barristers do feel superi-
or they can’t afford to show it. They are
too dependent on solicitors. Barristers
don’t get their briefs direct from the gen-
eral public. They get them from solicit-
ors. Although solicitors have briefing
habits they can and do change them.


Do barristers learn to live with judges’
prejudices?
Let me put it this way. The art of
advocacy includes coping with individual
judges. Some judges take pleasure in
cutting counsel down to size. Some bar-
risters get pleasure from replying in kind
especially perhaps in jury cases. But 1
don’t want to exaggerate this. It's not
serious and it works out all right. Most
judges are extremely courteous and kind
to young barristers. Some are not so
patient. Perhaps the best judges from an
experienced barrister’s point of view are
those who are intellectually tough, de-
manding the best a barrister has to offer
in his advocacy and his knowledge of
the law. With a judge much depends on
the stage he has reached in his career
at the Bar at the time he goes on the
bench whether he still has things, to
prove to himself and others. Judges are
human . ..
Do you prefer to argue in front of a
judge or in front of a jury?
I personally like to do both and find
each a relief from the other. Some are
more comfortable before judges than
juries and vice versa. The Bar is very
keen on keeping juries for civil as well
as criminal cases. I think it helps to
maintain the strength and independence
of the profession. On questions of fact
juries are quite reliable. They have
plenty of experience and common sense.
Do political considerations influence
the appointment of judges?
With one notable exception not at
all in NSW at the present time.
How do barristers square their con-
science in defending a man they believe
to be guilty?
That old chestnut! In the first place
how do you know him to be guilty?
Even if he believes he is such may not
be the case. He does not know the law
and in any event it is for the Crown to
prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt.
It is not for a barrister to judge whether
his client is guilty or not. The barrister’s
job is to put his client’s case at its
highest while demonstrating the weak-
ness in the case against him. That is a
perfectly moral proposition. There are
some circumstances in which a counsel
should, because of special knowledge,
cease to act for a client. But generally
speaking he must accept a brief for any-
one who comes along, whatever he thinks
of his cause. He is on the rank for hire.
As our coat of arms says we are “Ser-
vants of all yet of none.” For those
barristers who are worried by defending
a person they feel to be guilty there is
an easy answer—they should not accept
briefs in the criminal field. In fact in my
experience they do not. Indeed the vast
mass of the work done by the Bar is not
criminal work at all and most barristers
never do appear in criminal trials.
There has been considerable discussion
in England in recent years about fusion
of barristers and solicitors. What do
you think of that idea?
I do not believe fusion will come in
England while times are prosperous. Only
if the Bar feels itself threatened. Like
most barristers in NSW, Queensland
and Victoria I’m against fusion. The
position is firming against fusion in Aus-
tralia. Barristers and solicitors have se-
parate jobs, requiring separate ap-
proaches and skills and producing
separate modes of life. Specialisation is
a growing need. In Western Australia,
a fusion State, there is a movement to-
wards a separate Bar. That is to say a
few lawyers qualified as barristers and
solicitors are setting up in practice indivi-
dually and exclusively as barristers and
not in partnership with anyone practising
as a solicitor. That leaves only SA and
Tasmania. And even there, you know,
although there is fusion some who ap-
pear regularly in the courts do nothing
else. It’s like the US where senior
members of law firms often do advocacy
work exclusively. They don’t act as
solicitors as well, though their partners
do.
Why are Australian barristers so
much more timid than English barristers
to enter public dispute?
I don’t know that they are. England’s
is a more sophisticated society in which
the barrister is encouraged to be inter-
ested in a wide range of matters. He has
more to contribute. He is often better
educated. More is expected of him. He
often has more time and a private in-
come. I’m talking of the top levels. But
the same rules apply here. If a barrister
wants to contribute to a public discussion
he can provided he doesn’t “advertise”,
that is to say he must not say or in-
dicate he is a barrister. A barrister who
is a silk may put the letters QC after his
name in a contribution to a public dis-
cussion but he may not say he is a bar-
rister. And if a barrister wishes to con-
tribute to a public discussion where it is
helpful in the public interest that he
should be known to be a barrister, the
Bar Council now has machinery to
handle that situation and a liberal policy
as well. I would like to stress one point.
Although English newspapers carry
statements by barristers on this, that and
the other subject one should remember
that many of them are either silk or
members of parliament. Otherwise I
think that barristers in England are just
as careful about public statements of
their views in any particular discussion
as we are here. They have substantially
the same rules of ethics.
How do you see the Bar developing
here?
As an Australian institution. Our links
with British practice are very close for
obvious reasons. For one thing we share
the common law. We have a similar ap-
proach to legal ethics and proper con-
duct Our developing communal life has
a similarity to that led in the Inns of
Court but it has considerable differences.
There is a close similarity between prac-
tice at the Bar here and in Britain but
ours is not an exact copy. It is a devel-
oping institution on its own. It will not
diverge radically from the English pat-
tern but there are and will be differences
because this is Australia, not England.
Are Australian barristers as good as
English barristers?
Everything thrown in, they are quite as
good. On the top levels the British prob-
ably have more specialists who shine in
their work in particular fields. I say
probably. Otherwise Australian barris-
ters are quite possibly better. Average
litigation here seems to be a good deal
more plentiful and more rigorous than in
England. Those who have been regu-
larly to England to appear before the
Privy Council do not feel any need to
apologise for the Australian Bar by com-
parison with the English Bar.
It’s said that barristers are rather anti-
reform by nature?
Yes, on the whole. Barristers are con-
servative about the law, even those who
think they are radical in other ways. Just
the same the Bar plays quite a role in
law reform and has committees working
constantly on such matters. It has just
set up a Standing Committee on Law
Reform and it plays a leading role on
the recently established government Law
Reform Committee.
Could the Bar Council be more active?
Perhaps. It may be in time. But
memories are fallible and people forget
that it has spoken in recent years on
such matters as the coroners, money
lenders, parliamentary attacks on the
stipendiary magistrates and so on. Not
everyone at the Bar believes that the
Bar Council should enter public contro-
versies. Most, however, expect the Bar
Council to speak up when the interests
of the Bar are involved, when civil
liberties or the rule of law are
threatened or when important legal issues
arise. An Australian Bar Association was
formed only a year ago which will help
to increase the Bar’s social significance
in the community. It will eventually have
its own journal and will be able to speak
with a national voice. That’s important.
It may also find opportunities to help in-
crease the level of learning at the Bar.


OUT AND ABOUT
A Rage in Paradise
Combating Bali’s Evil Butas
By JOHN STOCKER
For more than a million handsome,
childlike and normally carefree
people in Indonesia’s island of Bali
the violent eruption of their holy moun-
tain, Gunung Agung, will have far more
significance than the immediate tragedy
of the enormous number of deaths and
villagers made homeless and bereft of
their rice crops.
The deeply religious Balinese believe
that the 10.560 ft volcano, long dor-
mant, is the home of their deities and in
every home compound there is a temple
dedicated to Gunung Agung and another
for the neighboring Gunung Batur vol-
cano (5,633 ft) which erupted similarly
in 1916, causing great loss of life and
property.
Nowadays, perched on the rim of the
Batur crater is the village of Kububatur
whose inhabitants moved up there after
a second eruption in 1926 had destroyed
their village at the foot of the mountain,
for the Balinese faith in their unique and
intricate Bali-Hindu religion is appar-
ently unshaken despite these terrifying
manifestations of the anger of their gods,
though there is endless discussion of
possible causes each time.
But the Balinese, and indeed all the
Indonesians of the Malay Archipelago,
must reconcile themselves to mysterious
movements of the earth’s lower crusts
for they live directly over the volcanic
belt of the world. Like die backbone of
some restless, formidable antediluvian
monster, more than three hundred vol-
canoes rise from the sea in a great chain
of islands —perhaps all that remains of
a continent broken up in prehistoric
cataclysms—forming a continuous land
bridge that links Asia with Australia.
One of the smallest of Indonesia’s
States, but perhaps the most extraordin-
ary, Bali has since the thirties enjoyed
an enormous prestige as travellers re-
turn with tales of the beauty of the
island and its people and of their unique
culture and artistry.
Basically Bali is a cluster of volcanoes,
their craters studded with serene lakes
set in dark forests filled with screaming
monkeys. The long green slopes of the
volcanoes, deeply furrowed by ravines
washed out by rushing livers full of
rapids and waterfalls, drop steadily to
the sea without forming lowlands. The
present wet season has filled these
streams and bridges have been washed
away, hindering relief and rescue work in
the disaster area, which includes the
whole of the eastern end of the island.
Many people are surprised to read of
the large numbers of refugees. Without
a visit to Bali it is hard to imagine the
density of the population —made possible
by the reaping of two crops of good
quality rice annually from the warm,
moist terraces of volcanic alluvium. Just
eight degrees south of the equator, Bali
has over two thousand square miles of
extravagantly fertile lands, most of which
are beautifully cultivated. But there is
a large dry region, uninhabited and cov-
ered with low scrub, in the western re-
gion, so that the foothills of the moun-
tains carry the bulk of the population.
Tragically enough Gunung Agung
abruptly ended the “One Hundred Year”
festival at the mother temple of Bali,
Besakih, half way up its slopes. Hun-
dreds of the worshippers were killed by
the ash cloud, the temperature of which
was reported to be 230 degrees. It is
said that Besakih temple has survived
undamaged but even if it is obliterated
the Balinese are certain to rebuild it.
The Balinese regard their island as
“paradise”—the centre of the world —■
and Ganung Agung is its navel. Apart
from those who live on the Batur crater
lake the Balinese dislike going too far up
their sacred mountains for fear of offend-
ing their gods. Similarly they dislike the
sea which they believe is the home of
evil and unclean spirits. This distingu-
ishes them from nearly all other Pacific
and SE Asian peoples, but their attitude
is possibly partly accounted for by the
inhospitable nature of their shores. The
coasts are little indented and are con-
stantly exposed to the fuli force of the
monsoons; where they are not bordered
by dangerous coral reefs they rise from
the sea in steep cliffs. The straits are
deep and tidal currents strong. Tourist
liners often anchor off Padang Bay while
their launches take the passengers to
shore along the steep lusniy green cliffs.
Near Den Passar, the capital lying
some 70 miles westwards from the erupt-
ed volcano, there are beaches, but they
are not popular with the people, only a
few of whom turn to fishing. The un-
friendly coast also probably accounts
for the centuries-long isolation of Bali
which was penetrated in the north by the
Dutch in only 1882 and m the south in
1906. Upon the latter occasion the
Dutch punitive expedition engaged in
remarkable incidents with the local rul-
ers who, with their entire families and
courts, advanced slowly towards the
troops in ceremonial procession wearing
their costliest jewels and accompanied by
their umbrella bearers. Suddenly, at
close range, they threw themselves
suicidally upon the Dutch and those who
were not shot down stabbed themselves
with their bejewelled krises.


Bright sunshine and crisp air
. . . a dazzling snow landscape
decorated by crystal - hung
chandelier trees . . . dancing
and parties in the ski chalets
around blazing log fires . . .
Put yourself in Victoria’s snow
picture this year. It’s not
necessary to be a skier to en-
joy the exhilaration and fun
of the snow.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
♦
VIC TOUR
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
78 ELIZABETH STREET, BRISBANE
Until late in the 15th century Bali was
part of the great Hindu-Javanese empire
culminating in the reign of Modjopahit.
Earlier, at about the time of the Norman
Conquest of Britain, the Balinese Prince
Erlangga married one of the Javanese
King's daughters. Upon his father-in-
law’s death he assumed rule of Java and
strengthened the links between Java and
Bali. Some Balinese see Indonesia’s
President Soekarno in a similar role to
that of Erlangga, who figures prominent-
ly in their history, because Soekarno’s
mother was born in Bali and he is obvi-
ously proud of his links with the beauti-
ful island.
For this reason he has probably been
more than ordinarily sympathetic to-
wards the contrary and insular Bali, so
at variance with the spirit he wishes to
engender throughout Indonesia.
When Islam came from the North the
Javanese princes of the collapsing Mod-
jopahit Empire fled to Bali, together with
court entourages of musicians, actors,
dancers, sculptors, craftsmen and poets.
This noble invasion put its stamp firmly
upon the civilisation of Bali as it deve-
loped during the following centuries.
There was then practically no further
cultural exchange between Java and Bali
and whilst the Moslem way of life be-
came common throughout the Malay-
sian archipelago the Balinese evolved
one of the world’s most intricate, indi-
vidualised religions, which today still
affects nearly every Balinese.
Of course in the larger centres the
traders and the Indonesian military,
police and administrative officials have
exerted a strong influence over the locals,
particularly the young. But even so, this
and the influence of Dutch colonisation
(they were careful to interfere with the
communal structure as little as possible),
missionaries (mostly unsuccessful), Jap-
anese invaders, the Indonesian revolu-
tion and the tourist trade have touched
the Balinese very lightly.
A harmony of living
village is run communally—no
matter who the overlords from else-
where may be—and though they differ
greatly in their customs one from an-
other, all are imbued with a sense of
communal conscience and religious fer-
vour. Scarcely a day passes without some
festival or dance performance in the
temples. Every home has its shrines and
within each family compound (all Bali-
nese like to live in compounds surround-
ed by walls) there are temples for the
worship of various deities.
Bali is a land of thousands of temples
for they are everywhere—in villages,
paddy-fields, under banyan trees, on
beaches, in caves and on hillsides. The
great mother temple of Besakih, with its
numerous courtyards and hundreds of
temples within the walls thatched over
with roofs of sugar palm, is typical of
the princely temples, many with rich
carvings in stone, though there is no
actual worship of these images. In every
temple offerings of food and flowers are
given daily to the gods who are believed
to come down in spirit to partake of the
unseen essence of them.
The simple needs of agrarian people
are easily supplied by the fruitful soil
and there is therefore much leisure time
for religious rites, for dancing, gossip
and the constant bathing indulged by
all the people, for the Balinese love
physical beauty and take great care of
their skin and hair.
It has long been recognised by visitors
that no other race gives the impression
of living in such close touch with nature.
There seems a complete harmony be-
tween the people and their surroundings.
The slender Balinese bodies, lightly tan-
ned, are as much a part of the landscape
as the palms and bread-fruit trees. Their
smooth skins have the same tone as the
earth and the brown streams in which
they bathe. The general color scheme
is relieved here and there by bright-
colored sashes and tropica! flowers.
In the evening when the rhythms of
the gamelan orchestras proclaim some
dance the young men put a flower behind
their ear and hurry along to watch the
various ritual performances
Though the language ol trade and
communication with the Javanese offi-
cials is Indonesian-Malay the Balinese
have their own languages—two of them,
one for the higher princely caste and one
for the common people. These two lan-
guages are unrelated, for the former is
one that came with the fifteenth century
influx of nobility, and yet Balinese learn
both and many know at least a little
of the old archaic Javanese language,
Kawi, the largely Sanscrit classical lan-
guage of poetry and the drama.
Bali’s way of life is the ideally evolved
existence for its own crowded society,
the balance of which will be upset con-
siderably by the need to repatriate thou-
sands of Eastern refugees. But if the
Indonesians evacuate them elsewhere
they may be absolutely miserable. Be-
lieving in reincarnation, the worst fate
that can befall a serious transgressor is
that he may be reborn somewhere out-
side Bali. Good and evil, right and left,
gods and demons, are banded into two
opposing factions, constantly at war,
whose weapons are magic powers and
whose stakes the lives and interests of
the Balinese themselves, thus compelling
them to propitiate both sides so as not to
attract the wrath of either party.
At this time the Balinese undoubtedly
believe that the Butas, forces of evil,
control their lovely island.


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
ttfoOTSaal
CHERR'
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
kIJLOV
Vodka
1
VODKA
A Matter of Life and Death
What happens to a one-horse town when the horse dies?
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Dubbo in the central west of New
South Wales is a live town, in
spite of the fact that a top-rating
programme on the local radio station,
sponsored by the local funeral director,
is the reading of death notices and
funeral arrangements, interspersed with
appropriate music.
Dubbo, the Hub of the West, thinks
that it is going ahead faster and will go
further than Bathurst, the Gateway to
the West, or, alternatively, the Cradle
of the Nation (west of the Great Divide
you can forget about Sydney), and
Orange, the Queen City of the West.
Dubbo has doubled its population since
1948. The population is now 15,000,
including one psychiatrist. And, point
out the Dubbo people, Orange has some-
thing like 1500 mental patients included
in its population of nearly 20.000 while
Bathurst’s 17,000 take in the fluctuating
population of the gaol.
Dubbo feels it can outstrip the other
two towns (or, rather cities; Orange and
Bathurst have been declared cities, while
Dubbo’s rather perverse aim is to be-
come the biggest country town in the
State) because it is not “hemmed in” as
they are. It can grow because it serves
an enormous area in fact, something
like half a State. The visionaries of
Dubbo narrow their eyes against the dust
and see their back-country extending
right up through the Northern Territory.
The local committee of FIDO (Federal
Inland Development Organisation) looks
to the day when beef roads from the
Centre will bring stock to the Dubbo
abattoirs, which already employs a
couple of hundred people. Dubbo will
also benefit from the Burrendong Dam,
due to be finished late this year, and ex-
pects to have 300 new farms along the
banks of the Macquarie.
The central west was the area chosen
for this year’s journalists’ tour, organ-
ised by the Royal Agricultural Society
and sponsored by the Shell group of
companies, as a prelude to the Royal
Easter Show. The concentration is nat-
urally on farming matters, but the towns
in the area are most hospitable. The hos-
pitality often ignores the local products
for Sydney importations. At Mudgee we
visited the winery of Mr J. Roth, and
sampled his excellent products, but at
the Mudgee Hotel his wines were not
on the list. And perhaps the size and
importance of a country town these days
can most accurately be judged by the
number of Sydney oysters air-freighted
there each day.
Loca| ide and between -town rival-
r|es are commendable but to someone
from a cit of 2j00 0,000 there still seems
, , ... ... . , , , ...
x
a e ° S^^° r a °^ n ° C^ SS an
’ , w at is t e u ure oi t. e avei
a § e CoL,ntr y town? Country towns need
to S row to counterbalance the fringe
development ot a continent, but of more
practical importance is that they should
be able to provide a satisfactory life for
those who live in them and aiound them.
Being close to a centre of sufficient
size saves the farmer time and money.
A large town can provide adequate
schools, so that the financial burden of
boarding-schools disappears or is lighter.
It may provide a variety of medical
care, and it can look after most business,
banking and other matters more directly
connected with farming.
A town of a certain size will develop
some pattern of its own and cease to
be merely a hitching-post for the coun-
try people. This can make life more
pleasant for the residents and also for
those permanently displaced people,
teachers and bank officers. For example,
Bathurst has a handsome new civic cen-
tre, with a library and art gallery, built
by the council. In Dubbo the service
clubs have helped to build a school for
handicapped children, a sheltered work-
shop and are now planning a hostel
where handicapped children can live
while getting treatment.
Licensed clubs and motels, whatever
their aesthetic defects, have made life
more attractive in country towns. Most
towns now offer some sort of social life,
although it may not be what everyone
wants. Once a town reaches a certain
stage the people in it do not feel they
have to touch a mental forelock to any
farmer who comes to town. They can
develop their own structure of snobber-
ies. “If you belong to one of the service
clubs here, such as Rotary, you can have
a conversation any time with the town’s
leading doctor,” said an enthusiastic
Dubbo alderman. “You couldn’t do that
with a Macquarie Street specialist.” The
point of view that whether you wanted
to talk to Dubbo’s leading specialist or
not depended on what sort of a talker,
not on what sort of a doctor, he was,
did not seem to appeal to the alderman.


Although towns, such as Dubbo,
Orange and Bathurst, have grown con-
siderably since the war, their problem
is still to find a firm base on which to
grow further. In spite of this, the old
catch-cry, “decentralisation” now seems
almost as out of date as that other one,
“put more people on the land.” Country
people want secondary industry, but not
just as a matter of principle. They want
it only if it is profitable. There are too
many ruins of unsuccessful ventures as
reminders of how chancy industry in
isolation can be. Factories in country
towns can and do succeed Orange
has a large electrical-appliance works
but their chances are better if produc-
tion does not involve bringing raw mat-
erials to the site and then freighting the
finished product back to the city. The
tendency nowadays is, perhaps, to build
from the ground up; that is, to process
a raw product available in the area.
Bathurst now has a factory making office
furniture from pinewood grown in
Oberon.
Wellington is pinning its faith in tour-
ism. While Dubbo will get the principal
benefit from the Burrendong Dam, Wel-
lington gets the dam itself. The dam will
be 3i times the size of Sydney harbor
(with Sydney harbor always used as the
yardstick for comparison, generally un-
favorable, something will have to be
done about the harbor some time) and
the Wellington people see 500 holiday
homes and cabins on its banks with sail-
ing and water-skiing on its waters.
The growth of advantageously placed
or enterprising towns still can cause
jealous fury in nearby villages, one-horse
towns which feel their horse is dropping
dead between the shafts.
“Molong was always crying out for
bitumen between there and Orange,”
said an Orange-man, “and ever since
they got it they’ve been moaning that
Orange takes trade away from their
town.”
In the old days the local bakery was
always part of the group of buildings
of the one-street town. Narromine, west
of Dubbo, once had three small baker-
ies, all making the one sort of loaf to
supply the town. Now the bread is
baked in Dubbo, taking only H hours
per week of the production of the bakery
there, and trucked to Narromine. The
Narromine people get a wide variety of
bread, more efficiently and economically
produced, but that does not stop them
from complaining about Dubbo taking
business away from their town.
The aim of the RAS-Shell tour was
to cover as wide a field as possible.
Five cattle studs, a Southdown stud, the
Bathurst Experimental Farm and the
Fairbridge Farm School were visited. The
tour has become something of a classic
in public relations. This was the sixth
and how successful it is, in terms of a
gallon sold or more people through the
turnstiles at the Showground, can be
judged only by the people involved. Cer-
tainly it is a welcome change from the
average public relations effort a warm
drink thrust into one hand and an in-
accurate handout into the other.
The Bathurst Experimental Farm,
established in 1895 and run by the De-
partment of Agriculture, faces an inde-
finite future. The farm has been an
important centre of research for fruit-
growing, particularly apples and pears.
The farm has recently finished a 30-year
experiment into root-stocks for apples,
and, in spite of the fact that it may be
closed down, has planted a stand of
peaches for another 30-year experiment.
The farm studies packing and market
presentation of fruits and works with the
CSIRO on methods of cool storage and
canning of fruits.
The Fairbridge Farm School at Molong
has a distinct aura of the days when an
empire was an empire. The Fairbridge
schools (there is another at Pinjarra, in
Western Australia, and one in Canada)
were founded by Rhodesian-born Rhodes
scholar, Kingsley Fairbridge. Fairbridge,
who died in 1924 aged 39, seems from
his picture in the main hall, to have been
a muscular Rupert Brooke. The Molong
school was founded 13 years after his
death. The principal, Mr F. K. S.
Woods, has been there for 24 years.
"CUirbridge’s idea was to counter the
A overcrowding of Britain with the empty
spaces of the “colonies.” Some of the
children at the home now are orphans or
from broken homes who are sent from
England, but others are children of Brit-
ish migrants who are trying to establish
themselves in Australia. The boys are
taught farming and most remain in rural
industry. The girls, according to the
school’s handout, “receive training in
domestic science,” and it is apparent that
in days gone by they must have been
regarded as a steady source of that
scarce commodity—domestic help for
country homesteads. However, many of
them now go nursing, teaching or into
whatever calling they choose.
The farm school gets help from the
British, Commonwealth and NSW Gov-
ernments, but it also relies on public
help and could always do with a bit
more.
If Fairbridge is something of an out-
post of Empire, Havilah homestead, near
Mudgee, is redolent of Colonial days.
The Havilah merino stud of pure Saxon
blood was established in 1832. It has
been “closed” since 1880 and is the only
remaining pure Saxony stud on the main-
land. There are four in Tasmania.
The Havilah Devon stud was founded
by H. C. H. White and the present stud-
master is his great-grandson, Denis
White. The stud has exhibited at the
Royal Easter Show for 62 years with-
out a break.
The homestead was built in 1880 and
Mrs Peter White thinks it has 40 rooms.
“But, of course, I’ve never really count-
ed them,” she said. Much of the furni-
ture, brought from England, was taken
from Sydney to Mudgee by bullock-
dray.
Mr David White, who looks after the
merino stud, has a strong liking for
raising different birds and animals. His
current enthusiasm is fighting cocks.
These handsome birds are for exhibi-
tion only, although Mr White said there
was a small business in exporting them
to countries such as the West Indies and
the Philippines where cock-fighting is
legal. Mr White said he'd never really
investigated it fully, but he believed that
cock-fighting wasn’t actually illegal in
Australia. It became so only if bets
were placed.
He said he had no particular desire to
see whether his birds were game or not,
although they quickly grow belligerent
when they come face to face. Mr
White said that he thought exporting
them was hardly worth the trouble. “I’m
told that in the Philippines they fancy a
‘slasher’ fighter,” he said, “that is one
which can kill his opponent with one
strike from the steel spur which is at-
tached to the feet for fighting. I’d never
know if mine, placed in the ring, would
simply fly away.”
A family anecdote concerns Mr
White's fluctuating enthusiasms. At one
time he decided to try pig-raising and
bought an expensive sow. A few days
later his father, Mr Peter White, spot-
ted the sow creating havoc in his prized
vegetable garden. “David,” he called,
“come and get this sow out of my
garden.” “Coming, father.” Ten min-
utes later there was another appeal.
“David, come and get this pig out of my
vegetable garden.” “Coming, father.”
Another 10 minutes elapsed then there
was the sound of a shot, followed by
“David, come and get this bit of bacon
out of my vegetable garden.”


EXPORTERS: This will interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
v':,i ■
:
isiii
■'% i ■ '
■
MiiMH
"■WM
r-v
'TP*
■■:■■■
Mi i-Vf
: :"'.i
rtf
wsiifiiiii
• : S' i
lIS 4Bm
Mm
»
»i
m:
■SI
■ m
mm Wh^
:
ills;
i«§§
i hMBMM'
...■•••> ! .Wtt
Air Cargo’d with Care ... to anywhere!
These goldfish will “swim” 6,000 miles tonight! Courtesy of
Qantas Air Cargo, of course. And they’ll do it within a con-
fined area as carefully thought out by Qantas as an astronaut’s
capsule. Housed in special water-filled plastic bags, these
little fellows will be fed and fended for in flight. Whether
your consignment is fish or fowl . . . whether it’s orchids or
TV picture tubes, you can count on Qantas to handle it with
an efficiency and skill born of 42 years of air cargo experience.
Air Cargo to the world. Qantas Air Cargo, with its associated
airlines and interlining facilities with over 90 lATA airlines,
enables you to airfreight your goods to anywhere in the
world. Qantas has the experience, the know-how, the equip-
ment, the people and the aircraft to enable it to offer you
fast, dependable Air Cargo services to almost any part of
the world.
Major markets only hours away. In effect, Qantas brings you
instant world markets. Think Qantas Air Cargo and think in
terms of hours not weeks. Rest assured that Qantas has an
appreciation of the importance to you of the arrival on time
and in perfect condition of the merchandise you entrust to
their care. Specify Qantas to your Air Cargo Agent or contact
Qantas.
QANTAS AIR CARGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the
most comprehensive transport systems in
the world. Qantas analyses each export/
import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service — FßEE.
1- Distribution time and static time
analysis gives you a time and motion
plot on your goods from despatch to
arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete
shipping operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging
with suggested modifications for the
lighter, more economical handling and
packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, acceler-
ated cartage, taxation and insurance
reductions.
5. Analysis of current economic situations
of world markets, quarantine, import,
currency and customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas
countries in Qantas offices in Europe,
America, Asia, the Orient, New Zea-
land and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s
IMPQRTant to you!
Qantas Empire Airways Limited, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC94.FP8.33


FORUM
Is Boxing Murder?
The “boxing-must-go ” enthusiasts only help to prevent the
reforms needed
By DISCUS
seems to have been the victim, once again, of people’s inability
to think clearly through an issue charged with emotional factors.
When Benny Paret was battered to death in the ring last year, and when
Davey Moore died from less definite causes this year, each time there was
an immediate outcry for the abolition of boxing. One of the few balanced
reactions came from Vatican Radio, which called for a revision of the
rules, “to bring prize fighting within the tolerable limits of civilisation”.
The Vatican Radio made a clear dis-
tinction between amateur and profes-
sional boxing, and also a distinction be-
tween events in the USA and elsewhere
with the comment: “Such unpleasant and
tragic incidents are caused by outside
and unforeseen factors.” This was
echoed in Sydney by a Roman Catholic
spokesman who said: “Boxing in itself
is not morally evil provided it has the
proper safeguards. But it seems these
safeguards are not being provided in
America where the art of boxing has
degenerated, through graft and racket-
eering.”
Whether these aspects of boxing do
greatly affect the life or death of any
man in a ring is uncertain. They may,
sometimes, in America, bat it is more
likely that they affect boxing’s value to
the public, rather than the boxers’ health.
Generally the boxer who gets killed is
the one who takes an unnecessary beat-
ing, and there can be many reasons for
that, or combinations of reasons.
Behind the emotionalism, the fact is
that many sports kill more of their par-
ticipants than boxing does. They include
football, motor racing, horse racing,
motor cycling, and even cricket. But
they don’t do it as directly, as obviously,
with the atmosphere of old-fashioned
brutality and the crowd roaring for
blood. Nor do they always do it with as
much publicity. When blood flows in a
Sydney or Melbourne ring, or a London
or New York one, it’s seen on television,
in newspaper pictures, it’s heard about
on radio. When a footballer is killed in
Alice Springs, Llandudno or Dubuque, it
rarely makes the city newspapers.
Again, the Vatican Radio had this
sensible comment: “All sports have their
risks. Their death lists are more or less
long. This in itself is not a sufficient
reason to condemn them.” Nearly all
sports do have their fatalities, though in
many the cause is in the victim’s phy-
sical structure. He goes out to play or
compete with a known or unknown
weakness, and a strenuous effort kills
him. To arrive at some exact estimate
of the risks in various sports, we need to
separate the deaths of the physically
trained and the untrained, with another
figure for pure accidents
No boxer should ever enter a ring
with insufficient gymnasium training,
even if he is one of those apparent na-
turals like Tony Galento who can train
with a beer stein. Anyone who has seen
well built, healthy looking young men in
better than average condition wilt and
become distressed after four two minute
rounds of boxing knows the dangers
here. But wherever boxing exists, trained
boys fail to arrive and untrained “emer-
gencies” are sent in. They are given a
physical examination as to heart, lungs,
sight and perhaps reflexes.
This is a necessary preliminary to the
statement that, so far as is known, about
400 boxers have died since glove fighting
was introduced around the turn of the
century, and about half of them have
died since 1945. In the higher income
countries where boxing has continued,
fewer boys have been in training to be-
come fighters, and although no one has
kept statistics it is likely that many un-
prepared boxers, untrained “substitutes”,
have been among the 200 or so since
1945. Significantly, before Moore and
Paret, the only other boxer killed in a
world title fight, in the records going
back to 1900, was a welter named Jimmy
Doyle who fought Sugar Ray Robinson
in 1947.
It would be found that a small pro-
portion of the fatalities occurred in the
main events of boxing, with a peak num-
ber centred around the six and eight
round events. This is the point in a
fight where an unprepared boxer has to
fight on his nerve, and courage can be
his worst enemy. If he won’t go down,
his life can depend on the referee, who
has three bosses to consider, his own
instinct, his employers, and the demands
of the crowd.
This is one of several points where
American and Australian conditions di-
verge. Australian crowds can be as
hoarse and bloodthirsty as any when the
action is even, but once it’s clear that
a man is beaten, the audience would just
as soon see another bout, or go home.
In America, as the Catholic spokesman
in Sydney remarked, boxing “now ap-
pears to be merely a brutal spectacle
calculated to further the blood lust of
spectators and to enrich unscrupulous
and gangster-type promoters.”
In the Griffith-Paret tight, from the
films and the referee’s comments later, it
seemed that the crowd did more than its
share to bring about Paret’s death. He
was helpless on the ropes and an Austra-
lian referee would have almost certainly
stopped the fight. And a big section of
the crowd would have been calling for
that. Much of the opposition to boxing
comes from people who have not seen
many, if any, boxing matches, but who
are basing their opinions on impressions.
Here is a perfect “f’rinstance” from
“Disgusted” in one of the newspapers:
“It is time all civilised people put an end
to the man-killing sport of professional
boxing. It is degrading enough that men
should be permitted to pummel each
other to bloody pulp. But when they
die . . .” etc. The only fighters I’ve seen
pummelled to “bloody pulp” or anything
remotely like it in many years have been
in street fights. In Australian boxing
rings it is very rare.
More unexpected was an editorial in
the “Age” last week, “Prize Fighting Has
No Place In Sport”. Some excerpts from
it: “Defenders of professional boxing
have argued that it is only the over-
worked incompetents of the trade who
are in danger of death or serious injury
because they fight too often and are too
heavily battered by their more skilled
opponents. It is easy enough to argue
that there are dangers in all sports . . .
but these dangers are accidental . . .
boxing is the only contest surviving in
which the chief object of the opponents
is to injure each other, and in particular


I
At
The Show
aPI
n %
9
,■■s
rnr commercial
BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL
SAVINGS BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
A complete, modern
Trading and Savings
Bank service right on
the spot at the Royal
Easter Show The
Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited is
operating just that. If
you’re visiting, exhibit-
ing, or a stall holder,
we can help you.
Location: 97-99 Manufacturers Hall
OPEN DAILY, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
7.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
Excepting April 8 and 12 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m.
CBA/68/16
to cause concussion by a blow to the
head ... the fighter has to entertain the
audience . . . unless he is prepared to
take heavy punishment his chances of
promotion are small.”
Well, fight crowds admire pugnacious
fighters a little, and fighters who take
heavy punishment not at all. There are
many boxers at the top who have never
hit anyone hard in their lives. And to
return the riposte, it is easy to argue that
a sport in which the risks are deliberately
incurred is less defensible than one in
which there are as great or greater risks,
but accidental ones. A death is a death.
Without being at all facetious, where I
live many people are in more danger of
death every day crossing the roads than
any boxer I’ve seen in a lifetime.
As one of the defenders of profes-
sional boxing, and one who would like
to see much amateur boxing, or much
better amateurs, I have never argued
that only the overworked incompetents
of the trade are in danger of death or
serious injury. It is a matter of record
that in recent months I have queried the
futures of two leading welterweights if
they were to continue fighting. In fact,
incompetents don’t get overworked, but
sometimes good average fighters do.
Now it is time to say that death in the
ring is so rare that to pin a call for an
end to boxing, or even a revision of the
rules, to it does not make the kind of
commonsense that appeals to the hard-
headed men on whom to depend for
action. In most instances they are
politicians. The “boxing-must-go” en-
thusiasts can only help to prevent the
reforms boxing needs.
The sport came up in the last cen-
tury when it was almost universally
banned. It was illegal in Australia, and
the police used to raid the “exhibitions”
at Professor Larry Foley’s ecole de
stoush and treat the fighters and the
Fancy to a tour of the watch-house.
There was a demand for it, and it be-
came legal, and to some extent policed.
If it becomes an anachronism, as its
opponents suggest it is, then it will die
a natural death. And perhaps in time that
will be regretted, because it will mean
that young men have found another way
of testing themselves than in man to man
combat. At present the trend is strongly
towards man versus machine and man
and machine versus roads and circuits.
It’s more dangerous, more personal,
more readily available, more likely to
kill. Sometimes I wonder how many of
the community’s serious elders know
what is going on in the world.
I think it very likely that boxing could
become a thing of the past, if the pre-
sent dearth of good fighters continues.
And in its desperate days, there may be
too many matches between men in dif-
ferent divisions, such as Wally Taylor,
featherweight, versus Aldo Pravisani,
lightweight, or some overmatching, such
as Gary Cowburn versus Ralph Dupas
of the USA.
Deaths, no. But the injuries in boxing
are something else again. Doctors differ
in their opinions about the effects of
repeated blows, and some consider any
punch potentially lethal, some believe
that only certain parts of the body are
open to damage, and some take the
fatalistic view that there are only a
couple of hundred boxers working, per-
haps 50 with any frequency, and their
possible injuries are a drop in the ocean
of accidents on the roads and in in-
dustries. As one said to me, “I’d rather
be a boxer than a coal miner, all things
considered, if that’s any help.”
There are many things wrong with
boxing in Australia. The would-be
abolitionists only draw such replies as
the NSW Chief Secretary made last
week: “The control of boxing in NSW
is satisfactory. We have a pretty good
record in Australia. Boxers undergo
rigid medical examinations. If there is


room for improvement, the Government
will make the improvement.”
There is certainly room for improve-
ment, and it is very doubtful whether
any Government will make it without
much prodding. The logical first step is
medical inquiry to determine just what
does happen when men are hit hard in
the stomach, on the jaw, and on the
side of the head. It may be necessary to
make one of these areas a foul blow spot.
Other revisions could be desirable. I
don’t believe headguards or padding
would be. The more men pad up, the
more they seem to get killed, when
power and force replace speed and
evasion. But something to protect the
frontal bone and eyebrows from cutting
might be good. It would mean less blood
in the ring and fewer “Disgusteds.”
Above all, boxing needs Commission,
not abolition. It is wrong for the fate of
men in such a strenuous sport to be left
in the hands of promoters, however well
meaning. Supervision, with definite
authority, is needed to ensure that medi-
cal inquiry is conducted, its findings
given effect, and further methods found
to check the total physical and cerebral
conditions of boxers at frequent inter-
vals. The research would be useful to
other branches of sports medicine.
Perhaps it’s an impossible ideal to
suggest, too, that no fighter should be
allowed in the ring unless he has a
licence which proves that his defence
is adequate. Certainly it should be so
for boxers engaged in bouts over six
rounds and more, with further proof
that they have trained sufficiently for
that distance. Even the best of boys,
tiring, takes undue punishment, as Bruce
Pine learned in Sydney last week.
An enthusiastic Commissioner could
make amateur and professional boxing
much better and more acceptable sports.
He might even be able to convince the
less fanatic opponents that boxing has
some social values, unique ones. It is
an extremely tactical sport, encourages
tenacity, is easy to watch and under-
stand, is more international than any
other sport, and offers training in cour-
age, good reflexes, endurance under
hardship, and those old-fashioned attri-
butes, manliness and sportsmanship.
It does not encourage prima donnas,
bad-tempered brawlers, dirty contes-
tants, excuse inventors, bad losers or any
of the other pests who exist in some of
the more popular sports. No boxer
kicks a fallen man, swears at the gallery,
throws his racket away, or abuses the
referee.
Boxing is dangerous. That needs re-
duction. It does harm anyone who stays
with it long enough. That risk could be
lessened, must be. But its abolition is
not desirable. Some form of control is,
to force the revisions it needs.
God has the Wrong Image
"Go-ahead marketing experts or theologians , if you wish"
By MICHAEL FRAYN
(A London comment on the Bishop of Woolwich’s plea for a new look at God)
article in these pages last week by
A the Bishop of Woolwich, entitled Our
Image of God Must Go, shall light such
a neon sign by God’s grace in England
as I trust shall never be put out.’ ”
Or so the Bishop of Twicester, the
well-known progressive divine, will say
this afternoon at the mass rally of
OIGMGO the Our Image of God
Must Go Movement in Trafalgar
Square. The Bishop will be supported on
the platform by some of the most distin-
guished forward-looking Christians in
the country, including Rollo Swavely (the
well-known public relations consultant),
Arnica Urgestraw (the Daily Pill’s Chris-
tian Cookery Correspondent and Sincerity
Expert), and Rock Richmond (the
eminent teenager).
According to my advance copy, the
Bishop will go on to say:—
“This is a moving moment for me,
witnessing at the birth of OIGMGO. As
I’m sure some of you know, I have always
been a strong supporter of Oecumenical,
or broadening, trends in the Church, and
opposed to Oiccumenical, or over-de-
manding, ones, and I’m deeply convinced
that Oigmgogicalism is the most Oecu-
menical and anti-Oiccumenical develop-
ment yet.
“Let’s look at this thing in realistic
twentieth-century terms. We’re in busi-
ness, after all, like any other enterprise,
and one of our directors, the Bishop of
Woolwich, has put before us a report
telling us why our sales are falling off. He
has consulted several go-ahead marketing
experts or theologians, if you wish
and they all say the same thing. God has
got the wrong image.
“Let’s not beat about the bush. If God’s
got the wrong image, then our adver-
tising is to blame Some firms benefit from
projecting a highly personalised image, by
building up the chairman as a lovable
human being. Sime don't. In spite of all
the very lovely material our advertising
department has produced on the personal
theme in the past, I think we must realise
that in the competitive world of today
it suffers from a technical drawback which
I believe is known in the profession
as a low credibility factor. The ordinary
man in the street simply doesn’t believe
it. The Bishop of Woolwich's great break-
through has been to point out that the
ordinary man in the bishopric doesn’t
believe it either.
“Now —if I may keep to the same
metaphor the Bishop of Woolwich
didn’t just throw in his hand at this
point and say that if we couldn’t even
sell to the staff the firm might as well go
into liquidation.
“So he said: God must have a new
image we must run an entirely new
campaign based on the slogan “God is
Ultimate Reality”. One can only humbly
applaud such a masterly grasp of adver-
tising practice. The idea of reality, you
see, already has a very high acceptance,
and I think people will say to themselves
that whatever Ultimate Reality is, it is
at any rate clearly an improvement on
reality—a sort of New Wonder Reality
containing Formula X.
“There’s nothing in the new scheme, so
far as I can see, about the Wonderful Free
Gift Offer that life subscribers got under
the old system. But I’m not sure how
much effect on sales it ever had—you did
have to save up the coupons for an
awfully long time before you saw any
return.
“And then, as I said before, Square Deal
Oigmgogicalism is so wonderfully oecu-
menical. You can’t really be against
Ultimate Reality, can you, whatever it
may be? So in a sense, you see, every-
body must be on our side. However, one
mustn’t fall into the trap of indifferentism,
and there is one qualification which the
Bishop of Woolwich does lay down.
While reality can finally be reduced to
mathematical formulae, he says, ‘what
the Christian says is that in, with and
under these regularities, and giving ulti-
mate significance to them, is the yet
deeper reliability of an utterly personal
Love.’
“Now 1 don’t think we should be too
hard on the poor old atheist if he doesn’t
quite follow us here. I don’t want to seem
to be casting aspersions on race, color,
or creed, but I rather feel that your aver-
age atheist as charming a fellow as
he may be in other respects simply
cannot see how there can be Love in,
with, or under anything except in so far
as there are beings doing the loving.
“Well, we all have our blind spots. We
can't see how there can be Right without
mitres, or Good without gaiters. The blind
leading the blind, one might say—but
provided it’s our lot of blind doing the
leading I don’t think we need worry too
much.”


MOTORING
Now the VW 1500
Only Chevrolet heats the “booming beetle"
By BOADICEA
Even the most ardent VW supporter,
with his copy of “Beyond Expecta-
tions” (the VW story) under his
arm, must have been proudly amazed
when recently Volkswagen moved into
second place in the list of the world’s
biggest sellers of one make automobiles.
Only GM’s giant Chevrolet Division,
which commands roughly one-third of the
American market, lies ahead of the
“booming beetle”. VW’s success comes at
a time when Germany’s economic ex-
pansion has slowed. Almost everywhere
throughout the world VW dealers have
waiting lists; the USA, with roughly a
quarter of a million VWs a year, is the
largest market outside Germany. The
only exception is Australia, where the
local factory and its distributors don't
enjoy such green pastures. The main
reason, as every car marketer here has
found, is the Holden, a GM product and
a shining jewel even in that mammoth
corporation’s glittering crown. Cheap
enough, large enough, fast enough and
sold by the world's outstanding “system”,
the Holden makes it tough tor any com-
petitor as its two-to-one sales show. But
surprisingly every now and then a VW
dealer outsells his rival Holden dealer
for a month. The opponents have a
healthy respect for each other. GM ad-
mires the VW service organisation and
VW covets GM’s selling organisation.
VW Australia holds a lucrative 10 per
cent, plus of our market but it knows in-
creasing difficulties lie ahead in the shape
of the reorganised BMC organisation
with its Morris 850, and later the 1100.
Hence the introduction of the VW 1500
from Germany, due for release very soon
from the local factory. The beetle con-
tinues to grow in stature with countless
small but sensible improvements. VW
Germany is known to have many proto-
type under test and an addition to the
existing 1200 and 1500 ranges is likely
in the shape of a larger six-cylinder car.
Judging by the performance and quality
of the 1500, a 2-litre, 6-cylinder VW
should really be a cat among pigeons.
The new 1500 car I rate as one of the
best concepts in motoring I have ever
driven. I doubt whether it will outshine
the beetle's legendary history for it con-
forms more to the public’s idea of a car
whereas the beetle never did and, because
Df this, the 1500 will be unobtrusive and
less of a talking point. But it is a far
better car and in my opinion worth all
and more of its <£1,199. Built on the
rigid platform design with fully inde-
pendent suspension and rear-engined,
the 1500 follows the successful VW for-
mula. VW advertising gets a boost from
the fact that every Grand Prix car racing
today uses the rear-engined principle.
The 1500 has naturally more horse-
power than the 1200 or beetle VW, 53
bhp against 40, but has added weight as
a penalty. The performance of the 1500
is sufficiently exhilarating, to me at any
rate, and decidedly faster than the 1200.
A genuine 80 mph cruising speed is easy
and a quarter mile from iest takes only
21.5 seconds. The real forte of the 1500
is neither its speed nor acceleration but,
in the VW tradition, its effortless gait
over long distance.
1500 too good for us?
The beetle itself was no sluggard on a
■*" Melbourne-Sydney run but whereas it
could put away 60 miles in every hour
the 1500 would add another ten. There
are too few cars that can do likewise
without becoming weary or, equally im-
portant, the driver and passengers be-
coming weary. Far easier to drive than
the bustling beetle, the 1500 is straight-
forward with less oversteering character-
istics. There is a school of drivers which
prefers “over” to “under” steer on the
ground that, under extreme limits of
fast motoring, oversteer is ultimately
safer and on curling roads some over-
steer helps negotiate the sharper bends.
But the everyday motorist is usually ill-
taught and therefore ill-equipped to
understand oversteer at all let alone use
it to advantage. Good dirt road drivers,
who enjoy sliding through the loose bends
with a degree of opposite lock on, ap-
preciate oversteerers more than most,
but then good dirt road drivers are fairly
rare even in Australia. Early VWs were
pronounced oversteerers but of recent
years they have had the viciousness taken
out of them till they are simple enough
to drive on shiny wet macadam despite
some of the ill-assorted tyres used on
them. The 1500 can be driven fast more
safely than many cars by the ordinary
motorist. It has excellent vision fore, aft
and via the standard outside mirror, its
steering is definite, light and the wheel
perfectly placed for control. The brakes
require less pedal pressure than on the
1200 and the action is as comfortingly
true and powerful at the end of a long
day’s run as at the beginning.
The VW gearbox has long been called
the best there is and the gear movement
on the 1500 is to my mind even more
precise. It gives instant control of the
four speeds which in itself is a safety
factor.
Normal safety fittings like belt attach-
ments, padded interior, quick-acting
screen washers and variable speed wip-
ers are all found on the 1500, but without
sound engineering and quality materials
all the accessory fittings in the world are
rather useless. It is here that VW’s secret
strength lies, its design and its quality are
quite outstanding and any engineer, even
of a rival concern, mentally raises his hat
to Teutonic thoroughness in the VW's
manufacture.
I have heard the new 1500 criticised
as being too good for our market; per-
haps it is, but perhaps it will help raise
the standard, which has been fairly
shoddy for so long. The beetle’s quality
has always been a source of wonder-
ment in the motor industry and was a
prime factor in the car's solid acceptance
by people heartily sick of second-rate
“finish”.
As it is a sophisticated car for the
more than average motorists, I was dis-
appointed to find the present imports are
not using the superbly contoured rear
seats I have seen on the Continental
VWs, but are fitted with the plain bench
rear seats. Someone obviously goofed
here when ordering from Wolfsburg and
he too thought the Australian market not
ready for such sophistication. I think
he’s wrong. For those who buy mainly
on grounds of economy the 1500 gi es
excellent petrol consumption, not less
than 30 in city driving and over 40 on
the highways at speed.


down
to
earth.
A
15
'
Wherever chemicals, fumes, gases, dusts are a hazard, industry depends
on inflatable protective products like the suit below. Made from nylon
mesh spread-coated with Geon PVC paste resin, it is air-pumped to the
correct body temperature, is puncture proof, flexible and brightly
coloured for quick identification. The visor is rigid PVC, the air line is
PVC tubing. In industry, Geon improves products or helps evolve new
ones. Have you a product which we can help you improve or develop?
Geon coated nylon by Plastyne Products Pty. Ltd., in safely equipment from Industrial Protective Company.
H3M
:
•S • ■' ■
;
Ge on
H
m
'/Pfafaia/)
.
I
K
-
; - .
1
1
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
Morth Sydney, N,$,W. Telephone 22-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld «- Harrisons Si Crosfield (A.H.Z.) Limited


OVERSEAS
The White Squire
Southern Rhodesia’s enigmatic Mr Field
FaoM Southern Rhodesia, the last
stubborn foothold of white minority
rule in British Africa, the Prime
Minister, Mr Winston Field, has come
to London to talk once more with Mr
Butler about the uncertain future. He
will be followed this week by Sir Roy
Welensky, Federal Premier of the
Rhodesias, still determined to keep his
black-and-white empire in being. The
party will be completed by Mr Kenneth
Kaunda, here as spokesman for North-
ern Rhodesia, soon to be ruled by its
black majority.
Of these three significant figures out
of Central Africa, Mr Field is the least
known. Only three months ago, he
rather startled the experts by winning
power with his right-wing Rhodesian
Front in Southern Rhodesia, defeating
Welensky’s ally, Sir Edgar Whitehead.
Mr Field has been in politics for 35
years, but he has never illuminated
either himself or his intentions very
clearly. Even after his triumph last
December, one or two people in his own
country seem still to have been vague
about his status. Shortly after he had
become Prime Minister, a charity col-
lector calling on Mrs Field asked her:
“So what job has your husband got in
the new Government?”
It would be wrong to conclude from
this that Mr Field is by nature a nonen-
tity. Beside the swashbuckling and
world-famous figure of Sir Roy, this tall
and lean colonial farmer may well seem
colorless. When the two fought for the
federal leadership in the 1958 election,
Sir Roy had little difficulty in making
his rival seem politically inept. Indeed,
some people add to the sad irony of
Welensky’s present situation by declaring
that if he and not Whitehead had been
holding the fort for their party in South-,
ern Rhodesia last year, Field would not
have won.
But those who know him best do not
for a moment suppose that Winston
Field has been slow to attract attention
because he is personally diffident or lack-
ing in character. On the contrary, they
see him as a man of cold reserve, not
softened by his past defeats, not at all
intimidated by the terrible power over
other men’s lives now put into his hands
by the white voters of Southern
Rhodesia.
Nor can he be dismissed as another
simple, dedicated believer in white
supremacy, like Dr Verwoerd, his neigh-
bor. His thinking on race, if it is not
confused, is evidently more abstruse.
He has made his sons study race rela-
tions, which suggests that he believes it
to be a subject of some complexity.
He can be cordial towards prominent
Africans, though so far he has shown
this promising trait chiefly outside his
own territory.
His known lack of uncritical devo-
tion to the federal plan as laid down in
1953 may, of course, help to explain
why some black leaders have felt rela-
tively well disposed towards him. He
is not against the principle of federa-
tion, but he stands for “Southern
Rhodesia first.”
Just as in Northern Rhodesia and
Nyasaland the original decision to feder-
ate seemed to menace black political
hopes, so in Southern Rhodesia did it
appear, in Mr Field’s opinion, to threaten
white hopes of retaining complete con-
trol. In this slightly perverted fashion,
and showing little obvious concern for
the interests of black people in Southern
Rhodesia, Mr Field and the black
Northern leaders had something in
common.
It is not difficult to find in Mr Field’s
own story his reasons for emigrating
from England to Rhodesia at 17 and
for opposing revolutionary change in his
new homeland now. He was born in
1904 in the small Worcestershire market
town of Bromsgrove where, as one in a
shopkeeper’s family of 10 children, his
prospects cannot have been bright. He
won a scholarship to Bromsgrove
School, but failed to matriculate and had
to look for a job in the depression after
the First World War. No doubt, when
it was offered to him, he jumped at the
chance to work on a tobacco farm in
Southern Rhodesia.
Once there, he began to show quali-
ties which, by easy-going colonial stand-
ards, were exceptional and rather bleak.
He worked excessively hard and lived
frugally, saving all the money he could,
determined to get on. As a result he
now owns a vast acreage of prosperous
farms in the Marandellas district—a
stake in the country of no mean value.
When the Second World War had
started, he went into the Rhodesian
forces as a sergeant. He was court-
martialled and reduced in rank for strik-
ing a private. “It happened to be an
African,” he says now, “but if a Euro-
pean had treated me in the same way I
would have behaved no differently.” He
transferred, took part in the Normandy
landing and ended up, decorated, as a
captain in the Durham Light Infantry.
Although now necessarily a commuter
between his town house in Salisbury and
his farms, Mr Field still takes an inter-
est in his estates and the two grown-up


maximum security
I ... RIGHT
'v sm
I
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
9
ij MK-A
0 MX-C
ii MK-8
m
9
m
82.
C 2
Al.
A 2
A 3.
83.
Cl.
C 3
-A
*3. I
Cl. ‘J
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEEO CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPcK Up
w/ryi
£&4?/IWO&cC
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY, LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 ♦ Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 ,
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
sons of his first marriage, with families
of their own, work there and maintain
the feudal line. His African workers
doff their hats to him and smile cheer-
fully as he moves among them giving
orders. He has provided them with good
housing, plots of land for their own use,
wages above the local average and a
school for their children. “I help them,”
he says, “but I rule.”
“We are landed with a squirearchy
here whether we like it or not,” says Mr
Field. But although he believes that
political life is a part of social life, so
that the same underlying principles in-
evitably apply to both, he does not pre-
tend that the country can be run as if
it were a farm.
The Prime Minister does not call him-
self religious, but says he is “C of E”
and believes that schools should have a
church background. He does not claim
to be influenced by any particular
philosophy. “I have never examined
what compulsion makes me do certain
things and not do others,” he says. Years
ago he thought he could never stand
“all the trimming, compromising and
playing about” that political life involves.
He was converted from mis view, oddly
enough, by someone in the Roosevelt
New Deal administration whom he met
at a farming congress.
“He told me that in politics only the
big things count,” says Mr Field, “and
that if one can get one's way on the big
things one should be prepared to com-
promise on the small things.” “This,” he
adds, perhaps ominously, “I have now
learnt to do.”
Though he speaks incisively, as if he
knew his own mind, he has little of
Welensky’s command in debate and oc-
casionally gets muddled. He is clearly
a man who, having battled unaided to
the top, now feels he has some prescrip-
tive right to his own way. As a natural
corollary, he does not disguise a modi-
fied regard for others.
Sense and Sensibility
“TI/len with ability, integrity and a
sense of responsibility are rare
among the races in Rhodesia,” he says,
and then amends this judgment by saying
that it applies to the blacks “particularly.”
He and his Rhodesian Front argue, with-
out originality, that racial integration
should be left to “evolution.” This belief
is reflected in their apartheid policy,
which differs from Verwoerd’s. Separate
European and African areas will be re-
tained, but special areas are to be created
where people of different races can live
together if they choose.
Mr Field is too sensible a man seri-
ously to suppose that the looming conflict
between 300,000 whites and three million
blacks in Southern Rhodesia can be post-
poned by this minimal partnership along
the willing fringe. It seems unlikely to
ease the appalling weight of his other
problems.
The power a Prime Minister of South-
ern Rhodesia holds is not absolute.
Britain still controls his external deal-
ings. But he is free to act repressively
within his own borders, and Mr Field,
with help from his Minister of Justice,
has already shown a stunning readiness
to do so.
Yet outsiders will turn towards the
enigmatic side of Mr Field’s nature,
and dwell on the signs of originality he
has so far given us, in the hope that he
may yet evolve some rational and civil-
ised solution. For Southern Rhodesia
offers the last chance of a buffer State
marked by racial co-operation between
the determined blacks to the north and
the implacable whites to the south. So
with Mr Field in command hope recurs
of a peaceful development in Southern
Rhodesia, as it has done before, even
if, each time it does so, it looks more
forlorn, a little lower in the water.


Announcing a rare
■ Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
PKNFOIL,©!
POT STILL
BRANDY
Unsetf Freight Express
EVERYTHING GOES . . .
AHSETT
WREIGHT
EXPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4916 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
ABO 14
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
GAGGING THE WORLD PRESS
Sir,
I was very glad when you saw fit to
reprint in The Bulletin of February 2
my article from the “IPI Report” of
December, 1962.
However, it seems a little unfair that
you should not inform Mr Percy Mc-
Carthy, whose letter of February 9 you
publish, of the circumstances. He quite
rightfully says: “It was inexcusable of
Mr Rivett not to have mentioned” the
Vassal case and the subsequent jailing
of two English journalists. However, as
my article was written in November and
published in December, it would have
required crystal-ball powers of a high
order to detect the subsequent course of
events in January, February and March.
ROHAN RIVETT
Zurich (Switzerland).
THE WILD TASMANIANS
Sir,
Newly returned from the lush “back
o’ Bourke” (over a foot of rain in some
places since Christmas), I find I have to
apologise to Bulletin readers.
As numerous correspondents have
pointed out, I increased the number of
Tasmanian Senators from an authorised
ten to an unauthorised 12 in the article
on Tasmania parlementarians I wrote
on February 2.
How it happened I’ll never know. I
am aware that the Senate has 60 mem-
bers, that the States have equal rep-
resentation, that there are six States, and
that when six is divided into 60 the
answer is ten. My mathematics must
have been suffering from a pre-vacation
slump.
ALAN REID
Canberra.
OPUS DEI MOVES INTO SYDNEY
Sir,
Although I will not try to make a com-
plete analysis of Mr Kelly’s mixture of
truth and fiction about Opus Dei (Bul-
letin, March 2) there are several points
that are too obvious to be disregarded.
Opus Dei’s foundation in Spain is a
mere geographical accident which leaves
untouched the essence of our Associa-
tion that was born with the same uni-
versal spirit it has today when it is spread
throughout the world and the Spaniards


M
Wat Arun Temple of the Dawn, Bangkok Fly there reliably with KLM
Stop over in Bangkok (the fare is the same)
on your next trip with reliable KLM.
(Forget the clock while you’re in Bangkok KLM has 9 flights weekly to all parts of the world)
KLM has been flying longer than any
other airline. Read more reasons for
flying KLM on your next trip to Europe.
They include KLM’s special services,
KLM reliability, KLM's world-wide
experience and Bangkok, capital of
Thailand, city of rest and refreshment.
1. Bangkok leads everywhere KLM
flies everywhere. Thailand, with Bang-
kok International Airport, is the hub of
South East Asia. From Bangkok, KLM
flies to Japan, Manila, India, the Middle
East, Africa (N. S. E. and W.), North,
South and Central America, Western
and Eastern Europe and Australia.
(From Europe, KLM makes up to 7
flights daily across the North Atlantic.)
KLM’s DC-B’s leave Sydney at 11.30
a.m. Wednesdays, arriving Bangkok at
9.40 p.m. the same day. Bangkok, almost
halfway to Europe, is an ideal point to
break your journey for a few days or
more. But if you want to fly straight to
Europe KLM will get you there reliably
on Thursday.
2. Exotic Bangkok is up-to-date.
Bangkok has 1,500 hotel rooms (prob-
ably more). All hotels are comfortable
and generally air-conditioned. Bangkok
also eats in style Western, European
or Eastern. Authentic Thai dishes
shouldn’t be missed, beer is both local
and imported.
Elephants and progress march side by
side in Thailand, where the exotic
atmosphere is no bar to the comforts of
modern living. On the one hand: temples
and palaces, the floating market, Thai
dancing and boxing and the Royal State
Barges a sleek teak fleet, this. On the
other: theatres, racing, bowling, fishing,
water sports, and top Thai goods avail-
able at fair prices.
3. Use the KLM Budget Travel Plan.
This covers 55 cities throughout the
world, allows passengers two night's air-
conditioned hotel accommodation in
Bangkok. Plus two half-day sightseeing
tours all for only £l2. With KLM
Budget Travel you can arrange and pay
for hotel accommodation before you set
off on your trip.
Another plus: KLM's Multi-Stopover
Plan, which allows you to break your
journey for days or weeks at any or all
of over 30 cities, including Bangkok
all for the fare to London.
4. Reliability is a golden rule with
KLM. KLM carries over 3830 passengers
everyday to 104 cities all over the world.
KLM has had longer than any other air-
line to perfect its reliability 44 years.
Every KLM DC-8 jet carries about two
hours more fuel than it needs enough
to fly an extra 1100 miles equivalent
to 26,460 lb. of paying freight.
The top half of a KLM plane is
painted white to reflect the sun's rays
and help keep the interior cool in tropi-
cal climates.
5. Your Travel Agent is a professional.
No one is better at planning trips than
he is. He can arrange your Bangkok
stopover to give you maximum advan-
tages. If your time is limited, he will see
that all your contacts are within close
radius of your hotel. He can even fit in a
temple visit (and Bangkok is not Bang-
kok without at least one temple).
Two of every three KLM passengers
are recommended to fly KLM by exper-
ienced Travel Agents. A nice vote of con-
fidence from people who know all about
travel.
Note: You can buy a KLM ticket for one-
tenth down, then take two years to pay
the rest. Mail coupon below.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 29-3966
Please send copy of your KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss ——
Address ••• ———
My Travel Agent is.
U.6/4
KLM
P'256


Mail us th'i
COUPON
We’ll send r
Austral*^
12 times a y ea
• \
J&lia, past and P
Pag ec . y eacb T A'
s efn t h of Walkabout. *
forl thr °ugh eyes of tne
th e 6n ? ost authors .. - se a e 0 \
Phr r en^ s K of ,ea ? t 's mor
'Hg th ts blgger ' >.c AD-
Wayever, its u
: magaz|ne
miss.
AH we need
is your:
NAME: •
ADDRESS: •
CITY: STATE: ®
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues, •
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed #
Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
mail to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb. •
MS 582
are a minority. Opus Dei has grown
vigorously in Spain. But it is also true
that Opus Dei has also had a vigorous
growth in Truman’s USA, Eisenhower’s
USA and Kennedy’s USA. Does this
make Opus Dei a pro-Truman, pro-Eisen-
hower or pro-Kennedy organisation? Of
course not.
Because Opus Dei has only supernatural
aims, it is non-political and its members
are absolutely free to think and act on
the political level as they see fit.
The comment on secrecy is too out-
moded to be bothered with.
The Oxford affair? Just a trifle. Such
things happen, you know, in people’s lives
and in the lives of institutions too. I do
not have time to copy all the evidence
showing the overwhelming acceptance
that 200 student residences conducted by
Opus Dei have won in universities on
four continents. Should I mention half
a dozen? Harvard, Wisconsin, London,
Rome, Chicago, Dublin.
Opus Dei has already proved conclu-
sively, with its own life, that it is not a
secret organisation and that it is not pro-
Fascist, pro-New Frontier, or pro any
political group. And it is willing to prove
it again conclusively to anyone who is
sincere.
Let me close this friendly letter with a
note of my personal experience in Aus-
tralia. During my very pleasant though
brief sojourn of two weeks —when I was,
I am grateful to say, a guest of His
Eminence Cardinal Gilroy—l met with
many people. They were members of
the Hierarchy, secular and religious
priests, university professors and lectur-
ers,.. businessmen, workers, students.
None of them —I insist, none—showed
the slightest fear at the possibility, which
I discussed with them, of Opus Dei's
arrival in Australia. On the contrary,
they promised their prayers for that in-
tention.
FR. S. M. FERIGLE
Chicago (USA).
Sir,
The reference to “Prospect” in Kath-
leen A. Woolf’s letter in your March 16
issue may have misled some of your
readers. The reference was; “The Aus-
tralian liberal Catholic journal ‘Prospect’
appears to love Opus Dei not.” It is
truer to say that “Prospect” has very
nearly not been concerned at all with
Opus Dei, far from loving or loving not.
I can find the name mentioned only four
times, all in the one article, throughout
“Prospect’s” five years of publication.
Having noted this article too, Mrs Woolf
went on to say: “It has reprinted an
article from its American counterpart
‘Commonweal’ in which Opus Dei was
found wanting. It failed, however, to
carry the rejoinder supplied to ‘Common-
weal’ by Opus Dei.”
The article, signed Luis Granada (No.
1, I 960), was a report on the political
and social life of Spain and was of
necessity, considering the subject, pretty
impressionistic. The four passing
mentions that Opus Dei received in the
3000 words were not even marginal to
the main focuses of the article. The
suggestion of chicanery created by “It
failed, however, etc.” ought to be con-
sidered in this light; “Prospect” quite
clearly didn’t seek to enlighten anyone
one way or the other about Opus Dei
and overseas controversy about the
organisation was at the time not par-
ticularly relevant to anything that “Pros-
pect” was attending to.
There were no local correspondents
pressing to defend Opus Dei although the
opportunity was there, and still is, for
them to do so.
As far as Mrs Woolf’s query “ . . . how
does one join . . . the Catholic intellec-
tuals?” goes I think one would qualify
by writing to the excellent standard set
by Mrs Woolf’s pamphlet “Freedom of
Choice in Education” and her earlier
“Prospect” article concerning financial
aid to independent schools.
PAUL SIMPSON
Editor, “Prospect”
Carlton (Victoria).
IRISH CONVICTS IN AUSTRALIA
Sir,
For some time I have been collecting
material on the subject of the trans-
portation of Irish convicts to Australia,
and I hope to write a book on the
subject. I would be very interested to
know if any of your learned societies
(Royal Australian Historical Society, the
Historical Societies at Bathurst or Parra-
matta), or any of your university pro-
fessors would be interested in corres-
ponding with me on the subject, as I
may be able to provide them with some
useful material from the Irish sources.
I am particularly anxious to hear of any
original letters, diaries, etc. of Irish
interest, and I am also trying to discover
more about the early Irish priests, nuns
and ministers in the penal colonies. I
will answer all letters.
CORNELIUS COSTELLO
“Tullig,” Dublin Rcl,
Naas., Co. Kildare.
LAURIE ONE-EYE AND
HIS LUBRA
Sir,
Keith Willey is to be complimented,
having been responsible for the highly
comprehensive article: “Nott Of The
North” (Bulletin, March 23). I like
to see the North publicised; too many
people think Darwin is a hick town.
But if Laurie One-Eye and his lubra
lost their glass eyes in a card game then
they were following normal Australian
custom.
Of course, I know that hundreds of
local Darwin aborigines have gambling
corroborees weekly and lose gold teeth,
wooden legs and glass eyes; but this is
the result of the “assimilation or integra-
tion” programme that is giving whites
the opportunity to take part in these
gambling activities, isn’t it?
ALAN G. BURNELL
Macleod ( Victoria)
Recently of Darwin.


ART
Australia’s Colonial Painters
Not always up a gum tree
By DANIEL THOMAS
One of the silliest of the legends
about early Australian art is that
the colonial painters were unable
to see Australia “as it really is,” that
they made it look like England, that,
worst of all, they could not paint a gum
tree, and that generally they are quite
unworthy of attention.
For one thing this line of criticism
assumes that all painting must be con-
cerned with landscape; and indeed most
writing on Australian art has been
obsessed with landscape although the
illustrations given in this issue of The
Bulletin suggest that there is wide
scope for a good study of colonial
portraiture where the Austral ia-as-it-
really-is obsession is irrelevant.
Secondly the critics also misunderstand
what the artists, particularly the fine
artists, were trying to do. Conrad
Martens, for example, the favorite
target, never aimed at complete realism
any more than did his European con-
temporaries. English reality is no more
to be found in English landscape paint-
ings than Australian reality is in
Martens’s. One can say his paintings
resemble English paintings, but not that
they resemble English reality.
Finally the criticism is based on
simple ignorance: some lesser-known
artists did do exactly what the “fine art”
painters are blamed for not doing.
J. W. Lewin, for example, when he
turned from birds to view painting,
executed entirely convincing gum trees
and Australian landscapes, a good eighty
years before Roberts and Streeton are
popularly credited with first doing so.
In fact if the earliest painters had
one thing in common, it was a desire
for and often the achievement of
the strictest accuracy in representation.
Not that any of them was a great
artist. There was little enough induce-
ment for the usual kind of professional
painter to emigrate to the tiny British
settlements founded in 1788 at Sydney,
and in 1803 at Hobart Three of the
seven artists whose pictures are illustrated
in this issue were transported to Aus-
tralia as convicts (John Eyre’s offence
was housebreaking, Gould's was petty
theft, and Wainewright’s was forgery,
though it is probable that the last was a
poisoner as well.) The earliest known
oil-painting done in Australia is by a
convict, Thomas Watling, whose large
“A Direct North General View of Sydney
Cove in 1794” now belongs to the
Mitchell Library. Like most of the early
landscapes it would have been painted to
send back to England as an illustration
of the settlement’s progress. (At present
it is on its travels again for it was the
earliest picture in the exhibition recently
sent to the Tate Gallery in London, and
which is now on its way to Ottawa.) Of
them all only Wainewright had some
slight reputation in London before his
arrival; his name in fact is still remem-
bered by specialists in the Age of
Romanticism. But taken together, their
work is worth more serious attention
than they usually command.
A ugustus Eari.e, whose work is
illustrated on the cover of this issue,
was probably the first artist of any stand-
ing to work in Australia. He was born
in England, the son of an American,
and a nephew of the well-known
American painter Ralph Earle. He is the
typical itinerant artist, and one senses
an engaging personality, an exuberant
and dauntless adventurer, nonchalant in
the face of shipwreck, excited when he
finds a spot unsullied by previous artists.
His ship deserted him at Tristan da
Cunha, when he eagerly overspent his
time ashore at this remotest of islands.
Previously he had spent two years in the
Mediterranean, two more in New York
and Philadelphia, and three in South
America, chiefly Brazil. India was his
destination when he reached Tristan da
Cunha, but the first ship to pass was
bound for Hobart.
In a busy three years in Australia,
from 1825 to 1828, mostly spent in
Sydney, Earle was in great demand for
portraits. Governor Brisbane and Gov-
ernor Darling sat for him, or rather
stood, for the latter is a full-length
canvas like the well-known one of
Captain Piper in the Mitchell Library.
The charming group portrait of Captain
Piper’s wife and children —on The
Bulletin cover shows the interior of
Henrietta Villa, their house which once
stood on Point Piper, and whose sophis-
tication was then rare in Sydney. It was
a great centre of hospitality before
Piper’s financial disasters of 1826.
In Vaucluse House, where it now
hangs, the picture is labelled as the work
of R. Read. But it is probably Earle’s
for it is the same size as the portrait of
Captain Piper, comes from the same
source, and is surely a companion to it.
There were two Richard Reads, un-
related to each other, painting portraits
in Sydney. Read junior, who was work-
ing in the ’twenties, seems to have been
a miniaturist only, not a painter in oils,
while Read senior is mostly associated
with Macquarie’s time. His portraits of
Macquarie no doubt ensured that his
name was remembered, and thus allowed
it to be attached to any early porn ait.
Although the Piper family group is
rather stiff and clumsy by comparison
with Earle’s single figures this may only
be due to the complexity of the subject;
a good trouper, he would put his hand to
anything transparencies at a banquet
for instance —but as an itinerant he was,
like Martens, happier with portable little
watercolors than with six-foot canvases.
Tohn Eyre’s view of Sydney from The
** Rocks (reproduced opposite) is a
strictly factual information picture by a
rather primitive artist. He was appren-
ticed as a woolcomber and weaver in
Coventry and may not have been a
painter at all before he was transported,
aged about thirty, in 1801. His style is
very close to that of the surveyor
G. W. Evans, and could well have been
influenced by it.
Bernard Smith’s book “European
Vision and the South Pacific” says that
Eyre had once been employed to paint
the numbers on all the houses in the
eastern half of Sydney, at 6d. per house;
and that his pictures suggest a desire to
identify and distinguish every one of
them. The first Government House is
clearly visible on the far side of the cove,
a typical Sydney sandstone outcrop
occupies the foreground, and a group of
aborigines is included to give the exotic
note required by the English audience for
colonial art (English requirements have
not changed).
Martens's picture of Tempe
House in 1838 (opposite) is a good ex-
ample of the “fine art” landscape that was
produced by the convict Watling, but
which was not produced within the sur-
veyors’ and topographers’ tradition that
Eyre exemplifies. He is by far the best


From original in Dixson Galleries by kind permission NSW Public Library Trustees.
SYDNEY FROM THE WEST SIDE OF THE COVE by John Eyre, Watercolor, 1806. (13½X 25½ in.).
By kind permission of K. R. Stewart, Esq.
RESIDENCE OF A. B. SPARKE, TEMPE HOUSE, TEMPE by Conrad Martens, 1838. (17⅜ X 25½ in.).


EARLY
AUSTRALIAN
PAINTING
From original in Dixson Galleries by kind permission NSW Public Library Trustees.
A BULLETIN
PORTFOLIO
MILLS PLAINS,
TASMANIA by
John Glover, oil,
1836. (30 X 60 in.).


SUBSCRIPTION
BALL, BALLARAT
by S. T. Gill, 1854.
(9¾ X 13⅞ in.).
FLOWERPIECE
by W. B. Gould, a
Tasmanian convict
artist, 1849. (26 X
30 in.).
By kind permission NSW Art Gallery.
By kind permission of the Tasmanian Art Gallery.


By kind permission of Miss Myra Fitzpatrick, Westbury, Tasmania.
THE CUTMEAR TWINS by T. G. Wainewright, drawing c. 1840. (12⅜ X 11¼ in.).


known of all colonial artists. This is partly
due to his accomplishment, but mainly it
is a simple consequence of his long life
and great productivity. He arrived in
Sydney, aged thirty-four, in 1835, and
remained there until his death in 1878.
English born, of a German family, he
had studied landscape painting under
Copley Fielding. He was by no means
trained in scientific observation, but in
those pre-photographic days there was
an immense popular as well as scientific
appetite for information about the ex-
panding world. Quite apart from
scientific expeditions there were many
freelance itinerants wandering around
the globe, seeking places as yet unvisited
by other artists, that could then be used
for picture books, prints, and Panoramas
(the Cinemascope entertainments of the
day).
Martens set out on a cruise to India,
but in South America he took the oppor-
tunity of joining a scientific expedition
when its painter fell ill. The expedition
was that of the Beagle, with Charles
Darwin as its naturalist, and in such
company Martens’s work immediately
became far more concerned with the
precise rendering of unfamiliar vegeta-
tion and geology. After a year he left
the Beagle and made his own way to
Tahiti, New Zealand and Sydney.
When he first arrived he probably
intended to remain only a short while.
However, the possibilities of sufficient
colonial patronage to make a living must
have tempted him to remain. He became
Australia’s first full-time professional
artist.
Sydney in 1835 was by all the evidence
an enchanting little town, its prosperity
marked by an outbreak of house-build-
ing. Nearly all the important clients
used the architect John Verge. The
Madeays’ Elizabeth Bay House, the
Macarthurs’ Camden Park, were his So
was Tempe House (illustrated here)
which was built on the Cook’s River for
Alexander Sparke, a wealthy business-
man. It still stands beside the Prince’s
Highway, and in the care of the Sisters
of the Good Samaritan.
Martens painted many such portraits
of houses. They often exist in several
versions, indicating that some were in-
tended for English relatives of the house-
holder, and other replicas were to remain
in Australia. In a sense these are in-
formation pictures too, but their message
is the progress of civilisation, the arrival
of gracious living. Not only do they
represent elegant buildings, but they also,
of necessify, are consciously works of
art. They look like paintings were
expected to look; they are not overloaded
with botanical specimens, they respect
the accepted formulas for landscape
composition.
O. T. Gill (Subscription Ball, Ballarat,
on page II) is best known for his
scenes from the goldfields which came
into existence in the Victorian period.
But his art was formed in the colonial
period, and represents a survival into
Victorian times of a Georgian tradition
of jovial good humor and bounce. He
arrived in Adelaide in 1839, aged twenty-
one, with some all-round experience in
London behind him.
When the gold rush came in 1851 he
moved to Melbourne. Although his com-
positions sometimes exist in several
replicas, and the watercolors would be
repeated as lithographs, or engraved
letterheads, the sense of spontaneity
always remains. There is immediacy
too, possibly an awareness of the
permanent historical significance in these
scenes even while he was discovering
them. Such an art may not appear
again, for brilliant sympathetic reportage
is surely now best left to the artist
photographer.
One warms to Gill, one of the few
Australian painters to prefer everyday
life to landscape, a man who never dis-
plays a trace of unkindness or gloom.
It is sad then to record that after some
years of heavy drinking he died in 1880
in complete poverty on the steps of the
Melbourne Post Office
Otill life, the least utilitarian of
categories, has dmost its only rep-
resentative in the naive work of
WiLLiAM Buelow Gould (Flowerpiece
on p. III). Transported to Hobart in
1827 at the age of twenty-three, little
definite is known of him. His real name
is said to be Holland. It is said also
that he had been employed in England
at Spode’s potteries, and his fruit and
flower subjects suggest that he may have
been an apprentice painter in a porcelain
factory.
He seems to have been a cheerful
drunkard, manufacturing paintings for
the price of a drink. Not one of his
canvases includes Australian native
flowers, though since English plants
flourished in Tasmania it is not necessary
to hypothesize botany books as his raw
material.
Tohn Glover (Mills Plains, Tasmania,
** on pp. II and III), who arrived in
Tasmania in 1831, was, like Conrad
Martens, a classical landscape painter,
but unlike Martens he came, aged sixty-
three, at the end of an immensely suc-
cessful career in London. One account
says he brought £60,000 to the Colony.
He did not have to produce so many
pot-boilers as Conrad Martens, for his
sons were settled on a prosperous farm;
most of what he did paint was sent back
to England or France, so there has never
been enough of his work available here
to do him justice.
The large canvas of Mills Plains,
painted in 1836, portrays the landscape
near the Glovers’ farm beneath Ben
Lomond in Northern Tasmania. It
reveals a more substantial though less
lyrical talent than Martens’s, who never
showed much confidence away from
watercolor. There is a strongly felt sense
of a pastoral Arcadia, the classical
Italianate composition has considerable
grandeur, and at the same time the
details are authentically Australian.
A man of taste in Hobart in 1831 had
confided to his diary that Glover’s trees
had a “hideous fidelity to Nature”; if
the gum trees in “Mills Plains” do not
entirely satisfy us today the sheoak
certainly does, and so does the distant,
uniform scatter of trees, so unlike the
placing of trees in European landscapes.
Glover’s paintings in England were
undistinguished, even facile, so was
Greenway’s architecture there. The
challenge of their Australian tasks
brought out the best in both of them.
?TV G. Wainewright (The Cutmear
A Twins, reproduced on opposite page)
is a more melancholy figure. His brief
moment of fame was in the 1820 s when
he exhibited at the Royal Academy a
few romantic paintings strongly in-
fluenced by his hero Fuseli. At the same
time he produced near - pornographic
drawings of amorous subjects. Literary
criticism was a more important activity
for him than painting, and under his
pseudonym of Janus Weathercock he has
a minor place in the world of Hazlitt,
De Quincy, and Charles Lamb. A per-
verse dandyism gives him a further place
in the later writings of Wilde, of
Sacheverell Sitwell and Mario Praz. but
he is chiefly remembered for the likeli-
hood of poisoning his sister-in-law who
died suspiciously soon after she had
heavily insured herself on Wainewright’s
advice. It is suggested on very flimsy
evidence that his aesthetic disapproval
of her thick ankles led him to the crime.
By the time the law caught up with
him in 1837 on another matter of
forgery he had been a forgotten exile in
France for many years.
In Hobart, where he lived out his last
ten years in poor health, his presence
caused some small sensation. All that
has survived are his mannered portrait
drawings The commissions done after
his release in the mid forties can become
repetitive, but “The Cutmear Twins” is
clearly a labor of love. Jane and I ucy
were the gatekeeper’s daughters at the
Barracks where Wainewright lived in
1840, and one can imagine the picture
as an act of gratitude for some personal
kindness.


AUCTION
TUESDAY, 23rd APRIL, at 3 p.m.
on the property, 16 Whitehorse Rd., Ringwood, Victoria.
66,500 sq. feet. Industrial Site.
Zoned General Industrial
74 ft. frontage to Whitehorse Road,
211 ft. frontage to Madden Street.
R.E.S.I. Auctioneers in Conjunction
MELBOURNE OWEN, 126 Auburn Rd., Auburn, Vic. WB 3268
KEITH C. MILLER, 363 Burwood Rd., Gienferrie, Vic. WA 0371
REVIEWS
ART
THE EXPATRIATE BOYD
Arthur Boyd. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
Arch Cuthbertson and Frank Werther.
Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
change of country has brought about
an interesting change in Arthur
Boyd's painting. Probably there is no
good reason why an artist who has spent
most of his best work on the local scene
should suddenly abandon his national
interests because he is overseas, but
Boyd, like Nolan, has taken advantage
of the change to isolate his personal pre-
occupations and express them in more
general terms. His relation, in short, to
the local background, which has been so
much discussed in the past, is no longer
a question in his present paintings at the
Australian Galleries. Perhaps as a
result we are in a better position to see
his worth.
In these paintings from London, Boyd
has brought to the highest pitch yet his
always dominant taste for the grotesque.
His figures are still the familiar large and
clumsy shapes, half man, half monstrous
distortion, and they are intensely con-
centrated upon. The surrounding
anonymous spaces are low-toned, even
muddy, and the figures hover in them,
semi - transparent and pale, strong
enough to stand out but not solid enough
to break away altogether from the back-
ground.
For the most part Boyd’s active fantasy
makes his point. Man is cast into the
same element as monsters. He grapples
with them, is consumed by them or
asserts himself by virtue of his vitality.
Uppermost in Boyd’s imagery is the
paradox of the power and transience of
life.
Arch Cuthbertson has been making
his way steadily into abstraction over
recent years, and his present works at
the Argus Gallery give evidence of a
growing subtlety in his approach. He
does not add much to already familiar
styles, but he is competent and provo-
cative. Fundamentally he is concerned
with construction in freely manipulated,
simple forms, as simple as the circle
and the straight line.
In the same gallery Frank Werther
has an exhibition of landscapes and
figure studies in something of a mixture
of styles, but all bright and plainly
figurative. By and large he shows a
warm sympathy for his subjects, and
some of the landscapes in particular are
appealing, but for my taste there is too
much surface boldness of pattern being
used as a substitute for insight into the
subject.
BILL HANNAN
BEFORE THE REVOLUTION
European Fine Arts. David Jones’
Art Gallery. Sydney.
Avant Garde Chinese Contemporary
Art. Dominion Gallery. Sydney.
An atmosphere of luxurious good taste
pervades David Jones’ Art Gallery
with a fine collection, 200 items in
all, mainly furniture, small sculptures,
glass, pottery, etc., as well as a back-
ground sprinkling of contemporary paint-
ings of which all but two are figurative.
Brianchon, Despierre, Desncyer provide
exquisitries from agreeable, conservative
palettes while Phillip Sutton tries to out-
Matisse Matisse in a thinly painted bal-
cony piece. Rediscovered Pierre Dumont
is represented by a strongly post-Impres-
sionist view of the “Seine at Rouen” but
one finds the real pleasure of this show
elsewhere in, for instance, Jacob Epstein’s
richly human, intensely realised portrait
bronze of Sumita, full of subtle model-
ling that skilfully exploits the play of
light. Honors go to the odd pieces
like an excellently carved Roman
head in marble, Flemish, German and
Italian figures.
A 17th century Greek “Annunciation”
ikon has a fragile grace which raises it
well above the routine of a dying tradi-
tion. Unobtrusive craftsmanship belongs
here as much to it as the superbly func-
tional, solid and enduring 17th and 18th
century tables, chairs from half a dozen
countries, the gracious, elegant, some-
times beautifully proportioned French,
English and Italian bureaux, cabinets and
one magnificent Spanish chest covered
with vellum and star form studs. Scores
of other fascinating objects remind one
of the seemingly endless profusion of
finely wrought things Europe produced
before the blight of Industrialism all but
wiped it out.
VTone of the Chinese painters live in
China (three live in Formosa), so
that Chinese Contemporary Art in this
show must be considered the art of ex-
patriates, of those assimilating European
as well as traditional Chinese forms. Hu
Chi Chung, in spite of insipid portraits,
manages a rarified blend of calligraphic
line and vaporous color in several ap-
pealing abstracts. Within the form of
the scroll Lui-Kuo-Sung works his blots
and washes into an orientalised expres-
sionism at once vigorous and controlled.
This is a show of modest Chinese fire-
crackers without a hint of the high
velocity rockets we have grown to ex-
pect in each new exhibition.
JOHN HENSHAW


LYSAGHT GRAIN AUGER
fills your silos cheaper
than ever before
m.
A':
• J' i! H'tt
*r~i
i-AA
, „
>»«■••.mriiiviiririiv
ill
::h
II
hi
!
HiMiiyi
L 1
H
•j>‘ ■ '|i
m
S 'r'.
s§;
I L^
It will pay you immediate and lasting dividends to investigate this
new Auger, especially developed for use with Lysaght Silos. With
oats particularly, the Auger is faster and more economical than bag
handling. Operates by flat belt drive from tractor and the
tractor is very easily positioned. Easily assembled ! Designed to
fill a Silo battery from one position.
AUGER SELECTION TABLE
SILO ERECTED
Without Earth Ring
With Earth Ring ..
SILO CAPACITY IN BUSHELS
1,200
21 ft.
21 ft.
26 ft.
26 ft.
3,100
26 ft.
26 ft.
3,700
26 ft.
31 ft.
3 POPULAR SIZES
21 FT. . ........ £97
26 FT. . . ..... . . £lO9
31 FT. ......... £ll6
, (F.O.R. NEWCASTLE)
SUPPLIED COMPLETE WITH 8 BUSHEL
BUILT-IN HOPPER
FEATURES
• Suits all Lysaght Silos in the 1,200 b.
to 3,700 b. range.
•No maintenance all bearings
sealed.
• Flat Belt drive pulley supplied.
• Complete ready for attachment of
belt guide rollers for belt pro-
vided.
• Designed to fill Silo from centre of
roof—enabling maximum capacity
to be obtained.
• Exceptionally easy to assemble and
erect.
• Chute tubes are telescopic; cleaning
doors provided in hopper.
ORB
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle
A4SRC


INDONESIA
—COMMUNIST
OR NEUTRAL?
Indonesia’s internal politics and
leading figures are discussed in the
March issue of the Australian
Quarterly just released.
Other articles of interest cover: —
• Resignation of Sir Leslie
Melville.
• Government interference with
the A.B.C.
• Restrictive trade practices.
THE AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
a journal of political, economic and
social comment brings you
detailed studies by experts, and
provides you with a broad back-
ground knowledge of current
events. You will find it a valuable
source of reference material.
Start your yearly subscription now
with the March issue. Subscription
is £1 for four issues, postage
included.
FILL IN THE FORM BELOW
Subscription Department
AUSTRALIAN QUARTERLY
Rural Bank Building
Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Please send me the 1963 issues of the
Australian Quarterly. I enclose my cheque/
money order for £1 covering subscription
and postage.
NAME
ADDRESS
MUSIC
A BRAHMSIAN DRABNESS
Polish National Radio Orchestra, Mel-
bourne Town Hall and Palais
Theatre, St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Tn most points of detail the playing of
this orchestra was quite admirable.
They were well though not perfectly
disciplined, and alert and responsive.
They worked best in music of a romantic
cast, where neither of their conductors
was inclined to distort the shape of any
movement, though each allowed himself
quite a generous licence with the melodic
pace.
But for all their virtues I found the
performances, in the main, unsatisfying.
The quality of sound was thin and a
little acid. There was a lack of deep-
throated resonance about it, and while
their attack and energy were fiery enough
the total sonority was cold and pallid.
It is a little difficult to say what could
have caused this curious effect, which is
usually associated with non-reverberant
recordings and orchestras broadcast from
provincial theatres. To some degree it
may have been due to the cumulative
effect of the instruments themselves, for
it was noticeable that no passage for a
solo instrument, save for the horns, had
a particularly golden sound. But perhaps
a more important factor was the strange
lack of attention to the matter of sectional
dynamics, and to phrasing in general.
The notion of sectional dynamics has
long been inherent in the conductor's art
and in the performance of orchestras,
and composers have been writing con-
trary nuances since the Paris revolution
of 1830. But in the playing of this orches-
tra they were cultivated hardly at all, with
the result that there was a far greater
prominence and continuity of string tone
than is usual today. The orchestral timbre
was more uniformly blended, more homo-
geneous, with hardly a shot of the clear
prismatic color of wind or brass. I tried
to resist, but could not altogether dismiss,
an unkind thought that this gave most of
their work, even in Tchaikovsky and
Mozart, an almost Brahmsian drabness.
An absence of clarity and definition in
the phrasing magnified this effect. Here,
it is true, the contemporary fashion is
often exaggerated, and most conductors
take it for granted that they can define
and separate their phrases by robbing
the final phrase-note of some of its value,
and by baldly introducing silent fractions
of a beat when it suits them. Often in
performances of Bruckner this is very
evident, and I have wondered what justice
there is in having the vibrations of strings
or tuba cut off while the score shows their
notes sitting there fat and entire. If you
want a precise example, you will find
one (I hazard) next time you hear a
performance of the Concerto for Orches-
tra of Bela Bartok: listen for the chorale
of the low brass, in the movement he
calls “Game of the Couples”.
With the Polish players this fashion
was altogether ignored, even to an ex-
treme degree. The running-together of
melodic phrases gave a slurred and in-
distinct quality to a good deal of their
music. There Was a prime example of this
in the trio of the Eb Symphony of Mozart,
where an excessively slow tempo gave the
music a naively bucolic air quite at odds
with its true character.
KENNETH HINCE
HOMAGE TO MADAME AUSTRAL
VTewcastle, NSW, paid homage to
Florence Austral last week, at a
concert which provided more musical
excitement in one night than the city has
seen in many years. Almost 1000 people
packed the Teachers’ College hall to hear
Madame Austral’s voice again; the new
Newcastle Orchestra made an impressive
debut; a local pianist, Sharon Rashke,
made an equally impressive debut, and
a former Covent Garden principal,
Marjorie Shires, made her first public
appearance since she came to live in the
city with her husband, John Probyn.
Madame Austral’s voice was heard
singing Wagner and Brahms, while Mr
Terry Colhoun briefly outlined her
biography. She was then heard telling
the story of the night in Germany when
her lifelong handicap became seriously
apparent and the end to her operatic
career began. This was done on tape,
for Madame Austral has not moved out-
side her home at Merewether, a New-
castle suburb, for the past three years.
Multiple sclerosis has virtually crippled
her.
The orchestra, under Errol Collins (a
student of Max Rostal), produced some
lush sounds in Mozart’s “Eine Kleine
Nachtmusik,” and then made an ex-
tremely good job of the Rachmaninov
Piano Concerto No. 2, with Sharon
Rashke as soloist,
In Purcell’s “Dido and Aeneas,”
Marjorie Shires sang Belinda, June
Logan, Dido, and John Probyn, who has
also sung at Covent Garden, Aeneas.
MICHAEL SOUTHERN


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved ovei many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole manu-
facturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents Jot
•‘Everlasting” Boiler Blow off Valves, llapid
Magnetising Machines. George Ellison
Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers. Water Filters. Steam Valves, etc.
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
191 2 19 6 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIP FPTDP's-
ALFRED S. WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E. G. CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G. PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
FILMS
TOP MARKS FOR SELLERS
The Waltz of the Toreadors. State.
Sydney.
T have a strong prejudice against ex-
plosive motor-cars. Encountering the
umpteenth film which can find no more
subtle way of announcing that its period
is Edwardian and its mood comic than
by bringing on a horseless carriage which
goes bang and omits clouds of smoke my
expression becomes rigidly glacial.
There is great play with an exploding
motor-car in “Waltz of the Toreadors”,
and it typifies the frequent lapses into
the obvious that mar the film, despite all
the clever work that goes into it, and
prevent it from becoming the stylishly
unified essay in nostalgia that the occa-
sion seems to call for.
The mood and atmosphere of the film
are much more suggestive of Wolf Man-
kowitz, who adapted it for the screen,
than of Anouilh, who wrote the original
play. Its prevailing mood is one of broad
farce, from which it swings without
transition into what might be called
broad pathos.
That immensely clever actor Peter
Sellers, in the central role of an ageing
playboy who is forced to choose between
his unpleasant ailing wife and the now-
impatient lady that he fell in love with
17 years before, keeps a skilful balance
between these comic and serious ele-
ments.
When he is funny he is hilariously so,
both in frank slapstick and in subtle little
twitches of self-revelation; and at the
end he does convey, with the utmost
economy of means, the impression that
underneath all the self-consciously eccen-
tric hell-raising there is a lonely and
hollow old man.
This is Sellers’ individual achievement;
the film as a whole blunts the effect of
it rather than enhancing it.
Something of the same sort may be
said of Margaret Leighton’s portrait of
the hypochondriacal wife; working al-
most wholly on the darker side of the
spectrum, she produces a strong per-
formance, but one that does not quite
belong to the film.
John Guillermin’s direction is smooth
enough at the level of plain narration;
the color is beautiful and the settings
decorative. It is just that nobody behind
the cameras seems to have found a style
that will link the elements of film satis-
factorily together.
MARTIN LONG
THEATRE
CONSISTENCY OF ABSURDITIES
A Revue Of The Absurd. (Beckett,
lonesco, Jarry, Pinter, Albee and
others). Sydney University Dram-
atic Society. Union Theatre.
Tust about all the playwrights repre-
sented in the Sydney University
Dramatic Society’s “Revue Of The Ab-
surd” would have been delighted at
the ban on part of the revue by NSW’s
Chief Secretary Kelly. The presence of
solemn officers of the law at a dress
rehearsal of the revue —after which they
rose to say they “didn't like” a film
segment, written by Jacques Prevert,
made in Sydney by Bruce Beresford and
Mike Molloy—could have been a per-
fect piece of Absurd theatre.
The return of the officers on opening
night, with a court order forbidding the
screening of the film, fortunately took
place before the curtain rose. Had the
entry been after the revue began, no
one would have taken it for anything
but lonesco.
M. Prevert’s script is a surrealist idea
of how the world might end—in a
shower of excreta from the skies. Not
having seen the film, I cannot pronounce
on it, except to say that I always feel
happier with my own judgments than
those made for me by Mr Kelly and
his embarrassed officers.
Otherwise, the evening had the usual
virtues and vices of the University-type
production: plenty of intellectual under-
standing, plenty of talent, but a woeful
shortage of theatrical expertise.
The vaudeville streak of common
earth runs thick through all the sketches,
particularly the lonesco “Foursome” in
which three men have a furious, mean-
ingless argument which ends with each
one bullying a pretty girl into saying
she is engaged to him alone, and finally
pulling her about so much that she ends
up (in lonesco’s directions naked) with
her dress pulled apart, hair messed up,
and dismissing all three of them.
You may ever leave the theatre with
the faint suspicion that what the play-
wrights of the Absurd really excel at
is good old vaudeville. This is something
I have hinted at modestly before this,
and I stand by my view that the Absurd
are at their best as satirists, and the
strongest elements are directly descended
from the music halls and Chaplin. Which
is a pretty good line of descent.
KEVON KEMF
TELEVISION
MODEST VICTORY
npHREE cheers for Alan Burke, Douglas
Smith, Quentin Hole, Ric Hutton,
Lola Brooks, the producer, set designer,
costumer and leading actors in ABC
Television’s “Victoria Regina,” with
further applause for all other participants
in this enterprise.
Mr Hutton had the weight of the act-
ing and he took the honors, although that
is no reflection at all on Miss Brooks.
Hutton has been developing rapidly as
an actor for television since his small but
memorable appearances in the ABC’s
serial of Captain Bligh in Australia.
This time, for the first time, he was
given full scope to prove he has mastered
the medium. As Prince Albert he was
called on to suggest a Germanic accent,
which he did, not only in voice but in
the very tones of his laugh, and in a
blend of stiff-necked correctness, fond-
ness for his wife, and humanity towards
all. Miss Lola Brooks surprised me
very pleasantly as Victoria changing
from the last stages of girlhood to the
young wife, and the young queen begin-
ning to feel her responsibilities, her
womanhood, and her power.
FRANK ROBERTS


THE RED PAGE
THE NEW DRAMATISTS
Or, Goodbye to All That
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Three Australian Plays: “The One Day
of the Year,” by Alan Seymour;
“Ned Kelly,” by Douglas Stewart;
“The Tower,” by Hal Porter. In-
troduction by H. G. Kippax. Pen-
guin Books. 7/-.
rpms volume is a double first: The first
publication of Australian plays by
Penguin Books and the first publication
of Penguins in Australia. In his interest-
ing introduction, Mr H. G. Kippax gives
both an historical survey, and an assess-
ment, of the development of Australian
drama. He sees its coming-of-age as oc-
curring in 1955 with the production of
“The Summer of the Seventeenth Doll”.
For at least 50 years before that, Aus-
tralian writers had dreamt of creating a
national drama. Mr Kippax describes
their plays as realistic in intention and
flat in language, yet dominated by the
Australianist legend: a romantic over-
estimation of the Underdog, the Radical,
the Common Man, and of the Bush. “The
Doll” was the first “Australian play to
criticise this legend, and the criticism was
carried on by “The One Day of the Year”.
At the moment that our dramatists be-
came capable of criticising the Australian
legend, then our national drama was born.
Up to this point in his argument I
agree with Mr Kippax entirely, but I
cannot follow him when he goes on to
say that this criticism is foreshadowed in
Douglas Stewart’s play “Ned Kelly.” He
admits that all the old elements of legend
are present in the play. “Here all the birds
of the bush of the ‘Australianist’ legend
come home to roost the underdog and
his fight against society, the ambiguous
rebel seen as lawless hero, the collision
between the capitalist enterprise of the
cities, and its conformist compulsions,
with (sic!) the private enterprise of the
bush, the epic themes of endurance and
of wandering in vast, hostile landscapes.”
Why, then, does Mr Kippax think that
“Ned Kelly” represents a breakaway
from the old attitudes in Australian
drama? There are three reasons.
In the first place, the respectable citi-
zens put a case for law and order in the
long, tedious argument with the Kelly
Gang in the Jerilderie pub. Now certainly
it is an advance in dramatic technique to
present two sides of a case, but Douglas
Stewart has so loaded the dice against
the law-abiding citizens as to make most
of them appear absurd. It is not much
use presenting two sides of a case, if
one side is simply a travesty.
Secondly, Douglas Stewart has stuck
very closely to the facts and presented
Ned Kelly realistically. He shows him as
vain, childish, at one moment sentimen-
tal, seeing himself as the “Gentleman
Bushranger,” at the next a bully
brutal, violent, murderous. But the trou-
ble is that, alongside the realistic Ned,
we have a completely unrealistic Joe
Byrne. Douglas Stewart has made Joe
Byrne into a poet and an intellectual,
whose function it is to express what Ned
Kelly stands for. What Ned Kelly seems
to stand for, in his own person in the
play, is simply force, hatred, lawlessness.
What Joe Byrne says he stands for is
freedom, courage, imagination, spirit,
the joys and dangers of the bush against
the drab conformity of the town. This is
a quite contradictory mixture of realism
and romanticism.
Ironically enough, Douglas Stewart
might have done better to romanticise
Ned Kelly, rather than present him
realistically. He could have made Kelly
into a heroic figure, as Sidney Nolan has
done, presenting him as a man possessed,
pursuing a crazy vision into the jaws of
death.
The third reason is Douglas Stewart’s
use of what H. G. Kippax calls “anti-
naturalistic language.” But the fact that
the play is written in loose blank verse
only emphasises the flatness of much of
the dialogue. The conversation of the
Kelly Gang, apart from Byrne, is that of
ordinary Australian toughs of the ’for-
ties, for Stewart used modern slang.
From time to time the characters go off
into flights of rhetoric, but it does not
sound at all convincing in these convin-
cingly vernacular mouths. Byrne has
some good lines and phrases, but it is
absurd that the man in the play who is
credited with the poetic vision should be
engaged in defending the very elements in
the Australian tradition which have al-
ways opposed the intellect and threat-
ened every value what would nurture a
poet.
The setting of Hal Porter’s “The
Tower” is the English upper-class society
of Hobart in 1850. Sir Rodney Haviland,
one of its leading figures, is the builder
of the tower, which is a symbol of his
ambition. He is self-seeking, domineer-
ing, ruthless, a man who will stop at
nothing, not even murder, to preserve his
power and possessions.
It is a highly formal and elegant
society, but, beneath the surface de-
corum, the individuals who comprise it
are seething with hatred and fury. The
women spend their time embroidering,
arranging flowers, playing musical instru-
ments, but they have hearts of iron and
wills of steel. The only characters in the
play who are shown as capable of love
are the powerless ones: Aunt Hester, the
widowed sister of Sir Rodney, who lives
on his charity, and Knight, the ex-con-
vict. All those who have any sort of
power are monsters of selfishness.
One cannot help comparing Sir Rod-
ney’s tower with the tower of Sol ness in
“The Master Builder”, but to do so is
to realise that, unlike the ambition of
Solness, Sir Rodney’s ambition is never
made palpable to us. This is why, despite
its sophistication and its Ibsen-like econ-
omy of dialogue and cold elegance of
form (mirroring the cold elegance of the
society which it exposes) “The Tower” is
fundamentally a melodrama.
What is more, in spite of his break
with the Australian tradition of play-
writing, the sinister view that Hal Porter
takes of this society looks like yet another
product of the Australian legend. To the
convicts who were transported to Aus-
tralia, and to the radicals who later came
here in search of a better society, the
English upper classes represented every-
thing that was hateful. To them, no
doubt, formal manners and elegance
were synonymous with cruelty and op-
pression. It is certainly true that in the
egalitarian society which developed in
Australia, informality became compul-
sory, and any suggestion of elegance,
distinction, or formality was, and still is,
regarded as effeminate.
“The One Day of the Year” is the only
play in this volume that is set in the
present. The characters, unlike the cane-
cutters and their girl-friends of “The
Doll,” are in no way exotic. They are an
ordinary working-class family living in
a suburb of Sydney. Even the fact that
Hughie, the son of Alf the lift-driver, is
a student at the university does not
make this family unusual.
Australia in the 1960 s is a prosperous,
industrial civilisation, largely urban, des-
perately needing university-trained people
to run it, and providing university schol-
arships to talented children of all classes.
But, for a long time now, this society has
been clinging to the values and myths that
were developed in the pioneering days in
the bush, like a nation of Ned Kellys
stumbling about, cumbered with medi-
eval armour. In this play, in the conflict
between Alf and his son Hughie over the
meaning of one of Australia’s most sac-
red institutions Anzac Day Alan


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time in-
come There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: , Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 763)
STOTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
Seymour dramatises the confrontation of
the old Australia by the new.
The “Digger” legend is closely linked
to the legend of the heroic bushman
which is criticised in “The Doll.” The
Digger is the hero, not of the bush but
of the battlefield. But the two wars gave
the men of the city the chance to join the
men of the bush on the battlefield, and
to prove that they were men too. The
very name “Digger” confers on the Aus-
tralian soldier the heritage of the heroic
pioneering days of the Gold Rushes. And
the values of the Digger are the ones that
he has taken over from the pioneers of
the bush.
As we have seen already, the pioneer-
ing values included a narrow national-
ism, an over-valuation of toughness, and
a suspicion of anything subtle, sophisti-
cated, or civilised, with a consequent anti-
intellectualism. Alf wants his son to go
to the university so that he can have an
easier life, but he doesn’t want him to
become “different” or intellectual. But
Hughie realises the inadequacy of the
values his father cherishes, in a society
which demands education, flexibility of
mind, and tolerance of the masses of
migrants of many nationalities who have
been brought to Australia since the last
war.
Alan Seymour has written a realistic
play, in which he has not made any
technical innovations. But he has, like
Ray Lawler, made intellectual innova-
tions, which are far more important in
the present state of our drama.
"GO RIGHT HOME AND PRACTISE"
Lady Chatterley's Husband
By MALCOLM MUGGERIDGE
A Doctor Speaks Her Mind about Sex.
Rebecca Liswood. Muller. 225.
VTever, I should suppose, have human
beings been so bombarded with sex
as they are today on our side of the Iron
Curtain. It lurks at every street corner,
it glares from every page. Vast lips come
pouting out to unite in inexorable suc-
tion with other vast lips. From high-
brow films moving at leaden pace, Cur-
zon Street, Mon Amour, to strip-tease
joints where expense-account lunchers,
shreds of smoked salmon still about their
mouths, work off their ultimate brandies
in hyena yells as the last diaphanous
covering on the female form divine is
reached. Ah, Simone de Beauvoir, ah,
Diana Dors, and, thanks to Sir Stanley
Unwin's enterprise, welcome good old
Kama Sutra, Big Ben of erotica, blue-
chip offering from the mysterious East,
steadfast over the years. Sex falls, like
dark atomic rain, on the just and unjust
alike. Ah, dolce, dolce vita!
An exposed, perhaps the most ex-
posed, position in this downpour is pin-
pointed by a letter in a recent issue of
the “New Statesman” signed “Mother of
Two”. “Sex,” she writes, “is something
to keep off until you are sure of the re-
gular supply which only marriage ensur-
es.” A husband’s absence for a week,
she goes on, after years of marriage,
frustrates more than years of virginity.
One would like to make the acquaintance
of “Father of Two” and silently shake
his hand. He deserves a long-service
medal, and perhaps danger money.
Erotica domestica on so exalted and ex-
acting a standard is something that Tib-
erius never thought of and that not even
William Burroughs has cared to tackle.
Les Liaisons Legitimes, Lady Chatterley's
Hasbancl what a terrific theme of rav-
ening, quenchless and familiar lust be-
tween lawful sheets! What a tumble,
valiantly and ingeniously protracted over
the arduous years of regular supply, in
a marital bed!
There are not wanting amiable guides
to this jungle, red in denture and bra, of
whom the late Marie Slopes was a fore-
runner. One remembers, breathlessly and
secretly, turning over the pages of Mar-
ried Love long before one had loved or
been married. A toiler today in the
same vineyard is Dr Rebecca Lisw'ood
who, the dust-jacket informs us, is
founder and Executive Director of the
Marriage Counselling Service of Greater
New York. Dr Liswood is an enthusiast
for marital intercourse. At her lectures
on the subject, she tells us, she exhorts
her audience to keep at it, every day if
possible, three times a week for moder-
ate performers and, in the case of the
handicapped, at any rate once a month.
They should, she insists, “go right
home and practise. Because practice
makes perfect.” One imagines them
making their way homewards from her
lectures, two by two, a look of resolu-
tion in their faces, a sense of purpose
in their step. The little woman, follow-
ing Dr Liswood’s guidance, has her dia-.
phragm “washed and dried and dusted
with cornstarch, ready to insert”. Hubby,
with true gallantry, is ready, if needs be,
to “make believe he is out with a mis-
tress, and bring her flowers and choco-
lates.” He will even go to the expense of
a baby-sitter and spend the night in a
hotel (with his wife, not the baby-sitter)
if thereby a more dazzling and effective
performance is procured.
The case for monogamous marriage is
strongly reinforced by such an attitude.
A retired policeman in Darwin, Austra-
lia, described to me once how a large
blond German had arrived there and
conceived a passion for an aboriginal
girl, in other eyes squat and ill-favored.
As sexual relations with aborigines are
illegal for Europeans in the Northern
Territory of Australia, he went off with
her into the bush. In a week or so, the
girl, though half his size, carried her
German back into town on her back,
and handed him over to the authorities,
politely explaining that she had done
with him. Now', had they been married,
a sagacious marriage counsellor might
have groomed and induced him to stick
it out sturdily and patiently.
When it is necessary Dr Liswood can
be severe. To a wife who complains that
her husband has come bounding into the
house and “announced rather unroman-
tically, ‘Tonight, darling, wear the dia-
phragm’,’’ the doctor sharply remarks:
“Be complimented! Have intercourse
with him! Enjoy it!” Her specifications
for the perfect wifely routine is as fol-
low's:
As a married woman you expect to have
intercourse with your husband. Every
night I want you to prepare yourself for
this intimate occasion. You take your
bath. You brush your hair. You brush
your teeth. You put on a deodorant. You
put on a pretty nightgown. And you in-


sert your diaphragm. You will look pretty
and fresh and sweet to him, and he will
respond lovingly to you. It is not too much
trouble to look your best and be your
most appealing. Because you will be richly
rewarded for your pains.
In the light of these careful conjugal
instructions, the mass self-inflicted cas-
trations which took place in the first
years of the Christian Era, so elegantly
described by Gibbons, become compre-
hensible at last. One feels, like Origen,
that it might, after all, be more prudent
to disarm the tempter.
A couple who might expect to receive
an award from Dr Liswood as model
matrimonialists ran into an unexpected
snag. So well, dutifully and cheerfully,
did they go to it each morning that the
wife was induced to “let out a great big
whoop of pleasure”, which rang through
the apartment building in which they
lived, penetrating its thin walls and
awakening their slothful and less amor-
ous neighbors. The facetious comments
thereby induced led the husband to desist
in his efforts. Dr Liswood, however,
assured him that the facetiousness was
due to jealousy, and that “he should have
been glad that his wife enjoyed their re-
lationship so much.” Thenceforth he
continued with the good work unabash-
ed. One likes to think of that chanticleer
cry punctually sounding, to announce
each morning that the day has dawned
and,the noise of life begun again.
Dr Liswood’s requirements are really
quite exacting: “Once or twice a day I’d
like you to tighten the sphincter muscle
that controls the bladder opening, for at
the same time you will be pulling up the
muscle at the entrance to the vaginal
canal. . .” What with thus toning up the
muscles of the vaginal canal, washing,
drying and dusting the diaphragm, and so
on, there is plenty to do. Nor need the
coming of the menopause, the passage of
years, the dropping out of hair or teeth,
or any other intimation of physical decay,
be admitted to impede the marriage of
true bodies. In sickness and in health,
till death them do part, they may con-
tinue, Dr Liswood eloquently insists, to
pursue happiness in one another’s arms.
—From “The New Statesman.”
OTHERWISE YOU'LL BE MEDIOCRE
The Rough Rider. Jack Pollard.
Lansdowne Press. 28s.
The Dawn of Swimming. Ken Knox.
Stanley Paul. 225. 6d.
W isten to Jon Henricks telling a re-
porter how he trained for the
Olympics. “You see that goddam pool
there well, if you want to get to the
top in swimming you stand at one end
of it, dive in and start swimming. You
do that for 3, 4 or 5 years, and every
time you stop swimming your coach
bawls you out. You do fast laps and
slow laps, you do laps on the kicking
board and laps with your feet tied
together laps up and down, up and
down, until you lose count and then
you start again. You go to sleep think-
ing of seconds and tenths of seconds
and wake up thinking of the number of
miles you've got to swim.”
That was 1960. Now see how, in 1896,
Lance Skuthorpe Snr. allowed himself to
be chivvied into attempting Adam
Lindsay Gordon's famous leap, at Mt
Gambier.
Skuthorpe first searched the district
for the right horse, then examined the
ground, the three-rail fence, and the
narrow cliff edge beyond it, then built
an exact replica of it elsewhere and put
the horse to it. He had to turn the horse
across as it went over, land along the
ledge and stop dead, or fall 200 feet.
The horse refused the replica fence, and
continued to refuse it until it looked as
though “Professor” Skuthorpe would be
laughed out of Mt Gambier.
He kept patiently at it, never spurring
or belting the horse, until he was inspired
to cover its eyes with a handkerchief,
to be whipped aside as it was rising for
the jump. That worked and Skuthorpe
managed to do what he suspected
Gordon had not, and lived to become
Australia’s greatest rough rider and
rodeo showman.
Although there is little connection
between Skuthorpe’s lusty world, as
shown in Jack Pollard’s book, and the
scientific precision of Dawn Fraser,
Murray Rose, the Konrads, and all the
other swimmers and coaches who chase
gold medals in Ken Knox’s book, this is
how champions are made and always
have been.
Pollard tumbles the story of Lance
Skuthorpe the Elder’s 87 rambunctious
years on to 156 pages, and there isn’t a
dull one in the book. Pictures of him
show a very ordinary looking young
man, but he was one of Australia’s
greatest with horses and developed into
one of its most flamboyant showmen of
all time. He made fortunes, he dodged
bailiffs, he wrote stories for The
Bulletin, he ran third in an early
Stawell Gift after falling at the start, and
when he died in 1958, the last of the old
bushmen, rodeo had had its day in the
cities and Australia’s young swimmers
had just broken 17 world and 34 national
records in the annual championships.
Ken Knox, who has been a swimmer
and is now a Melbourne journalist, gives
much of the credit for championship
swimming to the professional coaches.
“In any other country in the world these
coaches would be lauded like heroes.” In
Australia they were snubbed by swim-
ming officials.
Harry Gallagher, for instance, founded
his fortune when he noticed Dawn Fraser
in Balmain Baths, Sydney. “Her style,
was rough and so were her manners,”
but she had the build, the fire and the
spirit Gallagher had been looking for,
and the rest is history, well told in Knox’s
book. So are all the other stories of the
coaches and their young champions, the
training camps, friendships and feuds,
the Rome Olympics, and the subsequent
decline.
There is a final chapter by Harry
Gallagher calculated to frighten the
socks off anyone who has not got what
it takes to be a champion. The “funda-
mentals of success” include some 50 rules
of which some of the more notable are
“many basic miles, good peaking pro-
gramme, top class coaching, obedience
to coach, pep talks, correct foods, calm-
ness, grit, co-operation from parents,
abstinence from smoking, alcohol, worry,
surfing, unusual activities.”
Otherwise you'll always be mediocre.
FRANK ROBERTS
BUILDER OR ARCHITECT
John Verge. Early Australian Archi-
tect, His Ledger and His Clients.
Will Graves Verge. Wentworth
Books. 425.
HThis is a source book rather than a
biography. It represents years of in-
tensive research by the author, a descend-
ant of the architect. The volume is re-
produced in offset from typescript in
a limited edition of 250 copies.
Verge came to Australia in 1828. He
was a retired builder of middle age who
brought with him money, equipment and
Saxon rams with a view to becoming a
farmer. He selected land on the Williams
River, later became a pioneer of the
Macleay River and one of the land
monopolists and founders of Kempsey.
Almost immediately after his arrival in
Australia he acquired some reputation
as a builder which led Governor Darling
to offer him Government contracts.
Mr Morton Herman writes an intro-
duction in which he asks the question,
“Why . . . did a man who' was an ex-
builder and a potential pastoralist be-
come one of the greatest architects in
Australian history?” One reason, of
course, was economic necessity. Though
it is not stressed in the book he ar-
rived on the edge of one of the worst
periods of drought and depression ex-
perienced in early Australia and. to boot,
settled on an area utterly unsuitable for
wool raising. Mr Herman, to my mind,


HISTW
OF
TRANSPORT
0*
of the UvV
MOTOR
CAR
RAWS
t&A
SPESM
!
T. BRowNC
D. THOMAS
makes too much of a mouthful of the
distinction between builder and archi-
tect. Greenway, having regard to his
habits, would today be regarded more
in the range of builders than architects;
even more so than Verge, for Verge at
least produced plans; but Greenway
didn’t. The amazing thing about his
famous Sydney buildings is that he left
no plans of any of them. He was wont
to proceed by trial and error, as a gen-
eral rule altering if the effects did not
please him. He was, in fact, a partner
in a building firm whose bankruptcy re-
sulted in his misfortunes.
Verge left a vast store of historic
buildings mansions like Elizabeth Bay
House, Manor Houses like Camden
Park, and Denham Court, churches like
St Paul’s (Cobbitty) and St Mark’s (Darl-
ing Point), public buildings, shops rapidly
disappearing from the older streets of
Sydney. The names record'd in his
ledger seem like a roll of the great of/
history over the late Georgian and early
Victorian ages. It is supplemented by
notes by the author of the Volume, some
of which are relevant, many interesting
but not relevant; some accurate, and
some very much open to question.
It is, for instance, wrong to attribute
any part of Elizabeth Farm House at
Parramatta to Verge unless it was a bit
of patching. The House was built virtu-
ally in toto by John Macarthur himself
without doubt in 1826-7. It seems
equally wrong to say that Verge’s work
there otherwise in the adjoining buildings
cannot be identified, for it sticks out
“like a sore toe.” The original house,
incidentally, is not the oldest dwelling
house in Australia as the authorities of
the National Trust and the Cumberland
County Council insist on repeating. It
is not even as old as its companion
cottage Hambleton Cottage which was
built in 1824. I doubt whether there was
much of the original 1793 building left
in 1826 even when Macarthur built the
present house.
The book is equipped with a copious
bibliography, reference notes and index.
M. H. ELLIS
TRADESMEN NOVELISTS
The Zilov Bombs. D. G. Barron.
Andre Deutsch. 21s.
The Northern Palmyra Affair. Harri-
son E. Salisbury. Hutchinson. 275.
The Spear Grinner. Clive Barry.
Faber. 21s.
No Roads Go By. Myrtle Rose
White. Rigby. 255.
write most of the novels
A these days. The thorns and spikes
have been trimmed away, the sap bled
out, and what we get is not criticism of
life but a narrow competent exercise in
story-telling.
The novels in the present batch are
good illustrations. In ali the plot is
clearly drawn, the narrative has pace and
direction, few demands are made on
us, all the pieces fit neatly together. Yet
if the test of a novel is its capacity to
bear rereading, only one of these stories
gets by.
“The Zilov Bombs” takes as its theme
the Britain of the future. She has been
occupied by the Russians who moved
in after Britain decided to disarm uni-
laterally. Various underground groups
have been formed to resist the Russians
and one of the groups has come into
possession of a couple of nuclear
bombs. The question posed is: Will the
rebels be discovered before they have
time to set off the bombs?
The story unfolds as a kind of genteel
thriller with the main interest focused
on one character whose conscience in
all this cloak-and-dagger enterprise is
giving him some trouble. He finally
throws in his lot with the rebels and,
with Russian soldiers storming their
hideout, fades out on the press of the
button.
“The Northern Palmyra Affair” is a
story of Leningrad during Stalin’s regime
spelt out in terms of the lives of artists
and officials caught up in a sort of night-
mare world of intrigue and treachery.
There is an old-fashioned flavor about
the whole thing—the canvas is broad,
the characters many. There is much talk
of the Russian Soul interspersed with
many vivid vignettes of Leningrad under
siege and in the Civil War. If it is not
an attractive world he reveals it carries
conviction.
“The Spear Grinner,” by Australian
writer Clive Barry, tells of the adventures
that beset a tough Australian who moves
into an East African State as one of its
District Officers. He meets up with a
heady onslaught of sex, violence and
gangsterism.
Part of the difficulty is that events are
presented in an impressionistic manner
and it is never made clear what holds
them together. The blurb tells us that
it is not a novel at all but “a Fiction”
and by this is meant “an epic fiction,
where the time between events is tele-
scoped and where people and things are
identified by almost ritual attributes.”
This is not very illuminating. Some of
the events are put across with great gusto
and these found entertaining enough but
as a Fiction I reckon I’m being done.
The novels in this batch don’t add up
to very much, but my week’s reading
has been redeemed by the appearance of
“No Roads Go By,” a study of outback
life in the ’twenties by Myrtle Rose
White. It is a story of loneliness and
hardship written out of deep experience
tinged with affection. It is good to see
it back in print again. For those x who
have yet to make contact with this
classic now is the time to start.
Douglas Terry
RUNNING AWAY
The Boy and his Friend the Blizzard.
Gregory Marton. Jonathan Cape.
13s. 3d.
Boy and his Friend the Blizzard”
A was extremely well received in
Britain as the first book of a Hungarian
now living in Sydney. It is a simple
story of a young orphan boy running
away from Budapest. He meets a young,
pregnant woman, with whom he shelters
in a shack during a blizzard and for
whom he tries to gather food.
It is simple, but it is quite movingly
done. It would be interesting to see what
Mr Marton would do if he turned to the
Australian scene. A writer who can en-
visage hunger so extreme that a boy will
go first to the Catholic church for
Eucharistic bread and then to the Protes-
tant church, because it provides bread
and wine, has lived a little closer to the
heart of things than most local writers.


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
CAMELS ARE NOW A PEST
By MICHAEL TERRY, FRGS, FRGSA
/"|ne hundred and twenty three years
ago there was not a camel in Aus-
tralia. Yet by the beginning of this cen-
tury at least 6000 were in use 4000
in Western Australia, 1500 in South Aus-
tralia and 500 in New South Wales.
Today 1 would be surprised to learn
of more than 50 in use in all the Com-
monwealth and most of these would be
under aboriginal masters.
Such folk have caught and tamed wild
donkeys as well, using both animals
during walkabouts. In fact not long ago
I saw a really biblical scene in the far
north of South Australia. Father abor-
iginal was riding a donkey bareback and
leading a camel on which mother, kids
and camp gear were perched. In that
area, too, an old white “hatter” still used
four camels if only in protest against the
motorising of bush transport.
Before motors took over from them,
camels were used to haul and pack every
kind of bush need. From bales of wool
to water tanks on their backs, to any-
thing that would load on to a vehicle,
they pioneered the dry stages of the
remote Inland.
I have used a pair of them in a buck-
board and covered longer dry stages
faster than was possible by horse. Sta-
tions brought out their stores from town
and their firewood from the bush on high-
wheeled waggons hauled by the ship-of-
the-desert.
At Charlotte Waters, on the NT-SA
border, I saw an ingenious vehicle made
of an old car chassis with a flat top of
planks. Its rubber tyres enabled a pair of
camels to trot easily with a load of many
hundredweights, however loose and dry
the sand.
From the pioneering point of view the
pack camel was even more important
since sandhills were no real hindrance to
it. In the days when I was leading desert
expeditions I used to pay £8 for a pack
camel and saddle and £l2 for a riding
camel and its saddle. Today it would be
practically impossible to find saddlery.
In 1932 my expedition put up what I
claim to be the Australian record for a
dry stage. During 16 days we marched
west to Lake Mackay, then had to turn
back hurriedly for water again at Mt
Singleton. We had clocked 250 miles by
the time we just made safety. One camel
threw fits, another tried to commit sui-
cide by bashing its head against trees.
And at night latterly they would not
feed but lay close to camp kicking be-
cause of the fire burning inside their
bellies or pathetically wandering
amongst the water canteens licking at
the stoppers.
Those camels returned to Mt Singleton
poor as church mice but left it fat as
bull pups. As we had to bail the water
from a soak bucket by bucket we mea-
sured they drank about 35 gallons apiece.
The same enormous intake occurred
when we arrived perished at the War-
burton Range in Western Australia after
a terrible unbroken four-day, three-night
ride in great heat to win across Gibson’s
Desert.
Alan Davidson in 1900 did 21 days
dry making back from Tanami to Barrow
Creek. But then it was cool weather and
his loads were very light and the feed
reasonable. I claim, therefore, our Lake
Mackay record stands, considering heavy
loads, great sandhills, summer heat and
scarcely any feed.
The camel is extraordinarily sagacious
about steep sand. Until I actually saw it
I fancied that the story of them ascend-
ing on front knees was a bush yarn. I
was amazed when, one by one in the
struggle up the sandhill, they went down
on knees and shuffled to the top. Con-
fronted by the equally steep descent be-
yond, they tucked back legs under belly,
braced front legs straight and tobogan-
ned to the plain beyond.
Their huge, soft pads are ideal for soft
going but suffer quickly in stony ground.
It is dreadful to see them limping after
crossing stony ridges which cannot be
avoided. The answer is greenhide boots
shaped wet to the form of the pad and
held in place by a strap around the
fetlock.
Like the drover’s dog, whose paws
have been burnt by hot ground and
needs boots, they hate the things. They
stamp and scrape to rid their feet of
the encumbrance.
After many decades of invaluable
service to Australia it is really sad that
camels have degenerated into a real pest.
Released when men had no further use
for them they have developed colonies
Inland with nothing more significant to
do than to breed and feed. I was properly
surprised a year ago, when out near the
Westralian border from Alice Springs,
to see so many camel tracks.
Even 30 years ago they were shooting
stray camels. In one day 153 were shot
near Marree, though once upon a time
they were worth up to <£so apiece.
The things which camels eat do not
take much feed from cattle and sheep.
But their numbers are a curse for two
principal reasons. When they come to a
gate they simply sit on it, crush it down,
then wander into the paddock with a sort
of supercilious grin. At a waterpoint they
disturb cattle and sheep. Horses are es-
pecially scared of them.
It is indeed a pity that the camel
evidences once again the pestiferous fer-
tility of Australia. There is too long a
list of animals we have brought to this
country which have become a curse to
the man on the land.
AUSTRALIAN CORRIEDALES
IMPRESS PERUVIANS
Oeveral years ago Dr Barreda Y. Laos,
acting for the Sociedad Ganadera
Corpacancha of Peru, bought from Mr
(now deceased) and Mrs R. E. Wetten-
hall, of “Stanbury” stud at Ceres (Vic.),
three Corriedale rams, for one of which
he paid the record price of £A2963.
The top-price ram was used for arti-
ficial insemination and, with the two
others for breeding on the Corpacancha
sheep farm, 15,000 feet above sea level.
So satisfied was Dr Barreda with this
first purchase that last year, when Mr
and Mrs R. E. Wettenhall visited Ar-
gentina and Peru, he arranged to buy
for his Society 30 of “Stanbury’s” best
year-old ewes. These ewes, shipped on
the M V Sameland, favorably impressed
Peruvian sheepmen when, at the begin-
ning of January, the whole consignment
arrived at the port of Callao in first-class
condition.
The Wettenhalls had previously ex-
ported rams to practically all the sheep-
breeding countries of South America, but
this consignment was the first batch of
Australian stud Corriedale ewes ever im-
ported into Peru, though no doubt others
will follow.
MARIEL LEE


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
UK Stimulant Urgently Needed
BRITAIN’S current economic setback—blamed in part on
the bad weather —has serious overtones if analysed
in terms of recent manufacturing surveys.
Manufacturers say they could increase production by 10
p.c. or more (if they had the orders) but without increasing
the labor force. With unemployment still above 700,000, this
is not a happy outlook for job absorption in the next few
months.
Reduced production figures are showing up in export
statistics, thus creating a sharply-tipped pointer to the Gov-
ernment that prompt stimulation is required. The deceleration
in production and jobs in recent months must have a cumula-
tive depressing effect on private spending, which inevitably
reduces recovery prospects.
Unfortunately, pressures exerted on the UK Government
to do something (with a <£stg. 400 million tax cut placed high
on the agenda) give the impression that industry is tired of
trying to pull itself up by its bootstraps. Even conservative
Englishmen are wearing Italian-style shoes these days instead
of boots.
Pressure on sterling is not making the task any easier.
When sterling was quoted below parity against the dollar a few
weeks ago, it was argued that any undue government stimu-
lus to the home economy might aggravate the sterling crisis.
Tax cuts and heavy government expenditure not only would
put more money in public hands but also encourage the public
to spend more on imports, with consequent dire effects on the
already serious balance of payments problem.
Yet, if the government fails to undertake some expansionary
or stimulatory action, it is just as likely to be bundled out of
office. The protagonists of sterling devaluation nod wisely and
say there is no other obvious solution to boost exports at
the moment. GATT forbids direct government subsidies for
exports.
Tax relief in Britain will not encourage overseas buyers to
purchase British goods unless that tax reduction can be
expressed in lower prices for UK manufactures. Assuming
there is some overnight stimulus to exports by way of tax
cuts, manufacturers point to the recent downturn of 9 p.c.
in industrial production since December. To recoup this loss
and restore production to the December rate merely would
put Britain back to a level where it was struggling already to
maintain exports and stave off a balance of payments crisis.
One of the suggested solutions is for the Government to cut
income tax but lift purchase tax on imported goods, if possible.
The Government has shown it is unwilling to interfere with
the existing purchase-tax, but it may have to consider adopting
the same type of “value added” purchase tax successfully
introduced in France.
For political reasons, some definite move is required to
relieve the unemployment hardship in northern areas of
Britain, where the unemployment rate has fluctuated between
5 and 6 p.c. Next in, line should be some form of export
incentive, other than direct subsidies.
Uncle Sam is watching anxiously from the sidelines and
undoubtedly has held discussions with the UK Government on
steps to be taken to bolster sterling.
BUILDING CASTLES ON
INFLATED LAND VALUES
A MERICAN visitors in the millionaire class have been beating
Australians over the head with the opinion that you cannot
go wrong by investing in land. This may be sound advice, so long
as it is not carried to some of the extremes recently witnessed
in America.
Curtailment of the US real estate boom last year hurt stock-
holders more than landholders. Some of the lessons are worth
learning, the most important of which is that v eal estate com-
panies should be conservative in their book-keeping.
The old maxim that land values will always increase in price
should not be carried too far, especially when quarterly or half
yearly dividend payments are made to stockholders on the
assumption that property sales, always will be made at a profit.
The US fall in property values is of topical significance to
Australia, where the unexpected growth in holding charges
(interest on money borrowed and maintenance costs) has
white-anted some imposing real estate structures.
Holding charges were not the cause of the US collapse. It
was more a case of inflated share values in public companies
which traded in real estate.
The land, on average, was increasing in value all right. But,
when syndicates sold their holdings to public corporations and
the market values of the shares in those public corporations
were inflated by rising dividend payments, the final price paid
by the public stockholder put an astronomical figure on the
assets of the corporation.
The Securities and Exchange Commission expressed concern
when stock market prices for real estate companies took a dive.
The SEC, which is a Government agency, let it be known that
it wanted to see more conservative book-keeping from real
estate corporations; also that quarterly profit results should be
known before deciding what dividends to pay to stockholders.
Today it is claimed that owners of New York apartment
houses are offering special inducements to attract tenants, such
as free furnishings or three months rent-free when signing
a lease.
This trend is well known on the West Coast in Los Angeles
after the Hollywood exodus. The glut of apartments in New
York occurred when builders frantically constructed apartments
before a recent change in the zoning code.
Other forms of US real estate investment, such as bowling
alleys and motels, are over-built. The building splurge was
stimulated by the rapid growth of real estate corporations


which were obliged to show some results for the huge amounts
of capital obtained from the public.
All went well for several years and about 50 large corporations
mushroomed on the basis that they could produce returns of
10 or 12 p.c. on invested capital. But, as one analyst put it,
these corporations were distributing depreciation as well as
operating earnings. And, instead of holding profits and re-
investing them, returns to stockholders were made quarterly
and monthly.
In competing with one another, the real estate corporations
adopted the attitude that land values do not decline and that
properties invariably could be sold at cost or higher.
Publicity given to successful deals in the sale of buildings
prompted keen competition in buying and re-selling properties,
but non-recurring profits were paid to stockholders as part of
the monthly cash distribution.
Inevitably, the real estate corporations began to run out of
tax-free depreciation and non-recurring profits. This contributed
to a rash of sales on the real estate market.
When a corporation ran out of tax-free depreciation, it could
start a new round of tax-free depreciation by selling a building.
But the fight to maintain cash dividends caused many com-
panies to run out of tax-free depreciation at the same time,
thus forcing too many buildings on to the market.
To bolster earnings, large-scale building construction was
undertaken by real estate groups which had no experience in
this field —sometimes with unhappy results.
Australia has not reached such an advanced stage of high
pressure real estate trading because there are so many new
areas to be developed.
The US experience, however, should not be disregarded,
because the true and consistent returns on a property invest-
ment need to be calculated on a long term basis and not on
immediate or non-recurring returns.
Property trusts of the unspectacular long-term London
Covent Garden type usually offer less dangerous prospects than
the higher flyers.
HAVE WE MISSED THE BUS
ON IRON ORE EXPORTS?
J. A. Dunn, a noted minerals economist, told The
Bulletin last week that he thought far too optimistic
a view was being taken of the prospects for Australian iron
ore exports. In his view we had more or less missed the
bus in the exploitation of overseas markets for ore, and he con-
sidered we were in for a very hard struggle even to command
much of Japan’s rising demand of ore in face of the successful
efforts made by India to furnish guaranteed supplies to that
market in the next six years or so.
He said India had contracted to supply 12 million tons
up to 1970, while Australia would be fortunate to send 5
million tons, even providing the growth of the Japanese
steel industry proceeded at the planned rate, which was open
to some conjecture.
Dr Dunn puts our disability down to the Federal Govern-
ment’s “unreasoning attitude” towards the ban cn the export
of iron ore which was maintained against some of the best
advice, including his own when at the Bureau of Minerals
Resources, while other countries were free to make deals
with overseas markets.
The force of this was underlined by remarks made by the
WA Minister of Mines on his return from a two weeks’ visit
to Japan. He said that there was no immediate prospect of
exporting iron ore from WA to Japan. There had been a
sharp cut in Japan’s iron ore imports in recent months as
a result of reduced activity in the steel industry there, and
the prospects for a recovery were obscure.
Moreover, with Japan contracted to buy ore from other
countries, naturally those contracts would have priority in
meeting any revival in demand before imports from Australia
would be considered.
Nonetheless, the Minister found that the Japanese were
impressed with the quality of iron ore in the WA deposits
and he did not doubt that, given a revival in the steel industry,
Japanese interest in the deposits would increase.
Pro tern, the Minister had arranged for the resumption of
discussions between Japanese steel interests and the Western
Mining Corporation which is developing the Tallering Peak,
Koolanooka and Blue Hills deposits in the State in association
with two United States mining companies, Hanna and Home-
state.
After talks with Western Mining, the Japanese said they
would send a technical team to Western Australia to examine
the Pilbara and other deposits.
PRICE WAR IN ALUMINIUM
HAS STARTED
Alcoa’s intimation that its cut from the “guaran-
teed” price of <£27l to £251 a ton for aluminium was
not intended to start a price war with Comalco, all things
point to its doing so.
Within a matter of hours of Alcoa’s price cut, Comalco
followed suit. Comalco has been enjoying the guaranteed
price for all the metal it could produce since its agreement
with the Commonwealth Government in 1960.
If these cuts can come before Alcoa actually starts smelting
(its Port Henry 'plant is ready to pour its first metal this
week), other price reductions look certain to follow as the
battle for the local market hots up.
Although, as suggested previously in The Bulletin, it is
unlikely the companies will be producing metal at rock-bottom
cost for some time yet, consumers seem to have a good
chance of seeing the local price fall nearer the world parity
price of £225 a ton in the not too distant future. This
is something the Government must have hoped for when it
gave the two giants their respective go-aheads in 1960
(Comalco) and 1961 (Alcoa), and then recently guaranteed
them the whole of the local market without interference
from imports.
On the other hand, Comalco must regard Alcoa’s opening
thrust with some dismay, indicating as it does that Alcoa is
prepared to go possibly to extreme lengths in direct price
cuts and discounts to consumers to shake them from their
hitherto enforced allegiance to Comalco, which was the only
supplier of local metal.
However, in the interests of expanding consumption of
aluminium, Comalco, like Alcoa, sees some sense in trading
below the guaranteed price, even if this means less profit
per ton of metal sold. Both companies are anxious to stimu-
late the consumption of aluminium in its own right and
vis-a-vis competitive metals (in which vigorous promotion is
also going on).
It has to be remembered, though, consumers will in future
be denied access to cheap imports of metal following the
recent embargo. Imports have helped them average down
their costs of metal to about the price at which both companies
are now offering it. Further price reductions would certainly
help the campaign to sell more metal overall.


LEASE
YOUR
COMPANY CARS! I
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
f"-
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
/
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita-1.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
AMMUNITION FOR
SIR GARFIELD
Oir Garfield Barwick will find some
useful ammunition to support his
proposed legislation on restrictive trade
practices in Professor Alex Hunter’s
editorial introduction to the Economics
of Australian Industry, a collection of
studies in the environment and structure
of industry, published by the Melbourne
University Press and soon to reach the
bookstalls.
Behind the euphemism of “orderly
marketing” by which they are generally
described, restrictive practices that is,
agreements or arrangements to restrict
competition have a significant effect
on the climate of competition, says the
professor. He points to the finding by
a Royal Commission in Western Aus-
tralia, “scarcely the Ruhr of the Com-
monwealth,” of 111 trade associations,
and says that more exist in each of
Victoria, NSW and South Australia, about
a third being for manufacturers’ organisa-
tions and the rest for the distributive and
service trades.
As might be expected, agreements on
price are by far the most common, being
mainly vertical arrangements between the
manufacturer and distributor covering not
only retail price but distributive margins.
The enforcement of such agreements is
not always an easy matter, and, on occa-
sion, associations resort to the black-
listing of price-cutters and, in general,
try to confine supplies to “approved
dealers” or “legitimate channels of
trade,” to use the association jargon.
The types of products subject to restric-
tions within States include such items as
electrical equipment, glass, masonite, ply-
wood, timber, bitumen, cement, steel pro-
ducts and all hardware lines, including
fencing wire, nails, and tools, floor and
wall tiles, etc.
On an Australia-wide level such goods
as pharmaceuticals, tyres, automotive
parts, petroleum products, tobacco and
cigarettes, valves and television tubes,
agricultural equipment, etc., are affected.
“Level or collusive tendering is another
practice which is so widely directed
against municipalities, government de-
partments and public utilities as to con-
stitute a major scandal,” Hunter says.
“The various acts which compel pub-
lic authorities to invite tenders, where the
value of the supplies is in excess of a
very low maximum figure, places them
in a very weak position indeed. One study
at present going on seems to suggest that
between 50-60 per cent, by value of all
supplies to public authorities are subject
to level tendering activities.
“Despite monopolies and restrictive
practices, the processes of competition are
far from being suppressed in Australian
industry. Admittedly, the intensity of
competition in any given economy is
difficult to assess involving as it does
many qualitative judgments.
"‘However, the case studies of this
volume do point to considerable vitality
of competition. In particular, two factors
emerge to help restore trie balance of
competitiveness: The rapid rate of growth
of Australian industry with its accompany-
ing stream in innovation, and the persis-
tent presence of overseas competition.”
As for Sir Garfield’s move to get effec-
tive legislation against restrictive prac-
tices, Professor Hunter recognises the
constitutional problem parallel and
identical legislation in each State and the
Commonwealth appears to be necessary
but probably the greatest obstacle at
this stage of Australia’s industrial
development is, he thinks, a sufficiently
widespread determination among politi-
cians to accomplish legislation in this un-
popular field.
Clearly he was writing before the gal-
vanising of opposition by manufacturers
to Sir Garfield’s proposals.
HOECHST ON HORIZON
Hoechst AG of Frank-
A furt, Germany, one of Europe’s
largest chemical complexes, ranking in
size only after ICI and Bayer, plans to
manufacture in Australia. Its eye will
be cocked on Asian export markets.
An Australian subsidiary, Hoechst
Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd, was formed in
1960, headed by Dr Hans Giese, who
returns to Canada in April and will be
succeeded by Dr Hans von Pentz as
managing director. At present Hoechst
only imports its products and markets
them through its own subsidiary and
Henry H. York & Co. Pty Ltd.
Dr Giese says it has not been decid-
ed whether the company will start
with pharmaceuticals only or in a much
wider chemical field. Australia, with a
population of only 10 million, would not
in itself provide sufficient market to
justify the investment of millions of
pounds to establish a large chemical
industry.
Hoechst, which is celebrating its cen-
tenary this year, started with a small
coal-tar dye works near Frankfurt. In
1883 it was one of the first to under-
take the large-scale manufacture of
pharmaceuticals and, over the years,
widened its range of products. In 1912
Hoechst discovered vinyl compounds,
which led to the production of vinyl
plastics.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
EMPLOYMENT IN SERVICE INDUSTRIES
It is generally accepted that tertiary
industries will be required to find an
increasing number of jobs. But dis-
cussions on this subject sometimes seem
to neglect the fact that since 1950 these
industries have accounted for 700,000
new jobs, or an increase of 40 p.c.,
whereas the increases in manufacturing
employment have been roughly only
200,000, or a rise of 20 p.c., and in
primary industry, including mining, an
increase of only 7 p.c.
Compared with 55 p.c. of all employ-
ment in Australia ten years ago, the per-
centage of people employed in tertiary
industries is now around 60, giving em-
ployment in round figures of 2,600,000,
compared with 1,200,000 in secondary
and 500,000 in primary industry.
The national expenditure statistics also
show an increasingly heavy bias towards
expenditure on services over the same
period. Direct consumers’ expenditure
on services has risen by 11 p.c. a year
since 1947-50. Government expenditure
on services such as education and health
has increased even more —by 14 p.c. a
year. Against this, national expenditure
on durable and non-durable consumption
goods has increased by only 8 p.c. in
both cases.
So, on all counts, tertiary industries
have been doing their part nobly in
labor absorption. Though as the In-
stitute of Public Affairs points out in
its latest Review, tertiary employment is
really no more than an omnibus residual
classification in which all employments
not falling within an easily recognisable
primary or secondary industry are lump-
ed together for statistical convenience.
Whereas the pursuits grouped confidently
under primary and secondary industry
have a homogeneous flavor, this is miss-
ing in the tertiaries which embrace such
wide diversities of employments as build-
ing and construction, ladies’ hairdressing,
insurance, retailing, commerce in all its
guises and government officials.
Tt is, therefore, difficult to follow the
IPA's suggestion that there has been a
tendency “to neglect the tertiary indus-
tries,” though judging from some
brokers’ circulars in Melbourne they
have only recently been discovered by
the Stock Exchange!
What is probably true is that second-
ary industry gets most of the headlines
in development propaganda, and maybe
deserves them because of its superior
line-up of back room boys and official
fronts. It also seems to be true that
the strongest impelling force in national
growth over the last ten years or more
has been investment in secondary in-
dustry. This has arisen largely from
the hot-house conditions for industrial
development created by import restric-
tions until they were lifted three years
ago.
Some observers hold the view that the
superstructure of tertiary employments
could not possibly have been built but
for the rapid broadening of the base of
manufacturing industry. We must go
along with that. The process of taking
in one another’s washing can be pushed
only so far in the absence of an expan-
sion of the output of physical goods.
However, what has been happening, in
the IPA’s view, is that the fact of
primary industries being poor labor ab-
sorbers has led many people to look to
manufacturing industry as the main hope
for labor absorption. It says this type
of thinking seems to lie behind an ap-
parent disposition in some Canberra
enclaves to provide stronger encourage-
ment and probably higher protection for
manufacturing.
The Institute recognises there is no
doubt that secondary industry must play
a very large part in providing opportuni-
ties and careers for the large annual addi-
tions to the labor force. But it says
that “some economists may have doubts
whether in the end it is possible to
enlarge the employment - giving poten-
tialities of the economy by carrying too
far the artificial encouragement of any
particular section.”
of course, is not to gainsay the
need for a properly considered policy
of protection to promote the vigorous
development of manufacturing in the
interests of the welfare of the Australian
economy as a whole. The big question
is “how far is ‘too far’?” —a nice sort of
compromise for the Institute in the light
of its content of manufacturing firms’
supporters.
In any case, the IPA is prepared to
put in a good word for the tertiary in-
dustries and says that their effect on rates
of growth has been greatly underrated,
particularly in international comparisons.
(Incidentally, it has never been neglected
in Britain, the “nation of shopkeepers.”)
“As an economy becomes more
mature,” says the Institute, “an increas-
ing proportion of national expenditure
is directed to industries concerned with
the production of services and a declin-
ing proportion to industries concerned
with the production of physical goods.”
This may well be: Have we reached
the stage of maturity which will allow
both for viability on the external front
and a build-up of service industries on
the scale of the mature countries? We
would have thought that, given the fact
that the base of production industries,
both primary and secondary, has to carry
the superstructure of service industries
(in this context such industries as build-
ing and construction, which do actually
produce physical goods, could be ex-
cluded) there is a distinct danger in
construing growth of the Australian
economy in these terms at this stage.
This has been the burden of complaint
by the non-sheltered industries for as
long as can be remembered. And if,
as the Institute maintains, “the two
watchwords must be exports and effici-
ency and the aim of all policy should be
to promote both,” it is difficult to re-
concile this with a policy of stimulating
service industries which would only add
to the cost burden of the non-sheltered
industries.
Oo while it is inevitable that we have to
rely on tertiary industries to absorb
more labor than either primary or
secondary industry, we will have to take
care that any stimulation of employment
in the tertiaries is not pressed to the
point of breaking the costs’ back of the
rest and more productive (in export
terms that is) primary and secondary
industries.
Moreover, there is the further danger,
which should have been indelibly im-
pressed on the community during the
recession, that a lot of service industry
employment falls like a pack of cards
when industrial activity suffers a pro-
longed setback, as it did from 1960 into
early last year.
As for the motivating power of ser-
vice industries for national growth, there
is no doubt that these have a strong
breeding power. But it has to be remem-
bered that the only solid base for allow-
ing them full rein in their proliferation
lies in the production of physical goods
and a balance must be struck with that
in mind in fostering them.
True enough, in economic parlance
services are on all fours with physical
goods, the common denominator being
scarcity value; but the Australian and any
other economy, especially those heavily
dependent on export income, still have
limits to the extent that gross national
product can be absorbed by its tertiary
industries. And in planning- future labor
absorption and even immigration targets,
it would be as well to keep this in mind.
In the ultimate analysis, it may come
to a choice between expanding this ser-
vice industry or that of, say, education
and hospitals, in preference to horse rac-
ing and the Totalisator Agency Board.


lCredits Ltd.
Paid up capital £4,157,880
£1,000,000 REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
1 %
2 P.L
[ 6-10 Years ]
Other Convenient rates and periods available.
Applications must proceed only on the form enclosed in the
Prospectus which may be obtained from
* THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
*Any recognised Stockbroker.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited
owns 41% of the Ordinary Shares of General Credits
Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulburn Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
277 William Street Melbourne. Phone: 60 0241.
and at: Brisbane, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters: lAN POTTER & CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
1263
General Credits Ltd.
HIRE-PURCHASE CHANGES IN NEW ZEALAND
The recent entry by Australian
Guarantee Corporation Ltd into
the New Zealand hire purchase
finance field under its own name may,
on the one hand, have come just in
time. But on the other hand it comes
at a moment when competition for
business is increasing through the forma-
tion of a number of bigger units, largely
New Zealand-owned.
For many years Australian Guaran-
tee’s New Zealand subsidiary, Alliance
Finance, has written profitable business
as the sole financier of Ford sales
both new and used vehicles. This was
high standard business with prompt pay-
ments and good quality used cars.
However, the company will meet a
lot of competition and different circum-
stances in its endeavour to capture part
of the normal market.
In the car field, for instance, it will
find most of the more attractive business
tied up by others. And it might discover
that much of what remains is rather
dicey. The slump in second-hand car
prices still persists and financiers often
have to put up additional finance for
repairs to keep cars on the road because,
in case of default, repossessed cars would
not fetch much.
Moreover, in this and other business,
margins might have to be cut before
very long. x
Ruling rate at present is about 8 p.c.
flat, giving a true return of 15 p.c.
an excess of 7 p.c. on the 8 p.c. bor-
rowing rate (sometimes 6 p.c., which is
also the overdraft rate) to cover expenses
and profits.
With competition increasing, borrow-
ing rates may go up, whereas lending
rates may have to be cut. And it remains
to be seen whether a company not listed
in New Zealand will be able to attract
sufficient funds in the face of opposition
from New Zealand-owned listed com-
panies.
Under existing exchange controls, no
money may be brought in from Aus-
tralia.
Apart from a few overseas groups,
such as United Dominions and Lom-
bard, the hire purchase market in New
Zealand for many years has been do-
minated by scores of small £lO,OOO com-
panies, usually working in groups man-
aged by public accountants or solicitors.
This was a result of the tight control on
capital issues.
Since these controls were abandoned
last year, a strong movement toward
amalgamation of smaller companies
into strong units has become noticeable.
In Auckland, for instance, amalgamation
of 27 and 22 companies respectively has
resulted in the formation of two
£250,000 public companies, which both
intend to seek official Stock Exchange
listing. Others will no doubt follow and
efficiency of management will become
all-important.
They have been beaten to the Stock
Exchange list by Manufacturers’ and
Retailers’ Acceptance Co. Ltd (MARAC),
in which Fletcher’s (56,700 £1 shares),
Philips Electrical Industries of New
Zealand (25,000 shares) and CAGA
(40,000 shares) combine with the public
in a company with a paid capital of
£300,000.
There is great interest for the current
issue of 110,000 shares to the public,
but as the underwriter, Daysh, Renouf
and Co., has taken the whole issue firm,
many people are going to be disap-
pointed.
Backed by large concerns like Fletcher
and Philips and able to call upon the
experience of CAGA (Sir Norman Nock
is a director), MARAC has the promise
of becoming a leader in its field, capable
ot competing against the other large
groups, of which the Valley Group,
which has a capital of £500,000, is the
largest New Zealand-owned organization.
By taking a 25 p.c. interest in
Amalgamated Tele-Hire (N.Z.) Ltd,
MARAC made a ground-floor entry into
the television hire field. At December
31, £115,599 of total outstandings of
£236,534 had been advanced to Amal-
gamated Tele-Hire.
The last figure shows that MARAC
still has practically no borrowed funds.
However, now that it has floated it can
be expected to aim at a good gearing
pretty soon.
Plenty of funds seem to be available
at interest rates varying between 6 and
10 p.c. according to the terms, but
once the other groups are ready with
their plans, competition for these funds
can be expected to be rather stiff the
more so as the idea of industrial finance
through specialist finance companies is
also rapidly gaining popularity.
An example of this is the recent de-
cision by shareholders of Devonport
Steam Ferry Co. Ltd to switch its
£400,000 of liquid assets to this field
rather than wind up, following replace-
ment of the ferries by the Auckland har-
bour bridge and settlement of the com-
pensation claim.


<&* V
The C.B.C. is one of Aust-
ralia's oldest banks. It
has been built on a
policy of personal service to
its customers. The manager of
your nearest branch will be
glad to discuss your
particular needs.
LIMITED
where TCiiOfWICMiHCC
iS UNDERSTOOD
The Skil Corporation, of Chicago, is
seeking a firm in Australia to manufac-
ture under licence its portable electric
hammers, including a new roto-electric
hammer, arid accessories.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS - OLD STYLE
T atest Investment Review of Austra-
lian Companies by Ralph W. King
& Yuill, Sydney sharebroker, reverts to
the simplified form of company analysis
and avoids the more sophisticated ac-
counting statistics recently introduced to
this country.
Certainly there are schools of invest-
ment analysis, even among pedestrian
investors, who welcome the new tech-
niques of net cash flow, liquid ratios,
current ratios, etc. And doubtless they
are anxious to follow up their earlier
studies. This is difficult to achieve when
the styles or bases of each annual review
are changed, thus avoiding a uniform
comparison.
There are others, of course, who are
not so sophisticated. They have gained
some reassurance at their lack of advan-
ced statistical knowledge since a torpedo
was fired at investment analysts last Jan-
uary by the Oxford economist, Mr J.
M. D. Little.
R. K. & Y’s modified review is not a
direct result of Mr Little’s claim that it
is useless to try to predict future earnings
from any single past earnings growth
ratio.
Their review of capital and income
improvement was compiled up to
October, 1962, and was ruled off at that
date except for a comparison of share
price ranges for the whole of 1962, plus
any late capital changes.
Analysts agree that past growth does
not guarantee future growth (nor do past
losses guarantee even bigger future loss-
es). But the more thorough the investiga-
tion of a company the more likely that
weaknesses and strengths will be expos-
ed for investment assessors.
Unfortunately the work involved in
assessing statistics for 205 companies
(R. K. and Y’s latest total compared
with 238 last year and 262 in 1961) does
not permit a really up-to-date picture
when the book finally is published. But
it does provide a ready reference and a
comparison of companies which balance
their accounts within the same time
period.
The latest capital and income improve-
ment analysis by R. K. & Y. uses 1957
as the base year compared with 1951 in
the previous book. Naturally, the pic-
ture is altered vastly compared with
1960, when an attractive picture of 11
year growth appeared, using 1949 as a
base year.
If anything, this establishes that in-
vestment looks good and rewarding when
market prices are high, but the setbacks
and shakeouts give a naked look to many
investments which previously were well
padded.
The long-term investor, of course,
must ignore the down-swings.
Investment analysis, unfortunately,
does not predicate with accuracy the
times to sell shares and the times to buy,
back again. ;


TURN IN DEBENTURE TIDE
VUith solid buying both by institutions
and general investors in the absence
of a cash loan in May, redemption
yields on bonds have fallen appreciably
in appreciation of the official cut of 1
p.c. in bank interest rates.
This should assist the authorities over
their mental hurdle actually to reduce
the whole scale of bond rates, shorts,
mediums and longs, in fixing the terms
for the wad of £246 million conversions
coming up in May. The decline in mark-
et yields on bonds influenced a paring of
interest rates on first-class industrial and
financial debenture paper. It indicated
a preparedness for the official cut in
bank overdraft rate from 7 to 61 p.c. (the
first since 1947).
The operative phrase is, of course,
“first class.” Investors are still awaiting
legislation by the various State Govern-
ments and reform in listing requirements
by the stock exchanges. The Melbourne
proposals are not due for discussion by
the Associated Stock Exchanges until
later this month.
So there is a general wariness about
investing on any terms, equity or fixed
interest, in companies with poor
credentials.
AGC cut its long-term rate on un-
secured notes from 71 to 7 p.c. CAGA
clipped 1 p.c. from borrowings within
the bracket of nine months to five years.
Another to heed the change in climate
is highly regarded Finance Corporation
of Australia, Adelaide-based financier,
now with extensive operations in all the
eastern States. It has clipped fractions
off all the interest rates offered on the
various currencies of its latest issue of
medium-term registered first mortgage
debenture stock of £ 1 million. (Over-
subscriptions will be taken up to £ll
million).
For three years the coupon has been
cut from 61 to 6 p.c. and the ten-year
from 71 to 71 p.c. The intermediate
currency has been changed to 7 p.c. for
six years from the old 7 p.c. for five
years. No 15-year currency is offered
this time, whereas 8 p.c. was the rate
on the previous loan for this period.
These terms in competition with Gov-
ernment loans are pretty near the bone.
But they will become increasingly re-
alistic as the weeks go by particularly as
fixed deposits with trading banks also
have been lopped by 1 p.c. to 31 p.c. (12
months) and 31 p.c. (12 to 15 months).
In any case, although the FCA de-
benture issue is not actually underwrit-
ten, its sponsors are beyond reproach,
to wit, Anglo-Australian which has re-
cently bought into the cast iron AUC
group, lan Potter & Co and Cutten &
Harvey of Adelaide. Moreover, the
Bank of Adelaide has a finger in the
strong hand of supporters with its 40
p.c. interest in FCA itself.
The previous FCA debenture issue
closed on March 26 with £2 million,
double the asked-for-total. By raising
permissible oversubscription to £ll
million this time, FCA looks to be con-
fident not only that a turn in the de-
benture climate is under way, but that
it is well positioned to cash in on it
at a time when it is finding an increasing
amount of business offering for its finan-
cial services.
Uranium for the trader
Investors regarded by tax authorities
as traders might look at the ss.
shares of Kathleen Investments (Aus-
tralia) Ltd, now obtainable at around
14s. 3d.
Shareholders should receive further
dividends amounting to 12s. from
uranium, after which the shares could be
worth 6s. on the basis of the rutile
interests alone.
The capital loss on the sale of these
shares would be Bs. 3d., which to a
trader paying 10s. tax in the £, is worth
another 4s. lid. to him.
So for every 14s. 3d. now invested he
would collect 225. lid.
United Uranium NL ss. shares, now
going for 4s. 6d. or so, could be equally
interesting.
First results from CRA
Riotinto of Australia Ltd re-
ported a first profit of £2,596,983
for the year to December 31.
This was £76,266 better than the pros-
pectus figure for 1961, and represents
an earning rate of 24.1 p.c., giving 100
p.c. margin over the 12 p.c. dividend.
Since the placement of 2,500,000 ss.
shares at 14s. 6d. last September, the
shares have slowly gathered strength to
17s. 6d.
Over the rapids
interim report of much improved
A trading by Melbourne-based worsted
spinner and weaver, Yarra Falls Ltd,
tends to support our recommendation of
Macquarie Worsted shares as this week’s
“One to Buy.”
Yarra Falls’ sales were appreciably
higher and interim ordinary dividend
moved up from 31 to 4 p.c., restoring the
8 p.c. annual rate last paid in 1960.
The company is re-equipping its
plant to the tune of £400,000, which is
being financed by extended payments.
Last year’s profit gave an earning rate
of 8.6 p.c. on capital.
the world of business
"But, Mr Jones, isn't a partnership based on mutual trust?"


A
, * m, / m
&
x#
«r #/
■<%««&&* •'>
\
mm
When out customeK bank money
tve
turn
:n
around
We use deposited funds to meet the many credit needs of
Commonwealth Bank customers.
The needs of home-builders, for example. This year we
will lend £55,000,000 to help our customers obtain some
20,000 homes for their families.
We help provide the day-to-day needs of businessmen —the
Vital working capital which keeps commerce moving.
And we recognise the special needs of manufacturers and
primary producers amongst our customers. We have
introduced a new concept of lending to help them expand
production and make production methods more efficient.
The activities we finance create employment. We would
like to finance still more of them. And we will, as more and
more people choose to “Bank Commonwealth.”
Commonwealth
TRADING • SAVINGS • DEVELOPMENT
Banks
C 8.25.103


m
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775.000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world - famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3J63, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
• HD63
Milk and money
Prowth may be just around the corner,
but in the meantime the predilection
of the institutions and general investors
alike seems to be for sound income
earning stocks. This predicates . the
choice, inter alia, of companies which
have a regular daily demand for their
wares at virtually guaranteed mark-ups,
such as the milk distributing firms which
share out the Melbourne area.
The Bulletin has previously extolled
the merits of the six or so fortunates in
this field, pointing to their results last
year which had practically a full term’s
benefit of the higher margins granted in
September, 1961. The shares of these
companies have been going steadily
ahead, but still proffer most acceptable
yields, ranging from 4.4 p.c. (excluding
Metropolitan whose interests range wider
than Melbourne milk rounds) in the case
of Associated Dairies to 6.1 for Croft
Bank.
The plum of these on an earnings
basis is Victorian Dairies, its 12i p.c.
dividend being covered by earnings of
21.1 p.c. last year, though its 5.1
dividend yield is actually no higher than
Associated despite the latter’s inferior
earnings rate of 19.6 p.c.
The bigger price premium on Associ-
ated largely derives from the shortage
of shares reaching the market.
Touchy trustees
Statutory trustee companies are
naturally touchy about being in any
way confused in the public image with
some other companies acting as trustees
for certain debenture issues now in
default.
To make the position clear, statutory
trustee companies are a race apart from
such as Public, Fidelity and Audit Ltd,
trustee for the debentures of Testro Bros
Consolidated Ltd (for which a committee
of management and a receiver were
finalised a week or so ago).
There are only 21 statutory trustee
companies carrying on business in Aus-
tralia, and their respective State enabling
acts include legislative safeguards
designed to ensure that in all circum-
stances the trustee company is able to
discharge its responsibilities.
They are specifically authorised by
special State legislation to act, amongst
other things, as executors and also as
trustees for large numbers of debenture
holders.
It is understood to have been agreed
that under the uniform Companies Act
no company would now be permitted to
register with either the word “trust” or
“trustee” in its name except in very
special circumstances.
Tooheys economises
T'he brewing business continues to go
A stale for Toohey’s shareholders, who
now hear the disheartening news that al-
though profit for the half-year to Janu-
ary 31 improved by 50 p.c., their interim
dividend is down from 4i to 4 p.c.
The profit has to service capital in-
creased by the big notes conversion, and
issues to buy the Grafton Brewery and
two hotels. However, the profit of
£336,056 allowed a surplus of £71,817
to be retained in the business, after
satisfying the dividend.
If Tooheys could get a slice of the
mooted increase in the retail price of
beer, it would help.
The market, while valuing the ss.
shares at around 7s. 6d., is keeping in
mind the conservatively valued assets of
the company, and the possibility of a
dramatic entrance by UK brewer Char-
ringtons, or even Carlton and United.


v 4
2Z~t
-4
SI
mim
1
H
.
EC.A. LEASING will
expand your business
WITHOUT capital outlay
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capital
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing.
■ fress working capital for
more profitable use.
a allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.C.A. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objective through leasing—and why it pays to
lease from F.C.A.— write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St., Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St., Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts., Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St., Telephone 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone 21 3181
m
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Registered 19 th December, 1929
m
PER ANNUM FOR
6 YEARS.
5% PER ANNUM FOR
12 MONTHS
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
PER ANNUM FOR
6 YEARS.
51% PER ANNUM FOR
12 MONTHS
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms
available. Your copy available from all Members
of Stock Exchanges, over 750 branches of the A.N.Z
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches. Applications
will proceed only on one o r the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter <6 Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane. M
ONE TO BUY
STOCK FOR A
RECOVERY
XpOR those investors who enjoy scouting
A out an under - par stock to pur-
chase for a recovery, Macquarie Wors-
teds Ltd, Sydney maker of worsted piece-
goods, is worthy of investigation.
The ss. shares are currently bringing
about 3s. 6d. which, on last year’s 5 p.c.
dividend, gives a return of 7.1 p.c.
The company lapsed into a loss of
<£86,576 in 1961, but converted that
to a profit of £55,193 in the year to
September 30, 1962.
Accumulated losses reduced the tax
liability to a mere £5,500 but, for
1962-63, profits will bear the full tax
liability.
We gather that in 1961-62 the com-
pany made virtually nothing in the first
half of the year, when trade was still
depressed. If the pre-tax profit of
£61,000 was really earned within six
months, and the rate of trading continues
for 1962-63, profit after tax would give
an earning rate of something like 16.5
p.c. on capital.
Official Australian statistics for the
production of wool worsted woven cloth
are: —
(Thousand Square Yards) Pure Wool Mixtures Total
December quarter 1961 2152 519 2671
December quarter 1962 2797 804 3601
This shows an overall increase of 35
p.c., or 30 p.c. in wool worsted and 55
p.c. in the mixture of cloth.
One could take these figures as a
happy portent of Macquarie’s trading in
the opening quarter of the current finan-
cial year.
Interim report for the six months to
March 1963 is not due for another four
or five weeks, and directors are expected
to announce a buoyant order position.
In May 1960 the company resisted a
takeover bid from Astor Consolidated
Mills Ltd of 14s. 3d. cash, or a partial
share exchange equal to 17s. for each
Macquarie share with the unusual de-
nomination of 10s. 10d.. which just pre-
viously had been quoted around 12s. 9d.
Macquarie directors viewed the con-
sideration as inadequate. So they made
a bonus which amounted to one-for-13,
and shareholders finished up holding ss.
shares.
Although the directors’ forecast of a
10 p.c. dividend on the higher capital
proved wide of the mark (dividend was
omitted in 1960-61), their stand for in-
dependence was probably justified be-
cause Astor would not have been able to
pay a dividend out of combined earnings
if it had been successful in acquiring
Macquarie.


CARDBOARD BOX
"BOX-ON" ENDS
'W/’ithin two months of the announce-
” ment by United Empire Box Co.
Ltd, New Zealand’s largest box maker,
that it would set up its own £NZIm.
cardboard mill in opposition to NZ
Forest Products Ltd, the two companies
have peacefully agreed that things will
stay as they . are.
UE Box will drop its plans and hand
over to Forest Products the small paper
masher, with which it made small quan-
tities of board from waste materials.
Forest Products has given an under-
taking that it will not re-enter the con-
verting field a move planned because
in recent years it has lost substantial sales
of wooden butter boxes owing to the
general switch to fibre containers.
Forest Products will also drop its law-
suit in connection with the latter’s take-
over of Baker Cardboard Box Co. Ltd
last year, in which the paper masher was
acquired.
There are indications that the UE Box
announcement about the planned card-
board mill was not an idle threat.
Managing director, Mr Jim Doig, for
many years has been known to resent
Forest Products’ monopoly in the paper
and cardboard field and has often com-
plained about the high prices his com-
pany has to pay.
But whether Mr Doig was flying a
kite or not, the agreement should be
seen as a victory for UE Box. For the
announcement by Forest Products’ chair-
man, Sir David Henry, that the agree-
ment should enable a price reduction for
export boxes can only be taken to mean
that Forest Products has had to give
some way in the matter of prices.
The sharemarket saw things differently.
After the initial announcement of UE
Box’s plans, its shares dropped steadily
from 11s. 2d. to 10s. 4d., apparently
because investors were scared of the £, 1
million expenditure involved a rather
short-term view because with its own
mill UE Box would have been in a very
much stronger position.
Rumors that the companies had re-
solved their difficulties chased the price
up to 11s. 6d., but after the agreement
was announced, the shares fell back to
11s. Had investors expected a takeover
of the box company by Forest Products?
The reaction of Forest Products’
shares was, to some extent, equally
illogical. They first dropped from 38s. to
365. 3d., and after the announcement
of the agreement shot up to 38s. 3d. Of
course, investors felt relief that the com-
pany would retain its biggest customer of
cardboard. But it lost the opportunity to
carry out its plans to go into the manu-
facture of fibre containers.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Ulum is still the only word to describe
my feelings. When even your stock-
broker becomes a little pessimistic, it is
difficult to work up an isolated enthu-
siasm. When you try to get away from
it all by playing a quick game of golf,
you only get drenched to the skin.
While some of us have been struggling
with the share market ever since the eco-
nomic recovery began, there have been
the more security-conscious types who
have invested in Government bonds. Not
only has there been a fair income re-
turn, but also a steady capital gain espec-
ially with the longer term bonds.
Incidentally, this passion for Govern-
ment securities has led to the neglect
of some pretty good industrial deben-
tures. It is quite ludicrous that such
debentures have redemption yields of
over 10 per cent.
My mood was probably aggravated by
Courtaulds turning against me. Disgrace-
ful after all the good things I said about
it. Still cum the dividend and after such
a good report, surely they are worth
every penny of 17s. 6d.
Of course, the one share that I wanted
to go down has stayed static. Carrier
seemed to be pegged to Bs. lOd. With
time running out, I had no choice but to
buy those 500 back. This shorting exer-
cise cost me £l.
Static is the last word to describe
the price movements of the Austra-
lian Factors group. Up they had or-
bited on the announcement of AUC
taking a 24 p.c. share interest in the
main company. Then the reaction from
14s. 6d. to 12s. 6d. Australian Factors
has now regained much of the glamour
lost to Talcott Factors after the latter
company acquired the label “bank
backed”.
I settled for one of the offshoots
Australian Factors (Victoria). When the
company was formed in Melbourne in
May last year, the NSW company sub-
scribed 20 p.c. of the share capital and
two directors. Its first real result was
the half year ending December 1962.
The earning rate of 13 p.c. was only half
the estimated rate in the prospectus, but
to some extent this was to be expected
as most of the funds were fully em-
ployed only in the last few months.
To help the future earning rate will
be the net return from funds raised in
the current underwritten debentures issue
of £300,000.
Coming back to that prospectus, it
had been estimated that this gearing
would push the earning rate up to 40
p.c. 1963/64 will be the testing year
for such statements.
In view of the success of factoring in
NSW at least 30 p.c. seems possible. Of
course, the company should also benefit
by its indirect relationship with AUC.
Just as a sideline, it will be interesting
to see how the Potter group fits in with
the Melbourne underwriter, Vinton
Smith, Dougall and Co. Dougall is a
member of the present board.
You have probably got the drift that
selling is more in keeping with my mood
than buying. In rapid succession, out
went two companies that had been in
the portfolio for some time.
First was Peter Lloyd. Stack reversed
its expected role by making a takeover
offer for Peter Lloyd. Perhaps it is an
unfair judgment, but the new structure
does not seem to offer very much for the
shareholder in Peter Lloyd. Selling out
at an average price of ss. 7d. resulted
in a loss of £3l.
Then there was CRA. The 1962 result
was to be expected. However there could
be a fall in the profit this year when a
major source of income dries up with the
closing of the Mary Kathleen uranium
mine. In these times, I quite appreciated
the small profit of £l5.
These were my week’s operations:—•
SOLD
1000 Peter Lloyd ss. 7d £268
400 C.R.A. 17s. 6d £343
BOUGHT
500 Carrier Bs. lOd. £228
1000 Aust. Factors Vic. Bs. 6d. £437
Looking through the portfolio, there
are three small investments in oil total-
ling about £540. This is about £3O down
on the original purchase prices. The only
consolation is if I continued to hold the
100 AOG (the only oil investment in
the portfolio in January) I would be
down a further £5O on paper!
My portfolio now is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 10/2
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/52 15/- 15/6
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 17/9
1000 Tasman 7/1/63 1/2 1/1
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
300 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 43/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/-
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/- lOd.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lid.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/3
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/6
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 53/3
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 8/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 3/9
2000 Gen. Ind. options 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Lowes 21/3/63 9/- 10/
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 3/6 8/6
UK BARLEY RECORD
A British record barley yield of 7200
lbs an acre has been claimed for
a crop of Pallas harvested on a Notting-
hamshire farm. Previous record was
6850 lbs.


QUEENSLAND UNITED FOODS LTD
HANDSOME BENEFITS LIKELY
By “SECURITY”
|"|ver the past two years the price of
Queensland United Foods Limited’s
shares has remained remarkably steady
on the Sydney Stock Exchange. In 1962
they fluctuated between 14s. 2d. and
14s. Bd., while so far this year, the limits
of 14s. 6d. and 14s. lOd. have been even
narrower. The little interest shown in
the stock on the Sydney Exchange is pro-
bably because of the lack of knowledge
about this sound Queensland-based com-
pany.
The present holding company was in-
corporated in February 1960 to amalga-
mate the ice-cream manufacturing busi-
ness of Pauls Ltd, Peters-Arctic Delicacy
Co. Ltd, and Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co.
(N.Q.) Ltd, which had been operating
successfully for 27, 37 and 31 years re-
spectively.
Just before the amalgamation Pauls
Ltd made a l-for-6 bonus issue and
Peters-Arctic Delicacy Co. Ltd made a
l-for-3 bonus issue.
The stocks in all three of the amalga-
mating companies were taken over by
the holding company, Queensland United
Foods Ltd, on the basis of 4-for-3 units,
so that the present issued ordinary capi-
tal of £2,022,074, the same as at the
time of listing in 1960, is very heavily
written up as a consequence.
Details available from published
balance sheets of the three companies
now merged into Queensland United
Foods Ltd are not sufficient to permit a
consolidation of profit statements and
balance sheets prior to the amalgamation,
and very little can be deduced from the
three sets of accounts thus far released.
However, if as is the normal treatment
in prospectuses for new companies, the
ordinary capital figure of £2,022,074 is
used as the measuring rod for previous
years’ performances, then the percen-
tages of earnings to ordinary capital from
the year ended June 27, 1956, to June
27, 1959, come out as 3.9 p.c., 7.6 p.c.,
10.7 p.c. and 11.2 p.c.
This steady growth has continued so
that just on 15 p.c. on year-end ordinary
capital was earned in the 1962 financial
year. This performance is made all the
more noteworthy when it is considered
that the earning rate has improved even
over the last 2-3 years (the period covered
by the 1960 anti-inflationary measures
and their subsequent adverse effects),
whilst other highly regarded companies
have not fared nearly so well.
Furthermore, it is generally acknow-
ledged that Queensland was the State
most adversely affected by the Govern-
ment policy measures, and apart from
bottling Coca-Cola in Darwin, Queens-
land United Foods Ltd operates wholly
within Queensland as manufacturer and
distributor of a range of dairy products.
Sales of the group, as shown by the an-
nual reports published since 1960, have
successfully increased as follows (in
each case, in comparison with the pre-
vious period): — 10.2 p.c., 3.4 p.c. and
7.9 p.c.
An indication of the financial strength
of the company may be gauged from the
operating income to total capital ratio.
Between the 1961 and 1962 financial
years, it increased from 31.0 p.c. to 35 0
p.c. These high absolute figures may be
partly explained by the high depreciation
allowances provided for in the last three
financial years, which total £905,000 as
against earnings of £821,000 over the
same period.
The taxation provisions which over
the same three years total £617,000 also
seem particularly high in relation to the
period's earnings. This, however, could
be explained by the high provisions made
for depreciation, all of which may not
have been acceptable to the Taxation
Commissioner.
Although this implies that the true
earning rate has been somewhat suppres-
sed just recently, the high internally
generated cash flows provided out of re-
tained earnings and depreciation allow-
ances have financed a heavy capital ex-
penditure campaign which the company
has undertaken over the past three years
in an effort to keep down operating costs.
Thus, the capital expenditure of £1.3
million in the three years ending June
27, 1952, which represents part of the
company's programme of modernisation
and expansion, should ensure that the
company operates at an increasingly
efficient rate, which will doubtless be
reflected in the future performances of
the company.
It is, perhaps, of interest to note that
Queensland United Foods failed in May
1962 to acquire Howards Ltd, Brisbane
ex-car distributor and investment firm.
In a three-way competition for Howards,
Queensland United Foods was finally out-
bid by Queensland Can Co. Ltd.
In an interim report to the Sydney
Stock Exchange released in February of
this year, the company reported that the
financial result for the six months ended
December 31, 1962, had been satisfactory.
Turnover of the operating subsidiaries
had again increased, and the net earnings
compared more than favorably with
those of the corresponding period of the
previous year.
In short, the earning rate on capital
seems destined to improve again this
year, giving further cover for the 10 p.c.
dividend rate paid since incorporation as
a holding company in 1960.
Thus, at around 14s. 6d., to show an
immediate dividend yield of 3.4 p.c. from
the 10 p.c. dividend rate, the shares in
Queensland United Foods appeal, especi-
ally as benefits are likely to accrue as a
result of the persistent upward movement
in sales and per-share earnings, whether
they be in the form of an increased divi-
dend payout or a bonus issue.
The company has shown an ability to
generate large cash flows for use in ex-
panding its own activities, and the favor-
able effects of the large capital expendi-
ture projects it has completed and those
which are still to be completed, together
with benefits that will accrue to the
company as a result of the increasing
economic development taking place in
Queensland, indicate that there is plenty
of growth potential in the shares suffi-
cient to justify the present price-earnings
ratio of just over 19.
Although adjustments in respect of tax
provisions can be rather misleading, in
this particular case it is perhaps worth
pointing out that on the basis of the tax
provision “earnings”, as the Tax Com-
missioner saw them, were probably of the
order of 1/- per share and this sug-
gests a price-earning ratio of 14.5.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SKEE T S AND PROFIT
STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to 27th June 1960 1961 1962
Ord. Capital 2022 2022 2022
Capital Reserves 179 180 180
Revenue Surplus 40 89 197
Ord. SHF. 2241 2291 2399
Loan Capital 228 222 477
Total Capital 2469 2513 2876
Represented by:
Working Capital (410) (643) (309)
Land and Buildings 1249 1426 1536
Other fixed assets 1517 1615 1533
Investments 55 54 52
Intangibles 58 61 64
2469 2513 2876
Operating Income 745 760 874
Earnings 261 260 300
Ord. dividend 168 201 201
Surplus 93 59 99
Earnings % Ord. Capital 13.0 12.9 14.9
Ord. Div. % 10.0 10.0 10.0
Op. Income % Total Capital — 31.0 35.0
Dividend Yield % (a) 3.6 3.7 3.5
Price/Earnings Ratio (a) 21.5 20.8 19.4
(a) Based on last sale month accounts presented.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines; No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: GOB 9.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
MACROBERTSON (AUSTRALIA) LTD.
DULL BUT SWEET
As the major chocolate maker in Aus-
tralia which is a publicly listed
company, Macßobertson (Australia) Ltd
gives the best insight into the trends in
that industry.
It is continually at the mercy of fluc-
tuations in the price of cocoa beans,
which was £205 per ton in September
1962, £224 by December 31, and £266
early in February 1963.
As a pilot venture the company in
1954 bought a cocoa-bean plantation of
1,050 acres in New Guinea at a cost of
£24,000. The plantation is still being
developed, and although the 1962 crop
was substantially larger than for the pre-
vious year, a loss was incurred which
was charged to development account.
The company’s wide range of choco-
late assortments and confections are
marketed under the trade names “Old
Gold”, “Cherry Ripe”, “Snack”, “Co-
lumbine”, “Cinderella” and “Tip Top”.
The “Cherry Liqueur” and “Swiss
Chalet” lines were added in 1961 to
satisfy the demand for new products.
Confectionery is also made under
licence from John Mackintosh and Sons
Ltd and Mars Company of the UK.
Wholly-owned subsidiaries in NSW,
Queensland, South Australia and West-
ern Australia, and agencies in Tasmania,
Broken Hill, Kalgoorlie and Darwin
handle the wholesale distribution of the
company’s production from the Fitzroy
(Vic.) plant.
Another wholly-owned subsidiary is
Colorprint Pty Ltd, a designer, printer,
lithographer and package specialist,
which also does outside work, besides
catering for Macßobertson’s needs.
A minority interest (47.3 p.c.) is held
in Macßobertson-Miller Airlines Ltd,
which in turn is interested in Air Beef
Ltd.
Macßobertson’s other share interests
are 35.1 p.c. in Australian Licorice Pty,
22.1 p.c. in Life Savers (Australasia) Ltd,
23.4 pc. in Maize Products Pty, 50 p.c.
in Waxed Papers Pty, and 34.7 p.c. in
Gibson Confectionery Pty of WA.
The market value of listed investments
at balance date, December 31, 1962, was
£1,378,160, compared with book value
of £244,905. Trade investments were
included in the books at £320,073. The
income derived from total investments
was £69,327, or about one-fifth of the
group’s pre-tax profit.
The group net profit improved in the
year under review from £209,780 to
£274,917, giving an earning rate of 12.3
p.c. on unchanged capital.
In June 1961 a one-for-five bonus had
been distributed to shareholders. Un-
fortunately the severe dip in profits that
year failed to cover the unchanged 10
p.c. dividend rate.
The company has found conditions
more competitive in very recent years
no doubt partly because of the removal
of import restrictions and selling costs
were consequently higher. In 1961 it
was anxious to reduce stocks and there-
fore curtailed output.
The company claims that heat-wave
conditions prevailed in January-February
in Southern Australia for the fourth year
in succession, restricting sales of choco-
late and confectionery, but lost turnover
was gradually recovered during the re-
mainder of the 1962 year.
In the latest term bank overdraft was
heavily reduced, but the liability under
forward contracts for raw materials rose
to offset this.
Liquidity is again satisfactory, and the
group is unburdened by term liabilities.
As an investment, MacRobertson is
solid, reliable, but rather dull to those
members of the public who look for ex-
pansion regardless of the cost.
The very substantial investments could
one day be the source of bon-bons for
patient shareholders.
The 10s. shares currently bring about
20s. 9d. to yield 4.8 p.c. in income and
5.9 p.c. in earnings. The company’s
profit performance is unexceptional, but
its understated assets are attractive to
some investors.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2668 2969 3270 3002 3183
Less current liabilities 1162 1570 1877 2025 2018
1506 1399 1393 977 1165
Investments 262 263 293 323 320
Fixed Assets 1978 2123 2216 2376 2269
Intangibles 200 200 200 200 200
3946 3985 4102 3876 3954
Deferred liabilities 238 235 231 28 323
Preference capital 300 300 300 300 300
Ordinary capital 1724 1724 1724 2069 2069
Reserves 1684 1726 1847 1479 1557
3946 3985 4102 3876 3954
Depreciation 165 148 177 174 184
Taxation 101 115 200 92 160
Net profit 252 263 310 210 275
Net profit for ords. 237 248 295 190 255
Dividend 172 172 172 207 207
Surplus 65 76 123 —17 48
Earning rate 13.7 14.4 17.1 9.2 12.3
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 4.4 4.5 5.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 14.1 15.6 13.0 20.8
High price (b) 18/10 23/- 26/- 24/6 23/-
Low price (b) 15/3 17/6 18/6 19/- 18/9
(a) End of April (month accounts presented) of fol-
lowing year.
(b) Calendar year.
JOHN MEAGHER (HOLDINGS) LTD
ROOM FOR BONUS ISSUE HERE
Although John Meagher (Holdings)
Ltd, a country storekeeping group,
has a history dating to 1867, it is a com-
parative newcomer to the Stock Ex-
change official list, floating in 1954 with
a placement of 50,000 20s. shares at 30s.
Despite an unspectacular start as a
public company, it has recovered to a
point where it is now showing excellent
prospects as an investment.
Back in 1905 John Meagher became
a proprietary company, and at flotation
it owned six stores in south-western
NSW. The chain was increased to seven
in 1961 by acquisition of the long-
established McGlynn & Co. Pty Ltd of
Parkes.
Although floated on attractive pros-
pectus figures, the first two years of the
company’s official listings were not
propitious. Profit showed two successive
declines and although dividend for 1955
was held at the forecast rate of 10 p.c.,
it was cut in 1956 to 8 p.c. This lower
rate was maintained for the next three
years although a temporary recovery
had been made in 1956-57.
From a low point of £54,703 in
1957-58, profit rose gradually to the
<£95,427 earned in 1961-62. As capital
showed only one increase from £450,000
to £505,941 by the takeover of Mc-
Glynn in 1961, earning rate has risen
each year, giving a wide cover to the
dividend requirement.
From 12.2 p.c. in 1958 it has risen
to 18.9 p.c. and will probably go higher
in the current year. The company has
been distributing slightly less than two
thirds of profit in the form of dividends.
As the interim of 6i p.c. for the current
year indicates a 12+ p.o. annual rate, it


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-Wliite,
lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V. Betts
NON-MEMBER PARTNERS
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
BRANCHES AT:
150 Queen St., Melbourne • 359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams: ‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
would appear that directors are expecting
earnings to be in the vicinity of 20 p.c.
The latest balance sheet, for the year
ended July 31 last, shows that the com-
pany was well geared to cope with ex-
panded business. Stocks were up (but
not excessively) from £453,227 to
£501,824, and debtors showed a slightly
larger proportional rise from £187,666
to £221,623.
Reserves are in a very healthy state
and indicate ability to make a bonus
issue in the proportion of about two-for-
five. Freehold in the books at £468,200
is probably undervalued and contains a
bonus element.
Total reserves and surplus profit of
£644,693 are subject to intangibles (the
difference between par and book value
of inter-company holdings of shares) of
£219,231, giving a net tangible assets
backing of 9s. 2d. for each ss. unit, split
from 20s. units in 1960.
For some time now the company has
been considered a takeover prospect for
the Myer Emporium group. Myer al-
ready has a strong "foothold in NSW
country areas with its Western Stores
group.
Although both companies have de-
bunked merger talks, John Meagher and
the Myer group have a buying arrange-
ment in the grocery field — that is as
far as the link goes. But with better pros-
pects for the pastoral industry, the com-
pany’s outlook can only be described as
very bright.
The shares are currently selling around
12s. 6d., to show a 5 p.c. dividend yield
and a 7.6 p.c. earning yield. With the
centenary year only five years away and
the persistent talk of a takeover pros-
pect, the shares must be a good lock-
away proposition.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
July 31 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 549 583 668 752
Less current liabilities 139 167 300 360
Working capital 410 416 368 392
Fixed assets 434 495 605 634
Investments 18 19 20 5
Intangibles 158 159 219 219
1070 1089 1212 1250
Represented by:—
Capital 450 450 506 506
Reserves 450 480 606 644
Outside shareholders 100 100 100 100
Loan funds 70 59 — —
1070 1089 1212 1250
Depreciation 18 18 19 23
Taxation 41 49 58 70
N'et profit 61 70 79 95
Dividend 36 41 51 57
Surplus 25 29 28 33
Earnings rate p.c. 13.6 15.6 15.7 18.9
Dividend p.c. 8 9 10 11 ]
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 5 6 5 1 5 0 ' 0
High price (b) 29/-(c) 36/-(c) 14/-(d) 14/3
Low price (b) 19/6(c) 24/-(c) A (a; iu o
(a) end of October, month amounts presented.
(b) calendar year.
(c) 20s. basis.
(d) 5s. basis.
BISLEY CLOTHING LTD
THESE SHARES LOOK CHEAP
a company which produces in the
vicinity of 300,000 high quality
shirts annually, Bisley Clothing Ltd has
surprisingly little of its funds invested
in fixed assets. Moreover, it has nothing
invested in factories, plant or equipment.
The secret of the company’s success
is that it operates as a distributor, con-
tracting out the work of shirt making.
Thus almost all its funds are available
for stocks and debtors, etc.
The company was formed to acquire
the issued capital of Hubbard and Co.
Pty Ltd which began operations in 1950.
It floated as a public company with a
placement of 240,000 ss. shares at par
in late 1959. Paid up capital at that
time was £140,000.
Since then capital has risen to
£230,000. Early in 1961 shareholders
were offered one new ss. share at par
for every five held. The other increases
came about by exercise of options held
by the original vendors. No options are
outstanding. MLC Assurance holds
£30,000 in 8J p.c. 20s. preference shares,
redeemable in October 1966.
From the original Hubbard and Co.,
two more subsidiaries have been ac-
quired, GWB Menswear Pty in 1960
and Fuseply Products Co. Pty in late
1962, both for cash. These caused the
company’s fixed assets to rise from
£6009 at June 30, 1960 to £10,038 at
December 3 1 last.
Despite the effects of the credit
squeeze, the company was able to lift
earning rate on the higher capital em-
ployed in 1961 from 20.8 p.c. to 25.6
p.c. due to the advantages of tax losses
in GWB Menswear. This benefit was
not available the following year and earn-
ing rate fell to 16.4 p.c. on ordinary
capital, although gross profit before tax
rose.
But with the more favorable outlook,
directors had no hesitation in holding the
15 p.c. annual dividend rate paid from
flotation. (The 1961 payment included
13£ p.c. tax free.)
At the end of the 1961-62 financial
year, directors decided to change the
balance date to December 31. They
found that July to December was the
company's main selling season, so that
at June 30 the accounts always showed
considerable unsold stock held in anti-
cipation of future sales and neces-
sarily containing that much more of a
risk element.
However, by December most of these
stocks are cleared and the December 31
figures are factual. This was borne out
by the figures prepared as at December
31 last — six months after the previous
balance date. Stock at £251,866 at June
30 was down to £145,384 by December
31.
As a result the company was in a
much more liquid position. Actual cash
holdings were £26,787 compared with
an overdraft of £12,877 six months
earlier, while trade debtors were far more
than doubled — from £69,411 to
£ 187,939.
Trade creditors showed only a small
upward movement, from £57,948 to
£61,430. The company will have to
repay within 12 months £47,620 in un-
secured advances (£23,541 at June 30)
but should have no difficulty in meeting
the payment.
Shareholders’ funds at December 31
last stood at £258,088 subject to in-
tangible items of £41,608 giving a net
tangible assets backing of 4s. 8d. to each
5s. ordinary share.
Profit for the six months to December
was £24,134, equal to an annual rate of
23.6 p.c. This, of course, was the better
part of the year, but the 1963 calendar
year has opened well and the company
will almost certainly be able to maintain
this rate for the full year. New ventures
are planned for later in the year; these
should help results.
The shares are currently selling around
8s. to show a dividend yield of 9.4 p.c.
and an earnings yield on an annual basis
of 14.9 p.c. At the current price they
still look cheap.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962 1962 (a)
Current assets 258 294 330 363
Less current liabilities 152 141 139 156
Working capital 106 153 191 207
Fixed assets 6 7 11 10
Intangibles 33 36 37 41
145 196 239 258
Represented by:—
Pref. capital — — 30 30
Ord capital 140 180 190 200
Reserves 5 16 19 28
145 196 239 253
Depreciation 1
Taxation 18 11 20 10
Profit 30 39 32 34
Dividends 16 23 29 16
Surplus 14 16 3 18
Earnings rate pc 20.8 25.6 16.4 23.6 pa
Dividend rate pc 15 15 15 15 pa
Dividend yield pc (b) 8.6 10.7 9.5 9.4 (d)
High price (c) 11/3 9/9 9/- —
Low price (c) 8/- 6/6 7/3 —
(a) As at Dec. 62, — six months figure.
(b) At end of October month amounts presented.
(c) Calendar year.
(d) Current yield.


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
Australian Equity Corporation Ltd is engaged in Commercial and Industrial Finance
including Hire Purchase, mortgages, leasing, bills of sale, discounting and bulk finance.
A NEW ISSUE AT PAR OF £2 5 0,0 0 0
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8*
P.A. 5-10 YEARS
4 YRS. 3 YRS.
71% P.A. 71% P.A.
2 YRS.
7% P.A.
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
8
P.A. 5 YEARS
4 YRS.
8% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
7i% P.A.
(Also shorter term currencies to 3 months)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
• Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67-7701
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9-3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
• Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
• Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
• Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
• Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
NEW MARKETING STANDARDS
FOR BEEF EXPORTS
HPhe more important Australian beef
packs being exported to the United
Kingdom will soon have to conform to
minimum standards.
Chairman of the Australian Meat
Board (Mr J. L. Shute) says this move
is being made to ensure that Aus-
tralian beef will be competitive with that
from other countries supplying the
British market.
The decision to establish prescribed
minimum standards was made following
a joint meeting of representatives of the
veterinary branch of the Department of
Primary Industry, the Australian Meat
Exporters’ Council, and Australian Meat
Board, held in Sydney on March 25.
“The standards will cover beef cuts,
boneless beef, and offals, and in addition
to standard cuts being defined, fat con-
tent and trim will also be prescribed
where appropriate,” said Mr Shute.
“It is believed that this new approach
to the marketing of Australian beef in
the United Kingdom will result in in-
creased sales and better overall returns.”
Mr Shute said that the new standards
would be based on recommendations
from a recent survey conducted by the
Australian Meat Board in the United
Kingdom to assess the current require-
ments of the market.
It was gratifying that the basic
principles of these recommendations had
been readily accepted by all interested
parties in the Australian meat industry
with only minor detailed refinements.
He said that the Department of
Primary Industry would define the
minimum standards to be used, and
would also be responsible for their
implementation.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: KETTH WESTON late of 169 Hastings
Parade, Bondi New South Wales. TAKE
NOTICE that BETTY MAY WESTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No 3363 of 1961
on the ground of desertion If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry. Supreme Court. Macquarie Street,
Sydney on or before the 3rd of May, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Jack H Levy, Esq., Solicitor of 215
Blaxland Road, Ryde. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
dEEHUHI
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PER ANNUM FOR 6 4 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7i% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castiereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W KING & YUILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Slreet, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange ot
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
WHY DAIRY
INDUSTRY ISN'T
MORE VOCAL
Oir, —1 would like to express my ac-
cord with your article, “Why is
the Dairy Industry not more Vocal?”
(Bulletin, March 16, 1963). As one
with dairying interests 1 have frequently
been disappointed with the attitude you
so aptly describe as “We do not want to
offend” in circumstances requiring firm-
ness.
Perhaps the answer to your question is
to be found in the answer to another
question. What is the dairying industry?
It is in fact a number of industries scat-
tered throughout the Commonwealth
with many diverse and often conflicting
interests.
NSW provides a case in point. The
Milk Board is responsible for the supply
and distribution of milk to certain pro-
claimed areas and for this purpose draws
supplies from what has become known as
the “Milk Zone.” Here ail appears to be
cosy. Prices are fixed The farmer gets
well paid for milk supplied to the board,
agent companies get a good cut and
vendors do very well indeed. Everyone
is happy but the consumer, who with
justification considers the retail price ex-
cessive and drinks less milk.
Here is the rub: The less the consumer
drinks the greater the surplus produced
by the Milk Zone. This surplus is pro-
cessed into products identical with those
made from milk produced by farmers
outside the milk zone, and thus in com-
petition with them foi available markets.
As farmers outside the zone misguid-
edly regard the Milk Board market held
by zone farmer as a plum in itself, their
attitude towards zone farmers encroach-
ing on ..heir preserves while they are ex-
cluded from Milk Board trade is under-
standably hostile.
Further, there is discord even wuthin
the zone resulting recently in the forma-
tion of a new' body to oppose the Milk
Zone Dairymen’s Council because of its
flabby leadership. (“We don’t want to
offend anyone, anytime. ’) Also because
of dissatisfaction with the inequitable
quota system which the MZDC supports
which operates to prevent smaller pro-
ducers obtaining a greater share of the
market controlled by the board. Some
also realise the quota system keeps prices
up and thus exacerbates the situation re-
sulting from increasing surplus.
I understand similar division of inter-
ests obtains in other States.
It is not to the credit of the Country
Party that so many with rural interests
should be left in the political wilderness,
nor does it indicate in any party a high
degree of political acumen that a poten-
tial 500,000 votes should be ignored.
Until this fragmented industry is org-
anised on a national basis it will continue
to flounder as at present, drawing sub-
sidies and losing markets.
Perhaps your excellent journal, having
spotted the weakness, might give a lead
in this very important matter.
T. S. McKAY
Exeter, NSW.
OIL EXPLORATION
Sir,
At the recent APEA Conference in
Brisbane, the disquieting statement by
Mr R. C. Sprigg (that it was possible
that reservoir sands -were being passed
over, either intentionally or accidentally)
demands that steps be taken to obviate
as far as possible this dangerous waste
of Commonwealth subsidies and private
investment.
One suggestion is that the Common-
wealth Government incorporate with the
usual subsidy payment to oil coys a
right to a substantial “oil discovery
bonus” (say £5OO, or £lOOO cash) to
every well site employee at the time and
place of discovery. This would be a
good insurance on subsidy payments.
For succeeding wells, not entitled to
subsidy, the oil co. concerned could
introduce a smaller “oil discovery
bonus” similar to that laid down by Mr
Eric Avery of Associated Australian Oil-
fields in August, 1960.
R. W. McMILLAN
Albert Park (Vic.).


Positions Vacant
THE KING'S SCHOOL
PARRAMATTA
Applications are invited to fill a vacancy on
the staff of The King's School caused by a recent
appointment of a master to a Headmastership. Pre-
ference will be given to an applicant with first-
class qualifications under about 30 years of age.
To start preferably in September, 1963, or firsl
term, 1964. Qualifications, and two recent testi-
monials or names and addresses of two referees,
should be sent to the Headmaster.
WANTED TO SELL
“GENERATOR” LIGHTING
Trailer mounted 230/400 volts.
V 8 engine. METRO. VICK
Cost £llOO sell £5OO.
Phone weekdays, Vic. 546.0381
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
Manager of Sydney University Press
The Board of Sydney University Press is engaged
in recruiting initial staff for the Press, and appli-
cations are invited for the post of Manager. The
Manager will be responsible to the Board for the
general management of the Press, which will under-
take the activities usual to University Presses, but
will not itself engage in printing or in retail book-
selling. The salary will lie within the range £2,500
to £3,500 per annum, the actual rate being de-
termined in the light of qualifications and experi-
ence of the appointee. Salary will be subject to
deductions under the State Superannuation Act.
Under the Staff Members' Housing Scheme, in cases
approved by the University and its Bankers,
married men may be assisted by loans to purchase
a house.
Applicants should have experience in publish-
ing, but not necessarily in all its branches. Fol-
lowing the appointment of a Manager the Board
will appoint a Chief Editor and other staff, who
will work under the Manager's supervision. Those
interested may obtain a full statement of the con-
ditions of appointment and of the nature of the
Press by writing to the undersigned. Personal in-
quiries should be directed to Mr. D. R. V. Wood
(MW 0522, Extension 254).
Applications, giving details of qualifications and
experience and the names of three referees, should
reach the undersigned by 6th May, 1963.
Sydney, M. A. TELFER
March, 1963. Registrar.
SHELL STEPS UP OIL SEARCH
'll7'ith the arrival in Australia of one
of the group’s top oil technologists,
Mr J. L. Spinks, the Shell Group of
companies is currently stepping up its
search activities in the Maryborough
(Q) basin, as well as giving strong con-
tinued support to the ventures of West
Australian Petroleum Pty Ltd (WAPET),
in which Shell Development Australia
has a two-sevenths interest. Mr Lewis
Luxton, chairman of Shell, told The
Bulletin this in company with Mr
Spinks.
Seismic work in Queensland permit
area 70 P, in which Shell Development
acquired from Pacific American Oil a
35 p.c. interest with options to extend
the interest to 70 p.c. in a deal last
August, has been proceeding systemati-
cally and should be finished \Vithin about
six months.
A deep well will be sited as soon as
the information is evaluated, said Mr
Spinks, who had just returned to Mel-
bourne from the field, impressed by its
geological features. About half the area
is off shore with sand depths up to 400 ft.
This poses special problems for seismic
teams.
The seismic work will cost in the
region of £300,000 which lifts Shell’s
expenditure on search in Queensland to
about £l£ million. Approximately £1
million of this was spent between 1940
and 1951, mainly in the Roma region
where the Associated Group is now
operating.
Shell gave up its permits in the area
in 1951 and was out of the search in
Queensland until buying into the 10,000
miles permit area of Pacific American
Oil in the Maryborough basin last year.
Mr Luxton said that Shell’s long ex-
perience with offshore drilling in other
parts of the world would come in most
useful in the event of structures being
located offshore in Queensland.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 739
ACROSS
I—Windy apartment you have given away on loan.
(9)
6—Awson is a colorful bird. (5)
9 —A turning point in Australian navigation, but not
what General Grant said at the end of the US Civil
War. (7)
10— Tea publicity by some European amphibian-to-be.
(7)
11— I doze with vegetable fur not to be placated. (12)
15 — Face 1000 that is north. (4)
16— Eyesore you canonised. (4)
17—An airline taken over by
Ansett for a novel of Zola’s
pineapple. (5)
19— Under a city of the UK. (5)
20— Party to a divorce suit is not
without a heart. (4)
21— Turkish magistrate I associated
with a scoundrel. (4)
23 —Fish coming in on cabinet-
making etc. (12)
26 The executive furniture. (7)
27 Obstruction in the Broken
Hill region. (7)
28— Herb, the bails are misplaced.
(5)
29 Deem grubs to become sunk.
(9)
DOWN
I—Consummation of the fluent
film production. (10)
2.—Mean chap is an ordinary
sort of bloke. (7, 3)
3 Tears still held are like this
international nous shown on
physical training. (6)
4 One changed in a considerable
time. (3)
5 Figure heard rotten confu-
sion. (11)
6 Show me lustreless as parts
of brains. (8)
7 Endeavour associated with
this business approval. (4)
8 — At the time that West goes
on the top layer. (4)
12 — Acts in expectation for
some caper one heads. (11)
13— Baba’s vocal ability is
questioned? (10)
14—Mother hung around and
faked illness. (10)
18—Her plans affected by this
war hazard. (8)
22—Transport for a stiff order
to give an audition direction.
(6)
24 It indicates some progress
with the injured enemy of
unionism. (4)
25 Bird I encore. (4)
27—Thistle now associated with
this silver. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 738


m
ippsii
■■
mm
m
WW
'- ■' * *h*
... -
::
s
. * ..X-
-*
<***
I;::
m
®m
':. .•••*
'—- jj
llotAx*
%
,3ig
.•: : '- x
- v x 1
.
Ml
Tl3.«E^
B^‘
lilßllP
m
vXn-V
V
.
* —«*«* -
.... ■ .V ■■:;
W
?*j
P
'-f^'
$#
■ % " : i
mmm
Jbu&oW’-:
n
H
.;*J
f^Cw.
Jp
"I
'****!
. • -.' ■ ’*■.«. -''•
wr- «-
. J 46 . -.;- ; '
mm
.. -
* ~1
m
&ss&
M\
'<s>
> ><>
*3B
■'
„ & - : ■ *; J
- 1 | ' - ; J
<g .... I
r ' ■
■-
W
' -j£
'
V
MP'*' S'-jfpM
*
••••;, :
pgl
p.
11l
lIP*
, -
• . ~~*-v %
<..j
S^y
V
-*53
Jgj
&
Ura
i
ijT2
C
*■? JJM
P “V*'
mu
#•
...
I i11,',,
• • :
: f ?S
;
wmm
m
m
.
...,,
s:m
J|
HlllLv
. /
M
. - -
.<' - - 4^*>^
-
■' -.P-.
:
Hi
■
,
H
I : '
FAMOUS COVERS...
IMPORTANT COVER STORIES
In 1962, THE BULLETIN not only reported news. It made news, too.
• Australian paintings, some specially commissioned, made Australian
publishing history by appearing on BULLETIN covers. More are
planned for 1963.
• BULLETIN sales have increased 50% in the last two years.
• For 82 years the BULLETIN has been ait"Australian byword with a
high overseas reputation. Now special air express editions go to New
Guinea, New Zealand, Malaysia, London. It has subscribers in all
parts of the world.
• Everybody is talking about the "new look" BULLETIN, about its lively
features, local and overseas news, about Tanner, Boadicea, Discus and
Cellarmaster, about its interviews, profiles, reviews of books, theatre,
films and art.
THE BULLETIN is proud of its achievements in 7962, confident that
it will gain more readers in 7963, and that it will continue to
expand its services to all its readers in Australia and overseas.
You can be sure of your copy of THE BULLETIN
each week by filling in this subscription form.
Why not make a friend happy in 1963 by giving
him a BULLETIN subscription.
The Bulletin
The magazine for interesting people
Subscription Department, The Bulletin, Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (by Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0 6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited, 107 Fleet St., LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited, 229 West 43rd Street"
NEW YORK 36, N’.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.


s
PS
BR
Ry
V'
V
a
APR
&
■ ■
m
1
v'
M
mm
mf
"
/ V*
Open the door on
hpew world of
"j J
Storing luxury . .
Open the door on a new Holden Premier. You’ll find it's got just about everything you could
possibly want to make personal motoring a new and delightful experience. It’s completely
and beautifully appointed. Yet a new Premier can be yours for hundreds of pounds less than
other luxury cars. If you're a lover of fine cars, you should drive a Premier. You'll be
impressed by its smooth, spirited performance. Its superb comfort. Its wonderful silence.
You’ll really enjoy the armchair comfort of Holden’s exclusive “Red Carpet” ride. Your Holden*
Dealer has a beautiful new Premier ready and waiting for you to drive. See him today!
Price: £1,195 plus tax. General Motors-Holden’s Pty. Limited.
*regd.
SEE YOUR HOLDEN DEALER TODAY . . . DRIVE THE NEW
HOLDEN PREMIER
