

The Bulletin
JANUARY 5, 1963
Australia l/- # New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
CHIANG'S FORMOSA


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLET!
RHR: : U Hi & ’- k s ! ■ B : 11 I
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINIOI
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETI
ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTE
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLET^
m
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES. LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEW
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETI
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILE,
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETI!
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING ]
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (V) whichever method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct subscription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/-,
post free. British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS: Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: 1 year,
£2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques


National Notebook
jugnizzi
■ orris West’s priest-hero in his
I “Children of the Sun”, Don Mario
-relli, is coming to Australia late in
fril. He will spend a high-pressure 15
r s in New South Wales and Victoria
1 possibly in other States telling of his
jsion in the slums of southern Italy,
de is coming here for the Australian
[]use of Urchins committees, which
-e formed as a result of “Children of
| Sun”. Mrs Gerda Pitsch is the
"nder and secretary of the Australian
rvement. She is a charming, elderly,
Hte German woman, who came to
stralia with her husband in the 19405.
|first president of the Australian com-
:tee was Mr Peter Gavagna, a busi-
psman widely known among Sydney’s
lian community. “He really put us on
• feet”, said Mrs Pitsch.
I Gavagna is now vice-
sident, and the new
r sident is Mrs Nancy
ite, wife of Mirror
wspapers journalist Ed
hit e. The Whites’
ighter is married to a
Jjsperous, Italian-born Sydney busi-
sman. This support is significant, for
f'eneral the people who have not been
ind efforts to bring Father Borrelli
Australia are members of the Italian
i
inmunity.
X may be they don’t want to be re-
|ided of conditions in some of the less
dthy parts of Italy, that this is a sore
int in the history of their former
l ive land, that they came to Australia
.get away from it, to forget it. For
|ilar reasons, the Italian Government
ms to have been far from willing to
| Father Borrelli come to Australia,
Borrelli’s main achievement in
pies has been to establish a Children’s
•lage near the city, to keep the boy-
ldren of the slum hovels off the streets,
1 away from the male and female
•stitution trade, and the drug and
er rackets which the boys find far
re profitable and accessible than
lest work.
lut Father Borrelli’s Australian sup-
ters are not interested only in raising
ney to help finance this work. Their
in aim now is to bring some of the
gnizzi out to Australia. They would
; to see the boys taken into Australian
lies, and some of them perhaps set to
rk in the Fairbridge Farm School near
mge, in New South Wales. In this
erne, they have to persuade the Italian
vernment, which fears psychological
iculties in bringing the boys to a com-
ply different environment in a
country the language of which is com-
pletely unknown to them.
Overtures are at present being made
for Borrelli to have a meeting with the
Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Cardi-
nal Gilroy. This may achieve local
Church support for the committees. The
Italian Church is now supporting Father
Borrelli’s work in Naples and last week
the Australian committee formally re-
ceived the Pope's blessing on their work.
In all these appeals, the voice of Morris
West, of course, exercises a great influ-
ence; West continues to give addresses
all over Sydney about Borrelli’s boys.
What about this denominational ques-
tion, as it affects the House of Urchins
appeals? Many Borrelli supporters on the
American and New Zealand committees
are not Catholic. And the English com-
mittee on which, for ex-
ample, Anglicans and
lews work side by side,
has the Anglican Dean of
Westminster as its patron.
And Gerda Pitsch? “I am
a born Jewess,” she told
us. “We fled from Ger-
many because of Hitler, and emigrated
to Australia. In these matters, religion
doesn't mean a thing. This is charity for
humanitarian, not religious, reasons.”
From the inside
PTlhe holiday edition of “Stockade,” thg-
excellent journal of the prisoners in'
Pentridge Prison, Victoria, makes its own
unique comment on the season of the
year.
“For some Christmas may have great
spiritual and emotional meaning, for still
others it may mean no more than just
another day in prison with, perhaps, this
difference: there will be a bigger and
better dinner!
“But, however we may personally
evaluate Christmas, I think many will
agree that it is the best time of the year.
‘lt’s cricket time!’ as one bloke was heard
to express it. And it’s summer time,
too; it’s warmer, with more color about;
and the air is sweeter . . .”
From the poetic sense of humor and
resignation of this one passes a few
pages to the equally poignant thought that
“the most unpopular bloke in all history
—with prisoners that is—must surely be
the Roman king Numa Pompillus.”
Why? A “Stockade” staff writer asks.
“It was Numa who added two months
to the Roman calendar year of only 10
months. He called them January and
February.” Then the lament! “If only
he had not interfered, all of us today
would probably be serving only 306 days
every year!”
AN AUTHORS' TRADE UNION?
Page 19
Defence against Publishers and
Plagiarists
e
Religion in Primary Schools .... 6
Chiang Kai-shek’s Formosa .... 10
Simenon Talks 14
Googie Withers—ln a Dressing-
Gown 17
The Bitter and the Sweet—Story
by M. E. Upward 22
The New Europeans—Last and
dullest of the Anglo-French
Wars 27
Verwoerdism in Southern Rhod-
esia 29
The Fools of Europe—A review
of Katherine Anne Porter’s
novel 36
The Opportunist State 40
1963 Business Unlimited? .... 41
The PM on Economic Powers 44
9
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND ABOUT 14
FORUM 19
SHORT STORY 22
AROUND MELBOURNE 26
OVERSEAS 27
LETTERS 31
FEIFFER 32
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS 41
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. PTY. LTD
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George St., Sydney
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521: Phone
27-5971. Melbourne: Phone MF 3341. Bris-
bane: Phone B 2691. Adelaide: Phone
W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4324


The Bulletin is happy to see “Stock-
ade” reappear in a much expanded and
workmanlike issue after running into
production difficulties in November. We
understand perfectly about the difficulties
which also beset those of us who publish
on the “outside.” But it intrigues us a
little why this should happen within the
four high walls in Coburg. Over to
you Michael B, “Stockade’s” editor.
Perfection
A Sydney woman, who read last
week’s story about the man who
ordered a pair of boots in London during
World War I and paid for them after
World War 11, confides her own experi-
ence:
“When I was in London in 1928 I
bought a suede jacket at Lillywhite's at
Piccadilly Circus. I wore it a good deal
but, somehow, I was never satisfied with
the set of the shoulders. So, a year or
so ago, when I was in London again, I
took it back to Lillywhite’s, mentioned
that the shoulder line was unsatisfactory
and asked for it to be altered. When
the job was finished, I asked how much
it would be but was told that Lillywhite’s
expected that anything they sold would
give perfect satisfaction, so there was
no charge”.
The lawless west
npuE law faculty at the University of
WA is a small and cosy family,
enjoying its beer parties and initiation
ceremonies and tolerating the odd female
student. The flannel blazer atmosphere
is rarely dented, but it received a severe
jolt last week when faculty dean F. R.
Beasley withheld the results of the recent
annual examinations until some missing
books were returned to the faculty lib-
rary.
Several weeks ago students were given
a notice saying the results of the annual
examinations would be withheld until all
books taken from the faculty library had
been returned. Last week, when students
gathered around the notice board for
their results at the usual time, they were
greeted by a notice saying the results
would not be published that day because
some books were still missing.
They reacted in a manner which must
have saddened the hearts of bygone
students. There was no demonstration,
and law students’ society president K. J.
Edwards issued the only statement on
their behalf. He said the decision had not
been made off-hand and no student
could say he had not been warned. They
had no right to have their results pub-
lished on any particular date. As far as
the student body was concerned, this
was a matter for Professor Beasley. The
professor also made it quite clear that
he considered the faculty’s action was
purely its own concern. He refused to
reveal the number of missing books or
their value. “This is a domestic matter
and no concern of yours,” he told in-
quiring reporters.
It was left to the older generation to
question this prep-school attitude. When
the university senate met early last week,
former chancellor Dr E. W. Gillett criti-
cised the withholding of the results. He
said the delay could constitute a dis-
service to candidates who had to take up
articles. “I don’t think one can justify
this sort of thing,” he concluded.
The faculty published its results the
day after Dr Gillett and other senate 1
members voiced their disquiet. AgainJ
there was no statement and Professoi 1
Beasley would not reveal whether the
missing books had been returned, “f
would be grateful,” he said to the stil
inquiring reporters, “if you would
us alone.” *
•1
By invitation
"_ _ \
\\Je were happy to learn of a positivs
** move taken by Festival of Pertty
executive officer, Mr John Birman, t(-
widen Australia’s knowledge of Asiaf
culture. This took the form of an invita*-
tion to the Chitrasena Dance Group o)
Colombo to perform at the University o>
WA during the Festival. a
It all stemmed from a suggestion
Mrs Anna Abeyagunawardena, who
besides being the wife of a Ceylon 7e«
Bureau official, is a skilled dancer and 1
former pupil of Chitrasena. We soughr
out Mrs Abey (“call me that, my nanu
is too long and complicated") and sITq
told us the group had accepted an h
would be in Perth January 21. e
“The leaders of the group are a hur
band and wife team,” she told us. "Bot| c
have been dancing for more than 1
years. They’ve toured the East, RussU
and Europe and the interesting thir je
about them is that they’ve adapted
tional Ceylonese dances to a form
ballet, or dance drama I believe it
called nowadays.”
She referred us to the invitation lett< n
from the Perth Festival people.
"We got through itS
"Qtir worst fears weren't realised.
"Oh, well, A


’ Wrote Mr Birman: “The Festival
Committee is anxious now to introduce
Western Australian audiences some of
he art forms of our neighboring Com-
jiionwealth countries and we have heard
e 'ery favorable reports about your ballet
|roup.”
I The Elizabethan Theatre Trust with
(he co-sponsorship of the Ceylon Tea
lureau, has arranged for the group to
ppear in Sydney (Feb. 8), Launceston,
■Jobart and, if it can be fixed in time,
Melbourne and Adelaide.
(
nside Paddington
f ast week's cover of Paddington was
by Sydney artist William Drew. Mr
Orew came from Melbourne and now
>ves in Paddington. The painting is for
ale. The artist may be contacted
hrough The Bulletin office.
3
Comeback
T>opular singer Johnny O'Keefe, in
lL Adelaide and giving his first per-
formance since his nervous breakdown,
'howed all the signs of his old vigor and
estlessness. “I wasn’t supposed to start
Vork until January but I've got to be
taing something,” he said.
Obviously intent on appealing to a
vider audience, O'Keefe said that 70
>er cent of the bookings for his two Ade-
aide shows were made by adults. How-
Ver, when the night came it seemed the
dults had been buying tickets for their
hildren. The audience was predomin-
ntly teenage and female.
Tanner
We'll just have to get a new set
of worst fears."
PLAIN ENGLISH
TOUGH JOB FOR THE TUNGKU
JpOR the moment the “independence” revolt in Brunei has died down
but the effects and implications of the rebellion are far reaching.
Apart from rival ideologies there is a clear three-cornered struggle
between the predominantly Malay states of the Philippines, Indonesia
and Malaya for control of a strategically sensitive area. If nothing else
the Brunei revolt has emphasized the remorseless ambitions and tensions
besetting the creation of Malaysia. To make Malaysia viable the inclusion
of the Borneo territories is essential not merely economically but
racially. If the resolute and tough-minded Tungku is to accept Singapore’s
one million Chinese into Malaya then he must preserve the small prepon-
derance of Malays by adding yet more people of Malay stock to the
Federation. This in itself is a difficult enough political task viewed from
either Singapore or Malaya. Singapore’s pro-Communist Barisan Socialis
opposition party, (like Malaya’s Pan-Malayan Islamic Party and the
Socialist Front) has condemned Malaysia as a neo-colonialist device for
maintaining British influence in South East Asia and propping up
“Imperialist stooges’ like the Tungku. All three parties came out
unhesitatingly in favor of both Sheik Azahari’s independence movement
and his concept of a united independent country incorporating Sarawak,
Brunei and North Borneo which, if it came into being, would presumably
favor Indonesia’s neutralist foreign policy.
riUIERE is no doubt that there is a ground swell in the Borneo Territories,
especially in the Brunei Protectorate, against Malaysia although how
much of a ground swell is hard to tell. What is absolutely certain is that
Azahari while operating earlier from Manila had official Indonesian
support.
Indonesia’s full role in the Brunei revolt has yet to be fully explained.
There is evidence that Azahari’s forces, or some of them, were trained in
Tarakan and may have had some indoctrination by the PKl—lndonesia’s
Communist Party. President Soekarno in his messianic role is bitterly
opposed to Malaysia. In the first place it is anti-Communist in concept
and would ally itself uncompromisingly with anti-Communist forces in
Asia. In the second place Malaysia, a country of law and order and
economic progress, is apt to show up the shoddy reality of Indonesian
economic development. In the third place even Indonesia’s friends, includ-
ing those in this country, must by now believe that Indonesia’s President
and top leadership are expansionist. While Indonesia will be able to present
some sort of case when it undoubtedly will start some sort of diversion over
Portuguese Timor, the Brunei revolt is another thing altogether.
The role of the Philippines in the struggle is not yet fully defined. While
it may continue to press the claims of the heirs of the Sultan of Sulu to
Brunei it is an anti-Communist country, a SEATO member deeply
committed to the security of the area. One hopes that it will recognise
its immediate and long-term interests to lie, like Australia’s, in the
successful creation of Malaysia.


THIS AUSTRALIA
EDUCATION
RELIGION IN PRIMARY
SCHOOLS
Causing truancy?
E. WETHERELL
Deputations
Tn the recent controversy of the Social
Studies syllabus for NSW Primary
Schools, including various deputations to
Education Minister E. Wetherell, two
things emerge. One is that the "officialis-
ing” of religion has advanced to an
extent very few people realise; and the
other is that, in the zeal with which
religion has been embedded in official
education, certain legal implications have
been neglected and the seeds of some
interesting test cases have been sown.
Section 7 of the Public Instruction Act
(1880), which is rapidly becoming
famous, provides in part: “In all Schools
under this Act the teaching shall be
strictly non-sectarian but the words ‘secu-
lar instruction' shall be held to include
general religious teaching as distinguished
from dogmatical or polemical theo-
logy . . .” Most disinterested non-
lawyers would say, without hesitation,
that the terms of the new Social Studies
curriculum as to Scripture teaching are
in breach of Section 7. Consider a few
extracts:
“Christian ideals and values should
permeate all school and class room
activities” (Kindergarten Grade).
“. . . . the aim of the teacher should
be ... to unfold God's revelation of
Himself to man ...” (First Grade)
“The sections have been arranged with
the incidence of Christmas and Easter
in mind” (Third Grade). “The stories
of the Birth of Jesus, His Crucifixion
and Resurrection should be told at the
appropriate Seasons of the year”
(Fifth Grade).
There are many other extracts of a
similar kind and a substantial part of the
prescribed detailed teaching in all Grades
is a narrative of the life of Jesus from
the Birth through to the Ascension.
What the Courts would have to say
on this question is another matter; and it
has never, apparently, been in issue. The
problem is what is meant in law by
“strictly non-sectarian,” “general religious
teaching" and “dogmatical or polemical
theology.” We may never know, for the
methods of initiating a test case are far
from clear and at the best circuitous; but
at least two things are clear:
Firstly, a Jew and probably a Seventh
Day Adventist would argue that, so far a;
they are concerned, the extracts do not
envisage a teaching “strictly non-sectar-
ian" or “general"; further, the notion ol
a teacher aiming to unfold to the pupil
“God's revelation of Himself to man” ir
a general way is a curious one when the
details of that revelation are the subjecl
of sectarian disagreement.
Secondly, it is possible to have reli-
gious teaching—not necessarily contem-
plated by the curriculum—which is more
nearly general and non-sectarian in the
ordinary understanding of those terms,
for example, about the fact that God
exists or at least that supernatural beings
exist.
A substantial part of the subject of
Social Studies is concerned not only with
Scripture but is slanted towards or linked
with Christianity. Part of one of the
objectives of the Social Studies course is
said to be to bring about “ . . . apprecia-
tions of the cultural achievements of man
in all lands . . and later (in the more
detailed directions to teachers) there
appears the words: “in order to under-
line the fact that Christianity is not onh
part of our cultural heritage but also gives
meaning and purpose to our way of life
Scripture has been included . . . ”.
These matters raise a second piquant
legal situation. Section 18 of the Act of
1880 provides: “No pupil in a Public
School shall be required to receive an)
general or special religious instruction it
the parents or guardians of such pupi
object to such religious instruction bein'
given.”
Since it is clearly stated in the Curri
culum (in fact in block letters) “ . . .these
Scripture lessons must be given whethei
other lessons are given by visiting clergy-
men or not” it will follow that a parent
who registers a Section 18 objection will
be objecting not only to the instruction
of a visiting clergyman and the instruc-
tion of the teacher in Scripture but also
to the instruction of the teacher in &
great part of the Social Studies course
itself. No doubt arrangements can bf
THE BLACKS
January 6, 1883
OUT West, in a town which we may
indicate by saying that it is
famous for its Returning Officer, a
tragedy has just occurred. But, as it
only concerns a blackfellow, it hasn’t
in the least marred the excessive jollity
of the present festive season. Besides,
he was a deaf and dumb blackfellow
at that - a black mute and of no
account amongst civilised Australians.
His name was “DUMMY” and he
, . , . _ „ , . ,
was a station hand. On Saturday, he
got his cheque, rigged himself out in
spotless white, and went to this
pleasant little Western town. On
Monday h's body was at the bottom
of the Lachlan River, he having pre-
viously lost his cash and his spotless
white suit. An inquest was held by a
Coroner, who is also a Returning
Officer, and a plain verdict of “death
by drowning was returned. Yet
"DUMMY” was one of the finest
swimmers in the district. But, then, he
was only a blackfellow. Th« Coroner
who is also a smart Returning
Officer, mark you ordered his
burial, and "DUMMY S corpse was
hidden away under a few feet of the
river bank. This spot was within a
mile of the cemetery; so that you see,
or a deaf ant * dumb blacklellow, his
remains were highly honoured. When
w ' nd . ,'"!(? direction,
g . os °i i f,, U - f P e r aps
get the , t! f end ° th = , sn . lff of thg
consecrated ground, which is as much
as an y well-regulated blackfellow
ought [ Q expect. Now let U s leave
the dead “DUMMY” and speak about
hj s cheque. That cheque went
through a mm shop So did the
equivalent for a spotless white suit. So
did “DUMMY” for that matter. Of
course, no free born Colonial or
Britisher would dream of asking that
the law should be swung into opera-
tion concerning the barter of the
cheque, on account of the death of
a miserable mute of a blackfellow. Oh
no; we’re too enlightened for that.


made so that the pupil may receive
other instruction during the two recog-
nised categories of Scripture study (al-
though this does not often seem to be
ments unlikely that such arrange-
stitute for a great part of
Studies lessons and if they are not the
pupil may well come within Section 4
(the truancy provision) of the 1916-
1956 Amendment Act which states:
“(2) Every parent or guardian of a child
between the age of 6 years and the
school leaving age who fails to
cause him to attend a State . . .
school ... on any half day when
the school is open, and who fails
to show to the satisfaction of the
Court that such non-attendance
... is due to one or more of the
causes mentioned ... or any other
cause deemed by the Court to be
sufficient, shall be liable to a
penalty . .
“(5) An attendance for not less than 2
hours during the period for which
shall constitute silciX
half day . .
Accordingly, the pupil is placed in the
same position as a truant under the Act
because of the exercise of a legal right
conferred by the Act.
There are technical and other objec-
tions to the above interpretations, but
there are technical and other arguments
in favor of them also. Here is the raw
material for some perfectly good test
cases, if anyone cares to take the trouble.
ALWYN KARPIN
ABORIGINES
THE BOMBING OF QUAIL
Big Foot Roy demands his island back
PHILIP ROBERTS
“Compare smashing up a
white cemetery.”
Waugait natives at Delissaville, a set-
” tlement near Darwin,- are very
stirred up over the RAAF's continued
use of Quail Island as a bombing range.
For the first time they have come out in
the open and demanded that the Govern-
ment give back “their” island.
Quail, centre of the fuss, is a tiny
outcrop of sand, rock a.id coral poking
up out of the sea, around the coast from
Darwin. Until practice oombing started
there several years ago it was renowned
as the most important turtle breeding
ground on the Territory coast. The
Waugaits, in their 14-foot dugout canoes,
visited there regularly to spear turtles
and collect the eggs, which form a valu-
able high-protein part of their diet. Apart
from this, Quail was sacred to at least
two totems as a burial ground and
Dreaming Place.
When the RAAF took over the area
Welfare Officers warned the natives that
from now on the island was “out of
bounds”. And the explosions so upset
the turtles that almost all have gone
elsewhere to breed. For a long time the
Waugaits brooded over their loss. Tra-
ditionally shy, they kept the grievance to
themselves until a week ago, when a
giant nomad hunter named Big Foot
Roy formally demanded "his” island back
from the Government. His mother is
buried there. And a tiny spring just
back from the beach is a sacred “Dream-
ing Well” to men of his totem. Big Foot
sent his protest to Darwin through the
medium of crocodile shooter Roy Moffat,
one of his few white friends. Moffat's
wife, a well-known and respected Terri-
tory personality, is herself part-Waugait.
The Waugaits, known in the native
language as a “Sand” tribe, have a
strong mixture of Malay blood. This
dates back a century or more, to when
the “Macassar men” sailed their praus
into these waters every year.
The features of many Waugait war-
riors are more Asian than aboriginal.
They are great travellers and, on oc-
casion, sail their canoes as far round
the coast as the Daly River mouth. Most
of the year they live at Delissaville, a
Government settlement.
A notable exception is Big Foot Roy,
aged about 40, who has two wives and
five children ranging from a baby to a
boy of about 15. Disgusted by Darwin
“and all that grog”, he is bringing up
his family as nomads. They wander the
coast most of the time, living on yams,
fish, sugarbag and wallaby. Big Foot
wants to ensure that his children can
live in the bush, as their ancestors did,
without depending on the white man’s
handouts. Once on a fortnight’s visit to
Darwin he was able to leave his eldest
son to hunt and care for the entire
family. To him the old traditions are
very dear.
Backing up his native friend Moffat
said it was “a crime” to keep on bomb-
ing Quail. It would result in a fatality.
“Europeans can hear when the bombings
are due by listening to the broadcast
. w “Rut , the natives
have no way of knowing. He suggested
as alternative practice ranges for the
RAAF, Ruby Island (34 miles from
Darwin), Barron Island (86 miles), Field
Island (87 miles), Green Hill Island (87
miles), May Day and Burford Island
(85 miles).
Swift support came from Philip
Roberts, Darwun’s best-known aboriginal
citizen and regarded as something of an
oracle among the tribes. Quail was a
sacred burying ground for the natives
of Delissaville, Philip said. “Bombing
it is the same as if a group of us full-
bloods broke up the monuments in the
white cemetery or smashed the Ross and
Keith Smith memorial at Fannie Bay.”
Many Waugaits had asked him to
intercede for them so they could get
their island back. However, he found
this difficult because he was of another
tribe, came from “another country” and
intrusions in these matters by “foreign-
ers” were often resented. (Philip
native name Waipuldanya is an
Alawa from the Roper River, and a
High Djungayi in the Kunapipi fertility
cult. He also is a trusted medical assis-
tant at Darwin Hospital and was central
figure in Douglas Fockwood’s prize-
winning book “I, the Aboriginal”.)
Quail Island and Binbinya were sacred
burial grounds for people of certain
totems, Philip said. He added that
the desecration of the "old people’s”
graves was “as if a crowd of us had gone
into the white cemetery and smashed all
the headstones.”
As other voices joined the growing
public outcry over Quail the RAAF
Commander in Darwin (Group-Captain
Dixie Chapman) announced an import-
ant concession. In future, he said,
the target would be a large rubber raft
moored well out at sea. (Previously the
runs were made over the island itself.)
The only interference with Quail from
now on would be the stationing of a
couple of observers there during the
bombing, he said. This should meet most
of the natives’ objections. But leaders
among the Waugait may hold up cele-
brations until they' see whether or not
the RAAF’s generous decision means
they will once again have full access to
Quail Island.
In any case the move is only a first
step. Fishermen, white as well as black,
increasingly use the islands in this area..
Sooner or later, it seems certain, the
bombing range will have to be trans-
ferred to another part of the coast.
KEITH WILLEY


UNIONS
THE COMING COMMUNIST
VICTORIES
From Red Tape to Red Control
J McDowell
Trouble with the Registrar
FThe second biggest union in Australia,
the 77,000-odd Amalgamated En-
gineering Union, is the best barometer to
measure the strength of the Com-
munist Party's hold over sections of the
trade union movement and indirectly
through those unions over the Labor
Party.
The first contest this year in the union
comes up on January 18 when the
Organiser for Division No. 6 will be
elected. This will probably be w 7 on by
Mr J. Cudmore, a member of the Labor
Party who is opposing the sitting
candidate. Mr W. Buckley, a member of
the Communist Party. (See Bulletin,
November 24.) This election will be
conducted by the Commonwealth elec-
toral officer, which guarantees a clean
ballot and a higher percentage of voting
members. (In the last 18 months at least
four key positions—including control of
the union’s three-man governing body—
have been won bv non-Communists
from members of the Communist Party
through these independent ballots: they
have also, incidentally, been the biggest
single reason for cleansing other unions
of corrupt right-wing union bosses.)
But in the AEU. at the moment, the
two non-Communist members of the
controlling Commonwealh Council, C.
Shearer and J. McDowell, are having
difficulty in actually arranging one of
these independent ballots for three
further positions which would normally
be settled in March: two Organisers’
positions, one in Newcastle and one in
Melbourne (the latter now held by an
extreme left-w 7 ing member), and the
position of General Secretary of the
union held by J. Garland who, though
a member of the ALP. opposes the
policy of McDowell and Shearer.
Their difficulty has lain in the attitude
of one Public Servant, the Federal
Industrial Registrar, Mr A. O'Brien,
w 7 ho is enforcing the strict letter of the
law; and the tactics of two union
officers, the Chairman of the Common-
wealth Council. Mr A. Horsburgh and
Secretary Garland.
At a meeting of the Council early in
November, Shearer and McDowell
moved and seconded that an applica-
tion be made to the Industrial Registrar
for an independent ballot for the three
positions mentioned. Following Com-
munist Party policy Mr “Cup” South-
well was against it as W'ere the two non-
voting members, Chairman Horsburgh
and Secretary Garland. So there was
a majority among voting members of two
to one in favor.
The Chairman said he wanted the
motion deferred until the Executive
Council in England could give advice
on the question. (The Commonwealth
Industrial Court ruled last month that
on such an issue the British body could
not over-rule the Australian Common-
wealth Council.)
However, there was no motion for
deferment moved or seconded, so
Shearer and McDowell, who had the
numbers, presumed that their motion
was okay.
But the motion to apply to the Regis-
trar was not formally voted on.
After Shearer made the application
the Registrar wrote back asking him for
information, whether the motion askin
for a ballot had actually been passed b
Commonwealth Council. Shearer the
wrote back enclosing an affidavit askin
for the ballot to be conducted^. e( Qj
IrS'f Shearer wrote back again, enclosin
another affidavit and saying the motio
had not been formally passed; he out
lined what had happened. The Registra
then replied that the application wa
refused because it had not been made i
the due and proper way.
The odd thing about this situation ij
that under the Menzies Governmer
amendments to the section of th
Arbitration Act dealing with indepen
dent ballots the Registrar has fairly wid
discretionary powers in such situation
The non-Communist members of th
union now say that if an independer
ballot is not held it w 7 ill mean the virtu;
handing over of at least two Organiser
positions to the Communist Party f
w 7 ell as the almost certain re-election c
Secretary Garland who tacitly suppori
them.
Unless further approaches to th
Registrar are successful, the ballot fc
the three positions will be voted on a
the March “star” night meetings of th
union. In an independent ballot of th
union the voting percentage could ru:
as high as 52 per cent, but at “star'
meetings it would be unlikely to rk
higher than seven per cent. With th
Communist Party’s highly discip'inet
and better organised support they will
win these three important positions.
PETER KEID
ON THE LAND
THE TOBACCO SPLIT
The battle of the golden leaf
A split in Victoria’s tobacco growing
industry has come into the open,
and a show-down is likely when the
current season's crop goes on the auction
floors about May, 1963.
The rupture stems from dissension in
the industry during the 1961 tobacco
slump when hundreds of tons of leaf
either did not sell or sold at low prices.
This brought mass meetings, heartburn-
ings, personal strife, and intrigue in the
Victorian Tobacco Growers’ Associa-
tion. The president for 13 years, W. J.
McGuffie, was defeated by the treasurer,
D. H. Hamilton. This year, the associa-
tion’s executive, supported by growers in
a referendum, dismissed the secretary,
M. J. O’Brien.
An uneasy calm settled over the in-
dustry, but the 1962 sales were much
more healthy and final figures issued la'
week showed that Victorian leaf brougt
£3,842,211 for the year, and 98.4 p
cent of the tobacco offered had bef
cleared at a highly satisfactory averaf
price of ,134.6d. per lb. The association
affairs were reorganised and the VTG
was reconstituted as a limited com pal
so that, according to its officials,
would become a “legal entity”.
It would continue to have on:
tobacco growers as members, to mark
their tobacco through brokers under tl
auction system, and to handle matte:
such as insurance and some merchandi
ing for growers.
Hamilton, now chairman of directt'
of the new 7 association, announced th
through the Australian Tobad
Growers’ Council, the VTGA w ; as won


ing for a stabilisation plan which would
prevent another 1961 situation develop-
ing. Such a scheme, he said, would
ensure continuity of a profitable market
for the crops of existing growers, provide
for the planned expansion of the
industry, establish a reserve pool of
leaf, take care of shortages and sur-
pluses in meeting annual production
targets, and preserve the value of
growers’ very considerable assets. He
appealed for unity among Victorian
growers.
This month, a group of growers an-
nounced that a rival proprietary com-
pany was being formed to act as a
selling agent for growers’ tobacco.
Among provisional directors were W. J.
McGuffie and a former VTGA vice-
president and chief appraiser, Dino
Piazza. The directors said: “A series of
developments in the industry in Victoria
has given rise to concern that growers
will be left without a convenient instru-
ment for organising the presentation and
sale of the current season’s tobacco
crop.”
Recently the VTGA hit back. It
claimed that the great majority of Vic-
torian growers were now on its share
register. It bluntly warned that “growers
who are not members of the new associa-
tion . . . may find, at a later date, that
they will not be able to sell their leaf
through the normal channels or be en-
titled to protection against loss of leaf by
fire or other damage under the new as-
sociation's comprehensive policy of insur-
ance over the Victorian tobacco crop. The
directors also suggest that some sober
thought might be given to the foregoing
possibilities by institutions and other per-
sons who may have advanced moneys to
non-members of the association against
the proceeds of their leaf.”
The warnings caused a flurry in the
tobacco districts north-eastern and
northern Victoria. Tobacco growing in-
volves high capital costs and many
growers who entered the industry in the
boom between 1957 and 1961 and were
hit hard last year are deeply in debt.
Banks which hold their mortgages, and
businessmen who have supplied equip-
ment on credit, are naturally anxious to
see the crops turned into cash.
If, with the concurrence of brokers
and manufacturers, the VTGA is able to
preserve a monopoly of marketing out-
lets, the rival company and its members
will be out on a very shaky limb indeed.
But the new group has not yet shown
its hand and although its provisional
directors include some of Victoria’s
major growers, its strength is, as yet,
an unknown quantity. If it were able to
secure its own outlets, it would be in a
position to upset the VTGA’s production
targets and consequently the stabilisation
scheme. This could give it a strong bar-
gaining position and might also force the
Federal Government into an embarras-
sing corner.
The Government has a big stake in
the industry. Year after year, it has
virtually guaranteed it by setting manu-
facturers a quota of Australian leaf
which they must use to obtain Customs
rebates on their imports. In 1961, the
production exceeded the quota and prices
dropped accordingly. The Government
came to the rescue by distributing
thousands of pounds among distressed
growers to keep them in business. An
effective stabilisation scheme would get
the growers out of Canberra’s hair and
would eliminate the prospect of further
hand-outs. The Government would cer-
tainly not be keen to intervene in the
growers’ domestic arguments, but might
be forced to take sides if stabilisation
looked like being endangered.
Personal antipathies rule out any
chance of the two factions coming to
terms, at least in the immediate future.
Whether the battle of the golden leaf
is a passing skirmish or the first round
in a major war will depend on whether
the new company is able to sell its
clients’ tobacco successfully in 1963 and
gain a voice which cannot be ignored,
or whether the ground can meanwhile
be cut from under its feet by VTGA
efforts to put a workable stabilisation
scheme into action.
MIKE MOONIE
LUNACY
REFORMING ADELAIDES
"ASYLUM”
Archaic horror
SIR THOMAS
PLAYFORD
‘Complete Reorganisation ’
Adelaide’s mental hospital was re-
vealed in all its archaic horror last
week. The Parkside Mental Hospital was
built towards the end of the last century
and much of it is unchanged. There have
been several attempts to draw attention
to the deplorable state of the hospital,
but this has been quickly hushed up by
the Government. The public refers to the
asylum as the “loony bin” and few people
take any interest in the patients.
Last week the SA Association for
Mental Health released a report on Park-
side. The report said accommodation for
inmates was “brutally uncomfortable and
unhealthy,” and revealed a long list of
unpleasant facts.
• Many inmates still sleep in the
original single cells, but now there are
two inmates to each cell instead of one.
9 Overcrowding has reached the
point where it is “surely dangerous.”
• Washing and toilet facilities “in-
flict much human indignity on patients.”
9 Patients have little chance of re-
taining their individuality or any self-
respect.
The Association summed up the report
and the public attitude with a paragraph
in the report: “The inmates inhabit a
place which was built and is maintained
by a society which still thinks of the in-
mates as write-offs.”
Earlier this year, the Premier, Sir
Thomas Playford, told Parliament that a
“complete reorganisation and rehabilita-
tion” of the State's mental hospitals was
being considered by the Government.
The publication of the Mental Health
Association’s report brought a quick re-
sponse from the Government, and these
plans were promptly disclosed. They in-
clude the building of two 480-bed
hospital training centres for the “intellec-
tually retarded” and considerable im-
provement to Parkside.
Of great importance was the plan con-
cerning children. There is a long waiting
list for entry into the children’s sections
at Northfield Mental Hospital. Then,
because of a staff shortage, there is little
supervision, and co'nsequentally the child-
ren return again and again. Now it is
planned to establish a diagnostic and
counselling unit at the Children’s Hospital
for the early detection and, where possi-
ble, treatment of the retarded. A staff
build-up has begun, and a training pro-
ject will begin next year.
Last week's developments were a mile-
stone in the history of mental illness in
SA. It may be several years before things
are put right, but a start has been made.
C. M. MILNE


CHIANG KAI-SHEKS FORMOSA
By PETER COLEMAN
(who recently returned, from a tour of Formosa )
Recently our post-war Minister in
Nanking, Sir Douglas Copland,
saw fit to describe Chiang Kai-
shek’s Nationalists as "’corrupt” and to
support the Red Chinese claim to the
12i million people of Formosa. “Why
should we feel responsible for them?”
he asked. Since our former Minister
had earlier regarded the Chinese Com-
munists as simple agrarian reformers,
there is no reason why we should take
his views on China seriously, however
distinguished he is as an economist. But
his views are still typical of many Aus-
tralians.
Formosa has not had a good Press in
the free world: many leftists consider it
should be ‘"returned” to the Com-
munists; some conservatives fear its
“Liberation of the Mainland” policies
will trigger off a third world war;
liberals complain of Government cor-
ruption, lack of freedom, and of the
mainlanders’ suppression of the For-
mosan independence movement. Above
all it is only recently that the Formosan
Government has encouraged foreign
journalists, unionists, businessmen,
politicians and tourists to come to
Formosa.
But they are all coming now in in-
creasing numbers particularly the
tourists for whom Formosa is one of the
Cold War’s strangest freaks—a country
with a full-scale war-economy using
tourism to raise money; in Taipeh, the
capital city, a dozen modern tourist
hotels are growing between the posters
proclaiming the Evil of Communism
and as the tourist pushes past the
crowds watching the new TV in shop
windows he stumbles into a motorcade
giving instructions on civil defence.
Seeking night life he may go to a strip
show one night only to find the police
have closed it down the next night
as incompatible with war economy.
Perhaps the strangest tourist frisson is
a trip to Quemoy, flying slightly above
the sea to dodge the Communist radar,
and then being invited to let off sets of
colored balloons to the Chinese main-
land carrying messages announcing the
impending liberation.
As far as the increasing number of
politics-conscious visitors are concerned,
the Formosan Government sensibly does
not expect to turn them into wild
enthusiasts about everything Formosan.
They know, what is obvious, that there
are many things politically, and
economically wrong with Formosa. The
main hope is to dispel the wilder
illusions. Certainly it is simple enough
to collect evidence about government
corruption: the newspapers regularly
describe it and attack it. It is also easy
to find people outside government
circles—who are openly sceptical of
their chances of liberating the main-
land and resent the burden involved in
the military budget. As for poverty,
although they have the highest standard
of living in Asia next to Japan,
any Christian missionary with keen
memories of Communist persecution on
the mainland to keep his judgment
straight will tell you of the 1,800,000
Formosans (out of a population of 12i
millions) who need relief services. As
for the Formosan independence move-
ment and its campaign against the
Chiang Kai-shek regime, it is obviously
suppressed and is equally obviously
active —at least in Japan where recently
Formosan residents in Kobe received
postcards marked with a triangle (for
the island of Formosa) and a large I
(for Independence) through it —preludes
to the extortion of funds for the move-
ment. The only question is how
significant it is in Formosa.
Formosa is certainly no great centre
for ordinary liberal political life. How
could it be when it is involved in a life-
or-death war? There are popularly elec-
ted local councils but the central Gov-
ernment. which makes all basic deci-
sions, is the old Republican Government
from the mainland and has never been
elected by Formosans. It is also true that
Forrro-jans have never had much poli-
tical consciousness; today in Taipeh the
Formosan in his spare time is more
likely to read the scandal sheets, go to
his native vaudeville, or flirt with one
of the 70,000 shop girls who decorate
the town, than talk politics. The new
grey-flannel suited advertising men
emerging under Japanese and American
inspiration are more concerned with the
traditional modesty of the Formosan
girls who refuse to pose as advertising
models than with politics. Even the
students, normally political activists in
Asia, have no political life and spend
about 18 hours a day cramming from the
dirt-cheap pirated Western texts in ordei,
to get their degree and safe jobs.
But if Formosa is no model of liberal!
democracy any more than the vasi-
majority of countries in the world
it is also true that it is an increasingly
prosperous and expanding economy anrt
an uncompromisingly anti - Communis l
power which has directly defended Ausjl


tralian national interests for the last 13
years and which is extremely anxious
to have better diplomatic and trade
relations with Australia.
The lean years
The “Formosan problem” really began
in 1945 when Chiang Kai-shek’s
Republic of China first moved across
to Formosa to take over its administra-
tion from the Japanese. In the next
four years 2 million mainlanders fled to
Formosa as refugees from the Com-
munists — one of the strangest exoduses
of recent times: they brought over not
only the remnants of their army but the
framework of their civilisation, their
political parties, their bureaucracies,
their businesses, their universities, their
art treasures. Mainly single men or
married couples (very few single girls),
they included some of the elite in China,
that is, some of the ablest men and wo-
men in the world.
But although Chiang Kai-shek still
proclaimed his determination to destroy
Chinese Communism and his refugees
set out to reshape the Army, start small
businesses, launch newspapers, rebuild
their universities, they had two basic
problems: The first was their own in-
escapable demoralisation. The second
was the hostility of the Formosans.
They were beaten and didn’t know
how much longer they could survive.
They were outcasts in the world and
even when the Korean War began the
Americans would not accept their
support. They had little beyond their
slender hopes and their loyalty to the
unbending, Methodistical, heroic figure
of Chiang Kai-shek. Whatever criticisms,
fair or unfair, people make of Chiang,
not even his worst enemies accuse him
of cowardice or personal corruption. He
could easily have called it a day in
1949 and retired to live in America in
i luxury for the rest of his life. He chose
» to stay on and fight in Formosa and, if
> necessary, to go down fighting.
1 Their morale dropped further as Red
(China grew in strength and popularity.
11 If the Nationalists had the satisfaction
e of receiving 14,000 Red Chinese POWs
11 from Korea, who chose Formosa rather
S than return to Communism, they also
knew that the Red Chinese victories in
11 Korea had consolidated the Com-
“ munists’ power and given the people
pride. Then came the stream
el of foreign visitors to Red China, all
returning home to sing the Communists’
Upraises; hardly anyone except General
isiMacArthur and Vice-President Nixon
-went to Formosa. Whenever the Com-
>l;rnunists bombed Quemoy or Matsu there
niWere always powerful lobbies abroad
purging they be abandoned. In the
asUnited Nations each year more
countries supported the admission of
Red China.
Then in 1955 the United States signed
a Treaty of Mutual Defence with Chiang
Kai - shek which guaranteed their
security. Later the Great Leap Forward
Communisation programmes failed on
the mainland and in due course
worsened the effects of three bad
harvests. Starvation became common-
place on the mainland as prosperity
increased on Formosa. Then the
1,000,000 refugees fled from Red China.
The United Nations votes for Red
China’s admission began falling and
finally Red China invaded India. For
the first time in 14 years their morale —
at least in government circles—is high
again and the men who move symbols
of factories, population, troops around
on maps of the mainland claim they feel
surer than ever they will return soon —
if not to liberate the whole of China, at
least to liberate south of the Yang-tse.
(Russia, they will tell you, will help Mao
to defend north China but may be glad
to see him weakened in the south.) Few
put a date on this return. "Next April,”
one Nationalist told me enthusiastically
(although he added gloomly: “It better
be soon. I’m getting old”), but you don't
take their predictions literally nor is
it tactful to ask them if they are sure
anti-Communist revolutionaries on the
mainland will not have their own leaders
who will not look to Chiang Kai-shek.
The Voice of Free China
iThiE Voice of Free China, for example,
A beaming its message across the
Formosa Strait for a total of 33
hours daily in 13 languages and four
dialects says it is getting more and more
response. This is obviously hard to
prove but certainly some of their pro-
grammes must be popular. They broad-
cast more and more jazz as the Com-
munists ban jazz as reactionary; they
play whatever Peking operas the Com-
munists ban as reactionary; they extol
Chinese family life in the “Home, Sweet
Home” programme, as the Communes
increasingly undermine the Chinese
family; their “Resistance Movement”
programme in which “Commander
Chen”, veteran of anti-Japanese and
anti-warlord wars, advises listeners how
to sabotage the Red Army appears to be
listened to if you judge by results. But
the most concrete evidence of mainland
response are the letters that pour in daily
to the “Listener Mailbox” programme:
the station uses addresses in Manila,
Hong Kong, Bangkok, Macao and Tokyo
which they change regularly before
Communist postal officials catch up
with them.
But if morale is high in the Govern-
ment circles it is not so high that free-
dom of publication can be tolerated.
Any journalist publishing an article
doubting whether the Nationalists will
ever liberate the mainland is certain to
be charged with something akin to
sedition—as happened in 1961 in the
case of the magazine “Free China Fort-
nightly” which was suppressed.
Formosan Nationalism
second big problem the National-
ists faced was the hostility of the
native Formosans. At first the For-
mosans had good reason to think they
had simply swopped old Japanese
tyrants for new Chinese. The Japanese
had colonised Formosa for 50 years and
while they had built it up into one of
the most advanced islands in Asia—and
left behind in 1945 a certain goodwill—■
they had also suppressed all political
life, controlled commercial life, and
kept advanced education to a minimum:
the only Formosans allowed into the
Imperial University at Taipeh (then
called Ta ; hoku) were students of medi-
cine and agriculture. Then the Chinese
arrived, demoralised, embittered, and in
no mood to curry favour with the local
people. At the same time the Japanese
—as their parting gesture —-encouraged
and according to the Chinese National-
ists financed the Formosan Independence
Movement. By 1947 there was an
uprising against the mainlanders and in
the end 10,000 Formosans were killed
(As the Japanese, still vague friends of
Formosan nationalism, like to point out:
the Russians only killed 6000 in Hun-
gary.) It was a hideous beginning to a
new regime and even if the Chinese
general responsible for the massacre
was later executed by Chiang Kai-Shek,
the Formosans did not easily forget.
What is the state of Formosan nation-
alism today? Whatever was wrong with
Kuomintang rule on the mainland it is
one of the facts of life that its rule on
Formosa, since the 1947 uprising, has
been very different. Whether this is due
to their internal reform after their
defeats on the mainland, to American
pressure, or to the need to prove their
good faith to the world, is something
one can argue about. But the fact
remains.
Picking up the pieces after the 1947
uprising Chiang Kai-shek and Vice-
President Chen Cheng, launched pro-
grammes of land reform, education, and
increased living standards, all of which
have been successful. The Formosan
land reform is a model in Asia: the
holdings of the large landlords were
confiscated and distributed to small
peasants organised in co-operatives and
receiving technical assistance from the
Chinese-American Joint Reconstruction
Commission. One result is that rice


Visit Victoria
A fair lady is Lome, with frills of
white surf on skirts of jewelled sea.
Lome has so much to offer her
holiday guests . . . surfing and
swimming, riding and hiking, golf,
tennis and some of Victoria’s most
beautiful picnic spots. After dark
Lome goes gay with continental
coffee bars, cabarets and dancing
’til dawn. Make Lome the goal
for your next vacation . . . See
Victour for all your travel and
accommodation bookings.
8
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
mmmjm
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
78 ELIZABETH STREET BRISBANE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
32 KING WILLIAM ST., ADELAIDE
-
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
34528
production has doubled in about 10
years —it is now two million tons a
year. With American aid, hydroelectric
schemes are underway, and Formosan-
financed textile and light industry are
now expanding: Formosan textiles al-
ready represent a threat to Japanese
exports. The general standard of living
is still typically Asian but is the second
highest in Asia. The universities and all
courses in them have been opened to all
Formosans and for the first time some
native Formosans now have senior
positions in the bureaucracy, which they
could not have dreamt of under the
Japanese.
The Formosans are today better off
than they have ever been and they know
it. This is not to say there is no dis-
content, particularly among intellectuals
which is easily fomented by the In-
dependence Movement in Japan.
Farmers under the land reform have
comparatively little to complain of,
except the Government’s wine and
tobacco monopolies which fix prices
below what they would be in a free
market; and the commercial classes’
main complaints are about taxes and
war restrictions, but at least nearly all
business is in Formosan hands. But the
intellectuals increasingly complain that
the top jobs in the Army and civil
service are in the hands of the main-
landers who continue to discriminate
unfairly against Formosans. In the case
of the Army there is obvious truth in
this complaint because the Army doubts
the Formosans’ willingness to die for
the sake of liberating the mainland
(after all Formosa is their home, not the
mainland) and as a precaution nearly all
the positions above the rank of captain
are reserved for mainlanders. In the case
of the civil service this is becoming a
serious and justified grievance and unless
something is done about it the National-
ists will be building real trouble for
themselves in the near future.
This has only recently become a
problem. It is a product of the success
of the education programme: formerly
the social and educational gulf between
the sophisticated mainlanders and the
backward Formosans made it impossible
for the Formosans to get the top jobs in
the Civil Service. Two other factors
are: the increasing intermarriage be-
tween mainlanders and Formosans in-
evitable in any case as mainlanders were
predominantly male; and the success of
the China-oriented school system, with
Mandarin as the national language. Like
the mainlanders the Japanese were
greeted, when they arrived in Formosa
in 1895, with an uprising and the For-
mosans declared themselves the first
republic in Asia; but 50 years later they
were pro-Japanese. There is no reason
to doubt the Chinese will be less
successful in assimilating the Formosans,
especially since the Formosans are
southern Chinese in origin.
There is also no doubt that if a UN-
supervised referendum had been held
in the late 1940 s the Formosans would
have voted either for independence or
to return to Japan. But if such a refer-
endum were held today they would
probably vote to keep the Nationalist
regime.
Liberation?
Vf/HAT are the chances of returning t(
the mainland as liberators? This is
like asking someone what is going tc
happen to the whole world in the next
few years. For the Nationalists so mud
depends on what happens in China
Their main hopes are for a massive
peasant uprising, which they would,
return to support though there is no
sign of one yet; for a split in the Red
Army though the victories in India
have probably consolidated the Red
Army; for a large scale war in Vietnam
or India when the Americans in one
case and the Indians in the other would
welcome an invasion of the mainland
by the Nationalists but America is
determined to avoid full military com-
mitment on the Asian mainland and in
India the Chinese stopped in time,
(One curiosity here is that Nationalists
support the Red Chinese claim to the
Indian territory. While I was in Taipeh
they held an exhibition of document.'
and British maps showing the disputed
region as Chinese; they then sent thi
exhibition on a tour of Asia.)
But if it is hard to see an immediate
opening for them; it is also impossible
to imagine the present Communis!
regime surviving long after another bad
harvest, particularly in a country like
China with a revolutionary tradition
This is their best hope, but even this
does not guarantee Nationalist success
In a crisis Mao could be replaced by i
Chinese Gomulka or Tito who woule
liberalise the regime while remaining
Communist, or a hitherto unheard of
anti - Communist revolutionary coult
emerge from the masses, as numeroif
leaders often have done in Chines
history, who would not want allianci
with the Nationalists.
One thing, however, is certain, th
Nationalists will not be able to mafc
any invasion unless the Americans deen
the chances of success great both frofl
the point of view of Chinese Communis


PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY NOW...
FIRES DON’T WAIT!
With EPEX Mobile Fire Fighting Equipment any member of your family can be fighting a
fire on your property within minutes of its detection. EPEX units are equipped with a high
output centrifugal pump, reliable motor, suction hose and hose reel, for effective fire
fighting with simple operation.
n
m
I
mm
The EPEX 150 gallon Port-
able Fire Unit can be
trailer mounted as illus-
trated, or dropped into the
tray of a medium truck.
£jp£K
150 GALLON
PORTABLE FIRE UNIT
Tank. 150 gallon, mild steel construc-
tion, treated on all inside surfaces
against rust.
Engine. 3J H.P. Petrol Engine direct
connected to pump.
Pump, l'i" Self-priming centrifugal
pump, capacity 60 g.p.m. free flow.
Max. pressure 45 p.s.i. at nozzle.
Hose Reel. One hand rewind hose reel
fitted with 100' x 1" hose and spray
nozzle.
Suction Hose. 15' x 2" suction hose,
complete with strainer.
Trailer Chassis. Mild steel construction
fitted with 6.700 x 15" pneumatic
tyres.
Weight. Approx 20 cwt. full, 7 cwt.
empty.
Note: Unit can be supplied fitted with
wooden skids in lieu of trailer chassis
if desired.
Write for information about the illus-
trated unit or the following as separate
units: Trailer, Tank, Hose Reel, and
Pumping Equipment.
Designed and Manufactured by
ENGINEERING PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
418-428 Burnley Street, Burnley, E. I. Victoria, Australia. 42 1721 (Six lines)
3859
collapse and mainland pro-Nationalist
feeling. The Americans not only con-
trol the Formosa Strait but also control
all supplies to the 600,000 strong
Nationalist Army and its 400 jets.
Sometimes, in private conversation,
Nationalists talk bluffly of toppling the
Communists when they decide the right
moment has come, and to hell with the
Americans. But they know they are
talking nonsense. There will be no large-
scale, wild-cat invasions, and if the
Americans never deem the circum-
stances propitious, there never will be
an invasion.
While still on the guessing game this
last consideration leads to one other
popular guess that when Chiang Kai-
shek dies, the next leader will do a
Khrushchev, denounce the old Stalin
and make a deal with the Communists.
This guess assumes increasing dis-
illusionment, anti - Americanism and
naivete since they would have to be
impossibly simple to return to Mao’s
China and assume they would remain
free or alive for long. It is only worth
mentioning it for the record and to
add that when you discuss this theory
with Nationalists in Formosa (including
private citizens who are completely
sceptical about the Government’s hopes)
they say in a simple, persuasive way:
“The deal theory is leaked out of Red
China through Hong Kong. We either
defeat the Communists or die here.”
Meanwhile they can only push on
the internal collapse of the Communist
regime by propaganda and the com-
mando raids and hope it will be soon.
On Quemoy, when I was there at lunch
time, at a spot where you see the main-
land a thousand yards or so away, the
Red Army psychological warfare outfit
was playing Peking opera over a loud-
speaker to the Nationalists and the
Nationalists were playing another Peking
opera back at the Communists over
their loudspeaker, each drowning the
other out while each waited for the
other to stop so they could both have
lunch. At moments like these, after
years of disappointment, the war seems
tedious, particularly to the native For-
mosan who has no desire to “go back”
to the mainland.
But next day there will be more Red
Army bombs on Quemoy, another
Nationalist raid on the mainland, some
more refugees arriving in Formosa —■
some other blow in a struggle that will
not end until one destroys the other.
There is little Australia can do to help
Formosa, but in my own opinion at least
it can ignore the counsels of Sir Douglas
Copland, help its economy by importing
more from them (they buy seven times
as much from us as we from them),
bring Formosan students here to
study, and above all give them the
prestige of having Australian diplomatic
officers in Taipeh.


OUT AND ABOUT
SIMENON TALKS
Four or five books a year tour plain and one Maigret.
When he is in London Georges
Simenon—who has been going
there recently in connection with
the highly successful BBC television
Maigret series is usually to be found
at the Savoy, in one of those huge rooms
with a view of the river He turns out
to be small, round-shouldered. At 59. he
is balder than his picture ir. the current
Penguins. Smokes a pipe, but otherwise
is not a bit like Maigret. Wears orange-
colored trousers, no jacket. Genuinely
friendly.
Wife is there at the start, plainly
patrolling the perimeter round Simenon’s
privacy. But charming at least to
someone with a pass. Seemed actually
a bit upset about possibly having hurt
the feelings of a freelance who had
asked for, but not really justified, an
interview. She is slender, elesant. has
shiny black hair with a tight bun on top.
c , , tl ~ .
She bustles, rather; wanted to make sure
, ... , ,
the ventilation was exactly right for her
husband before the talking began. She
calls him Jo (pron. Zho).
The master of interrogation (see Mai-
gret series) is skilful about being inter-
viewed. Quickly takes charge. Speaks
rapidly, in ordinary French-type English,
Questions scarcely needed,
I wrote my first novel in Liege at 16.
[Simenon was born in Liege, February
13 , 1903. Father an insurance clerk;
mother took in lodgers. Georges began
work as reporter on local paper.]
Having done so, I thought it was neces-
sary jj ve j n p ans You have to make
your first vears of writing in PariSj to
j-, e a p renc h writer
So at nineteen and a half I am free,
and one of my friends who was spending
part of his time in Paris and part in
Liege told me a writer called Binet
Valmer then quite famous but now
completely forgotten—was looking for
a secretary.
®ut v h en I got to Paris I found he
was ver y much mixed U P in P olitics > a
completely right-wing man and what I
did not know was that he did not need
. c , . A . . , £
a secretary for himself, but a kind of
_ how shall j say? .. . a bellboy
almost, for the political league of which
be was president. My job was to put
stamps on envelopes, to go to the Post
Office 10 times a day and to take letters
by hand to Poincare, Briand . . . those
people. I put up with this for six months,
but then I found that one of the men
who had put money in the league needed
a secretary.
This was Le Marquis de Tracy, a
famous man, named five or six times in
the Dictionary, familiar with many il-
lustrious men. He was the owner of five
or six castles in France and of big
properties in Italy and Tunisia. So it was
very interesting to be with him and I
was truly his secretary. I travelled with
him from one chateau to another, I pre-
pared the tickets for the hunting, little
papers for everybody.
For me it was a very good experience.
He was the owner of a newspaper, Le
Courier du Centre, published in Nevers,
for which I wrote some articles. Then
I started writing, while I was there, be-
cause my job was not after all 24 hours
a day.
I wrote all kinds of popular novels, to
learn my trade. I think it was a good
idea. 1 wrote about 250 popular novels
—novels for children, novels for boys—
“ The Pirate of the Pacific,” that kind of
book —novels for girls and sentimental
novels for the concierge, as we say in
Paris. I wrote under 16 pen-names.
After all, you cannot write adventure
books for boys and sentimental dramas
for young ladies under the same name.
Sometimes the publisher would bring out
four books in a month and three of them
would be mine.
I was not ashamed of them. It was a
way of earning my money and of get-
ting to know how you make a book, how
you sustain the interest of the reader,
how you put a dialogue between two
pieces of description ... it is a lot of
study.
I have copies of all of them. But no. I
would not want them in my collected
works. [Simenon admits to having written
about 180 novels, including more than
60 in the Maigrel series, but obvicush
excluding the early “popular” novels. J 1
did not try with them. Some time in one
book I will put one page or two where
I will try to do something better, with
care, so that the publisher did not see.
It was very profitable, writing these
popular novels. 1 used to write one of
these books in three days. To write so,
soon you are very rich, 1 had my car,
my yacht, I even had my chauffeur.
I married at 20.
I began to feel I knew enough about
this kind of life with the Marquis, this
life of the aristocracy. And he was not
enough in Paris for my taste. When 1
started, he said he would spend most of
the year in Paris and just two or three
months at the chateaux, but it was :he
other way round. So I took a flat in
Paris and I continued from 20 until the


m
i
r
&
'V : >
PCVK
C HAm WACi
■if :. : . % -
If she says "gorgeous", “delightful", "heavenly”,
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynil & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
Pink
for
girls
age of 26 doing all this kind of jobs and
then I have a feeling I was able to write
better novels. But not enough to write a
true novel, a plain novel, and that is why
I start with Maigret, because a detective
story is much easier, for many reasons.
If one chapter is bad, people will go
through the book anyway because they
like to know the end. And equally you
have a rope—the detective is a kind
of rope, so you follow him. And because
he is a detective he has the right to ask
questions of people, he has the right to
enter their houses.
So I decided to write a Maigret series,
one a month, which was my contract
with Fayards, the publishers, and it was
quite successful. But after 24 novels I
told the publishers: “Let's finish with
Maigret. I don't need any more rope, I
feel 1 can write just a plain novel.”
But he was mad. He said: “Look. You
are like Conan Doyle, he always wanted
to write a plain novel. But you will
always regret it. It has never happened
that a detective novelist can be success-
ful in another field. Certainly you will
come back crying.”
But I thought it was my duty and my
pleasure to write a plain novel. The first
one, if I remember well, was “La Maison
du Canal.” I think the English title was
“A Girl by the Canal.” 1 do not re-
member. The English always change
the title.
But then around 1939 I got so many
letters from people who asked for more
Maigret. They said: “Look. It isn't nice of
you to let this poor chap disappear.
Please give us one in a while.” So 1 said
“Why not?” My serious novels tire me
very much. So I decide, about once a
year I will write a Maigret for fun.
I do it after the holidays. Christmas.
New Years, when I do nothing but play
with the children. So to start again, I
start with Maigret. It makes my fingers
familiar with the typewriter again to
start with something light, to start in a
more optimistic way.
Now I write four or five books a year
■— four plain and one Maigret. Maigret
is a very easy subject now. Not that it is
ever easy for me. Even at 72 Maurice
Chevalier is still trembling, shaking, each
time he goes on. Each time I start a
novel, Maigret or not-Maigret, I am
almost sick by fear.
I always think the miracle will not
come again. For what is a novel? To try
to make life with nothing! People speak
about their shoes, their breakfast, their
business, and with all these poor words
you have to create life. It seems almost
impossible.
With me, to start a plain novel needs
one week of emptiness, to empty myself
of all the things I have in my mind, all
business, even the smallest troubles, about
the children, about everything. I will
play golf. I will go for long walks in the
country. My wife will ask me at this
time about everything she will have to
decide for me, for the family, during the
novel. [This is Simenon’s second wife,
Denyse Outmet, a Canadian. The first
marriage was dissolved in 1 950. Simenon
has three sons and a daughter, one of
the sons by the first wife. Denyse looks
after all business side with publishers and
film people in more than 30 countries .]
And then, after a few days, I start. It
is difficult to explain what happens. I
have to use romantic sentences.
Little by little, I have a feeling the
main character of the next novel is
coming, little bit by little. The two last
days 1 walk all the time and suddenly
I have my character. And when I
have my character 1 have at the same
time the original setting for him.
You know' in religion you say: “Se
mettre en etat de grace"? It is almost
the words you would use, it is about the
same thing.
Once I start, then I finish the novel
quickly. [ln his prime Simenon once did
a novel in 25 hours.] Sometimes it hap-
pens . . . not often, but once every two
years ... if I am tired or if at the last
minute I catch a cold ... or sometimes
I have the feeling that the character can
give me a good novel and then after two
or three pages of writing I do not feel
the character any more, he seems to
have evaporated . . . and then I have to
tear it up and one month later 1 have to
start again. It is very painful. I hate it.
Each time it happens 1 am naked for
one month. I think 1 have written my
last novel, I am finished.
Little By Little
npo start a plain novel I must walk in the
country. I do not think. Most of the
time I smell. I can go near a tree and
a particular smell will come in my
memory. The same smell . . . oh, yes
... it was 20 years ago ... in such
a place ... I was alone. Little by little I
remember this country and I remember
somebody I met there and the story of
this man. Very often a story will come
from a smell. It comes from a smell
more often than from any other source.
I have a sure, hard memory for smells.
Even with smoking all the time.
Then every day I start writing at six in
the morning and I finish around 9.30 in
the morning. I take my bath. I go to
walk for about two hours. After lunch,
I go to bed for one hour and then, if
it is a hard novel, I will walk for one
more hour and at 4 or 4.30 I will start
writing into the next chapter. This after-
noon-writing I started about 12 years
ago and only for the hard novel. Then
dinner. And then perhaps the television.
At 10 flat, I go to bed. In the morning
at six, I start again.
I begin by putting on the typewriter
anything I wrote the day before by hand.
There is a reason for it. When I write
by hand I am tempted to make litera-
ture, to try for nice sentences, to look
for the beautiful adjective, and I hate it.
I try to have a very naked style. When
I revise on the typewriter, all these work-
ings go out. 1 believe more in rhythm
that in beautiful literature and the type-
writer can get it.
When 1 started writing seriously, I
stopped all my reading. I speak about
fiction. I still read memoirs, correspon-
dence, historicals, critics, a lot of medical
books and journals, not for my novels
but because of the fun. I do not read
anything professionally. I do not believe
that any reading is good for a writer,
since what you read is life already di-
gested. I have to take raw life.
How do 1 get it? I live. Like every-
body. But I am never conscious that
something will be of use in my novels.
I w'ill never say: “That is a plot which
will come in one of my novels.” If I


meet anyone, I never say: “This will be
one of my characters.” People I meet
become my characters, but never before
10 years, and always changed.
I mix in the community, by having
my children at the schools and by going
to the parent-teacher meetings, by having
to pay my income tax, by going to the
Post Office, by going to the pub for a
drink, by talking to people. I do not shut
myself away, like J. D. Salinger. I think
Salinger is living on his first 15 years.
It is not my case.
When I finish a novel I have three
days or one week of immense enjoyment.
I am very happy. I am free. 0.K., that’s
one more. I am the most happy man
in life and then 1 have to rejoice. My
wife and I go to have some dinner in
town. We make a small celebration of it.
Or we take a plane for two or three
days for Venice or Florence, away from
the parents’ life. We live always with
the children, so we need some time to
be both of us together.
After one week I have to revise, and
I hate revising because it is a dull job
- one word for another and cut . . .
cut . . . cut and then I have the
feeling that my novel is bad. When the
revising is finished I will never see the
novel again. 1 never read proofs. [Denyse
also does all the proof-reading.] I start
playing golf, spending time with my
children, my wife . . .
After three, four, five weeks I have a
feeling. 1 am not happy with myself. I
am bored and of bad temper. 1 do not
enjoy golf any more. I know this means
I have to go into the skin of somebody
else again.
Theory on the Novel
Y/'ery often my wife knows it before I do
’ because she sees I am not the same
man. Generally, in my private life, I am
gay. [ Denyse says: “He writes everything
disagreeable out of himself into his
books.] I play a lot with the children.
But after one month, sometimes two
months, I look like a neurotic. And I
think I am, and it is because I am that
1 have to write novels.
This is almost a regular cycle. The
maximum time I can be happy with
myself is two months. After two months
it gets worse.
I have a theory about the novel. We
do not write novels as they did in Dick-
ens’s time. For many reasons. First,
there is photography. We do not have
to describe any more. Everybody has
seen the Eiffel Tower. There are many
problems we do not have to explain any
more. What Balzac had to explain we
do not have to. Sicknesses. Now in every
newspaper there are articles telling you
what cancer is and everything.
It is the same with almost everything.
We do not have any more to write long
novels. A novel ought to be read in one
sitting. You would not go one day to
see the first act of “Hamlet” and one
week later the second. It is the same
with the novel. This is why I choose to
write short novels.
But then the problem is to give a
maximum of destiny in a novel of 240
pages. What I do is to put my characters
in such a situation that they have to go
to the end of themselves. Of course,
everyone is a character for tragedy. If
it does not happen to show itself, this is
because we are lucky or timid or shy or
too honest. You had the proof of it in
the war. How many good family men
went to the war and then one day . . .
oh, gosh! My English! I lose all my
English . . .
[At this point, Simenon darted out of
the room, calling for his wife, spoke to
her in the corridor, came back and went
straight on.]
. . . raped a little girl? It happens
thousands of times in a war, with the
most honest people. And you see how
many of these war heroes never went
back to a plain life when the war was
over.
During this time, during the novel and
before it starts, it is very disagreeable
for me and for my family and for our
staff. The maid says to my wife: “Is this
novel to be long for Monsieur is so dis-
agreeable now?” Sometimes my children
ask: “Are you sick?”, because 1 am
walking like an old man. And this is
because I am for the time being some-
one who is 82. Even I take some pills
at this time, because I am an old man
who is feeling sick. I really feel sick.
[Simenon normally drinks little, hut once
when his chief character was a drunk
Simenon himself drank quite heavily
“during the novel.’’] No doubt what I
tell you sounds very romantic. But it
is the truth.
I am a Belgian, but I do not care at
all about nationality. [Simenon spent most
of his early years in Paris. During the
Occupation he lived in the Vendee —and
for two years did no writing at all. After
the war he settled in the United States
but now his home is in Switzerland.] I
have no spiritual home. I have lived
in America, but my home is in Switzer-
land, four miles from Lausanne. It is
an old chateau, from the beginning of
the seventeenth century.
But I will move next year. I am
building a house for the first time of my
life. It is just near the golf course of
Lausanne, 800 metres above sea level,
that is 2400 ft. It is very cold and dry
and sunny. We are working with the
architects. I do not care so much about
its style, but about a house where every-
one has complete freedom and can
enjoy himself without disturbing the
others.
I am not at all an amateur. I am
amateur in nothing. I would not paint or
play music or collect stamps or anything.
I am bad at everything amateur. To be
good you have to specialise, to be
professional. They have asked me to
translate my novels into plays, but I
used more than 40 years to learn my
profession and I do not have time to
learn another.
There are two subjects I never, never
discuss, nor in my books, nor in life,
nor with my best friend, not even with
my wife. Religion and politics. My
father used to tell me these were the two
things a man had for himself. I never
knew what party my father voted for
and I never asked him. These problems
are thoroughly personal. To express one's :
opinion is to be aggressive against the
opinions of others.
“Yes’’ or “No”
Y/ery often people say: “So you are a
’ happy man?” It is very difficult to tell
people “Yes” or “No.” The truth is that
1 feel I am as happy as one can be, but
this is not very much. The top of happi-
ness is very low. It is not a question of
success or failure. I know some actors
who are probably more happy about
their success than 1 am about mine, be-
cause they have the feeling of being
successful, even though they are not.
I have not this feeling.
When I have written a novel 1 am
disgusted with it for a month, sometimes
for years. Sometimes when 1 remember
such-and-such a novel, I have a kind of
tenderness for it. I do not read it again,
but I remember it and I think 1 am
happy to have written it. 1 remember, for
instance, “Three Rooms ; n Manhattan,’’
which 1 wrote after meeting my second
wife, and I have the feeling that there I
had a tenderness, a sense of the woman,
1 did not have before. But it is absolutely
personal. It is not because the book has
more or less value.
There are countries where my novels
are better understood than in others. For
instance, 1 think some English critics go
deeper in their criticism of my books
than many Frenchmen. I have had no
really hostile criticism, but some time
people have the idea I am more an
amuseur than somebody very profound.
Certainly I haven’t the feeling that I
come with something very strong, very
important. I have no sense of social
purpose.
I know nothing about the value of my
books. If you ask me what value I will
say one day: “None at all. They will die
with me.” But another day I might say:
“We will have to see.”


r
for my money
/# s 0...
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN 31% INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL RANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
GOOGIE IN A
DRESSING-GOWN
An urge to play Cleopatra
By CHARLES HICHAM
Outside the dressingrooms behind
Sydney’s Theatre Royal, I cooled
my heels in a drab ante-room with
a large oval mirror, cane-backed leather
ehairs, bare floorboards and cigarette
sandpits; a gaggle of slender youths were
singing, “off,” a number called “If only
you were here!” as rain swept the alley-
way outside. I had been waiting for
Googie Withers, who was to go on stage
half an hour or so later in Ted Willis’s
“Woman in a Dressing-Gown”: suddenly
she emerged from the alley, said briskly,
“I’ll just get into my dressing-gown and
I’ll see you in one second!” and then,
rather more than a second later, invited
me to enter her dressing-room.
Attractive, simple and forthright,
she isn't one of those stars who sport
outsize egos and like to deliver smart
capsule impressions of the people they’ve
worked with. Her parts in films —“Dead
of Night,” “Night and the City,” “The
Silver Fleet” have suggested a
sporting, sensible girl, and she seems
much more like this than the tormented
heroines she has played on stage in “The
Deep Blue Sea” and “Woman in a
Dressing-Gown.”
Born in India in 1917 of mixed Dutch
and English parentage, Googie Withers
studied with Italia Conti, began as a
chorus girl at the Victoria Palace, Lon-
don, and got her first break into films
through Michael Powell, who, I recalled,
had been anxious on his arrival in Syd-
ney to get to Melbourne next day to see
her open in Willis’s play. She had been
sitting on the set of a Powell film, “A
Girl in the Crowd,” when Powell told
the girl playing the second lead that he
didn't think she could handle it; seeing
Googie, he asked her to get up there and
then and play the scene through. She
did so successfully and he signed
her. “After that I played in several of
Michael’s films, and I think he got my
best screen performances out of me,”
she said.
Which, from her point of view, had
been her most rewarding screen role?
“The Dutch resistance woman in
Michael’s ‘One of Our Aircraft is Mis-
sing’,” she said. “I’m half Dutch and
spoke Dutch and German in the film: I
helped a British air crew in the story,
which was based on an actual happening.
That put me on the map I was named
best supporting actress by the New York
Critic’s Circle, and the picture was
named the best foreign film. So Michael
has really, you see, been my fairy god-
mother.”
She also was full of praise for Jules
Dassin (“a wonderful director, a most
fascinating man”) and Alexander Korda,
among others she had worked with, but,
on the whole, she was happier about her
stage career.
She turned round, warming to her
subject “And then, of course, there’s
TV. I don’t like acting on TV at all! Of
course, it’s a wonderful medium, I’ve no-
thing against it, but it's terrifying to do
you just go on and act and then it’s
over! gone forever, and you’ve no-
thing, nothing at all, to show for it!
Actors dwindle away, there’s a feeling of
nothing! People say you were fine or
they don’t, but how can you know?”
Films, then, hadn’t really given her a
great deal of scope, and TV for her was
a dead loss. What did she value of her
stage work?
She remembered, she said, Rattigan’s
“The Deep Blue Sea” with special pleas-
ure, her Beatrice in “Much Ado” at
Stratford had been a great opportunity,
and now there was “Woman in a Dres-
sing-Gown.” I mentioned that her parts
in the Rattigan play and now in Ted
Willis’s play had certain striking simila-
rities: both women were tormented, un-
happy, hag-ridden by domestic difficul-
ties.
She nodded. “Yes, although, of course,
they came from quite different social
backgrounds.” She had, she said, known
women like those she played, and people
often came to her with their problems,
so that when she had read the plays, she
had felt their truthfulness and responded
to them sympathetically.
“But I put the parts behind me when
I leave the theatre,” she said. “Oh, ab-
solutely!” And did she prefer doing
drama to comedy? “Quite definitely.
Actors are like children, and they need
praise, and of course a dramatic role
always wins praise if it’s good, whereas
in comedy though it needs tremen-
dous skill, and is very exhausting
people just say ‘Oh that was a nice little
comedy,’ and leave it at that.”
Talking to Googie Withers about the
future, one got the impression that for
her, at 45, the big parts in Shakespeare
are now within her range; that maturity
has brought with it a need to play in
great drama, to display her talents more
broadly than she could in Terence Ratti-
gan or Ted Willis. She has a great urge
to play Shakespeare’s Cleopatra, com-
menting on the fact that it has defeated
every actress of her generation who has
tried it, including Peggy Ashcroft and
Vivien Leigh. But, she added, if she
failed at least she’d go down defeated in
very good company, with all flags flying.
Stratford, the permanent Shakespea-
rean company she would soon be joining,
was obviously her dream, and this might
mean moving out of Australia, at least
for a while. “I love it here, the life, the
climate, and it’s marvellous for child-
ren,” she said. “But the one thing I
regret is ihat there is not a huge public
here for Shakespeare, that you haven’t
got the great appreciative audience you
have in London or New York.”
But she intended to have her base
here, Australia was her home, and she
would always come back between plays
and to do seasons of plays she liked. In
spite of the extra travelling, in spite of
her need to be part of the Stratford
company, her heart is very much here.
And after talking with this very straight-
forward, sunny, unpretentious woman
who is also a great actress, one knew
why the feeling was reciprocated.


"It's the way they draw these wretched tables"


FORUM
AN AUTHORS'
TRADE UNION?
For defence against publishers, plagiarists and demands for free lectures
By M. H. ELLIS
HThe development of book-publishing in Australia has reached a stage when
professional Australian writers of books seem to need some sort of protective
association operating a community code of ethics and business procedures.
The freelance journalist today has little to complain of. If he is any good, there
is keen competition for his services. Rates have gone up, the market is excellent.
Most papers pay at living standards. But among the writers of books even the
famous must struggle to make a crust, much less achieve the standard of living which
is normal to regular journalists.
A very few, most of them with over-
seas connections, are opulent. But the
average man who enters on the writing
and publishing of books in Australia,
whether on a whole or a part-time basis,
propels himself into a world of inter-
mittent income and long deferred pay-
ment of his earnings. He is fair game
for rat-race publishers unless he is that
exceptional being, an author who is a
good businessman.
The basic arrangement in most pub-
lishing agreements is that the publishing
firm agrees to print and sell the book
under a licence to make use of the copy-
right. The book is to be published in a
reasonable time, which in the case of a
large work may run to as long as two
years ahead. Remuneration is usually on
the basis of a 10 per cent royalty on the
retail price, for the first 5000 copies,
rising by 24 per cent on every succeed-
ing 5000. Included in the remuneration
is payment for proof reading, time taken
up in conferences and numerous other
matters which a professional accoun-
tant or lawyer would put down in his
work diary and charge for as a separate
item.
All the costs of preparation, research,
travel and anything else including typing
incidental to the preparation of the book
in manuscript are the author’s affair.
And if he finds during the long interval
between acceptance and publication that
new research or a bright idea has given
him cause to make more than routine
corrections or alterations to the proofs,
the publisher is, under his standard con-
tract, entitled to charge him for making
them.
Do not think for a moment that an
author gets real money of his own the
moment a book is published. He may
get advances against royalties at some
stage; perhaps on acceptance, or perhaps
on publication. They are advances only
and legally refundable if the book does
not sell or the publisher finds good and
sufficient reason not to publish it.
His first real payments are likely to
turn up about a year after the book ap-
pears in the sales lists and the writer
is lucky it it is a payment at all and
not merely a debit against the small
royalty advance he has received already.
Larger and more generous publishing
firms pay royalties half-yearly against
accounts made up three months astern.
Thus if a book goes on sale on July 1,
the author the following March, nine
months later, will receive his first roy-
alties (or credit notes on advances) for
sales up to December 31.
Thereafter, he will receive what is
coming to him every six months that
is until the edition runs out. Australian
publishers rarely turn out an edition of
more than 5000 and mostly it is about
3000 to begin with. In most cases when
that edition is exhausted there is a long
pause before they reprint, or bind exist-
ing sheets.
Under the standard agreements in
vogue, publishers take to themselves the
sole right to sell syndicate, film, dramatic
and other rights. If they take this
seriously and really try to make these
sales, well and good. But most of even
the largest of them have no equipment
or qualification lor this kind of selling or
even a basic knowledge of how to go
about it. I have known cases where
they have received offers for serial
rights and haven't even known what
serial rights they were selling local,
Australia-wide, daily papers, monthlies,
overseas and so on.
I do not blame publishers for the
existing conditions. They are business
people making the very best bargain they
can, though judging by the balance
sheets of some of them it is a very good
bargain indeed when they ally book pub-
lishing with book selling. As one with
long experience of printing and printing
costs I do not believe the fable that the
average publisher of Australian books
is a philanthropist who makes a loss
through his patriotic devotion to Aus-
tralian literature and who survives only
by hypothecating to his dedicated pur-
poses some of the profits of selling
overseas volumes.
Essentially the existing system and
type of contract and conditions exist be-
cause the book-writer lets them go un-
challenged and allows the publishers to
fix all the conditions. And let it be said
that the standard contracts of large firms
are more generous than those obtainable
from smaller adventurous publishers who
have been told by their reading of fiction
that authors are bohemians who crave
nothing more than a garret and some
beer.
Example from one’s own experience
is the best explainer of what can happen
to an author who does not know his way
about. 1 have learnt by experience.
I had one publisher who printed 2000
copies of a book of 260,000 words, plus
notes and index, for me. The edition
sold out in a few weeks. Ele then an-
nounced that he would print no more
unless I waived the clause in my contract
which compelled him to pay me royal-
ties. He said he couldn’t afford to pay
them I, incidentally, had performed
all the functions of a publisher for him
up to the point of sale, since it turned
out that he had no normal publishing
editorial staff. He paid up, but then he
held the book in pawn for two years,
refusing to let me offer it to anybody
else or to sell me the type. Other pub-
lishers were held off. It took me five
years to get the book into print again.
It is still selling steadily 12 years later.
A couple of years ago one of the most
famous UK university publishing firms
which has an organisation in Aus-
tralia asked me to write three
8000-word brochure biographies for
educational circulation. It wished to
have these writen on a royalty basis, but
could give me no guarantee of what
sales it expected to make four or five
thousand copies at 4s. 6d., its agent
thought.
In order to produce these 8000-word-
booklets I was instructed first of all to
supply a detailed synopsis of what I
proposed to put into them, after which
I was to submit a preliminary 1500
words for approval, since (it appeared
from the publisher's letter) “ a discussion
at this stage usually makes the rest of
the work easier, saves a great deal of the
author’s (and our editor’s) time.” Pre-
sumably, if the firm did not approve the
synopsis or the preliminary 1500 words
that was my funeral. But having received
their approval, I would be free to pro-
ceed and supply them with two clean
typed copies of the complete manu-


script written in exactly the firm’s style,
plus “as many photographs as possible
from which eight or ten or so half-tone
plates can be chosen”. These I was to
supply free of charge. And then, upon
having the complete manuscript, provid-
ing that its form was approved re-
member it was their order, not a sub-
mission unsolicited by me I was at
liberty to sign their contract and receive
an advance against royalties of £25.
A masterpiece contract
rilHis contract (printed) was a master-
A piece. Under its provisions the firm
agreed to pay me (a) 10 per cent royalty
on retail price of copies printed and sold
in Australia; (b) 5 per cent on copies
printed in the United Kingdom and sold
abroad there was nothing in the
agreement to assure that they couldn’t
print the lot there; (c) if any pictures,
maps or diagrams needed redrawing I
was to have this done at my own ex-
pense; (d) if I needed to use any copy-
right material belonging to others in the
work I was to pay for it; (e) I was to
correct all proofs, apart from printers’
errors, at my own expense and I was to
compile or pay for compiling an index;
(f) the publisher required a 33 per cent
commission for selling translation rights;
(g) he had the right to give away
copies world-wide and free without pay-
ing me royalty I was to receive the
usual six copies; (h) after receiving the
£25 advance I was to await the pub-
lisher's pleasure as to when the works
would appear I was told it would be
six months to a year, but there was no
guarantee.
On the March 31 following publica-
tion accounts would be made up for me
I was to have no say in fixing the
retail price. These royalty accounts
would then be paid to me not later than
September 31 following as far as my
£25 advance was exceeded.
Thus, if I delivered the manuscript in
October 1962 and the publisher decided
to accept it in December, I could at once
expect to receive £25, as a loan against
earnings.
Then, in June 1963 at earliest, the
work would be published. In March
1964 the accounts would be made up for
the previous nine months and in Septem-
ber 1964, nearly two years after the
work was written and 15 months after
it was published, I would receive my first
nine months’ royalties, if any were due.
I would then get no more for a further
year and so on. In the end, if the
publisher’s estimate of sales was realised,
I would, in all, receive for each booklet
about £9O to pay for writing, typing
expenses, cost of acquiring and preparing
drawings and photographs and copy-
right material, proof reading and other
chores.
The publisher apparently felt some
slight qualms in the matter for the
manager wrote to me that “the amount
of writing involved is not great, only
some 8000 words or so, and since, as I
say, all the information will be in your
mind already it should not present too
great a task.” The fact that to get “all
the information into my mind” and the
ability to write it in acceptable form had
cost me thousands of pounds in time and
money was not a consideration. The
publisher was not willing to pay for
specialised knowledge or experience or
for the use of a well known name.
This, however, was not all that was
set out in the agreement I was asked to
sign. During its continuance which
was for ever so long as the publisher
cared to run off a dozen copies every
little while I was to be completely
denied the right to “prepare or edit for
any other publisher” any work which
was “an expansion or abridgment or
revision of the work or any part of it or
publish or cause to be published any
work on the same subject or about the
same price, the sale of which may be
reasonably regarded as conflicting or
likely to conflict with the sale of the
Work.” As I was the author of the
standard works on Macquarie, Green-
way and Macarthur. the three subjects
involved, this would certainly have tied
my hands. It would for instance have
inhibited my right to publish cheap edi-
tions of my books and it would have run
right across my existing contracts. It
might well have interfered with my right
to write articles on the subjects involved.
I was to revise and edit the work from
time to time on six weeks’ notice and
within six months; to bring it up to date
for new editions (on which I would
receive no advance royalties). If I could
not respond to the call through being
“dead or disqualified by mental or bodily
infirmity or any other cause”, the pub-
lisher took the right under the agree-
ment to have the work done by some-
body else at the expense of my executor
(or keeper) and at the same time had the
right henceforth to leave my name off
the title page and put somebody else’s
there - mark that my legatees would
be the owners of the copyright and the
effect of this clause apparently would
have robbed them of their ownership if I
consented to it.
I was further to indemnify the pub-
lisher against all proceedings and
“expenses whatsoever” in consequence
of the presence in the work of “pirated,
libellous, seditious, scandalous, obscene
or other unlawful matter” this despite
the fact that the publisher in the be-
ginning had obviously gone to great
lengths to approve the work before
accepting it and had the right to edit it
in detail. And this provision was
followed by another which deprived me
of ordinary legal recourse in case of dis-
pute with the publisher by setting out
that any differences should be settled by
a single arbitrator in terms of the Vic-
torian Arbitration Act of 1958. The
agreement had its domicile in Victoria,
where I do not live, but most authors
would not realise the various aspects of
this condition.
The sum total of all this was that the
publisher was to get for book-form
publication three 8000-word biographies
bearing the name of the leading autho-
rity on the subject for an advance on
each of £25 against royalties returnable
if no copies were sold, while the author
was to gamble on the chance of getting
£9O for each of his pieces of careful and
detailed work payable to him in instal-
ments over any number of years. The
rate was about the same as a journalist
could receive for a piece of monthly
magazine journalism which he could
write in a week or two without effort
and be paid for on the spot.
By contrast, about the time I received
the above agreement for signature—and
raised the publisher’s ire by not signing
it—l was asked to write a pamphlet
centenary history of a commercial firm.
It was costed on a time basis as an
ordinary commercial accountant or
professional would cost it.
An instructive experience
HThe firm provided all photographs,
**■ gave me the service of a skilled
artist, expected to pay for transport costs
to libraries, time taken up in conferences,
etc., the office expenses of production
and the other business charges incidental
to a normal venture by a professional
man paid by fees. The job was straight-
forward. The experience was instructive.
The firm agreed at once that £2/ 10s.
per hour on all phases of the work
would be very reasonable remuneration
as it would be for a journalist of national
reputation. It paid my account the day
it was rendered and the firm did not ask
for any five-year instalment plan. The
work involved was not much more than
that involved in one of the booklets I
had been asked to write for the English
publisher and remember these latter
were academic works for use in high
schools and therefore needed to be
treated with great care as to accurate
detail. My return from the commercial
commision was about ten times per
word more than I would have earned
from the British publisher’s ventures, yet
was only in line with my normal jour-
nalist earnings, especially taking into
account that it was a spare-time job
mostly written around midnight or at
week-ends.
However, publishers’ agreements are
only one alley in which the book


THE UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED
Established 1862
Head Office:
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS
SYDNEY
DIRECTORS.
J. W. Dunlop (Chairman), Sir Edward R.
Knox (Deputy-Chairman), R. J. Vicars
A. Murray Jones, Hugh Dixson D. A. T.
Dickins, K. B. Myers, A. E. Stephen
Fire, Marine and Accident insurances
of every description.
J. O. LEWIS, General Manager.
writing author in Australia needs a little
specialist protection. Discussion of con-
tracts only touches the fringes of the art
of living off authors. There is, for in-
stance, the wholesale plagiarism, deliber-
ate or innocent. Dozens of Australian
article writers make Homer look like an
amateur when they are bent on “going
and taking” for their own purposes. I
have known one grace a daily paper
Saturday supplement with paragraph
after paragraph taken almost bodily out
of my work and then express amazement
that it was not legal for him to make use
of everything on the shelves of the
Mitchell Library without acknowledg-
ment of the author.
I have had a lady journalist write to
me within the past two or three weeks
one I had never heard of telling me
that she has been engaged by an over-
seas firm to write historical work.
“Of course,” she says (in effect),
“there is no other source from which to
draw my material except your book I
have not the time to do original work.
And, of course, I am therefore making
full use of the material in your book to
write my book, but perhaps you can tell
me of a few others that I can canni-
balise.” (No stamps enclosed.)
Free Lectures
Another phase which is unique in
Australia, but not remarkable per-
haps, seeing the state of its development
as an author-country, is the fact that so
soon as an author becomes known it is
taken for granted that he is at every-
body’s call free gratis and for nothing as a
lecturer or instructor or research worker.
In the United States and Europe,
lecturing is a lucrative field for writers.
In Australia, it certainly is not. I certain-
ly do not begrudge the time needed to
construct a 40-minute lecture, which is
equivalent to writing an article of five
to six thousand words, for some special
or memorial occasion, or to prepare a
university seminar. But I like to feel it
is worthwhile.
The kind of thing that is apt to
happen to one is shown by an experience
which I had with one of the stateliest of
imperial bodies in the British Common-
wealth which asked me to deliver what it
termed the Phillip Memorial Oration. I
obliged and a distinguished and titled
citizen gave up his evening to preside.
I went to great pains to prepare some-
thing worthy of the occasion, about 5000
carefully written and rehearsed words.
There were 11 people present, including
four whom I had invited. The secretary
of the august body had forgotten to
send out notices of the event to his more
than 2000 members.
Small societies in the suburbs feel that
ff is just that any writer should pay for
the privilege of being in print between
covers by giving everybody who asks a
free hour’s talk expenses only some-
times paid.
I have even been invited and by
rich institutions • to travel interstate at
my own expense to lecture. There is
nothing in this for the author beyond
the product of flattery and even that
disappears sometimes when your chair-
man tells you how much he enjoyed
your last book about Governor Gipps
and you have to tell him that you never
wrote one about him. He is usually
unabashed.
There is no doubt but that Australian
book-authors need an equity code deal-
ing with these and other matters and
some protective organs to operate and
police it. These exist in other countries,
but the trade of authorship here is still
in embryo and naked to the exploiter and
his wiles. Publishers are a law unto
themselves because an author is nor-
mally not a businessman. In other
countries he has his literary and drama-
tic agents whose 15 per cent commission
earns itself over and over again if they
are any good. The agent knows the law.
He knows values. He knows publishers.
He can be adviser, philosopher and
friend and advertising agent, even the
provider of an overdraft to his author
clients.
In this country you look in vain for
the name of a suitable agent in the pink
pages of the telephone book. There are
agents who make a lucrative living out
of selling the products of artists; there
are commission agents, turf agents, for-
warding agents, estate agents, divorce
inquiry, export, fruit, manufacturers’,
theatrical, medical, mining, stock and
station and even liquidating agents; but
not even one shipwrecked salesman
labelled "literary agent”, who will go
along and bargain with a publisher,
advise the author generally and see that
he gets value for his copyright and that
the tax commissioner gets as little value
for his share as possible. Usually an
author does not even know his tax-
deduction rights.
The agent is the primary answer to
the author's prayer, and to a certain
extent to the publisher’s also; for he can
be just as profitable to the publisher as
to the author through his functions as a
talent scout and eliminator of dross at
the source, not less than as a school-
master teaching authors the art of
proper and economic presentation of
manuscript.
However, there are matters in which
he can not protect. One is the provision
of a code which embodies a community
policy among writers on contracts, and
on free talks and articles and various
other matters of the kind; a body which
deals with plagiarism and which stands
behind writers in the event of their com-
mitting unwitting libel and which is able
to keep an eye perhaps on legislation
which affects the interests of writers.
Theatricals have bodies of this sort.
Musical composers are heavily protected
by such bodies as the Performing Rights
Association both here and world-wide.
Australian book-writers who are profes-
sionals are naked to the world of exploi-
tation.
In Australia there is no concern to do
the work of various authors’ associations
which exist elsewhere. There is for
instance, in London the Authors’ insur-
ance Association, a limited co-operative
company which insures authors, play-
wrights and composers against risks at-
tendant on authorship libel, infringe-
ment of copyright, failure of publishers
to fulfil contracts, risks on manuscripts,
etc. There is also the Society of Authors,
of which the president is (or was re-
cently) John Masefield. The secretary-
general, Denys Kiiham Roberts, is a
barrister-at-law, an outstanding expert
in literary law, and himself thoroughly
experienced as a widely published
author and BBC broadcaster. He is as-
sisted by a secretary who also is a mem-
ber of the Bar.
Australian authors might well have
some organisation of the sort, feeble as
they are as a community yet awhile.
They might form an accretion to the
British Society and have the benefit of
its experience. Or they might form their
own association. Somebody has suggested
that this should be linked with the much-
feared Performing Rights Association
which gives iron protection to compo-
sers and others of their kind and for-
wards their interests in other ways.
But whatever form organisation should
take, it should provide a code of ethics
and procedure to which the whole pro-
fession of book-writers could conform,
applying a common policy to contracts,
handout lectures, plagiarism and general
protection and such matters. At present,
the Australian book-author faces his
problems as a lonely individual sil-
houetted against the skyline for any-
body to pick off and pillage.


A SHORT STORY
THE
BITTER
AND
THE
SWEET
By M. E. UPWARD
There she was now, coming along
the bank of the creek with her
blessed plastic bucket. He couldn’t
see her face but from every line of her
he knew the mood she’d be in. Talking
to the chooks now! . . . not a bloody
word for him, though.
She came in the gate, passed the wash-
house door and he felt her eyes on his
back as he dried his neck. She went
inside and after a minute he followed.
She sat at the kitchen table, cheek on
hand, staring out the window.
“Got to go into town. Want to come?”
She shook her head.
“Thought you might like to come,
just for the trip. Don’t you want to go
and look at the shops, or something?”
She was silent.
“Isn’t there nothing you want?” His
harsh voice covered appeal.
She looked at him then and he tried
to look back. His eyes shifted.
“You went to town day before yester-
day and last Friday too. What d’you
want to be running in and out for all
the time?”
“Well, I got to get the part for the
mower. Besides. . . .”
“Besides what?”
“Jesus, you ought to know. There’s
that fellow I got to see about the tractor.”
She looked out the window and
shrugged.
“Well I got to do something about it
or they’ll take it back. 1 might go to the
RSL and see if they'll help.”
“And fight the battle of Burma all over
again, you mean.”
Sometimes he could hit her, cranky
devil. The bitches would like to strip a
man of every damn thing—couldn't bear
to think there was anything they hadn’t
a finger in themselves.
“Look,” he said. “I got to do some-
thing or they’ll take the tractor then I’ll
be well and truly sunk. I can’t work with
me bare hands, can I?”
“The way you’re going you’ll have to.”
“What d’you mean, the way I’m
going?” She didn't answer.
“What d’you mean?” he burst out.
“Is it my fault it don’t rain two years
running and I lose sheep? Is it my fault
it rains and 1 lose me hay? I can’t help
it if the bum falls out of the wool
market, can 1? Or I haven’t got the
money to pay the bank? Jesus Christ.”
He hovered, wanting to clear out but
also—now that she’d started talking,
wanting to have it out.
“Gee, Shirl,” he said, “come off it.
What’s eating you now?”
She bent and took some peaches from
her bucket and put them out on the table.
They looked lovely—great big Elbertas,
rosy red. To please her he took one
and bit into the side. A second later he
spat it into his hand.
“That filthy fly!”
“Forgot the spraying, didn’t you?”
He turned and walked from the room.
Pick, pick, pick. It was bad enough
when she wouldn’t talk and then, when
she did. . . . But something had to be
settled. He couldn’t go on like this. He
came back into the kitchen and sat down
on his side of the table.
“T/iere’s something here
. . . inside . . . it's eating
my heart air ay and it’s
turning me had
“Look Shirl, give us a go. A fellow
can’t think of everything. I’ve got a lot
of things on me mind. Listen, you’re fed
up. All right, 1 don’t blame you. Why
don’t you go and have a bit of a holiday?
Go and stay with your sister for a bit?”
She shook her head.
“Go on. Why don’t you go? Why don’t
you do that, eh? Change of scene, and all
that—it’ll do you good.”
She shook her head again.
“I’ve got nowhere to go.”
“You’ve got your sister Norma—you
and she’s mates—why don’t you go and
stay with her?”
“She don’t want me now.”
“Why not? How d’you know?”
She pressed one hand to her chest.
Her head drooped, her face was half-
hidden by tumbling hair. The wide lips
trembled but when she lifted her eyes
they flashed black fire.
“Nobody wants you when you're half
dead,” she said passionately.
She picked up a peach, broke it open
and grimaced.
“That’s me.” Her voice broke. “That's
me inside, rotten, and brown, and craw-
ling.” She put her head down and began
noisily to cry.
Ray Tilson sat there cursing the day
he was born. You couldn’t win. The
luck was against him. This bloody life
on the land! If he only knew anything
else to do! He’d turn his hand to anything
if he only knew how. Better off working
for wages—everyone said that. Let some-
one else have the worry. Being your own
boss was all crap. You had everything
against you—the rain, the drought, fires,
floods, kangaroos, rabbits, worms—every
blooming parasite that crawled or
hopped. You busted yourself and you
never caught up. Things broke down and
you hadn’t the money for more. He
spent more time patching up wornout
things than he did at anything else. A
fellow was mad to slave his guts out
trying to make a living off the land,
trying to satisfy women, trying. . . .
npHE only good time of his life—the
only time he now looked back on
with pleasure—was the time just after
the war. He got £7OO from the Govern-
ment and he blew the lot. He had a
hell of a time. Then his father died and
he got the farm. He thought he was
made. Wool was up and the bank lent
the money for probate. He got married
and settled down. But a fellow wasn’t a
block of wood. He needed a bit more
than just work and women. He had to


beat it up now and then with the boys.
His mind was back there with the boys:
the Burma Road, the boongs, the hunger,
the talks and the jokes, the lazy elephants
wet with sugar he craved, those yellow
buggers, the Sikhs, the Japs had used
to flog us along, and the little Gurkhas
who wouldn’t give in when they even cut
off their hands; and old Bluey Cox who
got the sword for pinching a packet of
fags. It was something to remember and
he’d remember it until his dying day.
The boy . . . that was the trouble.
That's why he had to go slow, give in
to her, coax her along a bit. She’ll get
over it, they said; got to give her time.
Well, I’ve got to get over it myself, she’s
not the only one. If you'd only fixed
the bridge when I wanted you to, she
screamed. Well I didn’t. I can't do every-
thing at once. The bridge was all right.
She could have some more kids if she’d
only. . . .
The thought stuck. No, never again.
She was a beaut girl once, he couldn’t
have asked better. But she was spoilt for
him and him for her. Rotten and crawl-
ing! What a thing to say!
He shoved back his chair and started
out of the room.
She addressed his back and her voice
was flat.
“There’s a dead ewe up behind the
orchard.”
He stopped. “Has it got a lamb?”
“I don’t know.”
He hesitated. His shepherd’s instinct
made him consider the problem. Go and
look? Have to knock it on the head. The
thought bored and exasperated him. No
good bringing it down she wouldn’t
want it. If it died she’d blame him for
that.
He went to the bedroom and changed
and a minute later she saw the old ute
roaring down the road in a swirl of dust.
The constable came to the creek and
looked over to the house. “Could do with
a bit of paint,” he murmured. (He was
very paint-conscious since he moved into
Gundai: all the houses there were tricked
up in green and coral and lavender mist,
with flowers outside the fence as well as
inside.) It was nicely placed though, at
the mouth of that gully, all those hills at
the back going blue as they went up into
the Divide. The creek, which was
running strong—about four feet deep—
went practically past the front door. He
looked for a crossing and noticed a
couple of tree trunks lying roughly
parallel across the water. “Guess that’s
the bridge, here goes. . . .
When she heard the policeman stump-
ing around outside she thought of stay-
ing quiet. It could only mean trouble. . .
Then curiosity won. She got up and
went to the door.
“Oh, good-day,” he said heartily.
“Thought no one was home.”
He was a good-looking fellow. Stern,
boyish, well-built. Polite, too —he even
touched two fingers to his cap.
“Good-day.”
“This Tilson’s place? Ray Tilson I
mean.”
“Yeah.”
“Is he around?”
“No, not right this minute. Is any-
thing wrong?”
“What time you expecting him back?”
“He shouldn’t be long. What’s up?”
“You Mrs. Tilson?”
“Yes.”
“Well I wanted to see him, that’s all.”
“Then you might as well wait —he
won’t be long. He’s gone for a part for
the mower. It broke down in the
middle of cutting so he had to get this
part.” She looked at the sky with a
country-woman’s eye. “Got to get it
finished while the weather holds.”
TThe constable scratched his neck. He’d
half-expected this to happen; then
he’d have to make another trip; but if
he’d be back soon. . . .
“What time’d he go out?”
“About mid-day, a little before.”
“And you say he won’t be long?”
“That’s right. Look, why don’t you
come in and wait?”
“That’s all right, I can wait out the
front.”
She had turned to go but now she
faced him again.
“You’re new here, aren’t you? But
your face’s familiar.”
“New? I suppose you’d call it that.
Five months in Gundai I’ve been.”
“Where was you prior to that?”
“Yaraloo, for a while, but I really
come from The Rock.”
“The Rock, eh? Fancy that. I know
that part—l’m from out that way my-
self, from Bent Tree Bend. You know
the Bend?”
“Sure do. A pretty spot with all them
willows but. . . .”
“But pretty dead. I’ll say! My dad
was Arthur Blewitt, you might know the
name —bit of a lucerne farmer, he was,
and a bit of a shearer. Bit of every
blooming thing.”
He vaguely remembered old Blewitt.
There were a lot of girls a bit older than
himself. Some said they had Indian
blood—or was it Italian? Something
like that. He looked at Tilson’s wife.
She did seem a bit foreign. Straight hair,
nearly black, and dark, fiery eyes.
Looked a bit like Audrey Hepburn
playing that Indian girl, but a better
figure than hers. Must have been sort
of pretty when she was young.
“Go on!”
She drew aside. “Why don’t you
come in and wait? I was just making a
cup of tea and you might as well sit
down.”
“Thanks, but I better. . . .”
She was gone and he had to follow.
He seated himself just inside the door
on a couch with a wooden back. She
went straight to the stove and moved
the kettle.
“It’s near boiling, anyway. Won’t be
a tick.”
He sat straight up, knees apart, the
navy serge straining over his footballer’s
thighs and after a minute he took off his
cap. Above the red rim it left, brown
curly hair stood up in a pompadour and
below it his eyes looked out with the
veiled innocence of a child’s.
“Might as well be comfortable and
have a cuppa,” she said.
He didn’t answer. He looked about
him and he was wholly amazed. He’d
never seen a kitchen colored like this.
All that orange paint—tangerine it was
called on the color-card—and the win-
dow bright red. Even the canisters were
painted red, green, and blue. The slop
bucket was yellow plastic. An oleander
bush framed by the window was a solid
mass of puce pink. Then his wandering
eyes were caught by a picture on the
wall. It was a bit like a kid’s picture,
big, gaudy and bold.
“You do that picture?” he asked.
“Yeah. You like it?”
He stared. He could hardly say no.
“Yeah. I read in a magazine how you
do it. You cut out bits of colored paper
and you make it into shapes. You can
make all kinds of pictures that way. It
takes time, though, finding the colors
you want. I made it up out of my head.
Ray don’t like it, though—he likes that
blooming old calendar over there, all
horses and dogs and cattle; though every
time he sets eyes on it he picks faults —
the horses’ legs are too thin, or they're
saddled wrong, or the dogs aren’t proper
heelers.”
The constable thought of his own new


kitchen, light-aqua and blossom pink.
He’d thought that was pretty hot. It
depended on what suited you. This room
suited her. His eyes returned to the
picture. The oranges looked best, and
the bunches of purple grapes.
“You put them together with glue,
then when it’s set you lay clear varnish
over the lot. That sticks them down
permanent and you can wipe it over
with a damp cloth.”
“What’s those red things?” he pointed.
“I don’t know what you’d call them.
I saw some once, growing on a tree.
Next to my sister’s in Sydney. The lady
gave me one to try. The inside’s like
rubies but full of pips and they’ve got
a tough skin, a lovely red color, too.
You have to tear them open to eat
them; they’re sweet and juicy but bitter
as well. Nobody likes them much.
They’re pretty, though.”
TTf. dragged his eyes from the picture
to take the cup of tea. He looked
at his watch.
“You haven’t told me what’s up. You
aren’t from the tractor people?”
He looked blank. She shrugged.
“Well they’ve been talking about re-
possessing and all that. I don’t know
how they go about it.”
He looked at her keenly. Something
was wrong.
“Well, I dunno if I ought. . . .”
“You might as well say; don’t worry
about saying anything to hurt my feel-
ings. It won’t worry me.”
“It’s only .. . well there’s a fellow
back at the pub at Gundai. He says
Tilson’s utility bashed in the back of
his car. He was parked outside when
Tilson went through—had a drink with
Tilson, in fact. Then this fellow goes
out and there’s his car all bashed in
at the back. He says Tilson must have
done it. He says Tilson’s a wild man;
drives like a maniac. Well I don’t know
the facts and I don’t expect you to say—
he’s your husband after all.”
“You don’t know Ray?”
“No, never met him. He’s got a
reputation though, you know; been
booked at the station, for fighting, once
or twice.”
“I didn’t know about that.”
“You didn’t? Go on.”
“No, I didn’t. He never let on to
me.”
“Well, in that case I shouldn’t have
spoke.”
“It’s all right.” She fell silent.
The constable itched all over. He
shouldn’t have staved. Dragging the
women into it wasn’t his line.
“You’ve got a nice little property here,
thev tell me ”
“Used to be.”
“What’s wrong with it now?”
“Gone to pot.”
“Tilson’s a hard enough worker from
what I hear.”
Her eyes flashed. “Seems to me you
hear a lot about us. Who’s all these
people you been talking to? Must have
little to do, tattling and talking. Mind
your own business and mend your own
fences, that’s my motto. Well, if you
want to know, we’re broke. I’m fed up
and I’m getting out. I’ll be darned glad
to see this dump behind me.”
The constable blinked. If there was
one thing he dreaded in his job it was
dealing with tartars —embittered women.
“Yes, I’ve made up my mind,” she
said loudly and in that minute her course
became clear. “I’ll go to some big town
like Tamworth and I’ll get a job. 1 dare-
say I can get a job at something, in a
cafe or a shop, or handing out tickets at
the pictures.”
She looked away from his disapproving
face.
“Well, plenty of women get jobs like
that these days. One thing: 1 know how
to work and I’ll give them their money’s
worth.”
“That’d be a pity,” he said quietly;
“leaving all this.”
“What me? I couldn’t care less.”
He gazed around. The paintwork was
unspotted, the stove brilliantly black,
floor polished, windowpanes clean.
“You’ve worked hard on it,” he said.
“Me? 1 hardly do nothing. Oh 1 keep
it clean —you’ve go to do something to
occupy your time. I used to help him,
too. Not now. I hate it new. I hate the
land, d’you know that? I hate it. Hate
it.”
“I dunno,” he mumbled, “it’s not a
bad life.”
“Not bad! It’s rotten. It’s cruel and
rotten. It’s death. Things always dying
and you’re battling day in, day out to
keep them alive. The sun kills them,
the rain kills them, the worms kill them,
and the blowies; and the crows get them
and the fly rots the fruit.” She showed
him the peaches. “Look at that!”
“They’ve got these sprays nowadays,”
he ventured. “I done mine with Rogor
40 and it’s good.”
“I know,” she said impatiently. “But
you got to do it. Ray talks all the time
about luck —you believe in luck?”
“I guess so . . . yes. I suppose some
people are lucky and others aren’t.”
“I’ll tell you what, I don’t believe in
luck. I think unlucky people are the
one’s that don’t think ahead. They can’t
think of nothing but today. They wait
for things to break down before they do
anything and they get into accidents
because they don’t think ahead. I’ve
gone into this and that’s how I’ve worked
it out. People are unlucky because
they’re heedless, and the ones that things
go right for—well they get no credit for
using their heads. The muckers are
jealous of them and say they’re just
lucky. My dad was the same; always
putting off doing things till the time
went by and the weather was wrong, or
something. So he took up shearing and
then he was right; he didn’t have to
think about nothing but getting his
union dues.”
constable was repelled by such
passionate scorn. Yet he admired
her, too, a bit. She had brains, drive,
but was jack of it all, that was clear.
“Of course times are bad just now for
people on the land —it costs a lot to
get the things you need and you don't
get much back for your pains. But all
the same. . . .”
“It’s tough, all right.” It was all he
could think to say.
“The fact is, 1 lost heart after. . . .”
She stopped. Then she iooked directly
into his eyes. She weighed his simplicity,
steadiness, innate kindliness. “We lost
our boy,” she said. “Out there in that
creek when it was in flood. He was
coming back from school and crossing
the bridge. It went down with him and
. . .” She choked and her hand went to
her throat.
“Gee, that’s tough!”
She turned and looked out the win-
dow. After a while:
“You remember that story at school?
The one about the boy who hugged the
fox and didn't let on it was eating him?”
She paused, then went mournfully on:
“It’s like that with me . . . since I lost
my little boy . . . there’s something here
. . . inside . . . it’s eating my heart away
and it’s turning me bad.”
She was looking at him. She was
looking to him for help. The young
man sat perfectly still. He never ought
to have gone into the police if he was
going to get upset over every hardlud
tale. He did feel sorrv for her, though
knew what she felt. She was a womat
with strong feelings—someone vou hat
to admire. But what could he do?
She jumped up and went swiftly out
of the room. He was greatly relieved
He grabbed his cap and stood up. In 3
minute she was back and he saw in that
short time she had put on a dab o
powder and lipstick and combed het
hair. Her hair hung thick and shining
on to her shoulders. Her long, thir
mouth curled in a wistful smile. She hat
good skin, clear olive, the cheekbone
faintly pink. She was still quite pretty
and probably not much over thirty. H(
was twenty-eight himself.
“I know I shouldn’t go on like that
It’s pretty boring for people, but I nevei
seem to get nobody to talk to these
days. Something about you seemed tc
set me off—l can see you’re a kind
hearted boy, that’s what it was. Anc
then, you coming from The Rock—i


seemed like talking to someone I knew.
55
|Te was undone. His good heart, the
-*-* subtle flattery, and his plodding
mind made him helpless as a schoolboy
in the presence of authority.
“Don’t run away.” She was meek and
suppliant now.
Well, it was past five . . . Tilson might
... it would save him a trip tomorrow.
. . . He lowered himself doubtfully,
hemmed in, but not wholly unwilling.
“Don’t take too much notice of what
1 said. Everything just boiled up but it’s
over now.”
“I can see what you mean,” he
stammered. “It is a hard life, my
mother always said that —on the land, I
mean.”
“Yes, there’s only one thing,” she
answered slowly. “You’ve got to like
it —to love it, 1 should say. If you love
it you get the best out of it. Like people
talk about green thumbs they say
you've got a green thumb because you
can make things grow. That’s hooey.
It’s knowing their wants —the kind of
soil and the richness, the heat of the
sun, or coolness in the shade and a
regular drink of water. Animals is the
same. If you love them you give them
what they need. You get a feeling for
them, just like you can see right inside
and feel the same as them. If you don’t
love them, then they seem to pine away.
You got to love them and you got to
love the land. You got to love it a lot.
That’s what I think.”
Her eyes had a mystical glow and
when she licked her lips they shone red.
He was startled and fascinated now at
every turn. All that talk about love!
Like on the pictures! When she came
over and sat beside him on the couch it
seemed like he was on the pictures. Her
face, then her eyes, filled the screen.
And when she picked up one of his beefy
hands he didn't resist.
“You don’t do much work with your
hands, do you?”
“I’ve done enough in me time,” he
said thickly. “My father had a dairy
farm and he made me work; up every
morning at five.”
“But you keep yourself fit, that’s easy
to see. You’re very strong.”
“I play footer a bit, not so much now,
though. Getting a bit old for it, I
suppose.”
“You never did tell me your name.”
“Didn’t I? That’s funny. Keith
Breddon, that’s it.”
“My name’s Shirley if you want to
know.”
“Yeah. And she was a Blewitt!
Italian (or was it Indian?) on the mother’s
side. He seemed to remember things the
boys used to say—the Blewitt girls were
hot stuff. And now. ... He mumbled
something.
“Don’t worry, he won’t be back till
the pubs are all shut.”
After a while he remembered some-
thing else.
“I’m on duty, you know.”
“Well I won’t tell on you, you can be
sure of that.”
. . . Skin soft and tender . . . not
tough at all. . . .
TTr came to his senses with a jolt.
Fancy, if Tilson appeared! He
jumped up and put himself in order;
jacket on, buttoned up, belt buckled,
tie straight; everything shipshape again.
She lay looking at him a considering,
indulgent look. Her cheeks burned pink
and hair fanned dark against the cushion
—colored, of course, bright green with
big white spots. She smiled gaily and
sat up.
“Look, don’t rush off will you? There’s
something I wanted to say.”
He grinned sheepishly for he had
planned instant flight. He was annoyed
with himself; amazed; to tell the truth,
a bit scared. But he wasn’t the kind to
take it out on a woman.
“It’s about Ray.” (He nodded en-
couragingly.) “I’ve been pretty fed up,
that’s true.” (He opened his mouth.)
“No, wait! What 1 want to say is this:
I’ve been going on about Ray . . . what
he is, and isn’t, and all that. But it’s
really me. I’m the one that’s the trouble.”
She groped for words. “You can’t blame
a person for being the way he’s made.
Sometimes I wish he was different, or
I’d never laid eyes on him; and then,
there’s times . . . well the thing is, we’re
all made different, aren’t we? Now
you’re a lovely fellow, I can see that, and
a girl'd be lucky to get you. But you
wouldn’t do for me, or me for you, you
can see that can’t you? I’m the kind that
runs things—l like making plans and
carrying them through. When I took an
interest it wasn’t too bad, we got along
all right. I just lost heart, like I said
you understand?”
He looked solemn and nodded.
“Then there’s another thing.” Her
eyes blazed. “It’s about people saying
he’s wild, and a maniac, and that. It’s
like their cheek! Ray was four years in
prison under the Japs. He’s not the only
one, I know that, but all the same. . . .
It’s in Ray’s nature to run free. Some
people knuckle down to everything, too
frightened for anything else. It’s like
animals —some you tame easy as wink-
ing while others buck against it to their
dying day. Ray don’t like being hobbled.
The army must’ve been hell but he done
his bit. He’s a fighter, like you say, and
he was good enough when they wanted
fighters to save them from the Japs. The
prison nearly did for him though. He’ll
talk about it now as if it was the fun of
Cork because he can’t get over it, see?
He’s a good fellow, though.”
Now the policeman was on firm
ground. Some of the best types he’d
met were people who broke the law.
Then he was at sea again: After what
she’d done and what she’d said about
walking out, she was sticking up for
him now! The whole afternoon was
goofy and shapeless as a dream.
Then he glanced out the window and
saw the sky and oleander bush ablaze in
the setting sun. He put on his cap.
“All this is between you and me,” she
said.
Over her shoulder he took a last look
at the picture. She followed him to the
gate and as he was leaving she said: “So
you’ll do what you can for Ray, won’t
you, Keith?”
He knew he was fairly caught but he
didn’t mind.
“What’s he look like, by the way?”
“Like a blooming gum tree.” She
laughed at his expression. “Well the
only difference, he’s got red hair. . - .
And Keith?”
He only half turned.
“Thanks for everything. You done me
good.”
He supposed that’s what he should
have said —something nice like that.
“The good old talk, I mean. Bye-bye.”
He grinned and hurried away.
Returning, she heard the crows
exulting over a carcass. The dead ewe
had not left her mind. She went up to
look.
Yes, there under a thorn-bush was the
newborn lamb. Whiptail hanging limp,
back hunched, knobby legs straddled, it
braced itself against the chilling air and
its utter disillusionment with the thing
called Life. The ewe had cleaned it olf,
thank goodness, it had had its first drink
and scoured.
“Come on, baby.” She scooped it up
and carried it in.
It stumbled and slithered on the
kitchen lino while she mixed milk, warm
water and glucose.
At first the lamb kept its lips
obstinately shut. She pressed on the base
of its tail. Then the nose bumped, the
mouth opened, the teat went in, and the
tongue manufactured effortlessly the
world’s finest suction device. Its miser-
able soiled tail began to shake, to wag
in ecstasy, as the milk drained from the
bottle.
She refilled it, wrapped the little
creature’s mucky quarters in an old
towel and lay down on the couch,
cuddling it into her side.
“You behave yourself,” she said
softly, “and I’ll see you don’t come to
no harm.”


Around Melbourne
GATHER YE ROSEBUDS WHILE YE MAY
TjY)R those who like peace this is a
beautiful time to be in Mel-
bourne. The city is empty. It is
possible to find parking spaces both
in Collins Street and at the saloon
bar in Young and Jackson’s. One
could pass away in one’s chair at the
Savage Club and it would be a week
before the body was discovered.
Where have they gone? Mostly to
the seaside, so just in case you have
that curious intercolonial idea that
there is no such thing as a beautiful
seaside here, this week we give you
an everyman’s guide to on the beach
in Victoria.
If you want tone and prestige Mt
Eliza and Mt Martha are good, then
there is nothing to equal Portsea.
You see, Portsea is the Toorak of
the Peninsula, a very good term
because, actually, all Toorak IS at
Portsea in January. For example,
the Harold Holts are there. Mr Holt
sets off spear fishing every day. This
hobby of his is not a myth put out
by the Publicity Department of the
Liberal Party. Harold Holt is as
earnest about this as a 16-year-old.
He spends so long ploughing along
with his snorkel at the rock pools,
some of the solid Portsonians, who
have suffered from his policies these
past 24 months, hopefully wonder
whether he has perished out there.
Yet he often returns with fish.
It was reported that last week he
speared a sft 6in conger eel. There’s
not a great deal you can do with a
conger eel. A skilled Continental
might jelly the fish and turn it into
a delicacy. Mr Holt buried his at the
bottom of the garden.
So you want to stay at Portsea?
Come now, this is no Surfers' Para-
dise loaded with roomettes and
breakfast-trays. I suggest you take a
house. Possibly we could get you
one for as little as £4O a week, but
if won’t be easy. I could get you a
block of land for £lOOO, but you
would want a place on the cliff front.
They go for £lO,OOO to £lB,OOO,
much the same as prices for dear old
SE 2 in Melbourne.
It’s a revelation here just to see
the boat sheds. Some have twin
electric winches to cater for the twin
Mercury speedboat and the yacht—-
in the water at the push of a lever.
They have a kitchen up the back,
complete with refrigerator and gas
stove, the place all lined in laminated
plastic and there’s a telephone up to
the house.
Mr Jack Edgar, one of the Portsea
notables, has carved a great section
out of the cliff for the firest of all
boat sheds. It will be three storeys
high so that the roof will abut almost
on the bottom of the garden at the
cliff top. It is being made of brick
and concrete. The ground floor with
sliding doors is big enough for a
dance floor and there are twin elec-
tric winches. The first floor will be
a living room and the top floor will
be a sun deck.
So you think all this is a waste,
'”e!l let me, as an ardent Portsea
lover, tell vou that the surf on the
back beach can hold its own any-
where and as for the front beach it
is acknowledged by experts that the
bird-watchine here is the finest in the
country. If vou have a good telescope
you can make some glorious observa-
tions.
Portsea is too expens. ... I mean,
not quite what you were looking for.
Well, there's Ocean Grove, Torquay,
Anglesea, all coming resorts, but how
about Lome? This always has been
the resort for the fine people of the
Western District. The Manifolds and
the Russells have houses there. Now
more and more it is becoming
beloved by the young people—the
TR2, MG, Minimaniac set.
The surf beach is good and unlike
Portsea there is plenty of accommo-
dation . . . and entertainment. For
example, there is the Arab Restaur-
ant. Its great charm is that it has
no chairs. You lie on rugs on the
floor. Here you can listen to a long-
haired folk sineer who may also be
lying on the floor. For night enter-
tainment there is the “Wild Colonial
Club” and this is a beauty. It has
one most attractive gimmick —no
proper door. The young ladies and
gentlemen have to climb up a ladder
to the first storey, then up through a
trapdoor. Then they descend by a
staircase to the ground level again.
The interior is decorated with pic-
tures of ancient footballers and
ancient female cyclists, there are old
bedsteads, lamps, bits of harness, cast-
iron, kettles and horse collars hanging
from the ceiling. It is a place with
great atmosphere.
Where else can you go? If you like
the noise of a 100-horsepower Mer-
cury outboard roaring in your ear then
how about Eildon? No resort in Vic-
toria has ever come like Eildon. It is
only a few years since the land was
flooded for a reservoir. Now, accord-
ing to the locals, it is the greatest in-
land centre for boats in the country.
They also like to pat visitors from Syd-
ney on the head and point out that
Eildon has three times the surface
area of the harbor and six times as
much water. Altogether there are 3500
boats. There's an exodus out of Mel-
bourne at 5 p.m. every Friday, as the
vast armada of Chev. Impalas, 31-
litre Jaguars and what not sets out
for Eildon with their boats in tow.
Anyone who has ever driven from
Healesville across the Black Spur to
Eildon, jammed between a cabin
cruiser with twin Evinrudes in front
and a Cadillac inboard speedboat be-
hind, knows all about it. The best
boat at Eildon belongs to the Nicholas
(“Aspro”) family. It is a 44-footer,
worth £30,000. It is the sort of boat
in which a man could really feel
admiral of the lake. It is commanding,
high out of the water. It is lined in
Queensland maple, it has thick carpet
on the floor, galley, hot and cold
shower, deep freeze, high-fi, state
room for the skipper, the works.
Others go for house boats on the
lake. One is equipped with plate-glass
windows, cocktail bar, cabins, and
badminton court on the roof.
You are still unimpressed with the
way Victorians spend their holidays.
Then can we offer you a tent at Rose-
bud? This spot on the Mornington
Peninsula makes the claim that it
houses Australia’s largest collection of
campers—looo camp sites, septics
and all 5000 campers. One gentleman
made the claim this Christmas that he
has been camping at Rosebud for the
past 50 years. Only one Christmas
when he was sick did he miss out. So
you see, Rosebud must have some-
thing.
BATMAN


OVERSEAS
THE NEW EUROPEANS
2. Last, dullest of the Anglo-French wars—the Civil Services .
By ANTHONY SAMPSON
Whatever parliaments may think,
a great deal of the planning,
manoeuvring and visualising of
the new Europe is in the hands of
political civil servants, who mould the
character and habits of the new institu-
tions.
The recruitment of this new inter-
national bureaucracy is not easy. The
Germans have a fitful tradition of
Government service, and business takes
the cream of their able young men. The
Italians are apt to be contemptuous of
Government. The Belgian civil service
is overshadowed by the banks. The
Dutch, though excellent, are too small
and overstrained to make much impact.
One group of civil servants towers above
the rest, as they have done since the
time of Napoleon the French. They
can not only staff their own administra-
tion with clever and tough young men,
but have enough to spare for Brussels,
too.
“There are only two real civil services
in the world,” one French administrator
remarked to me with unusual modesty:
“The French and the British.” The
negotiations in Brussels have often re-
solved into a battle of wits between
French and British, each with their
strong corporate traditions, their habit
of superiority, their different brand of
arrogance, moral and intellectual.
If Britain joins the Market, the con-
frontation of these two traditions will be
the most interesting spectacle in the
corridors —the last, the dullest, but per-
haps the most important phase of the
Anglo-French wars. Many from the
other five countries, fed up with French
dominance, look forward to it. The
British seem to look forward with con-
fidence, but with some apprehension.
For the fonctionnaires are, un-
doubtedly, formidable. In the first place,
they have a system of selection, with
the massive weight of the French educa-
tional system behind it —which has sifted
out a Mandarinat with ruthless direct-
ness. To enter the Grands Corps of the
civil service remains the ambition of the
cleverest young men, despite the
financial lures of industry. A stiff ex-
amination leads into the Ecole National
d'Administration formed in 1945 by
Michel Debre, later Prime Minister
and then, two years later, to another
stern examination from which, in order,
the young men for the Grands Corps are
chosen.
From the top of each year’s list are
chosen about six young Inspecteurs des
Finances, and it is difficult to convey the
awe which surrounds this seemingly
harmless-sounding title. The Inspecteurs
less than two hundred altogether —•
are the shock-troops of the French ad-
ministration, and from the ages of 25
or so they are labelled as men of ex-
ceptional powers and access. They have
similarities with our two hundred
Treasury men, likewise picked from the
top of the list. But they are much more
mobile, more privileged, and often with
a strong political sense. “We could not
only think deeply,” as one veteran In-
specteur put it: “We could also speak
about anything, whether we knew about
it or not.” The French educational train-
ing in dialectic and philosophy gives
them a skill in argument which makes
them a match for many politicians.
Their prime job is, as their name
implies, to look at other people's
accounts: as young men they roam about
the country, descending on unsuspecting
Government departments, examining
their books and documents, and writing
reports. They thus, early in life, have
the kind of super-accountant's know-
ledge of other people's business which
shows them skeleton* in all kinds of
cupboards. But many Inspecteurs soon
turn to other kinds of jobs. Only half
of them are actually looking at books:
others find themselves picked to work
in Ministers’ offices, become diplomats,
turn to business, write books, go into
politics. They are given, like Fellows of
All Souls, a large freedom, and one
Inspecteur is even said to be an explorer,
on Government pay. These are a few
of the current Inspecteurs:
Maurice Couve de Murville,
Foreign Minister and Leader of
French negotiators in Brussels.
Bernard Clappier,
his deputy.
Francois Giscard d'Estaing,
Finance Minister.
Jean Deniau,
chief of delegation for negotiation
with Britain in the Commission of
EEC.
Robert Toulemon,
Chef du Cabinet of Robert Marjolin.
Herve Alphand,
French Ambassador to Washington.
Jacques Brunet,
Governor of the Bank of France.
Felix Gaillard,
Jacques Chaban-Delmas,
ex Prime Ministers.
Wilfrid Baumgartner,
ex Finance Minister and former
Governor of the Bank of France.
Inspecteurs can be found in the banks,
in the Suez Canal company, French
railways and oil companies. But, most
strategic of all, there is usually one
Inspecteur in the private office (the
cabinet ) of a senior Minister. The In-
specteuvs who often keep on close


personal terms —thus have a large body
of common knowledge. “They're a kind
of Mafia,” as one civil servant com-
plained. “They’ve got a hand in every-
thing.”
The scope of the lnspecteurs is much
increased by the tendency of top civil
servants in their fifties to pantoufler or
parachute into lucrative jobs in private
industry—rather as here Paul Chambers
or Sir Edward Playfair are parachuted
into ICI or International Computers,
but on a larger scale. This helps to clear
the field for the younger men, and to
account for the astonishing numbers of
young Frenchmen in very big jobs. The
absolute certainty of a young Inspecteur
that he will have a good job, and be
treated with awe, gives him a relaxed
arrogance that out-Balliols Balliol. “I
think you’d be wrong to say that we’re
an isolated group,” said one of the heads
of the Inspection : “but if you were to
say that lnspecteurs believe that they’re
exceptionally intelligent people that
would be correct.”
The French civil service has become
used to taking bold, political initiatives
in a way that often astonishes the
British. In all the sad years of the
Fourth Republic, when Governments
toppled every six months, the grands
comm is of the French civil service were
quietly running the country, making
large plans for the future, embarking on
vast schemes of economic expansion,
without too much trouble from
Ministers. They had the great strength
of continuity, and they set their sights
on the future: “We spend our time
thinking about the future,” said one
young bureaucrat, “that’s why people
have to consult us.”
And the civil servants are not afraid
of intense specialisation. The two senior
men negotiating in Brussels, Bernard
Clappier and Olivier Wormser, have
been steeped in European negotiations
from the beginning, knowing every nook
and cranny in other countries’ arguments.
The freedom of French civil servants
to venture into politics is much increased
by the system of cabinets, which allows
each Minister to choose a group of 10
men, mostly civil servants, with political
views close to his own, to advise him in
his private office. (The Common Market
Commissioners in Brussels also have this
cabinet system, in a watered-down form,
but with the same acceptance of the
need for political civil servants.)
The cabinet system naturally leads to
a closer link between civil servants and
politics: civil servants will be known as
“a Mendes man,” or “a Baumgartner
man,” and members of a cabinet will
often go on to politics. But even out-
side the cabinet, French civil servants
are not often assumed to be politically
neutral. They make speeches, write
books, and since 1958, when de Gaulle
came to power, there has even been a
“Club Jean Moulin” (named after the
radical Resistance leader who was
tortured to death, consisting mostly of
civil servants, which publishes books
and pamphlets with quite bold, socialist
views.
Since de Gaulle came to power, the
civil servants have had a stronger, more
permanent collection of Ministers to
deal with; but at the same time several
of the Ministers notably the Foreign
and Finance Ministers—have been them-
selves ex-civil servants, with the same
background as their senior officials: most
senior civil servants are very far from
Gaulliste, and impatient of the gestures
of grandeur which come down from
the Elysee. But they cannot but be grate-
ful to the General for ridding them of
the tiresome interference of parliamentary
politics. “The depoliticisation of govern-
ment in the last four years has been
amazing,” said one civil servant: “The
“The last, the dullest, but perhaps
the most important phase of the
Anglo-French wars” may prove to be
the battle inside the Common Market
between the French and British tradi-
tions of Civil Service. Anthony
Sampson, author of “The Anatomy of
Britain,” has recently been digging into
the new European institutions: in this
article he describes the powerful
character of the French Civil Servants
whom the British negotiators have
been tangling with in Brussels.
Ministers nowadays take much more
notice of the grands fonctionnaires.”
With the growth of planning and the
planning of growth, the influence of the
“technocrats” has inevitably extended.
Technocratic is an old and favourite
French bogy, and critics from both the
Left and Right enjoy conjuring up tech-
nocrats’ plots. The word often means
simply someone who knows his job:
“The objection against technocrats,” said
one of them, “seems to be that people
who know what they’re doing shouldn’t
be in politics.” But certainly the close-
ness of civil servants with politics, and
the new closeness, through the Commis-
sariat au Plan, with the leaders of
private industry, has meant that a small
group of people in France, without being
in Parliament, have a huge influence on
the future shape of the country.
The weakness of Parliament, the
severe educational system, and the
success of planning, have all helped to
strengthen the technocrat, and the
“cadres” or elites who provide the top
management. The young administrators
are apt to talk about politicians in a
patronising way: “they’re a useful link,”
one of them said, “between the teams <
experts and public opinion: they help i
provide the social background to plat
ning.”
Recently there has been, from the Lef
some worried analysis of just how limite
and isolated these cadres or admiti
strators are. The foundation of the Eco
National d’Administration means,
effect, that in another 20 years all to
French civil servants will have been
the same college together. Last October
issue of Les Cahiers de la Republiqn
edited by the former French Premie
Pierre Mendcs - France, is devoted i
analysing the cadres, accusing the
among other things of being rootles
dehumanised, and exclusive, cut off fro:
the normal life of the city. “They si
no longer because it's the custom of
social group, but because ‘one stoj
thinking about one's worries’.”
Certainly there is something alarmir
about some of these bloodless, arroga:
people; by other nationalities they a:
not necessarily loved: but they are muc
respected, and the French industri,
achievements the Caravelle, the rai
ways, the Citroen, the Plan are the
monuments. “The French civil servan:
cannot only see a problem, and solve ii
they can persuade others to accept
too,” said one Dutch civil servant i
Brussels. “The Germans can provic
solutions, but they find persuasio
harder.” In its temper, its mixture o
politics and bureaucracy, its carefi
modification, its dislike of the amateu
the Commission in Brussels seems t
have inherited a good deal from tt
French civil service, and their confide:
supremacy from the days of the Four!
Republic.
How, if Britain joins, will the Briti:
fit into this tradition? The English p&
—if not the reality —of the bumblii
amateur, shuffling along the mahogar
corridors quoting Horace and Pliny-
seems at first sight very remote from tt
shiny functional couloirs of Brusse!
Certainly we will find ourselves hard p
to it to find enough specialists, economi;
and technicians to keep the French c
the run.
On the other hand, it may be th
Britain will have her own contributor
“We could do with a bit of your pra
matism, your muddling through,” sa
one Frenchman in Euratom. And t!
special tactics of the British civil servai
changing politicians’ minds without seer
ing to, will doubtless pay dividends in tl
tricky international situations of Brusse
“The British have learnt the art of heir
secretary to a committee,” a Freni
technocrat remarked. “The Fren
usually like to be chairman but the se
retary often turns out to be the me
powerful.”
“The Observer” London, 19<


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON x
ostjluvan
-% PTYLTD. A
&8L K
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
IMS
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Hallcran Mantcn Pty. Ltd.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizqbeth.St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. « >
VERWOERDISM IN
SOUTHERN RHODESIA
A tragic change cf direction
By C. M. TATZ
The Central African Federation has
come to an end. This month
Britain accepted the principle of
Nyasaland’s right to secede from the
Federation. Simultaneously Kenneth
Kaunda and Harry Nkumbulu, leaders of
the African Coalition Government in
Northern Rhodesia, declared that in
January they too will seek a secession
signal from their Legislative Assembly.
The coup cle grace came when the white
electorate in Southern Rhodesia returned
to power a party which, while not op-
posed to Federation in principle, is vigor-
ously opposed to the present geographic
form of Federation. Thus Sir Roy
Welensky now leads a United Federal
Party Government in a Federation where
his party has been eliminated from power
in all three territories. Welensky’s cries
of British betrayal and “acts of treach-
ery,” his wild accusation that Britain is
building an arms force in Kenya for use
against the Federation, count for nought:
the Great Experiment in partnership and
the shared society has come to an end
in nine years.
For mineral-rich Northern Rhodesia
there are prospects of stable government,
life and prosperity as an independent
state. For Nyasaland, there is strife
ahead in going it alone, but Hastings
Banda is convinced that their destiny is
open before them and that their state
will survive. For S. Rhodesian whites,
the prospects are grim.
In the space of two weeks S. Rhodesia
has taken two paralysing body blows.
The Federation has crumbled and with it,
her economic security. Secondly, the
white electorate has returned a party
which stands for white supremacy and
which is dedicated to the overthrow of
the present geographic form of Federa-
tion. It is this white “victory” at the
elections which will precipitate S.
Rhodesia’s final decision and solution as
swiftly as the Federation break-up will
decide it.
There are important factors behind
Winston Field's victory for his Rhodesian
Front, formerly the Dominion Party,
First, Joshua Nkomo, President-General
of the Zimbabwe African People's Union,
boycotted the elections. Nkomo, whose
National Democratic Party was banned
by Sir Edgar Whitehead in December,
1961, is dedicated to the break-up of
Federation and African majority rule. He
has said:
“When all the territories are free,
with majority government elected by


full adult franchise as in any normal
country, then—and then only—will we
consider negotiating about a federa-
tion. That is something we will decide
for ourselves. It may have advant-
ages; we are not against federation as
a principle; but we are the ones who
must decide.”
There is more than a reasonable suspi-
cion that Nkomo gambled on a white
electorate returning Field’s party. Afric-
ans south of the Sahara often play “maso-
chist” politics, that is, they believe that
the harder they’re jumped on, the greater
and more powerful the bounce back. Be-
fore this election Nkomo and ZAPU had
sympathy; African nationalism had good
ammunition while the United Federal
Party waffled about “partnership” (which
is equivalent to the South African United
Party’s slogans of “Christian trusteeship”
and “white leadership with justice”). For
the Africanist movement, and especially
for the growing group of anti-whiteists
in African politics, the issues are now
plainer than before. It was the same
in South Africa when first Malan and
then Verwoerd came to power: a quiet
African satisfaction that there stood,
naked and open, the unequivocal, im-
placable and “granite” (Verwoerd on his
policy) enemy—the tangible enemy who
fired African nationalism every time he
opened his racist mouth.
Secondly, the white voters in S.
Rhodesia are inherent white supremacists,
no matter whether the label is partner-
ship, multi-racialism, separate develop-
ment or apartheid. When Federation
was being planned it was argued that
Federation would save S. Rhodesia from
apartheid and union with South Africa.
The argument was based not on the facts
and realities of S. Rhodesia’s past policies,
but on the promise that S. Rhodesia, un-
like South Africa, would reform pro-
vided it was federated to N. Rhodesia
and Nyasaland. The feeling was that
whites in S. Rhodesia, if granted federa-
tion, would accept African aspirations
and abandon white supremacy. But in
times of tension and crisis, at the first
murmurings of African nationalism,
whites in S. Rhodesia have banned, re-
stricted, exiled, imprisoned and declared
states of emergency in Verwoerd fashion
—and have come four-square behind the
iron fist and granite of baasskap (white
boss-ship). When there were pressures
in 1958, the whites almost elected Field’s
Dominion Party—the UFP just made it
on the preferential voting system. Now
the whites have returned Field and
turned their backs on UFP “liberalism
and progressivism” (the phrase is the
South African English Press’ assessment
of UFP race policies!).
What does Field stand for? First,
the replacement of “partnership” by
apartheid. Secondly, a franchise based
on separate rolls, heavily weighted in
favor of whites. Thirdly, the protection
of “the white standard of living.”
Fourthly, an unprecedented European
immigration” scheme to raise the white
population from some 300,000 to 3i
million in 1975 and to 30 million by the
end of the century, changing the present
ratio of one white to 36 Africans to
one to four by 1975 and one to one by
2000 AD. Fifthly, native policy is “to
keep control in European hands for the
foreseeable future and to assist the
development of the African in the man-
ner most suited to his capacities.” He
is to be “encouraged to help himself,” to
be given “training in honesty, loyalty, re-
sponsibility and hygiene” and “vocational
courses to fit him for his proper place
in the development of Federation.” Like
Verwoerd in so much of this, he also
wants a Bantustan —a fictitious paradise
in which Africans can develop their own
institutions in their own areas along their
own lines (and presumably, in the Ver-
woerd refrain, where the tribal African
can engrave his rich tribalism on his eth-
nic soul). The central African Federa-
tion will be replaced by a Central African
Alliance. Under this Alliance the
Dominion of Rhodesia will be under
permanent white control and will consist
of S. Rhodesia and those parts of N.
Rhodesia “which are of major European
interest and influence,” that is, the main
towns, minerals, roads, railways and
major farming areas. The rest of N.
Rhodesia (including the Barotseland Pro-
tectorate) and Nyasaland will form the
Bantustan.
White Pigmentocracy
Tn practice this policy means the final re-
jection of liberal democracy in favor
of a white pigmentocracy, with token
African participation in government. It
implies an increased use of force to
suppress the greater African opposition
which it would naturally produce.
With no means of economic support,
and with an increasingly Verwoerdian
approach to Africans, what solution is
there for S. Rhodesia?
In a referendum in 1922 the white
electors of S. Rhodesia rejected Smuts’
offer of union with South Africa in
favor of Responsible Government. In
1948 Dr. Malan’s election destroyed for
many the desire to join South Africa.
Afrikaaner nationalism, virulently anti-
British and potentially republican, re-
pelled many Rhodesian whites, imbued
as they are with their British heritage
and with a vague, Kiplingesque loyalty
to the emotional “Crown and Empire.”
There was a strong conviction, held by
British officials and Rhodesian representa-
tives to the Federation planning com-
mittee, that apartheid was purely a pro-
duct of Afrikaaner nationalism (a fallacy
still too widely believed) and any South
African connection should therefore be
shunned. In 1959 Sir Edgar Whiteheac
told the S. Rhodesian Assembly that i
the Federation was denied independencf
(or if it broke up), S. Rhodesia woult
“go it alone.” He rejected the idea o:
closer association with South Africa
However difficult it would be, he fel
it was possible for S. Rhodesia to survivi
a period of “economic readjustment” ant
remain independent.
There has always been talk in S
Rhodesia of joining hands with SoutS
Africa. While Federal politicians like
Huggins, Welensky and Whitehead havp
rejected the idea in strong terms, th/
electorate has more and more talked o-
it as a practical possibility. With ever* 1
riot and racial crisis, fingers have
pointed to the racial stability (!) of Soutl"
Africa (“at least the kaffir is kept in
place there”, “the Nats, sure know ho\. (
to preserve white civilisation”). \
Economically, union with the Republic
will rescue S. Rhodesia, that is, for a-J
long as South Africa’s economy ca^ l
withstand the increasing
and internal pressures on her. Racially
union is ideal: they will enter the laag(
of the past-masters (including the
guese) in maintaining racial “peace” an y
white supremacy. The decision,
must resolve itself on the point of culturg
tradition, language and social values. Tht
crucial questions for Rhodesian whiteh
are: is racial and economic security worto
the loss of the British tradition which
they so esteem? Is the ermine and
of distant, unsympathetic Britain a fa°
exchange for the kruithoring and o) )c
wagon symbolism of neighbouring,
preciative South Africa? Is it worth losiirq
a place, albeit an insecure one, in tljj
comity of white Commonwealth coui
tries? Will Rhodesians be prepared te
become, with South Africa, the “polecat
of the world” (Verwoerd’s own ne\r~
paper on South Africa’s status aft? 1
Sharpeville)? Is it worth the loss of tl 11
Rule of Law and fundamental civil
ties (black civil liberties are not libertif L
but privileges)? What of the impositio
of a new official language,
Is it worth the Afrikaanerization of tb
civil service? What of Calvinism and tl n
introduction of that Church into Staf
so that the two elements are no longfh
divisible? For it is certain that theP
are some of the prices of admission. TP I
Afrikaaner Nationalists will not
so huge an injection of Englishmen, ar
the values they represent, into their
trekker edifice. They have worked ijj
assiduously and successfully to exci)
(and in their eyes, exorcise) the Britiß
way and things British. b
The Southern Rhodesian dilemma n
not easy and not pretty: where to fir
economic security; how to maintain whi ri
supremacy; the three-headed Scylla
Kaunda, Nkumbulu and Nkomo; tl 1
Charybdis of Hendrik Frensch Verwoer *


letters
to the
editor
THE WAIFS OF KURE
Sir,
t I am reluctant to dispute any part of
peter Coleman's first-class report, “The
vVaifs of Kure” (Bulletin, December
d !2), but there is one flaw his remark
r ibout the Australians in Kure having
tad no entertainment except prostitution
'jind common law' wives,
j Our troops had a brutal initiation,
Sut the period was shortened in direct
Consequence of some earlier reporting,
vhich happened to have been my own,
its the correspondent accredited for
aSroup 2 newspapers. These included
jfie Sydney “Daily Telegraph”, the
Melbourne “Sun-Pictorial” and the
Brisbane “Courier-Mail”.
' Followed by the usual official denials,
;ome in Parliament, disclosures that
ust had to be made by any reporter
Vorth his salt involved me in one of
: Viy more painful conflicts with authority.
But the facts were as ugly as I had
Stated them. After the dust had cleared
the quality and variety of entertainment
•available to the troops went to what I
thought was the opposite extreme. Yet
c hat could have been the reason for the
~ow Australian bastardy rate.
For the part played by the Press
tobody became more openly grateful
‘ban the subsequent Commander-in-
CTiief, Lieut.-General H. C. H. (later
W Horace) Robertson.
H I think this would be borne out by a
tentleman now in Sydney to whom I
anust have been a headache at the time
v! — Colonel Gordon Jenkins, Indian
the Force’s first Director of
public Relations.
MASSEY STANLEY
e Xirribilli.
it
SOVIET ANTI-SEMITISM
tr,
During last few weeks the USSR
Embassy has been approached by a lot
af Australians including Australian Jews
gfho were wondering whether the Soviet
eTnbassy was able to comment on re-
fprts published in The Bulletin on
af e life of the Soviet Jewry,
mWe prepared a lengthy article for
>o HE Bulletin on the real situation of
■ws in the USSR. This article was
iblished in The Bulletin on October
1962, but in an abbreviated form
thd many important paragraphs were
bitrarily omitted. When it also be-
i me known that the Embassy would
ir able to provide The Bulletin with
higher Soviet materials on Soviet Jews
(■texts of radio talks by Mr A. Vergelis,
t |litor-in-Chief of the Soviet Jewish
ef igazine “Sovietish Homeland”, the
Editor of The Bulletin promised to
use the above-mentioned material in
the magazine. Since, however, this
material was not published by the
magazine I am compelled now to ex-
press my regret that the interest of many
Australians approaching the Embassy
could not be met because of reasons for
which we bear no responsibility.
V. GAMAZELISHCHIKOV
Press-Attache of the
USSR Embassy in Australia
Canberra.
[However important the issue is, THE
BULLETIN has other demands on its
space than the question of Soviet anti-
Semitism. In our coverage of the issue,
besides publishing a very long letter (not
an “article" from Mr V. Gamazeishchikov,
we have run four letters from supporters
of the official Soviet position. Every
possible argument in defence of this
position has been expounded in THE
BULLETIN'S columns. As for the texts
of the radio talks to which Mr Gamazeish-
chikov refers we were naturally interested
in seeing them but at no time did we
indicate to the Soviet Embassy that we
intended or wanted to publish them. In
the next issue we are publishing a letter
from the Novosti Press Agency Moscow.
Ed.l
LEGALIZING ABORTION
Sir,
A close examination of P. E. Ros-
sell’s (medical) case against abortion
(Bulletin, December 1) shows the
danger of basing an argument on stat-
istics alone. The following questions
are relevant:
1. What is the mortality rate (in the
countries quoted) of mothers after a con-
finement? (By confinement in this letter
I mean the outcome of a pregnancy of at
least 28 weeks, the arbitrary date of
foetal viability). As the abortion rate in-
creases, so presumably the birth rate de-
creases, and a rise in actual mortality in
the one is offset, to a greater or lesser ex-
tent, by the decrease in actual mortality
of the other.
2. What is the morbidity rate, before
and a:ter, a confinement? Most complica-
tions that occur with an abortion may
occur with a confinement. On the other
hand most pre-natal complications are
prevented by early abortion (e.g., pre-
eclamptic toxaemia hydramnios malpre-
sentation, uterine inertia and so on).
Other complications such as pyelone-
phritis occur less frequently simply be-
cause the woman is pregnant for a
shorter time.
3. What percentage of women suffer
permanent impairment of health follow-
ing a confinement?
4. What percentage of women are
sterile after a confinement? Almost cer-
tainly abortion carries a higher risk in
this regard, but nevertheless secondary
sterility does occur, and this figure should
be measured against that occurring after
a therapeutic abortion.
5. What psychological effect has a full-
time but unwanted pregnancy on the
mother?
6. What is the mortality rate, morbid-
ity rate, sterility rate, and what are the
psychological effects of an illegal abor-
tion—which is often the alternative
chosen if a legal abortion is refused?
7. Is there any safe, efficient, cheap,
aesthetically acceptable contraceptive
or any contraceptive that can be used
with success in an unsophisticated
society?
8. Should circumcision, cosmetic sur-
gery, the removal of innocent tumours
and so on be legally prohibited except in
rare circumstances because they are not
life-saving and no controlled studies have
shown what benefit, if any, is conferred
on the patient?
I have had wide experience in mid-
wifery as I have worked in a relatively
primitive community (not in Australia)
with a very high birth rate. As a matter
of interest I only had one death from a
miscarriage of any sort, and this woman
died on arrival at the hospital before a
drip could be inserted. Over the same
period I had six maternal deaths. I have
also been pregnant and unmarried, and
have also had two normal confinements
and two spontaneous miscarriages. I
have been unable to conceive since my
last miscarriage. I still believe abortion
should be legalised.
ROSEMARY NAISH
Cooktown ( Queensland).
PINDAN PTY LTD
Sir,
With reference to an article that
appeared in your paper entitled "Winding
Pindan Pty Ltd A Blow to Aboriginal
Advancement” (Bulletin, November
10), let me give you the facts and ask
you some questions.
In 1889 Western Australia got
sovereign powers conferred on it by the
Imperial Government on condition that
suitable safeguards would be taken to
protect the rights of, and due compensa-
tion to, the original owners of the land
which were set out in the Seventieth
Section of this Constitution.
One of the first acts of the new
Sovereign State was to annul the
Seventieth Section from the Constitution
and a great hubbub arose when the
Queen failed to sign this amendment
which was so obviously morally wrong
and not likely to bring credit to any one
associated with it. This was the start of
the so called Native Question in
West Australia and this is also a
measure of the unprincipled scheming
that has followed ever since.
The report published by you is most
damaging to the Aboriginal Group in
the Pilbara who previously formed
Pindan Pty Ltd. Some of them are
with me here doing field work in con-


nection with their need to earn a living
which for so long has depended on
mineral production.
Having lost their compensation
guaranteed under the Constitution of
1889, later suitably amended, and having
been enslaved by the West Australian
Government in 1946, the Pilbara Group
found themselves destitute and enslaved
and asked me to act for them and to
advise them how to free themselves. (In
1946 Queen’s Counsellor Seaton told the
Court in Port Hedland that even if it
were said that the Native Welfare Act
enslaved the Natives of West Australia
so be it. As a Sovereign State it had
these powers and whether it was argued
that the conditions imposed by the
Native Affairs Act of 1905 were slavery
or merely serfdom or any other form of
limiting of freedom, being a Sovereign
State these powers were vested in
Western Australia that were required to
enable it to pass the act and while it was
on the Statute Books any breach of these
conditions was a criminal act that
carried with it the penalties set out.)
Since that time they have been the
subject of a slander campaign so com-
plete in its cover that you can now
safely, and with some pretence of
sympathy for their cause, take this soft
line that the cause of the present con-
dition of the Australian Aboriginal is
a matter of mystery which we seem yet
to have to unravel.
The plight of Western Australian
Aboriginals has been caused by the
greed and shortsightedness of the West
Australians of British stock and it is
about this greed I would like to ask you
some questions.
Do you, as a member of an invading
race now numbering ten million people,
roughly believe it is safe and/or wise to
continue with this double-talk, double-
think about the original owners of Aus-
tralia whom we have so obviously
robbed and destroyed by force.
Surrounded as we are by a thousand
million colored people, most of whom
have tasted the bitter fruit of Colonial
Domination and all of whom know that
until a hundred and seventy-five years
ago Australia was fully black, do you
think it safe to flaunt the White Aus-
tralia Policy before these people and
at the same time try and tell them we
don’t deal with color prejudice?
Supposing one of the larger of our
neighbors, goaded beyond its patience by
our pretences and scheming, decided to
do to us that which we did to the
original owners of this country a hundred
and seventy-five years ago when Cap-
tain Cook landed and took over; on
what would we depend for our defence?
Are you satisfied that the compensa-
tion received by the Aboriginals of NSW
is sufficient having regard that they lost
their land? Never mind about why or
how, would you too be satisfied with
similar conditions were your folk dis-
possessed in a similar manner by some
other foreign near or far neighbor?
These questions in my eyes should
be important and require suitable replies
or else then my logic is faulty. If this
is so, the quicker I am made aware of
where I went wrong the happier I would
be for as I see it Australians by their
own self-deception amounting almost to
a trance by kidding themselves that
others are taken in by their pretences
and posturing are riding to disaster as
complete in its way although so much
differently handled as the South Africans
with their Apartheid.
D. W. McLEOD
Eudamulla Station, Gascoyne
District, North West Australia.
STABBING AND RACE-WAR
Sir,
I am thankful to Mr Peter Simon fc
stating correctly in his article “Raci
war” (Bulletin, December 8) that it
flammatory literature does not ease th
tension between the Croats and the Serb
The relations are bad not in Queen
land only but everywhere in Australi;
The literature of this way of thougl
which is published outside Austral;
finally finds a way to be distributed hen
The inflammatory book to which Mr 1-j
Simon refers is a typical one. This boo-
is written by a minister of the wartin
Quisling regime, Stjepan Hefer, who no
lives in Argentina. He unsuccessful!
emphasises the massacres committed t'
the Serbs, instead of admitting tl
massacres, atrocities, and exterminaticti
of the people on account of differeis
faith or political opinion committed i s
the fascist organisation called
and this imposed regime in which 1
was an active minister, and he at lea„
should carry some responsibility for sur
inhuman misdeeds.
Other inflammatory literature h, c
flooded Australia also. This literature t
simply an eulogy of VIOLENCE ANIa
WAR, written by a man, MA]-
LUBURIC.
I feel very strongly, therefore, th;
this “race-war” in Australia is a matt(£
for our community and the fortK
coming Australian Convention
by Immigration Department in Januarh
should familiarise themselves with thu
issue. The leaders of violence of tht
so-called “Yugoslavia freedom
in Australia” (Bulletin Letters,
her 22) should learn that there are mat,
good things in Australia and in the lir
beside the revolutionary actions, brutr
ity, threats, fights and violence.
ILLIA MUSH
Neutral Bay (NSWO.
Feiffer
WE WILL
REI/ER
ITERATE
SOI H£T
BASES !U
LATIN .
AMERICA-
AIOP WE UlLl
toevee -j&igg-
ATS as.
A66RESSCT)
AEAIWST A
SOCIALIST
ALOf. \
ioo{, this ftscr-
flMS US uomert.
for ONCE WW
POUT ItX TR“ TO
pUTOM&Lves IfJ
RATH OTHERS pi.ACS?
i Aesur i/ob’R.
minou? w
ARGUE MJUef
it (5 a a-ei/ee
mMueceois,
BUT Ctfveß.
you FIRST.
TAM IT 8E WROIO6 FOR Trig
CU6AM 6WT TO INVITE !M
SOS6T TECHNICIANS OUT
TllSTlflAßLf FOR THE
VIETNAM ETMT TO .
IKMT6 IN AMERICAN
TECHNICIANS ?
VO VATiO V
CM RTRMIT
gMEMA’
MISS/tE EASES
mw mes
OFF ITS
COAST-
OUt h)HAT OF THE
AMERICAN M6sflf
bases TEAT Ri V6
-rue saner uwv 7
m rm no threat
To our secvam?
DVR 3A5« ,AK
VEFEMM! 7HC
SOVIET (MOV ISM J
A s6HeSiiM POMP.
LOOK AT TOUR RECORD
!U EASTERN El&OPE !
AW HAS IHE y.S.
WO RECORI? OF
HOTERFEREWCS
ft) 6R£tC6,
IN IRAN, IN
LAOS, IN
6£AATeMALA?
YEAH, MAT ABOUT
HUNGARY, KttA?
IT 5 JV6T SL’OI
(MfDCSW IHAf
iue mericaus
MUST ASM CUR.',
sears amidst/
_ /
BAH 4'f WILL
vme. foiee-
K\e u.s.
A6AKOST A
eociAusr
ALL Hf
BALONEY! US
WILE MEI/ER
TOLERATE SOVIET
BATES IN LATIM
AMERICA I
-K'We
TourMO
AflV/E T BASES
|(0 LfiTiM
micA-
-Nieff- Mp n/a
Mgveß Toieme
0.9-
gainst t\
SOCIAMST Ai-W.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
LOOK HOMEWARD, ANGELS
Yl/mcr is the moral of this year of
\* " theatre, closing now with the tradi-
tional cries of pantomime? It has been
isuch a cautionary tale of a year that it
[surely must have a moral some place. It
'has seen the very good have some tri-
umphs; it has seen the sentimental
'flourish; and the bad and awful perish.
Even that especial bad that is composed
of the best of intentions and poor execu-
tion has been punished severely. Pretence
Hand lack of skill in high places has
'brought down the mighty.
Above all, a new sophistication has
[come into the Sydney theatre market;
(hard seats and high hopes are no longer
e enough to command real cash in the
[house. This Sydney audience—whose
nultimate taste and appetite for good
I have steadfastly believed in for
:[ years—is after a “night out.” The play
Jmay be as serious as you please, it can be
jhigh, wonderful and difficult like “Ham
a :Funeral'’—and people will love it. It
can be off-beat, disorganised and inco-
herent like “The Caretaker”—and the
“House Full” signs will go up smartly.
What this means in hard terms is that
•our non-professional theatres must look
more to amenities. Some have done, so
far as limited funds allow. I single out
our non-professional theatres because on
the whole this is where the best plays
are to be seen. Our professional thea-
tres must not be allowed to think that
they are good enough, for they’re not.
For the little theatres the remedy isn't
simple, even if it's obvious. They need
angels. Angels are people who back
plays, back productions with hard cash,
folding money. They're damnably hard
to find in this great city.
The other moral of the year, is that,
next to angels, this theatre of ours needs,
and urgently, some first-rate producers
and directors.
I can only repeat what's been a preach-
ing point of mine for years past, that the
Elizabethan Trust ought to import, and
hang the expense, some of the world’s
best directorial and training people. The
impact, even for a year, of Michel Saint-
Denis, or Piscator, or Tyrone Guthrie, or
Jose Quintero, or Peter Brook, or Tony
Richardson, or many others, would be
of immense value to the Australian stage.
Finally, not morals but judgment of
the year. Best play—a toss between “A
Man For All Seasons” and “The Ham
Funeral.” Best production—way out,
“A Man For All Seasons,” which pro-
ducer Raymond Westerwell threw at us
like some great tapestry, and showed
there wasn't a theatre director in this
land to touch him.
Next best, Peter Coe’s direction of
“Oliver!” Best designed production—-
either Desmond Digby’s work for “A
Man For All Seasons” or Michelle's re-
markable collection of evocative attic
junk for “The Caretaker.” (Special bow
to Sean Kenney's London sets for
“Oliver!”) Mentions to J. Alan Kenyon
for “The Miracle Worker,” and another
mention to Michelle for the lona Passion
Play.
Best musical—the Firm's production
of “The Mikado,” pressed close by
“Oliver!” Best non-professional produc-
tion—another toss, between Hayes Gor-
don's “Five Finger Exercise,” at the
Ensemble, and May Hollinworth's “The
Caretaker” at the Independent. Warm
mentions to Norman McVicker's
“Amphitryon 38” at his Pocket Play-
house, and Peter Summerton's “Rope
Dancers,” and “Romanoff and Juliet,” at
the Independent. Also to John Clark
for an lonesco and a Pinter at NIDA’s
Old Tote Theatre. A special award for
gallantry to NIDA's “Power of Dark-
ness,” the tremendous Tolstoy epic.
Best acting—Robert Speaight as
Thomas More, in “A Man For All
Seasons”—for me, he stands out like a
mountain. Joan Bruce as Mrs Lusty in
“Ham Funeral.” Johnny Lockwood’s
Fagen (“Oliver!”). Grant Taylor as a
Duke, whose name escapes me, in “A
Man For All Seasons,” and also as a
magnificent Dutch merchant in the
Douglas Stewart play “Shipwreck” (a
fiery play produced like a damp squib).
Wiliam Aaron and James Scullin as the
son and father of “Five Finger Exercise.”
Don Philps in “Daughter of Silence” and
a brief brave role as the Captain in
“Joan of Arc.” Dennis Glenny’s Herod,
in the Wakefield Mystery plays. Best
revues —“Beyond the Fringe,” and the
non-professional “The Pleasure Seekers”
(Metropolitan Revue).
Biggest turkeys—the Elizabethan’s
Australian plays season at the Union
Theatre. Only one good play among
them—“ Shipwreck that ruined by
a producer utterly unequal to the job.
The rest only served to show the poverty
of the controlling intellects. The other
turkeys were Garnet Carroll's “Nina.”
and JCW’s “Under The Yum Yum Tree.”
Brightest hope of the year —the Aus-
tralian Ballet. Let's hope the Firm gets
generous and puts both Miss van Praagh
and Mr Ray Powell under nice fat long-
term contracts.
And a Happy New Year to all angels!
KEVON KEMP
IDEAL HOLIDAY FARE
The Matchmaker. Wilder. Emerald
Hill Theatre, Melbourne.
The King and I. Rodgers and
Hammerstein. Princess, Melbourne.
‘TFhe Matchmaker” is a farce with a
message that it is better to be
adventurous than tame. Had Mr Wilder
been content to allow his message to be
deduced from the action of the play, the
result might have been altogether delight-
ful some good fun, plus a small bone
to gnaw. But it has always been his
habit to philosophise; and so we have the
message, and various other reflections
about this and that, laboriously made ex-
plicit in a number of little footlight
speeches outside the action. This tends
to spoil the fun.
Wal Cherry’s production is sensibly
designed to preserve the fun at all costs,
and there is certainly plenty of it. Some
of the footlight speeches are taken so
fast, and in a style so fidgety, that they
barely interrupt the action at all. And
the action is zestful and stylish. This is
the best-balanced cast that Mr Cherry
has so far had at Emerald Hill. They
succeed in giving the play a kind of
unity which may not be quite what Mr
Wilder intended, but is probably the
best that can be actually achieved in
staging.
George Whaley gives the best comic


performance of the year in a part made
for his talents the show is abundantly
worth seeing for this alone. Gloria Mc-
Donall and Marie Redshaw, David
Kendall and Clive Winmill are all very
good, and the show succeeds in being
what producer and cast, at least, unam-
biguously want it to be ideal holiday
fare.
“npHE King and I” is a gracious and
A colorful show, stronger in story and
character than most musicals, and wider
in imaginative and emotional range. It is
sentimental but not sickly, and could
not possibly offend anyone, except, per-
haps, an angry young Siamese. In the
first act there are some rather tedious
set-pieces, in which large numbers of
people, sit or stand around in decorative
groups, and occasionally execute a care-
fully studied movement; and there are
more songs in front of tabs than is
usual or desirable in a modern musical.
But the best scenes have a genuinely
dramatic quality, and compel attention.
Some of the tunes are dull, but there are
several that are charming. All in all, the
show fills an evening very pleasantly.
The outstanding features of this pro-
duction are the design work of John
Truscott, and the performance of Sheila
Bradley as Anna. Mr Truscott’s sets and
costumes are of the highest order
indeed I cannot remember any other
popular show which has provided so
many beautiful things to look at. Miss
Bradley is a much better actress than
most musical comedy stars, and her
voice is delightful. She fills her role,
the most important in the play, to per-
fection Anna is a real and very
attractive person.
Jeff Warren, as the King, has two big
obstacles to overcome—the difficulty
(why was it made quite so difficult?) of
surviving comparison with Yul Brynner
in the role; and the misfortune of being
loaded with much of the weakest mater-
ial in the play. Though his voice is
rather light, he does very well indeed
when the opportunities are there—in two
of the biggest scenes, he and Miss
Bradley work together with a polished
professionalism that is rare and wonder-
ful to see. Geraldine Morrow, Lina
Denison, David Phillips and Andrew
Guild are good in other important roles
—John Rickard sings very well, but his
acting is stilted. The orchestra under Eric
Clapham provides a perfectly secure
basis for singing and action, but lacks
warmth of tone. Bill Yule’s dance
arrangements are pleasant but somewhat
undervitalised, and, in the performance
I saw, were insecurely presented.
JAMES MURPHY
MUSIC
"ALL ON THE FAVORITE"
The Third Mozart Festival, Sydney
Symphony Orchestra.
experienced concertgoer will have
A learned never to expect quite as
much from a choral concert as from a
purely orchestral concert, or a chamber
music recital. It is in the nature of
things, locally at any rate, that he will
not and cannot get as much.
For one thing, everyone knows that
choirs in Australia cannot have the pro-
fessional polish of ensembles we expect
in our orchestras. Nor are their instru-
ments as good. Because we have had a
Melba and a Sutherland people have
created a myth that Australians are great
singers. But this is a myth which will
not stand the test of choral performance,
a test which proves, if anything, that
Australians are not natural singers. A
tradition of choral ensemble, a spon-
taneous power of singing together, are
expressed among us only at quite primi-
tive levels —community singing (’all on
the favorite’) at the local theatre, ‘Auld
Lang Syne’ round the barbecue, miser-
able vernacular hymns on Sundays. All
on the favorite is the inviolable rule;
everybody sings the melody. Perhaps
this is democratic, but it is not the way
of the great singing nations.
This is not the whole story, though.
Less remarked but not less powerful is
the inhibiting effect which our halls have
on the quality of choral performance.
With goodwill and patience one can
learn to adjust the ear to the strange
things these halls do to the sound of an
orchestra, but this is not possible when
the orchestra is joined by a chorus.
Nuance, balance and gradation of tone,
subtleties of interpretation, pretty well
all must go overboard; if he is sensible,
the conductor will have to resort to a
kind of bush carpentry, hoping that mass
effects will measure up near enough tc
the ideal sound he has in his mind. This
is the context in which a reviewer faces
a major choral performance, and ii
makes it very hard to give clear and
detailed judgments on the standards oi
this performance. The third Mozar:
Festival concert in Sydney was a classit
case in point. The excellence of Deai
Dixon’s conducting was superbly con
firmed in the E-flat Symphony (K. 543),
a thoroughly fine performance in whicl
great authority and great humi lit;
worked together. Dixon looked for nt
special marks of interpretation, imposet
no commentaries or points of view to se
this up as his performance rather that
the performance of Krips or Walter. Hi
aim was to centre our attention, as fai
as is possible in any mortal performance
on the work in itself; which, properly un
derstood, has always seemed to me thi
best of all methods of playing Mozart.
The performance of the "Requiem’ 1
the only other work on the programme
I found much harder to estimate, foi
reasons that I have suggested. It seemec
that Dixon’s approach had the samt
stable objectivity as he had shown to
wards the symphony, but the unevenness
of the choir and the cavernous reverber-
ations of the Towm Hall prevented this
from getting across clearly. The orches-
tral timbres were mostly submerged
beneath the choral tone, and Dixon could
not get from the choir the same preci
sion, either of ensemble or of pitch, a:
the orchestra gave. Of the four soloist
the most attractive w'as the bass Ray
mond Myers, who sang with great vigo:
and confidently managed the wide leap
in his Tuba minim entry.
KENNETH HINC
TELEVISION
BAR THE SHOUTING
Light Me a Lucifer. John O’Grady.
A Melbourne ABC production.
4I O VERWRITTEN t h° u gb it was, it still
'"'presented the standard of Australian
writers’ (television) plays. It is strange
how consistently they fail.” This was
Peter Black's comment, in the London
“Daily Mail”, on Alan Seymour’s “The
One Day of the Year” or anyway, the
version of Black’s comment that appeared
in our newspapers. But that was not only
less than a good play, it was too much
centred around Anzac Day, an institu-
tion which no English critic could begin
to understand.
The same can be said of John O’-
Grady’s “Light Me a Lucifer”, which
could become a fairly good television
play, but not for English ears. The audio
side of it would be a torment for them.
It was to mine, too, in places.
Offered a play set in Sydney, the AB(
naturally produced it in Melbournt
where many people use louder voice
probably to be heard over Australia
noisiest traffic. Whether product
William Sterling was reflecting the loci
tonal qualities or O'Grady felt th.
everyone should shout, that’s certainl
what all members of the “weird mot
did. And in doing so they cut much o
the humor, if that’s what lines sue! a 1
“She’s not a bad old bag (the wife!
could be called. Grumbled affectionatel;
maybe, but shouted raucously, no.
The shouting was one of the mai
faults in “Lucifer”. Another was that
tried to stretch a thin situation to 1
minutes, which was at least 15 minuti
too long for a small joke. Lucifer isfl


getting enough recruits from Australia
and his agent, Stoker, challenges him to
do better. He tries, but cannot sell pride,
lust or any other deadly sin to the
“weird mob .
Some of the tries are cruder than we
should expect from Frank Thrmgs stock
Lucifer and his missus , Lilith, as por-
trayed lushly by Lynne Flanagan. On
one occasion when a weirdo ambled into
one occasion wnen a vyeuuo amoieu into
her bedroom in search of a drill to fix
his bike, she hauled him straight on to
a bed, which is no way to seduce a galah.
He babbled that “a man likes to do his
own chasin’ ” and ran.
There is always a hidden crevasse be-
tween lusty humor and crudeness, and
on television it is easy to plunge. This
, . j r. i .u-
scene was plain crude. But despite this
r
and many other reservations, including
some about the writing, too many fluffs
by the cast, and the fact that the play
aimed for belly laughs or at least cackles
but failed to rock me, “Lucifer” was a
good cut aboye any other of 1962 ’ s
effort§ tQ present an acceptable Austra-
television Mr O’Gradv
u ,? , y ? n 1 eV 0 : Mr D Grady
should be begged to write another, and
Flan aaan TTarric anH Pnwp
the Ml . sse . s Flanagan, Harris and Rowe
to act in The y were g° od -° h -
One thing sure to puzzle the English
viewer, if shown the Melbourne version,
is the Australian housewife who lives in
a modern home but cleans her carpets
with a millet broom. Those wonderful,
weird Australians.
FRANK ROBERTS
FILMS
LONG DAY AT THE O'NEILLS
Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Palace. Sydney.
Tn dour defiance of the holiday spirit,
A Sidney Lumet's brilliantly harrowing
film version of O’Neill's “Long Day’s
Journey Into Night” moved into the
Palace Theatre in Sydney on Boxing
Day.
The Palace has swung between films
and live theatre through the post-war
years, and this is the first movie to be
seen there since the Elizabethan Theatre
Trust recently gave up its lease of the
theatre. But the film could not have
been more tactfully chosen to console
theatre-lovers for the loss, for it is a
devoted, punctilious, and superbly acted
representation of the stage play, at least
as theatrical in its appeal as it is filmic.
The spirit of dedication evident in the
making of this film is an indication of
the towering prestige that O’Neill seems
to possess in America at a time when
sc many of the playwrights of his gen-
eration are more or less out of fashion.
Whether or not one goes all the way
with this admiration there is no doubt
that his most successful plays—of which
this is certainly one —do arrive ultimately
at an impression of craggy power, despite
his unreasonably gloomy view of human-
ity, despite his lack of economy and
art-concealing art, and despite the feel-
ing (less evident in this play) that some
of his characters are more like cases
out of a psychology textbook than liv-
ing people.
“Long Day’s Journey,” as every-
one knows, is autobiographical—a man-
sized slice from the doom-shadowed
family life of the O’Neills. Eugene
himself appears in the character of
Edmund Tyrone, a restlessly unhappy
young man, with no confidence as yet
,n his literary talent, who learns in the
early stages of the play that he has
tuberculosis.
Set beside his vain and disappointed
ex-actor father, his drug-addicted mother
and his aicoholic elder brother he
emerges as the most hopeful member of
the family. (The play leaves untold the
later tragedies that beset O'Neill and his
family even in his years of success.)
These four hack at one another’s
nerves and excoriate one another’s illu-
sions until all the past history of the
four of them and something of the
history of their forebears as well have
been mercilessly laid bare and picked
over. There are moments towards the
end of the film’s 174 minutes when even
the dogged masochist must wish that
they would all cut it out. But when it
ends one finds despite oneself that the
story has so taken possession of the
mind that return to the world of
normality outside the theatre is a major
effort of readjustment.
All four main players in this film
(that is, apart from one minor character,
all the players in it) received awards for
acting at the last Cannes Film Festival.
This was not just an enthusiastic gesture
on the judges’ part: it would be hard to
remember another film in which the
whole cast was so skilful, so shrewdly
chosen and so sympathetically directed.
But Ralph Richardson’s portrait of
the father still dominates the film. It
is both virtuoso performance, with all
the mannerisms and pomposities proper
to an old actor who had once been
praised by Booth, and a profoundly in-
ward study of a tragic buffoon who tries
to conceal from himself that he is the
author of his own failure, and to some
extent also the begetter of his family’s
sorrows.
Katharine Hepburn, as the mother,
has the virtuosity but not depth of
Richardson. Superficiality, of course, is
part of the role she plays—that of a
neurotic woman who feels she has mar-
ried beneath her and lives either in a
brittle pretence that everything in her
home life is as “nice” as she would like
it, or else in morphine-induced dreams
of a genteel childhood. There may be
times when one feels that the fluttery
gestures, though entirely appropriate,
are just the old Hepburn tricks, but she
rises to demands of the role in the heart-
chilling final scene.
Jason Robards, Jun., is the alcoholic
son, Dean Stockwell the consumptive.
Both—but especially the former—bring
passionate conviction to their portrayals.
To say that the film is primarily a
faithful record of the play is not to deny
the superb cinematic skill with which
director Sidney Lumet sets and controls
the mood.
MARTIN LONG
"This is Mr Hunter—he is halfway through the course."


THE RED PAGE
THE FOOLS OF EUROPE
Why the English dislike Katherine Anne Porter
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Ship of Fools. Katherine Anne Por-
ter. Seeker and Warburg. 375. 3d.
V/Tra Cruz, Mexico, 1931. On the eve
of the Hitlerian nightmare, a Ger-
man freighter, the Vera, is sailing for
Bremerhaven with German businessmen,
a Spanish dance company, a handful of
itinerant Americans and 876 sugar plan-
tation workers-leaving Mexico after the
failure of the sugar market. This Narren-
schiff of Europeans and Latin Americans,
a microcosm of the period, sails its dis-
mal voyage across Caribbean and Atlan-
tic, revealing through its discomforts and
acrimonies the temper and spirit of its
passengers. The theme is not new; it has
been the basis for many novels, plays and
poems; what Katherine Anne Porter has
done in “Ship of Fools” is to take the
structure of a dead-sure best-seller and
turn it inside out for her own, ironic
ends.
The presence of the book on the
American best-seller lists, the attacks on
its supposed superficiality and glibness in
the London Press, would suggest that it
has been taken at its face value. The
ironical Miss Porter must take wry
pleasure in this possibility. Underlying
the book’s surface is a most acute and
subtle sending up of the whole Vicki
Baum-Louis Bromfield tradition of multi-
character omnibi fashionable at the time
“Ship of Fools” is staged. Books of that
character tended to console. Their people
were in some way lovable, wise in a
crisis, beautiful and whole. Miss Porter
does not console. She is an anti-humanist,
just saved from savage bitterness by her
detachment and feline sense of humor.
Her people (with the exception of two
edgy young Americans and the ship’s
doctor) are disagreeable, stupid, often
ugly, and in various stages of psychic
dissolution. The real ship of fools is
Europe—a failed civilisation, which has
ruined souls at the very moment of
fulfilling their most celestial aspirations.
This is a novel about the collapse of a
world, observed from another world
—America —working toughly towards its
greatest triumphs.
It is this American viewpoint which
gives the whole novel its peculiar and
consistent fascination: the viewpoint of
an America emancipated (as Australia
still is not) from subservience to Euro-
pean intellectual power. Miss Porter uses
her novel to make a specific and pro-
found criticism of Europe, not from the
point of view of a gifted but uncouth
country cousin (as Hemingway's was)
but from the point of view of a knuckle-
rapping and wittily destructive aunt. Her
book teems with specific and small-scale
sorties against European thinking: it
is against class distinction, against
snobbism, against cruelty in leisure and
business, against stiffness, hypocrisy, and
self-importance. By a further twist of
irony, America has, during the two de-
cades it took Miss Porter to write this
book, become increasingly European it-
self, and is therefore subject in many re-
spects to the transatlantic criticisms the
novel contains. This gives a nice ambi-
guity (not always intentional) to the
portraits of the Americans on board the
Vera.
The book’s style is fluent, simple, and
persuasive, with little distinction of lan-
guage: the surface has been made deli-
berately plain and transparent so as to
avoid any blurring of the gradual analysis
of character. The real brilliance of the
book lies less in decoration or tricks of
style than in acute and penetrating ob-
servation: this writing is the antithesis
of Lawrence Durrell’s. The sophisti-
cation, never ostentatious, is deeply in-
grained in the author’s nature: the eye is
undeceived, the brain cool and merciless.
No one is spared, yet one doesn’t get the
impression, as in so many misanthropic
novels, that the author is by inference
patting himself on the back. Miss Porter
is too humorous, too callous, to spare
herself.
Her hatreds are specific and plainly
stated. She hates the dirt, muddle and
feverishness of Latin American life (her
descriptions of Mexico are written in
venom) but hates still more the Northern
European contempt for the Latin (and
Mediterranean) races and their tragic
confusions. Her sharpest weapons are
reserved for the contemptuous Aryans on
board the Vera, their psychotic emphasis
on purity of blood, their fanatical and
heartless emphasis on efficiency. At
times, her portraits of the Europeans she
hates are practically caricatures—the
Huttens and their dreadful bulldog Bebe
—at times deadly miniatures (the note-
book-keeping Frau Rittersdorf). And
there is one character, the little huncl
back Karl Glocken with his bursts c'
fanatical humor and desire to play th
violin, his need to keep up with th
normal young men in his cabin, who i
made to act as a prototype for the whol
deformed, crushed and eager-to-pleas
white-collar world which bent the kne
for Hitler.
With extraordinary suppleness, Mis
Porter moves from one person to anothei
keeping their separateness clear, leadin
one closer and closer to an understands
of the parts each one plays, and is des
tined to play, in the tragic microcosm o
the voyage. Her method is slightly diffei
ent from that of most chronicler-nov<
lists: she presents what appears to be 1
completely rounded character in the earl
stages, then suddenly makes one awar
that the circle had not been complete
after all, that all kinds of odd breaks i
the rounded mould can occur. Mar
Treadwell, the American tourist (wh
has certain resemblances, perhaps nc 1
wholly intended, with Miss Porter hei
self) appears at first to be a kind of trirr
empty expatriate, Paris-orientated, hide
bound, a trifle too civilised. With th
book’s successive events, she is show
to be far more primitive, more simpli
destructive, towards others than her trim
clean, nostalgic picture of herself ha
led her to believe. In other words, w
begin with her picture of herself (presen
ted as though it were the real one) an
then gradually learn that the picture m
a pretence, and that she uneasily learn
this as the book closes.
It is, in fact, a novel about pretence
about the fact that people gradually torn
comforting (or self-destructive) picture
of themselves which they carry about to
a lifetime. Implicit in the book is ai
ironic criticism of the intensive construe
tion by great civilisations of an arbitrar
set of systems which make life seem t
be important. In the ocean which sui
rounds the ship of fools, the laws are in
personal, consistent and soulless. Th
tides run, fish are spawned, fertilise an.
die, moon and sun run their courses
and in the long run nothing matters ei.
cept the grand and self-sufficient desigr
In the ship, the people are oblivious c
this truth, wrapped in absurdly petty it
trigues, squabbles, class differences th
whole fidgeting, coruscating an
ridiculous comedy of civilisation. It need
no great intelligence to set the Porte
vision of the ship against a wider visioi
of the world in empty space. Age, detach
ment and spiritual simplicity have led he
to an understanding, not of the absurdit
of life, but of the absurdity of wha
people have made of it.
This is, of course, a morality play, an
Katherine Anne Porter has made in
a statement of philosophy in the conte*


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stott's can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting to pay well for good work.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE 8163
of a grand design. The book therefore
’has to be judged as a major work—the
1 first major novel in the English language
1 since Patrick White's “Riders in the
1 Chariot,” and no less misanthropic in its
* conclusions. In weight and mass the
’ novel seems to me major; in its profound
’ observation of human beings, also; and I
believe that, though it is much disliked
s in England, it is destined to be regarded
ias one of the great novels in the lan-
i guage. Yet, like all major books, it has
i major flaws —it is not a small, perfect
s masterpiece of microcosmic observation
i like a Jane Austen or a Trollope. The
i faults are big: effects are misjudged, the
j writing sometimes collapses (as White’s
does) into the pretentiously misshapen,
some of the Europeans seem to me total
misfires, and the love-affair of the young
Americans David and Jenny is stiflingly
and cloyingly dwelt on. Brilliant set-
pieces—the anti-Semitic outbreak that
results in a ghastly confusion about din-
ing saloon seating arrangements, the long
and stunning episode of the twins’ jetti-
soning of the bulldog—are followed inex-
plicably by anticlimatic ramblings; the
last fifth of the book seems to have been
hastily and impatiently rushed out. But
if the book does offer its flaws and rifts, it
offers them in a marvellous design. It is
an intensely American book: events every
day, as one reads it, render it more central
to our time, more politically rewarding
of study.
THE LIBERAL MYTH IN SOUTH AFRICA
Shadow and Substance in South
i Africa. C. M. Tatz. University of
f Natal Press.
£
“Tf only gold had been found in the
[ middle of the native Reserves” is
j a frequent lament of Liberals in South
Africa. They cynically believe that the
, discovery of precious minerals would
] have meant the admission of whites into
( areas set aside for Africans and this
f might have exploded one of the most
t devastating myths in South African
politics. The myth is tha f no matter
how badly Africans may be treated in
s “white” areas in the cities, the mines
11 and on white farms they always have
e their own homelands to which they can
3 return if they wish. The more restric-
-11 tions are imposed on Africans, the more
c promises there are of rights and develop-
ments in “their own areas” —in the
ti Reserves, which under Dr. Verwoerd’s
ii apartheid are the basis for future
ii Bantustans.
h
1( Mr Tatz’s book is a study of how this
~ notion of rights quid pro quo has
in the fields of land and
franchise policies. He traces the steps
by which Africans have been deprived
of the few political rights they had, par-
ticularly the old Cape franchise. In
return they were promised land and
enlargement of the Reserves. White
politicians claimed Africans were asked
to surrender the “shadow” of the vote
for the “substance” of land. But promises
to grant more land have rarely been
honoured; for the African there has been
little of substance. To use terms em-
ployed by other writers, apartheid in
these as in other fields has tended to be
far more “negative” than “positive”. As
Hofmeyr said in 1936: “It is the
Africans who have done all of the giving
and none of the taking.”
Tatz presents useful detailed analyses
of the various franchise and land policies
including recent legislation of the
Verwoerd Government. It is here that
his contribution lies. His claim that he
demonstrates the essential sameness of
the native policies pursued by all South
African Governments is true enough in
very general terms. But he protests too
much that the mistaken notion of history
which would consider apartheid policies
as the invention of die Nationalists in
1948 must be swept away. For there has
scarcely been an informed writer on
South Africa in the last decade or more
and there has been a deluge of books
- who has not demonstrated that the
policies of Malan. Strydom and
Verwoerd are extensions and develop-
ments of policies pursued since the
creation of the Union of South Africa.
My deepest impression on reading this
account of the struggles and debates—
among whites over the rights of
Africans is that no South African
politician has been able to speak in
color-free or non-racial terms. Even
the most Liberal seem to think in terms
of “them and us”. The fears of the
white electorate that ;hey will eventually
be dominated by the blacks must be
pandered to. Even J. H. Hofmeyr, “the
prince of Kafferboeties” [Bantuphiles]
who wanted greater political rights for
Africans argued that this would not lead
to miscegenation. Has any South African
public figure dared to say or even think
that miscegenation doesn’t matter?
The argument has always been that
because the whites have a right to self-
preservation and because they will never
accept a common society, some form of
segregation, apartheid or separate de-
velopment is necessary in fairness to the
Africans. Perhaps the real tragedy is
that the opponents of these ideas have
usually opposed details rather than
principles. The most Liberal have com-
promised, one feels, not only because of
the pressure of the electorate but
because, even to them, a common society
was inconceivable. The feeling of color
has so rarely been transcended there
have been in South African history not
even the germs of a common society of
Africans and whites, either in the
practices or even in the minds of a
minority of men.
JOAN RYDON
DAVID BURN
Eunice Hanger, English Department,
University of Queensland, is looking for
any biographical material on David
Burn, author of PLAYS AND FUGI-
TIVE PIECES, published Hobart 1842,
and of a MS play, THE BUSH-
RANGERS. Burn lived in Tasmania,
Sydney, and Auckland, between 1826
and 1875.


TORTURE AND TERRORISM
Djamila Boupacha. Simone de Beau-
voir and Gisele Halini. Translated
from the French original by Peter
Green. Andre Deutsch and Weiden-
feld & Nicolson.
TAjamila Boupacha, an Algerian girl
of twenty-three, was a liaison agent
for the rebel Algerian Front de la Libera-
tion Nationale (FLN). One night in
February, 1960, the Boupacha home at
Dely Ibrahim, near Algiers, was raided
by a large group of French security
forces. After a rough search, during
which Djamila and her father were
beaten up and the rest of the family
knocked about, Djamila, her father and
brother-in-law were arrested and taken
to separate gaols. Two days later her
sister was arrested. While held by the
French security forces they were all
repeatedly and systematically tortured in
an attempt to extract information.
Djamila was then charged with planting
a bomb discovered and rendered
harmless before it could go off —in
the University restaurant. This charge
she denied, although she had freely
admitted her association with the FLN.
For a while Djamila was held in gaol
without some formalities being observed
this had given rise to her lawyer‘s
subsequent claims of “illegal detention”.
The book was written by Djamila’s
capable defence lawyer, Maitre Gisele
Halini —an attractive young French-
lunisian woman barrister, specialising
in defending FLN members during trials
before French military courts in Algeria.
Simone de Beauvoir, the famous
French writer, wrote a passionate intro-
duction denouncing the French Govern-
ment for tolerating the use of torture
against rebel prisoners in Algiers and
castigating French public opinion for its
complacency. The book was published
by a special committee formed by some
leading French intellectuals to secure
justice for Djamila Boupacha.
The facts of the notorious Djamila
Boupacha affair are grim and revolting.
Not only was Djamila stripped naked on
several occasions and brutally tortured
—it would serve little purpose to
describe all the disgusting things done
to her but on one occasion she was
deflowered with a bottle.
Through her lawyer, Maitre Halini,
Djamila succeeded in lodging formal
charges against her torturers, many of
whom she did not know by name.
Simultaneously, the authorities pressed
on with their charges of bomb-planting.
Through the efforts of the vociferous
Boupacha Committee the case created
a major scandal in France and became
headline news throughout the world.
As expected, French officialdom re-
acted bitterly to the vigorous press cam-
paign— which, in all fairness, often had
pretty vicious anti-Gaullist undercones—-
and did its best to stall the case. The
military and judicial authorities in Algiers
were, of course, directly involved and
did all they could to have the case dis-
posed of quietly. Again, in fairness, it
must be said that Djamila’s counsel and
the Boupacha Committee did their
utmost to provoke and infuriate the
Algiers military and judicial authorities
and the violently anti-FFN “pieds-noirs”
Algiers bar.
Gisele Halini’s well written, but un-
abashedly partisan narrative deals in
detail with the legal and political com-
plexities of the case, which slowly un-
ravelled itself against the background of
the gruesome Algerian war.
Due to the efforts of Maitre Halini
and the Boupacha Committee, Djamila
was transferred from Algiers to France,
and her case removed from the jurisdic-
tion of Algiers courts. An independent
and conscientious French investigating
magistrate had then carefully examined
Djamila’s charges and became convinced
she was telling the truth.
But before any further steps could
be taken, Djamila’s torturers and ad-
versaries had to be brought to France
from Algeria. These were the turbulent
days of the “generals’ revolt” and of
continuing wholesale slaughter.
It is a tribute to France that, at a
time when her historical Algerian empire
was crumbling, when sedition and fierce
local loyalties were almost tearing the
Fifth Republic asunder, so many
prominent Frenchmen had rushed to the
defence of one young Algerian girl who
had fought against French interests and
proudly admitted that.
And despite the natural hostility oi
the administrative machine, there wert
enough honest and conscientious officials,
judges and policemen to conduct at
impartial investigation in an explosive
situation.
The Evian agreement signed in
March, 1962, brought a general amnestj
for all Moslem political prisoners and
by the same token, gave immunity fron
prosecution to all Frenchmen and Mos-
lems who had violated the letter or spiff
of the law while fighting the FLN
Djamila went free. So did her torturers
Gisele Halim's book is not pleasant
or easy to read. Her description of tor
tures undergone by Djamila is accuratt
and almost clinical. But in other matter
she is emotional and openly prejudiced.
Detailed description of the varioi-
legal moves and court battles is ofter
fascinating. But as the French lega
system is so different from Australia's
it may be a bit hard to follow.
One-sidedness is the gravest fault ol
the book. It would have been consider-
ably more convincing if a few words
were said about some of the FLK
practices as well. It is true that many
French units used frightful methods
fighting the Algerian nationalists. But il
is also true that the FFN itself had used
individual and mass terror against
Europeans and hostile Moslems as its
standard weapon, had systematically
wiped out unsympathetic Moslem settle
ments and had freely resorted tc
murder and torture.
Algeria’s future depends on how soon
can such things as Djamila’s ordeal bt
forgotten though not necessarily for
given.
EUGENE BAJEOWS
THE SENSITIVE CONVICT
Quintus Servinton, Henry Savery.
Edited by Cecil Hardgraft. jaca-
randa. 355.
Among the turgid flood of Australiana,
good, bad and not even indifferent,
which is hitting (and must be staggering)
the Australian market just now, a few
volumes are to be found which need re-
printing; which are well and appropria-
tely printed and not over edited by
people of little pretension to learning.
One of these is Henry Savery’s
Quintus Servinton, issued by the Jaca-
randa Press in a volume of 391 pages.
It is notable for several things. It ob-
viously marks the emergence of an enter-
prising publisher, whose headquarters
are in Queensland, and who is able not
only to produce books which compare if
type and general character with thosf
that come out of European publishini
houses, but to do it at a reasonable
price. The 355. which is the retail pric
of the foil cloth edition compares re
markably, for instance, with the 47s 6
marked on Macmillan and Birch's Syd
ney about the same length, issued by tfc
Melbourne University Press, even thougl
the Jacaranda book has no illustration
save a frontispiece and a facsimile o
the original title page of the first edition
Secondly, it is an excellent piece o
editorial production by Mr Cecil fl
Hardgraft, Reader in English at Queens
land University, who had the backing Cj
the Commonwealth Literary Fund an


of research funds granted by the Uni-
versity.
His biographical introduction is ex-
cellent, an original piece of work of
value to the study of the history of the
personalities of the convict age, written
after obviously careful consultation of
main available sources. He does not
follow the current fashion of academic
editors of subordinating the book and its
author to their own opinions and, often
amateurish, explanations and notes. In-
deed, he is more than generous in ack-
nowledging help from others in its pre-
paration than he is in obtruding himself;
and in that help he was more than for-
tunate in having that of the capable and
enthusiastic little band of young scholars
of the Tasmanian Archives who are
doing remarkable work with all too short
financial resources, and of collections
like the Calder Papers.
Moreover, unlike some other editors
of early Australian texts, Mr Hardgraft
has kept his head as an editor. He does
not follow the custom of some intro-
ducers of early texts and trumpet the
supposed genius of an author who is
very obviously an amateur, and who
throughout much of his work writes with
a dull and depressing unhandiness, even
though he has his moments-
His summing up of the qualities of
the book which warrant its claim to be
reprinted in a modern edition is a just
one.
Savery’s sad career was very much
like that of his fellow Bristolian Green-
way, save that the motives which led
him to forgery and nearly resulted in his
being hanged were not the worthy, if
hairbrained, ones which put Greenway in
the same unhappy position. The subse-
quent careers of both were parallel after
they had been reprieved and transported,
allowing for the difference between the
primitive and nearly illiterate conditions
of New South Wales of the early Mac-
quarie age into which Greenway was
decanted, and the comparatively literate
and culturally enterprising conditions of
Van Diemen’s Land in the 1820 s and
1830 s.
Both went through travail of various
kinds, drank, fell into debt, returned to
the practice of forgery and died in miser-
able circumstances. Greenway was by
far the more stable character of the two
(which was not saying so much), and
both has the sensitiveness of educated
men among shameful and brutalising
circumstances. Greenway, however,
escaped the horrors of an end in the
horrible prison of Port Arthur which was
Savery’s lot, and left us noble and cha-
racteristic architecture which may now
be described as immortal since it was the
first of its standards in Australia.
He died in penury and obscurity.
Savery, without Greenway’s cultural
background, but with one of ancient
lineage, wealth and cultivated middle-
class living among the sugar merchants
of Bristol, left us one of the earliest
works of fiction by an Australian and an
example of the amazing enterprise of
primitive printing industry of Hobart.
The courage of Henry Melville in
publishing, in 1830, a three decker about
the local scene chiefly designed for ex-
port to England, with only a few re-
served for sale in Tasmania, is one of
the unsung acts by an Australian printer
that deserves a medal. No doubt the
courage of Elder Smith in sponsoring the
book in England was almost as remark-
able. It is to Melville, ncidentally, that
we owe the positive identification of the
author.
Mr Hardgraft sums up Quintus Servin-
ton as “a good human document,” auto-
biographical like most of its kind, “most
true in its analysis of what he (the
author) was, less true in description and
narration of what he did” and containing
not “much tearful contrition or whining
exculpation.” He calls it a “valuable and
interesting” picture of convict life as
experienced by the educated convict
and so it is if you make allowance for
the natural exaggerations caused by ob-
sessions, anger and suffering. The editor
declares that “simply as a novel, it still
has power to tell a story. It its ob-
vious defects: it is often longwinded, and
its general comments on life in general
can become tiresome; its style is to our
ears intolerably orotund”.
I did not find it “intolerably” so, but
being accustomed to rereading the
eighteenth-century novelists inures one
to its characteristically eighteenth-cen-
tury rhythm and tempo Mr Hardgraft
himself seems to suggest that it belongs
with all its formality to the pre-Fielding
era.
It, however, shares with most of the
great novelists of the pristine English
age the quality of being able to maintain
suspense, and this redeems a lot of fault
of dullness, prosiness and lack of selec-
tiveness and power to condense.
It is a work which craved tc be re-
printed, apart from its historical signifi-
cance, because it is very -•are and only
three copies one in the Mitchell
Library, one in the Tasmanian Public
Library and one in possession of Dr
Crowther are catalogued in Ferguson.
We are fortunate to have it reproduced
so capably without attempts to cure its
vagaries of style, or reform its spelling
and punctuation. It is a valuable and
in typography and presentation an at-
tractive addition to printed Australian
source material.
M. H. ELLIS
THE PADDOCK
The Paddock That Grew. The story of
the Melbourne Cricket Club. Keith
Dunstan. Cassell 455.
Jf this book was among your Christmas
gifts, don't hesitate to open and read
it. The story is never dull and ferocious
photographs of pioneering club officials
are kept to a minimum.
There is a credit for “research by Hugh
Field,” and Mr Field’s contribution is
powerful in the first 80 pages, which bowl
along through the years to 1900 with
plenty of Old Melbourne atmosphere as
well as Club and cricket history. At
random, you read of amateur Dr Grace
agreeing to tour for £l5OO while the
English professionals received £l7O each;
of NSW players in “drill pants, guernseys
and either bare feet or socks”; of the
Yarra flooding the MCC ground; of
underarm and roundarm bowlers; and of
Spofforth refusing to bowl in the first
Test Match because he could not nomin-
ate his own wicketkeeper. There are also
echoes of the times —Separation, the gold
rush, railways, booms and bursts, and
Federation.
The chapters after 1900 are much
more cricket and less life and times.
The Club’s fight against a Board of Con-
trol, the 1912 row over the selection of
a team to tour England, the 1913 deci-
sion to cut down 11 memorial trees (“no
longer was it like a country ground; now
forever it was to be a big sports arena”)
and similar events are all described in
a straightforward style.
As the story approaches modern times,
the Tests and the controversies and the
Bradman years, the war years and the
Olympic Games period are all well done,
ending with the West Indians tour and,
“When Wes hit the br-11 he clouted it. One
time he broke his bat. Actually he more
than broke it; the bat gloriously disinte-
grated. He made a gesture of mock in-
dignation, then went to shape up to
Davidson just holding the handle.”
As you can see, Keith Dunstan is a
good all-round journalist who follows
and writes about cricket in a rolling, un-
affected style.
Cassell’s had the book printed in Mel-
bourne by a distinguished Australian
printing house, Wilke and Co. Ltd. Its
58 pictures are distributed through the
volume in groups, and there are useful
appendices and an index. It’s a hand-
some book, and one that does live up to
its cover.
DISCUS


On time...
every time
s* x ?
i ,
mm
jf
L
Q
£-3
kUi
m
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipme"
especially designed for fast sate transportation, Mayne Nickits
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways. t
facilitate the fast handling of ail goods, Mayne Kickless raais
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS U!
. INCORPORATING ANTILL P.ANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightwaf
SYDNEY* MELBOURNE-BRISBAKE-PERt
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWS ASTI
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOB AB
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEE!
THE MAN
ON THE
LAND
THE OPPORTUNIST STATE
By MARIEL LEE
its earliest beginnings South
Australia, third largest but least
naturally endowed Australian State, has
been quick to see, and to seize, opport-
unities; if necessary, making those op-
portunities, or finding them in seeming
disaster. Why, even its long, hot, dry
summers have proved ideal for recover-
ing salt, gypsum and alkaline by-products
from seawater controlled in shallow
coastal lagoons.
Less than one-quarter of South Aus-
tralia’s 380,070 square miles is fertile,
but this was early made to produce
fruit, wine, vegetables, oats, wheat and
barley. Mallee scrubs were cleared for
greater production; and grazing in great
stretches of mulga, saltbush, sand-dune
and semi-desert country was exploited by
adventurous pastoralists.
South Australia, which in 1857 pro-
duced nearly £1 million worth of wheat,
promised to become Australia’s granary.
The mechanical stripper, and new United
Kingdom markets for breadstuffs in-
duced greater production until, by 1886,
two million acres were under wheat.
Undeterred by Federation (under
which New South Wales and Victoria
outstripped her in wheat-growing) or the
1914 drought, which destroyed four-
fifths of that year’s crop, South Australia
at every opportunity increased her wheat
acreage which, when the Depression
drove urban unemployed back to the
land, reached a record eight million
acres.
Low prices for the consequent bumper
harvest greatly reduced this but, stimu-
lated anew by high post-war prices and
scientific correction of soil deficiencies,
which made fertile formerly useless tracts
of Kangaroo Island and the Ninety Mile
Desert, South Australia now sows about
four million acres to wheat and barley.
Pastoralists, confident that good sea-
sons would last, settled along the Over-
land Telegraph Line. When a dry cycle
inevitably returned, overgrazed herbage
gave out, and wells were failing, only
the staunchest and most far-seeing stayed
on their holdings. Yet, in the tail-end
of that dry cycle, South Australia began
building the Transcontinental Railway!
South Australia owes an incalculable
debt to its pastoralists. Thomas Elder,
founder of the great stock firm of Elder
Smith and Co., liberally fostered State
development. From his station empire,
which grew from Beltana, bought in
1862, to the size of Scotland, came
camels and cash to help, and in one
case completely outfit those exploring
expeditions which enlarged South Aus-
tralia’s pastoral areas.
But perhaps South Australia’s greatest
opportunist is “Honest Tom” Piayford,
Premier since 1938. He has furthered his
State’s progress to the envy of her
neighbors. His astute leadership, preca-
rious though his present majority is, re-
cently united the whole Assembly on the
question of Federal aid to standardise
the Port Pirie-Broken Hill railway. His
constant policy is “Industrialise, and put
the deserts to work.” For the deserts,
which breed resourceful men, contain
mineral wealth iron for heavy in-
dustries in the desert towns, Whyalla,
Port Augusta and Port Pirie; copper,
smaller but still valuable quantities ol
gold, silver, lead, opal, barites, talc
phosphate rock, manganese, uraniun
ores, pyrites, graphite, magnesite, beryl
and clays.
From Morgan pipelines carry Murray
water half across the State to Port Pirie,
Port Augusta and Whyalla, beyond to
Woomera and down riverless Yorkt
Peninsula. From Mannum another pipe
line feeds Murray water into Adelaide’s
supply system. Irrigation has made the
lower Murray wilderness a fertile land oi
vines, citrus and stone fruits.
When Victorian gold rushes drained
South Australia of workers, disruptin'
mining and industry and burdening the
State with destitute families, Governoi
Sir Henry Young took opportunism
action. His 1852 Bullion Act, offerin'
higher than current rates for gold, anc
its safe escort to Adelaide, secured his
State a share of profit and attracted
diggers back.
With mines and railways working
again, under better conditions secured
by trades unions after 1861, South Aus-
tralia’s 17,000 workers in a thousand
factories produced an exportable surplus
of agricultural machinery, boots, wine
and processed foodstuffs, one-tenth of
the State’s total exports.
South Australia’s 1886 depression was
relieved by opportunism. A promptly-
built railway tapped Broken Hill’s great
silver-lead-zinc deposits, for which it
built huge smelters at Port Pirie. Further
relief came from the Chaffey brothers'
irrigation experiments at Renmark.
South Australia entered Federation
with a disproportionately heavy public
debt, her industries crippled by the loss
of tariff protection. Here again was the
Government’s opportunity to pursue a
more vigorous expansion program, even
more needed when, in 1930, the State
had Australia’s highest unemployment
rate. New roads, railways, harbor instal-
lations, drainage and water schemes were
planned and implemented, with such
private enterprise co-operation as the
Broken Hill Proprietary’s Iron Knob-
Whyalla tramway to facilitate export ol
iron ores to New South Wales.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Halcyon days ahead of us?
In 1962 the economy lifted from the slough of the previous
year’s despond and now moves into a new year with its
feet on solid stable ground but with as yet few signs of
letting its hair down, of becoming exciting.
The truth is that although the recession has passed, some
deep inhibitions bred in the recession remain, and, until they
are rooted out, the economy is unlikely to be as gay as we’d
like to see it as it moves on to higher ground.
For one thing, undoubtedly the legacy of losses of the over-
extended developers is going to take a lot of forgetting with
so many receivers at large and schemes of arrangement two
a penny, a warning to anybody thinking of bold development.
And, make no mistake, we need boldness somewhere in the
economy even if it only acts as a psychological spur to the
conservative and less adventurous souls to lift their vision.
Australia is better off, even more prosperous, certainly more
wise, and possibly more sophisticated because of the boldness
of Stanley Korman, Leslie Hooker and the rest although their
leadership in the boom development of 1960 has ended so
tragically for them and the 200,000 investors that have gone
down with them.
The dashing entrepreneur is needed, then, to set the top rate
from which we can all follow to lesser degrees. But, he is
unlikely to reappear this year.
In the early months of the year at any rate the prospect of
possible liquidations of the vast book estates of Stanhill and
Reid Murray alone is going to be a sobering reminder to
those with predilections for fringe activities financed on borrow-
ed money. Also, a public so lately hard bitten is likely to be
shy for a long time yet of being goaded into squandering its
savings on high sounding development.
1>ut there is more than that behind the still cautious mood
of business to be rid of before one could confidently
predict a straight line graph of rising buoyancy this year.
For instance, the Government’s own determination not to
sacrifice stability for political objectives is a warning to business
not to proceed on the assumption of pending inflation.
Business is not blind to the fact that bumper loan raisings
have taken the sting out of the stimulants and made nonsense
of the Budget’s sums.
Again, though there is evidence of more liberal hire purchase
financing, spending in the Christmas period had a distinct
trace of lingering caution about it and the latest savings
figures also reflect this. In a word, spending, except perhaps
on motor cars, is still on sober lines and even if it could well
become more expansive as the new year proceeds, business is
not forecasting a sales bonanza.
Nor are bosses themselves in a generous mood. As far as
one knows only workers at the Carlton and United Breweries
got a week’s extra pay plus free beer at Christmas and they
had to strike to get it. On the same theme, one of the biggest
companies in the land telephoned us its seasonal greetings,
saying it wasn't sending out any cards this year. But worse,
parties seem to have been “for staff only” this season.
Then there is the considerable unused industrial capacity,
which in itself acted as a brake on new capital expenditure
in 1962 and still appears to be doing so. Although one would
expect a progressive expansion of new industrial investment
as the New Year proceeds there are reservations, mainly on
the score of interest rates, another imponderable for business.
|Tigh interest rates continue to cloud business expectations and
could well do so for some months, for it seems unlikely
that any change will be made in the long term bond rate for
the next Government loan in February, unless of course
economic activity is flagging by that time; that is improbable
on present portents.
Still on imponderables, business has to take full account of
the possibility of a steep increase in the basic wage in February,
when, with the economy sound and moving forward the
Arbitration Commission may well implement its decision to
re-introduce cost of living adjustments to the basic wage.
In planning ahead, business has to take the cost implications
of this into account, also the possibility of new increases in
margins and, less immediate perhaps, an additional week of
paid holidays.
Hard as it may be to believe in these days of apparent
widespread unemployment, we at The Bulletin fancy that
business will be severely hampered in its revival by a shortage
of skilled labor. Indeed the prospect of such a shortage could
become a decisive factor in determining Government economic
policy as 1963 proceeds. Here, we urge, even plead, for
some sort of vocational training for the many youngsters
preparing to enter the work force. The ANZ Bank’s crash
programme for year-end smattering of training would impart
some degree of skill to otherwise unwanted, unskilled workers.
possibility of some curtailment of imports of raw
•*- materials also seems to be preying (unduly one would say)
on some business minds, another hang-over from the early days
of the recession.
Yet, however unrealistic it may seem at the beginning of
the year with exports, capital inflow and overseas funds all in
a highly satisfactory shape, the thought that the inevitable
rise in imports which accompanies rising production in Aus-
tralia will threaten the balance of payments in due course is
not one easily dismissed by leaders and industrialists who’ve
been caught before.
Very logically perhaps, many of these might think that next
time the Government acts to stop the rot in the balance of
payments it will act directly to cut imports and not risk the
political dangers inherent in measures designed to do it by


reducing internal demand. That is one political lesson that
could well have been learned in the last two years.
Indeed, the most depressing influence on business this year
could be the remembrance of what the Government did to
it in its November 15, 1960, measures after economic
expansion got out of hand and threatened the balance of
payments.
Perhaps a run-over of all these imponderables may serve a
more useful purpose than heralding what could well be a
halcyon year for an economy which before 1964 arrives may
be wrestling rather harder than it is at present with the
problems looming up should Britain join the Common Market.
THE WOOL INDUSTRY, AND
A MISSING ENQUIRY
Oir John Crawford’s appointment as first chairman of the
Australian Wool Industry Conference, practically antici-
pated in last week’s Bulletin, should give pleasure throughout
the entire industry. He brings to all his accepted tasks a brisk
capacity and an unrivalled maturity of judgment.
The conference comprises 25 representatives each from the
Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers’ Council and the Aus-
tralian Wool and Meat Producers’ Federation. Its initial jobs,
at an early meeting, will include election of six woolgrower
members to the Australian Wool Board and consultation with
the Federal Government on the board’s chairman and three
other members.
The new wool board seems to have met with a very fair
measure of general approval. It receives marked commenda-
tion from Mr. T. L. Bull, president of the Woolgrowers and
Graziers’ Council.
Mr. Bull believes the board deserves the support of all
growers as it tackles promotion and research and the sur-
veillance of wool marketing.
In a pre-Christmas message, Mr. Bull also praised the Gov-
ernment’s “controversial action of November, 1960,” which
has brought stability of costs, “for the moment,” to rural
industries. We should heed the warning, and not alone in the
rural sector, that “a constant and steady eye must be kept
on the costs of production.”
Mention of Sir John Crawford also draws further and neces-
sary attention to the hopefully temporary disappearance, or
non-creation, of the Government’s economic enquiry, for
whose leadership he was widely tipped. Perhaps he may not
feel inclined to accept two onerous and responsible duties so
quickly on top of each other.
Or can it be that the Prime Minister is marking time on the
enquiry, hesitant upon leadership and other organisational dif-
ficulties? Such delay must not be permitted to prevail for too
long. To bring the Australian economy fully up to scratch
and able rationally to cope with every internal and external
possibility could be one of the most fundamental demands
of 1963.
STEEL GIVES A CLUE
TO THE 1963 ECONOMY
B Hp i record half-year’s production, for the period to Nov-
ember 30, can assuredly be considered a sign of genuine
vigor in the economy. The effects of this confident upsurge
should be seen to possess wide significance—and that not only
for the company.
To form a really clear picture, one would naturally like to
know how exports are at present faring. Here resided a prin-
cipal and continuing snag throughout 1961-62. With increas-
ingly large outputs, BHP has to be examined in world terms.
These are not giving much cause for joy anywhere just now, as
we shall notice below.
The complications of international pricing must soon hit
this country’s lone steel giant, especially with an expansive
Japan in the neighborhood. Some price changes forced upon
BHP by battling rivals may, of course, never be disclosed to
us. Yet it can hardly be expected that John Lysaght’s reduc-
tions in sheet steel prices, announced only a short time ago,
will remain the only result of great pressures on the whole
industry.
Anyhow, BHP has been able to lift pig iron and steel
output a little and more than double the production of tin-
plate. Actual November figures showed records in steel ingots
and tinplate. Directors modestly remark that “following the
installation of the new bloom mill at Newcastle, production
from the bloom and slab mills and the heavy and continuous
mills returned to more normal levels in November.”
It will be remembered that a new electrolytic tinning line
entered full production in June last. Recent weeks have also
brought into commission the first elements of the basic oxygen
steelmaking plant, bringing the company early into line with
latest overseas advances.
When examining BHP's profits for 1961-62, this journal
remarked on the chance of Australia, in a bad year and oddly
enough with one steelmaster, possessing over-capacity in steel.
The company’s continuous press towards higher output may
seem to give the lie to such gloomy prognostications. If only
we knew more about pricing!
Whatever is happening here, there’s little but gloom over
many overseas suppliers. Last year’s British output was the
lowest for three years and represented a 74 p.c. utilisation
of capacity. November production brought the industry down
to using 70 p.c. of capacity.
Only Japan, which now exports nearly as much steel as
Britain, raised its share of world steel trade to any extent.
Germany’s output dipped by some 3 p.c. and earnings fell
slightly. German industry seems keen on European integration
and supports British moves into the Common Market. The
European Coal and Steel Community, should Britain be ad-
mitted, would be ahead of America as the world’s largest
steel producer.
Local sharemarkets have so far stayed unimpressed by
BHP’s rosier glow. In this attitude they are surely mistaken.
The new year could see the old and sagacious leader much
more strongly on the march than during 1962.
BRITAIN’S EEC WEDDING
A LONG WAY OFF?
lAirector of Research, Committee for Economic Develop-
ment of Australia, who recently ret rned from a visit
to the United States, Europe, and the Far East, Mr R. L. S.
Starling, found that both at Government and academic levels
in Britain some influential persons were becoming increasingly
sceptical about the wisdom of British entry into the EEC
under the present conditions. In addition he sees signs of a
stiffening in Britain’s attitude to the Common Market negotia-
tions in Brussels.
“What is clear is that British industry cannot afford to wait
indefinitely, and hold up its investment plans,” and unless the
Brussels negotiations were satisfactorily completed early in
1963, Mr Starling doubts whether British entry would become
a reality for possibly some years.
SUGAR’S SWEET AND
SO IS CSR
just missed becoming The Bulletin’s prize stock for
1963, as an article on page 49 will reveal. The company
has started the year by staking early claims for 1964, if world
sugar prospects are any criterion.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
8!'
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
<3tp
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
Right at the end of 1962 the Federal
Government felt able to forecast a £l3
million increase in Australia’s sugar ex-
ports. We have got used to becoming
beneficiaries of the Cuban crisis, but this
very crisis has not only lifted demand
but prices as well.
Ot Australia’s 1.2 million tons avail-
able for export from the 1962 crop, firm
sales have been negotiated for nearly all.
Price advances are expected to give a
1962-63 export income of some £47 mil-
lion —about £l3 million higher than for
1961-62.
Overseas prices seem likely to hold,
as is evidenced by America’s changing
of import levies on foreign sugar im-
ports.
CSR itself has lately felt more hopeful
on its building materials and chemicals
side as well. Another leader joins BHP
with a revived march into 1963.
JAPAN'S EXPORT
PROGRAMME
Zooming events cast shadows before and
the Japan External Trade Organisa-
tion's message to Japanese industry holds
several portents for our own manufac-
turers as they hotly chase exports. Jetro
has just emphasised the need for Japan
to diversify exports in order to “prepare
for a new era of competition in world
markets.”
Maybe that situation is a common-
place in world trade today, although from
the behaviour of some local industrialists
one perhaps wouldn't think so. Of just
as much significance in the Japanese
message is the demand to make more
high quality goods.
The quality composition of Japan’s ex-
ports has grown higher in recent years, as
befits a maturing economy. Here is
another country after a much greater
share of external trade and making
decided, very conscious moves to achieve
it. Our trade treaty negotiations must
surely be at an absorbing stage.
The 1961-62 fiscal year, which closed
last March, gave Japan a 14 p.c. real in-
crease in national growth rate, against
13.2 p.c. in 1960-61. A definite cooling-
off policy slowed the rate to about 4.5
P-c. in the current year.
letter to the editor
the protection racket
Sir,
I doubt that the Australian Industries
Development Association spokesman you
quote (Bulletin, December 15) took
the trouble to check the proper use of
the phrase “a Roman holiday,” but in
using it he spoke more truly than he
knew.
In the true sense of Byron’s line, free
traders are indeed the victims—“butch-
ered to make a Roman holiday”—the
spectacle being enjoyed by the vociferous
mob of protectionists packing the arena,
yelling for the kill.
The arrogance of our manufacturers is
beautifully exemplified by the choice of
phrase in their statement that “it is the
Government’s duty to carry through the
policies of the people (meaning, of
course, the right people), not to set up
autonomous little governments which can
defy elected Government, popular opinion
and needs for the sake of personally con-
ceived ideologies,” bearing in mind that
the manufacturers’ lobby represents
possibly the most powerful of all ideolo-
gies battening on the frailties of politi-
cians in this country’s history. Their suc-
cess with the little government of the
Special Advisory Authority has gone to
their heads.
E.P.M.
Cremorne.


THE PM ON ECONOMIC POWERS
Croesus reviews Mr Menzies' John Storey Memorial Lecture
Although Mr Menzies called his
John Storey Memorial Lecture at
Melbourne University the other
week Problems of Management in a
Federation, as it worked out the PM
spent most of his address in a review of
the Government’s economic powers with
the pointed object of drawing attention
to some formidable and some popular
misconceptions.
Maybe the PM thought this as good
and long a tail as any to hang a tin can
on the Tariff Board and this is
what made most of the rattle when he
sat down and the daily Press got to work
on it.
As a matter of fact the bit on the tariff
was in many ways the least significant
because all he said was what everybody
including Sir Leslie Melville probably
knew already, that the concept of
“economic and efficient” in tariff making
has to be construed in the context of the
Government's general economic policy,
the Tariff Board being the servant rather
than the master in the situation.
“It should do its important work
independently, not controlled by sectional
pressure, with complete integrity of
mind, but with the settled economic
objectives of the nation constantly in
mind.”
If Mr Menzies had thrown more light
on what precise area of protection the
Tariff Board was now meant to serve,
this might have been hotter stuff. But
he didn't. Nobody is any the wiser
therefore on how the Special Authority
and the Tariff Board are to divide the
area in future.
However, we do know more precisely
from the lecture what Mr Menzies sees
as the objective of national economic
policy and this is perhaps worth repeat-
ing here.
“It includes the encouragement of
population growth by substantial immi-
gration. It recognises that such en-
couragement is an important factor in
the future planning of industry and
commerce. It calls for a strong develop-
ment of old and new natural resources,
so that a growing population will be
fully and usefully employed, and the
resources themselves put to full use. It
perceives that the achievement of these
things will require, in a relatively new
country like ours, the fullest possible
generation and investment of capital at
home, and the attraction of productive
capital from abroad.
“And on top of that, and conditioning
all these things, it requires that there
should be a constant and steady eye upon
the costs of production, so that our
great export primary industries will not
be discouraged by ever-rising costs from
attempting that still further enlargement
of production on which our export
future must continue to depend, and so
that our secondary industries may in-
creasingly be able to export to the
world's markets in competition with
other industrial powers.”
This little obiter dicta was worth
having because it shows Mr Menzies,
for one, is fully aware of the conflict
of interests between the cost-conscious
export industries and the not-so-cost-
conscious sheltered industries which have
to carry most of the burden of fulfilling
the main economic objectives, that is
high immigration and growth.
It would seem, therefore, that the PM
hardly needs reminding of the unwisdom
of letting the Tariff Board become the
tool of the Department of Trade (as the
Melbourne correspondent of the London
“Economist” recently stated was inevit-
able). Whether he will be able or even
intends to prevent this development is
another matter.
the general effectiveness of the
” Federal Government’s economic
power the PM saw the following four
main capacities i.n which it is able to
take effective action. Some of these are
not apparent on the surface of the
Constitution.
“Though the Commonwealth can be
out-voted in the Loan Council, it un-
doubtedly possesses a measure of
ascendancy because of its voting rights
(two votes plus a casting vote), its de
facto exclusive responsibility for borrow-
ings, and its wide financial authority
resulting from Uniform Taxation.
“The Commonwealth can exercise a
large influence (though by no means a
comprehensive one) on the Money
Market both through the Reserve Bank
and through its own operations.
“In the field of revenue raising the
Commonwealth has advantages which no
State can possess; the fields of Customs
and Excise being exclusively Common-
wealth by the Constitution, and those of
Income Tax being Commonwealth by
Statute.
“Section 96 has, contrary perhaps to
the expectations of the founders of the
Constitution, proved an apt means of
assisting States and State projects by
grant or advance.”
“These are very real powers,” the PM
stated, “and they are constantly being
developed and used to meet new
situations as political and economic con
ditions change. True, they are some
times cumbersome, and not infrequent)
produce political problems which, in m
experience, do not diminish with th
years.”
Though he was not inviting an argn
ment on constitutional amendments th
PM also had much to say on the limita
tions on Federal economic power arisin
from sections 51, 92 and 99 of th
Constitution.
For instance, several of the sul
sections of Section 51 such as the one o
banking (sub-section XIII) are frustrai
ing to Federal economic and financi;
policy, for though this includes contn
of interest rates on bank deposits an
advances it does not confer power ove
interest rates generally.
“As interest rates are of great impor
ance in overall monetary and credi
management,” the PM said, “there i
here a deficiency in Commonweal!
power. One not uncommonly hear
generalised phrases about, for examplt
‘cheap money’ or ‘low interest rate
policies.’ They tend to ignore the con
stitutional facts of life. A power t
control bank deposit interest rates b
keeping them relatively low could h
defeated by a bidding up for deposits a
fancy rates of interest by the non-bant
ing bodies I have referred to.”
Further, “the Commonwealth canno!
except possibly by some special an
discriminatory form of taxation, de;
with hire-purchase rates of interest c
the rates charged or offered by wh.
have been colloquially referred to a
‘fringe banking’ institutions unless th
transactions of these institutions then
selves are held to be part of bankic
business, and so fall within the Comma
wealth’s banking power.”
It comes down to the definition c
“banking”, which Mr Menzies stated a
uncertain, but probably fairly restricts
“To put it briefly, though hankie
involves money-lending, it does n<
follow that all money-lending is bankia
It seems that regulation of what we ca
capital issues is certainly not include
I gather that the weight of legal opinic
is that hire-purchase and the like trail
actions, which today have a gre
significance in the economy, do tt
ordinarily fall within the Bankir
power.”
One may add that were this othe
wise, we would probably not have ha
to suffer the agonies of the tax-on-intere
even for the short period after Novell
ber, 1960, when it threw a giant-size


fl!
® y. js&A
A happier choice for every occasion . . •
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY .. ST. AGNES BRANDY
WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES, PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
spanner into the country’s financial
system.
The puzzle is why the
J^cuirune ntfaHons of the Parliamentary
Committee on Constitutional Reform, at
least on this subject.
Mr Menzies was at his exasperating
best on the limitations of the Common-
wealth industrial power.
Not proposing to stray into pastures
from which, “in my days at the Bar, I
derived some nourishment,” he said that
when the Commonwealth exercises its
legislative powers in the industrial field
by setting up conciliation and arbitration
tribunals or functionaries, it cannot
direct them as to what they may award
or decide.
“The creature of Parliament is, in tlie
field indicated, rnr.ro * lo ' tnan ts
irue, the Parliament has power
to abolish the tribunal. This was
attempted by one of my distinguished
predecessors thirty-three years ago, with
politically fatal results. The experiment
is not likely to be repeated.”
Mr Menzies said he valued this system
very much. “On the whole, it has
worked well, and I would wish to
preserve it. But it obviously puts beyond
the authority of the Commonwealth
Parliament and Government matters
which, from a purely economic stand-
point, are at all times important and
may, on occasions, become supremely
so.”
He can say that again!
ECONOMICS IN THE FIRM
BUSINESS ECONOMICS AND
STATISTICS, by A. J. Merrett and
G. Bannock
Ix drawing attention to the general
economic significance of profits in
the context of future investment pro-
grammes The Bulletin recently stres-
sed the importance of expectations as
outweighing considerations such as past
and present levels of profitability in the
final decisions of firms to undertake new
fixed investment.
Practices will vary between individual
firms in the estimation of future profit-
ability of new capital equipment as they
are bound to do in the application of
economics to the management of firms
in other aspects of their business. Indeed
in a great number of firms scientific
application of economics to business
decisions in Australia has been barely
considered, the main criteria sometimes
being little better than rule of thumb or
at least experience mixed merely with
the most general commercial principles.
The fact has to be faced that in Aus-
tralia a large number of firms are still
suspicious of economic theorists intrud-
ing in their factories. On the other hand
appointment boards at the universities
tell one that practically all the graduates
in economics these days are booked to
go into industrial and commercial firms
well in advance of graduation.
1 he most useful New Year resolution
for the sceptics on the usefulness of
economics in practical business would
be to get hold of copy of Business Eco-
nomics and Statistics, by A. J. Merrett
and G. Bannock, published recently in
London by Hutchinson and now avail-
able through that company here.
As well as going into the various as-
pects in which economics is useful in a
firm, these authors, who have been
applying economics to the problems of
the firm for a number of years, give a
very balanced picture of its rightful
place, including its limitations.
They start off by saying that when
they talk about the application of econo-
mic techniques to the problems of the
firm they mean economics allied with
such disciplines as accounting and statis-
tics and then argue from the acceptable
assumption that of the multiplicity of
objectives firms strive to attain the most
important are high rates of profit and
growth.
They say that most of these problems
involve the allocation of existing capital
assets between alternative uses and allo-
cation of the firm’s immediate and
potential financial resources between
alternative investment opportunities and
tHoi optimal allocation of assets and
resources requires systematic and rational
evaluation of the cost and revenues
arising from these alternatives.
However while they would argue for
economics as the directing and co-
ordinating discipline, they do not con-
sider that this or any other technical
discipline can have any more than an
advisory role in the firm's decision
taking.
They say that in a largely determin-
istic world in which a firm knew with
certainty the outcome of its actions and
itself possessed only one criterion, say
the maximisation of certain profits, the
results of economic analysis would lead
to direct executive action. But given the
iarge degree of uncertainty and multip-
licity of objectives which the firm washes
to pursue, the function of technical disci-
plines can only be advisory and rarely
mandatory. “It is the function of
management to evaluate prospective
return against risk and to measure the
incommensurable.”
One can hear directors picking up this
book and saying that although the
chapter headings are the real stuff of
what worries them most in their board
rooms, the heavy dicing of the text with
mathematical economics looks altogether
too stiff, even though the authors claim,
like Holmes, it is elementary.
At any rate if this book gets no
further than the bookshelves of board
rooms it will be a constant reminder to
directors there that even if they don’t
understand the mathematics it might be
advisable to get an economist or two into
the firm who does.
J. C. HORSFALL


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N W. C. DRAPER
( Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building,
2!)7 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
Denham Street. Phone: 60K9.
PATRICK & COMPANY
Members of the Sydney Stoek Exchange
16 O’Connell St. ( Sydney
25-5911 (20 lines)
150 Queen St., Melbourne
67-5957 (7 lines)
43 Northbourne Ave.
City. Canberra. A.C.T.
4 0365-66
Flinders House. Crown St.. Wollongong
B 5900
Telegrams and Cables:
“Rosdale,” Sydney, Melbourne
or Wollongong
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
STOC K AND SHARE BROKERS
Sixth Floor
56 Hunter Street, Sydney
LANCE GRAHAM
Member of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
Telephone: BW 5721
Telegrams and Cables:
“LAGRAM,” Sydney.
WANTED TO BUY
FOR CASH
Shares, listed or unlisted,
Forestry Bonds, etc.
J. W. GRANT & CO.
549 St. Kilda Road
Melbourne
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Telephones: 51-6243, 51-6245
Est. 1939
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
OILS VERSUS INDUSTRIALS
117 e have been honored by a Brisbane
" broker’s riposte to some lightly
expressed but seriously intended com-
ment which appeared in this section on
September 22 last. The broker’s latest
current market suggestions, dated
December 18, include “Our reply to
The Bulletin.”
The point at debate concerns a
recommended move, entitled a logical
switch, from unnamed floundering in-
dustrials into Amalgamated Petroleum
and Mid Eastern. That gyration would
“most importantly, get capital back into
production again.”
We ourselves had, and have, no
quarrel at all with those two selected
oil stocks. The original worry was, in
September, that “not in this manner is
a proper, balanced investment attitude
generated, particularly over these tricky
times.” This view still seems to us
reasonable and necessary, even when in-
dustrials allegedly and apparently fall
from grace.
Now the broking reply furnishes a
score-card of a few heavy industrial
market declines against the oils’ ap-
preciation. What shares are instanced?
Latec, Reid Murray, L. J. Hooker and
Stanhill! Only in a loose and rather
Pickwickian sense would the average
small investor, who has to be explicitly
guided on such matters, believe them to
rank as genuine industrials.
It is that type of investor, though,
who must always have held before him
the virtues of a balanced portfolio,
however small it be. Was it a little
frivolous, and tempting, for the recom-
mendation to say: “Both are a spec
but it’s not hard to choose!”
Once urge a blanket switch from one
class of share to another on the
grounds of widely drooping prices, and
the smaller man may frequently stam-
pede. Falling shares are hard to
swallow, especially during economic
uncertainty. Yet at no time throughout
the last year or so has it been justifiable
to throw doubts upon “industrials” as
such, moribund as many looked.
Is it not more rewarding, in the
medium and long run, to teach that
some paper falls must be endured as
certain industrial groupings react to
outside circumstances? And until very
recent times, the virtues of most Aus-
tralian oil shares have appeared purely
speculative.
That heady climate may have
changed. But the pattern of balanced
and holding investment is basic at all
times, despite the tempting, and also
necessary, speculative flutter.
In the present days of manifest im-
provement, both in the economy and
share prices, many J
glad they held on to some superficial!
wavering industrials. Especially durit
this last year has it become possible t
see the main lines of recovery, to decid
calmly where to hold and where to bu
That kind of investment analysi
seeking the favorable and advancin
sections of the economy, was practise
to evident benefit by the late Lot
Keynes. Australia’s most recently issue
production statistics provide an optimi
tic basis to apply his lessons locally.
Rumours answered
TAirectors of H. G. Palmer (Coi
solidated) Ltd put “paid” to tl
rumour-mongers with an excellent n
port of profits for the first quarter o
the year and soothing news on liqui
resources.
Pre-tax profit in the July-Septembe
quarter compared favorably with th
same quarter in other years, and turn
over was, in fact, a record.
This electrical retailer has a bad
stop arrangement with a life assuranc
company for £1 million, and has no
resorted to its overdraft accommodatio:
of £450,000.
Collections are over £1.4 million,
month, yet notes and debentures a:
call do not exceed £200,000. The com
pany will be seeking another £500,001
in registered first debenture stock earl
in the New Year. The issue has beei
underwritten.
Investors were also glad to hear tha
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd
involvement in the big Sydney rea
estate firm, G. B. Eggers Pty Ltd, t
limited to £2,500 capital. Eggers i
going into liquidation.
Even if this capital investment mus
be written off, Eggers was probabl
worthwhile for the mortgage business i
brought Cambridge.
No one can blame the investing publi
for being a little nervous about fixe
interest borrowers, after the experienc
of the last few months. Frank state
ments from companies therefore clea
the air, and are very necessary if con
panics are to avoid a run on the
money.
Battery sales flat
A tale of lost markets partly explain
the deepening of the troubles c
Vesta Battery Co. Ltd.
Shareholders were told at the annu
meeting recently that the company use
to supply General Motors, Ford an
Ampol service stations, but the first W
now make their own batteries, an


Ampol now relies on the new Goodrich
plant at Somerton (Vic.) for supplies.
Vesta was establishing auto-electrical
service stations throughout Australia,
but they needed further reorganisation
before they would be profitable, the
chairman said.
The chairman's statement that “it was
not possible at this stage” to indicate
whether the company was profitable or
otherwise, following the loss of nearly
£250,000 for 1961-62, should do little
to support the 10s. shares at 2s. 9d.
They were down iO 2s. earlier in
December.
Merger talks still on
ITopes of an eventual merger for Fire
Fighting Equipment Ltd with an
overseas group of companies were
kindled by a circular issued to share-
holders just before Christmas.
First noise of merger discussions was
heard on November 12, but a month
later it was announced these had been
suspended.
The current circular puts the value
of the proposal at about double the
price of the shares before takeover
rumours —which would probably make
it between 13s. and 14s. per ss. share.
Apparently a share exchange was not
acceptable, and parties to the talks are
endeavouring to find some suitable
alternative, such as a cash payment for
shares and on notes.
Anyone with a strong gambling urge
could take a punt at present price of
about 7s. 6d.
Apex in a nadir
Will there really be a happy ending
to the so far unhappy tale of
Emmanuel Cars (Aust.) Ltd now in the
guise of Apex Holdings Ltd and still
trading in Melbourne by the grace of the
Taxation Department which has not
pressed for immediate payment of sub-
stantial outstanding taxes?
The leeway to make up is consider-
able as by June 30 last assets backing
for the £224,000 capital was negligible,
with funds reckoned at only £10,502.
The big question is whether any new
outside capital can be enticed into the
business which, incidentally, has been
miraculously kept alive and has, thanks
to the current boom in car sales (Apex
has a Ford franchise), actually been
operating profitably. In the interim
Amoco has come to the party, having
leased part of the company’s land in
Bridge Road, Richmond, where it is to
build a service station which Apex will
lease back and provide facilities for its
adjoining showrooms.
The directors are considering a re-
construction programme which they
hope to implement next year.
Neon Signs pause
A period of consolidation is now en-
visaged for Neon Signs (Austral-
asia) Ltd following a spate of recent
acquisitions and subject to the acquisi-
tion of two additional businesses, ac-
cording to the chairman Mr W. D. Sykes
at the meeting in Melbourne last week.
Maybe it is high time for this pause
but at any rate the company can have
no complaint at the present rate at which
sales are expanding. For the first four
months this year the chairman indicated
an 84 per cent increase in sales over
the like period last year and at a rate
21 per cent in advance of budgeted for
figures.
Profits were also running at substan-
tially higher levels and indications were
that there would be little difficulty in
maintaining the earnings rate of 27 per
cent on the increased capiatl that
would be employed during the year, in-
cluding the recently announced two-for-
five new issue at 50 per cent premium.
Buyer still a mystery .
Tdentity of the bidder for Amalga-
mated Chemicals Ltd was still top
secret by Christmas Eve, and the ss.
shares had drifted back from a peak
235. to 20s. 6d. for lack of information.
As the proposition is officially re-
ported as a cash one involving some-
where upwards of <£B million, the buyer
is probably from overseas, and not
necessarily already in agricultural
chemicals.
Amalgamated has no problem of
over-capacity, or need of tariff protec-
tion, and is a very attractive business.
Investors’ appetites will be whetted
over the holiday period by thoughts of
this biggest of all cash bids for an Aus-
tralian company. The market is never
entirely dull.
Lino profits down
linoleum maker, Michael Nairn
and Co. (Aust.) Ltd, has reported
two years of falling profits since listing
in 1961.
The company has been making lino
for some 35 years or more, but only
moved into vinyl-asbestos floor and wall
tiles in October, 1960. Dunlop, CSR,
Olympic, Moulded Products are all well
entrenched in hard floor coverings, and
Minster so successful in the carpet
trade- —has recently moved into the lino-
leum market. Thus Michael Nairn has
been finding the going tough.
Added to this is imports competition
and the slackness in home building to
account for Nairn's lower profits.
The ss. shares are widely quoted at
14s. buyer, 15s. 3d. seller. At the mid-
price they yield 3.4 p.c. in income, and
double that on earnings. But consider-
ing the prospects, the shares look top-
heavy.
the world of business
"This is John Wills junior. He's going to start right at the
bottom for a few days."


BALANCE SHEET
Year to 30th June
AND
1958
PROFIT
1959
SUMMARIES
1960
961
1962
Current Assets
212
215
236
255
303
Less Current Liabilities
116
149
224
246
275
Net Working Capital
96
66
12
9
28
Fixed Assets
221
242
479
577
600
Investments
—
38
22
30
21
•
—
—
—
Total Capital
317
346
513
616
649
Represented by:—
Ordinary Capital
197
197
314
314
314
Reserves
120
149
199
302
335
Estimated Operating Income
96
99
117
144
179
Earnings
42
48
57
61
81
Ordinary Dividend
22
22
28
35
41
Retained
20
26
29
26
34
Dividend Yield (a)
8.5
6.5
5.4
5.4
5.9
Earnings Yield (a)
15.9
14.3
8.9
9.5
10.1
(a) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.
BOOTH RIDES BUILDING DOWNTURN
BY “SECURITY”
"E'ew people would disagree that the
A calendar year 1961 was a difficult
one for the building industry, so it is
interesting to find Booth Industries Ltd,
which is very involved in this industry,
showing a higher earnings per share in
1961/2 than it did in 1959/60 yet still
selling at less than 10 times earnings
with an immediate dividend yield of
close to 6 p.c.
Booth Industries is a small company
with a paid ordinary capital of just un-
der £325,000 and at 30th June, 1962,
reserves totalled £335,000 approxima-
tely. The company has no long term
borrowings. An advance from Australian
Guarantee Corpoiation received during
1960/1 was repaid during the first quar-
ter of 1961/2. Overdraft at balance
dates for the last three years has been
under £60,000 and was hardly used at
all during the preceding four years.
Apart from the fairly substantial increase
in debtors (over 48 p.c.) and the con-
tinuing investment in “Shares in Home
Unit Company at valuation”, the balance
sheet looks sound and the net asset back-
ing per ss. share is approximately 10s.
4d.
The company was incorporated in
June 1952 and became a public com-
pany early in 1953 when 160,000 shares
were placed at ss. 3d. Since this time
the dividend rate has been raised from
10 p.c. to 15 p.c. and in September 1959
shareholders were offered one share at
par for every two held. Originally Booth
Industries consisted of two groups, E. V.
Campbell Pty Ltd, a building contrac-
tor, and J. S. Booth Pty Ltd and
Queensland Cypress Pty Ltd, both
sawmillers and timber merchants. Prob-
ably the most satisfying acquisition was
Enfield Brickworks Pty Ltd in June
1954 but a number of builders’ mer-
chants have been added to the group in
recent years, the last being Paterson
Hayes Pty Ltd of Pennant Hills near
Sydney in November 1962.
The building company entered the
home unit field fairly early, for by Oc-
tober 1959 it had completed one block
and another had been commenced. It is
an indication that the management re-
cognised the problems because, at the
following annual meeting, it was an-
nounced that it had been decided to dis-
continue operations in this field and sites
which had been acquired had been sold
at a “substantial” profit.
Timber appears to have had varying
fortunes over the last five years and the
assets of Queensland Cypress Pty Ltd
are to be sold or leased. Even so, record
profits were again reported in 1961/2
from the country hardwood mills follow-
ing a good year in 1960/1. Difficulties
which have been experienced by all
timber importers appear to have been
faced by Booth Industries subsidiary and
it is probably fortunate that other profit-
able activities have helped to maintain
the steady upward trend in total profits
of the group.
Although the company does not dis-
close the actual volume of sales it has
over the last three years indicated the
percentage increase each year which
suggests the following pattern, using the
1958/9 year as a base:
Year to 30th June ..1959 1960 1961 1962
Sales Index 100 122 143 151
Estimated Operating
Income Index . . 100 119 145 181
These figures suggest that not only
have sales increased substantially but the
profit arising from them has increased at
least at the same rate.
Since 1953/4 (the first full year as a
public listed company), a shareholder
who has maintained a constant initial
investment would have seen his divi-
dend income increase by over 75 p.c. or
at an average annual compound rate of
approximately 7 p.c. per annum. The
trend of earnings per share on the same
basis is not as clear because during the
first two years there was a fairly marked
decline followed by a strong upward
movement which after some hesitation
during 1959/60 and a drop in 1960/1
appears to have been resumed during the
current year. It seems possible, however,
that even taking these factors into
account, per share earnings have been
increasing at an average annual com-
pound rate of 6 p.c. approximately.
Although the building industry has
been through a difficult period, there has
been some evidence that home building
is picking up again although slowly
and within the next five years there
should be a significant increase in de-
mand for homes with the “bulge” in the
marriageable age group expected in the
mid-sixties. In such circumstances, it is
possible to suggest that the average pat-
tern of the last nine years could be
reproduced over the next nine years.
In view of the fairly substantial cover
of 1.7 times for the present dividend
rate of 15 p.c. plus the fact that the
margin between the growth rates for
earnings and dividend is only one per
cent, it is not unreasonable to assume that
the dividend income could continue to in-
crease on average at the rate of 7 p.c.
per annum over the next ten years.
On this basis it seems that at a price of
15s. per share an ultimate effective yield
of 9i p.c. per annum would be obtained
At 15s. the shares would be selling at
just over lli times earnings, which is a
low multiplier for a company in the
building materials industry where prices
of 20 times earnings are not uncommon.
Furthermore the immediate dividend
yield would be 5 p.c. exactly.
Therefore, although the ordinary
shares have never been priced above
13s. 9d. since listing, it is felt that at
prices up to 15s. they are attractive.


THE STOCK FOR 1963-CRA
There was no lack of candidates for
The Bulletin stock for 1963.
BHP was very tempting, but we felt
the market was not in the mood to re-
appraise the growth potential which we
feel still attaches to the steel giant. So,
we looked over the field again.
CSR came to mind, but, again, the
market’s unforgiving stand against the
sugar giant was hardly a “bull” point
when it came to assessing the potential
for profit in the stock in the coming 12
months. Notwithstanding the market’s
feelings, we do feel CSR will be a stock
to appreciate in the latter half of 1963
when its results come to hand.
We looked around for a stock, then,
which offered the things that were lacking
in what otherwise would have been our
choice —certain growth, capital apprecia-
tion prospect, good dividend income, and
a favourable market manner.
Our choice:—Conzinc Riotinto of
Australia Ltd. We make this prediction
with assurance. Where else would one
obtain an income return of 4.1 p.c. tax
free from a first-class mining and indus-
trial enterprise?
CRA, as it is commonly known, resul-
ted from a merger of the Australasian
interests of the Rio Tinto Co. Ltd and
The Consolidated Zinc Corporation Ltd.
These two UK companies merged in
July, 1962, to form The Rio Tinto-Zinc
Corporation Ltd (RTZ). CRA bonded
the Rio Tinto Mining Co. of Australia
Ltd (which had become a listed company
in February, 1961) and Consolidated
Zinc Pty Ltd which was the principal
company of the Consolidated Zinc group
operating in Australia.
To broaden the Australian equity in
CRA, 2,500,000 ordinary shares of ss.
each were made available to the Aus-
tralian public at 14s. 6d. a share in Sep-
tember, 1962. Australians now hold
about 10 p.c. of CRA's paid capital of
£11,033,028 (including £350,000 pre-
ference capital).
CRA's mantle spreads over explora-
tion, mining, smelting, metal fabrication,
quarrying, bricks and timber. A brief
runthrough would convince the reader
that CRA has a finger in every metal and
mineral pie in Australia.
A wholly owned subsidiary, Zinc Cor-
poration Ltd, is the largest producer of
lead and lead concentrate within Austra-
lia- It manages New Broken Hill Con-
solidated Ltd, which is 32 p.c. owned by
the CRA group. New Broken Hill is the
largest producer of zinc concentrate and
second only to zinc Corporation as lead
producer from lead concentrate.
Sulphide Corporation Pty Ltd, 75 p.c.
°wned by CRA and 25 p.c. by New
Broken Hill, produces zinc metal and
lead bullion simultaneously in a very
modern smelting plant at Cockle Creek,
NSW. The zinc is sold locally, and the
lead bullion exported to Japan and
Europe. The company produces half the
superphosphate made in NSW.
Broken Hill Associated Smelters Pty
Ltd, half-owned by CRA, treats 75 p.c.
of all lead concentrate produced in
Broken Hill, recovering lead and silver.
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Rio Tinto
Collieries Pty Ltd runs the Clinton
collieries in the Burragorang Valley in
NSW, which produces coking coal for
the local market, Japan and New Cale-
donia.
Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd is 51 p.c.
owned by CRA, the rest through Kath-
leen Investments by the Australian public.
Though a major earner for CRA at pre-
sent, the UK contracts will be fulfilled by
the end of 1963, and the future is un-
certain. Ore reserves will still be sub-
stantial. t
The most exciting development for
CRA is in aluminium, through Comalco
Industries Pty Ltd, owned equally with
Kaiser Aluminium and Chemical Cor-
poration of the US. From vast deposits
of high-grade bauxite at Weipa in North
Queensland, Comalco will smelt primary
aluminium at Bell Bay, Tasmania, in a
plant which is partiy owned by the Tas-
manian Government. Capacity is being
trebled to 48,000 tons by late 1963.
Rival enterprises?
Thirst return from aluminium will be
A the export of 600,000 tons of bauxite
to Japan over three years from April,
1963. This, and coal exports, should
assist in compensating for the cut-off of
uranium earnings.
The Comalco group is also a major
producer of extended aluminium sections
and is now making sheet aluminium at
Yennora, NSW.
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Titanium
and Zirconium Industries Pty Ltd, mines
beach sands on Stradbroke Island in
Queensland.
Oil is represented in CRA's portfolio
of interests through its 52 p.c. sharehold-
ing in Interstate Oil Ltd, which in turn
owns one-third of Frome-Broken Hill Co.
Pty Ltd. Interstate has a 15 p.c. interest
in the Associated Oil Exploration group,
currently meeting with success at Sunny-
bank.
A face brick plant has been erected at
Campbellfield outside Melbourne to pro-
duce up to 50 million clay bricks per
annum, as from mid-1963.
Fitzpatrick Industries Pty Ltd,
quarrying blue metal, sand and gravel in
the Sydney area, is three-quarters owned
by CRA.
Other developmental projects include a
joint project with Monsanto Chemicals
(Australia) Ltd in the production of
fluorocarbons.
Extensive deposits of iron ore in the
Hamersley Range of WA will be ex-
ploited jointly with Kaiser Steel Corpor-
ation of the US, and an export business
will be established.
A 321 p.c. interest is held in two com-
panies (the balance held by Broken Hill
South Ltd) which are developing sub-
stantial quantities of copper ore at Cobar,
in Central New South Wales.
Improvement in London spot prices for
lead and zinc over the last few months
is a bull point for CRA. Since September
1, zinc has firmed £4 sterling to £6B 6s.
3d. and lead £4 13s. 9d. to £55 13s. 9d.
Furthermore since April 1, 1962, both
the Zinc Corporation and New Broken
Hill have resumed full production after
voluntary restraint for the previous four
years.
The breadth of these interests would
be hard to equal by any other public
company listed in Australia, BHP in-
cluded. A share therein provides a sound
return immediately, with every indica-
tion of frequent demands for further sub-
scription.
So long as CRA dividends can be
traced to receipts from MKU, they are
tax-free in CRA shareholders’ hands.
On the present basis of a 12 p.c. pay-
out by CRA, and including the preference
charge, CRA’s dividend requirement will
be £1,306,463. Until November, MKU
paid quarterly dividends of 2s. on its
2s. 6d. shares. Then the rate was in-
creased to 2s. 6d., so that on the basis of
annual dividends of 10s. a share, CRA
would receive £1,705,104, giving plenty
of cover for its own distribution.
The value of the tax-free dividend is
immense to an investor in the top income
bracket, paying 13s. 4d. in the £. He
would have to obtain a 12.3 p.c. return
from an alternative investment attracting
tax, to equal the 4.1 p.c. tax-free return
from CRA.
An investor paying 10s. in the £ tax,
would have to get 8.2 p.c. elsewhere, one
paying Bs. in £ tax, 6.8 p.c. and so on.
CRA considers the 12 p.c. dividend
conservative, but believes this policy
should be continued during the next few
years. Quoting the prospectus for the
placement, “Directors are, nevertheless,
confident that any such restraint will be
fully rewarded in the longer term when
their development plans come to
fruition.”
No clearer prediction of future bene-
fits can be expected than this.


TEACHER—
CRANBROOK SCHOOL
BELLEVUE HILL, N.S.W.
BIOLOGY TEACHER: Preferably an Honours
Graduate, required second term, 1963, to intro-
duce Biology in the School and to establish a
Biology Department in new £lOO,OOO Science
Block. Salary in accordance with qualifications
and experience. Married and single accommoda-
tion available. Write giving full particulars to
the Headmaster.
Divorce Notices
TO: VICTOR KRYNICKI (otherwise known
as Victor Wilson).
TAKE NOTICE that LUDOMIRA KRYNICKI
(otherwise known as Lucy Wilson) has pre-
sented to the Supreme Court a Supplementary
Petition in a suit in which she claims against
you an Order for dissolution of marriage on
the ground of separation and for the costs.
Unless you file an answer or notice of address
for service in the office of the Master of
the Supreme Court of South Australia within
thirty days of the publication of this ad-
vertisement Orders may be made against you
in your absence. KNOX & HARGRAVE, Ware
Chambers, 112 King William Street, Adelaide.
Tele. 8 4294., Solicitors for the Petitioner
Divorce Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
. IN DIVORCE
TO: FREDERICK THOMAS JACKSON, form
erly of 3 Kellett Street, Kings Cross.
TAKE NOTICE that RHONDA JUNE JACKSOIi
has filed a petition for Divorce No. 4002 o
1962 in the Supreme Court of New Soutt
Wales on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for two years and up
wards and on the ground of cruelty. If you
wish to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court. Mini
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the-
15th day of February, 1963, and obtain i
copy of the petition without charge from,
HAROLD C. WESTALL, Solicitor of 382 a
Pacific Highway, Crows Nest.—C. A. H. HARMSJ
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MERVYN RICHARD DIGGINS, fo.-merl).
of 31a Charles Street, Erskineville.
TAKE NOTICE that GLADYS BERYL DIG-,
GINS has filed a Petition for Divorce No.'
3956 of 1962 on the grounds of desertion,;
cruelty and habitual drunkenness. If you wist"
to defend you may enter an answer in the;
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 15tt
day of February, 1963, and obtain a copy o!
the Petition without charge from MCDONEL!
& MOFFIT, Solicitors of 6 Wynyard Street,
Sydney. If you do not wish to file an answer
in the proceedings you should file a notice
of address for service on or before such date
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
AMI GETS A BREAK
riIHE smoke visible recently around
Australian Motor Industries’ shares,
which have lifted from a depressed 2s.
or so to a slightly less depressed 2s. 9d,
has some fire behind it after all.
Leyland Motors (UK), which acquired
a 24 p.c. interest in AMI on taking
over Standard Triumph International,
and American Motor Corporation (US)
for which AMI assembles and dis-
tributes the Rambler in Australia, are
lending it £.584,796 at 5i p.c. for five
years to help it out of the wood a
pretty thick wood it has been, too.
The loan is convertible at the option
of the lenders into 5,847,960 “B” ordin-
ary 3s. shares within five years. On con-
version the loan would be used to pay
the “B” shares up to 2s. paid.
Leyland and AMC also get an
option to take up a further three million
“B” shares at par. AMC also gets a
nominee on the board to bring its repre-
sentation up to that of Leyland’s.
Several advantages arise from this
closer link and the provision of new
funds by the overseas companies. One
is that AMI will immediately pay off
some high interest borrowings and,
after selling off further properties no
longer needed, will revert to normal
methods of financing.
Apart from the financial benefits,
AMI is to get an extension of its
Rambler franchise. Its Leyland franchise
has been shortened to come into line
with the term for the Rambler, but in
compensation for this AMI gets other
advantages.
With two years of heavy losses to
make up (£2,267,477 in 1960-61 and
£395,679 last year) AMI has still a
big task ahead but this renewal of faitlj
by Leyland and AMC points to bettei
things, provided the motor industry keeps
buoyant (no sign of a slackening yet as
witness the record November registra
tions) and the recent improvement in
AMl’s sales keeps up.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 726
ACROSS
I—A N.SAV. sonnet composed with moral laxity. (10)
5 —A litie Barwick seaweed useful for its jelly. (4)
9—Nothing settled if permitted. (7)
11— Burmese city managed by a comic entertainer
telephoned with nothing on. (7)
12— Disturbed night is humane less 12i per cent.
(5, 2,6)
13— Lodge member backing an eye. (3)
14 — Love given to Margaret by a letter at last. (5)
16—Who picks the nobs given an alternative? (7)
18—Negative alternative. (3)
19—An implement for turning
against a girl’s name. (7)
21 —An “exclusive” dove-call in
turf information. (5)
23 —Anglo-Saxon piano poisoner.
(3)
25 —Peru’s articles affected one
who is not a member of the
regular clergy. (7, 6)
27 Misdeed by an Inkerman
Russian. (7)
28 — Vehicle having trouble with
tea. (7)
29 Fits of ill-temper backed
pace. (4)
30 — Who raises retail business?
(10)
DOWN
1 — Achieve some striking batting
discgrace. Yippee! (6)
2 Hindu lotus gives Blum one.
(?)
3 Nest in the Indus. (5)
4 They run Caxton into a
steamer. (9)
6 Fine shot show which suc-
ceeds isn’t bad. (4, 3)
7 Spanish American grazier
managed to see a brave man.
(8)
8— —lnsect with one limb portent
on a number of books not
originally included in the New
Testament. (12)
10—Artist who stops cold. (12)
15—A cop station is a stream’s
alternate course. (9)
17 —Isn’t bare-footed footstools.
(8)
20—A writer to attribute rear-
rangements to Brescia. (7)
22—He’s very much for the
country disturbance among
Irishmen? (7)
24—This makes a railwayman
drink. (6)
26—A trotting horse upset a car
attention. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 725


* 0 •
A • •
LOOK FOR THESE
FEATURES IN
Expert advice for the
home gardener including
color pictures of new
varieties in book form.
Home
r\
Margaret Sydney’s
weekly diary of
her suburban
home and family.
Are the Sydneys
your next door
neighbors?
! SECTION
pictures of
re and the
iows news
)ssip from
the studios.
seems
to me
w
Dorothy Drain’s popular
column of keen observation
and amusing comment, with
a topical verse.
Fashion
Services
The latest overseas
coll ections, Fashion
Frocks ready-to-wear
or cut out ready-to-
niake, Fashion Pat-
terns and expert per-
sonal dress advice.
/
z
y.
. .
Elsa Murray re-
veals this week’s
lucky number,
colors anil days.
AS I
READ
THE
STARS
"Ifo flwttMifUi
WOMENS
WEEKLY
PRIZE
RECIPES
A weekly prize for the best
reader’s recipe plus exciting
dishes from The Australian
Women’s Weekly’s own test
kitchen.
I .
s ■
Color previews, reviews of the
week’s new shows, plus news
from the major world studios.
Cj2oss
4i
A whimsical look at the world
and its ways through the eyes
of a suburban father.
mmMrn:
** »*«*
*#***?<
WEEKLY
• LETTERS PAGE
• ROBIN ADAIR’S
COLUMN
• HERE’S YOUR
ANSWER
• NEW DISCS
• FASHIONS,
FEATURES,
COOKERY,
COMICS
ASK YOUR
NEWSAGENT
TO HOME
DELIVER
z?OA/}r-</oc/& co&yS


The Greatest Classical Record Value in Australia!
12" 33 s r.p .m. microgroove Classical
Records for only 32'6
MONO OR
STEREO .
World's Greatest Orchestras, Artists & Conductors
All in Colourful Original Jackets All records fully guaranteed
* YWU' J
MOZART
Sir Adrian Boult
"Eina Kleine Nachtmusik"
and Symphony No. 40 in
G Minor. Sir Adrian Boult
conducts The Vienna State
Opera Orchestra. Mono,
C 49; Stereo, SC49.
TCHAIKOVSKY
Swan Lake (Ballet)
13 of the favourite items,
played by 7he Utah Sym-
phony Orchestra, con-
ducted by Maurice Abra-
vanel. Mono, C 53; Stereo,
SCS3.
tSiSfWSfW..
H i
FIDELITY
ROSSINI
H. Scherchen
"William Tell", Auber's
"Fra Diavob", Herald's
"Z a m p a", Reznicek's
"Donna Diana" Overtures.
The Vienna State Opera
Orchestra, conducted by
Hermann Scherchen. Mono,
C6O; Stereo, SC6O.
RACHMANINOFF/
TCHAIKOVSKY
Two great Piano Concertos
Rachmaninoff's Piano
Concerto No. 2 in C Minor,
and Tchaikovsky's Piano
Concerto No. 1 in B Fiat
Minor. Felicja Blumental,
pianiste, with The Vienna
State Opera Orchestra,
conducted by Michael
Gielen. Mono, C 64; Stereo,
SC64.
i
j
■w
BRAHMS
Symphony No. 1 in C Minor, Op. 68. The
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra conducted by
Wiiliam Steinberg. Mono, C 74; Stereo, SC74.
SCHUBERT
Symphony No. 7 in C Major ("The Great").
The Vienna State Opera Orchestra conducted
by Rene Leibowitz. Mono, C 73; Stereo, SC73.
BEETHOVEN — Hubert Reichert
Violin Concerto in D Minor, Op. 61. Lautei
bacher, Violin, with The Symphony Orchesti
of Westphalia conducted by Hubert Reicher
Mono, C61; Stereo, SC61.
Hurry Moil this Coupon Today!
To POPULAR RECORD CLUB PTY. LTD., Box 3410, G.P.0., Sydney. Or call at
153 a Clarence Street (opposite Barrack Street), Sydney. BX 4710.
PLEASE NOTE: To order any records listed above please write the catalogue numbers in
the space* provided below (e.g., C 49). (The prefix S denotes that the record is available
in stereo.)
* Fill in with catalogue numbers of your choice.
Please tick if you require STEREO records
□
Please tick if you are already a member of Popular or Symphony Record Club
I wish to purchase those records I have marked above.
□
Mr.
NAME Mrs. (BLOCK LETTERS)
Miss
ADDRESS
(Private address, please not P.O. Box number)
STATE
I enclose cheque/Money order/Postal note for £ : : (32/6 for each record),
being full cost of records (please add 3/- for postage for one L.P.; 4/- for two or more).
B 29/12/62
Over 250 other great 12" L.P.
available in Classical, Popular, Eve
green Categories — Write for FRE
Catalogue.
HOW TO JOIN
The Club membership fee of 10/- is
included in fhe price of fhe first 12"
L.P. record purchased by you, but non-
purchasing members can obtain a 12
months' subscription to the Popular
Record Club Digest for 10/-, including
postage, by filling in the coupon, attach-
ing 10/- cheque, money order, or postal
note, and sending to Popular Record
Club at Box 3410, G.P.O., Sydney, or
calling at 153a Clarence Street, Sydney.
Remember — THERE IS NO OBLIGA-
TION TO BUY IN THE POPULAR
RECORD CLUB.
New Zealand readers may purchase by ordering
through P.O. Box 697, Auckland.
