

The Bulletin
Australia 1/-, New Zealand 2/~, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
Fjitti r?iilMi«€fTJii an i a r« *4 !▼/•] miiW e I
wmfImSBMIMBSSKMBBBBSStM


i V”
is
fr-Fs
.
%$* 's► 4 * I Ii ?
%*i * j*
£3
cm
6*
i
ii
*
*
.
w.
1 S
*T*.
f
1960
*
a?;
Ft
«-=T
r. i
ho|ghJ o^
..rt '■
:
« - *-. .
'
Hftly»L,,-J?* ODUCEO ANO BOTTLED B*
•OUGHTOn WINES WESTERN AUS
Pa ol>l»f*tfs*s THE EMU WINE CO p ‘ r
fiW|p7jj^3
P 7
a
pw
W)(7
PWjCr
'WW
O\Al3\M
TRADE ENQUIRIES: Houghton Wines, Perth, Western Australia 6 3


National Notebook
Monopoly
British thriller writer John Creasey,
with more than 400 titles published,
turned up in Melbourne last week con-
vinced that crime fiction knows no
frontiers. Fifteen years ago, Mr. Creasey
found all of Western Europe avidly read-
ing thrillers, including his own. On this
world trip he was delighted to find that
crime between covers had swept into
Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
This world market, Mr Creasey found,
is being supplied by writers in the
English language. The one exception, he
said, was Georges Simenon. Apart from
him, there was no non-English writer
of crime stories who featured in the
lucrative international market. Spaniards,
Israelis and Germans get their crime
stories from the swift-fire typewriters
of English and American authors.
They produce very few indigenous
thrillers and none which reach other
nations through trans-
lation. Crime fiction,
Mr Creasey mused,
seems to belong to the
Anglo-Saxon genius.
Why do crime stories
have such wide appeal
i throughout the world?
Mr Creasey believes that the folk tales
and legends of all people are compound-
ed of contests between heroes and vil-
lains, goodies and baddies, laced with
plenty of action. “Love is also a big
theme in folk tales,” he added, “but no-
body will say sex is missing from modern
crime stories.”
Breakthrough
According to our King’s Cross cor-
respondent, the place is beginning
to catch up with its reputation. There’s
bardly a shop or restaurant in Darling-
burst Road that hasn’t had its face lifted
'»recent months, but behind the face-
lifts there’s been a blossoming of those
dubious cellars which specialise in
revues.
v The most recent of these shelters be-
hind a diabolical facade in Darlinghurst
Road and is called the “Jewel Box.”
There patrons can see the first full-scale
female impersonators’ show in Sydney.
Fomoter Lee Gordon told us that you
Ca n find its like in New York, Hamburg,
j* ar is, Tokyo or Rome, but that it is
breakthrough for Sydney.
(Mr Gordon seems to have had more
il a u his share of troubles lately, and
promotion has not yet got off the
f 0u nd. Part of the difficulty is promo-
|h°n, because, according to one of Mr
pordon’s off-siders, the e isn’t a news-
paper in Sydney prepared to accept
advertising for the show.
Mr Gordon apparently is rather in-
dignant about this because, he says,
newspapers are always ready to run ad-
vertising on any show which may in-
clude a female impersonator but somehow
want nothing to do with his.
Starring six young men with names
like Carlotta, Bomba and Kimona, etc.,
the show is one of those creations which
if it wasn’t so distasteful would be un-
commonly funny. Highlight of the even-
ing: The male soubrette who mimed
Eartha Kitt’s “I Wanna Be Evil” and
told us about his/her “unspoiled gender.”
Verdict: It might have topped the bill
at Changi.
Killed by Kindness
ITow much Australian hospitaiity can
Americans take? When The Bul-
letin talked briefly with top world lead
and zinc technologist
Dr S. F. Radtke, from
New York, at Broken
Hill Associated Smelt-
ers on his arrival here
last month we thought,
from his robustness,
there would be no stop-
ping him on the tortuous hospitality trail
ahead. Rushed hurriedly from our pre-
sence in the direction of a high-level
cocktail party he gave no sign of fore-
boding.
A fortnight later, after two hours of
non-stop lecturing on the virtues of his
two metals to the cream of Melbourne’s
technologists at the Electrolytic Zinc
building in Lonsdale Street, it turned out
that this American mine of minerals in-
formation was vulnerable after all. For
once, and only once, he had to ask for
a question to be repeated. Apologising
for the lapse, Dr Radtke admitted he’d
almost had it. “It’s been a bad day,” he
said. “Australian hospitality is wonder-
ful, but it kills you.”
Cover Story
HHasmania’s Education Minister, Bill
Nielson, last week revealed that his
department does have a boss, and that
the boss is the Hon. William Arthur
Nielson. But it took several weeks and
a lot of newspaper correspondence to
drag the admission from him. And good-
ness knows what the schoolies will say
about his cheek.
It all began with the annual gripe of
parents about having to cover school
exercise and text books with brown
paper. Why on earth was this neces-
MICHAEL CHARLTON Page 15
A million viewers . . .
•
Around Melbourne: In the Depths
of SE2 11
The Computer Revolution .. .. 12
The Winds of Change in New
Guinea’s Pubs 20
Short Story: “Little Old Lady
Passing By” 22
A State of Siege in Little Venice .. 27
Red China Divide and Conquer 30
Review: The Saddest Hour .. .. 34
Ancestor Worship 37
Share Market Ignores Reality .. 41
Trade Proposals Under Fire .. .. 44
Why is the Dairy Industry Not
More Vocal? 56
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND AROUT 17
OVERSEAS 27
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF RLSINESS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 56
FEIFFER 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 433#


sary? asked “Ex-Teacher and Mother”
in a letter to “The Examiner”. The
books, she said, often had the name
of the school and its badge printed on
the covers, yet teachers insisted that the
children (which meant the parents)
should spend hours pasting brown paper
over them. When the letter was referred
to Mr Nielson he admitted that he had
received a lot of complaints. However,
departmental policy was not involved,
and he would refer them to the Teachers’
Federation.
Launceston headmasters questioned by
“The Examiner” could give no official
reason why the books should be cover-
ed. They referred the reporter to the
senior district superintendent, Mr H. T.
Smith. But Mr Smith said that an ex-
planation would have to come from the
Minister. “Who runs the Education De-
partment, the Minister as representative
of electors, or the teachers?” asked
“Parent” in a letter to “The Examiner”.
Added the correspondent: “Teachers are
responsible for this silly, time-wasting
business. Let the Minister stop it.”
Mr Nielson is an active and intelligent
administrator, and ordinarily would
handle such a slow-paced one with ease.
Apparently pressures from inside the de-
partment gave it a hidden googly twist,
for Mr Nielson took nearly a month to
come up with his reply. This time there
was no doubt. Teachers, he said, would
be instructed that the department “does
not encourage” the covering of exercise
books.
Newcastle Orchestra
On March 26, at a concert to pay
homage to Madame Florence Austral,
who lives near' Newcastle, NSW, the
Newcastle Symphony Orchestra will make
its debut.
The orchestra follows some years of
argument and differences between the
Conservatorium and the former orch-
estra and its conductor Mr John Stanley
Hurn. While most Newcastle people give
Mr Hurn his credit for keeping the
orchestra, such as it was, going, it was
also realised that the standard was not
showing any appreciable improvement,
and the group was good only for free
Sunday afternoon concerts playing “Poet
and Peasant” and “Portsmouth Point”.
Late last year the orchestra members
themselves made a momentous decision
and disbanded. They then formed
a group called the Newcastle Sym-
phony Orchestra. Errol Collins was ap-
pointed as conductor (after consulta-
tion with Sir Bernard Heinze) and an
audition board was set up. Most of the
old orchestra submitted to an audition
and were satisfactory; a few failed. New
players from the coalfields and the lake-
side arrived, resulting in a body some
40 to 50 strong of good quality.
Sir Bernard Heinze has shown tre-
mendous interest in the development,
and has made several visits to Newcastle.
With his encouragement, the Newcastle
orchestra may well follow the Melbourne
pattern set by Sir Bernard, of starting
with a good amateur orchestra, and
gradually building it up into a fully pro-
fessional group like the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra. As this transition takes
place, a second orchestra (there is a
smaller group operating at the New-
castle Conservatorium) may develop to
cater for amateurs.
Generally, the situation looks promis-
ing. The City Council has decided to
back the new group and the ABC may
take some direct interest at a later stage.
Petty cash
Druce Petty, whose drawings have
recently begun to appear in our
pages, is one Australian black-and-white
artist who has kept himself going for an
extended period—in his case more than
10 years—as a free-lance. Most of them
settle at some time for a staff job, or at
least a bread-and-butter retainer with
money for jam from jobs on the side.
After an uncertain beginning in Mel-
bourne, where for a time he did illustra-
tions for encyclopaedias, Petty went to
London in 1954. had had little
formal training. “I'm sorry I didn’t
spend longer at art school,” he says now,
“I’d have liked the social life.” In
London he worked for “Lilliput,”
“Punch,” the “Spectator.” and “The
Economist”.
Later he spent four months in the
“New Yorker” office as a tame cartoon-
ist. “The ‘New Yorker’ is so scared of
missing someone brilliant that I think
they would give a job to almost any-
body,” he said.
He found the “New Yorker” office a
quiet, reasonable place these days, and
"He taught me all I know, belted me when I
went wrong
. . impressed his values on me with
the strength of his arm


there were occasional glimpses of the
| as t of the giants, including Thurber.
Humor in America he found a highly
organised business. He still received
“gags” from a man who has formed
himself into a company called Humor
Incorporated. “I sent them back and
[explained I think of my own,” he said.
“But however he stops people stealing
his stock all along the line I’ll never
know.”
In 1960 Petty returned home and the
next year went to South-East Asia, fol-
lowing what seemed to him to be a vague
front-line through Laos, Malaya and
Indonesia. His impressions of these
(rouble-spots, where, he says, “no one
moves until they are sure they will win”
nere published by the Grayflower Press,
Melbourne.
Petty has recently come to Sydney.
He continues his free-lance work.
‘Punch,” he told us, pays about £lB for
a half-page joke, “Esquire” about £6O
and the “New Yorker” about £7O a
joke.
The cover
\ur colorful cover picture shows a
y magnified data storage element of
an IBM “memory system” contained in
an orbiting astronomical observatory
designed to gather hitherto unavailable
information about the stars and galaxies.
A story on the computer revolution
begins on page 12.
Tanner
. . . let's bash him up."
PLAIN ENGLISH
LIBERALS AND CATHOLICS
A Bulletin “Forum” article recently claimed that one of the main
weaknesses in the outlook of Liberal Party members was their
suspicion or ignorance of the interests of Roman Catholics. This applies
less in the Federal sphere than in the States, particularly New South
Wales where, despite a few gestures, hostility or indifference to Catholic
interests is probably the main reason for keeping the Liberals in
Opposition. They only need, after all, a few Catholic votes to turn the
scales. The issue is usually argued in terms of State Aid to private
schools, but this may confuse the matter since it is admittedly a
complicated question. It is seen more clearly in the recent controversy
over the NSW Labor Government’s bill to restrict the activities of a
Catholic credit union, the Antigonish Movement. This raised none of
the complicated questions involved in State Aid proposals and was a
simple case of Labor action against an important Catholic movement.
The bill prdvoked angry discussions throughout the Catholic
community, articles in the Catholic Press, meetings, protests, deputations
and so on. It was a gift for a Liberal Party really anxious to defeat the
Labor Government and break the grip which that Government has over
NSW Catholics an opportunity for the Party to rise in force and expose
the bill. Yet when the bill went before the NSW Lower House it passed
through with only one lonely Liberal member really rising to the occasion.
The members cannot plead that they do not realize the full
implications of the bill until the subsequent public controversy. The
issues had already been widely canvassed, and were outlined, for example,
in The Bulletin weeks before the bill reached Parliament. Yet most
Liberals still had not the slightest idea what Catholics were so worried
about. What a magnificent opportunity lost! Could evidence of a
damaging gulf between Liberals and Catholics be greater?
A CURIOUS ARRANGEMENT
"jl/TANY people in this country must wonder just what sort of advice the
External Affairs Department offers the Government on some matters
or, in turn, if the advice offered is sound why it isn’t accepted. The
appointment of Sir James Plimsoll as High Commissioner to India and
his replacement as Ambassador to the United Nations on a part-time
basis by Mr David Hay, the High Commissioner to Canada, is still
puzzling many people. One reason given for this curious, if temporary,
arrangement is the Department’s shortage of top grade officers. It is
hard to believe that the shortage is as drastic as the new shuffle suggests.
Sir James Plimsoll is an unusually gifted and intelligent officer who,
precisely because of high qualities and because the Government rightly
recognised the UN as a very important post, was sent to New York two
years ago. Now he has been sent to New Delhi. (It, too, is a key post
although it could be argued that it was more important to have someone
of Plimsolls abilities there a year ago than now.) The shift in posts is
clumsy in every way. Having said the UN post was sufficiently important
to warrant somebody of Plimsoll s capacity, the Government now says,
in effect, it is so unimportant it can be filled by a part-time Ambas-
sador based in Ottawa. Apart from the strain placed on Mr Hay (known
not to be in the best of health) in a dual capacity, there must now be
Canadian reflections on the importance we attach to the office of
Australian High Commissioner. Last, but not least, only the smallest
and most impoverished countries now employ part-time Ambassadors to
the UN. The days when that sort of thing didn’t matter are over.


THIS AUSTRALIA
DIPLOMATS
BARWICK AND THE
PLIMSOLL LINE
A shortage of diplomats
SIR JAMES PLIMSOLL
A fine mind
As / see it
Australia is
suffering
from an
acute shortage of personnel suitable and
qualified for diplomatic appointments.
The gravity of the problem has been
pointed up by the appointment of Sir
James Plimsoll, former Australian Per-
manent Representative to the United
Nations in New York, as Australian
High Commissioner to India with the
rank of Ambassador.
A fine mind, shrewd, balanced, with a
capacity for political analysis and con-
siderable personal charm, Plimsoll has
long been a trouble-shooter for the Gov-
ernment and would continue to be a
trouble-shooter of considerable eminence
and attainments whatever Government
was in power.
He has represented Australia on signi-
ficant assignments in many parts of the
world.
As soon as the Korean War broke out
in 1950 and Korea became the world’s
trouble-spot it was Plimsoll who was
assigned to Korea as Australian repre-
sentative on the United Nations’ Com-
mission.
Both British and United States officials
rank him as among the best in a difficult,
touchy business.
The fact that the Government has sent
him to India, the recent victim of attack
by Communist China, shows the anxiety
of the Government to obtain from that
post objective analysis and informed,
commonsense advice to enable them to
shape Australian policies into a form
that will help India to the best of Aus-
tralia’s limited means.
But in another way, Plimsoll’s appoint-
ment emphasises the shortage of top
grade material in officers at the dis-
posal of the External Affairs Depart-
ment.
As it was, the Indian post was left
empty sufficiently long after the former
Australian High Commissioner (Mr W.
R. Crocker) was shifted to The Hague for
the Indians to get alarmed and depressed
about what appeared to be the somewhat
cavalier indifference of Australia, at the
diplomatic level, to India’s serious prob-
lems in the international arena.
Now, with Plimsoll heading India-
wards, Australia at the UN, despite the
major nature of the post, is to sink to
the status of a minor South American
republic.
Representation is to be part-time.
Mr. David Hay, Australian Commis-
sioner in Canada, is to commute between
Ottawa and New York.
The Government is obviously unhappy
about this arrangement.
Mr Hay is a capable, professional dip-
lomat, but can hardly be expected to do
two jobs as efficiently as he can one,
particularly when one is as important and
complex as the UN job.
When announcing the arrangement,
External Affairs Minister Sir Garfield
Barwick announced: “The duration of
Mr Hay’s appointment will be decided
later this year”.
But, as I see it, there was nothing
much the Government could do about it.
Barwick, as External Affairs Minister,
apparently has some appreciation of the
situation. He has been trying to recruit
some outside non-professional talent to
supplement the professional corps inside
the Department.
I gather that so far Barwick has not
had a great deal of success in his re-
cruiting moves. It is not easy to persuade
an Australian to take three years (prob-
ably the minimum needed) possibly long-
er, out of his normal life for his country’s
service except in wartime and unless he
is a failure.
Yet failures are just what Barwick does
not want. He wants the type of person
who, because he can analyse and assess
accurately what is going on around him,
is usually not a failure, even though, if
he is in politics, he might be a defeated
politician, swept out of office by the run
of a tide which all the shrewdness and
capacity in the world cannot stem.
As far as I know the only successful
man outside politics, but familar wit
them, Barwick managed to persuade to
take a few years out of his life to serve
his country in a diplomatic capacity was
the late Frank Louat, QC. Barwic
persuaded Mr Louat to consider an
accept a diplomatic appointment to
France (with which Mr Louat had an
intellectual affinity), but Mr Louat die
before the appointment could be ma e.
But as I see it even more importan
than Europe is Asia. Barwick obvious y
RELIGIOUS PAPERS
March 17, 1883
A contemporary asks: “What is a
religious newspaper?” Ask us
something harder. A religious news-
paper is so many pages of bad paper
filled with blasphemies and bogus
advertisements. It is an organ which
sells salvation to its subscribers at so
much a copy, and gratuitously con-
signs to damnation the souls of every
man Jack of an opposite sect. If it
happens to be called the HARCH-
BRUSHUP. it damns all Orange-men
from WILLIAM, of pious, glorious,
and immortal memory, down to
JOHN DAVIES, long since for-
gotten; if the HOWL, it kneels down
on its ape’s knees and raves and
curses like SHIMEI, and foams at the
mouth like RABSHAKEH, from the
rising of the sun even to the going
down of the same against every
idolatrous Papist that ever crossed
himself with holy water. Even in its
sleep it keeps up its monotonous cry
of “To hell with the Pope.” The
religious rag breeds bad blood, and
hatred, and uncharitableness between
people who have a hard enough
struggle to get through the world
without flying at each other’s throats
about the disputes of a few old fools
who were eaten by worms hundreds of
years ago. And it does all this to fill
the hungry maws of a number of holy
hyenas, who should be hunted like
lepers out of every clean and civilised
community. This is what a religious
newspaper is.


appreciates the importance of the area
as far as Australia is concerned.
Otherwise Plimsoll, who is one of the
real tops, would still be in New York
rather than New Delhi where events of
urgent importance to Australia are taking
shape. But Barwick simply hasn’t enough
Plimsolls to go round.
And while this is the situation, Aus-
tralia is perforce compelled to accept the
status of a second-class nation at UN
with part-time representation and to
continue to rely heavily upon UK and
US representation for information,
ALAN REID
PARLIAMENT
LANDA'S BLUNDER
Is Mr Landa fighting for his political life?
“ABE” LANDA
Nasty moments
The Bill to amend the Co-operation Act
*■ is still a source of embarrassment
to the NSW Labor Government. Last
week in the Legislative Council the
combined vote of six Labor rebels and
the Opposition defeated the Bill which
had come through the Assembly un-
scathed. Although defeat by the Upper
House is nothing new for the Govern-
ment these days this particular defeat,
which was caused mainly by effective
and intelligent tactics of- two Catholic
priests, is having a number of interesting
repercussions.
The main one is to place the Minister
for Housing and Co-operative Societies,
Mr “Abe” Landa, in danger of losing
his portfolio when Labor Caucus next
elects the members for Cabinet rank.
Having a Bill altered by the Upper House
to such an extent that it is basically un-
recognisable is bad enough; but Mr
Landa made several other more costly
mistakes on the way through.
He put the Labor Leader in the Coun-
c'l the Hon. Reginald Robert Downing,
111 such an invidious position last week
that Mr Downing was virtually agreeing
to every suggestion on the Bill made by
•he Opposition. This did nothing to
en dear him to Mr Downing. This corn-
ed with his already shaky position in
Caucus could lead to his downfall.
More importantly Mr Landa was
Meed into a position in the House, by
1 question from Mr Ben Doig, the
Liberal Member for Burwood, where he
stacked two Catholic priests, Fathers
M°gh and Gallagher. When the only
difference in electoral support
dween the Government and the Opposi-
tlon is Catholic votes and with relations
Mready strained over the unanswered
Petition of Cardinal Gilroy to the
cemier on State Aid, Mr Landa’s
I lu nders can only help the Liberals.
Even Mr Landa’s seat of Bondi
may be in danger. Coincidentally,
Antigonish has been thinking for some
time of starting a Co-operative in Mr
Landa’s electorate. Antigonish has
already shown its capabilities in political
in-fighting and the fact that on the last
voting figures Mr Landa only needs 2161
people not to vote for him must give
him some nasty moments.
In the Catholic community itself there
have been some more repercussions.
Many priests are already fed up with
what they regard as unreasonable
“Catholic Weekly” Labor partisanship
(mostly by omission) and there have
been suggestions this week that another
Catholic paper should be run in opposi-
tion to the “Catholic Weekly.” The feel-
ing is stronger in the country dioceses
than in the city. Last week the “Catholic
Weekly” failed to refer to the statement
on the Antigonish squabble made by the
Coadjutor Bishop of Canberra-Goulburn,
Bishop Cullinane, and this omission has
fanned the flames.
One priest, Father T. Moore, from
the country parish of Goolagong, was
so annoyed by the “Catholic Weekly’s”
handling of the issue that he is said to
have returned his copies, and will not in
future permit them to be sold at his
church.
But the most important effect of Mr
Landa’s blunder still lies in the danger to
the Government of losing its firm
Catholic support to the Liberals. Already
there has been a move to seek the
endorsement of a Catholic member of
the Liberal Party for one of the suburban
seats with a large Catholic population.
The fact that this area is a shaky Labor
seat prompts the question already posed
by The Bulletin: Is this the beginning
of the end for Labor?
PETER KELLY
SENATORS
BREAKING
THE RULES?
A Senator in trouble
Oouth Australia’s stormy petrel of
Labor politics, Senator Jim Cav-
anagh, may be forcing the local ALP
executive into an awkward position. On
present appearances the Senator is sup-
porting a Communist against an ALP
man for the secretaryship of the Plas-
terers’ Society of SA. If this is so, will
the ALP executive discipline a Federal
Senator for a blatant infringement of
party policy?
The trouble began last month, when
the ALP expelled four members of the
Plasterers’ Society for attacking the so-
ciety's secretary, Arthur Robinson, and
supporting his opponent, D. J. Marshall.
One of the men expelled was George
Cavanagh, the Senator’s brother.
In their circular attacking Mr Robin-
son, the four members quoted Senator
Cavanagh as saying he would assist any
secretary elected by the rank and file,
but he would not assist the present ad-
ministration, which he considered cor-
rupt. Senator Cavanagh is a trustee on
the committee, and was secretary for
about 16 years until he entered the
Senate last year.
At a meeting of the management com-
mittee, at which he was again attacked,
Robinson resigned; but when he later
asked if he could withdraw his resigna-
tion the committee declined to let him
do so. The committee then issued a
circular which again attacked Robin-
son for “selling out” to the bosses,
and for corrupt administration. Senator
Cavanagh was again quoted in opposition.
About 200 members attended a meet-
ing of the society recently, at which a
ballot for the key post of secretary was
to be conducted. Both candidates made
long speeches, during which Mr Mar-
shall publicly stated that he was a
Communist.
Then Senator Cavanagh spoke. It is
believed he called for support for Mar-
shall, and attacked Robinson. It was also
said that he asked the union to give Mar-
shall 12 months’ trial as secretary. If
this is true, the Senator was infringing
ALP rules in opposing an ALP
candidate.
Later, Senator Cavanagh moved that
the management committee’s action in re-


fusing to permit Mr Robinson to with-
draw his resignation be endorsed. When
this was lost on a show of hands, the
Senator shrewdly and successfully moved
an adjournment of the meeting for a
month.
The big question now is whether the
ALP executive will attempt to prove the
alleged infringement by Senator Cav-
anagh, or whether it will choose to
ignore the matter. The executive cannot
be anxious to discipline an endorsed
Senate member.
There is always the chance that some-
one will lodge a complaint with the
executive, in which case its hand will
be forced. If this happens, Senator Cav-
anagh may be in for a rough time.
CULTURE
ANOTHER CULTURAL CENTRE
FOR MELBOURNE?
In the Palace of Athene
FROM OUR MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
AL JOLSON
First talkie
UUhile work proceeds on building Mel-
” bourne’s great cultural centre on the
south side of Prince’s Bridge, talks have
been going on for a second one only a
few blocks away. The initiative has
come from the State’s oldest institution,
the Melbourne Athenaeum, just a few
yards up Collins Street from the Town
To most Melbourne people, The Ath-
enaeum” means the theatre of that name
which stands there, while to others it is
the excellent circulating library which
operates in the same three-storeyed build-
ing. To some it means the gallery, a
floor up from the library. Here, in the
March to December season of exhibitions,
one can see more gum-trees than the
Dandenongs show in all their glory.
Elsewhere in the building, the Royal
Victorian Liedertafel and the Royal
Humane Society have their headquarters.
. .
The Melbourne Athenaeum can trace
,ts origins back to 1839 when a group of
master builders, artisans and Govern-
_. . . ’ . „
ment officials formed The Melbourne
~,.,v«, „ , , , . a „
Mechanics Institute and School of Arts.
The following year the present site was
purchased for £285 and, after selling off
part of the land at a nice capital gam, a
building was erected in 1843. For a time
it. -t
the Melbourne Town Council were ten-
ants and eventually the Mechanics’ Insti-
tute had the rare pleasure of giving the
City Fathers notice to quit.
With scientific and cultural lectures
(but strictly no theological or political
topics) and a good library, the Institute
grew and made additions to its building.
By 1872 it had outlived the Mechanics’
Institute era and took its present name.
In 1885 the present facade was built and
a statue of Athene placed in a high,
central alcove. The art gallery came in
1910, and the theatre in 1924, and the
building served as a meeting place for
innumerable literary, musical, scientific
and hobby societies of the period,
The t beab - e was leased and in 1929,
screened the first talkie seen in Australia,
A 1 Jolson in “The Singing Fool.” \
Today choirs rehearse in the building
and occasional mee tings are held there,
but the Melbourne Athenaeum is any-
thing but a lively cultural focus. It does,
however operate a very fine library and
tb j s w hich gives it its present 6,000
members. It is the only important priv-
ately-operated circulating library in Mel-
bourne since Robertson and Mullens
closed theirs some years ago. It also
operates the city’s only circulating library
of i on g-play records.
Members get extremely good value.
The |ib has a staff of 19 and is
~ hours a d including Saturdays. It
• , * mnnn , ,
acquires about 10,000 new books a year
\ , ~
and normally keeps well over 50,000
on i(s she|ves . , t costs abou , £32 , 500 a
t 0 run and onl aboul half of this
comes (rom members . fees . The rentals
from , he theatre and othar o£ the
, •, ,• , . u •
building are used to subsidise the library,
The total revenue of the Melbourne
Athenaeum in recent years has been
about £37,000 a year which is not even
fhicken-feed when it is realised that the
bu , lld ‘ n 8 , sta " d L°” 31 s,te conservatively
va ue a ’
It could be converted for legitimate
theatre and, while this would be nearer
to the original purpose of the Athen-
aeum, it might only add to the financial
difficulties. A bowling alley or a shop-
ping arcade are hardly appropriate to the
Palace of Athene, but something of this
sort might be the price paid for keeping
the rest of the building for cultural
purposes.
rpuE discussions and ultimate decisions
A will provide a valuable case-history of
the economics of cultural pursuits in mid-
20th century Australia. Athene may con-
tinue to' gaze in serene triumph across
Collins Street, she may be edged aside
to share her alcove with Mammon, or
she may come crashing down forever
with a blow from Whelan the Wrecker’s
swinging steel ball, but there is already
irony in her situation: a Government
which claims to encourage private initia-
tive among its citizens and the indepen-
dence of self-help refused to attend a
meeting of these citizens to discuss her
fate.
The obstacle to setting right these
crazy economics has been the fact that
the most valuable part of the present
building, the theatre, has been on a long
lease which is due to expire in 1967.
With a meagre £.14,925 in hand, the
committee intends to plan the future for
the building as a whole.
Any ideas are obviously very tentative
at this stage, but the committee has gone
on record as wanting to revitalise the
Melbourne Athenaeum as a cultural
organisation—“a second cultural centre.”
Last year it called a meeting of groups
likely to be interested in the project—
the State Library, Free Library Service
Board, the ABC, Elizabethan Theatre
Trust and others. The Melbourne City
Council was represented, but Victoria’s
Chief Secretary, Mr A. G. Rylah, de-
clined to come or send a representative.
Discussions have continued since then
but nothing has been firmly settled.
Rebuilding, or at least very great modi-
fication of the present structure is ob-
viously needed if the Athenaeum is to
become a useful cultural centre. With
less than £15,000 in hand, little could
be done in this direction. Any major or
even moderate rebuilding would need
outside funds: this would probably in-
volve dilution of the committee’s control
of the premises, and it is unwilling to
have this happen.
The theatre lease ends on July 15,
1967. It is a date which gives the
Athenaeum opportunities denied to it for
a long time, but seen in another light it
poses a threat. The rental received from
the theatre is low in relation to the value
of the site, but without it the library
the most valuable part of the organisation
-—would be in trouble. If the committee
were forced to rush for cover and le ase
out the theatre again, would anybody
want it to screen films?


HOTELS
BABY FOOD AND BEER
Liberalising the liquor laws
FROM OUR TASMANIAN CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER REECE
Some discussion
rpwicE in recent months the Tasmanian
*■ Government has moved to restrict
retail trading hours. Twice it has met
a storm of public disapproval. Now it is
moving further to liberalise the hotels’
hours of business.
To ignore the pleas of the mother who
seeks baby food after 6 p.m. is easy:
to be obstructive to the liquor trade is
quite another.
Early last year, the Minister for
Licensing, Mr McLoughlin, told the
Hotels Association that the Govern-
ment would amend the Licensing Act
“later in the year.” Nothing happened.
Even a fortnight ago the hotels were un-
happily reconciling themselves to further
delay as they had not received any assur-
ance that the amending legislation would
be introduced in the short session which
began this week. Then, out of the blue,
it was revealed that the amendments
would be brought forward.
Reports are that the Government will
play ball with the hotels in their demands
for unrestricted Sunday trading, longer
hours at the weekend and strict control
of licensed clubs. But it certainly will
not reduce the minimum legal age of bar
patrons from 21 to 18. That move
would draw too concentrated an op-
position, even from many people who
say that pubs could remain open 24
hours a day for all they care.
Hotels at present can sell liquor on
Sundays between noon and 2 p.m. and
again between 6 and 8 p.m. if they pro-
vide a meal with it. This clause has been
overcome in many houses by the tender-
lng of a sandwich with the beer. Now
oven this token will be unnecessary.
The normal closing hour during the
week is to be extended from 10 p.m. to
11 p.m.
Clubs have increased greatly in num-
tars. Many of them now openly serve
liquor to all comers. Some cater for
Parties. Most of them sell large quantities
°f bottled liquor to members, sometimes
at a small discount, but usually at full
hotel price, which members pay cheer-
fully because the profits go to the club.
Tasmania has no licensed grocers, and
'he bottle trade is very important to
hotels.
It is believed that the Government
proposes to restrict further licensing of
clubs and to compel existing ones to
bring their premises up to the Licensing
Court’s minimum hotel standards within
three to five years. An effort will be
made to prevent or restrict club sales of
bottled liquor. The legislation would hit
the clubs, for they enjoy no privileges in
trading hours.
Critics are aggrieved at the Govern-
ment’s plans which, they say, would
increase the value of the hotels’
monopoly. In fact this monopoly is not
all that valuable since the Licensing
Court moved like a gale through the
State’s hotels. The best hotels are not
equal to the handful of “great” hotels in
the big capitals, but the standard of the
average house is now higher than in
mainland States. More than £lom.
has gone into hotel improvements in the
last ten years, and still the court is far
from satisfied. Principal taskmaster is
Col. A. P. Crisp, chairman of the
Licensing Court, who is devoted to the
cause of making Tasmania’s hotels a
model for the whole Commonwealth.
On the other hand, many clubs are
distinctly primitive. Col. Crisp would
no doubt be glad to apply his court to
their improvement.
Last week the Government’s clumsy
manoeuvres degenerated into floundering.
The Saturday shopping ban blew up
most unexpectedly in Caucus itself. Mr
Eric Barnard, one of the members for
Franklin, and normally among the most
docile of men, blew his top when the dis-
cussion came around to the closing of
the shops. He was thereupon accused
of having a vested interest. This is true
enough, as his family owns a big self-
service store at Bellerive and the “vested
interests” of shoppers don’t matter.
However, the steamroller went over
Barnard and his small group of sup-
porters, and the Premier, Mr Reece, was
able to tell reporters that the Govern-
ment would go ahead with “uniform”
shopping within a seven-mile radius of
Hobart Post Office. “There was some
discussion,” he said, “but it was accepted
as being in conformity with long-estab-
lished policy for a five-day working
week.”
The paradox of restricted shopping and
liberalised liquor sales in the one Govern-
ment breath was too much for the
Hobart “Mercury,” which to date had
kept out of the Saturday-closing debate.
Editorially it asserted that the proposals
were hypocritical as well as senseless:
senseless in their aim of “inflicting the
Hobart dead weekend throughout the
whole city,” and hypocritical because
consistency demanded that there should
also be a “closure of hotels and sus-
pension of transport and electricity
services.” Was the “opening of a hotel
on Saturdays or even Sundays any
more essential than similarly free trading
in foodstuffs?” it asked editorially.
And why, asked a correspondent, if
the shops were to be shut in the interests
of their staffs, was there no outcry about
the barman who would now be called on
to work until 11 p.m.?
RENTS
THE LANDLORDS' BATTLER
Landlord v. tenants: round one
the first legal skirmish of Mr
Peter Clyne with the Fair Rents
Board was concluded last week, the
200,000-odd tenants living under rent
control in New South Wales had reason
to feel pleased. Mr Clyne, former
barrister turned real estate agent,
property investor, and battler for the
landlords, failed in his attempt to upset
the standard NSW habit of pegging
rentals, on those premises still under
control, at a percentage of the 1939
valuation.
While the group of landlords, who had
crowded the tiny out-of-the-way court-
room of the Board in Surry Hills, spoke
of the appeal in the vestibule afterwards,
Mr Clyne had failed. The Stipendiary
Magistrate rejected Mr Clyne’s argu-
ment that the custom of using the 1939
valuation as a base had no basis in law,
citing two Supreme Court cases to uphold
the rejection.
Mr Clyne, who had asked for an in-
crease from £2 17s. a week each for
two Mascot cottages to £8 10s. a week,
rejected an offer from the magistrate to
calculate a rent increase on increasing
rates, which would have amounted to a
few shillings a week.
But while Mr Clyne spoke firmly of


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
/ /
*;** xttz
ODBURY ESTAH j
feiTE BURGUNDY]
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Ift
05
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME?
his intention to appeal to the Full
Supreme Court and then direct to the
Privy Council if necessary, the next
round in his war against the tenants rests
on another test case later this month.
A Fair Rent Board will consider Mr
Clyne’s case on two properties he owns
at Granville. Then Mr Clyne will argue
on an interpretation of his own of para-
graph g (i) of section 62 (5) of the Land-
lord and Tenant Act. His ingenious
argument, already reported in The
Bulletin, will rest on the notion that a
landlord who leases to lessees, rather
than letting to tenants, might be said,
in the legal sense, to occupy the premises
“himself” and so come under that para-
graph. It can be taken that if Mr Clyne
were successful on his second test case
or even in an appeal on the first, the
State Government would back, if only
morally, counter-appeals. So the pattern
of landlord and tenant relationships will
still not be clarified for a long time.
RICHARD HALL
DEVELOPMENT
"WOMAN TROUBLE"
Royalties front bauxite
PAUL HASLUCK
“£12,500,000”
HThe £4sm. bauxite development pro-
ject at Gove will bring momentous
changes to the lives of 500 primitive
aborigines. It will mean a town of 3,000
people in the heart of the Arnhem Land
reserve.
Natives of a dozen tribes are head-
quartered on Yirrkala Methodist mis-
sion, only a few miles from rich bauxite
deposits now scheduled for develop-
ment by a French-Australian combine.
From Yirrkala groups go bush periodic-
ally, hunting wallaby, goose and sugar-
bag (wild honey), living by the spear as
their people have done for thousands of
years.
They are great fishermen, too. and
travellers who think nothing of paddling
a hundred miles through open sea in
rickety dug-out canoes. At Yirrkala are
men from Arnhem Bay and Caledon Bay
who remember back to before the war
when massacres of Japanese and white
men gave this coast ? bloody reputation.
After thirty years in the area Metho-
dist missionaries have put a veneer of
civilisation on the tribes. Spearings
even among themselves—are rare now.
Many fearsome-looking warriors are
devout Christians.
Some are learning to farm, garden
and tend livestock. Skilled bark painters
and carvers of wood do a flourishing
business, producing ceremonial objects
for sale to tourists in Darwin and the
south.
However, Yirrkala remains a primi-
tive community. The missionaries have
hunted white croc, shooters from the
area in the past and, though they have
little to say about it, certainly don’t wel-
come the prospect of a mining town on
their doorstep.
It seems inevitable that liquor will find
its way to the so far “unspoiled” natives.
Though the Yirrkala men seldom peddle
their wives in trade, as do most Terri-
tory tribes, “woman trouble” also is
feared once the miners move in. Offici-
ally, anyway, the Methodist Overseas
Missions who run the place are looking
on the bright side.
They can expect thumping royalties
from the bauxite and these can be used
to advance the tribes to the Twentieth
Century at an accelerated pace.
Just after the Gove development plans
were announced, Rev. Gordon Symons,
chairman of the Methodist Mission in
North Australia, commented: “Naturally
we feel some concern, but it could also
benefit the natives if things run smooth-
ly.” He hoped the mission would be able
to sell farm produce, meat and tourist
souvenirs to the miners and other
settlers.
Whether the effects are good or bad,
one thing is certain: The way of life of
500 Yirrkala natives will change almost
overnight.
In the long run, how they react to
that change may depend the fate of the
entire Arnhem Land reserve, which at
present is deserted by white and black
alike, apart from a few coastal missions.
For the Territory at large, Gove bauxite
is the greatest development boost in its
history.
In Darwin recently, the Minister for
Territories (Mr Hasluck) said Gove
could provide about £12,500,000 annually
in export income equal in value to
present NT pastoral and mining produc-
tion combined.
It will mean a new port, and establish
the Territory’s third-biggest town in an
area previously empty of white popula-
tion.
Mining booms are ephemeral, whether
they last five years or fifty. There are
ghost towns scattered across the face of
North Australia to prove that. Apart
from immediate income, Gove is a
chance to build up hinterland farms and
cattle stations, which might be able to
survive alone when bauxite operations
finally cease and the last miners leave.
As a chance to establish permanent
population on the northern coast this is
too good to miss. If the natives can
the farming and raise the cattle, well an
good. If they can’t, it would be an
opportunity for the Government to 0 (
serve its stated policy of
by granting farms and pastoral leases o
the reserve behind Gove to white en •
KEITH WILLEY


Around Melbourne
IN THE DEPTHS OF SE 2
rio you mind if this week we have
** episode two in the story of
Emmanuel Margolin? When we left
you at the end of the last episode on
December 29, Emmanuel, the car
dealer, was in trouble over the credit
squeeze. He had lost £150,000 in a
year. He had sold his cattle stud for
£30,000. His house was going for
£34,500 or more. His Ford Thunder-
bird and five TV sets were on the
block. An auction of all his house-
hold effects would take place in the
New Year. Now read on . . .
Well, the auction has taken place
and for my money it was easily the
best ever seen in this town. Oh, I
know what you’re going to say. How
about the auction of the G. R.
Nicholas collection in Lansell Road,
Toorak, in August, 1961?
You’re right, that was a beauty.
Never will 1 forget the sterling silver
dinner service of 100-odd pieces and
the woman who said: “Wouldn’t have
minded buying that, but what’s the
use? They’ve got the damned letter
‘N’ on every piece.” That auction
realised £24,000, but don’t you see,
there were 1400 pieces in the Nicholas
sale. Margolin’s stuff was a simple
one-day auction, there were only 500
pieces and it all fetched nigh on
£20,000.
And tell me, did the Nicholas col-
lection contain a rug made out of the
skins of 500 Abyssinian monkeys?
Were there stuffed eagles, voodoo
sticks and genuine Toledo steel
daggers? No fear. At Margolin’s
there was all this and more.
The auction took place at 60 Hope-
toun Road, Toorak, in the depths of
SE2. An auction like this is the only
chance respectable ladies ever have
for a really good quiz at the inside of
a Toorak menage. And did they ever
make the most of it! There were cars
all the way up Toorak Road to Glen-
ferrie and all along Hopetoun
Road to Malvern Road.
The bidding started in the drawing
room. Many of the real buyers were
crowded out and had to bid by rais-
ing eyebrows rather desperately from
out in the garden. Mr Greville Hicks
of Brighton, for example, did this. He
bid £3lO for the salon suite of Louis
XVI gilt chairs and took delivery of
them through the window.
Mr Leonard Joel, the auctioneer,
became strained. He glared at the
ladies and said: “You’ve had your out-
ing now. Why don’t you go out in
the garden and have your talk there?
Go anywhere.”
Not a soul budged. It was all too
good to miss. For example, there was
the “unique circular leopard and
panther skin floor rug made from the
tails of 14 leopards with neck skin
between, centre panel of black
panther.” That went for £65. There
was the “Bengal Tiger skin floor rug,
mounted head” that went for £9O.
The “unique black and white
Abyssinian monkey skin floor rug
made from approx. 500 animals
diameter Bft. 6in.” went for £lB5,
and the “magnificent and rare white
Polar Bear skin rug” from Russia
brought £270.
The heat was becoming increasingly
hard to bear. One lady was fanning
herself with her catalogue. Mr Joel
turned on her: “Are you bidding,
Madam, or saying hello? It’s very
dangerous to fan yourself at an
auction.” The poor thing immediately
fled to a corner. It was a sensible
thing to do because the bidding at
that stage was £2lO for a “baronial
wall adornment of Spanish swords
in Toledo steel.”
I was fascinated by a fellow who
thought he was bidding for the swords,
when actually it was lot 87, the steel
breast-plate and helmet complete with
Legion of Honor medal of a 19th-
century French general. He had just
bid £l7O and won this surprisingly
unuseful piece of war surplus when he
realised his mistake and let out a cry
of pain. You will be pleased to hear
that auctioneers have hearts after all.
Mr Joel started the bidding all over
again.
Later we moved to the exquisite
little room that was called, sur-
prisingly, the library. It was packed
with guns, ships, swords, stock whips,
stuffed bulls, stuffed alligators, hunt-
ing knives, etc., which all fetched high
prices. The books were sold in a
new and surprising manner by the
wall.
The north wall went up for sale
£4, the east wall £5, and the west
wa ll £5 . £lO. But the variety!
There was a great stuffed wedge-tailed
eagle as big as a centre half-forward.
It was as rampant as can be, rabbit
in its claws and all. This went for
£2B. Mr Joel said to the buyer: “I
hope you have a car, sir. You’re
going to look awfully funny taking it
home in the tram.”
What we were all waiting for was
the bull-fighting gear. Margolin paid
over £lOOO for it in Madrid. It in-
cluded banderillas, killing swords,
killing capes, silk matador capes and
of course the real matador suit made
to measure for him waistcoat,
astrakhan hat, trousers and the superb
jacket, all done with hand-worked
gold thread.
A few weeks back Emmanuel even
put it on for the photographers.
Blimey, it went for only £7O and
the whole bull-sticking collection
wouldn’t have taken more than £l5O.
I saw one young fellow hurrying off
with £l5 worth of hand-worked silk
matador cape. I asked him what he
would do with it. He said: “I dunno,
but it’s sure going to look beaut.”
And so it all went, no reserve
prices. One of the five transistor sets
went for only £3O, the stuffed
alligator fetched £5 and quite a kindly
looking person bought the African
drum and voodoo stick for £6.
The piece de resistance was the
black Ford Thunderbird complete
with hard and soft tops. No man had
ever wanted a car as badly as
Emmanuel wanted this one. He
bought it from another car dealer for
£3OOO. A week later Customs con-
fiscated it. Emmanuel didn’t give up.
He waited until Customs put it up for
auction. He bought it again for
£2600. Total £5600. In his own
drive at 60 Hopetoun Road he saw
it go under the hammer for a mere
£1650.
All day Emmanuel behaved calmly
and with dignity. When he saw the
Thunderbird knocked down it was
almost too much. “That,” he said,
“almost broke my heart.”
And as I walked away down Toorak
Road I heard someone say: “Now at
last I have really seen the credit
squeeze.”
BATMAN


THE COMPUTER REVOLUTION
Controlling limitless volumes of information
By VICTOR WORSTEAD
Australia is just about to witness a
second industrial revolution of far
reaching effect.
The revolution comprises the rapidly
increasing use of electronic devices, and
especially of electronic digital computers.
These mechanisms have completely alter-
ed the prospects and progress of overseas
science, technology and industry. They
will do the same in Australia.
In Government universities and busi-
in Government, universities and ou i
ness there was already a great deal of
talk ahnnt computers and electronic data
talk about computers and electronic data
processing (EDP) in the mid-fifties, very
soon after the great wave of installations
began throughout Europe and America.
Perhaps until 1958 the main local inter-
est centred on purely scientific applica-
tjons r
ry . ( . r . .
u requen re erences o e ins ru
pTk, 7 ° Weapons Research
Establishment at Woomera and part.eu-
l a , r . y .,7 Professor Harry Messels
SILLIAC at Sydney University kept com-
put,ng well before the pubhe eye Then
in wo huge overseas manu actur-
ers, International Business Machines
(USA) and International Computers and
Tabulators (UK) really decided to enter
tbp pnmmprpial mnrVpi
. .
The pace since has been quite astonish-
ing. Already some £2O million is in-
vested. About 80 data-processing units
are installed for private and Government
customers. A spate of new orders con-
bnues '
The computer can understand or
make understood complexities beyond
the scope of most humans. Its range in-
eludes printing Braille tape, or, if you
wish to go into the realms of higher
mathematics, the capacity to attempt a
solution of Einstein's last published field
equations for the understanding of
gravity.
The computer itself does not provide
the equations; it takes Einsteins to do
that.
Any sophisticated economy must
. cultivate technical advantages
naturally cultivate technical advantages
to tbe furthest possible limit. Yet, like
attractive innovations conmut-
so man y attractive innovations, comput
ers . cab or a periodic scrutiny of
tbe * r place in the social fabric. It is not
ver y wise to believe that th e revolution
can be completely understood by the fact
that it is happening.
The recent Australian Computer Con-
ference held at Melbourne heard a seri-
ous warning from the Secret o£ the
Department of Defence, Mr E. W.
Hic P ks
are problems t 0 be sol .
yed> and some o£ very soon> if the
potentia ] of electronic data processing is
f,,,i• * . ,• „
be exploited property m Aus raha,
7 ck f s considers. He drew attention
to tbe f ai * ure °f many organisations
applying EDP to reach their original
aims.
§ 0 though, the market gives no
s jg n saturation or failing interest. A
c f clients, if ndt buyers or renters
0 f individual machines, still clamors to
use the service bureaux set up by various
supplier companies. With such a situ-
ation, it is not surprising that IBM and
ICT have been joined by others of the
largest international concerns,
They include Burroughs, National
Cash Register, Minneapolis Honeywell,
English Electric, Ferranti, Remington-
Rand, General Electric and Leo. Those
firms not operative here through a local
branch are still well able to submit
tenders for the bigger contracts,
.
None of the companies actually manu-
factures computers here, though a few
assprnh i p certain emiinment from over-
assemble certain equipment
seas components. Most agree that the
Australian computer industry
, , fairlv distant
’ •
Hand in hand with the EDP needi-
ties, however, press the vast and con-
nected techniques of automatic control
and factory automation—raising tre-
mendous design as well as social prob-
lems. Our developing industry may w,sh
to handle a good deal of such design situ-
aliens itself. We have accomplished
much in the related electronic fields of
radio and television . W e need not be
lons out of computer components, at
i OQC ,-
leash
Thts story must devo e itsel J
exclusively to commercial and mausuwi
applications. It can barely hint at the
part played by computing techniques
and computers in pure scientific research,
Overall, mankind has gained a pr°'
foundly rich method for the handling
and control of practically limitless
volumes of many kinds of information or
data,
The whole procedure grows out °


fabulous progress in electron physics and
electrical engineering, which has distin-
the last 20 years. Australians are
Lring in a new and world-wide revolu-
tion. They observe its dramatic triumphs
jn space satellites, rockets and Telstars.
fhey start to wonder nervously about the
drive towards complete industrial auto-
mation and its deep impact on social
affairs, particularly in employment.
It has been said that computing fur-
nishes us with the most massive tool
for control since the invention of speech.
This applies to the so-called electronic
“brains.” In point of fact, the alleged
“brain” is a proper moron —it can only
follow, in vast and terrifying detail per-
haps, the orders explicitly given to it.
The machine does what it is told.
At all events, a computer possesses the
built-in skill of acquiring and holding in-
formation fed as instructions, and draw-
ing conclusions from such stored infor-
mation.
A digital computer (the analogue com-
puter is another tale) operates in sequence
on this information with a controlled
collection of instructions held in its
“memory”. These particular instructions,
for any special operation, constitute the
“programme”. Hence the need, in the
commercial revolution, to replace clerks
with a new species of programmers
trained specialists in their job.
Programmers are the vital but human
link to put any assemblage of data in
a form digestible by the computer. They
process the punched cards or paper tape
required in huge quantities by a large
machine. Any business or scientific
problem capable of computer treatment
must be stated in terms such that the
programmer can break down into a
series of linked steps.
Logical decisions
Tomputers themselves merely add, sub-
tract, multiply and divide. The range
sounds limited in the light of the fan-
tastic variety of applications we read
about. Its very universality gives the
key to a computer’s capacity to absorb
and manipulate instructions coded from
an arithmetical pattern. In that pattern
too is the logical basis of deciding be-
tween alternatives. In short, a computer
can choose between two courses of ac-
tion.
Programming literally tells a com-
puter what to do, when to store informa-
t,on on its magnetic tape innards, when
to deliver information by translating its
analysis through an electronically con-
trolled printing machine. A particular
Problem may call for thousands of
Separately coded instructions, expressed
la a “language” the computer can
absorb.
The multiplicity of machine designs
has been accomplished by a multiplicity
of these special languages. Yet despite
manufacturing competition, and the
claims to special merits made for them,
demands for a uniform programming
language have increased.
Business and industry are specially
looked after by COBOL (“Common
Business Oriented Language”), which
permits a programmer to write statements
and sentences fairly close to understand-
able English and easily convertible by a
computer operator into the specific
machine language. The programmer con-
centrates on the nature of the problem
he will give the computer to solve, not
on the nature of the computer.
A contemporary computer will per-
form its “arithmetic” a million times
faster than a man, doing in five minutes,
say, 40 years of human clerical work.
Business and industrial uses, as dis-
tinct from most scientific calculations,
call for extensive storage capacity rather
than sheer speed. No large company,
not even the national economy, can be
adequately organised without digesting
huge volumes of figures and the pro-
cesses they represent. Storage, and
speed, are the virtues the computer
brings to business practice.
Analyses that used to take hours by
punched-card systems alone now get
themselves done in minutes. Many neces-
sary surveys have been avoided in the
past because of the sheer volume of work
required to carry them out. Now they
can be handled with speed and in great
detail.
The traditional office armoury of
accounting machines and cash registers
may be geared directly to computer
facilities by introducing punched tape
to their routine operations. The value
here is that the processes are unchanging
and recurring.
Nowadays no office or factory pro-
cedure appears very far beyond the
computer revolution. The field of appli-
cation widens every day. All kinds of
statistical analysis, payrolls, stores
accounting, interest payments, share
registers and dividend payments, general
insurance accounting, branch accounting
and consolidated financial statements
are now commonplace jobs for a com-
puter.
Take a weekly analysis of sales per-
formed for Wunderlich Ltd by the ICT
1500 at the ICT centre. This embraces
sales orders and the comparison of sales
with budgeted figures. The computer
input comprises punched paper tape pre-
pared by the company itself in the
process of writing orders in its central
Sales office. Previous data are already
contained on a magnetic tape “file,”
which also holds the programme.
The tape naturally comes up-to-date
with each week’s run and takes the input
again for the next week. Its end-result,
in printed form, throws out the follow-
ing comprehensive break-down of sales:
by area; by industry within area; by
product group within industry; by pro-
duct within product group; and, on an
Australia-wide basis, by industry, by
product group within industry, and by
product within product group.
The time taken? About 10 minutes.
And the cost of the computer service
works out at about 10 guineas. The
company had not previously had this
information, but it would have needed
two clerks working full time to get it.
Another normal half-yearly chore is
computed for Malleys Ltd a sales and
gross profit budget on a State and
national basis for each product for each
month of the half-year and for the half-
year in total. Six separate reports are
prepared from an input of 80-column
punched cards prepared by the company
and absorbed by the computer at 600
cards a minute.
Budget control
HPhe reports set out budget control by
State, indicating for each product for
each month calculated sales value, cost
and gross profit with half-yearly figures
and product group totals; sales value by
State on the same basis; sales quantity
by State; budget control, Australia; sales
value, Australia; and sales quantity Aus-
tralia.
That job requires 56 minutes and costs
£75. Information formerly gathered by
manual methods demanded the hiring of
comptometers and operators, and con-
siderable overtime. The flow of data
proved difficult to control and the neces-
sary accuracy was not obtainable.
Practically every type of business and
industrial enterprise has by now been
brought within the computing ambit and
examples could be multiplied almost
endlessly. Banks and insurance com-
panies, with their large accumulations of
daily transactions, were among the first
innovators. Here too, there have been
striking developments linking head offices
and branches.
Some sharebrokers, also, have achieved
new efficiency and an up-to-date know-
ledge of their transactions from the
services of computer bureaux. Gone are
the old uncertainties about unexecuted
orders and long delays in the issue of
contract notes. A day’s operations on
the stockmarkets, suitably recorded
internally by the office, can be passed
through a computer. Debts are policed,
too, in a manner which frightens the
adroit user of unapproved credit. Indeed
it is difficult to beat the machine’s
memory.
All share and monetary balances, all
printed statements for clients can be


Sil
WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
St
if
m
r
mm
J
sz
ms?
Goodyear
makes light
of heavy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
HI
Specified
INDUSTRIAL. PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
f
m
3*S&?
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
m
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
mw
'A
m
mm
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
Australia’s greatest sugar ldt ■
Mackay, Queensland, is handled y
Goodyear conveyor belts. They st
up to the assault of 650 tons
hour.
C264D


jiued in about half-an-hour. Each
-'s buying and selling is conducted in
Iknowledge of previous business. The
jputer, in this as in the other in-
jces, acts as a watchdog on errors.
Refined techniques can be applied
large projects, or non-continuing
iness. Here the so-called Critical
i Method starts from a map or
jff diagram picturing every conceiv-
e variant in the project say a
jge, an opera house, a building
elopment or the marketing of a new
duct.
Estimates of both normal and “crash”
es for these variants and their respec-
: costs can be programmed. A corn-
ier yields, in minutes, the whole range
possible work schedules and costs. It
ibles the rational planning of labor
I material, and throws up likely bottle-
ts at any stage of the project.
|y this type of analysis, very un-
tain by any other method, such crucial
tors as earliest and latest starting
es for each constituent of the project
immediately discovered,
the electronic control of machine
is—making dies or machining steel
et—has been progressing along with
tiputer techniques. Here, as everyone
iws, lay the first germs of automa-
i; and the first hint of huge social as
1 as engineering changes that lie
ad.
A computer aligned and coupled with
other electronic devices could control a
complete mixture of factory processes.
Such a linkage offers almost entire
automatic control of complex functions
like steelmaking, power generation, oil
refining and petrochemical production. It
is the foundation of the more widely
publicised air traffic control, communica-
tion network switching, air defence con-
trol and the many situations analysible
by the mathematical theory of “queue-
ing”.
One of the greatest contemporary
triumphs of the “new automation” is the
huge Spencer steelworks in South Wales,
which is almost completely automatic-
ally controlled.
Incoming orders are processed by com-
puter, including the type of steel to be
rolled and the nature of its finish. Any
discrepancy between actual production
and what should have been produced
forces the computer to re-schedule the
whole works.
The main fear hitherto has been that
automation means fewer jobs. This is
not necessarily so. It means if anything
an increased demand for higher skills.
Automation will require an army of
skilled workers to take over new jobs.
Automation and electronic computing
are not mere push button operations.
Though automation of an entire econ-
omy cannot occur overnight, even grad*
ual implementation will require sympathy
and understanding throughout the whole
broad area of labor relations. Wages pol-
icy, redundancy, retraining and other
matters mOst be approached with fresh
and tolerant insights. We are entering
a new era imperilled by remaining
old-fashioned in our economies and
politics.
Both management and the computer
industry will have to start thinking
about the new industrial revolution now
not after it has gathered momentum.
This will involve a serious attempt
to discover whether existing EDP is
achieving intended objectives and whe-
ther its complete potential is being ex-
ploited “in current and proposed appli-
cations.” The next five years demand
realistic appraisal.
In an atmosphere of hard selling, one
of the problems of keen competition
among suppliers is that some companies
may be tempted into uneconomic in-
vestment. Because computers are fash-
ionable, some companies may seek to
rent time or a computer before their
activities make it worthwhile.
If business and industry are to com-
pete in the modern world, they must
get into the computer age but they
should do so warily.
It is not the machine but the system
that should be watched.
"Another breakdown?”


Introducing
The NEW TAPERED
Tubular Steel Pole
FOR GRACEFUL LIGHTING
Here is a development that will be of special interest to
architects and lighting engineers.
This new type of tubular steel pole manufactured in Australia
for the first time by Stewarts and Lloyds is tapered smoothly
over its entire length, to give it an extremely graceful appear-
ance. Due to circular cross section and even wall thickness
throughout its length, superior wind resistance and maximum
strength are assured.
Of special importance is the high resistance to corrosion due
to absence of corners and flat surfaces. These poles can be
supplied in straight or curved lengths. Some non-circular
sections may also be manufactured and enquiries for these
would be welcomed.
Especially suitable for Lighting, Signposts, Flag Poles, TV
Antennae Masts, Telephone and Telegraph Poles and other
architectural and aesthetic requirements.
(Illustration) Tapered steel
lighting fixture adapted for
two-way illumination.
/
fm
Os.
z?
m&W
lIP
a?:-;. -11 l
i>&lL
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities; also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Mackay, Kalgoorlie.
5.5TP.63.65.


OUT AND ABOUT
THE MANY SIDES OF MICHAEL
("4 CORNERS") CHARLTON
A relaxed manner ... a shrewd intelligence
By CHARLES HIGHAM
On the green and white walls of
Michael Charlton’s cluttered Syd-
ney office, a bizarre collection of
oddments has been fixed: a pin-up of
Velvet Solange, Eurasian Sex-Kitten,”
the Mona Lisa, a photograph of a red
chair, an Esquire cover and a news head-
line “Denial by Charlton I’m no
monster!” Quite so and the 35-year-
old compere and co-producer of the very
successful ABN programme “Four Cor-
ners” (which has an estimated national
Viewing audience of ju§t under a million
a week) has a look of bright insouciance
w hich suggests nothing monstrous at all.
narrow, equine face, blue eyes crink-
liug in a cross-stitching of lines, suggests
cricket and hot summer afternoons; but
there’s no doubt of the shrewd intelli-
gence behind it.
Charlton’s grin is probably his most
famous trademark, and it’s of that dis-
arming variety which is said to put inter-
viewees at their ease. Yet unlike the two
interviewers he most admires Robin
Day and John Freeman Charlton
doesn’t disarm in order to deliver a rapier
thrust. His interviews on camera tend to
be relaxed, quiet, designed to show cele-
brity or man-in-the-street in an attrac-
tive light. It would be hard to imagine
Charlton conducting anything like the
Freeman “Face to Face” conversations
with Gilbert Harding and Simone Sig-
noret, in which the subject is made to
lay bare his most private emotions.
“Face to Face” is ruthless (I shall
never forget the agony of Cecil Beaton,
made to talk about his notoriously phony
photographic style, and the relief with
which he left the subject for something
else). “Four Corners” by contrast is
bland: Charlton’s voice, soft and dis-
creet, has none of the scalpel edge of
Freeman’s, though the vocal intonations
are often coincidentally similar. Charl-
ton, like Freeman, stays mostly out of
the viewers’ range, though, from memory,
he appears in rather more frequent re-
action shots to interviewees’ answers. The
questions he uses seem to be more gen-
eral than personal, while in the broader
coverages of places and people, the tech-
nique is magazine-like, similar to the
BBC’s “Panorama.”
Not that “Four Corners” is an imita-
tion. It is, in fact, an original one of
the very few original programmes
worked out, blueprinted and executed in
Australia for national presentation. It
has ranged widely, as its name promises,
and some memorable footage has been
brought back under circumstances which
would make a mollycoddled NBC, BBC,
or even CBC man’s hair stand on end.
Lack of money and personnel (those
chronic banes of Australian producers)
haven’t produced an amateurish result,
and perhaps the most consistently reward-
ing feature of the programme has been
its tight, slick editing.
It seems to me at its best in dealing
with crowds, landscapes some nice
shots of the Moscow subway and the
Hong Kong New Territories stand out
in memory but less successful (per-
haps because of the elusive nature of the
subjects) in the personal interviews. The
reason for this may well be that because
of the rather crowded format the
amount of material covered is often
formidably large—there isn’t time for a
personality to come through very
strongly. Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Gher-
man Titov, Menzies, Larry Adler one
thinks of these encounters and they don’t
rivet as firmly as the coverage, say, of a
New Guinea village. The casual en-
counters with people are better than the
lengthier interviews a brief meeting
with a rather pathetic African outside a
Moscow university gave an intriguing
glimpse of how easily some people can
be brainwashed and it’s in this kind
of unrehearsed, revelatory glimpse of
odd people that “Four Corners” scores
so heavily.
Charlton and his co-producer, Bob
Raymond, between them dreamed up
the “Four Corners” format a couple of
years ago, over coffee at the Veneziana
Restaurant: they wanted to do something
really imaginative for a wide audience
looking for complements to the news.
Charlton left the University of WA early
for several years’ sports and general radio
announcing, with Macquarie network,


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
OUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
m. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
more
tlmn a
ikotcf). *.
a tratution
iMmssi
m
7m*
ASK FOR VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
NZLI/9>/4 2
the Melbourne Herald, and then the
ABC. Raymond, 40, was in Fleet Street
in World War 11, working on “Picture
Post,” “Illustrated,” and later on the
“New Statesman” and on comic-strips
before taking a publicity job in Ghana
where he made documentary films and
wrote a well-received book based on his
experiences, “Black Star in the Wind.”
Later, he studied TV in New York. One
sees in “Four Corners” the combination
of Charlton’s practical knowledge of
local radio and TV (he ran an interview
programme on TV called “Horizons”)
and Raymond’s magazine and film ex-
perience, and despite some momentary
rows the combination has worked
very well.
“When we started talking about ‘Four
Corners,’ ” Charlton said, tipping back
his chair, pressing his knees against the
desk and grinning cheerfully, “we saw
it quite differently from the way it has
turned out now. It began as a magazine
intended only for Sydney. Then,
shortly after it began, the powers-that-be
decided it was to be a national
programme.
“But even from the first we got out
among the people we were interviewing
Larry Adler in his penthouse, for
instance. We didn’t like the studio feeling
of other interview programmes. You see
we wanted complete spontaneity. I can
honestly say we never rehearsed an inter-
view and never faked a shot.
“In the case of our interview with
Menzies, he wanted to know the area
our questions would cover whether
we’d be talking about the Common Mar-
ket and so on but we didn’t tell him
what questions we were going to ask.
And we’ve never told anyone else in ad-
vance, either.”
Talking of how “Four Corners” had
moved away from Sydney for the first
time, Charlton said: “We went to the
Box Ridge Aborigine Settlement and
showed it with the result that questions
were asked in Parliament.” And had any-
thing been done? He and Raymond
weren’t sure, they didn’t think so. But
at least the subject had had an airing.
“Then we went and had a look at the
Malay pearl divers in Darwin we
wanted audiences to hear them talk
and to Arnhem Land, Marble Bar, the
empty North.”
The unit, Charlton said, consisted of
himself, Raymond, cameraman Peter
Leyden and a sound engineer, and the
physical job of shifting heavy equip-
ment, coping with often vile territory,
couldn’t —as in other countries—be
shifted on to the shoulders of a work-
team. Pushing a car through thick mud
to Moonie was just another job for the
producers.
“We’ve never used a script,” Charlton
said. “We believe in improvising instead.
In New Guinea, for instance, we’d just
turn up somewhere, interview a man with
the sweat pouring down his face, with
his collar open. If we’d given him notice
he’d have been dressed for the occasion.
The whole effect would have been
ruined.”
Since the introduction of Videotape
to Australia in March, 1962, “Four
Corners” has been recorded live and
replayed later on Sunday afternoons (it
is flashed on screens in all States on
Saturday nights). “This gives all the
States a stake in it at once,” Charlton
said.
Completely flexible
producers’ first overseas trip for
A the programme was to Hong Kong
and Macao. I asked if the intention had
been to explore the ways in which the
British Government was coping with the
vast influx of refugees. Charlton said
no. “We just wanted street scenes, new
housing projects, a Chinese market, shots
from train windows going to the New
Territories..
In New Guinea, he simply took as the
basis of the coverage the Foot report,
which had just arrived, and 24 hours
later he was in Lae getting reactions of
planters, administrative people and dis-
trict officers to the report. “We also
went to show what a typical village was
like. The whole operation was completely
flexible.”
For most people, the top “Four
Corners” programme so far was, almost
certainly, the visit to India and Russia,
organised through Air India, which was
running an inaugural flight through India
to Moscow from Sydney. The Indian
interviews were arranged through the
High Commissioner here, but the Russian
interviews had largely to be fixed on the
spot, through Intourist and then through
the State Radio Committee, which super-
vised TV presentation in Russia.
Interviews in India, which looked
notably smooth and relaxed, were in
fact often staged in a tearing hurry:
Indira Gandhi, for instance, only had 10
minutes between appointments. I asked
Charlton how he’d felt about Nehru
I hadn’t been aware of a personal attitude
in the handling of the interview and
he said he didn’t hold with those who
found Nehru a wishy-washy fence-sitter.
“No, I don’t feel that at all,” Charlton
told me. “You have to be there, you
know. It all looks different, when you
get there. When you realise the enormous
problems know what he’s faced wit
day by day. I was surprised how fit he
looked he’d been ill, just got over an
illness but, yes, I’ll agree his eyes wen
away at times . . .” (Nehru had seeme
to me distinctly ill-at-ease throughout, in
contrast to the cool and graceful la ies


v * *;
lilili*
mm
■ms
'~, , ' i
:
:
wmmmmy:?s
111111 l
wmmmmsmrn
llplllliill
%
|||f|||g||f|gg
jp;fgpi;pss;g!pp;g;gl
Making a Will.. ?
Expert advice
costs you nothing!
By carefully planning your Will
now, you can ensure your estate is
administered speedily and efficiently
without unnecessary expense to your
beneficiaries.
For the past seventy-five years
Perpetual Trustee has specialised in
the administration of Wills and the
Company’s wide experience in Will
planning is readily available to you,
freely and without any obligation.
You are invited to make full use
of this free advisory service . . .
make a point of calling on Perpetual
soon.
A new booklet outlining the
Company’s many services is now
available. Ask Perpetual today for
your free copy.
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
“PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL"
of the Indian Government whom Charl-
ton had interviewed).
Coming to the most fascinating subject
of all the most challenging subject
Charlton and Raymond had dealt with,
and their most exciting destination —they
both talked with enthusiasm of Moscow.
Had there been any insistence by the
authorities on examining the film after
they shot it? “No. Ours was the first
and only uncensored footage to come
out of the city.”
And was the city really as clean, as
antiseptic, as it looked? Raymond was
standing, looking down at a grubby
William Street in the blazing morning.
“You look down here and see cigarette
butts in the gutter.” He sat down. “You
don’t see them there.”
And yet, despite the clean, wide
streets, the lack of cigarette butts,
Charlton and Raymond admitted they
had found aspects of their Moscow
experience, well, Kafkaesque. They had
arrived on a Saturday, and after a day of
telephone wrangling and a conversation
across a green baize table, Intourist
wanting them to shoot many things and
the State Radio Committee being dif-
ficult, they had been forced to postpone
everything until Monday, with only six
days in all to shoot.
“Those green baize tables,” Charlton
said to Raymond’s sympathetic groans.
“I’ll always remember them!”
They had to go back to the hotel and
wait for a decision on their activities
(Stravinsky was also staying in the hotel,
and Charlton, meeting him in a lift,
asked him for an interview but he
refused).
“Finally, they let us through to do
some of the things we wanted,” Charl-
ton said. “Although we weren’t allowed
to see the Patrice Lumumba Friendship
University I don’t know why. But we
did cover the underground railway, the
streets and a collective farm, among
other things.”
Charlton said that he thought what
probably earned them the degree of free-
dom they were given on a nine-to-five
schedule was the unit’s complete flexi-
bility of operation. “They couldn’t get
used to the fact that we didn’t have a
script. We’d look through the viewfinder,
shooting from the car, and our Intourist
m an got quite <upset. People here are
used to seeing TV crews in the street —
in Moscow they’re not used to it, it’s
strange to them.”
At night in Moscow, when they had
uo official arrangements to film, Charl-
ton and Raymond rarely slept—instead,
they roamed the streets, and in one case
did some shooting (a memorably well-
handled sequence in a dance hall was
done entirely without their hosts’ know-
ledge). Disappointingly, Charlton said,
they hadn’t been able to shoot the final
resting-place of Lenin, but they visited
it, watched the crowds, and saw the
prone, faultily preserved figure, the skin
flaking and peeling off the back of the
left hand . ..
Charlton and Raymond want very
much to go back to Moscow, for another
visit. They have just left for Europe
to prepare some more “Four Corners”
(the programme has been in recess
during Charlton’s vacation). Finally, I
asked them why they hadn’t been to
Indonesia, to interview Soekarno and
Subandrio and to give us a good look at
the place, but Charlton said simply: “We
wanted to go, but we weren’t able to. I
can’t say why. .And so far they
hadn’t been able to get permission to go
inside Red China. There are evidently a
few places in the world where “Four
Corners” can’t easily probe, but by the
look of determination on Charlton’s and
Raymond’s faces, they are sure to get
where they want to go, in the end.


THE WINDS OF CHANGE
IN NEW GUINEA'S PUBS
"I was shocked just a little," she said with soft irony.
By PETER HASTINGS
At 5000 feet the garden of the Hotel
Goroka is a little like Paradise; the
air is cool and sweet, the distant
mountains are violet, the valley floor is
green as the hotel lawn in a corner of
which an old white cockatoo in a tree nib-
bles relentlessly at leaves until they fall
like gentle rain. On a Friday night it used
to seem at its most cheerful, gregarious
best when people came in from all over
the district to breast the bar or sit at
the little tables on the lawn until it got
too cold and they moved inside. But any
Paradise can turn sour and the winds of
change which have brought native drink-
ers to the bars of New Guinea have a
chill touch to Europeans. At first I
thought the new laws rather encouraging
and in Goroka I was touched by the
sight of native drinkers standing quietly
at the bar or seated at tables on the
lawn. They looked a little lonely and
had a self conscious touch of bravado
in their rather desperate attempt to
feel at home in the white man’s pre-
serve. But all that, I thought, would
change with time and a particular inci-
dent on a particular Friday night en-
couraged me in this attitude. Two
Europeans staggered out of the bar and
down a side path leading through the
garden to the road beyond. They were
very drunk and one was violently ill. A
native drinking with a friend at a nearby
table got up and ran down the path to
hold the sick man steady, to rub his
back and utter low moans of sympathy.
The paroxysm over he put his arm
around the European’s shoulders and
helped him to a car and gently put him
inside. He then rejoined his companion,
shrugged his shoulders and laughed
sympathetically before resuming his beer
and conversation.
It was a kindly, spontaneous act with
no ulterior motives, an act into which
one could read great hope for the future
—or so I thought. The plain fact is
that the new drinking laws have not only
failed to solve old problems of racial
discrimination but have brought new
and ultimately more bitter ones. The
problems of achieving even a rough
equality in race relations seem to get
more complicated rather than less. There
has certainly been no lack of effort on
the part of the New Guineans themselves.
They have been almost pathetic in the
town pubs in their efforts to show that
they can drink in a quiet and orderly
fashion and equally pathetic in their
patent desire to be accepted on a basis
of equality. In Port Moresby and Rabaul
natives even formed their own vigilante
squads to keep an eye on native drinkers
who got out of line. They didn’t need
to. The New Guinean is a quiet fellow
at heart and even when drunk is likely
to become quietly ill rather than go on a
rampage. In addition the bush telegraph
was certainly at work. New Guineans
wanted to prove to Europeans that they
could be trusted with their newly granted
privilege, that they were worthy of trust
and of acceptance. Acceptance they have
not got. The wife of a senior official
described to me how she went to a local
hotel on the first night of native drink-
ing and was welcomed at the door by
her cook boy and house boy. “I was
shocked just a little,” she said with soft
irony. She made quite a joke of it.
Nevertheless, despite the affectionate,
joking irony in her voice she was
shocked. Another official, a friend of
mine, voiced disappointment in quite
another way. “This quiet drinking,” he
said, “worries me. 1 think it means they
the natives have refused our values
of noise, aggressiveness and matey good
cheer. This is a rejection of the white.”
It was a strange remark and showed an
inverted European exclusiveness. What
one can do about that I don’t know. It
suggests that the European has not
accepted native drinking ; r, any way at
all. He is shocked, disappointed or
annoyed and inconvenienced. As a
result he has moved out of the bars into
the higher priced lounges and at the
first sight of a native in those exclusive
precincts he heads for his club
Elsewhere reactions are even blunter
and in some parts of the Territory hotel
owners are considering the addition of
“slum bars” for native drinkers on the
grounds that they will feel happier
drinking in those conditions among
themselves than in the company of
whites. This is probably true but can
only lead, like the policy of retiring to
one’s club, to the creation of even greater
long term tensions and resentments.
Economically native drinking has had
drastic effects. In a country where £4
a week is extremely good money there
is plenty of evidence that too much of
it is going on beer. How the bush native
affords a drink I do not know. The day
drinking was introduced in Moresby,
hotel bar takings exceeded £lOOO. In
Madang nightly pub takings now exceed
£2OO. Brewery production in the Terri-
tory is way up, while in Port Moresby
bread consumption is down 1000 two
pound loaves a week along with other
consumer goods. It is generally hoped
that this won’t last and that the pervasive
power of the New Guinean women will
eventually bring their menfolk to their
senses. From a mixture of motives—
solicitous as well as selfish —many Euro-
peans would like a native referendum
on drinking. They believe that if a re-
ferendum were held in the main towns
of New .Guinea the women would hand
in a unanimous “no” vote. This is
undoubtedly true but would merely mean
a return to the bad old days of sly
grogging with the addition of thousands
of new native customers who have been
introduced to drink since the new laws
came into force. More to the point it
would also mean a return to an intense y
resented, legally sanctioned form of race
discrimination. Better even the forms
of discrimination already evolving under
the new drinking system, bad as they
are, than a return to the old. The rea
answer lies with the Europeans them
selves. What is needed is apparent y
the impossible—a change of heart.
"LIVING WITH ASIA"
Important series of Lectures arranged by the
Australian Institute of International Affairs
(New South Wales Branch)
Thursday, March 21st Professor Kiyoshi Kojima,
Professor of International Economics, Hitotsubashf
University, Tokyo.
Mr. Alfredo Roces, Senior Lecturer in Humanities,
Pacific University, Manila, Philippines,
"Australia's Image in Asia".
Friday, March 22nd Sir Garfield Barwick, Minis-
ter for External Affairs,
"Ourselves and our Neighbours".
Monday, March 25th Dr J. F. Cairns, M.P.,
"An Alternative Point of View".
Tuesday, March 26th Professor Sir John Craw-
ford, Director of Research School of Pacific Studies,
"Trade and Aid".
All Lectures will be given at the STAWELL HALL,
145 Macquarie Street, Sydney, at 8 p.m.
Admission: 5/- for one ticket or 15/- for a series
of 4.
There will be questions and discussions after the
lecture.
Tickets may be obtained at the office of the
Australian Institute of International Affairs, 369
George Street, City, or at the Stawell Hall on the
night of the Lecture.
Tickets may also be obtained on written application
to the Institute, forwarding the subscription with
O stamped, addressed envelope.


Post this coupon now for miniature portfolio of
LYSAGHT HOME PLANS
your new home plan could be in this handy
little portfolio! Each one of these architect
created Lysaght plansf is spacious yet can be built
at moderate cost. All offer interesting and attrac-
tive variations on the world-wide trend towards
lower-pitched rooflines . . . and are ideally suited
to the streamlined ‘new look’ of steel sheet.
Whichever plan you choose, there is no sub-
stitute for the innate strength of Lysaght Steel
Sheet. No other roofing material is as strong
a Lysaght roof is fireproof and weatherproof
with durability ensured by a protective heavy
z inc coating of at least 1.75 ozs. per sq. ft.
Costs less than most other roofing materials
• • . needs little maintenance.
LYSAGHT
HOME PLANS
SERVICE
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited ®
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, the
Lysaght Miniature Portfolio of Low Cost
Home Plans.
name
ADDRESS
.STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle^


“Little old lady passing by”
A Short Story by
HAL PORTER
Well!
And where’re we now?
It’s August, and sticky. The
weather’s that of an orchid conservatory.
Despite the sun there’s no dazzle, no
clarity. The day and the sky are smudged.
All shapes and emotions and ideas are
without edge. This narrow street, and the
narrower streets and alleys branching
from it, reek of the curried offal of
cheap restaurants, and are alive with
scented men whose faces and hands are
the color of weak coffee. As though
to a built-in calypso rhythm, they lope
by in their winkle-pickers which are of
lairy material from putty-colored patent
leather to ginger suede. They are, in fact,
completely laired-up, humidity notwith-
standing, with the unseemly elegance of
Neapolitan pervs. Pretty as their uniform
is it is not so pretty-pretty as that of
the heifer-eyed women in saris, nose-
jewels and spike heels, women filleted
lissom, and down whose narrow backs
pour abundances of musky black hair.
Dinky-di black men, really stove-polished
boongs with lips like kidneys, also slap
flatfootedly by on their winkle-picker
soles, flap by in robes zigzagged with
cabbalistic designs of indigo. These
stove-black blacks are scent-saturated
too, but feral gusts of primitive sweat
shake out from the folds.
In this Turkish-bath fug, under this
stewing sun, where are we? Savanna la
Mar? Bombay? Lagos?
Certainly not. See those two bodgie-
types, also winkle-pickered, the two, just
there, in black leather lumber-jackets
and black leather trousers? White they
are, under the acne, white; no doubt
anywhere about that. Listen carefully:
they seem to be singing Island in the Sun.
That’s only the tune. Listen more care-
fully to the words they sing so softly,
and yet so terribly clearly, towards col-
ored ears, so terribly pointedly, the
words of The Brixton Theme.
“Oh, white woman in the nude,” they
sing, filing at their fingernails, singing
dead-pan the song the English sing with
dead-pan bitterness, “Oh, white woman
in the nude, workin’ for the black man’s
food ...”
Their eyes, although peeled and dan-
gerous, do not flicker, are inclined move-
Jessly down in the direction of their mani-
curing. Their attitude is of idle lolling,
yet how tense it is. They lust for inci-
dent as they fake innocence outside the
saloon bar of The Prince of Tech. Know
now where we are? No? Then listen to
something easier. The bandy little cod-
ger, with the face of a cheeky water-rat,
peeking this way, that way, as he wheels
the handcart of mullock down the alley
there, is squawking out. “O’ metaw! O’
metaw!” He’s a cockney, see. He thinks
he’s squawking, “Old metal! Old metal!”
You really must, at least and at last,
gather that we’re in London. If you’re
still not convinced, squint down between
the Hindoos and Nigerians and Jamai-
cans, and you’ll spot the KEEP BRIT-
AIN TIDY tins, and the leashed poodles
and sealyhams and boxers and corgis
democratically fouling the footpaths,
which are filthier than those in, say, the
Pettah of Colombo or the Chinatown of
Singapore. Surely that convinces you?
Yes, these dog-soiled footpaths could
be nowhere else but in London. London,
SW 8.
Not a good address SW 8. Earl’s Court.
Londoners call Earl’s Court you
can readily imagine the tone of voice
Kangaroo Valley. That’s because it’s the
address of the Australians, the invaders,
the temporary, the hit-and-run, cut-and-
come-again yahoos, the colonial vaga-
bonds, the loud-mouthed and light-fin-
gered primitives, the uncouth, irreverent,
cock-sure, yankee-ized and so on and so
forth so-and-sos.
Kangaroo Valley! A limbo of declasse
late-Victorian hotels pretending other-
wise with brassoed knockers and posh
names: Essex Court, Arundel, Courtland
Hotel, Buckingham Hall, Northumber-
land. Pitiful it might appear, unpitying
it is. It’s all hot cock: mews after mews
of stable-hands’ quarters tizzied-up with
baby-blue doors, petunia window-boxes
and curtains of nylon lace; vistas of ter-
races whose pillared porches and other
time-and-downfall-ravaged elements at-
tempt genteel deceit under skins of paint;
hand-painted lies UPTO-DATE
APARTMENTS, SUPERIOR ACCOM-
MODATION tacked up by land-
ladies and landlords, by BO blondes with
eyes like pearls, unshaven neurotics,
Nero-faced poofters with tackled jowls
and polka-dotted cravats. Often here
and equally often there, a notice
hangs lopsided from a ground-floor
window-catch: VACANCIES
PLEASE, NO COLOUREDS. That’s the
.vo-sorry but couldn’t-care-less English,
the not-to-worry living dead who sustain
their emotional and spiritual and moral
dry-rot on carbohydrates and Ceylon tea,
on television and football pools and a
decadent theatre, on the adoration of
dogs and sparrows and crocuses.
So sorry! PLEASE !
“ . . . black man gettin fat,” sing the
leather-coated, filing their fingernails to
points like steel nibs and, with the dis-
cretion of murderers, not raising their
stone eyes a hair’s-width, “eatin’ plenty
of kitty-cat ...”
Ah, well!
SW 8. Earl’s Court. Smell-of-an-oilrag
land. Bedsitter borough. The arena of
the grease-clogged gas-ring; the shower-
less cell enclosing the bath tide-lined by
pubic hairs; the area-steps smelling of
tomcat’s piddle. This is Kangaroo Valley;
this is Earl’s Court. Cosmopolitan and
colorful it is said.
Ha! Through the currents of coloreds,
and the thinner currents of English pie-
buyers and dog-warders, strides an un-
mistakable Australian Joe Blow the
Sandgroper; the jarrah-jerker doing his
dough on an Old World walkabout, and
momentarily bogged down in Kangaroo
Valley. He’s young, muscular, hairy-
legged; beer’s indubitably his booze; his
face is sun - desiccated, and his hair
bleached at the tips. He’s capable, have
no doubt, of sending himself up by cal-
ling himself a bronzed Anzac “sar-
donically”: the wrinkles about his eyes
and mouth are not only the sun’s doing.
Because of August he wears shorts and
sandals, the Japanese geta sort called
thongs. He wears them un-Englishly,
without socks. Know why the English
wear socks (washed-out navy blue) with
their sandals? You don’t? Skip it, skip
it. This Australian is so Australian he
doesn’t need a weeny brass kangaroo
pinned to his sports shirt, nor to carry
a false-fur koala with a leatherette pro-
boscis. He nears the florin-in-the-slot
automat at the corner of Trebovir Road
and Earl’s Court Road. The automats
little glass-fronted cells display tins of
quick-brew coffee, baked beans, spag-
hetti in sauce, slices of factory currant
cake, production-belt frankfurters hi
cellophane, pork pies, bottles of yogurh


You can readily imagine
the tone of voice in
which Londoners refer to
Earl's Court as Kangaroo Valley
all the spurious bed-sitter provender. As
he pauses to light a cigarette he scans,
idly, the arrangements of de luxe muck,
the goo of civilisation and progress. He
doesn’t notice the old lady waiting there
in her camouflage of withdrawal and
gentility She sheds this, pronto, and
lakes on a form of life. If he has not
seen her, she has seen him. She does not
even give him time to expel his first
inhalation of smoke.
“1 have been wondering,” says the
old lady, perky as a finch and bright
as a bloody button, “if what one gets
from these contraptions really is
cheaper.”
Her voice is trimmed, and fearlessly
Kensington, at the very least Kensing-
ton. It could even be Knightsbridge, and
entitled and accustomed to harrying
Harrods. Were it less demanding and not
to be denied, it might appear gentle, the
stock voice of lavender-and-old-lace and
when-your-hair-has-turned-to-silver. How-
ever, the use of contraptions, implying a
certain skittishness and the ability to
®eet the young on lighter grounds,
doesn’t altogether come off. She is smal-
ler and frailer than her uprightness sug-
gests. She is dressed as an actress play-
lng her generation, which is the late
Queen Mary’s, would dress: long skirt,
toque, an umbrella furled so cruelly tight
*t seems a sword-stick, a narrow strip
(tippet?) of unidentifiable but doggy pelt
tanging about her neck, cotton gloves
over which are drawn, August or no
Angust, knitted mittens. These last seem
the touch too much, particularly as she
also sports, stock character to the corni-
est Amateur Theatrical detail, a cameo
at her throat. Moreover, among the
street-musicians melodiously agonizing in
alleys, on violin, concertina, flute and
mouth-organ, one only abraded street-
singer's voice is committing with
more than singular appropriateness
Little old lady passing by.
“Cheaper?” says the Australian.
“Lady, I wouldn’t know. But I wouldn’t
mind betting no. She’s a hard cruel
world. They’ll be out after a deener.”
“Dear me!” says the little old lady
and, continuing to act a version of her-
self, “Dear me! I’d have imagined
cheaper. After all, one does serve one-
self.”
He shrugs. He smiles. He is about to
move on that’s what he thinks. He
hasn’t a dog’s.
“Don’t you agree,” she says, and win-
ningly’s the adverb, “that if one serves
oneself the goods should be cheaper?”
“I suppose,” he says, prepared to
spend a moment or so more with the old
doll, and politely giving his answer
thought as he unfolds it so as to appear
to recommend his finding without im-
modesty, “that they touch you for more
because the things go non-stop. Bash
your two bob in now, or at three o’clock
in the morning, and ...”
“Oh, do look!” she interrupts. She is
not old and English just for the fun of
it, just for nothing. “Do, please, spare
a glance. That charming child at the
chocolate machine. His brave bare legs.
Smooth and solid as marble. And such
a satisfactory shape.”
Surprised at the rude old Pommy
crow’s interruption he spares a glance
before he’s aware of doing so. It takes
in a child not at all pick of the bunch,
merely like grimy wax. Now he can
shoot through. Or can he?
Indeed, no, for, “You see,” says the
old girl who, without having moved a
centimetre nearer, nevertheless gives the
impression of being inescapably nearer,
bent on intimacy, one foot jammed in
the doorway. “You see,” she says, “I
am essentially very artistic.” She here-
upon makes a mittened gesture, minute
and deprecatory enough. “I do hope
you’ll not consider me vain. Please.”
She smiles without parting her pale lips,
meantime tilting her head sideways, like
a girl, like an arch miss. She plays her
ace: “I am, after all, eighty-four.” She
pauses, thus to suggest, indeed, thus to
state that she has outlived many an odd
one: Baden-Powell, Mrs Patrick Camp-
bell, Edith Cavell, Neville Chamberlain,
T. E. Lawrence, dozens of them, mortal
as moths. The pause also gives time for
him to deny that she can be anywhere
near eighty-four, which he would do,
as his breed conventionally do on lying
behalf of her breed, and is, indeed, on
the polite point of doing. Sensing this,
she takes it as said, and hurries on with
her handout: “I say artistic when, really,
I cannot draw a straight line. And as
for painting, even in water-color. I
confess to being hopeless. 1 meant by
artistic that I’ve a keen sense of the
artistic, a great passion for beauty. That
is only to be expected.” She fixes him
like an Ancient she-Mariner with her
bleached and fervent eyes. ‘’You see,
I knew Lord Leighton.”
It could not be possible for her ever
to translate his expression, his wiped-off
blankness which is hiding “You don’t
say!” and “No need to stack on an act,
Toots!” and “Who the hell's Lord What-
sis?” It is possible for her to sense that
he doesn’t cotton on, that he’s never
heard of Lord Leighton. Therefore,
“Naturally,” she says, “you know his
work. He was a great painter, a Royal
Academician. When I was young we
lived in Holland Park; our house was
quite near Lord Leighton’s. Ours has
long since gone; but Lord Leighton’s
house is still there, a quarter of an hour
away from here, just across Kensington
High. You may visit it. Why, you have
only to walk on your strong manly legs
up Earl’s Court Road ...”
Up Earl’s Court Road to Lord Leigh-
ton’s house and an old lady's past; up
an Earl’s Court road catering for hand-
to-mouthers; laundrettes, arty cafes, es-
presso bars, Wimpy bars, fruit-barrows,
tea-and-sandwich stands, seedy estate
agents, flower-stalls packed with carna-
tions of non-U pink, biscuit and cigarette
and cartoned-milk machines, chainstore
butchers, wasp-ridden greengrocers dis-
playing skinny cucumbers as long as
French loaves and other un-Australian
vegetables and fruits courgettes, chic-
ory, endive, uglies, spring greens, cress,
aubergines, pitted and speckled apples
the size of golf-balls, cauliflowers no
bigger than guelder roses Not a street,
in this muffled weather, for .Joe Blow to


The
Cl assic Wines
of Dalwood
(PTti
'3.
f.
m
V !
VINTAGE 1960
VINTAGE 1959
. -7.
Hunter Valley Austroli*
CLARET
CHABLIS
BURGUNDY
Reserve Bottling
RIESLING
Reserve Bottling
Reserve Bottling
NET IPT 6FL OZS
Reserve Bottling
Dalwood in the Hunter Valley of New South
Wales has long been known to wine enthusi-
asts for its outstanding table wines. This
historic vineyard established in 1831 by a
gentleman from Wiltshire named George
Wyndham, was later acquired and exten-
sively developed by Penfolds. Dalwood
Wines are classic examples of the table wines
that have made the Hunter Valley famous.
The Maurice O’Shea
Memorial Trophy
Australia’s most sought-
after table wine award —-
the Maurice O’Shea
Memorial Trophy—was
won by Penfolds at the
1963 Sydney Royal
Show.
PW AAI
wish to walk in search of Lord What-
sis’s house, no matter what she keeps
on nattering like a well-learnt lesson.
“ . . . and one room is tiled, walls
and floor, with rare Moorish tiles. Blue
and green. From Cairo and Damascus
and Spain. Sir Richard Burton collected
many of them for dear Lord Leighton.
In the centre of the room is a pool and
a fountain. You would be entirely rav-
ished. So very artistic.”
“Yes,” he says. “Yes, I get you. And
now, if you’ll excuse, yours truly must
...” But it’s not to be goodbye at all;
far from it. She does actually move
near enough to put her hand on his fore-
arm, not to grip with unladylike firm-
ness but decisively to hook the shrouded
fingers over his hair-strewn arm. The
gesture has a fevered intimacy. So has
her voice.
“I am so glad you understand. One
meets so few people these days who
really understand, and have any art-
istic perception. I could tell you were
artistic from your legs.” Then, sud-
denly, although not intensifying the
pressure of her hooked-over fingers, she
becomes angry.
“So few understand. Dirty!” she says.
“Dirty, dirty and dirty! It’s scandalous.
The Government should move. Every-
thing filthy nowadays. Look!” She stabs
the ferrule of her sword at the torn milk-
cartons on the pavement, at the splashes
of milk, the chocolate wrappers, the
cherry-stones and pie-bags, at a squashed
dog-dropping. “Filthy! The whole world
is filthy!”
Although inflamed, she is not louder,
yet his face, like the face of any man
whose female companion is committing
a public indiscretion of unorthodox noise,
takes on a disparaging impassivity. This
can be understood to imply: The old
ratbag's off her cadoover. It implies
also: Hell! I’m stuck with one of these
crazy old bats to be seen everywhere
in London, answering themselves on
park benches, rebuking or commending
themselves to themselves, chattering
useless information to pigeons, talking
to the Thames, furiously vilifying the
unseen as they skip in plastic macs and
National Service horn-rims through the
carefully unregarding crowds. It is ob-
vious he would like to be in Paris or
Perth or even anywhere else.
“There,” she says, arranging her
closed smile again underneath her pale
eyes, “you will be thinking me quite,
quite dotty . . .”
His eyebrows rise in a you’re-telling-
me manner.
. . assure you that I'm perfectly
sane. Oh, yes. But my sense of beauty
is affronted. Fifty years ago this area
was respectable and elegant. I take
solace in my memories of Lord Leigh-
ton; they’re a great comfort to me. My
bedroom used to be on the third floor,
and I could see him at work in his
studio. All those beautiful models—oh,
so much beauty. Since the war there s
so little beauty. In London, you know,
the war was so untidy, so inartistic. That
creature Hitler an unfortunate and
soulless man. Were you .•? How
silly of me! Of course, you werent
here. Too young. And Australian too.
I know by your voice. And your brown
legs. Naturally, you’ve no idea what
London was like. You could hear the
glass being swept up the morning after
a raid; a peaceful sound after all the
din of the night before. I’d never de-
mean myself by going into shelters, or
sleeping in the Underground. Thous-
ands did. Grown men too. And sleep-
ing in their clothes. The dirt. The
stench. I must not, must not talk of >t.
But . . .” She cleared her vibrating
throat in which the skein of words ha
knotted. “But it was then I began to
realize that so many do not care abou
beauty at all, only about their own


ISatublt&Led jtb*
Contractors to tmorr.iMnl, Muaiatpal,
Shipping, Bankuit and ComtotnliJ
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON &
osuiaivan
:-asmra
SI X
TRAD
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Frinters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
typography: rs
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
sordid lives. This shocked me. I should
die rather than go under the earth like
that, like a fox or a mole, like an animal.
[ always stayed above, Hitler or no Hit-
ler. And so would those others have re-
fused to burrow into the bowels of the
earth, those wonderful ones I used to
see in Lord Leighton’s studio with their
Grecian muscles, those perfect models
with their stalwart legs. You would have
pleased Lord Leighton; you have the
legs of an Hellenic hero; you would
make an excellent artist’s model.
Doesn’t that make you smile?”
It doesn’t, poor trapped drongo who
was on his way somewhere, to the bank,
to the Overseas Visitors’ Club, to meet
a cobber, to scrounge a cup of coffee
from a sheila in a furnished room, to
buy contraceptives or a packet of razor-
blades, to do anything and go anywhere
except on this loop-the-loop through the
thin air of an old eccentric’s addled re-
collections. He does, however, attempt
a smile: someone, his mum or his gran,
has long ago, in a dazzling and more
definitive, less soiled country, boxed his
ears enough times or nagged long
enough for him to show respect for
the old. It is a secondhand smile, and a
flaccid respect. She smiles now though,
still not parting her lips. It is a smile
of triumph.
“One night, when that man was drop-
ping his bombs, one of them fell on a
shelter, and also on a nearby warehouse
filled with spices. And all the spices
poured through the smashed roof of
the shelter, and kept on pouring and
pouring so that all the cowardly people
were suffocated and drowned and buried
in pepper. It was their own fault for
cowering in warrens. I refused to cower.
And here I am today eighty-four.”
This pride, this blind recklessness of
the simple or the affected or the out-
fight insane, expressed thus, causes him
to throw down his cigarette with a sort
of decision to end all the nonsense, but it
is a useless gesture not read as he wishes
it to be. It’s as far as he can go towards
yanking his arm from the gloved hook
of her fingers. The skin surrounding his
e yes winces so that less is seen of his
e yes and their expression. On the other
hand, her eyes open wider, yet do not
Se e his closing narrower and warningly.
Her eyes see the thrown-down cigarette.
As angry as her eyes she jabs at the
hutt with the wickedly sharp umbrella,
for the first time her fingers grip, tight,
shameless, sharp, like electrified eagle’s
Haws. She begins to chatter in a voice
that is sound on fire, in words no louder
an d no less trimmed, but words in
flames.
I( Dirty, dirty and dirty!” she says.
How dare you throw your cigarettes
° n London! The world is dirty enough,
aQ d London is dirty enough. All those
filthy people sleeping and snoring in
the Underground. All the churches
burning, and the steeples falling, and
the beautiful statues broken and failing.
Bombs falling, and the tinkling glass be-
ing brushed up, and all the beautiful
people being blown up. Oh, not the
ones in their warrens. They deserve to
drown in pepper. But the ones walking
in the streets on their brave legs. I used
to help my niece in Sloane Square. She
was a VAD. And when Chelsea was
bombed again and again and again, I used
to go to her to help her sort out the frag-
ments of bodies. It was the least I could
do. I have a strong artistic sense. I had
seen so many of Lord Leighton’s beauti-
ful models from my bedroom window.
There all the fragments of the dead
would be, higgledy-piggledy on long
tables arms with watches on the
wrists, torsos, heads with ribbons in
their hair. It was fascinating, like a jig-
saw. It broke my heart; it broke my
heart. And all the legs, the legs like
Apollo’s, like a Greek god’s. But I could
never finish the bodies, never. There were
always too many legs, too many
legs. . . .”
At this point, at this very point, when
she is really no longer talking to him,
and her eyes are glittering with a
moisture that may be tears and may be
an exudation caused by an emotion
without a name, her intolerable grip
of old crazed bone sheathed in cotton
and mitten loses its electrical strength,
becomes a Mother Machree hand fal-
tering at the cameo, fidgeting with the
tippet of peculiar pelt. Without a word,
he takes his released timber-cutter’s arm,
and strides off and away among the
scented black men, and the leashed dogs,
and the street-musicians and barrow-
boys of Kangaroo Valley.
When he has quite gone into the
mugginess and edgelessness and soupy
noise, she is already recomposed, is
once again in her camouflage of with-
drawal and gentility. The people of all
colors pass and pass and pass. Hands
drop milk-cartons; lips spit cherry-
stones. The leather-coated have filed
their nails, and The Brixton Theme has
died on their burning lips.
Now, a young man turns out of
Hogarth Road and, heedless of the zebra
crossing, cuts across to the milk-
machine which is next to the automat
on the corner of Trebovir Road and
Earl’s Court Road, SW 8. Before he
has time to find the sixpence, “I have
been wondering,” says the little old
lady, perky as a butcher bird, “if what
one gets from these contraptions really
is cheaper.”
It is steamy August. The sky, the day,
and all emotions are smudged. He is a
young man in shorts. His legs are
shapely, are quite Hellenic.


**m*.
X
why do you
work...
save...
plan?
Is it because you want for your family and for your-
self security, comfortable living standards, freedom
from financial worry?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY CHECK-UP
enables you to see your family’s financial future
realistically—to check what you need, what you have,
what you can have. You will make some important
calculations and get some all-important answers.
©
FOUR POINT, m
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP SS
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
o Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you —•
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
0 Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
A If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time —involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. AH you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
A
SURE
FRIEND
IN
UNCERTAIN
TIMES
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE.
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
AMP
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets of almost £600,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to
the greatest benefit to members «


OVERSEAS
A STATE OF SIEGE IN
LITTLE VENICE
Betancourt y. Hayana-Moscow
By ARNOLD BEICHMAN
Qome four centuries ago, a Spanish
conquistador, seeing clusters of native
huts on stilts over Lake Maracaibo,
named the place Venezuela, little Venice.
Unlike modern Venice, however, Vene-
zuela isn’t sinking into the ground. In
fact, this oil-soaked land on the north
coast of South America has made more
economic and social progress in the last
four years than at any time in its 150
years of independence. Its democratic
Government is headed by President
Romulo Betancourt, elected in a free
vote in December, 1958, by a people
which had a few months earlier rid itself
of a ten-year dictatorship. His inaugura-
lion in February, 1959, followed by a
®onth Fidel Castro’s assumption of
power. What has happened in Cuba
a nd what is now happening in Cuba we
Inow all too well. By comparison, little
ls known or reported about Venezuela
tod its democratic revolution.
A political-intellectual of immense yet
little appreciated stature, Betancourt and
his Action Democratica (AD) party in
a coalition with the Christian Socialists
(COPEI) have introduced a Rooseveltian
New Deal-cum-Labor Party type of
B°vernment without the use of political
terror, without lynch-mob cries of “kill
them”, without the suppression of oppo-
sition parties. In fact, four Communist
leaders sit in the Venezuelan Congress,
having been duly elected in 1958.
The population of seven and a half
million increases at the rate of 3.6 per
cent, a year, one of the highest rates of
growth in the world, and to compound
the problem, half the population is under
eighteen years of age. Nevertheless, the
country’s living standards have visibly
improved despite hard-core unemploy-
ment of 12 per cent, of the work-force
or 350,000 people. These are the usual
handicaps of underdeveloped countries
but Venezuela is distinguished by being
the richest underdeveloped country in the
world. Foreign investment totals $6
billion, two-thirds of which is from the
US. If Venezuela survives the next elec-
tion and the Havana-Moscow plots
against its independence, more invest-
ment will be forthcoming. Larger in
area than the United Kingdom, France
and Benelux combined, Venezuela could
support, given time and trained man-
power, a population of 50 million be-
cause of its still untapped mineral wealth
and the arability of its llanos. While
waiting for such a miracle, the Betan-
court Government has spent huge sums
on housing, schools, roads, hospitals and
other public improvements without any
taint of corruption. The country’s agrar-
ian reform programme has been describ-
ed by Professor Robert J. Alexander, a
Socialist, as “the best-planned and most
scientific effort of this kind which has
yet been made in Latin America”. In
public education, the achievement has
been even more spectacular. On a con-
tinent where 15 million children will
never see the inside of a classroom, in
Venezuela one can now say that every
child has an opportunity to attend, at
least, a primary school.
The trade unions, grouped into the
Confederacion de Trabajadores de Ven-
ezuela (CTV), are growing with Govern-
ment encouragement, not domination. A
mission sponsored by the International
Confederation of Free Trade Unions and
headed by Victor Feather, the TUC
assistant general secretary, recently visit-
ed the country. Their report praised Vene-
zuela’s “democratic revolution (for) bring-
ing about far-reaching industrial and land
reforms which in no way hinder but rath-
er advance the struggle to raise living
standards and give to all the opportunity
to lead a full and decent life.”
Venezuela’s post-liberation existence is
a repudiation of the apologies of those
“liberals” who argue that it is presump-
tuous to demand democratic behavior
from underdeveloped countries seeking
“forced draft” economic growth. In
actual fact, Betancourt could easily
justify the imposition of a dictatorship
in Venezuela if he availed himself of all
those elaborate rationales used to defend
certain strong-men from democratic
criticism. For in addition to all the prob-
lems which beset any socially disadvan-
taged country, Venezuela suffers an
additional burden —it is a land besieged.
To state it quite simply, Venezuela is
besieged by organised Communist groups
which, under the Khrushchev doctrine of
support for “wars of national liberation”,
seek Betancourt’s overthrow. Although
he has but one more year to serve, al-
though under the constitution he can-
not succeed himself, the Communists
and their allies have adopted every con-
ceivable tactic, including terror, guer-
rilla warfare, insurrection, assassination,
to overcome this still democratic regime.
To say that Venezuela is a land under
siege is no figure of speech. It is as bad
in Venezuela today as it was in France
and, certainly, in Algeria during the OAS
campaign of terror, a year or so ago.
Here is a listing of just a fraction of the
gangsterism and sabotage which the
country has suffered in little more than
two years:
November, 1960, Communist-led stu-
dents at the Central University in Cara-
cas had a four-day gun battle with police.
The university is a Communist Party
arsenal but nothing can be done about it.
By Latin American tradition, a university
is a privileged sanctuary.
June, 1961, the US Ambassador’s car


a
revolution
in
garbage
disposal
THE
GARBAG
SYSTEM
introduces new hygiene
less work and worry to
garbage handling
Endorsed by expert medical opinion the
GARBAG system uses disposable paper
sacks mounted on light-weight, mobile or
fixed holders. It is recognized as the most
advanced garbage disposal system in the
world and is already in use in a number of
Sydney and Melbourne hospitals, offices,
factories and hotels. The Garbag system
offers the following important advantages
over other methods of garbage disposal:—
■ The Garbags are completely disposable
thus minimising risks of spreading infection
■ Garbags are cost and labour saving
they cut out time required for cleaning and
handling rubbish tins ■ Garbags eliminate
noise ■ Garbags make garbage disposal a
clean job.
For further details and a demonstration of
this outstanding system contact the APM
sales office in your capital city.
«
m
•5
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
Owned by Australians G86213AF


0 burned while he was visiting ao
jrchitecture show at the university.
January 23, 1962, fourth anniversary
the overthrow of the Perez Jimenez
jictatorship, a time-bomb exploded on
llu seventh-floor men’s room in the US
] Embassy.
May and June, 1962, rebels attempted
jo seize naval bases at Puerto Cabello
1 jn d Carupano. A similar coup in June,
] |961 occurred at Barcelona. One of the
i ringleaders, a Communist Congressman,
I ms caught as he tried to flee by launch
! to nearby Trinidad.
October 27, 1962, fidelistas succeeded
in destroying major power installations
at Maracaibo, Venezuela’s oil-producing
complex. Production was paralysed for
several days.
January 17, this year, Shell installa-
tions at Maracaibo were bombed.
jhe Omelette or the Egg
fpHE day before, a ten-man band armed
1 with sub-machine pistols stole five
French Government-owned paintings
from the National Art Museum in Cara-
cas. The canvases were recovered a few
days later in an automobile occupied by
two university students, who tried to
shoot it out with the police, and a girl
who managed to escape.
January 20, a timb-bomb was exploded
on a Maracaibo street 50 yards from the
oewly r established offices of the US In-
formation Service. The incident occurred
half an hour before a scheduled speech
at the JSIS office by the American Am-
bassador.
January 21, the Government closed all
Caracas high schools and the Central
University for three days to prevent
rioting expected in celebration of another
anniversary of the 1958 revolt against
Perez Jimenez. Even so, in Caracas five
persons were killed and 57 wounded in
rioting.
January 23, I was in Merida, a large
town 400 miles south-west of Caracas,
which boasts one of the oldest univer-
sities in the hemisphere, la Universidad
k Los Andes. From my hotel a mile
Way I heard shooting. A small group
of students, holed up in one of the uni-
versity residencias, was firing away at
tire police, one of whom was killed.
The 90-mile railroad carrying iron ore
from Cerro Bolivar to 'Puerto Ordaz,
Venezuela’s little Pittsburgh, has been
sabotaged several times. January 24, the
Caracas radio-television station was
backed, its transmitters sabotaged.
Almost every day, somewhere in Vene-
cia, a policeman is shot or killed or a
SNall military depot is raided for arms,
or bombs explode. Such incidents have
ec °me so common they rarely rate
P a §e one in the local press. The latest
°f them was the pirating of the Vene-
tian ship Anzoategui two weeks ago.
Were Betancourt the sworn enemy of
“Western imperialism” and making com-
mon cause, say, with Cheddi Jagan;
were he shooting his opponents and sus-
pending elections in the name of Marx-
ism-Leninism; were tens of thousands of
Venezuelan “counter - revolutionaries”
fleeing into exile; were Betancourt org-
anising “united fronts” with Commun-
ists and leading a kulturkampf against
the Church; were he calling for armed
revolt against all Latin American Gov-
ernments and financing continent-wide
subversion —his beleaguered Government,
you can be sure, would be blessed with
a host of supporting propaganda organ-
isations called “Committee for Fair Play
for Venezuela”, “American Friends of
Venezuelan Freedom” or “The Hands
Off Betancourt Committee” You can be
sure that Jean Paul Sartre and his con-
sort or Kenneth Tynan would be hymn-
ing Betancourt’s social vision.
I understand why Betancourt cannot
engage those avant-garde liberals who
are forever tortured by the question:
which should come first, the omelette or
the egg. I can understand why he lacks
the endorsement of the American Right,
exemplified by Mr Wdliam Buckley,
whose publication accused Betancourt
and other Latin American democrats of
“leftism”. Or the endorsement of the
Venezuelan Right, whose spokesmen in
Maracaibo so hate Betancourt as a
“crypto-Communist”. All this I under-
stand. What I cannot understand is why
Betancourt is no “culture hero” to that
sector of intelligent uncommitted and
Western opinion which seeks champions
with untarnished credentials. Betancourt
clearly opposes all totalitarianism, as
evidenced by the fact that of six known
attempts on his life since he assumed
the presidency one was arranged by the
late General Trujillo. When I saw the
54-year-old Betancourt at Miraflore
Palace a few weeks ago, his left hand
was still bandaged because the wounds
he suffered in the Trujillo bomb blast
in June, 1960, have not healed. Two of
the assassination attempts are blamed on
General Marcos Perez Jimenez, who at
this writing is in Florida awaiting a
Federal court decision as to whether he
can be extradited.
The other attempts are charged to
fidelistas who are going to keep on try-
ing. During the weeks of the Cuban
crisis, Theodore Draper recently wrote,
the Cuban press “unleashed a campaign
against the Venezuelan Government,
particularly against Romulo Betancourt,
that was unprecedented in ferocity and
provocation”.
Of all Latin American leaders, Betan-
court is most hated by the Moscow-
Havana axis because he refuses to sell
Venezuelan oil to Cuba, 1,200 miles
away. This boycott has tied up Soviet
and foreign-leased tankers in endless
shipments from the Black Sea to Cuba.
Despite Soviet pressures on Betancourt,
the boycott continues. There is a second
reason why Betancourt is so detested.
His Government has offered Latin Amer-
ica an alternative to Castroism. Duvalier
of Haiti, Somoza of Nicaragua, Stroes-
sner of Paraguay, these dictators are
hollow men for Castro —but not Betan-
court. Therefore, Venezuela must be
thrown into such chaos that foreign in-
vestors will be scared off and local
capital will fly away to foster-homes in
New York and Basel; any kind of nation-
al planning will stop; the military will
then oust Betancourt and establish their
own “caretaker” government. Most
important of all objectives is prevention
of the elections scheduled for next
winter, probably in December.
It is essential for the Communists to
prevent free elections because they would
lose badly. Their congressional candi-
dates in 1958 received 160,000 votes or
6 per cent, of the ballots cast and
roughly five times the estimated Com-
munist Party membership. Even if they
could fashion a united front with the
Republican-Democratic Party (URD) or
the pro-Castro Movement of the Revo-
lutionary Left (MIR) or any other politi-
cal fragments, it would be difficult to
defeat the AD presidential candidate,
whoever he will be.
Middle Way and Castroism
What has saved the day so far is Bet-
ancourt’s own political sagacity, trade
union and peasant support which I would
say is unbreachable, the existence of
cadres of well-educated, upper-class re-
formers who are persuaded that Betan-
court’s “middle way” is the only hope
against Castroism. Two negative factors
are also in his favor:
1. Betancourt respects the military
officers; they, in turn, respect him. They
are also aware that another military dic-
tatorship might bring about a Castroist
coup.
2. Reports in the local press that the
Communist Party leadership is split on
the value of guerrilla and terrorist tactics.
Whether these reports are true or not,
the terrorism, particularly since the
Cuba events, has made las extremistas


2
MIGHTY
GOOD
REASONS \
FOR. INCLUDING
SOUTH AFRICA
On your way to or from the U.K. flying
via South Africa costs only £4O more
(the tare varies slightly from the various capital cities)
Whether your next overseas trip be for business
or pleasure (or both!). South Africa richly merits
inclusion in your itinerary. Business-wise, South
Africa is a very logical market for Australian goods
of most every description. What's more, it's only
hours away by S.A.A.'s Australia-South Africa-U.K.
service.
When you consider that a side trip to South Africa,
costing about £4O more in air fares, could earn you
o prosperous new export market, it's surely worth the
time involved!
These are some of the items Australia
exports to South Africa
Foodstuffs Paints Hardware Electrical
Goods Motor Vehicles Kitchenware
Machinery, all types Rubber, Plastic and
Leather Goods Timber Sporting Goods
Chemicals Piece Goods Synthetic Yarns.
is your product here?
SOUTH AFRICA the richest travel
experience the world has to offer!
Pleasure-wise, the attractions
of South Africa are among
the wonders of the world.
Fabulous Kruger National
Park, with its teeming wild
life, towering mountains, the
diamond mines at Kimberley,
Victoria Falls these are
among the tourist musts your
camera will want to record.
See your travel agent.
m
mm
Fly
Choice of daylight or overnight flights
by magnificent Boeing 707 Stratojets
between Johannesburg and London
with choice of stop-overs at no
extra air fare, or non-stop to Athens
and again onward to London
IN ASSOCIATION WITH QANTAS, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. AND E.A.A.
(the Venezuelan press euphemism) high-
ly unpopular.
These internal considerations, how-
ever, may be insufficient to save Vene-
zuela from externally-supported armed
insurrection (the country’s 1,700-mile
coastline is made to order for smuggling
whisky, cigarettes —or trained guerrillas)
and the American retaliation which
would certainly follow. What is wanted
now to keep this beautiful country from
becoming a battlefield is the widest pos-
sible realisation that Venezuela is not an
abstraction like the phrase “Latin
America”. Rather Venezuela is a cause
over which the most sensitive liberal or
conservative need have no crisis of
conscience. How to infuse alert public-
ists and politicians with active concern
about Venezuela and how to create that
needful public consciousness about a
country which is as important as Mali
and Somalia, puzzles me. Nobody is
opposed to helping Betancourt; it’s that
so few really care. Soon I think we will
care, and not just about Venezuela.
RED CHINA -
DIVIDE AND
CONQUER
The Sino-Pakistan Treaty
From JAMES MITCHELL
in New Delhi
The fourth meeting of Indian and
Pakistani representatives to discuss
a possible Kashmir settlement,
which met this week in Calcutta, is al-
most bound to be the last for some time
according to Indian and Western sources
here. The decision to meet in the first
place came last year during Chinas
border aggression on India, largely at
British and American insistence.
Pakistan was already in receipt of
Western military aid. India was at the
time receiving important emergency do-
fence consignments. It was felt that mili-
tary aid to both India and Pakistan would
result in an absurd situation if the two
countries used these weapons not for
defence but against each other.
Simultaneously there were Pakistani
protests at Western military aid to In-
dia. If the Kashmir problem could e
solved the main obstacle to friendly r e
lations between India and Pakistan wou
be removed. But the talks themselves
proved disappointing and ran into di


n ttr
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizqbeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. «
THE ROYAL EASTER
ANNIVERSARY
SHOW
v xj
i -fc’gj •.: .•
_>C :si:t; sjifc.-Ai&wv
. v>'
sth April to 16th April, 1963
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle
of the year! See our finest stock
on parade, cattle judging,
woodchopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and
the wealth of other events,
including Parade of Transport,
comprehensive wool exhibition,
army display and fireworks. These
combine to make the Royal Easter
Show the greatest single attraction
in the Southern Hemisphere!
Come to the 1963 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
ulties at their second round in Delhi.
Q n ly considerable lobbying by British
a nd US diplomats saved them from
premature demise.
Again in Karachi during the third
round a break almost came: Pakistan,
earlier had dropped its insistence
on a plebiscite (which India had rejected
j n advance) again appeared to bring it
forward as the only sound basis for
solving the Kashmir issue, and India’s
partition plans hinted at in Karachi fell
far short of Pakistan’s expectations.
At present it would be political suicide
for Mr Nehru to surrender the whole
of the Kashmir Vale to Pakistan. Even
partition cannot be envisaged by India
if it turns out to be the beginning of
further bargaining by Pakistan to reclaim
ihe whole of the Vale.
Partition is still regarded as a possible
solution by India, but only if it is ac-
cepted as definitive and lasting. More-
over, there have been hints of a diverg-
ence of views between Pakistan’s new
Foreign Minister, Mr Zulfiquar Ali
Bhutto, and President Ayub himself.
President Ayub hinted recently that it
might be possible for both sides to
“freeze” the Kashmir Vale for the time
being while agreeing to adjustments in
Jammu and Ladakh.
This position was angrily denied by
Mr Bhutto
But the biggest impediment to a
successful Calcutta meeting came with
, the surprise announcement recently that
Mr Bhutto was flying to Peking to sign
an agreement with China on the Pakis-
tan-China border settlement. Such an
agreement had already been reached
“in principle” last December 26, the day
before the first round of the Kashmir
talks. It had caused a minor crisis then.
Mr Bhutto’s sudden departure to Peking
has caused an uproar, and not only in
India.
In Karachi, US Ambassador Walter
MacConnaughy learnt the news by read-
ing ‘‘Dawn”, despite oft-repeated pleas
that he should receive advance informa-
tion of any such decision. In Washing-
ton the Secretary of State, Mr Dean
kusk, summoned Pakistan’s Ambassador,
Aziz Ahemed, and protested strongly. It
was cold comfort to both the US and
India that Mr Bhutto* told newsmen on
leaving for Peking that the forthcoming
Calcutta talks would “be conducted in
*he same climate in which they were
conducted at other places” and that the
kakistan-China border agreement would
confirmed only after the settlement
°f the Kashmir dispute.
Whatever bland assurances Pakistan
officials might give, there is no doubt
that Mr Bhutto’s trip to Peking has
housed considerable anger in India and
Underlined the fact that China has gained
a further propaganda advantage. There
is no doubt that Mr Bhutto will be given
every kind of red carpet treatment in
Peking (he will attend prayers at Pe-
king’s main mosque) and will be led into
making friendly statements which can
only be to the detriment of the forth-
coming Calcutta meeting.
It was precisely to avoid such a situ-
ation that the US State Department had
tried to postpone the trip, and there is
a growing feeling that Mr Bhutto’s visit
to China might have been an indirect
bid to cause India to break off the talks,
thus putting the onus for the break on
India.
Mr Nehru has not fallen into this
trap, though he did say with some justi-
fication in Parliament that Pakistan’s
timing was “deliberate.” A Foreign;
Ministry spokesman had earlier described
the Bhutto trip to Peking as “certainly
not a friendly act.”
If, as expected, the Calcutta session
ends in failure, Pakistan must bear most
of the blame. It will be especially tragic
for two reasons: first, a considerable body
of public opinion (including responsible
politicians and the Indian Army itself)
remains in favour of a compromise solu-
tion over Kashmir which would restore
normal friendly relations between India
and Pakistan. Secondly, any failure will
be laid at the door of Britain and the
US. Already voices are being heard, both
in India and Pakistan, to say that the
Kashmir situation was dormant before
US and British attempts to bring about
a solution and that such a move has in
the long run done more harm than good
to Indo-Pakistan relations.


letters
to the
editor
SIR THOMAS GILROY
Sir,
Your photo of Cardinal Playford
(Bulletin, March 2) intrigues me. To
complete my gallery let’s have one of
Sir Thomas Gilroy.
P. J. QUINN
Maroubra (NSW).
(Like “Time” —we erred. We also
apologised.—Ed.)
CAIRNS v. KNOPFELMACHER
Sir,
On January 19 in The Bulletin Dr
Knopfelmacher stated that I had refused
to speak at a meeting in Sunshine, and
refused to respond to the Melbourne
University ALP Club Aid India Com-
mittee on the grounds that the Sino-
Indian conflict was a mere border inci-
dent. I answered by saying that I had
not refused to speak at the meeting, and
I sent a copy of a letter showing the
assertion was wrong on the second point.
I asked Knopfelmacher to say whether
he had been careless or malicious. It
seems clear that he was malicious.
He now replies by saying the reason
for his first statement was that it was
widely circulated in Melbourne that I
had refused to speak at the meeting. By
whom? Knopfelmacher mentions Mr
Gott. On one occasion Mr Gott phoned
me and said he had just written a piece
for “Nation” saying I had refused to
speak at the meeting, and was it true.
An odd time to check perhaps, but I
said it was not true. I told him I had
been asked to speak at an ALP meeting
at Sunshine long before it had been
linked in any way with Laverton, and I
said I could not do so because the date
clashed with my own Christmas Party
for ALP members, but the week before
would do. Mr Gott said he would
correct his piece if he could.
This appears to be the kind of thing
upon which Knopfelmacher builds up his
fantastic structure of possibilities:
(a) That I am not telling the truth;
(b) The Laverton march organisers
used my name —first he writes “without
my consent”, and then his mind runs on
into malice, and he says “fraudulently”;
(c) I would have spoken had the Sun-
shine meeting not been cancelled.
The position is simple. My name was
associated with the meeting by a mistake
at the ALP level at Sunshine, and as far
as I was concerned, the question of Lav-
erton had never arisen. How many of
Knopfelmacher’s fantastic word-pictures
are built up on a similar basis as his
assertions and possibilities in connection
with this meeting? As far as his smear
in respect to the ALP Club incident is
concerned, there is apparently no basis
for it at all. Was anything “widely cir-
culated” about this? Did he make any
enquiry at all from those who would
have known, and from whom he could
enquire easily?
What happens in these cases is that
rumors calculated in injure are circulated
in Melbourne by Knopfelmacher and his
friends and become the basis for articles
full of logical slides that appear in your
paper and a few more in Sydney. This
is not journalism. It is back-yard gossip
at the lowest level, with about the same
content of malice and accuracy.
J. F. CAIRNS, M.H.R.
Richmond (Victoria).
WEST NEW GUINEA
Sir,
I have seldom read a more informa-
tive, thoughtful, or more thought-provok-
ing article than the one entitled “West
New Guinea—The Big Sell-Out” and
written by Peter Hastings which appeared
in your latest edition (Bulletin, March
2).
However I have never seen mentioned
in any article the matter of the boundary
line between West and East New Guinea.
I have often wondered if and when
this boundary line was adequately sur-
veyed or properly marked.
Perhaps I am more conscious of this
matter because, in my very much young-
er days, I assisted in surveying portions
of the Boundary line between Canada
and the United States of America.
This was a joint Commission and was
a thorough job.
The Number one monument in those
days consisted of an old cedar post
stuck in a swamp and leaning over at an
angle of forty-five degrees. The swamp
constituted the source of the St Croix
River which separates the Province of
New Brunswick from the State of
Maine.
An iron post set in concrete then re-
placed the old cedar post.
The original line had been run with
a compass and instead of being a straight
line there were angles to be carefully
measured and checked every so often.
Unless the present belligerent attitude
of Indonesia should be drastically
changed in the near future, it is my guess
that it will not be long before trouble
starts over the West and East New
Guinea boundary line.
I feel that our Federal Government
should look into this matter at the earliest
possible moment.
JAS. ST. G. HALL
Newport (NSW).
SCUM AND DREGS
Sir,
Your editorial of February 9 (“Scum
and Dregs”), mentioned Miss Rydon’s
Canberra lecture which pointed out how
unintelligent or “donkey” voters some-
times decide close elections in Australia
But the effect of individuals blindly
voting down the ballot paper would be
neutralised if Australia were to follow
the example of many States in the USA
and rotate names on the ballot paper so
that each candidate’s name would appear
at the top of the list the same number
of times. Similarly, Party lists on the
Senate ballot paper should be rotated,
in order that no Party has an advantage
of position.
If Party designations were added in
small print after a candidate’s name on
the ballot paper, there would be fewer
uninformed votes.
MYRON TRIPP
Hobart.
OPUS DEI
Sir,
In his article “Opus Dei Moves into
Sydney” (Bulletin, March 2), Peter
Kelly states that Opus Dei “was founded
in Franco’s Spain in Madrid in 1928”.
Satisfyingly chilling as the phrase—
“ Franco’s Spain”—may be, please let us
not project the Generalissimo’s image
backwards into an era of Spanish history
where it has no place. In 1928 Spain
was still a monarchy; the famous Second
Republic was to follow the King’s volun-
tary exile in 1931. Franco’s participation
in the Civil War began in August, 1936;
he was not finally victorious until 1939.
As to the “secrecy” some allege of
Opus Dei, its organisation, and its activi-
ties, great misunderstanding has been
manufactured by a reluctance on the part
of Catholic “liberals” to learn anything
about any organisation which offends
their prejudices. The Australian liberal
Catholic journal “Prospect” appears to
love Opus Dei not. It has reprinted an
article from its American counterpart
“Commonweal” in which Opus Dei
was found wanting. It failed, however,
to carry the rejoinder supplied to
“Commonweal” by Opus Dei.
It is strange to speak of Opus Dei as
being a secret society, when its spirit and
juridical nature can be found in the three
public documents of the Holy See on
Secular Institutes and in Church direc-
tories of different countries (e.g., “Cath-
olic Directory” in US, 1960, p. 845 and
p. 879); its superiors are likewise known
(cfr. “Catholic Directory” in US and
Annuario Pontificio). Its houses are all
known and objective information about
Opus Dei has been published in hund-
reds of books, magazines and news-
papers, and on radio and television p r0 ‘
grams all over the world.
I suggest that those wishing to join the
Institute should resolve their frustration
at once by seeking information from any
of its houses. Australian Catholic mte-
lectuals must await patiently the oppor
tunity to join by phone. Meantime
can supply an address with which I ha'


113333
YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
SZTj
■■■- >Yi~
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING COUP.
PTY. LTD.
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
jje acquaintance: Secretariat of Opus
L: in Chicago, 5544 Woodlawn Avenue,
CHICAGO 37, ILLINOIS, USA.
Ay the way, how does one join the
Knights of the Southern Cross, or the
Catholic intellectuals?
KATHLEEN A. WOOLF
lovnsville (Queensland).
CRUEL AND UNJUST?
a student teacher at the Malayan
[eachers’ Training College at Kirkby I
sa d the great privilege of studying
Malayan history under Mr J. Kennedy,
lD d I must protest against Miss Alice
lay’s cruel and unjust personal assess-
ment of Mr Kennedy’s capability and
intellectual resources (Red Page, Bul-
ietin, January 12). As a present teacher
of Malayan history I wish to record my
•latitude as well as the gratitude of many
colleagues for Mr J. Kennedy's “History
of Malaya.” I have not found a more
suitable book on Malayan history. Or,
perhaps Miss Alice Tay would like to
supply one?
CHEE PENG LIM
hang (Malaya).
TEACHERS v. THE REST
Sir,
The article in your issue of February
!3on the Annual Conference of the Vic-
torian Teachers’ Union provided some
interesting reading.
it was inaccurate to say that “the con-
ference fizzled out two days before it
«as scheduled to end”. Far from '“fizzl-
ing out”, the conference occupied the
full three days of the planned agenda
which was printed and issued before-
hand to all delegates and to the Press.
Your correspondent suggests that the
mnouncement by the Director of Edu-
tation of some 200 additional secondary
studentships would “take the sting out
tf the VTU’s repeated claims that sec-
ondary schools were being manned by
untrained teachers”. The VTU does not
claim that these schools are “manned by
untrained teachers”, but that there are
hr too many untrained people relying
M the guidance and help of fully-trained
®d well-qualified teachers, imposing a
heavy burden on these teachers. In 1962
•here were 25 per cent out of a total of
5319 untrained or unqualified persons
!l "ployed in secondary schools.
The Victorian Teachers’ Union believes
•hat every teacher should be fully trained
qualified and we will continue to
Press for the adequate training of all
teachers.
Your paragraph concerning teachers’
tetivities during vacations deserves com-
®enh I might point out that no com-
®unication whatsoever concerning how
teachers spend their holidays has reached
•his organisation from any other body,
teachers appear to be the ready mark
or uncalled for derision when it comes
0 the matter of holidays. Because of
the nature of the work done by teachers
a reasonable break from classroom activi-
ties is highly desirable. As your corres-
pondent points out, the Education
Gazette makes an official statement, with
which this Union concurs, concerning
members of the Public Service taking
outside employment. We also believe that
the incidence of any flouting of the
Public Service Act, under which these
instructions are defined, is no greater in
the Teaching Service than in any other
section of the Public Service.
JOHN HARRIS
President, Victorian Teachers’ Union
Melbourne.
THE UNIVERSITY LOCK-OUT
Sir,
It is curious that Mr Davies, writing
on the University Lock-out (Bulletin,
January 23), should fail to mention New-
castle University College in connection
with the easing of university overcrowd-
ing in NSW, though he does mention a
proposal to establish a university college
at Bathurst.
In spite of the fact that Newcastle’s
position is perennially hidden statistically
under figures for the University of New
South Wales a perfectly justifiable
procedure for some purposes, but grossly,
misleading for others the situation is
tolerably well known to those who have
been concerned with NSW university
conditions and problems during the last
several years.
In 1962 the total enrolment at the
college, including post-graduate students,
was roughly 1340, in faculties of Arts,
Architecture, Applied Science, Science
and Engineering. Although we suffer
somewhat from the common difficulty of
large first year classes in a few subjects,
here aggravated by lack of, or unsuit-
able, accommodation, student places are
readily available in all faculties, and
there will be no exclusion of matriculants
in 1963. It now seems clear that if
proposals made years ago had been
accepted, there might have been no need
for exclusions from university courses in
NSW in 1963, except for students who
wanted to do medicine or nothing.
Development of the college to
occupancy of its own site at Shortland
and autonomy as a full university is part
of the policy of the University of New
South Wales, and indeed seems to have
the approval of all authorities.
There is no reason why the University
of Newcastle should not have over 4000
students before 1970 if plans for build-
ing and development are put into effect
during 1963 and 1964. The simple fact
that the college provides adequately for
over 1300 students, and takes this load
from the metropolitan centres, is suf-
ficient to show its present importance.
A. M. RITCHIE
Newcastle University College {NSW).


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
THE SADDEST HOUR
By FRANK ROBERTS
/"Vne of television’s saddest hours in
” 1963 was not entirely television’s
fault. It was viewed during the Queen’s
visit to Sydney, and it was called a
“Pageant of Nationhood” by its organiser
Mr Asher Joel MLC, a “spectacle” by
one of its reviewers who may have been
using the double entendre, and a plain
“disgrace” by an irate gentleman named
Philistine who dashed off a caustic letter
to a Sydney newspaper. Actually, even
then, he was flattering the shivoo.
The “Pageant” was staged at night on
the windy expanse of the Sydney Show-
ground arena, by the simple device of
carefully mashalling floats and “historic”
groups, and letting the spotlight drop this
one and pick up that, as Australia march-
ed in mime from myth-making “abori-
gines” to unchained great white fathers
to bushrangers who held up a coach
and were immediately fallen on and sub-
dued by a squadron of troopers, or traps.
There our nationhood stood more or
less in trance for 50 years until the Dig-
gers broke the thrall by charging through
a field of smoke bombs. They were fol-
lowed by some distantly modern armor,
and then the Queen was allowed to go
home, after sitting through a spectacle
which set back Australia’s pretensions to
be anything more than a cultural joke by
at least 50 years.
Apologists for this historic shambles
will aver that the Queen and Prince
Philip showed obvious enjoyment dur-
ing the “pageant”, but (a) if they did
it was not evident to television viewers,
and (b) if they did smile from time
to time off camera it must have been
in recollection of scenes from motion
pictures in which that grand old lady
of pageants, Margaret Rutherford, aided
by such diligents as Alistair Sim and
Robertson Hare, have performed similar
comic operations on English history at
Village fairs.
The “pageant of nationhood”, from
Royal arrival to departure, was naturally
enough televised as a matter of public
interest. Sydney wanted to see the Queen,
and if the “pag” was the best it could
offer her in entertainment, compared
with Melbourne’s race meeting and Bris-
bane’s rodeo, then Sydney people de-
served to suffer every horrible moment
their chosen representatives were inflict-
ing on the Royal visitors.
And suffer we did, although perhaps
in smaller number than had been intend-
ed. Actors Equity came to the public’s
rescue by insisting that the commercial
channels pay a £lO fee for every actor
member in the pageant who appeared on
television. With a cast of thousands, this
notion was rejected, and only the ABC
channel televised the entire “spectacle”.
And the ABC provided the commenta-
tors, including a Miss Diana Ward who
normally announces the time and the
next programme on ABN-2 in Sydney,
As a disembodied voice, she combined
the sharp qualities of the night wind
that knifes across the Showground, with
one of the finest arrays of treacly cliches
ever delivered in any medium, including
radio soap opera. And believe me, her
colleague, Martin Royal, tried very hard
to match her, but he was not in the
event. Their combined efforts in no way
alleviated this viewer’s embarrassment.
If the best we can do to depict “nation-
hood” after 175 years is a display of
fake “aborigines”, Governors, early set-
tlers, gold diggers, bushrangers, and
Diggers, accompanied by a symphony
orchestra playing gumtree music,
Advance Australia Fair and the Anthem,
then we might as well give up. We don’t
deserve to see out the 200 years.
If there had to be a pageant, one
representative of the present would have
had much more point than one disguising
our past.
ART
ITALIAN PAINTING
Contemporary Italian Paintings.
Georges Gallery, Melbourne. Spon-
sored by the Italian Government
and the Museum of Modern Art and
Design.
fT*HE 40-odd young Italian painters rep-
resented in the current exhibition at
Georges are excellent examples of the
fecundity and diversity of contemporary
Italian painting. It would not be an easy
job to make a limited selection from
such a flourishing national art, but this
one, though naturally incomplete, is
broadly representative and of a very high
standard.
Inevitably when a national exhibition
is assembled, one is tempted to look for
national characteristics. Inevitably, too,
one fails to find them. This is “inter-
national” painting there are no sur-
prises and few common distinguishing
marks. The main qualities the painters
here share are lucid command of means
and an attitude of protest in confronting
society.
In range of style and intent the scale
is large. Sughi, Guttuso and Vespignanl
aim at an intense but rational human
realism which is in fact a discernible
quality in a good deal of Italian art.
Celiberti and Muccini reflect a more
formally aesthetic approach to reality.
Something of the harsh vigor of ex-
pressionism is present in nearly all the
works, either realist, like Calabria’s “Em-
poriums,” or abstract, like Santomaso’s
“Nearly Sky.” Overall the exhibition
bears witness both to the country’s for-
bidding artistic tradition and to the var-
iety and sophistication of modern Italy.
Each one of these paintings, either di-
rectly or by implication, is a comment
on the world a passionate but lucid
image of the world’s ugliness and des-
peration, and at the same time an appeal
to order. They are splendid example B
of the multiplicity of ways open to the
artist to create his vision, whether it
be through the heavy, industrial-age tex-
tures of Burri, the gentle warm fantasy
of Foppiani, or the rich, clam abstrac-
tions of Corpora or Brunori.
BILL HANNAN


I
; " "■ ■ :i» ■ ■
;
k: : .j
i, • . s«m:V-.--
: :
/ - V
■ ifel
mmmrnmmm.
m
Announcing a rare
f Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
. Announcing a rare
; j Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
PIENFOILim
POT STILL
BRANDY
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
If any illustration takes your fancy in this issue please write to
the Manager, who will quote you a price for same.
WHETTING ONE'S
APPETITE
Louis James, Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney.
reE direction Louis James has taken
since his notable first show here two
fe ars ago was not foreseeable at all,
:xcept that his was a sensibility trying to
penetrate the hidden moods of his city-
scapes. Now his paint has become
slightly phosphorescent, his imagery
dreamlike and highly personal, sustained
by a new calligraphic line, an “action”
without ominous thunderings. Not that
lames’ vision sought to engulf, far from
it. His color handling is felicitous, his
paint rich and variable, as subtle as
it is unpredictable. The calligraphy
elegantly adorns a ground of one or two
carefully selected and modulated earths,
reds, purples or blues raised to a kind of
oratory field. The actors, a surreal host
of small forms, become galvanised with
leeting existence, heads, torsos, hands
gradually 7 crystallising out of matrix,
lien these tenuous forms seem intent
on dissolution, firm blacks edge and
stabilise the paintings.
Klee is an obvious parallel but his
realm was quite different, more universal,
more profound, more playful. James is
nearer to painters like Gorky, especially
in his insistent use of avid shapes, but in
these paintings he is very much himself.
The dream imagery of his “Red Night”,
Dawn Landscape”, “Bird of Paradise”
is more in keeping with European ab-
straction than the tensions of American
abstract expressionism. Less obvious no
ioubt, underrated as well as misunder-
stood, this kind of painting whets one’s
appetite for more.
JOHN HENSHAW
FILMS
ALL THROUGH
THE NIGHT
La Notte. Lido, Sydney.
|ntonioni’s “La Notte” is a slow
moving study of boredom which
"'raculously succeeds in not being bor-
in itself. This is the measure of the
Actor's extraordinary artistry and cun-
'nB in the handling of the visual side of
e film. There is always something to
which both pleases the eye and at
e same time helps in some way to color
n d control the mood. This brilliance of
c nnical craftsmanship has to be


emphasised first, because whatever else
is said for or against the content of film
nothing can take that away. Antonioni is
a film makers’ film maker.
In this film Antonioni examines, with
patient detachment, the minds and actions
of a couple who, in the midst of all
the signs of material success, have failed
in their personal relationships. The hus-
band is a successful author who is aware
that he has written himself out; the wife
is a less complicated person who is numb
with loneliness from her inability to com-
municate. The action of the film follows
them through the events of an afternoon
and a night a visit to a dying friend
in hospital, to a nightclub, to an all-night
party during which both husband and
wife sadly seek companionship else-
where, and end with an equally sad
reconciliation in a chilly dawn.
There is little external action; the
dialogue consists largely of surface
trivialities revealing only covertly the un-
derlying malaise. The pathos of the
film lies in the fact that a lot goes on
but nothing really happens.
An American reviewer of this film
called Antonioni an “Italian Tchekov”.
The description at first seems apt, for the
film is certainly Tchekovian in its
naturalistic study of leisured frustration,
and its quiet pace. But when you think
of it, the mention of Tchekov does ex-
pose Antonioni to some rather unkind
comparisons. A Tchekov would have had
so much more meat, so much more real
sympathy, and would have made so much
more of the material “felt”.
Antonioni’s observation (not only of
his central figures) is brilliant, but it
sometimes seems rather coldly clinical;
he has an eye and an intellect, but not
the heart of a director like Saratjit Ray,
or of De Sica at his best. In the end he
does not involve us sufficiently with his
characters to make us care desperately
what happens to them. And for all the
superb realism with which it is handled,
some of the material of the film
especially the dialogue does at times
seem a little thin. Some scenes too,
though effective in themselves, seem to
have doubtful relevance, or else their
as significant. There are the scenes of the
category is the scene of the husband's
encounter with a deranged woman pati-
ent in the hospital; the amount of foot-
age given to a night-club act is not
altogether justified by the fact that it is
a clever act.
But there are many more scenes and
sequences that are haunting as well as
significant. There are the scenes of the
wife’s aimless, melancholy progress
through the streets, as she dumbly tries
to establish contact with reality; an
animated conversation seen but not
heard through the rain-streaked windows
of a closed car; the whole of the skilfully
handled party sequence.
The players serve Antonioni’s purposes
to perfection: Marcello Mastroianni, as
the baffled intellectual; Jeanne Moreau,
the most appealing figure of the film as
the rather dowdy, rather limited and
desperately unhappy wife; Monica Vitti
contrastingly shrewd and vital as the
young girl who briefly provides the third
point of the triangle.
MARTIN LONG
RUNNING DOWNHILL
Italian Film Festival. Palais Theatre,
Melbourne.
festivals in Melbourne have been
A running gently downhill for some
time. The Italian Film Festival plunged
to rock-bottom. Six films were shown;
I lasted four: “II Gobbo di Roma,” “Van-
ina Vanini,” “Senilita,” and “Non Uc-
cidere.” The last, an international affair
directed by Claude Autant-Lara, was
the only one to offer slight solace. In
spite of indifferent acting and quite lit-
eral direction which relied solely on the
story line, the problem it presented was
interesting. A German priest who, as a
soldier, had executed a civilian is brought
to trial before the French military
authorities at the same time as a young
French conscientious objector. The killer
is acquitted because he obeyed orders;
the pacifist is gaoled for refusing to. A
worth-while film if you have to go to
the movies.
“II Gobbo di Roma” is simply a
second-rate gangster epic, and inordin-
ately long, or so it seemed. “Vanina
Vanini” is a costume job by Rossellini
at his worst, although it has a superb
heroic exit by the heroine through the
portals of a convent. “Senilita,” on the
other hand, had pretensions, exceptionally
longAvinded and sick ones, but nonethe-
less some signs of the presence of a
director. At least one could reasonably
expect better of Bolognini even on this
evidence alone with Rossellini one
is simply shocked. Visually the most an-
noying affectation of “Senilita” was the
persistent gloom. Dramatically its irri-
tants were legion. The devious perversion
of its protagonists made it totally cap-
ricious in development to the point where,
had it not been so long, it would haye
been merely laughable.
The crowning catastrophe was the sup*
porting shorts. They seemed mostly to
have been chosen for their age, cheap-
ness and irrelevance one suspects the
job was left to the management or the
distributors who had their doubts about
the financial worthiness of the whole
venture. The only worth-while art in the
place was provided by the young paint-
ers and sculptors of the local Centro
Italiano d’Arte, whose work, though still
in the process of formation, was vigorous
and sincere.
BILL HANNAH
KING OF THE CHOCOLATE COATERS
The Password is Courage. Liberty.
Sydney.
Ts he some sort of new Daedelus with
a touch of Icarus or just a posturing
idiot? The answer is, of course, that it is
only Dirk Bogarde, that seemingly in-
finite source of sensitivity and ingenuity,
whom we suspect all along of being a
number - one, carefully polished dud;
again.
However, as is inevitable in the quiet
of a cool, free and grey afternoon, it
requires just a very little faith to settle
easily within the warming arms of a
plush theatre seat and watch the mul-
tiple goings-on. And “The Password is
Courage” has a little bit to satisfy each
of our childhood visions of heroism, in-
vention, adventure, love, and righteous-
ness. It skips from the inevitable humor
of stupid Nazi overseers in a POW camp,
to the grim excitement of escape plans,
to the mysterious underground, to the
glories of love, to some juvenile sketches
of the horrors of concentration camps,
and to all the other tidbits that make
Bogarde films so charmingly exasperat-
ing.
For Bogarde is first-rate in one thing
he is the king of the chocolate coal-
ers. It is perfectly obvious that the
whole thing is a lie, but there is a part
in all of us that would like to believe it.
Bogarde is in this way a true maker—-of
childhood dreams carried over into
adulthood. He can somehow make the
comic-strip versions of everything from
being a fireman to being an artist come
ingratiatingly alive. And the same is true
in his present role as a British POW in
Germany. Any real British soldier, Nazi
officer, underground agent, or concen-
tration camp inmate, would shudder at
the travesties of themselves. And any
real film-goer would shudder at this
travesty of “Stalag 17” or the real thing,
the documentaries. But somehow it 15
easy to imagine all these people sitting
through “The Password is Courage
without so much as a whimper and, i n '
deed, even enjoying it.
JACK DAVIES


THE RED PAGE
ANCESTOR - WORSHIP
Remembrance of things past
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Ancestors and Friends. John Leh-
mann. Eyre and Spottiswoode.
455. 9d.
Vow in his mid-fifties, John Lehmann
has occupied a minor but valuable
place in the history of modern English
letters. His own books may be forget-
table, his verse only just above a level
of routine competence, but he has proved
himself, together with Cyril Connolly,
the most gifted editor of literary maga-
zines within his generation. At Hogarth
Press with the Woolfs, running Penguin
New Writing, the London Magazine and
New Soundings (a Third Programme
broadcast “magazine” of interesting
writers) Lehmann proved himself the
ideal man for the series of important
jobs. Not particularly striking or vivid
a personality on paper, slightly with-
drawn, at times almost anonymous, but
always tasteful and accomplished, he
provided a number of platforms for other
writers while never imposing himself.
He will probably be remembered as a
friend of authors rather than as an author
in his own right a litterateur whose
temperament seems to hark back to
much earlier and more spacious London
times.
“Ancestors and Friends” is an in-
tensely characteristic Lehmann book.
Characteristic in its grace, flow, elegance
and final elusiveness; in its nostalgic
recreation of the past; in its apparently
total withdrawal from that England
which contemporary British film-makers
have shown us. Lehmann looks back-
ward to a vanished time when upper-
middle-class living was very grand, ser-
vants were readily available and cheap,
weryone knew his “place” and dreaded
the prospect of losing it, Grand Tours
"ere essential and life consisted in the
Main of entertaining, or being enter-
tained by, those wTio “mattered.” Of
Lehmann’s two most famous contempor-
aries, Auden has escaped to Brooklyn,
Isherwood to Santa Monica; Lehmann
has escaped too, finding the escape-valve
,n a package of letters written by his
ancestors and discovered after the last
War.
One sees their point, of course: “good
living” must be harder each year to come
hy in London, where a pervasive seedi-
ness sicklies over the literary scene. Not
that scene which Lehmann evokes in
Ancestors and Friends” the world
of Dickens and Wilkie, Collins and
Browning, which though it existed in
the midst of that urban hell Taine un-
forgettably described, had robustness,
vigor and health both moral and spiritual.
Much of the first part of Lehmann’s
book is concerned with his great-uncle,
the minor painter Henri Lehmann. Henri
Lehmann’s oil paintings, stamped deep
with the Ingres formalism, sumptuous,
aristocratic and stylish, have a close art-
istic affinity both with John Lehmann’s
prose and with those writers whom he
tends to admire. Henri’s face is interest-
ing (it appears in an admirably repro-
duced Ingres drawing of his pupil). The
eyes are heavily lidded, dreamy, sug-
gesting the aesthete and the visionary; the
lips are tight, sensual, with a touch of
meanness; the pose is dignified, almost
haughty and the stare level and hard.
Not, one feels, a very agreeable man, and
despite John Lehmann’s obvious affec-
tion for him, he doesn’t really succeed
in convincing me that Henri would have
been good company.
But what a crowd Henri Lehmann
mixed with! A minor talent, a certain
skill in social intercourse, a personable
face and figure, and this unimportant
man aided, of course, by the Lehmann
fortune moved among the very great-
est names of his time. Through Ingres,
doors flew open in Rome and Paris; at
the salon of Ingres’s tiresomely par-
simonious wife, string quartets played
desultorily and the conversation glit-
tered. Most interestingly, Henri pursued
a long and rather curious relationship
with Marie d’Agoult, the mistress of
Franz Liszt, who looks formidably plain
in the Lehmann drawing reprinted here,
but apparently enslaved at least for
a while both the fussy young painter
and the fiercely romantic Liszt himself.
In their cases, love was certainly blind.
The second part of “Ancestors and
Friends” moves from the silken dalli-
ance of the European salons to Edin-
burgh, Liverpool and London to the
plainer but no less vigorous world of
John’s maternal great-grandfather and
great-uncle, Robert and William Cham-
bers. “Looked at from the point of view
of our over-taxed and almost servant-
less age, this social life in Victorian
London a hundred years ago seems quite
extraordinarily intense, glamorous —■
and exhausting.”
Lehmann reminds us that his grand-
parents could afford to give dinner parties
for 12 or even 20 people to dinner twice
a week, provide musicales afterwards,
and whirl from house to house in an
endless saraband of social pleasure. The
Chambers pair rose from miserable
poverty to found Chambers’ Encyclo-
paedia, while other members of the Leh-
mqnn family tree entertained the rotund,
twinkling, Pickwick-like Wilkie Collins
and Dickens, divertingly, himself. We
get a fascinating glimpse of Dickens at
the end of his life, going on restaurant
crawls with John’s paternal grandfather,
Frederick, supplying a recipe for a dog’s
dinner (“Any bones that happen to be
about may be put into the mixture for
the benefit of the dog’s teeth. Its effect
on the body and spirit of the creature
is quite surprising.”) And Wilkie Collins
inconceivable as the creator of the
malign Count Fosco in “Woman in
White,” emerges here with equal attrac-
tiveness a gouty, vigorous man with
a passion for good food and wine and
a very special line in cures for what
ailed him (“The bilious miseries that
followed proved obstinate until I most
fortunately ate some pate de foie gras.
The cure was instantaneous and
lasting.”)
In Isherwood’s autobiographical novel,
“Down There on a Visit,” the narrator
writes (and elsewhere he also writes of
a thinly disguised John Lehmann): “The
Past seemed to take me by its throat,
with its disgusting claw, and choke me;
I shuddered to feel its power, even now
... I wanted ... to forget I had any
ancestors.” Lehmann on the other hand
has enjoyed remembering his past, and
what he has remembered is more charm-
ing than disgusting. Yet at times a note
of anguish comes through the bland
polished surface of the prose; the con-
trast between the world of yesterday
and today is all too acute. The account
Lehmann gives us of the destruction of
Henri’s exquisite murals in the flames
of the French Commune symbolises the
vanishing of an age. The Welfare State
has come, and the gold and the glamor
and the beauty have gone for good.
USELESS AUSTRALIANA
Voyage to Botany Bay. Scott. Angus
& Robertson. Public Library of
New South Wales. 255.
T think that Sir William Dixson, the
generous benefactor who bequeathed
to the trustees of the New South Wales
Public Library substantial funds to
finance the printing of rare unpublished
manuscripts and out-of-print books deal-
ing with Australian history, might be a


little mystified at the nature of the
Library's first attempt to carry out his
wishes.
Sir William left his legacy so that
material not otherwise “available to
students and others” should be made
available. He specified that it should
be printed in exactly its original form,
without any editing whatever to correct
or modernise the texts, or even to alter
faulty orthography. All this because he
wished that “readers of the printed re-
production of such manuscript shall
thereby gain as much insight as is pos-
sible into the character, mentality and
style of the writer thereof.”
Students naturally licked their lips
when they heard of the bequest. It
seemed that at last reproductions of the
great historical manuscripts in the Mit-
chell and Dixson Collections manu-
scripts yellow and brittle with age, often
in scarcely decipherable handwriting
would be purchasable in print.
Visions of carefully collated facsimile
editions ot the Banks, Bligh, Blaxland,
Macarthur, Macquarie and Wentworth
papers, among many; of Ralph Clark's
Journal; were in the mind.
Instead of any of these, or 50 more
of which there is crying need for printed
editions, the Public Library has elected
to print as its first effort the scrappy
and scarcely intelligible diary of a ser-
geant of Marines who came out with the
First Fleet, a diary so unimportant and
banal that one cannot imagine what
justification there is for giving it pri-
ority. It is so mixed up and illiterate
and illegible that it has been virtually
impossible to observe Sir William’s edict
against editing of text or orthography.
Moreover, one would imagine that
this edition, even if it were any use save
to pass an idle hour, would make its
contents available primarily to students.
It is a collectors’ piece, bound in full
cloth, with wrapper, on fine paper. In
size, it is demy 4to 11 inches by 81-
inches. Its text of about 15,000 words is
introduced by about 2000 words describ-
ing its provenance and its author and
the difficulties of the editors. The main
text is sandwiched between a copious
helping of blank, or nearly blank, pages
and is printed as its lines appeared orig-
inally in the journal, so that for the most
part it has the appearance of a snake
of print 1J inches wide, with frequent
bulges that project another inch, me-
andering slowly across a snowy-white
desert of fine paper.
All the Library can guarantee about
the exactitude of the transcription, as
firmly enjoined by Dixson, is that it
has been forced to adopt a “general
policy” of “obtaining as exact a copy
as possible and, when his (Scott’s) in-
tention seemed unfathomable or the
means (Note: apparently a misprint for
‘meaning’) uncertain, to give him the
benefit of the doubt in the direction of
correct modern usage.”
The result is a garbled jumble full of
smudges, confusions, crossings out and
interpolations, through 83 pages of the
work proper, to which there is a supple-
ment which is the only thing of any
importance in the manuscript the
Orderly Room Orders of the Officer of
the Guard from the first day a Guard
Room was established on the western
side of Sydney Cove in January 1788.
The journal of the voyage from Eng-
land, confined to 18 pages, in the main
only contains statements of latitude and
longitude, with a few plums, such as
this:
Wednesday 27th the Cheef Mate
Caught a Shark, The Same Day, a
Young Kid that Was On Board Went
in uTthe Oven, &, All, though the
Oven Door Was Open it Did Not
Come Out. But Remaind till it Was
Burnt to Deth
f , ~ , f .
That took a full quarter of a page to
P ‘ . . . j- •
The work is the more disappointing
, f ~ Xr
because the printing of a lot of manu-
V.. & ,
script material becomes more urgent
~, , ° .
every day. I have been appalled watch-
ing the deterioration of such valuable
collections as the Macquarie Papers
which cost (I think) £l7OO when they
i .tei
were bought 50 years ago. They would
be worth seven or eight times as much
today. Yet they are handled by al sorts
of students who have never been taught
, , „ . . c .
how to handle a manuscript of a type
that suffers even from prolonged ex-
posure to light and humidity, and in
parts may be so brittle that careless
closing with a bang may crack a page
or turning over pages with a moistened
thumb may start irreparable damage
The Commonwealth badly needs a
society of the nature of the Hakluyt
Society which has published in durable
but reasonably inexpensive texts hun-
dreds of valuable historical journals and
accounts of voyages. These are distri-
buted to the members of the society i n
return for their annual subscription. It
would be a valuable service to students
of history if the Dixson Bequest could
be applied to found and subsidise an
Australiana Society which would not,
of course, publish only matter in the
Mitchell and Dixson Libraries but all
the wealth of manuscript in the numerous
national and State archives and libraries
i n other States.
H* s n °t only editions of manuscripts
that are needed. Such printed documents
as the Reports of Mr Commissioner
Bigge are vital to advanced students
but c °pi es are scarce even among lib-
raries and when one comes into the
. . . . , • inn
market is apt to bring 100 guineas or
so I was offered more for my own,
\
Even a Phillips Voyage in good con-
. . _ r °
dition is worth 25 guineas with all plates
u,t , , , 5 . . . ,
comp ete and the original editions or
~~ y . , ** a
Co3ll " s ’ Wh f‘ Tench - D ‘ D ' Mann and
ot ers . .. ,
The NSW Public Library m.gh
reprinting some of these with Dixson
P S funds; repr inting them not as
J bound limited editions for
* ? but as editions in Penguin
, , ~ r r
stvle which could be sold tor 1 Us. or
- , , ..
less so that every student and the public
could have copies within readu
M. H. ELLIS
ORDINARY MAN'S GUIDE
Private Politics. A Study in Five
Political Outlooks. A. F. Davies.
University of Melbourne. (Mimeo-
oranh'i 30s
i lan Davies in this excellent, inno-
vatory study reports his interviews
with five different types of Australian
politico, and gives his reflections upon the
outcome. This kind of work is quite
novel in Australia and there ought to
be much more of it. Unfortunately, any
further thoroughgoing work of this sort
could be highly expensive. In the United
States it is relatively easy for thousands
to get funds to carry through more in-
significant studies less well. Though new
to Australian political science, this kind
of thing is possibly not quite so unpre-
cedented as Davies suggests in his Intro-
duction when he says, “There are, as
far as I know, no models for the close
analysis of the ordinary man’s political
views.” Some years ago, Robert Lane, in
the “American Political Science Review,^
and also in his book, “Political Lite,
made inquiries into working class a a
tudes to the idea of equality. But Lan
work was less sensitive, percipient, flev
ible and comprehensive, and he was dea -
ing with attitudes, rather than wa
Davies’s special notion of an outloo .
Individual political outlooks have, as
Davies says, received little sustaine a
tention from any quarter. But P er
there is good reason for this. How
one relate an individual outlook to o e
forces in politics social group, c
or movement, political party, other soo
organisations? Davies takes a wife-ri
town-planner representing bureaucra
labor, a wowser who is a Country a
State MP, an ineffectual Catholic in
lectual who fails even in the D >
school rebel who becomes a union
and represents militant labor, an
lapsed Anglican charity worker (a w
man) who is an organiser for the D e


LEARN
STORY
WRITING
STOTTS CAN TRAIN YOU
SUCCESSFULLY
If you have a flair for writing, then STOTT'S
Literary Courses will develop your talent.
Practical Home-Study instruction, under the
guidance of expert instructors will teach you
to write successfully for Australian and
overseas markets. There is a constant
demand for well-written work in the lucra-
tive field of Authorship.
Write today for free details of Stott's Cor-
respondence Courses in Literary subjects.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane. Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney: 290 Adelaide Street. Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 254 Murray
Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full particulars
of your Literary Courses.
MY NAME
ADDRESS
8.663
AGE
PRESS CUPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press dippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter —your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, oress releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify.
A.N.Z. PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
[t y His detailed accounts of his inter-
ns do describe their views of class,
jitudes to authority, personal values
,j political cognition. More particu-
Ij, Davies brings out connections be-
ieen the nursery and the polls. Freud-
as have, of course, tossed off sugges-
ts about this last very important con-
£tion but what is novel in Davies’s
It k is the attempt to exhibit the role
infantile prototypes and experiences
live detail and with due qualifications.
It is all very well done, although per-
ps there is a little more detail than
need in the early parts of each por-
jt, The questionnaire-answers section
ids to be the most interesting part of
;h chapter except for Davies’s own
ilical discussion which in each case
ids off the treatment (though there
isht have been included a check-list
ithe Morris “Paths of Life” cards
tell us that they were chosen in the
lei 1,5, 7, 3 etc. does not help unless
■Save Riesman’s “Faces in the Crowd”
fljjr). Davies admits that “an unruly
I self-indulgent manuscript” had to
subdued, but possibly some of the
®r stuff could have been cut even
ore. Even so it is a great pity that this
meographed volume has not yet found
publisher to do it in book-form. The
lole thing is immensely readable,
ivies is a mixture of novelist and social
ientist, and to the extent that as novelist
[“remains within or behind or beyond
(above his handiwork, invisible, refined
ii of existence, indifferent, paring his
ipnails,” we get the kind of objec-
lity and detachment essential also for
tial science.
Beguiled by its readability, however,
ie might forget to raise the question
out Davies’s intentions. At times he
'ms to be more interested in his acute
ilical psychoanalysis of the five “sub-
is” than in general conclusions. His
deluding chapter (“Outlook and sys-
“ Outlook and prototype,” “Out-
and intake”), which is by far the
M interesting part of the work for
'student of politics, is all too brief
15 out of 281 pages). It sets out his
®all ‘finds’ against the expectations
i understandings of the literature.”
II despite certain definite and specific
is. despite earlier illuminating dis-
cussions of autonomy as against domina-
tion, dependence or affiliation, there could
be methodological doubt about-the whole
notion of “private politics,” about the
study of individual political outlooks in
this way, however sensitively carried out.
Davies himself has to admit that “there
is a recalcitrance in the material of public
life that prevents any wholesale reduc-
tion of it to enduring private fantasy.” In
the end we know a great deal about these
five individuals and their five distinctive
outlooks: politics as regimen, as repara-
tion, as vocation, as drama and as
equated with class. But how much do
we know about general and common
features of political outlooks?
Again, Davies describes their views
of class, their attitudes to authority, or
the role of their personal values, but
this is as the interviewees see matters, is
“subjective.” Does he relate their out-
looks to class, authority etc., “object-
ively”? No doubt it is easy to make such
negative points. No doubt further work
of this kind will tell us a little more.
In this connection one might question
Davies’s view that political philosophers
have neglected the relation between
large-scale systems of political thought
and “the ordinary man’s loose grab-bag
of opinions.” Political philosophy is
often taught very badly. But some
teachers of that languishing subject
(P. H. Partridge, for instance) always did
a marvellous job of relating the one to
the other.
The great value of Davies’s work, how-
ever, is that instead of untested specu-
lation about how the vulgarised, dis-
torted political outlook of the ordinary
man may share the same assumptions
as the would-be refined and worked-out
system, we have in it some firm founda-
tions of concrete matters of fact, beauti-
fully presented. His style is a constant
source of joy and delight (“the encap-
sulated mania of a public question,” for
example). As a small indication, here
is a sample of the superb names he uses
to confer anonymity upon minor figures:
Damper, Float, Thaw, Pouch and Pipe,
Scone and Taper and Node, or Rosebud.
There is one slip: Webb, the Country
Party MP, is given as Wood in the check-
list at p.vii.
DOUGLAS McCALLUM
THE SOUTH PACIFIC
“garoa’s Godchild, A Memoir of
he South Pacific. By Olaf Ruhen.
McDonald, London: 1962. 256
Pages. 375. 3d.
wgaroa’s Godchild” is well sub-
6tled, for that is exactly what it is
5 memoir that states details of impor-
-1 experience with the suggestion of
lre action and attitudes It is an in-
tensely personal one that comes direct to
us from the memorialist.
The South Pacific claims a debt of
gratitude fully recognized: “I have no
desire except, as I can, to set down here
. . . the concept I have of an ocean I
love. It is a debt that I owe; for I believe
that the image of what I am, and of my
fellows, was moulded in some degree by
that ocean.”
The godchild of Tangaroa (God of the
Ocean) pursues a thankful excursion into
the past and the present as it leads to
what is coming. The result is a memoir
allowing essays in many directions, at the
writer’s whim, discursive, speculative, re-
miniscent, at times dramatically narra-
tive. As a book it offers much more than
a collection of very human essays. It is
unique in the way that Furphy’s “Such is
Life” or Dowell O’Reilly’s “Tears and
Triumph,” each in its own world, belongs


to its author and could belong to none
other.
Many autobiographic writers write best
of experience of childhood and youth.
Distance dispels the unimportant; one can
select at will and reconstruct at will. The
image of a bright lad, quick and sensi-
tive to his world, Olaf Ruhen creates
completely in the early parts of his book
—a boy in whose living most readers
will have vicarious enjoyment of his en-
thusiasms and eager adventures, however
far removed their own experience may be
from the Sea God’s and his god-child’s.
The boy explores life in the environ-
ment of the New Zealand coast and
coastal community his family, his
mates, his town, the beach, the sea life
in myriad detail and questioning and
challenge. We follow his acquisition of
sea-lore, brought to life sometimes with
a twentieth-century Walton-like economy
of description; as, for instance, in the
discussion of the frost-fish a remark-
able creature that obligingly at times
hurls itself from the sea: —
“The b6st way to catch a frost-fish
is with a fast horse, on a cold and
frosty morning. Put the nag to a
counter, and range the beaches till you
find your quarry, a four-foot length
of silver, toothed like a barracoota,
fleshed with meat no epicure could
refuse. The horse is desirable for frost-
fishing; it gives you an advantage
over the many who walk abroad on
cold clear mornings, looking for the
fish. And there’s the wind in your face,
and the splash of water beneath the
hooves and the thrust of muscles under
the saddle. And there’s no need for a
game-bag if you ride a horse; you
find your fish and bend him about your
horse’s neck with his tail through his
gills into his mouth. And when your
horse is thus collared, you jump to his
back again and ride off for another . .
As Tangaroa’s godchild moves from
youth to manhood we get glimpses of
him, with an occasional longer view. The
serenity gives way to a restlessness of
quest and query, at times a need for self-
proving. A tremendous range of observa-
tion and speculation is opened up by
adult experience of South Pacific life.
There is the need to assert the common
denominator of Man, whatever his color,
whenever he has lived, whatever his
society in the long continuity of human
endeavor over the centuries. There is need
to protest against misunderstanding and
apathy, human avarice and thoughtless-
ness,‘our complete unawareness of life
that is so close to us, and that daily
becomes closer. There is much to disturb
complacency, there is immediate need
for understanding. These sections of the
book bear a similar relation to the earlier
as does his novel “White Man’s Shoes,”
with its immediate reference to the more
deeply human stories of his collection,
“Land of Dahori.”
As it is, one feels the memoir stops
short on a thousand matters that might
well have been pursued, had the author
so wished. There is such wealth in the
realms of Tangaroa. Olaf Ruhen gi Vesa
partial testament, necessarily fragmen
tary. One realizes there is much more to
be said by Ruhen and the many others
who have yet to discover this vast de-
mesne.
KEN LEVIS
IN LOVE WITH MOUNTAINS
Men of the Snowy Mountains. Mona
Ravenscroft. Rigby Limited. 30s.
Australia’s Alps. Elyne Mitchell.
Angus and Robertson. Sydney. 425.
TAespite all their drawbacks, one is
grateful that these books have
appeared on our shelves. Whatever the
true economic value of the great Snowy
Mountains scheme, the Australian Alps
have played an important role in Aus-
tralia’s growth as a nation, and far too
little has been written about them.
Though vastly different in emphasis
and even in subject matter, both books
are complementary.
Mrs Ravenscroft’s “Men of the Snowy
Mountains” is a pioneering attempt to
sketch the development of the Snowy
Mountains hydro-electric scheme and to
describe and understand the people work-
ing on it in the planning offices, over
the drawing boards, making roads in
the bush, drilling tunnels, building dams
and power lines and setting up new com-
munities.
It is an attempt to show the changes
that are constantly going on in that vast
area between Tumut, Cooma and the
Victorian border and to forecast their
eventual outcome in terms of economic
and social values and people as
individuals and new communities. Mrs
Ravenscroft is concerned with the
present and the future.
Mrs Mitchell tells us about the
mountains as they were before the
ambitious development schemes began.
It is a tale of the past often a beauti-
ful tale, despite frequent lapses into an
almost mystically exalted style that
leaves the reader a bit baffled.
“Australia’s Alps” was first published
during the war in 1942 and reprinted in
1947. Except for the foreword, the book
is republished as Mrs Mitchell first wrote
it, making it a witness of the past, and
not just faded memories of the mountains
20 years ago.
Despite the author’s peculiar—though
not infrequently appealing “mountain
mysticism” her manner of writing about
adventures in the snow and the bush
in some of Australia’s once most in-
accessible mountain spots has a distinct
quality of freshness and directness. This
book could hardly be written today when
the mountains, once virtually un-
inhabited, are almost crowded with
SMHEA people, tourists and developers.
The process of commercialisation-
inevitable and necessary but implacable
and often painful—is well advanced. As ;
Mrs Mitchell says in her foreword-
“ There are townships in the mountains
Cabramurra, Sue City, Theiss Village]
and, on our side of the Alps, Khancoban.
Now, too, there are alpine ski villages
and the whole picture of skiing in Aus-
tralia has changed completely.” Some
adventures on skis experienced by Mrs
Mitchell and her husband “no one had
ever had or will ever have again-
because now there are roads.” tjJ
Mrs Ravenscroft takes up where Mfi
Mitchell has left off, and writes about
the men and women of many national-
ities who came to the mountains to put
into steel and concrete the ambitious
Snowy blueprints.
A sociologist, she had originally set
out to write an academic treatise about
Island Bend and Cabramurra —two small
communities which have sprung up on
the construction sites. After spending
six months among these individualistic
and determined people she decided to
write a book instead, mostly drawing on
her personal experiences and contacts.
Although “Men of the Snowy Moun-
tains” is written in a rather jerky style-
and often reads like a converted treatise
on sociology it is a valuable pioneer-
ing work.
There are many interesting observa-
tions and a wealth of research material
painstakingly gathered. Unfortunately,
when Mrs Ravenscroft writes about
individual people she frequently becomes
formalistic and seems to try to fit then
into rigid pre-conceived patterns. Her!
selection of a few “heroes” from Aujj
tralians and migrants who are gradua l
being blended into a single Snowy
community” often tends to suggest un
founded generalisations to the reader.
Both authors are keen skiers pas B ® 1
ately in love with the mountains. r
Mitchell’s descriptions of long treks
skis in the days when only a smal an
devoted band of enthusiasts apP reCia .
the many glories of the sport are iasC J
ating. There are many who will be t J
grateful to her for bringing bac J
nostalgic memories of the days '
skiing was not a winter - season 8 I
“must” but a daring sport, and aim
way of life.
EUGENE BAJKOWSKI


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Share Market Ignores Reality
N the scheme of industrial Australia, John Lysaght (Aust.)
Ltd is not a big company. Assets employed by the group
are worth about £35 million, well down the scale of size,
it John Lysaght is more important than size indicates, for it
the major pivot between the aloof steel industry and the
tic.
For John Lysaght (not to be confused with BHP wire-
ting subsidiary, Lysaght Bros) supplies most of the sheet
:tl coated, galvanised and uncoated used in Australia
il New Zealand. To accomplish this, John Lysaght is
IP’s largest customer for steel.
Orb” sheet steel products penetrate into almost every cranny
Australian industry. Unlike other steel products “Orb”
extremely close to the general public, being the major
iterial in most durable consumer products from motor cars
washing machines, from water tanks to roofs.
Granting this, the implications of John Lysaght's profitability
tas important to the general run of the community as are
use of the nation’s No. 1 enterprise, BHP. Last week in
tse columns we noted the buoyant and confident tone of
HP’s current position and the confirmation of basic economic
undness implied by that.
This week notice must be taken of John Lysaght’s 1962
iperience. In a year which investors thought at best “diffi-
it,” John Lysaght lifted profit by an enormous 80 per cent
£1,437,383 to £3,244,949. Ground lost in a depressing
M was fully recovered.
For the technical investor, earning rate leaps from a rather
w Py 12.3 per cent to 20.9 per cent giving considerable
frovement to John Lysaght as an equity investment. Indeed,
: John Lysaght share "price should advance well above the
l 'P r ofit announcement level of 61s. (and 655. at the time
writing).
N favorable influences such as those now pressed by
JF and John Lysaght, should have a wider respect than
K singular movement on their own share prices. In times
llle by, the whole market would respond to such prosperous
Mouncements. In a more sophisticated today, it probably
lo ° ambitious to expect a wholesale upward movement; but
[ e| y better times and strong confident tones from stocks such
111 Lysaght should be reflected in many other stocks.
ut not this time, apparently. The market has treated
,J §ht’s boost as commonplace (which it is not) and con-
!™ently has yielded little of its gloomy aspects as concessions
ls addition to the evidence of a buoyant economy.
nlle rent in John Lysaght’s recovery is an improved efficiency
™ Se of resources. Doubtless, when the directors report in
1 °f the 1962 year (late this month) they will make scant
!rence to labor-production ratios. However, it seems fair
tribute the better result in some part to a more efficient
I °T resources such as plant and labour.
® doubt the expansion in motor car production and sales
“ Played a big part in John Lysaght’s bloom; so did a
rundown of over-large stocks noted at the beginning of the
year. But coupled with this is a very apparent better unit-profit;
and this could only be the result of methodical economising on
the use of resources (i.e. efficiency when the production
achieved goes up as it did with John Lysaght).
Greater efficiency has been apparent in results of many
other corporations this year. We have seen obvious results of
it with profits going ahead at a faster rate than sales in many
industries.
Asuming that this pattern is emerging as a permanent fea-
ture of the economy, investors should ponder the intrinsic
worth of investment at today’s prices. Not only in those stocks
which have already given evidence of steady profit improve-
ment through efficiency, but those which have and will put
their houses into equal order.
It nonplusses us that investors have yet to concede that pro-
fitability is the main facet of investment. Some confusion about
investing appears to have developed in the setbacks of the
last two years.
BRITISH DEVALUATION AGAIN
IN THE AIR
An open debate on the case for and against devaluation of
the pound sterling is taking place in London under the
most distinguished and responsible auspices The Times
and The Economist. It has, of course, been remarkable that
the pound preserved itself relatively unharmed after Britain’s
Common Market failure.
With justice The Economist can state “this is now a subject
on which thinking people should feel able to join in informed
debate, without dragging the pound down by the mere fact
of debating.” It then editorially puts the case both for and
against.
Much of the case for proceeds from the internal necessity
to expand demand. Devaluation would stimulate the expansion
in exports and the rate need not be fixed exactly at the start.
In other words, the pound would “float” until the likely
balance of payments position became apparent.
The case against leans heavily on the danger of upsetting
world exchanges, leaving sterling without real competitive
advantages and obliging world monetary authorities to rebuild
financial co-operation from scratch. Keynes is at quote to
point to fluctuating rates which “would divide the forces of
intelligence and goodwill and separate the interests of nations.”
This British kite is not yet so airborne that Australian
authorities need to take it too seriously. Yet even the tightly
tethered flight might be causing delays to completion of the
Japanese Trade Treaty. A British devaluation followed by our
own would certainly not give the Japanese the liberal export
benefits they crave in Australia.


GIVING NEW TEETH TO
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Tt has long seemed to The Bulletin that economic research
in this country is too departmentalised, that too many
people in their own backrooms are prodding at the same sort
of problems without much, if any, idea of what their brother
researchers happen to be doing.
This duplication of effort is wasteful, the more so because
so much of the research ends up in thin air, or locked away
in the files of Government departments, banks, universities
and so on. It is worth thinking about, in our view, whether
some central body is needed to co-ordinate research of this
economic and business genre, to make it a more specialised
business and provide for its dissemination in needed places.
One might go further and suggest that such a body be
constituted on the lines of the National Economic Develop-
ment Council in Britain.
We have called attention at various times to the good work
being done by the NEDC, and it is pertinent to our suggestion
to note, from recent events there, that an official report
produced by its officials (or backroom boys) has managed to
leak into circulation over the heads of the council members
themselves. The latter is headed by the Chancellor of the
Exchequer and includes leading industrialists and trade
unionists.
Truncated sections of the leaked report which recently
arrived here show it to be a document to be reckoned with
and also that it would never have seen the light of day if its
public appearance had depended on a decision of the council
itself. It represents practically the last word in economic
research determined to lead the way to high growth targets.
One cannot be too confident that the Government’s enquiry
is going to produce an uninhibited document of this sort,
though, of course, it may do if the personnel live up to their
reputations. But even if it does, this would presumably be
a once and for all report of members who on reporting would
thereupon retire to their devious private employments whereas,
according to The Economist, the experts in the backrooms of
the NED have shown themselves as a body of liberal outside
experts with the continuous function of putting ants into the
dignified seat of the striped pants of the Treasury and
economising on research efforts in the country at large.
mr McDonald calls for
HOUSING RESEARCH
O peaking to the annual convention of the Federation of
Co-operative Housing Societies of Victoria on March 10,
Mr Warren McDonald, chairman of the Commonwealth Bank-
ing Corporation, expressed dissatisfaction both with the
housing shortage and with the failure of available statistics
to give a co-ordinated, accurate and up-to-date picture of the
present and possible future housing position.
“We are all in this and from now on we must work as a
team to try to meet the housing needs; and housing in any
language is what I would call basic,” he said.
The difficulty is to find out what the demand both present
and prospective actually is. The thing which struck him most
was that, although most people believe that this country has
a building lag, other than the study on housing trends prepared
in October, 1962, by Dr A. R. Hall, Senior Fellow in
Economics, Australian National University, there appears to
have been no up-to-date authoritative research undertaken to
see just how big or how small that lag is, or what our housing
position is likely to be in the next few years.
(Dr Hall estimated that the demand for housing during the
year 1961-62 was 94,000 units and that the probable supply
was 92,700 units, i.e., the implication was that supply and
demand during that year were roughly in balance through J
Australia.) 8 ou l
Mr McDonald pointed out that Dr Hall maintained in th J
terms that the medium-term prospects for housing demand m
pointed to a rising trend. “If there should have been a short!
fall of effective demand in 1961-62, then with the recove 1
in incomes associated with the general recovery of the economl
there is the likelihood that in a year or so effective demand!
may be above rather than below the trend,” he said. I
“Commonwealth Government policy is to maintain tame!
immigration rates. To the extent that these are more closely'
realised in the next few years, there will be a corresponding;
strengthening, perhaps with a time lag, of housing demand
At the moment, the most reasonable expectation about
impact of the post-war baby boom on the demand for houses
is that it should begin to become influential about the middle
’sixties.”
So, stated Mr McDonald, if Dr Hall’s estimates are correct,
“we must expect a very strong demand for housing two or three
years from now, and one which probably will put strains on
the capacity of the building industry to meet this. Thus there;
is a great need to confirm what the real housing position in
Australia is today, and, in the interests of everyone, an
impartial survey on an Australia-wide basis should be made
by another authoritative source to establish the correctness or
otherwise of Dr Hall’s findings.”
“A stable building industry, in all its phases, is ‘a must’ for
a healthy economy,” Mr McDonald added, “and the Govern-]
ment’s recent decision to subsidise apprentices is an indication
that it recognises this. But it is imperative that we know where
we are with housing now, that we have the most accurate and
up-to-date statistics, and that we can plan in the interests of
an industry which is vital to our healthy economic and social
growth.”
LEAD-ZINC RESEARCH REVEALS
NEW APPLICATIONS
A mong base-metal authorities lead probably preys more heavl
ily on the mind than zinc. Lead has been losing ground:
in some old uses, while zinc has made headway in extended?
application—notably in the galvanising of motor bodies and!
components.
However, some top American executives on a brief visit*
to Melbourne recently explained to The Bulletin thaj
lead possesses a big future in new building applications. 1«
has already been used to good effect for sound insulating}
purposes.
Although the immediate investment implications are vert
oblique, there’s no gainsaying the importance, both to Australi|
and its metal producers, of the expanded research activity no
organised on a world scale by both industries. I
As Mr C. H. Ince, vice-chairman of St Joseph Lead Co.,
New York, told us, the expanded research association of t e j
Lead Industries Association and the American Zinc Institute!
of the United States cuts across national boundaries. It enslirc |
that research in all countries is co-ordinated and the resu
pooled and made available world-wide through the
research directorate located in New York. . I
The new Australian Lead and Zinc Development
tions under their recently installed general manager, Mr N■ 1
Hanley will use the information in its work in propagating |
extended use of lead and zinc in Australia and our over
outlets for these metals. . Jj
Funds for research are being contributed in
metal output by smelting companies in the US, Canada,
tralia, the UK, Europe and South American countries.
year about £500,000 will be spent. Australia’s contribution i
this is about £IOO,OOO or a fifth, as befits our relatively =


Another “Wales” Service
| h tom ii lilies
Oversea markets, like gold, are where you find
them, but it is easier to find them with the
help of the “Wales”. There you can obtain
information on new markets or be put in
touch with businessmen overseas. Exporting
is made easier for you, too, with assistance in
many ways ask for copies of the booklets
“An Australian Exporter’s Guide” and “Plan-
ning a Business Trip Overseas”.
You can bank on the “Wales”.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
(incorporated in new south wales with limited liability)
A6133G-a
;o rtion of world lead and zinc metal
nit.
[owever, as the research is being con-
e E( | in the most appropriate countries
ibecause the emphasis is on the ex-
K,on of consumption through the im-
y'iement in metal technology and
y fl onstration of what the director, Dr
Tfe, referred to as the metals’ com-
ative economic technological ad-
;t | a ges over rival metals, the greater
y of the research is being done in
S countries where consumption has
Hi potential. Last year only £.7600
e ; spent in Australia.
s k s sum was spent to support other
e |arch being undertaken by the lead-
smelting company here, Broken Hill
> dated Smelters, notably to further
Idevelopment of the DM process by
V lead sheet is cast continuously.
jßadtke said that he was currently
itiating with Electrolytic Zinc for
Itompany to undertake a major piece
(research at the expense of the ex-
-63 research programme this year.
'■MS CURRENTS
■ TRADE FAIR
i
f f many contenders for bigger shares
|of Australia’s import trade now
piting at the Melbourne’s Inter-
fonal Trade Fair probably derived
(encouragement from the drop to
W million in February from the
to of £103.4 million scaled in the
lious month. For whatever implica-
s can be drawn about the progress
Nile economy from last month’s im-
I, at this level, at least for the time
ft at any rate, they are low enough
I quieten the rumbling chorus for
ler protection.
plendid though the various exhibits
"notably those of Italy and Britain
ii seem to command as much space
ilthe rest put together—this question
protection seems to hang like a pall
the Exhibition Building and linked
"th, one detects, a further conflict
l£en our own heavy dependence on
of multilateral trade and
obvious interest of a large number
exhibiting countries in getting
!r to us on a bilateral basis.
Ine can’t get away from the fact that
stands of the majority of exhibiting
stries are laden with just the sort of
is we are well able to make our-
ts > and, indeed, in most instances do
e ' e ven if not in the quantities the
Johest advocates of “Buy Australian
e would like, or advocates of
fler imports-saving consider possible.
et moving among the exhibits you
e told that this or that country is
® §°°d customer for our wool and
other primary products, and if you care
to glance at the trade statistics (usually
on hand at the stands) you will generally
find that on a bilateral basis the trade
is terribly lop-sided in our favor.
The big exception to this, of course,
is Britain, which, fully alive to its
relative position, is making the grandest
show of all in Melbourne and will make
an even bigger one in Sydney in Sep-
tember in an attempt to keep and extend
its market here.
“We are going into Australia banging
the drums and blowing the bugles with
the aim of showing Australians the
extent of investment in their country and
to stimulate greater trade,” the organiser
of the British Trade Fair in Sydney
bellowed last week,
Nonetheless, Britain was told pretty
frankly by the PM in an address to
British manufacturers at the Melbourne
Fair that possible success could well
depend on Britain coming a deal closer
to us in the matter of our exports, no
mention of multi-lateralism, of course.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
TRADE PROPOSALS UNDER FIRE
A s might have been expected, Sir
Garfield Barwick’s progression to
get legislation on the books to con-
trol restrictive practices has run up
against some pretty forthright opposition
from manufacturing interests. The latest
comes from the Institute of Public Affairs
and the Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association, each of which numbers
among its financial supporters some
of the most influential industrialists and
financiers in the land.
There has also been some hot cross-
fire in the Press between Professor Alex
Hunter and the Director of the Chamber
of Manufactures of NSW on the ques-
tion of costs of administering the pro-
posals rather than that of the wider
issues involved.
An interesting thing about the state-
ments emanating last week from these
bodies is that while they take a most
responsible view of the need to keep
the ring of commercial practice well
within the bounds dictated by the public
interest, they make it clear that it is
the responsibility of Parliament not only
“to define its intentions specifically, un-
mistakably and unequivocally,” but also
to ensure that the scope of restrictive
practices to be registered is confined to
those that may generally be termed as
being offensive to the public interest.
the question of public interest,
AIDA says that “all laws passed are
surely aimed at ‘the public interest,’ or
attempt to restrain activities ‘contrary to
the public interest.’ This must surely be
implicit also in these proposals. The need
to qualify the whole legislation by speci-
fically stating that its provisions are to
be employed only when it is in the public
interest to do so, implies that all or
some of its provisions may not necessarily
be in the public interest.
“However, the use of this sort of cri-
terion leaves far too much responsibility
on the executors of the proposed legisla-
tion in other words, Parliament is
passing responsibility to the courts and
the bureaucrats to decide a matter which
is far too important to be delegated.”
On the same theme the IPA says the
real justification for the legislation is
that governments have a responsibility to
ensure conditions of “fair trading” so
that, as far as possible, no business or
individual is unfairly penalised or ex-
ploited by the actions of others.
This seems to have been largely over-
looked in current discussions of the prob-
lem. “A referee in a boxing match is in
the ring to ‘keep the game clean;’ he
doesn’t necessarily improve the standard
of boxing.”
Clearly we don’t want to embark on a
punitive expedition against industry and
commerce just for the devil of it to
appease the consciences of the purists
who don’t know what makes business tick
in the modern world, even if their own
bread and butter in one way or another
happens to depend on it.
Thus AIDA thinks that Sir Garfield
Barwick’s list “covers a tremendous area
of accepted commercial practices, the
vast majority of which are completely
justifiable and as much a part of normal
business activity as advertising and sales
promotion.”
It thinks that, if the proposed list is
adhered to, it is probable that every
business in the country will have to lodge
documents before being able to continue
their normal business. This would be
patently absurd, quite apart from the
business hesitancy which would arise
pending any possible action being taken
against the practices registered, i
For its part, IPA asks what will be
the key question in most practical
people’s minds; that is, how far legisla-
tion of this kind would contribute "In a
substantial sense to improved efficiency
and productivity, to better service to the
public and to more rapid economic pro-
gress.
It says the real issue here is whether
through legislation it is feasible to com-
pel businessmen to compete in a manner
against their wishes, or to act in a way
they feel to be against the best interests
of their industry.
A gain, “the proposals are so all-embrac-
ing that they could both enor-
mously complicate the task of effective
execution by jamming-up the processes
of administration and jurisdiction and
create an atmosphere of confusion and
uncertainty in the business.
“A less ambitious project would not
have given rise to such deep fears as
now abound in business circles, and may
have disposed many businessmen to view
the proposals in a more dispassionate
frame of mind.”
Would it not tend, the IPA asks, to
drive restrictive practices underground,
as it has to some extent in Britain since
legislation was enacted on the subject
seven years ago?
In Britain de-registration of practices
has often been followed by what are
termed “information agreements” which
involve no more than the circulation of
information about prices, conditions of
sale, contracts and so on, but often serve
the same purpose as formal, written
agreements and are very difficult to
police.
It also sees similarities in the possible
control of trade union practices such as
feather-bedding, spread-the-work schemes
and job demarcation, all of which have
the effect of restricting output, though
it says the Government has never at-
tempted to condition these particular
paths, maybe because, inter alia, “there
are grave doubts whether it could be
made effective.”
T'he pertinent question on this is: How
A far can you use legislation to compel
men to work in a way they may not wish
to work when they feel it would be
against their best interests?
The Institute sees a danger that Sir
Garfield’s cure could be worse than the
disease. True, it says, in many industries
unrestrained competition and the absence
of arrangements for orderly marketing
and distribution would lead to an un-
economic use of resources and unneces-
sary over-capacity. But endless confusion
in business and niggling bureaucratic
interference could result from an over-
zealous prosecution of the legislation in
respect of matters which do not give rise
to a serious and obvious public detriment.
In the IPA’s view the business com-
munity needs some reassurance on this
point.
Getting down to particular examples
the IPA thinks it “is absurd, for instance,
to make ‘collusive tendering’ unlawful
with no possibility of defence. The pro-
posal regarding mergers and takeovers
would probably be unworkable and should
be abandoned. The proposed administra-
tive machinery comprising a Common-
wealth registrar, deputy State registrars,
lay commissions, and tribunals, is much
too complicated and should be
simplified”.
Again, it considers the proposed
scheme leaves much too much to the dis-
cretion of the officials in interpreting the
word “restrictive,” which the institute
points out means “restriction of competi-
tion.” It says it should be made clear
that under modern conditions the broad-
est interpretation should be given to the
concept of competition.
“In these days, competition is less a
matter of price than of quality, packag-
ing, service, advertising, efficient selling
and delivery. Even in industries where
price fixing is practised, there can e
fierce competition for the availa e
market.”


tflNAFtf 3
9219^
*
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
. A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
T
BRANDY
TESTRO'S TRYST AT BAMBOO ROOM
By “CROESUS”
(hades of Mr Stanley Korman hung
) heavily over Chevron’s (Melbourne)
jamboo Room last week when creditors
j Testro Bros revived memories of a
njstile public clamoring to know why,
ihen and how their money went through
leStanhill sieve.
When it came to putting on both in-
to} and helpful attitudes, Mr Rex
[ es tro, who said he and his brother
[eith started their empire on war gratu-
ies in a backroom in Fitzroy, lost little
i histrionics to the maestro himself
lose small beginnings were at neigh-
oring Carlton.
He said all would be well if the group
Ire allowed to survive to complete its
[mbryonic paradise on the Gold Coast,
lit in the meantime it had been done
tong (£235,000 worth) by the Garris-
on group; and that was that, enough to
ling about a breach of the trust deed,
fct this was a matter he could not dis-
bss. It was sub judice until the com-
any’s suit against Mr P. W. Garris-
on and Garrisson Industries for the re-
irn of its money had been heard.
Nonetheless, this was the main under-
went of the meeting. It also rose
ell above the surface on several stormy
scasions and it was mentioned in timely
inuendoes by what Mr Rex Testro de-
ected as a “wooden horse” within the
ales.
This apart—and, after all, has all the
ompany’s investment in Garrisson In-
lustries been lost?—normally one would
ipect equity holders in a company still
laying dividends to be the last to want
is affairs placed in the hands of a man-
ijement committee, let alone to put a
eceiver in with power to dispose of
issets as he thinks fit in the interests of
tie debenture holders.
Not so Messrs Rex and Keith Testro,
‘ho hold practically the whole of Testro
itos Consolidated’s £100,505 ordinary
Mai between them, but very few, if
p, of the company’s £1,440,916 de-
pitures outstanding as at the end of
M month, and yet received an Bp.c.
fividened (taking, in all, £8,041
'om net profits of £22*790) in the year
0 June 30 last which they reported as
!e 'ng one of “most satisfactory and
’ratifying progress”.
It must be presumed, therefore, that
heir motives in calling last week's meet-
'§s of debenture holders and other
editors were rather urgent, and that the
Mmstances of the breach of the trust
ee d which opened the w 7 ay to the
PPointment of a committee of manage-
ment and a receiver were exceptional.
In these contexts it is well to forget
that the Victorian Crown Law depart-
ment is to investigate the company,
witnesses being on oath with no legal
representation and no pressmen present.
This investigation would have taken place
whether the directors, a management
committee or a receiver were in control
of the company’s affairs.
Also it isn’t relevant that Testro Bros
itself has appointed a receiver and
manager for John Skase & Co. or is mov-
ing to have an official manager appoint-
ed for its subsidiary, Testro Print, which
has breached trust deeds for debentures
held by the parent Testro company.
The urgency lies rather in that Trestro
Bros stood to be sued for outstanding
debts by unsecured creditors, notably by
Mr P. W. Garrisson, who got up at the
creditors’ meeting and shouted “they owe
me £49,000”, and who, in turn, is the
subject of a Testro Bros writ for damages
and the return of £235,000 they have
paid so far for the purchase of a control-
ling interest in Garrisson Industries a
bare nine months ago.
What will seem incongruous to most
people is that under the Companies Act
even a deliberately manoeuvred breach
of the trust deed can be used, through
the influence of the interested parties, on
the Trustee, to effect this particular
result.
This calls for a lot of thought on the
part of the authorities on the whole
question of the qualifications of compan-
ies to act as trustees for debenture issues
to the public. Should, as in this case,
a company formed by that issuing the
debentures for the sole purpose of being
the trustee, be allowed this legal status?
The wisdom of this was seriously
doubted by a creditor at the meeting,
though the directors of the trustee com-
pany were stone silent, that is, if they
were indeed present. The only admira-
tion going for the trustee company was
for its solicitor who explained the various
courses of action and their implications
to creditors. It transpired that he had
been acting for the company for only a
week or two. Before then he had appar-
ently never heard of Testro Bros.
It also seemed incongruous to many
debenture holders that the statement of
accounts for Testro Bros as at February
28, 1963, presented to the meetings last
week and actually to be filed at the
Registrar’s Office, showed a surplus of
£190,892 after writing off the whole of
the investment in Garrisson Industries
Ltd.
At least one of the audience said he
was very sceptical of the realisable values
put on the various stated assets, despite
the firm assurances given by an account-
ant on the board that they were realistic
and, despite Mr Rex Testro’s demonstra-
tion that providing the company’s dev-
elopment project on the Gold Coast was


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
rj
o
P.A.
FOR
6
YEARS
LJ
a
P.A.
FOR
12
MONTHS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
Filial
0
o
a
!
a
□
o
I
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
INDUSTRIAHHACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929 )
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
brought to fruition (in an expected 12
months) its net value alone (£1,700,000)
would be much more than sufficient to
cover all the company’s debenture out.
standings, whereas it was shown at only
£350,000 in the accounts submitted to
the meeting.
And not the least incongruous to most
debenture holders was how the invest-
ment in Garrisson Industries could have
turned so terribly sour in the space of
nine months in the light of Mr Testro’s
pleading that he had enlisted the best
advice in making the purchase and, after
all, he was not entirely a babe in this
type of wood.
Although the Testro tilt with its
creditors was adjourned to March 21, at
a time and place to be decided, maybe
last week we were witnessing the swan
song of company theatre in the Bamboo
Room, as Factors has forsaken the venue
for its meeting of share, debenture and
note holders for the more earthy atmos-
phere of the South Melbourne Town
Hall, where presumably coffee, neither
bitter nor sweet, will be served.
SUNNY6ANK CONFUSION
Oome confusion arose a week or so ago
over AA Oil’s testing at Sunnybank
No. 2.
The first drill stem test between 6570
ft. and 6592 ft. prompted a report that
38 barrels of oil had been recovered
in the pipe.
There was insufficient pressure to push
it to the surface, it is understood.
Drilling then went ahead and later
a second test was made of the same
interval. This time, the test recovered
only 12 barrels in the pipe.
Conditions evidently were typical of
poor permeability.
Under such conditions it is usual for
a bit of a surge of oil and gas after the
drill goes through but, with insufficient
pressure and no flow, the oil remains in
the pipe.
If a third test were made, possibly even
less oil would be recovered in the pipe
This trickle into the pipe is only an
oil show and not a production flow.
Someone tried to calculate recently
that if 12 barrels were obtained from the
drill stem in two hours, you could mul-
tiply this by 12 hours and arrive at an
output of 144 barrels per day.
This is incorrect. There was no fl° ff
of oil to the surface. The oil was drawn
into the pipe, according to information
received by The Bulletin.
Summarising the Associated groups
statement, the group still faces the P rob ‘
lem indicated by its initial well at Sunny-
bank. The oil sands encountered so
are not porous enough to supply com-
mercial oil.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New
South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
lq
PER
ANNUM
FOUR
YEARS
REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
6mth5....61p.a.
kl2mths..7^p.a.
I
Funds may be with-
drawn in a personal
emergency as set
out in the pros-
pectus.
Applications for
these notes must be
made on the form
attached to the
prospectus, which is
now available from:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. Georges Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.).
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
Clip and Post Coupon
CCiSB/AB
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with
application forms.
ADDRESS
DUNLOP'S DIVERSIFICATION PAYS OFF
w E would have thought that sooner
I or later Dunlop Rubber would be
n d to open its oyster of reserves,
• c |j were just short of double the
million ordinary capital last June,
jhave been usefully supplemented by
: j,g earnings in the last two years when
|st other big industrial companies have
under the weather.
However, the one-for-four bonus an-
unced last week is not to capitalise
jsting reserves, but is to be made from
0 assets revaluation reserve to result
, ra a revaluation from some of the
oup’s freehold properties, so the book
\ serve strength will remain unimpaired.
Hie bonus is rather more useful than
Itone-for-six made in 1959-60, the only
ller bonus given by the company in
epost-war period.
In recent years Dunlop has been even
ore sparing than this in its cash
sues to shareholders, so the accompany-
«offer of one-for-three for cash is
raething of an event. Moreover, it is
par—not heard of from Dunlop since
126 when it was the Dunlop Pneumatic
ire Co. Ltd.
The present cash issue is the first since
it one-for-four 20s. ordinaries at 7s.
I premium was made in 1951-52. In
it interim, share capital has largely been
increased through the issue of ordinary
lares for takeovers.
The announced bonus and cash issues
ill increase Dunlop’s capital from
-10.1 million (of which £930,000 is
reference) to £15,475,192 (of which
iiary will be £ 14,545,192). The
fend rate is expected to be not less
m 8 p.c. as against the 10 p.c. paid
[gularly for some years on the old
ipital.
As earnings gave about double cover
it the 10 p.c. dividend last year, and
ith the boom in the automotive indus-
™es giving a big left to earnings this
ear > the new dividend expectation should
pfulfilled easily enough.
Diversification has certainly paid off
lr Dunlop and the fresh infusion of
“pital is meant to continue the good
'Wk in this direction.
Obligations of Exchanges
Public interest in every facet of the*
Australian Stock Exchanges is under
,lltin y and it is healthy that corporate
•dies vested with power in the name
jhe community must be prepared to
% their stewardship and be ready
move with the times. At the same
5e the stock exchanges must not be
!t Scapegoat for wild or irrelevant
feism.
Thus spoke Mr D. S. Rogers, general
manager of the Stock Exchange of Mel-
bourne, prefacing a dissertation on the
responsibilities and obligations of the
Australian Stock Exchanges in Hobart
this week.
In answer to the charge that the
stock exchange shouldn’t have given its
listing blessing to the debentures of such
companies as Chevron Sydney, Factors
and Rockmans which accounted for
three-quarters of interest in default pay-
ments on debentures in September, 1962.
he pointed out no Government in Aus-
tralia had seen fit to restrain company
borrowing on debentures. That may be
so (though one may hope that this won’t
be for long), but then, as he stressed in
another part of his talk, the stock
exchanges have long been in advance of
Governments in their measures to protect


the public, such as in listing requirements
for unsecured notes which he gave as an
example. Mr Rogers did not indicate on
what lines or when the stock exchanges
were going to tackle the debenture prob-
lem themselves. Maybe, as he stated,
“it is difficult for private bodies, such as
the stock exchanges are, to impose upon
the commercial community as a whole
measures which the community, in-
cluding investors individually, are not
ready to accept or demand.” But few are
unready to have a rigid tightening up of
debenture issue requirements. Indeed the
future of the whole structure of invest-
ment may well depend on drastic reform
in this field.
Rights of prefs
Tn answer to criticism of Federal Hotels
A Ltd that certain rights held by pre-
ference shareholders in Lennons Hotels
Ltd are being reduced, the company says
that the security of the 120 preference
shareholders is being enhanced. The
parent company is guaranteeing unre-
servedly the rights of preference share-
holders in Lennons Hotel Ltd.
In selling Lennons Broadbeach Hotel,
which was taken over when Federal
Hotels acquired the other Lennons Hotels
two years ago and which has been con-
ducted entirely as a resort hotel, the
company has stated that although profit-
able Lennons Broadbeach has been out
of character with the other operations of
Federal Hotels Ltd in Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne and Hobart. The group con-
siders that the capital investment repre-
sented by Lennons Broadbeach would be
better employed (in the development of
suburban freeholds perhaps) in some
other activity. Federal recently stepped
up its interim, indicating a 7 p.c. annual
rate (previously 6i).
No bonanzas
VTaturally prominence was given in
the Melbourne dailies to the better-
ment in the sales performances of the
city’s two biggest stores, Myers and Cox
Bros, but neither group appears to have
had a bonanza in the latest half year
when one considers the results are com-
pared with the depressed period a year
earlier. For Myers it was a “healthy”
increase, for Cox Bros a mere 2.7 p.c.
rise on a comparative store basis.
However, the improvement was big
enough to warrant the maintenance of
previous dividend rates and in the case
of Cox Bros this will give a measure of
reassurance to shareholders (and credi-
tors) who have had some nasty moments
these last two months.
Out to sea?
TTaving spent more than £3i million
over the years in searching for oil
on dry Australian land, Frome-Broken
Hill looks as if it now intends to follow
up geological data which indicates that
the sedimentary rocks in its western Vic-
torian permit area thicken seawards.
Last week it started a £65,000 marine
seismic survey in its offshore areas be
tween Princeton and Nelson in south'
western Victoria. Also, a reflection-
seismic survey is being undertaken by
the company in the area north of Prince,
ton itself. No drilling plans have been
indicated since the abandonment of
Eumeralla No. 11 at 10,308 feet near
Port Fairy. Interstate Oil has a one-
third interest in the company as well a]
its 15 p.c. share of the AAO group.
Brambles on the move
A ppointment of a subsidiary as a
Sydney agent for BHP steel anci-
entry into the liquid cartage business has
given Brambles shares a fillip.
From 16s. immediately before the in-
terim report was made in mid-January,
the shares have gone to around 17s. 3d.
where they yield 5.8 p.c. Last year they 1
had a long sojourn round the 14s. 6d.
mark.
Query on quarrying
A lbion and now Bayview have set the
seal on the current malaise in Vic-
toria’s quarrying industry by cutting their,
interims to 4 p.c. (Albion from 71 and
Bayview from 6i). But a Melbourne
broker is taking the view that there
could be a favorable turn in their earn-:
ings tides.
The trouble at the moment is not so
much that demand is flagging. Statistics
show a steady 8 p.c. rise a year in the
demand for blue metal in the State, and
the stream of new projects is continuing.
It is rather that the development of new
quarries has boosted supplies to such
an extent that in Melbourne quarrying
material has been selling at little more
than half the Sydney price.
The broker thinks this could possibly
be a temporary situation and, if so, the
drop in share prices could well be re-
versed.
It has to be remembered, also, that as
well as producing new metal some of
the quarrying companies are suppliers of
ready-mixed concrete and road control-
lers. |
Even so, the recent experience of Con*i
Crete Industries in these wider fields is
by no means reassuring and yields on
Victorian quarrying shares are far from
exciting, seemingly discounting both near-
term recovery and better long-term pros-
pects.
On assumed 8 p.c. annual payments
Albion yields only 3.3 p.c., Bayview even
—3 p.c.
On the latest showing, Reids might
provide an interesting switch from t ese
companies in that, despite a reduce
turnover in the latest half year,
interim has been maintained at 5 P- •
and at current prices it shares yield
p.c.
the world of business
"I always imagined we enjoyed a rather wonderful employer/employee
relationship founded on trust and mutual respect—then a group of them
won the £100,000 lottery!"


£ f&mk x
■'be vd 0
Link up with the
‘RURAL’
for top trading
bank service
RURAL
HEAD OFFICE:
BANK
Martin Place, Sydney
As a ‘Rural’ cheque account
customer you’ll enjoy service
that’s always friendly,
efficient, and helpful. Your
‘Rural’ cheque account
opens the doors to so many
helpful services, so start
banking ‘Rural’ soon. You’ll
like itl
R8125/Bdc
Glass less profitable
p price cuts in glass in the last eight
weeks would suggest that Sydney
j ers are having a rough time.
I tes to watch are J. C. Goodwin and
Ltd and Cheapa Glass Co. Ltd.
ac h balances its books in June, but
lie last two years of difficulties in the
gng trade, their results have diverged.
C. Goodwin’s profit dropped from
£40,000 in 1961 to £29,000
year, and dividend was cut from 15
121 P-c.
Jeapa Glass, on the other hand, lost
tit £2OOO in 1961, but recovered the
owing year to normal levels of profit-
jug, with a profit of £ 12,000-odd
shareholders received a 10 p.c.
told.
lares of both companies command
terespectable premiums, putting them
a yield basis of just over 8 p.c.
Gypsum’s improvement
iistralian Gypsum Industries Ltd,
the old Australian Gypsum Ltd,
lor Electrical Plaster, Wills and Pen-
la Plaster Co. rolled into one, con-
ies to progress, notwithstanding the
ly in the housing revival.
Bterim report was of improved results
the December half-year, and direc-
iexpect to better last year’s profit,
lie net result for 1962 was higher
a for 1961 but considerably smaller
nisions indicated that Australian
pm was not unaffected by difficult
iditions in the trade.
“Service share decade”
iereas the 1950 s can be broadly
classified as the decade of the
istrial share, it is likely that the 1960 s
be the decade of the service share,
ies one of Melbourne’s leading
te. He thinks the service sector, or
other words the tertiary industries,
1 make a bigger proportionate contri-
>oii to the gross national product in
: years ahead, and points to signs
I the period of rapid industrial ex-
®n in the last decade is unlikely
recur. “Industry will continue to
el°P,” he says, “but it is unlikely to
Oise to the same benefits to share-
iers.”
ie isn’t advising that there should be
'bolesale throwing overboard of in-
lrial shares, but simply that greater
’teis should be given to service
of which there are, of course, a
grange available in a field covering
''iig, finance, insurance, newspapers,
f ision and transport, and such
ICe s as electric signs and dry clean-
's for industrials, he believes that past
performance is no guide to future worth.
This may be putting it a little too
strongly. True enough, though, the hot-
house temperatures for industrial de-
velopment conditioned by imports re-
striction are not present today and
certainly many industries which grew like
mushrooms in the 1950 s are experiencing
conditions they have never had to face
before, such as heightened competition
from imports with resultant falls in profit
margins, and in some cases over-capacity
arising from too rapid an expansion in
recent years.
But could not the color of the in-
dustrial penny, which looks so dull after
the glamor of industry’s boom years, also
become bright again given a new drive in
national expansion? And won’t most of
the established companies which have
had to weather the harder trading con-
ditions of the last two or more years be
all the sounder for the experience to
take advantage of it?


Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Vacancy Term 11, 1963, for
MASTER TO TEACH ACCOUNTANCY AND
COMMERCE, with some ECONOMICS, to
Matriculation standard.
Also vacancy in Term 111 for
MASTER TO TEACH ENGLISH AND
HISTORY to Matriculation.
Apply in writing to:
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster,
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Af lasting importance in the financial
news to this outpost was the passing
of the interim dividend and long awaited
report by Carrier. The chairman’s
October address which, one would
assume, would envisage the progress of
the company in the first quarter of the
current year, is an interesting contrast to
the next public statement made by the
company—last week’s interim report. So
is the price of 15s. in October compared
to the present price of 8s 6d.
Those shareholders who try to follow
the progress of their company could not
have suspected such a turn of events in
the short space of five months.
In October, the chairman said he was
“particularly happy to report that the
company’s forward order book at year-
end was at a record level.” But no
special mention was made of the severe
competition until the interim report. In
October the company was pleased to
note that a reduction of £138,757 (to
£918,367, a figure which reads in the
balance sheet as being the lowest of cost,
realisable value or replacement value) in
the value of the company’s stock on
hand has been achieved.” Yet no hint
was given of the imminent necessity to
write down the stocks on hand by a sub-
stantial sum.
The interim report is, indeed, a sober
statement when compared with that
October address. But at least (after a
drop of 6s. 6d.) everyone knows where
they stand!
Possibly, this type of company shock
explains the apathy of the market. The
ideal situation would be to transfer, say,
£lOO,OOO from the profit of John Ly-
saght to Carrier. The improvement by
Lysaght would still be impressive and
everyone would be happy with the ad-
justed result of Carrier. A central bureau
could be set up for controlling such
operations.
In reverence, I bow my head to Ly-
saghts for jumping the profit up by 80
p.c. Remember that New Year enthusi-
asm when I bought the 100 at 595. 6d.
All the price could do for the next two
months was to drift around 60s.
My broker brought me the glad tid-
ings of the shares rising to 645. 6d. on
the news. With his prodding, I sold
out with a profit of £lB and with his
further prodding I came back into steel
by buying 200 BHP at 525. 6d.
Yes, the present BHP seems to have
much to commend it. In the February
supplementary report (a more distin-
guished title than just “interim report”)
which runs into 12 pages, the chairman
has very clearly covered the period since
the general meeting last September. Quite
a contrast to the average interim report
of not even 12 lines.
It is a story with a background of calm
confidence. Steel ingot production has
risen steadily. “Local demand is fully
taxing the productive capacity and is
likely to continue to do so in the near
future.” Although there is intense com-
petition for exports, exports represent
only a small proportion of total turn-
over “and, therefore, a modest percent-
age increase in domestic demand can
readily compensate for a fairly heavy fall
in exports.”
As regards competition from steel im-
ports, the 1960 annual rate of over £7O
million has now fallen to about £lB
million. And lastly the programme of
development, where expenditure is at the
annual rate of about £5O million, is
continuing satisfactorily.
All very dry but encouraging. Even
the contrite American investor must b
pleased with the general picture. 6
On top of this, BHP will have the
advantage of a full year’s special plant
depreciation allowance. Perhaps it i s a
rash prediction, but the profit could well
rise by 50 p.c.
Then, of course, is the dividend ques-
tion. Even at about 61 p.c. which is a
fractional rise on the previous year’s
dividend, the yield of 2.5 p.c. is notice-
ably low. So I will be joining that group
of hopefuls expecting a material increase
in the final dividend,
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
100 J. Lysaght 64/6 .... .... £3^
500 Carrier 9/3 £226
BOUGHT
200 BHP 52/6 £535
All the earlier discussion on Carrier
has culminated into my shorting the
shares. Despite the price fall already,
they still seem too high for a company
not paying an interim dividend.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Nome of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 23/6
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 10/-
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/4
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/4
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 16/9
1000 Tasman New 7/1/63 _J/2 1/2
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/6
1000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/4..
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
300 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 40/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/3
2000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/- 1/2]
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 1/1
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/-:
100 G. E. Crane 8/2/63 77/6 79/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 34/6
800 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/6;
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 53/-
"Hot baths all round, she says, and I thought informality
was a keynote of the Royal visit!”


THE RECOVERY OF FELT AND TEXTILES
By “SECURITY”
fHEN the name of Felt and Textiles
of Australia Ltd is mentioned many
f jU shake their heads and say “the mar-
;et has never forgiven them”. Consider-
ng recent performance, in a period when
eductions and even passing of dividends
u ve been all too common, it would seem
bat Felt and Textiles should certainly
ia ve been forgiven for the “lapse” which
jccurred over ten years ago.
During the 15 years before 1952 the
jompany had had quite a remarkable
[ecord. Consolidated profits had increas-
>d steadily until they were more than
12 times the 1937 figure.
The dividend rate was increased from
Id p.c. to 12i p.c., while shareholders
me invited to subscribe for further
lares on favorable terms no fewer than
five times. Mainly as a result of this the
ordinary dividend payout in 1951 was 18
imes greater than the 1937 payout.
The 1952 year produced a consolidated
iss and the ordinary dividend was
assed, but dividends were resumed at an
p.c. rate (as compared with the 12i
it rate which had been paid in 1947 to
1551 inclusive) and the rate was increas-
dto the present 10 p.c. in 1954.
Paid ordinary capital remained at just
under £3.8 million from June 1951 until
15(1, when the preference capital was
onverted into ordinary shares and a 1-
»f 4 issue made at par. Recently the
ompany announced its intention to
»e further equity capital by a l-for-5
ae at par payable on June 30, 1963,
id ranking for dividend from July 1,
5(3.
The period following 1952 was one of
itensive reorganisation of the group. In
,ls process over 40 subsidiary compan-
-5 were liquidated and the internal man-
!®ent structure was changed into four
derating divisions wool, felt and
Jr pets, textiles and footwear. By 1962
* structure had been expanded to in-
iJde further divisions for plastics, cloth-
’s 3nd non-woven.
to addition the group has a number of
r 'ice divisions covering engineering,
a rketing research, public relations, etc.
to 1960 it manufactured 37 p.c. of all
to floor coverings, 21 p.c. of all foot-
ear and 37 p.c. of all slippers. It was
e largest processor ,of wool, processing
million lbs (15 p.c. of the total
eas y w °ol processed in Australia).
ler products include plastic film,
“j'nates, foam and extrusions, motor
1 y interior trims, clothing, embroider-
ed waddings and paddings for the
‘Motive, packaging and other indus-
Recently C. C. Rawson Ltd, bedding
and furniture manufacturer, was acquired
in conjunction with Vono Ltd of the
UK. The plastic division is now ex-
panding into the field of PVC tiles and
continuous floor coverings. It has been
suggested that, as a result of diversifica-
tion and expansion, textiles and wool pro-
cessing now represent less than 50 p.c.
of the business.
The company’s annual reports have
always contained considerable detail of
the operations, but the latest report, in
addition to giving sales figures which have
been available for many years, gives
figures on wages and salaries, cost of
materials, etc.
Expressing the available figures as a
percentage of sales, we have the follow-
ing for the 1960/1 and 1961/2 years:—
1961/2 1960/1
Wages and Salaries 22.6 23.4
Materials, services, sundry ex-
.< penses and depreciation 70.2 70.0
Net profit before tax 6.1 4.7
However, a longer period is necessary
before any worthwhile comment can be
made on these figures. Net operating
income i.e. net profit before tax,
depreciation and interest on long - term
debt can be expressed both as a per-
centage of sales and of total capital over
a number of years.
Year to
June 30 1962 1961 1960 1959 1958 1957 1956
Net Operating
Income %
of Sales 9.4 7.6 9.0 8.3 7.0 6.6 5.T
of Total
Capital 15.9 13.8 17.8 14.2 13.6 14.9 10.3
The upward trend here seems to be
quite evident, after making allowances
for the difficult 1960/1 year and bearing
in mind that sales have increased by over
28 p.c. in the period. If the average rate
of increase continues, then sales could
reach £47 million by the 1964/5 year,
and if the trend of operating income to
sales is also maintained, operating income
of approximately £4.7 million is possible.
If there is no increase in the interest
charge and also no increase in the group
investment income, and given the same
tax rates, it is quite possible to see a
50 p.c. increase in earnings by 1964/5.
This would suggest an earning rate on
capital, after the new issue in June, 1963,
of about 16i p.c. as compared with the
present 13.2 p.c. on lower capital. If
we assume that the shares would still sell
at about 13 i times earnings, and if this
value and the dividends to be received
over the next three years are discounted
at 8 p.c., the present value would be about
10s. ex the new issue, or about 11s. cum
the new issue.
It is worth noting, too, that about
£1.5 million in debentures and notes is
due to be repaid in 1965. Clearly at this
stage it is not possible to predict whether
the company will need to raise new funds
to repay these amounts, and it is, in
fact, holding sinking fund investments of
about £317,000 at market value against
the 4 p.c. mortgage debentures. Never-
theless, the possibility of further capital
issues is there and the company will have
made issues in 1961 and 1963 after a
lapse of nearly ten years.
Generally one gets the impression that
Felt and Textiles is getting under way
again after a long period of readjustment.
It could well be that shareholders will
benefit further in the not too distant
future.
The dividend commitment for the year
1963/4 will be covered 1.1 times by the
1961/2 earnings and should be covered
by earnings in that year at least 1.4 times.
The shares cum the new issue should
certainly be worth at least 11s. even if
the revival, which looks possible, does
not eventuate.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENTS
£,OOO
Tear to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 14202 13695 15335 15774 16407
Current liabilities 5179 4665 6245 6082 6259
Net working capital 9023 9030 9090 9692 10148
Fixed assets 10123 10952 11831 13379 14545
Investments 406 326 338 709 799
Intangibles 191 168 174 156 333
Total capital 19743 20476 21433 23936 25825
Represented by.-
Ordinary capital 3800 3800 3800 5559 5559
Preference capital 1500 1500 1500
Reserves - 6268 6404 6937 7931 8585
Minority interest 3580 4040 4284 4536 5523
Loan capital 4595 4732 4912 5940 6158
Sales 35131 34076 40851 39490 41162
Net operating income 2461 2823 3665 2981 3865
Earnings 615 640 942 593 735
Dividends 380 380 380 419 556
Surplus 235 260 562 174 179
Earnings % ord.
capital (a) 14,3 14.8 21,2 12.8 13.2
Dividend yield (b) 7.0 4.5 5.4 7.2 5.6
Times covered 1.62 1.68 2.48 1.40 1.34
(a) Adjusted for new issue April 1961 and treating
preference capital as converted over whole
period.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.
Publishers’ bonus
THhere's money in magazine publishing,
as evidenced by the latest bonus
from Publishers Holdings Ltd.
Ratio is one-for-three (compared with
one-for-five only three years ago), and
the 20 p.c. dividend should be main-
tained on the larger capital, if trading
continues along predicted lines.
Since 1957 Publishers has had all the
earmarks of a growth stock, with ac-
celerating earning rate and a building
up of reserves.
The latest move raises capital to just
under <£600,000 so the company is not
over-extending. It should not be the last
benefit shareholders will receive.


ACCOUNTS
5UMMARY (£'000)
Oct. 31
1958
1959
1960
1961
1961
Current osiets
I4S2
1723
2212
2270
3825
Less current
liabilities
1227
1649
2379
2210
2913
Working capital
255
74
-167
60
912
Investments
4
5
42
43
810
Fixed assets
1981
25*5
3357
3559
5650
Intangibles
—
199
871
674
1106
2240
2843
4103
4336
8478
Capital in advance —
6
Loan capital
630
882
1040
1271
2672
Outside interests
265
312
357
423
791 i
Preference capital
1 200
200
200
200
200 1
Ordinary capital
516
725
1353
1353
2000
Reser.es
629
718
1153
1089
2812
2240
2843
4103
4336
8473
Depredation
160
209
276
326
455 1
Taxation
218
211
261
317
413 1
Net profit
154
189
253
261
421 |
Net profit
For ords
144
179
243
251
411 J
Dividend
52
66
105
135
240
Surplus
92
113
38
116
171 1
Earning rate
28 0
27.1
23 0
18.6
205,
Dividend rate
10
10
10
10
12 1
Dividend yield (o) 4.9
3.8
4.5
3.0
Price/eornings
16.6
ratio (a)
73
10.5
9-5
180
High price (b)
9''9
1573
14/6
15/11
18/6 |
Low price (b)
4/7J
97-
9/3
9/3
14/-!
(a) The following February,
month
ac<ounli
presented
(b) Calendar year.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-White,
lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
MEMBERS OP THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V. Betts
NON-MEMBER PARTNERS
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011
Telex 5243
BRANCHES AT:
150 Queen St., Melbourne •
Cables & Telegrams ‘Orderley’
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
ALLIED MILLS LTD
STEADY LIFT IN STATUS
HEhe 1962 balance sheet of Allied Mills
Ltd as at October 31, and the subsid-
iary companies as at August 31, is par-
ticularly interesting for it shows results
of consolidation with the Melbourne-
based John Darling and Son (Australia)
Ltd, effected in March, 1962.
The two businesses were largely com-
plementary, and the takeover was
achieved on economical terms, as evi-
denced by the strengthening of earning
rate from 18.6 to 20.5 p.c., and of
tangible asset backing from 6s. 6d. per
ss. share to 9s. 3d.
A share premium reserve of
£1,301,703 was created by the issue of
ordinary stock units with a par value
of £650,612 to shareholders of John
Darling.
The Darling family and Spillers Ltd
of the UK, who were large shareholders
and noteholders, agreed to accept Allied
Mills shares rather than the cash al-
ternative, and then to each reduce their
shareholdings within three years to not
more than 10 p.c. of Allied’s issued
capital.
The John Darling group was intro-
duced to the Stock Exchange in 1958
with impressive sponsors, but being over-
capitalised in industry which was
losing traditional export markets, it did
not have a very successful public history.
It brought to the Sydney group mills
at Albion (Vic.) and Rhodes (NSW) the
flour and cake-mix business formerly
run by J. McAlpine and Sons Pty Ltd,
a 49 p.c. share interest in Austral Baker-
ies Pty Ltd of Melbourne, and a NSW
bakery chain, Cannongate Bakeries Pty
Ltd.
Allied Mills has flour mills at Summer
Hill, Strathfield and Narrabri in NSW.
Stock foods and starch and gluten have
been important by-products for years, but
extension into bakeries (Buttercup and
others) is of more recent origin.
A two-thirds interest in Mowbray Pty
Ltd, the holding company for Vegetable
Oils Pty which makes “Daffodil”
margarine, edible oils and linseed oil,
is considered to be one of the most in-
teresting and profitable aspects of the
Allied Mills business.
Flour exports contributed very greatly
to the prosperity of both John Darling
and Allied Mills until the late ’so’s. The
Near East was a valuable market, and
John Darling had a subsidiary in Malaya
until 1961. Local interests have now
established flour mills in Malaya and
Singapore.
In the year to November 30, 1962,
Australian exports of wheat and flour
represented approximately 2.4 times the
quantity used within Australia. For the
last fiscal year, Ceylon and Malaya
were the major customers for Australian
flour. Indonesia, which in 1960-61 was
the third biggest buyer, bought only a
quarter as much in 1961-62.
Largest buyers of Australian wheat in
1961-62 were China, the UK, India,
Japan, Spain, Germany and Italy in that
order. China, Italy and Spain bought
only nominal amounts two years
previously.
Directors of Allied Mills state that
Australian flours are not competitive
with foreign flours that are subsidised
by their governments. Otherwise the mil-
ling industry could use more of Aus-
tralia’s wheat surplus for export as flour.
John Darling and its subsidiaries con-
tributed profit for 11 months of 1961-62.
Six Allied Mills subsidiaries lost almost
£50,000 during the year. These are
believed to be bakery units, and directors
have reported that their losses have been
eliminated since balance date. Earnings
of the bakery group are not adequate in
relation to funds employed, they assert.
The position of the starch and gluten
subsidiary is not considered satisfactory
yet, although earnings showed distinct
improvement last year. After a fire in
1959, this subsidiary had teething troubles
with new plant.
Allied Mills’ shareholders have seen
a steady increase in the status of their
investment, with four one-for-four par
issues since the beginning of 1959
Dividend was held steady at 10 p.c. in
that time, but the company hoisted that
to 12 p.c. in 1961-62. From this we may
infer that directors do not expect the
business to stagnate.
The loss of export flour markets was
foreseen, and vertical and horizontal
expansion has taken place to compensate.
This policy has been very successful,
and investors can count on further
diversification and growth.
At 17s. the ss. shares show an income
return of 3.5 p.c. and a present earnings
yield of 6.0 p.c. They are not for the
bargain hunter; on the other hand they
may not have reached their upper limit.
SIMMONS HOLDINGS LTD.
STILL STUMBLING BUT SOUND
giMMONS Holdings Ltd., Sydney-based
printer, publisher, packager and
bookbinder, has not been able to hit its
stride since the reorganisation four years
ago. Shareholders were disappointed to
learn recently that the company is still
stumbling.
The company was formed in 1921 as
Simmons Ltd. and from 1932 on had an
unblemished dividend record. P fo “
earning capacity was strong and between
1952 and 1959 earning rate rose from
36 p.c. to 54 p.c. on ordinary capital after
preference dividend charges.
In 1959 the company reorganised is
capital before undertaking a large expan
sion programme.
The new company, Simmons Holding
Ltd, was formed and acquired all
shares in Simmons Ltd. Holders o t


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARIES (£'000!
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
298
279
232
257
Less current liabilities
256
2t2
231
177
Working capital
42
67
51
6C
Investments
9
6
5
Fixed assets
269
257
367
345
Intangibles
96
96
96
96
-
-
v . -
- — —
416
456
519
521
Represented by:
—
—
'Capital
168
395
240
240
Loon funds
25
25
25
25
Reserves
223
236
254
256
416
456
519
512
Depreciation
21
23
24
26
Taxation
16
20
14
5
Net profit
30
34
26
13
Dividend
7
19
21
12
Surplus
23
15
5
1
Earning rate
20.0
17.9
12.3
5.2
Dividend rate
10
10
10
5
Dividend yield fa)
5.3
4.3
5.2
3.6
High price (to)
40/6
49/-
47/6
35/-
Low price (b)
to) End of September.
lb) Previous calendar
36/-
yeor.
41/-
32/-
25/-
DODDS CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LTD
Analysis
Summary
(£'000)
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Capital
£200
200
434
583
583
Surplus profit
£16
25
34
33
2
Reserves
£283
375
910
1003
1000
Shareholders'
funds
£499
600
1378
1619
1585
Index
100
120.2
275.8
324.0
317.7
Total investment
£541
64S
1434
1791
1738
Index
100
120 2
265.0
331.8
321.3
Working capital
£67
177
365
1116
943
Index
100
264.0
545.0
1665.0
1407
Investments
£167
168
109
35
14
Land and
buildings
£103
106
470
412
457
Plant
£104
97
207
206
224
Intangible assets
£105
106
289
26
26
Depreciation
£30
31
32
46
41
Tax
£116
104
105
94
17
Net profit
£158
161
153
125
26
Index
100
101.7
96.7
79.1
16.44
Concealed profit
on tax
£36
12
22
26
_
Surplus profit p.c. 71.5
62.75
39.2
18.4
—
Dividend p.c.
22 j
30
20
17£
10
£45
60
93
102
58
Percentage profit
Ord. capital
Shareholders'
funds
fO:
79.23
80.32
33.11
21.41
4.46
31.65
26.8
IU
7.73
1.64
Total
investments
29.2
24.8
10 65
6.98
1.45
NTA
40.2
32.6
11 88
7.85
1.67
Leverage
1 09
1.08
1.04
111
1 09
N'TA per 5s. Od.
share
9/9
12/5
12/6
13/8
13/3
Share prices
high 28/8 i
56/-
33/6
22/6
13/9
Share prices
low
22/6
32/-
20/-
16/-
8/6
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
lMembers of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor, /
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
% Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
[preference shares were offered 210
shares for every 100 20s.
jfes held, second preference sharehold-
were offered 7 p.c. unsecured notes,
| an equal face value maturing on
( ember 31, 1964, and ordinary share-
Iders were offered 200 shares for every
0 held. Immediately after, the com-
ty made a one-for-two share issue at
i, Paid up capita] after these issues
b £165,435. Takeover of Alexander
dustries Pty Ltd and Curtis Packaging
(Ltd by a share issue at a premium
led capital when fully paid up to
195,500.
for the next two years the company
[well, lifting profit to £33,750, equal
17.9 p.c. on capital. From this the
npany paid 10 p.c. dividends, the rate
Kcast at the time of the reconstruction.
However, the advent of the credit
iteze only three months after the
th of the chairman (Mr W. A. Crich-
] saw the company run in difficult-
During 1960-61 about £lOO,OOO
i spent on capital equipment designed
increase efficiency and reduce operat-
costs. But this did not come into op-
lion until very late in the period. This
lay was financed principally by
ther cash issue (one-for-five) at a
p.c. premium lifting capital to
0,000.
lad debts were also a problem in this
lod and, despite a higher turnover,
ip profit fell by 22 p.c. barely cover-
the steady 10 p.c. dividend.
Hie 1962 year opened badly, due
icipally to difficulties in the packaging
sidiary and a major reorganisation of
operations. Trading resulted in a loss
£1823 for the six months and no
M was paid. But the second half
:much better, all this loss being re-
?ed and a profit of £12,483 record-
-Ihr the year. The final 5 p.c. took
2,000.
Despite hopes expressed in the annual
report, this recovery lasted for only three
months and again intensified competition
adversely affected results. Interim divi-
dend was passed and the final payment
left to depend on the full year’s figures.
The shares are currently looking weak
at 245. 9d. but are fairly tightly held and
thus the market is largely nominal. They
are unlikely to go much lower because
of the substantial assets backing of
335. sd. a 20s. share. Reserves of
£256,722 exceeded paid up capital, but
are subject to intangible items of
£96,542.
The company at last balance date was
reasonably liquid, with overdraft down
from £107,782 to £97,454, and
creditors from £98,215 to £62,800.
Stocks were also lower at £153,737,
while debtors were practically unchanged
at £101,837.
Despite its setbacks the company
shares look a lock-away proposition,
even if only on the basis of buying assets
cheaply.
ORDERS PROVIDE A SIGNPOST
DODDS CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES LTD
’corporated: May 19, 1955, in Mel-
bourne.
hectors: J. R. Burt, chairman
(director of Australian Temperance
°nd General Mutual Life Assurance
Society Ltd), J. W. Dodds (director
°f Australian Paper Manufacturers
Ltd), W. R. Pullar, G. L. Patterson
tdirector of Allied Meat Industries
Ltd, Colonial Gas Holdings Ltd,
Fawkes Bros Ltd).
Consolidated Industries Ltd
w as formed to acquire Riley Dodds
1 Ltd, the consideration being
shares. In 1956 in consideration
Rice and agreements 98,495 shares
; issued at par to Mr Dodds and
Mr Pullar. These shares, together with
the five shares to signatories of articles,
made up the authorised (and issued)
capital. Authorised capital was sub-
sequently increased to £1,000,000.
In 1957-58 the company purchased
for £154,926 the whole of the issued
capital of Alfred Snashall Holdings Ltd,
which included the subsidiaries Alfred
Snashall Pty Ltd and Lenix Services Pty
Ltd (formerly Water Supply Engineering
Pty Ltd).
In October, 1959, the company made
a four-for-five bonus issue. Other issues
were: 297,000 shares at 255. premium
to Davies Coop. & Co. Ltd for property
in Lonsdale St, Melbourne, 363,100
shares to acquire Mechanical Handling
Ltd and 232,257 shares to acquire
Pascoe Industries Ltd of Adelaide.
The company’s name was changed
from its original Riley Dodds Holdings
Ltd to the present name in December,
1960.
In the same year the Far East com-
pany was formed in Singapore, as was
the New Zealand company in Welling-
ton.
In the latest year under review turn-
over was up, but profit fell due to accep-
tance of work at lower profit margins
and completion of fewer contracts.
The two overseas companies should
prove valuable in the future, and this
fact should not be overlooked when con-
sidering the growth potential of the
company.
In 1962 profit did not cover dividends,
but reserves are excellent, and the com-
pany, at balance date, had orders in
hand valued at over £7 million.
Whether the profit margin has in-
creased time will tell, but it would seem
that the day of the big profit percentages
has gone.
Provided one is agreeable to accept
a reasonable dividend on a medium-
priced stock with assets, one can do
worse than this company.


JI
Upr
. . :
: ;. wßm
im®
1
#
■I
■ I
so there’s rmre than one bank
SO WHAT ?
So you’re free to choose any bank you like and to enjoy all the
benefits of competition. These include personal attention to all
your banking needs and the best service at the lowest rates.
Australians have thousands of bank branches available to them—
and each one is keen to get new business.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN
benefits from competition
between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The WALES • the C.B.C. • the C.B.A. • the ADELAIDE • the E.S. & A. • the A.N.Z. and the NATIONAL
G 258
ONE TO BUY
OLYMPIC ON THE
UP-SWING
A nnouncement last week that Dunlop
Rubber Australia Ltd would make
a simultaneous cash and bonus issue
directs attention to Olympic Consolidated
Industries Ltd.
The two businesses run on more or
less parallel lines, with a few different
interests on side-tracks, but it is a reason-
able assumption that if Dunlop has been
in top gear, so, too, has Olympic.
In both cases their major interest is
production and distribution of motor
tyres and tubes, and there is no doubt
that the motor industry has now re-
covered from the body blows of tempor-
ary increases in sales tax, followed by
credit restrictions, imposed late in 1960.
Official Australian statistics show that,
for the six months to December, 1962,
production of motor tyres is up 32 p.c.,
and motor tubes up 20 p.c. on the
previous corresponding period. Produc-
tion of batteries, with which the Olympic
Tyre and Rubber Co. is also concerned,
has been running at a much higher level;
6-volt batteries are up 20 p.c., and 12-
volt up 40 p.c.
The old-established cable business,
too, provides some insulation against the
swings of the motor industry, and is an
important contributor to group profit.
The general product division, which
caters for the building trade amongst
others, may not be showing such great
improvement as the tyre and rubber
divisions, but it should not be doing
less well than in 1961-62.
The associate company, Wheels and
Rims Australia Pty Ltd, in which Dunlop
and Ralph McKay Ltd are partners with
Olympic, may not be on a dividend basis
for some time yet.
In the last financial year to lune 30,
Olympic was able to lift absolute profit
by 25 p.c., the earning rate from 16.2
to 19.5 p.c. on slightly higher capital,
and the long-standing 9 p.c. dividend to
10 p.c.
The last issue to shareholders was an
easy one-for-ten at par in February,
1961. This was the first call on share-
holders for equity capital since forma-
tion of the holding company in 1953.
At June 30 last, the company' was
very liquid with £.1,150,000 in short-
term deposits, and had no substantia
reservoir for bonus issues, so that Olyn l
pic is not likely to match Dunlop wit
an early cash or bonus issue.
But at about 12s. 3d. the ss.
yield 4 p.c. in income and 8 p- c - 0
earnings, and should show further ma
ket appreciation.


INVESTMENT ADVISOR Y SER VICE
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
couton
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's " advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
l held registered deposits for £1250
i David Murray Holdings Ltd on 12
i oaths’ notice of withdrawal, and paying
p.c. interest until the company failed
tdo so on January 1, 1963. What is
\i position in relation to the Reid
[may debenture stock, and how can
ipositors find out what is taking place?
■ E.G.H., Goorambat (Vic.).
David Murray became part of the
leid Murray group when David Murray
lerged with Robert Reid Ltd. All debts,
ic, were guaranteed by the holding
ompany so that David Murray is still
ound to meet its commitments, if
ossible.
We cannot ascertain where the David
liirray registered deposits rank in rela-
on to the Reid Murray debentures, but
e suspect it is behind them. The com-
iny is now in the hands of receivers;
fr J. I. N. Winter, Adelaide accountant,
as appointed receiver of the David
(urray group and he should be able
i satisfy your queries.
Very shortly you should be hearing
m Messrs. E. H. Niemann and C. J.
laugh of Hungerford, Spooner & Kirk-
fe, accountants, who have been
ppointed receivers for the group. They
ill present a report on the state of the
roup and give details of a scheme of
irangement designed to rehabilitate the
mpany.
★ ★ ★
Recently 1 bought 1000 shares in
larence River Oil on the report of a big
15 flow in Clifden No. 2. A third well
fW the depth of the discovery with no
Does this mean there was a fault
11 the original well, and does the com-
Mny expect to get gas at. a lower level?
'RH., Hurstville (NSW).
The fact that no gas was found in the
tfden No. 3 well does not necessarily
l£ an that faults occurred in that well,
|N the first two wells. It simply means
i!t a change has occurred in the rock
'Nations between No. 2 and No. 3,
ilc h has prevented the accumulation of
:i ' n the vicinity of No. 3. The com-
ny has proved one limit of the gas
Posit. It must now drill more wells
nnd if j t runs j n ot f, er directions or
from available geological in-
Nation that conditions are not suit-
,e Tor a large gas accumulation. This
Ration is being studied now.
hould directors abandon this site
your investment may not be in vain for
there are other areas of interest. Burmah
Murphy, a group with world-wide ex-
perience in the search for oil, would not
have gone into the Clarence area on the
basis of one area of interest.
★ ★ ★
Would you give me an opinion on
Amagraze Ltd, and can you recommend
any Australian meat exporters’ shares? —
C.A.P., Kuala Lumpur (Malaya).
End of the drought season in outback
Queensland has resulted in Amagraze
Ltd doing much better than was the case
two years ago. Profit for the half year
to last December was well in advance of
that of the previous corresponding
period. Providing climatic conditions do
not worsen, the outlook for the com-
pany appears good.
One of Australia’s largest meat ex-
porters is Anderson Meat, but it ran into
difficulties and still is not out of its
troubles. Tancred appears a better pros-
pect at this stage, or, if you are looking
more for a processed meat exporter,
perhaps Huttons or Mayfair.
★ ★ ★
/ have only a moderate amount of
capital for investment, and my main
object is short-term capital growth. My
portfolio is 200 Amalgamated Chemicals,
bought at 13s. 6d.; 100 Queensland Can,
11s. 6d.; 200 Direct Acceptance, 6s. lid.;
100 Australian Factors (Queensland),
7s. 6d.; 300 Motor Credits, Bs. 3d.
I believe Direct Acceptance is re-
covering well, but 1 intend to sell within
six months if the price does not improve.
I also intend to sell Queensland Can
soon, and am considering buying Lan-
ray, Peters (Vic), Kolotex, Motor
Credits, and Thiess if below 12s. at the
end of this year. Can you comment on
these choices? P. M., Mareeba (Qld.)
You have been fortunate with most of
your purchases, particularly Amalgamated
Chemicals. With this stock, although we
believe there is still some growth left,
we feel it has met your requirements for
short term capital growth and recom-
mend that you now take your profit
and sell. Your other investments we re-
commend you to hold for a short while
at least.
Of your three suggestions for pur-
chase, we feel the order for short term
capital growth is probably Kolotex,
closely followed by Lanray and then
Peters (Vic.). However, Peters (Vic.)
must go to the head of the list if you
were seeking long term growth.
Thiess shares below 12s. look quite at-
tractive as the company has plenty of
work on its books.
★ ★ ★
What amount of trading in shares,
and/or other factors, are necessary for
one to become classified as a “ trader”
by the Tax Department? For a resident
of New Guinea, are earnings from Aus-
tralian companies subject to income tax
at Australian or New Guinea rates?
J. N. M., Camberwell (Vic.).
The Taxation Commissioner assesses
each “share trader” on his merits For
a resident of New Guinea who receives
dividends from an Australian company,
the lodging of two returns is necessary.
The first should be lodged in Australia
showing the earnings from the divi-
dends. Tax is paid on this and the
amount paid is then shown as a credit
when a return is lodged with the New
Guinea tax authorities.


D&I
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
ISSUE OF £1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairman)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
G. L. A. DONOHOO
Alternate Director: R. V. AGNEW
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
I.
X
PER ANNUM
FOR 6 AND 10 YEARS
6% for 2 YEARS
6i% for 3 YEARS
7% for 4 YEARS
7i% for 5 YEARS
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
WHY IS THE DAIRY INDUSTRY
NOT MORE VOCAL?
Tt is doubtful if any major Australian
primary industry suffers more disap-
pointments in its negotiations with
governments than the dairy industry.
Perhaps the reason lies in the industry’s
comparative silence on its problems and
the surprising acquiescence with which it
receives these not-infrequent blows.
Certainly nobody can claim the dairy
industry is militant. It claims it has close
to half a million Australians dependent
upon it, but it seldom makes any attempt
to mobilise them as a political pressure
group.
Unlike some of its more vocal sister
industries, the dairy industry is not given
to public table-thumping, bluster or
threats. It relies, instead, on quiet behind-
the-scenes negotiations. It keeps mum
about its defeats and does not crow about
its victories.
The result is sometimes the somewhat
awry picture of the industry’s leadership
quietly accepting some local or interna-
tional rebuff as if it were a minor victory
while lesser minions and people not
financially interested in dairying are left
to do the bitter complaining.
This “we-don’t-want-to-offend” atti-
tude has been illustrated over the busi-
ness of the British butter quotas.
It has been an open secret in the in-
dustry for some months that Australia
has been trying to get a bigger quota
for its butter on the United Kingdom
market.
It has also been realised that other
countries especially some non-Com-
monwealth countries such as Denmark
—have been similarly seeking quota lifts.
But Australia had a much better case.
When we got it, our quota for 1962-63
of 62,000 tons was reasonable enough
looking back on our shipments to the
UK in recent years. But last season was
a near-record one for Australia’., dairy
farmers and a poor one for domestic
butter sales. The result: An unsaleable
surplus at present officially admitted by
the Dairy Produce Board to be about
10,000 tons.
This surplus looks like being at least
matched during the present excellent
season for milk production.
Australia, with a much smaller quota
than either of the two other major butter
suppliers to the UK New Zealand
and Denmark thus had a better case
than either of them for a quota lift.
Well, we got a quota increase. But so did
everyone else!
Britain took the easy way out and
avoided playing favorites by giving every
supplier country a 5 p.c. quota boost.
This means an extra 3,100 tons for Aus-
tralia in 1963-64 about £1 million
worth of butter.
It is not to be looked at askance, of
course . . . but it falls short of solving
Australia’s problems and shows that any
representations our dairy industry made
through the Department of Trade served
only to ensure that non-Commonwealth
countries also got bigger quotas.
What Australia really hoped for
but despaired of getting was a quota
increase confined to her own shipments.
Obviously Britain could not risk giving
every country a quota rise sufficient to
solve Australia’s problems. An ' ncreaS *j
of this magnitude would have wrecke
the painfully built-up price stability
under the quota system and once again
thrown the British market open to a
flood of cheap foreign butter. .
Probably the most serious aspect o
the British decision, however, was
total lack of discrimination betwee
Commonwealth and non-Commonwea
countries. .
It serves to emphasise once aga
that, Common Market or not, Austra


For Sale
DARLING POINT HOME UNIT
Prestige Waterfront building. Extensive
Harbour views. Swimming pool. Moor-
ing. Decorator furnished. Three bed-
rooms. Garage. £18,500.
Write JACKSON, 95 YORK ST,
SYDNEY.
Legal Notices
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: BRIAN LEGGETT, late of 46 Gipps Street,
Kiama. TAKE NOTICE that BERENICE
CLAIRE LEGGETT has filed a Petition for
Divorce (No. 322 of 1963) on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 19th day of April, 1963,
and obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice
of Petition without charge from MESSRS.
K. B. MORGAN & CO., Solicitors, of 46 Darcy
Street, Parramatta. If you do not wish to
file an Answer but wish to receive a copy of
each document filed in the proceedings you
should file a Notice of Address for Service on
or before such date. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: RAJKO KRSTIC, formerly of 101 Cam-
bridge Road, Bellerive, Hobart, in the State
of Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that FAY
ROSALIE KRSTIC has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3877 of 1962 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the tenth day of April, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MR. A. G. BRINDLEY, Solicitor, of 116
Liverpool Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: THOMAS WILLIAM GIBSON TAKE
NOTICE that MARJORIE ELLEN GIBSON has
filed a Petition No. 1158 of 1962 for divorce,
on the ground of separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
26th day of April, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from Messrs.
Lane & Lane, Solicitors of 34 Martin Place,
Sydney.—C. A. H HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: VERDUN CHARLES OPIE, late of Dover
Street, Richmond, in the State of Victoria.
TAKE NOTICE that MOLLIE JEAN OPIE has
filed a Petition for Divorce Number 2768 of 1962
on the ground of separation. If you wish to
defend this suit you may enter an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 17t.h
day of April, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from K. H. Wilson &
Company, Solicitors, 160 Gastlereagh Street,
Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL' CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: JOSEF STUPKA, late of Mallison Street,
West End, Brisbane. TAKE NOTICE that
BERYL GRACE STUPKA has filed a Petition
for Divorce (No. 323 of 1963) on the ground
of separation. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, by the 29th day of April, 1963,
and obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice
of Petition without charge from MESSRS.
K. B. MORGAN & CO., Solicitors, of 46 Darcy
Street, Parramatta. If you do not wish to
file an Answer but wish to receive a copy of
each document filed in the proceedings you
should file a Notice of Address for Service,
on or before such date. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
, n farmers can no longer rely on
jtain as a protected preferential
;jr ket for their products.
In fact her renewed interest in her
irtners in the “Outer Seven,” the Euro-
an Free Trade Association, could spell
serious and imminent threat to several
sporting primary industries here, includ-
sg the dairy industry.
Denmark, one of the members of
FTA, has already made it plain that
er price for agreement to Britain’s
went pleas for abolition of EFTA in-
ustrial tariffs by 1966-67 is equality
jth Commonwealth countries for her
liter entering Britain.
When Denmark’s demand for that
is how it was put was made the
lairtnan of the Australian Dairy
Induce Board, Mr E. G. Roberts, was
led for a comment. He declined the
chance to come out fighting for the
Commonwealth.
And when Britain announced her in-
discriminate 5 p.c. quota lift, Mr Ro-
berts’ very brief official statement gave
the impression that the industry was
fairly happy with the situation.
It was left to men like Mr Russell
King, general manager of the Overseas
Farmers’ Co-operative Federation Ltd, in
London to say: “We feel a greater part
of the increased quota of imports might
have gone to those Commonwealth
countries notably Australia and New
Zealand which helped stabilise prices
in the United Kingdom during the butter
shortage of the last few months. Instead,
the increase has gone to everyone
including those countries which have
taken advantage of the situation and
asked for high prices.”
[?]RKETING
MORE INTENSIVE EDUCATION
FOR ADVERTISING MEN
'he 4As’ policy of educating young
people in advertising has been
Ivanced a further stage, and for the
$t time the NSW division of the
sociation has opened its junior tutorial
lies to members of the Advertising
stitute of Australia.
This provides a unique opportunity for
IA members seeking their degree in
Ivertising to share in a valuable series
lectures, prepared by 4As’ experts, in
wide range of subjects aimed at
locating juniors. Such educational
ojects are, in the words of Mr D. M.
iiy, chairman of the NSW division, of
'emendous importance to young people
agencies”; and with the rapid advance
advertising techniques in recent years,
i{ may hope that the present dearth of
®g young executives may eventually
overcome.
The 1963 series of tutorials will be
1 m two separate sessions, the first
I'gned to appeal especially to agency
We with less than two years’ ex-
race. This series will run from now
r May, with fortnightly lunch-time
,|[lr es on: “How An Agency Operates”
K- R- H. Ballantyne); “Planning for
r Media” (by J. Q. Simpson); “Radio
r Television” (by Harry Griffiths);
Native Advertising Art and Copy” (by
Mcholson); “The Graphic Arts” (by
Currie); and “Marketing a New
“duct” (by I. Heydon).
Although primarily for young people
“dvertising, the 4As’ Federal Director,
Illa rd Holt, says the lectures will be
in to all member agency staffs and
rnembers.
’jhe second series, prepared for an
j lle nce of junior account executive
standard, will go considerably further. It
will run from June to September and will
consist of: “Account Servicing The
Client Agency Relationship” (by N.
Snashall); “Direct Mail” (by J. T. Adams,
Sales Promotion Manager, B. J. Ball
Ltd); “Campaign Planning” (by K.
Jarvie); “Branded Advertising in the
Electrical Goods Market A Case
History” (by R. B. Collin, Manager,
Publicity Department, Philips Electrical
Industries Pty Ltd); “Launching a New
Product” (a Unilever presentation);
“Current Creative Trends” (by R. Eaton).
At the end of this series a special
project on marketing a consumer durable
will be prepared.
All sessions will be held in the
Agricultural Hall, 195 Macquarie Street,
Sydney.
The Victorian division of the 4As is
also livening up its education policy,
and the first major project will be a
“Copy Academy” opening on May 1.
The series of fortnightly lectures will
occupy 20 weeks.
Mr Holt said that although the 4As
had developed advertising education in
Australia to a tremendous degree, it was
difficult to keep up with the three-fold
needs of the business— basic education
of juniors, educational work for semi-
senior and senior people, and the more
experimental type of project which would
assist very senior people in their forward
thinking.
Another departure in the advertising
education field will be the holding of a
one-day education seminar for media
managers and senior media representa-
tives. In this the whole media pattern
will be examined.


Feiffer
CM fO(6HT'Af A ?km-
l was iv m ARsuuevr
mu euDvevm, tust
men i was moot to
APfW THE CRUSHER
m quote statistic*
FROM THE WALL STREET
DOtWAL'I REALIZED
I pipiot Believe a
6/N6LC WORD I
im> sAmve>.
AMO I PIPM'T BELIEVE
A 6IU6LE WORD HT
omvtvr was sMive.
aupi tholvsht wmez
AMP I REALIZED THAT j
I pipm'T Beueve a (
SIMEIEAR6PMEWTI j
HAP HEARP A lieveUlU6 {
OH A SIU6LE NEWSPAPER
EDITORIAL I HAD REAP
1(0 MONTHS.
AMP THEM IT CAME
TO ME THAT I
HAPWT BELIEVED
MHTMO6 mmA
HAD TOLP ME fU
HEARS. THAT PEEP"
IMSIPE THE OWLH
THINE I RgAliY ,«
BELIEVED WAS THAT k
EVERYBODY WAS
imei
THAT IT m
AM SPECIAL
PIEACID6,.
6lßLst
Ms!
6maMWty
ME'
tmv-
-IHtNC>!
WPSJI tor
vm oemveo.
eecme if ues
WZR£ Worn I
THINS A UHOUe
coolo m\m
!(J HOOJ oo&>
ONE 60 bBOUX
seitcme rue
B&T we. the
owe that makes .
w feet &m?
WT im MOIHtR TUOU6HT CAHB TO
MINP- m 1 BO Mil IVFPRMSP
THAT 1 COUIP AFFORD 10 MA KB
sm srATeMEWTs? mmr
mew iu position of
Hrt\\oß.m far egrrgß ifaiijsp
IW THg COWIBUm OF oup. f| MB
WHose MPAtJce j suculp accept- \
etpeciAuy meto mom
couausms mfe bo bawi
comsev?
m wasdy hu m\&
that eiemmi)6 w& a
ue cm a penes ro
escm Rewommru ?
ReAuzius im r
became Hume, i
erne -ro a New
Kt/£F-
-TO ACCEPT
6UIPAVC6.
To HAVE
TRUST-IV
THE 6000
SENSE OF
THE EXPERTS,
That is
what r
HAVE
FWALLH
COME
TO
BELIEVE.
ue,
mr
OR
W120W6.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 736
ACROSS
I—China hat for five-bob. (5, 5)
s—Club5 —Club spice came in disguise. (4)
9—We’re only here for these long sentence’s kitchen
utensils. (4, 5)
11— Soul-weariness. (5)
12— In favour of the arrived tragedienne. (8)
13— Land a N.Z. parrot seen about New York. (5)
14— Morning straw affected a forecast of rough times
ahead. (5, 7)
18—Danger is high for such a race for those who
jump honours. (12)
20— Keg requiring inner adjust-
ments. (5)
21— Ghost editor is spunky. (8)
23 Bet often associated with this
party mirth. (5)
24 Improvident nude? (9)
25 Macaulay’s work contributes
to egg supplies. (4)
26 End glasses smashed such
joys. (10)
DOWN
1— Animal muscle. (4)
2 Intermittently, the cricket
field is of enthusiast Brad-
man. (3, 3,2)
3 Embellish the Spanish native
tax. (9)
4 Count with a band one in the
foundation. (5)
6 Owning if a good for nothing
canopy is wanted. (6)
7 A Moslem office makes them
angry. (7)
8— Place to relax for rather
more than a snack. (4-3, 5)
10—Unspiritual hearts perhaps
taken in hand by a tailor. (4,
8)
15—Negatived fill-in due for a
change. (9)
16— Decca put up the Queen’s
people who agree to comply.
(8)
17— Cooler correspondence written
by warmer admirers? (3, 4)
19—Quick diaper given to South.
(6)
21— Fibre suggested by Sister
Alice. (5)
22 Goddess and I join 21-down
when deserted by Jolson. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 735


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
§ • • • ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
HHBNBHHnHHHHHnHHHUSHHHHBi
• • • • ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOG ALAND OVERSEAS NEWS
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
BBB%gBBBBBKjBft gggj
■
I § f • AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
lust fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to be delivered to me each
week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick (V) whichever method of delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct subscription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea): 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/-,
post free. British Dominions, £3/6/-; other countries, £3/16/-.
NZ SUBSCRIPTION'S: Remit to Box 965, Wellington, N.Z.: Surface
Mail, 1 year £2/12/-; \ year, £l/6/- (N.Z. currency). Special air
copies: £5/4/-, 1 year; £2/12/-, \ year.
Please add exchange to cheques


Princeton
THE ONLY
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOAS
FILTER
O
p
m. :
M/0*
% .
£ WSgLjEk
pHp
ill
: .;->
f '-';:-vS.;--;M : i} f
• '
iBS
FILTER
, Iff
Si»
TOASTED
■f
;■.;■■ ■■■::■
‘Bft::
. »• ■
IB
' '
SsSs3&
gBf|f§|j I HtS® -£.'^
after action
if
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos wasted, to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
2.P121.11.62
* Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New York Ltd-
