

The Bulletin
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.1880
DORIS FITTON: THE GIRL FROM MANILA, P.l.
m Cellarmaster ft Papua's John Guise ft What's Wrong with Seafo?


Which part of Volkswagen do owners want to change?
The gears.
Changing up, or down, is a big part of
the fun in driving a VW.
Two-car owners tell us VW’s gear
change is one reason why the other car
often stays in the garage.
Makes sense: in the Volkswagen you
have to listen hard to hear the click,
click, click, as you change, if you can
hear it at all.
VW gears are so finely engineered you
can shift up, down, or sideways, with-
out crunching.
You can flick through the gears from
overdrive top, down to first and up
again in moments.
You don’t have to stop to change down
to first on a hill, or in traffic, or any-
where else, because VW has synchro-
mesh on all four forward gears.
Why are Volkswagens quick off the
mark?
Why do so many racing cars use a
Volkswagen gear box? Simply because
gear changing is faster and easier than
in most other cars.
Summing up, motor writers often say
Volkswagen has the finest gear change
in the world.
But they say that about the engine.
And the finish.
And the suspension.
And the reliability.
And the durability.
Why not test one, as thoroughly a s
the motor writers do?
VWI2OO Sedan —from £849
tax paid.
VWISOO —from £1199
tax paid. (Prices
for State capital cities.)
Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.
@


National Notebook
(phonemanship
i Melbourne firm of management
A consultants is offering a range of
business training courses, including one
. “ crea tive phonemanship.” Wonder-
. if a new Stephen Potter had arisen
' in s oUr midst, a Bulletin phoneman
inquiries. An employee of the
firm explained that phonemanship was
salesmanship as practised by office sales
staff who, of necessity, had to sell via
the blower. What about phonemanship
for the switchboard-girls who lose,
mangle, mislay or misdirect our calls,
asked our phoneman? Well, yes, the
principles of the course could be applied
)to them too, but just now the course
was angled towards salesmen.
Phonemanship was an
unusual word, he added
apologetically, but the
sales world was always
throwing up new words.
Our phoneman thanked
him and hung up ponder-
ing whether he could
take out a copyright on “teleselling.”
Maybe it suggests selling by television
rather than by telephone, but surely
somebody could find a use for such a
fine, modernistic word.
1
The times of sand
Along Adelaide’s 20 miles of beaches
11 the times of sand are fast running
out. Recently a South Australian life-
saving carnival had to be moved to
another beach when the original beach
disappeared. A young Melbourne couple,
honeymooning in Adelaide because they
enjoyed the stretches of sand, were
astounded to find only rocks in front of
their hotel. These incidents once more
drew attention to the increasing prob-
k® °f sand erosion along Adelaide’s
heaches.
f ast year a senior lecturer in civil
“engineering at the University of
Adelaide, Mr R. Culver, made a report
on suburban beach scouring. He
suggested that a research unit be estab-
ished to study sand movements, assess
eac h stability and examine wave and
j Urren t activity. Mr Culver’s plan was
® r , a five-year survey, costing about
£1 2,000 a year.
Seaside Councils’ Committee then
? Government help for the project,
J Premier Playford would have none
this dilly-dallying. Get on with the
oil £ « ect some groynes and carry out
half 1 h S * 3ec^c P ro j ects ” a °d we’ll meet
the cost, he told council members,
committee was disappointed, and
Mr Culver said such an approach could
“imperil some beaches.” However, be-
cause Playford’s offer is too good to turn
down, the councils have decided to begin
work on beach preservation with what
information they have already.
4 gaggle of 4 Whos’
Tn a sales talk on behalf of a Melbourne
“Herald” publication, “Who’s Who
In Australia,” editor Joe Alexander
announces: “No payment is accepted for
including biographies. Bribery, which is
sometimes attempted, gets the would-be
famous nowhere.”
How, then, does one win a place
among a surprisingly numerous collec-
tion of 9350 of the reputedly “famous?”
One way, it would seem,
is to have a job with the
Melbourne “Herald-Sun”
organisation. Until we
wearied of the search we
traced among the authen-
tic famous nine “Herald”
directors (one or two
of whom had other claims to in-
clusion), a “Herald-Sun” general man-
ager, a “Sun” manager, an advertising
manager, an editor-in-chief, a deputy
editor-in-chief, two mere editors
(“Herald” and “Sun”), a manager of the
“Herald” TV station and four “feature
writers.”
Employees of other newspapers may
(or may not) envy the fame of their
“Herald” opposite numbers, but such
celebrity may prove fleeting for some of
them, as it did for Harrison Owen, the
Australian-born dramatist. Produced in
London, New York, Paris and Vienna
as well as his native land, Owen had
for years figured , in the English “Who’s
Who” (of which he is still an inhabitant)
before he was embalmed in the “Herald”
volume after taking a job as a “Herald”
group leader writer. While he re-
mained with the “Herald” he remained
in its “Who’s Who,’ but disappeared
from it as soon as he ceased to be a
“Herald” employee. Sam Wells, the
cartoonist, is another who vas listed as
a “who” while with the “Herald” but
was no longer deemed to be one when
he transferred to the “Age.”
However, those who are interested
may still learn from the “Herald” volume
that Mr So-and-So is a public relations
consultant and that Mr Who’s-this
manages a gents’ shirt-and-necktie shop
well known to readers of the “Herald’s”
advertising columns. On the other hand,
less famous Australians like Gretel’s
IVAIM SKRIPOV Page 6
But some got away
©
Doris Fitton: A Sedan Chair in
the Jet Age 12
Wines to Buy 14
Preserving the “Prom” 15
My Friend lonesco 16
Foreign Films: Two Audiences .. 20
Indian Autumn 21
Papua's John Guise 27
Handbook for Spies 37
The Mutiny on the Bounty 38
The Macarthur Row—a Letter ... 40
Glamor in Shearing 42
Commonsense on Commodities ... 43
Political Ping-Pong on Housing .. 48
TAMER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND ABOUT 15
OVERSEAS 26
FORUM 30
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 37
MAN ON THE LAND 42
WORLD OF BUSINESS .... 43
FEIFEER AND X-WORD . . 62
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St, Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341 Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4331


captain, Jock Sturrock, have not been
admitted to this jealously guarded
morgue.
Farewell to a Lady
Y>ack in 1902, when Sydney Harbor
was a maze of masts, yardarms and
towering bowsprits, a 76-ft., brightly
painted steam-launch made her debut
from the yards of the now defunct Ford
Shipbuilding Company. Her raked
funnel, gingerbread deck-housing and
bevelled-glass windows marked her as
quite the smartest craft in Port Jackson.
Her name was spelled out in gold leaf
on her tapered bows: “Lady Hopetoun.”
Last week Sydney’s harbor authority,
the Maritime Services Board, announced
that her span had been compassed and
the Lady would be withdrawn from ser-
vice. We consulted an old seadog of
our acquaintance who had once acted
as her relieving skipper. “She was fast
right enough,” he allowed, “cruising
speed was officially 10J knots, but her
triple expansion engines could boost her
up to around 12.
“She used to carry all the nobs. For
years any big-time visitor to Sydney was
given a harbor cruise on the Lady Hope-
toun. Governors-General, visiting sports-
men, Prime Ministers and Premiers—she
carried them all.”
We asked him how she measured up
from a nautical point of view. “Handled
like a dream! Narrow gutted and plenty
of speed! Her engine—Glasgow built it
was turned over like a sewing-
machine.
He frowned. “Only trouble was she
smoked like the devil. Coalburner —
couldn’t help that, I suppose. You could
always tell where she was on the harbor
by that blooming great smoke-screen she
raised. She left many a ferry-load of
passengers coughing and spluttering after
she passed to windward of them. She
wasn’t all show. When there weren’t any
VIPs to carry they used to use her as a
relief tug and she’d tow her weight with
the best of them.”
The King
YlThf.n we asked Nat King Cole did he
" ever regret abandoning jazz for
fame and prosperity as a singer of popu-
lar songs he looked at us quizzically.
“Regret being a success? Making money?
Becoming a big name? I think you can
answer that question yourself,” he said
and gave us a tolerant smile. The negro
singer had just come from Los Angeles.
He looked as though he had just stepped
out for a board meeting of one of his
numerous companies.
“You know, that's still the question I
get most,” he said, inserting a cigarette
in a small holder and lighting it, “every-
where I go they all want to know don’t
I want to go back to jazz. Well, it’s very
flattering that so many people remember
the Nat King Cole Trio, but go back
to jazz why? That life’s hard, really
hard. Those boys are dedicated, they
don’t care how they live. They never
give an inch. I enjoy the way I live. If
I want to play jazz I can on the piano
in my own home. Why would anybody
want to hear me play jazz when they f
listen to Oscar Petersson?”
The handout gave Nat King Co] e !
birthday as March 17 just that. He's
probably pushing 50 but has obviously
looked after himself. His business j n .
terests include partnership in a pap er .
cup factory, a prize fighter, and a T\i
and movie production company. His
record sales are phenomenal. Nq one
would say what figure he commands
for a personal appearance, but it would
be very much in the upper brackets.
Has he any political interests? Tm
a Democrat. I campaigned for Kennedy,
Sure, I think he’s doing a good job con-
sidering all the obstacles he’s had to
face. I also campaigned for Governor
Brown. I’m particularly interested in
State affairs. I mean I'm interested as a
private citizen as a taxpayer. I read
a lot. Fiction not so much, but I keep
well abreast of American and foreign
affairs.”
How does he like Australia (it’s his
fourth visit)? “I like it very much,” he
shrugged. “Oh, I know that’s what they
all say. But I mean it.” Does anything
stand out in his memory of previous
visits?
“Certainly I can’t remember anything
bad happening to me. I get along well
with the people and I think the beer is
great. I had a liquor store back home
was supplying me with Victorian beer for
a while then they ran out. I'm hoping
to fix up another supply while I'm here.”
We switched our attention to Mrs Cole
"The Petrov Commission revealed
“That m espionage


wflo was once a singer with the Duke
Ellington band. She told us she, too, was
interested in politics. “The way I see it,
California is getting to be the greatest
c , in the Union. That’s not just local
JldlC ux
pride, I mean the way things are going
ahead under Governor Brown. I cam-
paigned for him and for Kennedy. Cali-
fornia is pushing ahead—spending more
on education, development, social ameni-
ties. D’you know they’ve just appointed
a negro Postmaster? That’s the first time
in the history of the United States. But
I don’t only look at these things through
the eyes of a Negro. I have five children
and I’m really interested in their future.
“Since the twins were born I haven’t
had much time to be active. But I say
a lot. You might say I have very definite
ideas about almost everything. My hus-
band has a special name for me
‘Keep Quiet’!”
This Week’s Cover
Miss Doris Fitton, of Sydney’s Inde-
pendent Theatre, is seated in a
sedan-chair, carried by two ex-convicts,
for her entrance in Frederick Durren-
mat’s “The Visit” soon to be shown at
the theatre. Miss Fitton is taking the part
played by Lynn Fontanne in the Broad-
way production of the modern German-
Swiss playwright’s play. It is a highly-
colored story of a wealthy woman who
returns to her native village after 40
years to seek vengeance on the young
man who betrayed her.
Tanner
"Women have their uses."
PLAIN ENGLISH
WANTED: A GENUINE ENQUIRY
CAN page 47 of this issue there is a portrait of a British group from which
great things are expected: The National Economic Development
Council NEDDY. Its main function is to pull together economic fore-
casting previously undertaken by numerous separate bodies each with
its own axe to grind. It is to make possible the planning of Britain’s
economic growth for five or ten years ahead.
The Australian economy on the other hand has never been properly
diagnosed. Here economic forecasting has been the guarded preserve of
the Treasury and other Government authorities. The business world has
rarely been consulted except to help whitewash decisions already made.
Our statistics are neither comprehensive nor timely enough to be of any
great value in making quick decisions. The untimely release of import
restrictions in February, 1960, based on a wrong assumption that wool
prices were going to be strong, was just one of these errors which had
serious consequences within the economy.
We have in other words operated “by guess and by God” economics,
although fortunately our wealth has helped us overcome the many errors
made in basing important economic decisions on fallacious forecasts.
But we now have passed the stage when we can allow a largely incom-
petent Parliament and largely ill-informed public service to dictate
economic policy.
An active and forthright Economic Council, including academics,
headed by competent industrialists, staffed by an alert secretariat, is the
only way to utilise the experience of the business world of Australia.
The ideal Australian Economic Council would, in the words of its
British counterpart,
“(a) examine the economic performance of the nation with partic-
ular concern to plans for the future in both the private and public sectors
of industry;
“(b) Consider what are the obstacles to quicker growth, what can
be done to improve efficiency, and whether the best use is being made
of resources;
“(c) Seek agreement upon ways of improving economic perform-
ance, competitive power and efficiency in other words to increase the
rate of sound growth.”
When the Prime Minister last October announced that the Govern-
ment intended to appoint an Economic Enquiry the first happy thought
was that at last Australia was to have a continuing planning committee
with a large secretariat to provide statistical data and economic targets
for the sound steering of the economy.
At the time of writing, the complement of the Economic Enquiry
is still in Cabinet hands. We know only that it will be headed by
industrialist Dr James Vernon of CSR and that its members will be
drawn from other industrial businesses. But we also know that many
leading businessmen and academics are not happy with the enquiry’s
terms of reference. The current feeling is that the enquiry will only aim
at justifying economic action already taken rather than securing a basis
for future planning.
It is difficult to understand the apparent reluctance of the Govern-
ment to create such a base to its economic planning. Surely it cannot
believe that if it undertakes target planning of the economy it will be
thought socialistic? Or is the real trouble the vanity of those empowered
to run the country already? /


THIS AUSTRALIA
SPRYING
THE SKRIPOV CASE
But the big fish got away
From KEN SCHAPEL in Canberra
IVAN SKRIPOV
... trapped
XTow that the Russian spy Ivan Skripov
has left Australia at the direction of
the Federal Government, there are a
number of vital questions for Australian
Security chiefs to answer. One of the
most intriguing of these is who tipped
off the head of the Russian military spy
branch in Australia that the double
woman agent was a phoney Russian
agent and was in fact an agent for the
Australian Security Intelligence Organisa-
tion?
On the final detailed answer to this
question depends so much that it has
become the most important factor in the
Skripov case. The woman agent is a
youngish Sydney woman who played
Skripov along for two years until she
trapped him with his own damning evid-
ence the powerful coded wireless
sender which the military branch of
the Russian spy ring intended using in
South Australia to send undetected coded
messages to the Kremlin about Australia’s
defence secrets whenever the spies could
get vital information.
From the first day of the association
between the woman agent and Skripov,
the agent, whom Skripov believed a loyal
Russian agent, fed back information to
the chiefs of the Australian Security ser-
vice. The intriguing drama built up at
first slowly, then rapidly, over the two
years until December, 1962. By then Aus-
tralian Security chiefs were becoming
excited because on the information the
woman agent was sending them they
were coming within striking distance
of identifying at least one top agent of
the Russian military spy ring.
There are two spy rings in Australia
operating for Russia one is the civil
branch and the other the military branch.
The civil branch is not any particular
worry. Its job is to collect advanced in-
formation on political, economic, and
diplomatic issues. That is more or less
the normal job of any diplomatic mission
for any country. The Russians try to go
further than normal diplomatic procedu-
res but that is about the worst that can
be said for the civil branch.
The real worry comes from the military
spy ring a ruthless organisation which
Russia seeks to set up in every country
to get defence secrets partly by using
their own nationals as agents and partly
by inducing nationals of the country con-
cerned to play along with them as agents
and become traitors to their own country.
The purpose of this military branch is
either to plot externally against a country
or to get enough defence secrets to
weaken the country internally against pos-
sible Communist attack from without.
Skripov, on all the evidence available,
was head of the civil branch. But he be-
comes important because it is clear that
from time to time he co-operated with
the military section. He could therefore
have been much more important in the
scheme of things than Vladimir Petrov,
who defected from the Russian Embassy
in Canberra in April, 1954. To those who
know both of them, Skripov was far
ahead of Petrov in intelligence and dis-
cernment.
Skripov told the woman agent in No-
vember that a Russian agent from over-
seas would meet her in Adelaide on De-
cember 29 or December 30. He gave her
the impression that this man, whom he
described in detail, was very important
He did not give her a name for him. But
he did give her the coded wireless sender
to give him at their rendezvous in
Adelaide. When the man did not keep
the appointment she went back to Can-
berra and reported to Skripov. He was
very worried. She returned to Sydney
while Skripov tried to find out what had
happened. She still had the coded sender
in her possession.
Thirteen days later Skripov came up
with an answer. He asked the woman
agent to return the sender to him in Can-
berra. The important factor at this stage
was that he could not find another agent
of the military branch to whom to deliver
the sender.
But the woman agent did not respond
to his request. That worried Skripov
further. The military section clearly had
dumped him. Now the oman agent he
had believed loyal or two years was
dumping him. Early in February he real-
ised that he had been securely trapped
and a few days later the Federal Govern-
ment branded him a Russian spy and ex-
pelled him from Australia.
While they would not admit it publicly,
WHY TEACHERS ARE SACKED
February 17, 1883
Touring the last 18 months, the
Victorian Minister for Education
has dismissed 23 Public School
teachers 3 for drunkenness, 8 for
gross immorality, 6 for wilful falsi-
fication of rolls, and 11 for other
serious offences.
There is not a plot of unoccupied
•l ground, moderately flat, in Sydney
or its environs which is not occupied
on Saturday or holiday afternoons
with crowds of amateur athletes. The
truth is that education has small hold
on the youth of these colonies after
they leave school. It is difficult to
look upon the professional cricketing
element with any degree of com-
placency. Is cricket a noble game
or a skilful occupation? When we
see men, Civil Servants and others,
occupying good positions, resign or
obtain leave of absence for periodical
cricketing tours, when we witness
their vulpine appetite for gate-money,
trophies, testimonials, and lucre in all
forms, we may doubt the “noble
game” theory. The height of a
cricketer’s ambition used to be to
!*>' >" a " intercolonial eleven. No*
“ 15 that the Same-money may be big.
m , , ...
1S a fact. One of the gen
men being hanged for the Maam-
trasna murders caught hold of
rope as he fell, and had a five-minu e
struggle, for life. Mr Marwood, see-
ing this, exclaimed, “Damn tne
fellow!” So, at least, several bystanders
allege. But Mr Marwood pledges h< s
word of honor that he only said,
“Bother the poor unfortunate!”


Australian Security chiefs are a little de-
flated. At any time in the last two years
they C ould have provided the government
with enough damning evidence to expel
Skripov. But that did not suit them.
They played along with him through the
woman agent in an effort to get at least a
toe-hold into the Russian military branch
of the spy ring. Early in December, it
looked as though they were within an
ace of achieving that objective.
If the Russian agent had turned up in
Adelaide, the Australian agents watching
the rendezvous would have used their
long-range cameras to photograph him.
With Skripov’s detailed description of
him, that would have given them a
chance, with overseas help if necessary, to
identify him. Once that had been achiev-
ed they would have been well on the way
to getting inside the military branch.
The vital question Australian Security
chiefs are worrying about now is why
did the Adelaide rendezvous break down?
Overseas transport difficulties could have
prevented the overseas agent from keep-
ing the Adelaide appointment. But that
could have been corrected easily a few
days later. Clearly Skripov had that in
mind when he told the woman agent on
January 5 to hold the wireless sender
until he gave her further instructions for
its delivery.
Then thirteen days later he asked the
woman agent to return the sender to him
in Canberra. He clearly had lost contact
for the time being, with the military
branch. He must have recognised that
that branch had gone for cover. Then he
had only himself to try to save. But as
events turned out it was too late. By
early in February, when the woman
agent failed to return the sender to him,
he realised that either she had betrayed
him or that she had fooled him for two
years.
So it starts to look as though an agent
for the Russian military spy ring in Aus-
tralia discovered the woman agent’s true
role and tipped off the military branch.
If that is what happened then the military
agent cut the Adelaide meeting to prevent
his identity becoming known to Austra-
lian security chiefs.
The next important question is: who is
the agent who found out the true role
of the woman agent? T s the agent a
Russian? Or is that agent an Australian?
is that agent an Australian who is a
double agent for the military branch? If
the agent is a Russian, or an Australian
acting only in a single capacity, the situa-
tion is not so bad. But if the agent is an
Australian who is a double agent then
the situation could be rather grim. And
hat is the kind of situation with which
he Security chiefs are concerned.
Meanwhile, Australian Security has got
r| o of Skripov. In the process the woman
ent is not of much more use to them,
y now her identity and full description,
from many photographs, are well known
to Russia and other Communist countries.
She is out of the ring just as much as
Skripov is.
But for the time being the really big
fish in the military spy ring have got
away when Security chiefs were so clos®
to catching at least one of them.
SPLITS
FISTS ACROSS THE TASMAN
The coming struggle for Oceania
LANCE SHARKEY
Pro-Chinese
/'kNE of the unexpected results of the
Sino-Soviet conflict is that it has
caused a rift between the Australian and
New Zealand Communist Parties. The
New Zealanders have broken away from
their many years of Australian tutelage
and are openly sticking up for China
while the Australians are standing by
their recent switch towards Russia
(which is splitting the Australian party).
All of this is clearly obvious from
watching the Marxist-Leninist fireworks
in the Communist newspapers in the two
countries. In Australia the par*y press
attacks the Chinese-backed Albanians as
“dogmatics”, “Trotskyites”, “left-wing
opportunist sectarians” and all the rest
of it. In New Zealand the party press
eulogises the Albanians (“Albania is a
bastion of socialism in the Mediterra-
nean”, and so on). In each case follow-
ing the conventions of Communist dis-
course for “Albania” one reads “China”.
On the latest issue dividing Russia and
China the calling for a world con-
ference to discuss the conflict the
New Zealanders, following China, sup-
port the conference; the Australians, fol-
lowing Russia, oppose the immediate
calling of a conference.
This is the first time these two Com-
munist parties have drifted apart. The
New Zealand party began its life as a
section of the Australian party and
throughout its later separate history it
has trained its officials in Australia and
been dominated by the Australians. The
former general secretary of the New
Zealand party, Sid Scott (who left the
party when he found Hungary too hard
to stomach in 1956), says in his book
“Rebel In A Wrong Cause” that the New
Zealand party became “saturated with
genuine, undiluted Stalinist ideology,
imported pure from Moscow via Syd-
ney”.
For this reason both parties originally
supported China in the Sino-Soviet con-
flict. The brand of Communism spread
in both Australia and New Zealand by
Australian General Secretary Lance
Sharkey naturally favored the tougher
Chinese attitude. You get some idea of
the influence of both China and Austra-
lia on the New Zealand party from this
fascinating extract from Sid Scott’s
book: “Wilcox (the New Zealand Com-
munist leader) went to Australia, just
prior to the outbreak of the people’s
revolt in Hungary. While in Sydney
Wilcox was informed that in the opinion
of the Chinese Communist Party the
New Zealand party had allowed too
much discussion, and, in particular, open
discussion on basic questions such as
democratic centralism and that disci-
pline must be tightened up. W'ilcox
came back from Sydney to recommence
the big stick policy and to endorse the
Soviet policy of armed intervention
against the Hungarian people.”
Both Australia and New Zealand
voted in support of China at the 81
Communist Parties conference in Mos-
cow in 1960. But when as a result of
Russian pressure the Australian Com-
munist leaders later switched their sup-
port to the Russians the New Zealanders
stayed out on a limb. They sent a dele-
gation to Peking for last year’s May Day
celebrations when the Australians, who
had previously always sent a delegation
to Peking, instead sponsored a large dele-
gation to Moscow. In September an-
other New Zealand delegation went to
Peking and then — even more signifi-
cantly — a New Zealander went to
Albania in November, coming home via
Peking in December. To cap all this
the New Zealanders then tried to get
some Chinese coalminers to a Miners
Congress at Christchurch. (The New
Zealand Government wouldn’t let them
in.) To the non-expert these details may
not seem significant: but in the strange
world of Communist double talk they
mean that the New Zealanders support
the Chinese.
What is behind all this? On the sur-
face relations between the two parties
are still friendly. Wilcox attended a
plenary meeting of the Australian


Central Committee late last year and he
has been quoted in the “Communist Re-
view” as referring to the similarity of the
problems facing the two parties, espec-
ially in the “struggle for peace” in South-
East Asia and the Pacific region and the
“necessity for continuing the close co-
operation that has existed in the past be-
tween the two parties”. But all this
means is that the two parties are not
publicly attacking each other. To clearly
take opposing sides on such a key issue
as the Si no-Soviet split is a symptom of
great internal tension.
But there are reasons for the two
parties to remain independent, if in ten-
sion. The New Zealand party is too
small and weak to do without the strong
Australian party and the common object
of spreading Communism in the area
known as Oceania demands co-opera-
tion. However, if the Sino-Soviet split
continues, some fascinating possibilities
open up. A sizeable fragment of the
Australian party, led by the deposed
Victorian secretary Ted Hill, is still pro-
Chinese and is still seeking a reversal of
policy. It is from this faction - that the
New Zealand party could receive sup-
port. It would be interesting to know
how much reciprocal support already
exists between the two groups.
Hill is a tough fighter and it is not
inconceivable that, backed by the
Chinese and New Zealand parties, he
may be preparing to set up an opposi-
tion Comunist Party in Australia. This
is also a possibility in some other coun-
tries. In Brazil it has already happened;
the party split and there are now pro-
Soviet and pro-Chinese parties. Hill has
a high reputation as an intelligent and
hard-working party official, particularly
amongst the Communist union leaders,
who like their line tough,
These are matters that go beyond
purely local interest. The Oceania area
is now opening up and the Communists
have policies for it. As part of their
world-wide conflict the Russians and
Chinese are concerned with the area;
their instruments are the Australian and
New Zealand parties. If the two parties
join one camp it means the other camp
will miss out; if they fall into open con-
flict they may be of little final use to
either camp. It would look silly to see
two Communist parties in one liberated
South Sea island. Apart from their al-
ready obvious interest in Australia and
New Zealand the Russians and Chinese
must also see them as key factors in
what may be the coming struggle for
Oceania.
MUGGA
LABOR
DITHERING IN TASMANIA
Round two in the Currie Case
N. A. CURRIE
Acute embarrassment
HThis Currie Case continues to bedevil
the ALP and the trades hall councils
in Tasmania. No one has been able to
prove with absolute certainty that Arnold
Currie, one of the most prominent Labor
and trade union personalities in Tas-
mania, is or ever was a member of the
Communist Party. (Last October, Austin
Stephens, a former British and Tasman-
ian Communist Party State Committee
member, stated that Mr Currie had serv-
ed on the State Committee of the Com-
munist Party with him between 1953
and 1956.)
Such things are r>ot normally demon-
strable, nor does it mafter very much
whether the individual, Arnold Currie,
has or has had associations with known
Communists.
What does matter is that politically
grave accusations have been made against
Arnold Currie, president of Hobart
Trades Hall Council, member of the
interstate executive of the ACTU and
ALP member, and nothing effective has
been done about them. It is, in fact, the
ALP and the trades halls which are on
trial, but they are so mesmerised in the
presence of Communists that they can
do nothing beyond limply attempting to
ignore the existence of the issue.
Last week the State Executive of the
ALP held some sort of inquiry but the
meeting was adjourned and ALP officials
refused to discuss the case publicly,
Mr Currie, merely by submitting him-
sself for re-election as president of Hobart
THC, seems certain to win another round
of the ring-a-rosy with the ALP. No one
could call it a fight. Left wingers muster-
ed every possible vote at the meeting at
which the ballots were taken. The attend-
ance of 93 delegates (previous record,
75) clearly indicated to the disappointed
moderates that their opponents had
stacked the meeting to ensure the re-
turn of Currie and an assorted bag 0 {
Communists and extreme leftwingers to
a number of important posts on the
council.
Hobart THC secretary J. H. O’Neill a
vocal supporter of Currie, was returning
officer. Earlier, in his role of secretary
of the Federated Confectioners’ Associa-
tion he had written to himself urging that
the delegates should return Mr Currie
unopposed as president to show that
they disregarded the charges that had
been made against him. When watersider
F. McQueeny and Federated Clerks’
Union secretary R. W. B. Harradine
nominated for the position, O'Neill took
it upon himself publicly to condemn
them.
Senator A. G. Poke, as scrutineer, care-
fully locked the ballot box with the papers
inside, and then handed the key to
O'Neill, who will announce the result of
his count late this week. Poke's unwanted
presence at the meeting was possibly
significant. Firstly, he attended as dele-
gate of the strongly left-wing Miscellane-
ous Workers’ Union. Secondly, because
he is vice-president of the State Execu-
tive of the ALP, his presence was widely
regarded as indicating that the execu-
tive would not probe the charges against
Currie.
As well as allegations of Communist
affiliations, made in detail by former
Communist Party member Austin Steph-
ens, two specific charges have been made
against Currie. One was laid by Edward
Mullen, a Launceston rank-and-file ARU
and ALP member, who had written to
the State secretary of the ALP, Mr R.
H Lacey, calling on the State Executive
to “deal with Mr Currie for breaking
party rules.” Mullen told Pressmen that
Mr Currie had displayed “complete lack
of respect” for Mr Ray Barnard “a
member of a staunch Labor family and
brother of Mr Barnard, MHR,” by dis-
tributing before the Launceston Trades
Hall Council elections how-to-vote cards
on which two Communists were placed
above Barnard.
Further moves seem certain at the
ALP State conference in a couple of
weeks, but as the party's State president,
Mr V. S. C. Williams, has already “ac-
cepted Mr Currie's firm and forthright
statement on the position", right wing-
ers have the task ahead of them.
Arnold Currie, returned soldier, effi-
cient State secretary of the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union and a “like-
able bloke”, as his principal denouncer,
Austin Stephens, has said, is an acute
embarrassment to the ALP. The party
at branch level, among its rank and
file, and notably among the still grave-
silent Labor members of Parliament, is
acutely aware of the situation. But it*
an orchard to an apple that the party W
do nothing about it.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
196 1
rm v ftf>w f; ft \
I
r
Odbury ESTATE
site buround■
* t-t >
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Ilf
Z*s
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L.,
MELBOURNE
Msa
RELIGION
PARSONS AND POLITICS
One step forward, one step back
DR GOUGH
“Religion —an optional extra."
Since the war there has been the
resurgence of the Protestant churches,
a resurgence which culminated last
week in the announcement that the three
main Nonconformist churches are close
to unity. If the negotiations succeed,
Methodists, Presbyterians and Congre-
gationalists will merge into “The Uniting
Church of Australia,” with a claimed
two-million adherents.
This is only slightly less than the
number of Roman Catholics in Aus-
tralia, and one result of the merger will
be the creation of a new political force.
Two million members puts the new
church in the top league of religious
pressure groups. The Nonconformist
vote will join its Catholic counterpart as
a half real, half phantasmic stick to wave
at the politicians.
On the State level the Protestant
churches have always had a consider-
able influence. Certainly no State
politician can afford to ignore them in
the fields of liquor, gambling and educa-
tion. Indeed, the former Liberal Whip
in the Federal Parliament, Mr H. B.
Gullett, recently told a Canberra
audience that the only factor he, as
a politician, would not be prepared
to antagonise was the power of the
Christian churches.
But the same week that saw the Non-
conformists so jubilant over their
amalgamation plans also brought the
Protestants their most decisive set-back
lor several years. Like the Catholics,
they are concerned about education
about the fact that the Christian religion,
ln Archbishop Gough’s phrase, is be-
coming “an optional extra taken by a
[ ew Peculiar children.” Since the late
forties they have waged a continuous
campaign and for the most part they
have met with success. The tone of
jheir publications, such as the Journal of
Christian Education, a glossy, three-
hmes-a-year periodical entirely devoted
to Christianising the schools), has be-
Come increasingly confident.
This campaign has been most success-
u ln Victoria where, despite a hostile
governing Act, the churches have suc-
in having chaplians found by the
ctuicil for Christian Education in
Schools appointed as members of school
staffs. It has been least successful in
Queensland, where the clergy are let in
for a scant half-hour each week and vol-
untary religious meetings on school
premises require ministerial consent.
Until last week it seemed that the
campaign had also succeeded in NSW.
But in a remarkably forthright statement
the Minister for Education, Mr Wether-
ell, told reporters that he had listened to
the arguments of pressure groups with
strongly conflicting views and had de-
cided against the churches. The 1959
social studies syllabus, (which had mar-
ked the high-water mark of Christian
influence), would be modified to restore
the previous differentiation between so-
cial studies and scripture. Since he had
earlier refused the churches’ plea for an
extension of religious education to the
secondary schools, it was a discouraging
week.
The battle in which the Christians
met defeat was fought by a variety of
organisations: the Protestant churches,
the Jewish Board of Deputies, the
Humanist Society and the Teachers’ Fed-
eration. However, a good deal of the
actual fighting was done by two pressure
groups created especially to deal with
this issue — the Council for Christian
Education in Schools and the Secular
Education Defence Committee — and the
course of the battle can only be under-
stood by including in our cast of charac-
ters a strategically placed Presbyterian,
the then Deputy Director of Primary
Education.
Education in NSW is governed by the
Public Instruction Act of 1880 which,
thanks to Sir Henry Parkes’ trimming
of the wind, is not at all clear on the
subject of religion. It allows the clergy
into the schools, which in practice has
meant an hourly “Scripture period” each
week where clergymen are numerous or
energetic, and it provides for general
religious instruction to be given by the
class teacher. This general religious in-
struction, it says, is to be neither “dog-
matic” nor “polemical.”
What the Education Department means
to be taught in general religious instruc-
tion is set out in its curricula issued at
irregular intervals to all teachers. In
the case of the primary schools “scrip-
ture” has been included for at least
twenty years in the social studies syllabus,
which is drawn up by an advisory com-
mittee chosen by the Department.
Though the committee includes nominees
of the Teachers’ Federation, the Insti-
tute of Inspectors, and the Director of
Teacher Training (for the Teachers’ Col-
leges), these nominees are not instructed
delegates, and it usually comes to agree-
ment without much trouble. This pro-
cess is helped by having a chairman and
secretary who are both officers of the
Education Department.
In the case of the 1952 and 1959
social studies committees, the chairman
was Mr T. H. Ransley, a devout Pres-
byterian who held the position of Dep-
uty Director of Primary Education.
Both committees increased the promin-
ence given to scripture. Thus the 1941
syllabus directed teachers to have their
pupils read the authorised scripture
lessons and though it said that these
lessons must be given whether clergy-


Now you can have ...
Highest quality single copies
Lowest cost multiple copies
from the one Kodak Verifax Copier
Streamline your office copying Verifax now does
these TWO basic jobs with the one machine!
1. Highest quality single copies with the new Verifax
Fine-Line matrix. When overall appearance is important
... or when critically sharp rendering of fine detail essential
.. . use the Verifax Fine-Line matrix. It reproduces delicate
line-work, fine detail, half-tone pictures and solid areas with
amazing crispness and fidelity even from the most diffi-
cult originals. Copies made with Fine-Line matrix are black,
sharp and of premium quality ideal for sending to cus-
tomers, clients and executives.
2. Lowest cost multiple copies with the
famous Verifax regular matrix. When several
copies are needed in a hurry use the regular
Verifax matrix and it will give you up to five dry,
white, permanent copies in 60 seconds. It will
reproduce practically anything written, typed,
printed or drawn pencil, ink, ballpoint, paints
and crayons. Tests show that Verifax copies
can last up to 100 years and longer.
The cost of Fine-Line matrix and regular matrix is the same; both can be used inter-
changeably in any Verifax copier, without adjustments of any kind. Yours for the asking.
• I •
KODAK (Australasia) PTY. LTD,
Branches in all States
KM8826
! . . You are invited to contact your nearest Kodak
Branch. A representative will call and demonstrate how
Verifax can streamline your copying procedure.


nien visited the school or not, it gave
this point no special emphasis. The 1952
syllabus increased the space devoted to
scripture and italicized the direction that
the lessons must be given, and the 1959
syllabus made scripture the most promi-
nent part of every course. Every grade’s
lessons began with the sentence
“Christian ideals and values should
permeate all school and classroom
activities,” and the direction to teach
it was printed in capitals.
For some time no one took any notice.
Though the syllabus had changed, the
practice in the schools remained the
same. The Christian teacher valued “the
opportunity of imbuing his pupils with
a deep sense of their responsibility to
God and their fellows” ( a phrase from
the 1959 syllabus) and the non-Christian
did not. It was as simple as that. But
after the presentation of the Wyndham
Report on secondary schools, which sug-
gested the inclusion of religion in the
“common core” taken by all pupils, the
Protestant churches began to press for
more religion in high schools too, and
this sparked off organised opposition.
The Protestants used as their spokesman
a group called the NSW Council
for Christian Education in Schools, rep-
resenting all dioceses of the Church of
England, the Presbyterian, Methodist,
Congregational and Baptist churches,
the Churches of Christ and the Salvation
Army. The secularists organised first as
the Humanist Society, and through it set
up a Secular Education Defence Com-
mittee. Both groups the same tac-
tics. They sent deputations to the Prem-
ier and the Minister for Education, is-
sued pamphlets, made statements to the
newspapers and challenged each other
on radio and TV. Both also tried to win
the support of other influential pressure
groups, in particular the NSW Teachers’
Federation.
The first indication that the Protest-
ants were losing came in August last
year, when the Teachers’ Federation
oame out strongly for secular education.
Having tried to ignore the issue for some
time, they finally realised that it was tied
to state aid for church schools that
a state school system which entrenched
Protestantism openly invited Catholic
daims for state funds. Just now accurate
Ihis view was became clear only a few
* e eks later when Archbishop Gough in
e or| e speech opposed state aid and
landed further Protestantisation of the
state schools. In December the Minister
° r Education announced that the pri-
®ary syllabus was to be reviewed, and
y last week he had capped the contro-
Ve rsy. Everything was to go back to
W ® re it was before 1959.
°th sides profess to be satisfied with
e decision. The humanists are con-
lnced that the Protestants do not mean
it and are waiting for an opportunity to
win back the lost ground. They propose
to set up the Secular Education Defence
Committee as a permanent watchdog on
NSW education. On the other hand, the
Council for Christian Education claims
that it has lost nothing. Indeed its chair-
man, the Rev A. A. Langdon, says that
the Council is “particularly anxious to
remove the implication of indoctrination,”
and actually welcomes the decision,
However, in a sense the whole fight has
been a sham from the beginning. What
actually happens in the schools depends
upon the individual class teachers, and
they take much longer to change than
a syllabus.
PETER WESTERWAY
UNIONS
BETTER THAN BUCKLEY'S
A narrow victory in the Amalgamated Engineering Union
npHE Amalgamated Engineering Union
again demonstrated last week that it
is still the best guide to the political
climate in trade union and Labor Party
politics. Late last week the result of the
ballot for the Organiser’s position in the
Sydney and St Marys areas became
known. Mr W. Buckley, a Communist
who has held the position for the last 15
years, won in an independent postal ballot
by an absolute majority of 158 over his
three opponents. Conduct of the ballot
was irreproachable. The result has de-
pressed those union officials who con-
fidently expected that the decline of Com-
munist power evident in this union over
the last two years would be continued.
Mr Buckley’s main opponent was a
member of the ALP, Mr J. Cudmore, and
it was made known that the other two
candidates, Messrs. Carragher and Bar-
ber, were in fact supporting Cudmore
and that the people who voted for them
were to allocate their preferences to Cud-
more. Unfortunately for the ALP and
Cudmore, the result did not reach the
preference stage. Why exactly did Cud-
more lose?
• He was on the bottom of the ballot
paper whereas Buckley was on the top.
This immediately gives Buckley the
donkey vote which in any close-fought
election means victory.
• Buckley with his 15 years in office
was extremely well-known to the voters
while Cudmore was not.
• Although the NSW president of the
ALP, Mr Charlie Oliver, again appealed
for support for Cudmore, his statement
was received a bit too late for it to have
much effect on the voting.
• More importantly, Cudmore and his
ALP campaign organisers in their pro-
paganda asked for support almost solely
on the grounds that Cudmore was a mem-
ber of the ALP. Although it is plainly
evident that most Australian unionists
don’t vote for Communists in most union
elections, it is an insult to their intelli-
gence to expect them to vote for a man
solely because he is an ALP member.
Half way through Cudmore’s cam-
paign, the ALP Secretary of the Water-
side Workers’ Federation, Mr Charlie
Fitzgibbon, warned several ALP mem-
bers that they were over-emphasising the
Labor party angle in the election. (Mr
Fitzgibbon himself goes to the other ex-
treme and fought his last campaign as
though there was no such thing as the
Labor or Communist parties. But his
overplaying of the “no politics in trade
unions” line has led him into a not un-
comfortable party-political prison.)
Mr Cudmore, in his appeal to his
electors offered himself as the candidate
politically neither of the Communist
Party nor of Mr Santamaria’s National
Civic Council. Even this was too crude
to fool AEU unionists because it is be-
coming increasingly evident that in nearly
all the recent elections in which the
Communists have been beaten it has been
through the successful combination of
ALP and National Civic organisational
and financial support.
Possibly the main reason for Cud-
more’s defeat lies in the extraordinary
muddle which exists among the anti-
Communists who have taken over the
leadership of the union. Even though the
two men (Colin Shearer and Joe Mc-
Dowell) who took over the control of the
three-man Commonwealth Council have
had an extraordinarily difficult job to do,
they have not moulded any cohesive
group able to match the combined forces
of the other Councillor, Communist
“Cup” Southwell, and the two other non-
voting ALP members of the Council, Sec-
retary J. Garland and Chairman Arthur
Horsburgh.
The anti-Communists in the union po-
sitions are still suspicious of each other
and the Communists (plus Horsburgh and
Garland) are shrewd enough to exploit
this. If Cudmore had been known, not
only as an ALP member, but more im-
portantly as part of the Shearer and
McDowell team, things may have been
different. If any real change in the AEU
is to take place both Shearer and Mc-
Dowell will have to provide the kind of
leadership (with outside ALP support) to
build up a machine such as was done in
the days when Laurie Short and his sup-
porters won back the Federated Iron-
workers’ Association.
PETER KELLY


DORIS FITTON; A SEDAN
CHAIR IN THE JET AGE
"She lives only for the theatre. It's literally her whole life."
By JAN SMITH
When Doris Fitton returns to the
stage in April as millionairess
Claire Zachanassian in Durren-
mat’s play, “The Visit,” she will make
her entrance in a sedan chair carried by
two ex-convicts a piece of incidental
information that may cause her admirers
to jubilate and her detractors to sneer.
For Miss Doris Fitton, OBE, and
founder of Sydney’s 33-year-old In-
dependent Theatre, is one of the few
people left in jet-age Sydney with the
necessary aplomb to ride in a sedan
chair. She was born to it, so to speak, in
Manila in 1897, where her father, a free-
lance accountant and broker, kept a
lavish gentleman’s residence in the then
fashionable district of Santa Ana.
“It’s all nightclubs now,” Miss Fitton
said, turning lovingly, through an old
photograph album of happy days at the
Casa Fitton. Here was a picture of
Doris and her elder sister, Beryl, seated
on the flowing white knees of their
respective nannies. There was a punkah
in the dining-room with two little boys
to pull it “we paid them practically
nothing, of course, but we did feed
them” and over the page was Father,
in blackface, preparing for a minstrel
show at the select English club, so
exclusive that no American was allowed
to join.
Once a band of refugees sought
political asylum in the Fitton gardens
during the insurrection at the turn of
the century “Father had hoisted the
British flag” but otherwise life flowed
smoothly, with annual trips to Japan
and boating parties on the river. It
came to an end when Beryl and Doris
arrived in Australia in 1902 to be
educated at Loreto Convents in Victoria.
“In those days life in the tropics was
considered unwise for children between
five and fourteen, and anyway, neither
of us could speak a word of English,”
Miss Fitton said.
But at the present Casa Fitton
newly renovated house in North Sydnev’ 3
Ridge Street, with cedar furniture, taste
ful flower arrangements and thoughtful]
placed ashtrays, life goes on much the
same. People are always arriving
usually in a hurry, and staying ] on?e ’
than they intended to be regaled with
cups of coffee and with chicken sand-
wiches left from the night before.
An interview with Miss Fitton is a
touch-and-go affair of hopeful questions
and intermittent answers. There are
letters to be dictated, grocers to be rung
with flawless enunciation, cleaning ladies
to be supervised and dogs to be repri-
manded. And always, from 10 in the
morning to midnight or later, there are
decisions to be made. Is he really as
good as his press-clippings? Will the
film be released before the play goes on?
A full inch or a half inch in the Herald?
Supper afterwards, or just coffee?
People rush in and out with biographies
and cheque books “we’ve been worse
. . . not bad, really,” and the theatre
being just around the corner, Doris’s
place is open house for frazzled pro-
ducers, nervy stage managers, and
bearers of assorted tidings. Everyone is
pacified, encouraged, sustained and re-
imbued with faith in the theatre.
Naturally it takes an exceptional
person to mother, manage and inspire
the many actors and actresses who come
from all parts of the Commonwealth fot
their season on the Independent stage,
So there is no shortage of people who
tell you that Doris Fitton is a remark-
able woman, a wonderful person who
fully deserved the OBE she was awarded
in 1956. There are also people who will
admit she has good qualities, and other
terms of praise usually reserved for
mothers-in-law and headmistresses.
She is on the board of practically
everything to do with the theatre
Opera House, Australian Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, Australian Broadcasting
Commission, Northside Festival of Arts
Committee and buys all her clothes,
“even my shoes,” on the classy sixth
floor of David Jones’. She smokes
frequently and elegantly through a
cigarette holder, travels everywhere by
cab, “I’m too terrified to drive” — aD
has never expected any payment for h er
countless radio and TV commitments-
She opens art shows, officiates at the
birth of amateur dramatic groups, an
last September went to Lae to adjudicate
the town’s annual drama festival.
Adult men brace themselves before
an interview, and aspiring actresses,
finding themselves suddenly in bla
stockings and a state of rebellion, ha'
fled to other theatres like the Ensem
and the Pocket where the same g°°


pities of dedication, single - minded-
and unswerving purpose come in
different packaging.
p eter Summerton, the Independent’s
Associate Director for two years, thinks
jdiss Fitton is fantastic, marvellous,
magnificent. (Summerton is 33.) “She
]ives oll ly for the theatre. It’s literally
her whole life.”
The Independent, one of the last
theatres in Sydney to boast a Green-
roo[ll __ it is now the Clubroom has
no “gimmick” and not much money,
but it has a tradition to uphold as
Sydney’s senior little theatre, and Doris
has upheld it nobly. The three leading
characters get £3 each a performance,
which really makes it semi-professional,
and when a second string reviewer turns
up on first night, it is taken as a mortal
insult. But as far as Press and radio
are concerned, it’s still a little theatre,
and publicity is a constant battle against
bigger, brassier productions from the
commercial houses.
Australian plays
Tn view of this, Miss Fitton’s achieve-
-1 ments have certainly been remarkable.
The theatre kept open during the war—
it has never been dark—put on plays
such as “Phaedra,” “Under Milk Wood”
and “Waiting for Godot” which other
theatres felt too great a risk. Generally,
through quick thinking and moments of
financial genius, has managed to offset
last month’s flop with next month’s hit.
Australian plays are not neglected,
the latest ones being Robert Wales’
drama, “The Grotto,” and Morris
West’s “Daughters of Silence.” A few
fears ago they did George Kerr’s
Hunger of a Girl,” and this year there
"ill be Coral Lansbury’s “Gods of Red
Earth.”
The Women,” Claire Booth Luce’s
classic send-up of femininity with its
gloves off, was a major shot in the arm
for theatre finances. “Galileo,” “Rhino-
deros and the ill-fated “One-Way Pen-
u' llm >” all limited appeal plays, have
rubbled profits down again. The
individual battles may be lost, but the
campaign for modern international
ea tre is being won.
Miss Fitton began winning battles
on she left the convent and began to
Su y with Gregan McMahon, then
'rector of the Melbourne Repertory
°rnpany, getting her first part in an
Jghsh comedy called “The Price of
Scott.” J. C. Williamson’s pro-
1, er George Barnum, impressed with
j n Performance, offered her a big part
gras n^r re ’” b ut * was as g reen as
VolvV n Se da y s ’ and seeing it in-
rJ Travelling, Mother said no,” Miss
I n explained.
Her chance came later in a station-
ary Williamson production called
“Romance,” her first professional en-
gagement. When 21, staying with
friends in Albury, she met Mr N. K.
(Tug) Mason, son of a Crown Prose-
cutor, who loved fishing at Tuggerah
Lakes more than his son’s given names.
They were married two years later in
Sydney, after Miss Fitton had done some
legal secretarial work.
Living as a young married in Chats-
wood, Doris met her old teacher Gregan
McMahon, who gave her a part as Mary
Fitton in “The Dark Lady of the Son-
nets” at the Old Playhouse Theatre (now
the Telephone Exchange). She got rave
notices from the “Sydney Morning
Herald” critic, not only for her acting
but for the fact that she was playing
her own ancestor, Shakespeare’s mys-
terious mistress.
She then played in "Rain.” Surely not
Sadie, Miss Fitton? “Oh, no. I was a
slim young brunette then. I was a
native girl—and appeared in other plays
like ‘Cornered’ and ‘Madam X’ in
between having two sons, Ewan and
Malcolm, eight years apart.” In those
days they lived with Mr Mason’s mother,
and had a maid, so domestic commit-
ments were no obstacle.
The Independent Theatre was born in
May, 1930, with a company drawn
largely from the old Turret Theatre at
Milson’s Point, of which Miss Fitton was
a member. Beginning in St James Hall
it moved three months later to the Savoy
(seven years) and the Conservatorium
(two years) before settling in at a defunct
picture house, the Coliseum, in North
Sydney. They opened here on the eve
of war with “French without Tears,”
Miss Fitton’s first purchase being the
vertical neon name sign that is outside
the theatre to this day. It was called
the Independent after J. T. Green’s In-
dependent Theatre in London.
Who were the original members of
the Independent? There were Althea
Siddon, Richard Parry, Grace Hart,
Hordern Wilson, Freda McGee, Clarence
Murphy, Sybil Barncastle, Albert Collins
and Harry Tighe, all reeled off without
a moment’s pause. Many of them are
still around Sydney, but they mean little
to the average theatregoer.
But Miss Fitton has endured. Her
best-remembered role was Christine in
“Mourning Becomes Electra,” but after
producing A. A. Milne’s “Michael and
Mary” at the Savoy in 1931, she felt a
yen for direction, which she has con-
centrated on ever since. She is a
disciple of Stanislavsky, but is quick to
point out that it is not the same thing
as Method teaching.
In 1950 she spent a year in England
and France, and recorded talks for the
BBC on the theatre in London and
Paris. She was also featured on the
Dick Bentley - produced programme,
“Australia Calling,” and four years ago
went to Tahiti to appear in Chips
Rafferty’s film, “The Stowaway.”
The Independent gets a small grant
from the Government, but it is the 300-
strong clan of members, most of them
from the well-heeled North Shore, who
give the bulk of support at three guineas
a head per year. The theatre has been
a limited company since 1933, forming
itself into Theatre Freeholds (with a
separate board) in 1945 to buy the
Independent Building to lease back to
itself as the Independent Theatre.
Plans by the North Sydney Council
in the late ’sos to run the Independent
as a municipal theatre lapsed after dif-
ferences on both sides. “They’d have
given us money,” Miss Fitton said, “but
then we wouldn’t have had a free hand.”
It is obviously a subject Miss Fitton
doesn't want to discuss.
Miss Fitton thought hard if there
were any playwrights she didn’t like,
ran her eye along the well-stocked book-
shelves, and came up with John Osborne.
“ ‘Look Back in Anger’ was a dreadful
play, but at least he’s killed off drawing-
room comedy, so I suppose there’s some
good in the man.”
She likes Pinter, lonesco, Brecht, all
of whom have been done in the past 12
months at the Independent, and allowed
me to borrow a Beckett play about a
purple-nosed old man who eats bananas
and remembers lust on a river bank 30
years before. Tennessee Williams and
Arthur Miller, at the other end of the
Personality scale, are also well-loved.
“Williams has such compassion. You
need compassion to write.” And Ustinov,
for similar reasons, is also highly re-
garded.
Miss Fitton didn’t feel, perhaps, that
some of Williams’s less attractive
creations might put him in the kitchen-
sink school? “Oh, goodness, no.” What
exactly was the kitchen-sink school?
“Osborne, of course.” But most of all
she likes Thornton Wilder, and she did
the first Australian production of “Our
Town” in 1940. “He's the best living
playwright.” But has he written much
lately? “Of course. Books.”
The Cherry Orchard
She has played leading roles in “The
Cherry Orchard,” “The Seagull” and
“The Three Sisters.” “Chekhov is marvel-
lous comedy.” But she didn’t see the
television production of “The Cherry
Orchard” with Helen Hayes as Ranevska,
as she is too busy to watch many tele-
vision plays.
She would like to see more, though.
“I go to most of the live shows, because


I like to see what people are doing.
There’s a big need for more understand-
ing and tolerance in the theatre. Co-
operation, too.”
How did Miss Fitton, who owns a
set of door chimes and a mixmaster,
feel about Barry Humphries? She didn’t
catch his show, but thought he was
terribly clever and funny, from what
she’d heard. We talked about the tele-
vision interview on the ABC, the
castration complex and the armpits. She
laughed, louder than my mother did, but
it seemed a waste of time to go on with
other topics like Lenny Bruce and strip-
tease shows.
What to do with the Elizabethan
Theatre, languishing at Newtown? Let
it out to experimental groups free.
The trust could encourage theatre and
improve its image by this one stroke.
Playwrights: They should definitely
get away from the Dad and Dave school
and write about contemporary urban
life. They need technical experience in
stagecraft, too. “And they’re quite
welcome to get it at the Independent.”
She loathes trad jazz, but is fond of
Brubeck, ballet and opera. When their
old house in Berry Street, a few blocks
away, was torn down for the new
Warringah Expressway, she was able to
indulge her talent for interior decora-
tion, and the new home has been done
by a morning paper as a gracious-living
feature. Most of her time is spent in
the big room at the back of the house,
which has an enormous cedar table,
tiny yellow - checked wallpaper, and
Japanese prints of actors in ferocious
masks.
Paul Robeson is her favourite singer,
but, of course, she doesn’t agree with
his politics.
In the little time that isn’t devoted to
the theatre she potters in the garden,
listens to Beeihoven, on her new radio-
gram, and works for the welfare of
dumb animals as president of the North
Sydney RSPCA. Animals are her weak
spot—there were dogs in the house in
Manila, she remembers, and once in
Edgecliff she struck terror into the
heart of a horse-beating butcher. “I was
eight months pregnant, but I went right
out and told him I’d take him to court.
They spoke to him and he never did it
again.”
Miss Fitton currently owns three dogs
■—it seemed tactless to ask what sort they
were —called Moie, Selby and Fanny
for theatrical and personal associations.
There is also a cat, Leon, who skulks
beneath the house on stacks of old
Theatre Arts magazines, and is seldom
seen. There was some talk on animal
welfare, “it’s a disgrace that we should
need an RSPCA,” and advice to butter
the paws of my kitten to keep it from
straying.
But she has a shopkeeperly regard for
human life. “Certainly I believe in
hanging. Pests should be exterminated.”
She is not a deeply religious person,
but “I was born a Catholic, and it’s
always there at the back of my mind.”
But there is a lust, if not a reverence,
for life. Not only is Doris an aficionado
of South American dancing, but she has
actually given exhibitions of rhumbas
and sambas, once in Sydney and again
at Medlow Bath.
“I learnt years ago, from a Cut I
I love the rhythm and the movement 1
it’s my early Spanish associate
coming out.” One way and another J
were never very far from Santa a„
where life was palmy, secure and
without the cruel realities of box ofii;
television and surly reviewers. Nirfj
clubs may have risen from the ashes o
Casa Fitton, but one can be fairly suo
that the Independent, Doris’s own p«
sonal cherry orchard, will be safe fro E
the axes for a long time.
WINES TO BUY
Australian White Burgundies
T et us talk about white burgundies.
The greatest of all burgundies is
Le Montrachet, “divine Montrachet,” the
wine that many people declare to be the
greatest white wine in the world. Of
only nine acres it is owned by about a
dozen persons, many of them rich, titled,
or both, yet who consider their slice of
this famous vineyard to be their most
treasured possession. . A Montrachet of
a good year has tremendous distinction.
An extraordinary bouquet, marvellous
full fruity flavor, extreme suppleness and
softness, the most lingering after-taste,
nutty yet clean, and the whole in most
perfect balance. There are less than a
thousand cases a year for the whole
world, so revere every drop that you are
ever fortunate enough to taste.
The other Montrachets, Chevalier and
Batard, are almost as good and, of
course, the commune wines, Puligny and
Chassagne Montrachet, are usually well
worth drinking. Further north, Meur-
salt is the home of great white bur-
gundies, Les Perrieres and Clos Des Per-
rieres, and south, in the Maconnais, you
find the well-known Pouilly Fuisse.
It was inevitable that Australian wine
makers and merchants should make
something after this style of wine and
pin the label on to it, and this is not
greatly to be despised in this case, since
White Burgundy is an English classifica-
tion. In France, Le Montrachet is Le
Montrachet, and that is all there is \
it!
Lindemans were among th<, first t
make and market these wines in Aiis
tralia and current good examples ai
Bin No. 1535, which won a gold medi
in the Adelaide Show in 1962, and No
1333 which has won over 10 medals an
is a great buy if you can find it.
They also put out a wine called Cod
alta (after the vineyard planted in 1841
in the Hunter which still bears fruit
which is good value for your mono;
These wines are made from Semillio
and White Hermitage.
From the Palimino grape, often associ
ated with sherry-making, comes anothe
white burgundy, this time made l
Maurie Ou at Glenelg in Adelaide
Maurie made a dry white wine from thi
grape, gave it a little time in the wool
tasted it, liked it, remarked it was I
some of the white wines from homelani
and Hamiltons White Burgundy w
born. An interesting wine, full of flava
very soft and just a little flabby at 4
finish. Also a bit of sulphur evident a
times which will soon leave your gl®
Over in West Australia, Jack Mai
makes a popular wine called Houghtoi
White Burgundy, which I understand!
a Ministerial favorite. Made from Sera
lon, the wine is big and full of H aVol '
parliamentary in character and interm 111
able in discussion.
These wines are well worth tryU:
They are round and soft, dry and ®
yet acid, with a lingering rather
crisp finish. The great thing t a
like about them is their pronoun 1 -
flavor and character. The A ustra
ones are a little thinner than l* l6ll , 0 !
seas examples, nearer the style o
Pouilly Fuisse than the bigger wines
Meursalt and Puligny. They are u
evidence of the increasing soph* s
of maker and consumer, and add u
interest to the expanding table w
Australia.
CELLARMAST[?]


O UT AND ABOUT
PRESERVING
THE "PROM."
"Support the birds and the bees
no t the boys and the beer."
By BATMAN
Wilsons Promontory is the south-
ern-most tip of the Australian
mainland. It is the last place in
Victoria where you can find a beach very
nearly untouched by beer bottles, cans
and transistor radios There is barely a
water skier in sight and the silver gulls
can make themselves heard without the
clatter of speedboats. Bikinis are not over
plentiful and bird-watching is followed
strictly in the old-fashioned sense, that is
looking at the odd Australian pipit, east-
ern spinebill or grey shrike.
The Promontory is Victoria’s second
largest national park It’s beautiful. The
scenery everywhere is broad-screen
Cinema Scope material. There’s a chain of
2000-foot mountains with shaggy granite
outcrops which make faces in the sky.
(It’s surprising how many of them look
I like Arthur Calwell). These mountains
drop down to beaches which are the best
in the State, if not in Australia. They
are surf beaches, they are broad, they
shelve at just the right rate and superbly
white whiter even than those shirts
you see on television.
The wild life is good. There are black
possums, bandicoots, the odd platypus,
kangaroos, ring-tailed possums and no
and of lizards of every shape and size.
The wombats are almost friendly while
the wallabies and lorikeets will eat out
°f your hand. Occasionally the fat and
father grumpy koalas will condescend to
come down low enough to be photo-
graphed. Last Easter one even went
heserk in the general store and created
terrible havoc.
All this wild life is carefully protected.
Theoretically it is against the rules to
a s nake. Indeed you feel guilty even
'j'hen you tread on a beetle. No cats,
°§s or guns are allowed in the park and
;, Ver y Ca r is inspected. A fortnight ago
e police at Foster called up the Ranger
the National Park: “Look out! Two
radors in a car have been seen head-
-8 your way down the Prom.” It had all
drama of Highway Patrol or Route
’ as if two armed and dangerous
convacts were on the way. For-
y the two Labradors never arrived.
Trio ’ T° u > see, understandably, the Pro-
Uj or y is highly prized by natural
or y lovers, bush walkers and such.
Eighteen months ago the Government
dropped its megaton bomb. It would
grant a permit for a£ 1 million motel-
hotel to be built at Pillar Point, near
Tidal River. According to the first report
it would have a large hall for conven-
tions, conference rooms and cinema,
chapel, Royal suite for special guests,
main dining room to serve 600, special
dining room for vegetarians (nice touch),
indoor swimming pool and cafeteria, day
nursery, squash courts, table tennis,
gymnasium, bowling alley, library,
billiards room.
The announcement of the motel let
loose great passions. A public meeting
was called which resulted in the Wilsons
Promontory Protection Committee with
Mr L. F. Edmonds as president.
The committee claimed it represented
21 organisations and among those listed
were the National Parks Association, the
Bairnsdale Field Naturalists Club, the
Youth Hostels Association, the Fauna
Preservation Society, the Victorian Bush-
walkers, the Society for Growing Aus-
tralian Plants, the Victorian Temperance
Alliance, the Independent Order of
Rechabites and the Australian Natives
Association.
Much of the early argument was based
on the fact that the motel would bring
a liquor licence into the Park. You see
Tidal River is almost safely dry. Once
the stock in the boot of the car has been
exhausted the nearest well is the pub at
Foster, over 40 miles away.
Letter writers painted a picture of
“the unfortunate element” that would
come to the area. The old family atmos-
phere would be ruined. There would be
rowdyism, drunkenness, revelry and
bottle parties to all hours. You know
Australians liquor is the end of them
all. At a deputation to the Government,
Susan Sims, 17, of Twyford St, Williams-
town, told the Minister that the Promon-
tory provided for teenagers an escape
from “the unhealthy influences of the
city” and the students at her school had
a slogan, “Support the birds and the bees
not the boys and the beer.”
The credit squeeze came and for a
time we heard nothing of the £ 1 million
motel-hotel, but the argument continued
sporadically all through 1962.
This year it has really burned. The
Premier, Mr Bolte, announced that the
Government had given its approval to the
National Parks Authority to complete
negotiations with Mr R. E. Unger, of
Mt Albert Rd, Canterbury, to build a
<£200,000 motel at Mt Bishop on a 10-
acre leased site in Wilsons Promontory.
All the arguments came out again, but so
far we have yet to hear of the comple-
tion of negotiations with Mr Unger. Mr
Unger, who heads the syndicate which
is providing the capital, has an establish-
ment known as Children’s Paradise
Guest House and Kindergarten in Can-
terbury.
The ball is now entirely in Mr Unger’s
corner. He has to decide whether, under
the restrictions imposed, he can make a
go of it. It is a three-month season at
the best and licence to sell liquor only
with meals is not that attractive.
Mr Rylah, the Chief Secretary, paid
a visit several weeks ago and he returned
with the startling statement that the
Promontory should be developed with


week-end homes like the Dandenongs
and it should be developed by private
enterprise along the lines of the Mt
Kosciusko National Park in New South
Wales.
Immediately there were visions of an-
other Lome or Surfers Paradise and
nature lovers hoped he wasn’t serious.
The sophisticated argument all through
has been — why let private enterprise
into the Park at all? If one group gets in
and makes a handsome dividend then
surely other groups must be allowed in
too to the ultimate destruction of the
park. Surely it would be better to give
the National Parks Authority more
money so that it could build more cabins
alongside those already there. Or, why
not build the hotels outside the park?
The authority spent £56,000 on the
Promontory last year and there are such
comforts as gas laid on and hot and
cold water for all. All this tourism can
be very trying for the surprisingly patient
Ranger, Bob Turner. Campers come to
him with queries every half hour of the
day. One woman called to inquire as to
whether he had a remedy to stop her
baby from crying. They arrive from
town, pull up outside his house, budgie
and all, at 2.30 in the morning, knock
on his door and demand a camp site.
They wander off along the trails wearing
nothing but shorts, shirts and sandals
and get themselves lost.
Bob’s big hope is to enlarge the park,
a move perhaps more important but far
less publicised than the much-vaunted
motel. He wants to acquire the Crown
land which makes up the narrow neck
of the Park from the entrance at the
Darby River to the cattle grid. The dis-
tance is 12 miles and it covers nigh on
18,000 acres. This would raise the size
of the park to 121,000 acres.
Nor is he just crying in the breeze be-
cause the National Parks Authority has
put in a firm request to the Lands De-
partment. It has been hard to get because
local farmers for 50 years have had
agistment rights over the land. However,
the authority has been exploring ways
for keeping the farmers happy and it
seems certain that eventually the Park
will get the 18,000 acres.
Now here’s the advantage. The Autho-
rity will be able to put a fence across the
narrow neck, only five or six miles. The
new area is fiat, real kangaroo and emu
country. The Authority will stock it with
both. Both kangaroo and emu have been
savagely treated by shooters in the past
and you would have to be very, very
lucky now to see an emu.
In the days of the Darby Chalet there
used to be a pet emu named Casey. He
was kept in the yard and he used to have
a girl friend who visited him often. They
would twine their long necks together
over the fence.
A tragic, hopeless love affair, it was.
MY FRIEND lONESCO
"Light makes the dark tighter"
By LUCIEN BOZ
When I returned to Sydney from
Paris last year I received an
invitation from the Sydney
Alliance Francaise to give a talk on
Eugene lonesco. I had just met him
again after an interval of more than 10
years. My engagements and lonesco’s
busy programme prevented us from
having a deep discussion both times we
met. Our talks together were interrupted
visitors from overseas eager to meet
the playwright, long-distance telephone
calls from New York, requests from the
French Radio-Television network.
That is why, when I finally decided
to speak to the Alliance Francaise, I had
to write to lonesco and ask him some
questions to clear up a few points about
his life and work. To make the job
easier I sent him a ten point question-
naire. In his reply, lonesco answered
some of my questions but about some he
was evasive. On one subject at least he
was precise (and I quote from his letter):
“No biographical facts in your article
or the lecture you intend to give
French-language author and you can
give, if you wish, the story of my
beginnings in French theatre. Only
that. Nothing about what you know
(which is irritating) of the notorious trial,
nothing about the exile, nothing about
Michael I; you only know of me as an
author writing in the French language
(and therefore a French author) from
1950.”
It is easy to understand my surprise
and the embarrassing position I was in.
To speak about lonesco from 1950 on-
wards and not to mention his literary
and critical work in Roumania would
be to accept the thesis that lonesco
suddenly appeared by spontaneous crea-
tion and had no past. It seems to me
that nowhere else does the French saying
“Le passe nous suit” (the past follows us)
better apply than to lonesco. But I think
I will be doing lonesco, and his admirers,
a service by speaking frankly about his
debut as a Roumanian author.
lonesco was born at Slatina, a small
provincial town about 75 miles from
Bucharest, in November, 1909. When
he was about six years old his parents
took him with them to France, where
he spent a few years and did part of his
primary course at a school in the
Mayenne. After the family returned to
Bucharest, lonesco’s mother died and
his father remarried; he hasn’t very
happy memories of this period of his
life.
In 1930, when I knew him, he was
studying at the Faculty of Letters j,
Bucharest; later he became a teacher o{
French at the high school in Cerna-
Voda, a small port on the Danube. He
used to spend his weekends and holidays
at Bucharest, and later he went back
there to live.
His literary activity was spasmodic,
Only very occasionally did one of his
articles appear in the literary reviews,
When a number of intellectuals founded
the “Criterion” group he took an active
part, as I did, in it writing articles
and giving talks on the Bucharest radio
station. In 1932 I founded a review
called “Ulysse.” From the beginning!
had assistance from lonesco, the art
critic Comarnesco, the poets Virgil
Gheorghiu, Horia Groza, Eugen Jebe-
leanu, and many other lesser-known
literary lights. “Ulysse” led an ephemeral
life; there was not sufficient support
for it to pay the printer’s bills, and with
the fourth number its voice was silenced,
In this review I published lonesco’s
“Fragment of a Diary,” in which readers
could already see his keen powers of
observation, the sense of the trans-
cendental, the blending of dream and
reality, the taste for escape from the
banality of everyday life that his later
plays and essays have accentuated.
lonesco continued to write this
“Diary” for many years, but to my
recollection, it was never published. This
is a pity, because it gave an intimate
glimpse of lonesco’s way of thought. I
told him in 1935, and I still think, that
his critical essays and the “Diary” are
excellent writing. When lonesco sent
me an autographed copy of the first
volume of his plays (published by
Gallimard in Paris), I asked him again
what had become of the “Diary,” but he
never mentioned it in his letters to me,
* * *
In the ’thirties, Roumania was the
very image of a country where pros-
perity and misery lived side by si(le ’
where intellectuals of opposing factions
- traditionalists and surrealists
as friends to talk over coffee at the Ca e
Capsa. The country’s politics wer
stable —or so it appeared. King Car°
11, who had returned after four y ear
of exile, took an interest in the
life by giving his patronage t 0
Foundation for Culture and Art.
In 1930 the weekly “Vremea
nounced a prize for the best essays o
year by a young author. lonesco


EXPORTERS: this will interest you even if you’ve never thought of using Air Cargo before!
■I ■
HhH■
¥W.
ml
'i.
V-
I I
4-"
S %
I
IT*
ST
if
'4. *■
%
Smart
move by
‘Smartfit’
> »
£/v
-
-
• -•
Qantas helps Australian
manufacturer
sew up rich American market
Mr. Silberman of “Smartfit,” Sydney, saw no reason why his
top-quality blouses should not compete on the American market.
He flew to the States and talked it over with many big store
managers. They were impressed immediately with “Smartfit”
styles and quality, but imposed the same delivery deadlines
accorded to American manufacturers—sometimes only a matter
of days. Mr. Silberman met this challenge, fully realising that
his nearest States market was 7,500 miles away and that he
could be competing with manufacturers whose factories could
be in the same city. Mr. Silberman contacted Qantas Air Cargo
Consultant Service, who ensured him clock-work deliveries—
daily if necessary. What’s more, Qantas struck a special com-
modity rate to land the blouses in the States, which worked out
at 2/1 per blouse. And there were the additional economies of
lighter packaging . . . total elimination of warehouse costs, and
quick turnaround of capital. As Mr. Silberman said, “Sales are
sky-high, thanks to Qantas Air Cargo!”
QANTAS AIK TAR GO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THIS EXPORTER BENEFITED:
1 A big new export iViarket was assured with ever-
increasing orders.
2. Short delivery time and low special commodity rates
permitted competition on equal terms with American
manufacturers.
3. Short factory-to-store time meant quick capital
turnover.
4. Daily deliveries, where necessary, allowed factory pro-
duction to be tied closely to retail demand, largely
eliminating the need for capital to be tied-up in big
factory stocks.
5. Quicker deliveries meant that fashions could be right
up to the minute.
6. Retail stores were happy because shortages due to
sales could be re-ordered and delivered almost
immediately.
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT CONSULTANT
SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the most compre-
hensive transport systems in the world. Qantas analyses
each export/import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
•| _ Distribution time and static time analysis gives you
a lime and motion plot on your goods from despatch
to arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete shipping
operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with suggested
modifications for lighter, more economical handling
and packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings, accelerated cartage,
taxation and insurance reductions.
5 Analysis of current economic situations of world
markets, quarantine, import, currency and customs
regulations.
6 A business venue in many overseas countries in Qantas
offices in Europe, America, Asia, the Orient, New
Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by QANTAS if it’s IMPORTant to you!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC.81.95.122


the prize with his manuscript, soon
after published under the title “Nu!”
(“No!”). The title is characteristic of the
author and is echoed today in lonesco’s
reviews and books: “The Bald Prima
Donna” is an “anti-play,” his essays are
“Counter-Notes,” etc.
Belligerent attitude
“VTu!” clearly shows lonesco’s belliger-
ent attitude. In it he attacks all the
accepted values of the period which
won him great prestige among the young
writers and earned him the rancor and
ill-will of established authors.
After this sudden access ot literary
fame lonesco’s signature was seen only
rarely in the reviews. In 1937 he
obtained a scholarship to study in Paris.
1 left Roumania myself towards the
end of 1937, when the Fascist regime
was established. lonesco returned to his
native country later and during the
Munich crisis was called up for military
service. He was demobilised in 1941
and was able to make his way back to
France, where he has remained ever
since.
lonesco passed the war years in
France; he published a few articles in
“Les Cahiers du Sud” and meanwhile
kept in touch with the intellectuals ot
the French Resistance in Lyons and
Marseilles. On August 24, 1944, when
Paris was liberated, lonesco’s only child,
Marie-France, was born. She recently
passed her baccalaureat, and is now a
student at the Sorbonne.
I was arrested myself for the same
Resistance activity as lonesco, twice by
the Vichy police and the third time by
the Gestapo. In 1944 both France and
Roumania were liberated. All of us
hoped that a new and happy life would
begin in our native country lonesco
wrote to the influential monthly “Viata
Romaneasca” (The Roumanian Life) a
“Letter from Paris” in which he strongly
attacked the reaction in politics and in
the Army. For this article he was
judged in absentia and condemned to
five years in prison. But soon rep-
resentations were made by leading
Roumanian intellectuals, and King
Michael granted lonesco amnesty. This
is the “notorious trial” that lonesco
mentioned in the letter quoted above.
lonesco did not return to Roumania.
He was in a precarious financial position,
and for many years worked as a copy
writer with a legal firm, after a stint as
an unskilled worker in the Citroen car
factory.
* * *
In 1951 I decided to migrate to Aus-
tralia, and soon afterwards I wrote to
him about my new life in Sydney. Back
came a letter urging me to sponsor him,
his wife, Rodica, and his daughter,
Marie-France, as migrants to Australia.
However, he was now beginning to gain
fame as a playwright and gave up the
idea of seeking a new homeland.
Before that, in May, 1950, in an old
derelict theatre in Paris, the Noctam-
bules, Eugene lonesco saw his first play
(or “anti-play” as he called it) performed.
This was the “Bald Prima Donna.”
There were only 20 people, including
myself, present.
Even the title of the play has no
relation to its substance. Originally
lonesco toyed with the idea of calling
it “The English Hour,” then “Big Ben
Folies,” then “An Hour of English,”
until one day during a rehearsal one of
the actors, Henri-Jacques Huet, instead
of speaking the words “institutrice
blonde” (blonde teacher), said “cantatrice
chauve” (bald prima donna). lonesco
was present and at once cried out:
“That’s the title of the play!”
Nicolas Bataille, an actor and pro-
ducer who had read the manuscript of
the “Bald Prima Donna” before produc-
tion of the play was mooted, has since
described the difficulties of staging this
“anti-play”:
“The first rehearsals were deceiving.
We were not striking the right note. We
searched and searched and lonesco
searched with us. At last we under-
stood. Our big mistake had been to
want to play it as a comedy In this
way we were falling right mto the side-
walk comic style, the very thing we
wanted to destroy ... on the contrary,
it had to be played seriously and
sincerely. It was not a matter of parody-
ing the old style theatre— which had
very fully made a parody of itself
it was a matter of making the idea
forth from within.”
Speaking later about the “Bald Prima
Donna ’ and of all his writing for the
theatre lonesco said: “It really concerns
the statement of a crisis in thought,
which shows itself by 2 crisis in
language words no longer signifying
anything, systems of thought being no
longer more than monolithic dogmas,
constructions of cliches of which the
elements are words such as ‘matter,’
‘spirit,’ ‘personality,’ ‘life,’ ‘death,’ etc.
“Systems of thought, from all aspects,
being only alibis that hide the real (still
another cliche) from us, which irration-
ally canalise our passions it is clear
that our characters ar„ mad, unfortunate,
lost, stupid, conventional and that their
speech is absurd, that their language is
broken up in the same way as their
thought.”
And lonesco asks himself this
question:
“What remains that is fundamental
and permanent in these new works,
among the ruins of systems of thought
of all kinds (and not only of one society
or another)? Derision, anguish, pure
confusion, fear —that is, the essential],
tragic human reality that, from time \
time, a doctrine or a faith manages t °
cover up. It is for this reason that on°
can (and must) be both new and old l
the same time.”
This was written in June,
published in the Parisian weekly
“L’Express.” In the “Nouvelle R evU!
Francaise” of February 1, 1958, i n an
essay entitled “The Experience of the
Theatre,” lonesco said:
“To drag oneself away from daily
affairs, habit and the mental laziness that
hide from us the strangeness of the real
requires a real blow from a bludaeon
Without a new pureness of intellect" and
without a new purified perception of
existential reality, there is no theatre
there is no art either; a kind of dis-
location of the real must be achieved,
that must precede its reintegration
“To this end, a new process can he
used from time to time: playing against
the script. On to a senseless, absurd,
and comic script one can graft a pro-
duction, an interpretation that is serious,
solemn and ceremonious On the other
hand, to avoid the ridiculousness ot a
ready flow of tears and sentimentality,
a clownish interpretation can he given
to a dramatic script, to underline, by
means ot farce, the tragic sense of a
play. Light makes the dark darker, the
dark accentuates the light For my
part, I have never understood the dif-
ference that is made between comedy
and tragedy. Comedy is the understand-
ing of the absurd with, I think, more
hopelessness than tragedy. Comedy
leads to no end. 1 say: ‘hopelessness,’ but
in fact it is above or beyond either hope-
lessness or hope.
“To some, tragedy can seem comfort-
ing in a sense, because if it seeks to
express the powerlessness of the van-
quished man, broken by fatality for
example, tragedy recognises in this very
way the reality of a fatality, of a destiny,
of laws controlling the Universe, some-
times incomprehensible, but objective,
And this powerlessness of man, this
fruitless striving can also, in a way,
appear comic.”
But those of us, his friends, there on
the first night of the “Bald Prima Donna
did not find the “anti-play” much to our
taste. For my part, I had always ha
the greatest admiration for lonesco as
the author of essays and criticism, an
lonesco, the author of a “diary-’ y
plays he had written and read to us, |S
friends in Bucharest, were student f arc ®'
pieces of buffoonery that boys of
have written for their own amusemcn
in all countries and all times. I waS 1,0
afraid to tell him so at the time, hot 1
our conversation and in letters. n .
ever, despite everything, lonesco
continued to write plays, but wit


■*#
y
COUA-, C/&XA,
'tVUzA&' s&<£, Jo&MaA
U<aj&A4 -CfQiAs &AJSV& / Wsj2A£'
y&oc yju^Mscial&y
You save think about education needs consider what
ought to be done about the mortgage what income would
be needed if your income stopped how much you’ll need
when you retire . . .
You take out insurance but you take it piece by piece,
from time to time. If it fits your family needs perfectly all
is well; but how can you be certain?
An A.M.P. FAMILY SECURITY CHECK-UP removes all
doubts and uncertainties provides a proper basis for
realistic planning.
©
FOUR POINT ■
FAMILY SECURITY
CHECK-UP m-U : aM
Your A.M.P. man knows, from training and
experience, how to help you—
Q Check the facts related to your present family and
financial position.
0 Check the extent of your needs what would be
required if your family had to live without you —•
what you will require on retirement or to take
advantage of long service leave.
0 Check to find if the provisions you have made are
adequate.
A If they are not, your A.M.P. man will show you a
*** family security plan tailor-made to your precise
needs and circumstances.
An A.M.P. Family Security Check-Up costs you nothing but a
little of your time—involves you in no obligation except to those
you love. All you have to do is to call in your A.M.P. man or
call the nearest A.M.P. Office.
A
SURE
FRIEND
IN
UNCERTAIN
TIMES
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Head Office: Sydney Cove.
Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and New Zealand
and in the United Kingdom.
AMP
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets of almost £600,000,000 which the Society
seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
MII6S


being able to get a single one of them
performed.
lonesco’s second play was “The
Lesson.” He read it to me at his apart-
ment in the Rue Eugene Terrasse, Paris,
and, while I found it interesting, I was
not over-enthusiastic. It was performed
after I left Paris, in 1951, and I have
seen it since at the Independent Theatre,
Sydney. As performed, it creates a
somewhat absurd atmosphere, rather
like coming out of a nightmare. And
although in translation the play does not
have the spontaneity and rhythm of the
original, it carries the audience along,
fascinated right to the end where the
student is killed by the professor because,
he says, “she did not want to learn. She
was disobedient! She was a bad pupil.”
Philology leads to crime
A nd yet the professor’s housekeeper had
given him good warning: “Arithmetic
leads to philology and philology leads to
crime.” It is the housekeeper, taking
pity on her master, who allows him to
make the arrangements for the student
to be buried at the same time as the
39 other students killed by the pro-
fessor.
I mentioned that the “Bald Prima
Donna” is an “anti-play.” “The Lesson”
is called a “comic drama” by its author.
“The Chairs,” called a “tragic farce” by
the author, is the play that made
lonesco famous.
I am sure that most theatre lovers in
Sydney have seen it. When I was in
Paris I saw it once again in company
with lonesco at the Studio des Champs-
Elysees. I would hasten to add that the
Sydney production of “The Chairs,” by
Mr von Sturmer, more than held its
own in comparison, if we take into
account the difficulties in the way of an
amateur group.
This play that established lonesco as
a dramatist had, for all that, a chequered
beginning. When Silvain Dhomme pro-
duced it for the first time at the Lancry
Theatre in Paris in 1952 it played to
empty houses. lonesco has described
this difficult period as only he can tell
it:
. . Sometimes three or four dis-
satisfied spectators would leave the
theatre, with the ticket girls chasing after
them.
“The dramatist Adamov came along
from time to time to attend these per-
formances for ghosts and, enraptured, he
would murmur: ‘An empty stage, empty
chairs, an empty pit, an empty balcony,
an empty hall; they are playing for
nothing. It’s just magnificent’.”
Every evening lonesco went to the
theatre; every evening, it was the same
disaster. “Then,” he said, “one day
everything changed. From far off, I
heard what every author hopes to hear
laughter, applause, a happy tumult.
I rushed into the theatre: it was as
empty and gloomy as ever. But in a
neighboring room some Zionists were
holding a reunion . . .”
It was when the play was presented
at the Studio des Champs-Elysees that
success came. To a large extent this was
due to Jean Anouilh who, in “Le
Figaro,” in which Gautier and Jeener
had called lonesco a “joker” and a
“mystifier,” wrote a flattering article
about “The Chairs” and its author.
The subject is well known: a very old
couple, living in a house surrounded by
a river, recapitulate their existence
one of endless defeats. They prepare for
death to come, but before the end they
want to leave a Message for their fellow
men. In order to make their Message
known, they have invited some old
friends, the elite of the world, and even
the Emperor.
Because the bell never stops ringing
and invisible guests keep coming, the old
lady brings in such a number of chairs
that it becomes difficult to walk across
the room.
The invisible guests begin to lose
patience despite the kind words and
flatteries of the old couple. Finally, the
Orator, specially hired to read the
Message, arrives. Certain that it will
be delivered, the old couple drown them-
selves in the river that flows under their
windows. The Orator brings out a
manuscript and tries to read it but only
inarticulate sounds can be heard; he is
deaf and dumb.
Once more the curtain falls before
lonesco can deliver his message. He is
of the same mind as Nabokov, and he
often repeats a quotation from the
author of “Lolita.” When a journalist
was interviewing Nabokov and asked
him if his work had a message, Nabokov
replied: “I am a writer and not a post-
man.”
An absurd play ends on an absurd
note, and here I am of the same opinion
as Dr Coe, author of a remarkable book
on lonesco, who believes that lonesco,
like other existentialist writers, removes
all logic from words and uses them only
to bring out the absurdity of congealed
existence, the absurdity of total stupidity,
and sets up against this a theatre of the
absurd that, for him, has significance.
* * *
“Rhinoceros” is, perhaps, the play that
has been the least attacked by the
critics and that won the best hearing
from the public. lonesco proved that he
could make innovations in his work
without abandoning a style that, until
the production of this play, had become
his cachet.
“Rhinoceros” upset all the theories.
Here was lonesco, the writer of clarity.
The play is easy to understand. In a
provincial town where nothing remark
able has ever happened an epidemic
suddenly breaks out: rhinoceritis. Fj rst
signs of this sickness are sudden changes
of opinion by the sufferers, then \
physical change takes place in them-,
they are transformed into rhinoceroses
The first case is followed by many others
and soon the whole town is affected
The only person who escapes the disease
is Beranger. Before the epidemic spread
he had tried with all his might to con-
vince his friends and colleagues in the
office where he works to fight against
the first symptoms and not to give in.
One after another, his acquaintances
suffer the same change, first in the mind
and then in their bodies.
Daisy, the young typist he was in love
with, seems at first to take Beranger’s
advice and join him in the struggle
against the plague, but little by little
she is irresistibly attracted to the marshes
where she goes to join the ranks of the
rhinoceroses. And Beranger remains the
only man who never gives in, because
he wants to remain a man.
In a few pages from a book now in
the presses that lonesco was kind enough
to send me recently he tells what led
him to write “Rhinoceros”: “I remember
having been very impressed during my
life by what could be called the current
of opinion, by its rapid evolution, its
contagious power which is that of a real
epidemic. Suddenly people are over-
whelmed by a new religion, a doctrine,
fanaticism and finally by what professors
of philosophy and journalists with philo-
sophical pretensions call the ‘necessarily
historic moment.’ We then observe a
true mental change taking place. I do
not know if you have noticed it, but
when people do not share your opinion,
when you cannot make yourself under-
stood to them, you have the feeling that
you are talking to monsters . . .”
“To rhinoceroses?”
“Just so. They have both candor and
ferocity mixed together. They would
kill you without a qualm if you did not
think as they did. And history has
shown us during this last quarter of a
century that people changed like that,
do not just resemble rhinoceroses, they
really become them. Then it is quite
possible, although apparently extra-
ordinary, that a few individual minds
represent the truth against what history
says, against what is called history.
There is a myth about history that it
would be a fine time to ‘demystify>
since the word is fashionable. There
are always a few isolated minds that
represent the universal conscience
against general opinion.”
World Copyright Lucien Boz
(Next week Mr Boz will talk of I° n ‘
esco’s other plays and those who i n " u ‘
enced lonesco’s writing.)


New Delhi Newsletter
INDIAN AUTUMN
The bullock-cart is half-way out of
the accustomed rut
From JOHN MANDER
IV There to begin? India, land with-
iV out beginning or end, is not to
be tied down. lust now, an event
has stirred her shapeless, incontinent,
subtropical complaisance. India, one is
told, “will not be the same again. . .
Three months ago, all was apathy and
corruption: today all is national unity
and endeavor. “We fight for the
motherland,” say the posters and head-
lines, “to the last drop of blood.”
To war-bitten Westerners, obviously,
the talk is embarrassing. Where is the
country of Gandhiji and Annie Besant,
ahimsa and satyagraha, homespun, vege-
tarian paradise? Was India never as
pacific as she seemed —as Indians them-
selves argued at the time of Goa? Per-
haps India meek-and-gentle, nation un-
like other nations, lamb among the inter-
national lions, was always illusory, a wish-
ful projection of the European crank?
Certainly, to judge by what one has
heard, here in Delhi, in Bombay and
Calcutta, India has now reverted to the
human norm with a vengence. One has
heard the Americans blamed for not
bombing beyond the Yalu ten years back;
nne has heard demands for a pact with
Chiang Kai-shek and for American bases
*n Tibet. And one has heard this from
h e same people who believe in non-
J'mlence but say, human imperfections
e ‘ n g what they are, that violence must
be resorted to as a second-
best
Certainly, it is all very confusing. And
the foreigner is not here to carp. Yet the
sympathetic observer does India no ser-
vice by echoing the remarkable complac-
ency of the official handouts and the
Press. Government press policy has been
unfortunate: defeats have been confirmed
when rumor has long since spread the
news; security has concentrated on keep-
ing the facts from the people, not from
the Chinese. At a first look, again, the
English-language papers seem impressive.
They are well produced, conscien-
tiously edited, soberly written. But day-
to-day comparison with reporting in the
British or American Press reveals a
serious lack of frankness. This may be
partly due to “Government interference”;
but it is at least as much due to the
papers’ willingness to print or paraphrase
Government handouts without comment
of their own. Reportage, in the Western
sense, hardly exists.
The people know quite well that what
happened in NEFA was not a check but
a rout; they know there was shameful
panic and confusion during the evacua-
tion of Tezpur. They know that India
has been humiliated in the face of Asia
and that there is, for the moment, nothing
she can do about it. But they sense this
from the Government’s own evasions and
hesitations, lacking direct guidance. If
India is confused, those in authority have
much to answer for.
Authority in India is not quite synony-
mous with Jawaharlal Nehru, but very
nearly so. It is said his authority has
suffered during the past weeks, and this is
plainly true. Whether, if the Chinese had
taken Assam, his government would have
fallen, is highly speculative. More likely,
actual control would have passed—as it
is slowly passing now into the hands
of the practical men, the Chavans, Desais
and Sastris and the army leaders, who
have little use for non-alignment so long
as the threat to the country remains.
Conceivably, a coalition government
would have come into being. But to sup-
pose that India could have done without
Nehru’s authority—however responsible
Nehru might be for the debacle —is to
misunderstand the nature of his author-
ity. Thus, though there are anti-Con-
gress opposition parties, there is no real
opposition to Nehru. When the crisis
broke, he could rely on Socialist backing.
The Right-wing Swatantra party,
violently critical of his policies in the
past, promised “conditional support.”
Even the Communists —apart from their
pro-Chinese wing, hastily clapped into
gaol—rallied to the Nehru standard.
To be sure, within Congress there were
rumors of rebellion, hints that, if Krishna
Menon did not go, further heads might
roll. When Nehru tried a familiar gambit
and threatened to resign, a young Con-
gressman informed him that “the party
would tell him when it was time to go.”
Nehru has always been one to sense a
change of wind. His militant response
to the invader, though a good deal less


militant than the mood of the country,
nipped rebellion in the bud.
These weeks, British history has been
assiduously combed for analogies. The
newspapers have been full of talk of
“Chamberlain . . . Churchill . . . Munich
. . . Dunkirk.” That Indians shouid turn
to British political experience is of re-
markable interest: it suggests that the
identification is deeper than is com-
monly realised. Yet these analogies are
not entirely convincing. A Swatantra
leader justified “conditional support” by
analogy with Labor’s attitude during the
Phoney War.
He could not unconditionally support
a government that included Krishna
Menon. Up to a point, the analogy is
sound. The role of the Opposition leaders
has not been unlike that of Arthur Green-
wood when Amery called on him to
“speak for England.” Many Congressmen,
loath to attack Nehru or Menon in public,
have privately urged Opposition members
to “speak for India.” It was this plain
speaking, backed by vociferous public
protest, that secured Menon's removal.
No Churchill in the wings
¥n any appraisal of what the crisis has
■*" meant to India, the point needs to
be made: India’s democracy, whatever its
faults, has proved itself a good deal more
robust than the other fair-weather demo-
cracies of the Afro-Asian world.
Unqualified, that would be too optimis-
tic a conclusion. It leaves too much out
of account. If the appeasement analogy is
sound—and how could the Nehru-Menon
policy towards China be more aptly des-
cribed?—there is certainly no Churchill
waiting in the wings. Nor, despite the
rhetoric, can the physical shock of the
defeat in NEFA be compared with Dun-
kirk. Indeed, it may turn out that the
shock has been, from the Indian point of
view, too mild. But what must qualify
any optimistic conclusion about Indian
Democracy is the personal quality of
Nehru's authority. It is here that the
British analogy breaks down.
India is a democracy, but a one-man
democracy. Jawaharlal Nehru may be
the most enlightened despot the world has
known; but he is none the less a despot.
It is not that Nehru is an “authori-
tarian” personality in the familiar sense—
though his gentleness hides a quick tem-
per and a low threshold of tolerance for
the weak and incompetent. The authori-
tarian personality has been thrust upon
him. Elsewhere, Jawaharlal Nehru would
have become an Asquith. India required
him—the least religious of men, as he
remarks in his Autobiography —to be a
guru. It is India’s luck—but also her
good judgment—that she has chosen a
guru with the instincts of an English
liberal.
That paradox is the key to Indian poli-
tics. Nor does it apply to Nehru alone.
A striking feature of the political scene is
the difference in quality between the
leadership of a party and its rank and file.
It is fashionable to be pessimistic about
Congress, as though it were certain to
become an Indian Kuomintang. Corrup-
tion exists, though hardly on a Chinese
scale—no one can deny that in Morarji
Desai, that steely fanatic for prohibition
and hand-woven cloth, India has a
Finance Minister of Cromwellian inte-
grity. Yet its keenest apologist would not
claim that most Congress parliamentarians
are more than a bunch of ignorant, yea-
saying backwoodsmen.
Even in Cabinet, one gathers, the anti-
Menon faction, though strong both in
conviction and numbers, never openly
opposed the Nehru-Menon policy to-
wards China, so strongly ingrained are
Hindu habits of authority. Outside Con-
gress, the situation is similar. India has a
dozen leaders whose charismatic appeal
falls not so far short of Nehru’s. The
Swatantra party has that sprightly 83-
year-old sage, the formidable Mr Rajago-
palachari of Madras.
There is the vehement, subtle Acharya
Kripalani, now Independent. The Praja
Socialists are led by so striking a figure as
Ashoka Mehta. But other members of
this reserve-team charismatic leadership
—and here I can think of no analogy out-
side India—are not really “in politics” at
all. Jayaprakash Narayan, closest in
spirit to Gandhi of all his political disci-
ples, was at one time the leader of the
Socialist movement within Congress. In
1948, the Socialists left Congress and set
up house on their own, layaprakash in
the lead. By the mid-fifties, he had
moved away from active politics to follow
Vinoba Bhave—another towering charis-
matic figure—in his Bhoodan movement
for the voluntary redistribution of the
land to the poorer peasantrv.
Yet Jayaprakash’s pronouncements on
politics—and he has sweated blood
during the past weeks to reconcile Gand-
hian ahimsa with India’s defence needs—
reach a wider public than those of many
a Cabinet minister.
In effect, there are two co-existent pat-
terns of political leadership in India.
There is the basic democratic, party-poli-
tical pattern, borrowed from Britain, to
which the great majority of educated
Indians are attached. Beside it, intersect-
ing it at many points, there exists an older
semi-religious pattern of personal author-
ity. Superficially, it might appear a dan-
gerous situation: who can be sure that
future despots will have Nehru’s enlight-
enment?
This alarm, at least, seems unfounded.
None of these “charismatic” figures has
the characteristics of an incipient Indo-
Aryan fuehrer. That would be to rate
Indian spiritual perceptiveness rather
low: the qualities Indians admire in the
guru-leaders are different. But the pro-
blem of the future intersection of the two
patterns, after Nehru, remains.
One of the shrewdest of Indian politi-
cal observers, A. D. Gorwala, remarked
to me during the crisis that “it does not
take a genius to be Prime Minister.” In
Western terms, it would seem a very just
remark. But in India? “The answer to
the foreign visitor’s query: after Nehru—
what?” says Gorwala, “is really quite
simple: after Nehru —Congress.” There
is no doubt that, say, Defence Minister
Chavan would make a highly competent
future Prime Minister in any Western
context. But he is a tough Congress
politician, a Maharashtrian man of the
people, no guru.
One fears that India’s tragedy might
be precisely that her Prime Minister has
to be a genius.
The argument is far from academic.
Yet, though Nehru’s authority may not
be fully explicable in Western democratic
terms, this is not to say that democracy
has shallow roots in India. The aston-
ishing and quite spontaneous response of
the people it took the government by
surprise—is disproof of this. But the
Westerner assumes that, because India’s
democratic forms are of the West, the
authority upholding them is also Western.
I believe this to be far from the case.
And the argument has implications be-
yond the present crisis. There has recent-
ly grown up a school of experts on India
who take a distinctly pessimistic view of
her prospects. Chief among the expon-
ents of this new, gloomy science is Mr
Selig Harrison. In his India: the Most
Dangerous Decades Mr Harrison deploys
a formidable knowledge of modern India
in the service of his thesis that the new
social, political and linguistic forces at
work in India are basically centrifugal
Regional loyalties
the new linguistic States into
which India has been redivided are
certain, he argues, to develop strong re-
gional loyalties at the expense of New
Delhi. On the rapid expansion of educa-
tion a million students by 1970 will
follow a rapid decline in the standard of
English. Very soon since no one really
believes that Bengal, Madras, or Bombay
can be compelled to learn Hindi —there
will grow up language-barriers within
India, not merely between Hindi-speaking
North and Dravidian South, but between
individual and extremely powerful "
States such as Gujerat, Maharashtra,
Andhra, and Mysore. Simultaneously, the
States will become the source of politic
patronage and power (already, Madras
has a Chief Minister who needs an Eng


lish-speaking interpreter when he calls
on p r ime Minister Nehru).
the development of democracy
often encourages, as in the case of caste,
' te ntial factors of division. For demo-
cratic competitiveness, in such a radically
n on-competitive society as the Hindu, in-
creases the tendency of previously inert
social groups to act in concert. If the
forces making for disintegration have not
yet triumphed, Mr Harrison implies, that
is in large part due to Nehru’s unique
and irreplaceable authority. After Nehru,
the deluge.
Surprisingly, India is a great deal less
interested in Dr Nkrumah than Afro-
Asian propaganda would suggest. In the
mind of the average Indian, the smaller
nations are not greatly respected
The West looms large and means
Britain and America; Britain being by far
the most real country of the two. Indeed,
many Indian opinions about other coun-
tries are only British opinions slightly
modified. The attitude to Africans—but
also to Americans—is often patronising.
“Britain and Canada came to our help.”
remarked a clerk in a government office,
“They are Commonwealth countries. But
Dr Nkrumah let us down. We cannot
have that. Mr Macmillan will kick him
out.” Similarly, Britain’s motives tend to
be less suspect than America’s—perhaps
because Britain is the weaker partner.
No doubt one should beware of exagger-
ating the warmth of India’s feelings to-
wards Britain.
To some extent, this new warmth is
the work of the Chinese. But its sudden
eruption is proof that a strong reservoir
of friendship has been present all along,
despite Suez, despite Krishna Menon (it
ismy personal theory that this is because
pre-Independence resentment against
Britain was so quickly re-invested in re-
sentment against Pakistan: more people
blame America for arming Pakistan than
blame Britain for bringing her into exis-
tence).
jprant of West
|he West, as I say, means almost exclu-
sively Britain and America and the
"bite Commonwealth. The general ignor-
J “ ce about France and Germany, the
°mmon Market and the Berlin problem
T u f a lso about Eastern Europe and
ussia is quite remarkable. That the
c ® ce of Afro-Asian solidarity was built
011 rather flimsy foundations has been, of
Urse ’ a major revelation of the present
r,Sls ' Just as the crisis has revealed that
i n^an people’s estimate of the West
,^ ers fr om that of New Delhi (there
jj S , str °ng popular resentment against
to w S somew frat ungenerous response
. e , stern arms aid), so the Indian
Piereal estimate of the value of
°'Asian solidarity has come to light.
The extent to which intellectual India
is dominated by attitudes originating in
Britain is not always realised. This has
a negative as well as a positive aspect.
Thus, I had assumed that Indian politi-
cians, writers, and intellectuals would be
well-informed about Asian affairs.
I did not find this at all. Mr Nirad
Chaudhuri, the charming and eccentric
author of The Autobiography of an Un-
known Indian, records the Japanese vic-
tories over Russia in 1904 as a memor-
able feature of his Bengali childhood.
Similarly, one might think that intel-
lectuals today would look to Japan as a
possible model for economic development
in an Asian context. In fact, I found little
curiosity; and attitudes to certain other
countries of South-East Asia were sur-
prisingly contemptuous. In part, of
course, this shows a healthy democratic
contempt for regimes that easily succumb
to dictatorship and corruption.
More often, it is simply an egotistical
lack of interest in other people’s affairs,
strikingly at variance with that urge to set
other people’s affairs to rights which has
often been India's official posture. The
explanation for this surprisingly narrow
conception of world affairs is sought by
some Indians in British Imperialism’s
policy of insulating India from her
natural neighbors.
But this explanation is too simple.
Indians who know their history will tell
you that India has never—contrary to
what is supposed in the West—been in-
fluenced in any important way by the
countries to her East. True, she exported
Buddhism to Burma, Tibet, China and
beyond, and profoundly influenced the
cultures of Siam, Malaya, and Java.
But it was a one-way process; India
received nothing from China in exchange.
Indeed, the contacts between Indian and
China seem to have been scarcely closer
than those between China and medieval
Europe. When India was influenced from
outside the subcontinent before British
sea-conquest in the 18th century, it was
from the West and the North. It was
from Central Asia that the Aryans poured
into India during the second millennium
BC; it was through the north-western
passes that Alexander, the Huns, and the
Muslim invaders entered the Indus valley.
Hindu civilisation has a long memory;
the lands now comprising West Pakistan
and the Punjab, one gathers, have been
considered impure by strict Brahmins
for centuries. That the Himalayas form
an impassable barrier, on the other hand,
was a basic assumption of all Hindu
mythology. The obsession with Pakistan
over the past decade, and the blindness
to any threat from China, has roots in
Indian culture of which Krishna Menon
is unlikely to have been aware.
Yet it is experience-with-Britain that
colors most Indian political thought
not least that of Krishna Menon. There
is a significant ambiguity at work here.
Britain was for long India’s window on
the world; but she was also the prison-
wall that obstructed India’s vision. At
Independence the prison-wall collapsed.
But, though her physical presence was
now removed, Britain still remained the
window through which India looked at
the world. It is not therefore surprising
to find certain attitudes co-existing in the
Indian mind which strike the Westerner
as contradictory.
Political borrowings
HThus, a rather Anglo-Saxon contempt
for the petty despotisms of the Afro-
Asian world may co-exist with sancti-
monious anti-colonial claptrap. This is
only to say, perhaps, that India’s borrow-
ings from British political experience are
partial; her borrowings have been
dictated by her needs. But this is rele-
vant to her present predicament. For,
while India has borrowed from Britain’s
internal anti-imperialist, socialist-pacifist
traditions, other aspects of British —-
though not, of course, exclusively British
—experience have passed her by.
Take, for instance, the impact of
militant Fascism and Communism on
the West. Here, Nehru’s case is not
typical; his Autobiography (1935) shows
that he was very well aware of the threat
of Fascism at the time he wrote it. It
is well known that, during the 1942
“Quit India” campaign, he was initially
in favor of supporting the British war
effort (as groups like M. N. Roy’s, and
the Communists after 1941, were willing
to do). \
But Gandhi and the Congress leader-
ship ruled otherwise; “Quit India” was
launched when the Japanese were prac-
tically at the gates of Assam. It is
dead history now; yet the assumptions
underlying the then Congress policy are
worth reflecting on, because they fore-
shadow many of the more ostrich-like
post-1947 policies. It is surely plain
that, however clumsily the British
handled the situation (the Viceroy’s
declaration of war in September, 1939,
was not preceded by any consultation of
Indian political leaders), the course of
Indian independence—not to speak of
India’s security—could only have gained
from tight wartime co-operation.


mmlmm
• s,
.
9 : : ■ ' ■ •'•;■•: ’ ■
.Swl S.
I'lS S
mmm
■
.
1111
IWM
i
SI
iil
■■■ .;
m
\ >
llllISV;
|:S:.C * * '<' '' H
Wmm
vX ; : : : ; :
<w:i
T
"Revolutionary” is the word for UNICHROME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
unichrome


jnichrome-
Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary* is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
m transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Fly. Ltd. at Mandemar A venue,
Flomebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
t 0 one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
Mi B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
Queensland
Mr B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
South Australia
Mu D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
Western Australia
Mi- G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
ZEALAND
Mi- A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221 UC4
LEATHER GRAIN FINISH
••••••
' ■■ -
|4 ' ' '
I
||
v
ii-Xi
,
m
-W
i
:
mmmm
m
SATIN FINISH ON PERFORATED METAL
'lSJliySiyi'"'
r v,* “ a V X’- '
'a-a '4'A * A 4
aL i& jfe'
f 4
*3
SK»
*>t*
I*
*2*l*
*v.*e>
fiKNH&w
•3S
#S*
n
mmmm
m
m&m
mmm
MULTI-COLOUR FINISH
'>" "» . ’ :
wmmmim §, «!<s■ ■ I BW
- n pan
< ' j ' \i'C -V,* ,<
:gll6lfefi Mg .
EIJ ;
If
m
m
mmmmm
SPATTER FINISH
', 's s . « ' . \'
•' - : V.-::v-- . .. •'
The embrace of Congress would have
strangled the British Raj. But Congress
at the time was wholly preoccupied with
the struggle for Swaraj; Britain was the
prison-wall, not the window. And the
same applies to the post-war period of
Communist expansion. While the West
was resisting the new imperialism in
Germany and Greece, in Persia, Malaya,
and Korea, India was preoccupied with
partition and its horrific aftermath.
When she emerged, amazingly un-
scathed, into the world of the 19505, the
frontiers of the Cold War era were
already set. Containment was a fact—
but not a fact to which India had con-
tributed, either for good or ill.
“Yes, we won Independence too
easily: we’re paying for it now” I
have heard the sentiment expressed time
and again in the past weeks. “British
Imperialism was a bad mentor,” it is
implied, “you did nothing to prepare us
for the Chinese variety.”
The truth of it is indisputable. Plainly,
the strategy of the Independence move-
ment was dictated by the uniquely vul-
nerable character of its opponent. Partly,
this vulnerability was physical: in the
long run, India coujd not be ruled against
the consent of its three hundred million
inhabitants—an awareness of this seems
to have been with the men of the British
Raj from the beginning. But it was
primarily a moral vulnerability.
In this sense, the British Raj was
doomed from the day Macaulay recom-
mended English as the language of
higher education and Indians could read
John Stuart Mill. In Bentham and Mill,
as later in T. H. Green and the early
Fabians, in Laski, Forster, Shaw, the
Left Book Club and New Statesman and
Nation of the ’Thirties, intellectual India
found an ally within the enemy camp.
Without that alliance, can one doubt
that the strategy of an Independence
movement in India would have had to
be radically different? What is certain is
that the experience set Indian political
attitudes in a distinctive mould. When
the Chinese proclaimed their cease-fire,
it was at once suggested that the “moral
pressure” of world opinion had brought
this about. Again the Indian Communist
Party resolution condemning Chinese
aggression was welcomed by Nehru,
but also by a large section of public
opinion —as putting “moral pressure”
on the Chinese to withdraw.
Of course, no one denies that world
public opinion is a force to be reckoned
with. But it has been proved something
of a paper tiger by recent events.
So much for the prison-wall. But the
window, too, allowed of a double vision.
Partly, India was seeing the world
through the eyes of the conventional
Briton: Magna Carta, the Glorious
Revolution, Blackstone, Erskine May,


and Mr Gladstone. Partly, India was
seeing the world through the eyes of
the British Left, so that she acquired, in
the course of time, a strongly anti-
Establishmentarian view of politics.
This was particularly true of the
generation that grew up before the
Second World War. Nehru himself be-
longed to an older generation. But it is
clear from his Autobiography that the
formative period was not Edwardian
Cambridge but the late 19205, when he
was again living in Europe, attending
anti-imperialist gatherings in Brussels
and Berlin.
The same is true, a fortiori, of Krishna
Menon; it is the explanation of his great
influence on Nehru. It also explains why
India, in the 19505, provided a home for
the kind of fellow-travelling which
existed in England in the 19305, but lost
its innocence on the day Stalin signed a
pact with Hitler. I would not be mis-
understood. I met many in India who
regard Krishna Menon simply as a Com-
munist agent, and would cheerfully see
him impeached.
My point is that the fellow-travelling
of the Indian ’Fifties (and I do not doubt
that Menon expressed the views of the
great majority in India) was essentially
a recapitulation of the English ’Thirties
-—with, of course, Gandhian undertones.
In this Indian context, fellow-travel-
ling preserved an innocence which was
lacking elsewhere. The sentiments of
the Indian masses towards Russia and
China during the high noon of the
Bandung era echoed those passages in
Nehru's Autobiography where he speaks
of Communism as “fundamentally good,”
while gently disapproving of its methods.
Now the recriminations have begun
recriminations that may still engulf
Jawaharlal Nehru it is good to re-
member this: the illusion v 7 as evil in
practice, not in intention.
The non-alignment policy
f|IHE same is true of “non-alignment.”
■*- “India's non-alignment policy has col-
lapsed,” the papers back home are say-
ing the British say it with regret, the
Americans with schadenfreude. But if
five weeks in India teach one anything,
it is that abstract discussions of non-
alignment are so much froth-blowing.
Non-alignment was based, in India as
elsewhere, on a calculation: the calcula-
tion that a posture of neutrality between
the two blocks would ensure India’s
defence and strengthen her economy.
What has happened is that India has
miscalculated. To read some commen-
tators, one would think that the Indians,
once a little lower than the angels, were
now hell-bent for the City of Destruc-
tion. As Nehru remarked to me of one
such, “He accuses us of jingoism but
what does he expect?” And he added,
thoughtfully, “Ah, yes, there’s non-
alignment in theory . . . but we’re not
non-aligned towards China, are we?”
The irony of non-commitment, no
doubt, is that it is morally ambiguous.
The non-committed nations were con-
fident of their moral edge over Com-
munists and Westerners alike. But those
who believed this were twice-deceived.
For political non-commitment is not far
from ideological neutrality asserting
that it does not matter who is right
which cannot be presented as a morally
superior attitude. Indeed, for a young,
aspiring democracy like India it can
only be profoundly demoralising.
That India miscalculated, most
would now readily admit. Indeed, per-
haps, too readily: “If we had joined
SEATO or CENTO,” it is being said,
“none of this need have happened.” The
sentiment is symptomatic: in their rage
at the “failure of non-alignment,” many
seem willing to go the whole way with
the West—indeed further, perhaps, than
the West has a mind to go.
But there is a sense in which the
Indian miscalculation, disastrous as it
has proved, is irrelevant to the non-
alignment controversy. Where India mis-
calculated was in not acquiring a military
potential that would have made the
recent Chinese strategy impossible. This
could not have been done without con-
siderable economic sacrifice. But it
could almost certainly have been done
without joining any formal military
alliance, had the will to do it been there.
The point, of course, is that neutrality
had to be paid for, and that it may well
prove more expensive than commitment.
But this is a calculation that every nation
has to make. What was honorable about
India’s past policy was something dif-
ferent. India’s attitude has been com-
pared with Washington’s (or was it
Jefferson’s?) adage that young America
should keep clear of “entangling
alliances.”
The freedom that had been won from
the British must not be surrendered to
some new protector. To many Indians,
looking at the sorry state of some
countries entangled in the SEATO and
CENTO alliances, non-alignment meant
just this. There was calculation in the
policy, but also jealous honor.
So India, after all, is going to change.
The excitement of the past few weeks
will die down China’s cease - fire
brought an almost audible sigh o f r r,
—but the events of this Indian autu
will be educative. The things that \\
alarmists have predicted will not occur
Nehru will not go, the
jostle for arms contracts, New De|
clerks will pedal to work at 10.30 i n the
morning, the Emergency will be lifted
the Communists will be let out, p M
hibition and Non-alignment will remain
But some things are going to be §
ferent. A new body of public opinion
is now in being, which Nehru can no
longer ignore. The Communists are in
utter disarray—and it looks as if the
icing will be off the Russian cake quite
as much as the Chinese. The array is
very angry, and will not tolerate again
the treatment it received at the hands
of Krishna Menon: here a’so there is
a limit to Nehru’s freedom of action,
Chavan, the new Defence Minister, has
both the will, and the kind of support,
that will be needed to make of tbs
Indian army an opponent the Chinest
will not lightly challenge.
Turn to the West
is a realist: for him ten Globe
masters in the hand are worth 51
MIGs in the bush. He will not allow
“non-alignment” to prevent India getting
exactly what she needs from whatever
sources are available. It is clear, of
course, that India will turn to the West;
and there is no doubt that this policy
has now overwhelming popular backing
My own guess is that this outcome wil
prove (whatever course negotiations, ot
even renewed hostilities, may take) ratho
more satisfactory to all parties than it
first appears. For the Russians, India;
turning to the West relieves them of ft
embarrassment of arming China;
opponent.
The Chinese, too, may think the ft
monstration that India is ultimately ft
pendent on the “imperialist” West well
worth their recent efforts, if the hull'
iation of India in the eyes of Asia is w 1
in itself enough. The Chinese, it app®
stopped short at just the point where*
Korean situation might have develop*
seeking to cause maximum damage w
minimum force.
For the sake of India, of course, o»
hopes that the opposite will prove true
that the Chinese thrust has been
strong enough to mobilise her energy
and just too weak to provoke disinteg [l
tion. It will be many months, how®
before that kind of judgment can
made. g
But no one who has seen the W
people’s response to Chinese aggr essl
this autumn can doubt that —even w
pid, complaisant, enervating I n^ia "
bullock-cart has been eased half-wa)
of its accustomed rut.


PAPUA'S JOHN GUISE
First wave of an uncertain future...
JOHN GUISE is New Guineas most articulate and sophisticated native
politician. A Papuan of mixed race descent (an ancestor was the French Due de
Guise), Mr Guise was mission educated to sth grade, worked as a delivery cargo
boy with Burns Philp, joined ANGAU during the war, transferring to the Royal
Papuan Constabulary from which he retired —to go into local government and
politics —as a Sergeant Major Ist Class. The following is the transcript of his TV
interview with the ABC’s GERALD LYONS on SPOTLIGHT last Sunday night.
LYONS: Well, Mr Guise, you’ve
probably become over this last year one
of the best known Papuans in the
world. You’re one of six elected Papuan
members to your Legislative Council
and last year you made international
news with your report to the United
Nations in New York. In fact you are
teally one of the elite, one of the new
e lite of Papua. Now I’d like to begin
this programme by looking ahead a bit.
What’s your overall ambition for
Papua/New Guinea? What do you
rea| ly w ant?
GUISE: I personally believe that
ultimately Papua/New Guinea should
become one country, a nation taking its
rightful place in world affairs and by
Us > Papua/New Guinea should come
ogether and form into Federation of
e Janesia, having its own parliament—
® Ido feel that when this does happen
{ e should be closely tied with Aus-
J" a ’ * rea^es °f trade, treaties of
ftnh iP’ tre .aties of defence and so
trap and el°sely associated with Aus-
► la ' I personally would like to see
that the other Pacific countries which
are close to Papua/New Guinea—that
there should come some sort of
solidarity, Pacific solidarity in the
Pacific Ocean—closely associated by
treaties with Australia,
LYONS: Yes, you spoke earlier of a
Federation. This is how you see it, as
a Melanesian Federation?
GUISE: Yes, it is how I see it. Of
course, I must say that there is also
another school of thought in Papua/New
Guinea which believes that Papua/New
Guinea should become, perhaps, the
eighth State of Australia. There are two
schools of thought at the present
moment. I belong to the school of
thought that believes that Papua/New
Guinea should become a Federation of
Melanesia, or a Federation of New
Guinea, whatever the name may be.
LYONS: And what countries would
be involved in this Federation? We’re
putting Papua and New Guinea which
are two distinct territories, at the
moment for the purposes of this pro-
gramme, together. Do you see this
happening to West Irian? Would they
be in this Federation you speak of?
GUISE: Well, there again in West
New Guinea you have divided opinion
there. According to the newspapers that
I have read, there is already demands
by our brothers in West New Guinea to
become associated with Indonesia and,
in that regard, I would like to see that
West New Guinea, when it becomes in-
corporated according to their wishes,
with Indonesia, that we remain on the
best of friends, each respecting our
national sovereignty.
LYONS: You said your brothers in
West New Guinea, or West Iran. Does
this mean that you feel some sort of
sympathy with these people, that you
really feel some common that you
have a common feeling with them?
GUISE: Yes, we have, because we
are on the same island. We are on the
same island and naturally, I have visited
personally Hollandia in 1961; and the
people in, for example, in and around
Hollandia, are related to the people in
the Sepik district for example and,
therefore, we call them our friends
West New Guinea with Australian New
Guinea.
LYONS: Would Indonesia be in-
cluded in this Federation you speak of?
GUISE: That is something that would
be decided by international discussions
which would be far beyond my know-
ledge to discuss such matters.
LYONS: But John, would you like to
see it, personally? (PAUSE) What I
want to get at, you see, are these countries
you say in the Federation . . . you wish
to federate where, from Papua/New
Guinea, West New Guinea, what other
countries?
GUISE: No, I think you gave a wrong
impression there. I think we should start
first with Papua and New Guinea and
then eventually extend the arm the
hand of co-operation to such islands as
the British Solomon Islands and so
forth.
LYONS: Not necessarily Indonesia?
GUISE: Well, we should remain as
good neighbors.
LYONS: I am interested to see how
you feel toward Indonesia.
GUISE: Well, we’ve got . . . they are
in West New Guinea already and I feel
that we’ve just got to live up to reality.
We’ve got to co-operate, we’ve got to be
the best of friends and live at peace:
but I will say this, that we in Papua/
New Guinea will respect the national
sovereignty of West New Guinea and
West New Guinea, perhaps, I feel should
respect our national sovereignty too.
LYONS: You’ll be watching no
doubt very carefully what is happening
in West New Guinea?
GUISE: Not only myself but the
people of Papua/New Guinea also.


■■
Xvx-:
.
m
291 KLM pilots have flown more than 10,000 flying hours
Why you should fly reliable KLM
on your next business trip abroad
{For more news about reliable KLM and the KLM Budget Travel Plan read on)
MANY experienced travellers believe that
the careful, punctual Dutch have made
KLM the most reliable of all airlines. Here
are some facts you should know about
KLM’s weather radar, world routes and a
city-hopping plan that takes you to over 30
cities for the fare to London.
1. The KLM Budget Travel Plan
covers 55 cities in the Far East, Near
East, Europe, the U.S.A. and Canada. Plan
the trip that suits you your ticket is valid
for 12 months.
You know the cost of your trip before you
go. Fixed daily rates include hotels, one or
two meals, service charges, local taxes and
sightseeing tours. Unlisted cities may also
be visited.
2. KLM flies all over the world. KLM
DC-8 jets fly to Spain, Portugal, France,
Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Greece,
Scandinavia, England, Scotland, Ireland,
the U.S.A. and 54 other countries. KLM
has 77 offices in Europe alone, 196 through-
out the world. In all of them English is the
official language. You are never far from a
reliable source of assistance in language
problems. A big consideration for Aus-
tralians travelling abroad.
3. KLM flies you to over 30 cities —all
for the fare to London. You can, for
instance, break your journey at Manila,
Bangkok, Beirut, Cairo, Athens, Rome,
Milan, Nice, Geneva, Munich, Nuremberg,
Stuttgart, Zurich, Frankfurt, Paris, Brussels
and Amsterdam.
Your KLM DC-8 jet takes off from Sydney
every Friday at 10.35 a.m. You can break-
fast in Rome, lunch in Amsterdam or dine
in London punctually on Saturday.
4. KLM jets anticipate weather. Your
captain has weather radar that sees 150
miles ahead. He is able to give you a smooth
trip and still get you there on schedule.
KLM's DC-8 jets are always in direct
radio contact with a ground station. When
they leave an airport they at once tune in to
the next. Your captain himself does most of
the talking.
5. KLM has been flying longer than any
other airline. 44 years, to be exact, to per-
fect its reliability. KLM carries over 3,830
passengers every day to 104 cities all over
the world. In all, KLM has carried over 12
million passengers a total of 24 billion
passenger miles. Other airlines frequently
send their flying crews to KLM’s training
school. A quiet testimonial to KLM
reliability.
6. Your Travel Agent is a professional
and professionals plan better trips. He
knows the ropes and can give you all the
advantages of the KLM Budget Travel and
Multi-Stopover Plans. He can route your
trip through Amsterdam for tax-free shop-
ping bargains. Two of every three KLM
passengers are recommended to fly KLM
by experienced Travel Agents. A nice vote
of confidence from people who know all
about travel.
7. KLM knows the world of trade. Every
KLM office sends to The Hague details ot
all conventions, industrial exhibitions, trade
fairs and festivals of interest to other
countries. Master lists are then sent to every
KLM office in the world, where business-
men off on a trip find the information
readily available.
KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan allows you a
choice of hundreds of different routes from
Australia to London at no extra air fare.
KLM make up to 7 flights daily across the
North Atlantic.
Note: You can buy a KLM ticket for one-
tenth down, then take two years to pay th e
rest. Mail coupon below.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. 8X3966
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
Please send copy of your KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./ Mrs./Miss
Address -
My Travel Agent is.
r * «
KLM
"A
M2l?


THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
1 9 1 2—1 96 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED S. WHITE Esq. (Chairman),
H. H. MOULTON Esq. (Managing Director),
E. G. CONEN Esq., T. K. MAGNEY Esq.,
A. G. PARKER Esq., DOUGLAS WADLEY Esq.
B. J. LANE, Manager.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27.7401
iVONS: Now the United Nations
Mhsion I* believe, set 1964, next year,
v the date for independence or coming
? a ae as a nation of Papua/New
Guinea Do you feel this can be done
W itkin this time. Do you feel this is a
realistic date.
GUISE: Well, 1964 in the recon-
stituted Legislative Council of Papua/
Ne w Guinea will no doubt give us a
certain degree of autonomy, but this
does not necessarily mean independence.
But i would think that during, from
1964, that will be a period in which
the council, our council in 1964, will be
a sort of field wherein our future leaders
will have initial training for ultimate self-
government or independence.
LYONS: What training is there avail-
able now in Papua/New Guinea for
leaders, for political leaders? Is there
any at all?
GUISE: There are many, many
prominent Papuans and New Guineans
today who are taking an active part in
national thinking and there are many
who hold positions in the local govern-
ment councils; many of them are in the
Public Service of Papua/New Guinea;
and we have many men there, who are
really contributing to the political
thought and life of Papua/New Guinea:
we have many.
LYONS: Yes, but what training is
there for them? Is there any training
, available? Any tertiary education?
GUISE: Not at the present moment.
This is the thing that I feel that we
lack in Papua/New Guinea. I would
like to see in Papua/New Guinea, a
much bolder and progressive plan for
education. I will elaborate a bit here
and say that I am, and my people also,
are very grateful to Australia for the
educational progress—programme —that
you have in Papua/New Guinea, but 1
do say that it should be a far pro-
gressive, bolder plan for education, in
the sense that where you’re having
twenty - one Papuan/New Guinean
students coming down here every year,
w this should be doubled to about fifty or
| sixty a year.
I also feel that in all sub-districts or
districts of Papua/New Guinea there
should be secondary schools established
throughout the whole country. Because
tk biggest need today in Papua/New
i u >nea, and I have my three other col-
M gues who have come down with me
I to testify to this, that there is a great
e mand for education. In that regard,
would go a bit further by saying that
e lncre ase to the Christian churches—
matter of granting aids—should be in-
1, *T°uld also envisage that Aus-
teclT' Sh ° Uld ta^e of the
■ and # a * d and ass i stan ce being given
• terf ° aered ky the United Nations for
a lar y education to all under-developed
countries and non - self - governing ter-
ritories, including Papua/New Guinea:
and Australia should take full use of
this —facilities that is open to her from
the agencies of the United Nations, so
that more Papuans can go overseas to
the Western countries, such as Canada,
the United States of America, England
and so forth, to further their studies for
the benefit of Papua/New Guinea.
LYONS: Would you say then, John,
that if you don’t get this what you
need from Australia in the way of
education that your people may look
elsewhere for it?
GUISE; That is a possibility! But I
know that we prefer, and I am quite
certain, that we prefer Australia.
LYONS: How much of people like
you in Papua/New Guinea sophis-
ticated, well-educated people like you—
been influenced by what is happening in
the other new countries in the world, in
Africa and so on? Are you watching
these developments very closely?
GUISE: Yes. I’ll touch a bit further
on that. I feel, you know, that in Aus-
tralia, Australian people are not well
informed of Papua/New Guinea. You
speak to a man in Australia and the first
thing, as soon as you mention Papua/
New Guinea, the impression gained is,
well, “Papua/New Guinea—here comes
a savage.” The first impression of the
mind - is a savage. He carries a spear,
the bone through his nose, waiting
around the corner to kill the first
European coming round.
Well, that is not true: and this I feel,
the Australian public should be educated
now to realise that there are great
changes taking place . . . and do not
under - estimate the intelligence of
Papuans and New Guineans. And I feel
that the quicker the Australian public
understands this the better it will be.
Because an informed public is a very
healthy thing, a mis-informed public . . .
that is not, it does not serve a good
public purpose.
LYONS: You said, John, the better it
would be. The better it would be for
whom for the Australian public, or
for the ambitions of Papuan leaders for
independence?
GUISE: Both. Both. Both countries.
LYONS: How far have you been able
to advance your objectives in the Coun-
cil since you have been elected? I think
you were elected in ’sixty-one. ’Sixty-
one, was it?
GUISE: Yes. Well, since 1961, cer-
tainly we are in the minority but I do
feel that in the two years that we have
been in the six indigenous members,
including myself I think we have
made quite a lot of progress. Not much,
but we have made, for example, the
repeal of the Liquor Ordinance, the
repeal of the Papuan and New Guinean
Women’s Protection Ordinance, the
Picture Show Ordinance, which has been
repealed. And they are, maybe, small
in number but are significant pointers to
progress that has been done in the last
two years.
LYONS: Let’s look at those ordin-
ances. They sound a bit dull but I don’t
think they are dull at all . . . for a
moment. Now would you say that those
three things you mention were dis-
criminatory laws?
GUISE: It was when the ordinance
was first passed. It was thought at the
time that k would protect but eventually
this disappeared and it seemed to us
that it was discriminating. Since the
repeal of these three, it has created
better understanding now; between the
Papuans and New Guineans on the one
hand and the Australian people in
Papua/New Guinea on the other and it
has created a lot of better understanding
between the two peoples.
LYONS: Would you really say better
understanding or merely a relaxation of
tensions which were there before?
GUISE: No, I’d be quite serious and
say, better understanding.
LYONS: Now this, the matter of
liquor, what does it mean now? A
Papuan may buy beer, I believe. Would
you tell me what he can do now? Before
he was not allowed to drink any kind of
alcoholic drink at all. Now I believe he
can buy beer. Does this mean he can
go into one of the hotels in Port Moresby
and stand up alongside someone else
and drink?
GUISE: Yes. Papuans and New
Guineans, with the repeal of this
ordinance and under the existing tem-
porary liquor ordinance, can go into any
public place and can have a beer with
anyone. He can buy beer, he can have
whisky, he can have any spirits what-
soever.
LYONS: Now were you before this,
before people were allowed people
were not allowed to do this quite
recently—were you as a leading Papuan
invited, I believe you were, to functions
(Continued on Page 32.)


FORUM
WHY SEATO
IS USELESS
To Britain and France any war against Communism in the Pacific will
always he "the wrong war in the wrong place"
By B. A. SANTAMARIA
QEATO is a “paper tiger”. Worse, its existence upholds a dangerous
illusion. Existing as it does side by side with ANZUS, it supports the
euphonia which surrounds every discussion of Australia’s security the
popular belief that Australia’s existence is protected by a pair of water-
tight alliances with the United States.
This conclusion is confirmed by Dr
Modelski’s “Seato: Six Studies”. “When-
ever they disagree, SEATO is power-
less,” writes Dr Modelski of the three
main powers in SEATO the US,
Britain and France. Since each Power
has a right of veto over the decisions of
the collective entity, SEATO consecrates
disagreement—and therefore impotence.
Britain and France, both in the twilight
of Empire, regard the Orient as a region
in which they no longer have any real
interest. The available wealth has long
since been absorbed, the bases are gone,
and what is spent there today in terms
of military or economic power is good
money chasing bad. Further, the Ame-
ricans, who have two frontiers, one of
which faces China, must be restrained
from committing to the Orient troops or
treasure which might better be devoted
to the Western Hemisphere. Hence,
every dispute in the SEATO area must
be dampened down before a latter-day
Dulles commits the crowning imprud-
ence of dragging the US into the
“wrong war in the wrong place.” Any
war in the Pacific—whatever has to be
sacrificed to avoid it—is the “wrong war
in the wrong place” for Powers whose
interests are overwhelmingly European.
We are frequently regaled with the
myth of the superior French and British
“comprehension” of the situation in
South-East Asia compared with the cal-
low Americans. Yet, almost 10 years
have passed since G. F. Hudson, in an
article in “Foreign Affairs”, effectively
described why the Orient now ran a bad
last in the strategic considerations of the
two European Powers. To the strategic
arguments for appeasing Communist
China was now added the hope of finan-
cial gain. R. Gavin Boyd describes these
expectations in his chapter “Communist
China and SEATO”:
“Britain's colony of Hong Kong was
extremely vulnerable to Chinese Com-
munist pressures, but these were with-
held. In addition to maintaining the
city as a valuable source of foreign
exchange, this privileged treatment
was evidently intended to induce
Britain to withhold support from
American policies in the Far East.
“France, unlike Britain, had no Far
Eastern interests directly vulnerable to
Chinese pressures, but French business
interests were hoping to build up com-
merce with North Vietnam, and mean-
while China was showing a desire to
build up her trade with both Britain
and France. Between 1955 and 1958
Britain's exports to China rose from
US $22.3 million to $76.3 million,
while France, although she apparently
did not begin to trade with the Chinese
Communist regime until 1958, expor-
ted goods worth US $44.4 million to
China in that year.”
The policies of the British and the
French within SEATO are thus perfectly
comprehensible from their own mili-
tary and economic viewpoint. But they
are not necessarily the best from the
viewpoint of those nations which the
facts of geography have located in this
“expendable” region.
In a nine page sub-chapter, headed
“Some SEATO Crises,” Dr Modelski
spells out what the results have been in
fact. In the seven separate situations to
which SEATO might have been relevant,
it has always been the same story
meet, confer, do nothing, issue a reas-
suring communique. Laos (1955), Burma
(1956), Laos (1957), Indonesia (1958),
Quemoy (1958), Laos (twice in 1959),
and Laos again in 1960-61 these are
the incidents studied by Modelski. What-
ever may be said of the earlier incidents,
there was no doubt that the deliver 1
Soviet military supplies to the Pl a j n li
Jarres in the last Laos crisis constit 1
serious military intervention if
had been looking for a legitimate re as
for action to reinforce a
situation. For Communist control l
eastern Laos was bound to increase tt
pressure on South Vietnam.
No wonder that the US m
its separate and unilateral arrajo
ments with Thailand and South Vietnam
after the last Laotian crisis. Th ese|
parate arrangements reflected the Am.
rican conviction that any serious militan
action to encourage allied government
must be taken outside the framemn
of SEATO to avoid the quicksands 1
the British and French veto, and J
undignified Australian attempts to
straddle the fence between the American
and British viewpoints.
Tt is easy to point to the outward
A manifestations of the inward
rottenness of SEATO: harder to diag-
nose the canker itself. The outward
manifestations are many: lack of an in-
dependent military command; an almost
complete administrative dependence oi
the single governments of which it is
composed; a budget and staff smaller
than that of the US Information Office
in Thailand; the “rule of unanimity” to
guarantee paralysis, and so on.
These, however, are only outward ex-
pressions of the fundamental disease
from which SEATO suffers. This dismt
lies in the absence of an unequivocal
determination on the part of the Treat
Powers to prevent the conquest of South'
East Asia by Communism, if that deter
ruination can only be made effective hj
the use of superior military force. Hit
disease is the lack of political “will.”
Consequent upon this lack of politica
“will” there follows what seems to hi
almost a deliberate mis-statement of (lit
type of challenge to be faced in the
region. Article IV of the Treaty state
that the parties “will ... act to meet the
common danger” in the case of “agg r&
sion by means of armed attack.” Yet it
was already apparent in 1954, from t e
character of the Indo-Chinese War, tha
the Communists were not likely to oblige
the SEATO Powers by presenting the®
with this kind of clear-cut situaM
when better and safer results could
obtained by the method of guerrilla w [
fare. Neither in design nor in execute
has SEATO any relevance to this cha-
racteristic military method of reV ° utl ° ft
ary warfare in underdeveloped country
In presenting his research study,
Vietminh in Indo-China,” George
Tanham enjoys a very real
over the writers in the National bn'
sity’s study of SEATO. Tanham is f
ing with men dedicated to w ‘ nnin °
* SEATG: Six Studies. Ed. Modelski. F.
W. Cheshire.
Communist Revolutionary Warfare—The
Vietminh in Indo-China. George K.
Tanham. Methuen.
Auslralian Diplomacy in Japan, 1945-51.
R. N. Rosecrance.


-evolutionary struggle at all levels, in-
, the military real men trying
concrete results. The
Lonal University’s wnters give the
mnression of dealing with ciphers whose
I ain objective is the avoidance of action.
The conclusions drawn by Tanham
from his study of the victorious struggle
[the Vietminh are essential to an un-
derstanding of the real nature of the
str He in South-East Asia and the
irrelevancy of an arrangement as con-
stricted and hedged in as SEATO.
Tanham quotes a French definition of
the Viet idea of guerrilla warfare as “the
totality of action undertaken against the
rear of the enemy in order to weaken
his material and moral strength and
reduce his freedom of action.”
The agent in this type of operation,
the guerrilla soldier, is trained to be “not
only a fighter but a propagandist, a
political agent and even a laborer, as
the situation required.” The Viet “idea
of the guerrilla fighter and their refine-
ment of guerrilla warfare beyond any
point in previous historical experience
go far towards explaining their ultimate
success.” Its advantages were “slow
attrition of the local enemy, relative
safety from countermeasures, time in
which to build up regular forces for the
decisive final attack, and cheapness”
Crucial to the success of the guerrillas
is the “role of a powerful friendly neigh-
bor who can provide material, technical,
and moral assistance to the revolution-
aries.” In the case of the Vietminh, the
“powerful friendly neighbor” was Com-
munist China.
It will be apparent that the formalisms
of SEATO are totally irrelevant to this,
the characteristic form of warfare in the
underdeveloped regions of SE Asia.
It is also apparent that when full weight
is given to the necessity for completing
the nationalist revolution in Asia, for
solving the land question where it re-
mains unsolved, for programs of aid,
and even more important for commodity
arrangements which will assist the new
States to become economically viable,
the critical military question still re-
mains. The guerrilla is too dangerous to
° e left at large. His continued freedom
to operate is the major factor in per-
suading the peasantry that it is safer to
support the Communists than their ene-
n’!es> an d therefore he must be
eliminated.
It is the realisation of this fact which
Africans to side-track
y. 0 and to go to the relief of South
Ktnam, i n effect, on their own. It is
1 lc ult to win a military victory over
e guerrillas in the existing political
uation in that country. But the prior
eff £a ! ng U P of the guerrillas as an
Jin C IVe fighting force is the condition
inV ?lW n ° n P°*'^ consolidation
\ ietna ra, as it was in Malaya and in
the Philippines. Whether this can ulti-
mately be achieved by military action in
South Vietnam alone, without action
against the guerrilla bases in Laos, in
North Vietnam and even in South China
is an open question.
It is certain, however, that this
moment —in which the Chinese Com-
munists are ready even to risk a break
with the Soviet because of their utter
insistence on the necessity for armed
struggle in the underdeveloped countries
—is not the moment for us to speak
of the futility of military methods and
the need for Communist - dominated
“coalition governments.”
The problems which face the region
are, of course, far more complex in 1963
than they were in 1954, if for no other
reason than that the consolidation of the
European Economic Community must
have profound effects on the trading
prospects of several of the East and
South-East Asian States —Australia in-
cluded. The agrarian unrest which Mao
correctly recognised as the basic factor
to be exploited by the Communists will
be seriously intensified if the terms of
trade continue to harden against primi-
tive agricultural economies.
The basic problems of East and South-
East Asia are obviously economic as well
as political, military and diplomatic.
What is needed is the development of a
single integrated concept which provides
a coherent and harmonious solution for
each of these problems, treated as as-
pects of a single crisis. The danger is
that the nations of South and South-
East Asia will develop a medley of con-
tradictory programs, seeking now to
solve their economic problems, at an-
other time their military and political
problems, but, in isolation, not under-
standing that steps taken in one field
will fatally compromise those which
should be taken in the others.
npHE proposal for a Pacific Pact, on the
model of NATO, which was renewed
by Australia in 1949 and which is fully
described by R. N. Rosecrance in his
“Australian Diplomacy and Japan, 1945-
51”, provides the germ of the answer.
Like NATO in 1949, the Pacific Pact
had purely military ends in view. But
just as NATO has been supplemented
since 1960 by the drive towards the po-
litical and economic unity of Europe, so
the original military terms of the pro-
jected Pacific Pact of 1949 need eco-
nomic and political amplification today.
The 1949 proposal was that of an
Australian Labor Government. Evatt
and Dedman originated the public dis-
cussion. In the middle of May, Mr.
Chifley announced: “Planning for the
Pacific area ... is proceeding parallel
with corresponding planning for the
North Atlantic area.”
As Rosecrance points out, the United
States immediately threw cold water on
the proposal. Acheson left little doubt
that the attitude of India to such a pact
—the same hostile attitude as it took to
SEATO five years later was an im-
portant factor in the American decision.
More important is Rosecrance’s fol-
lowing statement:
“While Mr Acheson thus sought to
show that America was hesitant to join
a Pacific defence grouping in May,
1949, he also brought forward a
method whereby the United States
might be induced to join a pact at a
later time.
“The negotiations of the Atlantic
Pact was begun after a treaty among
the European States themselves, the
Brussels Pact, had been agreed to in
1948. The United States had joined
the defence alliance only after the
States in the area immediately endan-
gered had exercised initiative to pro-
vide for their own protection. If a
similar pattern were to be followed in
the Pacific it would require the forma-
tion of a pact embodying the major
Pacific and free Asian States. If such
a grouping could be created, Secretary
Acheson’s statement held out hope
that the United States might be pre-
vailed upon to join a comprehensive
Pacific defence treaty.”
The Chinese attack on India has
already produced a considerable modifi-
cation in India’s policy of non-align-
ment. While Nehru is in office it is
unlikely that this modification will go so
far as to permit India's participation in a
Pacific Community, of the type advo-
cated by the DLP in this country in
1961. But it is certain that Indian public
opinion is far ahead of the opinion of
India’s Prime Minister and that his suc-
cessor will not enjoy Nehru’s Olympian
position vis-a-vis India’s new mood.
This could be the critical moment to
launch the proposal for a Pacific Com-
munity, which would seek the closest
possible political, military and economic
cohesion of the non-Communist States
of Asia. Such a community would ulti-
mately be based on India and Japan, to-
gether with Australia and New Zealand,
in friendly association with the United
States. The development of Malaysia
and the first hesitant steps towards the
Association of Asian States indicate that
the mood of Asia is no longer necessarily
opposed to international organisation.


where Australians or Europeans around
you were drinking and you weren’t, you
and your friends were not allowed to
drink?
GUISE: Well, that rests upon the out-
look of each individual person. I am not
a heavy drinker but I have been invited
where many of my fellow Papuans and
New Guineans were not permitted to
take liquor and I felt this very deeply.
LYONS: That is what I mean. You
were not permitted to drink.
GUISE: Yes, I felt this very deeply.
LYONS: Yes, but other people around
you were?
GUISE: Yes, but with the repeal of
this ordinance, well, this feeling has sort
of vanished to a better understanding.
LYONS: Now, who do you actually
represent in the council? What sort of
people? I ask this because I understand
your country is made up of many, many
different tribes and something like six
or seven hundred languages between
them and you have this problem of the
impossibility of uniform development.
Quickly, anyway.
GUISE: Yes, I represent the East
Papuan Electorate which takes in the
Northern District of Papua, the Milne
Bay District of Papua, and part of the
Central District. I represent my people
in this particular electorate. And, I
couldn’t give you a definite number of
the various tribes in that particular
electorate but I would say that there
would be ’round about forty to fifty
different dialects in that particular elec-
torate.
The people that I represent there are
in various stages of development. When
I say that I mean that in some areas you
have local government councils firmly
established, in some there is none. They
are the people that I represent in the
East Papua Electorate.
LYONS: Well, they are the people
you represent and those are the people
who have, presumably, yearnings and
wants and desires and ambitions and so
on. Now what do these people want?
Do they want what you want? What
about the people who are not highly
developed or are still in the tribal state
and live simple and almost primitive
lives? These people are almost in-
articulate, aren’t they, in their wants?
GUISE: Yes, in my electorate, in the
East Papuan Electorate, those who are,
as you say, not sophisticated, are not as
much as those who are sophisticated and
understand. Because the government
does not put in local government coun-
cils in that area until it knows that there
is an awareness in that area for develop-
ment: and in my electorate, most of the
areas are already covered by local
government councils.
LYONS: Now isn’t there a big gap
between you between people like you
and these under-developed people? A
gap, which as education increases in New
Guinea and Papua, will itself increase?
This big gap between you and some of
the people you represent there in the
Legislative Council?
GUISE: Well, this is only a natural
thing in any under-developed country.
Not only in Papua/New Guinea but
even in Africa, where a country is
already independent, it still has a big
difference in tribes who are still illiterate.
LYONS: What is it? What do you
have in common with these people? This
is only a racial thing, isn’t it? I might
say there is the same gap between myself
and some people in Arnhem Land: but
there’s only this racial afinity that you
have in common, perhaps?
GUISE: I would like you to make that
question much more clear and simple.
LYONS: I’m sorry. What do you feel
then you have in common with these
people? The under-developed people
you represent what do you feel you
have in common?
GUISE: The thing that we have in
common is that we are the people of the
country.
LYONS: This is a racial thing? Or a
national feeling?
GUISE: It is, I think, a national feel-
ing.
LYONS: Not a racial feeling?
GUISE: No.
LYONS: Because otherwise you’d
start having races among the other foot,
if you say no.
GUISE: That is the thing that we as
leaders in Papua/New Guinea, must
pilot our country.
LYONS: This is one of the problems
you’ll have to face when you are in-
dependent. The bringing up of the
standards.
Now what happens to the white
settlers in Papua/New Guinea when the
time comes that it is independent and
you’ve got totally Papuan representation?
What happens to them? Could some of
them stand for election, and be elected,
in theory, by Papuans?
GUISE: There is no objections at all
in any Australians standing for election
on any one of the forty-four electorates
in Papua/New Guinea. We’ve made that
quite clear in the Legislative Council,
and I’m sure, when I went to the United
Nations, the report that was submitted
by the Australian Mission of the Select
Committee’s Report in Papua/New
Guinea this particular report was
commented upon by various African
and Asian countries. And Australia was
congratulated on its division and I think
that, for that mere fact, long after in-
dependence in Papua/New Guinea
will still need and require Australia'
people with us in Papua/New Guine
to work side by side with us f or
development of Papua/New Guinea
a whole. That is my belief. I
believe it.
LYONS: John, I’d like to go, i n |
few remaining minutes, into your o\\;
background. You, I believe— I w
you’ve travelled around the world quit;
a bit now but you, I believe, were
entirely brought up in Papua yourself,
Can you tell me something about you!
childhood. What did your father do?
GUISE: My father was a mission
worker of the Anglican Church. Mi
mother was a Papuan from Porotome
village in the East Cape district. I was
born at Gedelalara in the Wedau village
area. I was brought up by my Papuan
aunties in Wedau village and 1 stayed
there until I was about ten, before I
went to school at Dibua. 1 wasn’t too
successful at school. 1 went up as far
as grade five grade four to five-
then I had to leave and 1 went and
worked as a wharf laborer in Burrs
Philp in Samurai. Eventually I got into
the grocery department. 1 carried baskets
delivery delivery cargo boy; and
then later 1 worked until I became the
man in charge of the Packing Delivery
Department. And then I stayed with
them until it was BP’s who left us because
of the war. And then I went over to the
Australian and New Guinean Ad-
ministrative Unit —commonly known
as ANGAU. I was with the first peoplt
that went into Milne Bay, clearing the
place for the arrival of the Australian
Army. And from there I was in the ait
warning wireless system, in which 1 did
a lot of decoding and encoding of
signals.
Later I joined the Royal Papuan Con-
stabulary. I rose to Sergeant Major First
Class and from there I transferred bad
after the war, in nineteen hundred an
fifty-two, to local government. An
from there I came to the Legislative
Council of Papua/New Guinea.
LYONS: Quite a number of jobs»
careers.
GUISE: Yes.
LYONS: And finally, let me ask f
this. Do you have any personal desire
for political power yourself? b 11
important to you? ,
GUISE: This is a secondary thing
me. I look upon my duty in Papua
Guinea as one playing his sma P
towards the overall developing
Papua/New Guinea. And I look upo
as a solemn duty, but no P°‘
ambition; but I feel that it is . j
I have been elected by my P eo^e
my duty to help as much as pos sl
and be loyal to my mother cOU / ltr Lj sC
LYONS: Well, thank you John u


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
O’SCIXIVAIv J]
- PTYLTD. ■ A'
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Mantcn Pty. Ltd.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE EARLE PAGE MEMOIRS
Sir,
I have read the letter of Mrs Ann
Mozley in your issue of February 9, in
which she purports to “call attention to
an alteration which might otherwise re-
flect upon the integrity of Sir Earle
Page’s record” and as the “editor of
‘Truant Surgeon' working in close col-
laboration with (him) until his death”
protesting against the removal of mater-
ial and an appendix from the manuscript
by his literary executors.
As the responsible representative of his
literary executors I desire to state the
facts: early in October. 1961, Sir Earle
discussed with me the question of omit-
ting this appendix for certain good
reasons and informed me that he in-
tended to do so.
Shortly afterwards, in Canberra, I was
present when his intention to make the
change was announced to Mrs Mozley.
She said she did not agree, but my hus-
band then gave no indication of his in-
tention to change his mind still further.
I, therefore, representing his literary
executors, was bound to carry out his
wish as expressed to me only six or
seven weeks before he fell ill.
I may add that the extent of the altera-
tion amounted only to this: that the text
of the extract of the speech referring
to Mr Menzies was removed from the
appendix and a reference note placed at
the foot of the page to indicate the posi-
tion in “Hansard” where it and the reply
of Mr Menzies might be found.
Mrs Mozley’s claim to be “the editor”
of the book and the “close collaborator”
of my husband is true only to the extent
that she was engaged to reduce in bulk
a book already written and submitted
P a publisher from two volume dimen-
sions to one volume, a task which she
Performed satisfactorily; but there was
! lever at any time any relationship be-
my husband and herself which
l• 1 " he described as collaboration or
ich invested her with any authority
make decisions about what should ap?
Pear in the book, or in fact to do any-
'ng else further than to obey implicitly
ls or after his death his executors
mstructions.
JEAN PAGE
Sydney.
WHO PAYS THE PIPER?
Sir,
Lon 2 as ks “Who calls the
• (Bulletin, February 2). Where
the ABC broadcast concerts are con-
cerned it is someone with a gargantuan
appetite for the juiciest fruits of the
Romantic autumn. Over and over we
are offered Vieuxtemps, Saint-Saens,
Rimsky-Korsakov, Franck, Elgar (again
in the concert last Saturday night),
Richard Strauss (again in this week’s
Sunday morning concert), Richard
Strauss, Richard Strauss; and now we
are in for yet another series of works of
Vaughan Williams. Much of this music
is pleasant, some of it is great; but as
a country listener who reluctantly pays
the piper I should like to support Mr
Long’s plea for a less stick-in-the-mud
policy and remind the ABC that worth-
while music was being written before
1800 and not only by J. S. Bach,
Handel, Haydn and Mozart.
Let us hope that current programmes
were designed under the regime of the
recently retired director of music and
that his successor will give heed to what
the chairman and the general manager
repeatedly say about the ABC’s having to
cater for all tastes. However, just in
case the selection of music continues to
be influenced by someone with narrow
preferences, why not protect radio
licence holders by giving him access to
a turntable and a free run of the ABC
record library so that he can satisfy
these preferences off the air?
J. E. LLEWELYN
Armidale (NSW).
HELPING INDIA
Sir,
I am an Indian who is on a short visit
to this country. In India one of the
major problems is the development of
rural areas. The method of “adoption”
of an Indian village by Australian
groups, as advocated in your “Plain
English” (Bulletin, February 2), if done
in the right spirit will enhance the mutual
respect and understanding between the
people of both countries. I would like
to congratulate you for putting forward
a dynamic and effective scheme for co-
operation at popular level between India
and Australia.
I understand that Community Aid
Abroad organisation in Melbourne has
about 2000 Australians contributing re-
gularly for specific development projects
in Indian villages. If this excellent or-
ganisation is supported on a large scale
by trade unions, business and other
groups all over Australia I have no
doubt that it will do immense good to
both India and Australia.
N. T. TASKAR
Neutral Bay (NSW).
KITTY BLUETT
Sir,
Let’s face it the “new look” Bul-
letin is well informed, and usually ac-
curate. However, your correspondent Jan
Smith (Bulletin, February 9) erred in
her article “Facing A New Generation,”
when she stated that Kitty Bluett ap-
peared in Noel Coward’s comedy, “Point
Valaine” at the Theatre Royal.
Miss Bluett certainly appeared in this
play, but not at the Theatre Royal.
“Point Valaine” (and not ‘Verlaine’ as
spelt by Jan Smith) was a Kathleen Rob-
inson presentation directed by writer-
producer Alec Coppell at the old Min-
erva Theatre, Kings Cross. This theatre
later went to film, under the Metro
banner.
MAX TAYLOR
Strathfield (NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
LORDS OF ENGLAND
By Madeleine Armstrong
Richard II; by William Shakespeare.
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
Union Theatre. Melbourne.
T>aymond Westwell’s production of
“Richard II” is well worth seeing.
It is both exciting and workmanlike and
has a strong cast who speak their lines
very clearly—a great virtue in playing
Shakespeare. Joan McArthur (Duchess
of Gloucester) is outstanding for her
beautiful, rich voice.
“Richard II” is a difficult play to
stage. Although its full title is “The
Tragedy of King Richard II,” it is not
a true tragedy. Richard is not a tragic
hero in the classical sense: a man of
great stature who yet fails through one
fatal flaw. On the contrary, he was a
weak man who was born to be king yet
lacked the qualities necessary for a ruler,
while his usurping cousin Bolingbroke
possessed these qualities in full measure.
In the first half of the play Shake-
speare shows us a Richard who is both
weak and headstrong and who throws
his kingdom away, while Bolingbroke
appears as a man of strength and author-
ity. By the time Richard leaves for
Ireland the audience :s, like England, up
in arms for Bolingbroke, and the danger
is that he will capture too much sym-
pathy. For, in the second half of the
play, Shakespeare shows Richard in a
different perspective—as a man to be
pitied for his fall from greatness, his
decline from being * king to being a
mere man.
We must now sympathise with the
Richard from whom our sympathy has
been alienated, yet we must not condemn
Bolingbroke, the man who is responsible
for Richard’s misery. After all, as is
pointed out in “1066 and All That,”
Bolingbroke is about to become Henry
IV, Part I.
It is always a problem in the produc-
tion of the play to preserve a balance of
sympathy between Richard and Boling-
broke, and to keep a feeling of unity
in the action as it zigzags about between
the two of them and their supporters.
No doubt it was easier for the Eliza-
bethans who would have been familiar
with the history of the period.
Raymond Westwell deals with these
problems by curtailing Richard, inhibit-
ing Bolingbroke and concentrating our
attention on the tough, unruly nobles.
In the opening scene we see Richard, the
exquisite, seated on his high throne and
below him a very tough-looking Mow-
bray (flintily played by Michael Duffield)
confronted by an equally uncompromis-
ing Bolingbroke, each surrounded by a
surly bunch of nobles who mutter fiercely
as the two protagonists hurl mortal in-
sults at each other. This sets the tone
for the whole production. The Lords
of England spring into prominence, plot-
ting and counter-plotting.
This emphasis certainly brings out the
resemblance between “Richard II” and
the other history plays. Kings come and
go, but the noble lords are always pre-
sent, offering allegiance or defiance, but
always asserting their power. It i s ail
interesting idea of Mr Westwell’s and it
does succeed in giving firmness and
unity to the production. The price lie
has to pay is the sacrifice of interest in
Richard as an individual.
Frederick Parslow plays Richard as a
pouting, spoilt, petulant fop. It is easy
to play him thus in the first half where
he is being shown as a Bad King, but it
makes it all the more difficult in the
second half to portray him as a man to
be pitied. However, since Mr West-
well’s production has reduced the part,
the Richard that Mr Parslow has to pre-
sent is much slighter than the Richard
we usually see. Within the limitations
of the interpretation Mr. Parslow gives a
fine performance. Bolingbroke is played
by Leslie Wright as a rather wooden
figure, forceful but stiff.
Anne Fraser's two-level set is too
steep. Designed, no doubt to illustrate
the image of Richard and Bolingbroke
as the two buckets changing places at
a well, it has the effect of making the
spectator feel a crick in the neck, besides
taking up too much space on the lower
stage.
ART
THE POINT OF DISINTEGRATION
Eric Smith. Rudy Komon Gallery.
Sydney.
the eve of sailing for Europe Eric
Smith, winner of the 1962 Helena
Rubinstein Scholarship, has put up 49
oils, crayon and water-color drawings
All are recent, rather exuberant efforts
giving rein to an impulsiveness which at
every turn enhances and also confuses
expression.
Smith has dwelt in the tranquil water
of cubist abstraction for some consider-
able time. It is rather uncomfortable,
in view of this fact, to contemplate the
looseness of some of the forms confront-
ing us in the nine oils. Realist-express-
ionist images of an instantly recognisable
kind somehow don’t measure up to the
tactics of free abstraction. “Neville
Gruzman, architect,” has a silent dig-
nity of a kind, but the image seems at
the point of disintegration.
In this, as in the other big paintings,
we are treated to another sampling of
Smith’s special brand of limpid greens,
ochres and browns which make his work
instantly recognisable. His portrait of
‘‘John Olsen entering the Yon Beaut
Country” is wryly directed at a juvenile
idea, both flattering as a tribute and full
of irony. It is evidence of the desire for
the creation of myths and legends
among Australian artists. If we havent
achieved the heights or profundities of
Khrishna or Orpheus no one can accuse
us of not trying!
The dense tangles of “The Explorer
or the fretted imagery of “Head i n
Landscape” show Smith at a very active
level, but one in which his direction is
not at all clear. Some linear influences
in his drawings have not been thoroug 1
assimilated. Perhaps his movement w°
a wider art world will enable him to see
the local scene in greater
One glance at the catalogue is suffici
evidence of his capacity for rapid p r
duction.
JOHN HENSHAW


A COPY OF A COPY?
Perth Prize. State Gallery, Perth.
Ton Molvig’s “Family,” which won this
J year’s Perth Prize, is very admirable
• Jd in design, if a little forbidding. Its
weakness lies, however, in a certain am-
hienitv The manifest content and the
llistic formalisation of the figures do
If fuse As a rule we do not get a
tntallv meaningful whole. Molvig con-
fronts us with a pair of Ned Kelly
hanes one male one female, with a
Lid seen in X-ray en ventre sa mere:
these figures face us enigmatically. What
have they to say about the cycle of
hum an generation?
The painting seems to be less about
human life as such than about an Aus-
tralian myth, itself half-contrived. These
brooding figures with their narrow trian-
gular eyes look like the idols of an
imaginary tribe of Kelly worshippers, and
miss universality by a long way. Must
Mt be the copy of a copy?
bn This is a harsh criticism perhaps, but
-it must, certainly, be qualified. Molvig
has produced a very fine abstract compo-
sition, it is better in its failure than a lot
of the other paintings are in their success:
but even so, he attempted something that
he did not bring off. Ned Kelly should
stay in his own landscape. Even three
wheels of eternal recurrence cannot
make him a fi g ur e of cosmic relevance,
And the symbolic castration adds noth-
in § to bis mana '
Local artlsts are well represented,
O’Connor and Grey Smith solid and
urban e, Langlis wistful with a dis-
appointing unevenness of tone, Lazio
expressionistic in an old-fashioned but
powerful way, with a European view of
“Rottnest.” Jumper’s built-up surface has
become 9 uite mountainous, he seems to
Panting on a relief map, with a fine
effect ’ mov,n S as well as decorative,
Hodgkinson’s “Green Wind” sustains
his high reputation, and Elwyn Lynn’s
“Vertibraic” seemed at once subtle and
more powerful than his constructions in
the last exhibition: less nerves, more soul,
The Fred Williams “Sapling Forest”
caused a sharp cleverage of opinion:
some thought it a self parody, others one
of his most successful works. The latter
may very well turn out to be right,
The water-color prize was won by H.
Salkauskas with a sophisticated, abstract
“Landscape.” Patrick Hutchings
MUSIC
RARELY PLAYED CONCERTI
Chamber Concerto Concert. The Syd-
ney Camerata, with Tessa Birnie,
pianist and conductor. Cell Block
Theatre. Sydney.
concert Sydney’s first this year
was sponsored jointly by the
Sydney Mozart Society, the Schubert
Society, and the WE A Music Club. The
printed programme called the concert
“a programme of rare piano concerti,”
and included a short foreword by Miss
Birnie pointing out that concertos with
chamber orchestra are scarcely ever
heard at concerts, a fact which this con-
cert was intended to help rectify.
The first of the four little-known
works on the programme was a con-
certo by Wilhelm Friedman Bach, the
eldest and (according to his father) the
most talented of J. S. Bach’s sons, who
IS today almost completely overshadowed
y his famous father and brothers. To
some extent, Friedman is neglected be-
cause of his reaction to the historical
Situation he found himself in. He lived
the time when the baroque style was
ein £ re placed by the rococo and galant
|J es ; his own personal bias lay towards
e older style, but he could do little
ucw with it, while his work in the newer
; c was not significant enough to earn
t ' m status even of an important his-
thaMi Ure ‘ a resu lfi the fine music
he wrote goes almost completely
neglected. The concerto played at the Cell
Block is written in the Italian baroque
style, though the harmony is more sophis-
ticated and the form more discursive than
in the classical Italian concerto writers.
Mozart was represented by the con-
certo in C major (K 415), which was
originally scored for a fairly large orch-
estra, but can be performed by strings
alone. It is hard to see why this work
should be so completely neglected. Al-
though not Mozart’s greatest concerto, it
contains some highly original and typi-
cally Mozartian features that make it
well worth hearing notably the two
false cadenzas in the first movement, and
the dramatic slow interlude which twice
interrupts the course of the light-hearted
third movement.
The programme also included a di-
vertimento for strings by Michael Haydn,
Josef’s younger brother. This could easily
have been an early work of Josef’s. The
melodies are straightforward, sometimes
a trifle mustic, and instrumental rather
than vocal in character; the formal de-
sign of each movement adheres closely
to the classical pattern. But Michael’s
melodies are rather wooden compared
with Josef’s and his handling of the
classical forms less assured; he gives the
impression of writing to a predetermined
design rather than of being in command
of his materials.
The concert ended with a curious work
by Schubert, part concerto, part chamber
music, and adagio and rondo for piano
and strings (D 487) written when he was
19. Much of the music has a symphonic
air about it, but the work was published
as chamber music, subtitled “klavier-
concert.” The score indicates solo and
tutti parts for the strings, but the piano
writing seems better suited to chamber
music than the concert hall.
The last two items were performed
very well. Miss Birnie is in world class as
a Schubert pianist, and she played the
adagio and rondo superbly. There were
only seven string players in this item,
instead of 12, and they found it easier to
achieve unanimity about pitch and at-
tack than the larger group had in the
other concertos. The Haydn was also well
performed, as Miss Birnie was able to
devote all her energies to directing the
orchestra, instead of being preoccupied
with her own part. The first two items I
liked less, partly because of the patchy
orchestral playing, and partly because
Miss Birnie’s performances of the solo
parts exhaled too Romantic an odour for
18th-century music.
Concerts of early music usually include
works of so many different periods and
styles that they end up having no parti-
cular character. The programme for this
concert was one of the best-balanced I
have seen. Miss Birnie and the sponsoring
societies deserve to be thanked for their
initiative in putting it on.
JOHN SMALL
FILMS
SOUND AND
LIGHT
Spotlight on Murder. Metro Continent-
al. Sydney.
An exquisite corpse in a secret tomb,
strange voices, disgruntled heirs, a
tower filled with legends of abortive love
and murder, organ music, three mys-
terious deaths including a suicide and a
crime of passion, dead black birds land-
ing in the middle of formal dinner tables,
incest, drunkenness, and a temporary
ghost these are but a few of the in-
gredients in what Hollywood might call
the greatest adventure in Glorious
Gothicvision to date, ‘'Spotlight on
Murder.” Indeed, the only thing missing
is the usual submersion into an adolescent
and pathological dream-world. Somehow
Director Georges Franju carries the
whole thing along with a clarity,
maturity, and humor previously unknown
in such ventures.
The pivotal factor to what is other-
wise a pastiche of the Gothic horror and
the modern murder mystery is the


framing of the entire film in the concept
of the son et lumiere pageant. The crim-
inal and the subconscious are constantly
transformed into the terms of sound and
light, thus allowing the camera a con-
tinual control over its subject matter.
Even when the major plot of murder for
money and the minor plot of the legend
of a love-suicide meet in the half-real
and half-imaginary leap of a young girl
from the tower, one retains the sense of
the priority of intellect and plan in the
film.
“Spotlight on Murder” is Gothic in
every way except that it refuses to allow
the subconscious supremacy over the
conscious. The total impact is very much
that which would be produced by having
the Marx Brothers act out some “True
Romances” magazine story. It is not a
“deep” picture, but it is a delightful and
mature step apart from a long, ill, and
often enormously boring tradition.
JACK DAVIES
TELEVISION
FOR YOUNGER ADULTS
Bandstand. TCN-9, Wednesday, 7 p.m.
HHhe musical shows are beginning to
A emerge from the thick haze of rumor
that shrouded them during the silent
weeks of summer. There have been a few
changes. O'Keefe will regain his show,
renamed “Sing, Sing, Sing” and turned
into a white shadow of itself after he left
it. Lionel Long has moved to “Music
Time,” which now resembles Sing etc.
even more than it used to. “Startime”
has not reappeared yet. A new show
named “Saturday Date” will have Jim
Hannan as its compere. Bandstand is
back, supposedly redesigned for a 7 p.m.
audience, with some ballyhoo in which
the terms “sophisticated” and “adult”
were used.
They must surely refer to some issue
of “Bandstand” not yet taped. The show
I saw last week was as sophisticated as
Chubby Checker, who appeared in it,
shuffling and laughing nervously, and as
adult as the target for one of its adver-
tisers, the “Clearasil people” who are
poised and happy because they no longer
have to worry about their pimples. Per-
haps the new show is aimed at a class to
be known as younger adults, a euphemism
for older children. If so, its publicists
should come right out and say so, allow-
ing all greybeards of 30 and more to look
elsewhere.
The premiere of “Bandstand” for
1963 opened with an item by the Dell-
tones, a group whose members sing very
well, but whose on-camera talents end
there, and should be allowed to. The
“singalong” influence is strong in Sydney-
produced shows and producers tend to
ask singers, solo or group, to move
around, act out a scene, or literally get
weaving. The sight of the Delltones,
augmented by other male figures, trying
to act out a West Side Story tableau that
called for menace and flick knives, was
nearly too much for this adult.
The fact is that “Bandstand” is for
teenagers. In Melbourne it is being des-
cribed so, and televised at 5.30 Sunday
nights, at the same time as a serial for
children on one channel and “Meet the
Press” for greybeards on another. On
the show’s present standard, that seems
a sensible arrangement. It does not
bridge from youth to adulthood, probably
because it lacks that dependable connec-
tion, common humor unless the idea
of the Delltones as hoods with flick
knives strikes the producers as a gas, a
riot.
FRANK ROBERTS
BALLET
THE DANCE AND MIME OF CEYLON
The Chitrasena Ballet. Elizabethan
Theatre. Sydney.
T\ne of the sweeter results of Australia’s
trade with the Pacific and Indian
Ocean countries has been the sending to
us of some remarkable cultural missions.
Outstanding in recent memory are the
Chinese National Opera Company (which
some years back utterly dazzled theatre
folk here) and the Indian Song and
Dance Theatre, visitors last year. Now
we have a company from Ceylon, the
Chitrasena Ballet, a title that is a little
misleading for a group whose musicians
are at least as exciting as the dancers.
To an outsider who lacks the traditions
of the Indian and Ceylonese art forms,
just about the best feature of this recital
is the brilliant drumming; the marvellous,
intricate rhythms, through which the
players find their way with an ease humi-
liating to Western responses.
It is drum-playing far beyond the mere
provision of a rhythmic pattern and
drive more like an amazing and
vigorous dance the movements of which
become audible. The dancers of the
ballet have a response to these rhythms
that is a miracle to this critic. Try as I
could, I found it impossible to tie down
the dancers’ movements to any particular
pattern of the rhythm instruments''
seemed, after some puzzling analv ' 1
that they were weaving their own p?
cular beauty from the silences 0 f a
drums that they had firmly i n a ■
mind and muscle a counterpoint of
ment that moved meticulously across th
beat of drum.
Chitrasena, the leader and founder of
the ballet, is an extraordinary dancer and
mime. His presence here at the same ti rae
as Marcel Marceau provides a piq Uant
study of an artist truly steeped in tra-
dition, an unbroken tradition of dance
visually handed down, and one who
somewhat artily re-creates a personal
idea of what might have been a tradition
once.
With Chitrasena, even though the
mime is often stylised, and (occasionally)
an effort is needed to oenetrate back
from the beautiful, economical stylisation
to the original in nature, there is never
any doubt of the truth of his art. Mostly
indeed, his mime is immediately acces-
sible his Warrior Dance w'ith its mag-
nificent chariot ride and fight with bow
KEVON KEMP
and arrow is superb and exciting. Later,
his drunk village chief is a virtuoso piece
of work. He is a man completely and
utterly drunk. Drunk with liquor and
lust and one can see in this wonder-
ful dancer’s art how these two intoxica-
tions mingle, and exactly where in the
body they mix. For this performance
alone, the entire tour of the Chitrasena
Ballet would be worthwhile.
Opinions on this ballet company will
vary, but for me the delights are chiefly
in the “Divertissements” as the program
calls them, which are folk dances,
traditional songs, and improvised orches-
trations of drums. The formal ballet
which is the major part of the pro-
gram, while packed with beautiful imag-
ery and movement, does not seem alto-
gether successful in its attempt to marry
ancient style and traditional movements
to more recent modes of thinking aoo
cultures alien to the original.
As Western technology develops in the
East, so the movement patterns and the
muscular responses of the peoples a fe
bound to change, but right now the di -
ferences between East and West are more
downright fascinating than the growing
resemblances.


THE RED PAGE
HANDBOOK FOR SPIES
The future of espionage
By PETER KELLY
The Secret War, The Story of Inter-
national Espionage Since 1945.
Sanche de Gramont. Andre Deutsch.
The case of Ivan Fedorovich Skripov,
who was until last Thursday the First
Secretary of the Russian Embassy in Can-
berra, is a standard one in the history of
espionage, not only because he is a Soviet
diplomat (ten Soviet United Nations
diplomats were expelled from the US be-
cause of espionage activities between
1952 and 1959; twelve Soviet diplomats
were expelled from the US for espionage
activities between 1948 and 1960), but
also because of the equipment and tech-
nique he used. The Australian Security
Intelligence Organisation revealed that a
radio and high-speed coder were present,
messages were w'ritten in invisible ink,
hiding places (or “drops”) were in out-
of-the-way places and no drop was used
twice, the meetings with the Australian
agent were always in public places, ASIO
people used hidden cameras to photo-
graph Skripov and his agent together,
and no doubt microfilm and other pieces
of the ordinary tools of the trade were
also discovered.
The fact that Skripov was the first
Soviet diplomat to enter the country after
Australia and the USSR resumed diplo-
matic relations in 1959 should teach us
one lesson which Sanche de Gramont's
many case histories bring out: the Soviet
Union is more anxious in establishing its
system of Soviet espionage rings in
foreign countries than it is in resuming
ordinary diplomatic behavior.
De Gramont's book is an excellent
account of the history of espionage since
1945. Probably the most successful spy
is the Soviet's Colonel Rudolf Ivanovich
Abel. In June 1957, three Federal Bureau
of Investigation men (the FBI is respon-
sible for the detection of internal spies)
walked into a third-rate New York City
ote J r °om and confronted Martin
ollins, one of the hotel’s quietest and
Nost respected residents. Collins or Abel
' 'sreal name is still unknown) was most
cooperative and when an Immigration
. lcer arrived half-an-hour later he ad-
he had entered the United States
j[ 0m . Canada in 1948, as Andrew
a )otis, and submitted to arrest for enter-
n 8 the county illegally as an alien.
th fr 116 * Was biggest catch
e had made. Although it was less
of a world sensation than the Rosenbergs,
the Sobels, or the Coplon cases, the FBI
and the CIA rated Abel as “the master
Soviet spy of the twentieth century ”
Allen Dulles who had not at that time
come under the Cuban cloud and was still
head of the CIA (he was replaced in Nov-
ember, 1961, by John A. McCone) is re-
ported as saying: “I wish we had a couple
like him in Moscow.”
Like Skripov, Abel had the title of
“Resident” Soviet agent in the US and he
was the “team captain” for all of North
America, Central America and Mexico.
Abel was not responsible for gathering
intelligence himself, but acted more as
a switch-board operator in charge of an
enormous communications system, con-
trolling the finance needed for espionage
in the US and, according to de Gramont,
serving as “the executive vice-president
in charge of personnel for a large corpora-
tion. In time of peace or cold war, he
saw to it that the network was operating
smoothly and was kept intact. In time of
hot war, he was prepared to launch sabo-
tage operations.”
Abel's spy kit was even more interes-
ting than what has as yet been revealed
in the Skripov case: a tiny 250-page
booklet (concealed in a block of wood
covered in sandpaper) containing the
key to Abel's personal code, a pencil in
which was hidden 18 microfilms, some of
them letters from his wife and daughter
in Moscow and one of them his sched-
ule for broadcasts to Moscow, two birth
certificates, $6OOO in cash, a bank book
with $1386 in credit, and a key to a safe-
deposit box containing $15,000. Both
birth certificates were false. One was for
Emil Robert Goldfus, born on August 2,
1902 in New York (the real Goldfus had
died on October 9, 1903); the other certi-
ficate, completely false, was for the name
Abel was using, Martin Collins, born in
July 1897.
Abel’s high intelligence and fluency in
five languages were by no means his only
assets. He had a genius for the incon-
spicuous” and as the foreman for the jury
which convicted him said: “He could be
walking down the street and he could be
anybody.”
Abel was eventually convicted on three
counts and sentenced to death. The death
penalty was later commuted and he was
given a gaol sentence of 30 years. His
American defence lawyer at the time of
the trial in arguing for the death penalty
to be commuted made a prophecy: “It is
possible that in the foreseeable future,
an American of equivalent rank will be
captured by Soviet Russia or an ally—
at such a time an exchange of prisoners
through diplomatic channels would be
considered to be in the best national in-
terest of the United States.” Two years
later Colonel Abel was exchanged for the
U-2 pilot, Francis Gary Powers.
"Powers’ capture by the Russians in one
sense ended the era of the Colonel
Abels and began a new period. Powers
was a pilot flying high altitude, longer
range reconnaissance planes, based in
Turkey. From these bases the United
States government did two things: it con-
ducted legitimate meteorological investi-
gations, and it flew planes over Soviet
territory photographing military sites,
communication systems, factories —any-
thing which could be processed and used
in the permanent espionage war.
De Gramont speculates, in a chapter
on the future of espionage, how much
spying in the future will be done by
human spies. De Gramont holds that a
quantum jump was made in espionage in
January 1961 at Port Arguelle, California.
The United States developed Samos
(satellite and missile observation system)
which is a five-ton satellite launched by
a 77-feet long Atlas rocket which photo-
graphs territory while in orbital flight.
This eye in the sky can snap detailed pic-
tures by starlight that are as good as
those taken by the U-2 planes. This per-
manent peephole takes photographs com-
parable to what the human eye can see
at 100 feet. As de Gramont points out:
“It could theoretically photograph the
entire land mass of the Soviet Union,
showing road traffic and troop concen-
tration.” This advance in technical
methods of espionage is further shown
by Samos’s sister satellite, Midas, which
carries infra-red detection equipment
which gives a half-hour advance warn-
ing when missiles leave their launching
pads. This is an advance on the 15-
minute warning now provided by the
Distant Early Warning (DEW) radar
system.
Although the quantum jump has been
made, “The Secret War” shows clearly
that all Governments will have to con-
tinue their present activities of sending
agents into other countries recruiting
traitors (such as Judy Coplor., Burgess
and Maclean) assisting the process of
defection (Petrov). The Soviet Govern-
ment will also continue to blackmail
some nationals into working for it by
threatening reprisals against their rela-
tives in Iron Curtain countries.
Another lesson de Gramont's book re-
veals is that more is known about the


FRENCH SPEAKING
Australian Journalist in Paris, available for
business and journalistic assignments. Experi-
enced in finance and general reporting as well
as market and media research. Write:—
Robert P. Cordukes
261 Boulevarde Raspail,
Paris 6e, FRANCE
US and the West’s intelligence systems,
and mistakes than the Soviet’s and its
satellites’ because they are open and free
societies. Take the Skripov case for in-
stance. It is now common knowledge
how Skripov was caught and by what
means. This would not happen in the
USSR where no questions are asked.
THE MUTINY ON THE BOUNTY
Bligh whitewashed again
By M. H. ELLIS
What Happened on the Bounty. Bengt
Danielsson, translated from the
Swedish by Alan Topsell. George
Allen & Unwin.
Tn his preface to this reassessment of
the mutiny of the Bounty Mr Daniels-
son says that “the grotesque mistakes
and flights of imagination” in the litera-
ture of the saga are “the more remark-
able because in various archives and
libraries throughout the world there are
quantities of log books, reports, letters
and other documents with the help of
which it is possible to reconstruct in
detail the whole course of events.” He
adds that “this book is an exhaustive
study of this mass of original material,”
and should “really be called 'The True
and Complete Story etc.’ ”
Mr Danielsson is obviously not a mod-
est man. His picture of Bligh and of the
Bounty mutiny and its aftermath is far
from being complete, and far from being
exhaustive or true. He has a trust in
Bligh’s versions of events which are
certainly not justified even by Bligh’s
own documents. From his account Bligh
emerges as a strict but fair martinet, a
great navigator who antagonised his men
by bursts of temper which sometimes lecf
him into becoming unreasonable and to
vent the effect of his brainstorms on his
crew.
Bligh had the advantage of being able
to write his own story of the mutiny and
his own ticket in heroism after the
mutiny when he left his men behind in
Batavia, some of them to die, bringing
home with him only his steward and his
clerk, who could be relied on to abet his
tale.
There then flowed from his pen the
tale of a miraculous voyage of 3000
miles which he had made after the
mutineers cast him adrift. In the ship’s
launch he had two midshipmen, the
Bounty's sailing master, the master’s
mate, the master carpenter, the boatswain,
two quartermasters, the quartermaster’s
mate, surgeon, gunner, sailmaker, botanist
and four ableseamen. He was equipped
with canvas sails and cordage, tool chest
and water containers, some spirits, quad-
rant and compass. Compare his 3000-mile
voyage, achieved with the prevailing wind
behind him, with the voyage made by the
absconder William Bryant, who stole the
little boat in which he caught fish in the
harbor for Governor Phillip. In March,
1791, he set out from Port Jackson and
made the 3000-mile voyage to Timor
with seven unskilled convicts and his
wife and two children, without any of
the equipment or advantages that were
Bligh’s. Those poor wretches had little
credit for their amazing feat, while
Bligh’s is held up as one of the sea-epics
of all time.
Danielsson accepts without question
Bligh’s story of his relationship with those
under him in the launch. And he quotes
Bligh’s letter to his wife from Timor at
the end of the voyage assuring her that
he was in perfect health.
His version of what happened to the
crew at Batavia is that “there proved to
be very few places available on the
European ships leaving Batavia, and con-
sequently the eighteen survivors were
obliged to split up.” His account of
Bligh’s departure for England from
Batavia thus glosses over the facts.
Bligh’s public narrative gives no hint of
the fact that the men in the launch with
him were almost as ready to mutiny as
those who seized the Bounty, from the
officers downwards. To his accusations
and reports, reserved for his private logs,
they had no chance of replying. He told
the Admiralty of his “honor and integrity,
with self-acquittal of every particle of
disgrace”:
“I have done more than man ever
did” (he wrote). “No man shares with me
in any honors I may receive (i.e. in rela-
tion to the launch journey) for I have
none that merit it, they shall never how-
ever bear any part of my misfortune. I
have saved their lives most miraculously.”
On October 8, in Batavia, he was well
enough to attend an official entertain
ment, hobnobbing with the guests Oj
October 11, having returned from the
country to Batavia and hearing that a
vessel was leaving for England on the
15th, it was “found absolutely expedient
to send me in her to save my lif e an( j
I have (thought it) . . . therefore not
. . . inconsistent with the rules of the
Service to separate myself from niy
people, altho with great concern”.
To his agent he wrote: “I have saved
their lives most miraculously and now I
am obliged to fly from Batavia in order
to save my own . . . and leave all my
people behind me except my clerk and
servant. I have been since here almost
dead with fever, but it seems to be at
present removed. I am still however in a
precarious state, and my head is so dis-
tracted . .
His own account of his activities, his
diction, his clear, steady handwriting,
give the lie absolute to his account of hfi 1
health. And his desertion is made the
more monstrous by his addenda to ml
excuses for it:
Should it please God not to give
me life to return, lei it be remembered
there is no one here that is deserving
of any attention from their country
but my clerk who has shown much
resolution and beha-'ed very well and
also a young man named Mr Hayward
. . . my character and honor is spot-
less when examined and 1 shall stand
to be tried despising mercy or for-
giveness if it can be found I have
been guilty even of an error of judg-
ment.
The crew that he maligned was one
he himself had chosen and of which he
had written eight weeks out at sea from
London, and having gone through a
stormy passage: “My men are all active
good fellows . . . my officers and young
gentlemen are all tractable and well dis-
posed.” In the end there was scarcely a
man but his clerk who did not hate him.
Danielsson slurs over all this. From
his book one would never dream
that the whole of Bligh’s recor
was milestoned with complaints about
his besetting vices avarice, the father
of most of his troubles, and violence
and cruelty leading to mutiny. In} e
Bounty his officers and crew mutinie.
then those who elected to stay with him
virtually mutinied, and some were aban
doned to their deaths. In the Providence,
on the “second bread fruit voyage,
was happy because had to be, or
career would have been at an e nd >
Flinders would not serve under him a !^'
-—he felt that Bligh would seize credit
whatever he did. • y
In H.M.S. Director he stopped mW
at sea by drastic flogging, and his cr
became one of the sets of leaders a
Mutiny of the Nore and was the aS


adventure, history, war and romance
BOOKS FOR AUSTRALIANS
,co *:
i "1>
mi#
SYDNEY COVE, 1788
by John Cobley.
A day-to-day account of how
{be people in the Colony of
lew South Wales lived during
the first year of settlement.
Compiled entirely from contem-
porary sources which have only
recently become available for
publication.
44/9 (post 1/11).
2. TRUANT SURGEON
by Sir Earle Page.
As leader of the Country Party
the author frequently held the
power to make or break Prime
Ministers.
This book reveals the facts
behind many controversial hap-
penings.
63/- (post 2/5).
sr-
H
: ficttwifo
t>t) » pisStge to -i :
I;: BOTANY HAY ig
J7&7 it>92 !|
3. REMARKS ON A PASSAGE
TO BOTANY BAY
by James Scott, Sergeant of
Marines.
A first-hand account of the
severe hardships and privations
suffered by all members of the
First Fleet on its historic voyage
to Botany Bay.
25/- (post 1/11).
4. THE EMBARRASSING
AUSTRALIAN
by Harry Gordon.
Reg Saunders is the only
aboriginal ever to be commis-
sioned in the armed forces.
But in peace time he has not
been accepted so readily. This
book tells of his struggle for a
place in a white man’s world.
28/6 (post 1/2).
these are exciting books about a great land, Australia and great Australians
5. THE HEBREW MELODIST
by Catherine Mackerras.
Isaac Nathan is the father of
Australian music—he composed
and produced the first opera
written in this country. His
life is set against the riotous
gold-rush days of early
Australia.
25/- (post 1/11).
6. JOURNAL OF A VOYAGE
TO NEW SOUTH WALES
by John White, Surgeon-General
to the Settlement.
A modern edition, with notes
and an introduction, of one of
Australia’s most valuable foun-
dation books. Illustrated with
early drawings of native flora
and fauna.
57/6 (post 2/2).
NEWSREEL
wi**-
r •
m *
cTJpr^
&&■?*>..
sr
m
7. ANZAC NEWSREEL
by Cyril Pearl.
This picture history recalls in
hundreds of magnificent photo-
graphs the daring heroism of
the ANZACS during the landing
at Gallipoli.
A fitting memorial to one of
Australia’s finest moments.
17/6 (post 10d.).
8 AUSTRALIA’S OPEN NORTH
by J. MacDonald Holmes.
A study of Northern Australia
in relation to the national
resurgence in South-East Asia.
This comprehensive economic
and social survey will be in-
valuable to prospective develop-
ers and researchers.
63/- (post 2/1).
Post this coupon for your copies of these fine Australian books
f Tggr ANGUS AND
f Ip ROBERTSON
O
ANGUS AND ROBERTSON LTD.
89 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY, 20363,
Please send me ( ) copies of
1234 5 6 7 8
I enclose remittance of £ / /
NAME
ADDRESS -
STATE
Also available at all other units of Angus & Robertsons Caringbah Swain's (123 Pitt St.) Melbourne and Chadstone (Robertson & Mullens) Albury
(Robertson & Mullens) - Ballarat (J. Ewins) - Canberra (Green Square) - Perth (Albert's.


surrender, because it was “under the in-
fluence of terror.” Earlier Bligh had had
the Director’s master court-martialled.
In the Warrior he had an injured lieu-
tenant court-martialled. He was acquitted
and charged Bligh with tyranny and
other offences, all the senior officers of
the ship except one giving evidence for
the prosecution. Bligh was reprimanded
and admonished about his language.
Bligh’s attempt to seize command of
the convoy which brought him to Aus-
tralia after Banks had rescued him from
the Navy, and the manner in which he
treated the unfortunate Captain Short, is
one of the most dreadful stories of per-
secution in naval history.
It lost poor Short his health, his career,
his wife and one child and his property
and brought him before a court-martial.
The Court was moved to pity by his
sufferings and losses, instigated by Bligh,
and “in the most earnest manner”
solicited the attention of the Admiralty to
his “circumstances of aggravated suffer-
ing (and) the extreme hardship of his
case.” All these things need understand-
ing to understand what happened in the
Bounty. There is no record in this book.
Danielsson declares that in New South
Wales Bligh was “seized by a hostile
group in the colony and kept prisoner in
the Governor’s residence for more than
two years.” Actually he was kept prisoner
less than a year, was released to take
command of HMS Porpoise on an
undertaking, which he flagrantly and im-
mediately broke, that he would return to
England. When he failed to force Lieu-
tenant Kent, who had held the interim
command of the ship, to fire from the
Cove into the unprotected town of Syd-
ney, he sent him to England for court-
martial on various charges, on all of
which Kent was honorably acquitted.
The leader of the NSW rebels against
Bligh was merely cashiered by the Horse
Guards, instead of being shot, “because
of the novel and extraordinary circum-
stances which . . . may have appeared to
them (the Court) to have existed during
the administration of Governor Bligh.”
Danielsson knows little of the back-
ground of the times. He announces that
Bligh was made a Fellow of the Royal
Academy (!) on his return to England.
Though he pays tribute to Bligh’s
prowess as a swearer, the uninformed
reader is given no glimpse of the Bligh
who, within six days of arrival in Sydney,
had fraudulently and clandestinely
dredged more spoils out of the country
than did the whole of the other Gover-
nors of New South Wales in 175 years;
or of the Bligh whom the gentle Ellis
Bent called a “most troublesome, re-
vengeful, unpleasant man” and Mac-
quarie “unsatisfactory to transact busi-
ness with ... in so much that it is im-
possible to place the slightest reliance on
the fulfilment of any engagement he
enters into . . . very generally detested
by high, low, rich and poor.”
Mr Danielsson's work has certainly not
displaced Sir John Barrow’s “The Mutiny
and Piratical Seizure of HMS Bounty,”
nor does his repeated assurances that
Bligh was a man of superior education
and a gentleman square with actual
events so well as with the judgment of
Barrow, who knew Bligh personally, and
as a Permanent Secretary to the Navy
and a founder of the Royal Geographical
Society had special qualifications to
assess him: “A man of coarse habits,
and entertained very mistaken notions
with regard to discipline; temper irritable
in the extreme ... to speak plainly, he
was a bully, and not a truthful one.”
And, in view of Danielsson’s blind
faith in Bligh’s own versions, one might
commend to him Barrow’s dictum: “The
allegation that Bligh falsified his narrative
it is to be feared is not without founda-
tion.” From my own investigations,
which have been extensive, 1 should say
that that was putting it mildly.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
KEY TO MACARTHUR
Sir,
My earlier comment on M. H. Ellis’s
criticism of my “Meanjin” article sought
to prevent such a response as that by
Ellis in The Bulletin of February 2.
By publishing his article, rather than
accepting my proposal for an indepen-
dent enquiry, The Bulletin has ill-
served its readers, myself and Ellis.
Ellis’s reproduction of my article
will have already enabled readers to
judge his comments upon it. Most will
have recognised that he misunderstands
my interpretation of Macarthur. I do not
see the man as a mere soldier of fortune,
adept at shabby intrigue, but as a
daemonic character, believing himself
(and, some might feel, justly) above con-
ventions of good and bad, true and
false. This disposition, I suggest, per-
meated Macarthur’s note to Sullivan and
might have prompted him to arrange the
theft of the “Anna Josepha” copy of the
November 5, 1801, despatch. That theft
remains a fact; someone was responsible,
Readers should scrutinise my article to
see how little justified is Ellis in assert-
ing that I maintain of the ‘“Hunter”
despatch and enclosures that “Macarthur
must have stolen them and held them
back until after his matter was closed
at the end of February, 1803, afterwards
somehow getting them into the Colonial
Office files.” Possibly something like that
did happen; but no evidence indicates
that it did and I neither say nor su tel
that it did.
It is, I believe, in underplayj n „
daemonic character of its subject/
Ellis’s “John Macarthur” is defect' 11
He is presented rather as an uphold/
of moral norms. Yet the book provide'
much material consonant with mv on'
view. Ellis describes the monomania!
insanity which overwhelmed Macarthu
in later life, and which, in my opin/
was latent in such episodes as we no»
discuss. Moreover Ellis quotes the
advice which, by report, Macarthur gave
Robert Farquhar, British resident at
Amboyna, currently in trouble win
imperial authority for some unauthorised
belligerence, and ready to apologise i t
consequence. “Tell them.” said Mac-
arthur, “they are not fully aware of
the position, or the circumstances which
led to your attacking the place, that you
are convinced of the necessity for tabus
it, and that you are determined to renew
the attack. Having thus written, Jo y?.
and mind you do take it” (Macartlm,
page 212). This exchange occurred
when the “Hunter” was wrecked to
Amboyna on her way to India. 1 beta,
that Macarthur then expressed It
tactical ideas he was himself to apply
in Britain soon afterwards.
Ellis’s Bulletin article denies out
important fact earlier agreed upon,
namely that Governor King put the
“Hunter” despatch into M acarthur’s
personal care until it should reach
Marquis Wellesley in Calcutta. Bv this
denial Macarthur is freed from the
charge of telling a lie to Sullivan. Yet
hitherto Ellis has made a major point
of Macarthur being so entrusted by Kins
(see below). T have accepted the point
because of Ellis’s own authority, because
of King’s remark that the despatch was
going with Macarthur, and because 1
have been informed that among the
Macarthur papers there is a list of the
effects Macarthur took aboard the
“Hunter,” and that this list specifies the
despatch. The Bulletin might enquire
whether the document is extant, either
at the Mitchell Library or at Camden
Park.
Ellis still argues that the “Hunter
despatch arrived at the Colonial Office
in 1802, and so was available to the
War Office when it considered Mac-
arthur’s arrest (with which the despatch
and its enclosures dealt) in January
February, 1803.
I remain convinced beyond reason-
able doubt that this was not so. I re P ea
and elaborate the reasons for 1,11
opinion:
The receipt of the despatch was not
acknowledged to King, contrary to g
practice. This suggests that it arrl '
well after the normal lapse of time.
perhaps not in a normal manner ’„,
comments of the Colonial and a
Office authorities on Macarthur s
make better sense if one assumes
they had read not the despatc
November 5 but only King’s p erl P e


remarks in other despatches of the
P e rhese ot her despatches carry minutes
* the effect that the pertinent passages
Ire submitted to the War Office.' The
Crucial despatch bears no such minute.
The crucial despatch is endorsed
. iv “R 1802.” Most despatches
carry the exact date of arrival. The
tin 1 802” is written in a thick, heavy
jjipt markedly different from other
endorsements in the appropriate volume.
Two officers of the Commonwealth
Archives to whom I have shown micro-
film copies of these endorsements
believe that the "R 1802” was of a later
dstc*
If the despatch had come to hand by
January 19, 1803, Sullivan would have
had no good reason then to ask Mac-
arthur if the latter had any despatches
committed to his care. From internal
evidence the crucial despatch was that
fwhich left Sydney on the “Hunter” and
which Sullivan supposed Macarthur
might still retain.
How and when did that “R 1802”
come to be written? Perhaps when the
despatch reached Calcutta; perhaps at
Ir® House where it might have rested
fob wears after some clerk failed to trans-
miCit to the Colonial Office. The
archivists’ comment suggests other, more
likely, answers: that when it did turn
up. or when the records were being
tidied, a methodical person thought an
endorsement desirable and argued to
h'mself that if sent in November. 1801.
the despatch must have come in some
time in 1802.
t Ellis now invokes the precis book
(Colonial Office 202/2 on microfilm at
m jor Australian libraries). It is value-
less, being a retrospective compilation.
This is plain from the precis being placed
in order of the originals’ date of address,
not receipt.
pnis’s versions of the despatch issue
have varied remarkably. In his
1955 account Macarthur carried the
despatch all the way home and showed
his integrity by doing so:
He might even have found himself
without accusers if he had resorted to
nise. For the only copy of the charges
against him were those “duplicates of my
dispatches sent by him” which King had
mentioned in a letter of Ist March, “1802,
° Portland ( Macarthur, p. 213).
1958 the despatch went on its
d er stages to London independent of
acarthur, but still most certainly left
v. ey ln his care. That King arranged
jj' S y W i nt the argument, made ridiculous
, tts opinion that the Governor
-pected and tried to counter a plot by
2 arthur to steal the “Anna Josepha”
Bh «s. So Ellis ironically para-
™ Evatt’s argument:
|!S had to take the most drastic steps,
the 4 ng P utt ing of the master of
and u I 1!? J ose Pha” under heavy bond
the vp° i g hack the dispatch box till
Was T in dcr weigh,” to prevent
Lientpr,. Llr stealin § the copy sent with
, ant Grant, King almost on the
orb t le vess£ l sailed handed the
.to i n - 0 the thief Macarthur to take
) Ind 'a •• • (Quadrant, 11, 23).
The 1958 article further claimed that
the British authorities’ informed com-
ments on Macarthur’s case “show con-
clusively” that they had perused the
November 5 despatch. By October,
1962, Ellis was ambivalent here: the
November 5 despatch did arrive in 1802,
but anyway “all the vital facts in it were
already known from earlier despatches”
(Bulletin, 27/10/62, p. 37).
In February, 1963, Ellis’s emphases
have changed again. The earlier des-
patches are ignored, and Macarthur is
said probably never to have had the
despatch in his possession. With this
part of the story reversed, the irony
earlier pointed at Evatt can now be
directed at me:
King took enormous precautions
precise letter of instructions to the
bearer, £5OO bond from the captain,
despatch sent aboard only when ship was
at sea over the “Anna Josepha” copy
to foil a conspiracy of which he was
aware. Yet, according to Roe. on almost
the very same day the copy went off
King handed a set of originals to the
prisoner (Roe alleges, a thieving con-
spirator) without safeguarding himself .. .
Ellis uses almost the same words as
five years ago, but in a directly opposite
meaning. Then the idea of Macarthur
conspiring to rob the “Anna Josepha”
was made ridiculous by King assuredly
giving him the originals. Now the idea
of Macarthur being given the originals
is made ridiculous by King assuredly
suspecting him of conspiring to rob the
“Anna Josepha.” In fact, neither argu-
ment is convincing: however suspicious
of Macarthur, King night logically have
decided that by sending one set with him
he was assuring arrival of the pertinent
documents at least simultaneously with
the prisoner. His request to Wellesley
that the latter transmit the despatch to
Britain on the same ship as Macarthur
strengthens this hypothesis.
jY/fY comments on Henry’s letter were
slightly naive, but, I still think,
essentially true. I recognised his in-
accuracies and studied his script hard
before transcribing “Earing.” My article
appeared in “Meanjin” because the
editor of that journal invited it. I am
not w'riting the article on King for the
Australian Dictionary of Biography, and
have no special standing with the Dic-
tionary executive.
Michael Roe
University of Tasmania, Hobart.
M. H. Ellis writes:
All Dr Roe’s misrepresentations of my
versions and views and of what is in the
Macarthur papers seem merely red herrings
designed to confuse the issue. Whether
Macarthur carried the papers from Sydney,
or somebody else carried them, the fact is
that Dr Roe’s charge that Macarthur stole
them en route and thus prevented them
from being available to the War Office
when it dealt with his case early in 1803,
is specifically disproved by the records of
the Colonial Office. These show that the
despatch and all its nine enclosures were
received, recorded and precised in the CO
at least three months before Macarthur
reached England. I am sure seiious
historians will prefer the Colonial Office
.records and minutes as an authority to the
biased say-so of Dr Roe who is so—in his
own words—“slightly naive"—and ignorant
of the elements of the early Australian
history in which he is supposed to be an
expert, that he accepts as the most
“authentic" account of the Bligh rebellion
that he knows, the disjointed tittle-tattle of
a half-illiterate ancient, written 42 years
after the event; tittle tattle in which its
author spitefully nominates James Mac-
arthur (at the time nine years old), squired
by a “brutal ruffian” and a murderer, and
W. C. Wentworth (then 15,000 miles away
at school and ignorant of what was
happening in the Colony) as “the very men
themselves who took the most active part
. . . in that foul grog and tobacco rebellion
of 1808.”
Dr Roe says he is not writing the
biography of Governor King for the Aus-
tralian Dictionary of Biography. All I can
say is that the last official list of the
Editorial Board of the Dictionary supplied
to me as a member of the National Com-
mittee nominates him as the writer of
King’s life.
THE CANEFIELDS
The Cruel Field. John Naish. Hutchin-
son.
critics, mainly English, who looked
forward to a first novel from Naish
after reading his autobiography “The
Clean Breast,” will be enraptured with it
now that it has appeared. Its boundaries
are professionally sharp-set, since it con-
cerns the members of a cane-cutting
gang and their associates during a single
North Queensland season. The drama is
the harsh, rough material of their aims
and ideals, the variety in their charac-
ters is well conceived, and the story
holds interest from beginning to end.
The writing is exact in communica-
tion, flashing with bright, original simile.
The country and the alien work spring
life-sized to attention: you can smell the
sweet smoke of the sugar-fires, you are
conscious of the grime of sweat and
carbon; and the knife, the file and the
water-bag guerdon every field scene, as
they should.
Naish, an Englishman, nearly left
Australia after six years in the North,
but a stopover in Fiji and his marriage
there to an Australian doctor decided
him to return. In my opinion he is the
finest acquisition from abroad in the
Australian literary foundation, and there
is no doubt whatever that he will rise
in it to a dominant position. He has an
O'Hara ear for dialogue, an eye as sharp
as a hawk’s for the details of a scene, a
judgment difficult to fault in positioning
his emphasis and planning his construc-
tion.
Nothing written to this length has
ever before pinned down the canefields
for such exact analysis; no North
Queenslander will, in honesty, attack this
novel’s integrity.
OLAF RUNEN


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
AUSTRALIA'S BID FOR GLAMOROUS
"GOLDEN SHEARS"
A slim, rather shy young Australian
may become the first “world
champion” in a new spectator sport . . .
competition shearing. He is 28-year-old
Kevin Sarre, of Kerang, Victoria, five
times Australian open shearing champion
and holder of the world shearing record
for merinos.
Sarre is being tipped as a likely
winner of the international open shearing
championship virtually a world
championship to be staged at Master-
ton in March in conjunction with New
Zealand’s annual international shearing
meet, the Golden Shears.
If Sarre himself doesn’t take the title
his two Australian team-mates Peter
Kelly, of Buninyong, Victoria, and Mau-
rice Doyle, of Dookie, Victoria must
stand a good chance. Kelly is the present
Australian champion and Doyle the
reigning Australian crossbred champion.
Sarre and Doyle have both competed
in the Golden Shears before without
winning. Sarre has twice reached the
final, but has been unable to master New
Zealand’s champion.
This year, however, the “international
open” is being held for the first time. In
the Golden Shears all the sheep shorn
are Romney Marsh, whereas the Aus-
tralians are used to shearing Merinos. But
in the “open” competitors will shear
Romneys and Merinos in equal numbers
and this is expected to give the Aus-
tralians an advantage.
This year’s Golden Shears and inter-
national open will have added interest for
Australia because of a proposal that the
1964 international open should be held
here. New Zealand has invited Australia
to stage x the event and the Royal Agri-
cultural Society of Victoria has already
signified its willingness to do so. It ap-
pears likely, therefore, that the contest
will take place in Melbourne about
March or April next year.
Australian Wool Bureau promotion
men anxious to boost interest in good
shearing are expected to try to pro-
mote the contest on New Zealand lines.
In New Zealand shearing is now a
glamour spectator sport. At last year’s
Golden Shears at Masterton, in the
Dominion’s North Island, scalpers asked
and got 15 guineas sterling for
tickets.
Crack shearers are recognised as top
sportsmen in New Zealand today. Last
year the Australians were amazed to be
stopped continually in the street and
asked for their autographs.
The New Zealand contests are held in
big stadiums usually packed to the doors,
with all tickets sold months in advance.
The shearers compete to an excited roar
like that of a Melbourne football grand
final.
It is on the cards that Australian
shearers, instead of competing singly
against the clock as is usual at present,
will soon be emulating the New Zealan-
ders and shearing four or six at a time
. . . turning the event into a crowd-
pleasing “race.”
Prizemoney is likely to be bigger too
(the Golden Shears series carries a total
of almost £1400) and shearing is likely
to improve greatly as a result.
Our shearers are proving excellent am-
bassadors in their yearly trips across the
Tasman. They wear green Australian
blazers with crests, green ties, white
shirts, neat grey slacks and when shear-
ing, special lightweight wool singlets.
Nor do they fit in with the public’s
libellous idea of a shearer as a beery
wanderer who blows his roll at the first
pub.
Kevin Sarre neither smokes nor drinks.
Keeps as fit as a top athlete and makes
a handsome figure in his team uniform.
He shears for 12 months of the year, but
spends each night at home for at least
eight months of that time. During the
remainder of the year he is further
afield usually in the Balranald-
Ivanhoe areas of New South Wales
and gets home to his wife and two boys
only at week-ends.
This past year he has been away from
home more than usual, demonstrating
shearing for the Wool Bureau at Royal
Shows in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide,
Melbourne and Perth.
Sarre was born and educated at
Lockington, near Echuca, and began
work with his shearing contractor father
at 16. He set his first record at 17 by
shearing 226 Merinos in eight hours. Two
years later he broke another record h i
shearing 303 Merinos in 7 hours s'jl
minutes.
In 1957, at Hopefield Estate, Pyramid!
Hill, Victoria, Sarre shore 327 sheep jj
7hr 40min. as a member of a six-stand
team, taking the sheep as they came,
They were not trimmed in any way. This
is believed to be a world record f o[
shearing Merino sheep, using nano*
gear.
He is the only shearer to have woj
more than one Australian open cham-
pionship. He took the title in 1954
1955, 1956, 1957 and 1961. In the onij
other five Australian championships
ever staged he finished second three times
and third once. He has won State titles
in Victoria, New South Wales and South
Australia.
He has competed twice in the Golden
Shears and has been a finalist each time,
Only one other shearer a New Zea-
lander was a finalist on both occa-
sions.
Sarre is recognised, even in New
Zealand, as one of the fastest and clean-
est shearers in the world. In spite of iiis
shyness, he has a reputation for coolness
in contests.
The manager of the last two Austra-
lian teams to New Zealand, Mr Les
Batten, says “Kevin Sarre has the tem-
perament of a Herb Elliott.”
Sarre himself says: “A shearer must
have a good mental approach to win big
contests. The pressure is really on and
you must keep calm while remaining
mentally alert. When you have only four
sheep to shear one mistake is enough to
put you out. There is no chance to make
up time or correct errors.”
BETTER THAN MILK
Tt is no longer true that calves thrive
best on their mothers’ milk. Research
in Holland succeeded by 1955 in de-
veloping Denkavit, a synthetic calf milk
in which proteins, fats, vitamins, mine-
rals and antibiotics are perfectly ba-
lanced, and on which calves thrive better
than when naturally fed by their
mothers.
In an interesting experiment a Hors-
ham (Vic.) firm which now markets Den-
kavit fed a calf which weighed lH
pounds when four days old solely ofl
this artificial milk. Eleven-and-a-half
weeks later that calf weighed 300
pounds, proof that on this high-pressure
fattening food vealers can be ready f° r
market at 12 or 13 weeks old.
A further experiment was carried on
at Mr F. E. Tucker’s “Hilldrop” P° lle “
Hereford stud near Horsham, where one
twin calf was allowed to run with i ts
mother and the other was fed on Den
kavit. In a few weeks the artificially * e
twin was doing noticeably better tna
the one fed by the cow.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Commonsense on Commodities
W> R one reason or another the troubled atmosphere which
W followed the recent Common Market disturbances
1 appears to be leading many nations into a greater willing-
jess to discuss the future directions of world trade. Perhaps
je fragility of some existing agreements has been thrown into
jearer relief by the Brussels arguments. Perhaps the extreme
protectionism seemingly postulated by General de Gaulle
tightens those who see economic suicide in too heavy a
shackling of trading movements.
Whatever the cause, and whether or no America may
siiccejed eventually in imposing the freer doctrines behind the
bade Expansion Act, no Western country can afford much
longer to ignore the vital and urgent problem of primary
commodity prices. Industrialised economies, however grim
leirbalance-of-payments situations, mostly battle along some-
how. Those economies utterly dependent on the sale of their
primary products face a chronically worsening outlook.
It is not nearly enough to point out that the present year
las begun fairly brightly. Commodity indexes paint a rather
letter picture all round. Australia itself needs to fear little so
far as wool is concerned. Even base metals look more stable
lan they did only a short while ago.
Yet a general air of crisis remains. Since the end of the
nr, primary producers have suffered a drop in their share
of world trade from 47 to 36 p.c. They have had to expend
12 p.c. more of their earnings to service foreign debts. The
Ae of aid to under-developed countries in effect cancels
P out by the rapidly worsening terms of trade of primary
producers against those who are exporting manufactures to
them.
Of course these features of international trade get examined
tae and time again. Stabilisation plans are proposed, but
ttiite programmes are postponed. Grand schemes, maybe,
® difficult to implement. Very well then, let us adopt the
ce of examining product by product and reaching in-
ii'idual agreements.
luto such a continuing pattern of insecurity and delay,
® another well-intentioned report has just fallen. It comes
® the United Nations technical working group set up by
commission on international commodity trade. One must
include that these questions cannot be ventilated too
“quently. Dare one hope that the commonsense simplicities
t,lCe more paraded meet at last a desire for implementation?
old truisms trot one after the other: “The economic
EVe lopment of primary exporting, and particularly of the
countries, requires a steady and rising flow
lm Ports Despite the rising flow of public and private aid
0111 the industrialised countries, this would have to be
a ”ced mainly by their proceeds from exports. It is there-
,re °f paramount importance that these export proceeds
e *pand at a reasonably steady and adequate rate.”
UN group somewhat optimistically believes that
Wonary forces so far have been able to prevent a
l° r downward impulse from gathering momentum. It
unambiguously asserts, though, that the immediate chances of
a downward accumulation must be minimised.
One definite prescription for the situation chimes in with
the attitude that despairs of the tendencies of a tight little
Europe or, indeed, any over-protective area. “There are
those who see great importance in a reduction of protectionism
and discrimination on the part of industrial countries in so far
as the imports of primary products are concerned,” the report
warns.
Now the grander cure-alls make a reappearance. “There are
those who see the main hope in the future in a rationalisation
of international trade, in such a manner as to remedy the price
situation for primary exporters.” More study is called for on
the possible influences of diversification of primary production
on export proceeds and import requirements of developing
countries.
Maybe, as we suggested, the hour is riper for the practical
consideration and utilisation of these repeated attempts to
handle commodity crises. Australia, as hinted last week, does
feel that agreements could be facilitated by the Brussels
turmoil. There is certainly not much gain in merely pro-
pounding commonsense solutions over and over.
Both consumers and producers have one thing in common
— they will each benefit from reasonably stable commodity
incomes. We ourselves are especially concerned in that our
industrial expansion could rub off unless some of our northern
neighbors can develop healthier markets for our manufactured
products. Our own commodities are faring adequately on
world markets at this moment. We are not thereby absolved
from helping to obtain a fair deal for the less fortunate.
ECONOMIC INQUIRY
OFF THE GROUND?
\\[e are delighted to learn that Dr James Vernon has agreed
” to chair Australia’s long-brewing economic inquiry. News
of his acceptance arrived after our last week’s issue had gone
to Press, as readers of the item on the inquiry would no doubt
realise. The case for speed there propounded still stands.
So we are again given the luxury of trusting that the names
of “four other leading Australians” may also be quickly
forthcoming, together with any other fellow members now
ready to join this responsible task.
The Bulletin is especially happy to present a portrait of
the British National Economic Development Council on page
47. “Neddy” could, of course, furnish an exemplar to our
own activities.
One definite impression the portrait vividly conveys, and
that is the prime importance of an efficient, well-trained
secretariat. The root of its efficiency, its very capacity for
prediction, also appears to rest on a much firmer range of
statistics than Australia has at command at this moment.
It’s not so long since the famous Radcliffe report on the


working of the British monetary system attracted attention
to crucial gaps and lags in the UK’s statistical framework.
“Neddy” has succeeded in stopping some of those holes,
particularly in the private sector. Can the same kind of
information be gathered here while it is of genuine operational
interest?
OIL FROTH BUBBLES
AND DRIES UP
\ midst all the froth and bubble in oil search share specula-
tion last week, notably in Sydney where the high summer
temperatures were more conducive to share market fever than
the unseasonable cool in Melbourne, perhaps the unwisest move
of all was made by the secretary of the Sydney Stock
Exchange in making his well-intentioned telephone call to
ascertain from AOG if the company knew any reason for the
sudden rise in the price of its shares.
If this sets a precedent in the official behavior of the Stock
Exchanges then heaven help both the freedom of the market
and the boards of oil search companies.
The secretary of the Stock Exchange would probably be the
first to admit that the result of the call was entirely unsatisfy-
ing and that if by dressing the reply up to give it the appearance
of an authoritive statement from the company he managed to
scotch the little boom in the shares, he will be very reluctant
to repeat the exercise.
On the other hand his showing of the whip on this occasion
might have salutary results if it succeeds in sharpening the
public relations services of the companies to be more ready
than most of them appear to be to give the lie to rumours
with all dispatch and without prompting by the Stock
Exchanges, shareholders, the Press or anybody else.
For surely the most urgent requirement in Australian oil
search is to get share investment on to a less speculative plane
if that is indeed possible, which is open to doubt anyway in
this embryonic stage of oil discovery. We will probably have
to wait a while yet until more fields are discovered and the
significance of progressive results from testing individual wells
and delineating new reservoirs is better appreciated by the
general public, which has not had enough experience yet to
evaluate news from the wells for its true worth and is still
naive enough to follow vague rumour wherever it leadeth.
Maybe nothing very tangible can probably be done to stop
the breeding of rumours themselves especially when wells get
near projected target levels but at least there should be some
tightening up on information leaking from well-heads and the
companies should look closely at this matter lest oil search
investment descend further into disrepute.
As for education of the public in the intricacies and evalua-
tion of oil search phenomena, the companies have by and large
been doing a good job through their own periodical reports
and those from the fields and also by arranging parties of
Pressmen, shareholders and officials to wells. Last week’s Press
visit to Sunnybank has come in for some criticism however
in that it seemed to be timed to arouse speculation at a par-
ticularly crucial stage for oil search in that particular area, what
with the utmost persuasion being exerted by the public and
the drillers alike to get the No. 1 well flowing again and the
No. 2 well at a depth near the level at which the first well
flowed at 600 gallons a day in its original drill stem test.
In fact the visit passed off without anything more positive
being added to information on the field’s prospects.
Indeed the only positive news to excite investors in oil search
news all week was the statement of the resident manager of
Union Oil that he expected the Moonie field to have a
probable life of between ten and twenty years. It is good for
the country also because it seems highly likely Moonie is not
the end of commercial oil in the Surat basin by any means.
THE VISION SPLENDID OF
STATES EXTENDED
lif any observers may be contemplating the map 0 f U
A tralia below with unconcealed horror. Perish any sche *
they will say, designed to double the number of States in
swoop. Better the devils we know than . . .
The map is the culmination of geographer Professor J
Macdonald Holmes’ latest exercise in regionalism, cornin'
at th& end of a long new book “Australia’s Open North \
study of Northern Australia bearing on the urgency of the
times.” Professor Holmes, in his ov/n words, attempts “to
interpret the geographer’s vision of Australia’s tropical north-
lands and so to review the old and explore the new that, while
there is yet time, sovereignty may be enhanced.” Sovereignty
has not only been enhanced, it is well on the way to bein»
multiplied!
Seriously, the book maintains that a structure of localised
government should be created to suit these distinct and separate
environments of our north. Apart from a keenly felt historical
background, many chapters are devoted to establishing the
social and community sense now developing in several specific
northern areas and towns. It is not hard for Professor Holmes
to prove that existing State boundaries are nonsensical from
a geographical standpoint.
Failing a planned regional scheme, with a fair measure of
local decision and autonomy, is the north destined to stagnation
or “interminably slow growth?” “Will it always be that there
is never enough incentive because the Federal and the separate
State instrumentalities have divergent objectives?”
A cursory reply might suggest that a good deal more closer
settlement should be tackled before governmental areas are
defined. Need it be beyond administrative skill to treat the
north with responsibility and balance. Western Australia and
Queensland look likely to record some successes the Ord
River scheme and cattle development, for example.
Nevertheless, Professor Holmes would prefer to rest on the
words of an earlier book, The Geographical Basis of Govern-
ment: “In the regional concept there is a clear call to combine
personal achievement with public duty and that in the regional
approach there is an opportunity to establish in rural Aus-
tralia the fuller life now characteristic of its capital cities.
Six new northern States?


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
8!’
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
"‘si|;uig
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications toi these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
AH branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
CCIS3/AB
Clip anc j Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with application
forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
THE OLD CRY
OF WOLF
By CROESUS
Centuries being rather rare this sum-
L mer it was to be expected that the
Associated Chambers of Manufactures
jlpjld seize on the January imports
jjjire to point their oft repeated warning
that unless tariffs are lifted we run grave
risks on the balance of payments front.
But apart from topping the magical
lnuidred mark, imports in January were,
perhaps, more cause for soberness on the
pice of internal activity than for con-
cern about the balance of payments.
) After the very low figure of £74.7
million for December—the lowest in fact
since last April’s £71.1 million —one ex-
pected the short month on the wharves
to be followed by a very much higher
igure than the £102.8 million recorded
for January. Indeed, on the expectation
that highly buoyant buying in the middle
of last year, when the recovery was gain-
ing strength in impressive fashion might
well have caused a hump in imports at
the end of the year one was looking for
an average of possibly £lOO million a
month for December and January.
lln fact, what has happened is that for
tee two months the x average was only
1.7 million a month, belying the idea
that the high figures of £93.6 million and
1.1 million for October and November
ttspectively were a possible prelude to a
succession of centuries.
One must conclude, therefore, that on
the evidence of imports averaged over the
hsttwo months the recovery in economic
Pity is not as demanding on the bal-
®e of payments as one might have f car-
pi gives rise to the suspicion that
Mnomic activity is not as full-blooded as
"should be or, indeed, could be given
the right amount of official stimulus.
it seems altogether the wrong empha-
lls for the Federal director of the Asso-
llJ(e(i Chambers of Manufacturers to
the bone at imports as an inhibiting
% for business confidence and in
cu rious fashion holding back plans
Expansion and investment because 40
I °i *mports was competing direct-
''"th domestic production (a percen-
S e which itself seems to over-state the
Ibon).
the latest figures for a
"Cup of imports contained in the
I easur y Bulletin released last week re-
10n|y to the first five months of the
(it? year ’ so ** ’ s not to
r Anderson’s figure to a strictly
Nate test.
One can say, however, without great
fear of contradiction that most of the
big increases in imports this year are
for items which are not competitive to
any large extent with local production,
such as petroleum, machinery, motor
components (though here Mr Anderson
may have a point) and chemicals. Tex-
tiles, particularly piecegoods, have risen
sharply, too, but from all accounts the
local textile industry has no general com-
plaint at the moment about its level of
activity.
Beat the Gun
T'here has been some well-informed
buying of Rothmans shares in the
last few weeks.
Opening the year round 345. 3d., the
10s. shares moved to 375. 6d. before the
interim report of buoyant trading and the
decision to revert to the 20 p.c. dividend
paid the year before last.
This year’s interim is 10 p.c. compared
with an interim and final 81 p.c. in
1961-62.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
CANBERRA BUTTERS MORE PARSNIPS
“Tf the Treasury decided to reduce long-
term interest rates and give a further
fillip to the economy, the time to do it
would be while money is plentiful,”
stated Melbourne’s leading dealer in
bonds some three months ago.
Now, nobody can doubt that money
is in flush supply at present and even
more freely available than in October,
nor would most people question that the
economy is moving forward at some-
thing slower than the pace needed to get
the disturbing numbers on the books of
the labor exchange rapidly into employ-
ment.
Further, as is patently evident from
official Treasury Bulletins, the Treasurer
cannot have the slightest doubt that,
thanks largely to his miscalculations on
loan raisings, he will finish the current
financial year with less recourse to
temporary finance from the Reserve
Bank and elsewhere than last year, when
he ended up with a deficit of a mere
£27 million compared with the one of
£118.3 million he envisaged for the
current one.
The Treasurer has already conceded
that the deficit this year will be but a
shadow of the figure he set last August,
yet with apparent neglect of the vital
part a big Budget deficit was given at
that time in his plans to speed economic
activity he is in the market again for a
cool £60 million more loan money, at
the same long-term rate and with a bare
half-crown chipped off the short and
medium rates as the loan which attracted
£80 million compared with the target
of £50 million last September.
/\ne would think that, considering the
pace of private investment, the
Government would have been spending
very much more all along the line than
is revealed in the figures for the first
half of the financial year, and that bor-
rowings from the Reserve Bank on
Treasury bills would have been pumping
new money into the system at a faster
rate than in either of the two previous
years.
In actual fact, spending from Con-
solidated Revenue Fund in the latest six
months was only £26.5 million more
than in the like period of 1961, which in
turn was as much as £66.6 million
higher than in the same six months of
1960, which shows that there has been
a sharp reduction in the rate of increase
in expenditure from this source.
This wouldn’t be so bad, perhaps, if
Federal Government allocations for State
works and housing had been making
more headway, but the rate of increase
in these has also been reduced appreci-
ably. They came to £ll5 million in
the latest six months, only £2.7 million
more than in the same six months the
previous year.
Possibly this is not so much the fault
of the Federal Government as of the
States, which may seem surprising con-
sidering the avid cries of the States for
more finance from Canberra. For in
another table in the latest Treasury
Bulletin it is shown that in the first half
of the financial year net expenditure from
State loan funds (excluding payments for
redemption purposes) totalled only
£80.4 million, or £lO.l million less
than during the corresponding period of
1961-62. The only State to spend more
was WA, while the biggest drop was
from £26.9 to £23.8 million in Vic-
toria, usually hungriest of all the States
for funds at Loan Council meetings.
As for borrowings on Treasury Bills,
admittedly the Federal authorities have
replaced these to a considerable extent
in recent years, first by borrowings on
seasonal Treasury Notes and more lately
on straight out Treasury Notes, but even
if the latter are included and drawings
o. the Government’s bank balances are
thrown in, you get the remarkable result
that so far this year these extra-mural
“borrowings” are well below those
obtained from the same sources in the
same periods of the two previous years.
They totalled £159.6 million in the
first half of the current fiscal year com-
pared with £195.2 million and £170.1
for the same six months of the two
previous years.
Of course, it remains to be seen to
what extent redemptions of Treasury
Bills will be possible before the end of
the financial year, and also how much
borrowing on Treasury Notes will be
needed in the coming months, but on
present indications, notably on loan
raising, income tax and customs revenue
portents, coupled with the slower rate
of increase in expenditure, there should
be an equally heavy, if not greater,
retirement of short-term borrowings in
the coming five months as in the same
months last year.
Given this more favorable Budget
prospect, if the economy had been
surging forward the paucity of comment
on the failure to reduce long-term bond
rate for the latest loan would be more
understandable, but as was stressed in
the recent series of Bulletin articles on
the Government’s talks with business,
Canberra cannot lose sight of its role in
the activating process simply because fo
eyes for loan funds are bigger than it s
stomach, the more so when the economy
is failing to go on spiritedly from th e
recovery stage.
This is much more than a matter
simply of the Government reducing the
extent of its pump priming by the
method of bridging more of the deficit
in its overall financial accounts by
pulling in bigger amounts of loan money
with the aid of a high bond rate. The
repercussions of a high bond rate on
commercial rates and the psychological
business responses which would have
followed from cutting long-term bond
rate have also to be weighed.
A measure of the high competitiveness
of the current long-term bond rate of
5 p.c. vis-a-vis commercial rates is seen in
the fact that, as a result of the 30/20
rule, a 5 p.c. Commonwealth loan to a
life company is, from a straight invest-
ment point of view, equivalent to at least
7i p.c. on other fully taxable fixed
interest investments.
Taking the additional risk of com-
mercial lending into account it is obvious
that this degree of competitiveness of
bonds is militating against the flow of
much otherwise commercially useable
institutional money into commercial
channels. While the 5 p.c. rate pertains,
it is less likely that commercial
demand for money will increase. The
main hope of the latter happening
seemingly lies in the emergence of a
more bracing climate for expansion of
private investment, made all the more
difficult by reason of the 5 p.c. bond
rate itself.
However, at some stage or other it
must be expected that the Government
will see further than its own nose in
the capital market, reduce the long-term
bond rate and start the institutions look-
ing more earnestly at the private sector,
possibly being happy to offer more
generous terms to industrial and com-
mercial borrowers than they are now
with all the parsnips they want nicely
enough buttered by Canberra.
Perhaps this will happen in May when
the Government will be expected to
make its final loan for the current fisca
year, for by then (failing some positive
action by the Government to get 1e
economy moving ahead more rapi 1
motivated by this week’s discussions in
Canberra) a psychological impetus sue
as a cut in bond rate would give, wi
deemed necessary by the authorities.


LEADING A HORSE TO WATER
A portrait of NEDDY by "MAMMON" of the London Observer
Number 1, Bridge Street, which faces
Big Ben and looks on to West-
minster Bridge, is a dirty building with
old, lofty interiors. It used to be a
political club.
Yet now that the Common Market
negotiations have broken down and
Britain has to rethink her future, this
Bleak and sc:ret place might become
the seat of a new kind of economic
cabinet. The men who meet here warily,
as members rf the National Economic
Development Council, are some of the
most powerful men in the country:
Maudling and Hare; Cousins and Harry
Douglass; Woodcock, of the TUC; John
Hunter, the shipbuilder; and Reay
Geddes, of Dunlop.
Neddy which is based on the hope-
ful assumption that business, Govern-
ment, and the unions have certain goals
in common took its first wavering
step forward when members agreed on
a 4 per cent growth target for Britain.
This agreement cost nobody anything.
The next months will show whether
Neddy is going to acquire power, or
whether it will fizzle out in unread
reports and academic mumblings.
In this, the performance of the new
} Neddy secretaria will he as important
as the behavior of the council members.
The Neddy secretariat is led by the
gentle-looking, highly persistent Sir
Robert Shone, who used to be the steel
industry’s chief planner.
Shone’s first appointment was Sir
Donald MacDougall as economic direc-
tor. MacDougall is 50, looks as if he’s in
fe early 40s. He is small, watchful,
donnish man, a Fellow of Nuffield Col-
l£ge, who has been unofficially in and
out of Whitehall ever since he was 27.
During the war he worked for Chur-
l'll on shipping and other problems and
was one of the few economists who
wore able to summarise economic argu-
ments on the back of an envelope in
terms Churchill could understand.
Frank Pickford, who is the admini-
strative secretary of Neddy, was Assis-
tant Secretary at the Ministry of Labor
and takes the minutes of the council
meetings, arranges council sessions, and
sees that the cogs of the machine are
kept working.
, The actual staff of planners at Neddy
15 not much more than 50, which makes
a good deal smaller than the French
Commissariat General du Plan, the
People often regarded as responsible for
French economic recovery.
When they started Neddy, Shone and
MacDougall were faced with two urgent
Problems. One was to get the right staff;
“ e other was to fix a growth target.
There was a tremendous shortage of
first-class economists at the universities
who were not academically committed
in some way or other. Some came to
MacDougall as secondments, a few
resigned their jobs, others did papers and
investigations on a part-time basis. The
range of university representation was
very wide from Oxford to Aberyst-
wyth.
MacDougall has four people below
him who tackled the main heads of the
report on the economic side. Maurice
Scott, who got leave of absent - from
Christ Church, Oxford; R. G. Lipsey,
Professor of Economics at the London
School of Economics, who divides his
time between Bridge Street and the LSE;
Leslie Dicks-Mireaux, who used to be
a research officer at the National In-
stitute of Economic and Social Research,
working on wage and price determina-
tion; and Peter Potts, another economist,
was seconded from Imperial Metal In-
dustries (a subsidiary of ICI) and works
with Fraser’s industrial division as well
as with MacDougall.
But before Neddy had even anything
that could be called a staff, Sh and
MacDougall had to work out a target
figure and the period that it had to be
taken for.
The figure had to be a round one,
either a whole or a half: per cent was
too low, 4i per cent too high. Four
per cent more or less settled itself.
The period to which the growth figure
was applicable, 1961-66, was more or
less forced on them. 1961 was the last
complete year for which there were any
figures to work from and 1966 wasn’t
too distant to be irrelevant or too close
to be overtaken before it was considered.
The operation then split itself roughly
into halves. There was the model for
4 per cent growth mostly theory
which took in factors like Government
expenditure, demand, prices and in-
comes. Maurice Scott worked extens-
ively on the model building.
But the model was not much good to
anyone if industrial factors and per-
formance were not taken into account —
these would give the model feasibility in
terms of practical application.
These factors make up the part of the
report that deals with policies—policies
for export, taxation, production and so
on. But the theoretical and the practical
sides were seldom separated. On the
theoretical side, for example, the bal-
ance of payments could not be separated
from ihe hard, practical facts of what
industry had done for exports and what
it was possible for it to do.
This meant that another division had
to be set up to complement the model
builders. Tom Fraser was appointed in-
dustrial director.
He came from 15 years in Yorkshire
as director of the central trade organisa-
tions in the wool industry where he had
considerable experience as an industrial
and trade negotiator, guiding the rela-
tions of his industry with the Govern-
ment.
Fraser has a staff cf a dozen 01 more,
composed mainly of ousiness economists
from industrial companies, together with
men with trade association and trade
union background.
John Garlick, Assistant Secretary of
the Ministry of Transport, came over to
join him; Elwyn Jones was seconded
from Esso; and A. C. Copisarow got
leave of absence from the Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research to be
chief technical officer.
Fraser’s staff had io start their indus-
trial inquiry into the 16 industries at the
very worst time of the year the
summer, when most people were on holi-
day. Meanwhile the office had been asked
by the council to get out an interim
report for September or October to give
them an idea of what the model was
going to look like. r he policies, arising
from the industrial inquiry, were to be
incorporated into the full report due 12
weeks later
The inquiry explored such questions
as industrial plants and expectations, the
relationship between the average rate of
growth for the whole economy and that
of particular industries, manpower and
training assessments, research and deve-
lopment. These questions were then re-
fined and modified for different industries
to fit individual circumstances.
The work was not simply a paper ex-
ercise. The industrial economist not only
talked to industries, they soiled their
hands and even crawled around coal
mines.
As the information started to flow back
from industry—most of it was totally
new —Neddy’s staff oughed out papers
and rushed them round to the relevant
people for comment and criticism.
Between the sketch outline to the
council in October and the final report,
which included the industrial inquiry
and policies, there was a gap of 10
weeks. Over Christmas the staff were
working up till 10 at night and Neddy
finished up with a unique report which
contained a mass of new information,
some of it rarer than gold.
In that alone it has acted with a speed
and lack o\ political involvement far be-
yond the scope and tradition of White-
hall.


POLITICAL PING-PONG ON HOUSING
Tn view of the Loan Council meeting
in Canberra, the recent game of poli-
tical ping-pong over housing is not really
very surprising. Housing plays and
with very good reason an important
part in the Australian way of life. It is,
consequently, not too hard to work up
public emotions on housing problems.
The first serve in this game of political
ping-pong went to one of the ALP’s
star players, none other than Arthur Cal-
well, Leader of the Federal Opposition.
On January 21 he outlined his four-
point plan for solving Australia’s hous-
ing shortage. The measures he suggested,
and which he said his party would in-
troduce if in power, were:—
• A target figure for home building
even at the cost of a temporary cut
in commercial building.
• More building workers to be
trained, with the co-operation of unions
and employers.
• Tax laws and banking procedures
to be adjusted to make lending for
hemes more attractive to investors and
institutions.
• Land development to be planned
on an orderly basis, with adequate roads,
water, sewerage and gas.
There were many poignant points in
Mr Calwell’s suggestions. It is a pity
that nearly always when politicians put
forward sound, constructive ideas they
are usually interspersed with lashings of
absolute nonsense. But that is politics.
It might catch votes: politicians evidently
think it does.
jn\)R example, Mr Calwell said, “The
housing shortage is causing great
misery and frustration, and the con-
ditions under which scores of thousands
of our fellow Australians are living are
an affront to the conscience of the
nation.”
He continued: “It is nothing less than
a national scandal that building workers
have been unemployed as they have
been in the past two years while
people have lived in huts or ramshackle
tenements, and while schools and hos-
pitals have been overcrowded.”
And so the tirade went on.
No one will disagree that it is bad
that building workers should be un-
employed. But none can say that the
general standard of Australian housing
is not extremely high. It must be
amongst the highest in the world.
Anyway, to get on with some high-
lights of the game. Before the Govern-
ment could answer Mr Calwell’s volley,
an unofficial player, real-estate tycoon,
L. J Hooker, stepped in and smashed
a surprise ball across the nets. Mr
Hooker made his play on the day fol-
lowing Mr Calwell in a two-page article
occupying most of the centre of a
Sydney afternoon paper.
Again, Mr Hooker’s ideas had much
to commend them, even if perhaps they
were a little unrealistic. He suggested
with a great deal of truth, that finance
was the biggest obstacle to enlarging the
Australian building industry. His answer
to this question was that the Govern-
ment should establish a housing author-
ity on the lines of the Federal Housing
Administration of the United States.
Because of the FHA the deposit
required for a house in the United States
can be as low as 3 p.c. The deposit
varies with the price of the house, and
goes as high as 30 p.c. In an owner-
occupied house, the mortgage could be
97 p.c. of the first £.6500, 90 p.c. of
the next £2250 and 70 p.c. of the re-
mainder.
HThe match resumed next day when the
defending team put forward its first
player, Senator Sir William Spooner,
Commonwealth Minister for National
Development. Senator Spooner denied
there was any shortage of houses in
Australia. “The existing rate of con-
struction,” he said, “is making more
homes available each year than the num-
ber required by our growth in popula-
tion. This improvement is now occurring
without rising building costs.”
Senator Spooner was both right and
wrong in what he said. Approaching the
problem from a purely theoretical
economic point of view, there was never
a housing shortage in Australia at all.
The laws of economics say that price
will equate supply to demand. You
never hear of the housing shortage in
Spain, where the majority of the popula-
tion live in appalling conditions by Aus-
tralian standards. Supply and demand
have come into equilibrium there.
In Australia, however, there is a
fetish about housing. It is thought
socially desirable that all Australians
should live in a house of a certain stan-
dard. Until every Australian family lives
in such a house, there will be what is
called in this country a housing shortage.
The “housing shortage” is most acute
in NSW. Many people blame this on
the State Government and on Mr Landa,
its Minister for Housing, in particular.
There may be a certain amount of truth
in these accusations, but certainly Mr
Landa’s defence also, in part, rings true.
As he points out, the eastern States in
Australia, NSW and Victoria in par-
ticular, have absorbed a large number of
migrants and there has consequently
been more strain on available housing
there.
All this aside, the main point of the
whole problem has so far been missed
by almost everyone. It is the inefficiency
that exists in the building industry
throughout Australia today. Until this
problem is tackled it is useless worse
than useless, even stupid to try to
give the building industry too much of
a boost.
The highest level of activity in the
building industry during the last three
years was in March, 1960. In that month
10,817 living units were approved. In
last December only 5474 living units
were approved. The conclusion drawn
from this could be that the building in-
dustry is currently operating at only
about 50 p.c. of its true capacity. This
is not quite true, for two reasons. First,
December is seasonally a quiet month.
Second, and more important, when the
industry was building more than 10,000
units a month back in 1960 it was caus-
ing great internal inflationary strains.
This was especially so in regard to
wages, which are very important, for
the labor content in building costs is
somewhere around 60 p.c.
Even so, it is still fair to say the
building industry is presently operating
at less than full capacity. But the spare
capacity is more like 15-20 p.c. than
50 p.c.
TTndoubtedey, a little easing of hous-
- finance would soon take up this
spare capacity. However, any really
large-scale spending on housing would
only start all over again the inflationary
pressures that the Government’s Novem-
ber, 1960, measures were designed to
stop.
An FHA in Australia at the moment
would only boost house prices while
providing very few additional homes.
If Australians are to have the best
possible housing and it is to be hoped
they are the answer lies not exclu-
sively in making finance more readily
available, but in making houses cheaper.
A step in this direction has been taken
with the introduction of mass-produced
homes. These houses are probably 20
to 25 p.c. a square cheaper than indi-
vidually built houses. Mass production
may give part of the answer to cheaper
houses, but there still must be a stepping
up of efficiency in other parts of the
building industry.
In conclusion it must be said that the
housing and building industry might get
some relief from the Loan Council, bu
the solution to its real problems lies
elsewhere.


hi wM,
Simmiiß
lip wo^i
.'.«RAND' .
A^ r ,/* T >U»O OMATV*
YOUR
FAVOURITE
BRANDY
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
_ A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
AGRfS
MORE GOOD INDUSTRIAL NEWS
WE start by transcribing in its intended
version a sentence that finished up
a little mangled in our last issue’s invest-
pent commentary. “Already enough
prominent companies have reported
favorably to nullify (not justify),” we
wrote, “the perpetual examination of
our economic situation in terms only of
improvement, of moving upwards from
a 1960-61 trough. Isn’t it time we began
talking about proper growth again . .
From a purely domestic viewpoint,
which is where investors should be
encouraged to look first, more point has
been lent to such an argument over the
past few days. Our previous illustration
was drawn from a fine interim sampling
provided by an outstanding batch of hire
financiers. It could also be reinforced
by the rising trend in Australia-wide
HF receivables.
Now what during the bad times were
disparagingly referred to as fringe
elements in the economy are joined to
support much more than bare signs of
growth by an impressive and ultra-
respectable array of industrial solidity.
The spurt, if we could only read it that
my, was last week certified by a group
of companies closely related to con-
struction, building, engineering and the
j supply of these activities.
Where would you find more significant
evidence than in the statements furnished
by Humes, McPhersons, Gerrard,
William Atkins, Martin Bright and
Australuco? On the glamor and riskier
side of development, Lend Lease came
forth with a report full of strength,
though perhaps susceptible to some mis-
interpretation. As if for full measure,
the HPs were not to be kept down and
continued vivaciously with Finance Cor-
poration of Australia, Cambridge Credit
end Motor Credits.
In the face of all this inducement, it
cannot be said that the markets were
) stirred to any significant frenzy. Cer-
tainly they made their best overall ad-
vance for a month, with leaders mildly
helping the wave. Of greater importance,
should it continue, is a widening range
0 balings and inquiries, spread, alas,
at present among rather sticky turnovers.
Although the oracles and soothsayers
do better to concentrate on Humes,
cPhersons, etc., etc., it was probably
e once supremely exciting Lend Lease
'h'ch investors wished to use as a sign-
•,osJ' This stock has had to stand up to
| chancy host of rumors during the last
I* ra onths. The doubts surrounding
J developers rub off on the best
ev, sed enterprises.
I h-end Lease, in the event, had to come
l art of the way all land speculators
tread after a boom and which, perhaps,
it was enabled to postpone longer than
most. The moment of truth demanded
quite a sizeable provision: £469,000 for
“holding costs” on eight development
sites. “Market conditions” left them in-
active. But directors assure us that this
species of write-off extends to all holding
costs since acquisition and to all sites
not being in any way processed. In other
words, they infer the necessary correc-
tion is complete.
Sharemarkets remain a trifle sceptical
still and will most likely commence their
rehabilitation of this stock only after the
full year’s report comes to hand. It’s a
far cry from prevailing prices around
13s. 6d., now underneath last year’s
14s. 3d. low, to the 1962 high at 235. 2d.
Yet to brand the company as destined to
middle - aged consolidation, like some
observers, looks premature. So investors
can keep their sense of judgment
sharpened, with particular emphasis
upon reviving, large - scale building
opportunities. The country won’t be shy
of these in the near future, while the
company most certainly is ready to
cultivate them.
Nevertheless, Lend Lease’s interim
does provide a momentary shock when
one sees an earning rate neld for two
years at 20.4 p.c. drift to 15.2 p.c. on
capital which must be fully serviced this
half-year. The probable margin for cover
looks quite sound and liquidity to all
appearances thoroughly reliable “through
the foreseeable future,” as directors
quaintly put it.
In terms of the previous year’s
budgeted contributions to profits, too,
some of the group’s smaller divisions
seem to have taken the brunt of the
December half-year’s retreat. Higher
taxation plainly indicates better profits
somewhere, and much loftier deprecia-
tion levels this time made an untoward
dent in declared profits.
From the riskier shores of enterprise
to the staidness of Humes and Mc-
Phersons may usually appear a far step.
Yet when seeking for portents in the
economy, the distance is more apparent
than real. The conservative and old-
established companies are at this moment
showing how soon the building and
developmental march can gather swing
once more —without its wilder manifesta-
tions, we hasten to add.
Never over-revelatory, Humes chances
a very reliable arm by stating un-
ambiguously that “both sales and profits
for the year ended June 30, 1963, will
be slightly higher than those of 1961-62.”
Shareholders might recall (directors do
not in this instance mention it) that
1961-62 produced a record profit, albeit
earning rate did slip a little. In this type
of business, a good deal of interest
focuses on order books Humes con-
fesses to just over £4.6 million on hand
at December 31, not including the


jm&i
«ajummcg[in^
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
ISSUE OF £1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairman)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
G. L. A. DONOHOO
Alternate Director: R. V. AG NEW
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: 8W4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
/
2
PER ANNUM
FOR i AND 10 YEARS
6% for 2 YEARS
61% for 3 YEARS
7% for 4 YEARS
71% for 5 YEARS
Snowy’s Murray No. 1 power-house
pipeline, due to commence late this
year.
A key word for the other machinery
and steel merchants embraced by our
list above can be plucked from William
Atkins’ report. “Sales continue to be
buoyant,” directors state. Please to link
this with McPhersons’ “if economic con-
ditions continue to improve the com-
pany expects to achieve a satisfactory
final result.”
One of these days (it can’t be too
soon) the Stock Exchanges will decide
to banish the vacuity of that phrase
“satisfactory” from the permissible con-
ventionality of interim reporting. Coming
from the types of companies we have
instanced, its present reiteration should
be convincing investors, businessmen and
economic forecasters that growth will
soon be the exacter description of our
situation.
We told you so!
npHE icy detachment of the survey
above may doubtless conceal the
opinion that Gerrard Co. of A’asia
behaved in a manner well befitting one
of our favorite stocks. Maker and dis-
tributor of machinery and steel and wire
stocks, the company came to light with
a considerable lift in turnover for the
first half of 1962-63. Continuance of
this trend allows directors to indulge in
the slightly less conventional description
of “very satisfactory.”
Shareholders’ special outlook will be
gratified by the reassurance provided by
raising the interim dividend from 3 to
5 p.c., although this is only in line with
last year’s reduced 10 p.c. rate. Profit,
then, on higher capital, gave an earn-
ing rate at 11.2 p.c., scant indeed com-
pared with the 24.6 p.c. when the 12 p.c.
dividend w'as first established in 1959.
That rate was maintained for three
years.
A 7 p.c. final (the old habit) may no t
be immediately in sight. Yet director
sound very confident. The company ■
readily able to reap the better ge ner !
economic conditions. Even more j m
portant it possesses all the resilienc
deriving from good management.
All subsidiaries are operating p ro fi t
ably and it looks as if 1961’s new capital
has been completely digested. Only a
few weeks ago, directors wisely disposed
of the Daniel Harvey subsidiary to
agricultural implement maker Horwood
Bagshaw Ltd. They had clearly been
convinced that Harvey would have re-
quired more funds to extend its present
range. These funds, they clearly stated,
would be better directed to further ex-
pansion of other Gerrard “well estab-
lished and more profitable enterprises.”
Ruling prices now give Gerrard a
dividend yield around 5 p.c. An even
higher market estimation is not far away.
So intending investors would be well
advised to hurry.
Buoyancy through efficiency
Vou could not be blamed for picturing
the cigarette industry as shaky and
afraid what with health compaigns from
outside and fierce competition from
within.
But, no. The industry is not in a bad
shape at all; in fact, it has seldom been
brighter in the last few years.
And those very things which caused
investors’ fright about our four major
cigarette groups are the influences which
mainly have dictated the self-built bouy-
ancy of the industry.
For it is fast becoming clear that the
cigarette houses have been put into ex-
tremely efficient order to meet the two
problems (of health campaigns and in-
ternal competition) and have increased
unit profit by quite a large margin.
This new efficiency no doubt stems
from the freeing of imports back in
early 1960. Technological improvements
in production of all the manufacturers
has more than offset the swinging pendu-
lum of shares of the available market.
In fact, increased unit profit emerges
this year as the main pressure in the in-
vestment revival of the industry.
Certainly, the respective shares of the
available market will remain important
for the relative investment status of the
members of the industry. But the main
attribute will no longer be the share of
the market.
The more cynical of us will breathe
more easily if this is so, for in the last
four years the stated shares of the market
have always added to more than 100
p.c., creating, as you can imagine, a very
confusing picture.
The Frankenstein - like creations of
shares of the market, however, continue


I
£1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
1 %
2
[Per Annum 6-10 Years]
Convenient periods are as follows:
3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months
4% 4i% 4i% 5i%
Applications must proceed only on the form enclosed
in the Prospectus which may be obtained from
* THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
* Any recognised Stockbroker.
* General Credits Limited. * The Underwriters.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited owns 41% of
the Ordinary Shares of General Credits Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulburn Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
21 East Row, Civic Centre, Canberra. Phone: 4 4360-9.
Cnr. Dennison & Hunter Sts., Newcastle. Phone: 61 4288.
and at: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO..
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
1273/N


On time ...
every time
■’■Vi
A-
m
0
*
Kxs'.b-J
<*\V*
aft
3gKiga.gr.
'
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne «i«»
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways.
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless raai ■
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MA YNC NICKLESS LID.
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightwat
SYDNEY’ HELBOURNE*BBISBANE -PE"
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEW JLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • NO
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEE
apace. Last week Rothmans pointed out
that it held “more than 50 p.c.” of the
total market.
So, it is clear that Rothmans is selling
more cigarettes than it was. But, taking
a line through the growth of one of its
own brands (presumably Peter Stuy-
vesant) a curious atavistic pattern
emerges by which the main Rothmans’
brand appears to be declining or, at best,
no longer improving its share of the
market.
For this one brand (Peter Stuyvesant)
has gathered up more sales than any
other group of brands put together.
Rothmans’ total share of the market has
moved up from “more than 47 p.c.” to
“more than 50 p.c.,” less than the in-
crease which appears to have been made
in that one brand.
Regardless of its share of the market
-—and its quite marginal movement
Rothmans performed well to increase
profit a clear 12 p.c. in the first half
of the year. This improved profit pre-
sumably stems from increased efficiency
(the Rothmans work force was reduced
late in the six months) as well as a
needed clearance of stocks which were
more than a trifle too high in mid-1962.
Indeed, Rothmans increased its invest-
ment status considerably. The develop-
ment of a high-selling second brand,
despite its apparent eating into the No. 1
filter brand, is to the investment good,
for one always felt the dangers, from a
fashion point of view, of the dependence
on one brand.
Philip Morris, with 7 p.c. of the
market, has also come to the fore in
increased efficiency. Its profit, by the
way, was just under £200,000 for the six
months from 7 p.c. of the market.
This unit profit is considerably higher
than that attained by either of the two
leaders of the industry, again evidencing
the mistake that can be made by regulat-
ing the status of the individual members
of the industry to their relative sales’
position.
We know, then, that Rothmans and
Philip Morris are performing creditably
from the investment point of view. Next
week British Tobacco’s accounts will
reveal how that group performed last
year. Taking a line through the experi-
ence of the others, it, too, will show a
more bouyant result.
And, that improvement (if) will fol-
low an improvement in production costs
and efficiency as much as it will follow
any sales improvement.
The nod for CRA
news for Australian investors (and
Bulletin followers) can be
gleaned from the remarkable recovery
by privately owned (from our point of
view) Australian Aluminium Co. Ltd.
Australuco, as the company is known,
increased its sales in 1962 by 54 p.c.,
reflecting not only a recovery by the
main users of aluminium (builders and,
more recently, packers) but also a sound
increase in the usage of the metal and
its fabrications.
The improved sales enabled Aus-
traluco—which is owned by Aluminium
Co. of Canada (Alcan) and British
Aluminium (in turn mostly owned by
the large Reynolds metal group of the
USA) to reverse a £460,000 loss
into a conservative £392,000 profit.
Australuco has an established com-
petitor in the Comalco Industries group
of aluminium fabricators including
Austral Bronze’s aluminium division,
Southern Aluminium Ltd, and Comalco
Products Ltd.
Comalco Industries has no foil (pack-
aging) production as yet; but it has as
a main activity a developing aluminium
metal industry (Weipa and Bell Bay)
behind it.
CRA The Bulletin stock of 1963
owns half of Comalco Industries
(Kaiser of US owns the rest). CRA will
therefore benefit from the aluminium
boom through Comalco. Comalco, in
turn, will benefit not only from the in-
creasing demand for its own fabrica-
tions but also from the general in-
crease in the usage of the metal ingots.
The industry will become more highly
competitive when Alcoa of Australia
owned by Alcoa of US, the Western
Mining group and North and South
Broken Hill gets under way with it s
integrated aluminium industry some-
time next year.
But judging from the scope of the
industry implied in Australuco’s per-
formance in 1962, there is no reason to
fear the worst from the early-envisaged
over-capacity of the Australian industry
CRA will not be throwing money
down the drain in helping finance a
leader of what will most likely be a
“boom” industry in the next decade.
Felt and Textiles issue
HThe issue announced by Felt and Tex-
A tiles of Australia Ltd, along with its
interim report of higher profits in Aus-
tralia and satisfactory trading elsewhere,
confirms our last week's recommenda-
tion.
The issue—one-for-five at par—is the
second in two years. This one is payable
in full on June 30. The date for the
closing of the books will be announced
later, but it might be advisable to buy
now rather than wait for the rights, as
higher wool prices may inflate the price
later in the year.
On a cum-rights price of 10s., even-
tual entry may be gained at an average
cost of 9s. 2d., and a yield of 5.4 p.c.
Freighters’ orders
A hopeful clue to revitalisation of
Freighters Ltd is the recent news
of the group’s order position. The manu-
facturing subsidiaries have orders in
hand for more than £li million worth
of transport and fork-lift equipment.
Of this sum, over £ 1 million is held
by the South Australian subsidiary
which will take up to 12 months to
catch up on the back-log of orders.
The ex-manager of the SA manufac-
turing subsidiary, which was the largest
in the group with a staff of almost 500,
has been appointed the company's senior
executive officer since the retirement of
the managing director.
The Victorian and Queensland subsid-
iaries have between them £215,000 worth
of orders. The Melbourne plant has re-
verted from a four-day week to over-


Managing
Director
REQUIRED BY AUSTRALIA-WIDE
MEAT PACKING COMPANY
SALARY
£lO,OOO-£12,500
RANGE
The Company requires the services of a
highly qualified administrator who has
also had experience in the operation of
meat packing or allied plants. It is also
essential that he has a thorough know-
ledge of the marketing of meat products
both within Australia and overseas. If
the applicant also has practical knowledge
of cattle raising this could be an
advantage.
The man we are seeking should be be-
tween 35 and 45 years and currently
employed as Managing Director or
General Manager of a large Company
but will be attracted by the opportunities
and salary offered by this job. Alterna-
tively, he will be the No. 2 man in a
Company in which he sees no possibility
of securing the top position until the
retirement of his senior executive.
Applicants can be assured that they can
reply to this advertisement without any
fear of compromising themselves with
their present employer. The strictest con-
fidence will be observed.
This position carries with it prestige and
the usual privileges that go with a job
of this magnitude.
Written application in considerable detail
is required, together with any supporting
documents. The application in the first
instance should be addressed to: —
“MANAGING DIRECTOR”,
c/- Messrs. E. S. Owens & Co.,
Chartered Accountants, 10 Young Street,
Sydney.
(inie for most departments, working on
reorganisation of plant for the produc-
tion of 10° Melbourne Tramways Board
k buses.
“ Operations 1961-62 resulted in a
loss of over £-536,000, which the market
is keeping keenly in mind in holding the
ss. shares down around 3s.
Income from transporter
fE Geelong-based interstate transport
company, Blakistons Ltd, is an in-
teresting buy for income and growth.
Although the main source of income
is short and long-haul road transport,
the forwarding interstate by rail, sea and
air is developing materially.
Launched on the stock market only
; last October, the company predicted divi-
dends of not less than 10 p.c., and the
prospectus for the public issue of
200,000 ss. shares showed that 1961-62
profit represented an earning rate of
17 p.c. on the enlarged capital of
£150,000.
Interim report for the December six
! months’ trading refers to turnover as
! being well above the comparable period
I of 1961.
Moreover, shareholders receive an in-
terim 6i p.c., indicating an annual divi-
ded rate of 12} p.c. On the present
price of Bs. 6d., purchasers can obtain
a healthy yield of 7.3 p.c.
Brambles and taxes
; Jnterim report of Sydney transporting
and engineering group Brambles In-
dustries Ltd did not pass unnoticed by
the market.
First sale this year was at 14s. 6d.
whereas the ss. shares now command
around 16s. They had dipped as low as
Us. 7d. in 1962 because of difficulties
■a subsidiary engineers, which were dis-
posed of by the company.
The 1961-62 profit left a very fine
ma rgin of 1.5 p.c. over the usual 20 p.c.
Wend. The profit was struck after a
I norr >inal provision for tax, because of ac-
cumulated tax losses in some subsidiaries.
The recent interim report showed a rise
0 only £6,175 to £232,377 in the
a ter-tax profit for the December six
®°nths. The market has deduced that
ls represents a quite significant impro-
Wnt in gross earnings on the grounds
4 the tax commitment will be larger
this year.
Before getting too carried away, inves-
£ors should note that the 7s. 6d. notes
Averted one-for-one to ordinary shares
0 anuary 1, 1963. This increases paid
a Pital by £258,000 to £2,396,858.
? , new shares participate only in this
c rs ® na f dividend, but even so, the
Pany win be straining to put the
s ea rning rate far above that of
uhl-62.
NZ FIRMS IN
REAL "BOX-ON”
Qigns are that a ding-dong battle is
developing between NZ Forest Pro-
ducts Ltd and one of its biggest custom-
ers for paper and cardboard, United
Empire Box Co. Ltd, New Zealand’s
largest packaging group with net assets
of about £NZ2,500,000.
For several years United Empire Box,
which has absorbed one box maker after
another in fierce competition with ACl’s
New Zealand offshoot, has been moaning
about the prices it has to pay its “mono-
polistic supplier,” NZFP, for board and
paper. Two events have now brought
things to a head:—
• The takeover last October by UE
Box of Bakers Cardboard Box Co., an
Auckland company on which Forest
Products also had set its eyes, obviously
with the intention of entering the box-
making field through the acquisition of
an existing plant. A lawsuit brought by
Forest Products in connection with this
takeover is expected to go before the
Court in April or May.
• The recent tendering by Forest
Products at a reputedly very low price
for the three-year contract with the New
Zealand Dairy Board for the supply of
all containers required for total New
Zealand exports of butter and cheese.
UE Box held this highly valued con-
tract —and has secured it again this time.
But its directors are furious about Forest
Products’ competitive tender and now
announce that the company will build
its own paper and board mill in Auck-
land “without delay,” planning to start
making 25,000 tons within 12 months.
There have been several hints in recent
months that Forest Products wanted to
re-enter the converting field and its tender
for butter boxes surprises only by its
timing—it comes while the forest giant
still has no box-making plant.
Nor is it surprising that UE Box would
like to make its own raw materials—it
has always been understood to be keen
on being independent of Forest Products.
But the paper-mill announcement by
UE Box raises two important questions:
(a) —How is the company to get the
machinery?
(b) —Where is it going to get its pulp?
It seems unlikely that the Government
would grant import licences to the tune
of £NZI,OOO,OOO to £NZ1,500,000 for
equipment as long as Forest Products’
capacity is sufficient for national needs.
But UE Box could perhaps attract over-
seas capital and thus acquire the necess-
ary foreign exchange.
The matter of pulp supply would be
more difficult to solve. Forest Products
would, naturally, be most reluctant to sell
pulp to the box group. Tasman and NZ
Paper Mills, the only other pulp manu-
facturers, have no surplus capacity. This
would leave imported pulp or the use of
waste materials as the only alternatives.
But would the Government grant im-
port licences? Or would UE Box be
able to buy sufficient quantities of waste
as long as Forest Products controls the
waste-paper market through its subsidi-
ary, Metro Waste?
These are the questions that are beg-
ging an answer. Pending this the share-
market has marked down the shares of
both companies.


m
HELP
LEGACY
oil the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
WORTH BUYING
BARRIERS SHOULD RETURN TO FAVOR
HThe Lead and Zinc Study Group
which met in Geneva in October,
1962, forecast much higher consumption
by the free world of both metals for
1963.
This must give an encouraging start
in 1962-63 to Australian lead and zinc
producers the Barriers in particular.
Furthermore, there is some rallying
in lead and zinc prices since the begin-
ning of the financial year, and a distinct
improvement in silver prices.
The chairman of Broken Hill South
Ltd, in his last annual address to share-
holders, gave the following average
prices:
Lead Zinc Silver
per ton per ton per oz.
1960- £B2 6 11 £lO7 7 1 Bs. 2d.
1961- £72 3 8 £9O 3 2 Bs. 6d.
Sept, quarter
1962 £6l 3 9 £B3 18 1 9s. 4d.
By February 6, 1963, the Australian
equivalent of the prices ruling on the
London Metal Exchange were £67/19/3
for refined pig lead, £B5/12/6 for
virgin zinc, and 11s. 3d. for silver.
This represents a quite dramatic rise
in the price of silver, and useful im-
provement in lead and zinc.
Lead-zinc producers at Broken Hill
returned to full-scale production in
April, 1962, after curtailing lead out-
put under the international scheme for
the 6 months to December, 1961.
The silver output of Broken Hill
South and North Broken Hill is sold for
Australian coinage. The zinc output is
wholly sold to the Electrolytic Zinc Co.
of Australasia Ltd, and contracts for the
1963 calendar year are at a more
favorable price than for 1962. Most of
the production of refined lead from the
Port Pirie smeltery of Broken Hill
Associated Smelters Pty Ltd (owned 50
p.c. by the Conzinc Riotinto group, 30
p.c. by Norths and 20 p.c. by Souths)
goes to the US.
South’s production in the half-year to
December. 1962, leaped almost 50 p.c.,
reflecting the return to full-scale pro-
duction after 1961 cuts.
6 months to December
Tons 1961 1962
Ore treated 107,800 160,000
Lead concentrates 17,632 24,365
Zinc concentrates 20,688 27,245
Silver (ozs.) 677,561 932,205
Its other major interests are in copper
deposits in the Cobar district, to be
exploited with Consolidated Zinc Pty,
and a 60 p.c. shareholding in the Port
Kembla copper refiner, Electrolytic Re-
fining and Smelting Co.
The investment portfolio, valued in
group accounts at about £ll million,
includes the 16.6 p.c. interest in Alcoa
of Australia Pty Ltd, currently setting up
plants in Perth and Geelong for smelt-
ing and refining aluminium.
North Broken Hill is the richer mine,
with greater ore reserves of a far superior
grade of silver-lead-zinc than South’s.
The relative production (in tons) of
these two companies for 1961-62 was:
B.H. South North B.H.
Lead ore treated 261,150 352,374
Lead concentrate 41,485 68,319
Zinc concentrate 47,787 71,338
Ore Reserves of
silver-lead-zinc 1,370,000 4,035,000
North’s was also considerably busier
in the latest half year:
6 months to December
Tons 1961 1962
Ore treated 172,624 197,618
Lead concentrates 32,285 40,268
7 '"' r 34.098 42 838
Silver (ozs.) n /a 1,476,908
North’s portfolio of investments
(anDearing in the last accounts at £11.3
million) includes the aforementioned
BHAS shareholding, the remaining 40
p.c. interest in Electrolytic Refining and
Smelting Co., plus a 20.6 p.c. interest
in the copper fabrications at Port
Kembla, Metal Manufacturers Ltd, and
a 12 p.c. interest in Alcoa.
In the last full financial year North’s
surplus on mining operations was
whittled to a mere £65,696, while net
income from investments contributed
£536,174 to a total profit of £601,870.
(The sale of the British-Junction lease
and plant brought in an additional capital
profit of £257,943, which was taxable.)
South’s depended almost entirely on
investment income of £577,872, mining
operations having a surplus of only
£328 to make a total of £578,200.
The substantial increases in mine
production by both companies this year
will not only boost profits from the
mines to reasonable levels, but improve
profits of BHAS, which may channel
higher dividends back to Norths and
Souths.
Examination of major silver-lead-zinc
producers in Australia should not exclude
New Broken Hill Consolidated Ltd,
Zinc Corporation Ltd, or Mt Isa Mines
Ltd.
New Broken Hill and Zinc Corpora-
tion each treated at least twice as much
ore in the calendar year 1962 as did
Souths or Norths in 1961-62. As Zinc
Corporation is part of the huge Conzinc
Riotinto group, written up fully i n t.
Bulletin of January 5, repetition!
not needed.
New Broken Hill’s production ro Si
for the year to December 31 (with the
exception of zinc):
Tons 1961 ita
Lead ore treated 648,002 70 «,
Gross lead 50,428 ooS
Zinc concentrate 154,885 us'oJ
Silver (ozs.) 1,263,372 2,310369
New Broken Hill has not yet an-
nounced its 1962 profit, but it should
partly redress the previous year’s fal
to around <£A720,000, only half the
1960 profit.
This company supplies the major lea/
and zinc concentrate requirements oi
the Cockle Creek (NSW) smelter run by
Sulphide Corporation, and also sells
zinc to EZ in Risdon. Investment income
is of very minor importance to New
Broken Hill.
The size of Mt Isa’s silver-lead-zinc
ore reserves, estimated at 25.6 million
tons, when compared with South’s and
North’s above, shows the wealth of Mt
Isa. Over and above this, copper
reserves are very conservatively estimated
at 27 million tons.
Last year to June, Mt Isa treated
about three tons of copper for every one
of silver-lead-zinc, although this com-
pany is in the happy position of being
able to alter the ratio according to
market requirements.
In recent years while lead markets
were well supplied, it has concentrated
more heavily on copper. The price of
copper on London market has been
stabilised by African and Canadian
producers at about £A292 a ton, and
seems unlikely to ease.
As Australia’s biggest silver producer,
with an output in 1961-62 of approxi-
mately 3.2 million ozs, Mt Isa will
benefit from the better silver prices. 1
Production of all metals last year was
seriously affected by the 8 weeks strike,
so 1962-63 should be a more profitable
year all round for Mt Isa.
Share market information on the
silver-lead-zinc producers is:
Div. Yie | J
Par value Price P- c - cn
Souths ss. 115.9 d. U 3
Norths 10s. 20s. 10 Vi
New ss. stg 425. 25 , »
Mt Isa ss. 675. 25
* Indicated.
On the basis of the relative importance
of greater output and better silver
on these companies’ profits, Norths an
South’s shares look the outstanding P ur
chases. The return, moreover, c onl P are ,j
very favorably with leading indus n ,
stocks. i


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
I Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-27(51
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
8 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
that cannot go forward is
v destined eventually to die. Nikita
$. Khrushchev.
Mr Khrushchev would not have
thought that these remarks would be ap-
jj e( j to the behaviour of the New York
stock market. But they have been and
v e ry aptly so by one of the leading New
fork brokers in his current circular.
Another current circular, but this time
j,y a local broker, mentions our old
friends, Ready Mixed Concrete Ltd. I
quote: “In case some of the remarks
jo our previous circular on the above
I company (RMC) have been miscon-
Ltrued, we wish to make it quite clear
(hat such remarks did not nor were they
intended to reflect in any way upon the
character or personal integrity of any
director of the company.” It was this
same broker who pointed out earlier that
RMC appeared to have paid too much for
Australian Blue Metal. The 1961/62
result of this company published last
week confirmed this suspicion. RMC with
all it; world-wide interests is now batt-
ling against over-capitalisation. The win-
ter in Europe is showing no sympathy
towards the cause.
A mental picture of Europe's winter
(has been difficult to construct in our
present heat. I was thinking just this at
the extraordinary general meeting of
Harden and Johnston as the motions for
the l-for-3 bonus issue and the share
split were being put. It was one of those
pleasant old-world-atmosphere meetings
wth a large slow fan in the background.
The chairman shyly admitted that they
[we satisfied with current trading to
; the small gathering of polite shareholders,
including one gentle old lady of 90. If
this year’s result is anything like the
American Chrysler Corporation's 500 p.c.
pease in profits, then the new shares
are worth buying now at 16/6.
, I hope that is not going to be another
wonical statement like my prediction
last week on AOG remaining in its apa-
Wc state. The AOG share price did
* ore than flicker. It literally burst into
anies as it surged from 52/- up to 60/-
>st Wednesday morning before rebound-
back to 54/- the following day.
it was last week’s article that I was also
*ing about premature selling. A good
was my Marcus Clark notes which,
been sold at 44/-, have now
! ove d up to 47/9. Oh, well, at least the
«id Jones notes bought with the funds
Arisen to 18/6.
not to be discouraged, I
e executed another industry switch
°m Waugh and Josephson into Tutt
* ant - A major activity of both com-
panies is the distribution of heavy con-
struction and transport equipment. Tutt
Bryant has been the more steady of the
two companies but both suffered the
effects of the 1961 recession. To con-
tinue this similarity, both now are mak-
ing a strong recovery.
It was the fact that the price trends
seem to have gone too far in opposite
directions that prompted the switch.
Waugh and Josephson’s price rise to 19/-
appeared far enough for the present.
Tutt Bryant, especially the 5/- notes, have
steadily been weakening. A fair bargain
would appear to have been 6/9 for
these notes. It was one of those pleas-
ant surprises when the broker told me
that he had been able to buy 600 at 6/3.
This depressed price must surely get a
mention in the Press. Another company
whose shares now seem unduly depressed
is G. E. Crane. The present price of
75/- must sadden those investors who
bought the shares in 1960 at 140/-. Aus-
straluco, another aluminium fabricator,
has set the pace by turning the loss of
£46,000 in 1961 into a profit of £392,000
in 1962. G. E. Crane is still sensibly
capitalised and will also quickly benefit in
the improvement in aluminium consump-
tion. Financially, the company 'is very
strong with stated reserves being three
times greater than issued capital.
The earning rate of 48.5 p.c. in 1960
was slashed to 18.7 p.c. in 1961 and
then picked up slightly to 21.9 p.c. in
1962. Keeping in mind that the financial
year ends on the 30th June, a breakdown
of the profits in 1961 and 1962 showed
that it was the calendar year of 1961
where trading suffered. Sales to the appli-
ance industry should be up strongly this
financial year whilst there should be some
improvement in the demand from the
building industry. Because of the expect-
ed increase in aluminium consumption
per capita, the long term addicts should
be satisfied. As a fabricator, G. E. Crane
has no problems about possible over-
supply of refined aluminium. There was
still a seller in the market at 75/- after
Australuco’s result was announced but
the most I could extract from him (or
was it a her?) was 50 shares. Well at
least it keeps my debt to the broker
down to £2BB.
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
200 Waugh & Josephsorc, 19/- .. £lB7
BOUGHT
600 Tutt Bryant 5/- Notes, 6/3 £195
50 G. E. Crane, 75/- £l9O
Now that Alice River No. 1 has spud-
ded in, I am watching the Farmout
market very closely.
My portfolio now is:—
Cost Cur-
No. ot Nanne ot Date Per rent
Shares Co-r.pany Bought Share Price
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 23/9
1,000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 9/6
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/3
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/3
1,000 Functional 2/11/62 7/0 7/6
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 16/-
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 16/6
200 ICI ctg. 7/1/63 - 43/- 45/-
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 60/9
1,000 Tasman New 7/1/63 1/2 1/4
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/-
1,000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/5
1,000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
1,000 Farmouts 14/1/63 1/7 1/11
200 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 42/6
600 David Jones N'otes 21/1/63 17/3 18/6
2,000 Hooker 64 options 2S/1/63 V/- 1/2
2,000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 1/2
1,000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/5
600 Tutt Bryant Note 7/2/63 6/3 6/3
50 G.E. Crane 8/2/63 75/- 75/-
Too many car sparks?
HThe process started by the Southern
A Cross Hotel of bringing light and
activity to the drab top of Bourke Street
proceeds apace, though it could be that
with the hotel’s own spacious under-
ground car park this aspect of develop-
ment is being rather overdone.
Obviously King Parkade doesn't agree,
because it has carved out a huge area of
territory within a Peter Burge throw
of the Southern Cross for what will be
Melbourne’s biggest city car park and has
got Vinton Smith, Dougall and Co. to
bring the public in to help finance it
by way of a float coming up soon. In
the interim, Langfords, the builders, are
on the job in about a third of the area
while the rest is covered in cars all day.
Waltons’ advancement
TI/altons Ltd ss. shares have received
greater attention from professional
investors since the chairman, Mr J. R.
Walton, fronted up to examination by
the Sydney Society of Security Analysts.
The shares closed 1962 at 14s. lid.,
and have advanced-Is. 3d. or so in the
last six weeks to rank among retailers
only behind Myers and David Jones
with a yield of just under 4 p.c.
Interim report for the half-year to
January 31 will be out in a couple of
weeks.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
INNES IND. LTD (NZ)
HARD DEALS IN SOFT DRINKS
lITHh five million gallons of soft drinks
" from 25 bottling lines and an interest
in two major competitors, Innes Indus-
tries Ltd, Auckland, is by far the largest
New Zealand soft drink manufacturer,
having a near-monopoly in the country’s
most populous province. Growth of this
old-established company, which started
as a family brewing concern in the Wai-
kato during the Maori War, has been
particularly rapid.
In the last four years ordinary capi-
tal has trebled. Turnover rose 29 p.c.
and at the same time profit increased 53
p.c. Sales are still rising— to a forecast
£1,900,000 in the current year.
Yet, the 1962 figures seemingly indi-
cate a standstill, as earning rates dropped
more sharply than could have been ex-
pected following a one-for-one bonus is-
sue and a swap of 100,000 shares with
L. D. Nathan and Co. Ltd, an Auckland
merchant firm.
But the true position is different. By
1961 Innes was already in a predomin-
ant position, making both its own line
of drinks plus Coca Cola and Schweppes
in 10 plants throughout the Auckland
and Northland Provinces. Besides, it had
a 27 p.c. interest in Consolidated Hotels
(which owns Waikato Breweries, the
country’s third largest) and an extensive
wine and spirit business.
Then came an intricate series of deals.
First, Innes sold its holding in Consoli-
dated Hotels to New Zealand Breweries,
making a capital profit of at least
£175,000. At the same time it exchanged
100,000 £1 shares for a similar parcel in
L. D. Nathan, its partner in Consolidated
Hotels. Earlier, NZ Breweries had taken
over Innes’ main competitor, Grey and
Menzies, and merged its activities with
those in New Zealand of Schweppes
(Australia).
Innes was now offered a 25 per cent
share in the new company, Schweppes
(NZ), with NZ Breweries also holding
25 p.c. and Schweppes (Australia) 50
p.c. And, to round it all off, Innes sold
a one-third interest in its two main soft-
drink subsidiaries to Schweppes (NZ),
while, through yet another takeover, NZ
Breweries replaced Innes’ partner in
another, partly-owned subsidiary.
These deals no doubt strengthened
Innes, quite apart from solving at least
part of its traditional liquidity problems
(since a reorganisation in 1949, when
capital was £160,000 and reserves
£8,856, only £140,000 was raised in
cash). But another result was that a
large slice of the 1962 group profit of
£103,646 had to be deducted as a
minority interest, whereas income from
the new interests in Nathan and
Schweppes (NZ) was included only to
the extent of dividends received.
Group profit before deduction of
minority interests represented 15.5 p.c.
on new capital. This compares favorably
with the 1961 result because the
£lOO,OOO capital issued in the swap
with L. D. Nathan does not earn more
than the dividend from that company—
-74 p.c.
Investors have been quick to appre-
ciate this and are satisfied with a yield
of only 3.7 p.c. at the current price of
around 385., although bonus issue
chances are slim for the immediate
future.
However, there is every possibility that
the company will make a cash issue be-
fore long. It has bought 13 acres of land
just outside Auckland and will build a
£500,000 factory in which all activities
of the various Auckland plants and a
number of new ventures will be com-
bined. Sale of the company’s present
building will no doubt raise a substantial
part of the finance required for the five-
year-plan, but even at the improved level
liquidity is insufficient to provide the re-
mainder from internal sources.
One of the new ventures is the
marketing on a country-wide scale of 5
new kind of citrus drink, made from ft
whole fruit. Selling in cordial and cal
bonated form will begin next spring ]\
introduction of “Fanta” by the Cot
Cola subsidiaries has been a success
Coca Cola sales are still expanding, pai
ticularly now that Pepsi Cola, for whic!
the franchise was held by Grey am
Menzies, now absorbed into Schweppes
(NZ), has disappeared from the market,
Further growth of the Innes group
seems assured and although income from
an investment bought now is fairly 1 0 «
an increase in dividend seems most
likely. Long-term prospects appear to b(
well above the average.
August 31 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1
Eln'Z 'OOO
Current assets 24 4 27 6 28 6 320 477
less current liab. 242 270 267 331 322
Working capital 2 6 19 -11 155 i
Fixed Assets 422 518 523 614 810 ]
Investments 176 160 163 246 349 I
600 684 705 849 1314 1
Represented by
Minority interests 23 22 25 153
Term liabilities 81 138 117 79 76 1
Pref. capital 100 100 100 100 100
Ord. capital 200 200 200 250 600
Reserves 219 223 266 395 385
600 684 705 849 1314
Depreciation 40 43 42 56 63
Taxation 56 75 68 76 97
Net earnings 56 63 70 84 8511
Earned for ords. 51 58 65 79 80
Ordinary divs. 12 2 0 2 0 25 41
Surplus 39 3 8 4 5 54 39
Earnings % on cap. 25.8 23.8 32.5 31.6 13,3(1
Earnings % on ave.
fds. 12.8 13.7 14.6 14.2 9.8
Dividend % 672 + b 22 10 10 7
Dividend yield 2.7 3.6
High price 77/- 41/6
Low price —36/—(2) 35/6
Sales 1350 1410 1457 1589 1740
(1) After deduction £19,116 minority interest!
(2) After 1:1 bonus issue.
Note: Shares unofficially listed in 1961; officiall
listed in 1962.
the world of business
"When Franklin here so spiritedly outbid Orbit Investments to to
over Busy Industries for Consolidated Holdings, he was possibly
unaware that all three companies were already our own subsidiaries."


KEY TO HOTEL MANAGEMENT
L. trOL of labor costs is the main
V factor in the successful manage-
tof an hotel. Averaging about 30
c of the total, labor cost is the highest
Lie element in expenses.
By comparison the labor cost in
manufacturing industry averages only
about 22 p-c., so that hotel manage-
ment may have much to learn from the
manufacturing industry.
A hotel manager has to detail the
(ar i o us types of jobs that must be done
lo maintain service at the desired
itandard and then to decide how they
»n be carried out at the efficient and
jconomic level.
Several techniques have been devised
iy manufacturing industry for recording
idetail how this can be done. In some
tases this involves charting operations
on paper, listing the times taken for each
aall part of the operation, and some-
times even using films for a visual
analysis of the job, projected a frame at
a time. This data provides opportunities
for a critical examination of the job and
lie chance to find out if part of the
work can be eliminated, if the job can
k simplified or combined with some
?ther work, and what person should
;arry out the work.
Enlightened management techniques
»these lines recently resulted in three
spense-saving moves in a large and
rambling Melbourne hotel. Whereas
busemaids had been going long dis-
hes to adjacent buildings to replenish
fen, an intermediate storage of linen,
replenished regularly, was introduced
fith great saving of time and effort.
In the same hotel the distance travelled
»y kitchen hands was reduced from 128
fe to 28 feet by a better kitchen lay-
®and, in the bar, a re-arrangement of
felities eliminated unnecessary move-
fit by barmaids which increased the
serving of beer by about one-fifth
swell as removing “dead spots” at the
nr.
Ife systematic examination of work-
conditions has also revealed that jobs
sometimes be transferred from
“Sbly-skilled people to less - skilled
fe. This was the case in a large
toy hotel, where the recent intro-
lction of a large dish-washing machine
Pjckly paid dividends.
“S' carrying dirty dishes by conveyor
ls from all floors to the machine and
filing clean dishes by the same
,® 0( I> labor and hot water costs were
Ce d and skilled waiters were relieved
routine work which was undertaken
attendants. The waiters
were then free to look after more tables.
For economical planning in hotel
work, it is necessary to know how the
work load will vary during the days of
the week and the hours of the day. This
can be established from records which
show the regular trading pattern of the
hotel as related to bedrooms that are
occupied and meals that are served.
These records reveal the jobs that
have to be done and the times for doing
them. They can thus be used as a basis
for drawing up work lists on large
charts, on which the names of available
staff are written opposite the work they
are required to undertake at the required
times.
If prepared carefully, these charts will
indicate the jobs that must be carried
out at certain times of the day, but will
also show how other work can be trans-
ferred from peak times to slack periods.
Some peaks, however, will still remain,
and the use of a part-time staff or
casuals to cover these is sound planning.
The time spent in such proper work-
scheduling is amply rewarded, especially
when the influence of regulations on
hours of work and overtime penalties
are considered.
Having defined all the tasks and how
they will be carried out, it is then
possible to set dowrn the physical, mental
and personality characteristics of the
staff best fitted to carry out the desired
duties.
One of the big problems in drawing
up an ideal work schedule for a hotel is
the migratory tendencies of quite a
large proportion of staff. Some depart-
ments in a hotel lose seven out of ten
of their employees every year. The
quality of available staff, in most cases,
also falls short of the ideal. These are
disturbing facts that must be dealt with
through the exercise of greater care in
recruiting and training personnel.
There is, of course, a “grapevine” in
the industry which passes on sound tips
on the availability of workers, their
quality, their characteristics and their
desirability. But in addition to this,
recognised techniques of aptitude test-
ing and a systematic interview procedure
should be used. Management can save
a lot of time and worry, and eventually
save money and the reputation of their
hotel, by an efficient and systemised
approach to staff employment.
Securing the staff is one thing. The
next problem is to ensure that it settles
into its work properly and is trained
along the right lines. Proper work
methods and work habits must be formed
at the outset, for the first day or two on
the job can produce impressions on all
concerned that may never be thoroughly
erased.
Practical training on the job is highly
desirable, but it is also important that
new hotel employees spend some time in
group training that will accelerate their
thorough knowledge of their tasks.
Larger hotels would find it economic to
run their own schools for staff training,
but the ideal answer would be for the
industry as a whole to set up a school
for new employees at a selected hotel in
each State.
A high standard of supervision is
necessary to get the best out of labor —•
consistently.
The good supervisor is a leader, not
a driver. He must acquire separate skills
of planning, controlling and motivation
of other people as well as having a
detailed knowledge of the various jobs
that have to be done. A regular report,
comparing what work has been achieved
with what had been planned, is necessary
to assist the supervisor in his work. These
control reports need be only simple docu-
ments, produced promptly and regularly
enough for the supervisor to take cor-
rective action as soon as adverse trends
make their appearance.
As well as showing whether the vol-
ume of work is rising or falling, the
documents should provide a comparison
with a standard level of performance
which is considered to be reasonable to
achieve. Investigation under normal con-
ditions can readily set these standards.
But the control document cannot be de-
pended upon entirely to ensure that a
state of control exists This :an be ach-
ieved only if the supervisor and manage-
ment take action on the controls
promptly and whenever necessary. Con-
trols on labor, food and finance are like
a compass — they point the direction in
which to go, but are of practical value
only if that direction is followed.
Finally, it is vital for every executive,
once in a while, to stand well back from
his job and adopt a critical, questioning
and analytical attitude to each of his
managerial responsibilities. Planned
labor control can give hotel manage-
ment this “sharper” look at what goes
on in the establishment — but more
than that, it can also provide the cure
for whatever ails it. Once planned man-
agement and careful method-study train-
ing have been accepted and adopted,
they can have a deep and lasting influence
on the persons putting the practices into
effect.
By ALAN SMALLMAN


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DERENTURE STOCK
□
□
□
o
P.A.
FOR
12
MONTHS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
0
o
o
i:
&
a
I
□
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
(.Registered 19th December, 1929 )
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
MARKETING
AUSTRALIA
WON'T
BE THERE!
l3th general conference of ft
-*• International Federation of Aaricu)
tural Producers will be held in Dub!
Ireland, from May 16 to 29 . .
Australia will not be there.
Surely a shocking indictment, for Aus
tralia is one of the world's major agri
cultural nations.
This meeting of IFAP will be the fin
without Australia, which was a founds
tion member of the body 16 years age
But it ceased to be a member at tit
end of last year . . . because Australia!
tens of thousands of farmers cannot
between them find the <£ 1600-a-yeai
membership fee!
Incredible, but true.
Nor was the difficulty a sudden one,
For a number of years the fee was
borne by only three organisations in the
wool, dairying and cane-growing indus-
tries. Last year some of these bodies
decided they could no longer carry the
burden alone, and the National Farmer!
Union of Australia had no choice b»
to withdraw —even though there ha
never been a more critical time in world
primary produce marketing.
Australia has been invited to send an
observer to the Dublin meeting, which
will include detailed discussions on in-
dividual commodities. But at present there
is no indication we can even afford an
observer —vital though these talks may
be with international commodity agree-
ments hanging fire.
The Australian Dairy Produce Board
has borne the entire cost of sending a
delegate to the last two IFAP confer-
ences and before that Australia wa!
sometimes not represented. New Zea-
land, on the other hand, although
much smaller and less wealthy country,
sent four delegates to the last con er
ence in 1961. New Zealand is even ex-
pected to stage an IFAP conference u>
1964.
The president of the National Farms
Union, Mr A. F. Havard, aptly summer
up the position when he said: Ausr
lia’s absence from this international
organisation is rather a judgment on
at a time when the EEC and interna io
trade talks loom largely on our horizo
The only bright spot is a hint by
Havard that Australian reaffili at *° n
IFAP might be supported later mis )
He suggests that a proposed visr )
IFAP executive member could
useful result.


Who shall I
appoint as executor
of my Wi11...?
The decision is yours, but con-
sider this important question first!
Is it fair to burden an inexperienced
relative or friend with the many
complex problems encountered in
administering an estate?
Your family’s future depends on
the ability of your executor to carry
out his responsibilities efficiently.
That’s why it’s always wise to
appoint a widely experienced
executor who has the time and the
facilities to handle your estate care-
fully and economically.
Perpetual Trustee has spe-
cialised in every phase of estate
administration for over 75 years
and is well qualified to act as your
executor either alone, or jointly,
with a relative or friend.
Before you decide on an execu-
tor call and discuss the planning
of your affairs with one of Per-
petual's senior officers. He’s at
your service to advise and assist
you in any way possible . . . there’s
no charge, of course! Make a point
of calling soon.
Ask Perpetual today for your
copy of the Company’s new
information booklet.
PUT YOUR TRUST IN
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney
Telephone 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Orange and Tamworth
Perpetual Trustee Company (Canberra) Ltd.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
MARKETING
AAAA MOVE TO
PUBLISH
ADVT. COSTS
m llE Australian Association of Advert-
-1 , s j n g Agencies is pushing on with
,he preparation of a booklet containing
Z advertising expenditure figures in
Australia for the year ended December
31 1962. The figures will be compiled
y The Bruce Tart Research Service in
consultation with Mr Bernard Holt, Fed-
eral director of the 4As
It is anticipated that they will cover
toad estimates for 1961 and full figures
jin Press, radio and television for 1962,
lith a set of comparative graphs.
In the case of country, rural and trade
press, cinema and poster advertising and
fed mail advertising, the figures will
necessarily be only estimates, but the
organisations concerned will be asked for
lelp to make the estimates as accurate
is possible.
The Sydney and Melbourne offices of
tie George Patterson agency will render
assistance, particularly with estimated
.■figures, which in the light of figures
already produced by the agency's Mel-
kwrne office over a number of years
jpuld be invaluable. Mr. Holt said.
DRY CLEANERS
PLAN TO
PROMOTE WOOL
there are few more critical judges of
the durability and quality of
clothing than a dry cleaner. He sees
laments at their worst . . . and their
k
Over the years he rapidly learns which
trials will survive dry cleaning best
which can be expected to fall apart
er chemical action,
for this reason the Australian Wool
yreau should be delighted to learn that
ttoria's dry cleaners have decided to
•mbine to promote wool this year.
Jhe Victorian Institute of Dry Clean-
*l has thought up the promotion to
tamemorate the arrival of the first
J ce P in Australia with the First Fleet
lr ars ag °-
w hy should dry cleaners spend their
lone y Promoting wool?
I e president of the Institute, Mr R.
arr ' s > says: “It is in the interests of
7 dry cleaner to persuade people to
' Woollen garments in preference to
ose synthetic fibres.
“The whole industry will be behind
this. Wool will be promoted in thousands
of dry cleaners’ shops and agencies
throughout the State.’’
TONGALA GETS ANOTHER
BURMA CONTRACT
HTongala Milk Products Pty Ltd, which
A last year broke into the highly com-
petitive Burma condensed milk market,
has received two repeat orders totalling
£425,000. This brings the company’s
total sales to Burma to £925,000 in less
than six months.
The original order 200,000 cases
worth £500,000 was a breakthrough
into an area formerly dominated by
Holland, Denmark, France, the UK and
Czechoslovakia.
The three contracts call for the de-
livery of 17,760,000 cans by the end of
March.


INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
" MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
tor publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Can you tell me whether the 10s. con-
vertible notes of David lones each con-
vert on luly 31, 1964, to two ss. ordi-
nary shares, or only one? — E.M., Bondi
(NSW).
The notes convert one-for-one, in other
words at a ss. premium. The noteholder
receives 6d. a year in interest on each
note, and he can expect to receive lid.
dividend a year on each share, assuming
continuance of the 12i p.c. dividend.
After the interest payment on January
31, 1963, there is an income differ-
ence of 6d. between the notes and the
shares until the new shares (ex notes)
rank equally with the old shares in
October-November, 1964. If there is any
greater margin, the notes are the more
economical buy.
★ ★ ★
I recently purchased some shares in
Thiess Holdings Ltd, and have now been
informed that in the event of my death
succession duty would be payable in
both NSW and Queensland. Would you
inform me if this is so, and would that
position be detrimental to the stock’s
popular appeal? — E.C.S., Leura (NSW).
It is less complicated for an estate
to be wound up if all the assets are in
one State. As Thiess Holdings Ltd is
registered in Queensland, the shares held
by a NSW resident are liable to Queens-
land and NSW death duties. But the
estate is refunded the amount of duty
payable in Queensland (or other States
in the case of companies registered else-
where) or the duty payable in NSW, the
domicile of the deceased, whichever is
the lesser. In other words the estate is
charged with the higher of the two State
death duties.
This position no doubt influences the
investment decisions of elderly people,
who, for the sake of their executors,
would want to concentrate their invest-
ments in the State of their residence.
But it does not particularly deter other
people.
★ ★ ★
In 1965 l hope to make an overseas
trip during my long service leave. I am
interested in both reasonably quick
capital gain and a good dividend if
possible. My present portfolio is: 130
Ampol Exploration, costing 135.; 175
Ampol Petroleum, 9s. 3d.; 400 Reid
Murray 6s. Id.; 200 Western Titanium,
25.; 600 Westralian Oil, Is. Bd. 1 also
have £lOO for immediate investment.
Could you advise me? —8. G., Apple-
cross (WA).
ICIANZ shares at 47/- are quite
cheap, and may suit your requirements.
Official Australian statistics of produc-
tion of plastics and synthetic resins show
substantial increases in the six months
to November, 1962. Likewise statistics
for chemicals show strong improvement,
suggesting ICIANZ shares are a very
good buy. You could afforc 100
ICIANZ shares if you were to sell
your holdings of 175 Ampol Petroleum
(11s. 3d.) and the 200 Western
Titanium (ss. lOd.) on which you have
made nice profits, the 400 Reid Murray
(l(Hd.) as you are not likely to i mprov
on this price in a long time, and add
the £lOO cash available. Although the
income return on the ICIANZ shares '
a modest 3 p.c., capital appreciation
should more than compensate.
The two oil stocks are purely specu-
lative, and as present prices are about
the same as your purchase price you
should be prepared to hold these at
least until these companies have en-
couraging news sufficient to put the
shares up. On the other hand the shares
may fall well below your cost price, but
that’s the risk you run in the oil pros-
pecting gamble.
★ ★ ★
Could you advise me as to the pros-
pects of Associated Pulp and Australian
Paper Manufacturers? My holdings are:
400 shares in Assoc. Pulp costing
19s. Bd. average, and 100 convertible
notes costing 205.; 800 APM shares cost-
ing 19s. 10d., and 200 convertible notes
costing 205., plus shares in North Broken
Hill, EZ Industries, G. 1. Coles. Frigrite
and Malcolm Moore. L.J.8., Fern-
tree Gully (Vic.).
The paper industry in Australia has
always been subject to some measure of
tariff protection, and also, of course, was
protected by import restrictions up to
February, 1960. When these latter were
removed, both APM and Associated
Pulp suffered materially, and both were
affected by the economic recession which
followed credit restrictions seven months
later.
The shares of both companies tumbled
to very low levels—Associated Pulp to
275. 9d. in 1961 and the notes to
20s. 2d., APM shares to 19s. Bd. in
1961 and the notes to 18s. 9d. The
present prices of these securities all
show good recovery, but it is our belief
that APM are nearer their real worth
than Associated Pulp. The latter com-
pany has always been considered the
more efficient of the two, by Tariff
Board standards, and seems more worthy
of retention.
The interim report from Associated
Pulp spoke of high production and sales,
but the increase in paper imports was
causing concern. Directors said no re-
port had been made by the Tariff Board
*on the public enquiry held 18 months
ago. This inclines us to the opinion
these shares and notes also shoul
eventually be discarded in favor of *
company which can stand on its own
feet without tariff assistance.
The shares of BHP, ACI, Felt anti
Textiles, and Peters (Vic.) or Marne"
ville Holdings might suit your
and certainly deserve consideration a
present prices.


PAINTINGS & DRAWINGS
FOR URGENT SALE
A unique opportunity to acquire some
figurative (non-abstract) paintings and
charcoal life drawings at reasonable
cost before I leave for Spain.
Phone Philip W. IJpman
XM 1314 (Business BU 4067)
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
Senior Lectureship in Law
Applications are invited for a position of Senior
Lecturer in Law.
Teaching responsibilities will be determined in
accordance with the successful applicant's range of
interests.
The salary range is £2,450 to £3,000 per annum.
Initial salary will be determined according to quafi-
fications and experience. Superannuation similar to
F.S.S.U. in Great Britain will be provided.
Conditions of appointment may be obtained from
the Registrar, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
N l . 2, Victoria, and applications should reach him
by 15th April, 1963.
F. H. JOHNSTON, Registrar.
People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
ftox 40?8, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLfiIIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, y 2 year— £l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETBM you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
oid one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
FROM RESEARCH
TO PRACTICE
E veN when sheep and wool research
brings out new ideas and better
methods of production, time inevitably
elapses before conservative flockowners,
waiting to see how more progressive
neighbors profit from new-fangled prac-
tices, bring their husbandry up-to-date.
To decrease this lag between research
all( l its practical application, the Vic-
torian Department of Agriculture has,
since 1950, maintained in its Livestock
Division an enlarged Sheep and Wool
Service, and now has expert sheep and
W ool officers in the key centres of Bal-
larat, Benalla, Bairnsdale, Colac, Gee-
lons, Horsham, Rochester and Mel-
bourne.
These experts have the slow, difficult
job of spreading new ideas and methods,
adapting these to local conditions, and
jetting them adopted by flockowners.
But, with 3000 or more flockowners in
bis district, it is obviously impossible for
any officer to make personal contact
with all, or even visit more than one-
tenth in a year.
But he can, and does, reach them in
groups at sheep husbandry, shearing or
wool-classing schools, weaner competi-
tions and classing and mulesing demon-
strations. A large proportion of them
will absorb new ideas to improve their
own practices, and, by successful ex-
ample, spread wider the fruits of re-
search.
Western Victoria has some projects on
hereditary factors in sheep-breeding, and
lamb losses and growth. Northern Vic-
toria is investigating the mating behavior
of cross bred ewes. East Gippsland’s
project is stocking rate and productivity.
As a result of this closer liaison be-
tween sheep and wool officers and
flockowners, the country has benefited
from better weaner feeding, and from
fleece weighing in stud breeding.—
Marie Lee.
ALARM BELL FOR STACKS
A N electronic device which triggers off
an alarm bell if stored feed gets
overheated has been invented by a
British engineer, Mr A. M. Duff. The
device (the Altec Alarm) comprises a
rod containing a temperature sensitive
element —a solid chemical that acts as a
single thermostat. A trigger circuit is
operated and a bell rings when the set
temperature is reached.
One advantage seen by the inventor
—insurance premiums could be reduced.
NEW ACCOUNTS
Vegetable Oils Pty Ltd has
" appointed Best and Swift to con-
duct television and radio advertising for
all its products Daffodil and Tulip
margarine, peanut butter and Frymasta.
W. B. Lawrence will, however, still
handle Press advertising.


Feiffer
If* TIME, AMERICA, WHAT D 0
louwm rose mu you
6ROVJ UPf'fWZ FM THAT
MSW& THAT BPMR6OMB
ammi-toms p/p r
h)Ra)6?" tunas ewe first
■
flitfepPiu s
Before our.
mriok)o)ioe
whelp
cmm
i IB HRS.
> E.S.P OF
PKHO6UZ,
U ■
AUP WHAT
Inr m n
LOMJfEO TO
BE WH£(J
you 6KW
VP, MRS-
E-S-PZj
l COVLO
mfcme
vp m mw
i oseo ro
mr ro
be m
OPERA
5 imp.
AH OPERA W6BR OP
eomel mpoftMT
me m mmm
&M, fiMcer
m i
<mw>' T
lO
#r sfA)?rgp,
.THfIU £
wmeo
to ee
A Whjst:
A WtUST OF
BOOKS’! m
m Mr
MOC6*
w i cmuT
teen 76 667
wum m
HW7IH6I
HM 6fiom UP
Ta eve
W6 l jJ (U
V>mv 70 6e-
A MO7H6P.
h MOTHER Of
CHIWtH!
m THAT 0
hwimt/
dor that's
imrs i
weur
mom!
ITi? HARP
tootx- rfc
TOO MUCH
B&PDVS~
mmf
HA! HA' ms
Ml 6UR6 WRC
AWMI-OER -fUU
PA mi MfcS.
EW I
IT 6MSfr M?
wo "fine for
MmE I
CW'T <WOO)
ti)HO r AM
} A WHOSE t
w OH-DtR-FUU m
IM HOUR MART OF
MARTS 6VT A
HOMR mr ALL-
HOU WAR lAVltb
WAMT TO Mjr-
'F66s UP,
H&.esi?
Mow
rest
UP/
6ut m I KNcW
WHAT I WAUT t>
Be! A TAP EAOfflR
(W TH6 MOWK
WITH FREE AtfAIREf
MOT PAMCW6 IM
THE MWWE WITH
FREE ApTAIRf /5
' where i mr
WROMS. W
£>AIE 40UE
HELP ME. 0(00
6AU7-
HA! HA! AMOK# MdaOS WRepoum
ire LEhM&eep- mg him
FOR corns OK) OUR 6HOUJ uetsab
106 m AfJOTHgR CHILD? ISK'T THAT
WOH-P&tFVtf AUPieKCe'e
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 732
ACROSS
I—Tubby getting a beer like a dangerous femme. (6)
A —Salt one with a faculty made obeisance. (8)
9 —Not what General Grant said at the end of the US
Civil War cape. (7)
10 —A pharaoh who could become a messer. (7)
12—Forte managed Bobby with some modern red war
of the 19th century. (6-8)
14— 7-down when I can be seen to be good for a plate.
15 — What aches on an infernal river? (7)
17— No poets confused an ace
drink. (3, 4)
18— What’s 9-across, Jonathan?
(4)
20 —Cheshire crane disturbed by
a celestial grazier. (7, 7)
23 Place to drink the bone state
where this wine centre is
located. (7)
24 A hundred wielding the axe
in the act of mastication. (7)
25 Money lender’s hair observed
by Aunt Sally. (8)
26 As some seabird to the ship’s
rear. (6)
DOWN
1 and 2—No flittermous profile
used by the cautious willow-
wielder. (4, 4,2, 3,3,)
3—Linen press extracts? (4, 9)
5 Great pianist who has some
contribution to make to the
Yarra University. (5)
6 A scream’s a change in
slaughter. (8)
7 Blow vim and verve—a des-
perate journey. (4)
8— A bite under the weather
photo. (8)
11—Mademoiselle Mirth, a US
quaker, begins with such de-
formity. (13)
13—Photograph to proceed at
laborious length in flower.
(10)
15— Correctness of a current job
in the church. (8)
16— Snare her next to him whose
bride Lochinvar abducted.
(8)
19 —Bird with a curious shriek.
(6)
21— Punish fishing craft. (5)
22 One to encore a bird. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 731


buys Australian
\ v
*
AUSTRALIAN
, MADE A
FT**,
k
. if
w?Jm
mmi
i
smmi


The world’s finest tobacco is at your fingertips
m
m
m
■
V.
o
X'
V
tfr/o 0
yy
//
' ■
iy
mm
■«*«
•• /: "
m
nr tt tp
x Xl Hi
ONLY VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN
