

The Bulletin
NOVEMBER 30, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $T
FlNiMHißAtlfc TFIE AUsfRALfetM FINANCIAL TIMES
Is I v;-' SPllSSfe : HI: ISBBBIf- Wk"
R.C.mHIIES


#«
********
priclad
w
Q
p»
r
mi
at-
)
'i'
N.
"*vt,
9
§ h
m
Geon
/Mzfoua&
Alice is pictured in a wonderland of toys from Driclad Tty. Ltd.
The toys (and even today’s raincoats) are based on Geon.
takes Alice through wonderland
When she floats on water, hugs her doll or bounces a ball, Geon is her playmate. Film made from Geon, in a
wide range of applications, opens up a wonderland to manufacturers of plastic toys. Soft and pliable, it brings
life-like quality to cuddlesome toys. Waterproof and colour-fast, it’s a safety factor in swimming aids, makes any
toy brighter ... to stay that way. Resistant to wear and tear, it stands up to daily adventures in any Alice’s
or Johnny’s wonderland. In almost any industry, Geon can improve products or help evolve new ones. Have
you a product which we can help vou improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich - C. S. R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd. I
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited
M 55238


National Notebook
Art While You Work
FYne of the most interesting exhibitions
to come to Adelaide for its Festival
next March will be the Peter Stuyvesant
collection of contemporary paintings.
The collection is owned
by the cigarette company.
As a variant on music
while you work the com-
pany offers art while you
work to the employees of
its factory in Holland.
The collection of 40
paintings includes one by an Australian,
Brett Whiteley. When it is hung in the
Adelaide Gallery it will have as actuality
background immense pale-grey photo-
graphic blowups of what are unmistak-
ably cigarette factory workers. The
director of the gallery, Robert Camp-
bell, was a bit worried at first about such
unashamed commercialism, but has been
persuaded that the blowups give a clearer
idea of how the paintings fit into their
factory setting.
For the Festival the gallery will show
about 440 items valued at at least
£1,000,000 in nine separate exhibitions.
The coup is the James Michener collec-
tion of modern American art, which is
insured for £250,000. Nearly every
Australian gallery has been trying for
years to get a representative collection
of American art on loan. This collection,
owned by the writer of popular books,
will be shown in Adelaide only. Other
collections are six Royal portraits, lent
by the Queen, Gothic art from the
Victoria and Albert, a retrospective
exhibition of Arthur Boyd, Australians
painted by Australians, Eskimo art and
some entries for the 1964 Archibald,
Wynne and Sulman prizes.
Sound of Success
FYste of the liveliest voices on radio be-
” longs to Keith Adam, editor of “To-
day’s Writing,” a programme about books
broadcast by the ABC on alternate Fri-
days. This session, an undoubted jewel
in the crown of Newrad, is probably the
only one on the air to hustle its listeners.
Into 45 minutes Adam packs three or
four extended interviews with writers and
publishers, the reading of some new
poems (even once a story by Hal Porter),
and fleeting reviews of upwards of 40
books.
Convinced that there is no place in
radio for the intellectual “little-magazine”
approach to books, Adam runs “Today’s
Writing” in a newsy way aimed to catch
the ear of the typical bookseller, lib-
rarian and reader.
Adam, who is 36, combines unforced
exuberance with an ability to get down
at once to the searching question. He
used to be an ABC (Talks Department)
staff man, but since 1958 has been a
freelance producer. “1 was feeling low
after deciding to get out on my own,”
he told us last week.
“Then in the phone book
I came across the entry,
‘J. R. Cockbill, remover
of dead horses —2 lines.’
I reckoned if there were
enough dead horses to
keep two lines busy,
there must be a way in the world for me
to make a living. Being a freelance, has
never worried me since then.”
Hang Ten 011 the New Wave
VyE’RE still getting the backwash from
last week’s piece on the surfing
world. Among the things that floated
into our office was a publicity piece on
a novel, “Vice Beach”. Excerpts from
this piece lead us to believe that there
may, indeed, be a new wave in Aus-
tralian literature.
“Profitable surf exploitation booms
and will continue,” we read. “Un-
precedented international publicity for,
and interest in, the surf, surfers, surfies,
pop surf music, surf periodicals, press
surf topics, surf fashions, surfboards,
surf femlins . . . everything, in fact, but
a timely, thrilling right-with-it Aus-
tralian surf novel with an international
appeal. Yet such a book was written!
Such an MS does exist! It was presented,
casually, approximately 18 months ago,
to one square local publisher. Chicken
and unimaginative, he shrunk away,
alarmed at the starkly realistic impact of
this complacency-shattering MS of surf-
side sex.
“Vice Beach”, the handout explains,
“is actually Boomer Beach, Sydney’s
most popular surf resort.
“Star of ‘Vice Beach’ is Surf Sands
(pt. reg.) and surely this is the time for
a fictional Aussie surf hero! Surf Sands
Lilies to “Silent Billy”
Jack, MHR
TTeard orators are sweet, but those
unheard
Are sweeter. While so many talk their
fill,
I cherish rather each unspoken word
Of your non-utterances, Silent Bill.
O statesman with a voice forever still,
The spell of your mute eloquence on me
Has worked with such effect that
my good will
Is yours from here to taciturnity.
SIDNEY NORTH
Page
ARCHBISHOP SIMONDS . . 28
A dislike 0/ Modernism
•
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 35
AROUND PERTH 39
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
(32 pages) 50
CELL ARB ASTER 26
CROSSWORD 82
EIGHTY YEARS AGO ..... 8
FORUM 36
LETTERS 41
MAN ON THE LAND 78
OUT AND ABOUT 19
OVERSEAS 16
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
RED PAGE 46
REVIEWS 42
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
The Elections: A National Round-
up 6
Sir Robert Menzies: Impressions .. 13
JFK —A Profile 16
The Surfies Invade Surfers
Paradise 19
The Wily Men from Borneo .... 21
An Artist on the Beam 24
Wines to Buy 26
VD on the increase 32
Indonesia: The Death of Djuanda 33
A Bolte Bid for Anschluss 35
The Senate Report on TV 36
Art in the Olden West 39
Revolution in China: An Imaginary
Threat? 46
Needling the US Administration.. 50
Selectivity in Foreign Investment 53
Red Letter Days for Flour Millers 57
Wool Keeps a Secret 78
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4372


k . . the mighty Australian surfing cham-
pion . . captain of Boomer Surf Club
. . . daring boardman and conqueror of
the Boomer Bombora . . . son of a news-
man and a poetess . . himself an intelli-
gent journalist on one of the world’s great
newspapers, the Sydney ‘Cooee’ ... a
ruthlessly efficient master of sex . . . the
mind of a seeker of beauty and the
muscle power of an unleashed panther
. . . and the man who walks in the love
of his God and his Christ. Surf Sands
is one of the most colorful, complex
personalities of contemporary literature.
“. . . behind the gaudy facade of famed
Boomer Beach lay an unspoken horror
girls ensnared in a net of white
slavery. Little did the gay summer
crowds suspect that their Pacific play-
ground was a front tor the rottenness of
Vice Beach. First to blast its shame is
Surf Sands, greatest of all surf cham-
pions, ace news reporter, and 14 stone
of lithe power in trouble or love”.
And so it comes and goes, like the
tide.
From the Gulf Country
must be something about the
hot, steamy atmosphere of Queens-
land’s Gulf Country which is conducive
to writing. Margaret Britt, whose “Par-
don my Boots” has just been published
by Lansdowne, lives at “Forest Home,”
the cattle station between Cairns and
Normanton where Elizabeth O’Conner
wrote her “Steak for Breakfast.”
Mrs Britt sometimes sees Miss O’Con-
ner, now living on another property,
when they meet in Cairns. “We have a
cup of tea together and talk about
books,” she said. “Recently we were talk-
ing about the current idea that a book
must be sexy to be a best-seller. Elizabeth
said that she has called her new one,
‘Find a Woman’ and hopes that the
readers will be halfway through it before
they find out they’ve been had.”
Round Trip
/\ur man on the move swung into the
office last week, bearded and dressed
in a red jerkin and black slacks, gripping
a trumpet-case from which he produced
a cut lunch, a black beret, and the fol-
lowing notes headed “Graeme Bell All
Stars on Festival”:
“Received free ticket to latest Jazz at
Sydney Town Hall, dressed for occasion,
found Town Hall uncrowded with
medium scattering of serious Youth Con-
cert types. Went outside, checked the
programme with attendant who said, ‘Yes,
Dad, ctraight ahead for Squaresville.’
Followed his thumb and was seated
among sedate pairs of girls with straight
hair-dos and severe, dedicated expres-
sions.
“Graeme Bell and All Stars appeared,
said going to play Down By Riverside,
recorded on FL30.908 12-inch LP album
available at all record stores. Band blew
lustily, tapped feet, swung shoulders, in-
struments and music. Audience sat un-
moved, impassive, square. Clapped
politely at end. Ken Herron, trombonist,
sang Irish song while being lathered and
shaved. Audience smiled politely.
“After interval some types in tight
trousers, bulky sweaters, sandals, beards,
drifted in on free list, clapped like crazy
when Marian Henderson, folk singer, ap-
peared. Tall young woman in severe
black dress, hair braided to hang one side,
toting guitar. Big voice, glorious tone,
actually moved audience to clap politely
in time, murmur choruses of two songs.
Recalled for encore. Then Graeme Bell
reappeared, bulky sweaters rose, disap-
peared.
“Town Hall not made tor amplified
brass. My eardrums not made for Jazz
At Town Hall. Audience not made for
Jazz. Tucked trumpet case under arm and
crept out, creating shocked stares. This
audience long way out from beat of
happy feet in Mississippi mud.”
Tanner
"Give me your second preferences and
I'll never ask you for anything again."


PLAIN ENGLISH
The State Aid Issue
ANE feature of this election is the
fervor with which some of the
Protestant Churches have come out
in support of the Labor Party. Last
week, for example, the Rev. H.
Mac Neil Saunders of the Council
of Churches in NSW condemned the
Liberal Party’s education policies
as “direct State aid” with no re-
deeming features, whereas the ALP’s
policies, though as “dangerously
slanted towards State aid”, “have
the virtue of maintaining the con-
stitutional authority of the States
in deciding whether independent
schools will share in these Com-
monwealth grants”. He went on to
say that electors will face a “delicate
decision of conscience” but made it
clear that the “moral grounds of the
proper demarcation of Church and
State” should be the decisive con-
siderations. In other words, the
Council of Churches prefers the
ALP.
The Council, of course, is per-
fectly entitled to advocate any
political position it likes; no one
suggests any Church should keep
out of politics any more; and no
Church does keep out; indeed the
seriousness with which a church
takes politics is one measure of its
vitality.
Yet the Council in NSW seems
to be taking a very short-sighted
view.
What we have in Australia is two
systems of education —• the State
system and the private system. Both
are well established, follow much
the same curricula, train students
for the same examinations, and
generally maintain much the same
atmosphere though there is more
variety in the private section which
has been built solely by independent
individuals who were prepared to
invest in schools of a certain type.
They represent one of the great ex-
amples of voluntary effort in edu-
cation.
These schools now face a crisis.
In view of the staggering increase
in costs, particularly of science edu-
cation, they must either close down
or be helped in some way by the
State. The State not only has a
duty to assist mis voluntary effort in
education, to prevent this system
from collapsing, but it is also in
its interest to do so, since the
State system could not absorb the
students from the private schools
without adding to its own problems
on a colossal scale.
The Liberal Party’s policy is
simply a recognition of the fact
appropriate for a Party that supports
private effort in any fiehj ( ,and does
not believe the State shoulcf be the
only one to profit from the current
educational crisis.
JFK
HTHE tragic death of President
-*■ Kennedy at 46 ends an era in
much the same way as did the death
of President Roosevelt. By con-
trast the administrations of Presi-
dents Truman and Eisenhower
were merely interludes. While it
is fatally easy to draw misleading
comparisons between the New Deal
and the New Frontier eras some-
thing of a comparison can be made.
Both Roosevelt and Kennedy came
fresh, optimistic and energetic to
formidable tasks —one to the task
of revitalising America, restoring
its confidence and shaping the
world’s greatest peaceful revolution;
the other to the task of leading the
world’s free nations while maintain-
ing a sense of purpose at home.
Where Kennedy—like Roosevelt
something of an American aristo-
crat —scored was in his youth, his
calmness and sense of purpose. In
no nation, at no time, has such a
young man faced such tremendous
odds with such energy or vivacity.
Everything around him in the Ad-
ministration seemed to crackle with
purpose and effect. Washington be-
came a new Rome and the White
House seemed to shine with the
distinction of a Renaissance court.
No task seemed too great or diffi-
cult. Few people will forget the
calm way in which Kennedy faced
up to Khrushchev over Cuba, or the
vital and human way in which he
came out on the momentous issue
of segregation. Naturally enough his
regime, his manner, his very pan-
ache came in for bitter and unrelent-
ing criticism from Republicans and
Democrats alike. Much of the
scintillating atmosphere surrounding
his administration smacked of
nepotism and egg-head opportunism.
And yet nothing said against him
can ever quite take away the feeling
of optimism and vitality which he
seemed to impart, or the response it
aroused in people throughout the
world. The New Deal is long past,
its history is known and its effects
measured. The New Frontier is
gone, too, and far too early, per-
haps, for us to know what its con-
tribution was.
(Profile of the late President
Kennedy on page 16.)
Cambodia
decision by Prince Norodom
Sihanouk of Cambodia to
accept no more American aid adds
one more element to the uncertainty
that now hangs over the whole of
Indo-China. The most charitable
interpretation of the new develop-
ment is that Cambodia, fearing that
a Communist take-over will other-
wise be inevitable, is now making a
desperate gamble to fulfil its old
dream of becoming the Switzerland
of South-East Asia—its neutrality
useful to and guaranteed by all
countries. By cutting off sorely
needed and popular American aid
and attracting Red China’s support,
Prince Sihanouk may be trying to
provoke America into supporting
his Switzerland idea as the only way
of rescuing something from the
wreck.
Anyone who counts on Com-
munists respecting neutrality is in-
deed engaged in a desperate gamble,
and the scheme seems doomed.
Meanwhile its most immediate
effect will be to encourage those
Americans who advocate com-
plete withdrawal from South-East
Asia with dire results for Aus-
tralia.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ELECTIONS-I
State Swings and
Seat Roundabouts
A National Round-up for Saturday
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
SIR ROBERT
The champion
ARTHUR CALWELL
The challenger
Picking the election winner on
Saturday night will be a chancy
business unless there is a sub-
stantially clear swing either way.
Although the party planners have
worked out their generalisations State
differences, population shifts and above
all the electoral anomalies created by
the absence of re-distribution make the
application of rigid formulae to this
election foolhardy. A swing to the
Government of one percent would, it
is said, mean five seats; two per cent,
eight seats; three per cent, ten seats;
and a swing to Labor would mean:
one per cent, four seats; two per cent,
five seats; three per cent, seven seats.
But those seats include electorates
which have changed radically, electorates
where personal factors are different and
electorates, above all, in different States,
because nationwide figures are often
inconsistent from State to State. So on
Saturday night the task of the observer
will be to keep a running check on the
key electorates, State by State.
New South Wales remains the corner-
stone State. For all the debate on factors
in Victoria (population shifts, Dr
Simonds, improved ALP image with
better candidates, loyalty to the dead
Archbishop, sympathy for the displaced
Mr Santamaria, “donkey-votes”, etc.)
there are still only three seats there to
watch. In Queensland four seats will be
the key. But in NSW there are eight seats
to watch with a couple of other long-
shot possibilities of interest.
EVANS: The sober citizens of this
middle-classish Western suburbs Sydney
electorate are something of a cockpit
with the smallest percentage swing
needed in Australia .09 per cent.
However, it will be pretty difficult for
anyone to pick the result on the night
unless there is a nation-wide swing on.
The credit-squeeze, Government and
DLP complacency, “donkey-vote” and a
hard-working ALP candidate combined
to steal it last time. This time the
“donkey-vote” will go against Labor and
DLP, and Liberal organisation will be
better. For good measure there are two
Independents. By the end of the night
James Monaghan, the ALP candidate,
will need a lead of at least 2000 over
his Liberal rival to be confident of sur-
viving the shuffle of Independent and
DLP preferences. It could be days
before the outcome is clear.
HUME: A southern NSW electorate
with an unusually large number of sub-
divisions will be a good example of how
Labor is polling in the rural areas. How-
ever, the intervention of a Liberal
candidate (G. Ashton) in what has been
an ALP-CP see-saw game for years
makes prediction complex. In 1954 the
last Liberal candidate took a third of
the non-Labor vote. The Labor member
Arthur Fuller will have to stay handily
ahead of the combined CP-Liberal total
to be safe even allowing for a 27.85 per
cent drift of DLP preferences last time.
Early town returns should favor Labor.
COWPER: A feudal fief held by Sir
Earle Page, who died when it was taken
from him in 1961, is on all rational
grounds a Country Party blue-ribbon
electorate. But the Labor winner
Francis McGuren has made a name for
himself in parliament and is getting at
least some credit for belated Federal Gov-
ernment flood mitigation help. He should
be doing well in early figures from towns,
particularly Grafton.
The swing needed is 1.76 per cent-and
the electorate is unique among the key
seats in that it is a straightout contest
between member and Mr I. Robinson,
a former Country Party MLA.
ROBERTSON: Swing needed here is
only 1.51 per cent. Labor is making a
big push in this seat to take it away from
Mr R. Dean, Liberal. Enrolment is up
5011, mostly in cheaper housing areas.
The ALP candidate (B. Brown) is well
placed to get the “donkey-vote”, and
last time the DLP drift was 32.25 per
cent. This is a seat to watch closely and
Brown should needs have an early lead.
PARRAMATTA: Some ALP hopes
in this seat with an extra 3765 on roll,
but they have tended to be in middle-
class areas. A swing of 3.61 per cent
is needed to ALP, and Sir Garfield Bar-
wick was elected last time without DLP
preferences. Labor would have to be
leading substantially very soon to be
a danger in this seat.
LOWE: This is another Western
Suburbs seat, about static in enrolment.
A swing of .88 per cent needed for
Labor to unseat Minister for Labor Mr
McMahon on 1961 figures. Liberal
men hope that the absence of the
credit-squeeze protest vote (claimed at
2 per cent of normal Liberal voters) will
help. Labor supporters say that although
no increase in total figures there has
been a change in character with new
residents, pro-Labor in character moving
in. An Australian Republican Party
candidate was in last time, but it will be
an ALP-DLP-Liberal clash this time.
The ALP man (J. Holland) is in position
for the “donkey-vote”, but he was also
last time. By the close of counting
then, McMahon had a slight edge on
Holland, so Holland’s chances depend
on getting ahead before that and the
distribution. DLP drift last time was
33.4 per cent.
PHILLIP: A mixed type of Eastern
Suburbs seat, is a Liberal target. A swing
of 2.42 per cent is needed. Last time
Sydney Einfeld had an absolute majority
of 251 without any preferences and
without the advantage of the “donkey-
vote”. For W. Aston, the former Liberal
MHR, to overthrow him is difficult
because of his strong backing in the
Jewish community. Aston would have
to be leading substantially from early
in the night to win.
MACARTHUR: This mixed rural-
suburban small-town electorate has been
the scene of an intense campaign with
a young Labor candidate (Don Nilon)
challenging experienced parliamentarian
Jeff Bate. On figures last time a 3.04
per cent swing to Labor is needed. But
a DLP candidate for the first time,
is a new factor.
First figures will be suburban and
Campbelltown and should be strongly
Nilon’s way and could be deceptive.
Two NSW rural seats are worth
watching. In North-Western Gwydir a
swing of only 3.05 per cent is needed
against the Government and most im-
portantly there is no DLP man, worth
1901 votes last time. In Lawson in the
Central West 2.1 per cent is necessary
for a Labor gain with DLP drift last
time 26.27 per cent. Early figures from
both these will favor Labor, and only
counting on Sunday and Monday will
clearly indicate the result.


VICTORIA
Tn Victoria the Government would
need a 5.31 per cent swing to take
the Labor-held seat of Bendigo, its
nearest chance, so there is no serious
speculation on Government gains.
Three seats in Victoria will provide
the answer to the question as to whether
Labor will pick up swinging votes.
CORIO: This seat, a mixture of rural
and the industrial city of Geelong, will
provide the clearest indications of any
Victorian swing to Labor, because it is
a straight - forward three - cornered con-
test between Liberal, ALP and DLP,
unlike the other two key seats.
On figures last time a 6.44 per cent
swing is needed to unseat the Liberal
member, and Minister, Hubert Opper-
man, and only 1270 extra voters have
gone on the roll.
But this time the ALP candidate
(R. J. Hawke) will head the ballot paper
and pick up the “donkey-vote”, which
on the last election’s figures is valued
at 3.2 per cent.
At the close of counting on Saturday
night last time with about 38,000 votes
counted the ALP had a slight lead, so
unless Hawke has built up his lead at
this stage the ALP cannot get the seat.
Last time the DLP drift was 11.09 per
cent to the ALP.
MARIBYRNONG: Over the North-
Eastern suburbs with Essendon as its
heart, the swing needed from the
Government is only .82 per cent. Last
time a Commonwealth Centre Party
candidate who took 413 votes helped
to complicate the issue and this time
there is an Australian Republican Party
candidate and an Independent, but
neither can get the “donkey-vote” which
goes to N. M. Armour, the ALP can-
didate at the top of the paper. DLP
preferences were tight last time with a
drift of only 11.63 per cent, and this
time one of the party’s best organisers,
ex-Senator McManus, is running.
There is a slight fall in the numbers
on roll. While the two fringe candidates
will complicate matters, watch for
Armour to remain solidly in the lead
early. Unless he builds up a lead of
over 5500 to 6000 over P. W. Stokes
(Liberal) by the end of the night his
chances are dim.
BRUCE: The biggest electorate in the
Commonwealth has 98,931 on the roll,
an increase of 11,740. Last time the
DLP man headed the top of the paper
and polled 12,826, but this time one
B. S. Crossley, actor and independent
Liberal, will head the paper with DLP
candidate, H. De Sachau and an
Independent Labor, T. Gilhooley, follow-
ing. The ALP candidate, B. Jones,
precedes the Liberal B. M. Sneddon.
Last time there was a freakishly high (for
Victoria) drift of DLP preferences to
Labor, 32.46 per cent. To win this
time Jones will have to be ahead of his
Liberal rival at least 4000 at the
50,000 mark and have a lead of over
10,000 before the preferences distribution
starts. The overall swing against the
Government needed in the seat is 2.23
per cent.
The next two Government seats in
order of vulnerability are Latrobe (6.59
per cent swing needed) and Flinders
(7.28 per cent). Latrobe, another outer
suburban seat, has 7263 extra voters on
the roll. Even allowing for population
shifts they are long odds bets and could
only be affected in any big Victorian
swing on the scale of Queensland’s in
1961.
QUEENSLAND
Tn Queensland, muted Labor pessimism
early in the campaign based on
calculations from the harsh realities of
the voting figures from the State elections
last year has been changed to optimism.
But on the other side the Government
remains confident that intensified organ-
isation including large-scale door knock-
ing will help it regain the city seats lost.
Four seats are the ones to watch; three
Labor all gains last time, and one
Liberal.
PETRIE: In this pistol-shaped elec-
torate former Minister Alan Hulme is
making a determined bid to regain his
seat. A swing of only .74 per cent is
needed for the Government.
Another 4573 voters have gone on
the roll and party men differ as to which
side they will help. Many have gone into
middle-class homes in Apsley Last time
there were two Independents to compli-
cate the issue and this time one of them,
F. X. O’Mara, who get 266 votes is
running again. The DLP has the top
of the ticket and Hulme is second which
helps with the “donkey-vote” Last time
there was 15.65 per cent drift of QLP
preferences. This time DLP votes will
show an increase because of their
position on the ticket. The sitting ALP
member, R. O'Brien, will have to stay
ahead of Hulme throughout the early
counting. After 38,000-odd votes were
counted last time O’Brien was leading by
3000, a margin he’ll have to maintain
this time.
LILLEY: This electorate, running from
Brisbane suburbs up to Sandgate, has
been fairly static, with an increase of
only 848. A swing of 1.29 per cent is
needed from the ALP. Last time a swing
of 30.31 per cent of QLP votes was
decisive in putting a chef, Donald
Cameron, in Labor, but part of this drift
came from the “donkey-vote” because
Cameron followed Andrews. This time
the Liberals have put up a dentist,
K. Cairns, who will precede Cameron
and so get a better proportion of the
“donkey” preferences. This could be
decisive. Cameron will have to stay
ahead from early in the counting and the
end of the night will need a lead of over
two-thirds of whatever the DLP vote is
running at.
MORETON: This seat which kept
Australia in suspense last time before
it finally stayed with sitting member,
Denis Killen, has an extra 5113 electors
this time, the biggest increase in Queens-
land. The swing needed for Labor on
the last figures was only .13 per cent.
Again the parties differ about the nature
of the increase. It is heavy in the pro-
Liberal Sherwood subdivision but this
was discounted by Labor which claims
that the extra voters would be two-to-one
pro-Labor. This time it is a three-
cornered contest without the Com-
munist candidate who last time passed
some “donkey-votes” on to Killen (93)
and the DLP (193). The DLP has the
top of the paper this time and should
pass its preferences substantially on to
Killen (14.62 per cent drift to ALP last
time).
At about 28,000 last time O'Donnell
had a lead over Killen of around 2500.
The ALP must hold and even improve
that sort of margin through the counting
because of the low preference drift.
BOWMAN: This seat was a Labor
gain last time and a swing of only 1.93
per cent is needed to give it back to the
Government. Once again the “donkey-
vote” was a factor in a drift of better
than 50 per cent of QLP preferences.
This time the ALP, Jack Comber, is
in a better position because he heads the
ticket himself. At about 25,000 Comber
will want a lead over his Liberal rival,
Dr Gibbs, of 1500 to 2000.
The Government needs hefty swings
in the other Queensland seats. Herbert
could change back after a 2.85 per cent
swing, but its return to Labor last time
was natural.
Other Labor gains last time could only
be shaken by big swings. Oxley needs
4.26 per cent, Capricornia 5 per cent
and Wide Bay 5.97 per cent.
TASMANIA
Fn Tasmania only one seat is worth
watching. Franklin, a part rural-
part Hobart suburban electorate which
has another 2874 voters on the rolls,
almost all of them coming from two
JState Housing areas at Risdon Vale and
Chigwell. Last time preferences of the
DLP man had to be distributed and
there was a 20.75 per cent drift. This
time Labor has a good farmer candidate
who should pick up rural votes. If
Labor is to have a chance it must be


leading early because the first returns
should be from the suburbs. The swing
against the Government needed is 4.68
per cent.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Tn Western Australia the election has
been pushed out of the front-page
headlines for the last few weeks by the
running dogfight between the State Gov-
ernment and the Trades and Labor Coun-
cil. The unanswered question is whether
the inconvenience caused by stoppages
will turn voters against Labor (see page
10). Three seats are worth watching as
the results come through (two hours late
for the Eastern States).
FORREST: A safe Government seat
has become a centre of interest, follow-
ing the entry of a Country Party Execu-
tive member, Mr R. J. Oates, running
without official endorsement against the
member, Minister for Interior Gordon
Freeth, who has antagonised the CP.
Mr Oates’ candidature followed talks
between, of all people, Joe Chamberlain
and members of the Country Party.
Furthermore Mr Oates is recommending
that his second preferences should go
to Labor which is in return offering its
second preferences to the Country Party.
However, the Labor Party second prefer-
ence must be academic because figures
last time were: Freeth, 22,275 to ALP,
16,462. So the big question is whether
Freeth has a big enough lead (or any
lead) over Oates to offset any drift of
his preferences. The CP senate vote
last time was only 4787. At that figure
Mr Freeth would be safe, but if the
CP vote is higher he and the Govern-
ment are in grave danger of losing the
seat. At about the half-way mark last
time Freeth led the ALP by 1500.
If at that stage this time the CP figures
are running over 2500 the Minister looks
in danger.
STIRLING: The Government has
some hopes of taking this Perth seat,
which only needs a swing of .27 per
cent against Labor but since last time
there has been an increase of 6098 elec-
tors, mostly in Balcatta, an area which
returns a Labor State member. DLP
preferences will again be a factor and
last time the drift was small—only 9.618
per cent. Last time the ALP built up a
substantial early lead.
SWAN: This southern Perth seat has
been seen as the best ALP chance in the
West. A swing of 5.55 per cent is need-
ed and this time the Labor man has the
top of the ticket. Last time there was a
22.27 per cent drift of DLP preferences
to the ALP. Last time early count-
ing showed the Labor man about 2000
behind at the half-way mark. He must
close this gap earlier on this occasion.
There are 2453 extra voters on the roll.
THE ELECTIONS—II
Odds Against ALP
in Corio
Too soon for a Labor gain?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
H. OPPERMAN
safe
Pearly figures from Corio next Saturday
night will undoubtedly favor Mr R.
J. Hawke, the ALP candidate who is
challenging the sitting member, Mr. H.
Opperman, Minister for Shipping and
Transport. Corio has that happy blend
of industry and agriculture, so beloved of
economic planners, and the early figures
will be chiefly from industrial Geelong
where the vote will be heavily for Mr
Hawke. Later will come the figures from
the seaside areas of Port Arlington and
Queenscliff and from the farming lands
to the north and the west, where the poll
will be strongly for Mr Opperman.
Mr Opperman won Corio in 1949
when he unseated the then Labor Minister
for Postwar Reconstruction, John Ded-
man, by 200 votes. It was a surprise
result and many regarded the Liberal's
nomination of Mr Opperman, the former
“Herald” copyboy who became a world
champion cyclist, as a stunt. Since then
Mr Opperman has not only held off a
series of Labor opponents, usually but
not always with DLP preferences, but
reached cabinet rank in 1960 This has
enhanced his prestige in the electorate
and his portfolio is a most appropriate
one for a member whose electorate in-
cludes such an important port as
Geelong.
Although Mr Opperman still needs
DLP preferences to win, he does not
need very many. In the 1961 election
he was only about 600 behind his Labor
opponent before the distribution of 6791
DLP preferences gave him a majority
of 5890.
Labor’s optimism that it can recover
Corio derives largely from the quality of
its candidate. Mr Hawke, BA, LL.B,
B.Litt., and a former Rhodes Scholar, is
the ACTU’s brilliant advocate and re-
search officer. In his campaigning, he has
concentrated on economic issues and Mr
Opperman, quite understandably, has de-
clined to engage in a formal public debate
with him on these matters. Mr Hawke
has not overlooked the rural interests
in the electorate and at one meeting re-
minded farmers of the growth in farm
incomes under the Curtin-Chtfley Gov-
ernments. But that was a long time ago.
Since the last election the enrolment
has risen from 48,857 to 50,127, most of
the increase being in the Geelong North
subdivision which includes a new suburb,
Hamlyn Heights. Mr Hawke is looking to
improve the Labor vote in this area, but
it is doubtful if it will be enough to tip
the balance, short of a general swing in
Victoria.
Recently Mr Hawke shifted from Mel-
bourne to live in the area, but this hardly
qualifies him to be regarded as a local
man in the same way as Mr Opperman.
Labor organisers, however, point out that
in 1949 Mr Opperman was a new ar-
rival in the electorate and Mr Dedman
FLUNKEYISM
bullet in
80 Years Ago: December 1, 1883
Tn Melbourne a couple of weeks ago
1 Sir William Clarke gave a party
at the Town Hall. It was a purely
private gathering, had no political
. & , j-j . . j x
significance, and did not pretend to
any. Yet, partly in order that his
guests might be spared the noise of
the insignificant outside world and
the prying eyes of the vulgus,
traffic was stopped for hours in
Swanston Street, while zealous police-
men chivvied the public who
endeavoured to get a view of beauty
descending from its carriage. The
principal artery in a great democratic
£ £ as , abo J oed t 0 traffic on the
occasion of a ball given to his friends
by a private citizen. For a parallel to
the flunkeyism of the Melbourne
Corporation, we have to go away back
to the court of Louis XIV.


rr
wf% l
wmmm
TAA
One of the new Boeing 727
Jetliners which will shortly
introduce pure jet flight to
Australian domestic airlines.
m
\ -
mi
■
mm
*. VliXZsi
r <
Will
wMM
l«i|!
* * rw
Interior view of Electra air-
craft stripped for overhaul
shows Fibreglass insulation
which completely lines the
aircraft.
NEW JETS ARE
FIBREGLASS
INSULATED
Exciting new jet the Boeing 727 (on order to Ansett-ANA and
TAA) is insulated against heat, cold, noise with FIBREGLASS.
Both Australian airlines now fly aircraft that are FlBREGLASS-
insulated because FIBREGLASS has been proven the world’s best
thermal and acoustic insulation.
The choice of Boeing and other renowned aircraft manufacturers,
FIBREGLASS has special qualities that make it ideal for your
factory, office or home installation. FIBREGLASS is clean, easy to
install, fire-resistant, lightweight, everlasting. Supplied in conveni-
ent rolls, batts or loose form. For further information, complete and
mail coupon below.
To: AUSTRALIAN FIBREGLASS PTY. LTD.
Please send me literature on Fibreglass Insula-
tion for factory/office/home* and address of my
local suppliers.
‘Cross out whichever is not applicable.
NAME
ADDRESS
FG 18/63
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
HOBART
LAUNCESTON
CANBERRA
NEW ZEALAND
Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters 51 7351
420 Spencer Street 30 2611
Montague Road 4 1471
Aroona Road, Kilkenny 45 4771
91-99 Kensington Street 23 3051
Gormanston Road, Moonah 7 6798
52 Patterson Street 2 5819
Cnr. Eyre & Jardine Streets, Kingston 9 3879
Aranui Road, Penrose, Auckland 594-140
There is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation
GLASS WOOL INSULATION
By Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Ltd.
and in New Zealand by New Zealand Fibre Glass Limited Group members of
ACI


the local resident. More advantage may
accrue to Mr Hawke from being first
on the ballot paper.
The DLP should hold its vote. In local
terms, its candidate is a strong one and
he ran in 1958 and 1961. He is Mr J. J.
Mahoney, an active Geelong trade union
official for many years and more recently
a full-time DLP organiser.
Given another three years’ residence
in the area, Mr Hawke could win in
1966, but the odds are against him this
time. He has the same strong support
among Geelong’s wharfies and industrial
workers that almost any ALP candidate
would get, but there is little evidence
that he will capture enough of Mr Op-
permans votes, despite the wtder appeal
of his expertise and eloquence. Both the
Liberal and the DLP candidate are local
men and that is worth a lot, particularly
after the local fervor generated by Gee-
long’s success in the Victorian Football
League this year. It may seem ludicrous
to bring football into an election, but
Victorians know otherwise. The saga of
Mr Opperman’s dash by air and road
from Brisbane at 11.55 a.m. to see
Geelong beat Hawthorn for the premier-
ship barely three months ago is worth
quite a few votes.
The ALP organisers would be the first
to admit it the man they are grooming
for the LCP-held state seat of Geelong
is the former Geelong star footballer
Neil Trezise.
UNIONS
A General Stoppage
On a Principle
A Threat to ALP Chances?
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
“JOE” CHAMBERLAIN
Not pleased
the middle-aged woman shopper
in St George’s Terrace to the young
man who jumped on to a Labor speaker’s
platform in Forrest Place there were
plenty of angry people stranded in Perth
last Wednesday afternoon without stop-
page. While they were at first blaming
the unions for calling a strike on a prin-
ciple difficult for the man in the street
to grasp, the vital question was how far
they would blame the ALP generally for
the inconvenience of what the middle-
aged lady called a “ridiculous strike.”
Certainly the young man who jumped
on to the platform thought Labor had
something to answer for because he
wanted the ALP candidate for Swan,
Mr J. Berninson, to get him transport
home.
Certainly the ALP State Secretary, Joe
Chamberlain, thought that no good could
come of the stoppage, held as the latest
move in a campaign against the State
Government’s amendments to its indus-
trial legislation. Chamberlain, who was
never happy at losing the running of the
Trades and Labor Council and gave it
up only under pressure of the ACTU,
opposed the stoppage.
The Government claims that the bill
exists merely to streamline existing legis-
lation.
A four-man Industrial Commission
will be set up to replace the existing
Arbitration Court and Conciliation
Commissioner.
Each of the four Industrial Commis-
sioners, sitting alone, will exercise the
jurisdiction of the Commission; this
would oil the slowly-turning arbitration
machinery.
Opponents claimed the bill, sneaked
into Parliament, was a plot to depose
Arbitration Court President Mr Justice
Nevile. Employers had felt he had been
the workers’ way as independent member
of the three-man Court.
The comparatively new Trades and
Labor Council, still smarting from “a
Government insult” at not being con-
sulted on State-run schemes to bring in
skilled migrants, was violent in opposi-
tion.
In Parliament the Opposition tried
every ruse in the book to block it. Labor
had planned to call for a division on all
159 clauses; the Government won each
vote by the same 23-22 margin. Sessions
finished at dawn and tempers were
frayed.
Then the Government applied the guil-
lotine, a seldom-incurred time limit on
debate. This ensured a quick death for
time-wasting tactics.
So last Wednesday’s strike was a last-
ditch effort. And many considered it to be
a farce.
Workers in essential jobs were exempt,
but in one big plant management and
labor agreed that the afternoon shift
should stay on duty while the evening
shift went off to Parliament House for
three hours’ agitation.
Although the effect of the stoppage
was more on the level of inconvenience
than a major economic disaster, the re-
action of the Employers’ Federation was
bitter. A circular told firms that they had
the right to sack workers who took part
after being warned on the grounds that
they had failed to obey a lawful order.
Under such a dismissal they would
lose all long-service leave rights and an-
nual leave credits.
If there were extensive sackings the
reaction of trade unions would probably
harden. (Many unions did not give full
support to the stoppage last week.)
THE ECONOMY
No Inflation in Sight
But Dr Coombs wags his finger
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
H. C. COOMBS
The overdrafts
With Dr H. C. Coombs merely wag-
ging a finger at the trading banks to
watch their extensions of overdraft limits
which climbed a further £l6 million
to hit a new peak last month, and with
bank deposits bulging from record
accretions of export income, it was com-
forting to hear Mr Arthur Goode, Mel-
bourne’s fast-rising financier, tell the
meeting of grouped holdings that infla-
tion was not in sight, despite Dr Coombs.
Goode explained that there was
nothing dangerous in the upsurge of
liquidity and no good reason to draw
any of it off into the Reserve Bank at
this stage. Maybe, but it would be very
puzzling if early steps were not taken
to make a big call on trading bank de-
posits into special account at the Reserve
Bank.


The point is that when such a call is
made it should not be taken to mean
that a credit squeeze is afoot or even
on the horizon. It is normal for the
Reserve Bank to mop up excess deposits
at this time and the flush export season
this year seems to demand taking in
rather more than usual. Trading bank
deposits rose by no less than £5l mil-
lion to a highest ever £2007.9 million
last month which put them £141.4 mil-
lion higher than a year earlier.
Last November when deposits put on
only £8.6 million to £1875.1 million
Dr Coombs made a call of £lB.l million
into Special Deposits, so with trading
bank deposits now about 7 per cent
higher than at the same stage last year
he can be expected to claw in a consider-
ably larger sum this November, possibly
before this issue of The Bulletin goes
to press.
Goode is quite right in saying that
since 1920 Australia has suffered in more
years from the lack of liquidity than from
the excess of it and that unhealthy condi-
tions have derived from excess liquidity
in only two or three years at the most
in that period. But that is no reason for
inferring that with export income at pre-
sent riding so high this will not be an-
other one. Indeed this year the signs
are singularly indicative that it could be,
for not only is export income at record
levels but also internal savings have never
been higher, nor has income generation
from all sources, including what could
be more a devil in the piece than any
other, Government expenditure,
One would prefer to wait a few
months yet, or at any rate until after the
election, before going along with Mr
Goode’s hypothesis that Australia was
now mature enough to handle a situ-
ation in which there was a “sufficiency”
of liquidity to ensure all appropriate
needs were met—“and perhaps slightly
more than that” without inflation
occurring. After all, a huge increase in
Government usage, of liquidity would
hove in sight if the election went a cer-
tain way. Coupled with community
swings from savings into spending and
from fixed investments into shares, this
could prove Mr Goode to have been
right off the ball in a country where the
monetary authorities are creatures of
Governments.
BUSINESS
Korman's Come-Back?
Revival at Factors
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
STANLEY KORMAN
A chance
Although he is still sitting unobtru-
sively in the wings, events could
well be running in favor of Mr Stanley
Korman returning to the centre of the
stage of Factors Ltd, the only one of
his empire of public companies still with
a chance of resurgence.
Even more intriguing is the complica-
tion represented by the interest of CAGA
(Commercial and General Acceptance
Ltd, in which the CBS has a big stake)
in forestalling the sales of the two com-
panies with the idea of maintaining the
structure of Factors intact. Though at
the end of last week the Official Re-
ceiver said no formal proposition had
been put to him by CAGA, such a solu-
tion could well prove to be a happy event
for all concerned. It could even be that
with CAGA guaranteeing their interest
payments and capital, the holders of
£3.75 million worth of debentures (in-
cluding accrued interest) would agree to
call the receiver off, and other creditors
(about £1,440,000) would also play to
CAGA’s tune. Where Korman comes
into the scheme has so far not been re-
vealed. But he has obviously not been
idle while the “for sale” notices have
been going up on the two textile com-
panies so dear to his heart,
As Chairman Mr Korman has been
watching anxiously while the Receiver
.
and Manager puts Factors assets up for
, L r ,
sale, news has come from New Zealand
, c ~ . ,
that at least one of the two main sub-
.. , , . , ,
sidianes, tor which offers are under con-
sideration, has had its best trading year
ever That is Holeproof (NZ). Coupled
wkh the fact that the Australian Hole-
proof company also exceeded expecta-
tions last year, it is reasonable to assume
that whoever gets the two companies will,
i n total, have to pay rather nearer the
price Korman thinks they are worth than
that suggested by the Receiver in July,
In the event of this happening the way
could well be open for Korman to get
rid of the Receiver and, with the assets
remaining after paying off creditors,
start Factors on a come-back.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
The Old Men
at the Zoo
Monkey business in committee?
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
has been something of a to-do
at the Adelaide Zoo. Not perhaps
on the apocalyptic scale of the disturb-
ances at London Zoo in Angus Wilson’s
recent novel, but still spectacular enough
to lead to the establishment of a Gov-
ernment committee of investigation into
the affairs of the eighty-year-old institu-
tion.
It flared into public notice with the dis-
missal of the Director of the Zoo, Wil-
liam Richard Gasking, born in England,
but educated in Australia where he
dropped the hyphen to his name Cecil-
Gasking.
He had come from the directorship
of the Healsville Sanctuary near Mel-
bourne, a very different kind of institu-
tion to the old-fashioned Adelaide Zoo,
on a probation for six months from
June 30. On November 12 he was in-
formed of his dismissal which was back
dated.
What emerged out of the rumbles and
roars that came from the direction of
the Zoo was that Mr Gasking has clash-
ed with the President of the Royal Zoo-
logical Society, Mr Basse. This society
runs the Zoo through a committee with
three Government representatives and
the Lord Mayor of Adelaide.
Mr Gasking made the mistake of
bringing new ideas to his job. He ex-
pressed concern about some aspects of
Zoo drainage—which he felt could repre-
sent a health hazard. Zoo drainage
has been under the control of Zoo senior
vice-president Mr M. T. Phillips for over
twenty years. Mr Phillips became one
of Mr Basse’s chief lieutenants in get-
ting Mr Gasking dismissed.
In September Mr Gasking made a pub-
lic statement suggesting a Zoo annex in
the country. This received public sup-
port, but was heatedly opposed by Mr
Basse in a public statement next day.
However, it is by no means certain
that he will stay dismissed. Two Gov-
ernment representatives on the Zoo
Council, Mr Lothian (Director, Botanic
Gardens) and Dr Crowcroft (Director,
SA Museum) have protested sharply at
the lack of “justice and fairplay”. Mr
Basse declares that it is a private zoo,
and “nobody tells us how to manage it
or how to spend the money”. But as
about half the zoo’s annual expenses
are met by a Government grant —sus-
pended during the investigation —Mr
Basse may find complete independence
impossible.


VWB7BB
£799, gift wrapped.
No extra charge for the gift wrapping.
It’s on Santa Claus.
So are the heater/demisters, four speed
synchromesh gear shift, baked enamel
finish and automatic choke.
They’re all built into the car. and in-
tojthe price you pay for it.
£799, tax paid.
ffid so are lots of other VW extras!
The extra tyre life (most owners re-
port around 40,000 miles from a single
set, without recapping).
The extra thousands of miles you get
out of a VW, and the lower maintenance
and repair costs you put into it.
But there’s one extra that makes seven
million VW owners feel like it’s Christ-
mas all the year: the way you feel when
you drive one.
To get to be a Volkswagen a car needs
more than unmatched reliability, econ-
omy and durability.
It needs a special kind of liveliness
and “kick-it-around” stamina that only
one car can give you.
Just one.
A Volkswagen.
And at £799 tax paid,
it’s a gift (even
without the wrapping).


Sir Robert Menzies
“Listen to me ... not to them ”
By a Special Correspondent
If Sir Robert Menzies is failing, as his
detractors insist, he has shown no
signs of it in his campaign so far in
an election which he insists is perhaps the
most serious he has ever undertaken. He
has been by turns witty, scornful, angry,
expository, stoney-faced and genial. In
short, the mixture pretty much as before
with just an added dash of seriousness.
The seriousness with which he views
the issues facing the electorate came out
pretty well in his contrasting moods at
the Kew and Brisbane rallies. At Kew
he was manifestly, to use his own phrase,
at the top of his form despite a very bad
cold. The Press had received his policy
speech favorably, there were visible signs
(for what they were worth) that the swing
to Labor after Mr Calwell’s opening
salvoes had turned towards the Libs and
the “Sydney Morning Herald” had re-
luctantly praised his stand on Malaysia,
Defence and the North West Cape
agreement At Kew he was genial, quick-
witted, cruel to a woman interjector (“I
gather that you are neither young nor
married”) and in control. There was a
brief scuffle at one stage, a few punches
were thrown and some men were ejected
from the hall by police. It didn’t worry
Menzies and he stood waiting for silence
to retufn with a happy smile. Brisbane
was different, where the Communists had
organised against him and done it very
effectively.
There everything conspired against
him, his cold, the hot weather which he
abominates, the fiendish acoustics of
the Festival Hall and the organised inter-
jections. It seemed an ill-fated meeting
from the moment he strode on to the
stage. He is a very big man these days
and his step is slower. He sits uncom-
fortably in the sort of chair uncharitably
provided for these occasions and waits
for the cheering and the heckling to sub-
side. On that Thursday night his meet-
ing was largely destroyed by the con-
certed efforts of less than 50 people scat-
tered in small groups throughout an
audience of 3,000 people or more. He
could not be clearly heard and the hectic
cheering of the vast majority of those
who came to see him could not make up
for that fact. It was ironic that his own
clear, precise accents could not be heard
while the interjections of paid agitators
could 2nd they had a field day of it.
Heckling was continuous, coming in
waves from around the hall. He tried
scorn, he tried waiting. For a while he
was immensely patient. But patience
even the sort demanded at political meet-
ings can be exhausted. His was. His
face flushed, his eyes sparkling' with
anger, he gripped the sides of the
rostrum. “Please, ladies and gentlemen,
please, I beg of you, listen to me. Not
to them.”
The point was that “the sensible citi-
zens of Brisbane” were listening to him,
or trying to. Italian market gardeners and
Brisbane businessmen, lawyers and shop
owners had turned up in considerable
force with their wives and children to
listen. They simply couldn’t hear him
above the cat-calling and the tiresome,
childish reiterations of “Why don’t you
tell them the truth, Bob? Tell them why
you’ve failed!” But the Prime Minister
is a good opponent and he had his
revenge. When question time came one
of the more skilled agitators joined the
queue of questioners. Loutish and
shrewd, he interrupted every question
until in an angry gesture the Prime
Minister banished him with a wave o£
his hand and the meeting ended. It was
a disappointing and frustrating evening
and the Prime Minister’s flushed face as
he left the hall showed it. But it didn’t
help Labor’s cause any because the
sympathy of the meeting, and of the
city on the following day, went to Men-
zies as he probably, on reflection, knew
it would.
That, at all events, was the public face
of Menzies as I and other journalists saw
it during the campaign. The private face
is scarcely known. In Britain, any news-
paper will tell you the name of Harold
Macmillan’s tailor or that Sir Alec
Douglas-Home has a passion for family
charades. It is possible, in short, to know
the private and public faces of British
politicians. In Australia it is not. I doubt
that anyone knows the name of Sir
Robert’s tailor or would have the temerity
to ask him, let alone publish the informa-
tion.
One occasionally hears stories about
him, fascinating glimpses of man
of wide experience with an incomparable
zest for living. He is alleged to be a
splendid mime and at a dinner table
spilling stories about, say, the Prime
Ministers’ conference in London can
suddenly become Harold Macmillan,
accent, flopping hand, moustaches and
all, or Mr Nehru, eyes narrowed and
mouth tight drawn, or, perhaps, Mrs
Bandaranaike. Or else one hears that he
distrusted the way Bill Dobell sat cross-
legged on the floor to make a sketch
of him before going away to paint him.
Or one hears an anecdote about his
intense dislike for modern art in all its
forms which he believes to be largely
hoax. “When I’m out of office,” he is
reported to have said, “I’m going to paint
an abstract myself and it’ll be a Bobby
Dazzler.” Apart from snippets like these


m
m
J ¥
ML/.
it/ .A
m
CONFIDENCE!
»$••«< "V '** ' »
■■ asm am
wmam*
Wmmmm
W\A
:
w*-:
“Why does Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service
carry more tons of cargo than the total
carried by all other airlines in Australia?”
“It's the largest, because it’s backed by the
confidence of companies like yours . . .
confidence in a fast, efficient, punctual,
round-the-clock service that has progressed
since 1936.”
For general freighting, complete freight distribution or Air
Express, consult Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service. It has the
largest network of freighter routes, from Cairns to Hobart,
from Perth right through to New Guinea. Cargo is also
carried on all passenger flights.
Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service is the most extensive in
Australia. A good indication of the wide services available
throughout Ansett-ANA is the Consultant service. Ansett-
ANA have consultants that work with your marketing team
to solve freight distribution problems, research possible
markets, develop special packaging for Air Cargo alt
without charge.
Your confidence is well based when you deal with the
company that always comes up with a cost-cutting solution
to your freight problems.
GOODS IN GOOD HANDS ALL THE WAY
WHEN YOU SHIP
ANSETTANA
AIR CARGO SERVICE
9471


and his well-known public attitudes it is
remarkable how little is known about
him in a personal way and how little
has been published.
Partly this is due to that inbuilt dis-
like of publicity and of the Press which
so many Australians of Sir Robert’s vin-
tage share. Certainly he has it. Therefore
nothing quite prepares an interviewing
journalist for what the man is actually
like —an unexpected mixture of affa-
bility, watchfulness, attentiveness, cau-
tion and wit. I saw him in his suite at
the Windsor Hotel in Melbourne the
morning after his policy speech on TV.
He was pleased with it although he was
feeling wretched with a bad cold from
which he suffered almost entirely through-
out the campaign. He sat relaxed and
expansive near a window looking on
Spring Street, occasionally playing with
his rather garish Menzies tartan tie. His
face is extraordinarily mobile and his
gift for mime proved true.
/Commenting on the problems of gaug-
ing political feeling, he said that Ben
Chifley had always insisted that people
had made up their minds by the time the
nominations closed. “I always used to go
and have a drink with him before the
campaign began and Chif would say
. . .” Menzies’ face flattened out ex-
pressively and in dead-pan Chif accents
he continued, “ ‘Bob, here we are facing
another campaign. You’ll go and work
like a horse trying to convince people
to vote for you. I’ll then go and try and
convince them to vote for me. And all
this when thev’ve already made their
minds up Bob, it’s all bloody non-
sense’.” He smiled. “Mind you, times
have changed This is a much more
sophisticated electorate than it was, the
issues are bigger and more complicated
and there is a larger proportion of
people making up its mind during the
campaign.”
How did he gauge political feeling,
something at which he had proved
extremely successful? “I suppose 1 have a
political nose. It’s something that comes
with time. If I want to know what the
sound, solid majority of Australians think
I try and find out what the skilled trades-
man is thinking, a man with a job and
with responsibility. He represents what
Australians are thinking.”
Was he influenced by newspapers?
His eyebrows rose expressively.
“No. I’m not influenced by them, I
don’t think newspapers win or lose
elections. I remember when almost the
entire Press of America was against
Roosevelt. He reached the people through
his fireside chats and he won hand-
somely.”
Which did he think the more import-
ant election issues?
“They’re all important. On the domes-
tic bread and butter ones Calwell has
promised everybody everything short of
outer space. I don’t know where the
money is coming from and I’m sure he
doesn’t. I think the electorate will do
some careful thinking about that. I’m
not going to promise people things I can’t
produce.
“On external issues or those affecting
defence I don’t think Malaysia is under-
stood by some people. It’s too far away.
Labor has been utterly specious about it.
Calwell knows as well as I do that it is
idle to call for a treaty with Malaysia.
It is impossible for Malaysia to sign
one. It is unofficially non-aligned. It is
not even a member of SEATO. The
Tunku has told us, ‘For God’s sake
whatever you do don’t try and manoeuvre
us into signing a treaty. It would be
worth my political life’. Exmouth Gulf
is a clear issue on the other hand. Either
we want US help in the terms in which
it can be offered or we don’t. Calwell
talks about re-negotiating the treaty if
he wins the election. I don’t think the
Americans will find that very encourag-
ing. Calwell’s no more anti-American
than I am and I know him well But he’s
captive to the Labor Left.”
And the TFX issue?
“As a real issue I just can’t take it
seriously. Can you? We have negotiated
a unique deal with the Americans over
the TFX. Is there anything sinister in
buying one of the world’s most advanced
aircraft in quantity for £56,000,000? It’s
not merely that the TFX has been recom-
mended by our experts but it’s also the
cost and the servicing and training of
pilots. The Americans produce in
quantity and the more they produce the
cheaper the plane. When Townley’s tele-
gram came I could hardly believe he
had done so well. I showed it to Cabinet
and there wasn’t an eyebrow that wasn’t
raised in delighted surprise.”
Did he regard his policy speech
reference to Restrictive Trade Practices
legislation as important?
“Yes, I do. The small trader in this
country is very interested in it. So is
the average man. We have to tread care-
fully with it but we have announced that.
I know it’s a popular issue. You should
see the public correspondence Barwick
has had on the subject.”
And finally lawyers in politics?
“Lawyers don’t always find it easy in
politics after the. intellectual toughness
and equality of the courts. Provided you
observe the proprieties and forms you can
even be rude to a judge. But it’s on
the grounds of equality within the legal
fraternity. The Chief Justice, Sir Owen
Dixon, is Dixon to me and I’m Menzies
to him. But I soon learnt that doesn’t
work in politics. I remember when I
was a young politician in the State
House here,” he gestured towards Spring
Street. “I saw nothing wrong in address-
ing everybody by their surname. After a
while I found no one wanted to talk to
me. I finally asked the Clerk of the
House whether there was something
wrong with me. ‘Well,” he said, ‘if Jack
Smith is a politician you can call him
Mr Smith or Jack, but you can’t call him
Smith’.”
"You know, Hocking, I've only got to take over Ripley and Co. and I'd
be monarch of all I survey!"


OVERSEAS
The President Who Changed
the Face of Washington
Skill , Courage and Energy...
From ROY JENKINS in London
President Kennedy’s tenure of the
White House was the shortest
since the United States became a
world power. The youngest President
to come, he was the quickest to go.
There can be now no Age of Kennedy,
with a gradual fulfilment of policies and
a descriptive meaning for a whole epoch
of American life. The most that he was
able to do was to open doors through
which others, if they had the will and
the capacity, might be able to walk; and
to set the outline of a new pattern of
Presidential leadership.
Compared with the greatest Presidents
of American history, therefore, he in-
evitably leaves more promise and less
achievement behind him. Yet, aided
perhaps by the manner of his death, it
is difficult to believe that his name will
not live with theirs. He will be the great
“might have been”, the symbol of fate
in its most vicious and retaliatory mood,
the golden figure who was given so much
but of whom America and the world
was then so brutally deprived.
Yet his achievement was by no means
all “still to come”. He had revitalised
Washington and, still more important,
he had led the world with almost fault-
less skill and precision through the
most dangerous crisis in its existence.
Furthermore, because this leadership,
like so many of his actions, had been
based not merely on hopeful intuition
but rather on a highly intelligent and
rational appraisal of all the possibilities,
it has left most valuable guide lines for
the future.
The hackneyed criticism of John
Kennedy is that he was a cold and cal-
culating man, unwilling to take political
risks, unable to infuse great crises with
the warmth of human sympathy. This
criticism is at once exaggerated and
irrelevant. Of course he was capable of
political calculation. No one who has
read the story first of his fight for the
nomination, then for the Presidency,
can doubt that he was a political planner
of the most careful and determined kind.
I am very glad that he was. Otherwise
Richard Nixon would have been in the
White House for the past three years.
To suggest, however, that he habitually
subordinated vital policy decisions to
narrow political considerations is non-
sense. In and after the Cuban crisis he
did precisely the reverse. So anxious was
he not to damage the future world
prospect by any humiliation of Khrush-
chev that he completely failed to bring
home to the American people the
magnitude of the victory which he had
won. And he recently pushed the civil
rights issue quite hard enough to begin
to endanger his otherwise impregnable
hold on victory in 1964.
His decisions were admittedly not
emotional ones. But who would have
wished that they were? To cite the
Cuban crisis once again, the essence of
his strength was his ability to watch the
cases for and against the different
courses of action being built up or
destroyed, without rushing into a prior
commitment to one or another; and
then, when all of the relevant informa-
tion and arguments were available, to
make a clear decision in favor of the
one that seemed best.
He himself attributed the wisdom of
the choice to the time that was available
for the process; at least equal credit
should be given to his own capacity to
evaluate the evidence objectively. No
doubt the reverse side of the coin was
a certain hardness of presentation.
As a speaker he had force and clarity
and at times a touch of eloquence.
When I first heard him at the height of
his Presidential campaign on Columbus
Day, 1960. I listened to him making five
New York speeches on that one day All
of them were invigorating, one or two
of them were moving. His command of
widely contrasting audiences was com-
plete.
He was not perhaps an orator in the
fullest sense. The play and interplay
between himself and the audience was
not sufficient for that. Despite his
Massachusetts - Irish tongue he could
never have made a vast audience in the
Boston Bowl chant back slogans at him
as Roosevelt did in 1940.
Nor could he pick out with inspired
timing the one moment for a launching
of an idea and the one simple phrase in
which to do it, so that millions of stolid
minds might be shifted. But this is a
rare gift indeed, and liable to be per-
verted even when it exists. For most,
practical purposes Kennedy’s eloquence
was a worthy and persuasive vehicle for
his clear and cogent thoughts.
His private personality was far remov-
ed from that of a man who lived a life
of narrow political calculation. That
he had gaiety and charm goes without
saying. But he also had sustained intel-
lectual interest and zest. As any Presi-
dent must do, he saw an almost unend-
ing stream of visitors. But he chose


them on the basis of who would interest
him just as much as who would be use-
ful to him. And he gave enough time
and contributed enough energy to these
interviews to make them an exchange
of ideas and not merely an empty formal-
ity.
I saw him in this way one evening
last January. When 1 came into the
room he was standing talking to Soren-
sen, Salinger and a naval aide. In a
moment > they left and he settled down
in his rocking chair; there were no
further interruptions for 40 minutes.
Three features of the conversation re-
main imprinted on my mind.
The first is that he talked about half the
time and encouraged me to do the same.
Almost any other head of Government
would have struck a different balance.
Either he would merely have answered
questions or he would merely have asked
them —perhaps resting his mind during
the answers. Kennedy chose the much
more stimulating and exhausting middle
course. He asked a series of rapid-fire
questions about all sorts of subjects—
economic growth, Europe and de Gaulle,
the Labor Party. He interrupted the
answers, he gave his own views, he fol-
lowed up a weak or unconvincing reply
by forcing one hard against the ropes.
My second memory of this conversa-
tion, therefore, is that it was peculiarly,
intellectually testing. My third memory
is that the President, during these inter-
changes, contributed pieces of original,
rather unconventional analysis. That
again was unexpected from any head
of State.
Yet the inexorable intellectual vigor
was only one facet of Kennedy’s person-
ality. He could turn his mind in much
more frivolous directions. He could
switch away from the highest affairs of
State and back again with greatest speed.
He had the self-confidence to feel that
he could always get his eye back on the
ball at the right moment.
This self-confidence (not for a moment
to be confused with a misplaced arro-
gance) was indeed one of the great
changes which the New Frontier brought
to Washington. It stemmed directly from
the President. He gathered around him-
self a team of outstanding intellectual
quality. They were not strikingly experi-
enced in affairs of Government. They
were not strongly politically connected
in any traditional sense. They came
from Harvard and the Ford Motor Com-
pany and from private law practice.
But together McNamara, Robert
Kennedy, Bundy, Gillpatric, Sorensen—
they amounted to a most formidable
group. Kennedy’s great gift was that he
f uld use them effortlessly. He trusted
em. They respected him. He could
give them the freest of rope without
6ver endangering his own command.
Whether the same system can work
equally well under another President re-
mains to be seen. .Under Kennedy, how-
ever, it performed the great service of
increasing the respect of the American
people for their system of government.
He was elected by the narrowest of
majorities after a bitterly fought cam-
paign. He replaced the most widely
popular President in American history.
He was young and relatively inexperi-
enced. His politics were disliked by most
of America’s more prosperous citizens.
Yet there was hardly ever a whisper that
he was not up to the job.
He was frustrated by the conservative
majority (partly Republican and partly
Democratic) in Congress. He provoked
disagreement and criticism and satire,
But he and his administration were never
sneered at or patronised,
Can this prestige be kept at its new
level? The example of Harry Truman
must make us chary of judging any Presi-
dent before he is tried. Today it seems
impossible that Lyndon Johnson
shadowy even as Vice-Presidents go
can supply Kennedy’s qualities of liberal
purpose, detached judgment, and buoy-
ant, persuasive leadership. We can only
hope. But perhaps for the moment the
prior question is whether the circum-
stances of Kennedy’s death will not
create a national mood which he him-
self would have found impossible to
harness and control, (ofns.)
The New President
Possibilities for creative leadership ... and for disaster
From ROBERT STEPHENS in Washington
President Kennedy was struck
down in mid-course at a most
critical time in the history not
only of the United States but of the
world as a whole. He had already begun
to show greatness of mind in grasping
the realities of America’s own racial
and social crisis, and the revolutionary
implications of nuclear weapons for the
future of the world.
During his less than three years in
office he had come face to face with
these new forces, not merely as abstract
ideas but as hard realities demanding
immediate action ... his successor,
President Lyndon Johnson, therefore
takes office at a time of transition which
offers vast possibilities for creative
leadership—but also for disastrous sins
of commission and omission.
Almost unnoticed under the impact of
technical and social change, the old
political moulds have been breaking,
inside the United States, inside the
Western alliance, inside the Communist
bloc, and in the relations of East and
West. The cold war as we knew it for
more than a decade is over bar the
shouting. The question now is whether
it is possible for the United States and
the Soviet Union to lead the world
through what has been called the “cold
peace” to a more stable world order
guaranteeing real peace.
This would have been the great task
of Kennedy’s second term if he had
been re-elected and few foreign
observers here doubted that he would
have been, whoever was his opponent.
Will the Kennedy policy survive?
The President of the United States is
at grips with such powerful and complex
forces at home and abroad that any
change in the White House sends a
mighty quiver through the world . . .
much of the broad shape of American
foreign policy is determined by the re-
sponse to obstinate facts, such as nuclear
stalemate, which will not change even if
Senator Goldwater becomes President.
But the personality of the President can
influence the conduct and the effect of
policy in several ways. Whatever his
virtues, already proven or yet to be
shown, President Johnson’s chances of
returning to the White House for an-
other four years next November must
be considered less good than President
Kennedy’s would have been.
President Kennedy had established a
sufficiently strong position of personal
leadership to be able to keep to his main
course while reducing speed. But tempta-
tions to try to seize the initiative from
a new, untried President may now be
stronger both in Moscow and inside the
Western alliance. Nationalist centrifugal
tendencies within the Western alliance
are likely to increase. President de
Gaulle could be more active than Mr
Khrushchev.
The coming year, with the Govern-
ments of the United States, Britain and
West Germany all under some political
handicaps, may be a most promising
time for President de Gaulle to launch
a major diplomatic initiative to reshape
Europe, NATO and East-West relations
according to his own ideas. This would
be the biggest challenge President John-
son has to face as he steps into his
lonely place as one of the two most
powerful men in the world (ofns.)


HOW TO FRAME
YOUR WORST ENEMY
.. .if your worst enemy is paper work and it is for most companies
it’s easy to frame that problem and dispose of it fast and forever
with Microfilm. A new, simple concept has been brought to Microfilm
systems with 3M Company’s “Filmac” and “Filmsort” brand
Microfilm Products.
The amazing new “Filmsort” IOOOd Processor Camera will photograph
your paperwork, then automatically process the film and deliver it mounted
in a “Filmsort” Aperture Card in less than one minute. You can
view it immediately in a “Filmac” Reader-Printer. Only this equipment
gives you a work-sized print in seconds at the touch of a button.
Discuss your paperwork problems with an experienced 3M Company
Microfilm Systems specialist. He has all information and data on how
Microfilm has solved paperwork problems for companies like
yours around the world.
See for yourself how your records look on Microfilm. Send us a
sample of any kind of paperwork from your office (up to 18” x 24”) and
we will return your sample together with a free microfilm copy.
BUSINESS COmmUNICATIONS DIVISION
miNNESDTA [DINING AND IDANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
MICROFILM, SYSTEMS, COPYING AND VISUAL PRODUCTS
Sydney: 2-0930. Melbourne: 61-3841. Adelaide: LA5971/6. Brisbane: 5-4131. Perth: 28-4651. Canberra:
4-0791. Hobart: 3-3104. Auckland: 28-6099. Wellington: 5-0186.
m5a.3526


OUT AND ABOUT
The Surfies Invade Surfers
The end of the Riviera dream
By SCOTT DERRICK
Youth today not only controls the
recording business, much of the
fashion industry, some of the
magazine trade, most of the sporting
world, but also has a grip on the lush
tourist industry. Surfers Paradise, self-
styled capital of the Gold Coast and
Australia’s only area entirely supported
by tourism, gets younger as it gets older.
Surfers Paradise always expected that
it would have to keep changing with the
times but few ever imagined that its
problems would have included how to
cater properly for a youthful tourist
population. With the tackling of the
problem came the end to anyone’s dream
that Australia could support a French
Riviera atmosphere.
Gone are the days when a Cadillac
was known as a Surfers Paradise Holden.
No tourist today is ashamed to park his
second-hand car alongside a sleek Jag.
on the beachfront. And often as not
the driver is a youth with a surfboard
on the roof.
Just what permanent effect this change
in tourist ages will have on the glamor
strip of Surfers can only be answered
by time but already the town is showing
the obvious signs of youth. There is
little doubt that the number of teen-
agers frequenting hotel beergardens in
Surfers Paradise was a reason the
Queensland Licensing Commission
clamped down and made it tough for
both the pubs and the kids.
Chevron Hotel Skyline Beergarden
suddenly had a wire grille put across it
. . . one side for the over-2 Is where
qualified drinkers can both purchase
and swallow liquor, and the other side
where the teens can sit, and watch, and
listen and perhaps wish they were on
the other side of the fence. But the
main attraction, a noisy, swinging band,
rocking the pops, has stayed on and it
is not surprising that people in the 21
zone sometimes look younger than their
ages.
Chevron Hotel have received letters
which show that middle-aged tourists
have written saying that they enjoyed the
beergarden music, but then again
stadiums can produce dear old ladies
who go to wrestling matches but it
would hardly follow that wrestling was
promoted mainly for the entertainment
of dear old ladies.
But it is not only the hotels which
are awake-up to the fact of life that the
teenies and twenteens (the group who
have graduated to adulthood but have
yet to be admitted to the club) are today’s
most successful economic group. There
are now two fun parlors in town where
coin-in-the-slot machines allow silver-
coin-equipped tourists to shoot down
aeroplane images with an electronic light
gun that sings ping-ping-ping every time
the trigger is pulled. There is a sound
lounge turning Mum and Dad’s stamp-
ing ground into a thumpin’ stomping
ground.
Subsequently the Surfers Paradise
Hotel boxed in one end of its beer-
garden, lined it with bamboo and called
it the “Bamboo Room,” a 500-seater
disguised beergarden with a ss. cover
charge and imported artists like Ruth
Wallis, Poncie Ponce and others giving
one-hour floor shows. The very same
artists also perform in the adjoining
Paradise Room immediately after they
leave the Bamboo Room with the
difference that it costs 30s. cover charge
in the Paradise Room. And of course
the Paradise Room only seats 250 people
and they drink champagne and wine.
Part of the reason for the takeover
of the tourist industry is because young
people of today have accepted travel as
a natural way of life that has nothing
at all to do with adventure or economics.
Fast transport that brings faraway places
only hours away, television that not
only shows glamor resorts but almost
teaches people how to behave at them,
and new action sports like surfboarcl
riding and water ski-ing have all helped
kill the idea that resorts like Surfers
Paradise were the exclusive domain of
those who get their photographs printed
in the magazines with glossy pages.
Chevron proves its interest in the
younger-than-you-and-me age group by
planning to start work within the next
few weeks on extensions to its pop-
music-playing Skyline. They’ve already
pulled down a service station to make
way for the additions. At present hold-
ing 700 (on both sides of the wire) it
will be increased to seat 2000. Among
the new features of the beergarden with
the non-beergarden section will be a
classy soft-drink bar. No one can blame
the Chevron Hotel group (they own the
Surfers Paradise Hotel and the Sea
Breeze, too) with its massive investment
in the Gold Coast for wanting to get its
fair share of the young moneyed tourists.
But the problem of trying to define
where a tourist begins and where a
teenager ends is a difficult one.
In New South Wales youths of 18
can drink at the bar and nobody raises
an eyebrow. In Queensland they raise
hell, for the sampling of liquor is a
privilege reserved for those over 21.
Every so often at Surfers, police from
three-mile-away Southport (Surfers has
no police station of its own) visit the
beergardens and weed out the under-aged
and scoot them back behind the wire.
This is something that could never
have happened in Surfers Paradise 10
years ago when the age of a tourist was
something coupled with semi-retirement,
black-market money, or remarkable
success in business. The fact that Aus-
tralia has not got enough millionaires to
keep a place the size of Surfers Paradise


i
■ ■
Or.'-:
- .
S-S-
for people with strong ideas about coffee
(and its price)
Nescafe Espresso is a stronger, richer coffee. Specially
prepared for the one person in three who prefers more
strength, more full-bodied flavour than you find in regular
instant coffees, it is a strong, high roast instant coffee
for strong-minded people who appreciate only the best.
And now Nescafe Espresso is at a new popular price.
Nescafe espreSSO
INSTANT
COFFEE
NE3O6


*
_ Pirvic
r H/\M r . a r;
Pink
for
girls
If she says "gorgeous”, "delightful", "heavenly.”,
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with PinK
Champagng. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S'. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Kilda Road, Melbourne
in mink has often been realised but
seldom has it been as evident as it is
today.
The near million pound Lennons
Broadbeach Hotel is five storeys of often
near emptiness dedicated to the memory
of those who failed to succeed in
business without even trying. If every-
one who tried, succeeded, then Australia
might have had enough people to go
around the Gold Coast resort hotels. As
it is now, Lennons Broadbeach Hotel is
being offered around cheap to anyone
with any cash who can think of some-
thing to do with a five-storey building
with a mirror and a toilet in every suite.
At a public auction nobody came up
with any real money and it remains a
mystery still what will happen to it. As
it stands today amid its well-kept gardens
it is the vagrant child of the Federal
Hotel family, and an embarrassing child
it is, too. It has been suggested that if
it were not quite so big the solution
would be to cover it with sand and sneak
away and forget about it.
It appears 100 per cent certain that
tourism in Australia is quickly going to
become one of the major industries.
Surfers Paradise, like Kings Cross, will
coast along for years on its reputation of
the “old days”, but it is doubtful if
Surfers Paradise will again try to be “ex-
clusive” for many a year to come.
As a town that once looked with envy
upon Hawaii and dreamed of having
thousands of rich Americans running
across the beaches, Surfers Paradise is
being more and more content to cater
for the 75 per cent who aren’t catered
for by the big hotels.
What Hawaii can do is not yet
possible in Australia. In sun-tanned
figures the facts are plain: one per cent
of the American market is equal to 40
per cent of the Australian market.
Hawaii caters firstly for a huge “home”
market, just as any resort in Australia
must do.
But when Americans do arrive it is
interesting to hear what they have to
say. In a letter to the “Surfers Paradise
Mirror”, Mr and Mrs Gerald H. Peacock
warn:
“As former residents of Southern
California our first impressions of
Surfers Paradise were excellent and
have lingered to the extent that we now
plan to make Surfers our home. How-
ever, we hope the citizens here will
really profit from the expansion of the
area and avoid duplicating the errors of
American seaside resorts.
“With progress comes problems—and
the major one of concern to all thinking
adults —particularly in a resort —is . that
of juvenile delinquency. . . . We have
seen the problem mushroom (in Southern
California) until it appears to have no
solution. The school vacations were
miserable and Easter vacation, for
example, is termed “Hell Week”. Many
families plan vacations elsewhere and
that puts the businessman and motel
owner in a precarious position.
“The average teenager isn’t flush with
money, and once they overrun the
resort your hard-earned investments will
require tremendous upkeep and repairs.
We suggest that you designate board-
surfing areas; deputise lifeguards to give
them authority in patrolling the beach;
supply them with jeeps equipped with
two-way radio to the police station.
“Establish a curfew law that will
prohibit unsupervised teenagers to be
on the streets after a certain hour. The
beach area could be declared off-limits
after midnight and conspicuously posted.
Designate an acceptable entertainment
spot for dancing which is supervised and
forbids alcohol consumption . .
So much for an overseas visitor’s
point of view. Locals hardly appear to
be concerned about any danger of being
overrun by teenagers or twenteens, but
a visitor at times can hardly be blamed
for thinking that granddads and grand-
mas are in danger of being stomped out.
They used to say that the tourist
industry on the Gold Coast was only
in its infancy. Now it’s in its teens.
Only time will reveal how long it takes
a tourist resort like Surfers Paradise to
completely grow up.
The Wily Men from Borneo
Getting short-changed in the longhouse
By DAVID PRIOR
One of the most exotic delights
available to the adventure-seeking
traveller within fairly close reach
of Australia is, I regret, fast falling
victim to the 20th century. This is the
longhouse of Sarawak in Borneo until
quite recently one of the few remaining
social establishments unspoiled by mod-
ern civilisation. The longhouse is a unit
founded by Sarawak’s indigenous peoples
mainly the Dyaks and in it many
families live a communal or tribal exis-
tence, pooling their efforts, sharing
their resources, and taking directions
from an elected chieftain.
The Dyaks, or Ibans, are famous as
headhunters whose main sporting pursuit
used to be the accumulation of human
skulls with which to adorn the long-
house walls. Since their contact with
missionaries, white traders, and anthro-
pologists three or four generations back,
however, their behavior has become
rather less anti-social, and in fact the
Dyaks have since won wide renown for
their unstinted longhouse hospitality.
Their generosity towards the relatively
few white guests who ventured up river
to their communal retreats extended far
beyond the customary standards of the
white man’s world. The offering of de-
lightful young girls to male visitors who
stayed the night (missionaries excepted,
of course) was a practice which naturally
brought an increasing volume of stran-
gers to their doorsteps. And the fact
that the Dyak girls dark-haired
beauties with slim, curvaceous bodies —•
went about unclothed above the waist,
made even the briefest of stops among
them a memory to treasure.
But alas, all this was too good to last.


AND
HE GOULD
HAVE BEEN
A MILLIONAIRE
Once he was going places fast, old Bill—rocketing
up towards the big time. What happened? Well,
Bill got to feeling he was good, so good he needn’t
concern himself with the details of changing tech-
niques. (For instance, Bill didn’t have the gen on
the industrial papers his firm used on the production
line.) Unfortunately, industry doesn’t run on
“guess”. Too many mistakes costing too much
money—and someone else sits behind the door
marked “Managing Director”. Pity! Because none
of Bill’s mistakes need have happened. Take indus-
trial papers, now. Bill could have found out which
grades were best for what job, simply by ringing
Shoalhaven. Shoalhaven Advisory Centres
throughout Australia are staffed by friendly people
who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
picture about paper. If you’ve a paper problem,
large or small, call your Shoalhaven Advisory
Centre now. We’ll gladly advise . . . and supply
samples of Shoalhaven papers and boards. To keep
pace with consistently accelerating demand, the
Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven Mill is in the process
of trebling its capacity. A £7 million expansion
Shoalhaven’s act of faith in Australia’s golden future.
When you’re choosing industrial papers specify
Shoalhaven for constant quality, constant supply.
&
o^
SHOALHAVEN PAPER
The extensive Shoalhaven range includes various grades
of industrial papers — Filter, Abrasive Base, Plastic Base,
Plan Printing, Packaging, Chart, Socking Base and Mould-
resistant papers; special paper for use in the manufacture
of Stainless Steel and tailor-made papers for many
industrial processes.
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
WTSIOX
For advice on any paper
problem just ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
*


Having just returned from a pilgrimage
to my first longhouse I am sad to report
my disillusionment. The standards of
welcome offered to present-day visitors
fall far short of what legend would lead
you to expect.
Engaged on a television filming assign-
ment in all the Malaysian territories, I
wanted to see at first-hand how these
proud and independent natives of Borneo
had managed to preserve their ways in
the face of white colonial domination.
At the prosperous Chinese-dominated
trading centre of Sibu, some 50 miles
inland from the coast of Sarawak and
touching the broad river Rejang we
consulted the Government information
officer, who advised us to buy a few
cheap presents and hire Iban-speaking
guides before setting off for our long-
house destination, 20 miles down river.
One of the guides, dressed in a neat
sports shirt and trousers, offered his
first advice as we were buying presents
in a Sibu shop. In line with the accepted
custom we had decided to take with
us half-a-dozen bottles of locally dis-
tilled brandy, two cartons of cigarettes,
and a package of sweets for the long-
house children. Our escort nudged me as
I asked the storekeeper for the local
brandy. “Can get French brandy here,”
he muttered, in a tone which was ob-
viously meant to appear matter-of-fact.
I did my best, with a slight shrug, to
indicate that I didn’t quite comprehend.
The gift cost us 50 dollars (£7 Aust.)
Then we had to pay another 70 dollars
for two tiny speedboats to take us down
the river.
Whether some form of smoke signal
or jungle drum had warned in advance
of our coming I am unable to say but
when we reached the huge thatched
longhouse stretched along the river bank
I had the distinct impression that we
were expected. As we walked along the
flimsy jetty leading to the doorway a
succession of grinning faces appeared for
an instant in the window apertures and
the sound of muffled giggling and scuf-
fling could be heard inside.
/~Vur two guides entered the longhouse
without so much as knocking or an-
nouncing themselves, and beckoned us to
follow. In the semi-gloom of the huge
enclosed verandah which extends the full
length of any longhouse, a woven cane
mat was immediately produced, and we
were invited by an old leather-faced
Dyak, wearing only a pair of shorts, to
squat on this. A group of two dozen
or so old men also in shorts stood some
distance off, staring at us and chatting
with the women, who were quite respect-
ably clad in sarongs of hand-woven
cloth or printed batik. “They talk about
you first,” said our guide, “and see
whether they help you.” “Tell them we
want some proper dancing,” I said, mak-
ing the appropriate gestures to indicate
that we wanted them genuinely clad
or unclad in traditional style. This
brought forth gales of cackling laughter
from the old hags in the group.
I drew from an overnight bag three
of the six bottles of brandy we’d bought,
together with the cigarettes. Within a
split second of my placing them on the
cane mat the conference had terminated
and the longhouse negotiators were upon
us. Brown hands appeared magically,
octopus-like from all directions, and
within seconds all that was to be heard
was the steady gurgling of brandy being
tossed down like lolly water.
We sat goggle-eyed amid the cele-
brations as wizened up old men and
toothless old women —their lips stained
with the scarlet juice of betel nut —•
cackled heartily at each other as they
attempted to do three things all at once
. . . gulp down the brandy from hastily-
produced glasses, take enormous puffs
at the cigarettes, and masticate the sweets
which one of them had managed to un-
earth from the overnight bag. That in
itself would have made a priceless film
sequence, but we were warned by both
guides not to produce a camera until
approval had been given by our hosts.
This approval came a few minutes later,
when the brandy had disappeared.
XkJ e made it clear that we were somewhat
* anxious for the dancing to begin
but our two guides seemed to have
vanished. Eventually our message was
conveyed to the assembly through a
Dyak youngster a boy in his teens
who had started attending a nearby
mission school and could speak passably
good English. A gale of chattering broke
out and the boy turned to us saying
he would have to take us to the headman
who would decide. He led us to a door-
way curtained off from the verandah,
and in a spacious room on the other side
we found our two guides happily en-
joying a cup of tea. One was introduced
as the headman. We thought there must
be some mistake, but there wasn’t. He
told us with a slight shade of ap-
parent embarrassment that he was the
headman, and his friend was headman
at another longhouse a few miles farther
downstream. He hoped we would go on
later to the other longhouse to enjoy
their hospitality.
We had some misgivings, but put these
aside when our newly-elevated guide
shouted some orders for the dancing
girls to make themselves ready. There
was only one slight hitch, our friend ex-
plained. Since we wanted the girls to
dance naked above the waist we’d have
to agree to pay them each five dollars
after the performance. We reluctantly
agreed. We were so far up to our ned||
in the project that we could hardly bacK
out now. We waited expectantly on tftl
verandah for the maidens to appear.
There was an exchange of obvious
banter on all sides as the performers,
the youngest of them by far being at
least 50, made their way towards us
and the cameras. It was a sight not
to be forgotten three old crones and
two mature Dyak women semi-stripped
and ready for action. When I say semi-
stripped I refer only to four of them.
One of the two younger women wore a
bra. We were wishing the others were
similarly equipped.
nPHE dance was duly performed, amid
A shouts of encouragement from all sides,
and duly recorded by our cameras. Only
occasionally during the proceedings did
we see relatively attractive young girls
peering rather self-consciously from the
numerous dark doorways along the build-
ing, and they were all very respectably
dressed.
Our adventure didn’t end at that point,
either. There was a dispute over payment
to the dancers. We had honored our
side of the bargain, but our payment was
greeted by an ominous chorus of hostile
muttering and the longhouse entrance
was quickly blocked by a horde of bel-
ligerent Dyaks, with outstretched hands.
I glanced about me but my eyes seemed
unable to avoid the cluster of dust-
covered skulls which were strung to-
gether and suspended from the roof at
one end of the verandah.
The longhouse chief drew us into his
room. I noticed for the first time the
new lino on the floor, the radio sitting
on top of the gas-refrigerator in one
corner opposite an open-fronted ward-
robe which contained at least two dozen
brand new shirts in plastic wrappers and
seven or eight immaculate-looking suits.
The chief informed us that we did not
have to pay any more, but if we felt
that a mere 25 dollars was too paltry a
sum for the whole longhouse community
to share, we were free to be a little
more generous. We accepted his assur-
ance and decided to be a little more
generous. We handed him an extra 15
dollars, and he said his people would
probably still be unhappy, but he would
explain to them that we were not wealthy
guests. He would persuade them to let
us leave on friendly terms.
As we were thankfully hustling our
equipment towards the boat, the chief
tapped me on the shoulder. “You go to
my friend’s longhouse now,” he said.
“He expects you to go with him. Won’t
be happy if you not take him.” I searched
frantically for a way out. “I’m ex-
tremely sorry, chief,” I replied, “But
we have to get this film on to the next


dytSd Mdft affirm'd feg...
FINE OLD BRIAR
PIPES
LONDON MADE
SELECTED AND SEASONED FOR
COOL, SWEET SMOKING
AND LONG SERVICE
t
V
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
& DEPARTMENT STORES
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD
aircraft from Sibu. Would your friend
please accept three bottles of brandy to
Show we like him very much.” It
Worked. And the other three bottles of
brandy which I’d purposely left in the
boat were hastily brought forth as a
peace offering.
The Dyaks might still have a long
way to go in modern education, but I
have a petty cash claim to prove that
some of them at least have a finesse in
business enterprise that would make a
King’s Cross club operator green with
envy.
Artist on the Beam
Painting catches up with science
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Polish - born artist J. S. Ostoja-
Kotkowski is so far out that
Adelaide people don’t know
whether he’ll ever come back. Mr
Ostoja-Kotkowski is at present working
on a series of abstract photographs to be
presented with electronic music by the
Dutch composer Badings, who visited
Adelaide last year. This has been tucked
away in the massive programme for the
Adelaide Festival next March as: “Ex-
perimental Theatre—Sound and Image”.
It has been described this way because,
frankly, no one can think of a more
accurate way to describe it. But to Mr
Ostoja-Kotkowski the whole thing is
perfectly simple.
So simple, in fact, that Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski, who since he came here in
1949 has made a name as an abstract
painter and who had exhibitions in
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide last
year, is already moving on from abstract
photography to accompany electronic
music to the ultimate —electronic paint-
ing with electronic music.
“Control,” says the voluble Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski. “The secret is to control
the beam. The whole time the artist
never touches the canvas, and never
touches the brush.” He mimes rapid
Walter Mitty movements at an imaginary
control-board. “Light is your brush, the
computor knobs take the place of the
hand, the surface is the same —one still
paints on to canvas although one never
touches it —and the shape of the picture
is controlled and built electronically.”
Electronic painting would consider-
ably cut time taken with old-fashioned
brush-and-canvas methods. “It would
take only one week for a painting 20 feet
long that might take a year by normal
methods,” Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski said.
But, Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski insists, time
is not being saved at the expense of
artistic endeavor. Electronic equipment
adequate for painting should be so
sensitive and extensive that, if necessary,
the artist by dexterous flicks of the knobs
could recreate “The Queen of Sheba at
the Court of King Solomon,” in the un-
likely event that he wanted to recreate
“The Queen of Sheba at the Court of
King Solomon”.
And it does not mean that painting
becomes mechanical and limited. “The
artist follows the fantastic progress of
physics and electronics,” Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski said. “When a musician first
begins to make electronic music with
sound coming from machines instead of
musical instruments, he feels that he can
do anything. But at the end of a year
he realises that even electronic equip-
ment has limitations, and he wants more
and better equipment to break through
those limitations. It will be the same
with electronic painting. Always the
artist will be catching up with science.”
What, then, is to stop every artist
installing his own electronic painter?
Cost, of course In Holland, the Philips
Electrical Company of Utrecht gave
composer Badings £50.000 tor equip-
ment to compose his electronic music.
Mr Cstoja-Kotkowski has been to Philips
here. They have told him that it would
cost £5OOO to take the first step towards
electronic painting The next step would
cost £50,000. Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski
quite sees that Philips here could not be
expected to give him a cheque for
£50,000. “If they give Badings equip-
ment for electronic music in Holland,
everyone in Europe can use it,” he said.
“But here I might be the only person
who would want to make electronic
pictures.”
Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski has also been
to a section of the Defence Department.
Scientists there have told him that they
believe they could solve the problem of
fixing the pigment on to the surface for
an electronic painting. This would be
relatively cheap, so that all Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski needs is the equipment to do
the painting.
He admits happily that he has little
scientific knowledge. He simply knows
what he wants to do, then puts the prob-
lem to scientists. In most cases they
respond to his enthusiasm.
Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski’s “Sound and
Image” for the Adelaide Festival will
be a programme of 120 minutes —with
intervals. “No one could stand 120
minutes of it,” Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski
said. Music by Badings will be re-
produced on special equipment, mostly
bought in Europe last year by Mr Derek
Jolly, of Adelaide, a sound-equipment
enthusiast. The equipment, valued at
about £4OOO, has been assembled in
Adelaide. The music will be relayed


VISITING U.S.A.? WHY NOT TAKE THE INTERESTING WAY HOME?
You gain so much —for so little extra
air fare—when you travel home from
U.S.A. via Europe with reliable KLM
The difference can be as little as twelve guineas (Economy Class)
your gain in experience and pleasure will be enormous
KLM offers you a choice of 32 trans-Atlantic jet flights every
week from America to Europe—and you can make connections
with them easily from any part of the American Continent. If
you are visiting America, for business or pleasure, why not take
the opportunity to see some of the fabulous sights of Europe on
the way back? KLM’s gateway to Europe is Amsterdam Airport,
famous for its Tax-Free Shopping Centre. From here, it is no
more than a short hop to Paris, London, Rome, Vienna, Copen-
hagen, Madrid —or most of the fabled cities of historic Europe.
KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan lets you break your journey at many
cities at no extra air fare. Here are more facts about the exciting
opportunities reliable KLM can offer you.
1. The Tax-Free Shopping
Centre at Amsterdam Airport is
the largest on the European Con-
tinent. Here you can buy German
cameras, Dutch cigars, Swiss
watches, French perfumes, and
the world’s finest wines and
spirits, all at bargain prices.
2. Diamonds are cheaper in
Amsterdam. Amsterdam artisans
have cut and polished diamonds
for centuries. Their work is
famous. Other bargains to look
for are: Dutch fabrics, pewter,
silver, copper, brass. And, of
course, Dutch liqueurs, cheese
and chocolate.
3. Amsterdam’s central location
makes it the natural hub for your
European tour. It offers excel-
lent opportunities for travel by
boat, road, rail or air to all of
Europe. You can arrange for an
Avis Rent-a-car to be ready for
you on arrival at Amsterdam
Airport, where the hiring rates
are the lowest in Europe. Drive
wherever you wish and leave the
car at the point where you rejoin
your KLM flight. On the other
hand, your Travel Agent can
arrange for KLM to meet you
with a car at any of the airports
it serves in Europe.
4. If you can spare only a few
hours in Amsterdam, take a
Holland Minitour . . . delightfully
fills 200 short minutes, taking in
an Amsterdam canal boat tour,
visits to the Rijksmuseum, a
diamond cutting factory, and
Aalsmeer’s flower auction. The
price is a bargain, £2.
KLM helps the traveller
5. KLM has 77 offices in
Europe, 196 throughout the
world. English is the official
language in all of them. Wher-
ever you go in Europe, a KLM
office is close by with assistance
in language problems. It’s part
of KLM’s tradition of fine per-
sonal service to help people—
whether they are KLM pas-
sengers or not.
6. In the United States, KLM
has 31 offices in 28 cities. All
offer helping hands to foreigners
in the U.S.A. KLM’s big New
York office, at 609 Fifth Avenue,
is a goldmine of helpful infor-
mation for visitors to New York.
There you will find a large staff
of friendly KLMers who devote
their careers to helping travellers.
KLM—famous for service,
hospitality and reliability
7. KLM has had longer than
any other airline to perfect its
service and its reliability—44
years. KLM has carried over
twelve million passengers a total
of fourteen and a half billion
passenger miles.
8. KLM carries an average of
3,830 passengers every day —
about twice the capacity of a big
ocean liner.
9. Travelling First Class on a
KLM DC-8 jet, you sit in
glorious comfort. Your seat is
as wide as an armchair, has
built-in table lamp, pre-focussed
reading lamp, air blower and
finger-tip control panel.
10. KLM Economy Class pas-
sengers enjoy exactly the same
friendly personal service as First
Class passengers. The food
comes from the same chefs and
the same kitchens. Wines and
other drinks are available at
nominal charges. A quarter bottle
of top quality champagne, for
example, costs an Economy Class
passenger on the North Atlantic
run just 70 U.S. cents.
11. KLM stewardesses are
taught to anticipate your wishes.
They are always charming, even
when they walk eight miles on
a trans-Atlantic flight. KLM has
trained stewardesses for five
other airlines.
m., &
Ask your Travel Agent
12. Ask your Travel Agent
to plan your tour. He is a
specialist. He knows fares, rates,
hotels, tours, documents, curren-
cies better than anyone. His
experience in the little odd details
can make a world of difference
to your trip. Two of every three
KLM passengers are recom-
mended to fly KLM by ex-
perienced travel agents—a nice
vote of confidence from people
who know all about travel.
13. When you make your flight
reservations for KLM you get
much more than your ticket . . .
you get one hundred per cent,
reliability.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free
travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. Building, 47 York Street, Sydney. 29-3966
80 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63-6949
Please send more detailed information on the advantages
of returning from U.S.A. via Europe and the Middle East
with KLM.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
My Travel Agent is s/"’
1
XL M
Jr.
V 259


Limited Release For Connoisseurs
Special Vintage Wines
From The Hunter River Valley
As every wine lover knows, the best vintage wines come from vines with a very
low yield. These grapes are very costly to produce and are seldom available
except in small quantities and at high prices. Lindeman’s can supply while the
limited supplies last —some very rare vintage wines at prices which, by inter-
national vintage wine standards, are extremely low.
1962 VINTAGE RIESLING LINDEMAN’S BIN 1930
A very soft, fruity, pungent Riesling from Lindeman’s Ben Ean Vineyard, similar
in style to a German “Auslese” Riesling, from specially selected grapes picked
late. WINNER OF MANY PRIZES INCLUDING GOLD MEDAL AND
SPECIAL TROPHY for the Best Dry White Wine of the 1963 Royal Easter Show.
1961 VINTAGE RIESLING LINDEMAN’S BIN 1777
A mellow, round, soft dry white made from Riesling grapes grown at Lindeman’s
“SUNSHINE” Vineyard, Hunter River Valley, N.S.W. Awarded—SlLVEß MEDAL,
1962 BRISBANE SHOW: 2 year Hock; FIRST PRIZE, 1962 MELBOURNE SHOW:
2 year Hock; SILVER MEDAL, 1963 SYDNEY SHOW: 2 year Hock.
NOTE BIN NUMBERS AND ORDER FROM RETAILERS & RESTAURANTS
through 108 loud-speakers, so that “the
audience will be right in the middle of
the sound”, Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski said.
Accompanying the music will be pro-
jections of abstract photographs taken
by Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski. These com-
positions have been achieved by manipu-
lation of light and color and Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski has taken as many as 500
photographs to get 30 suitable ones. For
one of the programmes, dancer Elizabeth
Wilson will dance a new ballet to elec-
tronic music with Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski’s
projected slides as a backdrop.
Mr Ostoja-Kotkowski has also done
the sets for the Festival production of
Verdi’s “Macbeth”. For this he -also
wants to continue his experiments in
projecting sections of the set. This, he
says, can be done so effectively that the
audience is unaware that the set pieces
are not physically there. From there it
should be only a step to dispense with
actors and then audiences. But all that
would require very extensive and ex-
pensive electronic equipment. Other-
wise nothing would restrain Mr Ostoja-
Kotkowski.
Wines to Buy
Cellar foundations
By CELLARMASTER
TV/lany people over the last few months
have asked how much wine they
should keep on hand. This obviously
depends on the taste and the pocket of
the individual. It is safe to say that in
Australia you can be a wine lover,
drink wine nearly every day and yet
hardly keep a bottle at home. Many are
in this category. They buy a bottle of
red or white on the way home as
naturally as they buy a loaf of bread,
and keep it only as long. The com-
mercial wines they buy are excellent
value, contain little or no crust or
sediment, can be jolted home, thrown
quickly on ice if necessary to emerge,
virtue unimpaired, on the table the same
evening. Others, simply for con-
venience, keep a half dozen of this and
a half dozen of that like so many tins of
beans, to be replaced when the stock
runs short.
But, beyond this, things start to become
more thoughtful, and appreciation and
the plain fun of the thing can be
heightened. Chacun a son gout, as the
barbarian once said, but my humble
example could be helpful: I have no
cellar in my home. This is one of the
missing teeth in the smile of my existence
that cannot be helped. Therefore, in a
cool corner that once housed a wood
range, I have a bin that holds about
eight dozen, comprising: a dozen each
of dry red and white, drunk as the daily
wine; a few bottles each of a good dry
flinty chablis, a full-flavored white
burgundy, an astringent red of some
merit, and a fuller bodied, smooth red.
These may all be current trade wines and
are drunk for variety and the particular
inclination of the moment.
In addition, some private bin or show
wine that seems worthy of close inspec-
tion and is reserved for a fitting moment,
and, finally, the one or two extra special
wines for the extra special occasion.
The main bulk of my cellar is in a
friend's house and so far his integrity is
quite shattering. The maturing reds are
bought in two or three dozen lots and
laid in wooden bins built to hold this
amount. Only a few whites are held
since it is my belief that only a few of
our Hunter Whites benefit with age, and
all the rest are made to be drunk now.
What imported wines of merit I have
been lucky enough to acquire are kept
in the same location, split up into
regions.
Finally, there is a holey wall, and the
bad pun is intentional. This is an area
about seven or eight feet square with
individual holes for over 500 bottles.
This, unfortunately not full, contains all
the glorious bits and pieces wines
swapped, given, stolen, bought in weak
moments, or ends of old bins now
jealously guarded. This area is like a
library and many enjoyable moments are
spent here in quiet anticipation browsing
among the labels.
Also I have received many requests
for the pick of the commercial wines:
TINTARA ST THOMAS BUR-
GUNDY. Distinctive blending from
many different areas give this wine
character and balance. Always safe to
buy.
SEPPELTS MOYSTON CLARET.
Another blend, excellent value, these
wines nearly always improve with bottle
maturation.
MILDARA CABERNET SHIRAZ.
Yet another blend that improves with
storing. Excellent light balanced style
with good nose, flavor, and finish.
McWilliams mt pleasant
RIESLING. A Hunter Wine though
not entirely from the old Mt Pleasant
vineyards. Good semilion character with
distinctive bouquet, flavor and pleasant
acid.
LINDEMANS COOLALTA WHITE
BURGUNDY. My pick of the trade
white burgundies, though some prefer
the more robust Houghtons from West
Australia.
SEAVIEW RHINE RIESLING. Full,
fruity, and flowery, grape type par
excellence.
PENFOLDS DALWOOD CHABLIS.
Based on Blanquette, delicate, dry, and
delightful, my favorite from the Dal-
wood stable.
Well, there are a few, and the blends
have it. More later, if you wish.


The terms "Eveready” and "Union Carbide" are registered trade marks of Union Carbide Australia Limited.
V *
,-r - ■'
«. '
*
r; -v
:
Blue' "
Guardian
of our
Golden
Grain..,
Look closely at wheat stored as seed and you
may notice it is tinted palest blue. The blue
“coat” shows the seed has been “pickled” with
a chemical powder. The powder shields seed
from weevil before planting, and guards the next
crop against a fungal disease called “bunt.” Bunt
develops from infected germinating seed to
maturing wheat ear, causing heavy losses.
Wheatgrowers have fought bunt for more than a
thousand years, in early times, seed wheat was
pickled in brine. Today most wheatgrowers pickle
seed in hexcebunt-L, a fine blue-coloured
powder developed in Australia and made by
union carbide. After two decades of hexcebunt-l
use, crop losses from bunt have become rare.
This valuable agricultural product is one of many
developed or improved by UNION carbide
research. Other such products include industrial
and miningchemicals,plastics,industrial products
and eveready batteries.
A HAND IN THINGS TO COME
UNION CARBIDE AUSTRALIA LIMITED, 167 Kent Street, Sydney.


PROFILE
The Philosopher Archbishop
of Melbourne
A dislike for publicity
By MATHEW VAUGHAN
Justin Daniel Simonds, Doctor of
Divinity and Doctor of Philosophy
of the University of Louvain, Bel-
gium, would have no liking for the pub-
licity that has attended the first few
weeks of his occupancy of the See of
Melbourne.
Dr Simonds, although he represents
something of a revolution in Melbourne,
is a man who was formed in the older
custom of the Catholic Church in Aus-
tralia, where the business of the Church
was to carry on in its own world, away
from the kind of glare of publicity that
has accompanied the last ten years or so
in Australia or, for that matter, the Vati-
can Council. For this reason he has
scrupulously avoided public debate with
Mr Santamaria in the last few weeks;
and also for this reason some of the
wilder ALP hopes of a statement in
support, after the style of the late Arch-
bishop, are naive.
The passing of the Irish era was a long
time coming in Melbourne, but the death
of Dr Mannix marked clearly the end
of a period which has moulded the pat-
tern of the Catholic Church in Austra-
lia, a mould which reformers, either of
an administrative or intellectual kind,
find hard to change. The appointment
of Dr Simonds to Melbourne was part of
a conscious Vatican policy, followed all
over the world but with increasing tempo
in the last generation, to appoint native-
born bishops. Those who can remember
Dr Simonds’ translation to Melbourne in
1942 say that it was done on the recom-
mendation of the then Apostolic Dele-
gate, Archbishop Panico, not on the late
Dr Mannix's request, and against his
wishes.
The “Advocate”, one of the two Mel-
bourne Catholic papers that have now
come under the control of the new Arch-
bishop, greeted him in 1942 with an
editorial that began “O King, Live For-
ever” and went on to explain that, much
as the new Coadjutor Bishop was to be
admired, those words expressed its sen-
timents in relation to Dr Mannix.
For the Irish of Melbourne Dr Man-
nix had been something of a King, pro-
viding them with royalty as well as
social leadership. His solemn, ascetic-
looking face, in a tinted photo to show
the purple, was the central feature in the
“front-rooms” of the Irish homes of the
immigrants and their first generation.
The man who came to Melbourne in
1942 was the son of a State school
teacher. Born at Glen Innes in North-
ern NSW, where his father was stationed,
in May, 1890, Dr Simonds never went
to a Catholic school, a record apparently
unique among Australian bishops. He
and his brilliant mathematician brother
followed their father in his postings
throughout the State. The future Arch-
bishop went to school at Blacktown,
then a rural area, now a Sydney suburb,
and finished at Sydney High. His bro-
ther went on to the University of Sydney
and ultimately to Colombia University,
where he took his Ph.D, but Justin
Daniel Simonds went to St Patrick’s
College, Manly, then the major seminary
for Australia. The young student would
have been there while the Modernist
controversy was reaching a climax
throughout the world.
This crisis, arising out of debates over
questions of Scriptural interpretation,
did much to hamper intellectual develop-
ment within the Church for many years,
because of an extreme swing to ortho-
doxy, in exaggerated reaction to some
critics who attacked fundamentally the
basis of Scripture. Australia, something
of an intellectual backwater, was not
torn by the controversy in the same way
as Europe, but still Dr Simonds has
shown the influence of that period by
sometimes speaking of what he sees as
Modernist tendencies threatening the
Church today.
After leaving Manly he spent between
a year and two years at Bega, on the far
South Coast of NSW, before returning
to Manly as a professor of Greek and
Introductory Sacred Scripture.
For the next fourteen years his life
was spent in the closed life of a Catholic
seminary. In 1916 he went to the newly
opened minor seminary at Springwood
in the Blue Mountains, an institution
which took over the first few years of
the seven-year course previously done
at Manly. There he was Professor
of Philosophy and Hermeneutics (relat-
ing to the interpretation of Scripture).
He went back to Manly for a spell and
then returned to Springwood, and it was
from there that he took up a bursary to
enable him to go overseas in 1928. He
went to Louvain, which has been for the
last few generations a centre of revival
for neo-Thomistic philosophy. There
he obtained his Ph.D, taking one year
less than the usual time. His thesis was
on the influence of Philo, an Alexan-
drian neo-Platonist philosopher of the
first century, on Christian apologists.
Philo was a Jew and also an import-
ant commentator on the books of the
Old Testament. Dr Simonds returned
to Australia in 1930 and a few years
later became Rector of Springwood Col-
lege, a post which he held until 1937,
when the priests of Hobart elected him
their Archbishop (he was last Archbishop
in Australia to be elected).
A ll seminaries in Australia are based
on what is called the Tridentine
system. Introduced in the 16th century
during the Counter-Reformation Council
of Trent, the system was designed to
clean up and make uniform seminary
courses throughout the world. The struc-
ture has not changed in 400 years. It is
interesting to note that the most pro-
minent reformers at the current council
come from Germany, which has main-
tained a university-type system of train-
ing its priests and never extensively
adopted the rigid Tridentine method.
Similarly, France has turned the formula
inside out. But in Australia the system
has never seriously been challenged, cer-
tainly not by the new Archbishop of
Melbourne.
But Dr Simonds will at some stage
in the next few years have to stand up
and be counted on his loyalty to this
system, because at the coming sessions
of the Vatican Council the whole basis


<■
■
; -
m
m
*
. -s
'
X
Now you get 10 copies
-In one minute (fojrojmly2d a copy)
H- of works orders, financial statements, invoices
schedules, let e-s, bulletins. In fact almost any
in'ernal paperwork.
NEW Thermo-Fax brand products now provide an
efficient and effective method of reproducing internal
paperwork quickly and cheaply.
Statistics prove that at least 80% of all business
paperwork is of internal origin. Many ways of pro-
viding essential additional copies of this paperwork
have been tried over the years.
Model 47 This new, revolutionary machine is
thermostatically controlled to provide clean, con-
sistent quality facsimiles. It is an automatic systems
reproducing machine and, as well, does all the tasks
of the famous “Secretary”.
Make “Thermo-Fax” Model 47 and the wide range
of low-cost papers a part of your business com-
munications set-up. You’ll find the longer you use
them the more valuable they become.
Ring 3M Company and find out how better business
communications can increase the efficiency of your
organisation.
“Thermo-Fax” brand Systems Products
BUSINESS COmmUNICATIONS DIVISION
comPANY IDINNESDTA [DINING AND IDANUFACTURING [AUSTRALIA] PTY. LTD.
Systems, Copying, Visual and Microfilm Products
SYDNEY: 2 Wentworth Avenue. 2-0930. MELBOURNE: 17-23 Queensbridge Street. 61-3841. ADELAIDE: 9 North Terrace. LA 5971-6. BRISBANE: 178
Barry Parade. 5-4131. PERTH: 238 Lord Street. 28-4651. CANBERRA: Maitland House, London Circuit. 4-0791. HOBART: 182 Elizabeth Street. 3-3104.
m5a.3490


THE
AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE
OF POLITICAL SCIENCE
will hold a
SUMMER SCHOOL
at the Albert Hall, Canberra
25th/27th January, 1964
on the subject
AUSTRALIA'S DEFENCE AND
FOREIGN POLICY
Speakers will be:
AUSTRALIA'S FOREIGN RELATIONS,
by the Hon. Sir Garfield Barwick.
Discussion Openers: Professor K. Tregon-
ning, Sir Alan Watt.
AUSTRALIA'S STRATEGIC POSITION, by
Mr. Roger Hilsman.
Discussion Opener: Mr. Arthur Burns.
AUSTRALIA'S DEFENCE NEEDS, by Dr.
T. B. Millar.
Discussion Opener: Vice-Admiral Sir Roy
Dowling.
THE COST OF DEFENCE, by Professor
R. I. Downing.
Discussion Opener: Mr. J. C. Horsfall.
THE INTERNAL POLITICAL PROBLEMS,
by Dr. B. D. Beddie.
Discussion Openers: Mr. E. G. Whitlam,
Dr. A. J. Forbes.
This is the 30th Summer School
conducted by the Institute.
Enrolment is open to all who are interested
in serious study and discussion of Aus-
tralian affairs. Those attending include
professional men, businessmen, politicians,
trade unionists and teachers and primary
producers.
The school is conducted so as to en-
courage discussion both -at the sessions
and afterwards, in an informal atmo-
sphere. Many of those attending are
accompanied by their wives, for whom
there is no enrolment fee.
Post this coupon for information to:
THE SECRETARY,
Australian Institute of Political Science,
34 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
of training of priests will come under
question from the reforming bishops.
His feeling for Thomism, sometimes
called “the” Christian Philosophy, is
very strong. A few years ago he played
a major part in the preparation of a
Social Justice Statement of Australian
Bishops on the Natural Law, which was
couched in the language of Scholastic
Philosophy, and in a number of addresses
he has delivered guarded rebukes to
those Catholics who want to move away
from Thomism.
The apolitical YCW
\l7hen Dr Simonds came to Melbourne
” in 1942 he was already episcopal
head of the Young Christian Work-
ers’ Movement, a post he was to
hold until 1954. He had first en-
countered this movement in Bel-
gium, where it was founded. A
militant organisation directed towards
reformation, the YCW, or JOC, as it is
known internationally through its French
initials, with a membership running into
millions, is careful to remain apolitical,
a fact which was to assume significance
in the late 19405.
When Dr Simonds came into opposi-
tion to Mr Santamaria is not known
except to insiders. But by late in the
1940 s his opposition was present.
Possibly one of the reasons at first might
have been his stand against recruiting for
the Movement in the YCW, which,
despite Mr Frank Hardy’s claims in
“Power Without Glory”, has remained
largely apolitical and within the Church
neutral on the differences that have
marked the late ’fifties. Certainly YCW
leaders have never used NSW-type ALP-
link arguments to justify their stand
against Mr Santamaria, but more funda-
mental arguments about how the Church
should operate in the world.
The fact that the Movement could
remain a secret to the general public for
so long is an interesting comment on
Australian life but also on the attitude
within the Catholic Church to publicity.
Although there were plenty of Catholic
opponents and, even at the early stages,
bishops opposed to Mr Santamaria,
such opposition never became vocal
until after the Labor split. In 1953 in
Canberra Dr Simonds made a guarded
statement which those in the know took
as a rebuke to the Movement, but it was
1958 before his position became publicly
known then by the strange medium of an
ABC Christmas message over television,
in which he went out of his way to
make the symbolic gesture of wishing
goodwill to all political party members.
In 1961 the Coadjutor made his most
outspoken statement to a Catholic Press
conference. He told the assembled
editors, “I know by my own personal
experience that many weak Catholics are
openly hostile to the Church and have
abandoned the practice of their faith
because they have imagined that the
Church is involved in party political
bodies. The Catholic Church stands far
above the sordid strife of political
jobbery, and its God-given task of saving
souls is gravely compromised when (it) is
made to appear as the party hack of any
political body or movement.” This drew
an open rebuke from Dr Mannix,
couched in tart terms.
After the shuffle of Vatican rulings
on the differences between Sydney and
Melbourne over the Movement, the
National Civic Council, an independent
lay body, emerged. This meant that the
structure was in existence to enable the
re-constituted Movement to operate, no
matter who the Archbishop was. This
was clearly what Mr Santamaria had in
mind when he told an American inter-
viewer that Dr Simonds could no longer
injure his movement.
The new Archbishop is now 73 and
would have been listening to suggestions
at the Vatican Council that a retiring age
of 70 should be implemented for bishops.
Ailing for many years, he is now said
to be in much better health.
The Vatican attitude
T'he furore over Vatican support or
otherwise for Archbishop Simonds has
exhibited some confusion over how the
Vatican operates. Some Vatican officials
may be in favor of Mr Santamaria, some
may like Dr Simonds, most would never
have heard of either. The differences over
“the opening to the Left” in Italy indicate
the impossibility of sweeping statements
about what the Vatican thinks. The
Vatican would only come into the matter
if some dispute arose at a level involving
bishops or questions of priests’ activities.
Any interference or rulings on the
activities of Mr Santamaria as a layman


KEEP UP TO DATE
ON CURRENT AFFAIRS!
Read the 32-page Soviet weekly magazine
NEW TIMES
Commentary, international notes, spotlight on countries and people in the news, travel notes,
economic reviews, book reviews, supplements of documents on international policy.
For a detailed comprehensive Survey
Read the 130-page Soviet monthly journal
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
Authoritative articles on international problems, international relations, foreign policy of
the U.S.S.R. and other countries, basic approach to disarmament, peaceful co-existence,
nuclear "deterrence", national liberation, economy of the U.S.S.R. and the capitalist countries,
diplomatic history, facts and figures, documents, book reviews.
Subscription rate to each journal
Subscribe through
20/-per year—32/- for 2 years
airmailed direct to your mailbox
• New World Booksellers, 425 Pitt Street, Sydney.
• Station Bookshop, 12 Station Street, Wollongong.
• International Bookshop, 17 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
• People's Bookshop, 205 Brunswick Street, Valley, Brisbane.
• People's Bookshop, 180 Hindley Street, Adelaide.
• Pioneer Bookshop, 75 Bulwer Street, Perth.
• Pioneer Bookshop, 147 Liverpool Street, Hobart.
ANSETT FREIGHT
EXPRESS
AUSTRALIA WIDE DOOR-TO-DOOR
TRANSPORTATION BY -
ROAD . RAIL • SEA • AIR
Ansett Freight Express caters for the smallest
to the largest shipper.
Consignments from 1 lb. upwards. Ring for
service and competitive rates.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541
Canberra 9 4091
Sydney 67 0533
Brisbane 47 1481
Adelaide 4S 5337
• Perth 24 4926
8941 NRA
Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
or his organisation, is not to be conceived
in this era.
The Vatican could become involved
if the verbal bullets being fired by the
other three bishops in Victoria became
personally sharp enough for Dr Simonds,
who has no control over them, to appeal
to Rome. Certainly the Archbishop
would have some advocates at ’Rome if
he had a case of that kind. He is on
one of the major Commissions of the
Council, that concerning bishops and
the government of their dioceses, which
would have brought him into contact
with plenty of influential bishops.
Just what Dr Simonds thinks of the
Council is not clear. Typically he has
made no public statements on the details
of what’s happening in Rome. The
authoritative Xavier Rynne book does
not list him among speakers at the first
session of the Council. The man who
has feared Modernism in the past and
been a strong advocate of Thomism has
probably found himself not entirely at
ease in the sweep towards reform at
Rome.
From a past generation
Tn a changing Church and changed
A world, Dr Simonds belongs to a past
generation, the generation who were
young men before the First World War.
Perhaps the most dramatic illustration
of this was in 1942 when, recalling
Louvain, he spoke of a fellow student,
the Pretender, Prince Otto Von Haps-
burg, saying: “1 believe the day will yet
come when in the reconstruction of
Europe the Hungarians will rally around
him and restore the Hapsburg mon-
archy.”
It is this formation in a past genera-
tion, and perhaps the years as a teacher
in seminaries, which tend to be more like
high schools than tertiary institutions,
that have helped to give him a reputation
for a tendency toward authoritarianism.
In the early ’fifties he crushed rapidly a
re-questioning within the YCW.
What further important steps he can
take in Victoria against Mr Santamaria
are open to question. The banning of
“News-Weekly” is a strong possibility. A
carefully-worded letter sent on Dr Man-
nix’s behalf after the Labor split had the
effect of drastically cutting the circula-
tion of the anti-Santamaria “Catholic
Worker”. The editorial policy of the
two papers “Tribune” and “Advocate”
can be and has been switched away from
support of the DLP and NCC. But he
has no power to suppress an independent
organisation like the NCC.
What effect his stand will have on
the DLP vote in the long range is a
matter for unending speculation. The
DLP vote, allowing for “donkey-votes”,
has ranged between 14.5 and 17 per
cent in Victoria. Some part of this is
non-Catholic.
Before the 1958 election 5.7 per cent
of Methodists and 4.6 per cent of
Presbyterians indicated a preference for
the DLP. But taking that into account,
it’s probably fair to suggest that about
half the Victorian Catholics voted DLP.
Some of these were seduced from the
Liberal Party. Where voters are young,
and have never voted for any party ex-
cept the DLP, it is difficult to conceive of
them being as easily lured to the ALP.
But among older voters there could be
a drift back to their old allegiance.
Whatever happens in the voting figures
for the next few years, Dr Simonds,
rightly or wrongly, will be blamed for
it by plenty of people.


. V
: :
'
■lll
«i*‘|
Stitt
m
m
mm
mm mm
■
ftysT
HI
m
nmfiaMs
■MImM
Wmm
OR 10 ft LONG
i!C ■ •>•v / ■' '/ yy /.£'& w, v y & :■/' ■' '/'/$ '•. /■• v
IBP
'
K
Wmr: »
KNOWN THE WORLD OVER
:■ ;. >
• ■ *
: I
ilia iiiis
-
SELEX
DECAL
do amazing
things with
transfers
Melbourne—Phone 613211
Sydney—Phone 43 0221
(Agents in all other States.)
Etching is the traditional
method of marking saw
blades. Special acid-resist-
ing Selex Decal ‘Etchdecal’
transfers make extremely
intricate designs possible.
More familiar commercial
uses of Selex Decal trans-
fers include the large truck
sign transfers and window
valances you see every day.
Other uses? They're legion.
Perhaps we can devise a
transfer application to solve
a problem in your industry.
* The word DECAL is registered.
■SD.2IS
Increase in
VD Incidence
Europe leads
From ABRAHAM MARCUS
in London
Venereal disease has again become
one of Europe’s most urgent
health problems. A counter-
offensive on an international scale is
recommended by a conference convened
in Stockholm by the World Health
Organisation, which has just issued its
findings.
Syphilis is as common now in Europe
as it was at the end of World War
11. Gonorrhoea is also increasing
dangerously. The figures tell only part of
the story —30,000 to 40,000 new cases
of syphilis annually, 300,000 to 400,000
gonorrhoea. But statistics are inadequate
in many countries and the real picture
must be much worse.
VD is increasing everywhere, but
Europe leads the increase. It is especially
common among teenagers, sailors and
foreign workers. Prostitutes, callgirls
and homosexuals also have a high
incidence.
There is no medical problem; the
remedies which stemmed the post-war
epidemic are still effective. As VD
declined steeply after the war, following
widespread campaigns by public health
authorities and the use of antibiotics, a
false sense of security led to dismantling
of special VD services.
Another error has been made by
directing health education about VD
mainly at men. Women remain ignorant
of these diseases; they do not realise that
infection may continue for a long time
without any serious symptoms. As a
result of a recent TV programme in
Britain, 100 women spontaneously went
to a VD centre although none felt any
sign of disease —25 were found to be
infected.
There are more young people today
as a result of the “baby boom” at the
end of the war. Europe is more pros-
perous and more people are moving
about tourists and foreign workers.
There is also more sexual freedom than
in the past.
Vigorous measures are considered
necessary. Countries are urged to pro-
vide all diagnostic and treatment facilities
free-of-charge. Cases should be reported
rapidly and completely within each
country and information should be ex-
changed between the various countries.
(ofns.)


LOOK TO OUR PERILOUS NORTH BEFORE YOU VOTE
Every one of us understands how vulnerable to attack we would be
if the islands and the seas above our northern coastline were com-
manded by strongly armed Communist forces.
Communist China’s dictator Mao is on record as saying: “You can
remake the world only with the aid of a rifle.”
SECURITY INSIDE AUSTRALIA
DEPENDS UPON
SECURITY OUTSIDE AUSTRALIA
The defence and foreign policies of the Menzies Government are
directed to that end.
The Menzies Government has worked to strengthen our chain
of collective security through the ANZUS and SEATO alliances
in partnership with the United States.
The purpose of these policies is to stop the southward march ol
Communism well away from our shores.
NOW LOOK AT THE LABOR PARTY 7 S RECORD
• The Labor Party tried to “kill” the Bill permitting the United States
to establish a Naval Communication Station at North West Capo
in Western Australia.
® The Labor Party demands the recognition of Red China.
• The Labor Party has opposed our SEATO alliance of free nations
opposed to Communism.
• The Labor Party strongly opposed the stationing of Australian
forces in Malaya.
Reject the confused, dangerous, and frustrating policies of the
Labor Party on the critical issue of Communist aggression.
YOUR
TOD4K
&
$
M
Authorised by J. L. Carrick, The Liberal Party of Australia
The Death
Of Djuanda
Tact and courage
From JAMIE MACKIE in New York
■fl/ITH the death on November 7 of Dr
Djuanda Kartawadjaja, Indonesia
has lost one of her most respected leaders
and a man whose contribution to his
country’s survival during the troubles of
recent years has been equalled by very
few others. He has played a unique part
in Indonesia’s political life and it is hard
to see who can now replace him.
Dr Djuanda had given many years of
service to the nationalist movement be-
fore independence, then to the Republi-
can Government as a non-party minister
during the revolutionary struggle and
after. He was one of the few leaders with
technical knowledge and experience,
which he put to good use as Director
of the State Planning Bureau from 1952
to 1956, before becoming Minister for
Planning in the second Ali Sastroamid-
jojo Cabinet in 1956, then acting Finance
Minister during the Cabinet crisis.
But the historic role for which he will
be remembered has been as Prime Min-
ister from April 1957 to July 1959,
during the years of regional rebellion,
and as “First Minister” under President
Soekarno in the presidential regime ap-
plying since then. Djuanda took office
with the intention, semi-publicly avowed,
of paving the way for the return of Dr
Hatta to the Government and a settle-
ment of the regional crisis which
would have meant, in effect, his own
eclipse. His approach to the regional dis-
sidents throughout 1957 was conciliatory
but firm, avoiding the threat of force
which might have imperilled the coun-
try’s unity, until the challenge was thrown
down by the Sumatran rebels.
Then his Government acted firmly and
impressively to meet it. By this time re-
conciliation of Hatta and the Soekarno
Government was politically impossible,
although in many respects Djuanda had
more in common with the former than
the latter. But whereas Hatta had hoped
to influence events and regain effective
power by opposing the Government from
outside, Djuanda was content to exer-
cise what influence he could from within.
Since 1959, Dr Djuanda’s great con-
tribution has been to act as the main
advocate of economic realism and sanity
within the Presidential Cabinet. Almost
inevitably his was a losing struggle
against the powerful tide of political
radicalism that was building up.
Two personal recollections of Dr
Djuanda as Director of the State Plan-
ing Bureau will always characterise him
for me. One is of his great dignity and
directness, which always commanded the
respect as well as the affection of his
subordinates. The other is of an official
conference in which he had to pin down,
first, an evasive senior official front
another ministry and, later, a foreign
expert taking refuge in a smokescreen of
technicalities.


m
Wm'i
=>>
L
a:
*
>7. •:•>- >
.
Luxury ... prestige ... performance ... and
economical operation ... one car combines
them all with a long, low sweeping look of
beauty . . . the '63 Ford Fairlane. No other
car provides so much big-car luxury, room,
ride and performance together with ease of
handling, care-free operation and economy.
The '63 Fairlane is a quality car: Enduring
elegance is the key-note of Fairlane ... you
can see it in the sleek flowing lines ... feel it
in the smooth ride that speaks of fine car
construction.
The ’63 Fairlane is a carefree car: So care-
free that maintenance is reduced to ‘Twice-
a-year’ checks. You drive 36,000 miles
between major chassis lubrications, 12,000
miles between body-care servicings, 6,000
miles between oil changes and the brakes
adjust themselves automatically.
The '63 Fairlane is a powerful car: Choose
the standard 145 Horsepower engine or the
dynamic 260’ V 8 that brings
rocketing power, smooth response. Any-
way you look at it, the '63 Fairlane is in a
class of its own. Only Ford brings you a
car so fine at a price so loyv-
Only Fairlane 500 gives you these 12 extra-
quality features: 1. 36,000 miles between
'63 FORD
FAIRLANE
AUSTRALIA’S MOST CARE-FREE CAR !
major lubrications. 2. 6,000 miles between
oil and filter changes. 3. Self-adjusting
brakes. 4. Specially processed rust-
resistant underbodies. 5. Baked-enamel
finish (Four coats of finish, including 2 of
durable enamel.) 6. 12,000-mile body-care
servicings. 7. Thick roof insulation. 8. Life-
of-the-car axle fluid. 9. Triple-layer floor
insulation. 10. Reinforced doors and roof.
11. 36,000-miie fuel filter changes. 12. Ford
‘‘l2/12” warranty.
£2lBB
INCLUDING 22%% GOVT.
SALES TAX.
Price includes Fordomatic Drive.
*CHALLENGER 260 V 8 OPTIONAL EXTRA
FORD SALES COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
FV6I9


Around Melbourne
A BOLTE BID FOR ANSCHLUSS
A slogan of the Liberal-Country
Party in Victoria is “Henry
Forever”. The Labor and
Country Party Opposition parties use
the same slogan, but put a question
mark at the end: “Henry Forever?”.
Henry Edward Bolte, 55, the sheep-
man from Bamganie, has been Prem-
ier of our big-industry-conscious
Victoria for eight and a half years.
We are reminded of this by the news
that he has just passed the record set
by the late Premier, Albert Dunstan,
of 3088 consecutive days, from 1935
to 1943.
It is handy to count Premiers in
days sometimes. Premier Thomas Tuke
Hollway, we remember, lasted four
risings and settings of the sun in his
second term back in October, 1952.
Albert Dunstan, of the old Country
Party, who was known in his time as
the fox of Victorian politicos, had ad-
ditional runs which carried his total
to 3834.
If Henry Bolte gets past the elec-
tions which Victoria must hold by
mid-1964 (rumors of an election this
year having come to zero) he should
have no trouble in taking the overall
Day Premiership.
A sure sign that Henry has been
around a long time for Victoria is
that one must ponder, or wander to
the library, to find out who his pre-
decessors were. Sir John Gladstone
Black McDonald . . . John Cain . . .
Tom Hollway . . . lan MacFarlan . . .
and the durable Dunstan himself.
John Cain and Albert Dunstan dead,
** the others out of the House, Sir
John McDonald was on the platform
when John McEwen made his plat-
form speech at Shepparton the other
night. But he would have to wear an
“I Was Premier” badge for city
yokels to remember what he was.
And did all those pitiful and pitiless,
bloody, slashing battles really occur in
Victorian politics in the immediate
pre-Bolte era, splintering parties like
ice crystals? Ask any schoolboy. He
won’t have a clue. So, as congratula-
tions pour on Henry Bolte, he could
be forgiven for saying to himself,
improbably, “What forgettable crea-
tures Premiers be! Where might true
fame lie?”
What can a Premier do to go down
in history books except be Jack Lang
(and that’s been done)? The answer,
in these days of Commonwealth
supremacy, is: “Nothing, except to be
Tom Playford, who already has 25
years chalked up”.
Henry, however, has just made
a bid for potential immortality. His
offer to take the New South Wales
colony of Riverina into the State of
Victoria was the sort of thing beloved
of writers of Australian school texts
and encyclopaedias. But government
of the Riverina from Melbourne has
as much chance of happening as there
is of Melbourne’s projected under-
ground being roofed in 24-carat gold
sheet. But if it did! Oh, Henry!
TTenry’s welcoming speech to the
dissident Riverinians had a
Napoleonic flow ... “I hope that the
Riverina will continue to press ahead
strongly with the move. I can assure
the people of the area that if they
want any assistance in the steps they
are planning and appeal to me, we will
give it to them.” This sort of thing
could restore Victoria’s one-time re-
putation as the fightingest, prickliest
colony of the union.
“If your detestable oppressors in
Sydney,” Henry Napoleon is saying,
“do not bow to your just demands for
human freedom, I will put myself or
a deputy at the head of my Cabinet
and an army of Parliament House
night watchmen, cleaners and parking
attendants, and MARCH.”
Who’s for anschluss? This failing,
what other claims has Henry Bolte to
destiny? Steady government? Hardly
a winner. Dull. What about the jet-
port, the new industries, bankrupt
railways, the development (known as
“sprawl”) all over the place? No good.
What about capital punishment or
King’s Bridge? That’s getting warmer,
but Henry has let the firing die.
What about culture Monash Uni-
versity and the new Cultural Centre?
What about roofing the railway yards?
What about the inquiry into the liquor
industry, with so many lines of in-
vestigation that no one could read
’em all by six o’clock?
What about dancing with the
Queen Mother and Princess Alex-
andra and having tea with the Royal
House of Siam? Ho hum . . . you know
. . . well . . . not the right stuff.
What about great speeches? “Aus-
tralians live in near-Utopia” (1959)
and “Australia is God’s Own Country”
(1960) and the like. Could they make
the anthologies, perhaps?
has its dangers. Too many
people might remember that Henry
has on occasion worn a blue tie with
white bulls on it, and that Mrs Bolte
once explained: “He’s a Taurus . . .
the bull. You know ... the stars. He
wears it for luck.” -
But, y’know, actually Henry Bolte
will probably be content with a smal-
ler, warmer sort of memorability. He’s
really a modest fellow, as they come
in Spring Street.
He’ll go down in lasting anecdote,
if not in literature, for example, as
the man who danced with Mrs Aider-
man, a waitress at the Parliament
House Christmas party, when the blue-
nosed all-party House rules committee
had dictated that no Minister or mem-
ber should soil the festive Christian
air with such low jinks.
And as the man who, the same
night, put on a defiant white coat to
serve drinks to the staff when the same
committee had prohibited such peas-
ant misdemeanours . . . that sort of
thing.
HIGINBOTHAM


YOUR GARAGE
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere T .154/2
DESERVES GENUINE
FORUM
The Committee of
Un-Australian Activities?
The Senate Report on TV
By COLIN BEDNALL
A sudden dissolving of Federal Parlia-
ment is a powerful distraction from
normal reading, but it was not the only
thing that has made it hard to arrive at
any sort of appraisal of the report from
the Senate Committee on “The Encour-
agement of Australian Productions for
Television.”
Since the report was tabled persons
concerned with government policy, with
the administration of the Broadcasting
and Television Act, with the direction
of the Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion, and with the management of the
commercial stations, seem barely to have
discussed it except to express a re-
action solely of irritation.
One might have hoped that a dis-
ciplined re-reading of the report would
allow the sense of irritation to ease
enough to permit the gathering of some-
thing useful.
It remains a report to annoy many
and disappoint most. It would seem in
form and content to be an exercise con-
cerned with justifying the pre-conceived
views of a majority of the Committee,
and the evidence they received is not
as significant as the evidence which was
missing.
The Committee's original appointment
caused misgivings in responsible quarters
because it clashed with a Federal inter-
departmental enquiry by a committee of
senior public servants charged with test-
ing various petitions for assistance in the
making of Australian programmes, and
concerned only with finding fact.
The resolution of the Senate on Thurs-
day, November 29, 1962, however, ac-
cepted the appointment of a committee
of four from the Government benches
and three from the Opposition to “en-
quire into and report upon the encour-
agement of the production in Australia
of films and programmes suitable for
television.”
To this were added the apparently
innocuous but ultimately disastrous
words “and matters incidental thereto.”
It now appears that most witnesses
capable of supplying the Committee with
fact, submitted their evidence in the mis-
belief that the Committee was concerned
with the making of more Australian films
and programmes suitable for television.
Their irritation has been matched only
by their dismay in finding that, on the
basis of scant evidence received, the Com-
mittee has presumed to pronounce judg-
ment on a great range of matters includ-
ing even the moral fibre of the Australian
Broadcasting Control Board, the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission and the
commercial licensees.
The evidence actually heard would
seem, then, to be the first thing which
should be assessed. A large amount of
public money was spent by the Com-
mittee and the first of this went in ad-
vertising for witnesses. The response was
so disappointing as to offer to at least
some members of the Committee the
alarming prospect of having to wind up
very quickly.
HThen followed the mailing of individual
-*■ requests, and even telephone calls,
to people to come forward. In the end,
139 witnesses came forward compared
with the 165 who were moved to give evi-
dence when the 1953/54 Royal Com-
mission sat to consider in what terms
Australia wanted any form of television.
Of the 139 witnesses heard by the
Senate Committee in 1963, some analysis
of their significance can be made. Eighty-
five or more had axes to grind in that
they were either people already in the
business or seeking public money to get
deeper into it. Twenty-five of them rep-
resented actual dr would-be film pro-
ducers; 15 represented commercial tele-
vision stations; four represented the Aus-
tralian Broadcasting Commission; nine
represented Actors’ Equity, the Music-
ians’ Union, and writers’ guilds; three rep-
resented an advertising agency; and four
represented the theatres.
Of the balance the Committee heard
15 educationists, seven ministers of re-
ligion, two politicians (both from Tas-
mania), and nine miscellaneous citizens.
Only eight public bodies outside the
industry came forward. They were the
Councils for Children’s Films and Tele-
vision, the New South Wales Association
of Women’s Undergraduates, the Nat-
ional Council of Women (Victorian
branch only), the Mothers’ Union (West
Australia only), the Young Liberal Move-
ment (West Australia only), the Parents
and Friends’ Federation (West Australia
only) and the Women’s Committee of the
Waterside Workers’ Federation (again
West Australia only).
The first question which really should
be asked of anybody who seeks to give
an opinion about television is “Do you
own a receiver or, in fact, do you regu-
larly watch television?”
Neither of these dreadful marks of
herd-like behavior would have been ad-
mitted by many of the witnesses, and the
predominance of a West Australian
opinion may have been influenced either
by the fact that three of the seven mem-
bers of the Senate Committee came from
West Australia, or that West Australia
has seen less of television, as is, than
any other part of Australia.
At the time the Committee was in
session there were only two television
stations operating in the whole of West
Australia compared with three in the
much smaller Tasmania, or the nine in
Victoria, or the eight in New South
Wales.
Of those who were not sufficiently
seized with the importance of the en-
quiry as to offer evidence, it must be
stated that the following were sufficiently
alerted by the original prospect of tele-
vision r.s to appear before the Royal
Commission in 1953: the Australian
Council of Trade Unions, the National
Council of Women (apart from the Vic-
torian branch), the Country Women’s
Association of Australia, the League of
Women Voters, the State schools’ com-
mittees or parents’ associations (other
than Victoria), the Housewives' Associa-
tions, the Teachers’ Federations, the
World Council of Churches, the Child
Welfare Advisory Councils, the Federa-
tion of Women Votes, the Women’s
Christian Temperance Union, and the
Taxpayers’ Association.
After six or seven years’ experience
of living with television none of these
chose to join in the Committee’s witch
hunt.
Their absence lends support to the
Senate Committee’s finding that television


4*
For you . . .
only the best
EMM
P of
•"mm
"fa
£M
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection and
personal prestigel
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto.
Super Takumar f/2 Lens and E.R. case,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
ANCESTRY TRACED
Historical research can heip you discover
your British ancestors. Total outlay of £A3S
brings professional report with documents.
BROOKS & SIMPSON,
GENEALOGISTS,
5 Fenchurch Street, London, E.C. 3
should not be what people want but what
certain groups consider to be good for
the people.
The first and opening paragraph of
the Committee’s Report has the words
“There is much public concern over
television programmes. This concern, as
might be expected, comes mainly from
the more informed, more responsibly-
minded section of the community, and it
is widespread.”
An average editor might have sent
that back to the writer suggesting that,
for the purposes of an introduction to
some 178 pages (double spacing over
foolscap size), the matter requires the
dignity of more sensible language and
the elimination of assumption. But the
opener creates the flavor for the whole
report.
A medium as powerful as television
and one that has had rapid and
successful exploitation—and this seems
fundamentally to be the basis of most
fears about it must expect criticism
and should be able to take it.
Before it reaches the end of its first
foolscap page, however, the Senate Com-
mittee Report leaps into what it describes
as “the major criticisms” presumably to
be considered apart from just ordinary
or reasonable criticisms.
Number one is: “There are insuffi-
cient Australian-produced programmes
particularly drama.” Here at once
we find the earnest hopes of the Kal-
goorlie repertory theatre movement, of
which the Committee’s Chairman, Sena-
tor Vincent, has been such a stalwart
supporter. Who would quarrel with it?
Certainly not the Postmaster-General
(judged by his public statements) nor
the Australian Broadcasting Control
Board, nor the Australian Broadcasting
Commission (which has manfully striven
to overcome a shortage of talent by
making this week’s Admiral Nelson come
up passably well as next week’s Othello)
nor the commercial stations which have
spent sweat and some tears and
many thousands of pounds, not only
to encourage the writing of drama but
trying, most times hopelessly, to acquire
the rights to produce it.
It is a simple matter of fact that any
dramatist who produces a play worth
watching, selfishly but sensibly, withholds
it from exposure on Australia television
until he has explored the far more re-
munerative opportunities of worldwide
exploitation by the sale of the film rights.
At one point in its report, the Senate
Committee names two Australian plays
about which, almost criminally it ap-
pears, the television operators are alleged-
ly unaware. One of the two, unknown to
the Committee, was in fact produced by
a commercial television station during
the life of the Committee.
The Committee declares that the tele-
vision stations should be forced, each of
them, to give over 9 per cent of their
Australian programming per week to
drama. Assuming that they really mean
drama, and not soap operas such as
radio managed to churn out by having
performers read virtually unrehearsed
scripts, the Committee’s enthusiasm, if
commendable, becomes also ridiculous.
Its recommendation would mean, for
example, that in Sydney or Melbourne
four stations must find between them
some 20 hours of performable drama
every week of the year. If you were to
put Alan Seymour, Ray Lawler, Patrick
White, Rod Sterling, and Richard Bey-
non, etc., into mass production like a
sausage factory, they would not create
that much drama between them in a
year, let a’one every week of every year.
And from where does the Committee
get this assumption that drama is the
vital form of artistic expression for Aus-
tralians? Surely music and ballet are
equally important.
Politically the Australian television
system goes further to meet good inten-
tions than any other in the world. We
have both the non-commercial system of
the UK and the commercial system of the
USA, working side by side.
The Senate Committee report harps
constantly on the alleged “monopoly” en-
joyed by licensees, and yet there will
shortly be four television stations in Mel-
bourne, for example, which supports only
two daily newspaper publishers.
The Committee says this alleged mono-
poly is unique because it claims “any
person may establish a newspaper or a
theatre or write a novel.” Presumably it
means any person with several million
pounds to risk in setting up a metro-
politan newspaper, or perhaps anybody
with the genius of a Morris West to
write and sell a successful novel.
This monopoly cry is fresh out of the
propaganda sheets of Left-wing unions
like Actors’ Equity, just as the unbalanced
criticism of the Australian Broadcasting
Control Board accepts the sheer venom
of the evidence of a prelate who just
previously was allied with an unsuccessful
application for a television licence.
Tt is not what the Senate Committee
failed to hear but what it has failed
to recommend that probably gives the
report its true significance. Despite the
close attention given to theorists and
obvious malcontents, even this Com-
mittee, in its thrashing finds it-
self unable to recommend any embargo
on the importation of overseas pro-
grammes to Australia.
And this must make it impossible for
some time to come for any other body
seriously to propose such an intrusion
on a major source of enjoyment for Aus-
tralian television viewers.


#&6
mm
- ~- -■
xXs&t*"*
« J
£
*3S»
■W
mi
X* ■A^
-(^..v- ii3 v, < . 4 .,,«^-. — r^'i? 1
nSI
s£.t
O' I|> ;
8?« ■;
!■-'
; ; #| •
'*C
sf-/ -c::^
*&&&*&<
»g 3
r y j
**«
SX6i-k<-rs*s
y x
.I*^*=*
' r //, '' j wvv^v
ti
<: >
' i <; ft
; |r
Vli 'i| tv-,\
XX
*3 ?■)
cr
>:>
mM m m ■:■*:£
+MSM ' h >
1&&S
IBf i ; i
» » •*
lIP
Ld
S%3i
gf\ V
&*' k X
?&5
%.
MV
■•'•~~v2;
i£&<:
feSSle3u^^'‘
i\<Kyvvjjs
ss?
38&S&***
*♦?>
&9&sm
: X
6/2
mm
M
*Sx*
r «u.
iiw
sss&*.
1
i
All
fuel oils
are not alike!
O
CO
A
m
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
There can be vast differences in the characteristics and
hence the handling and burning qualities of particular fuels.
A low pour point makes for easier pumpability at low tem-
peratures and reduced cost of equipment, whereas low
viscosity oils promote lower heating costs.
Factors such as these should be correctly evaluated when
considering the prices of available fuel oils.
Amoco sells fuel oils at competitive prices and, further, our
laboratory and technical staff see that the right fuel is
used in any application. Let us help you to ensure that
you get “a better deal in fuel oils.” You need only contact
one of the Amoco Branch Offices listed below for prompt
attention to your requirements.
Brisbane: 119 Leichhardt Street. Phone 2-2781. Sydney: 201 Botany Road, Waterloo. Phone 69-7651
Melbourne: 34 Queen’s Road. Phone 26-4043. Adelaide: 38-40 Currie Street. Phone 51-2692
AI.FP.2.


Around Perth
ART IN THE OLDEN WEST
Tn our wild West they’re still fight-
ing battles, the echoes of which
have long since died away in the
Eastern States. Perth has just achieved
a Contemporary Art Group in the
teeth of strong opposition. The
opposition has come mainly from the
Perth Society of Artists, to which
most of the contemporary group still
belong but in which they are out-
numbered and largely outgeneralled
by landscape and flower painters. In
Perth, apart from an Art Gallery
Society, the activities of which are
largely social, the long-established
Society of Artists has until now had
it all on its own. Some of the Society
members believe that the new group
is aimed merely at wrecking the
Society. “All we want to do is to get
away from gumtrees,” the members
of the contemporary group say.
The cause of contemporary art is
not helped by the fact that the art
critic of Perth’s only morning paper
is aged 91 and not entirely receptive
to new ideas.
Rose Skinner at her gallery has at
different times taken local artists
under her wing, but many of her
exhibitions are the work of artists
from other States and overseas. And,
according to local artists, some artists
who are highly successful in Sydney
and Melbourne sell poorly in Perth.
If artists in the Eastern States
would be surprised to learn of the
backwardness of Perth, they would
be stunned to discover the modest
prices which West Australian artists
put on their work. Sometimes it’s
20 guineas, even 16. But even at
these fruit-barrow prices Perth art
lovers do not buy contemporary
paintings. A recent exhibition at the
Gainsborough Gallery, Perth, was not
very successful. Former wool-buyer
Edgar Thompson, who runs the gal-
lery, believes that so strong are the
State’s inferiority feelings that the
only way to get Perth people to buy
local paintings is for the artists to
have an exhibition in the Eastern
Cf q f .c*/-
xxidl.
The extraordinary thing about all
this is that Perth has some of the
most successful modern buildings in
Australia as a background for con-
temporary art. Alice Hope, who was
out here recently for the London
“Daily Telegraph”, at the invitation
of the ANTA, found Perth’s modern
houses the most exciting in Australia.
This may have been a fairly hasty
judgment, but Perth, admirably
placed on the Swan and threaded
with parks, at the moment contains
the most satisfactory blending of old
and new public buildings of any city.
Sydney with its preposterous, mega-
lomaniac jumble of Hunter and
Bridge Streets cannot compare.
Perth people seem to put up a
building to suit their purposes, and
not to compete with their business
rivals. The commercial TV studios
are probably the most attractive, and
are said to be the most workmanlike,
in Australia. The City Council
Chambers are an example of how
graceful and interesting a glasshouse
can be if it is suitably placed. Here
it floats in a sea of green park.
Recently many of the old pubs
have been repainted, their wrought or
cast iron outlined. The external effect
is charming, even if you do still have
to roller-skate a quarter of a mile to
a bathroom.
And Perth is the only city of Aus-
tralia which has so far managed a
handsome entry and exit. The air
terminal, with perhaps half a dozen
flights a day, makes Mascot look like
the backend of a slum. And the over-
seas terminal at Fremantle, which as
the first and last port for ships to
Europe gets plenty of use, has such a
rush of escalators and moving bag-
gage belts that Sydney’s new overseas
terminal seems a tin shed beside it.
Tf Perth people neglect their artists
A they seem to have more loyalty
to local writers. West Australian
novelist Nene Gare was second in the
local best-seller list, with only the
immovable Morris West ahead of her,
the week that her second £ook,
‘!Qreen and Go!d u , pu&Tlstied by
Heinemann, came out.
In her first book, “The Fringe
Dwellers”, Mrs Gare, whose husband
is now Commissioner for Native Wel-
fare in Western Australia, wrote
about the living conditions of
aborigines on the outskirts of country
towns, a brave venture for someone
in her position. “Green and Gold”
is a novel based on Mrs Gare’s
experiences banana-growing at Car-
narvon. After the publication of
“Green and Gold” Mrs Gare claimed
in a Perth paper that the people of
Carnarvon, down the coast, were real
pioneers but that their claim for
major development works had been
overlooked by the more glamorous
Ord River scheme. Just now, this is
taking a potshot at the West’s most
sacred cow.
However, Mrs Gare hasn’t quite
finished yet. Her next book, she
hopes, will be set in Perth’s suburbia,
in the midst of which she has lived
for the past couple of years. “You
wouldn’t believe the things that
happen there,” she says. .
Perth’s most distinguished writer,
“the Queen”, they call her, Katharine
Susannah Prichard, will be 80 on
December 4. Her autobiography,
“Child of the Hurricane”, has just
been published by Angus and Robert-
son.
One other battle they are still
fighting—and with some success —in
the West is against the sparrow. The
sparrow was introduced to Victoria
from London in the middle of the last
century as a mobile pest-destroyer.
The sparrow ignored the pests and
concentrated on the crops.
The first sparrows made it across
the Nullarbor Plain, or more likely
took a long sea voyage, in 1894 and
were found nesting at Government
House, Perth. Since then it’s been a
continuous battle to keep them out
of the State. The WA Department of
Agriculture offers £1 bonus to any-
one who declares the presence of
sparrows. However, the department
is reluctant to pay for corpses. “We
prefer to do the killing ourselves,”
a department spokesman said.
Otherwise it would be too easy for
someone to start a racket in importing
dead sparrows from the Eastern
States at £1 a head.
PATRICIA ROLFE


THE VERDICT
was UMIMOUS
On the extensions to the Darlinghurst Courthouse, which
will undoubtedly serve after many a life term has
passed, the verdict was unanimous that Crane Cudek
secret-fix copper roofing should be used.
Only Cudek, made from timeless copper with Crane
design and engineering skill offers all these extras.
* MAINTENANCE FREE PERMANENCE. Although
no other roofing can match the timeless quality of
Crane Cudek copper roofing, it is completely main-
tenance free.
* SO ATTRACTIVE ... SO FLEXIBLE. Crane Cudek
copper roofing, with its rib finish and deep, wide pans,
looks so attractive, and because of its design, has
super strength. It can be used on roofs with a pitch
as low as I°, and as a wall cladding.
* AVAILABLE IN LONG LENGTHS. Crane Cudek
is delivered to the site in any required length up to
60 ft., which means there are no end laps.
* CUDEK IS NOT NAILED OR SCREWED. It is
fixed to the roof structure by unique clips attached
to the roof members.
* SPEEDIER LOW COST INSTALLATION. Because
of Cudek’s clip down interlocking assembly, it is
speedy to install and therefore cuts installation costs.
CRANE n n A
Cudek
16" SECRET-FIX COPPER ROOFING
B
G. | E.
CRANE
GROUP
Available with a full range
of accessories from
CRANE PRODUCTS PTY. LTD.
Burwood Rd., Concord. 74 0461
mm
V,
m,
m
WdO
f.
■ ■>;
mt
■ , ' j "" i T


letters
to the
editor
CMF TRAINING
Sir,
The writer of your article on defence
(26/10/63) made slurring reference to
“the citizen soldier with the old-
fashioned rifle and a smattering of
training”. As a CMF Warrant Officer
with 28 years’ service, in peace and war,
I strongly resent this unfair and un-
justified description of our CMF
soldiers. We have been using the
7.62-mm LIAI (self-loading rifle) since
1961 and some NCOs, including myself,
have attended the weapons course at the
School of Infantry, Ingleburn, NSW,
and received basic instruction on the
handling and employment of our most
modern platoon weapons.
Many CMF NCOs have served for
over 10 years, and by virtue of their
enthusiasm in attending schools and
courses and undertaking additional study
have acquired a reasonable standard of
efficiency.
Although most ex-service members
have retired, and some units still need
recruits, we must not underestimate or
disparage the capabilities of our spare-
time soldiers. In 1939 the militia forces
formed the nucleus of the 2nd AIF, and
the same could well apply to our CMF
in the advent of another world war. In
the meantime, with increasing supplies of
modern weapons and equipment, the
CMF could soon become, with more
public support, an effective striking
force.
J. McGLONE
East Devon port (Tas.).
“CANT AND HUMBUG”
Sir,
Does a dividing line between being
political or non-political really exist?
When the late Archbishop Mannix told
the truth about ALP-Communist Party
collaboration on unity tickets, or how
the ALP was hostile to the Catholic
concept of educational justice, his
remarks were rightly regarded as
“political”. As his statements did not
always enhance the ALP prospects at
election time, Mr Calwell publicly de-
nounced them as being “a misuse of
authority”, which would end some day
when the Angel of Death stepped in as
Labor’s ally.
That day has come and gone, and
we are now assured that the Catholic
Press, radio and TV programmes will
be changed. Santamaria will no longer
denounce atheistic Communism, except
from his own soap box. In short,
Catholicism in Victoria is to become
respectable and non-political. This non-
political attitude should be of great
political advantage to the ALP in the
forthcoming election.
Of course, all this twaddle about being
non-political is just an appeal to our
sense of humor. For after all, to
blatantly assist the ALP by suppressing
the publication of facts which may have
proved to be detrimental to its election
prospects, then call such action non-
political is not so serious a matter as “a
misuse of authority”, but just a plain
good old-fashioned piece of cant and
humbug.
N. MUNDIE
Perth (WA).
PROHIBITION IN INDIA
Sir,
In the section on prohibition in Peter
Coleman’s “A Visit to India” (16/11/63),
how can any useful purpose be served
by discussing only the situation in Bom-
bay? Mr Coleman says, “in some parts
of India . . does he know precisely
what parts? More importantly, does he
know what happens in Calcutta, or else-
where?
Considering his apparent purpose, it
is surprising that your correspondent has
missed much of the incidental humor
arising from the drink situation. For
instance, Indian whisky (incidentally not
called “country liquor,” a term reserved
for toddy and similar products) is pro-
duced in Cochin by a firm with the
engaging name of “Indo-Scottish Enter-
prises.” The most popular brand is, how-
ever, called “Black Knight”, and that
just about sums up any thoughtful
drinker’s reaction to the stuff.
L. F. I. HAWKINS
Kew (Vic.).
RED CHINA
Sir.
Mr Calwell has announced that if the
Labor Party is returned to office it will
extend recognition to Communist China,
following Britain’s lead. It is worthwhile
pointing out that the Red Chinese have
refused to exchange an ambassador
with Great Britain and, indeed, it was
not long after British recognition that
they began to take over, without com-
pensation, the property of the great
British trading houses in China.
Some people say: “Why not recognise
Red China? It is a government which
exists and rules over 600 million
Chinese.” If the question of recognition
were as simple as this, the same argument
would mean recognition of the East
German Government by the Atlantic
powers. But everybody realises that
non-recognition of the East German
regime is only part of a total policy of
resistance to further Soviet encroach-
ment into Europe.
In the same way, on the Asian scene,
non-recognition of Red China should
continue as one aspect of a many-sided
policy of resistance to Red Chinese
aggression. This is what it means to the
people of Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand,
Nationalist China, the Philippines, and
all the others who constitute Australia’s
frontline of defence.
KENNETH GEE
Sydney (NSW).
FILMS AND FINANCE
Sir,
Although I have been a regular and
eager purchaser of The Bulletin for
some time, I am seriously thinking of
giving it away. With 32 pages of business
and finance, which is 40 per cent of the
issue of November 9, coupled with an
excessive Liberal slant, the magazine is
quickly becoming a capitalist’s weekly.
It is also worth noting that more than
two films a week are released in Australia
worthy of review. The Bulletin, with
its usual lack of other than Eastern
States’ news, does not appear here
before Wednesday. I’m sick of wingeing.
What’s happening to Australia’s journal
of “comment and opinion”?
D. J. GRAHAM
Kalamunda (WA).
[The general content of The Bulletin
— news, comment and articles —has not
been reduced; extra pages have been
added to the general part of the magazine
as well as to the Business and Finance
section.
What seem to be the most important
films are reviewed when possible in their
first week of Australian release, which is
usually in Sydney. Premiere screenings
of first-rank productions are rare in West-
ern Australia, and those productions
sometimes take several months to reach
there, so that an Eastern review seems
the best policy. Ed.]
THE WARD CASE
Sir,
Congratulations to Howard Brock
(19/10/63) for his courage and deter-
mination in successfully prosecuting the
New Zealand “Daily News” for publish-
ing the lurid details of the perversion
associated with the Ward case. I believe
there are many people in both our
countries who long for only the best for
their children and who, given the right
lead, would take up the challenge and
fight as Mr Brock has done for what
they know to be right.
Our future in Asia today depends on
our countries giving mature leadership.
Small in numbers, we can yet play a
decisive part in history, as small nations
with a great purpose have done before
us. We will never reach this destiny while
we allow literature of all types to flaunt
filth in front of young and old. I firmly
believe that Mr Brock’s action is a great
example to all who love their country.
T. H. RAMSAY
Geelong (Vic.).


NOW
GIFT-PACKED %
FOR CHRISTMAS
Fillers Scotland
111.
s ,y
*0
BELLS
IJj -'
mm
BELLS
the Celebration Scotch
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.,
V Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent House
8W8.62N
REVIEWS
TELEVISION
Shooting the Tiger
The TV cameras focus on Malaysia
By FRANK ROBERTS
YI/Ith more television stations bidding
" for imported film and tape next year,
and the word out that the Australian
content must be increased to 45 per cent,
we are going to enjoy or suffer an increas-
ing amount of the journalistic forms of
television.
I would like to utter a sharp cry
about the programming of the ABC
Television documentary on Malaysia,
“Ten Million Strong.” It was shown
nationally at 8.30 p.m._on November
13. In Sydney, two channels had fairly
good old movies running full speed at
that hour, while Melbourne had one
movie in progress at 8.30 and “The
Nurses” just beginning. So about half
the viewers in Australia were given the
choice of switching to the ABC at 7.30,
or from the middle of a movie at 8.30.
In the other capitals, 8.30 was com-
mencement time for some of the most
popular one-hour imported shows.
“Ten Million Strong” was a well-made,
timely, important documentary. It must
have cost a great deal to prepare, film
and edit. The ABC spent a few more
hundreds advertising it in newspapers
throughout Australia. Then why ensure
it would be seen by a handful of people,
for the sake of some weird concept in
programming?
In both Sydney and Melbourne the
programme could have been reverted to
7.30, giving viewers a clear, painless
choice. And it could not have had a
smaller audience at 9.30 or 10.30 than
it must have had at its programmed time.
It is useless to cry too loudly over this
waste. 1 suggest the ABC show “Ten
Million Strong” again, soon, at different,
selected times in each state. And then
again, on a Sunday, even if it means
making an extra print or two in addition
to those destined for the Intertel countries.
Similarly I would hope to see TCN’s
recent “Flashpoint Indonesia” at least
one more time. “Flashpoint” concentrated
too much on a crisis already fading when
it was televised. It gave us Ambassador
Keith Shann drily talking sense about
a nation he must know better than any-
one else. And it was made under diffi-
culties which were obvious and which told
us as much as the camera and commen-
tator about the Indonesian temper.
Strangely, although it contained several
interviews, it did not tell us clearly why
Indonesia wants to confront Malaya.
Nor did “Ten Million Strong,” but
from it anyone could have gathered an
impression that Indonesians have a re-
ligious, racial feeling against the Chinese
in Malaya. The ABC’s documentary,
made in friendlier, freer circumstances,
was able to show and comment on all of
Malaysia’s racial, economic, educational
and development problems. It told us,
through the mouths of the Tunku, of
Mr Lee Kuan Yew, and others, that
these troubles could “explode like a hy-
drogen bomb,” Malaysia could “go up in
flames.” And after the deluge, Com-
munism.
“Ten Million Strong” told us these
things, also showed an amazing new city,
Kuala Lumpur, terrible slums in Singa-
pore, crude life in a Borneo longhouse,
Indian rubber tappers. In one hour it
proved forever that television is the real
way to acquaint us with our neighbors.
More reason to let more of us see it,
and to send the crews back to report on
narrower scenes within the two countries,
now that a few of us have got the
picture broadly.


HOTEL
m
Melbourne
Win
mmm
w
i *
g *eat
AUSTRALIAN
To the out-of-town and interstate traveller,
The HOTEL WINDSOR offers a tradition of
hospitality and service, unrivalled
among Australian Hotels.
We invite you to consider the combined
advantages of the Windsor’s city location
and its excellent appointments.
HW73. YIC2
Spring St., Melbourne 63 0261 (30 lines)
(Parliament House opposite)
Telegrams “Telwinsor” Melbourne.
The Indonesia and Malaysia program-
mes were lions among the television
journalism of recent weeks. There have
been some dogs, too, including the inter-
view and panel shows, old and new, and
a series devoted to walking and talking
at Taronga Park Zoo, with Bob Sanders,
Sir Edward Hallstrom, and occasional
views of the fauna.
ART
Patronage
The Viscount Collection. Australian
Galleries. Melbourne.
A lthough companies may not yet be
up to the point of competing with
one another for the privilege of patron-
ising art, their gestures are certainly
becoming more numerous and imposing.
In Melbourne now Godfrey Phillips’
Viscount Collection is starting its tour of
the country. It comprises seven paint-
ings of “The Australian Scene”, one each
from Arthur Boyd, Russell Drysdale,
Sidney Nolan, John Olsen, Albert
Tucker, James Wigley and Fred Wil-
liams. When the Collection has finished
touring, Godfrey Phillips will present
one of the paintings to each of the State
National Galleries.
The cost of acquiring and promoting
a collection like this is massive. None-
theless the habit of company patronage
is spreading fast. Mostly it has taken
the form either of buying paintings
straight out through a dealer or of offer-
ing a competitive prize (from which some
acquisitions are usually made). And
remember that prize-money—from £250
to £lOOO —is only part of the cost.
Freight, promotion and the rest can eat
it up. Godfrey Phillips apparently
wanted a novel approach, and one which
wouldn’t commit them to an annual
show. They also seem to have wanted
to be sure of what they were getting—
good names who paint more or less
figuratively.
The ideal would be that the standards
which currently apply in the best of in-
dustrial patronage of painting should be
applied to all the visual arts, or even to
all the arts for that matter. The stand-
ards are simple: experts must be
employed and they must be trusted.
These may not always be easy standards
to interpret, and many would certainly
find them difficult to live with every day,
in their buildings and their design.
Many a sponsor who has given artists
and experts a free hand has blanched
at the result, but it is still the best chance.
Experts make mistakes, too, but less
often The argument that the buyer holds
the whip hand does not work out
artistically All that happens is that he
eventually pays a lot for what he prob-
ably passed over when it was cheap. Nor
does it work out in terms of prestige.
No privately-sponsored competition en-
joys more prestige than the Helena
Rubinstein Travelling Scholarship, which
leaves things entirely to the experts.
This is the main merit of the Viscount
Collection. It is not daring, but at the
same time most of the paintings would
be welcomed by the State Galleries.
Since there is nothing especially new
in the Collection, it does not need much
comment. Briefly, of the seven, two are
not worth their place. Tucker’s “Gipps-
land Explorer” is melodrama at its
fruitiest, and Wigley’s picture of poverty-
stricken aborigines is simply dull. On
the other hand, Fred Williams’ and
Arthur Boyd’s landscapes are gems
easily the pick of the group. The Olsen
is typical of the recent work shown at
the same gallery a few months ago.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
Solitaire
The Manchurian Candidate. Director,
John Frankenheimer. Regent
Theatre. Sydney.
i"|NE of the most vital and original
of the young American directors,
John Frankenheimer in “The Man-
churian Candidate” takes his viewer by
the scruff of the neck and hastens him
through the story (adapted by George
Axelrod from Richard Condon’s novel)
without relaxing his grip till the shatter-
ing climax.
This stylish, highly sophisticated
melodrama is a remarkable piece of
film-making, not surprising from a
director already responsible for “The
Young Stranger”, “Bird Man Of Alca-


ACMC
maximum
MBHaßF-
zSfr&rfy*-'.: -
r-%
f-i
m
- . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
(gp/tOKMcC
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
A 3
M
A 3.13
Cl.
(§ ■<©' 15 □- <% <@) § <@
81. 82. 83. Cl. C 2. C 3
.©
..•..Xvfrikw
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPcK up
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 »
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 » Melbourne 569-0611
Politics in action:
a timely survey
350 pages 50s
A HISTORY OF THE
AUSTRALIAN COUNTRY
PARTY by Ulrich Ellis
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
traz” and “All Fall Down”. It is also an
object lesson in the translation of a novel
to the screen.
The film opens with the conferring of
America’s highest award for valor on
a sergeant from the Korean campaign.
The sergeant, spurning friendly advances
from his politically ambitious mother
and his Senator stepfather, leaves for
New York, a job, and almost certain
obscurity.
But some of his wartime buddies have
vague, nightmarish and apparently
groundless suspicions. And it becomes
apparent that the sergeant is no hero.
He has been brainwashed by the Com-
munists and is now their unwitting tool,
controlled by games of solitaire after
which he is open to any suggestion, even
the murder of his loved ones.
Frankenheimer hurtles through the
narrative at dazzling but always con-
trolled speed; though there is never any
perceptible slackening of pace, he still
has time to develop and explain his
characters. He uses his camera with
invention the cutting in particular is
noteworthy, especially in the dream
sequences, the Press conference, and the
final scenes at the convention.
Frankenheimer has proved himself a
master at handling his actors, and at
picking them in the first place. Here he
gets their very best from Laurence
Harvey, Frank Sinatra, Angela Lans-
bury and James Gregory.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
THEATRE
Look & Listen
The Private Ear and The Public Eye.
Peter Shaffer. Phillip Theatre.
Sydney.
Tn “The Private Ear”, Peter Shaffer’s
A tale of a young man’s first stir of
idealistic love, and his first try at
seduction, three young players Judith
Stott, Don Pascoe and John Bell—bring
truth and observation to their work,
and the result is dazzling. The blend of
laughter and pathos cannot fail to carry
the town.
But the second play of the evening,
“The Public Eye”, never quite reaches
the standard of the first. This isn’t due
to Mr Shaffer, whose writing (though
perhaps dwelling a little too long here
and there on some good effect or other)
is equipped with a lance. The produc-
tion of Frank Stevens fell down on the
job: there seemed to be a lot of move-
ment without purpose, and movement in
the wrong rhythm and style even when
it had purpose. Nor did the three
players in this half Miss Stott again,
with Gordon Chater and Max Osbiston


COGEDAR LINE
F
k
HONOLULU, HILO
& TAHITI
ALSO CALLING AT AUCKLAND,
SUVA, SAVU SAVU, BORA-BORA,
& RAROTONGA, WITH 5 DAYS IN
HONOLULU-4 DAYS IN TAHITI
JUNE-JULY, 1964
Enjoy every comfort aboard the luxury, one-
class liner T.V. FLAVIA; the finest European
or Australian Cuisine, air-conditioning
throughout, stabilizers for smooth sailing,
and cabins with their own private facilities.
FARES FROM £345
See any authorised Travel Agent or Cogedar Line
General Agent: H. C. Sleigh Limited
Melbourne • Sydney • Brisbane • Adelaide • Hobart • A.P.T. Shipping Pfy. Ltd., Perth
*
SUVA
SAVU SAVU
SYDNEY
AUCKLAND
MELBOURNE
HONOLULU
HILO
TAHITI
BORA-BORA
RAROTONGA
—ever “get” the play with the certainty
possessed by the cast of the first one.
Even so, “The Public Eye” is a
charmer of a story: a middle-aged man
trains a lovely young wife, and then,
when she has absorbed his teaching and
become a fine independent creature, be-
comes jealous because she is no longer
his pupil.
It is, in fact, the “Pygmalion” story
carried forward. It is Eliza Doolittle and
Professor Higgins after two years of
marriage, and mightily diverting at that.
The husband sets a “private eye” on
his wife —who is promptly astounded at
the way this little man keeps on popping
up wherever she goes. She assumes,
sweetly, that the little man is in love with
her, for three weeks leads him all
over London, and without ever ex-
changing one word or contact with each
other—they have a delicious affair.
KEVON KEMP
MUSIC
Saint-Saens
Final Subscription Concert, Red
Season. Melbourne Town Hall.
tT'HE Fourth Piano Concerto of Saint-
A Saens, which some people find
vapid and frivolous, strikes me as quite
an interesting exercise from the hand of
a man who was a thoroughly professional
composer. The showy piano part in its
second movement may be distracting,
but it does not quite hide the interesting
working-out of what is essentially a
monothematic work, constructed rather
than generated from within, but still
quite presentable as an exercise. It is
easy to be put off by the meanderings of
the first movement, which has the air of
a set of variations looking for a theme,
a kind of unendurable suspense infinitely
prolonged. But hindsight, and the com-
plement of the second movement, show
that there was a plan at work all the
time, an experimental search for some
new method of construction. Though
no composer, as far as I know, has
followed up the lead, Saint-Saens’ ven-
ture was not altogether wasted: it might
be possible to draw a distant analogy
between this work and the symphonic
method which established Sibelius as an
innovator some time afterwards.
The Concerto was in any case quite
a good vehicle for the talents of Philippe
Entremont, and gave employment to all
the points and young man’s exuberance
of his technique.
Sir Bernard Hcinze gave a virile and
metrically alert performance of the
Seventh Symphony of Beethoven. It was
good to sec him on the rostrum again.
KENNETH HINCE


Revolution in China
An imaginary threat?
By C. P. FITZGERALD
The Centre of the World. Communism
and the Mind of China. Robert S.
Elegant. Methuen. 655.
IC/fR Elegant is no newcomer to the
field of contemporary Chinese
studies, and now that he is assigned to
a very different field, the European scene,
this book stands as a summing up of his
experience as the Asian correspondent
of “Newsweek” stationed in Hong Kong.
It is a thoughtful book and the picture
it draws of China, although, as can be
shown, distorted in some respects, de-
serves serious consideration. Divided into
five parts, the book first covers the history
of China from 1600 to 1900 and in the
second part from 1900 to the present
year. These sections provide a clear and
fair picture of the events which accom-
panied the impact of the West on the
old Chinese Empire, the early stages of
the revolution, and the ultimate victory
of the Communist movement.
The second half of the book is devoted
to an analysis of the policies of the
Communist regime and ends by drawing
the conclusion that these have failed. In
1963 the author sees the Chinese hier-
archy standing “among the debris of most
of their hopes” (p. 355) —’ although he
concedes that they had achieved their
chief aim, which was to restore China to
a position in which “the world could no
longer either patronise or ignore China,
as it had, alternatively, until 1949”. These
conclusions are put into the past tense as
though they referred to the history of a
bygone age. It is this attitude which in-
vites criticism from an historian. History
does not stop, either at the present date
or at any time in the past. No historical
process can rightly be said to “fail” or
to “succeed” it simply goes on. The
Chinese Revolution has passed through
phases, which can be identified and re-
corded, but it has no more ended, failed
or succeeded than, say, the Christian mis-
sion to convert the world to the teach-
ing of the Gospel. Experience may sug-
gest that such movements never achieve
their full aim, and that the hopes of a
wholly Communist world, whether domi-
nated by Peking or Moscow, are likely
prove as fllussry £s those ~of a <sms-
tian world, whether in obedience to Rome
or divided among autonomous churches.
In any case our experience is founded
on past history, on a world divided by
bad communications and distances which
took months or years to traverse. What
may be the outcome of great movements
in the shrunken world of today or the
next century no one can now foresee.
It might have been better therefore
to base his conclusions on the recent past,
to record the failures and also the suc-
cesses of the Chinese regime while leav-
ing more open to future knowledge the
question of whether the balance of gains
and losses will impel the movement
forward to a wider field of activity, or
confine it to a limited region in which,
as it now seems, its message has validity.
It is well known to students of history
that whereas calamity makes a dramatic
chapter, easily recorded by striking re-
versals of fortune, the process by which a
society overcomes difficulties and slowly
rises to a more developed and pros-
perous future is often hard to follow
and is not marked by any clear out-
standing events. History, said Gibbon,
is too often the record of the follies and
wickedness of mankind: but this does
not mean that there have never been
acts of wisdom and foresight, prudent
policies which produced, after years of
ripening, results which contributed to the
growth of civilisation. The difficulty is
that these acts are often made by obscure
people; the policies have no spectacular
beginning.
jl/fR Elegant does recognise that the
hasty judgments of the Chinese situ-
tion now in fashion are as ill-founded as
the ignorant appreciations of the past. “It
seems unlikely that a nation of Gil-
bertian comic-opera characters has sud-
denly been transformed into a semi-
mechanised reincarnation of the hordes
of Attila” (p. 62). It does indeed. Yet
later on he can himself say that “the
hectic Chinese approach to the mission
of world revolution threatened to alter
the entire world by destroying much
of the world” (p. 355). One may ask
how such a threat is posed. It is not
China that can drop the nuclear bombs
by which the world might be destroyed:
she has none* Should China decide
which is by no means probable to
embark on a “conventional” war against
the West, it would be China who would
suffer the cataclysm if the West, and
this means, in effect, the United States,
really felt that a conventional war in-
volving a Chinese invasion of Thailand,
or open support of the Viet Cong rebel-
lion, could only be repelled by nuclear
bombardment. The author fortifies this
argument elsewhere by reference to Mao
Tse-tung’s phrase that nuclear bombs are
“paper tigers”: but unless this remark
is examined in its context it is beside
the point. Mao said this, and explains it
by pointing out that in practice the nu-
clear bomb is a weapon which cannot be
used except in a final encounter, and
would then be suicidal. This opinion is
quite clearly also that of President Ken-
nedy, and of the handful of other world
statesmen who are in a position to ac-
tually order the dropping of such bombs.
So the threat of the semi-mechanised
hordes, on their hectic mission of world
revolution, means in practice the rather
remote possibility that the Chinese Gov-
ernment would launch a conventional at-
tack upon one of the very limited num-
ber of countries against which such an
attack could be mounted Southern
Indo-China (Laos and South Vietnam),
Burma and India. The events of the
summer of 1958 conclusively proved that
no Chinese invasion of Taiwan was pos-
sible — nor even the capture of the off-
shore islands of Quemoy and Matsu
in the face of US sea-power. The Chinese
have indeed already shown that they
could invade India, in spite of the Hima-
layas: they also showed, by their volun-
tary withdrawal at the moment of com-
plete victory, that they had no wish to
follow such a policy through. One must
consider all the facts, not only those
which suit the thesis.
There is certainly no reason why the
Chinese should seek in Laos or South
Vietnam to run the risk of a large war
when they are gaining their ends by the
progress of the local Communist rebel-
lions. With Burma they have made a
frontier settlement which, contrary to
what Mr Elegant says (p. 321), was so
favorable to Burmese claims that the
Burmese were hardly able to believe it.
The author’s remarks on such settlements
of points of friction betray bias. “The
Burmese were bullied into making terri-
torial concessions, and the Pakistanis se-
duced into border agreements.” If the
Chinese had refused to make such settle-
ments at all, would we not have been
told that this was proof of their sinister
ambitions in these regions? Pakistan
made her agreement with China because
rightly or wrongly she continues
to fear that India has designs on her
territories, It was Sot t'hihese wiles but
Pakistani policy which led to this agree-
ment.
On the other hand, Mr Elegant has
some very balanced and considered views
on the possible courses which American
and Western policy could follow towards


AN IDEAL XMAS GIFT
Keep Your Personal Papers SAFE
i
a
■
m
II
m
THE
HOME
UNITIZER
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate; 50/- (Postage Paid)
W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in Vynex, this handy
portable Home Unitizer will keep all your
personal and important documents neatly
and safely—ready for quick reference. It
has twelve compartments and comes com-
plete with printed tags for 72 various titles,
such as Medical, Dental, Rates, Car Ex-
penses, Insurance, Taxation, Banking,
Receipts, etc. Strongly made for long
wear. The Home Unitizer makes an ideal
gift with real utility value. Size:
15V 2 in. x 11 in. x 3 in. IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
(Adelaide)
£2,000
LITERARY
COMPETITION
with sections for
NOVEL ... SHORT STORY
POEM
ENTRIES CLOSE DECEMBER 31
Full particulars from:
The Advertiser, Promotions Dept.
Box 392, G.P.0., Adelaide
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D', Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
China. He dismisses as unrealistic all
expectation of a return of the Kuomin-
tang to the mainland, points out that
America would gain by offering recogni-
tion of Peking more than Peking could,
and would free herself of the onus of
non-recognition, which, if China refused
to co-operate on account of the Taiwan
issue, would be laid upon China. He con-
cludes with a realistic suggestion: “Since
the West was not prepared to destroy
Communist China the logical alternative
was to assist her ... to gain the under-
standing of the world towards which she
had been struggling for centuries” (p.
370).
The difficulty of all writers dealing
with a movement in active process of
change is that, whatever one may say,
some of it will be out of date before the
book is in print. Although Mr Elegant
constantly refers to 1963, in an endeavor
to circumvent this trouble, it is obvious
that in fact most of the book must have
been written in 1962. It is no longer
true, whatever the case in the three bad
years 1959-1961, that there is widespread
hunger or even very low rations in China
today. Those who have been in the coun-
try within the past few months have
produced overwhelming testimony to the
general improvement in the food situa-
tion. The findings of a British doctor
(“Economist,” Sept. 21, p. 1004) that
“Nowhere in the streets or hospitals did
your correspondent see any signs of hun-
ger oedema or any other marked de-
ficiency diseases,” are confirmed by nu-
merous other observers. When Mr Ele-
gant states on p. 359 that the great and
sudden influx of Chinese to Hong Kong
in mid-1962 were “starving Cantonese,”
he contradicts the fact, well known in
Hong Kong and widely published, that
these immigrants were examined by the
Hong Kong medical authorities who re-
ported that there were no cases of mal-
nutrition among them.
There are a few mistakes of fact or
interpretation which might mislead the
reader. The employment of abbreviated
forms for the Chinese ideographs is a
reform (covering only a small number
of the ideographs employed) which has
been in use in Japan for many years
past, was habitual to Chinese (who, how-
ever, did not print these forms, but only
used them in note taking) and arose from
the pressure of business in the secretarial
side of the government. Chou En-lai in-
formed the reviewer in 1956 that he
found these new forms tiresome, but that
his secretaries insisted that they saved
much time, and “so we thought it better
to authorise their use.” This is hardly
the sinister design to destroy the Chinese
culture which Mr Elegant detects.
It is now habitual to describe everyone
who leaves China as a refugee. Mr Ele-
gant does not conceal the fact that the
“refugees” he mentions came out with
regular exit permits granted for family
reasons • to look after aged relatives
in Hong Kong. If everyone who left
Britain and Europe for Australia in the
past ten years for family reasons and
also because they disliked the austerity
of post-war conditions were to be called
a refugee, we would need to redefine our
immigration categories. In this connec-
tion, it must be well known to the author
that every day several hundreds of Chi-
nese cross in and out of the territory of
Hong Kong in the course of their daily
employment, which is to transport to.
Hong Kong, from China, three-quarters
of the food on which the British colony’s
population of 3i millions subsists. “I
often wonder what the vintners buy one
half so precious as the goods they sell.”
Behind the
Balustrades
The Watcher on the Cast-Iron Balcony.
Hal Porter. Faber and Faber.
295. 9d.
T'his book bears the sub-title “An Aus-
A tralian Autobiography” but, although
it gives us a convincing picture of Aus-
tralian middle-class life, with occasional
generalisations about its attitude, its main
interest lies in its frank self-analysis, in
its portrait of the growing child fumbling
his way towards the artist, and in its
account of the relationship between
mother and son.
This last is the most moving part of
the story. It does not, in the manner
of Edmund Gosse’s “Father and Son,”
illuminate a whole era of life and thought
through a study of the clash of tempera-
ments; it brings us, rather, at the end,
to the point where the lad of 18, having
collided with reality and suffered, is left
on the threshold of the future, like those
other young artists Stephen Dedalus and
Paul Morel. It is, as any true auto-
biography must be, self-centred, but not
egotistic.
The early pages deal with Porter’s life
(lower middle-class family), up to the
age of six, in the Melbourne suburb of
Kensington. The immediate location is
Bellair St with its old-fashioned houses,
behind one of whose cast-iron balus-
trades the child watches the world below.
The image of the watcher recurs in
various ways as the story unfolds of
young Hal’s life in Bairnsdale, Gippsland,
as a school pupil and then as a cadet
reporter on the local newspaper, his 18
months as teacher and would-be Bohe-
mian in Williamstown, his return home
for the Christmas season in 1928 and
again at the death of his mother three
months later.
As a very young child the watcher


The summer issue of this rapidly developing
quarterly journal is now out. Featured in this
issue are an expert analysis of the progress of
the Chinese economy including the influence of
the Sino-Soviet rift and likely future trends; a
moving piece by Martin Luther King on the
negro struggle for civil rights; two articles
critical of the 'Croslan thesis' about the- role
of Labor parties today (in responding to public
Opinion and in redistributing incomes); an
appraisal of recent events in West New Guinea
and the likely course of relations with Indo-
nesia; and Bernard Smith, noted art critic and
author, on “William Morris and the twentieth
century." This DISSENT also has articles on
Vietnam and Australian History (Brian Fitzpatrick
contributes), and five pages of book-reviews.
DISSENT is on sale at book-shops and news-
agencies for 2/6. Subscriptions are cheap at
12/- for 5 issues and 20/- for 10 issues. Write
to DISSENT, Box 4044, G.P.0., Melbourne.
senses in his aunt Bona the love and
safety which he finds in his mother but
which is absent from his father and
grandfather; as a schoolboy he hunts
with, yet is distinct from, the pack; aware
of his role thus early he is, nonetheless,
a watcher who misses things, and his
blind spots persist till much later in life.
Never in tune with his cricketing,
masonic father, the lad shuns organised
sport, which would afford him less time
to observe himself and the world.
We see in these memories manifesta-
tions of the artistic temperament the
instinctive assumption of detachment and
the passion for observation: “Watch I
must for, though I have maximum esprit
de corps, the fatal seed to breed the
writer that plant all ears and Argus
eyes has already taken root, and
Cannot yet be controlled.”
The final sections of the book are de-
signed to show how three crucial ex-
periences make havoc of his pretensions
to culture and his superficial view of life
marking the journey from non-inno-
cence towards (the final goal?) innocence.
These are his violent seduction by a
fellow teacher, Miss Hart, who is three
times his age, the accidental death of
one of his pupils whom he has strapped
a few hours before, and, finally, the
death of his mother. These events pre-
cipitate the avalanche. In retrospect Por-
ter sees his mother’s death as the final
“punishment.” But the reader will, I feel,
be content to view it (as the author
also does, of course) as marking the end
of his youth and a confrontation. Here,
the grief felt for his pupil, Wock, is in-
tensified at last the watcher is drawn
in from the balcony and plunged into the
passionate obscurities of life itself:
“It is from this thing on the bed 1 must
now flee.
Oh, God, the watcher on the cast-iron
balcony screams out within me, Oh,
God, put me back on the balcony! . . .
“At that moment I am sure that God is
dead, that any love I must have for the
world I must make for myself begin-
ning, at last, after years of happy nothing,
at nothing. It has become simple. Mother
is dead, God is dead, love is dead, all
that I was is dead. So, I think, waiting
for father to make himself publicly pos-
sible, waiting to begin watching again
those who are watching what they think
is me, the dead one.
“I do not know that, not only have I
not started to die, I have not started to
live.”
This book is a successful demonstration
of how the mature artist has outgrown
the stylistic extravagances already fore-
shadowed here in the writer-to-be in the
account of young Hal’s “High School
hypocrisy” as “a special sort of word-
crazy clown.” The prose is, as occasion
requires, both ironically incisive and rich
in its evocation of landscapes and in-
teriors. The cameos of the minor figures
are exquisitely finished: crusty old Grand-
father Porter, the Bairnsdale headmaster,
the newspaper editor, with “hands com-
posed of overlapping dark veins, liver-
spotted cold bones, and fingernails ridged
like grey celery.”
The gay, courageous mother with her
love of comic songs and flowers, quaint
phrases and folklore, is re-created with
a sympathy that never becomes senti-
mental. The father, by contrast, seems
to be severely handled. There are refer-
ences to his selfishness and destructive-
ness but not much evidence of these in
this volume. Perhaps this part of the
picture will be made clearer in succeed-
ing volumes.
R. G. GEERING
Into Chaos
Victims and Heroes. Konstantin Sim-
onov. Hutchinson. 375. 3d.
The Icicle. Abram Tertz. Collins. 20s.
T'o judge Simonov’s new novel fairly
A one would have be a military
historian. The burden of this story, con-
ceived on a large scale, is a rewriting of
the Nazi invasion as experienced by Rus-
sians. The theme is heroism in the face
of blunders; in other words a second
look at the Stalin epoch, with Khrusch-
chev as a guide. An interesting experi-
ment, but the question arises: is the
blundering now being exaggerated
and for essentially similar reasons —as
the invincibility was before?
Few people in the West could answer
that, but I think there is doubt. The
German drive into the Soviet Union was
altogether different from the break-
throughs in the Low Countries, France
and Scandinavia; the result altogether
different from the disasters that befell
Russian arms under Rennenkampf at
Tannenberg, in 1914. Brest-Litovsk held
out for 32 days, Smolensk was a Pyrrhic
victory, and by the time the Germans
arrived before Moscow their Panzerfaust
was so scarred that its grip was weaken-
ing. Russia’s main armament came into
action just in time. Considering the tac-
tical advantages possessed by the enemy,
and allowing for the mistakes and dis-
organisation almost inevitable in the first
critical months, can it be averred that
Stalin’s armies were criminally badly led?
Simonov, who is a finer poet and better
playwright than he will ever be a novelist,
enjoyed great fame already before the
war. I believe he was a Deputy to the
Supreme Soviet. He now gives us fascin-
ating glimpses into chaos: his people
speak of “scum rising to the surface”,
and there are powerful descriptions of
demoralisation in the rear, muted by a
legitimate desire not to overplay the
victim motif. But the thing lacks inner
conviction as much as did the earlier
fictionised panegyrics, in which Simonov
indulged himself, while the dialectic re-
mains artistically unchanged. all its
sweep this is a researched and somehow
static book, with a post hoc infusion of
passion, lacking in deeper integrity. It
succeeds well in demonstrating why
Russians, in spite of all their sufferings
and betrayals, remained loyal to their
leadership and to Stalin, and this,
humanly, is an important achievement.
It has not, however, the more funda-
mental more revolutionary honesty
that produces moving personal docu-
ments and great novels. It is too timid a
compromise, and the vastness of the
canvas does not hide the fact but
illuminates it.
The hero-victim of the tale is a young
political commissar, Vanya Sintsov. His
holiday with his wife is interrupted by
the outbreak of war; they are cut off
from their home near the western frontier
where their baby is. They have to separ-
ate, and Vanya sets out to find his unit
which, alas, has been swallowed up in
the maelstrom. He attaches himself to
various commanders, takes part in a
series of encirclement break-outs and
fights alongside men who display every
attitude, from cowardly self-seeking to
sublimest self-denial. In so doing he sees
(almost too much for plausibility) all
that went wrong and all that was done
to reverse fate. His own destiny as a
man and a Communist is involved at
every step. Through no fault of his he
loses his party card behind the German
lines and, to evade bureaucratic chicaner-
ies, of which he has seen a good deal,
makes one false move which could lead
to his branding as a deserter. He takes
part in the first counter-offensive and ac-
quits himself as we would expect.
The battle scenes, at which Russian
writers excel, are often magnificent. Indi-
vidual portraits, though drawn too much


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
CHERRi
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
D J
f J
mlmm
kulov
Vodka
VMS
i
VOBKA
in black and w'hite, are not unconvincing.
But the weaknesses loom larger. Sintsov’s
wife is a mere shadow. We don’t really
come to love or hate any of the partici-
pants; here the collective serves to camou-
flage rather than define their individu-
ality.
A most interesting aspect concerns the
conflict pattern. Tension is obtained
mainly from the inter-action of mutual
suspicions, which is another common
factor in Soviet fiction. Without over-
stating, one sometimes wonders how pur-
poseful cohesion is maintained in a so-
ciety so laden with uncharitable doubts
and harsh judgments, man to man: there
is something that remains unexplained,
something which surely cannot be nega-
tive. Simonov also tends to patronise his
“simple people.” They always talk about
the Red Army as “our peasants’ and
workers’ Red Army” . . . even when
they are disgusted with its performance.
Infected by the sour distrustfulness of his
own characters, one asks whether Sim-
onov is not trying too hard to catch up
with the head of the column. Would he,
if called upon, be able to recast the year
’4l for a second time, to conform to
some other change?
“Victims and Heroes” is worth read-
ing chiefly for its breadth of detail. Yet
what it tries to do has been done better,
and much earlier, by an Ukrainian, Ver-
shigora, in a great war novel, “Men
With a Clear Conscience,” which re-
mains little known though it has been
translated. It gives, incidentally, a pen
picture of Khrushchev, drawn before he
became famous and a myth-breaker.
Unlike Simonov’s, Vershigora’s novel was
written from the inside and in blood.
“The Icicle” is a collection of longish,
surrealistic stories, allegedly smuggled
out of the USSR. One can’t tell whether
this is just a gimmick but, for my part,
the bulk could be smuggled back again.
Tertz, whose first book was rapturously
hailed in London, is presented as an
angry young Muscovite in Gogol’s like-
ness. Angry he is, and he can write more
or less as well as other angry ones, but
in this volume there appear only two
above-average pieces. One is “Grapho-
maniacs,” a subtle story about unsuccess-
ful literateurs. The other is “The Icicle”.
This treats of a young man who develops
a species of second sight, with conse-
quences both comic and tragic as they
work themselves out in contemporary
Russia. There are faint echoes of Poe.
Its cold, imaginative force will haunt
you when you have forgotten the weary
rest.
DAVID MARTIN
Assertions
The Man Who Was Orthodox. A Se-
lection from the Uncollected Writ-
ings of G. K. Chesterton. Arranged
and edited by A. L. Maycock. Den-
nis Dobson. 495. 9d.
/Chesterton’s main significance is as a
Christian apologist. His method was
to show that there is a human orthodoxy,
and that this finds adequate expression
and completion only in Christianity. That
is to say, starting from the permanent
realities of human nature, he could on
the one hand measure the deviations of
modern ideologies, and on the other show
how Christian supernaturalism made sur-
prising sense for the human condition.
The word “surprising” registers the fact
that Chesterton’s success lay in his power
of making the point of view of common
experience and common-sense sharply
new. It is not just a question of paradox.
Many kinds of statement are in his
repertoire. For example, straight asser-
tion: “For at present we all tend to one
mistake; we tend to make politics too
important.” Compression of an insight
into an epigram: “Education is implica-
tion.” Striking analogy: “When a dead
body is rotting, it does not diminish; it
swells. Institutions, like corpses, grow
larger as they grow more and more shape-
less.” Effective distinction in order to
bring out a meaning: “The point of the
story of Satan is not that he revolted
against being in hell, but that he re-
volted against being in heaven.”
A. L. Maycock has made a medium-
sized book out of a selection of Chester-
ton’s uncollected journalism, preceded by
a substantial essay on the author. The
quotations I have given above are from
these hitherto scattered writings.
My impression is that Chesterton can-
not be taken in bulk today. Most ex-
tended passages are unsatisfactory in
some way: he looks a lot better when
reduced to occasional sentences quoted
in isolation. Practically the only time I
now read him is when I come across a
luminous sentence quoted from him by
one of the distinguished French intellec-
tuals who think very highly of him
Marrou or Gilson or Danielou. He looks
terrific in French.
What makes him so frequently unsatis-
factory, even when one agreed with him
to a considerable extent? His editor, May-
cock, admits some things: the humor
can drop to tiresome facetiousness; the
arresting assertion can become a reck-
less overstatement.
He was a journalist writing for the
general reader of his day. He does not al-
ways stop to make, he does not always
fully appreciate the need for making, the
complex discriminations needed before
his facts and interpretations can be ac-
cepted by an intellectually fastidious
mind. His gold so often comes to us
brass-plated; his jewels of poetic fancy
are crude colored glass.
His controversial strokes were effective
against the busybodies of the time —•
Shaw, Wells, Russell, etc. and mostly
still retain a rough validity. Yet I some-
times think that Chesterton, even more
than Belloc, helped to form and con-
solidate that intellectual and artistic philis-
tinism, that insensitive resting in com-
placent formulations, that is widespread
(but not universal) in the generation of
Catholics that admired him a genera-
tion whose youngest members would, I
think, now be all over forty. Just be-
cause of its substantial but inadequate
rightness, and its immediate quotable
effectiveness, Chesterton’s influence did
not really encourage further intellectual
work: his humoristics created an ungolden
mediocrity around themselves. It will
be another generation before we can
hope to see him with balanced justice.
JAMES McAULEY


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Needling the US Administration
While the American Congress is berated for delays in
two vital pieces of legislation—the Tax Cuts Bill and
the Civil Rights Bill —it is also warned that a reces-
sion could be just around the corner in 1964 unless the tax
bill goes through. Whether the experts believe this or not is one
thing. But one inescapable fact being hammered home is the
four million unemployed in the US, highest since 1954.
An echo comes from across the Atlantic where Britain’s
National Institute of Economic and Social Research says that
consumption in the UK has risen faster in 1963 than anticipated
and there are doubts that it will continue at the same rate in
1964.
From other parts of the world come plaintive bleatings at
the proposed cuts in American aid. These subsidies have become
accepted as a natural right, even though the tied loans have
not kept the recipients on the road directed by Uncle Sam.
With 1963 coming to a close and the 1964 round of
tariff discussions scheduled to jostle along with the liquidity
crises and the Presidential elections, the US Administration
would like to settle a few problems and pigeon-hole them away
so that desks are cleared for the
multitude of headaches which
loom large in 1964.
Washington reported this
month that since July 1 only
four out of 12 finance appropri-
ation Bills have been passed to
provide funds for the various
Government departments in the
1963-64 financial year. This
means that the Budget for 1964-
65, which must be placed before
Congress in January, is being
calculated by civil servants who
do not know yet what they will
be allowed to spend for this cur-
rent financial year.
It is claimed that legislation
is being delayed in Congress on
the assumption that any delay
in financial appropriations forces
the various Government depart-
ments to spend cautiously in
case their allocation is cut. In turn, this could have an effect
in scaling down the 1964-65 Budget. There is more to it than
that, however. Those who oppose the Civil Rights Bill and are
bitter about the Negro situation are claimed to be holding back
other legislation which is scheduled to be dealt with before
the Civil Rights Bill.
Not only was the Foreign Aid Bill pruned severely, but the
Senate tacked on provisos stipulating how the money should
be spent, country by country. This was immediately and
strenuously criticised on the ground that foreign policy was
being dictated by legislation. But it is obvious outside
Congress that America is not getting value for the
millions it doles out. And, close to home, it received a slap
London Spot Prices for Tin
The graph above illustrates changes in cash tin prices on the
London Metal Exchange yearly between 1956 and 1962 and
monthly throughout 1963. It also shows the buying and selling
limits at present imposed upon the buffer stock by the Inter-
national Tin Agreement.
in the face when Argentina proposed to annul contracts signed
with US and international oil companies in 1958. Peru also
flexed its nationalist muscles and threatened to expropriate
the International Petroleum Company. Hardly a reassuring
incident in foreign policy at a time when Mr Nixon, dark
horse for the Republican presidential nomination, says he
would have demanded withdrawal of Russians from Cuba as
a condition of the recent wheat sales.
US Stockpile Policy Vital
for World Tin Price
relatively small number of Australian tin producers will
be eagerly awaiting the outcome of Washington discus-
sions between the International Tin Council and the US
General Services Administration, which were timed to finish
towards the end of last week. They, with producers and
consumers the world over, are
clamouring for a decent price
stability after the furious oscilla-
tions of the last year or so.
GSA controls releases of
superfluous tin from the strategic
stockpile. Taking together the
price situation, especially since
about July, and a continuing
excess of consumption over cur-
rent supply, its role in levelling
the market appears quite crucial.
It is also much criticised, for
American policy on treating
sales can effectively shape the
metal’s present and near future.
The Council sounded thoroughly
agitated about this by pressing
for the talks in mid-October.
Stockpile disposals should be
made in a manner to protect
development, and consumer and
producer interests as well.
In particular prices must be held sufficiently near a pitch
high enough to stimulate the working of fresh deposits. Active
local companies like Aberfoyle, Ardlethan and Tableland come
in at this point especially. All pursue vigorous exploration and
developmental programmes in an effort to make up some lee-
way between domestic output and the necessary sizeable
imports.
Ardlethan, a newcomer, only starts actual production in
January next and may be taken as representative of what
could happen on attractive markets. For experts believe
Australia has tin resources able to turn it into a net exporter
by 1968, if inducement exists to encourage possible expan-
sion.


In 1962 Australia produced 2704 tons of refined tin and
had to import 1778 tons. Consumption at around 4600 tons
a year shows a rising tendency, with BHP’s requirements
especially prominent for tinplate.
The selling price of domestic output is based upon Singa-
pore rates, which in their turn are closely linked to London
Metal Exchange quotes. Most Australian imports come from
Malaya.
Australian smelters also buy their concentrates on Malayan-
based prices, naturally adjusted for charges such as freight and
Malayan smelting. It is, therefore, obvious how much the
virility of the local industry hangs on international prices,
small though its immediate output may look.
Erratic price movements affect the greater mining and con-
sumer countries, too. Some idea of their recent extent can
be gained from the accompanying graph, which also indicates
at which position the stabilising device of the buffer stock is
enjoined to buy or sell.
Early in November the buffer stock manager emptied his
stocks in an attempt to brake prices that had gone well above
the International Tin Agreement’s ceiling at £stg.96s a ton.
At this stage, and indeed throughout the whole range of the
agreement’s floor and ceiling rates, the US attitude to stock-
pile disposals becomes vital.
With consumption so plainly ahead of production, the Inter-
national Tin Council probably desires American disposals to
be at. inged to allow prices to move within the top range at
£9lO-965 a ton. Perhaps, as an extreme, even the very top
may need lifting in an attempt to get more production.
The stockpile, of some 349,000 tons, possesses a declared
164,000 tons surplus which is now being eroded by 400 tons
a week (a disposal agreed with the Council late in September).
Certainly the Americans have been more amenable on
prices just recently, not forcing them to unreasonable lows.
If they permitted sales around 15,000 tons a year, instead of
7500 tons as at present, world demand would probably be
satisfied at prices near £965 a ton.
These are the type of issues to be resolved by the Wash-
ington discussions. They are relevant to many countries,
not least Australia.
Plessey Uncommunicative
On Ducon Industries
IT'he annual meeting of The Plessey Co. Ltd, in London on
"*■ November 13, was expected to bring some clarification
of the takeover deal with Ducon Industries Ltd, Sydney, but
the chairman merely said that negotiations were still pro-
ceeding.
On Australian activities, he did mention that Plessey in-
creased its holding from 50 p.c. to 75 p.c. in Telephone &
Electrical Industries Pty Ltd, thus making it a subsidiary.
This engineering company operates at Meadowbank, Sydney.
Plessey evidently is keen to extend its overseas interests
because it is reorganising and expanding its operations in
Portugal, Brazil, Canada, Australia and South Africa.
Despite this, it says there is a very important telephone
equipment market to be tapped in the UK, where the develop-
"As manufacturers, we're all for boom and bust—we make corsets."


ment of telephones is still lagging compared with other
leading trading nations. Plessey claims there are only 16
telephones per 100 population in the UK compared with 42
in the USA, 39 in Sweden, 33 in Canada and 22 in Australia.
Plessey was able to set aside £stg.l.sm. out of its profits
last year for research and development. It employs 50,000
people, is the largest British manufacturing unit in tele-
communications and contributes about 40 p.c. of UK exports
in this field.
As an incentive for its executives who are not board
members, Plessey proposes to give them options to take up a
total of 500,000 10s. shares over the next five years (with
relevant adjustments for any capitalisation and rights issues).
Curbing Short-Term
Borrowers in the UK
"Oorrowing funds on the short term to finance long term
investment is often more of an expediency than a planned
policy. But recent experience (not only with the finance
companies) has encouraged the principle of “think twice
before you borrow”. Following publication of a white paper
in the UK on local borrowing, British legislation is being
prepared to limit short-term borrowing by local authorities to
20 p.c. of their total debt outstanding.
Average of temporary debt for local authorities in the UK
is only about 15 p.c. of total debt. But, of 871 local authorities
surveyed, 299 had borrowed more than 20 p.c. of their money
on the short term, with the larger authorities quite prominent
in the list. The City of London held only 4.5 p.c. of its
borrowings in short-term loans. At the other end of the
scale were Cambridge 81 p.c., Southwark 44 p.c. and, in the
county boroughs, Reading 66 p.c. and Cardiff 59 p.c
Some of the recent discussion concerning interest rates is
dealt with in London Comment on page 54. In Australia, of
course, short-term public borrowing by semi-government
authorities and instrumentalities is effectively limited by the
Loan Council setting seven years as a minimum term.
More Light on Trade with
the Middle East
npHE returning Trade Commissioner from Pakistan, Mr D.
Walker, arrived back in time to lend complete support
to Mr Warren McDonald’s assessment of Middle East export
possibilities, which was referred to in last week’s Bulletin.
Manufacturers could sell almost anything in this “unlimited”
market, Mr Walker explained, adding that Australia was
already considered an established supplier of consumer goods.
Lest any complacency set in, he also told how Japan and the
Common Market countries were mounting an “all-out sales
campaign” throughout the region.
Australia’s trade effort can obviously bear a lot of expan-
sion and on technique Mr Walker spoke in similar terms to
Mr McDonald: “An official Government representative is really
no substitute for a company representative on the spot who can
discuss specifications and prices on a whole range of goods.”
Some such individual drive will now be called for as one
reply to an Israeli Trade Mission’s three-week visit to Australia.
This mission really did impress with its evident desire to get
down to tin-tacks, especially on matters like joint ventures, as
well as to take direct steps to lift mutual trade which for 1963
may run to about £1 million on each side.
Israel is ready to divert part of her purchases of commodities
like sugar, wheat, barley, wool and steel to Australia. Goods
available in return comprise potash, phosphates, agricultural
chemicals, materials for the plastics industry.
The mission’s leader, Mr Eytan Eyrachi, instanced the
advantage of potash and phosphate supplies in the light of the
limited life of Nauru, up till now Australia’s chief source. He
stressed the importance of co-ordinating shipping.
Israel is rapidly increasing the efficiency of her Red Sea
port at Eilat, the urgent development of which was thrust
upon her by the Suez trouble.
There can surely be a speedy retort to Mr Eyrachi’s chal-
lenge: “We Israelis are ready to take the initiative if you
Australians back us. But time’s running out.”
Credit Squeeze on
Russian Purchases
Tn case America’s action in selling wheat to Russia was taken
as the green light for trade with the Soviets, the US Ad-
ministration suggested to Britain that all export credits to Com-
munist countries should be limited to five years.
There was no feeling that US domestic opinion would be
against additional sales of agricultural commodities to Russia,
but the Administration evidently is trying to restrict the sale
of capital equipment to the Russians on pay-later terms.
Embarrassing farm surpluses . . . yes. And cash if possible.
But let’s not build up Russia with capital equipment purchased
on credit. The Common Market members are trying to agree
on a uniform system of export credits but, as Britain is outside
The Six, she is not bound to consider such matters. Hence the
US suggestion for uniformity.
How to Leave South Africa,
and How to Stay
17elt and Textiles of Australia’s evaluation of the South
African political climate presumably stands in striking
contrast to the judgment of Henry Jones Co-operative and
Comeng, two other Australian companies whose holdings in
the Republic are apparently to continue. It is interesting to
note these two interests cover consumer and industrial activities
respectively.
Though Felts explained that the extremely profitable sale
of a 50.49 per cent interest in Felt and Textiles of South
Africa had as its purpose the provision of funds for develop-
ments in Australia and New Zealand, on the surface that
statement sounds a little hard to believe.
The 1962-63 annual report provided enough evidence of
the excellent profitability of the South African company, re-
corded a cleverly instigated bonus issue (if the sale was some-
where in the background) and gave no hint of sudden disposal.
Indeed, the report actually ex uded satisfaction: “The economy
of the Republic of South Africa was buoyant during the year
under review and the Government’s policy of protecting local
industry has continued to assist manufacturers.”
Perhaps the annual meeting on December 6 will be given
a more astute political and economic analysis, and some
suggestions about how the £2.4 million proceeds might be
diverted through the group.
In due time Henry Jones’ Mr Palfreyman may be expected
to discourse on South African affairs as well, since he has been
pressed on these matters before. In 1961 he considered the five
factories in the Republic possessed a future more than com-
parable with their past prosperity and believed “the Govern-
ment will do all that is possible and necessary to treat the non-
whites fairly.”
Mr Palfreyman foresaw “the growth of that great country
with justice to all” and noted that “in each of the last two
years we have expended in South Africa a considerable amount
of undistributed profits on new buildings and plant with the
same confidence as if this expenditure had been required in
Australia.” Time marches on.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Selectivity in Foreign Investment
Some Undesirable Features Should be Watched
Whether or not the effectiveness
of political speeches is being in-
creased by the bandying on the
hustings of such heady economic con-
cepts as Gross National Product, it is a
measure of the growing degree of
economic sophistication of candidates
that they feel confident of their own
ability to employ them. At any rate,
it shows that scriptwriters for candidates
on both sides of the political fence are
well versed in economic argument and
are in the ascendant. Ordinary voters,
and even run-of-the-mill candidates from
the trade unions, may feel bewildered in
this new political stratosphere.
This is not a political column, but
since the term Gross National Product
has been used so frequently during the
election campaign to demonstrate just
what can be done by this or that party
in the way of whipping up revenue to
pay for increased Government ex-
penditure, it would be a short step for
electors to consider its application to
another issue, foreign investment ki
Australia.
Most Australians, including the
political parties and certainly any
aspiring Treasurer—who have followed
the ins and outs of the balance of pay-
ments in recent years would have to
agree that foreign investment in Aus-
tralia is very useful and, if of the right
sort, should not be discouraged. Even
on his advocacy of Australian par-
ticipation in foreign enterprises operating
here, which could mean a substantial
repatriation of capital by overseas
investors bought out, Mr Calwell says
he would avoid precipitate action which
might make the cure worse than the
problem.
Australian Industries Develop-
ment Association, which lives in the
sophisticated climate of business where
everybody has to be familiar with the
national income papers, can naturally
address members in terms of such papers
and be universally understood! The
latest report from its director, Mr C. P.
Puzey, essays a summing up, with strong
statistical support, of the relation be-
tween GNP and foreign investment.
He suggests that although some
foreign investment is indispensable its
proportion to GNP is growing and this
should be watched.
In a word, we should become more
selective about it and remove some of
the less desirable features of the opera-
tions of overseas companies already in
business here. On the other hand, AIDA
says, the statistical picture might suggest
that our overseas borrowing and invest-
ment picture is quite satisfactory, and
of relatively minor concern.
It sees in the rising proportion of
foreign investment to the GNP a need
to restrain our overseas borrowings to
constructive and needed purposes such
as adding to productive capacity, the
discovery and exploitation of new re-
sources, the acquisition of know-how and
techniques not otherwise available.
“Certain aspects of capital inflow are
less desirable than others,” the report
says. “Thus the establishment of a new
industry in Australia by overseas in-
terests builds up our economy and helps
develop new resources. However, the
takeover of existing Australian-owned
industries by overseas interests adds
little to our resources (except, perhaps,
where the existing industry is ailing or
needs new management or ideas).
Similarly, portfolio investment —the pur-
chase of shares in Australian industries
by overseas investors —adds little directly
to productive capacity or financial
resources.
“jC'uRTHER, the addition of new capacity
by overseas interests to industries
which are already well established and
capable of supplying all market needs
adds little to our industrial strength of
diversity. Similarly, speculative invest-
ment in commerce or property needs to
be kept in careful and constant view.”
On the public side, the report com-
ments: “Government borrowing over-
seas has one prime justification, to obtain
scarce international currencies and for
essential purposes of development where
local resources are insufficient. How-
ever, there can be little justification for
borrowing overseas merely for prestige.
The need for Government borrowing
overseas could be substantially reduced
if Commonwealth and all State Govern-
ments gave effective preference to local
producers of goods and equipment.
There is certainly no benefit or develop-
ment gain to Australia by Government
borrowing for current consumption.”
AIDA says that of net capital inflow
into Australia from the end of World
War II to June 30, 1963, amounting to
£2,195 millions, the chief components
were: £574 million undistributed profits,
£BlB million direct investment, about
£2OO million portfolio, and £99 million
net Government borrowing.
“This investment has brought to Aus-
tralia, amongst others, an integrated
automotive industry, petrol refining, a
petro - chemical industry, considerable
assistance in oil search and an indigenous
aluminium industry,” the report says.
“These developments have enabled local
capital to promote subsidiary or feeder
industries. Government loans have pro-
vided exchange to purchase plant and
equipment for the Snowy, Eildon and
other schemes which have added con-
siderably to the development of our
resources.
“While overseas debt appears as a
7 capital item in national accounts,
that money need not necessarily be used
for capital purchases (investment in
plant, equipment and building, etc.). Un-
fortunately, a large part has been used
as ‘spending silver’ to pay net losses
on trade, foreign aid, the cost of Papua
and New Guinea plus the servicing of
loans and investment. The total for these
purposes amounted to £1,621 millions
over the period. The net credit, there-
fore, was £574 million. This is reflected
in our gold and balances held abroad,
which totalled £626 million at the end
of June, 1963.
“It is not possible to make any
accurate assessment of the value of pre-
war foreign investment in Australia.
However, the cost of servicing all official
loans and investment since the war has
been: Interest on Government loans,
£397.5 million; dividends on foreign in-
vestment, £566.3 million; total, £953.8
million. In the same period, £578.4
million capital has been ploughed back
by overseas-owned companies through
undistributed profits. This, of course,
also increases our indebtedness to the
rest of the world. (It is included in the
£2,195 million referred to above.)
“Every developing country needs the
assistance of foreign loans and invest-
ment in industry, but not at any cost.
Even Canada, where between 1948 and
1955 foreign investment increased by
s6i billion (in the same period foreign
investment in Australia amounted to
about £A6OO million) complained bitterly
to the USA over its recent restrictive
legislation which inhibits further Ameri-
can investment in Canada.
“Foreign interests have invested in
Australia in accordance with Australian
laws. We can change these laws if it is
desirable. In many cases, restrictions
detrimental to Australia are imposed by
the parent overseas organisation on its
subsidiary operating in Australia. We
feel our laws should be altered to ensure
removal, or prevent imposition, of these
restrictions.”


LONDON COMMENT
Interest Rates in Britain
Explanations Needed From the Chancellor
IT'he main topic of recent discussions
on British economic policy has
been interest rates. It was conducted
sotto voce, as such discussions usually
are, and was not reflected at all in the
bidding and counter - bidding between
the political parties in the two by-election
campaigns of Luton and Kinross.
But fears that short-term interest rates
might go up were reflected in the markets.
The prices of Government fixed-interest
securities tended to fall and a local
authority issue was under-subscribed.
Fears about interest rates no longer rest
on a suspicion that Mr. Maudling, the
Chancellor of the Exchequer, wants to
apply a general economic rate. He has
at last cleared up the misunderstandings
on the subject. The Government is
looking forward to a recovery in private
investment next year. It is trying to make
room for this by slowing down a little
the expansion in its own capital projects.
And it would certainly not want to do
anything to jeopardise the revival in the
private sector on which Britain’s export
prospects are believed ultimately to
depend.
The real dangers lie in more technical
factors operating on the other side of the
Atlantic. The US authorities are trying
very hard to limit the outflow of capital
which is weakening the dollar. One
weapon it is using is a higher short-term
rate of interest to encourage America’s
overseas creditors to carry on holding
dollars and not convert them into gold
or other currencies.
The US Treasury Bill rate has gone up
over the past few months to p.c. For
all practical purposes it is about as
profitable to hold funds in New York
as it is in London. If American interest
rates rise any further there may be a
movement of funds out of London to
New York; and this, it is feared, may
force the Chancellor to agree to a rise
in bank rate.
All this, however, is still highly specu-
lative, and, for the moment at least,
unlikely.
Tn the first place, no one really knows
how much further the Americans in-
tend to take their dearer-money policy.
Almost every speech by monetary pundits
on either side of the Atlantic contains
references to increased international co-
operation. If this means anything at all,
it should lead to some co-ordination of
interest rate policies. In previous years
the attempts of Britain and America to
export their deficits to each other have
led to nothing but disaster for either
side. If the treasuries and central banks
on both sides of the Atlantic have not
learnt this lesson yet, they are pre-
sumably unteachable.
Secondly, the behaviour of Britain’s
own reserves has so far at least been
very good in the circumstances. They
rose by £7 million in October. This is
a time of year when seasonal factors,
such as heavier payments for oil and
tobacco, usually put pressure on sterling.
It has also come at a time when imports
of raw materials are going up in response
to the revival of domestic production in
the UK.
Thirdly, there is a “swap” agreement
between Britain and the US, which en-
ables either country to purchase dollars
or sterling respectively up to this limit.
One would have thought that an un-
intended flow of funds from Britain to
the US, which is an undesired by-
product of an American attempt to
improve her position vis-a-vis the Con-
tinental creditor countries, is just the
sort of occasion for which the swap
agreement should be invoked.
Fourthly, it is now possible to push
British Treasury Bills up a bit further
without increasing bank rate. This can
be done by a new technique introduced
a year or so ago by which the discount
market can be made to pay more for
its money—up to half or 1 p.c. above
the official bank rate. The Bank of
England is extremely reluctant to use
this weapon; and there are some almost
impenetrable bankers’ arguments about
the anomalies which would result if
bank rate fell behind the rates charged
in the market.
Tn practice, however, this new weapon
is worth a little bit —perhaps a quarter
p.c. The Bank of England is, in the
last resort, the Chancellor’s creature and
not, except in its own eyes, the rep-
resentative of commercial banks and
discount houses.
But when all this is said and done, the
possibility remains that the Government
may yet have to raise bank rate. The
swap agreement and other such arrange-
ments would be useful against a once-
for-all flow of funds. But they could rtot
stop a continuing drain were one to
develop. There might also be a domestic
case for raising bank rate if manu-
facturers began to stock up with im-
ported raw materials too quickly.
Unfortunately, if bank rate is raised
in the normal way, by the Bank of
England on a Thursday with one sen-
tence of almost meaningless explanation,
the evening papers are bound to come
out with headlines about “brakes” and
“red lights”. And these impressions are
certain to prevail over the more sophisti-
cated “off the record” explanations given
by more highbrow commentators and
reproduced in the city columns.
Yet everything could be so easily ar-
ranged if the Chancellor and the
Treasury demonstrated just an ounce of
showmanship and flair for public rela-
tions—qualities they seem to despise—-
and did not leave so much to be ex-
plained away by newspaper pundits who
end up by becoming themselves dis-
trusted as Treasury apologists (it is quite
possible for economic pundits to be
regarded as dangerous radicals within a
rather narrow Whitehall-City circle and
yet seem to be very much part of the
official machine as far as the ordinary
layman is concerned).
If only the Chancellor would couple
the announcement of a higher bank rate,
if and when it does come, with some
imaginative gesture of an expansionist
kind, the headlines would be very dif-
ferent and he could get away with ex-
plaining the bank rate rise as a technical
move which does not involve a reversal
of expansionist policies.
The American Administration has long
discovered the formula of higher interest
rates compensated for by tax cuts, as
the key to progress in a country with a
potentially weak currency position. It
has only been prevented from carry-
ing it out so far by the backwoods
beliefs of so many Congressmen. But
there is no reason why it should not be
carried out in Britain where Parliament
is much more pliant. A bank rate in-
crease would not in practice have a
marked depressive effect on domestic
spending and need therefore only be
accompanied by a minor concession
but it would have to be one of a homely
nature that would catch the public eye.
There are numerous possible moves
of this kind; for example, purchase tax
and post-war credits, that would cost
the revenue very little. Alternatively,
some imaginative projects for, say, the
development of the North-east, or new
housing could be announced. It would
not matter in the least as far as the
public is concerned whether these pro-
jects represented additional spending or
were part of the programme already
agreed by the Chancellor. But it would
be essential for them to be announced
by the Chancellor himself, and not by
another Minister.


“CROESUS”
A Feast of Figures
Mr. Calwell's Little Bill in Detail
Federal Treasurer (Mr H. E. Holt)
treated us to a feast of figures when
speaking to the electors of Fawkner in
the banqueting hall of the Malvern Town
Hall last week, and so that there should
be no errors in transmission handed the
Press the Treasury’s latest estimates of
the Bill Mr Calwell promises to present
to taxpayers in detail.
The Treasurer seemed to go out of his
way to be scrupulously fair in his inter-
pretation of Mr Calwell’s proposed spend-
ing, and, putting the most conservative
construction on it, said the minimum
cost would be £193 million, or roughly
four times the cost of the proposed
Government measures. These latter, he
said, were not promises but decisions
already made by Cabinet to be im-
plemented as soon as possible in the
new Parliament.
Mr Holt said that the estimate of £193
million was arrived at after deducting
£4O million which the Opposition Leader
says he can claw back to the Treasury
by blocking tax avoidance (£l5 million)
and saving on a “properly administered”
health scheme (£25 million).
Adding back this £4O million the
Treasury makes the sum total cost of the
promises a minimum gross £233 million.
Not counting fractions, this appears to be
made of: Social services £9Bm., educa-
tion £2sm. plus, petrol and diesel oil
repayments to States £ 18m., equalisation
of petrol prices £2om., remission of pay-
roll tax to municipal authorities £2m.,
science expenditure £lom., housing £7m.
(assuming the proposed grant to the
States for slum clearance and redevelop-
ment projects would be that amount per
annum), health £22m., defence £2om.,
northern development £sm. and “other”
£sm.; total £233m.
JTaving shorn as much as he could off
the Treasury’s original estimate that
the proposals would cost £336 million,
Mr Holt went on to explain that some of
Mr Calwell’s proposals were so vague
they defied accurate costing, so gratui-
tously he had left them out of the revised
estimates and in certain other instances
had cut back the original to give Mr
Calwell the benefit of the doubt.
Taking the first item on the list, social
services, Mr Holt said the Treasury’s
estimates were about the same as Mr
Calwell’s. Neither had added in anything
for Mr Calwell’s proposal to “abolish
the means test progressively and as the
opportunity offers.” To abolish the means
test completely, the Treasurer stated,
would cost £l4O-150 million.
Mr Holt made no changes from the
original Treasury estimates for the next
five items. The only one of these where
the Treasurer differs significantly from
Mr Calwell’s estimate is for the equalisa-
tion of petrol prices which the former
puts at double the Opposition Leader’s
figure.
On housing, Mr Calwell originally
stated he would provide money to the
States for housing at 31 per cent, for-
getting that they are already getting it
at 31 per cent, so there will be nothing
to pay on that score! The £7 million
included for housing above is approxi-
mately one-third of the £2O million Mr
Calwell has promised the States for slum
clearance and redevelopment projects
over a three-year period. The Treasury’s
first estimate of the extra housing cost
was £2O million a year for slum clear-
ance, etc., a figure picked up in the hur-
ried proceedings at the Royale Ballroom
on November 6.
Tn putting in only <£22 million for
A Health Mr Holt appears to have been
more than kind because he has not in-
cluded anything for four of Mr Cal-
well's main proposals, that is the estab-
lishment of a complete national health
service, a salaried specialist service at
public hospitals, a salaried medical service
in sparsely populated areas and a subsidy
for country medical and nursing services.
Nor, apparently, has Mr Calwell, be-
cause his estimate for health proposals
is something between £lO-£2O million.
Coming to Defence, the figures are
more difficult to interpret and it seems
Mr Holt is generous in giving an estimate
so close to Mr Calwell’s own (from £l5
million to £2O million). The Department
of Defence has officially stated that it esti-
mates Mr Calwell’s specific defence pro-
posals to cost an additional £29 million
in 1964-65, £52 million in 1965-66 and
£59 million in 1966-67. Moreover, at the
end of the three year period it estimated
these proposals would involve an addi-
tional £9B million to the Budget estimate
of defence expenditure in the current
year.
In giving a figure of £5 million for
northern development Mr Holt has ap-
parently decided that Mr Calwell must
be taken at his latest word (Hobart,
November 15) though as he explained at
Malvern £5 million “to be provided by
the third year of office” is a puny amount
in relation to what will have to be spent
in the north. The Treasury originally
(in its overall estimate of £336 million
for the Calwell proposals) put in northern
development at £ll5 million over five
years to cover Mr Calwell's policy speech
announcements, which included certain
railway works and the establishment of
related industries at Darwin to be com-
pleted within five years.
This is a subject on which Mr Calwell
is continuing to have fresh thoughts as
the campaign progresses. He is now say-
ing (Hobart) that much of the expenditure
he envisages for the north will be capital
works to be financed by loans, as indeed
would be reasonable enough, and “further
additional money for northern develop-
ment projects would become available
with the phasing out of work on the
nearly-completed Snowy scheme.”
this Mr Holt stated at Malvern
that it was Mr Calwell’s first specific
mention of loan raisings and “it seems
to imply that expenditure from loan rais-
ings does not constitute a charge against
the Budget.” Further, “the phasing out
of the Snowy projects may not be as
rapid as Mr Calwell may think. Present
estimates suggest a decline in expendi-
ture from 1965-66 onwards, but this will
be taken up, at least in part, by the
commitment on account of Blowering
(dam).”
Even more contentious than the finan-
cing of northern development the esti-
mate of £5 million given by Mr Calwell
for his other measures such as relating
to trade, industrial matters and taxation,
which Mr Holt has included in his gross
figure of £233 million, looks to be fanci-
ful. For, as Mr Holt himself pointed out,
“the taxation measures alone are esti-
mated by the Treasury to cost £38.5 mil-
lion annually without taking into account
the proposal to ‘reduce sales tax.’ ” More-
over, Mr Calwell has intimated since
his policy speech that he is going to
abolish sales tax altogether.
So while putting the gross cost of the
Calwell proposals at £233 million, Mr
Holt, somewhat cynically, was obviously
talking with his tongue in his cheek.
Adding in the full additional costs of
defence, northern development, abolition
of the means test and sales tax alone
the true amount would come, as he said,
to close on £5OO million. And, as is the
fashion this election, he threw in the idea
that the Opposition would have to get
much better than a 51 per cent annual
rise in gross national product to be able
to foot the bill, because last year under
the present Government GNP rose by
something like 8 per cent.
Anything is fair in the election war.


BOND'S INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Address of the Chairman, Mr. J. V. Ratcliffe, at the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders on Wednesday, 20th November, 1963
The net profit of the parent company for the year was
£318,926, plus a profit on the sale of Fixed Assets and
Discount on Loan Stock redemption of £77,842.
The net profit of the group was £488,320 after charging
£326,163 for depreciation and amortisation, and providing
£402,882 for income tax Information relating to the
accounts has been supplied in the Directors’ Report but
there are two matters to which I would like to refer.
The first relates to the transfer of the provision for
fluctuation of stocks from the Asset Account to the General
Reserve.
This provision was intended to meet a major fluctuation
only. In past years all fluctuations in values of stocks have
been taken into account in arriving at the profit for the
year without drawing on this provision and in one or two
recent years falls in market value of cotton as at the
balancing date reduced profits by from £40,000 to £50,000.
Under the Companies Act of 1961 drawings on such a pro-
vision have to be shown and it does not appear therefore
that there is much benefit in maintaining a separate
provision for an isolated occasion. Accordingly the pro-
vision oi £750,000 was transferred to General Reserve, and
should any major fall in values of stocks, particularly raw
materials, occur, consideration may be given to making a
withdrawal from the General Reserve, or from other
undistributed profits.
The second relates to bad debts. Our experience during
the past year was more severe than usual, but this was not
due to any lack of supervision, as the major amount of the
debts which became bad were practically current debts The
provision for doubtful debts has been maintained at the same
figure as last year, and is considered to be fully adequate.
BOND’S SPINNING MILLS PTY. LIMITED
The new spinning mill at Wentworthville reached maximum
production at the end of February, 1963, and we have con-
tinued to obtain this scale of production during the remain-
ing four months of the financial year, and since.
The Tariff enquiry in respect of 1/50’s yarn was finally
brought to a conclusion following the Tariff Board’s recom-
mendation, by the imposition of a tariff as from the 11th
February, 1963. However, owing to the heavy importations
of 1/50’s in anticipation of the imposition of a duty, no
direct benefit accrued to the company for the year.
During the year a decision was made to erect a new mill
building of the same size as and connected with the new
“fine counts” mill erected in 1961, and to equip it with the
latest machinery for the production of “coarse counts” yarn.
This mill will increase our productive capacity and result
in a reduction in production costs.
The continual development of synthetic fibres is compelling
better technology in the production of natural fibres and both
developments have resulted in a great acceleration in
research on textile plant.
The improvement in efficiency in the plant which we have
on order for the new mill in comparison with our present
plant represents such a considerable advance that we could
not afford to postpone our present replacement programme
until the further great improvements now in process of
development are completed
We hope, therefore, to obtain the maximum use of the
new plant within the next six years because it appears prob-
able that by the end of that period plant will be available
which will represent a further substantial advance on the
plant now on order.
Space is available at the Wentworthville plant for the
erection of further n-w buildings when they are required.
The total expenditure on the new mill building and the
new plant will be £1,000.000. The new mill building is well
advanced and at the latest should be completed in February
next. The installation of the new plant will probably not
be completed until this time next year but we hop° that in
the first six months of 1965 the new plant will be run in and
will reach a high level of production. The company should
therefore benefit from this expenditure as from the year
1965/1966. A new office building is also planned and this
Will be erected during the current year.
DRI-GLO TOWELS PTY LIMITED
On the 10th June last an increased tariff was granted on
towels sufficient to enable the company to maintain and
improve its turnover, but there was no benefit in the results
of this subsidiary for the year.
We had a proposal under consideration to replace our towel
looms some years hence but in consequence of the new
protection, we decided to erect a new towel mill in the
vicinity of the Wentworthville spinning mills, and to equip
this new mill with the latest looms, and ancillary plant.
The new looms are of greater productive capacity than
those in our present mill and therefore the number of looms
will be reduced. We hope to obtain over a period an increase
of up to 50% in production accompanied by a substantial
reduction in costs.
The new towel mill building and the new plant will also
cost at least £1,000,000. We hope to have the new building
completed in 1965 2nd the installation of the new plant will
not be fully completed until 1966. We hope that this new
plant will be working efficiently by the end of 1966, so the
results of this subsidiary should benefit as from the year
1967.
BOND’S-WEAR PTY. LIMITED
It is intended to reconstruct the older buildings at Went-
worthville. All dyeing and bleaching activities will be
removed there from Camperdown and Five Dock to a site
adjacent to the two new spinning mills.
The reconstructed buildings will also accommodate all
knitting and cutting activities as well as the manufacture
of major lines of underwear.
A considerable expenditure will be involved in the recon-
struction of the buildings, and approximately £500,000 will
be required for the reconstruction and for new plant. We
hope to recover a part of this expenditure by the sale of some
buildings at Camperdown which will no longer be required
and which will be suitable for smaller businesses.
The staff at the Cessnock and Port Kembla factories has
been increased considerably and we have commenced a new
manufacturing unit at Wentworthville.
The development of new lines and the expansion of sales
of our older well established lines will we believe necessitate
the erection of a new underwear factory. The building of this
factory will become essential by the time we are in a position
to dispose of the present towel mill property at Five Dock.
STABLE PRICES
You will have noted from our Advertising that the prices
of many of our garments have remained unaltered for a con-
siderable period of vears, notwithstanding increasing costs.
The large expenditure which we have now embarked upon
should enable us to adhere to our policy of stable prices.
WAKATAH FILM PRODUCTIONS PTY. LIMITED
In January last this company was formed by us in con-
junction with Polymer Investments Limited for the purpose
of producing Television Films in Australia. Production of a
series of half-hour films has commenced and these are about
to be offered for sale overseas.
THE CURRENT YEAR
The current year has opened w'll but there are substantial
increases in expenses to be provided for while there will
be some loss of earnings from interest and perhaps some dis-
location of business during the carrying out of our major
capital expenditure. It is not possible therefore to sav that
we will maintain last year’s profit but on the information
at present available we' should hav» a good year.
For several ''ears to come the charge for depreciation will
be inc easing but to som° extent this will be offset by a
reduction in the tax provision
Variations in results from year to vear are not of major
importance while our business continues to expand and our
efficiency imo-nves. In my opinion your investment in this
comDnnv should prove a rewardin'* one
employees
As mentioned in the Directors’ Report the number of our
e-mnlocees at the end of the past vear was at a reco-d level
and since that date there has been a further increase.
Our major programme of capital exo°nditure will reduce
the number of employees in certain Departments but we
hope we will be able to find employment for these in othe-
Departments. With our major activities.of cotton spinning
and underwear and towel manufacturing located close to-
gether at Wentworthville and Pendle Hill the transfer of
employees from one Department to another will be facilitated
The Company contributed a total of £45,112 to the Pro-
vident Funds during the year. The General Fund which
was set up in 1955 is now being examined with a view of
increasing the benefits for employees with long service.
The continued advances in technology and the increasing
complexity of modern machines calls for employees with a
high standard of education capable of acquiring new skills
and becoming fitted for advancement.
The Directors’ Report contains illustrations from ou>
training programme distributed to schools and colleges and
these have been supported by addresses by our Personnel
Officers in an effort to attract employees with higher educa-
tional qualifications to the Company’s service. As I have
mentioned previously we desire to provide a career service
which will be rewarding to our employees and to the
Company.
I convey to all our employees the thanks and appreciation
of the Board for their work in the past year and look for-
ward to having their continued co-operation in the develop-
ment of our great business.


Red Letter Days for Flour Millers
But how long will the jubilation continue?
Australian flour millers who have
been asked to fill a 125,000-ton
flour order from Russia are over-
joyed at the lift it has given the industry.
But they are realistic enough to point
out that this is a special situation which
will not last.
Some say the order will keep them at
full working capacity until the end of
this year. Others estimate it will last
until May. All agree it has given the
milling industry a much-needed boost
and, if further large orders are obtained,
Australia could regain her place as an
important flour producer.
Provisional figures this year from the
Australian Wheat Board show a large
increase in wheat exports but a fall in
flour exports. Because of a better wheat
crop, exports for the 101 months to
October 12 have risen to 175,234,000
bushels 30,869,000 bushels more than
the 1961-62 full year and 1,606,000
bushels higher than 1960-61, a record
year.
Until the Russian order for wheat and
flour was placed in September, flour ex-
ports were at a low ebb. Since the peak
year of 1952-53, when 51,643,000
bushels were exported, the figure has
dropped through 38,949,000 in 1955-56
to 18,441,000 in 1956-57 to the record
low of 6,153,000 in 1957-58.
Exports rose remarkably to 32,197,000
bushels in 1958-59 and fell away
sharply again to 21,952,000 bushels
in 1960-61. Last year they totalled
27,098,000 bushels. The Wheat Board's
provisional estimate of our exports to
October 12 is 20,408,000 bushels. This
figure does not include the Russian order
which probably will total 5,750,000
bushels.
■jl/fALAYSiA again has taken the bulk of
■*■*■*■ Australia’s flour exports this year
with shipments totalling 131,354 tons or
6,042,284 bushels. This compares favor-
ably with the group’s imports to October
12 last year of 129,215 tons or 5,943,890
bushels.
Largest importer of Australian wheat
again is Red China which, to October 12,
had taken 2.608,077 long tons or
97,368,108 bushels. Last year’s exports
to Red China for the same period totalled
1,024,256 tons or 38,248,891 bushels.
There are approximately 371 bushels
of wheat to the long ton and about 46
bushels of wheat to the short ton of
flour. There is an extraction rate of about
72 p.c. of flour from wheat.
Australia’s lagging flour ex-
ports this year received a sudden
boost from a sale to Russia, Mill-
ers have stepped up their pro-
duction to meet the 125,000-ton
order and are talking more
brightly of Australia’s export
prospects. Side effects are a sur-
plus of bran and pollard but,
while the flour mills are hum-
ming, executives have been en-
couraged to renew their efforts
in exploring possible overseas
markets to absorb local produc-
tion when current export orders
are filled.
Manager of Great Western Milling
Co. Pty Ltd, Mr A. W. Rossell, like other
Sydney millers interviewed by The Bul-
letin, said extra orders were giving the
mills their best running time for many
months. “It will, last until the end of
next year,” he said.
Mr Rossell said his company’s prin-
cipal export trade was with the Pacific
islands Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, New
Guinea. “Last year we did about 4000
short tons of flour for export.”
He said Great Western was running
three shifts a day to meet orders in hand.
“Though our orders will last us until
the end of December, we’re only too
happy to get more. I don’t think we can
see further ahead than that.”
With 65 employees, Great Western is
working at full capacity, Mr Rossell said.
About 30 p.c. of the production is ear-
marked for export.
Mr Rossell complained the reason for
the decline in Australian flour exports
had been the subsidisation of the flour
industry by other countries. “It is only
recently that our exports have picked up
because of overseas crop failures. Our
orders have been good for the last two
or three years.”
Homebush Flour Mills Ltd and White
Rose Flour Milling Co. Pty Ltd, a sub-
sidiary, have enough local and overseas
orders on hand to put the mills on full
time until next June, said general man-
ager Mr J. M. Archibald, of Sydney.
“It seems like other Australian mills are
in the same position too,” he said.
“We are having to work overtime and
weekends to satisfy our orders, including
our share of the Russian one. It’s the first
time since the last war that this has
happened. Due to subsidising of the in-
dustry in other countries, particularly
in France, Canada and the US, trade
has dropped by about 30 p.c. Other ex-
ports have dropped, too. For instance,
bran and pollard. You can’t get bran
and pollard without making flour. Crop
failures round the world have made these
exports necessary. These exports should
be wonderful for Australia. We hope they
continue.”
Mr Archibald said increased orders
for flour had given mills their best work-
ing times since last year. “At one stage
last year it was as low as 52 hours a
week. Last week the average was 108£
hours for all mills in NSW. Through lack
of assistance from the Government, a lot
of millers have gone out of business. If
orders from outside keep coming in, I
can see no reason why Australia shouldn’t
become third biggest flour exporter in
the world.
“Things will not keep on like this, but
at least they will put our name up again
so we have a chance to regain our posi-
tion in the world markets.”
Mr Archibald said the company’s prin-
cipal export markets were the South
Pacific islands, Aden, the Middle East,
Ceylon and the Philippines. This was
the first time his firm ever had a Russian
order, and was going to do as much as
it could to help fill it.
“Subsidies have caused our dwindling
markets,” he said. “Germany, Italy and
France have filched our markets and un-
dercut our price by about £5 a ton. We’re
hopeful for the future, but we will have
to start looking for new markets and
outlets for our products. After all, we
can’t live on crop failures for our trade,
can we?”
A ll mills in Australia are going to have
to run three shifts a day to fill the
order, said Mr C. A. Martin, a director
of Gillespie Bros which has mills at
Pyrmont in Sydney, Dubbo and Gil-
gandra in NSW and one at Brisbane.
They will have to run the shifts at least
until the end of May. “We are all im-
mensely pleased about it,” he said. “But
it is embarrassing us because it has lifted
the whole horizon of Australian exports.
Other people have come in since the
Russians and there will be a little delay
in meeting the orders.
“We are having to be careful how
much we export. We have always run full
time at Pyrmont, although our country
mills (NSW) don’t do so well. Dubbo and
Gilgandra have been stepped up to full


production to meet our share of the
Soviet older. Orders could continue to
get better. There is a rumor around that
the Colombo bus,ness w.ll be coming
back-some t,me m the New Year I
thmk. The Ceylon Government has al-
ways been very good to us; they ve
stuck with us when others haven t. But
this ts only hearsay.
We ship a very great deal of our
export production to Malaya; it’s our big-
gest export market. We also export to
Borneo and Pacific islands.”
Mr Martin complained that increased
production of wheat had depressed the
bran and pollard market. “This is be-
cause Australia, Canada and America are
all filling this Russian order for flour.
“This is one of the best periods we
have had for a long time. And it is the
best running time we have had since
shortly after the last war. Immediately
after the war I can remember we were
running very good times to fill orders
from countries where factories had been
bombed out and where there was a short-
age of flour. But our trade has dropped
off considerably since then. Part
of it might be due to the
American system of sales
where the miller is given a sort
of subsidy.
“I think it has been done to
give foreign aid to some
countries where Communism
is in danger of developing.
Indonesia was an Australian
market a few years ago. But it
is now a most unreliable mar-
ket because you don’t know
when you are going to get paid.
“I feel that this running time
we have now can’t last. It will
start to fall off again towards
the end of next year. As a
matter of fact, our chairman,
Mr Garrick Wilson, is now in
the Far East looking at potential
markets to give us continuity
of production when our present
orders are filled. We are one
of the fortunate mills in that we have
done a lot of custom business overseas.
We have always taken a lot of time to
foster trade overseas. We are making a
little more than a third of our production
for export,” Mr Martin added.
Mr Colin Cadwallader, a director of
Allied Mills Ltd of Summer Hill
(Sydney), said his company exported
flour to Malaya, Singapore, the UK, the
east coast of Africa and Indonesia.
“We’re on full running time now with
this Russian order and other orders we
have. We’ll probably be like that into
the best part of next year—about an-
other 9 to 12 months I’d say.
“But the 64-dollar question everyone is
asking is who is going to buy wheat or
flour next year? The Russians may choose
to buy only wheat next year, as they have
big mills capable of looking after their
own needs. It m.ght be Colombo - I
understand ,t >s wanting extra flour. I
don t think ,t would be too opftnust.c
to say we d be running full time until
the end o next year.”
Mr Cadwallader said lack of orders
had driven some of the skilled workers
away from the milling industry. “They
never come back,” he said. “Wages in
the milling industry are not comparable
with the wages, say, in the metal trades
industry, where many of them go.
“The advent of full running times in
Australian mills has created very big
problems in bran and pollard. It has
depressed the market. Because there is so
much bran and pollard around, we may
find the price will drop by £2 to £3 to
somewhere between £2O 10s. and £2l
10s. a ton.
“We have never been pessimistic
about the future. We have our ups and
downs but we always think that some-
thing will happen one day. We did not
even think we could get an order from
Russia. We should think more and more
of North China as a market for flour.
It looks like being opened to us one day,”
Mr Cadwallader added.
, „
“The future is a b ig question mark,
said Mr Geoffrey McCorquodale, mana-
ging director of McCorquodale Bros.
‘-Russia has relieved selling pressure
on the world wheat market, but how
long she is likely to continue to do
this no one knows. The long-term query
is whether Russia is going to continue to
need Western wheat. Or will five or six
months see the end of it?
“We have g one overseas to study po-
tential export markets, but most of the
time we rely on brokers in Sydney who
are nationals of the countries to which
we wish to export and they can give us
a fair idea of the market at the moment,
.. one flour mi|| has been ed in
Singapore and another one will be opened
there shortly. This will cut back our
ort trad / t0 tha( count for a whi|
but the demand for a high quality produc
will rem ain. 1 understand they're having
teethi troub , es with thc mi|| th
already opened ”
\ .
. Subsidised fl° ur ar| d wheat had cut
the Australian export trade con-
siderably, Mr McCorquodale said. On
t^ie one hand America was giving away
flour and tying commercial trade in
E uro P ean subsidies, too, had
affected it.
“You have some European countries
which import grain and don’t know what
to do w hh the soft quality grain they
have grown themselves, so they subsidise
its export,” he said,
“Then we have the case of the Japan-
ese miller who can import our wheat at
about one-third the price that we can
export the same quantity of flour. He
can get cheap labor to process
it and in the end gets a cheaper
product.
‘'l think for the future there
are markets which could be
opened up if we could find some
means of competing with sub-
sidies on flour,” Mr McCorquo-
dale added.
A Melbourne stockbroker,
Vinton Smith, Dougall and
Co., says the flour milling trade
“for the first time for many
years” can look forward with
confidence to a busy 1963-64
year. The placement of the
Russian order for 125,000 tons
of flour should increase exports
by about 20 p.c.
The broker said the Russian
sale would probably be barely
profitable “as the margin on
flour sales will be largely offset
by the necessity for disposing of the
resulting bran and pollard at low prices.
But the basic milling operations will e
kft with the benefit of reduced unit
costs.
Added to that the millers seemed
likely to gain from the reduction from
15 S /10d. to 14s. sd. a bushel in the
guaranteed home consumption price of
wheat, for. though it was almost certain
that tbe bulk 0 f "this reduction would be
p asse d by the millers to the consumers
of mi u pro ducts, it was also likely that
m jii e rs’ margins .would be slightly im-
proved, the broker concluded,
Government assistance, a little more
export marketing and more personal con-
tact between the millers and the country
to which they hoped to export could
create a much more stabilised industry.


M3c
FOR ALL FINANCE
ALSO
factoring-leasing .^
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
To Protect Protection
Besieged Bond's attempts to hold the fort
\7ery rightly, the board of what is
* probably Australia’s best textile cor-
poration, Bond’s Industries Ltd, devotes
a good deal of its thinking to protection
from forces abroad. This is not a case of
“protectionist” philosophy because of in-
efficiency but rather a matter of sur-
vival against the products of the high
run-low cost producing countries.
The success of Bond’s a consistent
and steady profit earner for its Australian
shareholders in the face of mostly in-
adequate protection against all types of
what could be considered unfair com-
petition such as the difficult to prove
“hit and run” dumping of tail-end pro-
duction abroad in Australia, gives
strength to any stand that it takes in the
matter.
Chairman J. V. Ratcliffe just 12
months ago at the 1962 annual meeting
gave voice to protection, pointing to the
cost disadvantages suffered by Australian
textile manufacturers. “Apart from these
disadvantages in costs,” he added, “low
wage cost countries from which unre-
stricted imports are allowed provide in-
centives in the form of cheap land, low
taxes and so on.”
Mr Ratcliffe mentioned no country by
name but, as a clue of things to come,
said that “in some of these countries the
textile plants are controlled by European
and American capital.”
Has Bond’s, in Australia, a justifiable
fear of losing control abroad in this
world-wide narrowing of ownership? Ap-
parently, yes.
Late in October this year shareholders
of Bond’s received a series of directors’
proposals planning some alterations to
the company’s articles.
The following proposal was among
these:
• No share shall confer the right
to vote if (a) the registered holder
is not an Australian, (b) the regis-
tered holder is a company controlled
directly or indirectly whether
through another company or a series
of companies or otherwise by non-
Australians, (c) persons who are not
Australians hold any beneficial in-
terest in the share, (d) the holder of
the share is obliged to vote as di-
rected by a person who is not an
Australian and (e) persons who are
not Australians are able to control
by any means the manner in which
a vote is cast.
That little article defranchised any
overseas shareholder effectively and rested
permanent control of Bond’s within Aus-
tralia.
A similar sort of thing had been done
by Australian Paper Manufacturers four
years ago. The article appeared to be
styled on one which was adopted by that
essentially British company Rolls Royce
Ltd some years ago in a justifiable move
to prevent what would be a national
tragedy for the English loss of RR.
Bond’s proposed to go a step further
and planned an article which, until al-
tered, provided that two thirds of the
board of directors must be Australian
citizens.
It matters little that the Bond’s
directors’ proposals did not hit the deck.
They were withdrawn from the notice
paper before the scheduled meeting last
week for unknown reasons but believed
to be as a result of pressure from the
Sydney Stock Exchange.
npHE Stock Exchange presumably held to
its recently firm policy (it has been
a trifle lax in other earlier cases) on the
creation of two or more classes of shares
implied by the defranchising motion.
What is more important is the motives
of the board of Bond’s in putting such
a protective wall around their enterprise.
Defranchising foreign owners (and not
transferring shares to foreign owners)
took away from the many Australian
shareholders (all but a few of the
8,000,000 shares in the company are
owned within Australia by Australians)
the opportunity to receive a foreign take-
over bid.
The point was raised quickly that in
so doing the board of Bond’s was deny-
ing one of the joys of equity share owner-
ship the prospect of a lucrative capital
appreciation.
This was considered by the more
serious-minded as a trite answer to the
need for a protection against the ex-
tension of foreign acquisition of Aus-
tralia’s assets. This need has been voiced
in The Bulletin columns and elsewhere
before.
However, it was not long before notes
were made that Bond’s move was for
complete exclusion of foreign sharehold-
ers, whereas the national plea has been
for a breakdown of the complete acquisi-
tion of Australian assets by foreign in-
terests. Bond’s (like APM) in the desire
to retain Australian control of its Aus-
tralian enterprise had denied partnership
possibilities to the same effect that over-
seas enterprise has refused Australian
partnership in local assets.
Bond’s directors, in framing their frus-
trated proposal, said that they were of
the opinion that “because your company
is almost wholly owned by Australians,
the time is now opportune to ensure that
this control shall not be altered.”
And, judging from recent overseas
developments in textiles, the time is most
assuredly opportune to prevent the loss
of a further industry to foreign owner-
ship. Only in the last month there have
been major rationalisation moves in the
textile trade with international corporate
giants lingering in the background.
ICI of England, for instance [already
a mammoth shareholder in textiles (Brit-
ish Nylon Spinners, Courtaulds Ltd)],
took a large interest and provided £stglO
million backing for takeovers to British
world group Viyella. Viyella promptly
made what will be a successful bid for
the world-wide Van Heusen textile group.
Is Australia far behind in this gravita-
tion of the textile industry into few
hands? Bond’s, as the worthy leader of
the industry, would be first in line for any
world giant interested into cotton tex-
tiles in Australia.


MARKET POINTERS
Hefty Knock for Nock
VTock & Kirby Ltd, Sydney hard-
ware retailer which took over the
furniture retailer Beard Watson & Co.
Ltd in December, 1958, has given a
large-sized headache to its shareholders
with a slump in earning rate from II.R
p.c. to 1.9 p.c. on capital.
It’s a much worse shock than the
dive from 14.9 p.c. to 7.5 p.c. in 1960-
61.
Once regarded as a very successful
hardware retailer in George St, Sydney,
Nock & Kirby is trying the patience of
all those friends who believed that its
previous profit fall was only a temporary
bad patch and that the company would
come good again.
Profits, in fact, did rise in the year to
August, 1962. Not by much, but enough
to suggest that the company might be
latest result to August, 1963, is a sad
well on the way to recovery. But the
commentary, with Beard Watson sus-
taining a considerable loss after stock
write-downs. Evidently profits in the
Nock & Kirby stores were about the
same after a slight increase in sales. But
it was obviously insufficient to offset the
setback experienced by Beard Watson
and the manufacturing subsidiary.
Competition in the furniture business
these days involves factory sales direct to
the purchaser, and this is hard to buck.
Even with the best of goodwill, it is
difficult to become enthusiastic about
a recovery for Nock & Kirby without
seeing a steady, sustained upturn in sales
for at least a year.
Hardy speculators may be prepared
to take a punt on the 10s. shares at
prices around 9s. 5d., but it seems like
the old story of sticking to the true and
tried bigger retailers who have thrived
on suburban and interstate expansion.
★ ★ ★
Bros (Aust.) Ltd is trying the
sale and lease-back of properties in
an effort to improve liquidity. This tried
and tested method from overseas was
adopted successfully by retailers like
Woolworths some time back. It certainly
releases funds for trading operations and
removes an interest problem on borrowed
funds.
Unfortunately, it is not always so
effective if the liquidity problem has
existed for some time. Since balance date
of July 31 the company has borrowed
a further £l.2m. in short-term deben-
tures maturing by July, 1965, giving a
maturity liability within two years of
£4.5m.
Directors admit that inadequate re-
turns are being achieved on funds in-
vested, so stockholders will be keen to
see how the new move in lease-back of
properties will stimulate earning rate.
Market for the ss. shares is not very
sanguine at around 3s. But these de-
pressed prices arouse comment on
whether someone big enough would be
interested in the 26 million ss. ordinary
shares with an assets backing of some-
thing like 6s. a share.
★ ★ ★
IVfR E. A. Cook, of Gladesville, has
1 * landed at Botany Bay to rally
supporters to his flag in an attempt to
rescue the fortunes of RALPH
SYMONDS LTD, factory and machinery
designer and builder of Sydney.
It is not Mr Cook’s first trip. He is
reported to have made two unsuccessful
attempts previously.
Stockholders who have watched their
ss. shares droop from 255. to 2s. lid.
in the last three years doubtless will be
interested to hear from anyone with a
plan to save the company.
It is said of this company that its
success depended too much on the efforts
of one man, the late Mr Symonds. The
recent decline in fortunes has been
accompanied by a drift of key personnel.
Its £ 1.1 m. of ordinary capital had an
assets backing of twice par value last
year and, even allowing for some
attrition since then, it is possible that
a vigorous rehabilitation could be
achieved. The type of assets available
for sale may not bring many buyers and
perhaps there are doubts that Mr Cook
may be the man for the job. But when
share prices drift so drastically in three
years, stockholders have every reason
to be concerned.
Stockholders should be given as much
information as possible so they can make
a proper assessment of their investment,
and the chances of recovery . . . with or
without Mr Cook.
fJ’HE Bank of Adelaide warns that
trading banks are examining ways
of charging for undrawn overdrafts
which are used as backing for inter-
company loans (in opposition to the
official short-term money market). This
suggests that Australia is moving one
step farther towards the US system
of charging a set fee for overdrafts,
irrespective of whether the full amount
is used or not.
These moves have been discussed
freely in banking circles for some time,
because the trading banks have an
interest in the short-term money market.
At this stage, however, the Reserve Bank
does not indicate that it would favor
any departure from the current flexible
overdraft system.
The trading banks justifiably are
resentful of the fact that undrawn bank
overdraft limits are used to back a
private 4 p.c. loan “at call”. To
counter this, it has been suggested that
an extra charge should be made on un-
drawn overdrafts. This would cause wild
fury among normal customers who, in
many instances, would want to cut their
overdrafts to the bare essential.
By introducing a new form of ledger
keeping charges and also charging an
overdraft establishment fee (as an offset
to abolishing inland exchange) the
trading banks have managed to counter
rising wages and other costs. But one
of their major fights has been with the
development of finance activities outside
the normal banking circle . . . such as
hire purchase, short-term deposits and
loans by companies uncontrolled by the
Banking Act, etc.
The investment share market saw a
better deal developing for banks in 1963,
with higher bank charges, increased
economic activity, less punitive call-ups
of Statutory Reserve Deposits. But any
change in the current overdraft system
naturally would call for a reassessment
of investment prospects.
The Bank of Adelaide’s steady rise in
earning rate since 1959 from 11.9 p.c.
to 14.4 p.c. is gratifying to investors who
pushed share prices to around 625. 6d.
But some had second thoughts when
they noted that tax provision reported
for 1962-63 was only £135,774 com-
pared with £190,073 in the previous year
and £147,345 in 1960-61.


TiDarillo
WRoLt.Burns
\\o
m
m
New from tip to tip
now America’s most
favoured Cigar/ “
,AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
OIL CORNER
Strike Gives a Little Heart
\ further strike at Richmond by the
ASSOCIATED group was anticipated
by the market. It followed much the
same pattern as before.
It gave a little heart to other oil
shares which were drooping.
Planet shareholders were pleased to
note that the additional discovery at
Richmond tended to upgrade their
company’s area.
★ ★ -K
11/ooDsiDE (Lakes Entrance) Oil
Company’s chairman, Mr J. G.
Donaldson, is very enthusiastic about
Victoria's chances of discovering oil in
the Gippsland area. At the shareholders’
annual meeting in Melbourne this month
he said that the six wells drilled by the
company and its partner, Atlantic Re-
fining Co., have given a clearer idea of
the answer to the jigsaw puzzle of Gipps-
land.
Analysis of information from these
wells has prompted the drilling of a
new series of wells. The group has
obtained evidence of oil at Lakes
Entrance and Woodside, also gas at
North Seaspray, and is now trying to
pinpoint the source of these occurrences.
The geology of the basin is complex,
but the question will be solved “you
can be completely certain of that,” Mr
Donaldson confidents claimed. On that
basis, it's only a matter of time (and
money).
★ * ★
T>each Petroleum NL drilled well past
the 12,000'i. mark in its Gelt wood
No. 1 well and reported five shows of
gas round these levels. It would he
nice to see some interest opening up in
the Southern States of Australia and the
ones who drill such deep, expensive
holes certainly deserve some encourage-
ment.
★ ★ ★
need for careful checking by
seismograph was emphasised by
CLARENCE RIVER BASIN OIL,
N.L., when, after an unsuccessful hole
at Clifden No. 4 in NSW and withdrawal
of The Burmah Oil Company, directors
reported that the company was unlikely
to undertake any further drilling on its
own account.
Clarence had a big run in the market
at one time with its fully paid ss. shares
reaching 10s. sd. in 1962, compared
with present levels of around 2s. 9d.
The company still retains overseas
backing in the form of Murphy Oil Co.
and Southern Oil Co., two US oil groups
which gain a half interest in the oil
exploration lease near Grafton, NSW.
Further drilling will not be decided
until all information is evaluated.
★ ★ "K
Oomeonf. paid Hid. recently for a
six months call on EXOIL with an
exercise price of 2s. lid. This seems a
lot. Once the shares go past 3s. the
brokerage jumps from Id. to 2d. So,
before the buyer of the option makes a
profit, he has to clear llid. plus 2d.
brokerage, plus stamp duty.
True, the price conceivably could
come back by more than Hid. and he
wouldn't be stuck with the shares.
On the other hand, if the buyer bought
the shares at 2s. lid., they would need
to rise by only Hid. to provide a nice
profit. But speculators in oil stocks are
always inclined to be greedy. They are
forced to, because losses quite often
turn out to be larger than the profits.
★ ★ ★
Oome oil exploration licences are ex-
piring, thus giving newcomers an
opportunity to show they can do better
. ... if the old holders relinquish their
title.
A licence held by MID-EASTERN OIL,
Caltex Asiatic Oil and Texaco Overseas
Petroleum over 4000 square miles in
the Coonamble, NSW, area expired on
October 22 and the previous holders are
not renewing it.
This did not depress the market be-
cause Mid-Eastern announced it would
start a new well in November at Kyogle,
NSW, where some oil was encountered
several months ago. Directors claim that
the Clarence Basin holding was up-
graded by the results of drilling at
Kyogle No. 1, so evidently they plan to
pay greater attention to this area.


TENDERS INVITED
LENNONS BROADBEACH HOTEL
QUEENSLAND
AUSTRALIA
mm
01
m
m
,m+\
Tenders close 3 p.m. 20th December, 1963, at the office of Federal Hotels Ltd., 547
Collins Street, Melbourne.
INVENTORIES & TENDER FORMS
Available at:
Brisbane: Lennons Broadbeach. Lennons,
263 George Street, Brisbane. Chambers
McNab & Co., Solicitors, 33 Queen Street.
Sydney: Murphy & Moloney, Solicitors, 79
Elizabeth Street.
Hong Kong: Offices of the ‘South China
Morning Post’, 1-3 Wyndham Street, City
of Victoria.
Singapore: ‘Singapore Straits Times’,
Times House, Ring Valley Road.
Wellington, N.Z.: ‘The Dominion’, Cnr.
Mercer, Wakefield & Victoria Streets.
Auckland, N.Z.: ‘New Zealand Herald’,
P.O. Box 32.
Melbourne: Federal Hotels Ltd., 547 Col-
lins Street.
The purchaser will pay 25% on 20th February, 1964, balance payable in equal quarterly
payments of £lO,OOO on the last days of September, December, March and June. First
instalment payable on 30th June, 1964. Balance in full over six years from date of possession.
Interest 614% per annum, with quarterly rests. Possession 20th February, 1964.
Highest or any tender not necessarily accepted 544.
INVESTMENT SECTION
On the Merry-go-round
Discount Shopping at Cox Bros
A lthough the ss. shares of Cox Bros
at present command a little short
of 3s. in the market and the dividend
has been halved to 5 p.c. with a final
payment omitted, shareholders are re-
minded in the annual report that what
they may be losing on these swings they
„„•., , . ° /
are recouping on the shopping round-
i . rA . , & f , .
abouts. The increased volume of busi-
ness, with customers enjoying the 10 p.c.
trading discount to shareholders, afforded
„ ~ . ~ . , t n
them, says the report, the equivalent of
m . th J nn nin ’ M ,
more than a 10 p.c. dividend.
r
Admittedly this is some compensation
for shareholders seeing most of the
group’s profits swallowed up by interest
charges on the £22 million of fixed
liabilities outstanding for servicing on
July 31 last, to which has to be added
another £1,200,000 raised on mortgage
debenture since then to reduce current
liabilities. Among the latter, outstanding
overdrafts have gone out a shade to
(entailing a further big
? ra ! n 0n p ™ flls in lnte f st phar S es > and
* rade „ are t, y „ . u '°
£863,580, albeit showing that with pur-
,J, , ,
chases of goods for re-sale at £460,000
, 6 , ’
a T=. ’ T f S r f preSellt onl 5' two
wea s il lpp 0 £°° S-
As The Bulletin has stated pre-
• , ~ , , . , . , . 1 .
viously, the group’s basic trouble is its
, • , . , . „
high interest bill and in full recognition
of this the board appears to have started
on a course of selling, some of its free-
holds to financial institutions and leasing
them back, a course more often practised
by big UK retailers than it is in this
country. In this connection the report
mentions that in July this year it sold
its newly-built Launceston premises for
its book value of £606,000 to a financial
institution from which it leased it on a
50-year term.
This is an obvious and practicable way
of reducing fixed liabilities, but so long
as the group is confident it can look
after the refinancing problems associated
with them, of which £1,952,970 falls due
for redemption in the current year and
the rest spread over six years, it may say
that selling freeholds will lose it the
benefit from increasing property values
in future years and that in the end share-
holders will be worse off than they are
by having to forego dividends owing to
the drain of interest charges.
This is certainly a dilemma and it is
perhaps understandable that with what
could be a very spirited trading period
ahead in the economy, Cox Bros would
be reluctant to push the process as far
as either its refinancing problems or the
reduced profit margins on trading might
point. The preliminary report indicated
that the latter had been cut very near the
bone, but the annual report makes no
mention of them, and the difficulties at
Sydney Snow Pty Ltd get only a passing
reference.
Quarrying Float
Henley Munckton are
underwriting an issue of 679,995
ss. ordinary shares by Victorian
Quarries Ltd at par preparatory to their
listing on Melbourne ’Change. The
recently-formed company is taking over
two quarries on the Mornington Penin-
sula, one of which is a going concern,
the other under planned development in
which the proceeds of the issue are
partly to finance. At this stage no
indication is given of prospective earn-
ings or dividends.
Quick Thaw
Tnvestors took kindly to the float of
Frozen Food Industries, whose ss.
shares, issued at ss. 6d., opened at
Bs. 3d. and went quickly to 9s. 3d. on
Melbourne ’Change last week. The
company makes Chiko food products
and directors see dividends of 9 p.c.
Last year’s earnings rate was 15.64 p.c.
Brokers to the issue were G. E. Carring-
ton & Co.
Hooker Hastens Slowly
A dividend was unlikely to be con-
sidered before the annual meeting
in 1965, but if the group’s progress con-
tinued, the options maturing in July,
1§64, should be exercised, the general
manager of L. J. Hooker Investment
Corporation Ltd said last week.


A
Q 7
iIM
2
Tj
m A
%
101
' *
u :
JL
“You've no idea the trouble we go to . . !”
... Not to make a cup of coffee, of course. But we do
go to extremes to make good petroleum products
and petroleum chemicals and to ensure at all times
that Shell people everywhere
are always ready to help you
with the best products on the market
It’s got to be good to be Shell
*R632
SHELL
(Those options are currently selling
around Is. Id., compared with 2s. for
the 1965 options and ss. 2d. for the ss.
shares.)
Profits of this current year and next
year may not entirely recoup accumu-
lated trading losses of £1.6 million, said
Mr Campbell.
However, higher profitability will
improve the Corporation’s borrowing
status, thus lowering the interest bill.
Refinancing of loans maturing shortly
may be achieved at lower rates.
An offer of financial assistance to
Hooker Pastoral, from Americans who
wanted an equity interest, was rejected,
and the company is currently negotiating
instead for a long-term loan from an
Australian institution.
The livestock on the pastoral pro-
perties had a market value £1.5 million
in excess of the £834,263 book value,
and profits from this division were ex-
pected to pick up appreciably in 1968.
The real estate, hotels and land de-
velopment divisions all made profits in
1962-63, and the losing position of
Hooker Homes has now been rectified.
Worsteds Get Weaving
/Confirming the promise shown at the
half-year mark, Macquarie Wor-
steds lifted profit 7 p.c. in the year to
September 30. enabling a rise in divi-
dend from 5 to 7i p.c. <4
The latest profit of £59,088 after
£42,000 tax provision is a good recovery
from the 1960-61 position when an
£86,576 loss was incurred.
The ss. shares now at 4s. lOd. to yield
7.7 p.c. in income and 13.9 p.c. on
earnings, are destined for a rise.
Bond’s Elaborate Plans
T>lans to spend £2.5 million on new
A plant and buildings were elaborated
by the chairman of Bond’s Industries
Ltd in his annual address for 1962-63.
A £1 million “coarse counts” yarn
mill and a £1 million towel mill will
be erected at Wentworthville, and older
buildings at Wentworthville will be re-
constructed to accommodate the dyeing
and bleaching activities removed from
Camperdown and Five Dock.
The “coarse counts” mill building
should be completed next February, and
the plant should be run in by mid-1965.
Benefits from this expenditure will come
in 1965-66.
An indirect benefit from synthetic
fibre developments is the great accelera-
tion in research on textile plant. The
“coarse counts” plant will be put to
maximum use over the next six years,
when it will be superseded by much
more efficient machinery.
The new towel mill building will be
finished in 1965 and plant installed in
1966, so benefits will derive from 1967.
Part of the expenditure on recon-
struction of older buildings at Went-
worthville will be recouped from the
sale of Camperdown buildings.
Directors were not prepared to fore-
cast maintenance of profit in the current
year because there will be some loss of
earnings from interest, and business will
be dislocated by major capital ex-
penditure.
Earning rates will obviously suffer on
capital being increased by cash and
bonus issues, until the new plants are
income earning three years or so hence.
Technological advances are so rapid,
however, that probably at the end of that
time equally heavy expenditure will be
required to modernise other plants.
Proposals to disenfranchise shares
newly acquired by non-Australians and
to insist on two-thirds of the board being
Australians were not proceeded with.
McLaren Industries Overlooked?
Qomewhat of a rarity in that its year
closes on November 30 and it pays
its full dividend as a final, McLaren In-
dustries, a Fitzroy printer, carton and
box maker which took over Lawley and
Housego, Sydney carton and box manu-
facturer in 1960, has been paying I2i
p.c. for so many years now that the
market is sceptical of suggestions that
this year will be any different despite


MEET MY FINANCE^!
\* I *1
V a NJfV s 3
r\
Lots of people have a happy arrangement with
Esanda. Nice people. Contented people. They
have been provided with Esanda Hire Purchase
Finance or Lease Plan. Some, to obtain a
car or truck. A major household appliance.
What else? We finance dental and medical
equipment. Farm machinery. Home improve-
ment. Purchase of shares. Overseas travel. All
sorts of things. Developmental Finance. Work-
ing Capital. Office and industrial equipment,
caravans, air-conditioning. Even aircraft.
Yes, whatever you want extra finance for
talk to us at Esanda. Chances are we’ll be
able to make an arrangement profitable to
you. Quickly. Reasonably. Confidentially.
Repayments may be made at any branch of
the E. S. & A. Bank.
ESANDA
ESANDA LIMITED (Incorporated in Victoria)
for finance in every field
32 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
316 Murray Street, Perth
Caltex House, 167 Kent Street, Sydney.
Enquiries may be made at any branch of the
E. S. & A. Bank.
the-j”U2j£s JSWYery that is expected
W be reported.
What may be overlooked, though, is
that apart from 1961-62 when earnings
slipped from 25.5 to 17.6 p.c., the 12*
p.c. dividend has been covered from
very nearly twice to considerably better
by earnings in each year since it was
first paid in 1953-54 and that in the
intervening years reserves have been
building up impressively. So much so that
at the last balance date they were the
equivalent of nearly 1* times the paid
capital, that is £570,828 as against
£427,580.
If, in view of the strong plough-back
and conservatism of the board, the big
build-up for a bonus may be expected
to last a little longer, the pay off should
have been brought a lot nearer as a re-
sult of the latest year's operations. These
will have had the benefit of a full year’s
working since the Lawley and Housego
factory refitting and expansion was fin-
ished in November last year, and the
Wembley board and paper bag divisions
were transferred to a new factory at
Clayton in April, 1962. This move ad-
versely affected the result in 1961-62, but
incidentally has given the group much
more breathing space at the main works
at Fitzroy.
In expectation of a good result the
ss. shares have been quietly supported
without moving much in recent weeks.
At 14s. 9d. the yield is, on the face of
it, a sparing 4.2 p.c. on the ss. shares
but there is more to them than meets the
casual eye.
Bricks From CRA
"VTicely timed to get on the escalator
of the home building bonanza, Rio
Tinto Brick, a company of the CRA
group, has started production of bricks
at its new £2 million plant at Campbell-
field, near Melbourne. The kiln has a
production rate of 25 million bricks a
year, chairman Mr Blake Pelly an-
nounced. This rate will be doubled in
due course by another kiln on the same
site which covers 120 acres and has
sufficient clay deposits to sustain pro-
duction at 50 million bricks a year for
50 years.
Best Result for Seven Years
HThe best result for seven years was
A turned in by Automotive and
General Industries Ltd, the former
Ausdis Holdings Ltd, in the year to
June 30.
Profit of £161,967, however, still gave
only the modest earning rate of 9.8 p.c.
on capital.
As well as being a main Melbourne
BMC dealer, Automotive and General
has franchises for John Deere industrial


REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
41% PER ANNUM FOR 12 MONTHS
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only on the printed
forms attached to the Prospectus. Your copy avail-
able from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. branches.
INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929 )
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
60 Collins Place MELBOURNE Tel.: 63 6121
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA - DARWIN
Underwriters: fan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8480 N
equipment, Yale and Towne forklift
vehicles, and Komatsu forklift equip-
ment.
Directors are increasingly aware that
the manufacturing division will play an
important part in group affairs. For this
reason it was essential to maintain
Peugeot and Citroen sales at maximum
levels, they said in their annual report
to shareholders.
The restoration of a 6 p.c. dividend
gives a return of 9.5 p.c. from a pur-
chase of the ss. shares around their
current level of 3s. 2d.
Sonnerdale ISow Profitable
of an associate of the UK
group David Brown within the fold
of Sonnerdale Ltd maintains market
interest in Sonnerdale.
The shares are now about 2s. below
10s. par value after the report that
Sonnerdale had made its third successive
loss for the year to June. The loss of
£6208 compared with £68,453 in 1962
and £99,046 in 1961.
Profits of Richardson David Brown
Gears Pty Ltd, with which Sonnerdale
merged in June, were treated as pre-
acquisition earnings.
The parent and all subsidiaries are
now making reasonable profits, and
orders are said to be “highly satis-
factory”.
Packaging Profits
Ot Regis-Williams Pty Ltd, pro-
ducing Sisalkraft and Bates bags,
lifted profit some 6 p.c. to £404,015 in
the last year to June 30.
The company is half-owned by the
publicly listed F. W. Williams Holdings
Ltd of Sydney, whose year ends in
December. In 1962, F. W. Williams
earned £86,602, including dividends
from St Regis-Williams.
F. W. Williams 10s. shares are
currently selling for around 28s. 9d.,
where the yield is 3.5 p.c.
Caution Justified
"VTo early dividend can be expected
from Anglo Pacific Securities Ltd,
even though the company was profitable
in the four months to October 31,
according to the chairman (Mr R. S.
Butcher).
In 1962-63 the company lost £91,232
on trading, and omitted dividend after
a halved rate the year before.
The company is vacating the finance
field, and has bought Dandee Dry
Cleaners. At June 30, £115,455 was
tied up in real estate development
projects. Sale of lots in the French’s
Forest subdivisional development has
encouraged directors to proceed with
further subdivisions.
Anglo Pacific considers itself in a
strong liquid position, but the chair-
man is directing reorganisation to the
restoration of tangible assets before
paying a dividend.
The market, in assessing the ss. shares
at 2s. 3d., justifiably prefers to wait for
tangible results.
Beard Watson Knocked
many benefits expected from the
-*■ 1959 integration of the quality fur-
nisher Beard Watson with hardware re-
tailer Nock and Kirby do not seem to
have come to pass.
The annual reports and chairmen’s
addresses from 1959 to 1962 made no
direct reference to the profitability of
Beard Watson, the subsidiary, but as a
separate entity Beard Watson was profit-
able from 1918 to 1958 with the ex-
ception of two depression years.
Nock and Kirby now report in a pre-
liminary profit statement for the year to
August 31 that Beard Watson incurred
a considerable loss, and a manufacturing
subsidiary also lost money.
Result was a group profit retreat from
£133,455 to £21,679, or 1.9 p.c. on
capital. Nevertheless a total dividend of
5 p.c. is being paid.
David Jones has entered more heavily
into the high grade furniture and fur-
nishings field once dominated by Beard
Watson, and to the shopper it is ap-
parent that Beard Watson has lost some
of its individuality.


“That was
Auckland...,
and yet it
sounded like
a local call”
m
•s ?
Hill
§ii
s®
\
\
Of course! s s i because all Telephone calls to New Zealand
now travel via the first link of COMPAC, the new Common-
wealth Pacific Cable which extends to New Zealand and Fiji
now i s ; to Britain, Europe and North America in December.
Then regardless of whether your call is to London or Los
Angeles the clarity will be equivalent to that of a local call. .
If your business demands a large volume of overseas contact,
check the advantages of installing Telex or Leased services.
It costs less than you think to ’phone Overseas a 3
minute call to New Zealand is only 37/6 (minimum rate).
THE OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
Australian Partner in the British Commonwealth Telecommunications System
O.T.C. HOUSE, 12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY. 205 4 4
OTIB
Admittedly the economic climate of
the last couple of years was not very kind
to either furniture or hardware retailers,
but it would seem that what Nock and
Kirby requires is a different approach
o retai ing.
Interesting Chemicals Buy
-
Tndustrial chemical suppliers Swift and
Co. Ltd is on the move with a
£600,000 takeover offer for Ajax
Chemical Co. Pty Ltd, which makes
industrial acids.
This is a follow-up to the statement in
the directors’ report on trading for the
year to j une 30 , 1963, that the company
was “continuing its plan of development
and expansion particu | arly in relation t 0
production in Australia of goods pre-
viously imported.”
TT .. , ,
Unlisted share investments were re-
valued during 1962-63 to provide a sur-
plus of £189,353, which directors report
was realised by their sale after balance
date. This and the share premiums from
issue and capital to Ajax shareholders
will fortify the reserves position consid-
erably.
At 16s. 9d. the 10s. shares yield
6.0 p.c., and are worthy of some atten-
tion. Latest earning rate was an indiffer-
ent 13.4 p.c., but some improvement
should derive from the Ajax takeover
this year, with more to follow.
Goodwins’ Surprise
Ltd, electrical goods re-
tailer of Newtown, surprised with
the information in directors’ report for
1962-63 that options had been issued to
Bank of New South Wales Nominees to
subscribe at par for 500,000 ss. shares
at par.
The options expire three months after
publication of 1963-64 accounts. The
beneficial owner was not identified.
The company, which cut its dividend
from 12i to 7i p.c., wrote off £89,145
more for bad debts, and provided
£200,000 from reserves for doubtful
debts. Directors said better collection
procedures were instituted in May.
The ss. shares have been heavily
down-graded to 2s. lOd.
Nile’s Imports Troubles
TNirectors of Nile Textiles Ltd concen-
trated on improving liquidity in
1962-63 and managed to reduce stocks
from £l.l million to £794,000 and cur-
rent liabilities and provisions from
£875,000 to £613,000.
Although some tariff relief has been
obtained on handkerchiefs, towels and
pillow cases, the company was forced, in
the face of imports competition, to trade
on narrow margins.
From a losing position in 1961-62,
Nile recovered to earn 2.7 p.c. on capital
in 1962-63 with a profit of £13,717.
The shares have rallied from this year’s
depths of 3s. 6d. to 4s. 2d. where the
yield is 3.6 p.c. on the current 3 p.c.
dividend rate.
Better Than It Looks
TI/lelbourne-based Australian and In-
ternational Insurances managed to
lift profit from £17,874 to £25,215 and
pay its third 7i p.c. in a row last year
to June 30, but it is evident that overseas
reciprocal treaty business continued to
be a drag on results. This at any rate was
true for the early part of the year when
the company was still negotiating to get
a bigger spread to eliminate the fluctua-
tions in this sphere of the business. This
is where losses pulled down the overall
profit from £38,421 to £17,874 in the
previous year.
Although the company increased its
profit last year, earnings rate on the
higher capital employed dropped from
11.5 to 8.1 p.c. This barely covered the


Mw 6>pe*t/S
fRIC ANDERSOH
(CONSOLIDATEb) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
I
0
PER ANNUM
SHORT TERM
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:—
P.T. LIMITED, a wholly owned subsidiary of
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED)
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on the form of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained from and applications
lodged with any branch in New South Wales or the
Australian Capital Territory and any City or Suburban branch
in Brisbane, Queensland, of the foliowing banks:—
★ THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
★ BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES or at
•fa ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 York Street, Sydney.
if ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED
Any branch in Sydney, Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
if PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country
★ ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE
Eft
Underwriting Broken: RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
dividend. Capital was increased by a one-
for-two par issue near the end of the
previous year, and from the look of
things was not fully paying its way in the
latest year.
However, it must be remembered that
a substantial part of the new money was
used to subscribe for 278,000 10s. shares
in the group’s new offshoot A & I Dis-
counters which was floated and started
business in July last year in a full range
of credit facilities and discounting of
short-term paper, including HP for the
Electronic Industries group.
Although for the 11 months period
ended June last A & I Discounters ful-
filled prospectus expectations by paying
7+ p.c. (from profits of £65.058), pro-
ceeds from its final 4 p.c. dividend were
not included in the declared profit of
A & I Insurances. Had they been this
would have increased its profit by
£5760, lifting the earnings rate to 10.4
p.c. Moreover, as Sir Arthur Warner,
chairman of both companies, is confident
of a big future for the discounting com-
pany and has every reason to be pleased
with its first year’s experience, the out-
look for A & I Insurances seems fair
enough.
A. 1 But not quite
/Operations have been suspended since
November 12 at A. 1 Consolidated’s
mine down Woods Point way (where
the ill-fated Morning Star mine was shut
down earlier this year) but will be re-
sumed when replacement sheaves can be
procured and installed. After a ten-year
wait shareholders have had a spate of
three dividends totalling ss. a 30s. (20s.
paid) share (£2,289,000) so far in 1963.
The shares have been up to 30s. this year
and are now quoted at the wide range
255. 6d.-295. 6d.
Printer’s Plum
Thirst printer to pull a plum from the
decimal currency pie is Aldus Ltd
of Melbourne, which is the public com-
pany of the Seligson and Clare printing
machinery group. Aldus has been award-
ed the contract for the supply and instal-
lation of machinery to print the new cur-
rency notes.
As befitting a company which has paid
a more than double-covered 12 p.c. in
each of its first four years since listing in
1958 and in its fifth stepped up earnings
from 24.7 to 32.9 p.c. and paid 14 p.c.,
Aldus 10s. shares have a high standing in
the market at about four times par value
to yield 3.6 p.c.
While its main business is printing
machinery and equipment, Aldus also has
a subsidiary, Herbert Osborne Pty Ltd,
for machine tools and engineers’ supplies
and a substantial investment in Monotype


Prelude to success
Experience cannot be bought ... it takes years
to acquire. Today our specially trained banquet
department is always ready to assist -you when
arranging any business or social function. They
know exactly how to plan a grand ball, banquet or
intimate dinner party, a wedding breakfast, con-
vention or exhibition. It costs less to plan with
Chevron Hilton, Sydney’s focal point for all
important occasions.
Before arranging your next function have a word
with our Banquet Manager —
Telephone 35-0433
CHEVRON - HILTON Macleay Street, Pott’s Point, Sydney
CHEV/1696A
Corporation of Australia. Another sub-
sidiary, Ronal Engineering, makers of
specialised printing and graphic art equip-
ment, was acquired in 1959 in a twin
share and cash deal.
Realty Appeals
/Creeping dividends are one of the
features of investment in Realty
Development and Mortgage Co. Ltd.
In its first year as a public listed com-
pany, Realty is paying 5i p.c. (including
a final 3i p.c.), as against 4 p.c. in
1961-62.
Although profits from leasing of
shopping centres and other commercially
used buildings will not be spectacular—
they were 6.0 p.c. on capital in the year
to September 30 shareholders will
benefit from escalating clauses in the
leases and, by the same token, from the
rise in property values.
The dividend will probably rise
steadily to about 10 p.c. before a revalua-
tion of properties provides the means for
a bonus.
Apart from shopping centres in St Ives,
Wentworthville and Seven Hills in
Sydney, and Mt Gravatt in Brisbane,
Realty Development and Mortgage has
gone into estate development rather in-
voluntarily, but land owned by Reid
Murray Development in WA and SA
was going so cheaply.
It also has a home unit project in
Brisbane, and is developing shopping
centres at Hornsby (Sydney) and Strath-
more Heights and Thomastown (Mel-
bourne).
Institutional shareholders include
DFC, MLC and Second Covent Garden.
Realty Development and Mortgage is
considered by at least one professional
investor to be an outstanding purchase.
The company’s progress has gone
according to schedule.
For those who like property interests,
the 20s. shares should appeal at around
275. where the yield is 4.1 p.c.
Virtually Under One Flag
TTnion of the interstate fleets of
Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd and
Mcllwraith McEachern Ltd after seven
months of negotiations really puts the
ships of three companies Adelaide,
Mcllwraiths and Huddart Parker under
the one flag.
Boral bought Huddart Parker In-
dustries in 1961, then sold the fleet to
Mcllwraith for a share consideration.
The latest merger, which involves
only the interstate ships, the Melbourne
and Fremantle terminals, shares in
stevedoring companies, and overhauling
facilities in Sydney will be accom-
p]ijjie3 by formation of Associated
Steamships Pty Ltd, which will be 60 p.c.


BENEFICIAL
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Ti*
PER ANNUM FOR
7 YEARS
7 % p.a. 5 years
3 years
S{% p.a. 12 months
other rates and terms available
PAID UP CAPITAL £1,032,000
Trustees for Debenture Holders
Elder's Trustee and
Executor Company Ltd.
Applications for Debentures will
proceed only on the application
form attached to and referred to in
a printed copy of the Prospectus
which is obtainable from:
• Any member of the Stock
Exchange
• National Bank branches
• The Underwriting Brokers
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange
of Adelaide Ltd.
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange
Wallace H. Smith £r Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
Mullens & Co.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
AS 70
OR DIRECT FROM
BENEFICIAL FINANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(inc in S.A.)
Adelaide • Sydney Melbourne ■ Brisbane
owned by Mcllwraith and 40 p.c. by
Adelaide Steam.
Each company will retain its re-
spective tugs, colliers, investments and
overseas and coastal agency work.
Earlier negotiations revolved round a
complete merger of the two companies.
(Adelaide Steam was the recipient of an
offer from H. C. Sleigh Ltd in 1959,
which it spurned.)
Mcllwraith’s 20s. shares are currently
bringing around 265. 9d. against 6s. 9d.
for Adelaide’s ss. shares. The yield for
both is an uninspiring 5.2 p.c.
In a Spin
Qtirling Henry’s 51 p.c. lower profit
for the year to June 30 falls short
of covering the reduced dividend by
£24,076. The third successive drop has
reduced profit to £63,668 £67,182
lower than last year’s £130,850 on which
a 1 2i p.c dividend was paid.
Directors have cut the dividend to
10 p.c. It will absorb £87,744. The
previous profit fall was from £209,476
to £130,850 Comparative earning rates
are: 1961 (with a record profit figure of
£209,476), 24.2 p.c.; 1962, 15 p.c. and
1963, 7.4 p.c.
This year’s profit was after tax of
£38,251 (£28,046 lower than last year)
and depreciation £44,060 (up £l3).
The chairman, Mr A. Wainberg, said
despite lower manufacturing, distribu-
tion and administrative costs, con-
ditions the company experienced during
the year resulted in the reduction of net
trading profit. Stirling Henry’s sub-
sidiary, Jeannette Underwear Mills Pty
Ltd, operated profitably during the year.
The 5s shares, at present for sale at
4s. 10d., are well below the year’s high
A 7s. 6d. and yield 10.3 p.c. on the
lower dividend.
Another Takeover Prospect
VyiTH another profit record in the can,
' Captain Products Ltd must look an
even greater delicacy for takeover
merchants
Although about 40 p.c. of capital is
believed to be held by the Mansfield
family, this would not be sufficient to
choke a really good bid.
Shareholders have received no other
benefit than a regular 8 p.c. dividend
since listing in 1957. But under the new
Companies Act the company has re-
vealed earnings more than thrice that
rate. Latest profit was £129,279 or
27.9 p.c. on capital.
Captain imports canned fish, mostly
from Japan. Directors reported recently
that marketing terms introduced last
year by Japanese suppliers had stabilised
quality and minimised forward financing.
This had helped Captain’s liquidity and
profitability.
The 20s. shares are now highly
favored at 555., where the income yield
is 2.9 p.c. The earnings yield of 10.1
p.c. indicates the scope for future
benefits.
Long Yield for Collier
Chebulton Pty Ltd, the building and
construction company owned 74
p.c. by Wangco Pty Ltd, subsidiary of the
publicly listed Wancol Holdings Ltd, was
sold before Wancol’s balance date, June
30, 1963, to avoid presentation of an
erroneous picture to shareholders.
This interest was originally acquired
in the boom days of 1960. Shebulton
has been placed in liquidation following
a creditor’s petition. Secured debts
owed to Wangco should be paid in full,
it was revealed early in October, but un-
secured creditors would get only 4s. in
the £.
The Wancol chairman does not expect
the present assets of the group to be
endangered by the Shebulton position.
Of more fundamental interest to
shareholders is the colliery situation. In
his annual address the chairman (Mr
R. A. Salenger) said some alleviation of
the rail freight burden had been obtained
during 1962-63.
Wancol’s profit increased fractionally
in the year to June 30. Earning rate
was 12.7 p.c., dividend 6J p.c.
Doubts about the future have pres-
sured the 20s. shares down to 11s. 9d.
where the yield is 11.5 p.c.
Furniture Trade Dull
JJhe furniture retailer W. W. Campbell
and Co. Ltd of Sydney lost money
for the third successive year.
Information from directors that re-
serves cover dividends for more than
five years is not much comfort to
ordinary shareholders who have missed
out for the last five years, but then only
the preference shares are listed.
Retail trading in furniture and furnish-
ings continues extremely difficult. Direc-
tors find that greater consumer credit
does not help those who cannot obtain
a reasonable proportion of cash sales,
borrow at low interest rates, and who
have no special manufacturer connec-
tions.
Altogether the outlook for share-
holders looks dismal. The 71 p.c.
cumulative first preference shares last
brought 14s. 6d. on the market and the
5 p.c. cumulative second preference
shares 12s. 3d.


\\
t
Vt
i mn
J
%
m\AWy
W\':\w'\ US »:
BVfeH
\\\\ws
.\ \ t \. s'v xi
\ \ • v ' • -.•* *
L
rrT
cr\ •
■ ■
f
f
■j
m.
fl
x-X-X
. ■
a
11 ha
■
&
f
m
p
61&I
i asswaaHSi
i " ■-
W.W
I-'
I*%
\\
&
km
m*s*a?i&4
y§ Xx«>»o£v>>
9Sm£m
w
l«Tt
V\ \ V
7'--
\\
ft \ M
\W
\\rmi
<557
, \ 4 \ . ?y? r-
V\Y\YX
wWSSSvri / r‘ y fi
WWW'S)M ' /-' •* *
«
\\\\wv
\W\y/u in
w
ft
p&vt J
/c
O
p
X
X
\\
jm
up
\\
\
\
sfn, x *j '< ? : A ' «? / r
nothing
stronger
than
Lsteelj
Post this coupon now for miniature portfolio of
LYSAGHT HOME PLANS
Your new home plan could be in this handy
IlfFle portfolio! Each one of these architect
treated Lysaght plans is spacious yet can be built
ItModerate cost. All offer interesting and attrac-
tive variations on the world-wide trend towards
lower-pitched rooflines . . . and are ideally suited
to the streamlined ‘new look’ of steel sheet.
Whichever plan you choose, there is no sub-
stitute for the innate strength of Lysaght Steel
Sheet. No other roofing material is as strong
a Lysaght roof is fireproof and weatherproof
with durability ensured by a protective heavy
zm£ coating of at least 1.75 ozs. per sq. ft.
Costs less than most other roofing materials
.‘TV needs little maintenance.
LYSAGHT
HOME PLANS
SERVICE
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, the
Lysaght Miniature Portfolio of Low Cost
Home Plans .
NAME _ -
ADDRESS -
.STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
' ' Dsaxcc


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Comparison Between ACL
and Repco
By “ANALYST”
A utomotive Components Ltd’s
shares had recorded a very strong
recovery from the low point of ss. 2d.
in 1962 to the high point of 9s. 9d. in
1963, an increase of nearly 89 p.c. But
since August the shares have fallen back
to as low as 7s. 6d. and, with a yield
from the 10 p.c. dividend of 6.7, it is
not surprising that sufficient support was
forthcoming to push the price back to
Bs.
As Automotive Components Ltd (or
ACL) is in the same business as Repco
but not as well diversified, it is rather
surprising to find such a wide difference
in both dividend yields and earnings
yields for the two companies. Based on
the last sale prices of 21s. for Repco
and Bs. for ACL, Repco showed a
dividend yield of 3.6 p.c. and an earn-
ings yield of 5.8 p.c. as compared with
a dividend yield of 6.2 p.c. and an
earnings yield of 8.3 p.c. for ACL.
To some extent the answer can be
found in the following comparisons. I
have picked the 1960-61 year as the base
year as it demonstrates more vividly the
growth which has occurred in both com-
panies’ “vital statistics”.
Per share: 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Earnings
Repco 77 107 100 109 137
ACL 296 232 100 196 253
Dividends
Repco 94 94 100 118 152
ACL 170 200 100 160 200
It can be seen that the growth of both
companies over the last three years has
been quite dramatic and ACL’s rate has
been greater than Repco’s. But ACL
was starting from a very depressed con-
dition, since the dividend rate had been
halved and the earning rate had fallen
by 57 p.c. from the 1960 level, whereas
Repco’s dividend rate as the result of
an issue with a very small bonus content
actually showed its first sign of an in-
crease for ten years.
ACL was formed in Melbourne in
1951, but the companies acquired,
namely, Poison Motor Parts Company
Pty Ltd (Victoria) and Blaxland Rae Pty
Ltd (NSW), had been in existence since
1930 and 1924 respectively. Neverthe-
less, the original Repco company, Re-
placement Parts Pty Ltd, was established
three years before Blaxland Rae. At the
time of listing the combined companies
produced pistons, pins, rings, king pins,
shackle pins, valve guides and cylinder
liners and sleeves. The major additions
to the range since that time would seem
to be electrical control units and other
electrical components (through the
acquisition of Lorimer Contacts Pty Ltd
in 1956-57) and automotive and in-
dustrial bearings (through ACL Bearings
Pty Ltd, a company formed in associa-
tion with Glacier Metal Company Ltd,
of the UK, during 1958-59).
However, it now seems likely that the
association with the Perfect Circle Cor-
poration of Indiana, USA, to produce
“Perfect Circle” piston rings in Australia
may well have been one of the most
fortunate for the company.
The problem with any company in the
automotive field is to try to determine
whether its profitability is correlated
with the total number of vehicles on
register or with new vehicle registrations.
This factor is important for, while the
number of vehicles on register has been
growing steadily over the last seven years
or so at an average rate of between
6 and 7 p.c. p.a., the numbers of new
vehicles registered has shown a pro-
nounced cyclical trend.
From the point of view of the two
companies, it seems likely that both are
more dependent on new vehicle registra-
tions for their profits. The following
figures are interesting (1959 = 100 as
base):
Year to
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Vehicles on
register 100 107 114 119 128
New registra-
tions 100 132 129 94 158
Repco’s profit-
ability (a) 100 113 111 96 112
ACL’s profit-
ability (a) 100 108 78 98 111
(a) Ratio of net profit before tax, depreciation and
interest on long-term debt to total capital
employed.
While I would not draw any firm
conclusion from such figures, the
similarity between the last three rows
cannot be denied.
For those investors who are prepared
to accept fluctuations in earnings, the
cyclical trend of new vehicle registrations
should not be a deterrent for, although
it could well be that the rate of increase
in total car population may tend to fall
off, there seems to be a rising trend in
the “scrappage” rate. This could mean
that on average new vehicle registrations
may rise at a greater rate in the future
than the number of vehicles on register.
The extent to which the policy of the
hire-purchase companies will affect this
“scrappage” rate is difficult to tell, but,
as it is estimated that 60 p.c. of used cars
are financed, the effect of these com-
panies lowering the “ age limit ” for
vehicles financed could be quite dramatic.
The picture then seems to be that new
vehicle registrations are a better guide
than total vehicles on register so far as
the results of Repco and ACL are con-
cerned. So far as growth during the last
boom is concerned, both companies seem
to have done equally well. On the other
hand Repco rode out the depression
much better than ACL which appears
to have been caught while it was suffer-
ing severe indigestion from its 1960-61
takeovers. In looking for reasons, the
obvious one is that ACL is much higher
geared than Repco. Whereas the con-
solidated net profit before tax of the
Repco group is sufficient to cover interest
charges at least 14 times, ACL’s net
before tax covered interest charges
approximately six times. It may also be
noted with some concern that in the
1960-61 year, when earnings were at a
low level, long-term borrowings were
at a high level and it should not be
forgotten that not only does the interest
have to be paid but provision must be
made for repayment of capital.
Despite all these problems and with
the knowledge that ACL will have to
repay £177,300 in April next year, it
seems that the shares have been marked
down too heavily when compared with
Repco. However, as I have said on pre-
vious occasions, the market takes a long
time to forgive a defaulter and it is
usually well justified in this approach.
With the potential for the industry, per-
haps the shares could be marked up as
high as 10s. to yield 5 p.c., but some
indication of future financing policy
would enable a better judgment to be
made.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 973 1292 1636 1533 1871
Current liabilities 592 630 807 796 1278
Working capital 381 662 829 737 593
Fixed assets 1212 1356 1594 1617 1666
Intangibles 432 434 398 398 398
Total capital 2025 2452 2821 2752 2657
Represented by:
Loan capital 548(a) 550 701 602 473
Ord. capital 630 1040 1251 1251 1251
Reserves 847 862 869 899 933
(a) Includes minority interests —6.
Depreciation 68 77 87 92 107
Tax 50 59 43 83 105
Earnings 101 102 76 125 168
Ord. dividend 55 83 58 100 125
Surplus 46 19 18 25 43
Earnings per share
(pence) (a) 9.4 7.4 3.2 6.2 8.0
Dividends per share
(pence) (a) 5.1 6.0 3.0 4.8 6.0
Earn, yield
p.c: (b) 13.6 8.5 5.3 7.4 8.3
Dividend yield
p.c: (b) 7.4 6.9 5.0 5.7 6.2
(a) Adjusted for issues.
(b) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.


One of these two oils
5 • •
-oto*
fW „orO* . ou
,;gm
§»**&»*«
CastPffiliti
XL
•.-^.v > w,. rr
.
'J
w
?
will protect your car better than any other 0i1...
CASTROL make two oils CASTROLJTE AND CASTROL XL. They are both balanced supergrade oils, with Castrol’s
patented additives. Both oils seal, clean, cool and lubricate your engine better than any other oil. Both stop excessive oil
consumption, cut your car-running costs.
Here’s the difference (it depends on the car you drive).
CASTROLITE in summer is the approved oil for the Chevrolet,
Chrysler Valiant, Citroen, Daimler, Datsun, Dodge, Ford (all models),
Hillman, Holden, Mercedes, Nissan, Pontiac, Rambler, Standard,
Studebaker, Toyota, Vauxhall, Volkswagen.
CASTROL XL in summer is the approved oil for the Austin (all
models), Bentley, Fiat, Humber, Jaguar, Land Rover (petrol), M.G.,
Morris (all models), Renault, Rolls Royce, Rover, Simca, Skoda,
Triumph, Wolseley . . . (and all motor mowers, too!).
CASTROL XL is especially recommended for engines with high mileage and for minimising oil consumption.
Every car manufacturer approves Castrol balanced supergrade oils.
Don’t take chances always ask for Castrol balanced supergrades by name.
CASTROL
SUPERGRADE
MOTOR OILS
O e
-i-
-ißfl
MMmkM
it S.
SES«3
pa
Eastrol
C139a.105.855c


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, It. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243. 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Unnecessarily Pessimistic View
/Yne of the most varied investment
groups listed on any Australian
stock exchange is Associated Rural
Industries Ltd. Pearls, rice, cotton,
safflower, sheep, starch, radio and tele-
vision—Associated Rural is interested in
all these.
The company originated as Australian
Rice Pty Ltd which began milling rice
at Griffith in the Murrumbidgee Irriga-
tion Area. In 1958 the mill was sold to
the Ricegrowers’ Co-operative Mills Ltd
because of .an insufficient paddy rice
quota from the Rice Marketing
Authority.
By 1962-63 Australian Rice Pty was
in its final year of a joint agreement
with the Rice Marketing Board and the
Ricegrowers’ Co-operative Mills Ltd,
and a new agreement is now being
negotiated.
At Griffith there was also a starch
mill, but this was closed down in 1961.
A garage with a franchise for Inter-
national Harvester farm machinery,
which is owned at Griffith, made a small
profit in 1962-63.
Rice Cartage Pty, now known as Rice
Trading Pty, sold its assets to Thomas
Nationwide Transport Ltd early in
1962, receiving 787,500 TNT shares.
Part of this holding and rights to the
one-for-ten par issue were sold after
June 30, 1963, to produce a profit
excluding dividends of £lB,OOO.
This left £156,550 as the current book
value of listed shares, and their market
value at the time of the annual meeting
was £222,240, a surplus of £65,690.
There were, in addition, £22,229 shares
in unlisted companies at balance date.
The controlling interest in 2RG
Broadcasters Pty was obtained in 1952-
53. In the year under review it created
records in profit and turnover. 2RG
and the parent company are substantial
holders in Murrumbidgee Television Ltd
which has been granted the TV licence
for the Western Riverina.
Associated Rural’s most spectacular
coup was to sell Parsons Foods Pty,
which had been acquired in 1953, to the
General Food Corporation of the US
for more than £BOO,OOO cash, which was
receivable over a period of years from
July, 1961.
The money obtained from this sale
has largely been invested in northern
development the Kimberleys in WA
and in a cultured pearling venture in
Torres Strait.
Northern Developments Pty is engaged
in irrigation and agriculture at Cam-
ballin, and on the Liveringa property.
Northern Developments (Ord River)
Pty has 2500 acres of irrigable land at
Kununurra, which was developed as a
pilot-farm for the WA Government and
has successfully grown rice, cotton,
linseed and safflower.
Woolgrowing and cattle-raising on
Liveringa and Paradise stations in the
West Kimberleys were combined with
the irrigated agricultural crops of the
Fitzroy and Ord Valleys by the forma-
tion of Kimberley Holdings Ltd, which
is a partly-owned subsidiary of Associ-
ated Rural.
In October, 1962, when these
properties were purchased, they were
believed to be running 55,000 sheep,
but the shearing revealed there were
only 42,351. Since then stragglers have
been traced to another property, and
there are numerous other stragglers on
Associated Rural properties. The exact
size of the flocks will be determined at
the muster in May, 1964.
Elder Smith Goldsbrough Mort Ltd
has undertaken a reorganisation and
assessment of all pastoral and agricultural
activities in the area. Property values
have firmed with the great deal of
activity in the area.
The pearling venture was described in
1962 as potentially the most profitable
investment made by the group. The
project was begun with Japanese partners
in July, 1961, and development is
ahead of schedule, and the half and
round pearls are beyond expectations of
quality. Substantial income from the
sale of half pearls has been credited to
the cost of the project.
Following completion of the Parsons
Food sale in 1960-61 a special bonus
dividend was paid, making 18 p.c. for
the year. Since then dividend has been
8 p.c., despite the fact that latest
earnings fell heavily from £96,053 to
£12,409. Taxation had risen from
£15,334 to £23,605, and depreciation
from £7663 to £17,355, but the biggest
advance was in .management and general
expenses, up from £88,971 to £173,967.
Neither the Kimberley nor the pearl-
ing project was expected to be income-
producing until the end of 1963 and
1964, so their profits would not be re-
flected in group accounts until 1964-65.
Although the company had to dip into
reserves to pay this last year’s dividend,
and the risks attaching to developmental
ventures must be calculated, it seems un-
necessarily pessimistic of investors to
place the ss. shares below par.
At the present price of 4s. 7d. to yield
9.7 p.c., the shares seem worthy of a
little more support, considering the way
in which directors have guided the com-
pany’s fortunes in the past.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1405 1228 1151 712 740
Less current
liabilities 1017 914 941 363 546
Working capital 388 314 210 349 194
Investments 26 50 98 464 214
Fixed assets 657 915 950 361 846
Intangibles 35 21 21 19 20
1106 1300 1279 1193 1274
Loan capital 120 120 146 24 84
Minority interests 152 89 44 55 197
Pref. capital 117 117 117 117 117
Ord. capital 613 671 675 675 675
Reserves 104 303 297 322 201
1106 1300 1279 1193 1274
Depreciation 31 29 40 8 17
Taxation 18 56 18 15 24
Net profit 68 94 94 96 12
Net profit for
ords. 61 87 87 89 5
Dividends 37 47 121 54 54
Surplus 24 40 -34 35 -49
Earning rate 10.2 14.2 12.8 13.2 0.8
Dividend rate 6 7\ 18* 8 8
Div. yield (a) 7.4 6.3 8.3 8.0 9.4
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.1 8.5 7.7 7.7 6.3
High price (b) 3/1 4/10 7/3 7/3 6/-
Low price (b) 2/0£ 2/8 4/9 4/2 4/3
* Includes special 10 p.c. bonus.
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


NKS (HOLDINGS) LTD
Bounced Back to Record
After one depressed year, NKS
(Holdings) Ltd, Melbourne maker
of builders’ hardware, non-ferrous ex-
trusions, and engineering merchant,
bounced back with a record profit for
the 12 months to June 30.
Profit of £376,931 (previous best
£360,686 in 1960-61) was after greater
provisions for tax and depreciation, at
£269,309 and £124,561 respectively.
Earning rate picked up from 11.9 p.c.
to 15.0 p.c., permitting a 1 p.c. in-
crement in dividend rate to 9 p.c.
The better overall result was in spite
of an initial loss by Aluminium Ex-
trusions Pty, and termination of the
agreement with Metal Manufactures Ltd
for distribution of copper and brass
tubing.
Aluminium Extrusions is now showing
more encouraging results, and a high
standard of quality product is being
maintained, said the chairman (Sir
Robert Knox) in his annual review.
Satisfactory compensation was re-
ceived for the loss of the Metal Manu-
factures’ business, and directors are
confident they can replace the earnings
from this agency.
The manufacturing group covers
Ogden Industries, Metalex Pty and
Australian Die Castings as well as
Aluminium Extrusions.
Ogden makes Lockwood locks for
every purpose, Sebco masonry anchors,
lawnmowers and hand garden equip-
ment and steel flooring. Its sales were
a record, and exports increased sub-
stantially.
Metalex makes extruded brass rod,
wire and sections. Prices of the main
raw materials, scrap copper and copper
alloys, which are largely governed by
the extent of Japanese buying, reacted
favorably during the year.
Australian Die Castings Pty makes
custom die castings in zinc, aluminium
and bronze. Orders from outside the
group were much greater, so profits in
1962-63 were substantially in excess of
those for the previous year.
The merchandising group, including
Knox Schlapp Pty, Knox Schlapp (Q’ld)
Pty, and Underhill, Day & Co. Pty, were
more profitable, particularly the Queens-
land company.
Broomwade-Knox Pty (60 p.c. owned
by Broom and Wade Ltd of England,
40 p.c. by Knox Schlapp Pty) earned
higher profits, which were wholly re-
tained to finance expansion.
Sixty-six p.c. of group funds are
invested in manufacturing, 31 p.c. in
merchandising and 3 p.c. in sundries.
The holding company was formed in
1954 to acquire the capital of Noyes
Bros (Melbourne) Ltd, electrical and
engineering contractor, and of Knox
Schlapp Ltd, engineering merchant.
The only approach to shareholders
was the one-for-four par issue of 1955.
Otherwise the company finances its
activities from within. Overdraft is
nominal at £28,667, and against that
there was £lOO,OOO out on deposit.
There are no long-term liabilities.
Liquidity was strengthened in 1959-
60 by the sale of the 750,000 shares held
in Noyes (Australia) Pty Ltd to Cromp-
ton Parkinson of England for £656,250
cash and certain valuable distributing
agreements.
The company is a consistent rather
than spectacular investment. Until the
latest dividend rise, the moderate rate of
8 p.c. was paid each year since formation
of the holding company, with just one
lapse to 7 p.c. in 1957.
As primarily an income stock, NKS
20s. shares are getting vulnerable around
375., where the yield is 4.9 p.c.
Not much can be expected in income
on capital benefits until the company
hoists the earning rate higher on a
permanent basis. However, for those
who bought at a much lower level, the
shares should remain a trouble - free
investment in the foreseeable future.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY* (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2096 3340 2334 2741 3133
Less current
liabilities 1342 1933 1689 1719 2006
Working capital 754 1407 1145 1022 1127
Investments 762 12 20 20 20
Fixed assets 758 1144 1610 1829 1876
Intangibles 532 532 548 549 548
2806 3095 3323 3420 3571
Ord. capital 2506 2506 2506 2506 2506
Reserves 300 589 817 914 1065
2806 3095 3323 3420 3571
Depreciation 44 52 63 101 125
Taxation 175 242 208 167 269
Net proflit 279 342 361 297 377
Dividends 200 200 200 200 226
Surplus 79 142 161 97 151
Earning rate 11.1 13.6 14.4 11.9 15.0
Dividend rate 8 8 8 8 9
Div. yield (a) 7.4 6.2 5.6 5.7 4.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 9.2 9.5 10.0 11.8 12.2
High price (b) 19/3 26/6 31/- 30/- 33/3
Low price (b) 15/- 17/3 23/3 23/3 26/6
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
CARRIER AIR COND. (HOLDINGS) LTD
Why the Shares Have Slumped
T'he growth aspects of the air-con-
ditioning industry were so well-
publicised some years ago that the field
is now over-crowded with companies
and individual consulting engineers. The
inevitable result was a price war, and
it was not only the small man or small
company that got hurt.
r J °
The once proud Carrier Air Con-
ditioning (Holdings) Ltd has ex-
, . V ~ .
perienced just as cold a blast as anyone
se
The loss of £132,168 for the financial
year to June 30, 1963, was Carriers
i , . it i • indc
first since a small (£4526) loss in 1945-
46. It was of such proportions that
directors dropped the dividend entirely.
A 12} p.c. rate had been maintained
faithfully for the previous four years,
since the present holding company was
formed.
Its predecessor, Carrier Air Con-
ditioning Ltd, was established in 1932 as
an offshoot of Carrier Corporation of
the US. Growth was not exceptional
until the ’sos, when in eight years profit
multiplied f rom £17,765 to £196,185,
withou , benefit of , akeover except for
, .. ,
perhaps one tiny Canberra company.
, n 1938 the holding company was
, , ~ i * ,
formed by the exchange of 20 ss. shares
r
for every three 20s. shares in the old
company. This was the first “bonus”
for shareholders> although eariier ttiey
, , , , c .
had the benefit of two par issues, a one-
, . ,
foi " one m 1956 and a one - foi " two in
1955. The holding company made one
issue a one-for-nine at 200 p.c.
premium in August, 1960.
The ss. shares have collapsed from a
1960 peak of 275. to a humble level


WHAT A SPRINGTIME
IT’S BEEN FOR
THE NINES
CHANNELS
As the year closes, each of the Channel 9’s in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
and Adelaide has established a clear leadership in their respective markets
audience measurement surveys have established that they command far
more television viewers than their competitor stations.
That's a grand Springtime, a grand springboard, a grand foundation on which
to face 1964, the first year in which all television stations in the four markets
may face the threat, or the stimulus, of new competition.


around par. Although difficult economic
conditions in 1961 and 1962 had
obviously had deleterious effects on the
building industry, apart from the chair-
man’s statement in his 1962 annual
review that “the year just passed was
affected to a considerable extent by the
delayed commencement or completion
of major undertakings,” few shareholders
had premonitions of the major setback
until the interim dividend was passed
in March, 1963, in order “to conserve
funds”.
Even then directors voiced their in-
tention to pay a final dividend, but three
months later official doubts were raised
about this and eventually none was
paid.
Now shareholders know the worst
about 1962-63. In the words of the
chairman (Mr R. H. Minter), the major
depressing influences experienced were
continued intense competition, leading
to reduced profit margins, industrial
disputes, including a strike at the Seven
Hills manufacturing plant and at Sydney
branch, and the protracted adverse
weather in Sydney.
The loss due to the bad weather and
strikes was estimated. at £55,000. In
the directors’ report there was also
mention of unusually high bad debts,
extra provision for long-service leave,
and a write-down of existing stocks due
to “increased efficiencies in our manu-
facturing division”.
The company finds the preparation of
tenders extremely costly.
Carrier handles all types of air-con-
ditioning, from package units to com-
plete systems for Government bodies,
factories and commercial buildings.
There are plants in Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane and Adelaide.
In New Zealand a joint venture with
Fletcher Holdings Ltd was begun in
1961-62, which will not be paying divi-
dends probably until 1965.
Loan capital increased by £lOO,OOO
to £350,000 by receipt of half of a loan
arranged with the AMP (secured by a
ten-year mortgage over the Seven Hills
property). The company otherwise used
short-term loans to preserve liquidity,
and at balance date these stood at
£207,500.
At the annual meeting shareholders
were told that it would be “a couple of
years before we are out of the woods”,
and no promises were made about a
dividend for the current year.
At June 30 forward orders were worth
£2,750,000, or about £250,000 more
than the year before, and three months
later they were over £3 million. A
large proportion of these would be
carried out at low margins, and there
was little evidence then of any marked
improvement in the industry.
Efforts were being made to reduce
overheads, and the US Carrier Corpora-
tion had loaned the company top
executives to make various recommenda-
tions for more profitable operation.
The company has always claimed to
be the leader in the field of air-con-
ditioning in Australia, but has apparently
failed to recognise the limitations of its
internal organisation until well after the
posting of bad weather signs outside.
It will be a long time before investors
would feel comfortable about paying
even last year’s minimum of 12s. 3d.
for the shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1006 1500 2093 1970 1977
Less current
liabilities 547 698 1160 1159 1162
Working capital 459 802 938 811 815
Investments 2 l 2
Fixed assets 657 792 918 1036 988
Intangibles 357 357 357 357 357
1473 1951 2213 2206 2172
Loan capital 95 93 250 250 350
Capital in
advance 270
Ord. capital 892 892 1000 1000 1000
Reserves 486 696 963 956 822
1473 1951 2213 2206 2172
Depreciation 47 63 86 105 108
Taxation 132 123 106 117 4
Net profit 197 203 179 172 -132
Dividends 111 111 125 125
Surplus 86 92 54 47 -132
Earning rate 22.2 22.8 17.9 17.2
Dividend rate 12J 12J 12| 12|
Div. yield (a) 3.4 3.2 3.7 4.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 14.8 16.9 18.9 17.5
High price (b) 16/- 22/3 27/- 20/6 18/3
Low price (b) 11/9 15/1 £ 15/9 15/6 12/3
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
BUCKINGHAM’S LTD
Faces a Difficult Future
QJale of the Ashley chain of women’s
wear stores by Buckingham’s Ltd
to the Woolworths group last year for
about £750,000 had the effect of
immediately improving the liquidity of
the Buckingham’s group. But the com-
pany is determined not to remain static
and has acquired a site for a new
Buckingham’s store at the outer Sydney
suburb of Liverpool.
This is an attempt to offset the decline
in business in the section of Sydney
where Buckingham’s main store is
located —the Oxford Street area —and to
step up the activities of its home sales
division.
The company came into being in
1920, selling mainly household goods
and furniture, but later branched into
the field of women’s clothing marketed
through Ashley stores and a higher class
range of clothing marketed through the
Curzon store.
Late in 1962 the seven stores trading
as Ashleys were sold to Woolworths
because directors found trading con-
ditions too difficult as a result of the
large-scale movement of the large chain
stores into the field.
This intense competition allied with
larger than normal bad debts resulted in
a gradual decline in earnings between
1960 and 1962 from £79,158 to
£39,346, but in the latest year to July 31
the company made up most of this
decline with a profit jump to £78,582,
equal to 5.5 p.c. on capital after deduct-
ing preference charges of £9500.


All responsibility for election comment in this
issue is taken by Peter Hastings, of 252 George
Street, Sydney.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE.
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building.
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. ISS^VV
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
2 Denham Street Phone <i()l
With these fluctuations in earnings,
dividend payments have been uneven,
although no payments have been missed.
In the past five years, reserves have had
to be called on in three years to meet
the distribution, and in the other two
years the payouts were only just covered.
The company does not face an easy
future, for the fields in which it operates
are still highly competitive while the
cost of its home service division, which
employs 193 representatives, must be
high.
However, the 1962-63 year saw an 11
p.c. increase in sales and the trend is
continuing. Reflecting this trend in
turnover, hire-purchase debtors showed
a strong upward movement from £2.2
million to £2.6 million subject to an
unearned income provision of £317,717
and a bad debts provision of £50,000.
This large volume of credit finance has
resulted in a high interest bill of about
£85,000 annually on its own borrowings
which at last balance date stood at
£921,979.
The reserve position is quite strong
with capital reserves of £417,603 and
other reserves of £297,548 backing
ordinary capital of £1,253,255 and
preference capital of £1 18,750. With
intangibles written out of the books, net
backing for each ss. ordinary share is
7s. lOd.
The market is currently pricing the
shares at 3s. lOd. to show a dividend
yield of 7.1 p.c. and an earnings yield
of 10.4 p.c. Any projected investment
at this price must be considered as a
long-term project.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
July 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1000 999 1128 1050 852
H.P. debtors 1504 1559 1587 1833 2188
Less current
liabilities 1791 1862 1260 1420 1143
Working capital 713 696 1455 1463 1897
Investments 38 44 3 3 3
Fixed assets 1570 1600 1668 1635 1109
Intangibles 80 62 60 50
2401 2402 3186 3160 3009
Represented by:
Pref. capital 119 119 119 119 119
Ord. capital 931 1253 1253 1253 1253
Capital reserves 373 373 373 373 41-8
Other reserves 390 408 373 300 297
Loan funds 588 249 1068 1115 922
2401 2402 3186 3160 3009
Depreciation 47 51 54 47 42
Taxation 13 41 10 3 62
Net profit 15 79 65 39 79
Dividend 52 62 83 60 72
Surplus 17 7
Dividend p.c. 5 6 6 4 5
Earnings p.c. 1.0 5.8 4.6 2.4 5.5
Div. yield (a) -3.7 5.5 7.5 6.0 6.5
High price (b) 7/9 7/4 5/3 5/3 4/3
Low price (b) 5/1 4/7 3/7 3/1 3/-
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Factors in the Dog House?
prominently on the financial
page of the “Daily Telegraph” last
Thursday was the statement that British
Factors Pty Ltd had changed its name
to Dog House Drive-Ins Pty Ltd. It
opens up interesting possibilities as to
what name change would be appropriate
for Australian Factors when it produces
its result. Time, both in the moral and
legal sense, is running out for the much
overdue result.
It is amazing that the share price has
rallied above par again. Following my
successful shorting of the shares last
month, I am tempted to try to repeat
the performance. On second thoughts,
I’ll sit tight and watch the effect it might
have on the shares of Commercial
Guaranty, another factoring company.
For those who demand institution-
backed finance companies, Commercial
Guaranty fits the bill perfectly. The ss.
shares are probably cheap at 65., but
even so could temporarily fall if Aus-
tralian Factors makes too big a splash.
Anderson Meat was the industrial
share purchase. This is not the first time
that the stock has entered the portfolio.
Early this year, the company issued its
interim report telling shareholders that
the accumulated loss (£91,000) brought
forward into the 1962-63 period was
more than recovered in the first six
months. It proved an excellent time to
buy the shares. Profits eased off in the
second half of the year.
Now it looks as though the company
is making another revival. The current
year has started on a very promising
note. Prior to the final result, specula-
tion on the 20s. shares had pushed them
up to 225., but they have now drifted
back to about 17s. 3d. I picked up 400
at this price.
With oil in the news again it is only
fair to add another oil stock to the port-
folio. Here is the Associated Group
getting a strong flow of gas from one
well and a reasonable flow of oil from
another, and it passes almost unnoticed
by the market. A booklet published by
the Melbourne broker Wallace H.
Smith sets down the relative share
values of those companies in the Associ-
ated Group. Drawing a line across from
AA Oil at 255., Associated Freney stands
at 10s. 6d., Papuan Apinaipi at 7s. Bd.
and ACP at 2s. lid. On this basis,
Associated Freney at the present market
price of 9s. 6d. looked the best proposi-
tion. As a punt, I bought 200 shares.
The convertible note purchase was the
1964 Tutt Bryant £1 notes. Unlike its
major competitor, Waugh & Josephson,
Tutt Bryant put up a very fair showing
during the recession. Earth-moving
equipment and the like appears to be an
industry overlooked by this anxious
market. The ISAS shares in the port-
folio are joined by 200 Tutt Bryant
notes at 295. 3d. These notes are almost
Is. below the market value of Tutt
Bryant shares.
The anxious market referred to in the
above paragraph swallowed up part of
my two-star performers—looo Hanimex
at 14s. lid. gave a profit of £5O and the
100 Gibson and Howes at 86s. showed a
profit of £4O. This leaves a balance of
300 Gibson & Howes shares so I will
receive an even 100 bonus shares.
Transactions for the w'eek were:
BOUGHT
400 Anderson Meat, 17/3 £352
200 Associated Freney, 9/6 £9B
200 Tutt Bryant £1 notes, 29/3 .. £297
SOLD
1000 Hanimex, 14/11 £733
100 Gibson & Howes, 86/- £424
The result of all these transactions is
that my account is in balance. This
makes it more simple in finalising the
accounts next week. The £4OO increase
in the portfolio this week will help the
final result.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 14/6
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 23/-
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 7/6
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 26/-
400 ISAS 24/9/63 18/- 19/
300 Gibson & Howes 2/10/63 76/- 86/
200 CSIT 10/10/63 71/- 78/-
400 BH Sth ctg. 15/10/63 11/6 12/3
400 Larke 17/10/63 11/- 11/3
500 Holy man Woods 23/10/63 9/6 9/3
2000 Mid Eastern 24/10/63 2/6 2/9
2000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 5/9
2000 W.J. Manu., rts 30/10/63 5/- 5/6
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/
400 Tableland Tin 5/11/63 20/- 23/
1000 Steamship, rts 11/11/63 4/3 4/9
400 Mai leys 12/11/63 27/3 28/9
1000 Tasman (short) 14/11/63 lOd. 9d.
400 Anderson Meat 19/11/63 17/3 17/3
200 Associated Freney, 19/11/63 9/6 9/9
200 Tutt Brvant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 29/3


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Wool Keeps a Secret
Future of Industry is in the Balance
Oack to London this week flew William
** J. Vines, 47-year-old managing
director of the International Wool Secre-
tariat, convinced that the future of wool
is in the balance but confident that it
can be tilted the right way.
Part of the tilting will take effect, for
good or ill, on January 7, when the Wool
Industry Conference, the “parliament”
of the wool-grower, decides whether to
support the Secretariat’s recommenda-
tion for much more money with which to
woo its 500 million potential customers.
Settling behind Bill Vines as he sped
northwards was the dust of a clash with
the Press, which in Melbourne had ad-
monished him for accusing financial edi-
tors and “other amateur critics” of unin-
formed criticism of the Secretariat's plan
for supercharging its world-wide promo-
tional efforts. It was not the Press, how-
ever, that would supply the £l4 million
Australia has been asked to contribute.
With the men who are being called on
for that, the country’s 120,000 wool-
growers, Vines was sure he was friends.
A hint that not all producers subscribe
to the complaint that the Secretariat
has not unfolded its plan for public scrut-
iny came when Vines was guest speaker at
a public meeting in the Melbourne Wool
Exchange. A man jumped up from the
audience demanding to know what sala-
ries Vines and Sir William Gunn, chair-
man of the Secretariat and of the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, received. The
Board’s publicity man, who was master
of ceremonies, had barely got his Adam’s
apple poised for a reply when “Big Bill”
Gunn of Goondiwindi brushed him aside
and glared at the questioner: “I don’t
think anyone in this building would be
prepared to have his private finances
revealed, and I don't intend to tell you
what Mr Vines is paid, but it is less than
he would be getting if he had stayed on
in the paint job.” The galleries rattled
with applause.
Vines has always made it clear that
he is remote from the task of urging
wool-growers to put up more money for
promotion. That is something for tne
Wool Board and farm organisations that
are aligned with it. Vines’ job is to pro-
mote wool as well as possible with what-
ever money the industry gives him. At
the same time, he has not concealed his
belief that wool must spend more if it is
to make an impression in the battle
againt the synthetic-fibre giants.
The plan for hotting up promotion is
not something the Secretariat thought up
on the spur of the moment, and it has
run a gamut which, had it been hair-
brained, would have ensured its extinc-
tion long before the amateur critics got
wind of it.
As Vines explained, it took the Secre-
tariat a year to analyse the wool situ-
ation, develop strategy and tactics and
prepare detailed plans. The work oc-
cupied people in 17 countries. The plan
was put before the Secretariat’s Board in
November last year. The Board, compris-
ing Australian, South African and New
Zealand growers, examined the plan and
employed outside experts to help it. Hav-
ing approved it, the Board sent the plan
to the Wool Boards of the three countries,
who made similar examinations. Then,
in Australia’s case, the plan went to the
Wool Industry Conference. The Confer-
ence, of 50 grower-members plus Sir
John Crawford, employed outside con-
sultants to examine the proposals again.
The verdict was that they were sound
and had been properly evaluated.
Many around the country were inclin-
ed to agree that after all this brainwork
the opinions of outside critics were not to
be listened to too hard. Reminding Vines,
who had said he was irked by some of
the comment filtering through to him in
London, that criticism was the lot of the
public man, the Melbourne “Age” closed
an editorial with the quotation: “A man
who is wrapped up in himself makes a
small parcel.” Rapped he might have
been, but not wrapped, for Vines next
morning told The Bulletin: “I express-
ed myself clumsily. I accept the rebuke.”
Vines came to Australia to report to
the Australian Wool Board, which was
formed in place of the Australian Wool
Bureau since his last visit in April.
In his own life, time is all-important.
For the last two years he has no longer
had enough of it for golf, and spends
more nights travelling the world than at
home with his family. He drives himself
to work in a Rover, and if you ask him
how far his house in Kingston Hill, Sur-
rey, is from the Secretariat’s London
office, he is more likely to say half an
hour than eight miles.
Bill Vines thinks time is also vital for
wool —so much so that the industry can-
not afford to settle the marketing ques-
tion before granting more money for
promotion. Even if money were granted
now, it would be another year before it
became available for spending.
“Thw wool textile industry is waiting
to see what the wool-growing industry is
going to do,” he said. “With wool at its
present price, manufacturers are won-
dering if they can sell their goods at this
kind of level. I have had cables from
overseas this week about that. The situa-
tion highlights our case. It shows we
cannot wait for the marketing question
to be resolved before we increase our
promotional efforts. In some countries,
like Germany, we are being outspent 10
to one by synthetics.”
Among the factors that had contri-
buted to delay was the problem a country
so large as Australia presented in com-
munication between growers, the Board
and the Secretariat, Vines went on. Added
to this was the fact that in appealing for
a big levy increase the Board started
from scratch compared with South
Africa and New Zealand, where levies
were already much higher than here.
Tn view of reports he had received in
A London about the historic Hamilton
London about the historic Hamilton
wool meeting, when Sir William Gunn
collected flour and eggs, Vines was heart-
ened by what he found in the attitudes
of growers he met on this trip. He said
he was deeply impressed with the job Sir
William and his staff had done in recent
months to tell growers why more money
was needed. In doing this, Sir William
had told them much more than they had
known before about what happened to
wool after it left the sheep.
“For me,” said Vines, “the trip has
been a two-way street. While answering
growers’ questions, I have learned a lot
about their thoughts and lives. The trip
has been more illuminating that any
other. I am hopeful that Australia will
vote the money that is needed in Janu-
ary.”


m
BY APPOINTMENT '
TO HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
GIN DISTILLERS
BOOTH’S DISTILLERIES LIMITED, LONDON
famous in London since 1740
BOOTHS
HIGH & DRY
GIN
aq
HIGH & DRY
ftOOTHyi
dry gw
■
Now distilled in Australia*®
and sold at Australian priced
tt
THAT’S BETTER-THAT’S BOOTHS!
f »
820.65
Comeback of the Turkey
Automated Trade Will Extend
A feature of the meat and poultry
industry is the resurgence of the
turkey.
In the days of large families it was a
popular bird. Before World War I it
was common to see flocks of them driven
round the streets for sale, sometimes on
foot with a man behind and two or
three small boys as cautious outriders.
Their habits, their size and other
peculiarities, plus Health Departments,
banished them from the cities, though
they had their special habitats.
It was fashionable in early motoring
days to pick up a turkey at Gundagai on
the way from Melbourne, and the birds
remained welcome in restaurants because
they were economical—little waste bone
in them, easy to slice and divide and
the residues from carving for table
eminently suitable for “chicken sand-
wiches”.
Still, turkeys were not a national
industry here as they are in the United
States. At no stage have they ever
reached the status of an Army ration
as in Korea, where the complaint of
Australians who happened to go on
American victuals was ‘t‘oo much so-
and-so turkey”.
Now the turkey is coming back as a
comestible with a louder gobble than
ever before. Hormone feeding and
modern methods have revolutionised
him. He is no longer the heavy, bel-
ligerent wanderer over paddocks with
vagrant and sometimes destructive
habits. His size is controllable, his dis-
position can be tamed from that of the
noisy, hectoring bully to Sunday school
meekness. The bird has, indeed, been
industrialised to the point at which it
can be more or less factory-produced,
and confined within quarters of what
used to be chicken-run dimensions.
HThe prophet of the turkey and turkey
marketing is Harold Fraser, a graduate
of Hawkesbury College, who after World
War II began breeding hormonised
turkeys behind a discreet rock ledge in
the midst of—of all places—fashionable
St Ives. At one stage he had 300 of
them there with never a complaint from
neighbors, a good many of whom prob-
ably did not know they were there.
Starting with them as a sideline, Mr
Fraser, who was at that time head of
the Soil Conservation Service of the
NSW Department of Agriculture, with
a promising career in front of him,
decided to retire to Wagga and exchange
the Public Service for turkey-breeding.
That was in 1957. An ex-RAAF man,
who with his two brothers had sampled
the pleasures of Torokina in the Pacific
during the war, he gave this now well-
known name to his farm and entered the
turkey distribution business in con-
junction with his wife and his son
Robert. The son was one of the most
brilliant schoolboys of his Leaving Cer-
tificate year, taking first-class honors
in geology and biology, topping the State
lists in biology and winning one of the
three RAS scholarships to Hawkesbury,
whence he went to a post-graduate
course at the Davis Institute within the
University of California.
After five years of operation, Toro-
kina, which is run in conjunction with a
frozen-foods business, has become well
established and has pioneered in Aus-
tralia the commercial business of turkey
incubation, hatchery and marketing. In
1962 it was the only commercial organ-
isation represented in its line at the 12th
World Poultry Congress held on Sydney
Showground.
Torokina has the first modern large-
scale “incubator-hatcherbator” in Aus-
tralia. It was imported from California
and is capable of handling 3000 eggs at
a time. Infra-red gas brooders, range
waterers, automatic feeders, automatic
pluckers and electric stunners industrial-
ise the work of the farm, and snap-
freezing widens the ambit of the market
which normally embraces Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Canberra and Adelaide, as well
as markets as far away as Perth and
interior Queensland and Western Aus-
tralia. In the busier seasons two ship-
ments a week are sent each to Sydney
and Melbourne, the refrigerated trucks
taking a backloading of frozen foods.
The turkeys are standardised from


REAL ESTATE
PURCHASE- LEASEBACK
Arrangements can now be made on all types of industrial
property, ranging from small factories to multi-storey office
buildings.
Extensive finance is available with no minimum or maximum restriction. Obtain
capital for expansion and the resultant advantages of tax deductible lease
payments plus NO LOSS of capital appreciation.
Further particulars may be obtained from
the Development Division of
KILLEN & THOMAS PTY. LTD.
44 MARGARET STREET
SYDNEY. 29-5637
"Over half a Century of Service to the Community"
small birds in the five and six pound
range to large restaurant birds of 251 b
or more and are carton-packed.
Though the Fraser organisation is the
pioneer one in Australia, there is little
doubt that the trade will extend,
especially since it is so thoroughly auto-
mated that it calls for only limited staff.
And it has the advantage of being oper-
able on limited areas.
Dairymen Want a Rise
Preparing a Case for Milk Board Inquiry
HThe difficulty of obtaining metropolitan
milk contracts has given outsiders the
impression that wholemilk suppliers are
the elite of the dairy industry, the lucky
ones who, in exchange for milking
through the slush of winter to keep
quotas up, receive a premium that enables
them to smoke cigars while their brothers
selling butterfat roll their own cigarettes.
For reasons other than prosperity, con-
tracts have become no less scarce, but
the legend of privilege has begun to
fray.
For Victoria’s 5000 wholemilk pro-
ducers, an inquiry that opens in Mel-
bourne next week (December 3) may help
to patch it up.
The inquiry, which will go on for
weeks and not yield a finding until at
least February, has been authorised by
the Victorian Milk Board. When the
board decided to go ahead with it, it
invited all sections of the industry con-
cerned in the issue to present evidence.
For producers, the most important
guest at the Board’s party will be the
Victorian Dairyfarmers’ Association, but
it will not be the only one to advance a
case. The Wholemilk Section of the Aus-
tralian Primary Producers’ Union has
also been raking up evidence.
It was not until about a week ago that
these two voices of the dairyfarmer
decided independently what increase in
return they needed, and later still that
they got together to line up their claims
for the sake of solidarity in the eyes of
the arbitrators.
The amount of the increase for which
they will jointly press is to remain secret
until the hearing has opened, for the pro-
ducers’ representatives have said they
do not want to prejudice the outcome
by igniting a controversy before the
event and leaving the inquiry with only
the fumes.
This has not prevented pundits and
punters from taking a stab. One Mel-
bourne daily gave 4d. a gallon as the
objective before the appropriate com-
mittees ’ ad decided what amount they
would go for, relating the figure, un-
fortunately, to the price for consumers
instead of the return to dairymen. An-
other daily, with more precision but less
accuracy, gave the figure as 2-Id. a
gallon.
Actually, enough hints have been is-
sued to make 4d. a gallon look near
enough to what the dairymen will ask
for. Officially, producers claim that fig-
ures submitted to such inquiries are re-
lated strictly to the facts and not over-
stated, in the hope of achieving a lesser
objective. But the committees that thrash
these things out are only human, and the
principle they repudiate has become so
entrenched in arbitration that it is certain
they will pay it some respect.
The 4d. a gallon being tipped for this
inquiry is the amount that was sought
in the hearing that preceded the last
increase in September, 1961. The in-
crease granted on that occasion was
2£d. a gallon, and producers were disap-
pointed with it. This time 2id. is about
what they want, so it is likely enough
that they will ask for Ad. as before.
At the core of the producers’ case will
be the fact that since the survey which
provided the basis for the last inquiry
their costs have risen by 2.56 d. a gallon.
On the other hand, the Victorian
Dairyfarmers’ Association’s economists
have worked it out that milk is relatively
cheaper now than it was five years ago.
Then, they argue, the average weekly
earnings for each employed male in Vic-
toria were £20.22. At that figure it took
an average worker 9.1 minutes to earn
the Is. 6id. required for a quart of milk.
By 1962, the earnings for each employed
male had risen to an average of £23.96,
and although by this time the price of
milk had climbed to Is. 7fd. a quart, the
time needed for the worker to earn the
wherewithal for it had shrunk to 8.2
minutes.
Tn 1960, a field survey by the Milk Board
A showed that farm production costs
for contract milk were 35.55 d. a gallon.
On this was based a price determination
giving producers 43d. a gallon. It thus
provided a margin of 7.45 d. to cover
farmers’ risks and the influence of sur-
plus milk. The latest field survey, com-
pleted in October last year, showed that
producers’ costs had risen to 38.1 Id. a
gallon.
Too late to be included in this figure
but serving as ammunition for the inquiry
are two concessions recently awarded by
the Court to farm workers an extra
week’s annual leave and higher pay mar-
gins.
The inquiry was called not at the in-
stigation of the dairy farmers, but of the
milk distributors, who have their own
claims to make. If the demands of both
sections are met the price of milk to
the public is bound to rise, probably by
id. a pint.
It is reported on the grapevine that
many wholesale producers are less eager
to have their returns jacked up than
their organisations would make them ap-
pear. The reason for this is the fear that
if the price of milk goes up sales might
go down.
The last price rise gave little guide to
this possibility because its effect was
masked by the credit squeeze, a scare
over the discovery of penicillin in met-
ropolitan milk and by what a producers’
leader last week described as “an in-
sidious campaign by the medical pro-
fession on the question of milk fats and
the human heart.”
After the last price rise there was no
effect on milk sales for some months, and


HALE SCHOOL
WEMBLEY DOWNS
MASTERS TO TEACH
SCJENCE and MATHS
1. Any two of Physics, Chemistry and Mathe-
matics to Leaving Certificate standard.
Appropriate University Degree essential.
2. Mathematics and Science up to Third Year
High School standard. Degree or Teacher
Training qualifications accepted.
Salaries in line with W.A. Education
Department.
Applications in writing, stating age, marital
state, qualifications, experience and religious
denomination, and enclosing testimonials and
the names of two referees should be ad-
dressed to—
The HEADMASTER, Hale School,
Wembley Downs, Western Australia.
HISTORY and/or ENGLISH MASTER
required for
WOLAROI COLLEGE,
ORANGE, N.S.W.
Owing to expansion of the School in 1964
an additional master is required in February
for the teaching of History and/or English.
Excellent accommodation available for a
single man.
For further details please contact the
HEADMASTER, D. H. PREST, M.Sc., C.Ed.,
M.A.C.E.
CRUSHING PLANT
Tenders will be received in writing
to Post Office Box 44, Flemington,
Victoria, in relation to this crushing
plant.
One only Cornweil Mobile Crushing
Plant, complete with mechanical
feeder. Acme roller-bearing crusher.
Acme Roller-bearing granulator, vibrat-
ing screen and Dorman power unit.
This crushing plant, which cost
£16,000, is only 6 months old and is
in new condition, having had very
little use.
BRITISH SOLOMON ISLANDS PROTECTORATE
Immediate vacancies exist for a SURVEYOR
and an AGRICULTURAL OFFICER (graduate,
preferably with tropical diploma or experience).
Two-year contracts. Salary range £1 381-
£2,790 per annum, plus gratuity and allow-
ances.
Apply OVERSEAS SERVICE BUREAU,
260 Flinders Lane, Melbourne (63 5857).
ALL SOULS' SCHOOL
CHARTERS TOWERS
Wanted from the beginning of 1964-
MASTER TO TEACH GEOGRAPHY AND
EITHER ENGLISH OR COMMERCIAL
SUBJECTS
Award salary, resident or non-resident.
Housemastership available for suitable
man.
Particulars may be obtained from the
Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: JOHN WESTROPE, late of 10 Ormonde
Parade, Hurstville, in the State of New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that ESTHER ELSPETH
WESTROPE has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3332 of 1963 on the grounds of desertion
and separation notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed If you wish to defend this suit,
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., on or before the 6th January,
1964, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. A. J. F. ROFE &
N. A. MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
TO: JOHN WILLIAM STEWART. TAKE
NOTICE that your wife MARY STEWART
has presented a petition to the Supreme
Court of Western Australia for a decree of
dissolution of marriage against you on the
ground of separation. IF YOU DESIRE TO
DEFEND the Petition or institute proceedings
against the Petitioner you must file your
Answer in the Central Office of the Supreme
Court at Perth within twenty-eight days from
the date of this publication. IN DEFAULT
of your so doing the suit may proceed and
the Court will pronounce judgment and make
orders against you in your absence. DATED
this Bth day of November, 1963. G. T.
STAPLES, Acting Registrar. KNOTT
WALLACE & GUNNING, of 62 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Western Australia, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: FREDERICK LING, also known as
FRANK LAMBERT, formerly of 19 McLaughlin
Street, Argenton via Newcastle. TAKE NOTICE
that ETHEL LING, also known as ETHEL
LAMBERT, has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3931 of 1963 on the ground of separation.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 6th January, 1964,
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from HUNT & HUNT, Solicitors, 15
Bligh Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
then a drop, but to which factors it could
be attributed no one is sure.
Another point in the producers’ case
will be the recent rise of fd for milk
in New South Wales, taking the retail
price up to Is. a pint and the producers’
returns to 4s. 4.1 d. a gallon, compared
with 3s. 6.92 d. in Victoria.
While the gulf between the returns in
the two States might excite the envy of
some Victorian contract producers,
others regard it not as a bonus for
dairymen but as a reflection on the effi-
ciency of the dairying industry.
A side-effect of a rise in Victorian
producers’ returns could be an increase
in applications for contracts, but it is
unlikely that any more would be granted.
In the 12 months to last July, 366 ap-
plications were received by the Milk
Board and only 146 new.contracts issued.
Orphanage Farm Bull
for India
A nine-months-old Jersey stud bull
valued at 300 guineas has been
donated to India by the Ballarat Orphan-
age Farm through the Community Aid
Abroad organisation. The bull will be
sent to the Artificial Insemination Centre
of the Indian National Dairy Research
Institute in Bangalore.
Earlier this year Mr David Scott, Di-
rector of CAA, and Mr lan Roberts, a
farmer from Harrow, Victoria, visited
the Centre and were told of its need for
another Jersey bull. Foreign currency
shortage prevented the Centre from pur-
chasing a bull from overseas. The Bal-
larat Orphanage heard of the need and
offered to donate a high-grade bull.
The AI Centre at Bangalore is making
a major contribution to improving the
quality of Indian cow herds. Cross-breed-
ing Jersey with local Indian breeds in-
creases milk production and disease re-
sistance and produces a strong, medium-
sized animal suitable for working pur-
poses. Semen from the bulls at the Centre
is sent to 63 supply stations in Southern
India.
Tobacco Plantings
Start off Well
Transplanting of seedlings for the
1963/64 tobacco crop was commen-
ced in all Victorian districts during
October. Planting conditions were ideal
in the early part of this period, but to-
wards the end of the month, heavy rain
interrupted operations in the North-East-
ern areas and also caused some damage
to plantings already established.
Although blue mould has been identi-
fied in seedbeds at a number of widely
separated centres, it is believed that an
adequate supply of seedlings will be avail-
able from the healthy nurseries that
industry.
Chicken Survey
Tn an attempt to gather some statistics
on Victoria’s poultry population, at
present largely unknown, the poultry
section of the Victorian Department of
Agriculture has started a chicken survey
amongst hatcherymen and chick sexers.
The main aim will be to assess the move-
ment up or down in hatching of chicks
each year.
The information obtained will be used
as a market forecast and should assist in
reducing the adverse effects of over-pro-
duction and of shortages in the poultry
industry.
£3,000 for Border Leicester
4 Border Leicester shearling ram
fetched £A3,000 at the 1963 Kelso
(Scotland) annual ram sales. The price
equals the Kelso record for shearling
rams set in 1961.
The ram was purchased jointly by
Messrs R. M. Adam and Son and Mr
Alan Grant of Thorn, Perthshire.
Mr Adam, of Newhouse of Glamis
Stud, Glamis, is a well-known breeder
of sheep and cattle and will judge Angus,
Fat Cattle, Galloway and Beef Cattle
Paraders’ competitions at the 1964 Sydney
Royal Easter Show.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z. Subscription to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their copies air
freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for 52 issues, £2 12s. for
26 issues) or by surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for
52 issues £2 2s. for 26 issues).
BULLETIN
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN Y ou
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmasfer, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN * s a must.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 773
ACROSS
I—Blow the bloke from down under? (9, 6)
B—Where King John signed a score by New York and
me from French. (9)
10— Unmoustached 21-down is the gaoler in “Fidelio”.
(5)
11— Giving thought to scrutinise the team telephone. (11)
13— I can be seen to follow the little trade union bird.
(3)
14— Oz (not wizardly) is indicative of such but has us
once in the wrong. (6)
15— L ishopric object at the boil. (8)
18—The girl at the girl’s character
who provides a thin casing.
(8)
20—Morning poem by a right-
angle corner car of earlier
days. (X, 5)
24 German city letters. (3)
25 Footballer returned over four?
(11)
26 Boredom. (5)
27 By one unsullied description
of the Golden Age. (9)
29—W.A.M.D., Perth’s version of
1-across (9, 6)
DOWN
1— Italy’s version of 1-across is
up to 10-across. (7)
2 What makes a vessel run
badly. (3)
3 Crazy communication from
Riverina. (7)
4 About the first lady’s law
officers. (6)
5 No grand hut prig is spoilt
with rectitude. (7)
6 Implied thanks to a citizen
of Sheridan. (5)
7 Marsupial Menzies living in
a residential. (7)
9—They’re a long way from
home. (6)
12—Omission to do a cannon’s
fee badly. (3-8)
16— Land aid is thus. (5)
17 — Shoot through an insurance
company after next month.
(6)
18— Shipping hazard is no fellow
descendant of Mohammed.
(7)
19— Mexican spirit makes it equal.
(7)
21— Binding Missouri to 10-across
(7)
22 Fifty-one know the Queen is
a character who mentions re-
semblances. (7)
23 The author of “Tristram
Shandy” enters in confusion.
(6)
28 —Newt left without its initial.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 772


mssmm
m
w*
L
/
,
:: 1,..
*V : fi 9Pkr :
■ , ,
f
gm
/ m
’■SOUHM
:
i iflH| i g#
t. i
;::i
*
■ . : ■■■■::■■■■
HU
-c r> P'
i
I*l
i
I
I
i
■■ ' ■ ■i ■. ;
MKHKKfiKiHKk
; : ..
:
;-
siiis^waißW^MW
v: ill
M
■B
<1
>?, CTO: r.---, -1 .
H
Iglgllf
0 V
i-i
SL
mm
■misißittSsfi
,
im
mmm
,-V f -n
:
c M
:
.
Si
118#
SB®
Hi
111
■>
. .
WfelSilS|®l
v.®
warn
1 . ■
ill
m
5 lf,
w ::
I §pi
ijji
:
MSMSM S
w*
fe
I"
n»
. iil
■ f
!> ■
r. : ®
i ■ '
!■
|
3
I
!.§i i ■ m
- i
?vV
1 9 ff
\ i f
. fc,;'
1 1 ■,
n - f
. ® 7:7
Hi
**
■
Bright new idea:
BRANDY FRESHERS
with the golden taste of sunshine
Freshers can be long or short, sweet or tangy, but
always the base must be good Australian Brandy . . .
because our Brandy is the joyous golden-hearted spirit
of sun-blessed grapes, winner of many overseas awards,
least expensive base of all for countless summer cool-offs.
Moderate people who like to live the good life enjoy
Brandy often. You, too?
TRY THIS! BRANDY FIZZ! Into a large tumbler put 2 tablespoons
cracked ice, 1 ounce (about 2 tablespoons) Brandy and an orange slice.
Peel a lemon spiral fashion, hook one end to rim of glass, fill with Dry
Ginger Ale, serve with straws. SEND NOW FOR FREE LEAFLET full
of recipes for exciting long drinks, short drinks and punches with Brandy.
Just write to the Wine Information Centre in your State.
Bex 2534, G.P.0., Sydney
Bex 4C57. G.P.0., Melbourne
Box 155 C, 6.P.0., Brisbane
Box 260 D, G.P.0.. Adelaide
Box T 1650, G.P.O. Perth
Box 809 H, G.P.0., Hobart
AUTHORISED BY THE AUSTRALIAN WINE BOARD
..
wmmsmmm
mm


The world’s finest tobacco
is at your fingertips
HX9ATJ7 VktXXX S /7 7,y AX / 7 VH O
XXOa/XO OX GfOOi/O s sv x** h x o y sa/x
A & C 7 7 & O A* J H X A/ / O 3 S n x S «y / y
X W V A/ X C 7 r y X \r S / 3 z J S Da//*'
IS
<3l
>
fi
m v*S
Vi
’W%
:•>■ - •
■■■■
• f~" ■'
Wm
:
M
: .
THE ONLY
VIRGINIA
KING SIZE
PLAIN
