

The Bulletin
AUGUST 24, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF FACT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
I Stu. H* j||


MMHBj
Httfe -
Xp
£»■
MM*
Wmmmn? ■»
••• -■*•“
:
rv
■
MSS*
'S®& -
J ’ : i’Wri : *::r?
Blk ■■■I 1
K r ■
8i§®Sl|§^
Film made from Geon vinyl resin is used in the manufacture of Plastalon Marine Wear.
is a lifesaver
Over the waves, safely, in protective wear made with
Geon vinyl resin. In the manufacture of life lackets, life belts and other marine wear,
Geon is a friend indeed. Tough on the job, film made from Geon withstands the
abuse of sunshine, salt water, soft water ... is wear and tear resistant. Soft and pliable,
it allows freedom of movement, is colour-fastly bright for easy “spotting”. More and
more manufacturers are discovering how Geon improves products or helps evolve new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne, telephone 65-8.221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road
North Sydney, N.S.W., telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited.
0* RD Of
1963
SERIAL No
vmQi
MS6I4A


National Notebook
Arrabal Answers
Okilful and adroit questioning is
supposed to lay bare the soul of
a personality, but the axiom took a
knock last week when some notably
clumsy student questioning of Paris
playwright Fernand Arrabal (flown in
for the Universities Drama Festival in
Sydney) nevertheless showed up a fairly
attractive character.
Looking rather more like Jose Ferrer
than Toulouse-Lautrec, M Arrabal, a
small man, made an ordinary chair seem
a high chair with a remarkably advanced
infant in it. His legs were elegantly
wound into the chair rungs, and a silver-
topped cane moved in slight, delicate
patterns with his words . . .
Why do you wear a beard?
It’s easier to seduce my cats that way.
We don’t know you, M Arrabal; will
you tell us something about yourself?
It doesn’t matter if you don’t know
me but your grandchildren won’t pass
their Leaving if they don’t.
What do you think of
your own plays?
I am doing a public job,
therefore it is not for me
to say anything, only the
public.
What do you think of
Shakespeare?
Who is Shakespeare?
Whom do you most admire, who has
had the most literary influence on you?
Kafka, Lewis Carroll, Baudelaire,
Rimbaud.
How do you write your plays do
you have a theme first?
I write in the most romantic way.
I live a poetic life to the utmost.
You use the term “the wonderful”
quite a bit what do you mean by it?
To “love to madness.”
Would you say you are mad?
Everyone is mad. Look at you. Look
at you in general, I mean. You must be
crazy to come and listen to me.
How do you define pleasure?
I prefer play to seriousness. Serious-
ness has something in view, you get
there, it is over. Play can go on and on.
it is truly creative.
What do you feel about Fando and
Lis (the Arrahal play being staged at
the Festival )?
It is one of my older works. I have
no intention of seeing it. I write my
plays, I am not a critic of them. Now 1
write “Panique” theatre.
What does Panique theatre mean?
We do not know ourselves. There is
a group of us who meet and do not do
anything. This is the essence of Panique.
that one doesn’t have to do anything.
What do you hope to contribute to
theatre?
I do not hope to contribute. I hope
to destroy.
Do you think you will father a school?
I detest children.
Who are the best living playwrights?
lonesco and Becket. Most living play-
wrights are dead anyway.
What do you feel about critics?
They are a disservice to theatre, para-
sites, so they must be destroyed. Critics
are traps because they are flatterers who
mislead us about ourselves, so to be
avoided.
What do you think of Goethe?
I read him and unfortunately admire
him. He is almost panique.
Of Nietzsche?
A dirty man.
Why are you obsessed with necro-
philia?
I have no obsession. I sleep with dead
people sometimes, that is all.
Have you read the Bible?
Much too long. I would
like to see it in comic
strip.
Would you like your
plays in comic strip?
That is my dearest
dream.
If you’re against moral-
ity, why do you raise moral issues in
your plays?
It is a great surprise to me there are
any.
What do you think of Moliere’s
morality?
When did Moliere write?
Eighteenth century.
We have made great progress since
then.
Your latest plays have done away
with words and actors, you use geo-
metric shapes in random rhythms?
Yes, this was a laboratory experiment.
We suppressed the words and then sup-
pressed the actors. We tried to make
visual and witty some of the ideas of
mathematics.
Would you suppress audiences too?
Yes, with a machine gun.
Have you read Joyce?
A great admiration. He has discovered
many things about language for me.
1 am sorry that he has discovered, them
first.
You went to a US university for a
while what course did you follow?
Nothing specific. But I liked it there
to the point of madness.
At this moment a fierce young man
became determined to reconcile the
problem of Arrabal’s “sadism” and
sadism as the young man understood it.
Page
3O
The Ugly Russians
The Budget: Mr Holt’s Lost Oppor-
tunities 6
Looking at Restrictive Trade Pro-
posals 13
Morris West: Profit Without
Honor? 15
A Minor Battle in the Snow .... 21
The Kellys Ride Again 23
Can Labor Ever Win? 25
Films: The Hitchcock Touch .... 35
Tennessee Williams’ Private Zoo . 39
Bugbear of Excess Capacity 43
Steel Industry for Tasmania .... 45
Shares and the Budget 51
The Golden Egg 61
@
CARTOON 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
FORUM 13
OUT AND AROUT 15
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 21
OVERSEAS 30
LETTERS 33
REVIEWS 35
RED PAGE 39
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 43
MAN ON THE LAND 61
CROSSWORD 62
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4337


It seemed a good time to go. We came
away with some conviction that M Arra-
bal will very likely write a good play
one day, that he is essentially an amus-
ing fellow, that his wit is fast, and
that indeed, as he says, he loves to play.
Fair Go
the Customs Department on
book censorship is no royal road to
popularity, but surely it’s about time to
give credit where it’s due. On “Four
Corners” recently censorship was given
another run and three cases were cover-
ed: a Newcastle librarian with a book
that some local Customs underling ob-
jected to, a Sydney printer who was once
visited by Customs officers about his
reprinting chapters from the banned
novel “Lolita”, and the distributors of the
American magazine “Playboy”, which
has upset the vice experts in Victoria and
Queensland. But there was barely a hint
in the programme that in each case the
Customs Department comes out of it
pretty well in the end. The Newcastle
librarian kept his book (and the local
busybody was put in his place), the
printer and publisher of the “Lolita”
chapters was left as free as the wind,
and as for “Playboy”, Customs has,
rightly, always let it freely into the
country.
Attacking Customs is good clean fun,
so no one can object too seriously if the
game gets a bit unfair. The trouble is
that it’s become such a favorite sport
with some intellectuals that many of
them are bound to go on playing it years
after Customs vacates the censorship
field altogether. In the meantime, if they
get bored with it, they might have a word
with Mr Gerald Lyons of “Four
Corners”, who introduced the censorship
programme by saying that the next seg-
ment on teenagers should be seen
by adults only!
Busy Line
F|ne of the wonders of modern science
is that you can now dial Sydney
direct from Canberra. This does not
work in reverse and does not work
yet between Canberra and Melbourne.
But now it seems that every time we
lift our receiver it is someone from
Canberra with a too-ready dialling finger.
So, feeling in a slightly nagging mood
about what seems to us to be, in the
grand old phrase, waste of the tax-
payers’ money, we rang the PMG in
Sydney to see if we could get figures
which might show increased traffic on
the Canberra-Sydney line. They oblig-
ingly rang Canberra to find out whether
we could or not. We couldn’t.
Our Cover
A uthor Morris West was photographed
at a book-signing session at David
Jones, Sydney. Mr West admitted that
at times like these the smile tends to
become a bit fixed.
The African paintings by Australian
artist Sidney Nolan were photographed
for us in London by Alec Murray. Mr
Nolan said he was “delighted” to have
the pictures in The Bulletin. He chose
which ones should be photographed for
us. This was a greater number than he
had allowed to any other magazine.
Separate reprints of the four-page
Nolan portfolio are available, at Is., on
application to The Bulletin office, or
Is. 3d. posted. A few separate prints of
the Australian Impressionists are also still
available at the same price.
"...and apart from the stimulus to industry and commerce, the encouragement to primary
producers, the prudent increase in defence expenditure—there's the extra ten bob a week for blokes
like you and me!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Govt-Controlled Spending
TF the 1963-64 Budget is kept in
A long-term perspective, related to
the future commitments of expan-
sion and defence, it would be im-
practical to expect substantial direct
cuts in income tax. The Treasury
may have yielded to some political
pressure to provide various conces-
sions and certainly the rural
groups scored this year but it is
obvious, after an analysis of the
amounts required to be spent in
this and ensuing years, that no
Government could afford to make
sweeping tax cuts. It may well be
that future Budgets will have to
provide for steeper taxation.
For one thing Australia must face
a rising defence cost burden. In
fact, Australia has been criticised
by the USA for not making
a sufficient contribution to West-
ern defence. And, as part of
the national defence pattern requires
an increased flow of migrants,
expanded transport services, and
the development of Australia’s
arid interior, the hard facts of
life are that we must find increas-
ing sums of money to finance that
development.
If the Budget is analysed purely
on the basis of how money will
be raised to meet various com-
mitments, due attention must be
given to the tremendous success of
the loan market last year when
£323 m. was raised. This was a
record peace-time loan raising effort
and was the main reason why
Treasurer Holt turned an expected
£llBm. Budget deficit into a
£l6 m. surplus. Without that re-
markable success in the loan mar-
ket, the Treasurer would have been
hard put to make the tax conces-
sions announced in the latest
Budget.
Mr Holt makes no secret of the
fact that he does not expect to
repeat his loan raising effort of last
year. For one thing, interest rates
on loans have dropped to around 4i
p.c. and are far less attractive than
they were last year. So Mr Holt
speculatively suggests that the
Treasury might raise about £3OO m.
in loans during 1963-64. But this
will still leave him £5B m. short
of his budgeted expenditure, which
will rise by £177 m. to a record
£1,956 m.
Of the loan money raised last
year, £66 m. was raised on overseas
markets, including three important
loans raised in New York. The
overseas borrowings accounted en-
tirely for the net increase in Aus-
tralia’s overseas reserves. Without
those loans, overseas reserves would
have fallen by £1 m. No such suc-
cess is predicted in overseas bor-
rowings this year. Mr Holt doubts
if Australia will be able to raise
any public money in New York
this year because of the recently an-
nounced 15 p.c. Interest Equalis-
ation Tax in the USA, which applies
to all new issues of foreign securi-
ties.
If, in fact, the loan market does
not live up to expectations, and if
the large-scale spending by the
Commonwealth Government does
not filter through sufficiently to
private enterprise to generate the
required increase in public ex-
penditure, the gap between Govern-
ment revenue and expenditure could
widen considerably, thus forcing
some pump priming in the form of
Treasury bill finance. This form of
cheap credit is inflationary . . . and
still remains a dirty word in
Treasury language.
71/lANY people who were critical of
inflation several years ago are
restive today and are inclined to
say they would welcome a bit of
inflation to get industry into top
gear again. They would like to see
more money circulating in the hands
of individuals and would prefer to
see a Budget which gave immediate
and direct concessions to the public
so that private spending could gen-
erate quickly. The key to the latest
Budget is that the Commonwealth
Government wishes to retain con-
trol of a large part of the public
purse part of the policy of “ex-
pansion by Government spending.”
Results may prove that Treasury
conservatism is unjustified. It is
asking the public to believe that its
method of controlled expansion will
prove to be in the best interests of
the national economy and will avoid
the hardship of rabid inflation. The
Government believes that by higher
expenditure (including an £lB m.
increase in Commonwealth public
works, an increase of £29 m. in
grants to the States, a rise of £33 m.
in defence) it will help to create
more jobs to cope with the increased
flow of migrants and the large
volume of school-leavers early in
1964.
TTS bounty of £3 a ton on super-
phosphates for primary producers
and a 20 p.c. investment allowance
to primary producers (to cost £8 m.
or two-thirds of the total £12.8 m.
tax concessions in 1963-64) will
stimulate spending and expansion in
primary industries. The social
service concessions, notably the
10s. a week increase for single
pensioners, will certainly go into
circulation immediately, along with
the abolition of tax on incomes be-
low £209. Most of the extra money
spent on social services will end up
in the retail stores, stimulating both
manufacturing and consumption.
Because of this surplus manu-
facturing capacity, there can be
sectional criticisms of the Budget
based on a desire to see more
spending in private hands. Also, it
could be claimed that Mr Holt is
just as much confused now as he
was last year on how much the
Treasury is likely to raise in loan
money. But the Budget quite clearly
is framed on a policy of pushing
the economy along by big Govern-
ment spending on public works,
roads, transport, migration, etc. This
is in conjunction with the expected
stimulus to housing arising from
an increase in the statutory limit of
savings bank funds for housing
loans from 30 p.c. to 35 p.c. of
depositors’ balances.
No Budget ever satisfies. No
Budget ever escapes criticism. Were
enough moneys allocated to New
Guinea? To the Colombo Plan?
To Northern development? To
education? If these demands are
added to the vital fact that £3OO m.
in loan money must be raised to
meet current commitments for
1963-64 the conclusion is inescap-
able that Australia more lightly
taxed than comparable developed
countries cannot afford ex-
tensive tax concessions.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE BUDGET
Mr Holt’s Lost
Opportunities
The Mixture As Before
H. HOLT
“Going nicely”
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
While housewives, pensioners, farmers
** and farriers took kindly to Mr
Holt’s mixture-as-before Budget, it was
an anti-climax for most husbands, busi-
nessmen and brokers, after so much
trumpeting of widespread tax concessions
and confidence boosters.
The Federal Treasurer is entitled to
his view that the economy has enough
steam in it to accomplish in conditions
of price stability the necessary tasks of
absorbing surplus labor and other un-
employed resources, not to speak of a
much higher migrant intake, without the
Govenment giving much of a hand to-
wards increasing incomes.
However, for all its highlights of par-
ticular public works there was nothing
in the Budget speech to suggest that he is
really abreast of the development needs
of the hour; rather only that despite the
80,000 unemployed and widespread sur-
plus industrial capacity he considers
everything is going nicely on the eco-
nomic front and that it would be fool-
hardy to take a dynamic view of the
possibilities ahead, and grasp them boldly
even if risking the possibility of prices
rising a little in the process. This has been
the Government’s and the Treasury de-
partment’s form for a long time now.
Indeed having had one heady dose of
complacency on the Government’s
activating role in the economy from the
cosy economic survey issued by the
Treasury a couple of months ago, I
hesitated to forecast a bold and imagina-
tive Budget such as widely predicted.
The strange thing is the Government
has convinced itself that this is an in-
spiring Budget. It is supine to argue, as
the Treasurer did in his Budget speech,
that the huge rise in Government ex-
penditure in itself represents a stimulus
to the economy or that the hypothetical
estimated cash deficit of £5Bl million
bespeaks so much boosting influence to
activity. This neglects the fact that the
great bulk of the £l6O million or more
increase in Government expenditure this
year will be financed from taxation. An
additional £133 million tax revenue is
expected.
If this may seem to leave a gap of
some £4O million or so it has to be
remembered lhat most of the £35 mil-
lion increase in the defence vote (as indeed
a large part of the £251 million overall
sum set aside for defence) will not be
spent in this country and will not enter
the stream of incomes here. But apart
from this, though the Treasury would be
reluctant to acknowledge it, most people
and firms regard taxation as a cost and,
as such, a brake on their enterprise, so
that the £133 million extra to be gather-
ed from taxpayers will tend to restrict
income generation more powerfully
pound for pound than the Government’s
additional spending will stimulate it.
If one cannot go along with the Trea-
surer’s view that he is giving the economy
a stimulus by taking £133 million more
tax from it for the Government to spend,
neither is it certain that companies will
be buoyed along sufficiently (particularly
in new investment) by their own rising
profits to make a full contribution to
effective demand to make good the in-
adequacies of income generation from
the Government’s side. It is certainly
open to doubt whether, as Mr Holt
quipped near the end of his speech:
“business is now moving along under
that most reliable of all stimuli —an
upward trend of profits.”
Nor is the Treasurer’s assumption that
the economy is blooming and activity
rising easily substantiated. As a matter
of fact a number of indicators fixed
investment, retail trade and production
of appliances for instance suggest the
economy is not moving into higher
ground or, if it is, the movement is
very uneven. That must be pretty ob-
vious even from a place as far away from
the nerve centres of the economy as
Canberra. So it is all the more surprising
the Treasurer failed to make the Budget
an occasion for giving business the con-
fidence healing stimulus it has been
crying out for in the shape of company
tax cuts.
Companies were given only the
scantest of mentions in the Budget
speech and this makes one wonder not
so much what the representatives of
business bodies advised the Government
in pre-budget talks to do to restore con-
fidence, but whether Cabinet took any
notice at all of what they had to say.
The only gesture towards secondary in-
dustry was an increase in private com-
THE DEATH OF ARCHBISHOP VAUGHAN
80 Years Ago: August 25, 1883
Tt is not the Roman Catholics alone
of N.S.Wales who have reason to
bewail the untimely death of ROGER
BEDE VAUGHAN. The colony at
large must lament the loss of a man
who brought to his elevated station
a degree of culture which could not
fail to have an influence upon society
in this young community. Arch-
bishop VAUGHAN passed through
ordeals here sufficient to test to the
uttermost the metal of any man. In
his struggle to obtain for his flock
what he regarded as their rights in
connection with educational facilities,
he encountered an antagonism which
must have moved every depth of his
disposition. What to him were the
most sacred and fundamental truths
were flouted and dissected with a
cool disregard of his feelings, and
satirized with a reckless abandon
which, if exercised by Agnostics
against Protestant revealed religion,
would assuredly have occasioned
prosecutions for blasphemy. But
Archbishop VAUGHAN never
flinched. He was a gentleman. The
loss of such an example of dignity in
a high station is a serious one, and
while Roman Catholics chant solemn
requiems, we others must also lament
the death of this admirable man in
our own fashion, but with no less
sincerity.


panies’ allowances for the retention of
undistributed profits.
True, the Treasurer did propose to
cast a less scrutinous eye over certain
business expenses which will cost the
revenue £2i million in a full year,
handed out a superphosphate bounty of
£3 a ton, and brought farmers into line
with manufacturing companies by giving
them a 20 p.c. investment allowance,
making the possible write-off of 40 p.c.
of the cost of their machinery in its first
year of use. But the much heralded re-
duction (abolition was thought possible,
even by the Associated Stock Exchanges)
of payroll tax didn’t rank a mention; nor
did the confidently forecast cut in com-
pany tax rates.
Tf it is difficult to understand why the
opportunity of boosting business con-
fidence was not taken in this Budget, it
is a lot easier to appreciate the Treas-
urer’s reluctance at this stage to cut
direct personal tax rates. For one thing
the whole structure of his Budget de-
fends on his success in raising £3OO
million or more loan money (after his
massive miscalculation last year he bluntly
[refused to put a firm figure on his loan
' expectations) and from what he said
neither New York nor any other over-
seas source is likely to contribute very
much of it. (Some £66 million was
raised overseas last year.) This means
he has to rely on local savings being
at least at last year’s rate and if possible
higher (to allow for increased private
investment). Any weakening in the com-
munity’s propensity to save would mili-
tate against this to the detriment of his
loan raisings.
It is an old Treasury trick to refuse
to give personal tax reliefs when the
future strength of the propensity to
save is in doubt. (Of course the same
applies to cuts in company tax, but in
this Budget one would have thought the
need to boost business confidence was
a compelling factor for such cuts.) Bet-
ter tax revenue in the Treasury’s hand
than money in the capital market and
supermarket bush.
As it happened the Treasurer con-
centrated his tax reliefs on indirect
taxes. Though this looks right in cur-
rent circumstances, in total the reliefs
were miserably small a mere £12.8
million sacrifice to revenue this financial
year in a total revenue estimate of
£1,935 million! Their impact on spend-
mg will be relatively insignificant. The
Treasury’s niggardly attitude to con-
sumers is the obverse of its desire to
maximise savings.
But while the ghost of the Govern-
ment’s loan raising programme stalked
through the whole of the Budget speech,
‘t is not that alone which has made the
Treasury wary of stimulating personal
spending by budgetary measures. Spe-
cific mention was made in different parts
of the Budget speech of several other
influences, such as wages increases. The
cost to this year s Budget of margins’
increases so far granted will be £l3 mil-
lion and this can be multiplied several
times to get the addition to wages for
the economy as a whole stemming from
margins incieases in the current year
(with another basic wage case coming
up in February next).
Another influence was the increased
cost of social services, which, with the
step up in pensions the biggest single
element, will rise by £33 million to
£411.3m. or a bit less than a quarter
of the Government s total expenditure
from the consolidated revenue fund.
Most of this will go straight into the
spending stream.
Then, and Mr Holt made a big point
of this, expenditure in all branches (of
the economy) is likely to increase fairly
strongly and so provide a strengthening
demand for the products of industry."
Apparently by this he was referring not
so much to increases in wage rates as
to expenditure arising from higher pro-
duction and increasing trade. If this
is an accurate assessment of the likely
contribution from industry and trade to
income generation this year it would cer-
tainly limit the extent to which the
Government would need to stimulate
spending by tax cuts. However, it is an
expectation only and we have yet to
see how industry reacts to the lack of
a positive confidence booster in the
Budget ’ _
Of course, some industries have been
given the green light in the Budget.
Building, for instance, should now make
a big response following the proposal to
allow the savings banks to put 35 p.c.
instead of the previous 30 p.c. of their
deposits into housing loans. Similarly the
fertiliser industry should now proceed to
go flat out supplying what will un-
doubtedly be a substantial increase in the
use D f superphosphate on which a bounty
of £3 a ton was given in the Budget,
And one expect farm machinery
companies to enjoy higher demand from
the bigger initial write-offs primary in-
dustry can now make on plant and equip-
ment. The biscuit, clothing, confectionery
a nd a few other industries where sales
tax has been abolished are also more
favorably placed. On the other hand,
as i oca j fi s h-canners have already pro-
tested, the removal of the 12+ p.c. sales
tax on imported canned fish threatens to
p U t them out of business,
•,,. , , f
", aS , a , who ! e . rea f UnfaV-
°rably in ,ts “"P" 1 and lnvestment <i®-
f ,s :° ns t 0 the Treasurers failure to
!ghten its tax load one might expect
intensification of the general cautionary
attitude in the economy. More shades of
dullness could creep into activity and
become pervasive, the price to be paid
f°r an unadventurous economic policy
which places stability first and growth
a poor second. If so the Government
would be required to take a more posi-
tive approach to its role in the economy,
a subject on which one heard Sir John
Crawford dilate (but alas in camera) to
more positive purposes than the Treas-
urer at the Bankers’ Institute in Mel-
bourne on the night of the Budget.
HEALTH
Protecting Fluoridators
New laws
W. NOBLE
In favor
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
A lthough for years local authorities
in Queensland have tried to fluori-
date their water supplies, they have been
beaten time and time again by the anti-
fluoridation committees.
In the new Queensland Parliament’s
first session which began on Wednesday,
August 21, the State Government will
give the fluoridationists legal protection.
The Health Minister, Dr Winston Noble,
has said that State Cabinet favors fluori-
dation but that this possibility of legal
proceedings stood in the way.
For example, Townsville, North
Queensland, the State’s second biggest
city, with a population exceeding 51,000,
wanted to fluoridate its water supply by
the end of 1962-63. The City Council


even had ordered the machinery required.
But the Government’s lawyers advised
the council that fluoridation, under the
present law, could easily result in the
council’s being sued by someone claim-
ing he had been injured by the fluoride
in the water supply.
The new legislation will indemnify
local authorities, provided there is no
negligence by the councils.
CIGARETTE MACHINES
The Politics of
Small Business
How to run a pressure group campaign
J. J. MALONEY
Registration
FROM T. MATTHEWS IN SYDNEY
Tn recent weeks strange new manoeuvres
A in the field of small business politics
have taken place in New South Wales
and these have been connected with the
new developments in cigarette retailing.
These developments are based upon the
increasing popularity of cigarette vend-
ing machines in private homes.
Promoters of these machines have
been canvassing quite intensively in
Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong
persuading householders to install these
machines, at no cost to themselves, in
their own homes. As soon as a district
contains a sufficient number of machines
installed in private houses then the pro-
moter offers this “cigarette run” for sale
with the promise of a guaranteed weekly
profit for only two or three hours’ work.
A recent Sydney advertisement offered
runs for £240 with a promised weekly
return of £7 10s.
This growth in home cigarette vend-
ing machines has caused a considerable
sales loss to members of the NSW Re-
tail Tobacco Traders’ Association. To
counteract this decline in sales the RTTA
began a publicity campaign in the
Wollongong and Newcastle Press early
in July aimed at undermining the con-
fidence of householders in these
machines. Knowing that most, if not all,
these machines were not registered with
the Department of Labor and Industry,
as was required by the Factories, Shops
and Industries Act of 1962, the associa-
tion stressed that, under the Act, the
occupier of premises in which an un-
registered machine is situated is guilty,
together with the owner of the machine,
if it is not registered. Moreover, all
premises which contained a machine
must also have a tobacco licence.
These public notices caused consterna-
tion in the ranks of the owners of these
vending machines who did not know of
the provisions of the 1962 Act. The
owners of these machines had, about two
years earlier, formed themselves into a
trade association called the Association
of Automatic Dispensers for Home and
Commercial Services of Australia. To
combat the tactics of the Retail Tobacco
Traders' Association more effectively it
w'as decided at a meeting of those
engaged in the operation of automatic
cigarette dispensers on 12th July to re-
form the Association on a more militant
basis. This meeting agreed to suggestions
made by Mr Ron Beck that the new
Association draw up a formal constitu-
tion, acquaint the Department of Labor
and Industry with the aims of the new
group, and abide by all laws and regula-
tions.
The Association was called the Vend-
ing Association of Licensed Independent
Dispensers (because the initials “would
form the very effective, descriptive
image-word VALID”). A committee of
eight was elected with Mr Beck as
president. The advantages that it was
believed would accrue to this new
association were typical trade association
advantages: an effective and fixed scale
of commissions to be paid on commercial
vending; bulk buying; a black list; in-
formation on latest machines, etc.
Some operators, however, led by Mr
John Harrigan, a young Sydney book-
maker, did not join VALID but carried
on the activities of the Association of
Automatic Dispensers for Home and
Commercial Services of Australia. This
group disagreed with members of
VALID over the necessity to register
the machines. In an advertisement in
the Sydney morning papers on 24th
July they held that, according to a lead-
ing barrister and a senior legal officer
of the Department of Labor and In-
dustry, cigarette machines need not be
registered if they were used in private
homes by only one family.
This announcement had immediate
repercussions. The Minister, Mr J. J.
Maloney, made a statement, published
the following day, that all vending
machines must be registered with the
Department before being used to sell
goods and that this would be strictly
enforced.
VALID replied with a Press advertise-
ment on 25th July and again in all
Sunday papers on 28th July stressing that
although members of VALID will abide
by all Government regulations, neverthe-
less it is unfair to the small operator
having to pay the same registration fee
(£3) on small single-column dispensers
containing less than 25 packets as others
do on large multi-column units contain-
ing more than 700 packets. VALID
dissociated itself from Mr Harrigan’s
statements for it believed that the latter’s
proposals put the onus on the house-
holder and tend to undermine the con-
fidence of householders in the machines.
These views were elaborated to mem-
bers of VALID at a meeting on 31st
July. The committee realised that it was
utopian to expect the Government to
abolish the registration of the machines;
what VALID wanted was for the Gov-
ernment to introduce a graduated scale
of registration fees depending on the
size of the machines.
Interesting remarks were made on
what was necessary to make VALID an
effective group in conducting its pressure
campaign with the Minister and his De-
partment. They believed that it was of
utmost importance to appear as a legally
constituted entity: hence the title VALID
and hence the preliminary approval given
by the meeting to VALID’s proposed
constitution as a limited liability com-
pany. Secondly, solidarity was stressed
as being important especially when
lobbying against any future pressure that
the Retail Tobacco Traders’ Association
might exert to have the cost of tobacco
licences increased.
But solidarity is already weakened by
the existence of the two groups of dis-
penser operators at loggerheads with
each other. The meeting did not discuss
the question of finances, which will be of
utmost importance in its future activities
as a pressure group, especially if Press
advertising and legal advice are ex-
tensively used. The question gains sig-
nificance when the finances of the Retail
Tobacco Traders’ Association (with
8000 members at £1 a year) is compared
with those of VALID (about 130 mem-
bers at £5 a year, despite the anticipated
membership growth to 500 in two
months’ time).


ATOMIC ENERGY
Nuclear Explosions
in Australia
By 1965?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
SIR G. BARWICK
Aside
A ustralia may soon be exploding nu-
clear devices for peace, not
war. External Affairs Minister Sir Gar-
field Barwick made an intriguing refer-
ence to this possibility last week in his
House of Representatives speech when
he desisted momentarily from his
analysis of the nuclear ban treaty be-
tween the US, the Soviet and Britain
to make this cryptic aside.
When listing a defect in the treaty —■
the freedom the nuclear powers still
retain to test and explode nuclear wea-
pons underground Barwick added:
“Explosions underground for peaceful
engineering purposes, conducted pub-
licly with proper safeguards to health,
would still, of course, be possible, and
might some day be of importance in the
development of Australia.”
In this aside Barwick was reflecting
information received by the Common-
wealth Government from its own atomic
experts and the Government parties’
Atomic Research Committee, a Parlia-
mentary group which operates under the
chairmanship of Liberal William Went-
worth. This information is that it is
hoped by 1965, though possibly it may
be a little longer (Government projects
in America as well as in Australia have
a habit of lagging behind their officially
laid-down timetable), the US will be in a
position to give Australia firm quotations
for staging and conducting on Austra-
lian soil nuclear explosions with a com-
mercial purpose.
One of the people through which this
information was officially conveyed to
the Australian Government was Dr
Garie Higgins of the US Atomic Energy
Commission, who apparently has been
a significant figure in that phase of the
Commission’s activities which operates
under the appropriate code name of
“Operation Ploughshare” and is de-
voted exclusively to steering nuclear
energy and explosions into peaceful and
productive channels. When Dr Higgins
addressed the Atomic Energy Research
Committee on March 22, 1962, he said
that the US was confident that it would
be in a position to offer explosions to
Australia on a firm basis by 1965.
As an example of what the US
would be offering he set out a tentative
price list, all, naturally, in US dollars.
Australia could buy itself a neat little
explosion, equivalent to 1000 tons of
TNT, for as little as 600,000 dollars.
If it wanted a larger model it would
probably get a bang equal to that of
1,000,000 tons of TNT for as little as
1,100,000 dollars. If it wants something
still bigger and better, it could have
the equivalent of 10,000,000 tons of
TNT for 1,400,000 US dollars. Size
of the hole blown would depend on the
depth at which the nuclear explosive
was buried. But such precision had the
experiments reached that the size of
the hole could be computed in each
case even before the nuclear device
was set off.
There were limitations upon the ab-
solute free use of nuclear devices.
Though control had been established
and was constantly being improved, it
would be unwise to release an explosion
10 miles from inhabited points.
From the Australian viewpoint, with
the country’s limited manpower such
an explosion would do the work that
would absorb the energies of hundreds
of men for several years, and do it not
only more expeditiously but just as
tidily. Whole harbors could be blown
into parts of Australia’s lonely coast-
line where nature had made no pro-
vision, and a nation such as Australia
would be able to undertake vast water
works, possibly even the diversion of
coastal rivers into the dry inland, on a
scale that would be completely beyond
its capacity if it were dependent on its
limited manpower and conventional
facilities. The range of jobs that Aus-
tralia could face up to in developing
the continent would widen spectacularly
overnight. The whole thing, according
to Dr Higgins, could be done safely,
with both the explosion and fallout con-
trolled and rendered harmless.
In analysing the value and weaknesses
of the nuclear ban treaty between the
US, the Soviet and Britain, Barwick
gave his impressions of what he thought
might be the shape of things for the
world. But his aside revealed what might
be the shape of things to come for
Australia.
UNIVERSITIES
More Room at the Shop
Over-award Payments
PROF. G. SAWER
“Losses”
FROM DAVID ROBERTSON IN CANBERRA
A ustralian universities are feeling the
impact of a donnish cold war
raging between the universities of the
English-speaking world. The war is over
the dearth of academic staff, qualified
and suited to fill the top jobs in the
universities which in postwar years have
had to expand at an unprecedented rate.
Professor Geoffrey Sawer, Professor
of Law and President of the Australian
National University Staff Association,
told me this week of one experience:
“Recently I hoped to get a man from
England for a particular appointment in
Australia. One of his referees in praising
this man and recommending him for the
position also said I was not offering him
nearly enough money. This referee was
in a powerful position. He proceeded to
outbid me for this man, partly because
the English university staffs, about three
months earlier, had received a ten per-
cent increase in salaries and partly
because their universities tend to appoint
people to positions higher up the scale
than we do.”
Professor Sawer concedes that Aus-
tralia may suffer further losses against
England as the campaign continues. He
said: “Overcoming the effect of this re-
cent increase in England depends on how
rapidly the increase just granted to the
University of NSW carries through to
the other universities here. We should
be again on a competitive basis with
England when it does.”
There is no question that there is a
considerable range of jobs now vacant


•1
'■ R t-T
<■"' j ' i V 5
Pride of Place
The finest wines have always been
associated with specific places. %
wine is more specific about its origin
than Coonawarra Estate* Claret with
its back-label showing exactly where
it comes from.
*“ Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in
France) is used to distinguish this claret
as being the genuine product of tlie
winegrowers own vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
cloft
in Australian universities. In Law, for
example, according to Professor Sawer,
it has been extremely difficult to fill
Law Chairs in Australia from people
already in Australia, and the greatest
effort has gone into trying to attract
people from Britain or New Zealand.
There is undoubtedly a tendency all over
the Western world to appoint men, not
to positions for which they are not
qualified but to more highly paid posi-
tions than they would normally have
merited, because of the highly competi-
tive recruiting going on in different
words, over-award payments.
Professor Sawer also considers an in-
crease in local output of Honors
graduates and the rate of return of
Honors graduates from overseas to Aus-
tralia have improved a little in the last
three years. But they would need to im-
prove considerably to achieve a marked
reduction in the number of unfilled
academic positions in our ten univer-
sities.
The latest official figures give a
gloomy picture. At July 31, 1961, the
figures showed that 507 full-time teach-
ing and research positions were unfilled
out of a total number of 3903 positions.
These figures do not include research
positions, of which 121 were vacant out
of a total of 833 positions.
The vacancies at the top included:
Professors 51, Associate Professors 23,
Readers 14, Special Associate Professors
and Readers 8.
Perhaps the Australian Universities
Commission has suggested some incen-
tives to remedy this shortage in its Re-
port and recommendations for the 1964-
66 triennium to the Government.
NORTHERN TERRITORY
Self-Government for
the Mendicant State?
No high hopes
“TIGER” BRENNAN
“ Stooges”
FROM PETER BLAKE IN DARWIN
It/fEMBERs of the Northern Territory
Legislative Council are pinning no
great hopes on the outcome of negotia-
tions with the Commonwealth Govern-
ment for a greater measure of self-
government for the Territory. The
Government has agreed to meet represen-
tatives of the Council in conference at a
date to be fixed (“not in the near future”)
but has indicated the scope of discussions
will be strictly limited.
The agreement to hold the conference
is the outcome of the latest of a long
series of political manoeuvres by elected
members of the Council for constitutional
reform. Last February, almost in despera-
tion, the Council appointed a Select
Committee to inquire into the “political
rights of the people of the Northern
Territory.” It must have set some sort of
record for speed as far as parliamentary
committees go.
After five weeks of preliminary statis-
tical fact-finding it got down to the real
business of collecting evidence from
businessmen, cattlemen, university pro-
fessors and anybody who would come
forward. It soon became evident that one
important section of the Territory com-
munity, the public service, did not care
to come forward. It was true that depart-
mental heads gave evidence of a formal
sort, but otherwise public servants were
loathe to commit themselves. One told
the Darwin newspaper it was “more than
my job is worth” and the Committee it-
self announced angrily that public ser-
vants had made it known they were
afraid to give evidence because they
feared “victimisation.” This was officially
denied, but nevertheless no meaty pub-
lic service evidence was forthcoming.
Even operating under such difficulties
the Committee was able to present an
overwhelming weight of evidence that
Territorians, even allowing for their
natural crankiness, were sick of being
second - class citizens. The committee
recommended full voting rights for the
Territory’s Federal member in the House
of Representatives, a Territory Senator,
and complete internal legislative power. It
said the Legislative Council should have
no Government members (“stooges” as
the Member for Elsey, Harold “Tiger”
Brennan calls them) but 18 fully elected
members (at present eight) or 15 elected
and three appointed who were not public
servants. It also wanted an NT public
service (instead of Commonwealth), an
executive council, and either power to
raise money in the Territory or an ap-
propriation from the Commonwealth
Government to be spent as a Territory
Government saw fit ... in short much
the same powers as the States.
Even allowing for the Government’s
present slim majority in Canberra it
seems obvious from the outright rejec-
tion of the requests for full Federal rep-
resentation that there has been little
softening of the official view that the
Territory is a mendicant and far from
ready for self government.
LAW
An Omsbudsman
Lessons from New Zealand
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
A nyone who has watched the blind and
stubborn obstinacy of a Minister's
defence of his department has a right to
be sceptical about the prospects for the
success of any appeal against adminis-
trative injustice through airing a
grievance in Parliament.
It is against this sort of background


-
mmUSi
ill
S M
m
m
m
,::
1
:
m
tHI?
coup ill
We’ll send »•’
Australia
*2 times
vfi a 'ia. past and P ' n ji3>
U a d 'y to life each ?° n
s e fn S t u of Walkabout. n aP°gh
tol m throu e h eyes of toe r oUS,
th e T st authors . • phO to lit'
Tt’ S K° f '“S'-s ASSS
trig s : Its bigger, its n AllS tra -t
Way.Qfl.o ever, its * W°
>ant°V l e magazine >
nt to miss.
Ail we need is your:
NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY: STATE:.
Anywhere in Australia: 12 issues,
£l/12/6 Remittance enclosed
,..:Send me an account later.
Hand this coupon to your newsagent, or
maif to Walkabout, 18 Collins St., Melb.
MS 582
that there are moves for a study by
lawyers in both Victoria and New South
Wales for an investigation into the whole
question of administrative justice. In
Victoria a committee has already been
established and in Sydney a committee
within the NSW branch of the Australian
Section of the International Commission
of Jurists is in the process of formation.
Basic material for both committees is
provided m the second report of the New
Zealand Omsbudsman, Sir Guy Powles,
now becoming available in Australia,
after being tabled in the New Zealand
Parliament recently.
The office of the New Zealand
Omsbudsman (operating on a budget of
only £9,000 a year) received 334°com-
plaints in its first six months of existence
But of the 117 cases investigated Sir
Guy reported that 26 complaints were
found to be justified in some way This
as he pointed out in his report is a
rather larger proportion than the Danish
experience.
What might come of the tentative Aus-
tralian investigations is a long-ranee
gue ss, and legal reforms are generally
the most tardy of all, but at least some
questions will be at last asked about the
operation of administrative justice in
Australia.
LABOR DIARY
Chiang Kai-shek’s
Trade Unions
What are the right questions?
(The first in a series of reports on trade unions throughout
the world)
DR LLOYD ROSS
Strikes?
FROM LLOYD ROSS IN TAIWAN
T gave a short talk on trade unionism
in Australia to the Far East Regional
Office of the International Confederation
of Free Trade Unions seminar in Taipei.
The Director is on loan from the Asian
College of the ICFTU situated at Cal-
cutta. The students were trade unionists
from Hong Kong, Malaya and Taiwan
about 30 young, enthusiastic rank and
filers who will be expected to pass on
their experiences to fellow members.
But are their unions “free”?
No class that I have conducted in
Australia on trade unionism had asked
more lively and thoughtful questions.
And in my discussions I was impressed
by the enthusiasm of the officers for
their job, the attempts to link trade union
activity and education, their belief in
freedom.
Two examples may be given. In the
office of two unions were displayed
charts which showed not only the educa-
tional qualifications of the members but
also the contributions of the union to
their education. And when I asked an
official of the Department of Labor
whether aid was given to inexperienced
unions in the techniques of chairmanship
or minutes-taking he replied, “No—No —
that would be official interference with
unions.”
Yet strikes are prohibited although
they do occur. Wages are mainly regula-
ted. Unions must be registered. Where
employers and employees cannot agree
the Government intervenes. And so on.
When I left Australia on this world
survey of labor relations and trade
unionism I selected three key questions:
How are working conditions regulated?
If employer and union disagree, what is
the extent of governmental interference?
What are the limitations on the right to
strike?
Already I am wondering whether these
are the right questions ... in the hall
of the Taxi Drivers’ Union (36,000
strong) was a scene of great activity as
licences were being renewed by city
officials who had come to the union.
("'Another union service,” they said.) A
leading officer of the Seamen’s Union
explained the theory of ‘'harmony” in
industrial relations thus: “In USA, sea-
men strike first and then negotiate; here
we talk and settle our disputes.”
The most difficult question to get
across was: “What happens if negotiations
fail?” It should have been obvious to me,
they seemed to say, that the Government
will decide.
This interference they accepted freely
as an essential part of the defence against
Communism. This limitation did not stop
them from establishing welfare funds
(including the purchase of radio sets),
protecting members from accidents, doing
the daily work of a union anywhere. They
were part of the “free world.”
So I continue on my tour with new
questions What is the reality of “free”
trade unions in a state of emergency?
Cannot unions still carry out normal
functions especially if they accept
fully the justification for the emergency?


4
DON’T GET
ENVELOPED IN
PAPER \
PROBLEMS!
The world of paper can be No Man’s Land to travellers
without a map! It’s so easy to make mistakes that mean
money wasted. Consider envelopes, now! Important things,
envelopes. For certain jobs, certain grades. Sometimes
only luxury paper is good enough. But often costs can
be cut. All you need to become “paper-proficient” is a
little expert information. Throughout Australia there are
Shoalhaven Advisory Centres, staffed by friendly
people who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
picture about paper. So there’s no need for anyone to get
enveloped in paper problems, large or small. Just call
your Shoalhaven Advisory Centre. We’ll gladly advise . ..
and supply samples of Shoalhaven papers and boards.
Because paper-hungry Australia is using more and more
Shoalhaven products, a £7 million expansion project is
under way at the Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven Mill. Pro-
duction is being stepped up dramatically. Many additional
grades are being manufactured, including specialised
industrial papers not previously produced in this country.
Shoalhaven will have more —much more—to offer Aus-
tralia . . . much more to offer you. When you’re choosing
envelope papers, specify Shoalhaven for constant quality,
constant supply.
SHOALHAVEN PAPER
The extensive Shoalhaven rang® Includes various
grades of envelope papers Opaque White, Berry
Envelope Manilla, Blue Mist, Show Offset and
prestige papers for special matching envelopes for
Superior stationery. All Shoalhaven Papers and
Boards are available from Printers and Paper
Merchants throughout Australia.
WTS.BX
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any paper
problem fast ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
*


FORUM
Looking At Restrictive
Trade Proposals
Needed more light and less heat
By a Special Correspondent
While acknowledging the merits of
a Royal Commission of expert
people as a preparation for
legislation on highly technical subjects,
Sir Garfield Barwick has chosen instead
to expose his legislative intentions con-
cerning restrictive practices to prolonged
public scrutiny and discussion, inviting
criticisms and suggestions. Whatever
one may think of the merits of his
proposals, one must commend this
courageous attempt to make legislation
a more rational and just process.
Looking at the matter after eight
months of increasingly acrimonious de-
bate, can one say that the technique be
selected has worked in the case of the
restrictive practices proposals? li is
plain that it has not. Issues have not
been narrowed but confused. No real
area of agreement has emerged. The
ordinary citizen can feel little confidence
that he has a reliable basis for judging
the merits and demerits of the proposals.
Some of the existing confusion springs
from the fact that the Attorney-General
outlined his proposals neither in a dis-
cursive speech nor in a draft Bill, but in
a concise summary of “the elements of
the scheme.” Many critics have elected
to treat the summary of the elements of
his scheme as if it were a draft Bill, and
to assume that there will be in the
ultimate legislation no more precise
definitions of practices and no further
qualifications than appear in the sum-
mary. It is reasonable to suppose that
many of the more detailed and more
fanciful criticisms will be disposed of
when a full draft Bill appears. The basic
issues which the Attorney - General’s
statement sought to raise will, however,
iemain, namely the need for legislation,
the identification of harmful practices,
and the procedures to be used.
Are restrictive practices in Australia
so widespread .and inimical to the public
interest that they are worth bringing
under control at the price of some dis-
turbance of established business methods,
some growth in bureaucracy and possibly
some substantial growth in litigation?
Vested interest or political leanings may
incline one to answer this question in
a particular way, but the average fair-
minded citizen would have to admit that
he could do little more than guess. They
are serious questions the answers to
which depend on weighing up informa-
tion which is simply not available. Even
among businessmen there are few who
really know the facts about more than
one or two industries, and in those they
are probably so closely involved —either
as beneficiaries or victims of practices—
that they can hardly expect others to
accept them as impartial judges on the
merits. The fact that other countries
have considered it necessary to legislate
against restrictive practices is not con-
clusive. The relative smallness of the
Australian economy and its domestic
market, the relatively early stage of
development of many of our secondary
industries, our high labor cost structure,
and the substantial role already played
by public authorities and utilities in our
economy may make our problem sub-
stantially different.
The difficulties of making an informed
judgment become even more acute in
relation to issues at the next level the
separation of desirable and undesirable
practices. One of the undoubted merits
of Sir Garfield’s proposals is that he
rejects the United States approach of
proscribing all restraints of trade, and
selects specific types of practices for
treatment. There is no vague dragnet
provision against practices found ex
post facto to be against the public
interest.
Two lists of practices are to be
specified under the Attorney-General’s
proposals, those which are inexcusably
unlawful, and those which require to be
registered for scrutiny, but then remain
unlawful unless de-registered in appropri-
ate proceedings. It is obvious that the
intelligent compilation of such lists re-
quires a thorough knowledge of the
practices actually operating, their extent,
and their actual impact on the public
welfare, not only in terms of the
immediate impact on consumers and
competitors, but in terms of the long-
run development of a sound economy.
The problem is not only to avoid un-
necessary interference with practices
which are not harmful and perhaps even
beneficial. It is also to concentrate
initial efforts on effectively dealing with
really pernicious practices, many of
which may long escape the attention they
deserve if the net is cast too wide. As
Sir Garfield recognises, there would be
a real problem in efficiently using a
limited group of skilled investigators and
administrators.
This is only one of many reasons why
it may be undesirable to try to do too
much at once. Another is that debatable
questions of procedure could be tested
out in a fairly limited field before being
imposed on a wide field of industrial
practices.
It would be much more satisfactory
if the procedural issues too could be
debated in the light of authoritative in-
formation about the extent of restrictive
practices and their real impact on the
public interest, together with some ex-
perience of the actual working of a
“pilot project” in a limited area. At the
moment the public has little more than
dark hints about supposed adverse effects
of the registration proposal on the
legitimate conduct of business, and windy
generalisations about half - understood
principles of British justice the real
import of which derives from the
handling of vastly different types of


Ten years from now
When you choose a
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless . . . ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
MERCEDES-BENZ
is
51
a
!ii !i!
I!
iiili
m
if
ssi
iiiiiji
II
w
is
II
IK
lii
?i m
■is
■
i
Ml
i
WM iili iiij,
dnhifett!
m
m
I '! ! ,i
II
.
■
y
(HUS l:;Uiiill!ii>' <| III;
iiifpi
ill
ji'islillip ;ii
!■ I'"
. '
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY LTD, MELBOURNE
mb/mi
problems. If restrictive practices really
ore such a serious problem for Australia
that they should be seriously curtailed,
it may well be better to impose com-
pulsory self-revelation on industry rather
than face the unpalatable alternative of
using a network of spies, informers, dis-
gruntled competitors and inquisitorial
investigators to discover what goes on.
The starting point for effectively debating
such an issue, however, must be a
realistic assessment of the nature and
extent of the problem.
The Government does not deny the
need for “painstaking research and in-
vestigation ... as a necessary prelimin-
ary to the preparation” of policy. On
the contrary it claims that the Attorney-
General has personally done it. Said Mr
Freeth: “He has operated virtually as a
commission of one to inquire into some
of the most difficult and complex aspects
of the commercial life of Australia today
and their effect on the community.”
Anyone w'ho knows Sir Garfield will not
doubt that in the interstices of his other
Ministerial responsibilities, he did, as
Mr Freeth claimed, do a “really monu-
mental amount of work.”
For those who, relying on the At-
torney-General’s undoubted ability and
disinterested probity, are prepared to
deliver the issue to his judgment, this
is doubtless enough. But for those who
wish to make up their own minds, and
those who positively contest his con-
clusions, it is completely unsatisfactory.
Those sections of industry which feel
that the Attorney-General has misjudged
the true nature and effect of restrictive
practices may fairly claim that they have
been denied natural justice.
It is no answer to say that the
Attorney-General undoubtedly had the
ability (assuming he had the time, oppor-
tunity and means) to sift the reliable
from the unreliable information. The
principles of natural justice and the
principle that justice must not only be
done but must manifestly be seen to be
done have, it is true, no necessary place
in the formulation of legislation. But
they can scarcely be denied a role by
an Attorney-General who has deliberately
—and let it be said, courageously and
commendably sought to introduce
rational and just procedures into the
formulation of proposed laws.
In fact in the matter of restrictive
practices, where few disinterested people
know or can ascertain the facts, Sir
Garfield’s reasons for rejecting a Royal
Commission are not adequate. It is a
method which is possible, as the experi-
ment of the UK Monopolies and Restric-
tive Practices Commission proved. Cer-
tainly the Commission would have to
adapt its procedures to the matter In
hand for example, by requiring sub-
missions and evidence-in-chief to be
furnished in writing in the first instance,
and by preserving such secrecy as may
be reasonable. But it would enable
authoritative findings and recommenda-
tions on disputed issues to be made
after a fair hearing of interested parties.
On the question of delay three things
may be said. Sir Garfield’s substitute
method is not quick and has produced
little except acrimony in a long time.
Secondly, the problem is in general a
long-term one rather than a critically
urgent one, and the time involved in
laying a sound and accepted foundation
may be well spent. Thirdly, there is no
need to try to do everything at once.
Let the Government first refer to a Com-
mission the field of restrictive practices
which it considers most urgently in need
of control. If the Commission’s report
warrants it, let it then legislate in this
particular field, so that Parliament and
the Executive can learn by experience
the most suitable method of framing and
administering such legislation in the Aus-
tralian context.


OUT AND ABOUT
Profit Without Honor?
“The reach should exceed the grasp"
By PATRICIA ROLFE
IT is hard to see why author Morris
West should so much be a prophet
without honor in his own country,
particularly when his prophesying has
lately been so spectacular and so spec-
tacularly profitable.
Mr West has shown , that he can im-
prove on the best-selling successes, “The
Devil’s Advocate” and “Daughter of
Silence.” His new novel, “The Shoes of
the Fisherman,” may become the great-
est best-seller of the decade. It had
guaranteed advance sales of 3,000,000.
More than that, Mr West can, in the
quiet remoteness of Avalon, near Syd-
ney,, begin a book with the words “The
Pope was dead” and two years later
get it published within a week of the
death of Pope John XXIII.
However, Mr West’s return to his
homeland after a promotional tour for
"The Shoes of the Fisherman,” which
included seeing the coronation of Pope
Paul VI, was something less than a
triumphal progress.
Hardly had Mr West stepped ashore
from the Galileo in Fremantle when
what he later described as a “weird
wave of cavilling” began. Mr West was
reported as saying that he had been
“ignored” by Australian diplomats in
London and New York. He also hopped
on to a favorite hobby-horse and said
that the “ABC cannot pay Joan Suther-
land or me the money we could get in
New York, but it can at least give
recognition.” His progress around the
continent became a paper-chase of cor-
rections, accusations, bad temper and
unflattering photographs of Mr West.
It might seem that Australians are
merely, and perhaps characteristically,
being ungenerous towards success. Why
should Mr West, whose fortune has,
after all, all come out of his head, be
thought of less account than Peninsular
neighbors whose money has come from
trade or industry? He is a large dollar-
earner, but why should he be put in the
same category as a stuffed koala?
Morris West, whatever the merits of
his books and the disparity between
what he thinks of them and what the
critics think, is hard-working, intensely
ambitious and unremittingly profes-
sional. He has worked himself up from
failed Christian Brother through the
slogging years as script and copy writer
to get a tenuous grip on fame with
“Children of the Sun” and to follow
that with three best-sellers in a row.
Give him all that in, he still has a
natural capacity to irritate.
It is easy to understand that he might
not be popular with some local writers.
If you have trouble selling 3000 copies
and are inclined to regard poor sales
as proof of worth, it is not easy to be
uncritical of someone who sells
3,000,000. Aspiring writers have gone
to Mr West and he has tried to help.
However, it seems that what they have
wanted is the name of that fabled good
agent in New York. They don’t want or
appreciate the literary criticism which
Mr West so generously gives.
Local critics of Mr West’s books are
not in general either more or less favor-
able than overseas ones. It cannot be
claimed that they have developed a
particular attitude as might have been
said in relation to Patrick White, al-
though Mr West, as an Australian, gets
more space than his books would other-
wise get. The Sydney “Sunday Mirror”
said that “The Shoes of the Fisherman”
was his “worst novel yet.” However,
the English “New Statesman” headed
its review, “Papal Bull.”
What local critics think hardly mat-
ters. Mr West says he listens to only
a handful of the world’s critics. The
handful includes no local ones and none
of “that incestuous little group” in Lon-
don. “I listen to only a dozen or so
critics,” he said. “Those who keep to
the classic canons of criticism: What is
the author’s intention? What means has
he used? Is his intention worth while?
What is the result he has achieved? I
will read them and say, “Yes, he’s got
a point’.”
Some time after his return to Aus-
tralia, at his home in the northern beach
suburb of Avalon, where the climate is
right even if Australia’s spiritual climate
isn’t, Mr West seemed restored to un-
easy equanimity.
In his small study, shared with secre-
tary Judy Gallery, he seemed slightly
larger than life, looming in shaggy black
sweater from behind a business desk.
The room, with unmatched curtains and
wallpaper, has the temporary look of
many Australian waterside houses. Mr
West has, however, bought the old Mark
Foy house at Bayview, for the view.
The house has been torn down and
eventually Mr West and his family will
move into something more splendid as a
suitable background for a best-selling
author.
At 47 Mr West looks as if his doctor
might have told him to lose a stone.
However easily he becomes irritated it
does not show in his face. There is a
large expanse of unlined skin. He is, to
pick a description from his own col-


FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won’t
offend.
m
MOUTH WASH
lege of cardinals, “jowly-jawed.” His
hair is smooth and dark.
The scene might seem to have been
set just a trilie with Miss Gallery dic-
tating the last words of a cable about
contracts. “M-o-r-r-i-s-W-e-s-t two
words,” she spells out. “Some of these
girls can be very slow,” Mr West says.
“They don’t even catch simple words.”
But he is equable now.
He is urbane, pleasant, quickly on
first name and easy-endearment terms. As
a talker he seems, to coin a word along
current fashion, unstoppable. “I’m not
talking too much, am I?” he asks,
pausing to take breath.
This loquaciousness may be part tech-
nique. Any question will lead Mr West
into fascinating by-w'ays, but it rarely
leads to a direct answer. For example,
a question on how he regarded himself
as a “Catholic” novelist led him to
say that he did not w'ant to be asso-
ciated wdth direct propaganda. Then,
without pause or enlargement on this,
he went on to say that he was pre-
occupied with the problems of every-
body . . . the novelist was constantly in
private communion with his readers and
had a deep and personal responsibility
to them . . . For example, the episode
of Ruth Lewen in “The Shoes of the
Fisherman” had come from letters writ-
ten to him by a woman. . . He had her
permission to use this material in the
novel. . . When one felt this deep and
personal responsibility it was doubly
annoying to come back to the super-
ficial and cavilling atmosphere of Aus-
tralia. . . Australia was the best country
in which to bring up children. . . We
can have a wonderful country here, pro-
vided we don’t foul it up. . . we must have
alliances of understanding. . . Respon-
sible organs of communication. . . But
where are the communicators?. . . The
whole question of censorship in Aus-
tralia was very disturbing. . . The re-
verse was happening in the United States
and England people were getting
freer to say what they wanted. . . Aus-
tralians have less reason than most to
be afraid. . . But what was happening
to our liberties?
A Long, Long Way
there it was only a short hop
to the Australian Broadcasting Com-
mission, but it was a long, long way from
the responsibilities of the Catholic
novelist.
If the flow of words is part of a
technique for handling interviews, Mr
West also has developed the facility for
having the interesting anecdote to hand
at all times.
In explanation of his popularity in
France, he quoted a member of the
French Academy as saying: “Cher
maitre, vraiment vous avez le style
classique.” From there he went on to
mention a half-hour debate on French
television, which he messed up in the
last few minutes of taping by misusing
“soi-disant,” forgetful of shades of
meaning which the word still has in
France. Then there was a story of a
five-hour cocktail party in Paris during
which he shook hands with each of the
500 guests, and was congratulated, he
felt, too warmly and fulsomely, by one
eminent critic for his treatment of the
homosexual theme in “The Shoes of
the Fisherman.” It all made it clear
that Mr West speaks good French and
goes down well in Paris.
His return home marks the end of his
personal promotion of “The Shoes of the
Fisherman,” apart from any random
public appearances he may make in
Australia. Before the book was pub-
lished, he, his New York agent and his
American publisher worked out how
much personal promotion would be de-
sirable. “We felt we had rather a good
thing here,” he said, so he agreed to an
extensive tour.
Now he will take up his study of
Japanese and Thai and of the Buddhist
and Shinto religions, the first part of re-
search for his next novel.
Negotiations for the film version of
“The Shoes of the Fisherman” (it was
taken as read that it will be filmed) he
leaves to others.
“This, of course, was something I
decided after ‘The Devil’s Advocate’,”
he said. “Otherwise I could be five years
or more looking after one book. It is
all right for a businessman to spend five
years looking after a valuable property,
but it is professional suicide for a writer.
Films are a technical world. Of course,
I shall have some say about casting
who will be Pope and so on. As your
reputation grows you get things more
and more right into your own hands,
but I won't go to Hollywood or do the
script.” He placed a hand on a copy
of “The Shoes of the Fisherman” which
happened to be on the desk. “This is
the codex,” he said.
Mr West is perfectly happy to leave
matters in the hands of his agent and
publisher. “I have a wonderful relation-
ship with both of them,” he said. “Pub-
lishing in America is a gentleman’s busi-
ness it’s not here, strangely enough.
Publishing here seems to have a late-
grown superficiality about it But Ameri-
can publishers are not the hard-boiled,
cigar-chewing executives that people
seem to imagine.”
Mr West said that it is impossible
to manufacture a best-seller, a theory
that has, as he evidently knows, been
widely held in relation to his own novels.
However, it seems both fairer and more
interesting to accept his assurance that,
far from being manufactured by a
round-table of cigar-chewing film execu-
tives, Mr West’s best-sellers are com-
pounded by himself, the alchemist of
Avalon.
“People seem to think that if you
get enough meretricious elements to-
gether you will automatically have a
best-seller,” he said. “That if you know
lesbians or nymphets are in fashion and
do a book about them it must sell. This
literally isn’t true. It cannot be done
simply because sales depend on word
of mouth, not on advertising or criti-
cism.
“The American film producer, Jerry
Wald, who is dead now, wanted me to
write a best-seller. Wald said he could
guarantee hard-back sales of 1.00,000
and paperback sales of 50,000. All these
would have been very useful publicity
for the film. But I turned him down, al-
though Wald actually did this with some
writers. Rona Jaffe was one. She wrote
‘The Best of Everything’ and it all
worked out as Wald said. The book got
on the best-seller list, the film was made.
But the book didn’t stay on the best-


fc: n v
m
A
VAX
There
• fXf>
'■V*
nothing
...
Jin
stronger
i >•! v 'j.
than
X\!/
STEEL
-/ /VrV i; < $
SB
■ v
• 'A
A,
A
m
■S§tX r ~A>
•••<•<■:•: • ■ :,W
VI
Mm
Bb»^.
» yx
mm
mms
X w
•x
& *«*p f ' XAi w
fjg
V-N*
.X
i
A i!
# * »». if
i :*£rx*»* &8H&
Ii
L ?
.
■■■-• ■
im
(JifN
....
ii ■
U\
An
X --
WWW
litr;
mm
X
A \ \ \ \ \ \
XpSfefe 1 ’ 4 / i •
te > 1 />j
11
AN
<SS7
\ A
XAWW'X V X i
\.A
Uf\
•■ ---
X
i
m ; \w\\>s
mmol, i \ •-.. \ .. • \
■X••; . \
s mss l -xx <
mm
SSvX-'-'X'
mm
t'th
A,.X I / ■-.,¥> A X'XMA A % \ \\\\
'-x, s?>T' < IIAA .ViXv X A, \ \\\
\ \ \ V> V XW: 1
.
X
x. «
W?
,-X
\ \ \
X
\ \
■:■■■ •:
\\A
\\\
V,X N .\ \
v v
Post this coupon now for miniature portfolio of
LYSAGHT HOME PLANS
Your new home plan could be in this handy
little portfolio! Each one of these architect
created Lysaght plans is spacious yet can be built
at moderate cost. All offer interesting and attrac-
tive variations on the world-wide trend towards
lower-pitched rooflines . . . and are ideally suited
to the streamlined ‘new look’ of steel sheet.
Whichever plan you choose, there is no sub-
stitute for the innate strength of Lysaght Steel
Sheet. No other roofing material is as strong
a Lysaght roof is fireproof and weatherproof
with durability ensured by a protective heavy
zinc coating of at least 1.75 ozs. per sq. ft.
Costs less than most other roofing materials
• . . needs little maintenance.
LYSAGHT
HOME PLANS
SERVICE
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, the
Lysaght Miniature Portfolio of Low Cost
Home Plans.
name
ADDRESS
STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
Dsaxcc


seller list. It was selling well for a num-
ber of weeks then it was finished. This
was simply because people weren’t talk-
ing about it. Pasternak, ‘Lolita’ in its
strange way they were best-sellers
because they were talked about.
Homer Nods
“fT'HE hard core of novel-writing will
A always be done by people who have
written a book because they want to
write it.
“Of course, this does not mean that
every book will be as good as the writer’s
intention. Every writer lapses. He mis-
calculates. You know, Homer nods. You
cannot have a constant level of experi-
ence or breadth of vision.
“Novel-wise The Devil’s Advocate’ is
better than The Shoes of the Fisher-
man.’ The Devil’s Advocate’ was a nat-
ural three-act drama which worked to-
wards a natural conclusion. The Shoes
of the Fisherman’ is technically not so
perfect, but I feel it is much more mat-
ure, much bigger. A novelist must al-
ways be attempting more. ‘Boule de
Suif’ is a more perfect work than ‘War
and Peace’ but Tolstoy was attempting
more.
“Every novel for me is a foray into
a new territory. It is for every writer.
The reach should exceed the grasp. You
know Browning ‘Andrea del Sarto,
called the faultless painter?’ Here, hand
me down the Browning, Judy dear,” he
asked Miss Gallery.
“Browning’s my Bible,” he said, as
he took the book in his hand. “Ah, here
we are:
”1 do what many dream of all their
lives
Dream? strive to do, and agonise
to do,
And fail in doing. I could count
twenty such
On twice your fingers, and not leave
this town,
Who strive you don’t know how
the others strive
To paint a little thing like that you
smeared
Carelessly passing with your robes
afloat,
Yet do much less, so much less,
Someone says
(1 know his name, no matter) so
much less!
Well, less is more, Lucrezia! 1 am
judged.
There burns a truer light of God in
them,
In their vexed, beating, stuffed and
stopped-up brain,
Heart, or whate’er else, than goes
onto prompt
This low-pulsed, forthright, crafts-
man’s hand of mine.
Their works drop groundward, but
themselves, 1 know,
Reach many a time a Heaven that's
shut to me,
Enter and take their place there sure
enough.
Though they come back and cannot
tell the world.
My works are nearer Heaven, but l
sit here.
The sudden blood of these men! at
a word
Praise them , it boils, or blame them,
it boils too.
1, painting from myself and to my-
self ,
Know what 1 do, am unmoved by
men’s blame
Or their praise either. Somebody re-
marks
Morello's outline there is wrongly
traced.
His hue mistaken what of that?
or else.
Rightly traced and well ordered
what of that?
Speak as they please, what does the
mountain care?
Ah, but a man’s reach should ex-
ceed his grasp,
Or what’s a Heaven for?”
He laid aside the Browning to discuss
the casting of Bing (“Going My Way”)
Crosby as the priest Blaise Meredith in
the film of “The Devil’s Advocate.” The
film rights were bought by Warner Bros,
but Mr West has some control over
casting.
“It’s rather an interesting story,” he
said. “And I feel it shows that life is a
little deeper than it looks. Two years
ago Bing Crosby rang me and asked
me to go to lunch. Over the meal he
said he wanted to play Blaise Meredith.
Crosby is a man who has deeply lived
and been marked by what has happened
to him. and what he has done to him-
self. I asked him, ‘Why do you want
to play it?’ ‘l'm an actor,’ he said, ‘I
think I can play it.’ ‘Do you think you
can bring it off?’ I asked. ‘I take the
risk. I do what I want to do because
I want to do it.’ he said. I was satisfied
then that Crosby could do the part.
There is the risk. He will either do a
magnificent job or it will be a failure.
But he is a professional, and, as he says,
he takes the risk. We had been thinking
of. Alec Guinness for the part but he’s
been doing such slick and urky work
lately that I’m inclined to think we may
have made a better choice.”
“Professional” struck a chord which
led Mr West back to discussing local
writers. The young writer in Australia,
he said, was hampered by the grave
lack of standards of criticism. “Enlight-
ened criticism, I should say,” he
amended.
“There also is often an abysmal ig-
norance of the way of going about
things in a professional manner,” he
said. “For one thing, writers present
dirty manuscripts. Writers fail because
of lack of talent or execution, and it is
generally lack of execution.
“I refused to join the Television
Writers’ Guild. I said I would join when
it was a union, registered with the
court. I will have no truck with so-
cieties. You know, I think that weird
wave of cavilling in Perth when I re-
turned began because someone men-
tioned a television play competition for
which the prize was £250. But the most
impossible conditions were imposed —•
so many performances in each State
for no additional fee.
“These amateurish attitudes are hob-
bling the young Australian writer. Why,
do you know, he’s in the biggest buyers’
market in the world. In New York and
London every publisher is looking for
talent.
Across a Bar
“Jn 1956 I sent my first novel to an
A agent in New York. He wrote back:
‘You can write, but we could not pos-
sibly publish this book. We would like
to see your next.’ I have that letter still.
See if you can find it for me, Judy dear.
And do you know what I did then? I
sat down and wrote another. All sorts
of masterpieces are painted, great books
are written across a bar. But there
is no substitute for the finished article.
“And young writers are resentful of
criticism. Then they miss the chance
of a lifetime. I have a wonderful New
York agent and a wonderful editor
there. But do you know there are four
or five months’ correspondence between
us on each book, discussion, criticism,
changes, before we are all satisfied. And
I can tell you they are perfectly frank
about the manuscript.”
Mr West said that in general criti-
cism did not worry him. The satisfaction
from his books was in the hundreds of
letters he received.
“Extraordinary letters,” he said. “I
remember a letter I received from a
priest in England after The Devil’s Ad-
vocate’ was published. He said that he
had been having difficulties with his
vocation, but, after reading the book,
he had psychiatric treatment and was
able to carry on. I remember a letter
from a woman whose father died with
a tumor on the brain. Reading The
Devil’s Advocate’ helped him to die,
she wrote. Do you think for a minute
that when I get letters like that from
people I care what the critics say about
my books?” he asked.
And, as a matter of plain unvarnished
reporting, there were tears in his eyes
at that moment.


SPECIAL
D
A
D
OFFER!
hr*
rJ
Til U ! |
The Ampol Book of
AUSTRALIANA
BY SIDNEY J. BAKER
m
las ail
■ ' :/' ■ 1
A ****** ~ |
54
SECTIONS
PLUS
37 ON
SPORT
A unique and stimulating
book of reference for
young and 01d... a
for every student.
; i ilk
240 pages filled with Australian “firsts’' . . . basic facts
. . . records . . . curiosities. Special Section on Sport.
Whether your interests lie principally in sporting statistics, in the realms of
literature, drama and music, in sheep and cattle, industry or commerce,
history or the professions, you will find many surprising facts here about
the Australian scene. It is an accumulation of thousands of interesting
facts gathered over a period of 30 years by this noted Australian author.
To encourage widespread readership of this valuable work, Ampol has
purchased the entire first edition for sale to customers at Ampol Service
Stations and country Agents—at less than Jialf the normal retail price!
SPECIAL PRICE
(less than half-price)
m
fIMPOL
AP-49Q
AVAILABLE FROM AMPOL STATIONS AND COUNTRY AGENTS


. .
V*
iHf
s
mmm
my.vm.
i. S-
-B*>
■
'
/ \ / --■ ."iwwwniiunmii
: / ‘:
mmm
««•
mmm
»
add unmatched value...
For £1,252 (tax paid) Falcon Futura gives you just about all you could ever want. Beautiful
looks. Wonderful ride. Outstanding comfort. Fitted pile carpets. A personal between-the-
seats console. Fully padded dashboard and.padded sun visors. Distinctive ornamentation
inside and out. For just a little extra you can have the best automatic in the world Fordomatic
Drive, and the rocketing performance of the Pursuit 170 engine. See your Ford Dealer for a
personal test-drive of Falcon Futura Australia's most individual car I
w iiwrm
ZJL
V.
ST“J
orcC
FORD SALES COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
FX622
FALCO
TRIM, TAUT, TERRIFIC


Around Melbourne
A MINOR BATTLE IN THE SNOW
fThtE drivers of Mini Minors have a
A deep fraternity. A minimaniac,
aged fiftyish, tells me that on a recent
trip to Sydney he exchanged toots
with every other minimaniac along the
entire route. Indeed, he even exchang-
ed toots with an elderly female mini-
maniac who must have been 80 if she
was a minute. However, on meeting
Volkswagens the thing to do was to
glare and maintain a hostile silence.
The Volkswagen factory is on the
Princes Highway at Clayton. Em-
ployees who own Volkswagens are
instructed to park their cars hard
against the fence where the public can
see them. Those who do not own VW’s
have to park them well to the rear, out
of the public gaze. As for Mini Minors,
no VW employee has been game to
buy one. Sins like that are worthy of
a public hanging.
Right now the Volkswagen-Mini
Minor war is as deadly serious as Aus-
tralian Rules. You must understand
that a Melburnian can make no more
solemn statement than that.
This year Volkswagen launched the
greatest coup in advertising since
Laurie Whitehead won the Redex. Ray
McMahon, now the officer in charge
at Mawson, had the idea that a car of
the VW type would be useful on the
hard, frozen snow down there. So the
idea was put to Dr P. G. Law of the
Antarctic Division, then to VW. Of
course the advertisers, PR division
and everybody were cockahoop about
it. And so the red VW, “picked at
random from the stock at Clayton,”
arrived at Mawson on February 2.
TPhe big advertising campaign, with
A a spread in "Women's Weekly,”
“Time,” and all the dailies got under
way in June. There was the red bug
photographed on the great ice plateau.
“The first sedan car in Antarctica ....
could any other car handle the slush,
icy winds, Antarctic ice?” “I am more
than pleased with its performance”,
cabled Ray McMahon.
According to the VW people there
was a fantastic reaction. There were
80 written requests for more informa-
tion. Schools wanted material for
projects. There were letters from
werseas, and the strange people who
collect car numberplates wrote for
copies of the much-photographed
ANTARCTICA 1 numberplate.
Of course, in the BMC department
this was damned hard to take. There
was a rumor that BMC was asking the
New Zealanders to take a Mini Minor
South to counteract it all. But would
people ask for an Antarctica 2 num-
ber-plate?
But that wasn’t all. Three weeks
ago the Melbourne “Herald” Book
Club produced a biography on Sir
Hubert Wilkins. This revealed that
Sir Hubert took a Baby Austin sedan
to the Antarctic in 1927, so the VW
wasn’t the first after all.
There was a minor commotion in
the BMC camp. They tried desperately
to get a good picture of that Baby
Austin without success. The Baby
Austin was no kin to Morris in 1927,
but they overcame these problems
brilliantly. On August 14 the BMC
ad appeared in the “Sun News Pic-
torial.” Remember the VW ad which
showed the red VW disappearing into
the distance leaving two tracks across
the frozen snow? Well, BMC pro-
duced almost exactly the same picture,
two tracks across the snow, but no
car. The caption read: “We’ve been
and gone 34 years!”
Then there was an extract from a
Wilkins wireless message dated
27/11/1929. “. . . and driving to work
each morning in our little Austin
automobile wondering all the time
how the polar explorers of an earlier
day spent the long months sledging
their way from point to point on
meagre rations.” From here the copy
moved smoothly on to the fact that
Mini Minors were being used by the
Snowy Mountains Authority to cut
Perisher and Crackenback down to
size; and before you knew where you
were you almost had the idea that
there were Mini Minors down in the
Antarctic.
Then finally, to make things devilish
awkward for everybody, the news
came out that Shackleton took a motor
car to the Antarctic in 1906. A very
fine car it was, too; a 12-15 horse-
power Arrol-Johnston, fitted with a
specially designed, air-cooled four-
cylinder engine. It was an open air
two-seater tourer, and was used as a
regular workhorse for transportation
and towing sledges, and came home
on the ship when the expedition re-
turned.
Now we don’t know which particu-
lar company lays kin to Arrol-Johns-
ton, and we would hesitate now to say
whether it was the first car to go to
the Antarctic; but can we look forward
to some more advertisements?
Tn public relations, too, the week has
A had its moments. Myers intro-
duced us to the Japanese silk delega-
tion, which included Miss Japan. She
looked like all the Yum Yums you
had ever dreamed about. Along with
the invitation came a fair dinkum
cocoon. The suggestion was: “Whip
yourself up a pair of instant silk
pyjamas.”
Ah, but the real turn came from
Hickok, and connoisseurs in the game
reported that this was the best PR do
in five years. Hickok, as you know,
make most of the cuff-links in this
country, and the invitation arrived
sporting a huge chrome cuff-link. Only
one, you see; the invitation made it
clear that you had to turn up at the
party to get the other.
The big do turned on for the Press,
shirt and retail trade was in the main
ball room at the Southern Cross. Cost,
according to one PR man, £3 a head.
As we went up the stairs clutching
our single cuff-link we noticed in a
show case that the same cuff-links
were going for 85/- a pair, plus match-
ing tie clip.
Sure enough, as we went in we
received our name tag plus our second
cuff-link. And what a do! It was a sit-
down dinner with beef stroganof,
fillet steak, turkey, ham, pork, cray-
fish, hot punch, the right wines, every-
thing.
At the right moment the curtains
were thrown back and 10, revealed
to us were 500 pairs of cuff-links
worth £7OOO, the Heritage collection
rushed to us from the US by air.
As for the news story, I didn’t see
a line in any of the newspapers. And
that was another little tragedy. You
see, they held it on Budget Night.
BATMAN


From noon fo 6 p.m. GTV-9 Melbourne is on the air for
160 quarter-hour periods. The latest independent audience
survey* proves the strength of a live image.
GTV9
TOP
141 OUT
QUARTER
160
9
That's why daytime television sells so well on GTV.
If you are in the selling business, you should take a closer look at GTV's daytime
shows. You'll see how they can sell for you, too.
For more facts, 'phone the Advertising Department, Television City, Melbourne,
number 42 0201; or our Sydney office: MA4121.
* By permission of Anderson Analysis,


WORLD-WIDE
AEdO.
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Mad 9
in every
corner..
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley fable
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only 1|
Dints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
■A -
m
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street
Moorabbin, 5.20
Victoria, Australia
ii '• rJ
2“
10
f.B 4,
4 6 MSf TT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCHETSERVICE
LEAVES FOR
ADELAIDE • MELBOURNE
SYDNEY • BRISBANE
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will be
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone:
MELBOURNE 68 0541 SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337 BRISBANE 47 1481
9021 N
The Kellys Ride
Again
High Noon at Glenrowan
BY A CORRESPONDENT
'C’ltham Films plan to make a full-
length feature on the last 24 hours
of the Kelly gang.
Writer-director of the film, Tim Bur-
stall, 36, who left the Antarctic division
of the External Affairs Department in
1960 to devote himself full-time to film
making, said that 64 actors would be
used in “Man in Iron.” The film will
be shot in country within a 40-mile
radius of Melbourne, mainly in the
Hurstbridge-Kinglake region. A number
of derelict timber hotels have been pin-
spotted for use in the final scene when
the Kellys make their last stand. One of
these will be mocked up as the original
Glenrowan pub and duly set ablaze. A
number of authentic period homesteads
in the area have also been marked as
locations.
Mr Burstall said his script does not
attempt to tell the whole Kelly story.
With a certain “High Noon” atmosphere,
it focuses on the gang’s last 24 hours in
Glenrowan, building the drama with
action rather than dialogue. Conflict
arises from Mr Burstall's portrayal of
the differing attitudes and values of the
Glenrowan people, the police and the
gang themselves.
Like other Australian film makers, the
Eltham group are finding finance a big
worry. “Man in Iron” has a £50,000
budget, of which only £22,000 is in hand
at the moment. However, with the
success of “The Prize” (which won a
bronze medal at the 1960 Venice Film
Festival), “The Black Man and his Bride”
(an award winner at the recent Mel-
bourne Festival) and the new TV series
“Sebastian the Fox,” which the ABC has
bought, there is optimism that the rest of
the money can be found.
Eltham Films have arranged for dis-
tribution in Australia and New Zealand
through Columbia and are now working
on arrangements for overseas release.
Apart from the missing <£28,000, how-
ever, the group is a little concerned at
the news that a British company will
make a film on the Kelly theme. This will
have Albert Finney in the title role and
it will be able to budget far more
ambitiously. Mr Burstall believes that it
has already spent around £16,000 on
preliminary reconnaissance in Australia.
However, Finney as Kelly has been on-
again off-again for months so the locals
may capture the Kellys first.


if j£ Cs3* j! || I" 1
VC“.* "'-'5 v.r.-/-/»TW-V «ri "*•
ii p:‘ '=’*•
V __, { jca !, (=> |l • .ii
?. _.p,v3. ,j }; ~A "' •**!'
; " ijrct ![r-|[-|
iil
1| f ;,.a i r-3- y>-
H i L-
/
/
This machine
really earns its keep...
No desk flower—this copying machine. It’s a down-to-
earth, shirt-sleeve, day-long worker that really earns its
keep in any office, large or small.
That’s because the “Thermo-Fax” brand copying machine
is so versatile and can do so many office jobs for you.
It produces perfectly dry facsimiles of almost any typed,
written or printed original on a variety of papers both
white and coloured in just four seconds flat. No mess,
no fuss, no inks or chemicals, just four second efficiency.
Multiple copies of correspondence and figures can be
produced quicker than carbons neater and cleaner
too with new “Thermo-Fax” Systems Papers. At least
eight vital office jobs are handled with equal ease,
from speeding up your answering of correspondence,
easily and personally, to producing printed gummed
labels quicker than you can use them.
One of the range of “Thermo-Fax” copying machines can
help solve your internal paperwork problem for you. So
why not ring or write the 3M Company in your capital
city and ask them to show you how a “Thermo-Fax” ma-
chine can best earn its keep in your office.
TRADEMARK
Fax
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
COmPANY
BRAND
2 WENTWORTH AVE., SYDNEY 2-0930 ■ 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 61-3841 ■ 9 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
LA5971-6 ■ 178 BARRY PARADE. BRISBANE 5-4131 ■ 238 LORD STREET. PERTH 28-4651 H 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART 3-1620


Can Labor Ever Win?
Some advice for Arthur Colwell
By C. A. R. CROSLAND, M.P.
(Author of “The Conservative Enemy," “The Future of Socialism.”)
The basic problem facing all West
European socialist parties arises
from the simple, rather self-evident
fact that Marx was wrong. All our
parties, indirectly looking back over a
period of 20 or 30 years, were based on
either an explicit or, at any rate, a sub-
conscious assumption that the Marxist
analysis of society was right; in other
words, that we would be faced with a
growing confrontation between the pro-
letariat on the one hand and the bour-
geoisie on the other hand; we’d be faced
with a growing polarisation of the social
classes and hence of the political parties,
and that the function of the Socialist
Party was to represent the class con-
scious Marxist proletariat. This has
proved increasingly false. In every coun-
try, the proportion which the industrial
working class, the blue-collar workers,
hold to the rest of the population is
steadily going down. In other words,
there is a steady process of upgrading
of the labor force which makes society
as a whole less and less proletarian, less
and less an old factory working-class,
less and less a blue-collar working-class.
And on top of this objective change in
the situation we have an increasingly
powerful subjective change in that even
people who would be still described as
working-class in terms of their income
or their job, subjectively are seeking to
acquire a middle-class status in life.
In addition, so far from the Marxist
prophecy of growing impoverishment
proving to be correct, we see obviously
in all our countries the reverse process;
we see a very sensational rise in work-
ing-class living standards. This has
eroded the traditional appeal of left-
wing parties, which has been to anti-
capitalism in the simplest sense of the
term, because capitalism meant poverty
and unemployment. So again our tradi-
tional economic appeal has been weak-
ened.
VTow on top of these two factors I think
that a further change that occurs
in the Western countries is a change
in the social psychology, a change in
the general attitude from hopelessness
to a relative optimism. In all Western
countries educational mobility tends to
grow. Every year there are more pos-
sibilities for the children of working-
class parents. By getting up the educa-
tional ladder they will be also able
to get up the ladder of income and the
ladder of social status. In other words,
there is more chance of getting on by
individual exertion.
Again, full employment has the same
effect. By far the most beneficial effect
of full employment fundamentally is
that it gives the ordinary working-class
person for the first time a degree of
economic choice; a choice between one
job and another job; a choice be-
tween one firm and another firm; be-
This is a condensation of the recent
Thomas Memorial Lecture on ‘'The
New Socialism” given to the Mel-
bourne University ALP Club by the
British Labor MP, C. A. R. Crosland.
tween one part of the country and an-
other part of the country; a choice
between working overtime and not
working overtime; a certain choice even
about the age at which to retire and a
choice, which in Britain is extremely im-
portant for family psychology, as to
whether the wife should go out to work
or not. In other words, there is a real
range of choices between more income
and more leisure which never existed
as long as we had mass unemployment.
And all this means that there tends to
be as compared with before the war
less and less reliance on the things
that traditionally the Left has relied
on; namely, collective action by the trade
unions and almost paternalist action by
the State. There is an increasing sense
that people can rely on their own exer-
tions for economic and social progress
in life. This kind of change tends to en-
courage a form of psychology which
is much more associated with Conserva-
tive parties; the psychology of the op-
portunity of individual effort, individual
choice and the rest.
Now, these serious changes, social,
economic and psychological, obviously
have their effect on politics. Politics
inevitably have a somewhat more mar-
ginal character than in the past. Thera
tends to be a certain convergence of
attitude between political parties, a ten-
dency towards consensus. Quite genu-
inely, and not just for cynical reasons,
most conservative parties in Western
Europe today accept the need for full
employment and the possibility of full
employment; accept a measure of re-
distribution of income; they accept a
measure of economic planning; they ac-
cept a measure even of public owner-
ship things which would scarcely
have been respectable thirty years ago.
Similarly most parties on the Left, not
solely for cynical electoral reasons, but
because of the fundamental change in
the intellectual climate, accept now that
some limits must be set on the extent
of government control and on the ex-
tent of public ownership. The issues
continue but they are somewhat less
central for the society as a whole than
they were in the past. In this type of
situation politics are bound to be more
marginal than they were.
Lower Temperature
VTow a lot of people in Britain, a lot
of emotional Leftists regret this situ-
ation fundamentally. I do not at all. I
profoundly welcome it, because I think
that all these changes I’ve been mention-
ing represent fundamentally a change to
the Left. I think that they have been due
fundamentally to democratic pressure
coming from the Left, symbolised or ar-
ticulated either through Left-wing gov-
ernment or articulated by democratic
pressure on Right - wing government.
This presents us with a completely new
situation, and I now want to ask two
questions in this new type of society.
First of all, what will politics be
about, and secondly can Socialist par-
ties continue to win elections? Politics
might, of course, be about foreign af-
fairs and defence. It is almost invariably
a mistake for a Left-wing party to fight
elections on foreign affairs and defence.
They may, of course, have to if these
issues raise a basic matter of principle,
but in general if one has any free choice
in the matter it will not. Political sur-
veys show that on foreign affairs and
defence the electorate always tends to
trust the party on the Right, and on
domestic issues of full employment,
social security and redistribution, and
so on, the electorate tends to trust the
party to the Left.
Even in this new situation the Left
will continue to advocate, and the Right
will continue to resist, egalitarian poli-
cies in various fields. But in addition
politics will, I think, be more and more
about a number of newer issues.
Affluence begins to be taken for
granted and is no longer itself an
election issue. People look more and


We’re pouring freight cars, cocktail bars,
building spars at Geelong, Vic.
Point Henry, a finger of land extending
into Corio Bay, Geelong, is small on the
map. But its meaning is big. Point Henry
is the hub of Alcoa’s mighty new all-
Australian industry. Here Alcoa smelts
aluminium for Australia’s future. From
this aluminium come the products of
tomorrow. The homes, the fans, the
caravans the everything for tomorrow
is made possible by Alcoa’s all-Australian
aluminium operation. Alcoa is now at
work, mining, refining and smelting
aluminium. This £45 million enterprise,
through its 49% Australian ownership,
is an important factor in Australia’s
economic framework.
•\": :
f.'T/.A'i
S/O A
Mining:
DARLING RANGES
Relining:
KWINANA
Smelting and
PT. HENRY
" WGEELONG J&
'* *•**'
TO
Vi
ALCOA
Q
AUSTRALIA
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS ...ALUMINIUM IS
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: 155 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. 67 6585 PROPRIETARY LIMITED
: •
s %
|MM
a as
*v HP
■*&V < .■*
i
lilifilltill
sag _ *«
igsg£§||
ms
SW«
:§:S?SS:S : : : *::
-
8-sss
wmmmmm
II
*•■ .
: : : :':'::-:;: : x : : ; : : :
Hi
■
:
■'■'?: ■:•’*■
¥?SSS:S
SSiSKss;
Si&^iisPsSSS
mz
• •: .
If
vmmm
v :
:¥¥
M
■
v, .j£
• : ;.
giisi
,
HU
•:<•••:
!||;||||||
x*»
s-Xv
wiiil
P
5
:
:¥sx
“Pouring aluminium at Point Henry.” A painting by noted artist Wes. Walters, commissioned by Alcoa of Australia.


Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility .
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Panteae
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy*
supple and strong.
M
m
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/0.
Amazing new
PANTENE*
Vitamin Hair Tonic
SBP9/6J3
more at the deficiencies of the af-
fluent society, at all the things which
have not been done in this kind of so-
ciety. What these things are will differ
between different countries. In Britain,
at the moment, the first affluent society
issue is the rate of economic growth.
In Britain this is a major issue because
we have had a very marked degree of
economic stagnation in the last few
years.
A second issue which again comes
more and more to the forefront with
growing prosperity is the issue of Edu-
cation; how much should be spent on
it, how much educational opportunity
we are going to give, and what we
are going to do with the public schools.
A third issue, I think, which comes
more and more to the forefront is the
general issue of consumer protection,
of consumer testing of standards that
ought to be laid down by the Govern-
ment and supported by the Government.
This is a general issue which almost
by definition was of no importance be-
fore the war. With a very large amount
of real material poverty and deprivation
in the society the question of the quality
of consumer goods was not of great
concern.
And the last of the issues which I
want to mention, which in Britain is a
very desperate one, is the whole issue of
urban planning and town and country
planning. In the whole of the post-war
period in Britain the thing has got com-
pletely out of control, a combination of
uncontrolled office building in the centre
of cities, of the spreading of suburbs
into the countryside, of a total in-
difference to the traffic problem raised
by these developments has more and
more had the effect of murdering Brit-
ish cities as a place where people can
live decent, reasonable, civilised lives.
So in answer to the question of what
politics will be about, the answer is
twofold: it will be partly about the old
traditional, if you like, egalitarian class-
orientated issues, issues at a lower level
of political excitement, and it will be
partly about new issues which are
thrown up very largely by the fact of
prosperity and the fact of growing poli-
tical sophistication.
Adaptation
VTow the last question I want to ask is
can Labor and Socialist parties win
elections in this new situation? A Left-
wing party, given that it’s any good,
ought to be able to win elections on
these newer issues because these prob-
lems will not be solved without a great
expansion of government control, of
government spending, and sometimes of
government ownership and therefore
these are issues which it ought to be easier
for the Left to articulate than for the
Right to articulate.
But of course the essential condition
of Socialist parties winning elections in
this new society is that such parties
adapt themselves to the new society.
There is a great temptation not to adapt,
not to modernise, but to go on talking
the language of thirty years ago. If
a Labor Party goes on talking the
language of thirty years ago, then a
Labor Party has no hope whatever of
winning an election under these new
circumstances.
A Responsible Defence Policy
T'he first essential condition is that the
Party must be, and must be seen
to be by the entire electorate, passion-
ately and profoundly democratic. It
must be clearly anti-Communist, clearly
anti-Marxist and clearly anti-totalitarian.
The second essential condition is that
the Labor Party must have a firm and
responsible defence policy because
whether you like it or not and I
personally do quite like it the bulk
of the electorate in all the countries
that I am describing does want to be
defended. The bulk of the electorate is
not pacifist; it’s not neutralist.
The third condition is that a Socialist
Party should be and should be seen
to be a national party and not simply
a class party. Of course the Labor
Party will continue to draw the bulk
of its support from amongst the trade
Unions and from the organised working
class. But if the party is thought to be
confined to that support, then its chance
of winning a majority in the electorate
is small. I believe that in Britain over
the last four or five years we have
effected a major change in this respect
inside the Labor Party. Increasingly the
Labor Party in terms of its public image
came to be identified with Gaitskell as
a leader of the Party, and Gaitskell did
obviously give a classless image.
A second great advantage we had is
that the British Labor Party is not pas-
sionately anti-intellectual, so we have
rather a large middle-class vanguard.
We have always had very close links
with the University, and our leadership
has been criticised on this, and I know
to my cost Gaitskell used to be very
bitterly criticised for surrounding him-
self with a so-called sinister set, which
was described as going up to Hamp-
stead, drinking red wine and so on. In
fact he was a man who never drank
red wine. He liked gin, fortunately.
And a third influence, I think, in giv-
ing us a much more national and much
less sectional appeal is the fact that the
relations between the Parliamentary
Labor Party and the Labor Party Con-
ference are different from what they
might be conceived to be. We had as
you know a great crisis about four years
ago when, in a fit of aberration, or due
to very effective Left-wing organisation,
the Labor Party Conference passed a
neutralist resolution, a unilateralist reso-
lution. This was the occasion when Gait-
skell in what really was, I think, the
supreme moment of his career made a
fantastic speech. He said he would fight,
fight and fight again for the Labor
Party he loved. And he did fight again,
and what fighting meant of course was
defying Conference. We had a year in
which the Parliamentary Labor Party
and Conference simply took different
policies, and the Parliamentary Labor
Party persisted in its own policy which
was firmly pro-Western alliance, pro-
Nato, and pro-multilateralism. This situ-
ation lasted a year until by great exer-
tions the Conference decision was re-
versed next year. Now this fact, that


WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
lj GMK
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wh.ch opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Ihjuded
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essentia!
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention,
IPcK UP
V^Tfl
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 .
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
for a year Parliamentary leadership de-
iied Conference when the Conference
Jiad gone unilateralist, I think, had an
enormous influence on public thinking
about the Labor Party. It w'as impos-
sibie for anybody at the end of this
year to say that this w'as a party whose
policy w'as decided by factions.
The fourth basic condition is that the
Labor or Socialist Party should have
the pragmatic and not the doctrinal
view of nationalisation. I don’t think
that any Labor Party which is doctrin-
ally committed to wholesale, one hun-
dred per cent nationalisation of the
means of production, distribution and
exchange is going to win elections in
the 19605. This again we had a very
bitter fight about in the British Labor
Party in the so-called Clause 4 dispute,
where we, the moderates in the party,
admit freely looking back, made an
appalling tactical blunder in challenging
Clause 4, because, if I may speak for
a moment again as a firm politician and
not just as an ex-academic, it is a great
mistake in politics to go tor doctrine.
The thing that matters in politics is
power, and it was a mad thing for us
simply to go for the doctrinal thing in
the party constitution. We should have
taken a lesson from the Swedish Social-
ists, who have only been perfectly con-
tented under a Monarchy, who still
have as No. 1 article in their basic
constitution a commitment to Republi-
canism. You cannot defeat both the
Left and the traditional Right together.
You're mad if you take them on to-
gether. And we took them on together
in the Clause 4 controversy and we lost
that particular battle. But having lost
the battle, however, we won the war
without very much difficulty, and the
Labor Party now has a perfectly prag-
matic and empirical attitude to nation-
alisation. We propose to nationalise one
more major industry and then that in
effect will be that.
The fifth basic condition, I think, is
that the Labor or Socialist Party must be
a professional party in terms of general
management, campaigning, political tac-
tics and the rest. The techniques of
public relations, of advertising, of pro-
fessional use of the media must be used.
And the last condition is that the
party has got to be genuinely radical
on the new issues. It must be a party
which really has up-to-date ideas about
the rate of growth, about educational
reform, about the consumer, about town
and country planning, a party which is
supported not only by manual workers,
but also by the rapidly growing number
of white-collar workers, junior salaried
workers and the rest of it.
There are two battles to be won in
most Labor Parties. One is the battle
against the old Left. It is the battle
against the anti-democratic forces, a
battle against the Communists and the
Marxists, a battle against people using
an absurd outdated revolutionary ter-
minology, a battle against the all-out
nationalisers that is the negative
battle that's got to be won against the
extremists of the Left. But there is also
a positive battle that has got to be won
against the conservatives of the Right
a battle for real radicalism, a battle
for people who really want to change
the society in which we are living. It
is a battle against people who very often
are quite content with the present set-
up. It is always this battle for the New
Socialism which I believe to be the
battle which every Socialist Party has
got to go through.
I am certain the battle can be won,
and if the battle is won. then Labor
Parties and Socialist Parties will have
no difficulty whatsoever in winning
elections.


6y appointment
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II x
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON t SON LTB.
Connoisseurs will understand our pride-
Thisis
Centenary Year for
VAT 69
One hundred years have set Time’s
honoured seal of distinction to this excellent Scotch
Whisky and; in so doing, has truly justified the discrimination of
those who nominated the fine old whisky from
the vat numbered 69 as the perfect blend.
More than a Scotch, a tradition for 100 years now
fia
= ,
NZL 6/10.4c


OVERSEAS
Soviet’s
Changing
Face In
Indonesia
Now the Russians are Ugly too
From DEISMS BLOODWORTH
in Singapore
(Recently returned from Indonesia)
1N Indonesia, time and the difficult
relations between giver and given
have done their work, and now the
Russians are Ugly too. While Americans
have been ridiculed as naive, odiously
generous bunglers whose very twang sug-
gests plucked political strings, it has for
long been assumed in Asia that the Rus-
sians (and Czechs, East Germans, Poles
and the rest) were engaging, astute,
kindly big brothers who were winning
the battle for the hearts and minds of
Oriental people, all of whose languages
they spoke and all of whose customs and
susceptibilities they had diligently studied
so that they would never put a foot
wrong.
Nothing could be further from the
truth. In Djakarta, the American Em-
bassy has 11 competent Indonesian-
speakers on its staff, and the remainder
have no difficulty in communicating with
educated Indonesians, almost all of whom
speak English. The Russians are at a
great disadvantage not only because few
speak any Indonesian, but because most
of them speak no English or Dutch, and
the average Indonesian speaks no Rus-
sian.
This is not all. To the linguistic diffi-
culties of the good-natured Muscovite
who comes out to the Soviet mission in
Indonesia are added security orders and
an acute shortage of cash. He lives in
his compound, is not allowed to hire the
übiquitous Djakarta “betjacks”, the cycle
rickshaws which are the capital’s most
common form of transport, and is given
very little local money to spend. The
Soviet car pool is very small and when
he goes out it is usually with 10 or 15
of his fellow-Russians in an embassy bus
which will take him to another Soviet
establishment up in the volcanic hills out-
side the city.
He may in fact have one Indonesian
servant (most Western diplomats employ
three or more), but his wife helps with
the compound cooking and housekeep-
ing. His standard of living is low, and
unless he is on a special list he is al-
lowed no contact with Indonesians or
others (which makes his much-needed
access to black market rupiahs embarras-
singly complicated at times).
The Indonesians do not give him the
benefit of the doubt. They do not praise
him for his modest demands and retiring
nature. They consider him close-fisted
and insultingly stand-offish.
For the background is unhappy. The
Indonesians have either spent or already
committed themselves to spending Soviet
credits worth well over S9OO million,
most of which have gone to pay for
Russian warships and jet planes. In all,
Djakarta has accepted offers of credit
from the Soviet bloc totalling more than
$1,700 million. And these staggering
sums have to be repaid with interest. The
only present Moscow ever gave Indonesia
outright was a 200-bed hospital.
Meanwhile, to penurious Indonesians
there is something unpleasantly sardonic
about the great Russian-built fleet that
manoeuvred so grandly off the Javanese
coast during the recent visit of Marshal
Malinovsky, instead of steaming to the
aid of volcano victims stranded on Bali.
But despite their economic crisis they
have so far been held to their contract
to buy a second Soviet heavy cruiser
which will be an even bigger white ele-
phant than the first, already due to go up
to Vladivostok for overhaul.
Bad workmen blaming their tools,
Indonesians who find difficulty in hand-
ling and maintaining all this Russian
ironmongery are beginning to carp about
the quality. It is outdated, inefficient,
spare parts are not readily available, the
Russians have not completed the full
training of Indonesian personnel, have
not handed over the equipment properly.
The headaches have been numerous.
Soviet earth-moving machines have work-
ed badly in heavy Indonesian soil; succes-
sive Russian survey teams have contra-
dicted each other absurdly on the feasi-
bility of setting up a superphosphate
plant in West Java; Soviet building
specifications do not meet Western stand-
ards; subsidences occur, and cracks ap-
pear. A Czech agricultural machinery
plant has proved entirely unsuitable for
Indonesia, and Prague can supply no
spare parts. Polish equipment for new
shipyards is rusting on the site because
no local currency is available to pay for
construction work. An earlier catastrophe
occurred when the East Germans offered
to equip a sugar mill and shipped out
machinery for processing non-existent
sugar beet instead of sugar cane.
The Iron Curtain experts are exas-
perated by inefficient Javanese labor and
the impractical plans of the Djakarta
Ministries, but for the sake of goodwill
agree to projects which the United States
and other Western Powers turn down as
misconceived. In Makassar, the Czechs
have found themselves trying to build a
cement plant at a point where the
wharves, the roads, the bridges and the
vehicles which were supposed to run on


i-^r.
m
»
Ml
*
M] ,!
a
u
M
(A
CO
D» CD
■»
» co
o
I y
Millions of pounds of research money
has been spent perfecting thumb-
, sized electric motors which move satellite
aerials. They are powered by even smaller
eriergy N cells, charged and discharged by
,the sun’s rays. Light in weight, but
packing a punch that lasts for years, this
jsystem is ideal for powering the “space
age” electric shaver.
. The Sperry Division of the Sperry
'Rand Corporation plays a leading role in
‘space research. This know-how is passed
On to the Remington Shaver Division.
The Remington “Lektronic” is the first
and only shaver that uses space satellite
principles in order to double a shaver’s
power, while retaining a built-in recharge-
able power supply.
Men on the move can now shave when
oyer they like. Only a little bigger than a
Q
packet of cigarettes in bag or briefcase,, the
“Lektronic” draws up to two weeks’ power
from the mains in a few hours.
Start shaving with “Lektronic” now.
Exclusive to Remington, with Roll-a*
matic adjustable features.
• For Father's Day, Ist September, get the•
gift with no strings attached—a new cordless
Remington Lektronic.
22 GUINEAS COMPLETE
Other Remington shavers from £12.17.®
mmmmm
Shaver by Remington Rand
Vieo6M-d
them were all too small and too weak to
carry the machinery, which has, in con-
sequence, remained in its crates for at
least seven months.
By the same token, the Russians insist
on Indonesian participation in their
engineering and construction projects in
order not to offend their proteges. This
simply causes more bad blood when
Javanese civil engineers interpret Rus-
sian plans and work schedules in their
own way and in their own time.
The Americans, having long since
learned their lessons the hard way, build
their aid projects themselves on a
“turn-key-plus” basis they entrust the
key of a plant to its future Indonesian
owners only after construction has been
completed and smooth production up to
a predetermined capacity achieved.
Sometimes at a large diplomatic party
in Djakarta, a chunky Soviet economic
assistance expert may be seen gazing
with curious yearning at an American
AID official across the crowded room.
And you know what that look means.
He wants, but can’t, to unburden his
frustrated soul to the one man who
would sympathise with him immediately.
(ofns.)
Ceylon Tomorrow
Is Another Day
From a Special Correspondent
\ Sinhalese film playing at present in
Colombo has the optimistic title
TOMORROW WILL BE BETTER
THAN TODAY. Finance Minister of
only eight weeks, Tikiri Banda Ilanga-
ratne, novelist, playwright and ex-film
star, has gone one better. According to
him, there is nothing very much wrong
with today.
In January, 1963, the State-sponsored
Ceylon Insurance Corporation took over
all new life insurance business, allowing
the private concerns only to service
existing policies and continue taking in
non-life business.
The bulk of Ceylon’s insurance com-
panies are British and Mr llangaratne has
dealt a severe blow to British trade re-
lations with Ceylon.
With the Petroleum Corporation ad-
ministering the entire oil business and the
Insurance Corporation now taking over
all insurance business, Western interests
in Ceylon have been hard hit. Mr Ilan-
garatne in his Budget optimistically look-
ed forward to increasing foreign aid. But
many people fear that Britain and
America, generous with their aid in the
past, are unlikely to be after these blows.
But no doubt something will turn up.
After all, as Mr llangaratne tells the
people, tomorrow is another day. (ofns.)


Roving Reporter of Art
Africa in vivid Nolancolor
From LARRY BOYS in London
UnP here I was, in the Mountains of
the Moon, in the last strong-
hold of the Mountain Gorilla.
He’s dying out, you know. Didn’t see
one all the time I was there. Saw their
droppings, places where they’d been
feeding on bamboo shoots and had
moved on when they heard us, saw their
nests.
“But the nearest I got to seeing one
was a photograph. Of a dead one. In
this guesthouse affair where the gorilla
spotters put up for the night. The photo-
graph is on the wall, framed. The gorilla
is dead. Rigor mortis has set in and one
arm reaches out stiffly. Standing proudly
by the corpse is the King of the Bel-
gians, holding a gun big enough to stop
an elephant.
“The gorilla is a kind of man. He’s
one of us. Even looking at a zoo
gorilla, you can feel the kinship. He
knows you. In many ways he’s a better
kind of man than we are. All he wants
is to live the quiet life in the bamboo
thickets, with his family around him.
He’s a good family man. Sticks to his
mate and is tender and indulgent with
the children.
“He has no envy, no malice, no ac-
quisitive instinct. He doesn’t kill any-
thing, not even to eat. He doesn’t or-
ganise himself into packs. He doesn’t
make war. He’s a gentleman. So we kill
him off.”
Sidney Nolan puts it all into his pic-
ture “Gorilla”. He’s not sure, but he
thinks it might be his favorite from his
series “African Journey”.
The series is a record of his trip to
Kenya and Abyssinia last year. There
are about 40 pictures in all. Price
range, £.400 to £l5OO sterling. Accord-
ing to size, mainly. They sold, of
course, like hot cakes at the Marlborough
Gallery, London. For Nolan, it seems,
can do no wrong these days.
On the opening night, between the
kisses and the wine, Princess Margaret
and her husband tried to squeeze in for
a look. Tony ploughed a way through
the throng for his missus and they man-
aged to see most of the paintings from
the three-foot range available in the
conditions. They came and went with-
out anybody (apart from Nolan, who
was in the know) noticing them.
That’s how fashionable Sidney Nolan
is. London puts on a “Retrospective”
Nolan exhibition at the drop of a cock-
tail stick. They’ve him into their
roving reporter of art: “Nolan in Egypt,”
“Nolan in America,” “Nolan in Africa.”
London critics were, naturally, less
enthusiastic than viewers, but most ap-
proved the series.
Nigel Gosling in the London “Ob-
server” said it confirmed Nolan as a
“real oddball of painting and as such
more interesting, both in his failures and
his successes, than most artists trundling
down the main line.
“The feeling of presences, real but
transitory, is what Nolan’s paintings
chiefly convey,” Gosling writes. “He
has not picked on the obvious charm of
the beasts’ peculiar shapes and attitudes
(how could he neglect the giraffe?). He
has not injected his own reactions into
them as, say, Picasso does so magnifi-
cently the terror of an elephant’s
baggy bulk or the nervy maliciousness
of an ape. He is not interested in their
speed or strength. He has contrived to
see them unemotionally as, perhaps, an-
other animal would see them- —patches
against a blurry background with sharp
details which stand out like signals.”
Standard Texture
TTowever. David Storey in the “New
Statesman” says that Nolan’s journey
to Africa has been “not to discover an en-
vironment but to find objects with which
he can animate the standard texture of
his paint. He wants not to penetrate
experience, but to use experience to con-
firm his mannerisms and style, employ-
ing the intrinsic appeal of certain things
as his surest guide. He is a poetic
illustrator; his African landscapes are in
effect, if not in idiom, no different from
his Australian scenes, his animals tame
possums stalking this West End zoo.”
“The Times” critic described the paint-
ings as “visual reporting”. Nolan doesn’t.
He has tried, he said, to see the animals
as they see one another. As sleek and
edible. As blurred and menacing. And
he sets them against a backdrop of vivid,
if not glorious, Nolancolor. Gone is the
old Ripolin enamel on hardboard. This
is oils throughout.
Nolan plays with his new pigments as
with a new toy. Enjoying himself with
flamingo - pinks and aubergine - purples
and wet-season greens. He has loved
being able to smudge the still wet paint
for misty, out-of-focus effects. Double
vision, too. Here is the antelope. There
is its soul.
The whole collection (about <£ 40,000-
worth) looks as if it had been painted
in the one afternoon. Certainly many
of the pictures were painted at high
speed, one bearing the germ of the other
in its last brush strokes.
This is what Nolan tells you when you
talk with him. And he talks with any-
body. For this reason alone he is im-
mensely popular with the young art
students at the Royal, the Slade, St
Martins, Chelsea and all points west.
Beyond the swirling cocktail dresses
he chats to a bedraggled 18-year-old in
jeans and floppy shirt. Paint stains and
plaster of Paris. Hair everywhere. “I
think you’re right,” he said. “I should
have thought more about the elephants.
St Martin’s, did you say? Turning out
some good people. Sculpture. Wish I
had time. I’d like to go back to school
for a year or so.”
They ask him and he tells them.
Then next thing they know, he’s asking
their advice.
Currently, I fancy, he’d be No. 2
favorite (to Francis Bacon) among the
students. Bacon excites and terrifies
them. Nolan excites and reassures
them.
Anyway, what about all this success?
“Some American actress once said that
success was a slap in the face with a
wet fish,” Nolan said. “I don’t mind
success so long as it doesn’t interfere
with my painting.
“Mind you, I’ll not say it isn’t a good
thing not to have to worry about money
any more. I mean, it makes you more
mobile. You can afford to get around
a bit. I can pop back home any time I
fancy. Australia’s not so far away any
more.
“That’s important to me. For I’m
still Australian. And I know there’ll
always be a kind of refracted Austra-
lianism in my work, no matter how long
I stay away.”
Illustration of how “Australian” Sid-
ney Nolan still is: He feels deeply about
his “Gorilla” painting, but admits to a
boyish desire to scribble the caption on
It: “W. C. Fields calling for another
drink.”


NOLAN'S AFRICAN JOURNEY
Blue Monkey
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO, AUGUST 24, 1963
Australian artist Sidney Nolan went to Africa in the autumn
of last year. He had wanted for years to study the animals
and landscape of Africa, but after some weeks in Kenya he
went to Abyssinia to explore Harar where the French poet
Rimbaud lived for some time. These paintings are the result
of the trip. London critics, perhaps characteristically, saw
his African landscapes in effect as no different from his
Australian scenes. But London art-buyers, for whom Nolan
is now the fashionable roving reporter of art, rapidly bought
out the collection, valued at something near <£40,000.


Standing Figure
Rimbaud
Gorilla
Landscape


Zebra
Man and Monkey


Lion


letters
ot the
editor
CAIRNS
Sir,
Every time you publish an article on
Queensland you seem to encourage
despondency. The article on “Life—and
Death—of a Sugar Town” (3/8/63) is
somewhat divorced from the truth.
Cairns is not a ghost town nor likely to
become one. It has a population of about
25,000, with about another 70,000
relatively close to Cairns itself, whereas
Townsville has 50,000 and no close
settlement outside this, but a number of
very good towns a considerable distance
away.
Cairns has little secondary industry
and isn’t likely to have any, but it is the
main sugar area in the north. In the
1961/62 year payments to growers were,
in round figures, £18,000,000; £7,000,000
in Townsville, £11,000,000 in Mackay,
and £7,000,000 in the Bundaberg-Mary-
borough area. The minor losses you talk
about will not seriously affect the overall
position.
There is no lost tourist trade, because
this trade is growing regularly each year,
and, with a bitumen road right through,
will continue.
Incidentally, in the whole of the post-
war period Queensland, with 14% of
the Australian population, has provided
20% of the export income, which, of
course, has benefited all States.
ALLEN McCLELLAND
Brisbane ( Qld .).
CHATTERLEY IN PUFFINS?
Sir,
Now that we and our offspring are
considered intellectually, emotionally and
physically adult enough to digest the
starkly brutal and obscene realism of
the mutilator’s alleged confession, as
published in the daily Press, is it too
much to hope that novels dealing with
comparatively normal sexual relation-
ships (e.g., “Lady Chatterley’s Lover”,
“Tropic of Cancer”) be released from
the banned list immediately and, to be
morally consistent, published in, say.
Puffin Story Books, besides the editions
for adults.
H. LLOYD-JONES
Sydney (NSW).
AUSTRALASIAN BOOK SOCIETY
Sir,
Your anonymous “Sydney Correspond-
ent” displays prejudice in his interpreta-
tion of the history of the Australasian
Book Society (3/8/63). To begin with,
the mention of a precise date of forma-
tion (Anzac Day, 1951) is puzzling, for
it bears no relation to fact. The Society
was formed on February 1, 1952, at a
meeting in Melbourne convened by
George Seelaf, then and now Victorian
secretary of the Butchers’ Union.
Far from being “the brain child of a
group of intellectuals”, the idea for the
Society flowed with the beer one after-
noon in the Lygon Hotel in a school
consisting of such unintellectual types as
George and myself. We had been engaged
in the reprehensible task of printing
“Power Without Glory”; George suggest-
ed forming a book club to publish
Left and democratic novels to be distri-
buted through the accidental but quite his-
toric relations between writers and read-
ers which the defence campaign had
brought about. Something like this has
been carried out under four different
managers Bill Wannan, lan Turner,
Les Greenfield and Jack Beasley and
no secret has been made of it.
The idea of launching the Society with
a book of mine came from Bill Wannan
and, as “Journey into the Future” was the
only one available, it was published at
the same time as “Crown Jewel” by
Ralph de Boissiere. Ralph and I, ably
assisted by Bill Wannan, Joe Waters and
several writers, did a round of meetings.
More than 1,000 members were obtained.
“Journey into the Future”, far from
being “one of the biggest flops ever”,
was correctly listed in more than one
daily newspaper as the best selling non-
fiction title of its period. It sold 8,000 of
a 10,000 run. The other two books of
mine published by the Society were also
published by The Bodley Head, London,
and other reputable European firms.
The only valid point of criticism in
the whole article is that of the Society’s
failure to acknowledge lan Turner in
the volume “Convict Days”. I, myself,
strenuously opposed the abandonment of
his introduction but had to agree that
the preface substituted was a good one.
The Society published several other
important books, including fine first
novels by Dorothy Hewitt and David
Forest in collaboration with the eminent-
ly respectable publisher, William Heine-
mann Ltd. Your characterisation of the
Society as “Red” is misleading. Some
Communists are active in the Society,
no doubt with the backing of the Party,
but many non-, not to say anti-Com-
munists have been and are actively as-
sociated with it. As for my “negotiations”
with Seven Seas publishers: these con-
sisted of an unofficial chat with Gertrude
Heym and her novelist husband, Stefan,
in Berlin last February. Seven Seas have
already published three ABS books, and
it is common practice for English pub-
lishers, for example, to print in Western
or Eastern Europe.
Your correspondent is a little prema-
ture in dancing on the Book Society’s
grave. We expect to survive this crisis
because there are thousands of readers,
many writers and even a few printers and
publishers prepared to back us in our
work for Australian literature and inde-
pendence.
FRANK HARDY
Manly (NSW).
“ANGLICISATION”
Sir,
Just what does M. W. Gerkens
(27/7/63) mean when he states that
“Anglicisation” has been “forced upon
us”?
Does he deny the fundamental fact
that this country is of Anglican founda-
tion, and as such, could hardly have been
otherwise than Anglican?
Perhaps it would be more correct to-
day to claim that we are having
“Romanism” forced upon us, a condi-
tion no doubt that he and Frank
Knopfelmacher would wholeheartedly
welcome.
R. B. LOWNDERS
Toongabbie (NSW).
CHIROPRACTORS
Sir,
V. J. Doube's defensive stance on
the chiropractic question (3/8/63) is
understandable. By now he would have
been made aware of the backfire which
followed his committee's report on
chiropractic. There are between 400,000
and 500,000 chiropractic patients ■ and
supporters in Victoria, many of whom
are ALP members with strong feelings
on the need for chiropractic legislation,
income tax deductions and workers’ com-
pensation. In our opinion the ALP com-
mittee on chiropractic was a farce.
The 1960 ALP conference voted over-
whelmingly for chiropractic recognition.
The central executive then appointed an
investigating committee headed by a mem-
ber of the Australian Medical Associa-
tion . . . the kiss of death. Three years
later the committee produced a super-
ficial report which said exactly what the
AMA would want it to say. The com-
mittee blatantly ignored the feelings of
the 1960 conference. It blatantly ignored
the chiropractic profession represented by
the Victorian branch of the ACA, and
it blatantly ignored those ALP members
who volunteered evidence on the effi-
cacy of chiropractic care.
Early in its three-year life the com-
mittee spent 30 to 40 minutes inter-
viewing Mr A. R. Hart, then secretary
of the Victorian chiropractors. Mr
Doube was absent on that occasion. We
have no evidence that the committee
visited any chiropractic offices or talked
to any chiropractors in their offices. What
was the committee doing? We have evi-
dence that it interviewed a polyglot as-
sortment of people ranging from the
State secretary of the AMA down to
osteopaths, naturopaths, dieticians,
physio-therapists and self-styled un-
trained “chiropractors”. The evidence of


these characters was carefully sifted o.nd
used to damn the bona fide chiropractors.
Mr Doube exposes the shallowness of
his committee's investigation when he
asks what value chiropractic might have
in the treatment of various conditions.
If he really wants to find out I can arrange
for him to inspect case records of 100
patients in each of the categories he
mentions from various chiropractic
offices. After that he might like to get
the opinions of these patients on the
value of chiropractic.
G. F. KINNEY
Secretary, Victorian Branch
Australian Chiropractors’ Association.
Camberwell (Vic.).
APPEAL FOR SKOPJE VICTIMS
Sir,
The recent disaster that befell the capi-
tal of Macedonia in South Jugoslavia has
aroused world-wide sympathy for the
thousands of people who were killed, or
made widows or orphans by the earth-
quake. Free Jugoslavs in Australia,
regardless of whether they are Slovenes,
Serbs, Croats or Macedonians, appeal to
the Australian people to help alleviate
the sufferings of the unfortunate people
of Skopje.
To dispel any possible doubts in the
minds of Australian citizens that by help-
ing the Skopje victims they may be sup-
porting the Communist regime in Jugo-
slavia, the money will be handed over
to the International Red Cross, with the
request that it be used only to help the
victims of the disaster. Donations may
be deposited direct with the United
Appeal Fund Victims Skopje (NSW),
Commonwealth Trading Bank, Martin
Place and Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Mrs) Walter Bunning
President.
Sydney (NSW).
THREAT
Sir,
If you continue to publish the
hysterical invective of Mr Malcolm Ellis
regarding Australian history and its
interpretations I shall cease to read Dr
Roe’s copy of your magazine.
THOMAS C. TRIFFITT.
Sandy Bay ( Tas .).
CHILDREN S BOOKS
Sir,
I may write hotch-potch, but I am
certainly not careless, as your corres-
pondent, Marcie Muir (3/8/63), claims.
Before the Children’s Book Week
awards were publicly announced, I was
sent 17 books for review, three of which
were marked as “highly commended.”
As there is no accounting for the taste
of judges in any competition, there was
no reason to doubt this.
After my article went to press the
titles of “commended” books were pub-
lished in a daily. Noting that only one
of the three was included, I made further
inquiries and was informed that the list
fn the daily was incomplete but that all
three books had appeared on a circular
as “commended.’’
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Castle Cove (NSW).
RED CHINA WHEAT TRADE
Sir,
Several points arise out of your article
on the wheat trade with Red China
(27/7/63). We wish to export wheat to
Red China, who will demand that we buy
from her in return. Eventually she will
demand a trade agreement; how can we
formulate a trade agreement with a
country we don't recognise? If we agree
to a trade agreement and consequent
recognition of Red China, we must cease
to recognise Formosa.
What will be America’s attitude to us
if we recognise Red China instead of
Formosa? We will be left to fend for
ourselves in the sea of Asian peoples. Is
this really worthwhile for a boost of £lO3
million per annum to the Australian
economy?
T. J. MORAN
Narrandera (NSW).
COMMUNISTS AND RAN SHIPS
Sir,
The letter from Mr Ray McNeil
(10/8/63) confirms one’s worst fears.
The recent strike over HMAS Supply at
Garden Island, which as he says has met
with “considerable success”, was called
by Communists. If Mr McNeil, who de-
scribes himself as secretary of the Garden
Island Vigilance Committee, is not a
Communist 1 hereby invite him to say so
in a letter to The Bulletin.
It is very hard for the ordinary dock-
yard w'orker to distinguish between a
militant trade union leader and a Com-
munist trade union leader. Both show' the
same zeal over workers’ rights and claims.
Their ultimate aims, however, are quite
different. The success of the Communist
in his own party circles is judged by the
number of manhours that he has caused
to be lost in stoppages; his success in rais-
ing wages is but incidental to this ulti-
mate aim. His motive, how’ever, is hard
to detect because he chooses his issues
carefully. If he is to retain his influence
with the men, he must choose a case
that he has a fair chance of winning.
That means that it must have at least
some superficial justification, and it will
help a lot if the employers have an
urgent need to get the men back to work.
He must then conduct the affair in such
a way that the stoppage lasts as long as
possible without losing the sympathy of
the men.
In the strike at Garden Island all
these conditions were met. The superficial
justification was that management had
agreed (although voluntarily and without
the force of law) to pay a special rate in
specified machinery spaces of Navy list
ships (although the list did not then in-
clude HMAS Supply). With so mush to
be said on both sides, it was clearly a
case for arbitration. But the Communist
leaders were able to disregard arbitration's
findings because Supply was in haste to
go to sea in order to take part in an
operation. They approached the Minister
for the Navy, Senator Gorton. There is
a blackmailer's sneer in Mr McNeil’s
comment:
“Confronted with the partially dis-
mantled Supply . . . with an immediate
and total black ban hanging over it if
the management attempted to shift it,
the Navy Minister stated he was con-
vinced the unions were most sincere in
their application”. The Minister agreed,
he adds, to all that the men asked “with-
out prejudice” (h'm) while negotiations
continue.
What is alarming is not the near-
certainty of eventual victory for the men,
albeit clothed in some face-saving for-
mula. It is the tactics by which that vic-
tory will have been gained — the shift-
ing claim, the contempt for arbitration,
the element of blackmail. Most alarm-
ing of all is that the opportunities for
blackmail and the motive for stoppage
would be multiplied a thousandfold if
HMAS Supply, instead of trying to join
in an exercise or an operation, were
trying to go to war.
One must agree with Mr McNeil that
a vast majority of dockyard workers are
loyal to their country. But when all is
said one hideous truth remains. Air Force
planes are serviced by men of the RAAF;
Army equipment is looked after by the
Army; but as things are, if the Navy
prepares to meet a Communist foe it
will do so by courtesy of workers who
are Communist-led.
Your Special Correspondent
Sydney (NSW).
THE COCHRANE CASE
Sir,
Your limited coverage of the Coch-
rane-O'Brien-ARU case (27/7/63) has
completely overlooked the most import-
ant point of all. This is not whether the
Communist controllers of the ARU have
any right to suspend Cr Cochrane, but
how did such a man as Mr W. H.
O'Brien, who acted in the 1957, 1959 and
1961 elections exactly as he did during
the 1963 election campaign, not only
retain his ALP membership but rise to
the highest ranks of that party in Vic-
toria, the State Executive?
The belated admission that this lead-
ing ALP man was in fact a Communist
collaborator is a damning indictment of
all those who have studiously ignored
the degeneration of the ALP in Victoria
in recent years into nothing more nor
less than a Communist-front organisation.
Not the least of these is Mr A. A. Cal-
well. leader of the Federal Parliamentary
ALP, who when handed the ticket bearing
Communist and ALP members’ names
side by side, tore it to pieces, then
blithely asserted that it did not exist.
But what of Cr Cochrane, whose
action finally brought at least one minor
move against the unity ticket racket? I
think we had best fall back on the old
saying that “virtue is its own reward”,
for there certainly will be no other for
Theo. Cochrane in either the ARU or the
ALP in Victoria.
J. B. CANNING
Dandenong (Vic.).


REVIEWS
FILMS
The Hitchcock Touch
Rod Taylor gets the bird
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Birds. Director, Alfred Hitch-
cock. State Theatre. Sydney.
A lfred Hitchcock’s “The Birds” is
currently showing in Sydney, while
a revival of “Rope” (1948) has been on
at another theatre. His vogue continues:
long reassessments of his work from
opposing points of view have been pub-
lished in the leading American film
magazine “Film Quarterly” (Winter
1962-63) and in a special Museum of
Modern Art Booklet introducing a sea-
son of his work. One of the tiny hand-
ful of directors whose name is known
to the public, Hitchcock is the editor of
books of horror stories, a producer of
TV programmes (lately extended to one
hour each) and no doubt publisher of
an advice to the lovelorn column some-
where or other. Alfred Hitchcock dolls,
comics and exploding buttonholes are
probably imminent. Like Disney, he is
an institution: even the dimmest wit can
recognise those fruity, exhortatory tones,
that pear-shaped figure and mock-miser-
able stare. All this despite a contempt
for the audience which shows through
more and more in his films; and finally,
one suspects, a contempt for the medium
he has so thoroughly exploited over the
years.
Critics in America and England get
worked up over him: is he a brutal
cynic, treating his audience like victims
of a Pavlovian experiment, or is he (an
idea I find incredible) a Roman Catholic
moralist of a high order, using the cinema
as a method of displaying the moral
conflicts in the human soul? In my view
he is nothing more nor less than an
expert entertainer, clever, unlikeable, a
master of technique and a Philistine of
astonishing gall. Of his much-vaunted
silent films, only one really stands up:
“The Lodger,” made in 1926, and based
on the Jack the Ripper case as recreated
in Mrs Belloc Lowndes’ novel. The film
has a justly famous opening: a sinister,
scarfed figure slides a white hand down
a banister rail, moving out into the night
and the fog, where news placards are
screaming murder and someone looms
up, frightening the Cockneys at a pie-
stall.
Of the early British sound films, tech-
nically feeble and cumbersomely acted
as they were, a few patches of virtuosity
make rewarding watching today: the
opening assassination sequence and the
visit to the dentist’s waiting room in the
first version of “The Man Who Knew
Too Much"; the fake funeral which
opens “Secret Agent”, a man with a stub
arm lighting a cigarette from one of the
funerary candles; the kitchen murder of
the saboteur Oscar Homolka in “Sab-
otage”. Hitchcock gained strength in
Hollywood, where the superb technical
resources of the studios there were grad-
ually mastered by him to amuse, titillate
and shock the audience on a scale he
could never have attempted in England.
He has not yet surpassed “Foreign Cor-
respondent” (1940), his masterpiece and
perhaps the most brilliantly executed of
all the cinema’s spy stories. One recalls
sequence after sequence handled with
ruthless authority: the assassination
of a diplomat in Amsterdam, a
camera-bulb exploding and a white
face splashed in blood, umbrellas swarm-
ing, the hero suddenly confronted by
a battery of accusing eyes; a long,
ingeniously constructed episode in a
windmill, German agents gutturally
snarling and sails creaking dismally
while the hero tries desperately to make
out what the agents are saying; and
finally the most dazzling single episode
in the Hitchcock repertoire: the clipper
crash, shot from inside the plane, people
trying to beat their way out, water
splashing over heads to cabin roofs, and
finally a small knot of survivors making
their way to a raft.
“Shadow of a Doubt” (1943) was
quieter: a suave “Black Widow” mur-
derer currently terrifying America (Jo-
seph Cotten) hides out from the police
with his Californian family in Santa
Rosa, until his niece. Young Charlie
(Teresa Wright), gradually learns his true
identity. Here, Hitchcock showed how
much he had learned from Welles in
the fluent, cleverly paced and multi-
angled camera work in the house, and
in the smooth fitting together of the
slowly building suspense sequences.
Perhaps the best of his films of the
’forties was “The Paradine Case” (1947):
here his technical efficiency reached a
peak only surpassed in “Foreign Cor-
respondent” and “Vertigo.” This film
about a woman who destroys her blind
husband because of her passion for his
valet contained hypnotically complex
camera work by Lee Garmes and a per-
formance by Alida Valli that stands
above almost every other in Hitchcock’s
films. Glacial on the surface, the per-
formance (cunningly directed from first
to last) manages to suggest repressed
passions which burst out unforgettably in
the Old Bailey trial scene at the end
a tour de force of cinematic con-
struction and sound recording.
In more recent years, there has been
little of interest from Hitchcock: a
flashy, intermittently lively melodrama,
“Strangers on a Train,” the admirable
“Vertigo,” “North by Northwest,” and
the notorious (but rather shoddy)
“Psycho.” “The Birds” brings back a
good many of his obsessions: a skinny
blonde (Tippi Hedren instead of Grace
Kelly or Eva Marie Saint), a stalwart,
suntanned hero (Rod Taylor standing in
for Cary Grant), threatened by some-
thing that in this case literally comes
out of the blue; details of torture and
a scene in a telephone box; seashore
locations; an old man brutally murdered
almost before one’s eyes. The whole of
the film’s first hour is boring non-
sense: Tippi Hedren buys two love-birds
in San Francisco, takes five reels to
deliver them to Rod Taylor's house in
order to make a point for which a wink
would have sufficed in reel one; and
winds up being pecked on her silly head
by a seagull.
A fter a number of cynically inserted
stage whispers and hints “off” that
the girl brought doom on herself by trans-
porting the love-birds up country (make-
sense of that if you will), the luckless
lass and her swain endure onslaughts of
Our Feathered Friends for the rest of
the film’s running time (around two
hours). The whole film is a wickedly in-
solent joke and could be dismissed at
once were it not for its extraordinarily
beautiful visual texture: Robert Burks*
camerawork has a fine, smooth flow and
some striking compositions in interiors,
and the color has been most subtly
designed. The birds themselves are un-
evenly managed, at their best when they
are heard (in electrically reproduced


ASAHIPENIAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENT AX!
TAX 1
SUPERB NEW
ASAHI PENTAX MODELS
Asahi PENTAX SV with built in self timer
and automatic resetting film counter. Auto-
matic Super Takumar FI.B lens and E.R.
case £9O.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with automatic re-
setting film counter. Automatic/ Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case £75.
Full Tange of Auto-Takumar Lenses
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo dealer
C334/1
sounds prepared by Bernard Herrmann)
or suggested rather than seen. Only one
sequence when they attack a filling-
station attendant and the gasoline spilled
from the siphon forms a lake around a
car, bursting into flames as a man lights
a cigar is really worthy of a place in
the Hitchcock canon. This moment, and
one or two other bird-attack sequences
apart, the film is less of interest to critics
than to ornithologists. And Hitchcock
probably prefers the latter.
MUSIC
Father & Son
Igor Oistrakh, Subscription Orchestral
Concert. Melbourne Town Hall.
Solo Recital. Melbourne Town
Hall.
npHE two orchestral concerts in which
he figured as soloist made a magni-
ficent Australian debut for Igor
Oistrakh.
Only a few soloists in recent years
have been able to fill the Town Hall for
recitals, but the acclaim which was given
to Oistrakh's playing with orchestra en-
sured a full house for him on the fol-
lowing Saturday. Perhaps his famous
name would have gone close to doing
this, because the two earlier tours of his
father are remembered here with con-
siderable warmth. Curiosity alone would
probably have attracted many listeners to
his recital, in the vain imagination that
they would be able to compare the son's
violin-playing with the father's.
Is such a comparison possible?
Both are musicians of the first order,
but with the sounds of Igor's playing still
in the air it is difficult to imagine that
his father could be markedly superior.
With an immaculately perpendicular bow
Igor produces a quality of tone which,
over the whole dynamic range, is superbly
rich, sonorous, and even. The technique
of his bow arm is to the last degree that
of the virtuoso: this much he proved for
us in the Pugnani (Kreisler?) encore-
piece which he played after the Bartok
Concerto, in the second of the orchestral
concerts. And the taste and discretion
of his playing are just as remarkable
one might almost say rigidly fine. Others
have played the Tchaikovsky Concerto
with more ardor Huberman did, and
Kreisler but there cannot have been
many performances which so closely
combined cool excellence of technique
with respect for the romantic tempera-
ment of the music.
The Bartok Concerto was also mag-
nificently played, better in fact than we
have heard in Melbourne. Under the
soloist's line, which he was able to make
heard through the whole work, Georges
Tzipine exercised a taut and accurate con-
trol of the orchestral playing. Still, it
seems that Bartok, dead now for a
generation, is modern enough for most
Melburnians: I believe quite a few
people who would have sacrificed this
great work quite cheerfully for the
Mendelssohn.
Oistrakh’s seriousness was shown again
in the programme for his solo recital. It
would have been interesting to hear him
at work in some overtly romantic music,
but even as things stood he clearly re-
lied on his instrumental mastery to win
his listeners over. They were not teased
or wooed by any crowd-pleasers until the.
very end of the evening, when Oistrakh
re-furbished an amusing, delicious and
monstrously virtuosic Theme with Varia-
tions of Wieniawski. For the rest, it was
Beethoven, Hindemith (the warm and
graceful E major Sonata), Bach and
Prokofieff.
Only the last of these works betrayed
the general excellence of the program-
ming: it resembled genuine music only
in its third movement, where there was a
prominent taste of acidulated Grieg. The
annotation which drew attention to the
rhythmic nature of Prokofieff's finale,
where the bars vacillate between five,
seven and eight quavers, completely
ignored the fact that these tricks are
metrical, while rhythm owes much of
itself to the shape and nature of melodies.
And Prokofieff's melody, square and
two-dimensional as it is, cannot be made
rhythmically interesting by playing
metrical changes behind it.
A point of rhythm was, incidentally,
the only wavering which I fancied I
heard in the entire programme. In both
the Siciliano and the Presto of the G
minor Sonata of Bach, for unaccompan-
ied violin, there were moments of hiatus
in which the pulse of the music was a
little obscured. I don’t know any of these
sonatas well enough to be sure that this
is avoidable: perhaps the contingencies
of getting all the notes sounded more or
less at once, as the convention has it with
chording in unaccompanied string play-
ing, may override the demands of
rhythmic observance. However this may
be, this was the only place at which I
felt Oistrakh showed the fallible human
through the phenomenal virtuoso.
KENNETH HINCE
TELEVISION
Kid Stuff
The Happy Show. HSV 7. Melbourne.
HTo paraphrase Omar, I often wonder
A what the censors find in A and AO
films one half so dangerous to a young
mind as exposure to Happy Hammond,
Funnyface Gordon and their kind? The
rule seems to be that any imported
film likely to “disturb” children is clas-
sed suitable for adults, with the govern-
ing verb open to a dragnet interpreta-
tion. One night recently equally harm-
less episodes of "The Nurses” and the
Alfred Hitchcock Hour were marked A
and AO respectively. Perhaps this was
just a tribute to Hitchcock's reputation.
The one rough scene that I can recall
showed a mail being strangled in four


r.- ;
SIS
- ■
;;•• •,....
s* :■- ■> ■:■ ■■
»**
\ 'V
nr
■ ■
:.:■■■■■■ ''
m*
im
'
mm*
v- '^oetira
i....
One of the new Boeing 727
Jetliners which will shortly
introduce pure jet flight to
Australian domestic airlines.
I
\
Interior view of Electra air-
craft stripped for overhaul
shows Fibreglass insulation
which completely lines the
aircraft.
NEW JETS ARE
FIBREGLASS
INSULATED
Exciting new jet the Boeing 727 (on order to Ansett-ANA and
TAA) is insulated against heat, cold, noise with FIBREGLASS.
Both Australian airlines now fly aircraft that are FlBREGLASS-
insulated because FIBREGLASS has been proven the world’s best
thermal and acoustic insulation.
The choice of Boeing and other renowned aircraft manufacturers,
FIBREGLASS has special qualities that make it ideal for your
factory, office or home installation. FIBREGLASS is clean, easy to
install, fire-resistant, lightweight, everlasting. Supplied in conveni-
ent rolls, batts or loose form. For further information, complete and
mail coupon below.
To: AUSTRALIAN FIBREGLASS PTY. LTD.
Please send me literature on Fibreglass Insula-
tion for factory/office/home* and address of my
local suppliers.
‘Cross out whichever is not applicable.
NAME
ADDRESS
FGte/63
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
BRISBANE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
HOBART
LAUNCESTON
CANBERRA
NEW ZEALAND
Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters 51 7351
420 Spencer Street 30 2611
Montague Road 4 1471
Aroona Road, Kilkenny 45 4771
91-99 Kensington Street 23 3051
Gormanston Road, Moonah 7 6796
52 Patterson Street 2 5819
Cnr. Eyre & Jardine Streets, Kingston 9 3879
Aranui Road, Penrose, Auckland 594-140
There is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation
GLASS WOOL INSULATION
By Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Ltd.
and in New Zealand by New Zealand Fibre Glass Limited Group members cf
AC f


FOR
GEAR &
AXLE
ONE
ROCOL ADOS Life TO YOUR ENGINE
18/6 at your Service Station.
seconds flat, and it seemed more likely
to arouse the average child’s sense of
the ridiculous than the sight of Funny-
face Gordon spraying himself in the
face with soda water.
The fact that this gassed “The Happy
Show’s” young Melbourne audience one
afternoon last week was no real proof
to the contrary. I would like to believe
that these were not average children.
At one stage, viewers had to suffer a
five minute torment as the camera
moved slowly along rows of tots who
had been asked for their cheesiest smiles
and managed to look like a prize col-
lection of gargoyles. If these were aver-
age children, heaven help us in 20
years’ time.
But what concerns me this year is
HSV7’s notion of an hour’s entertain-
ment for children watching television,
and I make that distinction because the
entire show seemed pitched to the child-
ren in the studio audience, and the per-
formers themselves, possibly on the as-
sumption that no one would be viewing,
and this could be true.
“The Happy Show” began that after-
noon with a snow scene and Funnyface
Gordon and Robbie-Bob pelting each
other with cotton balls. Then R-B asked
Funnyface to turn at the count of three
and see Niagara Falls. He did, and was
sprayed with soda. So FF tried this on
someone else, and after some minutes of
dreadful suspense naturally squirted
himself. This hoary routine was fol-
lowed by the “best smile” contest, and
the winner was showered with such
useful gifts as packets of oatmeal and
dried apples, a roll of Elastoplast, a £1
bank account, and so on.
All this jazz would be as far from
entertaining as anything could get, and
the show was in no way helped by its
star, Mr Happy Hammond, who sports
a tartan coat and hat, and selects 5-
year-olds to interview with such ques-
tions as “I bet you love Mummy a lot?”
and comments such as, “That’s good.
Wonderful. I’m so pleased.” It is sad
to think that tomorrow’s viewers are
asked to accept such things as good
standard television.
Children’s shows appear to follow
one of three formulas in which adults
entertain, children do, or adults do
some entertaining but cartoons and short
films carry the show. The ABC uses all
three. Most of the “adults entertain”
shows are manned by such characters
as Happy Hammond, Uncle Norman,
Joffa Boy and the like, and I suspect
that most of their viewers are mothers
of small children who slip away at the
first propitious moment, leaving Mum
to enjoy the antics of prancing adults
whose simulated heartiness could well
be stamped AO, if the censor had deal-
ings with local shows.
So far I have seen no evidence of re-
search in the playgrounds to find out
what really entertains and instructs
children. Their television shows, even
the best of the ABC ones, and a good
mixed-formula one by Channel 9 in
Sydney, seem to have been devised ac-
cording to what adults think will be
right for children. And I suspect they
are miles off target.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
A Festive
Occasion
Mother Courage. Brecht. The Bedbug.
Mayakovsky. USA. Dos Passos.
Australian Universities Drama Fes-
tival.
The Typists and The Tiger. Murray
Schisgal. Ensemble Theatre.
Joyce Grenfell. Theatre Royal.
Sydney.
Tt must be said at once, and with
A grace, that after a mere few days
of its run the Australian Universities
Drama Festival has pressed home a
pretty notable attack on Sydney’s theatre
life.
The productions so far have had many
of the usual short-comings of University
drama, of course. There has been that
outstanding fault—lack of expert direc-
tion, and other sad failings in the quality
and experience of the actors. In some of
the plays these faults have been too
serious to let the play come through un-
tarnished: “Mother Courage,” for in-
stance, seems to have been beyond the
resources of both producer and com-
pany (Sydney University Players) and
the immense kaleidoscope of John dos
Passes’ “USA” just as regrettably eluded
some dedicated players from the Uni-
versity of Western Australia.
“USA” is a pretty dated essay at
best. It borrows quite a deal from the
living newsreel and WPA theatres of
the depression-'thirties in America; it
has shades of Buchner and Brecht and
JB,” as well as a tinge of Cinerama.
Produced in a hell-bent way, with all
the ultimate resources of a great theatre
and a clever producer, the play might
well make an effect despite the already-
known and digested news material it
mostly consists of. Done, however, in
a simple, stylised “austerity” manner,
with a handful of actors trying to behave
like a roaring continent, it was doomed.
I thought (this being a University student
show) it rather ironic that one man in
the audience who made his protest
against the production by clapping every
harangue by the actors was ejected from
the theatre in a manner the Vice Squad
could not have bettered. So far as
“USA” was concerned, I was on side
with this lone iconoclast.
The true excitement of the festival
so far has been the early (1928) Russian
Soviet play “The Bedbug”. Playing at a
cracking pace, with gusto that nicely hid
many performance faults, students from
the Australian National University, Can-
berra, set the whole audience in a roar.
Mayakovsky’s cheerful and full-blooded
mixture of farce, burlesque and satire
pulls one up short to figure, idly, about
the way Russia may have gone without
a Stalin.
To say “The Bedbug” could easily be
Brecht’s is perhaps not quite true, but it
has the German's sharpness and his
expertness. It also has a gay irreverence,
and an impudence towards its own
Establishment just as gutsy as, say,
“Beyond the Fringe” is to our elite.
As to commercial entertainments this
week, I can recommend the Ensemble’s
evening as an amusing outrage of usual
theatrical conventions, with “The Tiger,”
in particular, giving you some belly-
laughing stretches.
I cannot recommend an evening of
Miss Grenfell. It seems to me now, as
it did on her first visit, that her talents
are stretched too thin over a whole
evening, and that half an hour is very
amusing, and quite enough.
KEVON KEMP


RED PAGE
The Mexican Menagerie
Tennessee Williams ' private zoo
By D. J. ENRIGHT
The Night of the Iguana. Tennessee
Williams. Seeker and Warburg.
225. 6d.
Tn Tennessee Williams’ play “The Night
A of the Iguana” (which is only re-
motely related to the early short story of
the same name) the magician is on top
of his form. As before, the decor com-
bines the glamor of the exotic with the
glamor of everyday: a run-down tourist
hotel (in Mexico, set on a jungle-covered
hilltop overlooking the sea), a storm
(“like a giant white bird attacking the
hilltop of the Costa Verde”), a Kabuki
robe (though probably with a homely
darn or two in it), an iguana (caught
for the pot, the poor man’s chicken),
and a host of other sure-fire attractions.
Here is God’s plenty. Including various
little devils of perversions (such as the
queer thing that happened in a sampan
off Singapore between Hannah and a
“middle-aged, sort of nondescript Aus-
tralian salesman . . . plump, bald-spotted,
with a bad attempt at speaking with an
upper-class accent and terribly over-
friendly”) and, the greatest drawcard of
all as long as He isn't given too much to
say, God himself.
The humans are an appropriately ripe
lot. Jonathan Coffin, or Nonno, the old
poet, in fact (for Tennessee Williams is
not in the habit of doing things by
halves) “the oldest living and practising
poet on earth,” 97 years old, or rather,
as his grand-daughter keeps reminding us,
97 years young. Hannah,- the grand-
daughter, a spinster artist, who has never
made love, who knows all about love.
Maxine (yes, even the names are
“type”), the ageing nympho who runs
the hotel and is always making love but
know's nothing about love. Shannon, the
defrocked minister, an Anthony Carson-
like figure who conducts tours
and misconducts himself with
the female tourists (as erstwhile with
his female parishioners), and holds a
more vital conception of God “as
Lightning and Thunder” than is ac-
ceptable. A pack of caricatured Baptist
Female College teachers on holiday, over
whose luggage Shannon, now defrocked
by the tourist agency, urinates - no
doubt by way of showing symbolically
what a lot of wets he considers them.
And a caricatured family of fat German
Nazis who spend their holiday alternately
listening to a commentary on the Battle
of Britain over their portable radio
(“ Super-fire-bombs! Each night!”) and
singing the Horst Wessel song.
Tennessee Williams always takes great
pains not to leave anything to chance,
nor to his audience’s imagination. For
him, stage directions are directions in-
deed. They render the audience’s
imagination superfluous, they come near
to rendering the play redundant. Of the
combined radiogram, TV set and liquor
cabinet which features in “Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof”, we are told in the “Notes
for the Designer”: “This piece of furni-
ture, this monument, is a very complete
and compact little shrine to virtually all
the comforts and illusions behind which
we hide from such things as the charac-
ters in the play are faced with ...”
More symbolical, though still a help to
the dim-witted reader who might other-
wise miss the point of the story, is the
setting of “Suddenly Last Summer”:
“There are massive tree-flowers that sug-
gest organs of a body, torn out, still
glistening with undried blood ...”
Similarly “suggestive” are the stage
directions in this new play. “He is
being fiercely, almost mockingly, tender
with the old man—a thing we are when
the pathos of the old, the ancient, the
dying is such a wound to our own
(savagely beleaguered) nerves and sensi-
bilities that this outside demand on us is
beyond our collateral, our emotional
reserve . . .” And the curtain at the end
of Act Two sounds like a parody of a
curtain at the end of Act Two: “Shannon
lowers his hands from his burning fore-
head and stretches them out through the
rain’s silver sheet as if he were reaching
for something outside and beyond him-
self ...”
Granted, there is nothing new under
the sun. Granted, we don't demand of
playwrights that they uncover some
hitherto buried truth or propound some
great new moral. But we still expect
them to show us something afresh, so
that we see it afresh, so that we really
see it. Or don’t we expect anything of a
playwright, the way we still expect things
of a novelist or a poet, except to pro-
vide an opportunity for us “to hear a
certain number of lines recited with just
gesture and elegant modulation,” mutaiis
mutandis? At any rate, what we receive
in the present case is a shower of “sym-
bols”, of a class which the most arrant of
novelettes would blench at, and which
serve not to refine, not even to disguise,
but only to floodlight the bareness and
banality of the explicit philosophising:
Hannah: Liquor isn’t your problem,
Mr Shannon.
Shannon: What is my problem, Miss
Jelkes?
Hannah: The oldest one in the world
the need to believe in something or
in someone almost anyone almost
anything . . . something.
Shannon: Your voice sounds hopeless
about it.
Hannah: No, I'm not hopeless about
it. In fact, I’ve discovered something to
believe in.
Shannon: Something like . . . God?
Hannah: No.
Shannon: What?
Hannah: Broken gates between people
so they can reach each other, even if it’s
just for one night only . . .
(Cf. the introduction to “Cat on a Hot
Tin Roof”: “Personal lyricism is the out-
cry of prisoner to prisoner from the cell
in solitary where each is confined for
the duration of his life.”) There is wis-
dom of a homelier sort too, for the
groundlings: “I know the difference be-
tween loving someone and just sleep-
ing with someone even I know about
that,” says Maxine, while preparing to
settle for the latter.
“The Night of the Iguana” is intensely
readable and testifies to Williams’ pre-
eminence as the tired businessman’s
O'Neill. The ending is happy, sort of.
The final curtain goes down on Nonno,
dead. But he was 97 years “young” and
he has completed his new poem, the
first in 20 years, and it is worth more
than the rest of the play put together,
and certainly worthy to be printed in
“Harper’s” where his grand-daughter
promises to send it. The other sympathetic
character, the iguana, has been cut loose
on the grounds that it is one of God’s
creatures, and we can imagine it shamb-
ling into the undergrowth, gasping with
relief: “They took me for a symbol, God
be praised! But what a night!”
And the others? Hannah has her paint-
ing and her oriental realism. Shannon has
Maxine and the prospective female clien-
tele of the hotel. Maxine has Shannon and
the prospective male clientele of the hotel.
The Baptist Female College party is on
its way back to Blowing Rock, Texas,
minus a teenage maidenhead. And the
Germans are on the way to losing the
Battle of Britain. Justice is being done,
sort of. Moreover, the dialogue is brisk
and gamy, and there is relatively little of
what Mary McCarthy has referred to as
Williams’ “special poetic longplay prose”.
Whether the work would be equally
entertaining on the stage I cannot say.
Apart from the strain of having to watch


those portentous curtain-falls, there is a
slight danger that under these conditions
the meaning of the play might emerge.
“Excuse the cornl' , as someone says in
“Camino Real”, “I’m sincere!” Tennessee
Williams is indubitably sincere.
Oscar
Bosie. Rupert Croft-Cooke. W. H.
Allen. 525.
Oscar Wilde: the Aftermath. H.
Montgomery Hyde. Methuen.
375. 3d.
Some 10 years ago two books were
published: Peter Wildeblood’s
“Against the Law” and Rupert Croft-
Cooke’s “The Verdict of You All.”
Wildeblood’s became a penology classic.
It was the first personal account of the
painful human sufferings and perse-
cutions endured by homosexuals under
the present state of English law. It was
a calm, reasoned, and irresistible state-
ment of the homosexual’s case, and it
eventually found a mass circulation in
Penguin Books and had no little influ-
ence in eventually bringing the Wol-
fenden Committee into existence in later
years. Rupert Croft-Cooke’s book was
hysterical, vituperative, and self-pitying.
It was soon forgotten.
But not, apparently, by Croft-Cooke.
In some curious way one feels that he
has quietly over the intervening years
overcome the trauma of his prison ex-
periences by a process of self-identifica-
tion with the Oscar Wilde affair. Be-
fore his death Wilde had lost all bitter-
ness against Lord Alfred Douglas and
accepted the incurably destructive course
of events that had happened to him.
Croft-Cooke has achieved the same kind
of quietism and acceptance of things by
stating the case of Lord Alfred Douglas.
It must have been difficult for Croft-
Cooke to have produced both an
authoritative biography and an apologia
for Bosie despite the fact that Croft-
Cooke’s personal acquaintance was
limited to the gentler and mellower de-
clining years of Wilde’s erstwhile beauti-
ful boy. For as the years slipped by
after the Wilde affair Douglas became
more and more a repulsive and unsym-
pathetic personality.
The prevailing public image of Bosie
is of a kind of Tchehovian eternal un-
dergraduate, the beautiful and talented
young boy en menage with a besotted
Oscar Wilde. But within the personality
of Bosie there lurked the familiar taint
of a paranoid predisposition. Given to
the writing of furious and defamatory
letters, litigious to the point of mania,
prey to such unwholesome paranoid fan-
tasies as to lead to anti-semitism, and
the conspiracy-mania of the classic
crackpot, it is hard to find a sympathetic
side to this scurrilous and tragic little
man.
Croft-Cooke manages to do this, and
with such restraint and judgment that
he commands respect for the way he
has attempted to do justice to Douglas’s
few virtues and to the truth as well.
Like Wilde, Croft-Cooke came to escape
all anger and emotional distortion in
relation to his subject.
The climax of the book is a droll
manifestation of historical irony. Deep
in the secret recesses of his personality
Bosie yearned for the exultant bitterness
of imprisonment, sharing as it were
Wilde's own ultimate injustices. When
he at last received his prison sentence
for criminal libel it was not at the
hands of Ross, or Arthur Ransome, or
his father-in-law, the endless victims of
his calumnies, but from Winston
Churchill whom he had accused of both
treachery and peculation. He enjoyed
the experience enormously.
The book throws no fresh light on
Wilde. But do we need to know any
more about Wilde than we do? With
the recent publication of Wilde’s volumi-
nous correspondence one felt (along
with Bernard Shaw who always argued
that we should allow Wilde’s insigni-
ficant personal doings to fade from his-
torical memory) that one was traversing
endless and wearisome shallows. Despite
the splendor of the surviving myth,
Wilde as a person these days appears
neither interesting, brilliant, nor even
complex as a homosexual personality.
Montgomery Hyde’s “Oscar Wilde: the
Aftermath” throws more light on prison
life and administration than it does on
Wilde’s personality during his incar-
ceration. It matters little whether Wilde
had it good or not so good at Reading
Gaol. Scholarly and documented gossip
remains intrinsically dull; and gossip
is all that remains to be written about
Wilde. One of these days some bright
spark will turn to examining the place
of Wilde’s plays and writings within the
literature of his period. When this start-
ling novelty occurs our interest in Wilde
will quicken, and very properly so.
MAX HARRIS
Shepherd’s
Warning
Lindmann. Frederic Raphael. Cassell.
335.
rPuE central figure in Frederic Raphael’s
widely-acclaimed new novel is a
Jewish refugee, Jacob Lindmann, who
returns to London after a trip to the
Continent. He visits some young Jewish
friends, exchanges typical Jewish intel-
lectual witticisms with them and then
goes home to find that his Rachman-
esque landlady, Mrs Gruhnblatt, has let
his room to an American Negro painter.
Lindmann arranges to share the room
with the Negro.
Then follow several apparently dis-
connected events: Lindmann listens to
a “Jesus Saves” street-corner orator and
is almost arrested in a skirmish; over
fish and chips a German woman called
Isolde tells him the story of her life;
abruptly, without any transition, there
comes a chapter written as a film-
script, evidently based on Lindmann’s
experiences and written by a friend of
his, a film maker named Milstein. Ac-
cording to this script, Lindmann was
one of only two survivors of the illegal
immigrant ship s.s. Broda which broke
up and sank off the Turkish coast,
drowning the other 683 refugees from
Hitler who were on board.
The Broda was trying to reach
Palestine but put in at a Turkish port,
leaking and with disabled engines. The
captain asked permission to disembark
the passengers temporarily until he
could carry out repairs. The Turks re-
fused because the passengers had no
visas. They had no visas because the
British out of deference to the sensitive
Arabs refused to give any. The quota
for Palestine had already been filled. An
exception could have been made but it
wasn’t. The Turks towed the ship just
outside territorial waters and let it sink.
The Jews were as surely murdered by
officialdom as if they had been strangled
with a twist of red tape. These are his-
torical facts.
Reverting to fiction, Lindmann is
given a carbon-copy of the Broda
film-script. It affects him strangely,
shocking him into a re-discovery of his
real identity: he is an Englishman, James
Shepherd, who once went to the Foreign
Office every day carrying a bowler hat,
an umbrella and a brief-case.
It was James Shepherd who signed
the cable refusing visas in 1942. When
the Broda broke up, it was James
Shepherd who felt directly responsible
for 683 deaths. That night James Shep-
herd went down to the London Under-
ground as usual, taking a train on the
line known as the Inner Circle. There,
tortured by guilt, the first signs of mad-
ness overtook him. He is given psychi-
atric treatment. Returning to the For-
eign Office he rifles a safe with secret
documents and sells the true Broda
story to a newspaper, donating his fee
to a Jewish fund. The newspaper sup-
presses the story and denounces James
Shepherd. He is sentenced to prison.
Just as the actual sinking of the
Broda sends Shepherd insane and
makes him believe he is Lindmann, so,
years later, he is thrown off balance
again by the Broda film-script and
reverts to his true identity. He again


WRITE STORIES
SUCCESSFULLY
Stotts can train YOU
Many Stott students pay for their Course be-
fore completing it.
Stott students are taught how to write stories
that sell and are advised by the College of
the names and addresses of reputable Literary
Agents in various countries who may be trusted
to handle Students' MSS to the best advan-
tage. If YOU have a story to tell, learn how
to tell it. The lucrative field of Authorship is
waiting 1o pay well for good work.
Stotts CDrrespondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castlereagh
Street Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
' CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT’S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
8.1763
goes down to the London Underground
where the trains of the Inner Circle re-
volve on a circuit without beginning or
end. Past and present become inter-
changeable. Shepherd’s background
emerges through scraps of conversation
which he recalls with his mother, his
faithless wife, his self-righteous
brothers.
Using Shepherd as a prototype, Fred-
eric Raphael brilliantly deals with a fami-
liar theme of collective guilt. If by some
alchemy Eichmann could have been made
into a Jew and forced to live through the
suffering he had inflicted, he would
have become a Lindmann figure. Eich-
mann means literally oak-man, the hard
man, whereas Lindmann is linden tree-
man, playing also on “lind” which
means mild, soft, as in Rueckert’s poem
set to music by Mahler. Shepherd ac-
cepts his own guilt and thereby carries
out his own sentence upon himself. He
becomes a Jew.
Few writers would dare to attempt
to bring off a story like this, and few
could. Frederic Raphael’s complete suc-
cess makes this a great book. Fantastic
as the story is, it always remains fas-
cinatingly real. The treatment is Central-
European, the idea owes something to
Kafka and UFA films and the Broda
film-script is Eisensteinian.
Deliberately, the author lets the figure
of “Lindmann” move through the story
like a ghostly presence against whom the
most insignificant character appears ro-
bust. Anyone acquainted with “Die
Panne” (“The Blow-out”), by Guenther
Eich, and other modern German radio
plays, will recognise the author’s dialogue
technique.
The book is heavily loaded with sym-
bolism but without a single contrived
word or situation. There are obvious
symbols like the Jew and the Negro
sharing the same narrow room, or the
London Underground standing for the
darker places of the mind or “Lind-
mann” living in Shepherd's Bush. Less
obvious is the figure of “Isolde” in its
symbolic meaning. On the surface, her
telling of her wrongs and her guilt is
a parody of Wagner’s opera. There is
deeper significance in her promise to
come and help Lindmann sort out the
philosophical writings with which he
had hoped to lead the world to a better
understanding of itself. Isolde never
comes. Instead she returns to Germany
and the concrete monuments to pros-
perity quickly erected there on the soil
of its own conveniently short memory
by her “economic miracle” family.
Isolde’s desertion finally contributes to
Lindmann's second breakdown. He is
forced to see that no one is interested
in his writings. His atonement has ach-
ieved nothing. The world is the same.
The author makes certain that the
reader will not miss the point by pre-
facing the book with a quotation from
Ludwig Wittgenstein: “My object in
philosophy is to show the fly the way out
of the fly-bottle.” Philosopher Lindmann
realises at last that we flies do not even
know we live in a bottle and that we
would not be interested in getting out
even if we did. At the book’s end, Lind-
mann, the conscience of the age, be-
comes silent. It is a grimly honest con-
clusion to one of the major novels of
our time.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Masques
Electra. Henry Treece. Bodley Head.
225. 6d.
Elephants and Castles. Alfred Duggan.
Faber and Faber. 225. 6d.
styles of Henry Treece and Alfred
A Duggan represent opposite poles in
the writing of historical fiction, though
both are thoroughly characteristic of
their age and far removed from the
Godwottery that once passed as historical
reconstruction. They might perhaps be
described as the Poetic and the Prosaic,
and the contrast is particularly evident
in this pair of novels, both on Classical
themes.
Duggan’s Hellenic mercenaries suffer
from bunions and boredom and talk the
timeless language of soldiers everywhere.
Treece's characters are superhuman, the
archetypes of mythology who move to
their destruction behind grotesque frozen
masks like the players in a Greek
tragedy. Both approaches can be entirely
successful if the authors are artists com-
petent to impose their conventions on
the reader’s imagination. And both
Treece and Duggan have shown that they
do have this power.
“Electra” retells the great drama of
the fall of the House of Atreus and the
narrator is Electra herself, a sick and
half-crazed old woman who has long sur-
vived the slaughter of her kinfolk. It
is a highly-wrought and terrible story.
Furies dominate the palace of Mycenae
and the sacrifice of Iphigenia, the murder
of Agamemnon and the vengeance of
his children on their mother’s paramour
unroll with the inevitability of a religious
ritual. When it is all over, the Mycenean
civilisation, undermined by the long war
against Troy and rent by the blood feuds
of its ruling dynasty, is tottering to its
fall. Grass is growing over the stones
beneath the Lion Gate and barbarian
Dorians, bringing iron swords and new
Gods, are swarming into the lands of
the old Homeric kings. Treece’s Mycenae
is a dark and taboo-ridden place. There
is no sunlit Arcadian paganism here.
But the author has created a powerful
and moving novel out of a drama that
has haunted mankind's imagination at
least since the days of Aeschylus.
There is nothing superhuman about
the kings and captains who march
through the novels of Alfred Duggan.
“Elephants and Castles” is concerned
with the ruthless scramble for power
among the Macedonian generals who
carved up the empire of Alexander the
Great after the young conqueror had
drunk himself to death in Babylon. The
central figure is Demetrius Poliorcetes,
son of King Antigonus, who spent his
life pursuing the illusion that it was pos-
sible to restore the unity of Alexander’s
enormous realm. Despite his plain and
matter-of-fact style, Duggan always
makes considerable demands on his read-
ers. Without some background know-
ledge of the Hellenistic world it would
not be easy to follow the significance
of Demetrius’s interminable campaigns
and sieges, his shifting alliances and his
relations with the politicians of corrupt
and decadent Athens. Duggan was per-
haps happier with the simpler themes
of some of his earlier novels. Neverthe-
less this is an exciting and well-told
story. It paints a convincing picture of


HELP
-.y
all the year
round
that strange interlude in Mediterranean
history when the antique glory of Hellas
had faded and the Roman farmers had
not yet begun their march of conquest.
GEOFFREY SCOTT
Darkness
The Timeless Land. Storm of Time.
No Barrier. Eleanor Dark. Collins.
255. each.
Dark’s impressive trilogy of
novels interpreting the first 26 years
of white settlement in Australia has
recently appeared for the first time in
a uniform edition. The books were first
printed in 1941, 1948 and 1953 and
read by most of us at long intervals. It
is a rewarding effort to read and re-assess
them as a unity, for, with all its faults,
this composite work has no Australian
rival in its scope, depth of research and
sporadic brilliance. Nor, 1 think, has
any other novelist shown quite so clearly
the implications of white settlement for
the aborigines or interpreted as skilfully
our early history through aboriginal eyes.
For this kind of roundness we have only
these books to set beside the vast mass
of good - quality American frontier
writing.
But before the novels can be enjoyed
as a whole, several allowances must be
made. Because of the publication inter-
vals each of the later novels necessarily
spends time recalling and re-establishing
things already described. “No Barrier,”
especially, suffers from a long, slow
introduction in the form of fictional
letters and diary excerpts. An unashamed
synopsis might have been clearer and
more effective; indeed, a case might be
argued for editing the trilogy into
omnibus form.
The freshest part of the trilogy comes
towards the end of “No Barrier,” a
marvellous account of William Cox’s
building of his line of road across the
Blue Mountains. If this factual section
is disentangled from the plot’s supporting
absurdities one is left with a triumphant
affirmation of human achievement and
resource which matches the justly ad-
mired study of Phillip and the descrip-
tive accounts which set the scene in
“The Timeless Land.”
Fortunately the framework of plot
scarcely matters. It serves, with its
puppets, merely to transport the reader
from place to place—from Government
House at Sydney to the Mann ion estates
at Beltrasna; from Parramatta and Castle
Hill to the track from the South Head
Light; from fetid convict quarters to a
secret bushland sanctuary in the moun-
tain foothills.
To my mind, what is far more daunt-
ing than the plot is a relentless inclusion
of everything: one’s impression is that
no fact discovered during Mrs Dark’s
research has been omitted. Too often
she uses interminable conversations to
convey mere snippets of information.
Presumably the polite diction of the
time is reproduced with as much care
as is given to maintaining accuracy in
other aspects of the writing, but it makes
for stilted and wearisome reading.
This dissipation of power is the more
regrettable because in each book are
passages expressing an intense awareness
of the brooding timelessness of the con-
tinent and interpreting its extraordinary
and compelling power over the new-
comer. H. M. Green speaks of Mrs
Dark’s writing as “streaked with poetry”
and this is just. If only she could have
maintained “pitch” and tautness, her
vision of Australia’s unique “otherness”
would surely be more celebrated than
D. H. Lawrence’s famous evocation in
“Kangaroo ”
She is at her best in passages like the
one in which Phillip muses from the
deck of the Supply on the evening
before the first landing at Sydney Cove:
“If there were but a native village to be
seen, it would be something to which one
could anchor one’s drifting sense of
human dignity and pride. It would be
Man established and securely rooted,
Man dominant, and Nature, however
slightly, subdued.
“But there was nothing. Nature, un-
disturbed and unchallenged for countless
centuries, had here reached a might, a
stature which made Man feel less than
pigmy-size. . . . All about the ship the
water lay inky dark, reflecting unfamiliar
stars; the shores were nothing but an
outline, black shapes of tree - tops
silhouetted against an indigo sky No
sound from them. No hostility from
man or beast. Nothing tc grapple with,
no call to action. Only this darkness
which kept the senses painfully alert,
this silence which tautened the nerves,
and this devilish illusion of arrested time.
‘To-morrow,’ he said briskly to himself,
but the word was empty. The ageless
land had drained it of its meaning and
its promise. There was nothing but one-
self, a tiny spark of consciousness, alone
and aghast in this unconquerable silence.”
NANCY KEESING
Melting-Pot
The Western Invasions of the Pacific
and its Continents. Grenfell Price.
Oxford University Press. 575. 9d.
TVr Grenfell Price completes a trilogy
on white settlement by the addition
of this book to “White Settlers in the
Tropics” and “White Settlers and Native
Peoples” published earlier. He calls it
“a study of moving frontiers and chang-
ing landscapes, 1513-1958”. It is a solid
and useful reference book, a forerunner
book which provides an excellent base
for the study of modern history in the
Pacific region.
The picture is, of course, an unfinished
one. Change still stirs the pot over most
of the vast region with which the book
deals. The ultimate situation arising
from the European infiltration, the reac-
tions to that infiltration of the diverse
regions of Eastern Asia, with its teeming
millions, and of the South American
countries with their as yet unassimilated
populations, and of the racially changing
semi-emptiness of the Australian con-
tinent and the polyglot civilisations of
such islands as the Hawaiian group, is
still far off.
Dr Grenfell Price’s text is a guidebook
to the study of the elements of vast
projects in racial and cultural trans-
ference rather than an intentioned study
in itself. He opens the gates and maps
the approaches for others. His summaries
are acute and provocative and sort out
a little of the muddle of hurtling disinte-
gration and reassembly of cultural and
political patterns which are in progress.
They provide “routines” for some sort of
calculation or speculation about where
the new world of the Twentieth Cen-
tury, as represented by the fresh fields
which Europe has been infiltrating and
reshaping since the days of Henry the
Navigator, is going.
His conclusion about the destination of
movement in this era in the Pacific region
is that “although the Western nations
have retreated, or will retreat, from
practically all their Asian and Pacific
island conquests, where in general they
have produced little white or colored mix-
ture, the frontiers of their exotic animals,
plants, ideologies, and institutions are
likely to move forward and promote
ever further those improvements in the
cultural landscape, which together with
the changes that the Westerners wrought
in their settlement areas are the greatest
mankind has seen.”
M. H. ELLIS


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Bugbear of Excess Capacity
With overdrafts limits of the major trading banks rising
by £l2m. to a peak of £ 1823 m. in July, plus non-
security personal loans of up to £360 offered by the
Commonwealth Savings Bank and the “Wales” Savings Bank as
from August 13, the consumer public was being invited to
spend more freely even before the official stimulus of the
Federal Budget concessions.
That this encouragement is needed is underscored by the
growing evidence of surplus production. Exports are expanding
but, as bluntly stated by the National Bank survey, these ex-
ports have done little to reduce the degree of excess capacity in
Australian manufacturing industry.
The manufacturer is being encouraged to invest in new plant
to enable greater productive efficiency. But economic production
requires capacity output if costs are to remain competitive.
And even a sharp lift in consumer spending cannot be expected
to take up the whole of the slack in Australia’s current surplus
manufacturing capacity.
So renewed efforts are required to stimulate exports.
A Fresh Challenge
To Industry
fJhiE National Bank’s latest monthly summary makes a con-
sidered attempt to put Australian manufacturing industry
within the context of the whole economy. It sounds particularly
forthright in a denunciation of “knockers”.
“Those who may be cynical about our manufacturing
abilities, the tariff assistance they may receive, or their costs,
have no place today,” the bank sanely, and correctly, observes.
A tremendous postwar growth in secondary industry has
obviously built upon a rapidly increasing home market and
rising standards of living. Indirectly manufacturers help the
balance of payments by allowing import saving and import
replacement.
“But the time is at hand when the continuance of this rapid
progress may well depend upon finding, and consolidating,
much larger market outlets for our manufactures in oversea
countries,” the National argues. The export drive possesses
many justifications.
Though reliance upon primary production and raw materials
must continue, “just as a well balanced economy is necessary for
our successful growth and development, so is diversified trad-
ing in a highly competitive world” if only to counteract price
fluctuations for most exports.
Chiefly, however, Australia has yet to wrestle with dangerous
overcapacity throughout tbo much of the industrial framework,
as is indicated in an item above. Constituting “a wasteful luxury
that neither individual industries nor the community as a whole
can afford,” this still cannot be overcome by driving the home
market into a perpetual boom.
More success in pushing exports may help to dilute excess
capacity. It may also encourage an equally valuable reduction
in costs per unit of output.
Between 1938 and 1962 manufactures lifted their share of
the gross national product from 22 to 30 p.c. They will account
for about 9 p.c. of total exports for the 1962-63 year.
The National Bank freely admits that rapid extension up to
15-20 p.c. will not be easy. “But this, it would seem, is a
challenge we must accept in the light of the very considerable
industrialisation our economy has attained.”
Cheap Loans for the
Little Man
Commonwealth Savings Bank, followed promptly by
the “Wales” Savings Bank, is doing the small saver a good
turn by offering to provide personal loans at 6i p.c. simple
interest, and without security.
Even applications from minors are considered by the CSB
for small amounts, provided the applicant can supply proof
of his ability to repay regularly.
By restricting the loans to essential items, such as medical,
dental, hospital and education expenses, or payment of muni-
cipal and water rates, the new personal loans avoid taking over
existing debts and exclude hire purchase commitments. But
applicants can seek personal loans for such items as painting
a home. Obviously, savings bank depositors (many of whom
do not operate trading bank accounts) will find great con-
venience in obtaining cheap loans at normal bank rates of
interest. Interest is payable on a monthly reducing basis over
periods of 12 or 24 months. Personal loans of up to £360
will permit important savings in financing the purchasing of
annual railway tickets.
Loans will not be made to finance the purchase of motor
cars or other consumer goods. The loans are made in multiples
of £l2 to save book work. The repayments also will be made
in round figures and by monthly instalments. A repayment
book, containing a docket for each repayment, is issued to
the borrower when a loan is approved and he will present this
book at his branch of the savings bank when making repay-
ments.
The scheme is designed to save on administrative costs, so
as not to cut too deeply into the margin between the savings
bank borrowing rate of 3 p.c. and the lending rate of 6i p.c.
Although bank managers can use discretion in assessing each
application for a loan, the CBS has indicated that it wants to
give priority to the established customer who has been a de-
positor for at least six months.
The Commonwealth Savings Bank indicates that the new
service will not take funds away from its normal housing
loans. In fact, if you think about it, the man who is saving
for a deposit on a home can obtain up to £360 for his
immediate persona] “essential” expenses and keep his capital
intact.


Costs Beat the
Shipbuilders
A recent request by Sydney coal and brewery group R. W,
Miller & Co. Ltd for extra Commonwealth Government
financial assistance to build nine oil tankers spotlights the
depressed conditions in the Australian shipbuilding industry.
Only eight vessels were under construction at June 30 last
and the deadweight tonnage of these vessels under construction,
at 64,550 tons, was the lowest for many years and less than
half the average for the previous five years.
The request from R. W. Miller & Co. was additional to the
usual one-third subsidy paid by the Commonwealth towards
the cost of ships built for the Australian coastal trade.
Australian shipbuilding would have been at an even lower
level if it had not been for BHP’s entry into the ship construc-
tion business at Whyalla, South Australia, where it has
completed 33 vessels since 1942. In addition to constructing
its own bulk ore carriers, such as the 19,020 tons Iron Dumpier
in 1961, BHP has constructed ore carriers for Bulkships Ltd
and also the 32,250 tons P. J. Adams for Arnpol Petroleum
Ltd. BHP accounts for most of the tonnage under construction
at the moment.
Not only have shipbuilding
costs moved against Britain
and Australia in recent years
The cost of refitting old vessels
(to bring them up to the Lloyds
insurance certificate of sea-
worthiness) has sometimes been
so high that owners have sold
the vessels to overseas groups.
About 60 Australian vessels
have been sold overseas since
1955. Most of them were re-
latively small, except Kanimbla
(11,004 tons), Manoora
(10,952 tons), Manunda (8853
tons), Wanganella (9876 tons)
and the Westralia (8174 tons).
Largest tonnage under con-
struction in Australia in recent
years was 136,950 tons dead-
weight in June, 1958, when 11
vessels were being built.
The tonnage in British yards
also has been falling progres-
sively and, although orders im-
proved recently when the UK
Government took steps to relieve
unemployment in certain areas,
the tonnage under construction
is claimed to be the lowest since 1944.
Japan is now the major shipbuilder, with Britain in second
place, followed by West Germany, Sweden and Italy.
Japan Seeks More
Silk Trade
delighted at the more secure footing for Japanese
exports to Australia under the recently signed trade
treaty, Mr Takashi Chiyonubo, chairman of the Japan Silk
Association delegation, told The Bulletin he was now con-
MERCHANT SHIPBUILDING
(Under Construction at June 30)
Excludes small vessels of less than 100 tons gross
for overseas builders and less than 300 tons dead-
weight for Australian vessels.
fident of success in restoring a big part of the lost volume
of silk exports to this country. They are now only about
one-tenth of the peak level of 1928 and bring Japan an
income of about £1 million a year.
He thinks Australia is one of Japan’s best prospects for
selling increasing quantities of silk. At present Australia takes
less than 1 p.c. of Japan’s 60 million plus square yards of
silk exports, for which by far the most important market is
still the US.
Mr Chiyonubo said that thanks to great improvements in
designs and printing Japan was actually improving its position
in world markets though admittedly costs had risen substan-
tially in the home industry since the war.
Strenuous efforts were being made to increase raw silk produc-
tion in Japan whose output of 33,000 tons was more than half
the total of world production of 57,000 tons last year. The
target is to raise output to 40,000 tons a year. This would
be 5000 tons below the record achieved in the industry’s
peak year 1930, when cocoon production amounted to
399,000 tons.
One of the main obstacles to increasing output, the dele-
gation said, was that fewer young people were learning the
various crafts associated with cocoon selection and weaving.
The delegation intends to visit capitals in all the eastern
States during its three weeks in Australia.
Kennedy Tax
Knocks
Tokyo Shares
|T|espite the Canadian Gov-
ernment’s failure to obtain
complete exemption for Canada
from the Kennedy taxes on
purchases of foreign securities.
Montreal share prices have
made a fair recovery since the
initial selling wave after the tax
was announced. However, in
Japan, which is even more vul-
nerable to the legislation than
Canada, prices remain very
depressed. Between July 18
(when the tax was announced)
and last week, share prices in
Tokyo dropped 10 p.c., although
this was due in part also to
internal economic reasons. Share
prices in Japan have fallen 14i
p.c. since the peak of July 2.
To stop the rot in markets, the Japanese Securities Credit
Corporation, which operates similarly to the SEC in the US,
has deferred its move to collect between 15 to 40 p.c. of
additional margins which dealers were required to pay for
transactions after August 6. The JSCC is also deferring col-
lection on additional margins required, but the resulting
ploughback of 6000 million yen this will provide is not
considered significant in relation to the current amount of
45,000 million yen outstanding on margins.
The effects of the proposed new US tax on Australian
securities was given scant attention until Treasurer Holt pointed
out in his Budget speech that he doubted if any new loans could
be raised in New York this year (compared with three success-
ful loans in 1962-63).


if it’s urgent
IPEC
IPEC\
INTERSTATE, parcel express
send it IPEC
EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
An Iron Industry
For Tasmania
Qo much attention gets lavished on the
chances of developing Western Aus-
tralia’s huge iron ore deposits that the
prospects of working the rich magnetite
ores in Tasmania tend to be forgotten.
These appear just as likely to provide the
foundation of a frequently discussed
second steel industry for Australia.
At any rate recent happenings suggest
Tasmania could well take a lead in the
exports race and with certain technical
advantages, too. The pace must obviously
quicken in both States.
Tasmania’s deposits lie on the north-
west coast, 15 miles from the mouth of
the Pieman River. Some 400 million tons
of reserves are already proven.
Most of the preliminary investigation
has, since February, 1961, been carried
out by the Australian leaseholder, Indus-
trial and Mining Investigations Pty,
whose guiding light and managing director
is a prominent mining figure, E. R.
Hudson.
The exploring and testing syndicate is
now to be joined by a very large Ameri-
can group, Pickards Mather and Co.
Further and more active support will be
at hand from the Tasmanian Government.
Industrial and Mining has previously
sought the necessary overseas support
and capital. At least three foreign iron
and steel companies actually inspected the
deposits. The link with Pickards Mather
is definite and firm.
What makes this specific tie-up so
important and exciting, apart from any
distant steelmaking possibilities, seems to
be the US group's distinct plans to
pelletise the ore. The manufacture of
pellets, for direct feeding into blast fur-
naces, confers obvious economic bene-
fits not least with exports.
The use of pellets is also growing
throughout the steel industries of
America, Europe and Japan. Unlike raw
ore, they need no further treatment,
sintering for instance.
The deposits give every evidence of
a satisfyingly high grade. A titanium im-
purity, earlier considered something of a
hindrance, can now be easily removed.
On the information assembled by In-
dustrial and Mining, Pickards Mather
teels confident enough to embark upon
an additional series of assessments. These
are initially designed to establish the
economics of pellets manufacture.
A target of J:wo million tons a year
appears completely feasible. However,
more laboratory and site tests are called
tor. The combine will not neglect a
thorough market survey.
Pickards Mather is pledged as well,
The Bulletin, August 24, 1963
during October this year, to survey the
mouth of the- Pieman River. Here a
port, able to take 60,000 ton ore-car-
riers, would be required.
As in Western Australia, the Tas-
manian hopes aim primarily to cultivate
the demands of the Japanese steel in-
dustry, now the world's fourth largest
producer behind USA, the Soviet Union
and West Germany. The industry drives
keen bargains where its imports of iron
ore and coking coal are concerned.
Last year it imported 22.1 million tons
of ore, about 57 p.c. of this coming from
Asian countries. The list of present com-
peting suppliers is long Malaya, Chile,
Peru, Goa, India, the Philippines, Hong
Kong, Korea, Thailand, USA, Canada.
For future contracts Australia must
take its place with all these and other
striving newcomers such as Brazil,
Venezuela, Africa, Communist China and
Russia.
It is rather sobering to see Australia,
in a list of allocations, given 500,000
tons for 1964 and rising to 5 million
tons by the end of the current long-term
contract period in 1970.
Those figures look tiny beside Aus-
tralian production possibilities. Exports,
of course, constitute the main goal and
now pelletising comes to complicate an
extremely competitive picture.
Business Men Iron
Out Their Problems
on 200 business leaders in Aus-
tralia will try to iron out some of
their problems when they meet in Can-
berra from October 14 to 16 for the
annual convention of the Australian
Association of National Advertisers. Of
course, Attorney-General Barwick’s pro-
posed Restrictive Trade Practices Bill
will occupy a prominent place in the
discussions, and is sure to provoke some
withering criticism. But several other
equally important subjects are on the
agenda, notably current retail trends, the
future of the Australian economy, various
aspects of marketing and advertising and
studies on today’s consumer needs.
Television and radio advertising will
be analysed in relation to modern trends
and, of course, comparisons will be made
between these media and the Press as
sales promoters.
The key speaker will be a visitor from
the UK, Mr R. A. Bevan, chairman of
S. H. Benson Ltd, London, and presi-
dent of the British Institute of Adver-
tising Practitioners. He will be accom-
panied by Mr Marion Harper Jnr, past
chairman of the American Association
of Advertising Agencies.


The Case Against a Restrictive
Trade Bill
No. 4 - Authoritarianism Leading to Stagnation
By ROGER RANDERSON
Sir G. Barwick
A glance at the absurd and even
dangerous distortions that “anti-
trust” laws are causing to the
vast and mature economy of the
United States is sufficient to show that
the adoption of Sir Garfield Barwick’s
similar restrictions in our young country
would play havoc with business activities
and stifle our national grou'th.
American business is being increas-
ingly ham-strung, and the size of busi-
ness organisations is being arbitrarily
restricted. This is the assessment of
many unprejudiced scholars, some of
them disillusioned “anti-trusters.”
It is true, as a leading US business-
man has said: “If our prices are lower
than those of the competitor we can be
prosecuted for unfair competition. If we
price the same as a competitor we can
be prosecuted for collusion ; and if we
submit a bid at the market price on a
government order and a competitor does
likewise, this is, according to certain
persons in government, collusion per se.
If, on the other hand, we raise prices,
this, too, can be grounds for prosecution,
as the steel industry is keenly aware.”
The Attorney-General's scheme would
have similar unpredictable effects in
practice.
It is pungentlv condemned by the
American businessman’s general ob-
servation that ”90 per cent of the rules
and restrictions applied to a free economy
to assure competition are like breaking
a man's leg to make him run faster.”
United States, according to our
A present limited ideas, is enormous
possessing 17 times as many people and
30-odd times as much national income
as Australia. Private enterprise vies
there with only a relatively small corner
of governmental enterprise, and is not
hampered by a system of general
registration.
In marked contrast, governmental
enterprises occupy a relatively large
place in Australia. They engage in most
of the practices now supposed to be
sinful (only, of course, when private
persons engage in them). True monopo-
lies, involving substantial immunity
from, or suppression of, private com-
petition, have been granted to many
governmental enterprises such as the
post office, railways and electricity
undertakings.
For these reasons “anti-monopolisa-
tion” measures w r ould have an even more
serious impact on private enterprise in
Australia than they have had in the
United States. They would greatly up-
set the present balance of our smaller
economic system.
The Attorney-General, however, is so
captivated by a philosophy that lies
behind the vague Sherman Act of 1890
and its complementary successors that
he completely ignores these important
differentiating circumstances.
He proposes the tightest and the most
punitive, as well the “most compre-
hensive” scheme imaginable.
If it is ever applied here, in one of the
smallest economic systems in the world
—Australia is a long way from meriting
the description of “an economy”—our
private enterprises will be frozen in their
present primitive moulds, to be engulfed
all the sooner by governmental enter-
prise.
Certainly the proposed system of
compulsory registration is “unique.” It
is a real source of danger to personal
liberty as well as private enterprise. Un-
registered practices that are registrable
or proscribed as unregistrable (uni-
lateral, bilateral, multilateral, horizontal,
vertical, etc.) all will be prohibited.
Businessmen will be convicted of crime
for carrying on, or planning to carry-
on, unregistrable or unregistered regis-
trable practices.
This may seem to Mr Attorney, in his
own words, a “minimum use of the
criminal law” (especially after his
controversial amendments to the Crimes
Act), but to the NSW Council of the
Institute of Directors it represents a
“savage application of the concept of
crime and criminality” and even an
“abuse of criminal process.”
Strong words, indeed, but they would
scarcely have been used except on com-
petent legal advice.
The poor States such as could be
induced to pass the proposed comple-
mentary legislation would no doubt
incur most of the odium for these
violations of personal liberty, because
they would have to apply the general
legislative power with respect to criminal
law that is not vested in the Common-
wealth.
Thus businessmen would be branded
and punished as criminals for showing the
common human failing of being “per-
verse and unco-operative” (his own
words) when they had merely taken
action, peaceably and within the general
law, for the purpose of safeguarding and
advancing their businesses. Moreover,
they would be denied the ordinary
rights of defence that “British justice”
concedes even to dangerous felons.
T'he Registrar, as the Attorney-General
states, “ will not come into the field like
the prosecutor in a criminal trial with
much of the relevant information in the
hands of the accused,” and according
to his view “ there should be the least
emphasis on the type of defence which
the criminal law. gives to the” (accused).
Such attempts to coerce people from
engaging in business dealings (other-
wise law-ful), which they judge to be in
their best interests, inevitably drive
much business underground.
As is seen in the United States today,
fines have to be raised to startling levels
and businessmen have to be sent to
prison—the ultimate violation of personal
liberty as authoritarianism closes in on
free enterprise.
Many of us still remember the bad
effects of “price and profit” control
immediately after the war the black
markets, under-the-counter dealings, cor-


ruption and generally retarded pro-
duction. Widespread relief was felt
when the system was generally aban-
doned. The Menzies Government used
to claim credit for having abolished the
system.
The States have full power under the
Constitution to legislate against so-
called “monopolisation” and “restrictive
practices” within their jurisdiction.
Sir Garfield Barwick acknowledges
that some States have used legislation
imposing price control as a substitute for
restrictive practices legislation. How-
ever, he draws a distinction between their
seeking “to intrude government control
in point of policy” and his seeking
“proper price levels by the maintenance
of free and competitive enterprise” and
the elimination of distortions.
This is a distinction without a real
difference. Enterprise can neither be free
nor competitive under his proposed sys-
tem, which would reinstate capital issues
control besides price control and poten-
tially every other conceivable restriction.
We should consider how the Robinson-
Patman Act is working in the United
States, in answer to the Attorney-
General's claim that he is championing
the cause of the small businessman. This
post-war addition to the anti-trust legis-
lation similarly sought “proper price
levels” and similarly was supposed to be
the “Magna Carta for small businesses.”
According to Professor Handler of
Columbia, the small businessman has
been its principal victim “as witness
the fact that he has been on the receiv-
ing end of most of the price discrimina-
tion orders issued by the Federal Trade
Commission.”
A nti-monopoly legislation, we should
clearly understand, played no part in
assisting America’s immense and rapid
industrial growth, which brought her to
leadership of the Western world. The
great American achievement occurred
within, and was encouraged by, a legal
frame-work largely inherited (as with
us) from England's common law.
The developed common law found
no objective general rules for application
at a point of time to determining what
“ reasonable ” prices and profits might be,
or what “fair” competition might or
might not be. Judges versed in the
common law were properly suspicious of
fluctuating, and inevitably prejudiced,
opinions on such matters, t
It is true that the vague Sherman Act
—based on a philosophy opposed to that
underlying the developed common law—•
was passed in 1890 and was supplemented
by the Clayton and Federal Trade Com-
mission Acts of 1914.
But these restrictive measures had
relatively little effect on American
business life until well into the recent
post-war period, partly because few
funds were provided to administer them,
partly because the judiciary and ad-
ministrators for a long time largely
accepted the underlying postulates of
the common law, and finally because
there is no system of registration in the
United States.
During and since the world’s “Great
Inflation” of the post-war period, how-
ever, amendments have been made, the
Robinson - Patman Act and other so-
called “fair trade” laws have been added,
and majorities of the US Supreme Court
have gone on sanctioning large extensions
of administrative interference with busi-
ness, often on violently contradictory
grounds.
A ustralia largely copied the Sherman
Act in the Australian Industries Pre-
servation Act passed in 1906 and amend-
ed in 1910. Our own High Court has had
to view the local Act in the light of an
Australian Constitution, having a larger
“guaranteed freedom” than the American
Constitution, and of the existence of
Australian States that are larger and
more self-sufficient than are those of the
United States.
Opinions may differ whether it is
right for an Attorney-General to use
public forums to suggest that American
judges have made a better fist than
Australian judges of interpreting their
respective Constitutions, and to throw
out advice as to how our judges should
improve on their interpretative perform-
ance to assist the introduction of his
scheme.
But he certainly ought to be challenged
for claiming that “the boldness of the
original United States’ approach has been
vindicated by history”.
Dean Levi of the Chicago Law School,
a respected anti-trust scholar, now has
to urge the United States to pause before
“a law which has symbolised free enter-
prise is converted into but another con-
geries of regulatory statutes for the con-
trol of business.”
There have been many statements to
the effect that “the steam has gone out
of the American economy”. To the
extent that this is true, Professor
Sylvester Petro insists that the causes are
crippling taxation, overwhelming union
power and the strangling grip of anti-
trust and other regulatory systems.
For Australia in her present early
stage of development there could be no
clearer warning against the Attorney-
General’s proposals than Petro’s assess-
ment of America’s present situation.
“Anti-trust principles,” he writes, “are
now being pursued to the bitter end.
“Had they been pushed so far at the
start, the economy would have been
frozen in a relatively primitive cast —-
no General Motors, no General Electric,
no US Steel, and, beyond much doubt,
nowhere near the technological progress,
or the standard of living that now pre-
vails”
Similar legislation spread to some
other countries during the post-war
period of inflation. Towards the end of
1959 a Federal Parliamentary com-
mittee (excluding Senator Wright) recom-
mended that Australia should follow suit.
The majority’s pessimistic view that in-
flation would never end here gave rise
to proposals for jamming the price
mechanism. Since then, however, the
Menzies Government has proved that
price stability can be maintained with-
out adopting such recommendations.
Senator Wright objected to most of
the Parliamentary committee’s recom-
mendations because they amounted to a
“complete apparatus for rigid regulation
on the order and decree system, with
licences and permits on the bureaucratic
model, very akin to nationalisation.”
Yet this is precisely the same kind of
system that an astute Attorney-General
is now seeking to introduce, blandly
trying to convince businessmen that they
should co-operate in its introduction, by
the use of the most peculiar arguments.
T ittle need be said about Britain’s post-
war experiments in this field, except
that the Mother Country is now a strange
source of inspiration for measures
suited to the needs of a young but fast
expanding Australia. The “Kindly Dino-
saur,” as the London “Times” has
pointed out, is failing in old age to re-
adjust herself to progressive demands in
a highly competitive world.
In fairness perhaps we should dis-
cuss some of the matters that have been
troubling Sir Garfield.
Before drawing together our con-
clusions, therefore, it is desirable to
show that a progressive yet stable pro-
ductive system must include pricing
policies, marketing arrangements and
capital re-arrangements.
“When such matters are controlled
by administrative agencies and judges,
rather than by men staking their fortunes
on their ability to serve consumers,” as
Petro points out, “the result is the cor-
porative state” not a free democratic
society.
[A fifth article in this series will
appear next week.]


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Place of the Small Firm
Some Acorns are Oaks in the Making
As Harry Miller, the author of “The
Way of Enterprise,” recently pub-
lished in Britain by Andre Deutsch for
the Institute of Economic Affairs, says “it
is odd that while business enterprise as
exemplified by its largest and most power-
ful units has received considerable study
little attention has been given to the be-
ginnings of enterprise, as exemplified by
the small but growing company.”
It is also very remarkable considering
that in this and all the other highly in-
dustrialised countries, from the USA
downwards, the vast majority of busi-
nesses are small. Without burdening one-
self with a lot of statistics a glance
around the economy shows it is crowd-
ed with independent small enterprises,
shopkeepers, builders, window-cleaners,
backyard engineering shops, painters,
printers and so on in their legions.
These days when bigness is practically
synonymous with strength in business and
most trade associations are dominated by
the larger firms, the smaller independent
fry in the economy tend to be under-
rated in the economic scheme of things,
though in fact they are the mainspring
of progress. Even if many of them are
simply marking time or falling out and
may individually appear to be making
little contribution to the enrichment of
the economy, some of these acorns are
oaks in the making and it is essential
to keep the economic climate propitious
for their growth.
Tn one sense this is what the restric-
A tive practices proposals are out to
achieve, to maintain an environment in
which new endeavour can seed and
grow, to keep competition fluid in a
competitive system with self-defeating
tendencies. Referring to the USA and
Britain, for instance, Miller says that
“obviously these countries still regard a
flow of new and self-supporting businesses
as essential to the economic health of
the community.”
Without arguing one way or the other
about the restrictive practices proposals,
in this context it is relevant to point
out that few proprietors of the domina-
ting industrial and commercial firms in
this country would deny that their pro-
gression to their present positions depend
on the existence of conditions of free
competition. And instancing the records
of a score of British companies which
have achieved pinnacles in Britain after
starting virtually from scratch in the
post-war period, underlines this basic
factor as making their rise possible,
though at the same time “while those
businesses were in the making the en-
vironment was hardening against small
enterprise.”
Indeed Miller sees a growing threat to
the existence of the small entrepreneur
in Britain and his observations would
seem to have some relevance for this
country. He thinks the threat can be re-
moved by measures which are small in
cost in comparison with the magnitude
of the gains.
For instance, “the tendency to giantism
in industry should be checked wherever
it threatens efficiency, flexibility and
therefore true economic growth. Large
companies should be helped to organise
forms of co-operation for export trade
which do not impair their independence
or eliminate the stimulus of competition
in the home market.”
A gain, “industrial concentration should
be arrested long before it ossifies
into monopoly Excessive concentration
tempts as well as facilitates nationalisa-
tion and, even under private control,
inhibits challenge from a small new-
comer. The Government’s monopoly
legislation should be made decisive, with
the same object as that of the USA,
namely to keep competition free and
active and to oppose, both in the public
and in the private sector of the industry,
the autocrat that makes further endea-
vour impossible.”
Miller also thinks that “a less clumsy
device than the manipulation of credit
should be sought for stabilising the
economy. A credit squeeze bears most
heavily on the small growing company
which has not accumulated sufficient
reserves to tide it over a crisis.”
Apropos of the cost of credit to small
businesses in Australia the Victorian
Employers’ Federation said last week
that “although large corporations, with
their superior facilities for arranging
overdrafts and other forms of accommo-
dation, may not be greatly concerned, it
is clear, today, that the small and
medium-sized businessman is constantly
embarrassed by the now almost standard
habit of extended credit a tendency
which has become much more apparent
since the credit squeeze.'
“Large industries possess the ability to
both organise credit on a low unit cost
basis and command more deliberate ar-
rangements for payments, but Australia
is composed mainly of small and medium
sized businesses and these form a sub-
stantial part of the industrial backbone.
For them, excessive credit-taking involves
a tremendous expansion in book-keeping,
record making, statement rendering and
associated costs of stationery and post-
age, increased costs in financing by one
method or another and the distraction of
management from its main task of in-
creasing efficiency and higher standards
of production.”
The VEF thinks that “Australia’s econ-
omy would be healthier if all business
firms returned to a pay within 30 days
basis.
/Getting back to Miller’s recommenda-
tions he thinks that something should
be done to remove fiscal discrimination
against private companies in Britain.
Many will echo the same plea for pri-
vate businesses here. In Britain he sug-
gests that surtax on the profits of the
family firm should be abolished and also
that discrepancies should be corrected in
the treatment of shareholdings in private
and public companies for death duty
purposes.
He also makes some useful suggestions
to ease the problems of raising finance
by small businesses not sufficiently cater-
ed for by the banks and other organisa-
tions such as the Industrial Credit
Finance Corporation. “Larger industrial
companies,” he says, “might subscribe to
the formation of a finance company
which would make loans to or invest in
small firms, along the lines of the Ameri-
can Small Businesses Companies, but
without support of participation.” In-
vestment houses have done something on
these lines here but none seem to have
had outstanding success on that front.
He has found the founders of small
businesses generally surprisingly ignor-
ant in matters of finance and thinks
financial institutions would add to their
already distinguished service in the cause
of enterprise if they would undertake
more educational publicity and help, in
particular, to remove the common fear
in small business circles that acceptance
of outside finance will inevitably result
in loss of control.
He also thinks there is scope for more
direct help by large manufacturing con-
cerns to get greater efficiency in smaller
ones which supply them with services
while “small companies might improve
their efficiency and exert greater collec-
tive impact on the economy by more co-
operation with one another.”


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act ot
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
registered
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
I
A
TO
YEAR
(/)£ •
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7|% P.A. 3 YEARS
7i% P.A. 2 YEARS
6£% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B±% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company's Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
'Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY « NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
‘CLIP AND POST
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd
Cambridge House, 249 George Street. Syd'ney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDRESS
“CROESUS”
Mr Holt Covers Up
A fter being so far out in its estimate
of loan raisings last year, the Trea-
sury’s reluctance to keep in play the
annual guessing game on the likely
harvest is understandable. Nor, in truth,
does this matter all that much.
What does matter, though and it
matters very much indeed is whether
the Government plays its appropriate
part in net income generation. It is a pity
that what Sir John Crawford had to say
in his “in camera” session with the
Bankers’ Institute last week on the role
of government in this and other matters,
could not have had a wider audience
(Sir John, as a member of the Govern-
ment’s Economic Enquiry has sealed his
lips from public utterings until the in-
quiry is finished).
Last year Mr Holt determined that the
economy would need a booster of £ 1181
million in net income generation from
the public sector or so it seemed from
his 1962-63 Budget speech when he went
to great lengths to show that the impact
of deficit spending would be felt most
in the first eight months of the year when
the economy would need it most.
Now, however, he is not talking in
these sort of terms at all. The deficit of
£SBJ million he referred to in his Budget
speech is merely accidental to his other
Budget accounting and to his own
hypothetical estimates of loan raisings.
It has nothing to do with what the econ-
omy may or may not need in the way of
a stimulus from net income generation
at the hands of the Government.
The Treasury is so embarrassed by its
inability to match its estimated deficit
with its ideas on what stimulus is needed
by the economy, that it now prefers not
to link the two in discussion at all, or,
indeed, to say anything about the required
degree of stimulus in monetary terms.
Instead, the Treasurer lapses into
generalities such as these in the closing
paragraph of his Budget speech:—
“As it has been shaped, the Budget
should undoubtedly have a strong ex-
pansionary effect. Broadly this will come
about in two ways. In the first place it
provides for a very considerable increase
in expenditure, direct and indirect, on
goods and services a much greater
increase, in fact, than has occurred in re-
cent years. In the second place the
amount taken back from the community
by way of taxes and charges, though
larger than last year, will not increase
by as much as expenditures. The gap to
be financed from borrowings will thus
widen.”
He then goes into smoke, referring
patient listeners to an appendix in the
Budget papers to follow some further
arithmetic which leads us only further
into the wilderness. “I suggest”, he says,
“it will repay some study. It shows
among other things a progressive widen-
ing over recent years of the excess of
expenditures over revenues, and hence an
increased reliance on borrowings to
finance expenditures. Incidentally, it also
shows that contrary to much that has been
said, the Budget of last year had, in these
terms, quite a strong expansionary effect.”
This part of his speech is really too
much. If the Treasury draws this con-
clusion from its statement on the Budget
in national accounts form, it clearly
needs reminding that there is a world
of difference between the effects on the
economy of borrowing from the capital
market that is, from the accumulated
savings of the community here and over-
seas lenders and borrowing on credit
terms from the Reserve Bank.
On the one hand, it is simply doing
an investment job (the more true since
it carries such a heavy weight of public
works spending in its own consolidated
revenue accounts), and on the other it
is pump priming. The one has no booster
effect at all, whereas the prime purpose
of borrowing from the Reserve Bank
is for booster effect.
The Treasurer’s double talk on this
theme was even more unworthy than
his diatribe earlier in the speech when,
having stated that the 1961-62 tax con-
cessions such as the rebate of Is. in the
£ on individual income tax, the invest-
ment allowances and sales tax reductions
were “estimated to be costing the Budget
currently about £BO million a year,”
he went on to say that “nevertheless it
is expected that without any further con-
cessions, taxation revenue this year”
with all the above built-in concessions
“would show an increase of £ 132 million
over that of 1962-63!”
Tractors for North Borneo
An order for 10 crawler tractors for
use in the logging industry in San-
dakan, North Borneo, has brought the
value of sales by Caterpillar of Austra-
lia Pty Ltd to Asia and Pacific territories
for the past 18 months to £275,000.
The North Borneo order is valued at
£lOO,OOO.
Five crawler tractors have also been
sold to Fiji.


wco«. -
INVEST IN
ELECTRICITY!
Queensland's biggest secondary
industry will bring you high ,
assured profits.
THE STATE
llf Sk If IXmI wm '
AUSTRALIA’S HIGHEST GOVERNMENT
GUARANTEED INTEREST RATE
Apply through your Bank, any
Stockbroker or direct to the
State Electricity Commission of
Queensland, 447 Gregory Ter-
race, Brisbane. Interest is paid
half yearly; you may pay 10%
deposit now and the balance by
30/11 /’63; Securities will be
listed on the Stock Exchange
and are negotiable.
l
Underwritten by Ord, Minnett & Partners.
SEC 31 IAA


INVEST
NOW
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
0/
/c
o
p.a.
10-20 years
7i °/o
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6 °/o
12 months
5%.
6 months
4%
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note,
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia .Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
■JUjubE
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated in The Australian Capital
Territory. CAS 2318 b
INVESTMENT SECTION
Shares and the Budget
No reason for any market withdrawal
Tt should be said forcefully at the out-
A set that the Budget furnishes no valid
reason for any general withdrawal by
Australian sharemarkets.
Some morning-after-the - night - before
vagueness was perhaps to be expected
hard upon the Treasurer’s speech. A
widening continuance of such a mood
would seem inexcusable.
Fortunately clearer counsels put in
their appearance before first reactions
were carried too far. They must be per-
mitted to rule the markets.
Expert critics have mostly found the
actual Budget speech a little thin on
economic background. Mr Holt looked
content to paint his setting lightly, par-
ticularly letting the notable Statement
No. 6 (The Budget in National Accounts
Form) to do a lot of speaking for him.
He was surely not complacent or
indulging special pleading in stating: “I
am happy to be able to bring down a
Budget under conditions so propitious
as those w'hich rule in the Australian
economy today. On the one hand, we
can look back upon a year of strong,
continuous, widespread growth; on the
other, we can look forward to possibilities
at least as favorable—and in all proba-
bility more so in the current year and
perhaps beyond.”
The ultimate economic implications
of that approach are examined elsewhere
in The Bulletin. This section must
concern itself solely with its influence
on business and investment.
The basic assumption plainly is that
the so-called business recovery has
reached sufficient impetus to carry on
largely under its own weight. Small
and very specific encouragements (for
housing, timber, the rural sector) are
not to disturb the over-riding goal and
existing prevalence of stability.
Under that atmosphere, truly worth
maintaining, investors should feel no
urgent necessity to change the market’s
present technical pattern.
A good deal of pre-Budget attention
was focused on the attainment of a new
market peak, as measured by the Sydney
all-ordinaries index. The position duly
won, an equal amount of attention
could rightly have been given to the
technical shape the peak represented.
This is, to begin with, far healthier
than the condition signified by the old
1960 peak. A test of the spread of
lower-yielding industrials obviously shows
the world of business
"While you are certainly self-employed, Mr Brankston, the Deputy
Commissioner feels you have an excellent case for exemption from
Provisional Tax!"


more
ANSETT-ANA
SERVICES FOR
CANBERRA
A
m
❖ Increased
Golden Jet flights
❖ Daily return flights
❖ Breakfast, luncheon
and dinner flights
❖ More convenient
times
Ansett-ANA now have 59 flights
per week to Sydney and Melbourne
from Canberra. Now, have break-
fast in flight, keep 10 a.m. meet-
ings, return or go at lunchtime,
return same day. Any time you
wish to fly . . . morning, noon or
night, Ansett-ANA have a service
to suit you.
CANBERRA MELBOURNE
NEW BREAKFAST SERVICE
8.00 a.m. daily ex Sat & Sun.
8.50 a.m. Sat.
NEW LUNCHEON SERVICE
12.00 noon daily ex Sat & Sun; connections
to Tasmania & Adelaide.
NEW TIME
5.25 p.m. daily ex Sat; connections
ta Adelaide.
MELBOURNE-CANBERRA
NEW TIME
8.05 a.m. daily ex Sun.
NEW TIME
1.55 p.m. daily ex Sat.
NEW SERVICE
6.30 p.m. daily ex Sat.
CANBERRA-SYDNEY
8.15 a.m. daily ex Sun; connection
to Brisbane.
NEW TIME
10.00 a.m. daily ex Sun.
12.30 p.m. daily.
NEW TIME
5.15 p.m. daily.
NEW TIME
6.00 p.m. Tues, Wed, Thurs, Fri.
NEW TIME
8.05 p.m. Fri.
SYDNEY-CANBERRA
NEW TIME
7.45 a.m. daily ex Sun.
NEW TIME
9.35 a.m. daily; connections ex Brisbane
1.55 p.m. daily; connections ex Brisbane
NEW SERVICE
4.45 p.m. Tues, Wed, Thurs, Fri.
7.35 p.m. daily ex Sat; connections
ex Brisbane.
2%
9043A
ANSITTANA
SYSTEM OF THE GOLDEN JETS
Book with your Travel Agent or Ansett-ANA,
PHONE 4 0333
that. It is well divided among crucial
and sane business sectors.
Even better, the situation has been
reached on more solid performance,
prices in many cases are a premium for
efficiency, and some of the genuine
industrial blue-ribbons have led the
march.
Nothing in the Budget arrested the
market situation. Likewise no support
was rendered to sudden uplift.
The market may proceed in a calmer
manner and actual company results will
be a decisive factor.
Float Rushed
told The Bulletin that
trading clients of Robert Hutchinson
have besieged the company to get in on
its float, for which applications officially
close on August 29.
This must be one of the most widely
spread public offers on record, 15 Mel-
bourne brokers handling applications.
The prospectus filed in Melbourne last
week foreshadows a 10 p.c. twice cover-
ed dividend for this flour miller which,
it should be said, gets about half its
profit from poultry feeding stuffs of which
it is probably the leader in Victoria where
the commercialisation of chickens is
growing apace.
Reviving Rayon?
markets have carefully decided to
A push Courtaulds’ 20s. ordinaries
just above par since news of 1962-63’s
record profit. At 20s. 6d. the shares
show their best price since 1960. It’s
a sobering thought that only in three
years, 1954, 1957 and 1959, did they
go any higher.
Notwithstanding the extra benefit of a
7t p.c. dividend, also the company’s
best, much more movement can scarcely
be expected until directors’ full report
comes to hand. Comments on current
trading must surely take into account
some impact from the Japanese Trade
Treaty, which may lend spice to the
traditional complaints about Australian
tariff policy.
It could have been expected that last
year rayon tyre cord operations would
receive great stimulus from enlivened
motor-vehicle production. Less predict-
able are the results from piecegoods
sections, although overall production
figures still suggest sizeable improvement
here as well.
However exciting the profit looks
when expressed in terms of going up
by £469,762 to £756,649, it repre-
sents only 12.3 p.c. on ordinary capital
of £6,169,000 after 11 years in pro-
duction. Shareholders will want to know
how long the recently won “sustained


PROGRESSIVE MARKETING COMPANY WITH ACTIVE
DEALER NETWORK SEEKS AGRICULTURAL-EQUIPMENT
FRANCHISES
Leading agricultural machinery manufacturer and distributor, with well
established distribution organisation in Australia and sound export contacts,
wishes to increase its range of products.
The Company is seeking additional volume lines of equipment which can be added to
its present range to derive the maximum from its marketing organisation.
An ideal opportunity for a manufacturer who wishes to . . .
• Increase the volume of its production substantially, and/or
• withdraw from the marketing field by channelling the distribution of
its products through the one Company.
All enquiries are welcome, will be treated as strictly confidential, should show details
of products, etc., and be addressed to . . .
Box D 96
THE COURIER MAIL
BRISBANE.
demand” is likely to run, especially now
that the rival and popular nylon moves
into local manufacture.
Chemical Ferment
A malgamated Chemicals’ chairman
(Mr J. D. Wilson) need not wonder
that he has intrigued observers with his
reflections on the company’s linkage
with the Kiwi Polish Co.
“Looking beyond the export and pos-
sible international developments, our as-
sociation . . . could prove to have other
interesting facets which would result in
mutual benefits to the two companies,”
Mr Wilson mused after detailing Kiwi’s
acquisition of 100,000 Amalgamated ss.
shares “at a substantial premium.”
The new holding is part consideration,
together with a largish cash payment,
for Amalgamated’s purchase of Parco
Chemicals Pty, “the largest Australian
company in the field of aerosol custom
packers.” Kiwi held 50 p.c. of Parco,
the other 50 p.c. being owned by
founder Mr L. Mueller’s company,
Capital Enterprises Pty.
Kiwi’s energetic and vocal managing
director (Mr T. M. Ramsay) comes on
to the Amalgamated board. One of the
very few subjects which reduces him to
coy reticence is Kiwi’s public listing,
always seemingly pitched by the pun-
dits two years ahead. Now, who knows?
Advice of the diversification brought
Amalgamated shares up fairly sharply
to 17s. 6d., where they yield 3.6 p.c.
Weaver’s Tangled Web
TYwies Coop’s protracted struggle to-
wards earnings based on a rational
capital structure won’t be helped by the
note conversions looming up within the
next 18 months. An already inflated
£3,209,301 of ordinary capital will
have £2.4 million added to it by De-
cember, 1964.
The cotton spinner and weaver just
crept to a tiny £3723 consolidated pro-
fit for 1962-63. No doubt this must be
considered an achievement after the pre-
vious year’s £126,477 loss. Even 1957-
58’s top earnings at £563,377 do not
look very impressive against forthcoming
capital levels. It may, unfortunately, be
a far cry, too, before that profit level
is approached again.
A radical capital reorganisation may
be thrust upon directors. Perhaps they
can scarcely want to face such an opera-
tion before the agreement with Brad-
ford Dyers’ Association Ltd comes to
an end on September 16, 1964.
The UK group has already decided
not to renew the agreement. As one
result its 22 p.c. ordinary interest,
2,826,821 ss. shares, could finally come
on to the market, although the holding
must first be offered to a nominee of
Davies Coop’s board.
Adding to capitalisation and liquidity
worries, £1.5 million of non-convertible
notes fall due for repayment in 1965
and 1968.
The company’s salvation plainly does
not rest in a further welter of tariff
protection. All in all shareholders
haven’t much comfort with prices
around 2s. 4d. and no dividend in sight.
More Tin Hopes
TYirectors of Tableland Tin sound
reasonably positive that the atmos-
phere of misfortune which has sur-
rounded the company almost continu-
ously since 1956 will soon be dissipated.
They pin special hopes on the Finche’s
area of the Mount Garnet (Queensland)
field.
Tableland’s dredge is now working
towards this position, estimated to com-
prise nine million cubic yards of dredg-
able ground giving a possible recovery
of 3,134 tons of concentrate. Returns
might reach £531,000 (after tax at
current rates), taking an average over
the last few years’ tin prices and also
basing the estimate on current costs.
The area “should prove one of the
richest dredged to date and should per-
mit the resumption of dividend pay-
ments,” directors add for good measure.
Meantime, preference dividend for the
year to June 30, 1962, held in arrears,
has been paid. The 1961-62 profit fell
disastrously by £106,204 to £22,952 and
ordinary payment was omitted.
Production for the 1962-63 year was
again influenced by difficult dredging
conditions and reached only 483.55 tons
of concentrate.
Hopes won’t really be justified until
Finche’s area is well and truly tapped,
so the immediate future appears a little
grim. Investors were rather looking
ahead in pushing the 20s. shares up as
high as 18s. 9d., though prices have eased
back to 17s. 6d.
The present world tin situation, peiv
haps, suggests that Tableland’s medium-
term benefits may exceed first estimates.
Certainly Australian consumption re-
mains well ahead of local mine pro-
duction, aided especially by BHP’s re-
cently completed electrolytic tinplate
plant.
World prices remain in line with 1962
averages and just above 1961 levels.
The US stockpile, however, effectively
establishes the price, even if it does also
encourage stability during a period of
largish under-production.
Overseas producers continue to com-
plain that US sales are being made
well below the £9lO- £965 a ton range
which both producers and consumers
believe suitable under prevailing supply-
demand conditions.
Tableland is not the only Australian
company likely to be looking closely at
price movements. Conzinc Riotinto has
just taken up a three-month temporary
reserve to prospect near Corunna Downs
Station, not far from the old Pilbara
(WA) fields.
If the assay proves adequate, modern
equipment could make further develop-
ment economically feasible.
APM Branches Out
\ PM has acquired an interest in Mem-
branes Pty Ltd of Melbourne, manu-
facturer of materials used in long-term
proofing of buildings and plant against
corrosion. These materials, developed in
Australia, are mineral plastic cements
and surface coatings in a range of grades
and colors. They differ from conven-
tional paints in their remarkable elasticity
and durability.
Up till now Radco Membranes, as the
range of coatings is known, have been
manufactured at Cheltenham (Vic.).
The factory is now being moved to an
APM-owned building in Hoddle Street,
next to its Abbotsford sorting plant.


Principal and Interest
Guaranteed by
N.S.W. Government
FOR
ijr
YEARS
FOR
12 OR 20
YEARS
PROSPECT
COUNTY COUNCIL LOAN
SATURDAY!
Invest your money wisely in Western
Sydney—the State’s fastest growing area.
The Prospect County Council Loan is guar-
anteed by the N.S.W. Government. Appli-
cations may be lodged at any office of the
Commonwealth Trading Bank, Australia
and New Zealand Bank Limited, Bank of
New South Wales, The Commercial Bank-
ing Company of Sydney Limited, through
a stockbroker, or at the Council’s offices —
Merrylands, Parramatta, Blacktown,
Castle Hill, Fairfield, Liverpool, Penrith,
Richmond or Wentworthville.
“Prospect Power
supplies
Western Sydney ”1
m
¥
Fastest growing
1,760 square mites
in the State ”
Underwriters: Ord, Minnett and Partners, Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
THE PROSPECT COUNTY COUNCIL
ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKING
Serving the Cities of Parramatta, Penrith, Liverpool, the Municipalities of
Blacktown, Fairfield, Holroyd and Windsor, and the Shires of Baulkham Hills and Colo.
PCI44


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6
YEARS j
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS,
f HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
83fif=N
ONE TO BUY
Jennings Builds Up
Qelecting an immediate post-Budget
stock is not made any easier by the
Treasurer’s plain intent to allow most
sectors of business to carry on under
their own momentum. In short the latest
prescription tastes suspiciously like the
mixture as before.
One activity, however, has been in-
directly singled out for special treatment.
Home-building, already looking healthier
than it seemed for some time, must gain
a more vigorous bloom from two Budget
attitudes especially.
First the savings banks are enjoined
to lend up to 35 p.c. of depositors’ funds
for housing, against the previously per-
mitted 30 p.c. Then the Government has
also decided on an accelerated immigra-
tion programme.
Both these encouragements should
speed a recovering industry further along
its way and also introduce a fresh element
of growth. Fully capable of taking every
advantage is Melbourne builder and
contractor A. V. Jennings Industries.
If investors are seeking a now well-
based share, Jennings offers splendid
prospects.
Perhaps The Bulletin could apolo-
gise for once again picking a stock with
obviously uppish price tendencies. The
ss. units, at 12s. 3d., stand at their best
levels for three years. Here, on the re-
cently lifted 11 p.c. dividend, they yield
4.5 p.c. and earnings yield is a solid 10.4
p.c.
Apart from the present stimuli the
markets have, of course, seen Jennings
emerge strikingly from its 1961 doldrums,
when profit slumped from £181,634 to
£66,818. Earning rate lapsed to a mere
6.57 p.c. after six years well above 20 p.c.
In view of 1961-62's still somewhat
sticky conditions, that year’s far better
earnings of £195,611 were not taken
entirely at proper value. Until lately the
shares did not go above 10s. 3d. and sold
down as low as 9s. 6d.
Establishing its claim to be thoroughly
fit for the post-Budget Stakes, Jennings
has just come to light with a peak
£281,419 profit for the year to June,
an earning rate up to 25.7 p.c., and
turnover 33 p.c. higher at £12.6 million.
Included in this turnover were signed
contracts for 1254 homes. The company
has opened housing departments in
Adelaide and Perth and begun operations
in NSW. Thus it extends to all States
except Queensland but it plans to operate
there before the end of 1963.
Jennings is Victoria’s largest home
builder. Throughout the quieter housing
time it possessed the counterpoise of
efficient general construction capacity.
The company sponsors developmental
plans and subsidiaries supply the whole
group, and outside customers, too, with
materials.
When home building starts to assume
greater importance Jennings is prepared
with its “complete home plan,” which
embraces design, construction, furnish-
ing and the provision of all estate services.
A finance associate claims as partners
Australian United Corporation and
Email.
The accounts also present good evi-
dence of the group’s new-won stability
At June 30, 1962, ordinary capital at
£ 1,061,250 was supported by £762,581
reserves, including £462,966 share
premiums. Long-term liabilities remain
quite moderate.
This summary review has mostly con-
centrated on the company’s capacity in
a favorable home-building climate. It
must also be kept in mind that Jennings
is one of Australia’s largest contractors
for construction of all types.
Jennings’ recent dividend increase was
hardly unexpected. Investors can, in
addition, probably contemplate a new
issue, even a bonus, within a reasonable
period. .
The shares are listed in all States.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn.
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscrcft, R. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
The Metropole’s Unique Record
“Oecent announcement that The Hotel
* Metropole Ltd was raising its final
dividend so that the total dividend for
the year would represent 14 p.c. on issued
capital has passed almost unnoticed in
the stock market. In fact, after the an-
nouncement, the shares fell slightly from
48s. 6d. to 485., although it must be
admitted that in the previous week they
had risen from 455. 6d.
In a way, this increase to 14 p.c. marks
a new high for the dividend rate. Despite
this, and the fact that over the last ten
years dividend income has increased at
the average annual compound rate of
84 p.c. per annum and that earnings have
at least kept pace with it, the stock is still
selling to show an immediate dividend
yield of 5.8 p.c.
It is an old saying that no hotel com-
pany represents a satisfactory investment
until after the third reconstruction. It
would appear from the historical evidence
we have that two reconstructions have
taken place during the history of the
Metropole, the first in March, 1912, and
the second in August, 1920. But in neither
case is it the type of reconstruction en-
visaged when this saying was being
coined.
In each instance, the reconstruction
was accompanied by a bonus issue. In
March, 1912, by a one-for-five issue and
in August, 1920, by a one-for-four issue.
Since that time, the company has made
no fewer than three bonus issues and two
cash issues. Both the cash issues were on
a two-for-five basis at a premium of ss.
1922 onwards, the dividend rate
A has fluctuated with the earnings. How-
ever, even in the depression the company
never had to pass its dividends, although
the rate fell as low as 24 p.c. and took six
years to recover to 10 p.c. which had
been paid from 1922 until 1929 inclusive.
Even then, this rate was held for only
two years and was reduced again with
the outbreak of war, and after falling as
low as 54 p.c. in 1942 recovered to 10 p.c.
in 1944. It may well be that it is this
fluctuation in the dividend rate which
has caused the stock to be rather lowly
valued by our normal standards. Yet
an appraisal of the situation seems to
suggest that the company has always
attempted to pay out a certain proportion
of its earnings regardless of the actual
rate of dividend.
Over this period of 40 years, in 25 of
them the dividend was covered 1.2 to 1.3
times. In 14 years, it was covered less
than 1.2 times and in another three years
it was covered more than 1.3 times.
Looking at the picture presented by
the brochure of dividends and earnings,
it appears fairly clear that the company
increases the dividends as quickly as it
can when earnings are rising and does
not hesitate to make a reduction when
earnings are falling.
Nevertheless, it is only fair to point
out that over the last 10 years, that is,
from 1952 onwards, there has been no
reduction in the dividend rate despite a
one-for-five bonus in 1954, a one-for-three
bonus in 1959 and a two-for-five issue
at 255. in 1961. Furthermore, earnings
per share after adjusting for the bonus
content of the rights issue and for the
two bonus issues, have climbed almost
steadily upwards apart from a slight
setback in 1956 and again in 1962.
so, as mentioned at the outset, the
dividends per share and the earnings
per share have both increased at quite
a good average annual compound rate
by general experience; that is, at the rate
of 8.4 p.c. (to be precise) for dividends
and at the rate of 8.6 p.c. for earnings.
It must be admitted that this rate over
the last ten years is fairly exceptional and
that in the 30 years prior to this period
the average annual rate of increase was
about 5 p.c. but with the market fluctua-
tion from 1922 to 1931 to a high point
again in 1938 and to a low in 1942. Even
so, if the rate of increase should slow
down from now on, the stock would
still show a return in the long run in
excess of 10 p.c. This represents a very
high yield by today’s standards of many
equity shares. On the other hand it is
hardly a speculative stock because little
variation can be expected in the price of
the shares.
Over the last eight years, apart from
the 1960 boom year (when the price rose
to 655.) the shares have rarely sold above
50s. and have been as low as 35s.—a
range of 15s.
An investor who purchased the shares
at 50s. in 1955 and who did not increase
his investment at the time of the 1961
rights issue would have seen the value
of his holding increased by 474 p.c. ap-
proximately. His dividend income, on the
other hand, would have increased by just
over 72 p.c.
It can only be said that this is an un-
usual pattern with most listed companies
as the value of a shareholding would
normally increase to a greater extent
than the dividend income.
There may be many reasons for this
lack of enthusiasm for the shares,
amongst which would be the lack of suc-
cess of other Sydney-based hotel com-
panies and the potential competition that
could be expected from the new Qantas
Hotel which will be in close proximity
to the Metropole.
Nevertheless the Metropole has taken
major steps to meet this and other com-
petition. Nearly a million pounds has
been spent on renovations in the last five
years, yet room charges are still moderate
by the standards which have become
common in recent years.
The hotel is well situated for travellers
who wish to be close to Sydney's busi-
ness centre and it should be well able to
retain its established clientele of country
visitors and to attract interstate travellers
even if it cannot obtain a large proportion
of the international trade.
Having in mind the long and success-
ful record, the shares seem attractive at
current prices.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to June 30th 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 165 139 135 113 134
Less current liabilities 85 95 125 121 169
Net working capital 80 44 10 (8) (35)
Fixed assets 394 445 664 775 940
Total capital 474 489 674 767 905
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 302 302 403 444 565
Reserves 172 187 271 323 340
PROFIT STATEMENT SUMMARY (£'000)
Year to
June 30 1953 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Depreciation 8 8 10 13 15 16
Tax provided 29 33 48 45 57 60
Earnings 46 58 67 67 78 90
Dividends 38 38 50 52 67 79
Surplus 8 20 17 15 11 11
Adjusted
earnings % 9.8 11.4 14.5 15.5 14 6 15.9
Adjusted
dividends % 8.1 8.1 10.3 12.5 12.5 14.0
Dividend
yield (a) 6.0 4.9 4.8 6.3 5.8 5.8
Earnings
yield (a) 7.3 5.7 6.4 5.9(b) 6.4 6.6
(a) Based on last sale in month accounts presented.
(b) On basis of capital as increased bv 2-for-5 issue.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Shut-down No Cause for Gloom
HThe imminent shut-down of the Mary
Kathleen uranium mine is not in
itself cause for great gloom by share-
holders of Kathleen Investments (Aus-
tralia) Ltd. Directors are pursuing other
avenues of operations and believe that
any reduction in uranium dividends will
be materially replaced from other
sources.
In addition, the demand for uranium
for commercial purposes is increasing so
fast that estimates of how long stocks
in Britain and the US will last are con-
stantly reviewed. The mine could well
be in production again some years before
1970.
Kathleen Investments holds 35 p.c. of
the capital of Mary Kathleen Uranium
Ltd, and 49 p.c. of Queensland Mines
Ltd, which controls Australia’s second
largest uranium deposit at Andersons
Lode, not far from Mary Kathleen. This
field will not be exploited for some
years yet, pending contracts for the sale
of the uranium concentrate.
Cable (1956) Ltd is now a wholly
owned subsidiary of Kathleen Invest-
ments. It has been producing about
20,000 tons a year from the Bunbury
(WA) ilmenite deposit. By the end of
this year production will be lifted to
100,000 tons a year, and zircon and
monasite will be recovered, too.
While Cable’s plant capacity is being
increased, production will be held up,
so that high profitability will probably
not be attained until 1965, but, in direc-
tors’ opinion, Cable will provide a sub-
stantial part of group income in that
year.
Australasian Oil Exploration Ltd is
98.6 p.c. owned by the company. Activi-
ties for the financial and calendar year
1962 were mainly devoted to examining
and developing various industrial and
mining activities. Development and sale
of AOE lands at Mermaid Beach was
held up by unfavorable conditions.
Two blue metal deposits near Brisbane
with reserves assessed at around seven
million tons were acquired by AOE dur-
ing the year, although these may not be
immediately exploited.
AOE has applied for substantial tin-
bearing deposits in WA.
AOE and Kathleen Investments has
bought 93.9 p.c. of the issued capital of
Coffs Harbour Rutile NL. Its plans and
leases have now been vested with those
of National Minerals NL, in a new com-
pany, Rutile and Zircon Mines (New-
castle) Ltd, owned jointly with Peko-
Wallsend Investments Ltd.
This new company is now the world's
largest individual rutile producer, and
has a contract for bulk delivery to Du-
pont of 30,000 tons of rutile a year for
five years. An option to increase this
to 50,000 tons a year has now been
exercised, and delivery from April, 1964,
will be at the higher rate.
Rutile and Zircon was profitable as
from March, 1963, but the industry will
not be fully built up and stabilised until
May next year.
No substantial dividends will be paid
until 1965, as capital loans will have to
be repaid, and further loan capital will
be required.
The chairman of Kathleen Investments
(Sir John Northcott) spoke at the an-
nual meeting about requiring £300,000
of new capital to develop and reorganise
the rutile and ilmenite subsidiaries. So
far this has been available on short tern*
from the bank.
The company proposed to reduce divi-
dends from Is. 4d. to Is. per 5s. share
to conserve funds for repayment of this
loan, rather than make a share issue.
Other propositions might make directors
consider a share issue later.
Dividends paid out of MKU’s uranium
profits are tax-free in shareholders’
hands, and therefore to date almost all
dividends paid by Kathleen Investments
have been tax-free. MKU has £9 million
tax-free reserves, but can only pay these
out free of tax while profits are earned
against them.
The managing director of Kathleen
Investments has been negotiating for
contracts to supply minerals overseas,
and also discussed possible joint enter-
prises with overseas concerns.
The indirect relationship with CRA
(which owns 51 p.c. of MKU) should
not be lost sight of by observers of
Kathleen Investments.
The 5s. shares have added Is. to 15s.
in the last week or so, and should con-
tinue to be good holding.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 31 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 150 59 60 306
Less current liabilities 13 17 48 88
Working capital 137 42 12 213
Investments 742 836 905 870
Fixed assets 147 125 102 354
Intangibles — — — 194
1026 1003 1019 1636
Minority interests —• — — 69
Ordinary capital 709 719 719 876
Reserves 317 284 300 691
1026 1003 1019 1636
Net profit — — 793 867
Dividend — — 768 880
Dividend per share — — 5/3 5/3
High price 30/3 31/6 21/9 25/3
Low price 12/6 17/- 16/6 14/9
BARRETT BURSTON (AUSTRALIA) LTD
Maltster’s Growing Strength
npHE largest malting organisation in
A Australia, Barrett Burston (Aus-
tralia) Ltd, had another successful year
to April 30, 1963.
After providing £233,085 for tax
(£214,799 in 1962) and £99,776 for
depreciation, including £20,000 on build-
ings (£122,216 in 1962, including
£62,820 on buildings), the net profit
surged from £236,260 to £318,572.
Earning rate rose accordingly on
steady capital from 18.9 to 25.6 p.c., and
the dividend rate was lifted from 10 to
11 p.c.
In six years’ time the company will
celebrate the centenary of one of its
original companies, Samuel Burston and
Co. Pty. This company was amalgamated
with Barrett Brothers (Victoria) Pty in
1912, but did not “go public” until 1958.
In May of that year a public issue
qualified the group for listing in Mel-
bourne.
The group supplies malt to breweries
and food processers in all States except
South Australia and Tasmania, from five


malt houses in Melbourne and one in
Perth.
In the last two financial years exports
have substantially boosted earnings. In
1962-63 all malting units operated at full
capacity. However, directors do not ex-
pect export sales to be fully maintained
in the current term.
Special depreciation on buildings has
been made in the last two years, over and
above the normal building depreciation
charge.
The company has shown that it can
run a growing business without outside
financial assistance, and without seeking
extra capital from shareholders.
Retention of earnings will permit the
company to make a bonus share issue
one of these days.
The 10s. shares, which have ranged
in price from 245. to 275. 3d. in the first
half of this year, are currently bringing
the peak price of 275. 3d., to yield 4.0
p.c.
If the investor is anxious to participate
in the prosperity of breweries, he can do
so indirectly through Barrett Burston,
obtaining a better income return (and
sound prospects of capital gain, too)
than through the best brewery shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
April 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1216 1626 1250 1285 1507
Less current liabilities 954 1322 1065 1004 975
Working capital 262 304 185 281 532
Fixed assets 1120 1180 1395 1395 1321
Intangibles 16 — — — —
1398 1484 1580 1676 1853
Loan capital 16 24 22 7 4
Ordinary capital 1247 1247 1247 1247 ' 1247
Reserves 135 213 311 422 602
' 1398 1484 1580 1676 1853
Depreciation 46 41 50 122 100
Taxation 110 118 125 215 233
Net profit 186 194 198 236 318
Dividends 100 100 100 125 137
Surplus 86 94 98 111 181
Earning rate 15.0 15.5 15.8 18.9 25.6
Dividend rate 8 8 8 10 11
Dividend yield (a) 4.3 5.0 4.7 4.4
Price/earning
ratio (a) 12.3 10.3 10.9 12.2
High price (b) 19/4 19/9 19/- 17/2 25/6
Low price (b) 13/3 17/- 13/3 14/- 16/7
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
PERMEWAN WRIGHT LTD
75 p.c. Rise in Profit
A lthough informed buying so often
precedes publication of a good
result, this was not particularly evident
in the case of Permewan Wright Ltd,
general and produce merchant and sta-
tion supplier. Announcement of a 75
p.c. rise in profit from £156,013 for the
14 months to March 31, 1962, to
£273,481 for the latest year, took about
five days’ digestion before investors re-
appraised the stock.
The 20s. shares had been traded this
year within a range of 365. 6d. to 425.
to the end of June. They have since been
up-graded to 515., as much from the news
that the shares are being sub-divided into
ss. units, as from genuine appreciation
of the new improved earning rate of
19.1 p.c.
A hundred years ago John Permewan
started a carrying company. Today his
‘’empire” comprises 54 company stores
in Vic., NSW and SA, 97 self-service re-
tail groceries and 16 self-service whole-
sale groceries in NSW, and two food
manufacturing and processing factories
at Botany and Newcastle (NSW).
The most spectacular period in the
company's history was 1961-62 when
Permewan bought the NSW assets of
Grocery and General Merchants Ltd in
a twin move with Peters (Vic.) which
kept G. and G.’s Tasmanian assets.
W. J. Gorman Pty of Yarrawonga was
also acquired.
This achieved Permewan’s old goal of
a broader base and a more even earning
capacity. Long subject to the variations
in primary producers’ income, Permewan
by this move was able to reduce the
proportion of its country trade to 40 p.c.
In 1962 United Groceries Pty, a sub-
sidiary of G. J. Coles, with 15 Sydney
stores, was bought, and six modern self-
service grocery units were acquired from
Jans Brothers in Melbourne in April
this year. Mac's Self Service store in
North Albury was bought for cash and
shares late in 1962.
This tremendous expansion was financ-
ed by a doubling of ordinary capital in
196*2 from £700,000 to £1,413,000, a
private issue of £500,000 redeemable
preference shares late in 1962, and in-
creasing reliance on loan capital.
Sales this year increased from over
£17 million to £18 million, stocks rose
from £2,745,304 to £3,107,733, but
debtors fell from £1,711,850 to
£1,652,232 after greater provision for
bad and doubtful debts.
The current yield of 4.9 p.c. still has
considerable appeal to those interested
in food retailing. The company appears
to have outgrown its stodgy era, and
now has considerable earnings potential.
There will perhaps be no early price
appreciation above current level of
around 12s. 9d. for the 5s. units, unless
management decides to dispense a cen-
tenary bonus, but the shares appear
sound holding for the genuine investor.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31
January 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2382 2597 2745 4614 4927
Less current liabilities 1754 1904 1457 3114 2823
Wording capital 628 693 1288 1500 2104
Investments 1 1 1 16 15
Fixed Assets 1489 1589 1641 3015 3084
2118 2283 2930 4531 5203
Loan capital 270 340 960 1276 1354
Preference capital — — — — 500
Ordinary capital 700 700 700 1413 1424
Reserves 1148 1243 1270 1852 1925
2118 2283 2930 4541 5203
14 mths.
Turnover (millions) n/k 7.0+ 7\ 17+ 13
Depreciation 34 44 48 121 117
Taxation 34 50 82 112 164
Net profit 79 101 111 156 273
Net profit for ords. 79 101 111 156 271
Dividends 88 88 88 129 174
Surplus -9 13 23 27 97
Earning rate 11.3 14.4 15.9 15.2 19.1
Dividend rate 12£ 12£ 12i 12J 12|
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 6.2 6.9 6.5
Price/earnings
rgtio (a) 17.5 14.9 11.5 11.5
High' Price (b) 34/9 41/9 45/- 38/6 39/6
Low Price (b) 30/- 31/- 32/6 28/6 33/-
(a) End of August, month accounts now presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
MORTLOCK BROS LTD
Car Dealer
Revitalised
Acquisition of the Perth metro-
politan franchise for all Ford
vehicles has revitalised Mortlock Bros
Ltd. The company turned in a distinctly
better profit for the latest year to May
31 £27,222 compared with the
previous years’ £23,752 and £11,330
(1961-62 and 1960-61 respectively).
After four years of dividends at 10
p.c., directors this year were able to
add a bonus of 2+ p.c., payable in one
sum.
All Ford sales and service activities
are now in the one location in Adelaide
Terrace, apart from the Morley Park


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE.
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members 01 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVIITCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
£500,000 NEW ISSUE
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock
LONG-TERM INCOME
8% p a -
-10 years
7|% p a
7 years
73% "
5 years
6i% '•*■
2 years
SHORT-TERM INCOME
2 _
12 months
4|% -
6 months
rz /u r
3 months
Interest is payable every 3 months
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS: The M.L.C. Nominees
Limited.
DIRECTORS OF MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.: D. C. Cameron
(Chairman), M. D. Thompson (Managing), D. F. P.
Roth, J. T. Reid, H. W. Hattersley.
Applications accepted only on application form attached
to and referred to in a printed copy of the prospectus.
Obtain prospectus from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia, any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES: Vic. 118 Queen Street, Melbourne
Qld. 301 Ann Street, Brisbane
S.A. 329 King William Street, Adelaide
W.A. - - 115 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
A.C.T. 33 Ainslie Avenue, Canberra City
m
a aa
jaa
2 33
Head Office, Sydney
Company activities
throughout the
Commonwealth
include hire
purchase, leasing,
general finance.
222/63C
branch and the used car depot at Vic-
toria Park.
From Hay Street, the company con-
tinues to merchandise motorcycles and
scooters, outboard motors, power
mowers, stationary engines, cycles and
components, automotive parts and ac-
cessories and steel tubing. These make
significant contribution to group turn-
over.
Surplus properties from consolidation
have been and are being disposed of.
The 10s. shares at 17s. 6d. to yield
5.7 p.c. are better value now than at
any time in the last four years, but this
seems high enough for the time being.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
May 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 591 467 440 402 483
Less current liabilities 168 159 96 108 114
Working capital 423 308 344 294 369
Investments 7 12 7 7 7
Fixed assets 326 432 379 464 455
756 752 730 765 831
Loan capital — — — 33 83
Preference capital 49 49 49 49 49
Ordinary capital 180 180 180 180 180
Reserves 527 523 501 503 519
756 752 730 765 831
Depreciation 4 4 2 2 3
Taxation 13 9 5 16 21
Net profit 24 15 11 24 27
Net profit for ords. 21 12 8 21 24
Dividends 18 18 18 18 22
Surplus 3 -6 -10 3 2
Earning rate 11.5 6.7 4.5 11.4 13.3
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 12J
Dividend yield (a) 5.7 6.4 8.3 7.4
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 15.0 23.3 26.3 11.4
High Price (b) 20/3 17/6 17/- 14/- 15/-
Low Price (b) 15/6 12/3 11/6 9/6 13/-
(a) End of July, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


Canadian in
Comalco’s Camp
main point of interest in the
Alcan-CRA-Kaiser link-up to de-
velop the Weipa bauxite deposits and
process them to alumina in a £5O
million refinery at Gladstone is that
Alcan, which is now under some dif-
ficulty in importing metal from its huge
plants in Canada, has joined Comalco’s
camp at a time when its custom (as
fabricator through “Australuco” of
about three - fifths of Australia’s
aluminium consumption) will be all im-
portant to Comalco in its current battle
with Alcoa.
Of course, there is no knowing how
Alcan will dispense its favors between
these two giants, but on the face of it
the link-up would seem to give Comalco
the edge. Nor can one rule out the
possibility that Comalco, which has high
ambitions in the fabricating field itself,
will move closer to Alcan on that side,
thus putting Alcoa even further out of
court. This is not to say, of course,
that Alcan is likely to become a captive
customer of Comalco, though it would
be a highly pleasing prospect for the
latter.
With Alcoa’s Kwinana aluminium
plant scheduled to get rolling in three
months, Comalco has certainly taken its
time about finalising arrangements for
the Gladstone refinery. It is understood,
however, that with so much capital
needed for its vast expansion designs,
the CRA group has been anxious about
getting sufficient for this particular
project.
Alcan is the logical choice to bring
in a slice of it, not only because of its
position as Australia’s biggest fabricator,
but also because it offers a market for
alumina overseas which will enable
Comalco to build a bigger and therefore
a more economical producing refinery at
Gladstone.
It could be expected that in pitching
the size to 500,000 tons a year in the
first instance, with another 100,000 to be
added in a second stage, Comalco has
also not lost sight of the requirements
which will be needed by its projected
smelter in New Zealand. This smelter
is unlikely to be installed until 1968 at
the earliest.
From Alcan’s viewpoint, the new re-
finery will be able to refine bauxite from
its own deposits in Queensland which
now, only a few months before the
option on them expires, it intends to
develop. Indeed its decision to come in
on the refinery is directly linked with
that to develop the deposits as well as
wider considerations such as securing
raw material supplies on a broader basis
for its oversea plants.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
The Budget and the Market
lyiß Holt must have had a smirk on
his face when he read all those pre-
dictions about tax cuts in the Budget.
Next day there followed the usual
criticism. But with industry on a steady
keel, a refinement of the existing Budget
policy was all that was required this
year. As is rapidly being shown by the
many good company results, there has
been very positive growth in industry
over the last year. The almost balanced
Budget will ensure that this growth will
be maintained at a healthy rate. Heavy
taxation cuts would only have created
another ill-fated boom.
Tucked away in Mr Holt’s Budget
speech was the removal of sales tax on
flavoring essences. One company that
noted this section with interest was Keith
Harris, whose business is that of artificial
flavorings and perfumes. The record of
this company has been very sweet. After
successive bonus issues in 1959, 1960
and 1961, the company could still show
a 32 p.c. earning rate in 1962. Judging
by the interim report, it looks like a
record profit and an overdue bonus issue
coming up in 1963. Such being the case,
I bought 400 at 30s.
Some people might argue that 30s.
is too much to pay for any ss. industrial
share, even Keith Harris, but I don’t
think anyone can dispute that 7s. 9d. is
too much for Aeron. The strongest
advocate for it being underpriced must
be the person who paid 14s. 6d. for the
share earlier this year.
Aeron, a highly regarded air con-
ditioning firm whose main customer
group is the semi-government depart-
ments (hospitals and the like), falls into
that category of new companies bursting
with growth possibilities. A number of
them, including Avala and Protector
Industries, have made good. So would
Aeron this year except for the wet
weather holding up a number of their
air-conditioning contracts. Even if the
earning rate does fall heavily from the
23 p.c. shown last year, the company
should still be able to maintain the 10
p.c. dividend. The yield of almost 7 p.c.
should act as a cushion against a further
fall in the share.
If trading was affected by the wet
spell last year, it means that profits from
the uncompleted contracts will come into
the accounts this year. The company
seems very confident about its entry
some months ago into the production of
the American “Havens” water-cooling
tower, so this should also help current
profits.
It is an interesting technical situation
where an expected poor result has pushed
the share down to almost its lowest level.
On the other side of the fence are the
excellent prospects for this year. By
buying 1000 old shares I am backing
the prospects.
Suddenly the market has recognised
the prospects of another company,
General Industries. Temporarily stunned
by the rise to 14s. 6d., I sold out on
the Wednesday and Thursday at an
average price of 13s. 6d. Of the profit
of £162, £l3B was due to the week’s rise.
A smaller profit of £34 was made on
the sale of the 200 Philip Morris at 395.
Despite the 45 p.c. rise in profit, the
market showed little enthusiasm. The
shares made 40s. in Melbourne but that
was a struggle. Those anti-smoking cam-
paigns might not have much effect with
the smokers, but they’ve left their stain
on investors.
The week’s operations were:
SOLD
1000 General Industries, 13/6 .... £662
200 Philip Morris, 39/- £385
BOUGHT
1000 Aeron, 7/9 £399
400 Keith Harris 30/- £612
The net effect of these transactions is
a reduction in the debit to £137.
All the market has to do is to behave
as it has done in the last few months.
Profits taken since July 1 amount to
£B63—equal to just over £lOO per week.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 10/3
500 Courtaulds 14/1/63 16/1 21/-
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/9
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 12/3
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/6
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 25/-
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/8
1000 Waltons new 3/7/63 15/9 17/3 '
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 15/-j
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-
200 Assoc. Minerals 8/7/63 35/6 39/9
500 Mt. Isa 16/7/63 33/6 38/-
400 Ducon 24/7/63 31/6 31/-
1000 Plastic Coatings,
new 24/7/63 7/- 8/6
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 21/-
200 Hunter Douglas 7/8/63 33/- 36/-
1000 Vesta 8/8/63 3/3 3/9
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 7/9
400 Keith Harris 15/8/63 30/- 30/-
LOBSTER TAILS AGENCY
Corson & Company, of Philadelphia,
is interested in acting as representative
sales agent, covering the eastern coast
of the United States, for Australian
exporters of lobster tails and/ or shrimps.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
The Golden Egg
A Ray of Hope After Years of Turmoil
Mlith the approach of spring, Victoria
! is emerging from an egg shortage
|so acute that the cackle of a hen be-
came more exalted than the trill of a
nightingale.
The months-long scarcity got more
publicity than any since the ups and
downs of the free egg market before the
'war, and was repeated in all States ex-
cept Queensland, where small surpluses
were snapped up for interstate delivery
but did little to narrow the gap.
J In Victoria, where the shortage was
worst, newspapers and guardians of
freedom found it easy to blame the Vic-
torian Egg Board, whose record in the
past has often made it an example for
those whose fieriest sermons are inspired
by the evils of bureaucracy.
Certainly the sleekness of the board’s
Port Melbourne offices and their occu-
pants contrasts with the fibro-plaster
Iseediness of the premises of many pro-
ducers who pay its upkeep. And the aver-
age citizen’s view is that while boards
jand shortages may be alternative, they
( are never complementary. A board is
bad enough. A board and a shortage
is unthinkable.
Years of turmoil, however, have
moulded the board into more than a
match for critics who have not revised
their cliches. The board asserts that, far
from being caught up in any shortage,
its sales have actually been six per cent
‘higher than last year's.
; Referring to the previous fortnight's
figure, its August bulletin pointed out that
although sales for the two weeks were
6000 dozen less than in the corresponding
period of last year, the fall was in ships’
stores, manufacturers’ supplies and mis-
cellaneous purchases. Retail sales on the
ilocal market were up by 22,000 dozen.
What has caused the shortage, accord-
ing to the board, is a collapse in inter-
state trading, which is beyond its con-
trol. The guilt, it maintains, sits on the
shadowy operators who are sucking a
fortune out of eggs by importing them
from other States and engaging in sham
over-the-border deals sheltered by the
Australian Constitution. At least one
operator drives a Cadillac, and by far
the biggest distributor of eggs in Vic-
toria is an interstate dealer.
By escaping board charges and levies,
the interstate men make 1/- to 2/- a
dozen profit, compared with 1 id. a dozen
commission for wholesalers dealing legal-
ly through the board. The board claims
that it collects only 60 p.c. of the
levies due to it, and that those called
on to pay the industry's losses in export-
ing surplus eggs are up for more than
they should be.
The burden for the 60 p.c. of
“honest fools” has been especially heavy
in the last two years because of export
conditions described by the board as
“drastic”. In any year, a seasonal surplus
of 25 to 30 p.c. of production must
be accepted for the sake of maintain-
ing supplies in winter, and these exports
have been selling at 1/- a dozen. Yet re-
turns to producers have often been below
cost of production, and many poultry-
men, perhaps 2000, have left the industry.
The board claims that, in spite of the
dwindling of interstate operations, it
could still have coped with the demand
for eggs had not an extraordinary clamor
for them been whipped up by the Press
and consumer organisations. One who no-
ticed this was the wife of a board official
who helped cut sandwiches for school-
children's lunches. On the day after a
burst of scarcity-mongering by a news-
paper 20 out of 80 children requested egg
sandwiches in their lunches, although
for months past the daily demand had
remained fixed at about 11 or 12.
“If only we could transfer this psycho-
logy to spring and create a demand
then,” said a board official.
But the board has begun to take part
in an Australia-wide move aimed at
out-manoeuvring them all. It has become
a member of the new Council of Egg
Marketing Authorities, which comprises
members of all egg boards in Australia
and embraces producers, consumers,
governments and even such extremities
of the industry as the stevedores who
load egg pulp into ships.
The nucleus of the council’s hope for
reform is a plan to levy producers
throughout Australia not on eggs but
on birds. This will have no direct effect
on interstate trading, but will rope all
producers into paying the levy and re-
move the margins in which the traders
have been able to outbid the board. It
will lessen the burden on the 60 p.c.
who have so far been subsidising the
evasions of the other 40 p.c. and
helping to build the fortunes of the over-
the-border men.
The scheme needs no special legisla-
tion; only unanimity between its con-
stituents on major issues. Its biggest
crisis so far was surmounted when South
Australia, at first reluctant to throw away
its profitable Victorian market, was per-
suaded to come into line with the other
States.
At the moment, most producers in
Victoria are paying the equivalent of
10s. to 12s. a year for each bird through
the egg levy. When the Bird Tax, as
it is known, comes in, the figure will fall
to around 3s. or 4s. and the egg might
never seem so precious again.
Virus Disease
from America
|”|ne of the latest American exports to
reach Australia is a virus disease
that doesn’t kill cattle but makes them
snore and snuffle.
An epidemic of the trouble recently
occurred in north-east Victoria among
milking cows.
The disease is well-known among
cattle on feedlots in the United States,
where it is termed the IBR-IPV virus.
During the Australian outbreak, the
infection spread fast through the milkers
but did not reach dry cattle in other
paddocks. Most cattle showed symptoms
for about a month and then recovered
without treatment.
In almost every case the disease as-
sumed a mild form with little effect on
the animals’ appetite or production.
The main sign of it was snoring, ac-
companied by a thick discharge from the
nose, saliva drooling from the mouth
and in some cases a watery discharge
from the eyes.
No treatment is effective, but anti-
biotics may prevent secondary complica-
tions like bronco-pneumonia. A vaccine
has been produced in America, but
since it takes two weeks for immunity to
develop this would not be much use
unless an outbreak could be anticipated.
Veterinarians in several States are
watching in case the disease strikes again.


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill
Sydney
There will be several vacancies for teachers
of both senior and junior forms in 1964.
Subjects required will be:
English
Geography
French
Mathematics
Science
Ability to take part in extra-curricular
activities will be a recommendation.
Enquiries should be addressed to the Acting
Principal.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
TO: WILLIAM COOK, late of Wyong. TAKE
NOTICE that FANNY COOK has filed a
Petition for Divorce Number 3927 of 1962 on
the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macqdarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 23rd day of Sep-
tember, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition and Notice of Petition without charge
from M. ROSENBLUM & CO., Solicitors, 266
Church Street, Parramatta, New South Wales.
If you do not wish to defend but wish to
obtain copies of all documents filed herein
you should file a Notice of Address for Service
on or before such date. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
(DIVORCE) Number M C 105 of 1963
JOHN BRUCE, Petitioner
and
NORMA BRUCE, Respondent
TO: NORMA BRUCE, formerly of Hobart in
Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE that JOHN BRUCE
has filed a Divorce Petition against you on the
grounds of desertion and separation. Included
in the Petition is a claim for custody of one
child. AND TAKE NOTICE that if you intend
to defend the Petition you must file an
Answer within 28 days of the publication of
this notice at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street, Hobart,
from which address further information can
be obtained otherwise the Court may hear
and determine the proceedings in your
absence. DATED this 24th day of July, 1963.
C. BRETTINGHAM-MOORE, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT HOLDEN AT
COOTAMUNDRA
No. of Plaint 106 of 1963.
Between
THE COUNCIL OF THE MUNICIPALITY OF
COOTAMUNDRA, Plaintiff, and RAYMOND
XAVIER GREGORY McGIRR, Defendant.
TO THE ABOVENAMED DEFENDANT RAY-
MOND XAVIER GREGORY McGIRR. TAKE
NOTICE that a plaint has been entered and
a summons issued against you in this Court
by the Council of the Municipality of Coota-
mundra for the sum of One thousand two
hundred and thirty seven pounds fourteen
shillings and six pence (£1.237.14.6) for rates
and charges under the Local Government Act
1919 AND an order has been made that publi-
cation of this notice of the entry of such
plaint in “The Sydney Morning Herald” the
“Daily Mirror” the “Bulletin” and “The
Cootamundra Daily Herald” and the posting
of a copy of this notice to you care of
Stephen Murphy at the Tattersalls Hotel,
Parker Street, Cootamundra, shall be deemed
service of the summons upon you.
The summons will be heard at the Court
House Cootamundra on the twenty-ninth day
of October One thousand nine hundred and
sixty three at ten o’clock in the forenoon
on which day you are required to appear
and if you do not appear either in person
or by your solicitor at the time and place
abovementioned such order will be made and
proceedings taken as the Judge may deem
just and expedient. DATED this Ninth day
of August. 1963. A. J. AUSTIN, Registrar.
C. A. VAUGHAN & HAINS, Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, 248 Parker Street, Cootamundra.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: -GORDON GRANT PIERSE, late Of 104
Burraneer Bay Road, Cronulla, in the State
of New South Wales. TAKE NOTICE that
ADELE ROSALIE PIERSE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2184 of 1963 on the ground
of desertion notwithstanding the facts and
circumstances set out in the Discretion State-
ment filed. If you wish to defend this suit
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., on or before 23rd September,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from Messrs. A. J. F. ROFE &
N. A. MOFFITT, Solicitors, 79-81 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Outstanding Oat Variety
Western Australian oat variety,
Avon, now being increasingly grown
in Victoria, is proving superior to other
varieties both for grazing and for grain
yield.
Avon is a mid-season variety and,
though not as early in growth as Alpha
or Kent, provides more grazing because
it stays longer in the grassy stage. If
not over-grazed, it recovers well and
gives a better yield than existing standard
varieties.
Maturing a little later than Orient, but
earlier than Algerian or Algeribee, Avon
is short-strawed, stands and holds its
grain well, reducing harvest loss. On
some soils, however, Avon may ripen too
quickly, and its straw, brittle when dry,
may lodge or shatter low down.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 759
ACROSS
I—Mother takes an Abyssinian vizier to feature the
tennis players’ love liqueur. (10)
s,—Tolerate Teddy. (4)
They go on foot wallops. (5)
10—Drill instruction privilege given to some variety
qct. (5, 4)
LL-—Confectionery report going against the grain. (7)
IJL—AII our kind punting occasions. (5)
15—Backing an Australian P.M.’s influential Asians. (6)
16—A personage of the Holy
Lands referring to a great
Italian astronomer. (8)
18 — A Cromwellian press team.
(8)
19— One entrances semi - precious
stones. (6)
21— Misbehavior by an Ottoman
designer of his country’s most
beautiful mosques. (5)
22 Spread Electra is recon-
structed. (7)
24 Access to ore makes this fan
me. (9)
25 I sail with the ancient Roman
priesthood of Mars. (5)
26 Cork kitchenware is back. (4)
27 Lake Patrick turned or 50
appearing in early morning
scouting. (4, 6)
DOWN
1 — Maid-in-waiting is being un-
wise with outlays. (11)
2 Serb pie-cook altered his
sources of instruction. (6, 5)
3 Renting a greeting to Wag-
ner’s tetralogy. (6)
4 I earning enough for an
African. (8)
6 Area in a Syrian city. (4)
7 Bare legs are beds put up
without majesty. (12)
9 —Appear to have much to do!
(4, 8)
13— Curate claps, (anagram) (11)
14— Monsieur holding in one
Jolson of cabinet officers.
(ID
17—Ant-eaters remark from dis-
graced Adam and Eve. (8)
20—Test an exploded island just
south of Manhattan. (6)
23—Herb makes a lot of money.
(4)
Solution to Crossword No. 758


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• ...*•*■ *mm
• • • • ABOUT TANNER. BOADICEA. DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
. ■
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.O., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LON’DON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick J whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for months
subscription to THE BULLETIN.


Ui
--v*
su-ssf
3&
f
*
filter
f2r
QA
i
A
8 OCT 1953 )r\
on satisfaction
Rich blended tobaccos toasted to bring full, satisfying American
flavor. That’s Princeton! So, after action, get satisfaction from Princeton
filter—the honest-to-goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
the only filter cigarette with
real American toasted flavor
MADE FOR THE RIGGIO TOBACCO CORPORATION OF NEW YORK LTD.
