

The Bulletin
JUNE 1, 1963
-'Zealand 2/-, Mai ays i a
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -WBf|lBBfc
4 - PAGE
COLOR


-
■■
glfgjgj|jjg
mmmm
■
m
■ ■ ■
m ■ ■
Be sg''' Ir
Mi
:' ' | ' ■ '
(IMf
illliaa
I ::
*" . A
i
•*:; * i
f.i.* -
ii
■B
v. : -\..-.
* -
- 4 H
MiKiiwa^^apilMilifaa
J Z 3*[
,'■ ?
: ■ ■:
mm
msm
mam:
-fca" ‘xjuagfe fMrtferiwi
\
. sas s
■■-■
‘ ;;
V. ; :-v>. . . .■ ■: : ' ' -
jP**, „‘jr ■• -<■
*
B
MMBPBE *
*
? a
: >«..•’
** M
i
: -a
■r
*1
r .
3 >?"
41
i.r**.
a... -a
■
■Ky 1
>
m
m
m
M
Sllli
~
A
smam
I *
Waikiki Beach
jjU
m
g*
«-■
w
//t
FILTER kings
3/3 /or twenty
SMOOTH FLAVOUR • 555
It’s time for you to enjoy the smooth flavour of Three Fives.
No expense is spared in making them from rare, smooth-
flavoured tobaccos. If you want smooth, rich, satisfying
flavour from a filter cigarette—smoke Three Fives. Discover
them yourself—smooth flavour—Three Fives.
The best cigarette in the world . . . preferred around the world


National Notebook
Stainless-Steel-Sink Drama
HHo get an afternoon-paper poster
during the week of the Bogle-
Chandler inquest in Sydney was some-
thing of an achievement, and the
Elizabethan Theatre Trust was, in its
restrained way, delighted with the
“Mirror”, which said, succinctly, “It-
stinks.” The reference was to Mr Pat-
rick White’s “The Season at Sarsa-
parilla.” Not that that is the opinion of
the Trust, which has undertaken an eight-
weeks’ season in association With J. C.
Williamson’s, but they think it may be
the means of getting the play across to
the sort of people to whom it may mean
a lot.
The play’s producer, Mr John Tasker,
doesn’t believe that the sort of people to
whom Mr White’s “charade of suburbia”
will mean a great deal were there on
the first night. “It was a
fur-wrap and stuffed-shirt
audience,” he said, “and
I felt it was strongly
alienated from the play.
This may not be because
adultery - in - the - kitchen
suburbia is so remote
from these people. It may be because it
is uncomfortably close.”
Mr Tasker said that the “Mirror”
article which claimed that the play
offered “everything but the kitchen-
sink” had missed the point. “There are
actually two kitchen-sinks both stain-
less steel,” he said. “What could better
represent Australian suburban life?”
Mr Tasker is so hopeful that the play
will get across to the people of Sydney
—“whether they like it or not” that he
is prepared to postpone an overseas trip
to sit out the Sydney season. He had
planned to go away to see theatre and
also friends from his previous eight years
in Europe. There was also the vague
hope that “The Season” might be pro-
duced in London and that he would do it
there. “Although there is a man in
London called Frith Banbury, who has
the big reputation as a producer of Aus-
tralian plays,” he said. “His reputation
is based on the fact that he had an Aus-
tralian grandmother, so I don’t know if
I could compete with that.”
“The Mercury” Rises
Tt’s all very exciting. First in Tasmania’s
late autumn there is the orgy of
mutton birds, fresh, frozen and
salted. Then before the feathers have
settled the State is plunged into the
scallop season.
But whereas the mutton birds are
caught on Bass Strait islands, the scallop
fleet is mostly based on Hobart. A flutter
of excitement stirs the chill air, and the
sea wind blowing up the Derwent car-
ries a hint of the scallop beds in D’Entre-
casteaux Channel. In “The Mercury”
office, Hobart, the printers bring out the
fonts of big type, the reporters speculate
on the season’s prospects, and files yield
their carefully horded selection of scal-
lop recipes.
Yes, it’s all terribly exciting. “Scallop
Season Opens Tonight,” shrilled Page 1
of “The Mercury” of April 30. Next
morning, out for the first time with a
colored masthead to celebrate the occas-
ion, “The Mercury” got its news into
perspective: “Scallops May Be 4s. 6d. lb.”
it announced on the top of the front
page. Next day the scare Page 1 main
story brought the awful news, “Few
Bags of Scallops on First Day.”
On May 3 the tasty
shellfish dropped down the
front page: “Poor Quality
Scallops, But More of
Them.” Next day, the
second story on Page 1
was more reassuring:
“Scallop Demand May Be
Satisfied Today,” and by May 6, with
“Demand Met,” scallops had been
pushed on to Page 2 by the vital news
from Singapore that “Tasmanian Beer
May Be Sold in SE Asia.”
Next day, a huge tuna took the prize,
and then for a couple of days attention
was focused on a couple of Japanese tuna
boats which had come in from hitherto
unknown fish pastures far to the south of
Tasmania. Then “the mutilator” took
over, and it wasn’t until May 18 (“Scal-
lops Could Be Scarce,” on Page 3) that
Tasmania was brought up to date with
the news.
Last Tuesday things were back to
normal with a rousing Page 1 main
story: “Scallop Catch Crisis Closed
Beds Suggested as Remedy.” But by
Wednesday the emphasis had shifted a
little. “Cray Glut Forecast,” said the
Page 1 story, and the dire “Beds May
Be Closed” was relegated to Page 3.
In Launceston they’re more phleg-
matic. The city is, after all, the mother-
town of Melbourne! But “The Examiner”
did not escape the excitement, and fol-
lowed the day-to-day events rather briefly
if more loftily. “It’s a pity,” wrote “The
Examiner” columnist, “that they can’t
train scallops to fatten up on unexport-
able apples. This could solve the two
major worries of the South.’ "The Ex-
aminer” had obviously had enough.
Page
SIR HERBERT READ
The aioful mess of everything . . .
•
Fate v. Donald Campbell 6
Noel Coward: Very Like his Imper-
sonators 12
The Policeman’s Lot Unhappy
since 1829 15
“The Smile of the Monk” Short
Story 19
Manila —the Glittering, Selfish City 22
The Snow Country 29
“The Season at Sarsaparilla”
Review 32
50 Years of the “New Statesman” 36
Kenneth Slessor, 20 Years After .. 37
Britain Goes Home Grown 40
A New Breed of Management 41
Complexities of Import Saving ... 44
•
>
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO G
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 11
OUT AND ABOUT 12
OVERSEAS 22
LETTERS 27
REVIEWS 32
FEIFFER 35
RED PAGE 3G
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS .... 41
CROSSWORD 58
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
VOl. 85
No. 4346


Useful Arts
Council for Adult Education in
■*- Melbourne lists these recent ad-
ditions to its library under the heading
“Useful Arts”: “The Week In Your Gar-
den,” by P. J. Hurley; “The Gay Pro-
vider,” by Alan Marshall; and “What A
Girl Should Know About Sex,” by
Gottlieb Bernhardt.
Fine Screen
T>rofessor Herbert Passin’s account
of China’s use of cultural exchange
missions to try and “win friends and
influence people” in Australia, which we
published in our last issue, took the story
up to the end of 1960. Peking’s very
latest gambit is a venture into what might
be called “guided tourism.” The Aus-
tralia-China Society has announced that
a tourist group of 18 will visit China
later this year, spending 20 days there
and five in Hong Kong. Inclusive of re-
turn air fares, train travel within China
and first-class hotel accommodation, the
trip will cost <£4so from Sydney. Cities
to be visited are Canton, Hangchow,
Shanghai, Nanking, Peking (four days)
and Wuhan.
However, “members of the group
must travel as a group from Australia
and back and while in China. Further-
more, anyone wishing to join must have
been a member of the Australia-China
Society for six months prior to the date
of travel.” While the last condition may
restrict the number of potential tourists,
it should make the task of screening
them a lot easier.
Magic Carpet
llThile Major John Cooper was making
* * his 22 orbits of the earth a little
event in Victoria was almost entirely
overlooked. Brintons Pty Ltd, of Gee-
long, produced an Axminster carpet to
celebrate the occasion. It will be pro-
duced in three colors —olive-green, char-
coal-grey and red. According to the
company statement: “It was designed by
Englishman Mr Ken Hall, head designer,
and depicts the control panel at tracing
stations recording the path of the first
American astronaut John Glenn’s space
capsule over Australasia. Land masses
are picked out in black, on an ordinary
grid background. A series of circles
represents the space capsule in orbit,
and small green spots woven into the
background represent the lights of
Perth.”
Brintons celebrated by showing a
sample of the carpet to members of the
57th Weather Reconnaisance Squadron
of the USAF at Avalon. The comments
of the CO, Lt-Colonel T. A. Aldrich,
sounded respectfully tactful: “It is most
significant that the extraordinary design
of the carpet is symbolic of America’s
space achievements.”
Remarkable
"YToel Coward, about whom our J. C.
Kaye writes on page 12, is remark-
able as an entertainer and as a survivor.
However, one of the small things about
him is that, along with the Queen, who’s
listed under Buckingham Palace, he is
one of the few well-known people in
London who is in the phone book. One
of the easiest ways there to confirm that
you are a celebrity is to be “ex-directory”.
This means you have managed to per-
suade the Post Office that you are so
well-known that your life will be made
miserable by phone-calls from admirers
if your number is listed.
Also, Coward, athough he gives Press
interviews and takes part in charity per-
formances, in other circumstances will
give nothing for nothing. He insists that
as a professional writer he is entitled to
be paid, even for an opinion, and, as an
entertainer, he is entitled to be paid. At
this stage it would be hard to convince
him with the perennial excuse offered to
writers and entertainers by those who
want their services for nothing—that it
will be “good publicity”.
Ballaarat Hangs Its Head
Tf there’s one thing that Ballaarat is
A keen on (apart from having its name
spelt correctly) it’s culture. While other
Victorian towns skite about their duck-
shooting, blackfish, mineral water,
oranges, irrigation ditches, water-towers,
wheat silos and professional foot-races,
Ballaarat sells on the Arts. The motto
on the city’s coat-of-arms lays down the
Ballaarat priorities: “Culture, Beauty,
Industry.”
The place is simply stuffed with
culture. There’s the Old Curiosity Shop
and all that mosaic work in Shell House;
"Colwell's right.
"The PMG should resign over this
SP business.


there’s Adam Lindsay Gordon’s cottage
and the annual South Street Music and
Elocution Competitions which have been
going since 1891. This eisteddfod lasts
seven weeks and according to the
Greater Ballaarat Association brochure
is “one of the longest competitions in the
world.” The gardens are full of marble
busts of poets, to say nothing of Ben-
zoni’s walloping great group, “Flight
from Pompeii.” There’s the Fine Art
Gallery, the Crouch Prize and the
Historical Museum. In Sturt Street,
pensive-eyed poets drift past in shoals,
while from the garrets above come the
raptures of a dozen Marjorie Law-
rences practising their scales.
Last week Ballaarat suffered the
cruellest blow to its pride since its
brewery was taken over by Carlton and
United: the ABC announced there would
be no more symphony concerts in the
city since it was about 100 short of the
necessary 400 subscribers for the current
season. Can Ballaarat survive the shame
of it? Or will it, resilient as always,
remake its image around new symbols
the instant mashed potato factory, for
example?
This Week’s Cover
npHis week’s cover by Sydney artist
A Middy (who’s a sailing man) is his
lighthearted idea of a really abominable
snowman in pursuit of a charming snow-
woman. A more comprehensive idea
of Australia’s main snowfields is given
in our color portfolio, pictures for which
came from the Kosciusko State Park
Trust and Mr Douglass Baglin.
Tanner
"Ha's stopped co-operating
with us."
PLAIN ENGLISH
AN UNFINISHED STORY
'T'HE able representations of Mr McEwen on behalf of Australia at
A the GATT Geneva conference have produced a euphoria of relief
in this country which has blinded people to the dangers that still
remain. Despite the assurances offered Mr McEwen it is obvious
that the original Washington proposition of a 50 per cent across-
the-board cut in tariffs still remains. Any variations of that principle
amount to linear reductions and nothing more. While it may be true
that certain basic agricultural products in Australia will receive pro-
tection under proposed tariff reductions, it is equally true that neither
the US nor Britain will depart from the original principle of the GATT
discussions. It did not take Britain long, for example, to announce
proposals to control imports of cereal and meat, nor for France to
announce opposition to any scheme which would upset the Common
Market agricultural programme. If it is true that the underdeveloped
nations need markets for their agricultural products, to solve balance
of payments problems, it is equally true of the highly industrialised
nations in respect of their products. It is not commonly recognised
that the US now has a serious balance of payments problem which
can only be solved by exports, and that, like Britain, in order to en-
courage exports the US has introduced new depreciation or investment
allowances to encourage capital investment in new plant. Therefore,
whatever the trading concessions made by the leading industrialised
nations they will certainly not be allowed to increase their balance
of payments problems Britain, for example, simply cannot afford a
50 per cent slash in tariffs on the many items which could undermine
local manufacturing industries, so that across-the-board tariff slashes
have to be hedged with inbuilt safety controls.
DESPITE the phrase - making of Geneva, common sense forces the
conclusion that no nation, big or small, developed or underdeveloped,
can run the risk of ruining its economy by permitting a flood of
outside goods to enter the country. If tariffs are slashed it is fairly
certain that, failing the introduction of strict quotas, the economic and
financial structures of many countries would be literally turned upside
down. Agricultural nations not least this one have found that
world surpluses, barter deals, and even certain types of foreign aid
grants hurt their overseas markets where tariffs on many of these
primary produce items are already fairly low.
If countries in this category cut tariffs on manufactured goods
thev will face a flood of imports for which they can only pay by
vastly increasing their own exports of agricultural items to highly
competitive, low tariff markets. In short, primary produce nations,
which agree to slash tariffs on industrial imports, face a flood of
manufactured goods for which they cannot pay. The final conclusion
to be drawn from the GATT conference doesn’t offer that much
comfort, but it remains a hard fact in international trade nevertheless
trade between nations can be freer only if the individual economies
can stand it. Currently the French and British insistence that they
must control agricultural imports seems to demonstrate this. In any
case the GATT conference is only part of a series of negotiations
which are bound to become tougher.


THIS AUSTRALIA
BLUEBIRD
Fate v. Donald Campbell
The fantastic story of the Lake Eyre attempt
FROM KEVIN PERKINS IN LAKE EYRE
DONALD CAMPBELL
The Rains Came
“Gentlemen, I feel we have reached the end of a chapter, but not the end of the
book . . . a calamity has occurred with our goal in sight . . . we would have liked to
have achieved our goal but fate has decreed otherwise . . . we have been defeated by
circumstances entirely beyond the control of any of us mortals . . .”
Co said British speed driver Donald
Campbell in an emotional speech in
a crowded tent at Muloorina Station,
near Lake Eyre in South Australia, when
officially calling off his attempt on the
world land speed record of 394.196
mph. The speech rang down the curtain
on Campbell’s second abortive attempt
on the record since British companies
seven years ago began supporting a pro-
ject to build the new turbo-gas Bluebird
car.
For a venture which had tremendous
publicity throughout the world, the Blue-
bird project at Lake Eyre was surely one
of the strangest publicity setups for a
long time. Reporters covering for every
paper in Australia, British motor maga-
zines, and world news agencies found
themselves in a position where they were
virtually treated like naughty boys.
A set of camp rules were drawn up
and circulated for life at Muloorina. One
of these rules stated that there should be
no inordinate noise after 10.30. (It soon
went by the board for everybody con-
cerned.) David Wynne-Morgan told
Pressmen that anybody who seriously
breached the rules would be “expelled.”
Quite a few wondered if they might also
be caned.
Passes were issued to all those con-
nected with the project and the color
blue, red or yellow was written in ball-
point to denote a different category.
Later, however, proper color passes re-
placed these. Areas at the station and the
lake were ruled out of bounds except
to official members of the team. Donald
Campbell and David Wynne-Morgan
made it clear they were the only ones to
talk to the Press, and others in the team
were instructed not to talk or, if they
did, to be careful what they said. Passes
had to be shown to gain entry to the lake.
On one occasion Campbell went round
the station telling his team not to talk to
reporters after one had perhaps spoken
a little too frankly. Each night at 8
o’clock Donald and his project controller
held a conference and gave replies to
questions but if you were quick enough
they were accessible at some other times.
Reporters seeking additional information
often had to scout around after midnight
or before 7 a.m. to avoid “interruptions.”
One intriguing aspect of the attempt
was that the chief engineer who built
Bluebird appeared and examined the car
at Muloorina before it was started. He
pronounced the car to be in the same
condition as when it left England. Al-
though a key figure at the Utah attempt,
the expert is known not to get on well
with Campbell and was not seen again
at Lake Eyre. He stayed in Adelaide in
an advisory capacity, keeping in touch
by a chancy radio telephone with a
member of a team.
/Campbell, now 42, but having the fresh
complexion and clear blue eyes of
a much younger man, proved to be an
enigmatic figure at Lake Eyre. Known to
his team as The Skipper, he was some-
times charming and gracious, sometimes
fiery and unapproachable. His moods and
decisions were unpredictable to Press-
men and most of his team but
when he had words with anybody he
was quick to be on the most friendly
terms again.
Campbell’s project controller, David
Wynne-Morgan, a former Fleet Street
journalist and now a public relations
man, was fastidious in telling Pressmen
that Donald was always edgy first thing
in the morning. Reporters kept this in
mind, but often he was at his most,
charming when they were expecting a
little skirmish.
He smokes only cigars and drinks very
little. He explained that he used to enjoy
Scotch but that the accident at Utah al-
most destroyed his taste for alcohol.
Usually he sips a light shandy (one-third
beer), and at night has a brandy or vodka.
Nevertheless he lives on the grand scale
holidaying in Majorca with his Bel-
gian wife, Tonia, resting in a mansion
GOD'S LITTLE ACRE
80 Years Ago: June 2, 1883
Come day under fair judges and
a just libel law there will be
such an exposure of the petty tricks
and swindles of some undertakers in
Sydney as will cause an alteration.
Dared we publish what we know to
be facts, we could give curious tales
of the way in which certain funeral
crows render the closing scene even
more painful than it naturally is by
their heartless extortions in the hour
of weakness and pain. Recently, an
infant died; the money, which it was
specially agreed should cover all
expenses, was paid when the coffin
was delivered; yet next day a paltry
demand for the price of the assistant’s
ticket to the cemetery was made.
That this excess was paid is a small
matter; but more important the fact
that, on arrival at the graveyard, no
assistant appeared, and the only
mourner had to carry the tiny coffin
on his shoulder and look for the spot
in God's Acre where he might deposit
it. Then he had to listen to an
irritable tale from an official about
the amount the undertaker already
owed for ground; while even a
minister of religion expressed surprise
that he should be confiding enough
“to pay these people before their work
is done; for they are always ready
to take advantage of you.”


in Surrey, driving a Bentley, and flying
a ’plane.
One complication was that Campbell
is notoriously superstitious about the color
green. “I’m not superstitious,” he once
said, “but if I drive a green car I’m sure
to have an accident.” One reporter at
Muloorina wondered why Campbell
would not take him to the lake in his
plane one day after it was generally ac-
cepted that he would go. Then he real-
ised he was dressed in green shirt, trou-
sers and jumper. He sent home for more
clothes. When Campbell first came to the
lake in 1961 he refused to fly from
Adelaide in a charter plane because it
was green. He also refused to sleep in
one particular room when first coming
to Muloorina because it was painted
green.
He is also superstitious about the
figure 13. He told me one night he had
never liked the figure since early in the
war when 13 of them started in the
RAF in one section and only three sur-
vived (Campbell was invalided out
quickly because he suffered rheumatic
fever as a boy). “When I came to Ade-
laide first the home picked out for me
was number 13,” he said. “The car ar-
rived here on the 13th.” He went on:
“I did not like the look of this area the
first day I flew in because it was omin-
ously dark and the cloud level was down
to 200 feet. I still haven’t quite thrown
off the feeling.” Then, the enigma of
the man showed out: “But you cannot
live on such feelings. You must act on
training and experience.”
fjpRiAL runs began on the lake on May 1
A with a low-speed run. Rock-hard salt
islands on the graded course gave some
trouble and the time taken to grind these
off level delayed some runs. A grader
went through the salt on the first course,
which could then be used only for low-
speed running (not much more than
100 mph).
The tyre-gripping qualities of the salt
varied from day to day because of the
changing weather pattern and before each
run a fast saloon car and a small racing
car roared up and down the course
testing adhesion. When the course was
too wet to run on (heavy rain caused
short delays on four occasions), routine
checking took place on the car.
At first the team of technicians and
experts familiar with Bluebird’s work-
ings were greatly enthusiastic as they
swarmed over the car during, in between,
and after runs on the salt. But delays
made them disgruntled and some said
openly to Pressmen that they thought
time was being wasted.
For instance, on one occasion after
Campbell ran to more than 200 mph, he
appeared confident and enthusiastic.
David Wynne-Morgan told reporters:
“Donald has the bit between his teeth.
We will get the record now. There will
probably be four runs tomorrow.”
That night, Thursday, May 9, a state-
ment under Donald Campbell’s name said
runs would be held the following day,
probably starting at 11 am. Bluebird
did not run the following day, even
though weather conditions seemed per-
feet. At 4.45 pm on the Friday Camp-
bell approached reporters and said:
“We’ve run out of light, chaps.” Later
he explained that on medical advice he
had had installed an extra air bottle to
augment his breathing system, to save
time on the turnaround at the end of
the course.
Many people at Lake Eyre felt it
would have been more valuable for the
British speed ace, in view of the ap-
proaching floods, to have spent the time
running the car. The air bottle, they
said, could have been fitted some other
time. Against this was the feeling that
here was a man with the personality of
an impressario, who would not be
pushed around while taking his life in his
hands and if he wanted the car checked
or fiddled with, either through psycholo-
gical or technical reasons, then it must
be done.
Campbell repeatedly said he knew the
dangers “in this business,” and he did
not intend taking unnecessary risks. “I
wiU not ]eave here till 1 have the record
or . doods f° ice me out, he often
said. The floods won.
Before the floods entered Lake Eyre,
several representatives of British com-
panies in the Blubird team were saying
that if the record were not achieved this
time, many impatient British supporters
would withdraw. However, after the
floods hit, these same people said they
would now reconsider their intentions,
About 80 companies were behind the
project at first, but the number has
dropped to 70. One tyre company has
spent almost £250,000.
The defeat was a costly one both to
the Australian taxpayers (through road-
building, personnel and equipment) and
the project. Estimated costs to the pro-
ject while at Lake Eyre were £6OO a
day, although actual costs fell short of
this because of the large number of vol-
untary British labor and local equipment
provided without charge. A deficit is
extremely unlikely because about
£75,000 were collected from companies,
largely Australian, in promotion and ad-
vertising.
THE ALP
Clyde Cameron’s Revenge
No one over 70 unless they are lefl-wingers
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
NORMAN MAKIN
Made a Mistake
rr r prprp nc-p
Mq)) L uil
the case of
IVlr N ° r 111 a n
M a k i n, Federal
Labor representative for Bonython
in South Australia. At 74, he sat last
week through the debate on the Exmouth
Gulf. He followed the speeches with
greater alertness than men of half his
age, throwing in an occasional shrewd
interjection to remind the house oblique
of the wartime days when with John
Curtin, Ben Chifley, Jack Beasley and
Herbert Evatt, he was one of Labor’s
“Bi« Five” working in close co-opera-
tion with the Americans in a way which
his present Leader, Mr Calwell, was
insisting passionately was still possible
between America and the present-day
Labor Party. It was a very shrewd par-
liamentary performance and was backed
by the immense respect in which Makin
is held by all sections of the Parliament.
But Makin, a representative of the
old sc hool of Labor the Curtin and
the chifley school is marked down
for liquidation along with his fellow
South Austra i ian A]bert Thompson, also
over 70 and as active as Makin.
Both me " made a mistake,
Both Labor oldtimers, they believe that
the defence of Australia is a part of the
Labor credo. When the issue on the
proposed US radio communications
centre at Exmouth first started to “hot
up” they supported Mr Calwell in ad-
vocating establishment of the base in
opposition to Left-winger Mr Clyde
Cameron, Federal MHR for Hindmarsh
and a very prominent figure in the ALP
machine in South Australia. Mr Clyde
Cameron sought to swing the South Aus-


tralian ALP Executive to opposition to
the Radio Communications Centre.
When he was overruled at the Executive
meeting Mr Cameron lid not turn up
at the Council meeting which debated
the Executive recommendation that
South Australia support establishment
of the Base at the forthcoming Federal
Conference.
But Mr Makin turned up at the Coun-
cil meeting. A Supply Minister in the
Curtin Government, a former speaker
of the House of Representatives, Austra-
lian Ambassador in Washington, and
with a long history of adherence to Labor
causes, Makin used his still formidable
influence in support of the proposition
that South Australia should vote against
the Left wing at the ALP Federal Con-
ference and support establishment of the
Base.
Thompson, who is very active within
the Parliamentary Labor Party and is
Secretary and a major force within the
Party’s Social Services Committee, took
the same line as Makin, and showed it
by voting with Mr Calwell and the
majority at the Caucus meeting last week
against the Leftwing move for straight-
out, unqualified opposition to the Com-
munications Centre.
A frontal attack upon these two whom
the Leftwing would prefer to replace with
more pliant parliamentarians, would
probably fail. The two men have behind
them a long record of Labor service
which would command the support
of the rank and file which is usually
reluctant to abandon the oldtime Labor
tradition that honorable, long and con-
tinuing valuable service should be recog-
nised.
So an indirect attack was planned.
Instead of getting rid of Makin and
Thompson by “sacking” them, the Left-
wingers decided to be more subtle about
it.
The June Conference in South Austra-
lia is to discuss a recommendation that
no politician over 70 is to be eligible
for an ALP pre-selection. The move
though indirect is a bit too obvious. The
only two Labor House of Representatives
members from South Australia over 70
are Makin and Thompson, who will not
accept Clyde Cameron’s leadership and
guidance. By a quite striking coincidence
the recommendation that ALP pre-selec-
tion be denied to individuals over 70
emanates from a committee in Mr
Cameron’s electorate of Hindmarsh.
Mr Cameron’s supporters in Hind-
marsh may possibly get away with the
move and Mr Cameron may in the next
Parliament find himself able to count on
support for his Leftwing views from two
individuals who will uncritically follow
his lead.
RADIO
Why Ratings Are Wrong
The Coming Reforms
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
W. H. STEPHENSON
“The methodology
is wrong”
heard in one of the com-
mittee rooms of Capitol Hill, Wash-
ington DC, has already begun to touch
off chain reactions in the executive
suites of Australia’s TV and radio sta-
tions. The evidence called radically into
question the methods of the radio and
TV ratings services, which claim to give
accurate estimates of how many people
and what proportion of the population
listened to or viewed any programme.
For one senior radio executive, Mr
W. H. Stephenson, general manager of
Sydney’s 2SM, recently returned from
the Annual Convention of the National
Association of Broadcasters at Chicago,
the lesson of the American inquiry is
clear: “The methodology of radio rat-
ings is wrong.” Mr Stephenson sees the
Australian radio industry as ultimately
changing along the new American lines.
According to him radio ratings ser-
vices fared worse at the congressional
inquiry than did the TV ratings, which
have received most of the cabled pub-
licity. One prominent service disclosed at
the inquiry that it dealt with the problem
of keeping a check on listening figures
for car radios by the simple expedient
of adding a blanket 25 per cent to all
ratings figures obtained from homes!
This example alone provides a dramatic
example of just what is wrong with the
ratings systems.
“They were not measuring people but
homes,” according to Mr Stephenson.
Where he was once a critic of the size
of the sample, Mr Stephenson, now con-
vinced by the statisticians, has moved on
to a general attack. One major Australian
service uses the aided-recall personal in-
terview, but the interviewers are often
not trained; only one person in the
household is interviewed; it is generally
done during the day when only the
woman is at home, and it makes no real
provision for the car and portable radio
listening rate.
The diary system of the other major
Australian organisation is also called into
question by Mr Stephenson. He bases
his scepticism on the diarists’ careless-
ness in keeping their diaries as re-
vealed during the American inquiry.
The diary also is directed towards one
radio, where there are normally several
in the home, and it makes no adequate
provision for outside listening.
The answer to the radio industry’s
complaints, according to Mr Stephenson,
lies in more “research in depth.” Pres-
sed as to how this can be achieved prac-
tically, he quotes changes in ratings sys-
tems in the United States. There the
President of Pulse Incorporated, Dr Ros-
low, told the Congressional Inquiry that
sample sizes are to be reported in de-
tail, control over interviewers is to be
strengthened, and all interviews are to be
performed after 6 p.m. Dr Roslow was
optimistic enough to think that his
changes would end “hearsay reports.”
Just what advertising agencies would
think of that may be open to question.
Mr Stephenson grants the problem of
increased costs but claims that from the
point of view of the advertising men the
increased opportunity to sell radio to
his client should be worth the cost
“within reason.”
LAW
Girl in the Cell
The Photopoulis Case
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
allegations made in the
A Legislative Council by the ALP Leader,
Mr Galbally, the Victorian Government
has called for a report on Mildura’s
“Girl in the Cell” case. Mr Galbally
claimed that a 17-year-old girl, Helen
Hazel Photopoulis, had been kept in a
cell at Mildura watch-house for three
days and nights after having been refused
bail following a vagrancy charge. He said
the charge meant that the girl was
“deemed to be an idle and disorderly
person” without lawful means of support.
In fact, claimed Mr Galbally, she was
the daughter of a respected family in the
district and had ample means of support.
He told the Legislative Council that
the girl had been ordered by Senior De-
tective J. P. Barritt, of the Mildura CIB,
to report to Mildura police station early


on the morning of Friday, May 17. She
was then charged with vagrancy before
two JP’s, Messrs A. Bayliss and S. Mills.
Her brother approached the Justices but
according to Mr Galbally was told by one
of them: “I know this case. I know the
background. A few nights in the cells
will do her good.” The girl was then re-
manded without bail. There are no police-
women in Mildura and embarrassed by
the situation, the officer in charge at the
watch-house applied successfully to Mr
Mills to have the girl’s remand abridged.
The girl appeared in Court the day
after Mr Galbally raised the matter in
Parliament. Her counsel, Mr J. Duck,
obtained an adjournment of the case
until June 19. Senior Detective Barritt
appeared as Prosecutor and said that all
the evidence against Miss Photopoulis
had been given when she appeared in
Court on the previous Friday. As far as
he was concerned, the case for prosecu-
tion was closed. Mr Duck, however,
maintained that although the girl had
been charged on the Friday, no case
against her had been heard. Mr Mills,
however, insisted that all the evidence
had been dealt with at the first hearing,
“The Court’s decision was stood over so
we could make up our minds what was
best to do with her,” Mr Mills said,
Asked by Mr Duck whether the girl had
offered any defence, Mr Mills replied:
“She was asked if she wanted to ask
Detective Barritt any questions.”
Galbally s initiative in raising the
case took the Government by surprise,
But the Acting Chief Secretary, Mr
Hamer, promised to call for a police re-
port on the whole episode.
ELECTIONS - I
“Nicklin Will Win Again”
The crucial QLP vole
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
Queensland electors go to the polls on
Saturday to vote in the triennial
State election the first with compul-
sory preferential voting. Opinion both in
Government and Australian Labor Party
circles is firming that Labor will be
beaten again, but the Government may
also lose some seats.
The present state of the parties in State
Parliament is Country Party 26, Liberals
20, Queensland Labor Party 2, ALP 25,
and Independents 5. The Country-Liberal
Government has been in office since the
Labor split in 1957.
The ALP must win 15 seats to get a
working majority.
Labor has thrown out a few baits
equal pay for women (based on the New
South Wales scheme) and the return of
some price control. But the promise of
three weeks’ annual leave has been
nullified by the State Industrial Com-
mission’s granting, with the State Govern-
ment’s blessing, of three weeks’ leave for
many workers. It has attacked the Gov-
ernment for “not doing as much as
possible to reduce unemployment”
which, of course, the Government has
denied. (Unemployment figures have
been falling.)
The Country and Liberal parties have
concentrated on attacking the ALP
because of “Trades Hall and Left-wing
domination” of Parliamentary rep-
resentatives. Otherwise the Government
is standing mainly on its record of State
development, particularly in education.
It has also promised a reduction in gift
duty, probate and succession and land
taxes, and elimination of the State air
tax over the next three years.
In the final count the QLP preferences
should keep the Government on the
Treasury benches.
ABORIGINES
Civil Rights
More than the vote
FROM A DARWIN CORRESPONDENT
TAick Ward, maverick Member for
” Port Darwin, has put before the NT
Legislative Council a Bill seeking full
citizenship rights for all aborigines in
the Northern Territory. It would give the
native population of 17,000 the right to
drink liquor, and demand award wages.
It proposed that present restrictions
should be removed by amendments to
the Welfare Ordinance and 14 other
ordinances. Mr. Ward said he wanted
to remove the legislation under which
aborigines were declared wards of the
state until they proved themselves worthy
of citizenship.
Missions and Government settlements
would still have the right to control
behavior of natives on their property.
They could decide whether or not to
allow alcoholic liquor on the place. But
natives could go where they liked, with-
out restrictions.
ELECTIONS - II
Grey Eminence
Remember Kalgoorlie
FROM A SA CORRESPONDENT
FFhe odds favour a Labor victory in
the Grey by-election, SA, on June 1,
but because of the peculiarities of Grey
anything could still happen.
The late Mr Russell’s huge Labor ma-
jorities in Grey (8,500 last time) were
one of the rare freaks of politics where
a personal following completely over-
shadowed party politics. Mr Russell killed
party passions by never speaking, in
or out of the House, on any issue that
could possibly offended any part of his
electorate. He devoted his time to giving
personal service to his electorate. And
thousands of electors decided that they
would rather have this first-class personal
service, and forget about whether the
LCL or Labor ruled in Canberra.
Some eight or nine years ago it was
worked out on Senate figures that Grey
should really be a fairly safe LCL seat,
were it not for Mr Russell's large per-
sonal following. Since then, however, the
rapid industrial development of Whyalla
and Port Pirie has greatly increased Labor
strength.
But the issue of the rejection of Mr
Russell’s daughter, Miss E. Russell, as
Labor candidate introduces a factor
whose effect is hard to gauge. Far-flung
communities, with a strong sense of local
identity, have been known to react most
vigorously when Party organisations de-
prive them of the candidate they want,
in the Western Australian electorate of
Kalgoorlie in 1958, when the much-ad-
mired and respected Labor member Mr
Johnson was suspended from the Party,
and thus barred from re-nomination, the
angry electorate reacted by voting
in a Liberal. And the Kalgoorlie elector-
ate large, far-flung and with heavy
industrial concentrations is not so
very different from Grey.
The people of Grey very obviously
wanted Miss Russell, from whom they
expected the same excellent service her
father had given and indeed had al-
ready had it from her for some years
as her father’s health failed. Instead,
they are offered, in ALP candidate Mr
Mortimer, a man with the background of
an official of the militantly Leftist Water-
side Workers’ Union. This is a total break
with the spirit of Mr Russell.
The LCL candidate, Mr Vern Dyason,
is a man personally popular and of vig-
orous independence of mind just such
a one as a community might still turn to
in order to express a determined in-
dividuality.


f"
mm oo
r?*, * ?
5 u
i
Pride of Place
The finest wines have always been
associated with specific places. No
wine is more specific about its origin
than Coonawarra Estate* Claret with
its back-label showing exactly where
it comes from.
*“ Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in
France) is used to distinguish this claret
as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers own vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole dnd Exclusive Purveyors:
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
cioft
COMPANIES
Mr Shaul's Steel-fisted
Farewell
Fall-out at Federal Hotels
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
OLIVER SHAUL
Striking out on his own
Ij'ederal Hotels’ steel-fisted farewell
to its late managing director, Oliver
Shaul, which ended a two-year-long
clash of ideas within the Board, has re-
moved any danger of the swollen hotel
epipire suffering an ignominious Korman-
like fate, according to Mr A. M. Kil-
gour, one of the rump directors. He told
The Bulletin last week that it could
mark the end of the beginning of the
work of consolidation proceeding these
many months, notably during Mr Shaul’s
recent absence overseas. Asked whether
the Board’s break with Shaul had come
on any one matter, the answer was no.
Bluntly pointing out that shareholders
preferred generous dividends to the sort
of pie-in-the-sky development favored by
Shaul and Mr M. J. O’Neill, another
director who “retired” with him, Federal’s
chairman, Mr R. R. Markillie, said re-
maining directors saw a bigger future in
liquor than in Shaul’s dreams of multi-
million extensions on the residential side
of the business. For this reason the Board
had squashed plans to extend Menzies
(Melbourne) after its purchase of ad-
joining Selbourne Chambers.
Instead it has been buying suburban
hotels. A whole new field looks like
opening up in this direction following
the Victorian Licensing Court’s recent
decision to refuse licences to brewery-
owned hotels.
On the same tack, by a far-sighted
30-year deal (for which some of the
kudos must go to Shaul) in 1960 with the
Project Development group, in a few
months’ time Federal starts managing
Menzies (Sydney) which the Board
reckons will be as big a money spinner
as any with its 260 or so rooms (more
than Chevron, Sydney) in the heart of
Sydney and its already fast liquor trade.
Again, accepting the challenge of the
new multi-bar Southern Cross at the
other end of Bourke Street, Federal has
recently been performing miracles in-
side Menzies (Melbourne), putting in new
lifts, air conditioning throughout and
removing old timber to make way for
streamlined bars. This week a teleprinter
is going into operation for inter-com-
and forward-booking duties covering the
group’s interstate hotels and an Adelaide
associate.
Financial liquidity is also being well
catered for. This year’s Potter-backed
£850,000 8 p.c. unsecured note issue
will look after maturing debt and another
near-million is expected to come in from
the sale of Lennons Broadbeach (Mr
Kilgour told us Federal were confident of
clinching this soon as apparently three
Brisbane parties have been nibbling at
the hotel since its failure to reach reserve
price at the recent auction.)
This seems to leave Federal on an as-
sured course. But what of Mr Shaul,
the near 40-year-old Swiss-born hotelier
whose meteoric rise in the Australian
hotel business since he joined the then
one pub Federal company in 1947 gives
him practically legendary status in it,
not to speak of his part in such public
bodies as the National Travel Associa-
tion, The Victorian Promotion Commit-
tee, the City Development Association
and so on? He cannot be dismissed as
summarily as this from the Australian
hotel scene. His “retirement” from Fed-
eral Hotels could be a case of reculer
pour mieux sauter. Others will doubtless
be keen to snap him up for his experience
in management alone, but for the mo-
ment he will only say he is striking out
on his own and has formed two prop-
rietary companies as a start.
ON THE WATERFRONT
Going Slow?
Ne w tactics
FROM PETER KELLY IN SYDNEY
films week’s conference called by the
Minister for Labor, Mr W. Mc-
Mahon, between shipowners, waterside
workers, and the Australian Council of
Trade Unions should produce at least
a temporary respite from the industrial
anarchy operating on the Australian
waterfront, chiefly in the ports of Sydney
and Melbourne.
The immediate reason for the respite
lies in the fact that the 'Waterside
Workers’ Federation cannot afford too
many more fines.
But perhaps the main factor is fear of
deregistration as the legal representative
of waterside workers before the Arbitra-
tion authorities with all its conse-
quent loss of industrial rights and bene-
fits. With the tide in the ACTU and the
Australian Labor Party turning against
it this is the last thing the Federation
could afford: v
Because of the accumulation of
these factors, the waterside workers are
changing their tactics. The rate of work
done, according to waterfront authorities,
is now the lowest it has been for some
years. This means that a general go-
slow policy is already in operation and
will be intensified, despite this week’s
conference.
This may in fact be a better tactical
move as far as the waterside workers
are concerned. This could mean that
their target of having more men on the
job may still be granted by the ship-
owners who are anxious to get their ships
turned round. In some cases this has
already happened.


Around Melbourne
ROSETTES IN CREAM AND GOLD
TTictoria has returned to the dark-
" nesses of the pre-Bolte era. The
Legislative Council is in full com-
mand, tossing back bills like a credit-
squeezed company. The truth is that
the democratic process of law-making
has come to a halt. Upper House
again, do I hear you say? Why not
cut off its head? Why not, indeed?
But it’s hard not to be sentimental
about our Legislative Council. For
one thing it is the only State Upper
House elected by a complete adult
franchise. But more than that, it has
so much tradition and it is so beauti-
ful. Now take the Legislative As-
sembly Chamber; it knows its place.
It looks like a well-heeled railways
waiting room. The decor is green and
black and the columns are mere, plain
lonic.
Ah, but the Council Chamber is
superb. Here the columns are magni-
ficent Corinthian columns, their sum-
mits choked with carved fernery. The
decor is crimson, with a fine crimson
carpet and soft, plush red seats. And
for those of us who have spent long
weary hours in the Council, the ceiling
is a joy; the mere study of it can
pass away hours at a time. It is in-
directly lit. There are great rosettes
in cream and gold. There are saintly
little winged cherubs bouncing here
and there.
Best of all, though, are the angels.
Some are dressed in Grecian robes,
and others are stripped to the thighs,
with good, generous Victorian breasts.
Now don’t think that these figures give
any libidinous ideas to the council-
lors. You might say that the heads of
the angels are most correctly prim.
After looking at them for an hour or
two you get the idea that you are
being glared at by a whole collection
of young Queen Victorias.
Tn the old days, a good age for an
MLC was 80 plus. Housekeepers
wore top hats inside and outside the
Chamber as their badge of office.
Ushers and attendants wore red stripes
down their trousers and big brass
buttons on their coats. They kept
those red stripes and brass buttons
until after the First World War.
Yes, there was dignity about the
place. It did not endure the disgrace-
ful scandals that took place in the
Legislative Assembly. For example,
you must have heard of our greatest
shame, the disappearance of the As-
sembly mace in 1892. There was a
special inquiry, the editor of the “Bal-
larat Courier” was even paraded be-
fore the House to answer roguish
stories he had printed. Nothing has
been discovered to this day, and
should you have the mace in your
house The Bulletin would be inter-
ested in gaining information on the
subject.
There is a theory that some mem-
bers of the Assembly went to a party
after the House rose and held a mock
parliament. There was wine, women,
song, everything, but no mace. So
one member went and got it and ap-
parently this sort of made the party.
Oh, dear, there’s even a story that
the mace was seen in a brothel. It was
a fine mace, silver with gold coating
and valued at £3OO. The Assembly
now has another mace, and up till last
week nobody had stolen it.
Tn 1901 the State Parliament moved
A to the Exhibition Building to
make way for the brand new Federal
Parliament, and our noble Council
Chamber became a fitting home for
the Senate. We didn't get it back un-
til 1927.
But to get back to the present situa-
tion, we have an odd situation where
the Country Party combines with
Labor to defeat the Government by
one vote. Political enthusiasts see a
return to the days when the Council
had a flavor which could only be des-
cribed as French. In 1955 there were
two Labor Parties, two Liberal Parties,
a Country Party and one Independent.
It was difficult then to keep track of
who was combining with whom. You
could even get Liberal mating with
Labor.
Now the Council is making in-
creasing use of its muscles. A while
back it tossed out the Bread Reform
Bill, a bill that would have allowed
self-employed bakers to bake and de-
liver bread on Saturdays. You must
understand that in Victoria we have
sly baking wicked people who like
to give us fresh bread on Sundays.
The Council stopped that one. During
this past month power in the Council
has forced Mr Bolte to withdraw his
Liquor Reform Bill. This was a per-
fectly toothless, kindly bill which
hardly even raised a whimper from the
temperance organisations. The bill of-
fered such things as drinking with
meals in hotels until midnight (now
10 p.m.) and beer as well as wines and
spirits in licensed restaurants. In a
Melbourne restaurant now you can
drink half a dozen martinis but, for
Heaven’s sake, they won’t let you have
anything as devillish as beer.
Co that’s gone. Then, in a last splen-
did flurry, the Council killed such
items as the Board of Works’ Bills
and Electoral Redistribution Bill, pro-
bationary licences for beginner dri-
vers, on-the-spot fines for traffic of-
fences, and registration of caravans
and semi-trailers. In short, it is an
attempt to embarrass the hell out of
the Government to force an early
election as soon as Parliament resumes
on September 3 for the Budget session.
Why not force a double dissolution?
Well, we have a most untidy system.
The Council can be dissolved only
if it forces the Lower House into an
election by rejecting a bill, then again
rejects the bill when the new Assembly
submits it again. So the Opposition
parties are being awfully crafty. They
want two elections, the Assembly be-
fore the end of the year and the
Council in July. They are convinced
it is easier to pick up seats when
there are two elections.
The best method, of course, would
be the idea you had earlier—abolish
the Council altogether. We could do
it this way. Put through an abolition
bill and have it passed by both Houses
by an absolute majority on the second
and third readings But as our fellow
colonials in NSW discovered, coun-
cillors have a curious distaste for per-
sonal hari kari.
BATMAN


OUT AND ABOUT
“How Beautifully You Say That!”
Coward: Very like his impersonators
By J. C. KAYE
YOU got along to the Press party for
Noel Coward at the Windsor the
other night. How did you find him?
I merely stepped on to a dazzling
carpet under the chandeliers and turned
to where a ring of wide eyes looked up-
ward; and there he was.
It is true, then, that people who spend
more than a minute with Noel Coward
try to be wits and make many poor
jokes?
Yes.
Is he nice?
Yes. He talks easily and amusingly to
people, even if they are not connected
with the Press or publicity. He makes
them feel he is interested and that they
are immediately his friends. He makes
remarks, in answer to questions, that he
must have made a thousand times. He
gives them out as freshly as if he had
just thought of them. Mr Coward is a
good actor indeed. He is a good man for
the long-running show.
It is said that he is witty.
Mr Coward doesn’t push this too hard.
He says many things in a bantering tone,
and others with light raillery and mock
expressions of horror, shock and dismay;
and others again with a waft of sarcasm.
What did you hear yourself?
Please understand that this was a Press
reception. At one time I did stand beside
Mr Coward, and at another time in front
of him. But at other times I was separated
from him by. the length of the room,
and could hear only female laughter from
a distance. However, someone did
remark to Mr Coward that no one, not
even in Mayfair, speaks as amusingly as
the dialogue in his plays.
And what did Mr Coward say to that?
“Those who can, do.”
Is that all you heard?
He did say that his handwriting was
like the work of a drunken Chinese
spider. And I was told a story second-
hand. At Singapore once, the social
hostess, angry because Mr Coward was
late, put him below the salt. In later
table conversation, she was saying how
she had met her husband-to-be and
adored him from the start. “As soon as
I saw him,” she said, “I knew he would
be the father of my children”.
I think I’ve heard it, but go on . . .
From below the salt, Mr Coward’s
voice was heard to ask: “And is he?”
I think Mr Coward's wit needs
a little savagery in it to shine. This was
not a savage Press party.
Did you get the impression, from your
own conversation with Mr Coward, that
he could be laceratingly bitchy if need
be?
Yes.
Tell me what he looked like.
Mr Coward, at 63, is still the same
height as when he came here in 1941
at the age of 41, but hunches his shoul-
ders a bit more. His nose is still hooked
and his ears are as large. His hair has
gone. He is suntanned from long hours
on the terraces of his homes in Montreux
and Jamaica. His eyes do not often open
wide.
Did he hold his cigarette in his raised
hand just as on the stage and in the
movies?
He did. “I don’t smoke cigarettes”, he
jested. “I use them”.
He was beautifully dressed?
He wore a brown suit, brown slip-on
suede shoes, blue-grey shirt, and brown
tie fixed with a gold clip. On his right
wrist he had a gold chain bangle with
“Noel Coward” engraved on it. Around
his middle he had a leather belt with
“NC” on a gold buckle. He produced at
intervals a gold cigarette case like a small
suitcase, and smoked de-nicotinised fags
from the USA which he offered to no
one else.
The “NC” was for Nod Coward?
I assume so. Yes.
And his voice?
His voice is pleasant, and very like
his impersonators. He uses it well. He
showed me how, as a boy, he had been
taught by the great producer, Charles
Hawtrey, to project his voice so that it
could be heard in the back row of the
Coliseum, which is London’s largest
theatre.
He showed you himself?
He did indeed. The secret is in the
flexible use of the lips.
I see that he has come all the way
from Europe to see his musical “Sail
Away” open in Melbourne. Did he speak
of his earlier Australian visit?
Yes. He came here, you are too young
to recall, in 1941 dressed to the nines as
a VIP with introductions from Churchill
and so on, to raise the morale of the
forces.


demand
Dalwood
IGUNDI
ri- *
Head Waiters will approve , when you do
Penfolds historic Dalwood vineyards are situated in
the famous Hunter Valley. Ask for Dalwood Hermitage Claret,
Dalwood Burgundy, Dalwood Riesling, Dalwood Chablis.
A PENFOLDS PRODUCT • WINEMAKERS SINCE 1844
PW533
And did he?
He moved their feelings considerably,
and they gave him the raspberry. Re-
calling this, Mr Coward laughed wryly
and said that things had been hectic,
but that he had enjoyed it. He believes,
probably correctly, that he himself is a
pretty tough guy.
Is there any ... you know ... romance
in Mr Coward’s life?
There is no need. His life is in itself
a romance.
From having got to know Mr Coward
so well, would you say that he might feel
a spent force, and would come even to
Australia to rally affection?
There is no doubt that Mr Coward
needs sustained recognition and admira-
tion. However, he shows no signs of de-
cline of confidence. He bubbles with it,
and immediately reproaches any sug-
gestion that he might be past his peak.
He will go to New York for the opening
of his own musical version of Terry
Rattigan’s “The Sleeping Princess”, which
is renamed “The Girl who Came to
Supper”. He is to direct on Broadway a
musical of his own play, “Blithe Spirit”,
with the music by Hugh Martin
Mr Coward told me that Larry wants
him to do “Hay Fever” in London. Mr
Coward is writing his short stories, edit-
ing a fresh edition of his lyrics, planning
to re-record “The Stately Homes of Eng-
land” and other songs. He is busy, -and
he tells me that he is wealthy. As he put
it, he “hasn’t done badly.”
Do you get the impression, from your
ability to whistle Mr Coward’s works,
that he is a great man?
He tells me that he does not regard
himself as a genius, but as a man of
talent who has worked like the devil all
his life to make the most of himself.
He does not expect now to create any
“serious” work of merit.
If the public show they don’t want
what he produces he is lost?
Quite so. But it is interesting to ob-
serve that no note of pathos has entered
yet into the scene, as w 7 e contemplate this
man, in late middle-age, still performing
on the world’s stages, night-club floors,
movie and telly screens, still singing,
still exclaiming “dahling” as he embraces
actresses for the press camera. He has
borne up even better than Chevalier and
Marlene. Even better than Charlie.
Mr Coward, in his own words to me,
believes in giving the public what it
wants, and if the public show they don’t
want a thing, then it can’t be much good.
Mr Cow ; ard is an entertainer.
Is the whole world Mr Coward’s
friend, or does he, too, have enemies?
Mr Coward tells me that some people
do not like him. Certain theatre critics
have made this clear for 40 years. On a
more personal note, he concedes that
Lord Beaverbrook is not a friend. He
laughs still at one of his best-known
counter-blows at Lord Beaverbrook. This
was, of course, to let a copy of the “Daily
Express”, with a headline saying that
there would be no war, float across the
screen in “In Which We Serve”, while
torpedoed men clung to a raft.
You would not say then that Mr
Coward is a creative personality who has
faced up to the world with real creative
guts, written truly, and waited for taste
and time to catch up with him. You
would not say he was a man who has
taken a stand on the deepest issues fac-
ing humanity, or gone apart to stare into
the recesses of his soul.
A/r , , „ , ~
My dear! How beautifully you say
that!


The Awful mess of Everything
Finding , predictably , Sir Herbert Read aghast
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Witless dialogue, followed by bursts
of sycophantic canned applause,
emerged from a radio to greet Sir
Herbert Read as he stepped into the
lounge of his Sydney hotel. Shifting
edgily in a chair, he stared reproachfully
at the source of the din. “There, you see,
that’s what I’ve been talking about,” he
said to the radio. “That mess over
there isn’t even an entertainment. It is
simply a distraction, to prevent people
from the one thing they are afraid of,
being alone and forced to think for
themselves.”
Almost 70 and on a tour of Aus-
tralia and New Zealand for UNESCO,
Sir Herbert has spent a lifetime attack-
ing disagreeable things like the radio at
the Hotel Belvedere. He has no time for
the cinema, the Press or other bromides.
Resolutely setting his face against the
times, he finds the only glimmer of hope
for the future in education through art
—teaching children from earliest infancy
to develop their faculties creatively in-
stead of becoming mere sponges for
masses of facts.
In an age of mental chameleons, such
single - mindedness commands respect.
The narrow patrician face —unexpectedly
flushed with good health —mild sad eyes
and long forelock of silver hair falling
over the brow are classically those of
the sage. The voice, so quiet as to be
almost inaudible at times, nevertheless
carries subtle overtones of irony and
contempt. Bitterness and anguish are
never far below the surface, concealed
in the well-tailored phrases of the old
campaigner. Above all, the man looks
hurt aghast at everything he sees and
hears, an aesthete lost in a leaden age.
He was, one had heard, no longer a
member of the Anarchist party in Great
Britain. “They dropped me,” he said
wryly, “after I took my title.” But he
hadn’t dropped them? “No, no. I still
believe it. But you see —” (here an
almost imperceptible ironic smile) “A
title doesn’t mean anything to me
Today, Read travels about six months
of each year to earn his living, spends
the other six (when he can) at his home
in Yorkshire, the county of his birth in
1893. He collects few works of art,
partly because he dislikes acquisitiveness
in others, partly because he can’t afford
to anyway. Yes, he had seen the Tate
Exhibition of Australian art, had been
impressed, but had wished there had
been less of the 19th century rep-
resented and more of contemporary
work. Poetry? “I’m lucky if I write one
poem a year.”
Of Australian writing, Sir Herbert
Read admitted he had known little before
visiting this country. Although he had
been meeting about 30 people a day
here in academic life and the arts
practically none had been known to him
by reputation and only one or two by
correspondence. “But —” he added sur-
prisingly, “I knew of Patrick White, if
only for the reason that I recommended
his first books for publication.”
As an adviser to Routledge in the
1930 s (he is now a director), Read had
approved of the manuscripts of White’s
first novels, “Happy Valley” and “The
Living and the Dead.” And how did he
feel about White’s development since;
did he share the enthusiastic response to
“Riders in the Chariot”? “No, I didn’t
so much care for that book. I don’t get
along very happily with his satirical
writing that kind of humor doesn’t
appeal to me very strongly.” He got
along better then with the more serious
and mystical writing, preferring, say,
“The Tree of Man” to “Riders.” But
on the whole he didn’t seem to feel very
much at ease with White’s work.
Could he find anything to admire in
contemporary writing? He sighed, as
though about to embark on a search for
a needle in a haystack. After a while,
he said, “We-ell, there are streaks of
vitality in the drama. But one feels that
Osborne, Pinter and the others can’t
really manage anything original. Pinter’s
work is simply an imitation of lonesco.
And in America, this Dadaist thing
they’re doing again we’ve been
through all this before, those of us
who’ve lived through the ’thirties. Now
it’s simply boring.
“I went to the Old Tote here to see
lonesco, and I will say I did enjoy it.
What is good about Beckett and lonesco
is that they do provide good parts for
actors to show off their histrionics. But
I want more from my play. I want my
play to be literature, to be readable as
well as seeable, to have some reference
to life of a profound nature.
“And then there’s the lack of a stylistic
texture. Unless I get a sense of texture
in the language it just isn’t worthwhile
reading these plays. Maybe” this with
a bitter smile “I’m just a typical high-
brow.”
In calling for a style, did Read join
Cyril Connolly in demanding a Man-
darin literature? “No, no, that’s just
what I don’t want. That’s all too
frivolous, you see. No, 1 believe that
true style flows out of a seriousness
about life, an ethical sensibility. Of
course, the mandarin style is better than
no style at all, which is w'hat we have at
the moment.”
And what of poetry? Did Sir Herbert,
I wondered, share my feeling that poetry
no longer occupied a central place in
literature, that it had moved out to the
margin? “Yes, of course it has. And the
poets in England at least seem to realise
that. They are saying, ‘Why bother’?
What then could he seize on? “There
has been nothing to interest me in poetry
since Eliot and Pound in England and
William Carlos Williams and Wallace
Stevens in America. I would rather re-
read Stevens than anything written now.”
Sir Herbert said that the decline of
the novel and the collapse of poetry as
an art form were due to a lack of con-
viction about anything by writers. Con-
viction and passion, he said, made their
own style. Without conviction, passion,
or style we had a wasteland.
“The problem is especially acute in
New Zealand and Australia. You
haven’t got the tensions between modern
life and tradition you have in Europe.
In welfare societies like these the only
motive is comfort and I was going to
add cleanliness as I did in a lecture in
New Zealand, but I don’t think that has
struck Australians yet.”
Was the future for us as for every-
one else, it seemed, totally bleak? “Not
wholly. Yesterday we went to a squatter’s
camp near some Cove. Lane Cove?
Yes, that was it. There in the middle
of the immigrants a child centre had
been established. The Bradfield Centre.
Young children are being taught educa-
tion through art there. It was wonderful
to see the sheer joy they took in their
creative activities.”


8738
Ufisar Freight Express
EVERYTHING GOES
ANSETT3FREIGHT
\XPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
Daily scheduled services to all capital cities.
Co-ordinated road, rail, sea and air transportation.
★ Flexi-van system between Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. ★ ‘Piggy-back’
and container van services between Adelaide-Perth. ★ Container Van
service between Brisbane and Darwin via Mt. Isa. ★ Sea-road to Tasmania.
★ Operates the Australia-wide system of the Cargoclippers.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS HANDLES ALL TYPES OF COMMODITIES
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 9 4091
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania—Devonport 2 2659
The Policeman’s Lot
Not very happy since 1829
By GORDON HAWKINS
(Senior Lecturer in Criminology, University of Sydney )
The NSW Commissioner of Police,
Mr Norman Allan, has often said
that as a public officer he expects
criticism. His expectations were fully
realised after his speech on telephone
tapping at the United Nations Seminar
on the Role of the Police in the Pro-
tection of Human Rights, which con-
cluded in Canberra last month. His re-
marks on this and other topics landed
him in the headlines and kept him there,
despite strong competition from an
adulterous duchess, a walking corpse
and the Bogle-Chandler inquest.
Yet, although Allan speaks with a
fluency and force which few politicians
possess, he said little to justify either the
ensuing furore or his subsequent
repudiation by the Deputy Premier of
New South Wales. Indeed, it is the
public reception he was accorded, rather
than his words, which require analysis.
His contribution to the discussion on
the circumstances in which wire tapping
and similar techniques are permissible,
and the ways in which they should be
controlled, was, in fact, a model of
restraint. He was careful to say that
such techniques should only be used to
combat serious crimes such as kidnap-
ping, blackmail and the traffic in nar-
cotics; only when absolutely necessary;
and then only under adequate safe-
guards.
He pointed out that when criminals en-
gaged in such activities communicated
with each other by radio, by courier, by
visual signalling, or by wireless tele-
graphy, he was both able and allowed
to intercept; and he asked why the tele-
phone, which undoubtedly facilitated the
preparation and perpetration of crimes,
should be regarded as sacrosanct?
If there is a satisfactory answer to
this question, none of the 80 assembled
delegates gave it to him. Moreover, at
the final meeting on May 13 the draft
report which was adopted by the 22-
nations seminar said that the majority of
delegates considered that wire tapping for
the purposes of criminal investigation
should be permitted “to combat par-
ticularly heinous crimes.” This is not to
say that there may not be valid objec-
tions to wire tapping. It may be that the
police are not as seriously handicapped
by the withholding of this power as they
maintain.
It is certainly not axiomatic, however,
that human beings have a “natural right”
to negotiate kidnapping, for example, by
telephone, free from police interception.
It is not sufficient merely to assert dog-
matically that wire tapping is only justi-
fiable where national security is involved.
Nor is it necessarily true, as one
commentator has suggested, that this
practice, once adopted, “would extend
from selected cases to a general system
of snooping”; for this has not happened
in the United Kingdom, where the police
already have this power. As a matter of
fact, the assumption that it would is
symptomatic of an attitude to the police
which was reflected in Press reports
throughout the proceedings.
No observer who attended the seminar,
under the urbane chairmanship of Sir
Kenneth Bailey, could fail to be struck
by the contrast between the picture
presented in the newspapers of a series
of dramatic clashes between “the police”
and “the defenders of human rights” and
the actuality of the debates.
In the first place, it is one of the
defects of this type of international con-
ference, dominated by official delegates,
that too many speakers feel obliged to
indulge in dull, defensive panegyric
about current practice in the country
they represent. Nevertheless, it would
be misleading to suggest that real prob-
lems were not seriously discussed or that
concrete issues were not carefully con-
sidered.
It was, however, certainly not true
that the police representatives were, as
has been suggested, united in opposing
the extension and preservation of citizens’
rights. The police were in fact frequently
divided, and some of the most lively
exchanges were those between police
commissioners ranged on opposite sides
over quite fundamental issues.
This happened, for example, in the
discussion of the control of and remedies
against abuse or excess of police powers.
On the question of what should be the
civil liability of the policeman and the
State in respect of such abuse, a con-
siderable division in the ranks of the
police present was revealed.
On the one hand it was argued that
the State should always be liable for the
acts and omissions of its servants in the
course of duty; and that the police should
be in the same position as any other
servant of the Crown, for otherwise the
citizen might be without effective redress.
On the other hand it was urged that
the long-standing British tradition that
each policeman is individually respons-


maximum
. . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
m
■ ■
WITH
vc(
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GM K
IIS:
AI. A 2.
A 3.
*3. ; J
& g a
: C». C 2. C 3
82.
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group. ,
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks “true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
K
l&c/iw&ocC
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, L.M 3186 • Canberra 4-4098 -
Adelaide W2IS3 « Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
Sble for what he does is an invaluable
safeguard against possible abuse of his
power; and that the abandonment of this
principle would mean that the police
W'ould become a para-military organisa-
tion on totalitarian lines, secure in the
knowledge that the State would be liable
for any excesses. It is important to note
that the difference here concerned the
best method of protecting the citizen
from arbitrary interference or abuse by
the police.
It is not without significance that this
and other differences between the police
representatives themselves failed to make
the headlines. They would not have
fitted in very well with the familiar
image of the police as a somewhat dull-
witted body engaged in a kind of cold
war with the public; in the course of
which, when they are not wasting their
time harassing honest citizens engaged
in perfectly reasonable infringements of
traffic regulations or the gambling and
licensing laws, they are seeking totally
unnecessary extensions of their powers.
This is an image which influences the
thought, not only of the general public,
but also of serious students. This was
made clear at the seminar by the
number of references which were made
to “the police mind”, even during
debates in which it was manifest that
there was no common police view, and
that the policemen present not only had
individual minds of their own but were
as capable as anyone else present of
forcibly expressing them.
In the circumstances it is worth
examining briefly some of the reasons
for the hostile attitude to law enforce-
ment agents which is current even in
highly civilised communities. It has its
roots in history. Sir Robert Peel met it
140 years ago when his project for the
establishment of a police force in Lon-
don was greeted with prolonged and
violent opposition.
This was not a wholly irrational
reaction. A Government committee re-
ported that it was “difficult to reconcile
an effective system of police with that
perfect freedom of action and exemption
from interference which are the great
privileges and blessings of society in this
country.”
The committee was right, of course,
and Peel’s answer, that the freedom to be
swindled and murdered, robbed and
raped was not what he would call free-
dom, was not really entirely satisfactory.
The existence of the police is a threat to
the freedom of the individual, and it
follows that the exercise of their powers
requires to be vigilantly watched. There
is little doubt that a greater measure of
personal freedom is enjoyed in the
United Kingdom and Australia than in
most other countries, precisely because
the public and the Press have not relaxed
their supervision.
As a matter of fact, since their incep-
tion in 1829 the police have been
attacked by the public, harassed by the
Press, denounced by politicians, and in-
vestigated by Select Committees and
Royal Commissions to an extent which
would make it surprising if they were
not occasionally resentful. This is par-
ticularly true in Australia, where they


■
/
n
■■ x, ; Y
- f
■■■MB
, . r.
■
■
mmmmm
■
iI&S
. ■":
m
:
W
m
mhi
■■■■■■■
W
llllllilllllit
Will
Big wheel.
For its size, the Volkswagen has big
wheels.
Not to make the car look different, but
to help make it ride as smoothly as it
does.
For example: the bigger the wheel, the
bigger the tyre The bigger the tyre, the
less often each part of it rubs the
road. And the longer it lasts.
This is one reason why VW owners
report such high tyre mileages.
Like Mrs. Peell of Carrum, Victoria.
She got 73,000 from a set of five tyres.
She missed the world record for VW
currently 103,345 miles.
Another reason VW wears tyres slowly
is that each wheel carries relatively
little weight. Volkswagen wheels are as
big, or bigger, than the wheels of many
much heavier cars. So imagine the dif-
ference in friction as you corner. The
heavier the weight on the tyres, the
greater the friction, and the faster they
wear.
The bigger the wheel, the more pot-
holes you don’t feel. Your VW skips the
holes that trap the wheels of baby cars.
Big wheels are safer, too.
You get better traction on wet roads
and in mud and sand. And you don’t
get the wheel-spin you do with baby
cars. Big wheels allow bigger, better
cooled brakes that resist brake fade osi
steep hills.
And that’s VW all over. Big on things
that matter.
Economy.
Reliability.
Durability.
Comfort.
Safety.
But most of all on ideas
VWI2OO Sedan
£849 tax paid.
VWISOO from £1199 tax
paid. (Prices for
State capital cities.)


Bright sunshine and crisp air
... a dazzling snow landscape
decorated by crystal - hung
chandelier trees . . . dancing
and parties in the ski chalets
around blazing log fires . . .
Put yourself in Victoria’s snow
picture this year. It’s not
necessary to be a skier to en-
joy the exhilaration and fun
of the snow.
For further information about
these Victorian Holiday Resorts
post this coupon.
VI
THE VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAUX
276 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
32 KING WILLIAM 57., ADELAIDE
28 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
78 ELIZABETH STREET. BRISBANE
:
Please send me detailed information
about
NAME
ADDRESS
3799 B
have had to face what G. M. O’Brien,
in his “The Australian Police Forces,”
calls “the widespread and long-standing
antipathy of the Australian public towards
its police forces.” Although, when read-
ing the early history of the New South
Wales and Victorian Forces, one is not
clear whether it was the general ineffi-
ciency or the occasional bursts of effi-
ciency which incensed the public most.
But there is more to it than historical
tradition and concern for the liberty of
the subject. There are few policemen
today who cannot give countless ex-
amples of negative and hostile attitudes
and actions on the part not of pro-
fessional criminals but of ordinary,
honest citizens.
It seems likely that William Gay, who
is Chief of the British Transport Com-
mission Police, came close to the truth
when he wrote recently: “There are not
many people, if indeed there are any
at all, who feel completely at ease in
the presence of a policeman . . . every-
body has a guilty conscience, snugly
buried, half-submerged, or rabidly alive.
Motorists, for example, usually reduce
the speed of the car when they see a
policeman. Doctor Jekyll may have
applied for the licence but Mr Hyde
drives the car.”
rPHE uneasiness referred to by Gay is re-
fleeted in what C. H. Rolph calls “the
appetite of the Press for stories of police-
manly misconduct (real or fancied).” It
is reflected in the wild fluctuations to
which the prestige of the police is sub-
ject. It is reflected at another level in
those stolid bovine figures who initially
obstruct such inspired amateurs as Sher-
lock Holmes, but ultimately marvel as
their “intuitions” lead them to a solution
without the tiresome necessity of routine
police work. (“It is masterly,” said the
inspector in an awed voice.)
This tradition has been carried on not
only by countless stage policemen, and
those encountered by Dorothy Sayers’
Lord Peter Wimsey, Margery Ailing-
ham’s Albert Campion and Ngaio
Marsh’s Roderick Alleyn, but is even
exemplified at the infant level in Enid
Blyton’s Mr Plod the Policeman.
This is not to say that the policeman-
buffoon so common in fiction and film
has any formative effect on public
opinion; the truth is probably rather that
he assuages our discomfort in the
presence of authority.
When one considers the fact that the
most effective deterrent against crime is
not the imposition of harsh penalties on
convicted offenders, but the efficient
detection and swift apprehension of
criminals, both of which depend on the
co-operation of the public, it is clear that
the question of the relations between the
police and the public is of paramount
importance. For this reason it was en-
couraging to find that the last day of
the seminar, before the presentation of
the draft report, was devoted to the sub-
ject of the Public Relations of the Police.
Discussion included consideration not
only of such circumstances as the duty
to enforce unpopular and unrealistic
laws which are potent factors in the
deterioration of public respect for the
police, but also of the inevitable
tendency of those invested with special
powers to consider themselves as above
the law. Unfortunately there are few
citizens who cannot produce some
anecdote illustrative of this tendency.
Possibly, in retrospect, one of the most
important contributions to the whole
seminar was that of the veteran Police
Commissioner for Tasmania, Mr W. J.
Delderfield, who emphasised the funda-
mental importance of public relations
not at the level of publicity men, Press
conferences and handouts but at the
level of the ordinary police constable.
It is significant that he was, in fact,
echoing C. H. Rolph, himself a former
Chief Inspector of Police, who con-
cluded his recently published “The
Police and the Public” with a plea for
public relations at what he calls “the
infantry level.”
“In this matter,” he says, “the words
politeness, tact, reasonableness, courtesy
and the rest have become cliches, their
meaning taken for granted and their
fulfilment left to the course of nature.
They need a new dynamic. They form
a subject for study and instruction as
complicated and daunting as the whole
caucus of the criminal law. Let ‘public
relations’ (if that’s what they have to be
called) be elevated above criminal law
as a police ‘subject’, above first-aid to
the injured, above traffic duty and crowd
control, sheep-dipping and movement of
animals . . . but let public relations be
understood to mean the relationship of
the public with the policeman the
slow-walking fellow in the blue uniform,
the bare-headed officer behind the desk,
the picked CID man on enquiry . . .”
Perhaps the Canberra seminar will
have served a useful purpose if it does
no more than remind those who
attended, and those who subsequently
read the report, of the vital role of the
police both in the maintenance of the
happiness of the community and in the
preservation of what we call civilisa-
tion. And in the last resort “the police”
here means the individual policeman.


THE
SMILE
OF THE
MONK
A SHORT STORY
By Caroline Speer
\There was something in his gaze which
[■troubled Charles ... something incalculable
The monk, Charles thought, the smile
of the monk. Years later he could
still see it. Sometimes when he lay
awake at night splashes of color would
dart through the blackness of his tightly
closed eyes to settle into crude images of
the monk’s face. Occasionally the calm
expectancy of sorrow in the expression
of a beggar or a prostitute would remind
him of something. And he would not
know what it was until suddenly he
remembered, and in remembering be-
came sad and turned the thought away.
Only rarely did he allow himself to
dwell on that afternoon, and then he
thought slowly, deliberately, keeping the
shape of memory intact as he unravelled
its thread.
He had taken Annabel to see a
temple recommended by an American
friend of his who was living in Bangkok.
They had neither of them particularly
liked it. After the spontaneity and re-
finement of form they had seen in Cam-
bodia, Thai architecture seemed to them
needlessly ornate. Fragments of por-
celain set into cement formed an irregu-
lar mosaic on the walls. Familiar in
pattern, the roof was layered, oblong,
green tiles encircling orange, horns pro-
truding oddly to the side almost as if on
the head of some giant antelope. But on
that evening, light from the setting sun
had drained the building of color, flatten-
ed detail into mass; thus abstracted, the
lines revealed an unsuspected coherence
and purity.
Charles strolled slowly through the
courtyard in search of Annabel, who,
early tiring of repetitive statues, had gone
to sit on a wall overlooking the street.
Below her stood a food stall. Around it
the throng jostled one another without
haste, so that from above it seemed
almost as if they were moving to rhythm,
elbowing, weaving, circling, and return-
ing always to where the crowd clung
thickest. Girls walked with grace, half-
aware of their sleek bodies, glancing
covertly at Annabel to confirm her gaze.
On an old table nearby, two boys played
ping-pong, using a piece of string as a
net.
Earlier in the afternoon there had been
some children playing in the courtyard.
They were dressed in short trousers and
ragged cotton shirts. Acioss their dirty,
round faces dark hair sprayed in help-
less disorder. Unable to resist, Charles
had lifted the smallest in the air, and his
impish face registered an ecstasy of
movement while his companions clam-
oured for a turn. The moment, the
swift, toothless grin, the swing of the
child's body, brought more pleasure to
Charles than had anything else that day.
He came up to Annabel with his de-
liberate walk. “Look!” she motioned to
the street below. Instantly the scene lost
its fluency. Subdued by his presence, the
girls stopped giggling and smoothed their
hair. The approach of a samlor scatter-
ed the crowd to the side of the street, and
the restless vivacity of the picture was
scattered also, for dispersed, the group
no longer possessed that priceless unity
which distinguishes the work of an artist
from that of a photographer.
Charles held out his hand, and Anna-
bel jumped down from the wall, straight-
ening her skirt. She loved him, and
perhaps more just then because he was
part of the laughter of these brown-eyed
girls, the golden light of the sunset
streaking the sky with vermilion, and
beyond, like the fantasy of a child, the
skyline. Hand-in-hand, they crossed the
courtyard, silent in the spell of the even-
ing. Somewhere faintly the monks could
be heard chanting. Contentment seemed
theirs by right. It was one of those rare
glimpses of the cards that flick through
the shuffler’s hand, when to name a suit
would be to lose the advantage. The
noise, the dirt, heat and confusion of
the city, all had fadea before the seren-
ity of the temple. They rounded a
corner, and as they fid so, saw that the
gates had already been closed.
“I’ll ask one of those monks to let us
out,” Charles said. He walked over to
where the two monks were standing.
They turned as he approached, and
smiled.
“We can do something for you?” one
of them asked politely. He spoke slowly,
enunciating each word with care.
“We wondered if you could show us
a way out,” Charles said. “The gates
seem to be shut.”
“Ah yes. But first, have you seen
everything? We would like very much
to show you our temple.” He turned to
his friend, who nodded assent. Charles
knew that Annabel was tired, but the
monk looked at him and smiled again,
white teeth set perfectly in his moulded
face. He was young, probably not more
than eighteen. There seemed in his smile
to be both the persistence of youth and
the detachment of an old man, and the
themes contrasted were a promise, as
with the opening notes of a sonata, of
the melody to come. Why refuse? They
might learn something of interest.
Charles beckoned to Annabel. She
walked wearily, beyond the range of the
monk’s smile and its fascination. When
later he tried to explain it to her, she
turned away.
The monks led them round the
temple, explaining to them the meaning
of each image. They seemed delighted
to be understood. When it became dark
the second monk, shyer than his com-
panion, excused himself to go and study.
He had an ugly, pockmarked face, but
a gentle expression. Charles turned to
the monk who had remained with them.
“Will you come and have a drink with
us? We would be delighted. Is it allow-
ed?” Annabel frowned. Charles saw
that she was annoyed, but he was con-
cerned only to hear the monk's reply
They stepped out of a side door and
walked across the street to a cafe. The
monk chose a Coca-Cola, saying that


alcohol was forbidden to him. Charles
offered him a cigarette which he took
without hesitation, smoking it in short,
quick puffs and scarcely inhaling.
“You are a film star, yes?” he asked
Charles.
Annabel laughed. “He would have to
be a great deal better-looking for that.”
The monk ignored her. “You have the
dark hair, the sun glasses. I think per-
haps you are a film star in disguise.”
“No, I am not a film star. I am a
student,” Charles said, amused at the
interest of this young bonze in a world
that must be so alien to his own.
“A student? I also am a student.” He
seemed delighted at this link between
them. “I am a student monk. I learn
the Buddhist scrip f ures, Pali, Laos,
English, French . . . look, 1 show you.”
He tipped out the contents of his yellow
cloth bag on the table. On the top of
the pile was a copy of “The Adventures
of Tom Sawyer”, and inside the monk
had made some notes in a laborious
Roman hand, quite unrelated to his
flowing Thai script. In his excitement,
he had forgotten to take the cigarette
from his mouth; now he did so, holding
it delicately between his long fingers.
Sitting with his back to the street,
framed in the doorway, he seemed almost
beautiful.
“That temple there, it is not mine, but
only where I have the lessons. It is
fortunate that this evening there are no
classes.”'
“It is certainly fortunate for us.”
“What time do you have to get up in
the morning?” Annabel asked.
“Very early.” The monk seemed re-
luctant to commit himself to a time.
“Before the sun rises we must recite
prayers and it is then that we take our
bowls to ask for the meal of the
morning.”
“And is it ever hard to find food?”
“Oh no.” The monk seemed shocked.
“It is quite part of Buddhist life that
monks is given meals—no, I think that
I mean there, are and you understand
too that he must not carry money or
touch women, and he cannot eat food
after it is noon, only drink.”
Impatiently, he turned to Charles.
“Now you should tell me what you
study.”
“I am a student of architecture,” and
then as the monk looked puzzled, . .
of buildings.”
“Ah.”
“That is why I am particularly grate-
ful to you for your help in showing us
the temple and explaining its construc-
tion.”
“Yes,” said the monk. He nodded in
the direction of Annabel. “And she,
what does she do?”
“She is studying to become a doctor.”
“You are married?”
“No, we are not married.” The monk
seemed satisfied by this information for
he remained quiet. His glass was empty.
Charles offered him another drink which
he accepted readily, his smooth young
face serious, gone the enchanting smile.
He moved neatly, without wasting effort.
His self-possession tantalised Charles in
the way that Annabel had tantalised him
before he knew her well. He hated to
have so much withheld from him and the
boy’s passivity seemed to create a vac-
uum, a silence that needed no expression,
like a pause in the metre of a poem.
Nothing he did, nothing he said, was sup-
erfluous. Was this, then, self-sufficiency?
Or did this monk suffer, did he desire
within the knowledge that to desire was
a sin?
“Do you like to be a monk?” Charles
asked abruptly.
The monk looked at him. “I choose
to be a monk,” he said. “Some, they
are monks for a short time only, a few
months, perhaps. I am nronk for life.”
There was no reproach in his tone.
It seemed evident that either a life be-
yond the monastery had never appealed
to him or, if it had, he had long ago
dismissed it from his thinking. Such
single-mindedness was disconcerting.
Charles thought of his own life, disorder-
ed, undisciplined, his ideas irresolute as
the spray of a waterfall in which certain
refractions of light will produce a rain-
bow. “You are like a mad young puppy
dog that can do no more than race
around wagging its tail,” his father had
said to him. But, sensing that he would
lose this with age, he had not worried.
The monk was looking at him. There
was something in his gaze which troubled
Charles, something incalculable against
which his limited experience was no
match. It was a feeling similar to that
he had had as a small boy, with only his
mother’s word that the sun would rise
on another day. It made him uneasy.
Annabel yawned, trying almost uncon-
sciously to divert his attention from the
monk.
“Do you think we might . . .”
“Yes, yes,” Charles said.
The monk said, “Would you like to
see more temples? Around here there are
many beautiful buildings and I would be
happy to show them to you.”
“That’s very kind of you, but I think
it is a little late now.”
“Tomorrow?” the monk persisted. “I
could take you in the afternoon if you
like, after my lessons.”
He was addressing Charles directly
now and seemed unaware ot Annabel
sitting across the table.
“No, really,” Charles said. He stood
up and held out his hand. “Thank you
so much for showing us around this
afternoon. We have been most interest-
ed.”
The monk did not move. His face
showed no emotion. “I am afraid I can-
not walk in the street alone. Would you
care to escort me to the bus stop?”
“Yes, of course,” Charles said quickly.
“Annabel, would you like to come or
stay here?”
“I'll stay here.”
“Right. We won’t be long.”
He paid for their drinks and the
monk picked up the books and put them
back into his yellow bag. He slung one
end of his saffron robe over his arm.
They walked out into the street. It was
a little cooler and Charles rolled down
the sleeves of his shirt.
“You are a very interesting person,”
the monk said gravely. He walked with
small steps, an almost feminine stride,
keeping close to Charles as they crossed
the road to the bus stop.
“I am afraid you flatter me,” Charles
said, at a loss.
“It is very good when persons of such
far away countries come here and wish
to learn our customs.”
“Perhaps some day you will travel
too?”
“No,” said the monk.
They reached the bus stop. The monk
turned, and held out his hand. It was
by now quite late, and a full moon shone
on his face, accentuating the asceticism
of his appearance. “Good-bye,” Charles
said, “and again, thank you.” The
monk’s hand felt cool in his and, fleeting-
ly, he imagined that the handshake im-
plied something more than a casual
acquaintance.
A bus came round the corner. “This
one will take me home,” the monk said.
And the illusion of the moment before
became reality while they stood there in
the moonlight, with the relationship that
they would never have between them.
For Charles, it was a moment heightened
by the knowledge that he was in Bang-
kok, when his perception of the city
became immediate, overwhelming, when
his senses reached out to grasp its elu-
sive life. Until, with the coming of the
bus, their understanding shattered, like a
bauble falling from a Christmas tree, and
it no longer seemed possible that they
would be travelling together through the
moonlit streets.
The monk climbed on to the bus and
sat down, without turning again to look
at Charles. But even though the light
was bad, Charles could see that the boy
was crying. Although he caught but a
brief glimpse, Charles knew that the
monk was crying.


QUESTION: Why is FIBREGLASS Insulation superior to all other insulants?
ANSWER:
PS
/r
m
In the office
In the factory
FIBREGLASS Insulation is a combination of mil-
lions of 100% pure glass fibres and millions of tiny
airpockets scientifically proved to be the one
unbeatable combination for insulation against heat,
cold and sound for homes, offices, factories, bowling
alleys, planes, cars, ships and appliances.
FIBREGLASS Insulation won’t sag, settle, shrink or
lose its insulating qualities, not even for the full
lifetime of the building.
FIBREGLASS Insulation is so lightweight it creates
no stress on any construction.
FIBREGLASS Insulation is FIRE RESISTANT with
a ZERO early-fire-hazard index.
FIBREGLASS Insulation is clean, resilient and sup-
plied in batt, roll and loose form. It is easy to instal.
FIBREGLASS Insulation outsells all others in the
U.S.A. where it is used in more than 60% of all
new buildings.
Remember —there is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation:
Sydney Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters. 51 7351
Melbourne 420 Spencer Street. 30 2611
Brisbane Montague Road. 41471
Adelaide Aroona Road, Kilkenny. 45 4771
Perth 91-99 Kensington Street. 23 3051
Hobart Gormanston Road, Moonah. 7 6796
New Zealand Aranui Road, Penrose, Auckland. 594-140
WOOL INSULANTS
It’s pink . . . it’s clean
FG.7


Ten years from now
When you choose a
Mercedes-Benz you know you are buying a car of supreme
quality. One that is unaffected by the changing whims of
fashion. Its classic beauty of line is ageless . . . ten years
from now you will still be proud of its distinguished looks,
driving ease, and matchless performance. Mercedes-Benz
is truly a sound investment in prestige transportation.
MERCEDES-BENZ
liiiiii! u!i!
Sii
BBS
! !
!!nl;i!
!! !!ll iii'llii
-
i!i
1
ii
ii
niiiiji
■
!i liiliili
H SI!:!::?
iiiiiiiii! iiiiiii
niiiiin
l!|!!!liil!ll!li!i
SlliiliiS
liiiiii:!
M
fIPSIMi
r":
m
V
46^/545
OVERSEAS
The Glittering, Selfish City
Manila: comparing and analysing horrors
By DONALD HORNE
One way to write an article about
the Philippines is to destroy the
cliches. Which cliche would you
like first? Perhaps the anti-American
(and Communist) cliche of the Philip-
pines, uniquely given over to the wor-
ship of the dollar, ruthless millionaires
on the one hand, festering slums and
starving peasantry on the other. While
I was there a Manila magazine reprinted
an article by Arthur Heliwell from that
best-selling comic, the London People.
He saw the Coca-Cola ads, the neon
signs of the flourishing illegal casinos in
Dewey Boulevard, the Manila slums and
the decay of rural life and wham!
Well, Coca-Cola is freely on sale and
there are beggars. I was entertained by
rich Filipinos (and some of them remind-
ed me very much indeed of rich people
in Sydney). I saw a Manila slum dirt
roads, crazy wooden shacks, bursting
with people, filthy and horrifying. Then
I looked up some comparative statistics.
They suggest that malnutrition in the
Philippines is as much a problem as in
Southern Spain, Malaya, Venezuela,
Rhodesia and more than 40 other coun-
tries. It is not as widespread as it is in
Indonesia, India, Nigeria, Brazil and
more than 20 other countries. At 52,
Filipino life expectancy is improving
more quickly than in most of these
countries: most of them have a life ex-
pectancy in the 40's-or-less. Per capita
national income, though very low, is the
third highest in the ECAFE area.
How does one compare horrors? The
answer is by analysing them. If you
analyse the horrors of under-development
you find that the Philippines comes out
a bit better than many, not as good as
some. The trouble with the Philippines
may be that we expect too much of it.
First under American patronage, and
then by itself it has been training in
democratic forms since 1906; and it has
been a predominantly Christian country
since the seventeenth century. An Aus-
tralian meets Filipinos and feels more at
home with them than with some kinds
of Europeans. It comes as a surprise to
remember that there is still all this mess.
Then there is the counter-cliche which
runs something like this: a remarkable
post-war economic boom in the Philip-
pines has made it an ideal place for in-
vestment and its economy is “taking off”
into self-sustaining growth. No less an
authority than Professor W. W. Rostow,
who invented the term “take-off” for
under-developed countries, has given the
Philippines favourable mention as a
“take-off” nation. The statistics now seem
to show that the Philippines was busy
“taking off” up to 1957 but since then it


has stopped taking off. (“The marginal
rate of investment has turned negative.”)
Filipino economists are still talking this
over. Dr Benito Legarda suggests that
the 19505’ boom came partly from
foreign exchange windfalls and was then
followed by a de facto currency devalu-
ation that has since pushed the newly
created business classes (who are mostly
Chinese) into second place and pushed
more money back into the safes of the
traditionally influential merchants and
landed gentry (who are mainly Filipino).
This class likes to spend its money on
conspicuous consumption diamond
bracelets, air-conditioned Thunderbirds,
high-walled mansions, holidays in Spain
—and this doesn’t help marginal rates of
investment. The government needs a
policy that primarily encourages business
investment. There is no future anywhere
in the world in (or for) millionaire land-
lords. But the government may also need
a policy with less economic nationalism
about it. The outbreak of “Filipino First”
economic nationalism seems to be scar-
ing out overseas capital, especially
Chinese.
Of course you can get into such a
sweat about short term economic failures
that it blinds your vision. Overall there
is said to have been a revolution in econ-
omic climate. A country that imported
even safety pins has seen more than
20,000 new firms started since 1949 and
almost a 200 per cent increase in output.
More important, there is said to have
been a change in the psychology of some
of the people with money. They are be-
coming interested in industrialisation and
modernisation. This kind of psychological
change can be more important than the
kind of things you can measure in statist-
ics. One should add that there is only a
very narrow securities market as yet.
Businesses tend to be family affairs, fin-
anced by banks. And wage-earners, ac-
cording to the surveys, are motivated
more by social acceptance than by com-
petitiveness. The “Protestant Ethic” still
has some way to go. (This term is sense-
less in the Philippines. Some of the
greatest supporters of “The Protestant
Ethic” are the Philippine-American
Jesuits.)
The Cliche of Corruption
Oerhaps the next cliche is of the Philip-
pines as a nation given over to un-
rivalled graft and corruption. That is
certainly the picture you get from reading
the Manila newspapers or listening to
Filipino politicians talking about each
other. In one sense most politicians are
clowns: they entertain the populace by
turning issues (or non-issues) into com-
prehensible absurdities. Like the Post-
mistress-General in “The Apple Cart”
they sing people a song. In the Philippines
the song that politicians sing is Corrup-
tion; after a while this can become a
substitute for discussion.
To round out the corruption cliche
you have to admit that corruption ap-
pears to be endemic in Asia, Africa,
South America, all Communist countries
and in much of Mediterranean Europe,
particularly Spain.
In America it occurs as graft, political
patronage or lobbying. In Western
Europe, where it used to be rampant, it
occurs now as feather bedding, expense
accounts, or being-in-the-know. Morality
apart, corruption matters when it dis-
rupts efficiency. In the Philippines it
seems to have disrupted police efficiency
and this certainly matters. Private armed
guards are seen everywhere; people dis-
cuss which are the “safest” roads to take
at night. While I was there the National
Bureau of Investigation (the Philippine
FBI) was under the orders of the
Defence Department trying to clean
up the gambling joints because the police
had failed to do so: when an NBI team
arrested a Congressman in a casino raid
the House of Representatives Appropria-
tions Committee voted against the NBl’s
appropriation! The decline of the police
force is not only a law and order matter:
it produces contempt for all government
decision. Congress has passed liberal
land reform acts, for instance, which
come to nothing. The usual explanation
for the sad state of the police was that
there were too many laws and not
enough police. That may be right.
Corruption in government officials
and in national, provincial and municipal
politicians has several causes. There are
Japanese, Spanish and American mini-
sters of correction as well as Asian in
the Philippines. The government service
and the whole tone of politics before
the war was said to have been of almost
English rectitude. But the Japanese war-
time occupation destroyed the morality
of many people who felt they still had
to live. And since independence in 1946
American-style political patronage has
been introduced into politics on a big
scale. Then there is the deplorable
Spanish tradition: as one might expect,
bribery was rampant in the Spanish
colonial administration. What all this
adds up to in comparative terms is un-
known. ECAFE does not provide com-
parative statistics on corruption growth
rates in South-East Asia.
The Cliche of Anti-Communism
HThe cliche of the Philippines as a trust-
worthy anti-Communist ally is prob-
ably true with the reservations one
makes about all anti-Communism and all
allies. (How trustworthy to the Philip-
pines is Australia as an anti-Communist
ally?) There is no division between the
Liberal and the Nationalist Parties on
general strategic aims. There is, for
example, no party with such a
dangerously ambiguous attitude to
foreign policy as the ALP and there are
no Communist-dominated unions. The
Communist guerillas were successfully
crushed by the great President Magsay-
say and the Philippines acquired nation-
hood mostly by anti - Communist
struggles. Anti - Communism is their
Anzac Day. The Communist Party is
illegal. There are no diplomatic relations
with any Communist countries. When
the recent ECAFE conference was held
in Manila, delegates from Communist
countries were treated as intelligence
agents. There is a great deal of anti-
Communist activity (some of it hap-
hazard.) However, there are still Com-
munists. The notorious secret “political
transmissions” lay down the party lines
(and are discovered and publicly dis-
sected as soon as they are issued); there
are still some undercover gangs in the
wilder rural areas; and there is said to
be some Communist penetration of
university and intellectual life. Since
they are illegal and a high degree of
proof is needed, Communists are hardly
ever caught, although often exposed.
None of this would seem to matter
much. What might matter is that such
large numbers of share-cropping far-
mers and rural laborers are still living
near-destitute and exploited lives while
at the same time an intellectual class is
being manufactured in Manila. The
farmers’ situation is so bad that Com-
munism may seem an attractive alterna-
tive to a certain kind of intellectual.
Almost all Philippine universities are
private companies run for profit and the
worst of them churn out under-educated
“intellectuals” for whom jobs are scarce.
There are more than 20 universities in


k
\
4
i
55
iiiifMiiHiiMgui
/
Y9\
m
-
P
home unique in its individuality
SpaT 4EVEL. £5,895
ON YOUR
OWN LAND
17 i squares of elegant family living ...
To live in a “Split Level” home is to truly know pride of
ownership. Everything about this unique home excites admira-
tion. It has an aura of success so important to the younger
executive. See the “Split Level” exhibition home and you will
agree there is no finer home or finer value in Sydney.
Consider the advantages of building a
Pettit, Sevitt & Partners home
tT:
I
BEDROOM
UPPER
LEVEL
Vj
first floor plan
1
MILVI .
51 Tr
STUDY
FAMILY
tAJHP IB
fcfl
WTC*ME>
kJEH
LOWER LEVEL
GROUND
DINIS6
ta
GROUND FLOOR PLAN
• PERSONAL SUPERVISION
You deal with the principals on
all details, and every home is
rigidly supervised.
• SHORT BUILDING TIME
The average building time for a
Pettit, Sevitt & Partners home is
6 to 9 weeks.
• ARCHITECT DESIGNED
Pettit, Sevitt & Partners homes
reflect the newest trends in
architectural thought.
© FINANCE
Pettit, Sevitt & Partners homes
are recognised by all lending
authorities.
© 6i squares of family living area.
Family room, living room, separ-
ate dining room and study.
© Study has vertical timber panel-
ling ceiling to floor on all walls.
• Downstairs guest toilet and hand
basin.
© Kitchen 12' x 10' with 24 ft. of
"off-the-floor" cupboards finished
in polished veneers, with latest
"Frigidaire" cooking top and
separate wall oven.
© Bedrooms with built-in ward-
robes, bathroom and separate
toilet.
• Available with four bedrooms if
required.
inspect the SPLIT LEVEL home at the
Pettit, Sevitt & Partners Exhibition Centre
Cnr. Pennant Hills Rd. and North Rocks Rd., Carlingford, Sat- {
urday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday, Tuesday and |
Thursday, 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. For further details phone 49 5798. n
After hours: Mr. Knight, 634 1032
We regret that we are unable to assist clients south of the Harbour or west of Parramatta.
I
lasmyi
hhBHHHHI
780 Pacific H’way, Gordon. Telephone: 495798, 495805


Manila and a number of “colleges” as
well; most lecturers are on circuit,
lecturing at different universities at so
much an hour, with lecture loads of up
to 26 hours a week. The best Philippine
intellectuals are as good as one could
get. (Unfortunately many of them stay
in America where they get a better
academic atmosphere and better money.)
God knows what the worst are like, but
there is something wrong with a system
which has produced only 411 veterinary
surgeons and for heaven’s sake!
23,745 lawyers.
The Chinese cliche
HThere is one other qualification to make
A about Philippine anti-Communism.
The Filipinos suspect the local Chinese
population —estimated at nearly 400,000
■—to be ambiguous in their loyalties. I
haven’t any idea whether this is true.
All I can say is that everyone seems to
distrust the Chinese. They are said to
control the distributive trades and to
have a strong hold on some manu-
facturing industries. (A Filipino friend
said to me: “Some of my best friends are
Chinese.”) This is one of the promptings
for support of the Philippine claim to
North Borneo and distrust of the
Malaysian Federation because of its
large population of Chinese. It has not
greatly affected relations with the
Nationalist Chinese Government in
Taiwan. If you look at the map you
will see that Taiwan is a kind of Quemoy
to the Philippines. But there is a general
obsession with the Chinese which seems
unpredictable in its effects. It has
elements of fascination as well as dis-
trust. There is a boom in the collecting
of Chinese pieces in Manila; rich men
buy pieces from dealers who loot
archaeological excavations. The believ-
ably sinister sugar combine is said to
be contemplating Communist China as
a market. There is the fact that Chinese
culture, along with Malay, Spanish and
American influences, has helped form
Philippine life. And there is the general
obsession with China that is a natural
characteristic of South - East Asia and
makes questions such as diplomatic
recognition mean more than mere
exercises in consistency.
The cliche of Philippine democracy
is true, although it has its seamy under-
side. I have no sympathy with those who
affect to despise what is left of democ-
racy in Asia. The flaws of the Philip-
pines are the flaws of most of the world.
One of its virtues is that at least a
democratic form of government presides
over them. Elections of various kinds
are held every two years and government
is stable. The system is modified
American but without the checks and
balances of federalism. The elected
executive has stronger financial and
patronage powers than the American
president and the prevailing tone is
centralist.
On the debit side one notes that this
political democracy is not accompanied
by economic democracy. Class divisions
are still immense; unemployment is
massive (eight per cent unemployment,
plus 12 per cent serious underemploy-
ment), living standards for most people
are bad. The Press is free but newspapers
are too expensive for most people to buy.
Politicians may seek support from
businessmen and landed magnates and
some of them may be crooks. Voting is
peculiarly difficult. Voters have to
memorise up to 25 names and write
them in at the polling booth. The whole
language of democracy has been English
which many do not speak and which has
alien concepts anyway. So far, so bad.
This is democracy at its hardest. But
what seems to have survived is a belief
in democratic government and a belief
that the great reforms that are needed
must occur.
Cliche of President Macapagal
/Connected with the cliche of democ-
racy is the cliche of President Maca-
pagal. The view I had of him in Aus-
tralia was of the determined reformer,
opponent of corruption and scourge of
abuse. When you get close up this image
loses some of its clarity. All presidents
of the Philippines are great enemies of
corruption. It is the usual presidential
ticket. The criticisms that now befog
his name in Manila are partly anti-
corruption criticisms. (Well, what’s he
done? Where’s simple living now? How
about it, no?) But most of all they
reminded me of anti-New Deal propa-
ganda. People laugh at schemes such as
“the socio - economic programme for
integrated development” and a great deal
of other planning jargon. They see not
a great reforming president but a
gimmicky politician who is perhaps partly
a man of principle. One can say that
Macapagal’s “socio - economic” plan
sounds good, his land reform schemes
sound splendid and his proposed
Greater Confederation of Malay States
sounds idiotic. How much of this is
gallery playing? How much simple bone-
headed naivete? How much the expres-
sion of real conviction? The domestic
reforms are cruelly necessary, but is he
OBITUARY
T AST week we untimely buried Mr
Khrushchev’s deputy, Mr Frol
Kozlov. At last week’s time of going
to press he was reported to be on the
point of death. At the time of
to press on this issue we understand
that Mr Kozlov is still seriously ill.
merely putting up Opera House sketches,
or is there a real plan? And if there is,
will it work? Is he the Roosevelt of the
Far East? It is almost certain that he
is not. Roosevelt was the rhetorician
of the New Deal, but only one of its
entrepreneurs. A whole generation of
expertise lay behind him.
To switch the field of cliches, one
set of cliches that I could not really
evaluate came from the assertions of
Philippine nationalism and the belief in
a cultural renaissance. The former
reminded me of Sydney in 1890 and the
latter of Sydney in 1963. There is a
great deal of talk about Philippine
nationalism, and even of Asian national-
ism, whatever that may mean. My guess
would be that this is much the same
mishmash as Australian nationalism. One
problem stands out. With 87 dialects
(nine of them languages), it is hard for
people to understand each other or feel
that they are the same people. The story
is still told of the first international con-
ference attended by a Philippine delega-
tion. The conference started with prayers
by each delegation in its national
language. When the Philippine delegate
took the microphone and started to say
his prayer in English the chairman
called him to order and asked for a
prayer in the Philippine national
language. “I’m sorry,” said the delegate.
“I do not know our national language.”
The language he meant is a slightly
souped-up version of Tagalog (the
mother-tongue of 21 per cent of the
population). Its keenest supporters call
it “Filipino.” According to the figures,
it is spoken by 44.4 per cent of the
population. English, the alternative as
a national language and the language of
Congress, the courts, the universities and
of business, is spoken by 39.5 per cent,
according to figures. There are the usual
tensions one gets in dialect countries
between the romantic appeal of a
fabricated national language and the
efficiency of an imported product.
The last cliche
TI/Ty own cliche of the Philippines was
one given to me by Filipino friends
and it seems fairly true. It is the cliche of
Manila, the great city, glittering in the
middle of nothing, fabricated largely out
of the best and worst of Western civilisa-
tion, self-centred and greedy, hoarding
power, education status and affluence,
surrounded by the stagnation of life in
the provinces. If this picture is true it
accounts for so many of the faults of
the Philippines of the many generous
dreams that come to nothing. If power,
education and status were fragmented a
meaningfully progressive life might
develop in the provinces, more balanced
and somehow the word cannot be
avoided more natural.


The New
Tomato Juice
Cocktail by
Schweppes
n
r 4
I IT HAS ADDED SPICES FOR
I A PIQUANT TASTE!
.Schweppes .
Tomato juice
COCKTAIL.
T'
IN 4 1 /2 oz. CANS.
A SCHWEPPES JUICE IS THE NATURAL JUICE
at your Club, Hotel, Milk Bar, Store.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
“TROPIC OF CANCER”
Sir,
I do not wish to make Dr Baldwin
(18/5/63) blush, but if he can point
out where, in my review of Henry
Miller’s “Tropic of Cancer,” I described
Miller as a mere pornographer, I will be
the first to call him a careful scholar.
I suggested, of course, almost the very
reverse; that people looking for sexual
stimulants in “Tropic of Cancer” would
be very disappointed. In fact, I dismissed
Miller not as a mere pornographer, but
as a bad artist. And my principal reason
for not reviewing “Big Sur” was that I
was reviewing just “Tropic of Cancer.”
I feel sure that Dr Baldwin has read
works by other novelists, and has merely
forgotten how much better most of them
describe places than Miller does in
“Tropic of Cancer.” Reread, Dr Bald-
win, the first pages of Lawrence’s “The
Rainbow,” James’s description of Isabel
entering St Peter’s in “Portrait of a
Lady,” even Hardy’s description of
Egdon Heath in “The Return of the
Native,” and remember how well these
things can be done. Notice, particularly,
how passion need not destroy its object.
Reread, also, the descriptions of people
in these books, and compare them with
Miller’s. What will become evident, I
think, is that whereas Lawrence, James
and even Hardy know and feel and see,
Miller is merely excited and aggressive,
and incapable of submitting his imagina-
tion to his subject because his excite-
ment is not visionary but glandular,
artistically uncaused. “Tropic of Cancer,”
that is, is not about people in Paris, but
about its author’s desire to w'hip up a
destructive ecstasy, a desire that is ex-
pressed with destructive ecstasy rather
than with clarity and force. And this, of
course, is part of w'hat I mean by saying
“Tropic of Cancer” is merely personal.
Just as many of Miller’s sexual scenes
are merely masturbatory fantasies which
do not illuminate sexuality any more
than de Sade’s imagined tortures of
Justine illuminate physiology, so are
most other elements in “Tropic of
Cancer” meaningful only in terms of
its author's unmastered vitality; Miller
has not the art to make his wound un-
noticeable.
I don't quite know what to make of
Mr Bain’s belief (18/5/63) that “Tropic
of Cancer” is a poem of some kind;
although the book is occasionally poetic,
it seems obviously to be an unconven-
tional novel. I agree that its effect is
emetic rather than erotic, but cannot
share Mr Bain’s tacit approval of this;
art ought not, it seems to me, make one
vomit. I agree that the book’s com-
munication is personal, but not that it
is deep.
Miller is a sort of Grandson Moses of
modern literature. He writes away and
writes away, and every now and then
strikes off something funny, something
with a genuine note of feeling in it; but
the great body of his fiction is repetitive,
uncouth, obvious and simple-minded. He
is a sort of Galsworthy in reverse, than
which little could be worse.
PETER SHRUBB
Wahroonga (NSW).
ABSTRACT EXPRESSIONISM
Sir,
I refer to your review of Virginia
Spate’s book on my paintings (18/5/63),
in which your critic presumes that any-
one buying this book will be an fait with
the emergence of “abstract expression-
ism” in Sydney. I regard this statement
as fallacious and ignorant; if there is
ever a book written on abstract ex-
pressionism in Sydney the members of
“Direction” would never figure with any
prominence. Miss Spate makes it very
clear that the principles of the group
were divided, one of them exploring
“totality of exponence,” the other of
more “neo - plastic” principles. Cer-
tainly not one of us knew very much
of Hoffman, Pollock. Dekooning, i.e., the
roof of abstract expressionism.
It is not for me to say whether my
statements on “art and life” are “naive,”
but to say “that there is nothing more
corny than philosophic statements by
artists” makes one ask has he ever read
Van Gogh’s letters, Paul Klee’s essays,
statements by Cezanne, Gauguin, Braque
and Picasso. If not, then he should do
so, for it might prevent him from making
corny pseudo-philosophic statements in
his criticisms.
JOHN OLSEN
Sydney (NSW).
TELEVISION TENSION
Sir,
I wonder if Mr Newman Rosenthal,
in reviewing “Television Tension Pro-
grammes” by David Martin, intends us
to take him seriously. His identification
of Martin with Diogenes seems pointless;
certainly it serves the purpose of con-
cealing from the reader exactly what
Martin did say in his booklet.
I, for one, am not sure as to the
nature of the criticism or even what he
criticises. I suspect that his main objefc-
tion is to Martin’s thesis that unresolved
plot tension results in anxiety with a
child audience. His learned references to
poets, novelists, Diogenes casting his
pearls, disillusioned and discontented,
etc., do not need to be seriously con-
sidered, other than to note a curious lack
of scientific approach from one who
should know better.
The clinical demonstration of anxiety
in children has always presented dif-
ficulties for those who seek to measure
it objectively, particularly in regard to
its latent manifestations. My clinical
observation in recent years suggests that
certain TV tension-loaded programmes
have a potent and clinically demonstrable
effect on the symptoms shown by many
emotionally disturbed children. TV
tension dramas do not generate emotional
disturbance — they potentiate it.
(DR) KEITH M. BENN
Flemington (Vic.)
Sir,
Writing as a social psychologist who
has followed closely the various investiga-
tions made into television, I am amazed
by Newman Rosenthal’s confused and
pointless “review” of “Television Ten-
sion Programmes” by David Martin
(18/5/63).
Content analysis is an accepted form
of scientific research, and Martin has,
in his extensive study, made a valuable
contribution to the field. As one who
has himself performed content analyses,
it is clear to me that Martin did not make
judgments “at once, and with lightning-
like certainty” upon the more than 150
films that he analysed.
I feel that any sociologist working on
the effects of television in the future will
not be able to ignore Martin’s work.
Such a scientist could ponder long on
some of the findings which have emerged,
such as the almost total devaluation of
women in certain categories of tension
films, or the near absence of mothers in
the portrayals of families in western
films.
It would have been more helpful to
readers if Rosenthal had displayed less
heavy irony and more interest in the
material he was supposed to be review-
ing.
S. D. FORSEY, BA, ABPS
Melbourne {Vic.)
MAJOR HORACE PERN
Sir,
Major Horace Pern, of Gippsland
(1873-1936), was not only a very good
country doctor, but a famous army
medical officer (Gallipoli and France,
19th Battalion NSW). A year ago I
wrote to the “Sydney Morning Herald’*
for reminiscences and got 35 letters
frpm people who knew him. I would be
very grateful to hear from any of your
readers who knew him.
MICHAEL KELLY, MD
Melbourne (Vic.)


• t •
•••
§©«•••
•• *• ••
M •• ••
• ••
9m
#•
« •
••
99
• • •
• •
••
99
• »
• •••
*•
••••
99
• ••
• •
••
II
••
•• • •••
••
•••o*o
•••000
I •• »
’s■
-
•0* •
'/
*
W,
•0 • o
•o*#**
**
I »' *
»#* »
* "
Our /Most Important Vocfuct
z , r
A I SUM'A\\ 5 s I pt 4% ana /■&
• * * *
»%*
• •
•*• *
1
ress
»••• •»
Iff
f P-v
•••*••
• •
I*
••«•••
• ••
»•
• I I
Jk**&*h«
•••••!
••
"s
531
• ••
I ¥7™
• ••
■
*r
• ••
• AMI
1/
«r % j *
*■*•* \ * i
V
* ! /'f
*#•• i *
//' /
• •
• »>.•
• 9
a/'
/■v..
HHi
///
-
9 •
w/
999
99 •
• •••
•9
• 99
• 99
999*99
99
99
9 9
•9
99
••9
• • •
• ••99
99
90
009
0 9
99
• •
0009
••90
00
• 0
•• 9*9 «
••••00
• * ••
• •••
•0
•9
••••
00
»•
••900
00
• 9
• •••
• • •
• • • •
99 *0
• 99 •
•99 •« »
What other computer manufacturer can
offer you 7,800,000 MAN-HOURS of
experience in applying computers to
its own data processing problems?
Before making a decision on computers
check General Electric
AUSTRALIAN GENERAL ELECTRIC
PTY. LIMITED
SYDNEY: 103 York Street, Sydney. 29-7553. MELBOURNE: 422 Collins Street, Melbourne. 67-5984.


The Snow Country
Controversy in a cold climate
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The Snowy Mountains is the largest
single development scheme in the
country. Every schoolboy knows
that. He knows it because the indefatig-
able public relations department of the
Snowy Mountains Authority has probably
supplied him with handsome project
material, or because he may have been
one of the numerous parties of school-
children who swarm over the mountains
in the holidays, seeing every phase of the
work that can be seen without interfering
with work in progress.
If the Snowy scheme is impressive, its
public relations department is one of the
most impressive aspects of the whole. If
it were possible to calculate precisely
how many busloads of Pioneer tourists
and car-convoys should cover the area
before a sufficiently favorable public
image is achieved the matter would
certainly have been put to the SMA’s
laboratories in Cooma.
Each day from the glass-fronted infor-
mation office at the Snowy’s headquarters
the public relations officer, Mr Wallace
Lodge, supervises the departure of the
buses and car-convoys. The Authority is
by far the largest tourist operator in the
district. Recently there were 54 tours in
one week. About 60,000 people see over
the scheme each year. Each itinerary is
carefully planned. Each hostel knows how
many it will have to provide with meals
and beds each day. Each tour takes with
it a conducting officer, who has the
scheme at his fingertips. Each vehicle is
in constant radio touch with headquarters
and with the Authority’s villages.
The radio contact is primarily for
construction purposes, but is used also
for tours. For example, a conducting
officer with a party of Boy Scouts has
some of them fall sick. He radios head-
quarters and reports that breakfast saus-
ages from one of the hostels are be-
lieved responsible. The hostel is con-
tacted. The sausages are analysed (not
microscopically, one hopes) and exoner-
ated. The hostel reports to headquarters.
Headquarters contacts the busload of
Boy Scouts. Then, and only then, are
the scouts absolved from the remaining
dams and powerhouses on their itinerary
and allowed to go home, or, presumably,
to be quietly sick.
It is rare anywhere for the public to
be allowed to visit construction works,
and in Australia not many firms en-
courage visitors, although BHP and AIS,
among others, have regular inspections.
But at the Snowy it is part of the policy
of the Commissioner, Sir William Hud-
son, and has been from the beginning.
“It is the public’s money which is being
spent and the public is entitled to see
how it is spent,” is his view. “Brain-
washing” is the view of the minority
to whom Sir William and all his works
are anathema.
Sir William’s enlightened attitude dates
back to the days before the agreement
between the Commonwealth and the
States of NSW, Victoria and South Aus-
tralia made it certain that the scheme
would not be impeded. Sir William, it
is believed, felt that if the scheme were
threatened he wanted the public on his
side.
A lthough the agreement made it un-
likely that any State would delay or
veto works, it did not mean that other
difficulties might not arise. One early
source of dispute with NSW was the
snow leases granted to local farmers.
This year the dispute over the primitive
area, which the Kosciusko State Park
Trust declared some months ago, came
up. This has resulted in a temporary
victory at least for the Authority, which
has now been allowed by State Cabinet
to carry on with aqueducts in the Geehi
sector of the primitive area.
Small disputes do little more than
ruffle feelings, but there is also the pos-
sibility that the economics of the whole
scheme may be found to be faultily
based. A recent Current Affairs Bulletin
suggests that if the scheme had been
delayed five or six years it would never
have been undertaken. The bulletin ends
its “appraisal” of the scheme thus: “The
primary worth of the Snowy is psycholo-
gical. By this undertaking the Australian
people have shown they are capable of
taking the long view. And they can jus-
tify this action by the argument that
this is an act of national consolidation.
Perhaps not an economic act, but neither
was Anzac.” Whether Sir William’s pub-
lic relations department is built to with-
stand the stress of having the scheme
rated just a “glorious failure” and
whether the department can sell it to
the busloads as an “act of national con-
solidation” rather than a national de-
velopment are interesting questions.
The public relations department of the
Authority has a staff of 40, including 26
conducting officers. It is not, as many
PR jobs are, a likely retiring ground for
weary journalists. Few of the staff have
had newspaper experience. The depart-
ment has an annual budget of around
£250,000, which it is expected to bal-
ance, and which it does balance. Revenue
is from charges for tours; expenditure is
on salaries, meals, accommodation and
interest on capital costs of hostel
buildings.
The Authority’s tourist activities are
possibly now at their peak. Although the
scheme will not be finished until 1975
Sir William feels that his survey and
geology teams will soon be free to go to
other areas of Australia for exploratory
work on water conservation, where and
if they are asked. Most contracts have
been let and several large works are
due for completion in 1965. A completed
scheme will inevitably be of less interest
to visitors. Even Sir William finds Lake
Eucumbene “very dull” now that it is
a body of water and not a large hole in
the ground.
The departure of the workmen will
present some problems. One which has
already presented itself, and which may
remain the chief one, is the mainten-
ance of the “magnificent Snowy Moun-
tains road system which practically en-
circles the primitive area,” which the
Minister for National Development, Sir
William Spooner, was talking about in
the “Sydney Morning Herald” on May
13.
TFhere has already been some disagree-
A ment about the unsealed stretch of the
Alpine Way which makes up part of the
road from Jindabyne to Thredbo village.
The Authority’s agreement was to main-
tain the road for five years; this period is
now up, although the Authority is still
using the road. Should the road now be-
come the responsibility of the Snowy
River Shire Council, which has only a
handful of ratepayers in the area? Or
should it go to the Main Roads Board
as a highway? While it may be relatively
easy for the Authority with an annual
£20,000,000 from the Federal Treasury
to find money to tunnel at Geehi instead
of building aqueducts, it is not so easy
for the State Government at short notice
to take over a stretch of road which it
may consider of limited importance. At
the moment, Lend Lease Corporation,
which has invested £450,000 in the ac-
quisition of Thredbo, is sitting at the end
of the disputed road, wondering how long
skiers will have reasonable access to the
village.
The Snowy Mountains Authority


fairly obviously will not keep up its
large tourist department. When it does
move out of this business it will leave
the mountains areas in the hands of the
people who were ther° before them
the Kosciusko State Park Trust and the
skiers.
The Trust antedates the Authority by
only a few years. It was set up in 1944,
stili wartime, when Sir William McKell
was NSW Premier. Sir William McKell
had the noble and far-sighted idea of
preserving Australia’s finest catchment
area, but he was undoubtedly aware that
within his Cabinet there was dissension
between the Minister for Lands and the
Minister for Conservation on what
proved a continuing controversy the
snow leases. He decided that these dif-
ferences could be settled behind closed
doors at Trust meetings rather than
given an airing in Parliament.
The Trust has 10 members.‘The chair-
man, ex-officio, is the Minister for Lands.
The Treasury, Forestry Commission,
Soil Conservation Service are represented
The Federal Attorney-General, Sir Gar-
field Barwick, has been a Trust member
since its inception. One of the constant
complaints of skiers is that they are not
represented on the Trust, to which the
Trust’s answer is that their representative
is Sir Garfield, and what more distin-
guished representative could the skiers
have? The prime mover in the Trust is
the NSW Administrator of Parks and
Reserves, Mr H. Stanley.
If the Snowy Mountains Authority has
done everything in its power to be
favorably thought of by the public, the
Trust in its early years seemed to do
everything to be disliked. Its attitude in
the early 'fifties was to let no one into
the area. Even when the Snowy scheme
got under way, harnessing the waters of
the catchment which the Trust was
pledged to conserve, the Trust still ap-
peared to feel that no development
should take place.
HThe Trust is now suffering for what
A are largely past sins. In the past four
years the Trust has approved £4.000.000
worth of development. More importantly,
perhaps, its park superintendent, Mr
Neville Gare, has drawn up a master
plan for the area, outlining where and
what future development should be. This
plan is still being considered by the
Trust.
The Trust has approved developments
which have brought large and powerful
companies into the area. The pioneer
of large-scale development was Mr Ken
Murray, head of the Sydney publishing
company. Mr Murray is generally well
thought of in the area. He has good local
knowledge, is a lover of snow country
and has been able and willing to spend
large sums of money on his hotels in
the Perisher Valley, “The Man From
Snowy River” and “The Sundeck.”
More recent entries into the snowfields
are Lend Lease Corporation, which took
over the shareholding of Thredbo-Kos-
ciusko, James Wallace Pty Ltd, in asso-
ciation with Ansett-Pioneer and H. C.
Sleigh, who are at Smiggin’s Holes (from
which they have dropped the apos-
trophe), and Broken Hill Holdings,
which has formed a company to rebuild
the Chalet and provide what they adver-
tise as the longest covered chairlift in
Australia, 3.4 miles from the Alpine Way
over the Ramshead Range to the Chalet.
Even big developers get into the area
strictly on the Trust’s terms. Detailed
plans must be approved, and in Perisher,
for example, the Trust stipulates that 15
per cent of the building must be of local
granite. Commercial leases are for 45
years and are granted only to a company
registered under the Companies Act. Ski
clubs are given 20-year leases. A club
must have a minimum of 30 members, be
non-profit-making and legally incor-
porated under the Co-operatives Act.
The Trust calls for tenders for all
commercial development. However, Lend
Lease managed to get into the area when
the original Kosciusko-Thredbo ran short
of cash and sold the shareholding. Al-
though the Trust calls for tenders, the
development may be along lines suggested
to it by a company, which may, happily,
turn out to be the successful tenderer.
There are now no private lodges in
the area, although the handful built at
Thredbo before the Trust stiffened its
policy will remain. There are now about
50 ski-club lodges, built or being built,
in Perisher alone. These represent such
diverse interests as the Rugby Union,
Public Service Association, Manly-War-
ringah Master Builders and Royal Aus-
tralian Navy.
The limits to development above the
snowline are already plain. These are
mainly because of sewerage and garbage
disposal, water supply and car parking.
Parking is a vexed question, although
the Trust's proposed new parking area
at Wilson’s Valley, which will be com-
pulsory for all except day visitors to the
higher areas, is not yet finished.
A lot of money was spent this sum-
mer in preparation tor the season, but
snowfields are a very easy place to pour
money down a drain. Mr Tony Sponar
took over the servants’ quarters of the
Hotel Kosciusko, burnt down in 1951,
and converted them into an attractive
lodge. He dammed Diggers’ Creek and
called his place Lakeside Inn. In No-
vember a flash flood came down and
Mr Sponar has a Lakeside Inn, but no
lake.
The old pattern —and the Trust, when
it was running the Hotel Kosciusko and
the Chalet, knew it well —was to make
money in winter and lose it the rest of
the year. The emphasis now is equally on
summer and winter holidays. If the new
hotels are to make money they must get
people to the mountains in summer. The
park superintendent of the Kosciusko
State Park Trust, Mr Neville Gare, be-
lieves that the year-round possibilities of
tourism depend on what the Trust does,
or is made able financially to do.
The new hotel at Smiggin’s Holes plans
tennis courts (with a raised edge to be-
come a skating rink in winter), a nine-
hole golf course and swimming-pool.
However, this, as Mr Gare points out,
is only what most holiday places offer
anyway. What can the Snowy Mountains
add? They offer excellent fishing (Lake
Eucumbene has a year-round open sea-
son for trout), horseback-riding and so
on, but its chief attractions in the eyes
of the park staff are the Alpine flowers
and the mountains themselves. These,
Mr Gare feels, it is the Trust’s job to
preserve.
I%Tr Gare, a bachelor of Forestry from
Sydney University, became park
superintendent four years ago. The
rangers, who wear uniform, have a large
variety of jobs, including annual inspec-
tion of hotels and lodges, search and
rescue, traffic control, supervision of
picnic areas, as well as seeing that
no one picks the flowers. Mr. Gare
regrets that in the past few months
most of the work has been con-
centrated on the ski-villages, although,
of course, this is where the money is
being spent. He hopes now to improve
facilities for the summer visitors, and foi
the day visitors, who generally just make
a race for the summit, probably spend-
ing no money in the area and leaving
nothing except a few sweet wrappings
behind. He feels that better camping
areas and more amenities, and even even-
tually such things as campfire concerts
and the showing of films on the park,
will encourage people to stay longer and
spend more.
The park staff’s activities are limited
by the Trust’s income, which comes from
an annual grant from the Treasury of


KOSCIUSKO
A BULLETIN
PORTFOLIO
Thredbo Village is developing into a complete snow resort.
JUNE 1, 1963
Summer’s chief attraction —
the alpine flowers.
Kosciusko State Park Trust
photograph.




A lone skier pauses before a majestic snow formation.
Skiers travel on horseback to ski on summer drifts.
A rare sight in the Australian [?]nehe on Mt. Alice Rawson.


The Thredbo River, near the Creel, in summer.
Kosciusko State Park Trust photograph.
Night scene. “The Man from Snowy River” hotel at Perisher.


£ 10,000 to £15,000, rentals from lease-
holders and half of what was formerly
paid by graziers for snow leases. This
comes from the Snowy Mountains Au-
thority and amounts to about £12,000.
There seems to be a strong case for
charging admission or a parking fee
within the area. One argument is that
people don’t appreciate anything they
get for nothing, but Mr Gare’s feeling
is that if people were stopped at the
entrance to the park, it would be the
ideal time for the Trust to do a little
brainwashing of its own by handing out
literature and so on.
Mr Gare sees the park as a national
asset, such as Yellowstone and Yosemite
in the United States. He believes we
should have a national policy on what
should be classified as national as op-
posed to state parks, but the Federal
Constitution prevents all except the most
tentative moves towards this
Mr Gare believes there could be fur-
ther development in the Mt Tate area
and White’s River, although here access
is a problem. There is already the begin-
ning of a village at Guthega. However,
he believes that if a large luxury hotel is
ever built in the area it will be well
below the snowline at the new Jindabyne
which the Snowy Mountains Authority
has planned after the old town is flooded
by the Jindabyne reservoir
Although no one could have anything
but admiration for the enthusiasm of the
Trust staff within the park, the primitive
area controversy shows clearly that the
Trust’s public relations have not notably
improved over the years. Perhaps on this
occasion they may have just overestimated
the public intelligence. Perhaps if they
had called it a nature s‘rip it might have
been clearer. The primitive area consists
of 70 square miles of the Trust's area of
2100 square miles. The tenor of most of
the furious letters to the Press is that
this is to be given over to a “few scien-
tists.” However, in Mr Gare’s view it
is primarily and largely for the use of the
public. He sees it as an area with ade-
quate picnic places and a line of huts for
ski-tourers, who graduate from the easier
slopes below, but without major develop-
ment buildings.
FPhe primitive area supporters, although
they lost the Geehi battle, be-
lieve that the fight is far from finished.
The Kosciusko reservoir is not due for
building for six years and in the mean-
time they intend to rally their forces.
One or two factors may work to help
them. We may be closer to atomic
powerhouses, making hydro-electric
power less important, or the exact figure
of how much more water is going
through the scheme than was estimated
in 1949 may become common know-
ledge. (One theory is that the Authority
now knows it can get 40 per cent
more water than was originally thought.
If this is so, the additional 10 per cent
from the Kosciusko reservoir becomes
less vital.) However, if they plan to re-
educate the Australian people to the
belief that to develop is not necessarily
to destroy, they will have to undo some-
thing that began on Foundation Day.
And the fanatics are not all on one
side. The president of the Geehi Club, a
group of bushwalkers, mainly with the
Snowy Mountains Authority, was roundly
condemning the “hideous group of build-
ings" at Perisher, Smiggin's Holes and the
Chalet as “permanent scars on the land-
scape” in the “Sydney Morning Herald”
on May 20, although these are all well
out of the primitive area. He did not
mention, either, that the club was con-
nected with the Authority.
Sir William is quick to say that he
approves Wrongly of the primitive area.
He certainly loves the mountains and
even with a gammy leg from World
War 1 he accompanies the Geehi Club on
its first walk of the season. The Authority
on most issues is magnanimous and, of
course, it can afford to be It takes
seriously the question of re-afforestation
of areas disturbed by works, but here
the purists rise in their anger to com-
plain that the Authority plants exotics
and see the lines of poplars and willows
as intruders. The Authority does every-
thing we want, is the local view, but
they do it their way.
Much of the irritation the Authority
arouses is probably unconscious. Going
into its area is rather like going to Can-
berra. although without the languor of
the capital. Everyone is better organised
and better off than elsewhere. One feels
rather like a citizen from a conquered
country being shown the wonders of
ancient Rome, a citizen who keeps mut-
tering to himself, “But it’s all paid for
with my money.” So strong is the team
spirit that almost everybody speaks con-
tinually of “we” and “ours.” “We built
these roads,” they say guilelessly, and
one feels that Sir William’s public re-
lations campaign should go into reverse,
pointing out to “we” and “us” and to the
Minister for National Development that
“we” built the roads with the taxpayers’
money.
Whatever relations are and will be-
come between the Authority and the
Trust, they are united on one thing—that
all skiers are mad. If all skiers are mad
the fraternity also has a particularly wide
lunatic fringe, which is so vocal that it
often obscures the just demands of the
skiers. This winter, with new hotels and
ski facilities operating, will probably test
how well the skiers are now served.
Now, late this year, the first snows
have fallen, softening the harsh moun-
tains landscape. The skiers are now too
busy on the slopes to write their angry
letters to the papers, condemning the
Trust. The Trust rangers will be busy dig-
ging skiers’ cars out of the roadside.
The Authority’s winter station at Siberia,
which keeps the Alpine Way open
throughout the winter, will be manned
with a small team, picked by the fore-
man himself, who will live there for
five or six months. The season of con-
troversy ends, but it is always amazing
how much heat a few square miles of
snow can generate.
"My bloke overcame the resigning rumour problem, he gave himself the
job for life!"


REVIEWS
THEATRE
“The Season” in Sydney
The Season At Sarsaparilla. Patrick
White. Theatre Royal. Sydney.
Victor Borge. Her Majesty’s. Sydney.
real curse of our popular national
A pastime hunting out the Aus-
tralian Play—is the general expectation
that suddenly, this summer, some wholly
magnificent piece of drama will spring
up, fully-armed.
In “The Ham Funeral” Mr Patrick
White gave us a pretty wonderful play,
in my opinion the first Australian drama
that could stand up and call the world its
own. In his second play, “The Season
at Sarsaparilla,’ he has given us another
remarkable work, one I believe also to be
of world value and interest. It is, how-
ever, no depreciation of the play to say
that it lacks the sureness and the clear
unity of “Ham Funeral”, for in “Season”
Mr White has gone high and handsome
for an altogether bigger target.
By all means, in fact we must, be most
grateful, proud, and full of praise for
White’s writing and the divine acci-
dent that he is writing here. Let us at
the same time sit back and wait for the
further growth, without pretending that
what has already appeared is beyond cri-
ticism and also rid ourselves of the
fatal Australian tendency, born of im-
patience, to blame a major work of art
because it is not the work of art.
There is more to “Season at Sarsapa-
rilla” than meets the eye in its present
casting and production. On many levels
the present staging is no better than high-
grade amateur. I cannot understand
either the Trust, J.C.W.’s, or the pro-
ducer, Mr John Tasker, in treating a
first-class property this way. Of all the
large cast only three or four can be
described as professional players. Does
Mr Tasker really believe that little theatre
players are better than pro’s? Or did he
have some soft loyalty to those players
who appeared in the world premiere pro-
duction at Adelaide?
If so, he must learn that the only
thing that matters in theatre is the best
possible result. The only loyalty is to the
playwright who is, after all, the only
great talent in the whole theatrical pro-
cess. I cannot think that Mr White has
had the best possible deal in this staging.
In this I am not blaming Mr Tasker’s
actual production. His ideas on the whole
were firm, properly shaped and very
much in tune with the written play. The
flat spots were mostly because of lack
of power in the playing, though there
are one or two pretty plain faults in the
play. The children, for instance, are given
too much, and Mr White may come to
realise that there are limits to how much
a child player can carry.
As well, one or two of the characters
—the model, the teacher-chorus, the
model’s councillor boy-friend seem
superfluous. Mr White doesn’t yet quite
trust to the guts of his plays to carry
their own message. He has this little
touch of Brecht, a notable hammerer-
home of points.
White’s attitude to the suburban life
he accurately pins down in “Season” is a
love-hate one. His attacks are not at the
people, but the way of life, the milieu
that is foisted on living people. White
takes the back walls off three suburban
cottages and the kitchen settings are
the same, the saucepan sets are the same,
the times of going to work are the same,
the routines are the same. But the people
—White loves these people, or the life
in them.
From Miss Doreen Warburton as Nola
Boyle comes a performance of magical
intensity. If there is a fault in Miss War-
burton’s playing I couldn’t find it. Cliff
Neate as her husband, Ern, “a cheerful
little bugger” in Nola’s words, was finely
in support: restrained, selective, resisting
the cliches he could so easily have moved
in. Leslie Dayman, as Masson, Nola’s
lover, had most of the strength needed,
and Vaughan Tracey, Reg Collins, Don
Barker stood away from the general
amateurism of the rest of the cast.
At Her Majesty’s, a tremendous dis-
play of professional humor is being
staged by Mr Victor Borge, joined by a
fine pianist and surprisingly engaging fel-
low —Leonard Hambro. Most of Mr
Borge’s foibles are widely known these
days, so that all I can say is not to
hesitate, but go. With Mr Hambro in tow,
Mr Borge is funnier than ever, and one
act of theirs is worthy of, say, Chaplin
and Keaton together.
This is a fantastic four-hands one-
piano routine in which a Liszt Hunga-
rian Rhapsody is played extremely well,
though heaven knows how for up on
the keyboard an incredible brawl and
struggle for possession of the keys goes
on.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
Reaching For The Knob
Portrait of a Star, Channel 9.
Tn some “viewing areas” Saturday nights
A are considered suitable for some of
the best television shows, with the lightest
items last on the bill. In Melbourne you
can see “Startime” from 10.30 until you
fall into a dreamless sleep. But in Syd-
ney anything can happen on a Saturday
night, and, as an instance, I give you a
recent “musical play” called “Portrait of
a Star,” which flashed on to my screen
at 9.30 and remained visible until about
9.45 when my palsied hand at last found
the knob, and tuned out.
“Portrait of a Star (60 min.),” said the
programme notice, “is the first musical
play from TVW, Perth.” It starred Mel-
bourne singer, Dorothy Baker, who has
since gone to England, and it told the
story “of a young singer’s struggle for
recognition, and her rise to fame and
fortune, of the people who guided her
and the pitfalls she encountered on the
way up.” It all had a familiar ring,
somehow.
Well, the producer and director, Max
Bostock, started his portrait with a splash
of everything. On a tiered stage, floodlit
and surrounded with utter blackness, the
chorus whirled and Miss Baker sang in
a magnificently loud, flat and tuneless
fashion. It was an impressive way of
showing her humble beginning with the
West Cottesloe Musical, Dramatic and


“I flew faster than a bullet!”
“Boy! A V-Jet really travels. Our Qantas pilot said it’s faster than a shot from a colt .45. So
you’d think they’d call it the Cowboys and Indians Route to London. But Qantas calls it the Kanga-
roo Route. I suppose they’re right, because Mum and Dad decided to take their time and we hopped
from city to city. We saw Singapore, Bangkok, India, the Middle East and Europe. Next time
I’ll bring my snapshots to show you . . . me on an elephant in Calcutta . . . on a camel in Cairo
me and a Swiss Guard in Rome —I’ve got dozens of photos. We took a month to get to London
but our V-Jet could have got us there in under 27 hours flying time if we’d wanted to. There’s
lots of flights to choose from.” (Note: Qantas flies five services a week
from Australia to London on the Kangaroo Route and you can
return round-the-world through the U.S.A. and Honolulu. See your
Travel Agent or Qantas for details.)
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A . and TEAL .
Q ANT AS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in
Q 13.105.53


Marching Girls’ Society, and I waited for
James Mason to appear and say, “You
can’t sing, but you can be taught. You
have that other indefinable something,
the stuff from which stars are born.”
He didn't, though. In the next shots,
our star was backed against her dressing
room door by a tide of newspaper photo-
graphers who fired questions at her but
took no pictures. And what questions!
How, they asked, had she become a star?
The rest was flashback. Miss Baker, as
a teenager named Dorothy Baker, wear-
ing a pony tail obviously borrowed from
a real pony, came prancing in to a de-
serted dance hall where “Steve” sat fool-
ing with a piano.
After a hesitant beginning, Miss Baker
suddenly proved that she can sing more
like Vera Lynn than Vera Lynn can
these days, and “Steve”, sharing our
astonishment, engaged her on the spot
Apparently without rehearsal, she turned
up that night to sing, run shyly from the
stage, be talked back on by Steve, and
win feeble applause from an unseen
audience.
It must have contained a talent scout
from the nether regions, because im-
mediately the cameras looked down on
our girl dancing in some hellish pit, while
fallen vestal virgins swirled around her
and some fellow tap-danced, waving a
top-pop record. The cameras descended
for a shot over a cauldron of sulphuric
acid, and the fumes spread, and a man
and woman danced merrily in them,
crying “Baba Lu!” Then more of our
girl and the vestals in their pit.
And the result of all that was a clip-
ping, pasted on to an edition of, I guess,
the “Nether Regions News”, proclaiming
“NEW STAR DISCOVERED”. I almost
cried with relief when a new voice
declared that you get one and a half cups
of flavor from someone or other’s coffee
beans, and that broke the spell. The
trembling hand reached the knob, and
Gary Cooper said, “Hop onto the stage,
ma’am,” and thank heavens it was a
sane, old fashioned Wild West stage he
was talking about.
Naturally, I missed the credits and
cannot report who wrote, or daubed, the
“Portrait”. Nor do I know “Steve’s”
name, but whoever he was, he did very
well and much more should be seen of
him, if anyone’s really looking for new
actors in television.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
Still Life
Kenneth Hood, Ray Coles. Macquarie
Galleries. Sydney.
Eskimo Graphic Art, Israeli Paintings
and Drawings. Dominion Gallery.
Sydney.
YlTithout any great change of approach
"" Kenneth Hood continues to deepen
many facets of the art of still life which
is so characteristically one which he has
found himself. At least he makes evident
the delicate process of interaction be-
tween painter and subject. Here there
is a creeping tension of surface, especial-
ly in passages of white or yellow. The
painter foregoes some of the composi-
tional devices related to post-cubist art
in order to find a richer quality of
paint. Whites, blacks, ochres and reds
have more equivocal function asserting
less spatial and more emotional con-
cerns. Quite often his special skill in
turning dull ochre into lustrous golden
links his painting with the grand still
life tradition of the last century, with-
out any loss of contemporary sharpness.
One figure piece relates more to the
Australians than anyone else, the land-
scapes to the late English romanticism
of Vaughan but the still-life within the
landscape to Hood’s immediate passion
for putting the familiar within an un-
familiar context. The balance is no
longer formal in the plainest meaning
of the term but derives its peculiar at-
traction from a nervous, almost shifting
awareness of an elemental life beneath
the surface of appearance.
Tn a tightly compacted world of calli-
graphic line Ray Coles produces some
highly personal, rather attractive paint-
ings, drawings and prints. What dis-
tinguishes his own particular gift from
the strong influences of Klee and to a
lesser extent Picasso, is a conviction that
in some measure he can find the exact
terms or equivalents for visual experi-
ence. The connection is tangible, we are
left with the taint if not the full content of
a poetry of vision without the disappoint-
ment of mere decoration, though this sort
of attack can easily lead to it. Where the
line submerges into textured depths of
tone it acquires mellow lustre in the
realm of the mysterious which Klee ex-
ploited so successfully. Coles commits
himself to the discipline of this line in
order to open a broader concept of
reality yet without assertion. Sometimes
it infuses works like ‘Herkos Gamos’,
‘Voice and Manner’, or ‘The Day it
Happened’, with a genuine magic. Coles
works most successfully in graphic
media. The fusion of this skill with the
wider problems of painting will no doubt
provide an interesting future develop-
ment.
Eskimo graphic art, stone cut prints
and skin stencils in strongly rhythmical
designs, opens a vista into the twilight of
mythology. The goddesses and the
demons still exist but shrewd and reveal-
ing glances at the genre of everyday
existence are childlike, vivid and deeply
experienced. Like all primitives the
Eskimo still retains an unfailing sense
of placement, he' grasps the pulse of life
with firm participation. Whether he does
it consciously or not his patterns ring
with genuine pathos, human or terror.
Israeli paintings and drawings repre-
sent a few artists without the shock of
any important works. The areas of quiet
realism touched with cubism (Eisenscher)
or objective reportage (Ruth Schloss) are
mildly evocative. It is not possible in
a modest show of this kind to gain any
impression of the extent of the modern
movement in Israel.
JOHN HENSHAW
A Young Eagle
Lawrence Daws. Bonython Gallery.
Adelaide.
T awrence Daws sent forty gouaches
from Britain. He has always been a
favorite in SA and is locally regarded as
a native painter even though most of his
training and work has been elsewhere.
A gorgeous colorist who has always
favoured distant perspectives, he still
shows the same tendencies in these paint-
ings, which are a mixture of gouache and
hard, transparent pigments. The subjects
are non-urban Australian and European
scenes, distant horizons and far countries,
sometimes with a stencilled symbol over-
hanging, such as an opened circle or a
Hebrew letter, like a sign in heaven.
Even close-ups of tumbleweed or running
emus have low skies behind them as
though seen through a telephoto lens.
This is a collection of detached stylish
pictures made in the course of his wide
travels by a young eagle who prefers to
nictitate at things from a great height
or a distance. It makes his art episodic,
emphasising an isolated personality. To
some extent this effect is accentuated by
the lightness of the media used in these
paintings, but even his abstract oils which
have been seen here recently, richly
colored balanced abstracts of the rounded
interacting color mass kind, have had
more of the quality of aerial photographs
than of those troubling nipplescapes into
which others introduce a strong hint of
mum and the girl friend. Adelaide likes
the detached approach and nearly all
these gouaches were snapped up quickly.
EARLE HACKETT


FILMS
The Misanthropic
Eye
Mondo Cane. Lido and Gala Theatres.
Sydney.
HThe film camera can be a deadly
A weapon, and its fire has seldom been
more lethal than in this conglomeration
of human idiocies and cruelties.
“Mondo Cane” is a sort of savage
world travelogue in which the pretty
images and mellifluous cliches of the
standard travel film are replaced by
scenes of the ludicrous and repellent and
a drily satirical commentary.
A sequence showing caged Strasbourg
geese being forcibly stuffed with food is
set alongside scenes where Trobriand
island beauties (also in cages) are fattened
up to qualify as brides for the wizened
village headman; this in turn is replaced
by an hilarious episode of American
matrons undergoing torture in a mecha-
nised slimming salon.
We are shown Americans weeping at
the funeral of a dog in a special pets’
cemetery and Chinese dog-lovers select-
ing dogs to eat. Singapore shopkeepers
skinning snakes alive for the discrimi-
nating Singapore housewife are set along-
side jaded New Yorkers eating 20-dollar
lunches of fried ants, beetles and tinned
musk rat.
In some episodes the sick humor gives
way to bitter indictment where, for
example, horribly maimed Malayan vil-
lagers are shown preparing sharks’ fins
for sale as aphrodisiacs. They are all
victims of shark attacks.
(Australia, by the way, gets off lightly
with one good-humored episode in which
girl lifesavers earnestly and sexlessly
demonstrate mouth-to-mouth resuscita-
tion on male “victims”.)
The three ingenious Italians (Gualtierc
Jacopetti, Paolo Cavara and Franco
Prosperi) who put the film together have
a mock-solemn introduction declaring
that their intention is not to pass judg-
ment but merely to record truth objec-
tively. It is to be assumed they are jok-
ing. In point of fact the film is biased,
selective, tendentious and unfair in the
highest degree. It is a perfect illustration
of the fact that the camera, far from
being unable to lie, is the most expert of
liars, since it can tell half or a quarter of
the truth with such an air of impartiality
What the film offers is not an exami-
nation of the fundamental sins and sick-
nesses of the human race but a parade of
freakish incidentals. It can only justify
itself by being witty and interesting
which, for the most part, it is. That
should have been enough.
MARTIN LONG
Feiffer
PKtW HARP
TIMES IP THE
TW£MT(£S.«£MS
UK MOST OTHER
FOLK'S was ?_
oipeip;
paucip;
Mm
ragtime.
m THAT I BEQMOte
tw-m movn m
we rvonce m
foot.
Ttflo6£ PICK W UP
iu thp mimz.
65CM5 i/K£ MCSf
orm FOLKS-
- wxsxoo.
LOfO OF PFomO
rm w m
mm. voib
of atom.
HARP HM6S Cone
m m iu me
FOETIK. STEMS
IK MOST OT®2
W$ WAS OFF J
dime cm-
m mefa-t
mem on.
SETS.
wot that: gem>6e
'em -m uoeopy
HAT TIME TWICE
-v HOW WE WAT STILE
n poor.
T«IASS P/OCEP UP THOOSH
no rue 6arw part#
THE FIFTIES. U)K Of
mio ovtoFmt:.
ion of ATTEUTIOU.
HARP TIMES A6AIU HO
THE MiPPEE FIFTIES.
STEMS nice MSST
ether mm m
wim'mss-
missiees-
SHootih' up
SPACE.
(jar THAT I
vmme
W-Bvr
UOBCM
HAP TIME
ruoncc
US POX.
mi AOP ALL r AlfJt
mcoumea usr
me, new, w
mm mm /
mr 3u6t
with m
kw otucit
THW£ll 36
a mi
vem&m
500 ti.
w?r& of
ATTFMTIOfJ-
JOST /,/FF
(U TUF
ap
ms.


THE RED PAGE
Conscience or Whore?
50 Years of New Statesmanship
By OWEN HARRIES
The New Statesman. The History of
the First Fifty Years 1913-1963.
Edward Hyams. Longmans. 435. 6d.
New Statesmanship an Anthology.
Selected by Edward Hyams. Long-
mans. 31s.
np H is year the “New Statesman” is fifty
■*- years old and these books appear to
celebrate the occasion. It can claim to
be, and the claim is hard to refute, the
most important and successful journal of
opinion of its time. It is required reading,
not only for English politicians, but for
the super-realists of the New Frontier
and the Prime Minister of India. Its list
of contributors reads like a roll call of
the great and near-great intellectual and
literary figures of twentieth century
Britain. More important it can, as the
author of these books says, claim to have
been “the voice and symbol for a whole
generation of 'intellectuals’, using the
word in a very wide sense and not to
designate an elite.”
For the last thirty years or so, that is
ever since Kingsley Martin began to
hit his stride as Editor, the appearance of
the “New Statesman” every Friday has
been an important event for some thous-
ands of people in the staff rooms of
British schools, in the common rooms
and laboratories of universities, in the
digs of Indian and African LSE students,
in the offices of civil servants with dis-
creet radical sympathies, and in the
homes of self-taught working class intel-
lectuals and WEA students. For many
progressives who have gone into business
or industry, subscribing to it has assumed
a sort of ritualistic significance, a reassur-
ance to themselves, and to others, that
they have not sold out. It is, I think,
among these intellectuals “in a very wide
sense” (as opposed to intellectuals in the
not-so-wide sense) that its influence has
been remarkable. It has both voiced and
shaped their attitudes and has been their
main source of ammunition in their run-
ning war against Capitalism, Imperialism,
Fascism and Americanism.
How did the “New Statesman” gain this
influence? According to the blurb of the
History, “it has attained its unique posi-
tion both by its quality and integrity”
and many would say that for once a
blurb’s claim was justified. But there is
another view. George Orwell, for ex-
ample, a man who is also widely con-
sidered to have had both quality and
integrity, was of the opinion that the
“New Statesman” of the Thirties (that is
the “New Statesman” when it was most
itself) was a paper with “the mentality of
a whore”. This view, too, has distinguished
support F. R. Leavis, for instance,
arrived at roughly the same conclusion
independently and by a different route
and one of the most difficult tasks facing
Edward Hyams in writing the journal’s
history was to attempt to explain how, if
the first judgment is the true one, some-
one as intelligent and honest as Orwell
could have arrived at the second.
In his introduction to the History,
John Freeman, the present Editor, goes
to some trouble to emphasise that in
commissioning the book no special direc-
tives were given to Hyams, that no
rights of censorship were claimed.
But against this must be set the fact that
Hyams has been a long and regular con-
tributor to the “New Statesman”, that he
is one of the most practised exponents
of the paper’s line, that he shares its
outlook, values, prejudices and sympa-
thies. When he seeks to justify the line
taken by the “New Statesman” writers in
the Thirties he writes about “we” rather
than about “they”. Having chosen such
an author, the claim that an objective
history was sought does not carry much
conviction.
Not that Hyams is completely uncriti-
cal or one-sided in the story he tells.
His account of the first 18 years of the
journal’s life, under the editorship of
Clifford Sharp, is admirable. In his own
way Sharp was just as outstanding an
editor as Kingsley Martin. He had the
ability to pick able men (such as J. C.
Squire, Shaw, Desmond MacCarthy,
Robert Lynd), and the courage to dis-
pense with the services of an even abler
man when he decided, rightly, that
Shaw’s show-off stuff made it impossible
for the struggling journal to develop a
consistent character of its own. Until
his last years the fact that he was a
dedicated womaniser and an alcoholic
hardly seemed to have impaired his
efficiency and under him the “New
Statesman” had a hard-headedness and
intellectual coherence it never had under
Martin. Its tone at this time was patri-
cian and it never compromised with
popular tastes and sentiments. Hyams
regrets the disappearance of this quality
in later years and regards it as evidence
of a “loss of nerve” on the part of the
English educated class in general. Some
would agree with this but would add that
the “New Statesman” not only exem-
plified but substantially contributed to
this loss of nerve.
Hyams is very good, too, on the
“back-half” the literary half of
the journal which led a largely inde-
pendent existence under both editors de-
spite the efforts of G. D. H. Cole to sub-
ordinate it to the paper’s general policy.
This independence is typified by Ray-
mond Mortimer’s disinclination to review
the volumes of The Left Book Club and
by T. C. Worsley’s dismissal of Brecht
as a bore and a plagiarist at a time
when the “front-half” was lauding him as
a great Marxist poet and playwright. This
dismissal brought Martin thundering into
Worsley’s office only to be repulsed by
being asked whether he had actually
seen Brecht performed. Hyams traces the
changes in literary criticism in the pages
of the journal: the change from Ellis
Roberts, the Chestertonian Man-of-
Letters incarnate (cloak, wide-brimmed
hat and all), to the plain writing and
no-nonsense of V. S. Pritchett and, later,
to the often aggressively committed and
“proletarianised” critics of the Sixties.
The change has not been all gain, Hyams
argues, since an improvement in the
quality of criticism has been accom-
panied by a narrowing of range, a new
parochialism which ignores most of
European culture.
This is all very well and all very
interesting. But the core of the History
is concerned, and must be concerned,
with the “New Statesman's” political
record, particularly during the Thirties.
Here the claim that this is an objective
history simply collapses as Hyams goes
through violent contortions in an attempt
to square several circles. His method
will be familiar to readers of the “New
Statesman.” It is to admit several
damaging facts and shortcomings at the
beginning, then (this stage is usually
reached at about the beginning of the
fourth paragraph in a “New Statesman”
leader) to maintain that what was done
was done for the highest motives, that in
the circumstances the line followed was
the only honourable one, and that in
any case it was someone else’s fault.
Then, having prepared the ground, most
of what was admitted at the beginning
is taken back. The “New Statesman’s”
apologies for the Soviet Union often fol-
low the same pattern.
The charges which Orwell and others
make against the “New Statesman” are
that it deliberately propagated a pro-Soviet
line at a time when the Soviet Govern-
ment was systematically coercing and


KEEP YOUR
PERSONAL PAPERS SAFE
An ideal gift
m
V : : ■
m
HBIBI
mMmm
: :
:
m
THE
HOME
UNITIZER
Price: 45/- N.S.W. (Postage Paid);
48/- Interstate; 55/- W.A. and N.T.
Attractively finished in bookbinders’ cloth
this handy portable Home Unitizer will
keep all your personal and important
documents neatly and safely ready for
quick reference. It has twelve compart-
ments and comes complete with printed
tags for 72 various titles, such as Medical,
Dental, Rates, Car Expenses, Insurance,
Taxation, Banking, Receipts, etc. Strongly
made for long wear. The Home Unitizer
makes an ideal gift with real utility value.
Size 151/2” x 11” x 3”. IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
MECHANICAL INDEX CO.
173 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
1912 1 96 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
pI R •
ALFRED S. WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E. G CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
terrorising the entire population under its
control; that it held up the Soviet
system as a model of democracy and
socialism at a time when that system was
betraying every democratic and socialist
principle; that it shut its eyes to any
evidence as to the true nature of the
Soviet Union.
Hyams’ defence is that while the “New
Statesman” was sometimes wrong the
blame lies with people like Koestler and
Claud Cockburn (Pritt is not referred
to in this context) who misled it. “The
sin of Kingsley Martin and those of his
colleagues who were not opposed to his
policy was the decent one of attributing
their own integrity to writers who,
working for the Communist Party, mis-
led them. No doubt it is now clear
enough that we ought not to have trusted
them; but they were seductive and ap-
parently honest writers and how were
we to know the cynics from the ideal-
ists?” One answer to this is that Kingsley
Martin and his colleagues were not
just another bunch of chaps but men
who claimed the intellectual and moral
leadership of the British Left, who took it
upon themselves week in, week out to
tell thousands of people what they should
believe. Another answer is that this de-
fence is invalidated by Hyams’ account
of the refusal to print Orwell’s articles
exposing the Communists in Spain. Ac-
cording to this they were refused not
because Martin disbelieved them but be-
cause they conflicted with his policy line.
This makes nonsense of the “we-were-
duped” line.
Hyams is equally unsuccessful in meet-
ing the charge that, though it preach-
ed anti-Fascism, in times of crisis
the “New Statesman” supported appease-
ment. He keeps bumping up against the
facts: when Hitler occupied the Rhine-
land Martin wrote an editorial explaining
that opposition to him would be (a)
impossible and (b) unreasonable (his
German-Jewish refugee typist broke
down and upbraided him as he dictated
the editorial, but, Hyams explains, Mar-
tin rejected her ‘'kind of extremism.”);
in 1938 the journal supported the Ger-
man claim to the Sudeten-land and while
the issue at Munich was in doubt it ex-
plained that “nothing we or anyone else
could do would save Czechoslovakia
from destruction.” Hyams sees this as a
lapse, as a “penalty for editorial candour”
and as an indication of the conflict in-
side Martin himself.
But his picture of the Editor as a
tortured soul symbolising the tragedy of
a decade would be more convincing if
one could forget the complacency and
the moral righteousness which consist-
ently characterised the “New Statesman”
during his editorship just as his de-
fence of the attitude towards the Soviet
Union would be more convincing if the
journal had not continued to be an
apologist for that regime long after there
remained no doubt as to its real nature
and long after the excuse that any
alliance was justified to defeat Fascism
had relevance. Kingsley Martin’s great
talents as an editor and. journalist have
played their part in perpetuating those
illusions which still bedevil English
politics.
The anthology which appears as a com-
panion volume for the History is also
selected by Hyams and is meant, he
says, to illustrate that state of mind im-
plied by “New-Statesmanship.” In this
respect I think it fails for there are only
three (out of 88) pieces by Kingsley
Martin included and it is in his writing
more than anyone else’s that this state of
mind is exemplified. Oddly enough there
is nothing at all by R.H.S. Crossman who,
after Martin, is probably the most typi-
cal new-statesman. But forgetting this
professed aim it is an excellent anthol-
ogy, weighed on the literary rather than
on the political side, and a reminder that
even if one rejects the claim to excep-
tional integrity, the quality of the writ-
ing in the journal has been consistently
and remarkably high.
Slessor 20 Years After
Why the poems survive
By A. D. HOPE
Poems. Kenneth Slcssor. Sirius Books,
Angus and Robertson, 12s. 6d.
pocketbook; 21s. bound.
reputation is established and
& the qualities on which that reputation
stands need no defining today. It is
perhaps more interesting to consider the
reasons why these poems, mostly written
between the First and the Second World
Wars, have survived their era, when so
little of its poetry is read today, and
when the particular school ol which
Slessor was the most brilliant represen-
tative is now little more than a literary
curiosity. For if the movement which
is associated with a group of writers and
artists in Sydney in the twenties, a move-
ment of which Jack and Norman in
say were the most characteristic figures,
is now as dead as Art Nouveau and as
out of date as Imagism, there is no doubt
that Slessor’s poetry is neither dead nor
out-of-date, even if it looks old-fashioned
in the setting of contemporary methods
and styles.
Slessor was not yet twenty when he
became a member of this curious little
Renaissance and he took its coloring
thoroughly. The only thing that distin-
guishes his earlier verse in the pages of
Vision from the rest of that vociferous
and rather pansy production is that they
are well written and most of the other
contributions are over-written, preten-
tious or merely adolescent. Looking at
them forty years later the writers and
artists associated with Vision seem to
have been animated by a commendable
wish to get away from the stock-rail and


bowyangs school, the great mateship
picnic, and the literary canons of Clancy’s
Thumbnail Dipped in Tar. They wanted
Australian writing to re-enter the Euro-
pean tradition of letters, but to re-enter
it with a character of its own and not
merely as a provincial imitation of con-
temporary artistic fashions.
They were plainly influenced by those
later symbolist poets who, seeking new
material for poetry, ransacked all litera-
tures, all mythologies, anthropology and
mysticism to form delicious amalgams
of allusive reference and evocation. But
the Sydney group produced something
very different from the symbolism of
Stuart Merrill, Francois Viele-Griffin
and Gustav Kahn. They were anything
but allusive and only superficially
erudite. They looked for the material of
poetry in a conglomeration of the pic-
turesque commonplaces of romantic
reading.
A very odd layer-cake it turned out
to be. On a foundation of minor classical
mythology Pan, the satyrs and the
centaurs and the nymphs engaged in per-
petual games of sexual hide-and-seek,
Venus and Cupid, Aristophanes and
Petronius they erected a Middle Ages
compounded of Boccaccio, Provencal
courts of love, the thieves’ kitchens and
willing wenches of Villon’s Paris and a
pantomime version of the Arabian
Nights. The Renaissance supplied them
with Rabelais and Brantome's Femmes
Galantes, Marlowe's brawling taverns
and Shakespeare’s Bawdy, the seven-
teenth century with periwigs and trollops
and buccaneers, the eighteenth with
Chinoiserie, the spice islands, nabobbery
and Macheathery and Hogarthery, and
an aristocratic society of the ’sblud and
stap-my-vitals school, and ending with
the bucks, bruisers and dandies of the
Regency and a touch of Baroness Orczy
to show that the French Revolution had
arrived.
But by now, of course, Australia had
been settled and the whole of this curious
civilization was transported to Botany
Bay where all its inhabitants rubbed
shoulders with Currency Lads and Lasses,
rum-rebels and bushrangers, while Pan
and the satyrs continued to tumble a
juicy nymph or two under the eucalypts.
Later immigrants continued to arrive
from the Paris of Murger, Columbine
and Pierrot, set up their stage and the
Australian Vie de Boheme was complete.
Norman Lindsay painted it and the poets
versified what he painted.
It was all very exciting and virile,
emancipated and assertive, but it smelt
of theatrical effects and fancy-dress balls
rather than any serious concern with man
and his world; there was a forced raf-
fishness about its doctrine of the Life
Force that made it both absurd and
tawdry; it was amorous, clamorous,
sleazy, rumbustious and touched with the
essential vulgarity of intellectual preten-
sions that fail to make their claims good.
And yet it represented something im-
portant, the first conscious movement of
immaturity towards a mature literature,
the first movement of provincialism to-
wards autonomy.
Slessor’s earlier poetry, like that of
R. D. Fitz Gerald, shows the influence of
this school. It was unsuited to Fitz-
Gerald’s genius and temperament and he
soon escaped from it. To Slessor it was
congenial enough for him to stay in it
and to transform it into something
genuine, lasting and alive.
In the first place he had a gift for the
expression of the essential texture, shape,
character and sensual impact of objects
which allowed him to transform the
merely ornamental imagist effects of the
school into something different, a revela-
tion of the metaphysical essence of the
sensual. In earlier poems, they are often
mere heaps of shining words for heaps of
shining treasures meant to dazzle and
astound. But as the essential Slessor
emerged, one feels, more and more that
an old map, a chronometer, an Austra-
lian country town, or corpses on a Me-
diterranean beach, are presented with a
sort of ecstasy of perception which, as
Aldous Huxley says of the flower he
observed under the influence of mescalin:
I was not looking now at an un-
usual flower arrangement, I was seeing
what Adam had seen on the morning
of his creation the miracle, moment
by moment, of naked existence.
Poetry has this power, too, and it is
superior to mescalin because it directs
the imagination as well as illuminating it,
and the first secret of Slessor’s poetry is
the power of illuminating the miracle of
naked existence.
The second is a humanity which saved
him from the shallowness of his school.
Genuine love soon supplants its seedy
amorousness, a manly vigor its animal
virility, and a genuine sense of character
its taste for theatrical personality. Quite
an early poem, Heine in Paris, shows this
command of the heart which is essential
to poetry of any permanence. Captain
Dobbin and Five Visions of Captain
Cook are his outstanding successes, in
what is very close to the art of Browning,
the Browning of Men and Women and
the dramatic monologues. (It is no
longer necessary to apologize for praising
a poet by comparing him with Browning
and I intend the comparison as high
praise.)
But Slessor’s great triumph was to
take the unpromising material he found
to hand, to accept the romantic farrago
and create a genuine poetic world. In
one of the poems in the Atlas he des-
cribes the Dutch cartographers’ recon-
struction of a Netherlands port:
Fox-coloured mansions, lean and tall.
That burst in air but never fall,
Whose bolted shadows, row by row,
Float changeless on the stones below —
Sky full of ships, bay full of town,
A port of waters jellied brown:
Such is the world no tide may stir,
Sealed by the great cartographer.
O, could he but clap up like this
My decomposed metropolis,
These other countries of the mind,
So tousled, dark and undefined!
It is possible to sum up a poet’s
achievements too neatly and glibly, but
if asked to say what Slessor has suc-
ceeded in best, I should say that it has
been to create a genuine country of the
mind for poetry out of material which
seems only fit for charades and to have
demonstrated that for Australia such a
country is as suitable a source of crea-
tion as the native landscape.
The Squadron
Sydney Sails. The Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron, 1862-1962. P. R. Steph-
ensen. Angus & Robertson. 635.
T, . „ _ , 0 ,
ms history of Sydney Yacht Squadron
(with a preface by the Duke of Edin-
burgh) is a handsome volume profusely
illustrated and compiled for the Squad-
ron s Committee by P. R. Stephensen,
though a great deal of the preliminary
work on it was done by the late K. R.
Cramp whose researches ended with his
death. It is splendidly illustrated with
a magnificent jacket-painting by John
Allcot showing Gretel in full sail in the
Harbor, and a colored frontispiece of the
Club House at Kirribilli by the same
artist. The only pity about the illustra-
tions is that more trouble was not taken
to check the names of now forgotten but
once famous craft.
There is a little introductory coverage
of early sailing. It is rajher sketchy and
there wer£ certain]y regattas before , 827
when the book fixes the pioneer one as
being organised by the Captains of
HMS Success and Rainbow with purses
Q f 59 Spanish dollars. There was one, for
instance, the year before, organised by the
officers of Sir James Brisbane’s flagship,
Warspite, and certainly some competition
before then. Nor is the author correct
in saying that Robert Campbell was the
owner of the first pleasure yacht on
Sydney Harbor. Captain Piper certainly
had one before then and from it even-
tually he cast himself over outside the
Heads, while his private band played


See the Conquering Hero Comes, in-
tending to commit suicide. (Though
he could not swim and was dressed up
to the nines, they fished him out to live
for many a year.)
However, continuous series of regattas
have been held every year since 1837,
and the Yacht Squadron has been hold-
ing its Anniversary Day event with all
the traditional alarums and excursions and
liners as flagships since its foundation in
1862 when it inherited its traditions from
earlier organisers.
In the interval of the century the
Squadron has grown into one of Sydney's
most eminent social institutions. Its fine
clubhouse in a setting of wide green
lawns on Kirribilli Point is now the
habitat not merely of yachting but of a
numerous social club of which the bulk
of the members have very little know-
ledge of yachting, despite the fact that
yachting is the be-all-and-end-all of the
club’s prestige. Its Anniversary Day re-
gatta and its annual garden party com-
bined with a regatta are social events to
which invitations are coveted. Its his-
tory is spangled with great names of
yachts and men ranging from the first
entries of James Milson’s Era and Wil-
liam Walker's Chance in the Register
on to the new era of G ret el and Vim and
the emergence of Sydney yachting into
the wide world with its now already
famous Sydney-Hobart Race and its
entry into the realm of Olympic competi-
tions and of the America’s Cup.
While published primarily as a
souvenir of the centenary year for mem-
bers, the book is one which will certainly
find a place in every yacht club on the
globe. It would bear revision in another
edition with its errors carefully corrected
and with the addition of an index, the
lack of which is an inconvenience.
M. H. ELLIS
Bloomfield’s Tour
Screens and Gowns. Some Aspects of
University Education Overseas.
John Bloomfield. F. W. Cheshire.
30s.
"Professional educationists in general
have never exhibited more than a
detached interest in technology or an
indulgent curiosity in aids such as radio,
film and television. As a result, tech-
nological developments have tended to
pass them by.
Today, in the United States, com-
petent educationists are warning their
colleagues that unless they develop a
more positive and a less unbending
attitude towards the technological “ex-
plosion” in education, they could end
up losing control of their own profession.
As the demands on the educational
system assume gigantic proportions and
there seems little likelihood that these
can be met by time-honored conventional
methods, a situation might very easily
be created where the technologists, with
the unqualified approval and relieved
encouragement of public opinion, take
over. Signs are not Wanting that this
infiltration has, already, begun.
In view of the gravity of the educa-
tional crisis, the Victorian Government
thought fit that its Education Minister,
John Bloomfield, should go abroad and
see for himself what other countries
were doing about similar difficulties. In
particular, it wanted some first-hand in-
formation about the use in academic
circles of radio, television and motion
pictures.
So Bloomfield went overseas. On his
return he wrote this book. He is careful
to disown any suggestion that he is
attempting “to enter the highly technical
realm which is the domain of experienced
and qualified teachers.” He recognises,
however, that he might be expected to
inform himself so that he might the
better be able “to offer broad sugges-
tions.”
He confines himself to university
education, although much of what he
writes can be related to the education
system in all its branches. He thinks
that “there is more likely to be room
for beneficial change in the university
world than in the school world.” Uni-
versity teachers, he reasons, have no
organised teacher training, comparable
to that which is a compulsory qualifica-
tion for every teacher in the primary or
secondary schools. Any progressive
developments in teaching practice would
therefore be not so well known and new
methods less likely to be found at the
tertiary educational levels.
Nobody can be better placed than
the Minister in charge of an educational
system to stimulate thinking about
educational problems and to shake the
community out of smug complacency.
That few, if any before him, have ever
felt moved to offer so many hostages to
political fortune as does John Bloom-
field, makes his book all the more
attractive.
In cold print he sets out not only
what he saw and felt, but conclusions
and solutions which he believes might
have local applications. Nobody neces-
sarily need agree with him in order to
appreciate the service he has rendered.
NEWMAN ROSENTHAL
Shameful Book
New Painting 1952-62. The Arts in
Australia. John Reed. Longmans.
15s.
rjhiE publishers should hang their heads
in shame over this one. There is no
evidence whatever in the text of any
proof-reading, and the blunders are so
numerous that they make an already
foolish text quite laughable. The pick of
them would be on Don Laycock, who is
“represented in few private and public
collections” (sic).
t
For my part textual illiteracy rules a
book out of consideration. In this case
the work can be struck right out with-
out ceremony. The editor’s selection of
painters is capricious and the commentary
sloppy and fatuous. John Reed's stated
intention is “to present the Australian
painters who have added something new
and vital to our art in the past ten years.”
One could quarrel with several of his
minor choices and omissions, but the
really big surprise is the omission of
three older painters lan Fairweather,
Godfrey Miller and Roger Kemp. Ap-
parently these three fall into the editor’s
category of painters who “made their
fundamental plastic statement before the
50s”, though I notice that Danila Vas-
silieff does not. Frankly this “fundamen-
tal plastic statement” baffles me. We know
that Fairweather, Miller and Kemp are
working as seriously as ever, that they are
among our very best, and that they have
held major exhibitions in the last decade.
These are objective enough facts. Why
confuse them with such curious verbiage?
This struggle with language typifies the
whole book. No attempt has been made
to be clear or even thorough. The paint-
ers have been asked to contribute the
text, and it seems that their oracular
jottings have been passed in uncorrected
to the typesetter. As might be expected, a
few are coherent, direct statements about
themes and techniques, others are mere
catalogues of exhibitions and illnesses and
the majority are rot. If, like Jon Molvig,
they refuse to say anything (“I cannot
speak for my pictures they must
speak for themselves”) that, too, is prin-
ted. Why have an editor? Not even the
plates are consistently documented all
have managed to be titled but most miss
out on either size, date or ownership.
And so on, “ad infinitium”, if I may
quote again. The whole affair is an in-
glorious muddle.
BILL HANNAN


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Britain Goes Home Grown
By M. H. ELLIS
#”|ne of the most marked effects of
war, which taught the need for
self-containment and the break-up of
the British Empire, has been seen in
the movement towards feeding the
population of the United Kingdom off
its own soil.
Forty years ago, England, at least on
the “stock front”, seemed backward in
methods beside the more advanced areas
in Australia, and antediluvian beside
the more forward-looking parts of Can-
ada and the United States.
Up to the beginning of World War
11 mechanisation was practically un-
known, the ploughman was king of the
field. Though there were no husband-
men to match the English yeoman farm-
ers, their methods were antiquated and,
though stud standards for cattle, sheep
and pigs were high beyond the rest of
the world, the pure-bred, one-purpose
herd was all too uncommon. Dual-pur-
pose mixed-bred cattle were the rule.
Tn England during the middle twenties
A you could see magnificent studs in the
hands of millionaires and titled farmers,
huge capital expenditures on barn and
housing, but never a tractor, milking
machine, or any other mechanisation
anywhere.
Today the total arable land in the UK,
despite a partial return to grass, is five
million acres more, than before the war.
The age-old systems of rotation have
gone by the board under the impact of a
modern fertiliser and feeding programme
Mechanisation, electrification, piped
water, scientific instruction, herd test-
ing, grain testing, disease control have
revolutionised production and farm life.
The modern emphasis has been on
cereals which occupy a quarter of all
arable land, sugar and feed beet and
potatoes.
Despite the fact that the population
of England and Wales has reached
over 46 millions and that of the United
Kingdom about 54 millions, startling in-
creases in output have been achieved
on farms, more than 70 per cent of
which are now electrified. The horse
population has fallen from 650,000 in
1939 to less than 50,000. There is now
a tractor to every 36 acres of plough
land, plus some 55,000 combine harvest-
ers, farmers’ machinery syndicates (sub-
sidised one-third by the Government),
production grants, grants for ploughing
up grass lands, subsidies and grants to
encourage breeding of cattle on hill
farms and to put small farmers into
business and amalgamate uneconomic
farms. Credit on easy terms, price
guarantees on fat stock and a variety
of State aids (backed by State control
and supervision) add up to a cost of
about £A4SO millions a year.
average Briton has changed his
A eating habits since pre-war days. The
consumption of flour, for instance, has
fallen from 194.51 b. to 164.81 b. per
head. Sugar consumption per head has
gone up nearly 12 per cent, meat 31b.
per head. The inroads poultry is making
into the potential of the meat industry
is proved by the fact that the consump-
tion, which was 51b. per head in 1934-8. is
now 14.61 b. The use of milk has in-
creased 50 per cent, eggs by nearly 40
per cent, margarine by 41b. a head, pota-
toes by 30 per cent. But there have been
reductions in the usage per head of
butter, bacon and ham, fish, fresh, frozen
and canned tomatoes and other fresh
vegetables.
It is remarkable to see how produc-
tion, both gross and per acre, has ad-
justed to these changed eating habits.
Before the war the UK grew only a
little over 12 per cent of its own con-
sumed wheat; now the figure is 26 per
cent. It produces a third of all its sugar
needs against a prewar average of 18
per cent despite increased per head
usage. It produces 67 per cent of its meat
requirement against 51 per cent before the
war; 46 per cent of an increased cheese
usage against the pre-war 24 per cent.
Also, all its milk (liquid) and 97 per
cent of its eggs, where 30 per cent were
imported pre-war.
Its cattle have increased from nine to
12 millions, poultry by nearly half to
114 millions. It is producing nine mil-
lion tons more wheat, nearly seven times
as much barley, 1.5 million tons more
potatoes than before the war.
The net output index of all holdings
was 100 pre-war average; it is now
183 and still rising—by 9 per cent in
the two years ended with 1962.
The UK is importing feeding con-
centrates at a rate which has doubled
in the past decade, in preference to farm
products where that is possible.
Figures may be tedious to read but
these have a lesson for Australian ex-
porters since the same changes in some
degree are occurring in other countries
in Europe. They are being made against
a background of rising costs and dwind-
ling agricultural populations in all coun-
tries and of huge surpluses in key food-
stuffs in America. They are a danger
to the price structure of agriculture in
every modernised food-exporting coun-
try.
Only the Good Pigs Die
A disease that occurs only in well-fed
pigs and not in hungry or badly-
fed pigs has caused concern in South
Australia. It is called Oedema disease,
of which there was no record in Australia
before 1959. But by the end of 1961 it
was commonplace in SA.
Mr J. D. Cameron-Stephen, of the SA
Department of Agriculture, described the
disease at the recent annual conference
of the Australian Veterinary Association
in Sydney.
Oedema, he said, had occurred in pigs
of all ages but mostly in younger animals
and in groups receiving similar treatment
In individual piggeries the disease tend-
ed to recur at the same growth stage and
deaths in future generations could often
be predicted to within a week.
The disease had occurred only on
those farms using improved high-protein
rations and where the pigs were at some
time confined. In well-fed pigs a sudden
alteration of diet or some othei stress
factor triggered it off.
The first signs of the disease were a
slowing of the gait, staggering and an
inability to maintain their place in the
herd order. They might wander about
aimlessly. Appetite was reduced; they
lay apart and seldom moved. They would
squeal weakly and attempt to run away
when disturbed.
Death can be sudden and without symp
toms, but if the pigs linger for over foui
hours the upper eyelids become enlarged
and puffy. Treatment is of doubtful value
but full doses of antibiotics may be use-
ful in those that have survived for several
hours.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
A New Breed of Management
Pressure of competition is creating a new race of scientific
executives. Today, the man who wants to reach the top
faces many years of intensive study. The latest breed to
receive top billing in the US is the company planner ... a
scientist and specialist who must plan ahead for 10 or 15 years
and outpredict customers and competitors.
It is not enough that computers can disseminate material and
solve problems. The computers also need planners'.- So the
race for future markets will involve some very expensive plan-
ning to get the right answers.
If a company is going to spend several millions to re-tool
its plant for a mass-produced item, it needs to be reasonably
assured of market acceptance. The company planner, backed
by computers, therefore must make some expensive suggestions.
It follows that he also should be highly paid. If he is going to
lay a million-dollar egg, he at least should enjoy the right
surroundings.
Although he doesn’t make the final decision for a company
to follow the plan of action he outlines, the planner must
master-mind a blueprint for company development. At the
same time he must remain aloof from internal politics, the
boss’s daughter, and the knives of those whom he may destroy
while he plots mergers, shut-downs or new products.
He not only needs to be a trained engineer or scientist with
a knowledge of market research, he also must have sufficient
economic knowledge to forecast industry trends. And, when
it comes to a final analysis, he has to convince those at the
top that he is right.
Recent publicity given to this new bird of paradise in US
industry says that about 700 corporations in the US now have
formal planners, with about half these corporations spending
more than 100,000 dollars annually on planning. Sometimes
it is not just a case of the rich company being able to afford
such luxury. The smaller company, with dwindling markets,
may have to spend that amount of money as an investment
to avoid bankruptcy.
Bulletin made a few inquiries on what Australia is doing
about the company planner. One management group
said the larger companies were fostering executive talent by
encouraging the appointment of men with University degrees
and, in fact, the cadetship system (where portion or all of the
employee's University fees are paid) is now paying off. But
there are not too many double-degree men in business. Dr J.
Vernon, of CSR (as a scientist and philosopher), is an excep-
tion.
The cost of executive planning, as a special department,
normally would be regarded as too costly except by the largest
companies. The trend usually is to draw on economic research,
market summaries and computer analysis, disseminate it at
board level, then decide on a course of action.
An increasing number of companies is using computers to
work out statistical formulas, make forecasts of statistical
trends and to reduce all the possible variations to a mathe-
matical level; but the appointment of an independent specialist
planner at top executive level is, as yet, apparently unknown
in Australia.
Mr David Engela of Rothmans says his company conducts
a vigorous forward planning and research department, but does
not employ a specialist planner. He agreed that forward
planning was vital and his company in fact was currently
planning three years ahead and had just appointed Mr
Brian Berry (ex-Dept. of Trade) as commercial relations
director. This job involved forward planning but only in
conjunction with a planning committee. The company’s plan-
ning committee consists of top-level management executives
who delve into market trends, economic conditions, etc.
But there is no single highly-paid vice-president (such as in
the US system) who compiles his own planning project, then
tosses it on the Board table to see how the mop flops.
Evidently Australia hasn’t reached the stage where the new
management bird has evolved which answers to the ideal US
pattern: A scientist with the intuition of a soothsayer who
also has a law degree, an engineering degree and can walk on
water.
TOOLING UP FOR
NEW MANUFACTURES
HThe fight for markets is one thing. The tools of trade are
A another. And if the recent upward sales trend in machine
tools is any guide, manufacturers are striving hard to elbow
ahead of their competitors.
Cutting costs often means more expensive equipment. But
market demands must be met. This is exemplified in the
recent upsurge of activity in the motor vehicle trade, where
millions are being poured into re-tooling for new models.
The automotive industry is a big user of machine tools for
cutting, shaping, grinding or drilling metal. After a dull year
in 1961, influenced by the imposition of 40 p.c. sales tax on
cars as from November 16, 1960, the industry took a new
lease of life in 1962.
Latest import figures show £ 14.7 m. of metal-working
machinery was brought into Australia in the nine months to
March, of which £B.sm. is described as machine tools. Only
£4.2m. of machine tools were imported in the corresponding
nine months to March, 1962.
Local production of machine tools (about 14 classes in 400
sizes) also is rising, aided by an increase in Tariff duty last
December on metal-working lathes. Tariff rates rose from
20 p.c. ad valorem British Preferential Tariff and 27i p.c.
Most Favored Nation to 27j p.c. BP to 40 p.c. MFN.
The UK, which supplied 51 p.c. of Australia’s machine tool
requirements in 1960-61, sent onlv 42 p.c. in 1961-62, and


recent reports from Britain indicate she is losing ground to
Germany, Japan and Italy in the export of these products.
Britain’s increased subsidies for investment in plant intro-
duced last November, followed by more flexible depreciation
allowances in the recent Budget, should encourage UK manu-
facturers to install new machinery to replace existing machine
tools, 41 p.c. of which are claimed to be older than ten years.
Surprisingly enough, the USA (still with a big surplus of
lathes from the last war) reported in 1963 that about 64 p.c.
of its machine tools were ten years old or older. But, as some
of these huge automatic machines take two years to construct,
the user thinks twice about scrapping them . . . particularly
when he is quoted the price of a new model.
The rising tempo of manufacturing activity and the prospect
of a buoyant economy in 1963 have encouraged a vital upsurge
in buying orders for machine
tools in UK, US, the Common
Market area and Australia. In
fact, the scramble for new and
better products is forcing a re-
tooling process all over the
world.
The older models in many
factories are under tarpaulins
and not being used. Railroad
equipment ma ker s, farm
machinery manufacturers and
metal producers are said to
have the most idle equipment.
Largest orders for the new
machine tools are for the auto-
motive, aeronautics (including
space projects) and electronics
industries. Latest US tax con-
cessions permit companies to
depreciate their new equipment
18 p.c. faster than before, and
slice 7 p.c. from their taxes in
claims for plant modernisation
costs.
This will help them to replace
their old equipment quickly and
catch up with European com-
petitors who re-built almost a
new industry from the ashes of
the war, where machine tools
of ten years and older are said
to be: 42 p.c. in France, 15 p.c.
in West Germany and 50 p.c. in
the Soviet.
\
INVESTMENT INSTEAD OF
SWAGGING AND DIGGING
\ Sydney sharebroker has issued a circular on the major
mining companies, quoting the success of Mary Kathleen
Uranium Ltd in extracting £33m. of uranium ore from
deposits near Mt Isa.
His opening gambit is a quotation from Mary Kathleen
Uranium’s annual report: It is a well-known fact that the
rich nations of the world are those well endowed with mineral
wealth and which make every effort to develop these natural
deposits.
After seeing a figure like £33m. pop up at you, the in-
vestor is inclined to read on. But the broker seems to believe
that the big, powerful mining companies with ample resources
will be the ones to take advantage of new finds rather than
some newcomer.
This is a pity. The old urge for young men to find new
worlds to conquer seems to be fast disappearing. You must
have large resources and plenty of technical know-how today.
So what is the alternative? Invest the money you were
going to spend on camp equipment, provisions, fares, etc., in
the big companies who have the resources? The list given by
the broker is Conzinc Riotinto, Broken Hill South, North
Broken Hill, Mt Isa, Western Mining and EZ Industries. It
is rich fare. But no one denies that such companies are in a
strong position to benefit from any discoveries.
Best yield is 6.6 p.c. from EZ Industries. Best tax-free yield
is from Western Mining at 4.2 p.c.
Western Mining looks high priced, but it is in a strong posi-
tion to benefit from Alcoa’s operation in Australia, in which it
holds a 20 p.c. interest.
HONEY EXPORTS
ARE BOOMING
£2 million a year Aus-
tralian honey industry is
having one of its best export
years, thanks more to high ex-
port prices than to the level of
local production. In an average
year export prices of red gum
honey run at about 93d. a lb.
This year it is bringing up to
Is. 23d. a lb.
Western Germany and Britain
are the best markets, where
our main competitors are
Mexico, Argentina and Com-
munist China. This year we
should net better than the
£1,113,000 received from
honey exports last year.
Unfortunately this is proving
to be a poor year for local honey
production, particularly in Vic-
toria, where over a wide area
honey-bearing gum trees have
either failed to flower or have
little nectar in their flowers (90
p.c. of Australian honey comes
from gum trees). Other States
are less affected. (NSW pro-
duces 34 p.c., Victoria 24 p c.,
SA 19 p.c., and WA 18 p.c. of Australian honey in a normal
year.) The overall crop will be the lowest for many years.
Last year Australia produced 44 million lbs. of which
25,300,000 lbs. was exported.
The aim of Australian producers is both to lift exports
(where the strong-flavoured stringy bark variety is most
favoured) and to stimulate local consumption, lifting per
capita consumption from lib. to 2 lb. a head. (Yellow Box
variety is most popular here.)
NEW FINANCE GROUP
FOR S-E ASIA
Oydney investment banker Development Finance Corporation
has not taken too long to chase those opportunities in
South-East Asia.
In association with a glittering array of Australian and
overseas merchant banks and investment houses, DFC has
formed South-East Asia Development Corporation. Among


a
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
3 months ... 5 °/c p.a.
6 months . . . %Vl°fo p.a.
9 months .. . 6 °/c p.a.
12 months .. . 6 Vl°/c p.a.
18 months ... 7 °/c p.a.
• FIXED DEPOSITS
2 years . . , . lVl°/c p.a.
3 years and over B °/o p.a.
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
• Members of the Stock Exchange
• ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z.
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON**'
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
&
other purposes, the new corporation pro-
poses to assist Australian companies to
enter this area, alone or as partners of
Asian industries. But financing services
will be offered world-wide as well.
It is rumored that every source ap-
proached showed keenness to join with
DFC, which had no refusals to provide
capital. With Malaysian demands for bet-
ter balanced industry just around the
corner, possibilities are enormous.
PUSHING INVESTORS
OUT OF BED
VIfHiLE Mr Staniforth Ricketson is quite
right in saying investors’ confidence
(presumably meaning their appetite for
shares) is reviving too slowly, he seems
to have got the wrong reason if he thinks
it lies mainly in fears that the Govern-
ment’s economic policy will lapse into
the Stop-and-Go groove.
Talking to shareholders in Jonathan
Investments he stated that “revival in
confidence seems to be progressing with
an unwarranted degree of hesitancy, un-
warranted, that is, by present-day facts
but unfortunately not altogether without
some justification in the knowledge of
the manner in which economic fluctua-
tions have been handled at various times
during the last decade or more.”
Mr Ricketson seems to have missed a
point, well appreciated by the public, that
the Government has turned over a new
leaf. For a couple of years now it
has been following a “hasten-slowly”
economic policy designed to avoid
what Mr Ricketson describes as the
“thoroughly discredited” Stop - and -Go
sequence.
Of course nobody expects the Govern-
ment to be able to avoid changing its
signals from time to time. It is no more
the master of economic fluctuations than
any other Government. There are too
many outside influences and instru-
mentalities affecting the course of
economic activity.
So before letting Mr Ricketson get
away with his reflection on the Govern-
ment’s economic policy and its influence
on share markets, it is important to con-
sider the broad implications of “hasten-
slowly.” Its twin purposes aim to
promote development and preserve price
stability, behind which is the firm deter-
mination not to allow over-investment
or over-spending to push Australia into
a new round of inflation or into balance-
of-payments difficulties. Surely the
broad implication of such a policy is that
if inflation and balance-of-payments
difficulties can be avoided, officially
engineered “Stops” such as we had in
November, 1960, will be unnecessary.
To be realistic, if anything is seriously
worrying investors because of past,
present or future Government economic
policy, it is the continued evidence of too
strong an adherence to temperance in
its policies to avert inflation, not how
the Government will deal with a hypo-
thetical situation which it is doing its
utmost to avoid.
You can’t rightly slam a Government
for past stops and goes and then, when
it refashions its policies to steer a moder-
ate course, say that a possible return to
Stop-and-Go is still the main worry. That
just doesn’t make sense.
If Mr Ricketson is right at all in
attributing the lack of enthusiasm for
shares to Government policy it is per-
haps in the present virtual absence of
economic stimulants. This could well
be irritating investors, prolonging the
period of convalescence and keeping
(Continued on Page 45)


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Complexities of Import Saving
A fter the shock of the initial results
of the main companies in the Altona
petrochemical complex, it is also dis-
appointing that output from the new
plants at Altona and elsewhere has so
far not prevented the import bill both
for rubber and plastics materials from
rising sharply to meet bigger demand
for both products here. The big day of
the new petrochemical industry as an
imports saver is therefore still to come.
For the nine months to the end of
March this year our imports bill for
natural rubber and manufactures was
<£15.7 million, compared with £13.1
million for the same period last year.
The total for March was up from £1.2
million to £1.9 million. Admittedly
the whole of the increase has come from
imports of natural rubber, up from £5.8
to £7.1 million for the nine months and
from £ 649,000 to £ 1,018,000 in March.
But the small cut in imports of synthetic
rubber for the nine months from £3.4
to £3.2 million and the fact that there
was actually an increase in imports from
£130,000 to £236,000 in March is a
poor reflection on the important saving
so far achieved by Australian Synthetic
Rubber.
HThis company, from which so much is
A expected in imports saving, has been
very slow in getting into its stride out-
put-wise and market-wise to take ad-
vantage of the big rise in Australian
production of both tyres and tubes, the
main outlet, over the last year. Com-
bined Australian output of tyres and
tubes in the latest six months (to Febru-
ary) was 24 p.c. higher than in the
corresponding six months last year.
Coupled with the increase of about 20
p.c. in imports of natural rubber, this
suggests that very little substitution of
synthetic for natural rubber has occurred
as a result of ASR’s presence thus far.
No wonder the mother plant company,
Altona Petrochemical, in explaining its
poor result pointed the bone at the low
offtake by butadiene, for which ASR is
its only customer, and that CSRC-Dow
is unhappy about the necessarily re-
stricted flow of its styrene to ASR.
(These two materials are the main com-
ponents of SBR synthetic rubber pro-
duced by ASR.)
Similarly it is disconcerting to see
that imports of plastic materials have
cost considerably more this year than
last. For the nine months these are up
from £6J to £lo+ million, when it
might have been expected there would
be a big saving as a result of production
of polyethylene and PVC (the two most
used plastic materials) at Altona alone,
without counting in anything resulting
from ICIANZ’s new polyethylene plant
at Botany or new styrene capacity at
Altona.
True, even though the company is
building additional new capacity at
Altona, there was nothing in the report
and accounts of Union Carbide (poly-
ethylene) for 1961-62 to suggest that all
was plain sailing at its new Altona plant.
(Union Carbide’s dividend for the year
was halved.) Equally there has been an
unfavorable result from another plastics
material maker in the Altona complex,
CSRC-Dow, which converts ethylene
obtained from Altona Petrochemical into
ethylene dichloride. It sells this to B. F.
Goodrich-CSR Chemicals for the latter’s
production of PCV.
Again, in addition to the offtake of
its styrene by ASR, CSRC-Dow’s sales
for styrene for the manufacture of
polystyrene, another important plastic
material, could have been less than
expected in 1962.
Against this evidence from imports
and company results, there are on the
other hand clear signs that, largely as a
result of new operations of plastic
material makers at Altona and Botany,
local production has mounted consider-
ably.
Raking the figures for the last six
months of 1962, total production of
plastic materials and synthetic resins had
increased to an annual rate of 1,665,000
cwt. compared with 1,334,500 in 1961-
62, and only 1,061,900 cwt. in 1960-61.
So, although as yet no official statistics
are given for the production of synthetic
rubber here, it looks as if we have less
reason to be gloomy at the trend in pro-
duction of plastic materials than with
synthetic rubber.
One difficulty in interpreting this dis-
appointing interim result of imports
saving from the new petrochemical
industry is that the handful of local
producers of thermoplastic materials are
also closely tied up with parent or
associated companies used to marketing
a substantial quantity of their overseas
production here. This may be inhibiting
them from rushing ahead too fast to
capture more of the Australian market
with local production. If so they are not
alone among overseas companies doing
that. It could even be happening in the
case of synthetic rubber also. It is
certainly happening with motor com-
ponents.
If this is so, for instance, in the case
of polythene, the Tariff Board should
have a very close look at the existing
duties (granted in December, 1961) when
they come up for review later this year.
In the interests of import saving it may
be necessary to put prohibitive duties on
low density polyethylene or, as an
alternative, to prohibit imports as has
been done with unwrought aluminium.
And if any degree of substitution of high-
density polyethylene for the low-density
variety, which alone is produced here,
is detected, by the Board, there would be
a case for the Board revising its view of
December, 1961, and putting a stiff duty
on high-density stuff.
a national viewpoint it is impera-
tive that greater efforts be made to
reduce imports of thermoplastics, even
though we are unlikely ever to become
self-sufficient in them as we are now to
a large extent in thermosetting plastics
(such as “bakelite”), though clearly it
would be uneconomic to produce here
the small tonnages we use of a number
of thermoplastics such as silicones,
fluroethylenes and cellulosics.
(Thermosetting plastic materials can
be moulded and then set into permanently
infusible form whether by heat or by
chemical action. Thermoplastic materials
are those which soften on heating and
reharden on cooling so they can be re-
worked any number of times.)
Australia is already self-sufficient in
cellulose acetate, and surely we now have
enough capacity for this in low-density
polyethylene and, it seems, for two of
the other most used thermoplastics, PVC
and polystyrene.
One thing is certain: If ASR is true
to its intentions, its output of basic SBR
rubber will be lifted to 30,000 tons a
year by the end of next year. But
obviously, as in the case of some of the
plastic materials, this does not necessarily
mean that imports, even of the grades it
produces, will disappear. Inter-group
economics as well as the comparative
level of local costs and the price of
natural rubber will call the tune to some
extent.


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil.
PER ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B|% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA © MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/AB
them faithful to savings deposits and
bonds. But it would be silly to suggest
they are having nightmares of future
stops.
One can imagine what would happen
if the authorities let go the reins, say, by
making a big deliberate cut in bond rate
instead of merely following the trend in
bond market yields, as it has done with
its recent clipping of the coupon on
special bonds.
But, if investors would certainly get
out their beds to buy shares given such
an inflationary twist to Government
policies or, as the National Bank noted
last week, to read inflationary signs in
the margins and leave increases, this
would not necessarily produce a big
advance in share prices.
Probably Mr Ricketson knows this
better than anybody as he gives full
recognition to the effect both on in-
dustrial interest rates and share markets
of the 30/20 legislation and its attendant
tax concessions for the biggest institu-
tional investors. Moreover, as a big
broker he will be well aware that it is
going to take a long time for brokers to
dispel the widespread disillusionment
among non-institutional investors about
the path to riches through share invest-
ment following the heavy losses of most
investors since the 1960 boom.
Advanced Course on
Hydrocarbons
HPhe next course at the school of Ad-
A vanced Studies in Hydrocarbons at
Milan will open next September. The
school, operated by the State-owned oil
holding ENI, is a centre of post-graduate
learning, designed to widen a tertiary
background in the scientific, technical,
economic and administrative areas to suit
the needs of the hydrocarbon, chemical
and oil industries.
A limited number of vacancies is avail-
able and candidates will be chosen on
university and other qualifications as
well as their general background.
The Italian Embassy Commercial Of-
fice in Sydney has full information.
Another Ram for Africa
A stud Corriedale ram from John A.
Sloane and Co. Pty Ltd, “Neyliona”,
Jerilderie, NSW, has been sold for an
undisclosed price to South Africa. The
buyer of the ram, J. A. S. of 1961, is
Mr McNaughton, of Graaf Reinet.
This is the second export of a NSW
bred Corriedale ram to South Africa in
the past month. A 400 guineas ram
was sold recently by J. B. Macfarlane and
Son, of Cudal, to Mr P. Schoeman, of
Cape Province.


smmiimmtemzmm
-v : r
m
: i
CSR \/INYLFLEX
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
So beautiful... so easy to maintain
So beautiful . . . because the rich colours are
moulded through to last for years. Choose from
30 beautiful, modern colours. So easy to maintain
. . . because the satin-smooth, durable surface resists
wear and scuffing . . . stays clean longer.
Simple, easy-to-follow laying instructions are
packed with your tiles. Select your design by using
the free CSR Pattern Planning Service. Vinyl/lex
Tiles are made in Australia.
Ldbl IjeM'ti
BUILDINr^v^MATERIALS
SOLD BY vi. 102
DEPARTMENTAL AND HARDWARE STORES EVERYWHERE
Vehicle Financing Should Top
the 1959-60 Record
TThiE Commonwealth Statistician’s figures
A on instalment credit business show
a slight lift of £2m. to £4o6m. in hire-
purchase and non-retail outstandings for
April. A strong trend in vehicle finance
business, evident in January, has been
sustained.
With the motor boom gathering force,
it was expected that monthly figures
might rise even above the buoyant January
figures for motor vehicle financing. They
were not far short. Results for the three
individual months to March were
£ 18.9 m., £ 17.1 m. and £ 17.8 m.
These represent a sharp rise on the cor-
responding months in 1962, when
amounts financed on motor vehicles were
£13.9m., £13.6m. and £16.1m
a total lift of £ 10.2 m. for the quarter.
If March figures are maintained for
vehicle finance in the remaining three
months of 1962-63, the total financing
for the year would reach £220.4m.
compared with £ 172.6 m. for 1961-62.
Now that the Statistician is publish-
ing figures for new and used vehicles,
it is apparent that second-hand vehicle
financing currently is higher than new
motor vehicle business. At least it was
higher in every month from July to
December last year and was just shaded
in December. It was the reverse in the
corresponding six months of 1961. A
total of £58.3m. in second-hand vehicle
finance was recorded in the half year
to December, 1962, compared with
£54.9m. in new vehicles. These figures
include all types of vehicles, such as
tractors.
Figures published for the hire-purchase
and finance groups show that the finan-
cing of household and personal goods is
just about the same as in 1961-62.
Financing of household goods fell
from £51.3m. to £40.2m. in_l96l-62.
The nine months’ figures of 1962-63 total
£ 30.6 m. and if they are projected for
a full year, based on the March level of
£3.lm. a month, they would reach
only £ 39.9 m. However, May is usually
a good month (when girls marry or get
ready to marry in June). So possibly
there could be a lift in sales.
Retail instalment business keeps grow-
ing and it seems likely that many instal-
ment sales by the retailers represent cer-
tain household goods which previously
may have been bought on hire-purchase.
But vehicle sales appear to be the key
to the current trend in financing. It would
be surprising if this trend failed to con-
tinue to June, thus giving the vehicle
financing business a record year and beat-
ing the 1959-60 record of £216.6m.
Oil Heating Units Double
flkiL-FUELLED domestic space heating is
becoming so popular in Australia
that nearly twice as much heating oil was
sold in this country last winter as in the
winter of 1961. It is expected that there
will be a further substantial increase in
sales this winter.


INVESTMENT SECTION
Catching the Salamander
HThe back-door entry of C. H. Degotardi
Pty Ltd on to the Stock Exhange, by
catching the Salamander and putting salt
on its tail, is an interesting exercise to
follow through, based on current market
prices. How would an investor finish up
after the takeover if he purchased 300
ss. shares on the market at recent prices
of Is. 7d.?
He would end up w'ith 100 2s. shares
which cost him 2s. sd. a share. If, as
forecast, a dividend of 12} p.c. is paid on
the proposed capital of £250,000, the
market yield to the investor w ; ou!d be
just over 10 p.c.
If the shares rise from 2s. sd. to 35.,
the yield would be 8} p.c. If the investor
sold at 35., he would have paid the
equivalent of 3d. a share for brokerage
going in (300 shares at Id. each). It
would cost him 2d. a share in broker-
age to sell his 100 remaining shares.
Without stamp duty, therefore, he would
clear 2d. a share (on 100 shares) if he
sold at 3s
This exercise, of course, is based on
the recent market price. The shares went
up to Is. 7d. after the takeover offer
to Salamander shareholders.
On this basis, are the shares w'orth
buying at Is. 7d.?
The answer to that question seems to
lie in the tightness of the market which
will exist after the takeover when most
of the capital will be in the hands of
the Degotardi group.
Recent experience of the Holyman
Woods takeover by the Hershon group
showed that a much stronger market
existed after the takeover went through.
But there are still plenty of expenses to
account for when a company turns
public, including the costly share trans-
fer expenses and other items.
The market exercise on Salamander
goes like this: If Degotardi is offering
Is. sd. a share for tw'O-thirds of Sala-
mander capital and then reduces the
paid up capital from £190,000 to
£76,000, it is necessary for a prospective
investor to buy parcels in lots of 300.
Cost of buying 300 shares at Is. 7d.
is £26 Bs. Od. If Degotardi buys 200
of these shares at Is. 5d., the cost is
reduced by £l4 3s. 4d. The purchaser
of an original 300 shares now holds 100
ss. shares costing £l2 4s. Bd., which
then are reduced from ss. par value to
2s. par value (when paid up capital is
reduced from £190,000 to £76,000).
Degotardi then issues £174,000 in
shares to cover part consideration for
the assets to be acquired in C. H.
Degotardi Pty Ltd, Stewart Churchill
Pty Ltd and associated companies. De-
bentures also will be issued as part
consideration, which means that the
Degotardi group will have first claim on
the assets.
The proposed 12} p.c. dividend on a
capital of £250,000 would cost £31,250
after meeting the debenture interest
commitments and paying tax, etc.
Consolidated net profit for the year
to June, 1962, is stated at £37,500 after
depreciation of £5,843, tax of £25,971
and interest of £18,853 (total £50,667).
A similar result for 1962-63 (excluding
takeover and scrip issue expenses) would
require earnings of £88,167 before tax,
depreciation and assuming that interest
charges are no higher than £18,853.
The company does not indicate its
income. But great significance must be
attached to the item in its balance sheet
of £388,332, representing term sale
debtors after a provision of £48,128 for
unearned interest. On the liabilities side,
an amount of £238,081 is shown as
“gross profit on term sales yet to
mature.” plus other liabilities of
£238.006.
Shareholders’ funds total £145,790
after deducting intangibles of £2,032.
These shareholders’ funds include
£82,502 in capital profits and £64,891
in undistributed profits which can be
disbursed at any time. If they remain
where they are and we adjust the balance
sheet to include £250,000 of proposed
share capital and, say, £200.000 of
debentures, the liabilities side of the
balance sheet will rise from £623,909 to
£1,073,471. Over on the assets side, as
there is only £33,750 in assets to include
from the takeover of Salamander Salt
Ltd, it would appear that intangibles will
rise by £415,812.
This, of course, is offset to some extent
by the term sales or capital profits yet
to mature which total £238,081 (subject
to tax when taken in).
Salamander shareholders weren’t so
well off when the shares drooped at
around Is. in April. So the issue becomes
one of backing the Degotardi group in
their wish to make a success as a public
company. Some more precise details on
earnings, however, would be appreciated.
Pressurising for Tyres
llThen Allied Chemical (Aust.) Pty
starts production from its new
Penrith nylon cord plant later this year,
the Australian tyre cord market will
suffer quite an upheaval.
So far two manufacturers, Fibre-
makers (nylon) and Courtaulds (rayon)
have shared the market. Up till now
they have expressed themselves as toler-
ably satisfied with the way it is divided
among the different tyre makers
These latter will now find themselves
under pressure to change their present
allegiances. Most tyres made locally use
a rayon cord.
the world of business
"He must've seen our sales chart!"


wit
ns
.
<&
The C.B.C. is one of Aust-
ralia's oldest hanks. It
has been built on a
policy of personal service to
its customers. The manager of
your nearest branch wi II be
glad to discuss your
particular needs.
o
t'AZ i
where Tsii&littl CS@UHC(s
IS UNDERSTOOD
United Dominions Extends
"IThNANCiER United Dominions Corpora-
A tion (Australia) Ltd has signalled
its entry into Victoria in a big way by
purchasing the old Royal Exchange
building in Melbourne for the new
branch. The company is at present very
active throughout NSW and Queensland.
No Australian share interest exists, as
the corporation is wholly owned by UK’s
biggest instalment financier, United
Dominions Trust Ltd. In turn Barclay’s
Bank holds 25 p.c. of the English parent’s
ordinary shares.
Australian operations have proved
highly successful. They began in 1954
and the 1961-62 year saw a £70,418
lift in profit to £212,915, with outstand-
ings up by £t million to £9.1 million.
Melbourne will get the full range of
services hire-purchase over mach-
inery and motor vehicles; short-term
mortgages on real estate; advances to
companies; and subdivisional projects
through the subsidiary, Southern Securi-
ties Ltd.
Brewer’s Enticements
new dividend rate not only
provides its own excitement, but
further whets the market’s appetite for
those first consolidated accounts to see
the light in June. A final 7 p.c. brought
full payment for the year ended March
31 up to 13f p.c. and almost certainly
implies a 14 p.c. annual basis. The 13i
p.c. rate held for 1961 and 1962. Share
prices have bubbled at high levels mainly
in anticipation of the accounts.
Masonry Revival ?
O. K. Masonry’s rehabilitation scheme
did not meet with great enthusiasm
in the share market. In fact, the market
hasn’t been in any way tickled, keeping
the ss. shares sceptically static around
Is. 6d.
The company needs some £20,000
to hold creditors at bay and to achieve
sufficient liquidity for advantage to be
taken of a healthier building climate.
Directors propose to raise this by an
issue of ss. participating preference
shares entitled to 8 p.c. before any ordi-
nary dividend and equal participation if
the ordinary dividend exceeds 8 p.c. No
specific entitlement applies, though a
one-for-seven basis is suggested.
In addition the preferences are at any
time convertible into ordinaries on a
two-for-one basis.
The company was formed in 1960, so
the string of mostly squeeze-induced
losses is not perhaps surprising. Man-
agement troubles also intervened. A
small profit, in line with budget, will be
achieved for May.
Revival of the suspended Gwawley
Bay project and entry into prestressed
concrete are expected to confirm con-
tinuous profitability.
Judged on the market reaction, in-
vestors may feel that harder facts are
called for to convince them to protect
their holdings.
Sugar Unbowed
nPHE Townsville sugar fire is hardly ex-
A pccted to disturb world sugar mar-
kets unduly, though it may send Japanese
buyers to make up the leeway from non-
Australian sellers with some of last
season's production still available. Full
insurance protects all financial interests
involved.
Meanwhile 1962’s record production
has enabled Bundaberg grower and
miller Gibson and Howes to lift profit by
£58,118 to a peak £154,942 and to add
a 3 p.c. bonus to the long-standing 12
p.c. dividend.
The chairman (Mr J. D. Gibson) fore-
casts another “satisfactory” crop, though
not up to the previous year’s levels.
Share prices have raced away to 68s. 6d.
to yield 4.4 p.c.


Paper Placement
a placement of 470,000 of
its two million paid-up ss. shares at
7s. 6d. (including brokerage) interstate
board company, Board Mills of Austra-
lia Ltd, will be listed in Melbourne. The
company was formed in 1954 as a
merger of three proprietaries, Ernest Nel-
son, Bernard Lawrence and Bernard
Lawrence Distributors, now L. R. Alder-
son (NSW).
Although the prospectus shows an
earnings rate of 18.8 p.c. for the
expected 10 p.c. dividend based on
the results for the half year to December
last, and states that results are compar-
able this half year, this is a big step up
from the 11.8 p.c. earned in the
previous year. So it seems the high
placement price leaves little room for
early improvement when the shares come
to market, at least on the score of earn-
ings.
Also, 7s. 6d. about sums up the net
assets backing for the shares. Actually
net assets per share as at December 31
last were only 4s. 11 id., but last Janu-
ary an independent valuation discovered
an additional half-crown a share.
As the company has some big cus-
tomers in the motor industry, where its
special type of paper board is used exten-
sively, the continuance of the boom
there is helpful. Other large customers
include the footwear, suitcase, bookbind-
ing and stationery trade.
Another Factor
tpHE fashionable magnet of factoring has
now attracted Cambridge Credit
Corporation, which announces the forma-
tion of wholly owned Cambridge Factors
Pty. Directors very sensibly remark that
such a diversification accords with their
policy of concentrating new funds on
more short-term lending.
They hasten to add that ample first-
class business is readily available in
“traditional areas”. The first nine months
of the current year kept earning rate at
1961-62’s 19.4 p.c. with both collec-
tions and liquidity standing up excellently.
Investors still hold the ss. shares at a
fairly cautious 6s. 3d., where they yield
10 p.c.
lAC Rates Shaved
Tac (Holdings) Ltd again has trimmed
some of its interest rates on loans
offered for public subscription. The pre-
vious loan of £7 million opened last
November when rates were pared by
margins of up to i p.c. compared
with the previous prospectus of June,
1962.
Latest coupon rates show a further
reduction of i p.c., notably on terms
of 12 months, five and six years for
debentures; and terms of nine months
and five years on the notes.
Notes with a currency of 12 months
and five years have been shaved from
5i to 5 p.c. and from 7i to 7 p.c res-
pectively.
This is the first reduction in the 12
months’ notes during the last four issues.
The rate has been steady at 5i p.c. from
December, 1961, to November, 1962.
The six-year notes actually were raised
from 7£ p.c. at December, 1961, to 71
p.c. in November, 1962, but now come
back to 7 p.c.
Naturally, the internal gearing of loans
is of some significance and the company
can decide to encourage or discourage
certain lending periods by merely adjust-
ing the interest rate either way.
Weather Worries
TTarco Steel Industries is another
■ S " B ‘ company to suffer from “the pro-
longed and excessive wet weather,” to
quote directors’ phrase. It will be re-
called that Fire Fighting Equipment
recently made the same complaint.
Ffarco’s field operations were so
interrupted that a substantial loss
eventuated in the March quarter, solidly
reversing the favorable trend to Decem-
ber.
Shareholders will therefore be feeling
a little edgy about the final dividend,
since weather lags in constructional in-
dustries always take quite a time to
overcome. December’s hopeful position
had justified a 4 p.c. interim, the same
as 1961-62’s full payment.
At any rate directors hope to lift pro-
duction on held contracts. The company
has broadened away from reliance on
steel fabrication only. This may bring
some help as well.
But the shares look like staying close
to 4s. 3d. for a time yet.
Takeover Itch
F. W. Williams Holdings does not
intend to spend undue time in lick-
ing any wounds from the Sargood
Gardiner takeover defeat. In their
annual report for 1962, directors blandly
assure shareholders they “will continue
to look for long-term opportunities to
strengthen the company through diversi-
fication.”
It’s quite a while now since the com-
pany could be described simply as a farm
and station supplier. Much of the pre-
sent distinction, both in activities and
investment esteem, proceeds from a con-
nection with the giant St. Regis paper
and packaging group.
The St. Regis-Williams Pty subsidiary,
in which F. W. Williams holds a 50 p.c.
interest, incorporates both the Bates bag
and Australian sisalkraft operations.
During 1962, Williams’ share in the re-
tained profits of this offshoot fell from
£109,149 to £81,373.
Directors explain that the decline prin-
cipally came from non-recurring factors
—plant installations and adjustments
made to stock values.
They add that “the current year’s
figures to date indicate a steady return
from sisalkraft operations and an im-
provement in Bates, although full benefit
of the new plant is not yet evident in
either company.”
The market promptly pulled the 10s.
shares up 9d. to 325. 9d., still Is. 3d.
below their 1963 top. Further considera-
tion dragged prices back to 31s. 6d.,
where they yield 3.3. p.c. on a 10 p.c.
dividend. In 1962, the peak reached 38s.
It will need a dramatic and lucrative take-
over for investors to climb that height
at the moment.
Astor’s Quandaries
Astor Consolidated Mills’ windfall
from the sale of its thread-making
subsidiary, Astor Textile Pty, may take
some time to benefit shareholders. The
buyer, English-owned Australian Sewings,
is to pay more than £200,000 cash,
including “a substantial payment for
goodwill.”
Directors have to weigh the claims of
a possible capital return and the finan-
cial needs of the group’s other subsidi-
aries. Favoring some return at least is
a better liquid condition as disclosed by
the 1961-62 accounts and apparently pre-
served this year.
Despite the December half-year’s
profit decline, the ss. shares around 7s.
look more stable than they did earlier
in 1963, when at one stage they dropped
to 4s. lOd. Textile conditions are not
easy, as is once more shown by Astor’s
lower earnings on higher turnover.
No Beano for Coffee
T ate receipt of payments for its coffee
crop seems the principal reason for
East African Coffee’s interim dividend
deferment. Tea production and prices
both appear quite favorable.
Directors still expect “most satis-
factory” profits for the full year to May
31 and do not wish the deferment to
be taken “as an indication that a divi-
dend will not be paid in December”. The
market, however, has brought the ss.
shares below par to 4s. lOd.
Coffee prices have been most disap-
pointing recently and have given all pro-
ducing countries a bad time. East African
itself reports Nairobi prices to date some
£5O a ton below the average for the
corresponding period of 1961-62. Com-
modity experts are predicting a signifi-
cantly better current year.


.
:.r
mm
.
r : :
F.C.A. LEASING will
expand your business
WITHOUT capital outlay
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capital
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing.
■ frees working capital for
more profitable use.
■ allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.C.A. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objective through leasing—and why it pays to
lease from F.C.A. — write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St., Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St., Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts., Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St., Telephone 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone 21 3181
im
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED


Provides finance for all purposes throughout Australia
ISSUE OF
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
6 to 10 years
5 years, 6f % • 4 years, 6^%
3 years, 6% • 2 years, 5^%
Short-term stock also available from 3 months at p.a
Applications for Registered Unsecured Notes can be accepted
only on the printed form included in the prospectus. Copies
of the full prospectus with application forms obtainable from
any A.G.C. branch, your Stockbroker and all branches of the
Bank of New South Wales in Australia, Papua and New Guinea.
7%
PAID UP CAPITAL £8,950,
w
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE
* Corporation Limited
Incorporated 1925
CNR. PHILLIP & HUNTER STS., SYDNEY. 2 0324
Sydney • Melbourne * Brisbane • Adelaide • Perth • Hobart • Canberra
ASK THE 'WALES' FOR DETAILS
RN3-NB
A UK Guide to Tariffs
By SAMUEL BRITTAN
What is a Tariff?
rPHE word was originally an Arabic one
A which came into English through the
Spanish and Italian.
Originally it was used to describe an
official list of all taxes paid on goods
when they crossed the frontier. But now
it is also used to describe the taxes them-
selves. The words “tariff” and “customs
duty” are practically interchangeable.
Tariffs are of two main types, ad
valorem and specific. Ad valorem duties
are based on the value of the goods
involved and are stated as a simple per-
centage.
Specific duties are based on some
physical feature such as weight or vol-
ume.
How High is the British Tariff?
Food and raw materials enter Britain
duty-free or at very low rates. Tariffs
on manufactured goods vary widely. On
machine tools they are 10 p.c. On
watches, organic chemicals and scientific
instruments they are 30 p.c. or more.
There are also very high specific duties
on man-made fibres. Something over 15
p.c. would be a good typical rate. Most
British tariffs date from 1932, when they
were imposed as a result of the depres-
sion.
The Common Market tariff will be
slightly lower on balance. The US level
of tariff protection is extremely difficult
to calculate. For, although the average is
very low, there are some very high tariffs
indeed. In addition the US Customs
authorities tend to put a very high value
on imported goods; and this increases
the amount of duty paid.
What is a Customs Union?
This is a group of countries which
have abolished all protective duties on
the movement of goods inside the group.
Against the rest of the world there is a
common unified tariff. The leading
example of a customs union is, of course,
the European Economic Community
consisting of Germany, France, Italy,
Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxem-
bourg. It is better known as “the Com-
mon Market” or just “The Six”.
Attempts have been made to form
customs unions in Latin America and in
other parts of the world.
What is a Free Trade Area?
This is like a Common Market in one
way, as members agree to abolish all
tariffs on goods moving from one country
to another within the area. The differ-
ence is that each member is allowed to
keep its own separate customs duties
against the rest of the world. Special
arrangements are made to see that goods
are not imported from outside the area
into a low tariff member and then re-
exported into a high tariff member as a
way of reducing the duty paid.
The European Free Trade Association
is the best known example of an area of
this kind. Its members are Britain, Nor-
way, Sweden, Denmark, Austria, Switzer-
land and Portugal. It is often known as
“EFTA” or just “The Seven.” An eighth
country, Finland, is an associate without
full membership rights. The EFTA agree-
ment excludes agriculture. All indus-
trial tariff barriers are due to come down
by 1970; but it is hoped to accelerate
this to 1966.
What is Imperial Preference?
This is an arrangement by which Com-
monwealth countries impose lower tariffs
on goods from each other than from the
rest of the world. For example, the
British tariff on Canadian cars is only
20 p.c. But on many Commonwealth
imports into Britain, of which butter is a
topical example, there is no tariff at all.
Commonwealth countries, including
Canada and Australia, impose substan-
tial tariffs on many British goods to pro-
tect their growing industries, and there


On time ...
every time
M \£ T' V
»«*W< . ‘ . /. \ .
v
•s : . fc'vtt&xt>'
m
1
L
i j
©
* .*
5
6=a
8%
3?3 J
Bxuattiaft :
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia’s most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
. INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY*MELBOURNE*BRISBANE'PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON ♦ HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all mam centres.
v'K_
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
has been a great deal of argument on
how good a bargain Britain is getting
from the system. The value of preferen-
ces of British goods in Commonwealth
markets has been steadily declining since
the war. (Australia buys a great deal
more from Britain than Britain buys
from Australia. Trade deficits of
£A93.7m., £A140.5m. and £A6O.2m.
have been suffered by Australia in the
past three years, plus a heavy deficit for
invisible items like freight, insurance,
tourism.)
What is GATT?
This is an abbreviation for the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Over
40 countries belong to it. Most of the
leading trading countries in the West and
in neutral areas are included, plus, for
some reason, Czechoslovakia.
Its object is to reduce trade barriers on
a world-wide as distinct from a regional
basis. Tariff cuts in GATT are made on
a most favoured nation basis.
Are Tariffs the Only Obstacles to Trade?
No. There are other and bigger
obstacles which are still more difficult to
remove. The worst barriers are import
quotas and prohibitions. There are very
few of these in Britain apart from trade
with Iron Curtain countries. America has
import quotas on overseas oil to protect
home produce. But the restrictions
which cause most bitter complaint are
those imposed by advanced countries,
especially in the Common Market, on
cheap textile exports from the poorer
parts of the world such as India, Hong
Kong and Pakistan.
A whole battery of special devices has
been created to prevent free trade in
agriculture. One example is the British
system of farm subsidies. Even more ef-
fective are the import levies used by
Common Market countries. Unlike tariffs
these are not fixed in percentage or
amount, but are raised as high as neces-
sary to bring the price of agricultural
imports up to a level which will prevent
them from competing with domestic
farmers.
ONE TO BUY
Solid Veteran in Hire-Purchase
ThfE top hire-purchase and finance
houses are once more pressing for
a place in well-balanced portfolios.
Investors who remember their pre-
squeeze popularity and reliability now
lead a definite return of interest. New-
comers, too, should be attracted before
prices mount too high.
For the old atmosphere is being firmly
restored as consumer demand quickens
throughout the economy. The companies
themselves also have learnt broader and
more sophisticated ways to employ their
funds.
Most importantly, the borrowing status
and safeguards of the best houses have
been thoroughly confirmed in recent
months. Even governments begin to
recognise that the rather dubious term
“fringe financiers” has become a mis-
nomer.
Among the veterans which deserve
considerable investment attention is Aus-
tralian Guarantee Corporation. Its con-
tinued signs of vigorous emergence from
the squeeze and its aftermath grow more
and more obvious.
Gone are the days when sizeable idle
funds resided in the short-term market,
unable to earn their keep.
Share prices quite adequately express
the renewed confidence, yet seem des-
tined gradually to move higher. At pres-
ent around 16s. 3d., they stand at a
1963 peak to yield 4.6 p.c. on a 15 p.c.
dividend held since 1954.
Last year saw a top 17s. 6d. and this
could well be approached fairly soon.
AGC has certainly resolved any doubts
that it might be unable to protect bonus-
enlarged capital. To that assurance must
be added a positive sense of enterprise.
The company deserves the praise it
is collecting for the venture into Malay-
sia with the old and well-reputed Char-
tered Bank. With the Chartered, AGC
has formed Credit Corporation (Malay-
sia) Ltd and takes a 6 p.c. interest.
Initial paid capital is a modest
£A183,824.
The new company proposes to furnish
a full range of hire-purchase and other
financial facilities. Large volumes and
quick benefits should not, of course,
be expected right from the start. The
Malaysian area must still gather a fair
amount of industrial momentum before
its people demand great quantities of
consumer durables, for instance.
But AGC has many strings to its bow
leasing, factoring, to give examples
which will be exercised as Malaysian
development gains pace.
Of primary investment importance,
however, is AGC’s promise of a highly
satisfactory 1962-63 from existing ac-
tivities. Directors in February reported
a 17.3 p.c. profit lift for the December
half-year. Group profit went up by
£132,846 to £897,728.
That compares with 1961-62’s peak
profit of £1,614,419 and represents a
yearly earning rate at 21.2 p.c., against
last year’s 21.8 p.c. on lower average
capital.
The half-year’s gross outstandings, ex-
cluding money on short call, rose a very
healthy £13.1 million to £89.2 mil-
lion. At this point it has to be mentioned
that the corporation earns a reputation
for cautious treatment of unearned in-
come. Its method, certified by a con-
sulting actuary, produces a larger de-
ferment than would be reserved by a
true actuarial system. Equally careful is
the corporation’s handling of reposses-
sions and bad debts.
These things, perhaps, should be able
to be taken for granted. But in the light
of a few past incidents among other
companies, investors need to feel thor-
oughly safe.
What should then begin to impress
them is AGC’s repeated virility and
ability to use every opportunity to hand.
The group has soundly reduced its de-


• V,
!
V
- : i|II
■KyP
ifilSlK :
1
■
»
MB
me.
■V-y-,- -- ' . ,
■
• •: . '
|.:;:- : ;r'
S 'W;
: 'y>.
mmmmmi
ii I
so there’s more than one hank
So you’re free to choose any bank you like and to enjoy all the
benefits of competition. These include personal attention to all
your banking needs and the best service at the lowest rates.
Australians have thousands of bank branches available to them—
and each one is keen to get new business.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN
benefits from competition
between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The WALES « the C.B.C. • the C.B.A. « the ADELAIDE • the E.S. £ A. • the A.N.Z. and the NATIONAL
pendence on motor-vehicle financing and
now spreads into general mortgage lend-
ing, factoring and leasing.
Before the Malaysian extension, AGC
decided to enter New Zealand under its
own name, after long operation through
a subsidiary. In Adelaide, an ingenious
arrangement was effected with Chrysler
distributor, Motors Ltd.
It now seems a far cry to January,
1962, when AGC was resisting a take-
over bid by much smaller Associated
Securities. One benefit at least from that
sortie gave shareholders a one-for-three
bonus, which directors had been con-
sidering for some time.
The corporation appears well set to
digest such largesse, though similar
issues, and even a cash issue, need not be
expected too quickly.
At present, it’s the steady earning
capacity that provides the main invest-
ment attraction and a reasonable return
for an extremely good-class stock.
Intending investors may also like to
be reminded that the Bank of NSW owns
a 40 p.c. interest in AGC and has two
representatives on the board.
Patience for a Financier
A ll the king’s horses and all the king’s
men would have a difficult job
mending Finance and Guarantee’s share
prices at present. The directors’ May 8
statement did not succeed in halting a
continuous chipping. Prices had fallen
to 3s. sd. just before the statement.
They switched up to 4s. 3d. just after-
wards and now struggle around 4s.
In lieu of another statement, the
market is clearly waiting on the com-
plete 1962-63 accounts, usually available
by mid-September.
A 5 p.c. interim dividend following
last year’s final 2\ p.c. did not bring
much consolation when the \l\ p.c. rate
between 1957 and 1961 is still in mind.
Nor has an apparent assets backing at
6s. 6d. a share held the retreat.
Book values of the engineering sub-
sidiary and the hotels are to be written
back, though directors do not intend to
write up the Canberra commercial build-
ings which are “considerably in excess
of book values.”
These now-tenanted Canberra pro-
perties should return sizeable income
during the current half-year. Indeed, all
subsidiaries with the possible exception
of engineer C. A. Burgmann are said to
be trading profitably and directors be-
lieve the Burgmann losses have been
arrested.
The squeeze, however, still casts its
shadow. Further bad debts have to be
absorbed from current profits.
There is plainly a large measure of re-
construction and readjustment needed.
Shareholders require great patience.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
High Hopes in Bond’s Industries
Oo far this calendar year Bond’s In-
dustries’ shares have fluctuated rather
sharply between 60s. and 675., and
because of the volatile nature of the
price, a purchase at around 635. 9d.
could bring relatively short-term capital
gains, quite apart from the medium to
long-term prospects.
The company was formed in 1929 to
acquire the assets of George A. Bond
and Co. Ltd and George A. Bond Cotton
Mills, both then in liquidation. In 1944
a towel manufacturer, Commonwealth
Weaving Mills Pty Ltd, was acquired,
and its name subsequently changed to
Dri-Glo Towels Pty Ltd. The latter
company has a mill at Five Dock and
manufactures towels, towelling and baby
squares.
Another subsidiary, Bond’s Spinning
Mills Pty Ltd formed in 1954 to acquire
the spinning mills and allied assets of
Bond’s Industries Ltd, operates as cotton
spinner, manufacturer of sewing thread
and textile bobbins, dyer and bleacher,
from its mill at Wentworthville and dye-
house at Five Dock.
This subsidiary is assured of an outlet
for its products as the main consumers
of its cotton yarn and cloth are its own
subsidiaries, Dri-Glo Towels and Bond’s
Wear Pty Ltd. Bond’s Wear is the main
subsidiary of a group of subsidiaries
which manufacture knitted underwear,
sleepwear and sportswear for men,
women and children (including infants).
It is by far the most profitable sub-
sidiary, as shown by its profit figure after
tax and depreciation for the year ended
June 30, 1962, of £177,241, as against
the consolidated net profit of £412,556
for the same period.
Over recent years the company has
engaged in substantial capital expendi-
ture on plant and buildings in an effort
to increase efficiency. Approximately
£li million was spent on a new mill
at Wentworthville, which has been
operating for about two years.
Despite this and other substantial
capital expenditure the company remains
in a very liquid position, for the con-
solidated balance sheet as at June 30,
1962, revealed investments totalling over
£1,210,000 including “fixed deposit and
at call” of £1,120,000.
The company still had to receive
£lBB,OOO being the balance payable on
its l-for-5 cash issue at a 10s. premium.
Offsetting this were unsecured registered
loan stocks and real property mortgages
totalling just under £432,000, and a bank
overdraft of just on £400,000. This
sound financial position, together with the
substantial annual internally generated
funds (depreciation allowances and re-
tained earnings) should enable the com-
pany to continue its policy of installing
modern equipment in an attempt to
combat increased costs of production
via increased efficiency and rising turn-
over.
/\ver the last ten years, the company
has made three new share issues. In
September, 1956, a l-for-5 cash issue at
par was made, followed in October,
1957, by a l-for-4 bonus issue and more
recently in April, 1962, by a l-for-5 cash
issue at a 10s. premium. Thus over the
last eight years, on the assumption that
“rights” from new cash issues were sold
and the proceeds applied to purchasing
old shares, thereby involving no ad-
ditional capital outlay, dividend income
would have increased by 76.25 p.c., or
at an average annual compound rate of
7.3 p.c. p.a.
The calculation was not extended any
further back because of the fluctuating
profit and dividend record of the com-
pany prior to the 1955 financial year.
For instance in the year ended June,
1952, profit fell by £llO,OOO to a token
£8,663 and a dividend was omitted.
The next two financial years saw profits
of £149,578 and £277,884 and divi-
dend rates of 9 p.c. and 141 p.c.
respectively. It was only in the follow-
ing financial year (ended June, 1955)
that any stability became noticeable, and
a dividend rate of 10 p.c. p.a. established.
Bonds shares at around 635. 9d. to yield
3.9 p.c. from the 121 p.c dividend are
priced in the growth stock class. This is
doubtless justified, for apart from the
most satisfactory past performance of
the stock as far as rate of growth of
dividend income has been concerned,
the earning rate of year-end ordinary
capital has remained at or above the
30 p.c. mark, providing a dividend cover
of at least 2.5.
Even in the last two financial years
(the period roughly covering the reces-
sion), profit has fallen only by about
12 p.c. from the peak result achieved
in 1960 financial year.
HThis is a remarkable performance from
a “textile” stock, especially when
it is considered that many other com-
panies previously regarded as being in
the growth class fared far worse.
The performances of Bond’s are even
more highlighted when compared with
those of other companies in the textile
field. Bradford Cotton Mills Ltd, for
example, earned only 5.7 p.c. on capital
for the year ended June 30, 1962, as
compared with 16 p.c. two years earlier,
and the dividend rate had been cut from
12i p.c. to 10 p.c.
Hence at present prices, Bond’s In-
dustries Ltd represents good buying
because dividend income only needs to
increase over the next ten years at an
annual compound rate of just over 3 p.c.
to provide a “growth yield” of 7 p.c.
On past performances this should easily
be achieved, especially as a more liberal
dividend policy is likely if increased
earnings result from the mill recently
installed and new lines planned to be
introduced. In addition, there is always
the further possibility of another bonus
issue, since freehold land and buildings
are included in the balance sheet at
valuation at July, 1940, with net ad-
ditions since at cost, while all other
fixed assets are valued at cost.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Working capital 1673 1527 1085 1033 1712
Fixed assets 1529 1519 1599 2350 2790
Investments 364 775 1422 567 1212
Intangibles 25 — — — —
Total capital 3891 3821 4106 4450 5714
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 1250 1250 1250 1250 1375
Capital reserves 58 20 20 20 83
Revenue surplus 1296 1606 1909 2162 3193
Ord. SHF. 2604 2876 3179 3432 4651
Pref. capital 400 400 400 400 400
Outside shareholders 6 1111
Loan capital 581 544 526 617 662
3591 3821 4106 4450 5714
"Operating" income 990 997 1110 971 1030
Op. inc. p.c. total
capital 29.7 27.7 29.0 23.6 23.2
Earnings p.c. ord.
capital 32.4 32.7 34.6 30.0 29.9
Ord; div. p.c. 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5 12.5
Div; yield p.c. (a) 7.9 5.0 4.2 4.4 4.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 4.8 7.6 8.6 9.5 10.9
(a) Based on last sale, month accounts presented.
Letter to the Editor
Sugar Production
Sir,
L. J. Roberts claims (Bulletin,
11/5/63) that Australian sugar produc-
tion has increased to the stage where we
now rank second only to Cuba. May I
draw his attention to the following figures
compiled from the FAO’s Monthly
Bulletin of Agricultural Economics and
Statistics (July-August, 1962): —
Production of centrifugal sugar (’OOO
metric tons, raw value) 1961/62:
USSR, 6,652; Cuba, 4,880; Brazil, 3,722;
India, 3,082; USA (excl. Hawaii), 2,881;
France, 1,704; Mexico, 1,655; Poland,
1,639; Philippines, 1,490; West Germany,
1,440; Australia, 1,406.
Does Mr Roberts really believe we
have moved from eleventh to second, or,
for that matter, that Cuba has regained
its place at the lop of the league? North-
ern Queensland is not well served by
those who make such extravagant and
inaccurate claims on its behalf.
R. H. SNAPE
Monash University, Melbourne.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
John Lysaght’s Problems
A fter a disappointing first result as a
public company in 1961, John
Lysaght (Australia) Ltd was able to
partly redeem its reputation in the 1962
calendar year.
Although quantity sales were 651,000
tons, still well down on the 1960 figure
of 702,000 tons, the latest profit of
£3,234,337 was an 80 p.c. advance on
the 1961 profit of £1,725,589.
A major factor in the profit recovery
was the revival in the motor business.
Directors were still concerned at the
softness in the building trade, but a sub-
stantial recovery in the electrical ap-
pliance industry in 1962 produced im-
proved turnover in the Sankey Electrical
Laminations Division.
John Lysaght is the sole manufac-
turer of coated and uncoated steel
sheets in Australia. It is able to supply
fully the local market, and has a pre-
dominant share of the New Zealand
market.
During 1962 not only was export
business highly competitive but there
were some encroachments on the Aus-
tralian market at prices substantially be-
low those in the countries of origin.
The world over-supply of steel sheets
showed no sign of easing, directors said
in their report in March.
John Lysaght’s prices for uncoated
products were reduced as from January
1, 1963, the start of the current financial
year.
Changed tariffs in NZ in mid-1962
meant John Lysaght had to reduce
profit margins to retain most of the
business in coated sheets.
The main mill is at Port Kembla,
comprising a modern high-speed cold
reduction mill with ancillary automatic
equipment. By next year a second con-
tinuous galvanising and annealing line
will be installed at a total cost of £lO
million.
At Newcastle the company, by hot-
rolling methods, produces a growing
range of agricultural requisites, roofing,
flooring and walling decks, expanded
metal and organic coated sheets. Ancil-
lary activities are electrical steel lamina-
tions used ir electric motors, dynamos,
transformers, and so on.
Consultants have been developing and
refining the company’s scheduling and
control procedures, and this attention
to cost should provide a sounder base
for future trading.
The 20s. shares have been listed only
since June, 1961, after placing 3 million
shares with the Australian public at
100 p.c. premium. The other 12.5 tnil-
lion shares are held by John Lysaght
Ltd of England, a subsidiary of Guest,
Keen and Nettlefolds.
John Lysaght has now fulfilled pros-
pectus expectations for a dividend of at
least 10 p.c. The climate for trading,
however, is substantially different from
that prevailing 'in mid-1961 when the
company was launched.
The market recognises this in valuing
the shares at 62s. 6d. (yield 3.2 p.c.),
compared with the leading heights of
1961.
With relaxation of credit restrictions
and positive measures being taken to
stimulate the economy, this cyclical
stock should be due for an upswing.
But it should be borne in mind that
world over-supply of sheet steel is a
very effective dampener on John Ly-
saght’s market at home and abroad.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
December 29 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 16,336 12,607 15,252
Less current
liabilities 10,846 8177 9923
Working capital 5490 4430 5329
Investments 250 4485 5478
Fixed assets 16,411 16,895 16,713
22,151 25,810 27,520
Deferred liabilities 89 117 50
Loan capital 3000 — —
Ordinary capital 12,500 15,500 15,500
Reserves 6562 10,193 11,970
22,151 25,810 27,520
Sales (tonnages) 702,000 543,000 651,000
Depreciation 1099 1333 1643
Taxation 2669 1258 2271
Net profit 3413 1726 3234
Dividend 2000 1167 1550
Surplus 1413 559 1684
Earning rate 27.3 11.8 20.9
Dividend rate 16 8 10
Dividend yield (a) — 2.4 —
Price/earnings ratio (a) — 28.6 —
High price (b' not 81/6 717-
Low price (b) listed 58/- 57/3
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
CLARKE BROS H’DGS LTD
Furniture Maker in Doldrums
Shareholders of Clarke Bros Holdings
Ltd must view with a rather jaun-
diced eye the latest report on the com-
pany’s activities. For besides passing the
dividend, the report paints a rather dif-
ferent picture from that made three
months earlier.
But yet the change in fortune did not
take the market by surprise for the price
has been slipping since the middle of
February and early in May touched the
lowest point since listing.
The company achieved public status
with an issue of 200,000 ss. shares at ss.
3d. plus charges, lifting paid-up capital to
£100,002. The holding company acquir-
ed all the issued capital of three private
companies which had been formed in
1946 as furniture manufacturers and
joinery contractors.
The first year’s operation to June 30,
1960, was highly successful, profit com-
ing out at £29,429, equal to 29.4 p.c. on
paid-up capital. At the end of the finan-
cial year, directors revalued fixed assets
and from the surplus made a one-for-five
bonus. In the following month, they ex-
tended activities with the takeover of
Durex Pty Ltd of Brisbane with an issue
of 42,000 shares, and then asked share-
holders for additional funds with a one-
for-two issue at par.
Effect of all these issues was to raise
paid-up capital to £195,753. In the 1961
year, profit was virtually steady at
£29,227 but because of the rise in capi-
tal earning rate was halved to 14.8 p.c.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A Gleeson-
Whife, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft.
R. V Belts
Non-Membei Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011 Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley' Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITI, A C DRAPER,
N \V C. DRAPER, R F. CORMIE
G H. STEPHENS
<Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual I.ife Building
•<Jin Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: Sl-i'V.I P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No IRIGW
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH.
i Denham Street Phone: (50H9
Despit-e this, directors held the dividend
at 121 p.c. although on the float they
forecast only 10 p.c. rates.
In 1962 year profit rose by 25 p.c., but
because of another series of capital in-
creases to £375,000, earning rate was
down again, this time to 14 p.c., giving
only a marginal cover to the 12i p.c.
dividend. The capital increases came
from another cash issue (again a one-for-
two at par) and an issue of 200,000
shares for the acquisition of Thompson
and Wright Ltd, of New Britain.
Thompson and Wright represented a
major diversification, for this company
was one of the largest sawmillers in New
Guinea. It gave Clarke its own supply of
island timbers as well as substantial over-
seas business in logs to Japan. To handle
the Sydney end of the business, Clarke
bought a waterfront property in Sydney
which enabled large-scale sawing, treat-
ing and kiln drying.
But all was not plain sailing with the in-
tegration of this company into the group.
The export of timber to Japan was well
maintained and quite' profitable. Still,
integration of the timber into the
group's furniture factory at Botany
caused a steep increase in raw material
costs. This arose largely from shipping
and local handling difficulties. These have
not been easily overcome and will con-
tinue to affect results for the remainder
of the year.
Intense competition for the limited
amount of business available also had
its effect on results in the first half of
the year, and as a result profit fell sub-
stantially. Although these difficulties were
not of a recent origin, directors made no
mention of them in a report on activi-
ties in February when they reported buoy-
ant trading conditions, and a substantial
increase in turnover of all subsidiaries.
The latest accounts show the company
to be in a fairly strong liquid position.
Fixed assets are almost doubled, from
£159,485 to £307,237 due to the instal-
lation of new machinery and the acquisi-
tion of machinery, etc. in the takeovers.
Stocks also are up, from £102,816 to
£170,129 principally as a result of the
takeovers, while debtors have shown a
proportional rise, from £64,867 to
£99,861.
Reflecting the high liquidity, the
company had £61,000 in deposits at call
at June 30. This was more than suffi-
cient to repay the £23,825 borrowings
falling due before June 30 next and to
meet unsecured borrowings totalling
£23,257 payable at call.
The reserve position is not strong.
Capital reserves total £75,737 and, with
surplus profits of £13,201, lift share-
holders’ funds to £463,938. Subject to in-
tangible items of £73,160, net assets
backing of each ss. share is ss. 3d.
With furniture near the end of the
building line, the company does not seem
likely to benefit to any marked degree
from the slow build-up in homebuilding
statistics, and with many recent weeks
of wet weather in Sydney, the pick-up
will be further delayed. Present indica-
tions are that the 12i p.c. dividend will
not be repeated this year, and that if
any payment is made it will be only
small.
With the shares currently selling
around 4s. the market may in the long
term have been a trifle hard on the
company for its fall from grace. But on
available information the shares appear
fully priced until a marked improvement
in the market for furniture becomes ap-
parent.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 212 197 339
Less current liabilities 183 135 233
Working capital 29 62 106
Fixed assets 138 159 307
Intangibles 2 — 73
169 . 221 486
Represented by
Capital 131 196 375
Capital reserves 11 — 76
Other reserves 9 9 13
Loan funds 18 16 22
169 221 486
Depreciation 7 6 15
Taxation 24 18 20
Net profit 29 29 36
Dividend 9 24 33
Surplus 20 5 3
Earning rate 29.4 14.8 14.0
Dividend rate 12£ 12J
Dividend yield (a) 8.3 8.6 10.9
High Price (b) 12/- 8/- 97-
Low Price (b) 6/6 6/10 5/-
(a) End of Nov. month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
IRA L. AND A. C. BERK (HOLDINGS) LTD
Run of “Outs” May End
T>ayment of the first interim dividend
in at least six years, in respect of
the six months to December, 1962, is an
expression of confidence held by the
directors of Ira L. and A. C. Berk
(Holdings) Ltd, but so far it has failed
to impress the market much.
With an erratic performance in the
last six years (only one loss, but dividend
omitted in four years), the company has
yet to show that the apparently large
assets are being put to full use.
The business was begun in Sydney in
1909 and, like many motor distributors,
it has gained and lost various franchises
over the years.
Its present franchises are for the
Rootes Group in metropolitan Sydney,
for Nuffield products in metropolitan
Brisbane, for Rambler vehicles in the
County of Cumberland (Sydney) and in
the entire State of Queensland. The com-
pany undertakes the sale of new and
used cars, spare parts and accessories,
service and repair facilities and a drive-
yourself division.
BMC’s decision in 1961-62 to appoint
direct dealers throughout Queensland
placed Ira L. and A. C. Berk in an
untenable position, so it acquired the
franchise for Datsun and Nisson (Japan-
ese vehicles). In November, 1962, the
chairman told shareholders that the sale
of these vehicles had considerably ex-
ceeded directors’ expectations, and this
success no doubt accounts for the
“substantially improved results in the
Queensland branch operations . .
despite continuing difficulties in the dis-
tribution of vehicles in Sydney.” This
allowed payment of the recent interim
dividend.
In the year to June 30, 1962, the
NSW car sales were down 10 p.c. on
the previous year, and the service station
and parts department were considerably
affected.
A subsidiary, National Acceptance
Corporation Pty, increased its accounts
receivable, secured by hire purchase
contracts, by nearly 25 p.c. in 1961-62,
and directors advised that the financing
of motor vehicle transactions was no
longer the major activity.
In July, 1959, the company acquired a
54 p.c. interest in Automat (A'sia) Hold-
ings Pty and a 51 p.c. interest in Mass
Vending and Sales Pty by payment of


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANK ALFRED CHRISTIANSEN, late
of Gloucester. TAKE NOTICE that JANET
EVELYN CHRISTIANSEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 610 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before 28th June, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from T. G. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS & CO.,
Solicitors, of 251-253 George Street, Sydney,
or HARRIS WHEELER WILLIAMS AND
McKENZIE, Solicitors, of 43 Bolton Street,
Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: ALBY EDWARD LUCK, late of Millers
Point. TAKE NOTICE that BETTY VIVIAN
LUCK has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 281
of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before 12th day
of July, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from GEOFFREY SEE
GILLIS & CO„ Solicitors, 28 Martin Place,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: KERRY VANSTON MAGINNESS. TAKE
NOTICE that Janice Maginness formerly
Thompson has filed a Petition Number 2708
of 1962 on the ground of desertion. If you
wish to defend you may file an Answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney on or be-
fore the 19th day of July, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
Charles Griffths, Solicitor, of 107-109 Eliza-
beth Street. Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Regi-
strar.
HELP
all thelyear
round
£59,800 cash and 161,000 5s. shares.
These companies made, sold and
leased automatic vending machines
under the “Vendolux” brand; they sold
cigarettes, sweets, food, bottled drinks
and hot beverages.
Adverse publicity for other vending
machine operators had a deleterious
effect on Ira L. and A. C. Berk’s invest-
ment. In 1960-61 the company sold part
of its holding in these companies so
that they were no longer subsidiaries,
and in 1961-62 the company wrote off
£74,000 of this investment to bring it
into line with the net asset value placed
on the shares by the auditors.
Automat (A’sia) now makes a wide
range of metal products, shop fittings,
display equipment and refrigerated
cabinets, the profits from which were
being offset against the losses still being
incurred as at last November in the
operation of vending machines.
A statement on the eradication of this
weak spot in the business would do much
to inspire confidence in the shares.
The revival in the motor industry and
the undoubted successful opening for the
Japanese vehicles in Queensland are the
most convincing reasons available for
shareholders to hold on yet awhile.
And for the speculator, an outlay of
around 2s. 6d. could pay off within six
months if the 2 p.c. interim is followed
by a final dividend of only 3 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY—(£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 501 370 482 349 364
Less current
liabilities 281 90 387 89 99
Working capital 220 280 95 260 265
Investments 2 76 47 142 73
Fixed assets 336 185 456 185 179
Intangibles 75 75 191 75 76
633 616 789 662 593
Minority interests — — 86 — —
Ordinary capital 308 308 348 348 348
Reserves 325 308 355 314 245
633 616 789 662 593
Depreciation 12 7 35 10 6
Taxation 14 2 16 2 3
Net profit 22 Drl9 30 1 5
Dividend 15 — 17 — •—
Surplus 7 — 13 1 5
Earning rate 7.1 — 8.5 — 1.6
Dividend rate 5 — 5 — —
Dividend yield (a) 9.8 — 6.7 — —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 7.0 — 8.9 — 28.9
High price (b) 3/- 5/2 5/6 3/7 3/-
Low price (b) 2/1 2/5 2/11 1/9 2/-
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
PLANT FOR KUWAIT
npHE Ministry of Finance and Industry
A in Kuwait is expected to call tenders
soon for the construction of an ammonia
plant.
The plant will form the first stage of a
petrochemicals complex to be built at an
industrial site now being established on
the coast in the Shuaiba area.
The plant will have a capacity of
120,000 tons of ammonia a year.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Fairymead Fancies, But
No Sugar
nPHOSE of us who are anxious share-
holders of Fairymead received in the
mail what was termed an “open letter to
shareholders”.
Dated May 13, it was reasonable to
assume that it would give the result of
the company for the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1962. Instead, it was, in the
main, an extract of a speech made by
Professor Goodhart at the annual con-
ference of the Institute of Directors in
London, concerning Anglo-American
relations. All very good and hearty, but
just what it had to do with sugar in
Queensland I do not know.
What this shareholder would have ap-
preciated and it still has not been
given at the time of writing is an up-
to-date picture of the company. If the
Fairymead directors are so proud of
being members of the Institute of Direc-
tors, it is amazing that they permit this
delay in the presentation of last year’s
accounts.
One share that does not look so
strong is Carpet Manufacturers. Al-
though it won’t do a “Minster”, it should
still turn in a pretty good profit this
year. It is another company where the
calendar year 1961 was disastrous. Most
of the profits came from the second half
last year.
This improvement apparently con-
tinued because the interim statement re-
ported a substantial increase in sales and
a corresponding increase in profits. Also
consoling is the current high level of
national production in floor coverings.
The overall deduction must be that the
earning rate will be a lot higher than the
9 p.c. last year. My order for 200 was
done at 235.
Borg Warner has a big future in the
development of automatic transmission.
It is these golden words which should
spark off a strong rise from 255. This
would fit in with the behavior of the
share price in the past. It looks all set
to accelerate up towards 30s. again. I
picked up 400 shares at 255.
Against this buying was the solitary
sale of 3,000 Hooker options at llid.,
resulting in a loss of £26. With only just
over a year to run, the time element beat
me. I hasten to add it is not a loss of
faith in Hookers.
Transactions for the week were: —
SOLD
3000 Hooker 64 options Hid. £137
BOUGHT
200 Carpet Manufacturers 23/- £235
400 Borg Warner 25/- £5lO
Although now in debt to the tune of
£220, the value of the portfolio rose by
over £lOO in the week.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds op. (14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairy mead 21/1/63 41/- 55/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/6
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 Bd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/3
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 37/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/-
600 A. V Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. op.(8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factor:., Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/6
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
2000 Felt rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/2
3000 LNC ctg. 1/5/63 3/2 4/-
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 45/-
1000 Functional 7/5/63 8/3 9/-
800 Ampol (short) 15/5/63 9/10 9/10
400 Borg Warner 21/5/63 25/- 25/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 23/-


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 Wert 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick whichever Is appropriate!
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order tor
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est 1880.
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 747
ACROSS
I—Getting off to ban majesty. (9)
s—Not Evatt’s way of introducing himself for wine.
(5)
B—Protect some chirper sport at the interstate level.
(6, 7)
10— Assault with broken stone. (5)
11— Provoke publicity when on leave. (4)
12— Chatoyant drunk is drilled. (4)
15—Bounder with His Majesty is behaving fraudulently.
(7)
17—Chosen with striking success
about a part of the East. (5)
19— The Greek nine. (5)
20— Law Penn amended for a
fresh scheme. (3,4)
21— Dupe a seabird. (4)
23—Yours Truly does fifty as an
object of worship. (4)
25—A dog renowned for watching
sugar stirred. (5)
28— The side of Miss Dors’ head
in the Ephesian showplace.
(6, 2,5)
29 A feature sauce. (5)
30— She comes out at lunchtime
in Paris and I am back with
the eatery. (9)
DOWN
1— Record our chant when talk-
ing learnedly. (11)
2 Sulphur edges to the north-
east. (9)
3 Living under an assumed name
for the sake of privacy in
gear. (5)
4 Cat looks forbidding to the
Capone relations. (9)
5 A broadcaster is faced with
this boy. (4)
6 If in this, one is certainly
unpopular tongue. (5)
7 One member of a racing crew
having 100 to steer. (3)
9—Valiant’s the word to disturb
these Europeans. (8)
13— Silhouette of a burglar in the
act? (6, 5)
14— Extract an item from the pack
attraction which keeps the
box-office busy. (8)
16—Gesture of one who departs
in anger, possibly because he
couldn’t take a trick? (5, 4)
18—Ella upset some monster
follower. (9)
22—The river of oblivion allowed
him in another case. (5)
24—Dolly corrupted an insurance
man. (5)
26 I report myself to be all right,
though berserk. (4)
27 Republican rocking Sinbad’s
transporter. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 746


&
heart-warming as the thought of home ...
■■ : ■ ■ '
>
' V ■
■ ■■> ||| IS gj U
■ -
■: v:;
:
/■ * * •' tHI
/
m
m
;s
;
m
M
m ■ ,■
!#t
vv:
w
V\'
V*
vv*
-»
m
m-
'
m
BRANDY CHEERS
the most welcoming drinks of Winter
Driving rain and a biting wind. Coldtthat P en ® trates ' rosvVire deep-
Then home. It's a happy, warming thought. Home, w L especially in
cushioned comfort—and a Brandy Cheer. Wonderful y
More and more moderate people are discovering the heart V^? l j^ ing | on^or^hort
the choice of connoisseurs, adds a zest and flavour that nothing else can.
TRY THIS BRANDY CHEER:
I oz. Brandy, j oz. Sherry, juice j lemon, I
teasp. sugar, 2 tblsps. very hot water. Mix
well, decorate with preserved cherry.
SEND NOW FOR FREE BOOKLETot other Winter-warming Brandy Cheers
Just write to the Wine
Box 3634, G.P.0., Sydney
Box 4057, G.P.0., Melbourne
Information Centre in your
Box 155 C, G.P.0., Brisbane
Box 260 D, G.P.0., Adelaide
State.
Box T 1650, G.P.0., Perth
Box 809 H, G.P.0., Hobart
There’s always warmth in your hospitality when you serve BRANDY
the golden taste
of sunshine.


m
m
/
2
O
fc .V
HI
YAL
A
4/tZCi62'
c
RET
n s »
itmv*
ViN
*stcn
-
■-
ff*
r: ,;■
B
aw *
-
■
»
There's no more exacting master than Tradition
The Yalumba tradition began with Samuel Smith who, in 1849, founded a vineyard to produce
wines equal to any in the world. A claret born of these concepts is Yalumba Galway Vintage.
Blended from Cabernet Sauvignon and Shiraz varieties, Galway Vintage is an elegant, yet
delightfully light, claret. Connoisseurs seek it out. Royal Show judges honour its quality. Galway
Vintage Claret, by Yalumba, is indeed worth asking for.
YALUMBA CLARET
S. Smith and Son Limited, Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
This wine selector tells you more
about the range of Yalumba
Wines, suggests when to enjoy
them. Like one? Free upon re-
quest to Yalumba. N.S.W. readers
may inquire direct to the state
distributors, O’Malley and Morris
Pty. Ltd., 40 Ennis Road, Milson’s
Point, Sydney. Phone 92 7076.
UMHfIIUW
