

The Bulletin
AN AUSTRAL
D OPINION - EST 1880
MopADTUIID
lYmlAn ITIU It
The old man
in the tower


%
w
W
l
I
A
m
*
*
$? 3 :
.
S.
f
*
t
i 0
SB
«1
>
■W
I
&
#
it : I
V
»
W ■
■
*
*N
ft
&
VI
a#’^-
*. W-
A
A
#
V
i
i :
■
k-
m
■
Geon
"Geon” based "Nylex" pressure hose by Moulded Products (A'sia) Ltd.
on the Ford Falcon assembly line.
WELDS THE FORD FALCON
Air and water in the “Geon” based “Nylex” pressure hoses are fed to welding machines in the Ford Falcon
assembly line of the Ford Motor Company of Australia Ltd., Broadmeadows. Flexible “Geon” vinyl with-
stands the constant flexing of the tubing. Non-fading, bright colours are perfect for the Ford assembly line
colour code. Made in Australia, “Geon” vinyl improves products and provides sales appeal where it counts
at the sales counter. Have you a product which we can help you improve?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone: 65-8221, or to Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone: 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Qld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited.
MS 620


A Bulletin for 2/-
Price Increase A pß!ce must be paid for success and The
Bulletin is no exception. Many people have
asked us how we have managed to produce a 60-
page Bulletin with color cover and high quality
editorial content for 1/-.
They have pointed to “Time,” “The Economist,”
and other quality journals, all of which cost more,
some of them a good deal more, than The Bulle-
tin. Therefore, with regret but with good
reason (we are now producing a better and costlier
magazine), we announce that as from next week
The Bulletin will cost 2/-.
Subscription Rates T HE price of The Bullet,n overseas ’ including
A New Zealand, will remain unchanged and cur-
rent subscriptions will be carried at the present rates
until they expire. New subscriptions and renewals
falling due after March 31 will be charged at the
new rates which, inside Australia, are: For six
months, £2/12/0; and for 12 months, £4/4/0. This
new rate allows a discount of £1 on the cover price
to those taking a 12 months’ subscription in
other words 10 free issues a year.
Clergymen, Students C'lergymen and students furnishing acceptable
proof of status can take out subscriptions at
the old rate of £2/12/0 for 52 issues.
New Color Features "YText week’s issue will contain four pages of color
pictures on early Australian painting plus color
. cover together with a special story on Australia’s
early colonial painters by Daniel Thomas. This will
be the first of a series of special color features to
appear in The Bulletin.
On Sale Wednesdays A s f rom next week The Bulletin will be on
sale on Wednesdays instead of Thursdays in
New South Wales, most of Victoria, Queensland,
South Australia and Tasmania. In some country
areas where The Bulletin has previously been
available on Fridays it will now be available on
Thursdays. Distribution arrangements for Western
Australia will remain unchanged, although it is ex-
pected that work being carried out on standardising
the railway gauge in that State will speed distri-
bution arrangements.
Subscription Form (A N the inside back cover of this issue you will
find a Bulletin subscription form. Why not
fill it in now and be sure of regular delivery?
National Notebook
'lelbourne’s Chinatown
I||r W. K. Liu, president of the Chi-
nese Chamber of Ccmmerce, has
>' v en the news that Little Bourke Street
be turned into a tourist attraction, a
Mnatown comparable to the famous
hinatown of San Francisco. The idea is
1 Put up all sorts of decorations, in-
king miniature pagodas, at the Swan-
lon Street and Exhibition Street en-
laces. One hates to be sceptical about
P idea for improving Melbourne, but
it does seem they are a little late. Back
in the late eighteen-fifties, when the Chi-
nese were pouring in by every ship-
load, there were 42,000 Chinese there.
But for the fact that a limit was imposed
one Chinese to every 500 tons of
shipping Melbourne could have be-
come a fine Oriental port.
Now, in all Melbourne, there
wouldn’t be more than 3000 Chinese,
and as a Chinatown Little Bourke Street
is utterably drab, with a few Chinese
shops, cafes and clubs. Hardly enough to
Pago
SMOKING AND CANCER 19
The doctors disagree ... |
9 ■ i
Bunnies in Black Silk Stockings 11
MacArthur The Old Man in the
Tower 13
Just Down the Road —to Venice . 15
The Restless Legend 18
Mr K’s Order to Retreat on the
Literary Front 25
Honest to God —ls He Up There? 27
The Arbitrators Teaching Them
How 30
The Perverse Mind 36
Australia’s Image in Japan 40
On the Interest Rate Band-Waggon 41
Investment Risks and Returns ... 44
9
FEIFFER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELROURNE ... 11
OUT AND AROUT 15
A PAGE OF JOKES 22
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 27
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF RUSINESS ... 41
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phona
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 433*1


thrill the excited American tourists from
the Sou,hern Cross Hotel, although the
Herald did report that one shop carried a
faded picture of Generalissimo Chiang
Kai-shek.
Frankly, I prefer an earlier idea. What
with all the gorgeous cast-iron in Carl-
ton and East Melbourne, it wouldn’t be
hard to give Melbourne a New Orleans
atmosphere. Particularly if the local res-
idents were encouraged to stop using
paint. Sections of cast-iron could be
issued to all those houses that didn’t have
it. This would not be over-expensive. Ap-
parently it can be produced now very
easily and very attractively in all shades
of plastic.
Poles for Freedom
A fter coming from People's Poland,
the Polish Radio Sympnony Orches-
tra found the Peoples Palace in King
Street, Melbourne, a big let-down. The
101 members of the orchestra were
booked into the seven-storeyed Salvation
Army hostel, but within an hour of their
arrival the Polish musicians were clam-
oring for escape. The People’s Palace
does not run to private bathrooms, and
besides there was the liquor ban. When
The Bulletin rang the manager,
Brigadier Coates, he seemed to be taking
the loss of his Polish guests very calmly.
However, the Poles’ rush for freedom
(and bathrooms) upset the ABC no end,
we gather. When the ABC finally
found new accommodation for the Poles,
it was in the Victoria—which, alas, is
also unlicensed.
The excisemen
'There is big money in liquor, and
A nobody realises this better than the
Federal Government But the Govern-
ment appears to be carrying its eagerness
for excise duty a bit far in a recent
ruling of the Customs and Excise De-
partment.
The ruling seriously threatens one of
the chief sources of funds of a dozen
or so of Australia’s most worthwhile
charities. These charities are those which
have cashed in on the eagerness of over-
seas shipping companies to build up
goodwill in Australian ports.
In recent years charities have been
approaching these shipping companies in
droves seeking permission to hold parties
on board ship. In most cases the ship-
ping company makes available portion
of the ship during its stay in the port
concerned, provides all the food, liquor,
service, a band and decorations. The
charity simply sends out invitations at
3 guineas a head or £5 a couple and
watches the money roll in.
Most popular of all for these “gratis”
affairs are the Continental lines, with the
added glamor of foreign food and liquor.
In some cases the shipboard parties be-
gin with cocktails, follow through with
a different wine with every course at
dinner, including champagne, and end
with dancing stretching into the small
hours. By this time the crew are well
and truly on overtime and the cost of
the party to the company may exceed
£2OOO.
The catch and the big cost is
the liquor. Three ' hundred people fre-
quently get through £6OO worth of
liquor at one of these parties. But be-
cause the ship is in port the company
has to pay 100 p.c. duty on the liquor
it donates to the charity boosting the
Feiffer
Kmor
mwAMee,
KJKAT 90 HOU
miUK OF TUB
cmczs FOR -
A WSARMAMeUT
ASRKH 6PT
IMTHS
Dear
wm?
look at m Lesson
OF CUBA, SIR. STAR?
UP To THEM AW TH6HIL
back down' euepH
we,sir! ,
TURK, SEKATOK,
you see k>o
POSSIBILITY OF
a maw ahfkt
NxeeneuT?
FI&T toe HOST
stake up to men
IK Ii)BST 86RLIK,
SIR. IF top STAKE
up To THen in j
mem back
DOWti!,
a fter that squats
IdHAT CHAUCf m
SE£ FOR A p/SAP KA'
MEUT A6ee£HetiT?
M£XT IDE MUST STAMP UP TO TfEti /*)
ftoiAUP, s/e. czecPosiom\A amp
?DLMV. HUV6ABK, RUMANIA, CZBCJkO-
SLOVAKIA AVP mm, SIP. TOU'a
if IDE STAUP UP TO WH
imu BACK DOWN!
tkw um
AERATOR,
VO HOU
THIOK M
CM A6R66
OJ VISARHA-
mb host otarv op ro
TH6M (fJ iTeeoF ,s irp
MAKC THfM PUT HA6K THS
C2AK4 WUU 665" TH6PIL
/ PACK PAWN f
AFTER THA T CHINA
AIR! CfilßA AW
TOTAP
AW? AFTER
THAT
serator r
aw t m
car tie
VIA ARM
AW you WAV, tit?
uom about m «t
of commuricm f


liquor bill alone to £1200! With the
number of charities seeking parties snow-
balling, the cost is worrying many of
■the shipping companies.
The sister Greek lines, Greek Aus-
tralia and Europe Australia, which run
the Patris and the Bretagne, have already
applied unsuccessfully to have the duty
waived on liquor donated to approved
charities. Greek Australia entered into
shipboard parties in a big way when it
first appeared on the Australia-Greece
run late in 1959 and at times has had
parties every night of a ship’s stay in
Australian ports.
But, like other lines, it is finding the
cost too steep. A director, Captain John
Arlaud, said in Melbourne: “The benefit
to us from these parties if any is
indirect. It is merely a matter of good-
will. We have got a name for helping
charity and we like doing it, but unfor-
tunately these high liquor bills have
made it prohibitive. We have had to cut
down. We have approached the Customs
people unsuccessfully to have the duty
waived and so have the Red Cross.
“It seems silly that the charities should
be penalised in this way because that
is what it amounts to. The Australian
Government doesn’t seem to realise that
if these charities didn’t exist it would
have to provide the services they provide
at the moment.’
Banning a Gamble
|'hose spoil-sports, the Victorians, who
already have absurdly fair hire-
purchase laws and similar benefits, are
proposing to remove another of the un-
certainties of life by compelling all of
their second-hand car sellers to have
the vehicles certified roadworthy, and
then only at registered checking stations.
It could not happen in NSW, where
a gamble with anything from a poker
machine up to a used car yard is an
accepted part of the way of life.
There may also be a migration of
used car salesmen to Sydney, to escape
the frustrations of having a fine, sweeping
How of sales talk constantly interrupted
the spoil-sport comment, “Never mind
all that. Where’s its certificate?”
The Cover
This week’s cover picture was special-
ly taken at a West Point ceremony
"hich General Douglas MacArthur at-
tended. Something of the austere, yet his-
honic, character of the man shows
through. Nowadays he lives in isolated,
Restrained splendor in a special suite in
blew York’s Waldorf Astoria Hotel. He
Preserves an inflexible “no interviews”
Ill le, shuns publicity, has little to say
ilthough it’s to the point when he says
and apparently will never accept an
Ration to visit Australia which he
! rst saw 21 years ago on March 17th.
ee “The Old Man In the Tower,” p. 12.
PLAIN ENGLISH
NO "ALTERNATIVE" GOVERNMENT
rpiIERE is no point in mincing words. The Labor Party decision on
“*■ Exmouth Gulf base was not primarily the work of leftists,
nationalists, peace-lovers or whatever. It was the work of the Com-
munists; and the real question that emerges from the Canberra con-
ference is how the Communist Party is so easily able to manipulate
idealistic Labor men that the alternative Government of Australia was
at one point deadlocked over a proposal to close the base down, and
is now committed to making it unworkable.
To run through the list of the 36 men who made the decision is
revealing, though the question remains: How did they get there?
Queensland, where the Labor Party is now little more than a Com-
munist front, sent such men as Mr F. G. Nolan, who on a recent visit
to Russia was made a member of the Communist Young Pioneers*
movement; Mr F. T. Waters, old advocate of the amalgamation of the
ALP and the Communist Party; Mr F. W. Whitby, regarded as so
reliable by the Communist Party that it made him acting-secretary
of Brisbane Trades Hall when the Communist secretary on leave.
Victoria, the leading centre of ALP-Communist Party amalgamation
in action, sent Mr D. McSween, a non-Party communist Mr W. Butler,
organiser of the Communist Mr “Cup” Southwell’s successful election
campaign in the key Amalgamated Engineering Union; Mr J. P. Breb-
ner, usually regarded as responsible for handing control of Yallourn to
the Communist Party. From Western Australia all delegates opposed
the base in any form.
These thiee States, plus one Tasmanian delegate and South Aus-
tralian Mr Clyde Cameron, would have made a majority for dismantling
the base if various pre-selection and electoral pressures had not
been used to force Mr Cameron, the Tasmanian, and Mr Duggan, of
Queensland, to change their minds.
T>UT the main question in Australian politics today remains why the
Labor Party so frequently adopts policies likely to turn Aus-
tralia into a People’s Republic. The first and most obvious answer is
that through control of key unions the Communists can control
the Labor Party (twenty of the 36 delegates in Canberra were union
officials) by selecting for the ALP’s Central Executives either active
fellow-travellers or pathetic Communist prisoners who must do what
they are told or lose their jobs. The moral here is that unless the
ALP, by establishing something like the old Industrial Groups or in
some other way, aggressively purges the unions of Communists it will
never regain its independence.
The other important factor is intellectual. Too many Labor men,
while privately anti-Communist, have so little intellectual stamina that
they are terrified of doing anything about it for fear of being labelled
“McCarthyite.” Others are so sunk in anti-Catholic sectarianism that
they genuinely prefer Communists to Catholics and then kid them-
selves that Communists are no threat to Australia, or even if they are,
that Communism does not really mean slavery, terrorism, mass murder.
In other words their prejudices have turned them into fools.
The solution to this problem is far from obvious. Time, a change
of leadership, unending defeats in election may make the difference;
or a solution may never be found. Meanwhile we can only be grate-
ful that, whatever the defects of the Liberal Government, the Aus-
tralian people will never choose the “alternative” Government. It is
no alternative at all.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE BASE—I
LABOR'S SELL-OUT
Deliberate sadism towards Arthur Calwell
A. A. CALWELL
Surrendered
By ALAN REID
A s well as
the ideolo-
gical content,
As l see it
there was a touch of sadism in the special
ALP Federal Conference which last week
sat at the Ffotel Kingston, Canberra, to
decide Labor’s attitude on the proposed
£33,000,000 United States radio base
at Exmouth Gulf, Western Australia.
The Left Wing was not only determined
to push the Right-wing’s face into the
dirt. It wanted also to plant its boot heel
on the Right-wing’s neck and to keep
grinding its face into the dirt.
The ideological content was, of course,
the more important, There were in-
dividuals fighting on the Left-wing side
from genuinely idealistic motives and in
the belief that for Australia to agree to
the establishment of Exmouth Gulf
(which is now admitted to be intended
for the control and direction of US
nuclear-armed submarines in the Pacific
and Indian Ocean areas) would involve
Australia directly and improperly in the
atomic warfare complex which they be-
lieve will lead to the destruction of all
mankind.
But basically the struggle was between
the oldtime nationalistic forces within
the Labor Party and the Communist
Party, numerically insignificant and poli-
tically ineffective in Australia, but exer-
cising an immense, indirect influence
through its possession of key positions
within the Australian trade union move-
ment, positions from which it can in turn
exercise a direct control over happenings
and decisions within the highest policy-
making bodies in the ALP.
Familiar as I was with Labor Party
personnel and structure, 1 must confess
to a sense of shock when after the Con-
ference ended last week I settled down to
a detailed examination of the Confer-
ence's composition. The Communist
Party, through its industrial strength, its
shrewd exploitation of sectarianism, and
its reliance upon the constantly fostered
proposition that anyone who criticises not
so much themselves as their auxiliaries
and allies are guilty of “McCarthyism”
have achieved a measure of infiltra-
tion that is a tribute to their energy and
organising ability. A remarkably high
proportion of the Conference delegates
consisted of ALP members who believe,
possibly mistakenly but nevertheless un-
questioningly, that they owe their posi-
tions in the industrial movement to Com-
munist support, and tnat tney must never
do anything to estrange this support.
Whether this belief is justified does not
matter. The important thing is that
these delegates hold it. Because they
hold it the less dangerous element will
not do anything to bring on their heads
Communist disapproval while the more
dangerous element —the ‘activists” — al-
ways make clear by their attitude within
Labor's policy-making bodies that they
can “see the viewpoint” of the Com-
munist Party which is the patron for their
jobs in the trade union movement.
Set against that background it would
appear that Mr C. T f“Charley”) Oliver,
NSW ALP President and Australian
Workers’ Union chieftain, was defeated
even before he stepped into the Confer-
ence room to fight for acceptance of the
majority report from the ALP standing
committee on Defence and External
Affairs. This report called for Labor
endorsement for the base or conditions
that maintained Australia’s sovereignty
and rights without simultaneously rnak-
ing the base unworkable from the US
viewpoint. Yet Oliver would still P ro ' 3 '
ably have won but for the weakness
those people—including the Federal
Labor Leader, Mr Calwell —on whose
behalf Oliver thought de was fitting*
The Queensland Parliamentary Labor
Leader, Mr John Duggan, would proba -
ly still have swung at the ast moment an
given the same narrow victory of 19/
to the majority report resolution in lts
original form as he gave to the resolu-
tion finally passed. This was the majority ,
ANNEXING NEW GUINEA
March 31, 1883
O ur neighbors in Queensland are
certainly blessed, or cursed, ( with
the most enterprising Prime Minister
who ever held office in Australasia,
Sir Thomas Mcllwraith. But his latest
and most audacious enterprize—the
annexation of New Guinea by the col-
ony of Queensland—is quite a new
departure. That a dependency should
assume Imperial functions and under-
take to annex a territory nearly as
large as and more populous than its
own, is probably unprecedented, es-
pecially considering that the territory
to be annexed lies beyond sea and dis-
tant more than a thousand miles from
the seat of government in the annex-
ing colony. The singularity of the ad-
venture is all the more striking because
the annexors have neither a navy nor
an army, and possess no apparent re-
sources in men or money to make good
their enterprise should the strong
hand be required by eventual contin-
gencies.
It is difficult to comprehend what
Queensland can want New Guinea for.
The only reason we have seen alleged
for her moving in that direction is
that some Power is sure to appropri-
ate the portion not claimed by the
Dutch before long, and that it will be
undesirable to have an appanage of a
foreign and probably aggressive nation
planted within cooee of Australia. But
this reasoning is obviously fallacious,
The Australian continent is self-con-
tained, and sea-girt. By extending
Australasian dominion to New Guinea,
there will be created the very condi-
tion which, according to the argument,
it is desirable to avoid Queensland
will proceed to meet the undesirable
foreigner half-way and will plant her-
self in New Guinea alongside of the
Dutch claimants, with merely a poll-
tical line for frontier and boundary,
Sir THOMAS McILWRAITH’S mode
of setting to work is as startling as
the work he undertakes. He invites
the approval of the Imperial authori-
ties, it is true; but at the same time he
leaves no room for mistaking that he
does so as a matter of form. In fact,
he is simultaneously taking action—a
course really equivalent to first annex-
ing New Guinea and afterwards asking
leave.


report resolution so “watered down” as
to make it virtually worthless.
But while Oliver was fighting, others
were retreating, leaving his flanks hope-
lessly exposed. As fast as Oliver dug
into a position he found that another
retreat had been ordered. As one dis-
gusted Conference delegate who had
fought alongside Oliver throughout said
afterwards: “Almost from the outset
Arthur (Mr Calwell) didn’t fight—all he
tried to do was arrange for the best
surrender terms he could secure.”
Tt was in the arranging of the surrender
*■ terms that the extreme Left was
the most sadistic. They kept sending the
terms back to Mr Calwell and saying
that they were not abject enough. You
could see the mentality of some of them
at work. Here was Arthur Calwell. He
had the prestige of Federal Labor Lead-
er, a well-paid post, standing, respect,
and the spotlight of public attention —all
the things they craved and he had while
they had not. Well, by the Lord Harry,
they would show him who was boss. They
would keep him waiting humiliatingly
outside the Conference room like a meni-
al while they and they alone made these
big decisions. They would progressively
make more and more abject the surrender
terms they pretended they were prepared
to grant him. But it was a pretence. Their
intention was not only to push his face in
the mud but to keep rubbing, his face
in the mud. After he had abjected him-
self to the last bearable inch they would
make his humiliation even more com-
plete. They would reject his surrender
terms.
It is almost unbelievable But it nearly
came off. If Jack Duggan, now an “un-
reliable” man as far as the Left wing is
concerned and marked down for political
destruction (unless he can win the coming
Queensland elections), had not switched
his vote at the last moment their strategy
would have worked out faultlessly. As late
as 1 a.m. a Left-wing delegate told the
Conference: “Unless you delete the words
we still find objectionable in Oliver’s reso-
lution (that is, make the surrender even
wore abject), we will deadlock the Con-
ference 18/18.” As under Conference
rules a deadlocked voj:e is resolved in
the negative, this would mean defeat for
Oliver’s resolution and but for the de-
fection of Duggan from the otherwise
solid ranks of the Queensland delega-
hon this is what would have happened.
As I see it, this fight is far from over,
of the history of the Labor Party
ov er recent years is the history of the
Secretary, Mr F. E. (“Joe”)
Chamberlain, getting his way. If he does
"ot get his way one way, he tries another
" a y- At last week’s Conference Mr
Chamberlain showed very clearly where
stood. He moved the Western Aus-
halian resolution which was in effect an
instruction to a future Labor Govern-
ment to order the US to withdraw from
Exmouth Gulf, or to use it for a purpose
other than that for which the US propose
building it —to control its submarine
fleet in the Southern hemisphere. Apart
from his moving the resolution, Western
Australia would never have put in such
a resolution over Mr Chamberlain’s
opposition. He is the ALP in Western
Australia.
As Mr Chamberlain has demonstrated
rather convincingly over recent years,
there are many more ways of killing a
cat than choking it with butter. He was
defeated on the Western Australian reso-
lution only by three votes. Three Queens-
land delegates—Duggan, Brisbane’s Lord
Mayor Clem Jones, and Mr F. T. Waters
(Amalgamated Postal Workers) —switch-
ed to have the resolution defeated by 21
votes to 15. The Brisbane Trades Hall is
Communist-controlled. The Brisbane
Trades Hall controls the Queensland
ALP Central Executive. It would be a
comparatively simple matter to arrange
that the Queensland delegation to the
ALP Conference in Perth next June is
“more reliable.”
On the other hand, it may not suit
Mr Chamberlain to make such a frontal
attack. Why have a ban on the base
(which the electors might not like and
might result in reduced representation for
Labor in the Federal Parliament) when
there are other ways of achieving the
same result indirectly? This fight will
probably go on for quite a while yet. All
that has happened so far is that the gong
has gone for the end of Round 1 which
the Left wing finished well ahead on
points after crowding the Right wing pun-
ishingly into a corner when it escaped
only by crawling on its hands and knees.
THE BASE—II
WHAT THE BASE WILL DO
Stabilising the balance of terror
By MICHAEL LEIFER
HThere can be no doubt of the purpose
“*■ of the proposed US Naval com-
munications centre at Exmouth Gulf in
Western Australia. Its function will be
to control nuclear-powered submarines
armed with Polaris (nuclear) missiles
operating in the Indian Ocean and the
SW Pacific area. There is very little
point in quibbling over the difference be-
tween such a centre and, say, the naval
depot at Holy Loch, Scotland. The in-
tention at Exmouth Gulf is to facilitate
the transfer of command decisions, in-
cluding orders to fire nuclear weapons,
from Washington to individual submarine
commanders. Thus, for all intents and
purposes, Exmouth Gulf will serve, if
only indirectly, as a nuclear base.
Those who oppose the Centre do so,
principally, on the grounds that such a
command post will be a far greater liabil-
ity to Australia than an asset, in terms
of survival, in a nuclear conflict. There
are some arguments which seem to have
been overlooked by those alarmed on
this score.
In a recent publication opposing the
establishment of the Centre, sponsored by
Outlook, it was admitted that a Polaris
missile mounted on a submarine is a
second-strike weapon. This means that it
is a missile specifically designed, because
of its invulnerable launching site, to be
used in retaliation following an enemy
nuclear attack. Of course, once such a
weapon is used in retaliation, it has
defeated its own purpose by having
ceased to deter. However, the very fact
that such an invulnerable weapon exists —
one that cannot be reached by a first
strike—is as reasonable a guarantee as
can be expected, in a world of terror, that
a potential enemy will not try and strike
first. To the counter-argument that surely
such missiles directed from Exmouth
Gulf would be regarded as provoca-
tive first-strike weapons, there is the
answer that as long as one’s enemy pos-
sesses a similar invulnerable deterrent,
then it would be suicidal to launch a
first strike in full knowledge of the fact
that it is impossible to knock out his
retaliatory capacity. The Soviet Union
does possess such weapons capable of in-
flicting unacceptable damage on the
United States.
The question remains would a centre
in Australia controlling the firing of
Polaris missiles be a clear provocation to
the Communists, and thus a threat to
Australia? Given the purpose of Polaris
missiles, and the fact that both sides in
the Cold War possess invulnerable
nuclear weapons, this does not neces-
sarily follow. What seems to be import-
ant is not whether such a centre up-
grades the status of Australia as a target
in war, but whether it is likely to increase
the possibility of war. In the event of a
global nuclear war, Exmouth Gulf would
not make any real difference to an Aus-
tralia which would still feel the full effects
of radio-active fall-out. However, on the
other hand, a naval communications
centre could help stabilise and make more
viable the balance of terror by adding to
the invulnerability of the Western deter-
rent, and so inhibiting a Soviet pre-
emptive strike.


There is a further aspect to be con-
sidered. One real danger to-day is the
likelihood of war through accident and
miscalculation. Polaris-firmg submarines
will be operating in the Indian Ocean no
matter what we, in Australia, feel about
it. However, Australians should feel more
secure if they were aware that there was
an effective communications link between
Washington and individual submarine
commanders. In other words, war should
be less likely to result from misconceived
initiative.
Concern has also been expressed that
Australia, by accepting such a centre,
will more readily lay herself open to
nuclear blackmail. But Australia, centre
or no centre, with its present distribu-
tion of population and defence network,
is an ideal subject for nuclear blackmail
which need be practised only by one mis-
sile-carrying submarine. And given the
nature of Australia’s political system and
alignment, it has an equal chance of be-
coming a target for a revolutionary
nuclear power religiously concerned to
change the political order throughout the
world. To declare oneself neutral is no
automatic guarantee of security, and to
declare a nuclear-free zone is not going
to prevent outside powers using nuclear
weapons within the area. For Australia,
the real threat comes from outside the
Southern Hemisphere. Communist China
is not going to alter the pace of its efforts
to manufacture nuclear weapons, either
way, merely because of a naval communi-
cations centre at Exmouth Gulf. How-
ever, if Australia is to be neither a radio-
active desert in a total war, nor a limited
target but a peoples’ republic as a result
of piecemeal conflict, then to knock out
the Centre at Exmouth Gulf alone need
not affect the far removed principal areas
of settlement, which would have to be
left relatively unscathed to be converted.
In all these unthinkable circumstances a
communications centre at Exmouth Gulf
as at present envisaged, is not likely to be
the casus belli.
A fear of some in Australia is that
the United States, through this Centre
will involve Australia in war. For these
people, the argument turns essentially on
whether one can trust the Americans. Un-
fortunately, such individuals have too
often made up their minds before they
have begun to think.
THE BASE III
HOW WE LOST THAT
OTHER BASE: MANUS
The most fabulous dump known to man
Dr H. V EVATT
Learmonth
language
By MASSEY STANLEY
fpHE instructions of the Federal Con-
ference of the ALP on the line a
Labor Government would have to adopt
towards the projected American base at
Learmonth should not surprise anybody,
least of all the Americans. The policy of
the Chifley Government 15 years ago on
the then major base at Manus Island sup-
plied an almost complete guide to form.
Six months after they had expelled the
Japanese the Americans carried out one
of the most amazing construction feats
of World War 11. They built a combined
naval and air base, using at Seeadler a
mighty harbor capable of sheltering
600 warships with ease. The work cost
£lOO million, which is £6O million more
than the estimate for the proposed naval
communications base at Learmonth.
In 1947 suddenly the Americans walk-
ed right out, transferring their main
South-West Pacific base to Guam
which is 1,000 miles farther north from
Australia. Before the end of the year
termites and the jungle had taken over,
and what had been one of the most awe-
some bastions of historical times became
just the world’s costliest junk-pile.
One of the reasons why the Americans
will not be jettisoning their Learmonth
preparations is that Labor is not in
power at the time the agreement is being
negotiated. It will be a fait accompli by
the time Labor gets in, which (barring
eruptive by-election) could not be for
around a year even if the auguries were
better than they are. In 1946 and 1947
Labor was sitting pretty, and moreover
its foreign policy was not being decided
outside, but strictly from within, and by
one man Dr Herbert Evatt, Attorney-
General and Minister for External Aff-
airs. Many thought the fact that Dr Evatt
had ambitions of a world role, which he
realised not long afterwards when he be-
came President of the United Nations,
had not a little to do with the dicing of
Manus, although in fact it must have
been as great a shock for him as for
anybody when the Americans left. They
certainly did so because Dr Evatt pushed
his terms too far, but who in Australia
could have expected that even the
Americans would simply discard an in-
stallation in which they had sunk nearly
two hundred million dollars?
They offered the abandoned plant and
equipment to Australia for a song, and
when Canberra either was not interested
or was too slow in responding made a
deal for even less with the Chinese
Nationalists. They took what they could,
and what remained was still the most
fabulous dump known to man.
All Washington’s negotiations had
been with Dr Evatt. He has been Ex-
ternal Affairs Minister under Mr Curtin
also, but John Curtin had his own ideas
on foreign as well as domestic issues.
Apart from the opposition he got from
the conservatives, when he made his
famous statement of Christmas 1941
declaring that, in the crisis which had
descended on it, Australia looked to
America “without inhibitions” some of
his own followers were not without mis-
givings.
It was fateful for Manus that at the
time the issue came up the head of the
Government should have been Mr
Chifley and not John Curtin, whose con-
fidence in and co-operation with the
United States were absolute, so much so
that this anti-conscriptionist of the First
World War put his leadership and Prime
Ministership on the line when he dem-
anded, from the self-same organisation
that has just given its orders on Lear-
month. an alteration of the call-up policy
when tactical necessities of the warfare
in Australian New Guinea demanded use
of militia-men engaged in it across the
artificial border between these and
Dutch New Guinea. Ben Chifley proved
to be one of the dominating Labor
leaders of all time. Yet. while he cert-
ainly had a mind of his own on this as
on other departments of his adminis-
tration in the Chifley Government the
foreign stuff was left to Dr Evatt.
The Evatt line was hence the Govern-
ment line; and the Evatt line on America
quickly drifted right away from the
Curtin line. This was because, fired with
his grand concept of the newborn Unite
Nations, of which he pridefully regar -
ed himself one of the main architects, as
early as 1946 he ceased to regard Amer-
ica as an ally, but simply as one of the
United Nations members, all of whom
were uncommitted equals.
Almost all of the language in the
compromise resolution which embo
the policy just announced on Learmon
echoes that employed by Dr Evatt a
the time of Manus. Nowadays the P ro
nouncements do not appear to come
from one source, though it is not to
forgotten that Dr Evatt was at Hobart 1


1955; but although there may be fewer
United Nations overtones, the line is
astonishingly familiar to those who were
on the scene in the Manus episode.
The one major difference today is not
in the policies or the wording of them,
but in the publicity which attends their
gestation. On the final stages of the
Manus debacle, and its sequels, Dr Evatt
was a clam throughout the three succeed-
ing years that the Chifley Government
remained in office; nobody could get a
word out of him, and as America was
involved this was an external affair,
whereon none but Dr Evatt gave tongue.
Nor was it until 18 months after the
Menzies Government came into power
that the facts at last got into the Press.
Australia’s obligation to America was
still vividly enough remembered in 1951
for the belated disclosures to resound
from York to Leeuwin. Until the war
there must have been few Australians
who were even conscious that numbered
amongst their island possessions was this
northernmost part of the New Guinea
Mandate, a Mandate we would not have
had but for W M. Hughes.
The Germans had taken over Manus
in 1884 as part of what they dubbed the
Bismarck Archipelago. Queensland
would have beaten them to it if the
English Colonial Secretary of the day
had not countermanded the claim enter-
ed by this impudent colony, which how-
ever did secure possession of Papua. As
it was an Australian force which took
Manus from the Germans in 1914, the
League of Nations mandate went to
Australia after that war. In the Pacific
War the Japanese held it from 1942
to 1944, when it was recaptured by the
American First Cavalry Division, with
the aid of Australian naval and air units.
As I mentioned, the Americans started
right away to build their tremendous
base.
The war was over, and John Curtin,
the man who brought General Mac-
Arthur to Australia, had been dead a
year when the Americans decided that
ithe retention of this enormous instal-
lation was a strategic necessity, and one
which of course no other nation but
herself had the resources arid capacity to
Perpetuate. But now it was part of the
'lew Guinea Trusteeship with Australia
the holding power, and on applying
J t Canberra the Americans found the
T a n they had to deal with was Dr
Evatt.
They went along with him on sove-
feignty, which they had not challenged
I[ >yhow, and Dr Evatt’s proposal that
D °th countries should operate the base
r<*s certainly acceptable, particularly
**th naval and air authorities who had
such happy recent experience of the
f °rth of these two arms of the Aus-
j tr alian Services. But they jibbed at “the
Doctor’s” demand that Australia should
have the right to operate jointly all other
other US Pacific Bases, however remote
from Australia. And they refused to be
subject to Trusteeship conditions under
which their installations would be open
unchallengeably to inspection by the
Security Council, whose members includ-
ed the USSR. Dr Evatt would not budge
an inch from his insistence on the Unit-
ed Nations’ paraphernalia, or consider
the application to Manus of the “strate-
gic trusteeship” invoked elsewhere to
overcome the Security Council anomaly.
It may be that eventually Evatt would
have accepted this, and perhaps have dis-
continued insistence on use of bases
most of which would probably never
have interested the RAN anyhow. But
the argument dragged on, and the Doctor
actually believed he was getting his way
when suddenly the deal was off. Those
acquainted with Dr Evatt do not have
to be told that his silence from then
clearly meant he was both shocked and
disappointed.
The decision of the Chifley Govern-
ment late the following year (1948)
to start its own installations was rather
pathetic. Not in 20 years could it have
constructed installations that would have
come anywhere near the magnificent for-
tress that had been frittered away; in
any event, it would have been foolish
even to consider duplicating the alternat-
ive base which the Americans had now
established in Guam.
One of the sad sequels was a decision
to hand some of the construction over to
civilians of Federal Works and Housing.
They lived tax-free, and (in 1948-49) got
an average of £22 a week, with £6 for
Saturday, paying only 16/6 for messing.
They worked so slowly that the terrible
and constant sea-erosion of Manus, the
termites and the jungle growth were fast
taking over again when the Navy and
Air Force moved in in 1953. They ac-
complished more in six months (with the
aid of a detachment of Japanese war
criminals) than the civilians had in four
years.
TEENAGERS
THE SURFIES
A survey of 50 Surfies
By J. R. WESTERWAY
“ A ll they believe in is the surf,” said
one girl. “Surf fever” one of the
boys called it. When the waves are
running right, this fever grips a good
slice of Sydney’s youth, and in the last
few weeks it has been given a good run
in the daily Press. But no one seems to
have bothered to ask the Surfies for their
views of it all.
"Six of my Tobruk mates and
I would go through these mugs
in 20 minutes."
The Citizen
The catalyst which caused the interest
in the board-riders, or Surfies, was their
clash with the Rockers. And the letters
which followed the news stories showed
that the violence of these clashes was
reflected on Sydney society itself. They
were called hoodlums, hooligans, ruffians
and larrikins. They were compared to
the razor gangs of the ’twenties. The
treatments suggested to cope with them
ranged from the provision of gyms,
through service on training ships or in
the army; to belting and imprisonment.
An ex-soldier caught the essence of
majority opinion. “Six of my Tobruk
mates and I,” he wrote, “would go
through these stupid mugs in twenty
minutes!”
This is not the first time the Surfies
have been in the news. Last year the
papers ran reports of “gate-crashing” by
Surfies at parties on Sydney's upper-class
North Shore. Periodically, spokesmen
for the surf clubs have deplored the
decline in their memberhips and blamed
it on the lure of the surf-boards, and, of
course, the letter columns have carried
indignant protests from parents who dis-
like the Surfie trade-mark of bleached
hair, an effect reputed to depend upon
the use of a popular sink cleaner.
Last weekend we went to Manly and
Queenscliff beaches (the storm centre)
and interviewed just over 50 Surfies. To
a man the Surfies resent the image the
papers have created. They feel they are
“just blokes,” young people who enjoy
the fast, exciting sport of riding the big
waves. Since the introduction of the
light, manoeuvrable Malibu board their
numbers have been increasing every
year, but they themselves see only good
"Who wants to donee when
the sun is shining."
The Surfie
in this. They are proud of their skill,
proud of recent Australian successes in
international competition, and sur-
prisingly interested in new surfing areas
as far afield as Hawaii and South Africa,
The boards are their pride. They cost
from £32 to £45, and most boys claim
that they have bought them themselves,


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
/ 9 6
#OOBURY ESTATE
PITE BURGUNDY
«.s £ , ~,
This full, rich, white
wine has been'pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
&
as
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
very often on terms. When the boards
have been waxed (to make them less
slippery) they work their way out through
the surf, sometimes to the “bommie”
waves caused by the bombora or sub-
merged reef beyond the beach breakers.
They may spend three or four hours out
there before returning to the beach.
All the Surfies we met belonged to
gangs of 12 to 20 boys and girls,
each showing pretty much the usual ado-
lescent gang structure the leader (in
this situation, the spokesman, but in
others probably the best board-rider) and
the lieutenants, the gang buffoon whose
continual clowning revealed his status in
the group, the followers ranged in an ob-
vious pecking order, with the girls
mostly at the bottom, and one or two
boys who sat slightly apart, not quite
belonging. It is unusual for a girl to
own a board, though a handful did, and
even more unusual for them to ride one
well. Boys treat them as likeable in-
competents.
Hours in the surf and sun bleach hair
naturally, and a large number of the
boys had blonde tips to their hair. But
none would admit to artificial aids. They
treated this as a false claim to status
adopting the external symbol of ex-
perience when it had not been won
honestly. To them it was typical of the
“gremmies” or “gremlins,” the small
boys of twelve and thirteen who try to
ape their elders. The other symbol which
has been associated with them their
“board shorts,” or shorts with long legs
almost to the knee has a strictly
utilitarian purpose. The shorts protect
the inner thighs against the rubbing of
the waxed board and are worn over
ordinary swim-shorts.
According to the Surfies, they join
the gangs at 14 or 15 and leave in their
20’s. As one put it, “you leave when you
grow out of it.”
This doesn’t mean that they stop
riding boards, but it does mean that they
settle down to one girl, get married and
so on, and the gang loses its attractions.
Only a handful of the Surfies we met
were going steady with the one girl.
Their parents and/or bosses did not dis-
approve of their being Surfies, nor did
the girls’ parents object to them going
out with Surfies so long as they knew
the boy. Few of them drank alcohol
and those that did all drank beer. Most
of them simply went home after the
beach, but on Saturdays they sometimes
went to dances or to parties. Most denied
“gate-crashing.” and those that admitted
it turned out, on questioning, to have
known the host or to have been invited
by someone who was invited by the
host.
The Surfies had little time for the
Rockers. Though one or two of them
had once been Rockers, their attitude
was mainly one of pity tinged with con-
tempt. As they saw it, the Rockers had
nothing to do but wander around, either
“dragging” at the traffic lights (chal-
lenging other cars to a speed duel) or
trying to win girls. On the beach and
in the surf they were decidedly inferior,
“lily-white” and afraid to take their
shirts off, splashing about when they
entered the water. This attitude was just
as strong in a group which came from
inner-city suburbs. A sizeable minority
also saw Rockers as dirty, with greasy
hair and dark clothes as compared to the
Surfies’ cleanliness and light colors. But
mostly they simply regarded them as
underprivileged compared with them-
selves.
Apart from the papers’ misrepresenta-
tions, the Surfies had only one real com-
plaint. That was that while they were
banned from swimming in the be-flagged
area on beaches (a policy they supported),
body-surfers were not prevented from
swimming in the board area. They don't
want gyms, clubs or dance-halls. They
just want the beach. “Who wants to
dance when the sun's shining?" In short
they wanted nothing from society but
to be left alone.
Next week we will report on our
survey of the Rockers.
POLICE
A MATTER OF DISCIPLINE
Who has the last word?
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
Tnspector Clement Francis Hills
was convicted in Hobart Magi-
strates’ Court on October 11 last
on charges of assault and disturbing the
peace by fighting in a street. The Chief
Justice, Sir Stanley Burbury, subsequently
dismissed Hills' appeal to the Supreme
Court. Police Commissioner W. J. Del-
derfield demoted him to the rank of
senior constable.
Hills thereupon appealed to the Police
Disciplinary Board, composed of rela-
tively junior police officers, on the
grounds that the penalty was harsh and
excessive. (It involved the loss of several
thousand pounds.) Two members of the
board, Inspector E. V. Knowles and
G. C. H. Higgs, allowed the appeal. In-
spector Knowles said that they agreed
that the offence had been of a “minor
nature” and that Hills’ good record in the
force and his age were to be considered.
The other member of the board, Mr
R. H. Cogswell, PM, dissented. Hills,
he said, had been under the influence
to the extent that he was "sufficiently ag-
gressive to commit an unprovoked as-
sault”. Such an act by “a high-ranking
police officer on a private citizen can-
not be treated as something in the ordin-
ary day's work,” Mr Cogswell comment-
ed. Furthermore, it was difficult to see
how Hills could be employed in future
except in a sheltered office job.
Subsequent to this majority decision,
the Government reinstated Hills as it was
obliged to do so under the Police Regu-
lations Act: Section 50D of the Act P r0 ‘
vided that the board's decisions were
binding on the Commissioner of Police.
The final shot to date was fired las
week when Police Minister H. J- Me*
Loughlin announced that the power of t e
Police Disciplinary Board to upset t e
Police Commissioner's decisions is to e
curbed.


Around Melbourne
BUNNIES IN BLACK SILK STOCKINGS
Derhaps you are one of those who
*• think that Melbourne is like
Adelaide, all respectability, sweetness
and Colonel Light. Oh, how we have
fallen. First the strippers moved into
the dear old Hotel Ritz in St Kilda
and into the Hotel Britannia in Swan-
ston Street.
Such young ladies as Miss Gaye
Abandon peeled off their G-strings,
although, in all fairness, they modestly
did wear milk bottle tops in certain
strategic positions. Why, the Hotel
Britannia even has a cigarette girl in
the public bar. She wears only what
cigarette girls usually wear.
We have gone a step further. To
keep up with the rich stream of Ameri-
can culture we now have a Playboy
Restaurant.
Playboy is the most bosomy of the
American “girlie” magazines. It makes
the old Esquire look like Peg’s Own
Paper, and if you buy a life subscrip-
tion you get a copy personally deliver-
ed by a “playmate”. After the 'maga-
zine came the Playboy clubs, which
spread all over the US.
At a Playboy club it costs you $5O
for a key and $1.50 for a drink, but
the real feature are the girls who
wait on the tables. They wear long
black net stockings which go almost
to their waists, they wear bunny tails
on their sit-upons and, of course, the
girls are known as Bunnies. When you
enter the club one of these says warm-
ly “Hello, I’m Alice —Fm your Bun-
ny.” There’s not much point in des-
cribing their brief costumes complete-
ly. As Time magazine once said:
“They sure have majestic mezzanines.”
Well, Playboy has come to Mel-
bourne. Actually it' is not a club, but
the old Embers in South Yarra.
Originally the Embers was Claridges.
Jimmy Noal spent £75,000 and it
blossomed into the Embers. A few
months later, in November 1959, it
was burned to the ground; the story
goes that it happened just after a
torch singer had given her rendi-
tion of “Fire Down Below”. It was
rebuilt, then later some character tos-
sed a bomb through the door and tried
to blow the place up. Anyway, now
it is the Playboy and the set-up is
smooth.
Last week, in the interests of ser-
ious reporting, your correspondent
paid a call. Everything was exactly in
the rich playboy tradition. The girl
waiting on our table was Bunny Eileen.
She had soft red hair, an English ac-
cent, mezzanine just fine, and her legs
in black net stockings finished 18 inch-
es above the top of the table. She wore
the white cotton-tail on her sit-upon,
and she explained that frisky gentle-
men often tried to souvenir it before
they went home.
The quite excellent meal was only
30/- a head, but a bottle of wine was
£l, a martini was 6/6. Here was the
idea. The Bunnies served drinks only.
Simple characters like myself were
prepared to become alcoholics just to
get that Bunny back. So there were
five Bunnies on the job, but for most
of the evening only one waiter.
Food came slowly, but drinks ar-
rived, naturally, with five times the
speed. The Bunny at the next table
was Bunny Gay, tall, dark, very Sophia
Loren-like. Every time she passed our
table she had to turn sideways to get
through and her bunny tail brushed
against my arm. Wives find it hard to
understand gestures like that.
Later in the evening the flashlight
cameraman took pictures at the next
table. Bunny Gay sat on the gentle-
man’s knees. Even though she was a
Bunny it sort of added human interest
to the picture.
Obviously it was high time that one
had a talk to the manager, Mr Bob
Wise. He said the Playboy had been
operating only 10 days, and already
business was going extra well. It had
improved 200 p.c. The chief trouble
had been to find the right Bunnies.
They had interviewed 100 girls and
they had chosen only seven . . .
“You see, we had to get very nice
girls with good family backgrounds;
obviously they get propositions some-
times. We can’t even have a sugges-
tion of anything like that. Our Bun-
nies are not allowed to have dates
with any of the customers. Absolutely
forbidden. They’re not even allowed to
go out with the staff.”
Mr Wise explained that the bunnies
were extremely well paid. Some of
them came from modelling schools.
Considering the number of model-
ling schools in Melbourne, and pro-
viding myxomatosis doesn’t set in,
there should be an endless supply of
Bunnies in the future.
Also, I gathered the news that there
was a Playboy businessmen’s lunch,
which took place every day on the
floor below, known as The Burrow.
Furthermore, real enthusiasts could
purchase for the sum of 75 dollars
the Playboy products. These consisted
of “Cuff Links, Tie Tack, Key Chain
handsomely finished in ebony black
enamel on Rhodium, brightened with
the famed Playboy bunny.”
As I departed I remembered that
Hugh Marston Hefner, the originator
of Playboy magazine, the man who
put Esquire in its place, always
kept a framed share of Esquire com-
mon stock in his bathroom. Under-
neath was written, “In case of emerg-
ency break glass.” I wondered what
Mr Wise kept in his bathroom. May-
be a framed share of Federal Hotels’
common stock.
As if we didn’t have enough charms
already, there have been some des-
perate ideas to provide tourist at-
tractions for Melbourne. Mr Stanley
Korman once announced plans for a
whopping Eiffel Tower by the Albert
Park Lake. Another exciting idea was
for a great overhead trapeze which
would take tourists on trips over the
Yarra and the Botanic Gardens.
BATMAN.


THE OLD MAN IN
THE TOWER
Eighty-two, and as austere as ever
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
|T|n a sunny March morning just 21 years ago the legendary General Douglas
MacArthur arrived at Melbourne’s Spencer Street station to assume supreme
command of the UN forces in the South Pacific. Fresh from his hopeless stand
against the Japanese in the Philippines, he, his wife and small son, and his
staff had made a spectacular escape to Australia in two Flying Fortresses. On
the platform to greet him were Acting Prime Minister Forde, a US guard of
honor and an Australian Army band. Outside the station was a wildly cheering
crowd; the Philippines and the Netherlands East Indies had gone and it seemed
inevitable that Australia would fall to the invincible Japanese. National self-
confidence had deserted us, but the effect on our lagging spirits of the great
MacArthur’s arrival was electric. MacArthur’s careful cultivation of aloofness,
the mixture in him of ham actor and undoubted genius, prevented anyone
getting close to him. Perhaps no one ever will . . . even today.
Austere, gaunt, full of years, but as
ice-cold brilliant as ever, General
of the Army Douglas MacArthur
has emerged from the seclusion of his
Oriental-styled suite high in the tower of
the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel to win an-
other major battle.
Thus, through the murky mists or the
newspaper blackout shrouding this great
city, the man in the street was reminded
that the Pacific hero of World
War II had not “faded away”—as many
people seemed to think but was still
very much part of the contemporary
scene and still very much in full com-
mand of his extraordinary faculties.
Acting at the personal request of his
Commander-in-Chief, President Kennedy,
the 82-year-old warrior stepped into the
acrimonious dispute between two power-
hungry athletics groups which was
threatening American prospects in the
1964 Olympic Games at Tokyo. The dis-
pute, years in the making, had defied
the efforts of every previous mediator
notably the President’s brother, Attorney-
General Robert Kennedy, to resolve.
But such is the prestige and iron will
of the old General that he forced the
Amateur Athletic Union and the National
Collegiate Athletic Association to agree
on a compromise solution in a dramatic
non-stop nine-hour conference which
he dominated every minute. The solution
guaranteed peace in the turbulent world
of athletics for at least two years, thus
ensuring a strong American contingent
of runners and jumpers for the Tokyo
games.
President Kennedy was on the ’phone
to the MacArthur suite shortly after the
settlement, congratulating the General
and expressing gratification for his
“undertaking one more assignment and
mediating the dispute so effectively and
successfully.”
There was no doubt the General had
brought off the coup single-handedly.
“Without the General's presence the
conference would not have lasted two
minutes,” one witness reported. “There
were moments when it looked bad. After
seven hours of talking it looked darkest.
The conference seemed to be moving on
four flat tyres. But the General never
let up, and before eight o'clock the vic-
tory was won.”
Save for a yearly birthday party, in
which he gathers with many of his for-
mer comrades in arms in a private dining
room in the Waldorf and consents to pose
for newspaper photographs, General
MacArthur remains sternly aloof from
the public and avoids publicity as best
he can.
All requests for interviews or expres-
sions of opinion have to go through a
secretary, one of the three enlisted men
assigned to him by the Army as personal
aides. They are invariably turned down.
In answer to my request tor a personal
interview the General's secretary told me
off politely but firmly.
“The General has the fondest recollec-
tions of Australia and the Australian
people,” the secretary said. “But he can-
not grant interviews to Australian Press
representatives. He never speaks privately
to journalists.”
As a consequence of these restrictions
the personal life of the General has been
pretty much a closed book since his re-
turn from Tokyo in 1951, after being
sacked as Supreme Commander in the
Far East.
He has resisted all efforts, including
fabulous money offers from the Luce
organisation, to present “his side” of th e


&piite with Truman or to publish his
memoirs. One wonders what Hollywood
might pay to film the MacArthur story,
it might be difficult, on the other hand,
; jo find an actor who could convey the
style and impact of the real-life hero,
with his dark glasses, corncob pipe and
his carefully crushed campaign cap.
In his emotional address to Congress
following his dismissal, the General ob-
served that “old soldiers never die
ithey just fade away.” He has since faded
away from public view. Aside from his
iunhappy flirtation with Presidential
politics in 1948 and a triumphal return
|to the Philippines in 1961 to celebrate
the country’s fifteenth year of indepen-
dence, he has lived «.. life of splendid
] isolation in his luxurious Manhattan
Tower. He has an income more than
: sufficient for his somewhat spartan tastes.
“Douglas on a bicycle?”
Asa five-star General of the Army and
!** the nation’s highest-ranking service-
man, he is not considered retired but on
permanent active duty, without assign-
ment. He receives army pay of $20,000
| a year, as well as such privileges as the
services o f military aides, a chauffeured
motor car and the like.
What is more, ne is chairman of the
board of the Sperry-Rand Corporation,
a giant company which manufactures a
variety of electronic products and is
heavily involved in the country’s defence
program. In this capacity, General Mac-
Arthur receives a salary of more than
SIOO,OOO a year. Until recently he went
to his office each day in nearby Rocke-
feller Center, but now he rarely ventures
forth from the Tower.
The MacArthur household consists of
the General and his wife, the former
Jean Faircloth of Tennessee, whom he
married in 1937 after a divorce from
his first wife, and their son Arthur, who
recently graduated from Columbia Uni-
versity; and a Filipino woman servant
who fled with the family from Bataan
to Australia in the darkest days of the
war.
The General was said to' have been
disappointed when his son decided
a gainst the MacArthur tradition of
a West Point education and chose to
study the liberal arts. The General’s
father was the last military governor of
the Philippine Islands. He himself
graduated first in the class of 1903 from
West Point with one of the finest aca-
demic records in the institution’s long
history.
It has been said that Arthur, when
a boy, was deliberately prevented from
being outstanding in any particular field
ft f scholastics. Any special aptitude was
discouraged, with the idea that he should
grow up a strictly normal youth.
MacArthur’s wife still addresses him
as “General”; guests unused to it find this
habit a shade disconcerting, but it has
been claimed that it is merely an ex-
pression of traditional Deep Southern
courtesy. Or perhaps it is a concession
to his unbending dignity. His first wife
was an enthusiastic member of a cycling
club. When asked why her husband
never rode with her she replied: “Can you
imagine Douglas on a bicycle?”
MacArthur was said to have been dis-
liked by the men under his command
during the war; his aloofness, his ap-
parent conviction that he was a man
of destiny, his unwillingness to accept
ideas from lesser men, contributed to his
unpopularity. His communiques were
thought to be over-optimistic and a bit
boastful they talked of “my” Navy
and “my” Army. Also, he was seldom
seen by his troops, and when he did
appear his uniform was so perfectly
creased and his general appearance so
immaculate that he came to be known
in some quarters as “Dugout Doug”.
This was an unjust nickname; what-
ever his faults, there was no question of
his personal courage. In the First World
War he was known as the “d'Artagnan
of the AEF”; while ordering his men to
take every precaution themselves (he
has always been especially proud of the
low casualty rate among troops under
his command) he himself used to go into
battle without either helmet or gas mask.
He established his headquarters about
1000 yards behind the most forward
trench. He was twice wounded, 13 times
decorated, and mentioned in dispatches
seven times for bravery under fire. He
ended the war as a brigadier-general.
Despite this, he was not popular even
then. A field officer of the period once
remarked: “I thought that the General's
father was the most flamboyantly ego-
tistic man I had ever seen until I met
his son.” (The father was also a general
and a West Point graduate.) And a
schoolfellow has claimed “he was ar-
rogant from the age of eight.”
However, his immediate entourage
during the last war revered him. One of
them, questioned by a journalist about
MacArthur's character, replied: “I
honestly can’t tell you anything. He is
too enormous, too unpredictable. I
don’t really understand him myself. No
one could.”
Journalists found him distant, but
highly attentive to whatever was written
about him. During the South Pacific
campaign an Australian submitted an
article to him. MacArthur read it
through very carefully from the begin-
ning to the end, and then altered only one
word; he did not like himself described
as “remote”, and he changed it to
“austere”.
Like many generals, MacArthur is an
extremely religious man. He once de-
clared: “I have utter and complete faith
in a merciful God.” And at their morning
devotions the family still recite a special
prayer which the General composed when
he was in Australia. It begins: “Build me
a son, O Lord, who will be strong enough
to know when he is weak and brave
enough to face himself when he is
afraid; one who will be proud and un-
bending in honest defeat and humble and
gentle in victory.”
His prose has not always been felici-
tous; in fact, while it is recognised that he
is a fluent, intelligent and often amusing
talker, his written words are sometimes
peculiar. After one of his brilliant World
War II victories an admiral sent him a
congratulatory telegram. MacArthur re-
plied: “May God protect and preserve
them [the admiral’s crews] is my prayer
as the world keeps turning over and over
and over.”
As his campaigns successfully pro-
ceeded his inclination to imperiousness
swelled. Winston Churchill has recorded
that MacArthur, sailing serenely over
everybody’s head, demanded a diversion
of British forces to Australia, the use
of a British aircraft-carrier, and a sub-
stantial augmentation of shipping on the
US-Australia run. It seems that Washing-
ton had never even heard of these re-
quests, much less approved them. They
were at once cancelled.
Disaster in the Primaries
TTis unpopularity with the rank and file
persisted after the war, and was re-
vealed in the formation throughout the
United States of “Veterans Against
MacArthur” clubs when he made his
disastrous bid for the Republican Presi-
dential primaries in 1948. It had been
exacerbated by his expulsion from Wash-
ington of the “Bonus Expeditionary
Force” of veterans during the depression
in 1932; many said the methods of the
troops under his command were cruel
and unnecessary; his friends said he was
merely obeying orders.
MacArthur, however, was convinced
he had a good chance in the primaries
although no single Republican of prom-
inence supported him, and his following
consisted mainly of isolationists, Roose-
velt haters, millionaires with an eye on
possible financial advantages, and
“America Firsters”.
In May, 1948, the General concluded
a special message to the Los Angeles


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth .
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
FIEHFOILEDi
POT STILL
BRANDY
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. |
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. »
“Examiner”: “And today, as on bended
knee I so reaffirm my faith and rededi-
cate myself, I humbly give thanks to Al-
mighty God, the divine Father of us all,
for the greatest of blessings, the birth-
right proudly to say I am an
American!” But in Philadelphia in June
MacArthur obtained only 11 votes out
of 1094 in the first ballot; and his score
sank to zero in the third. Nowadays the
General likes to sit in his library at night,
wrapped in his old West Point cadet
blanket. He once served as Superinten-
dent of the famous military academy,
and he has said that of all the honors
ever given him (he is America’s most
decorated soldier) he was proudest of
having earned a West Point diploma.
According to recent visitors the General
has given up his corncob pipe but occas-
ionally smokes an after-dinner cigar. For
exercise he walks through his six-room
apartment half an hour at a time He is
in good health and, aside from a slight
trembling of the hands, shows few of the
defects of old age. Undoubtedly the
highlight of his life since returning from
Japan was his visit two years ago to the
Philippines at the invitation of the
President and Legislature. The Philip-
pines loomed large in his life. He lived
there as a small boy when his father was
Military Governor. After graduation
from West Point he was posted to the
islands as a second lieutenant, and had
his hat blown off by a shotgun blast from
a guerilla fighter in his first taste of
action. After World War I he returned
to Manila as a brigadier-general com-
manding all American troops in the
islands. In 1935 he became a Field-
Marshal in the Philippine Army. General
MacArthur was in command of the
Philippine forces when the Japanese Air
Force destroyed his planes on the
ground in a companion raid to the Pearl
Harbor attack. Upon his appointment
as Far East Commander by President
Roosevelt he fled Bataan with his family
with the promise, “I shall return.” In
1944 he waded up on the shore of Leyte,
to make good that promise. Incidentally,
there was a sharp skirmish during the
South Pacific campaign with the US
Office of War Information, which wanted
to change the slogan to “We shall return.”
For months MacArthur fought doggedly
for his “I”; and after a long series of
rather discourteous exchanges he won.
“He behaved like a bull-headed baby,”
said a disgruntled OWI man afterwards.
The greatest crowds in Philippines his-
tory swarmed around the General when
he and his wife undertook their “senti-
mental journey” to the islands for the
July 4 Independence celebration of 1961.
It took four hours for his car to pass a
two-mile stretch from the airport to
downtown Manila.
Upon his return to America he went
to the White House to report to President
Kennedy on conditions in the Philippines.
Later he went over to the Capitol
building, where Congress passed a special
resolution thanking him for his leader-
ship during and following World War
11. The Speaker read a list of Mac-
Arthur’s great battles: “The Marne,
Meuse-Argonne, St Mihiel and Sedan,
Bataan, Corregidor, New Guinea, Leyte,
Lingayen Gulf, Manila and Borneo,
Pusan and Inchon.” The General ex-
pressed his gratitude “that Congress,
after a lapse of sufficient time to be
swayed neither by sentiment nor emotion,
has rendered an opinion of my services
that I am afraid does me too much
honor.” At his most recent birthday
celebration he stood erect and smiling as
a group of West Point cadets sang “Old
Soldiers Never Die.” He cut a piece of
a huge cake iced with his favorite
motto: “Youth is not a time of life it
is a state of mind”.
Responding to a toast he quipped: “At
my age each new birthday is something
of a triumph.”


OUT AND ABOUT
JUST DOWN THE ROAD - TO VENICE
"Why go by train?" asked Truman Capote
By DAVID McNICOLL
Whenever I hear that rather haunt-
ing song “Moon River” I think of
“Breakfast at Tiffany’s,” the film
of which it was the theme song. This
starts me thinking of Truman Capote,
who wrote the book. From that point I
think about Venice. Then I brood about
taxis. If you'd like to know why . . .
I was staying, a couple of summers
ago, for a few days with Bob and Vir-
ginia Ruark at their villa on the beach
at Palamos, on the Costa Brava. Palamos
is exceedingly pleasant, except at the
height of the season when it is impossible
to see the sea for German tourists. One
sleeps late, eats, drinks, swims, and talks
far too long into the night.
Ruark has a small villa next to his big
villa, and in the small villa was a very
small (in stature) American author of
considerable ability, .Truman Capote.
Truman is a gnomish, rather mincing,
sort of chap with an enormous head and
big round eyes. He is a most diverting
conversationalist and is ever ready to put
down his pen and start using his tongue.
He was working on his new novel in
longhand in an exercise book—and had
128 pages of writing completed. He was
perfectly satisfied with his progress of 12
pages a day. He sat on the
floor of his sitting-room, drink in hand,
talking in a high-pitched voice about
murders. He had recently heard, some-
what belatedly, about the Juliet Hume
murder in New' Zealand some years ago,
and it had him fascinated. All the in-
gredients appealed to him—the personnel,
the motives, the method (a brick), the
venue (a zoo or park), the side diversions
(strange interchange of verse between the
girls). Truman wanted to hear every-
thing, and under his eager round-eyed
questioning little details kept darting
back into my memory cells. I promised
him that when I returned to Australia
I would send him fuller details.
When was I going back to Australia,
Capote asked. By what route? I told him
that I was flying next day to Milan, tak-
ing the train to Venice, picking up a ship
for Greece, then flying from Athens
home to Australia.
“A train to Venice? Why a train?”
asked Truman. I explained that the
travel agent had fixed this. As a matter
of fact, I confided, it was the only part
of the return journey that worried me.
My plane from Barcelona was due to
land in Milan at 7.15 p.m. and the train
for Venice went at 8 p.m. Any delays
in the flight and I would miss my train.
“There you are”, said 1 ruman, “you
silly fellow, you must take a taxi to
Venice from Milan. Forget the train.”
“But that’s a long drive, isn’t it?” I
asked.
“Not a bit of it,” said Capote, “It’s
just down the road. I’ve done it dozens
of times. Just down the road.”
My problems were solved. I soared
away from Barcelona with a light heart
and no more nagging worries about miss-
ing trains in Milan. Our Alitalia plane
touched down at Milan on the dot of
7.15. As I had all the time in the world
I dawdled last off the plane. I was last
into Customs. At 7.40 I strolled behind
my porter into the airport lobby and
made for the bank to cash some cheques,
Then at 7.50 I strolled towards the en-
trance.
“Which hotel?” asked the pleasant
r han in rharpp of thp taxis
- Not staying here> .. , said> , but , want
a taxi.”
“Whpre to?” he asked
t „
’Venice, I said,
“Where?” This time I let him have it
slowly in my best Italian,
“Ven-et-zee-ah,” I said,
The good fellow scratched his head,
then turned to the small knot of drivers
gathered in the entrance. He gabbled
freely for a minute and I was suddenly
conscious that he was calling for volun-
teers.
Finally a stalwart and swarthy fellow
stepped forward. I rather felt he had
drawn straws with his fellows and lost,
‘'ft > s 267 kilometres each way, and the
f are w ‘h be .. . He made it sound like
something just short of a couple of nul-
lion lire, but I worked it out at £22
sterling.
I will draw a veil over my feelings, and
I will not reveal the remarks I made
about Truman Capote. In a few minutes
I was squeezed into the smallest Fiat in
the world and was racing into the twilight
with the swarthy one at the controls. I
got to know very little about him except
that he had a compulsive half-cough,


,-w™^
w
■
■■■■ W—
■■■■■■■l
WmmSmmiwmMwMmmMMimWSmmWMiM,
s
mm.
m
§if§i
If
■1
V*
WM
m
w
WM,
sx-x
m
HH
«
■
M
r ,
’'Revolutionary” is the word for UNICHRQME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
unichrome


uni chrome
Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Yeur designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw,, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Manderftar Avenue,
Homebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
NEW ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221 UC4
LEATHER GRAIN FINISH m
nttil
'
SATIN FINISH ON PERFORATED METAL
*♦>*♦*♦
■ w$
a
* * x * x<
4ViV+>W
*&%%%%%%%*
■*
Miu,
pppplfp#.
I ms® i
<v%> 4
iAf-t-?*:
MULTI-COLOUR FINISH 44' '? 4?P;§f:%l'444>
if j§§|| -
n
' : wum
m
m
m
WM
HBMMRK
SPATTER FINISH
which he loosed off every 45 seconds;
and he regarded himself as the civilian
contender for line honors in the Mille
Miglia.
We tore down autostradas at 75. We
lurched off on to roads under repairs.
We honked our way viciously through
towns, all of which seemed to be called
Verona, Carona, or Pamplona.
The swarthy one broke his Trappist
vow finally four hours after leaving
Milan. Lights were glowing ahead, and
suddenly he muttered, “Venezia.” The
lights grew stronger. “Bauer Grunwalde
Hotel,” I told him confidently. “Ven-
ezia,” he replied. Then he pulled up
alongside a stone quay, pointed at the
dark waters and proceeded to decant my
bags, trouser his pile of lire, cough twice
and disappear in the dark.
A gondola slid out of the dark along-
side me, and a beaming character in
charge asked me where I wanted to go.
I told him, and twenty minutes later we
sidled up to the Bauer Grunwalde. I was
beat to the wide, hungry, thirsty and
very out of pocket. The clerk took me to
my room, and I asked him if I could
eat at so late an hour. Certainly I could,
he said. A chef would prepare some-
thing special for me.
I showered and changed, and the feel-
ing of having at some time been human
crept back over me. Then I saw it.
Tucked under the glass on my dressing
table was a delightful brochure illustrat-
ing a scene with which, in different coun-
tries, I have become distressingly fam-
iliar. It showed sleek people standing
and sitting at green baize tables. Above
was the legend: “Casino Municipale di
Venezia”.
I started to feel e%en better. I almost
ran from the lift and asked the desk clerk
how I got to the Casino. A long trip by
gondola, he said. About twenty minutes
by speedboat. I ordered a speedboat
We throttled back at the Lido and the
exhaust bubbled and gurgled as we came
alongside the Casino wharf. I asked the
boatman to wait, and took the lift to the
gaming room. At the side buffet I calm-
ed myself with a double Scotch and two
rare beef sandwiches. I then approached
the craps table and starting from a tenta-
tive natural built to a large stack, then
lost it all. Over to the roulette. Bang,
bang, bang on my three numbers —5, 11
and 14, straight out and transversal. Up
came 5. Win. The wheel spun again—
-12, which meant a winning transversal
bet. Another spin. 14. Win. I picked
up my chips, cashed them, took the lift
down to my boat.
At 1.45 I was in a deep dream of
peace in my Bauer Grunwalde bed, a
large pile of brand new lire smiling at me
from the dressing table.
I should have had nightmares about
Truman Capote, but I didn’t.


THE RESTLESS LEGEND
Satchmo on the hop ...
By CHARLES HIGHAM
RAIN soaked the tarmac; two men
rather desultorily held up a sign
with trumpets painted on it in foot-
high letters “Hail the King, Satchmo,
Louis Armstrong”. Beyond the barrier
dividing Press and public the small but
enthusiastic crowd, mostly of men in
shorts and beach shirts, managed a
couple of cheers.
Louis Armstrong’s latest arrival in
Sydney accompanied by Dick Hughes’
band playing “By and By” came on
the kind of day that travel brochures
never hint at, but it took more than a
vile March rain-and-steam bath to crush
the King’s bonhomie.
He walked dumpily out of the green-
striped TEAL plane from New Zealand,
joined Dick Hughes and the boys in a
number, and brandished a huge black
Qantas umbrella. His wife, former
chorus-girl Lucille Wilson, trotted slightly
behind like the bride of an Oriental
potentate, her face buxom and bright
under a butch-cut of turnip-colored hair.
She and Louis have been touring the
world almost incessantly for close on 20
years, unable to rest and determined to
keep on going “until the good Lord takes
them”.
From the tarmac Louis, his wife and
several band members were plunged into
the tangled melee of any airport Press
reception room. Wnile tumblers of
Scotch got spilled on the floor, Lucille
Armstrong nipped at a schooner and the
furniture sweated, the greatest living jazz
musician of the New Orleans school
talked about himself and what the
future held for him? Here he was, two
hours between planes, Press, radio and
TV, then a hurried meal in a stifling,
badly-serviced restaurant, and off to
Brisbane for the same grim routine. Yes,
he wanted to take a break some time,
go on a tramp steamer around the
Pacific. But, contrary to report, he
wasn’t ready to retire yet, and this was
he hoped by no means his last
visit to Australia.
"Throw down the glove, which, come to think of it, is all I have left."
It was interesting, as he talked, to look
carefully at the face which is already
part of the jazz legend. The eyes are
the most striking feature sad, dark,
and troubled. Not all the searchlight
brilliance of the grin, the huge white
teeth so heavily insured, can conceal
the fact that Louis Armstrong is a man
who has suffered a great deal.
What, for him, had been the biggest
drawback in a lifetime of singing and
trumpet-playing from the backstreets of
New Orleans to the international arena?
“The effect on mah voice. Th' old rooster
don’t crow like it used to!” And had
any of the great names he grew up with
in the early jazz days survived along
with him?
“Well there’s Pop Foster, Bob Moran,
Kid Ory they’re still going, ’course.
But most of ’em have gone.” Why did
he feel the life expectancy of jazz play-
ers was so brief? “Well, it’s been OK
for me” he put his hand meaning-
fully on his wife’s leg “but all those
boys haven’t been so lucky. No-good
marriages, they never go to bed before
3 a.m., then they’re off on bus tours
next morning 1 tell you, no one can
live that way! When they get up to that
stage they’re beat!”
Had there been any display of color
prejudice towards him during his career?
“None so you’d notice. But in New Or-
leans, my birthplace there was some
trouble there when we wanted a white
man in the band. That place ir all on
its own.”
The films Louis Armstrong appeared
in had in many cases tended to
use the Negro as comic relief, but one
didn’t feel Louis had cared too much
about that. When one nad seen him play
his trumpet with Dick Hughes’ boys
outside Kingsford Smith Airport, it had
been clear that he seized all chances to
express himself, whenever they turned
up.
An artist to his fingertips, the King of
Jazz would sing, dance, elewn, do any-
thing, just so long as he could play his
music his own way until the end.


THE ROYAL EASTER
ANNIVERSARY
SHOW
sth April to 16th April, 1963
Don’t miss the greatest spectacle
of the year! See our finest stock
on parade, cattle judging,
woodchopping, primary and
secondary industry exhibits and
the wealth of other events,
including Parade of Transport,
comprehensive wool exhibition,
army display and fireworks. These
combine to make the Royal Easter
Show the greatest single attraction
in the Southern Hemisphere!
Come to the 1963 Royal Easter
Show at the Showground, Sydney.
10 DAYS & 8 NIGHTS
m
DOES SMOKING CAUSE CANCER?
Another pseudo-scientific fad
By MICHAEL KELLY, M.D.
The apparent unity of scientists
about the evils of smoking was
shattered when Dr Charles Mayo,
of the Mayo Clinic, said in Brisbane that
he did not believe smoking played any
part in causing lung cancer ( Herald ,
October 31, 1962). Despite this Dr W.
Summons (Age, November 22, 1962, on
behalf of the Council of the Victorian
Branch of the Australian Medical
Association, made a statement which
amounted only to the confirmation of a
statement made a few weeks earlier by
the Council of the Royal Australasian
College of Physicians. The Australian
College, however, had not investigated
the subject independently, but had only
approved a statement made by the Royal
College of Physicians (London). This
College in its turn had relied almost
wholly on reports in the British Medical
Journal of June 26, 1954, and November
10, 1956, by Doll and Bradford Hill,
two statisticians of the Medical Research
Council.
In an excellent letter (Age, November
28) Mr P. D. Finch, a University statis-
tician, showed the extreme vulnerability
of Dr Summons’ position in relying on
statistical tables to prove that smoking
causes cancer. Whereas the collection
of data such as statistics, says Finch, is
the province of medicine, the prime re-
sponsibility in the analysis of the statis-
tics lies with the statistician. Further, a
distinction must be made between the
nature of the evidence required to con-
vince a scientist that there is an associa-
tion and the evidence required to con-
vince a layman that his smoking habits
are subjecting him to risk. Finch pointed
out that individual statisticians differ in
their interpretation of the relevant data,
and no qualified statistician can
assert that smoking is a proved cause of
cancer. On one point, says Finch, Sum-
mons actually misled his readers by sug-
gesting that inhalers have a higher inci-
dence of lung cancer. For the figures of
Doll and Hill show a lower incidence in
inhalers than puffers, and that is why
many statisticians are not impressed.
Finch was overwhelmed on three suc-
cessive days by (1) a statement by Dr
Dickson, secretary of the AMA (No-
vember 29), that Doll is a doctor of
medicine and that Hill has the confidence
of the profession; (2) a letter from Sir
Macfarlane Burnet (November 30)
pointing out that (a) Doll and Hill are
distinguished medical statisticians and (b)
that he knows of five eminent scientists,
heavy smokers, who have died of lung
cancer; (3) a long letter from the Vic-
torian Government statist, V. H. Arnold,
praising Bradford Hill and the statistical
tables presented by the Royal College of
Physicians—with an irrelevant digression
in praise of Sir Norman Gregg of Sydney
(whose scientific work has never depend-
ed on statistics).
On October 17, 1962, eight doctors
and Mr Arnold had met at the Depart-
ment of Health under the chairmanship
of Dr Kevin Brennan. These comprised
two representatives of the AMA and
one each of the Anti-Cancer Council and
the Colleges of Surgeons, Physicians,
Radiologists, Pathologists and General
Practitioners. These resolved unani-
mously that the conclusions of the Royal
College of Physicians of London . . .
are valid.
When I first read Doll and Hill’s paper,
the contradictions like that of the
relative safety of inhalers did not
make sense. I expected the craze to die
down like any other medical fashion.
In Australia doctors are by no means
unanimous. Dr Kenneth Starr, Director
of Cancer Research in Sydney, wrote in
the Medical Journal of Australia (August
8, 1959) that science is using statistics
for a purpose never intended. He quotes
the British statistician Sir Percy Stocks


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Hanking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O SULLIVAN Ji
pmtD AV
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS &• OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
. ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
••JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
EXCLUSIVE DISTRIBUTORSHIP
available for a new and most successful
USA. AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCT
MILLIONS SOLD IN U.S.A., CANADA, STH. AMERICA,
EUROPE AND ASIA
This product is welcome by every driver of Motor Cars, Trucks,
Motorcycles and will be sold by Super Markets, Chain Stores, Service
Stations, Hardware and General Stores, etc. It is used and
recommended by many Police and Army Depts., Motorists' Assn.
WE OFFER:
Massive TV advertising, TV films, other promotions,
all proven by sensational sales m many countries.
ALL THIS FULLY PAID BY US.
WE REQUEST:
An active distributor in sound financial position,
able to invest about £20,000 (all for merchandise
of quick turnover), preferably but not necessarily
introduced to automotive trade, keenly interested
in the promotion of our product.
Export Manager arriving in Australia in April for detailed
negotiations. Write in first instance to:
ESKAL (USA) MARKETING & EXP. CO.
WORLD TRADE CENTER, SAN FRANCISCO
who believes atmospheric pollution in
Britain is the chief factor causing the in-
crease of lung cancer. The tobacco
theory, says Starr, does not explain the
lower incidence of lung cancer in Aus-
tralia, New Zealand, America and South
Africa, despite a higher tobacco consump-
tion per head. In all these countries lung
cancer is twice as common in migrants
from Britain as in home-born white
people. Starr observes also that the real
incidence of lung cancer may be gauged
from the small numbers of cases detect-
ed in the millions of people who have
had their chest X-rayed during the past
few years. In the Journal of September 5,
1959, Dr C. Rubinstein, Director of the
NSW Anti-Tuberculosis Appeal, supplied
the exact figures. Of 1,686,000 people
X-rayed, 188 had cancer; 29 of these
were non-smokers.
The distinguished statistician Sir
Ronald Fisher before nis death com-
piled a booklet ( Smoking , The Cancer
Controversy. Some Attempts to Tvsess
the Evidence, Oliver and Boyd,
London, 1959) comprising letters he
had written to the British Medical Journal
from 1955 to 1958, a talk on the BBC,
a lecture at Michigan State University,
and preliminary reports on personal ob-
servations he had been making. Fisher,
who has held the Royal, Guy and Copley
medals of the Royal Society, says he
began to interest himself in the contro-
versy when he read a statement that
“the hazards of smoking must be brought
home to the public by all the modern
devices of publicity”. This made him fear
the misuse of devices of publicity.
Fisher says that no statisticians think
the matter is finally settled. He believes
that an absolute rate of increase of lung
cancer has been obscured by the greater
attention paid to the disease. Moreover,
the increase is chiefly in men and not in
women. Men have smoked the same
amount during the past 50 years, but
smoking in women has increased—yet
deaths from lung cancer have not increas-
ed in women. This, he says, is a “massive
recalcitrant fact” which has been emerg-
ing through the smokescreen of propa-
ganda.
Cigarette smoking and lung cancer,
which seem associated, may both be in-
fluenced by a common cause. Perhaps,
says Fisher, the man who smokes heavily
is of the same constitutional type as the
man who gets lung cancer; or it might
even be that the man who is going to
get lung cancer has his bronchial tubes
in such a state that he is compelled to
smoke.
Fisher says the excessive confidence
that the solution has been found is the
main obstacle in the way of useful re-
search. Statistics has gained a place of
modest usefulness in medical research.
But it cannot maintain its reputation un-
less it is completely impartial. Fisher
feared that the science of statistics was
being discredited by a gigantic and con-
spicuous howler.
By 1958, said Fisher, 19 different in-
vestigations in different parts of the
world had agreed with those of Doll and
Hill. But they were mere repetitions of
evidence of the same kind and that
kind of evidence is not sufficient for
any scientific conclusion.
In statistics, says Fisher, the technique
of randomization is important; if the
people selected are not typical, the
figures are not typical. It is not the fault
of statisticians if the result is not typical,
because in these studies, he says, ran-
domization was not possible. The only
way they could get results would be to
lay 1,000 children under a ban that they
should never smoke, and to compel an-
other 1,000 to smoke 30 cigarettes a day:
Fisher points out that the first reports of
Doll and Hill claimed that the increase in
lung cancer was proportional to the
amount of tobacco the patient smoked.
This was withdrawn and it was admitted
that pipe and cigar smokers were not
threatened. To Fisher it was more than
puzzling that one sort of effluvia of
tobacco should be innocuous and the
other should have the effect of inducing
a dreadful disease.
Errors in statistical investigations come
from the difficulty of a perfect classi-
fication. It is impossible to classify
smokers into three different kinds; many
smoke both cigarettes and pipe, but at
different times. The different categories
must overlap. An unexpected difficulty
is usually covered up by thinking up a


Why see only half the Orient?
See it a 11!... Travel through exotic Singapore... fabulous Bangkok
(Gateway to the East)... and then Hong Kong - the shopper’s paradise!
FLY TO ROME AND EUROPE ON ALITALIA’S
“SEE THE ORIENT” ROUTE
First —bustling, colourful Singapore. Then—on to Bang-
kok, and its undreamed-of oriental splendour. Visit the
world-famous floating markets —tourist highlight of the
East. Then you can speed on to Hong Kong!—another
treasure house of duty-free shopping! Planning your “See
the Orient” route for you is service Alitalia-style.
This, too, is Alitalia service! Superb cuisine. Vintage
wines. Cocktail lounge. Art gallery. And, above all, your
Alitalia super DC-8 Rolls Royce powered jetliner.
To Rome, London, U.S.A., South America—or to any-
where in the world. Alitalia is today’s way to travel.
Weekly flights from Sydney, 11 a.m. Fridays. Only 30
hours to Rome. Alitalia—one of the world’s largest inter-
national airlines. So—don’t merely fly. Go one better. Go
ALITALIA. Bookings at all travel agents, TAA General
Sales Agents or Alitalia.
Important—GßOUP TRAVEL plan can save you over
£167 on your round trip fare to Rome. Ask your travel
agent, TAA General Sales Agent, or Alitalia, how you
can SAVE with the Alitalia Group Travel Plan. Effective
from April 1, almost any group of 15 or more passengers,
members of an established organisation which has normal
functions other than travel, can save pounds on the
normal fare. This saving applies to each individual ticket.
See how, for example, on your round trip from SYDNEY
to ROME your fare is only £390/15/- so YOU SAVE
£167/8/-. (Going anywhere in the world? Ask first about
the Alitalia Group Travel plan—and SAVE!)
AIRLINES
THE WINGED ARROW SERVICE TO 45 COUNTRIES' *
SYDNEY: 177 ELIZABETH* STREET, PHONE 61-8913 • MELBOURNE: PEARL ASSURANCE BUILDING, 143 QUEEN STREET, PHONE 67 6855-8
BRISBANE: 183 EDWARD STREET, PHONE 31 2196 • SUVA: C/O BURNS PHILP (SOUTH SEA) CO. LTD. PHONE 2661 or 5474


Endean in the lion's den


m
v-
$ «
Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
m
m
z
v*
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/-.
Amazing new
PANTENE*
Vitamin Hair Tonic
reason for it. Special pleading is an as-
sumption which might not be true, but
which if true would help to explain the
inexplicable. The explanation was: ciga-
rette smokers inhale, pipe smokers do not.
Fortunately, however, Doll and Hill in
their first inquiry did include the ques-
tion, do you inhale? both to cancer
patients and patients with other diseases.
And the result was that there were fewer
inhalers among cancer patients than
among non-cancer patients. Fisher
believes this a very important finding.
Unfortunately, Doll and Hill did not
believe it important; their explanation
was that the patients did not know what
inhaling meant. In their next question-
naire to 60,000 doctors (of whom 40,000
replied) they left out the question, do
you inhale? But surely the doctor would
have known what inhaling meant. Still,
from their statistics, it looks as though
if you are to smoke cigarettes you could
reduce the risk by inhaling.
Fisher regrets that the over-confidence
of the Medical Research Council and the
American Cancer Society has prevented
them from using their huge funds to
follow up important clues. He does not
know of any investigation of the inter-
esting fact that town dwellers have more
lung cancer than dwellers in the country.
Joseph Berkson, the medical statistician
to the Mayo Clinic, has written half a
dozen papers pointing out that the associ-.
ation between smoking and lung cancer
has not been proved. I have carefully
studied two of these contributions—in
the Proceedings of the Mayo Clinic,
June 1960, and the American Journal of
Public Health, August 1962. Berkson
says that if new evidence appears the
case will be different, but after studying
all the evidence he does not believe
smoking causes cancer of the lung.
Berkson is disappointed to find that
physicians and pathologists do not quote
cases and clinical experience but only
statistics. Yet the statistics of Doll and
Hill showed incongruous elements; there-
fore, the sampled population cannot be
representative. Spurious associations arise
in such circumstances. Thus there is a
graded increase not only in the death
rate from lung cancer but from cancer
of other organs—and from he&rt failure
and all other diseases. Spurious statistical
phenomena may also arise from vagaries
of data. Thus the data of smoking history
are subject to wide variations.
Berkson quotes Eastcott of New Zea-
land {Lancet, January 7, 1958) and Dean
of South Africa {British Medical Journal,
October 31, 1959) who show without
doubt that lung cancer is more common
m non-smoking migrants from Britain
than in resident smokers.
In his 1962 paper, Berkson compares
mortality rates of men and women dying
from ail the common diseases The death
rates of men are higher in all categories.
The lower proportion of women dying
from cancer of the lung, Berkson shows
clearly, is merely a reflection of the usual
low female death rate.
Yet in that same number of American
Journal of Public Health, an editorial
cites the “fact” that cigarette smoking is
a proved cause of lung cancer.
The great majority of doctors still
smoke heavily. That means that they are
not taking all these warnings seriously.
Non-medical people like the editor of the
Age who are not familiar with the minds
of some eminent scientists are probably
shocked at the very idea of doubting
them. I wrote the Age two letters which
were not published, then I expanded
them into a talk on Channel 2. But Fisher
and Berkson, and most Melbourne doc-
tors, are quite familiar with the mental
blackouts medical scientists can get when
they wander from their own field.
Not many years ago medical scientists
in Melbourne ( Medical Journal of Aus-
tralia, September 9, 1950) and Sydney
{lbid, November 25, 1950) made
sweeping recommendations about women
who get German measles early in preg-
nancy. They said that “therapeutic”
abortion should be performed to save
the mother from anxiety about the baby.
Abortion accordingly became the univer-
sal practice all over the world. It was
with great difficulty that Dr David Pitt,
of Melbourne, persuaded 660 Australian
doctors to co-operate in a scientific in-
vestigation of the true incidence of these
deformities. Of sixty-one women who had
German measles in the first three months,
only one baby was mentally deficient,
six had heart defects, and six had defects
of hearing.
Pitt’s work was awarded a prize by the
British Medical Association (England).
But we do not hear any scientists admit-
ting their error; that is not their habit.
It is not true to say that a scientist who
has once taken such a public stand is
disinterested.
In every Melbourne tram there is now
a poster by the Anti-Cancer Council
carrying the highly debatable statement
that one in ten heavy smokers die of lung
cancer. The announcement of this to the
Press was made by Mr W. A. Dick, a
public education officer (see Age,
December 29, 1962). Immediately after
my TV interview, an Anti-Cancer Council
public relations man telephoned the sta-
tion, protested, and arranged an inter-
view for one of their doctors the follow-
ing week. Let us test the “one-in-ten
heavy smokers will die” statement by
supposing that only heavy smokers get
lung cancer (in Sydney 29 non-smokers
got it). The Sydney survey shows that
there is probably one undetected case
of lung cancer in any crowd of 10.000
(fewer in the country). Therefore, less
than one in 1 JO people are heavy smokers
(which is absurd).
A year ago (“Winds of Fashion in
Medicine”, Twentieth Century, Autumn,
1962) I pointed out that irrational
changes of fashion in medicine have
usually come about through an epidemic
refusal of doctors to think for themselves.
And this smoking-causes-cancer fashion
bears all the familiar signs. None of the
people I have mentioned, except Mr
Finch, Sir Ronald Fisher and Dr. Berk-
son, has thought for himself. Each one
has quoted Doll and Hill or has quoted
someone like Burnet who has quoted
Doll and Hill.
[This article first appeared in the
Melbourne quarterly “Twentieth Cen-
tury.”]


Introducing
The NEW TAPERED
Tubular Steel Pole
FOR GRACEFUL LIGHTING
Here is a development that will be of special interest to
architects and lighting engineers.
This new type of tubular steel pole manufactured in Australia
for the first time by Stewarts and Lloyds is tapered smoothly
over its entire length, to give it an extremely graceful appear-
ance. Due to circular cross section and even wall thickness
throughout its length, superior wind resistance and maximum
strength are assured.
Of special importance is the high resistance to corrosion due
to absence of corners and flat surfaces. These poles can be
supplied in straight or curved lengths. Some non-circular
sections may also be manufactured and enquiries for these
would be welcomed.
Especially suitable for Lighting, Signposts, Flag Poles, TV
Antennae Masts, Telephone and Telegraph Poles and other
architectural and aesthetic requirements.
ili
8888
a
m
w
m
111
m
m
m
m
iislPlliiiip
lISII
iilliwii*
:
w
■
:
mm
-
K
ill*
• S
m
*
(Illustration) Tapered steel
lighting fixture adapted for
two-way illumination.
§)&IL
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES: All Capital Cities; also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES: Mackay,
S.STP 63.65.


OVERSEAS
MR K's ORDER TO RETREAT
ON THE LITERARY FRONT
Rehabilitating Stalin ... just a little
By RONALD HINGLEY
The five-hour speech delivered by Mr Khrushchev to a conference of writers
and artists held in Moscow last week is of exceptional importance since it marked an
abrupt about-turn and retreat from the policy of liberalisation in the arts. A clear
directive was given to Soviet writers to deal with the “positive” aspects of the Stalin
period and to desist from criticism of Soviet society. Magazine editors and directors
of publishing houses were ordered not to publish the flood of reminiscences and
stories about the concentration camps and police terror of the Stalin period which
they have been receiving.
Among the most significant aspects of the speech was Mr Khrushchev’s partial
rehabilitation of Stalin, apparently because of the direction in which a free examina-
tion of the Stalin period was leading: to a fundamental critique of the innate defects
of Soviet society, which had led to the Stalin terror, and the awkward questions arising
from Mr Khrushchev’s (and his contemporaries’) role in the leadership under Stalin.
Dr Hingley, author of “Under Soviet Skins”, is a leading authority on Soviet affairs,
and a Research Fellow at St Antony’s College, Oxford.
For some months foreign observers
have been wondering what has be-
come of official Soviet policy to-
wards the arts. At times one has even been
inclined to ask whether there still is an
official policy in the old sense. On the
one hand we have had amazing conces-
sions to “liberalism” such as the publica-
tion of Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s “One
Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich”, of
two remarkable short stories by the same
author, and of lesser-known “revelations”
such as F. Abramov’s article “Round and
About” in the January number of the
journal “Neva”. (This last work does for
the Soviet collective farms of the sixties
what Solzhenitsyn did for the concentra-
tion camp of the early fifties.) New “lib-
eral” tendencies have also appeared in
music, films and the visual arts.
On the other hand, all this has been
accompanied by threatening rumblings
from Khrushchev, Ilyichov and other
functionaries. These were enough to
create alarm and despondency, but some-
how fell short of an authoritative state-
ment of policy.* Now that position has
changed as the result of a long speech
made by Khrushchev on March 8 to
representatives of literature and the arts.
Now at least everyone knows in which
direction they are supposed to be advanc-
ing , . . or perhaps one should say re-
treating. That this is in fact an order to
retreat (from the point of view of the
Soviet “liberal” and the disinterested
foreign observer) is clear from every line
of the speech. And it is not merely in
the sphere of the arts that the retreat has
been sounded. Before dealing with the
arts in detail, Khrushchev gave a reap-
praisal of Stalinism, by no means the
first to have occurred in the complicated
history of de-Stalinisation.
Much of this is designed, as on similar
previous occasions, to keep Khrushchev’s
own record clean. Soviet citizens,
Khrushchev tells us, are always asking
whether anything could have been done
at the time to check Stalin’s misdeeds.
The answer, he says, is that none of the
other Soviet leaders knew they were mis-
deeds. Curiously enough, Khrushchev
falls into Stalin’s own question-and-
answer technique in dealing with this
point:
“Did the leading party cadres know
about the arrests at the time? Yes,
they knew. But did they know that
completely innocent people were being
arrested? No, they did not. They
believed in Stalin and could not con-
ceive that repressive measures were
being applied to honest persons de-
voted to our cause.”
Anyway, says Khrushchev, quite a lot
was being done on the side to help the
persecuted. He supports this with a new
story about how the novelist Sholokhov
intervened (unsuccessfully) with Stalin
personally on behalf of Don peasants
persecuted by Soviet officialdom shortly
after collectivisation. Though he speaks
with approval of some recent episodes
of de-Stalinisation, notably of Solzhenit-
syn’s novel, Khrushchev is still concerned
that the process might get out of hand.
The party, according to him, has now
told the “full truth” about the “cult of
personality.” That this statement is the
purest nonsense Khrushchev himself con-
cedes at a later stage of his speech where
he says that Soviet editorial offices have
recently been inundated with manuscripts
(which they have not printed) about life
in exile, in prisons and camps. But this,
he says, is very dangerous material, on
which every kind of “bourgeois vermin”
abroad is liable to fasten like huge fat
flies on a piece of carrion. In Soviet
conditions this amounts to a direct order
not to print any more material like Solz-
henitsyn’s concentration camp novel, at
least for the time being. And the in-
formation that Khrushchev wept (“sin-
cere tears”) over Stalin's death is an
easily decipherable instruction in tradi-
tional Soviet code, to put the reins on
“liberalism” in all walks of life.
In dealing with the arts, Khrushchev
gives pride of place to literature. This
has always been the senior art form in
Russia, but in recent months it had
seemed to many Russians, as to foreign
observers, that (though the heat was
certainly on in painting and music) per-
haps literature was for some reason to be
treated more gently. Now no one can
be under any illusions on that point any
more.
It is early yet to be sure, but it is
possible (on a pessimistic interpretation)
that the speech we are considering will
turn out to be Khrushchev’s most authori-
tative instruction to the writers since he
addressed them at the Third Conference
of Soviet Writers in early 1959. That
speech was a charter of relative tolerance
in literary matters. Stripped of verbosity
and coded allusions, what it added up to
was this. Writers were to suspend overtly
hostile political criticism, but in return
for this they were permitted to portray
private situations and predicaments. They
must not be hostile, but they could be
neutral, and many writers, in prose, verse
and drama, availed themselves of the
concession. Such writers were under
constant fire from the literary die-hards.
They were accused of turning their eyes
away from the present day, ignoring
Soviet “achievements/ grubbing around
among petty personal issues and portray-
ing man as a dismal, grey, weak, incom-
petent creature. But this abuse could be,
and was, safely ignored oecause the party
as such did not come down on either


WORLD-WIDE
Table Lamp
TLI2O
100% British Made
light
in every
corner...
Abundant light throughout the
house with the Tilley Table
Lamp. Practical and elegant, en-
tirely safe and self-contained, it
burns for 12 hours on only 1$
Dints of ordinary kerosene.
For economical lighting wherever
and whenever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
I
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In ease of
difficulty write for name of your nearest Stockist to
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street
Moorabbin, 5.20
Victoria, Australia
H
Ik
©«S7S
%
k
\S,».*H
■me GREATEST
\tN SMOKING
Edgeworth the connoisseur’s
choice made from the finest
Kentucky white burleys. Sliced
or ready rubbed in pocket tins.
At all tobacconists.
JTHE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH. Virginia, U.S.A.
side. Anyone, whether liberal or die-
hard, who really overstepped the mark
was liable to be called to order. But the
party seemed to be behaving as a dis-
passionate and easy-going referee who
winked at minor infringements, just
blowing his whistle occasionally to award
a foul. For those wearing die-hard
colors, such as Kochetov, Gribachov and
Surkov, the party seemed to show no
particular sympathy—rather the reverse
if anything.
Now, however, the party has evidently
come down on the side of the die-hards
(a sympathetic reference to Gribachov is
perhaps the most sinister single feature
of the whole speech). This is evident
from the whole tone of Khrushchev's re-
marks, which seems to echo the tone of
die-hard speeches by Kochetov, Griba-
chov and others at the 22nd Party Con-
gress in 1961. Then nobody took much
notice, but now they may have to. There
is a great deal of routine raillery against
modernism, “abstractionism,” formalism
and the like in the arts, and the abusive
remark that some paintings recently ex-
hibited might have been executed by a
donkey’s tail has been resurrected. This,
however, seems to me to have little inter-
est except as a pathological symptom.
What is much more depressing is Khrush-
chev’s constant emphasis on the need for
writers and artists .0 take a more posi-
tive role in building the new society,
which (again stripped of code) means
that the neutral literature which has en-
joyed a modest boom during the last
four years is now officially discouraged.
A Hopeful Sign
HHhere is not space here to deal with the
A remarks made about individual writ-
ers and artists, though some of Khrush-
chev’s comments are of the greatest in-
terest. The most hopeful sign in the
speech is the favorable treatment of
Tvardovsky (poet and editor of the
liberal monthly “Novy Mir”), who is one
of the really key figures in the contro-
versy. The most surprising feature (and
also of the - shorter speech by Ilyichov
which preceded it) is the lengthy denunci-
ation of Ehrenburg.
Ehrenburg has been an important fig-
ure in his time, but he no longer counts
for very much, and one wonders why he
should have been picked out for abuse
—presumably because he has cham-
pioned “modern” art, and is so closely
identified with the struggle for more
freedom to experiment. Among the most
depressing features of the speech is the
attack on various writers Victor
Nekrasov, Paustovsky, Voznesensky
(and even to some extent Yevtushenko)
—for adopting the wrong postures dur-
ing recent visits abroad. This bodes ill
for “cultural contacts” in the near future.


FORUM
HONEST TO GOD
Is He "up there", "out there", or "deep down"?
By Dr JOHN ROBINSON, Bishop of Woolwich
Few people realise that we are in the
middle of one of the most exciting
theological ferments of this century.
Some theologians have sensed this for
some years; but now, quite suddenly,
new ideas about God and religion, many
of them with disturbing revolutionary
implications, are breaking surface.
If Christianity is to survive it must
appeal not just to the dwindling number
of “religious” people but to Man him-
self; without these new ideas, that appeal
will never succeed.
The future of the Christian Church
itself is involved; so is our attitude to
sex. But, above all, these new ideas have
to do with the nature of God. It is my
profound conviction that our present
image of God as a personal, super-
natural Being must go.
The new ideas were first put on
record by a German pastor in a Nazi
prison in 1944: “Our whole 1,900-year-
old Christian preaching and theology
rests upon the ‘religious premise’ of
man. What we call Christianity has
always been a pattern perhaps a true
pattern —of religion. But if one day it
becomes apparent that this a priori
‘premise’ simply does not exist, but was
an historical and temporary form of
human self-expression, i.e., if we reach
the stage of being radically without
religion and I think this is more or
less the case already what does that
mean for ‘Christianity’?
“It means that the lynchpin is removed
from the whole structure of our Christi-
anity to date.”
Those words were written on April 30,
1944. It is a date that may yet prove
a turning-point in the history of Christi-
anity. For on it Dietrich Bonhoeffer first
broached the subject of “religionless
Christianity” in a smuggled correspon-
dence with his friend Eberhard Bethge,
who subsequently edited his “Letters and
Papers from Prison.”
Who was this man? He was a
Lutheran pastor of very traditional up-
bringing. Had he lived, he would now
be in his late fifties. From 1933-35 he
was in charge of the German congrega-
tion in Forest Hill where the church,
rebuilt out of British war-damage money,
is now dedicated to his name. In the
inner circle of the German Resistance,
he was privy to the plot on Hitler’s life,
and within a year of penning that letter
he had been hanged by the SS, on the
eve of liberation by the Americans.
When his letters were first published—
a bare 10 years ago one felt at once
that the Church was not ready for what
Bonhoeffer was saying. Indeed, it might
properly be understood only 100 years
hence. But it seemed one of those
trickles that must one day split rocks.
The speed with which his ideas have
become current coin is not, I think, the
result solely of the quickening pace of
communication and change. It is the
result of one of those mysteries of human
history whereby, apparently without
interconnection, similar ideas start bub-
bling up all over the place at the same
time. Without this, I suspect, Bonhoeffer
might have remained a voice in the
wilderness for decades, like Kierkegaard
a century earlier.
Perhaps at this point I may be
personal. A year ago I was laid up for
three months with a slipped disc. I
determined to use the opportunity to
allow their head to ideas that had been
submerged by pressure of work for some
time past. Over the years convictions
had been gathering from my reading
and experience which I knew I
couldn’t with integrity ignore, however
disturbing they might seem.
But I wrote my book, “Honest to
God,” shut up in my room. What has
astonished me since is the way in which
within the last six months similar ideas
have broken surface in articles and con-
versations in the most unlikely places
as far apart as Africa and Texas. How-
ever inarticulate one may be, one detects
an immediate glance of recognition and
what the editor of “Prism” has called “an
almost audible gasp of relief” when these
things are said openly.
It is not easy to put one’s finger on
the common factor. I suppose it is the
glad acceptance of secularisation as a
God-given fact. For we of our generation
are secular men. And our question, as
Christians, is: How can Christ be Lord
of a genuinely secular world?
Hitherto, says Bonhoeffer, Christian-
ity has been based on the premise that
man is naturally religious; and it has
been presented as the best and highest
religion. The corollary has been that to
the non-religious it has nothing to say.
A person had to become religious first
to have, or be induced to have, a
religious sense of sin or need for God:
then Christ could come to him as the
answer.
But modern man has opted for a secu-
lar world: he has become increasingly
non-religious. The churches have de-
plored this as the great defection from
God, and the more they write it off the
more this movement has seen itself as
anti-Christian.
But, claims Bonhoeffer boldly, the
period of religion is over. Man is growing
out of it: he is “coming of age.” By that
he doesn’t mean that he is getting better
(a prisoner of the Gestapo had few illu-
sions about human nature), but that for
good or for ill he is putting the religious
world-view behind him as childish and
pre-scientific.
Bonhoeffer would accept Freud’s an-
alysis of the God of religion as a pro-
jection. Till now man has felt the need
for a God as a child feels the need for
his father. He must be “there” to explain
the universe, to protect him from his
loneliness, to fill the gaps in his science,
to provide the sanction for his morality.
But now man is discovering that he
can manage quite happily by himself.
He finds no necessity to bring God into
his science, his morals, his political
speeches. Only in the private world of
the individual’s psychological need and
insecurity in that last corner of “the
sardine-tin of life” is room apparently
left for the God who has been elbowed
out of every other sphere. And so the
religious evangelist works on men to
coerce them at their weakest point into
feeling that they cannot get on without
the tutelage of God.
But “God is teaching us that we must
live as men who can get along very well
without him.” And this, says Bonhoeffer,
is the God Jesus shows us, the God who
* This article expresses the main
theme of the Bishop of Wool-
wich's just published book,
"Honest to God": the urgent
need to question the traditional
image of God as a supernatural
Person.


Ill] I
WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU NEED
"Si
s
it
iM
/
I
m
r
SSSS
G-oodyeap
makes light
of heavy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather;, an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
n
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
good/Vear
II
Hr-
w
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
m.
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
■m*
f A'
Hi
11
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
Australia's greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Gpodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
Incur.
C264D


refuses to be a Deus ex machina, who
allows himself to be edged out of the
world on to the Cross. Our God is the
God who forsakes us only to meet
with us on the Emmaus road, if we are
really prepared to abandon him as a
long-stop and find him not at the boun-
daries of life where human powers fail,
but at the centre, in the secular, as “the
‘beyond’ in our midst.”
Another way of putting this is to say
that our whole mental image of God
must undergo a revolution. This is noth-
ing new in Christianity. The men of the
Bible thought of God as “up there,”
seated upon a throne in a localised
heaven above the earth, and it was this
God to whom Jesus “ascended.” That
image had its value: indeed, most of our
language about the things we value most
is still in terms of height.
But with the development of scientific
knowledge, the image of the God “up
there” made it harder rather than easier
to believe. And so, very boldly, Chris-
tians discarded it. I say very boldly, for
in order to do so they had to go against
the literal language of the Bible.
For it they substituted another mental
image of a God “out there,” meta-
physically if not literally. Somewhere be-
yond this universe was a Being, a centre
of personal will and purpose, who cre-
ated it and who sustains it, who loves it
and who “visited” it in Jesus Christ. But
I need not go on, for this is “our” God.
Theism means being convinced that this
Being exists: atheism means denying that
He does.
But I suspect we have reached the point
where this mental image of God is also
more of a hindrance than a help. There
are many who feel instinctively that the
space-age has put paid to belief in God.
The theologians may properly think
them naive. But what they are rebelling
against is this image of a Being out
beyond the range of the farthest rocket
and the probe of the largest telescope.
They no longer find such an entity
credible.
To the religious, the idea of a sup-
reme Being out there may seem as nec-
essary for their thinking as was once the
idea of a Being up there. They can
hardly even picture God without it. If
there wasn’t really someone “there,”
then the atheists would be right.
“Old man in the sky”
Out any image can become an idol;
and I believe that Christians must go
through the agonising process in this
generation of detaching themselves from
this idol. For the twentieth-century man
the “old man in the sky” and the whole
supernaturalist scheme seems as fanciful
as the man in the moon.
Sir Julian Huxley has spent much time
in his deeply moving book, “Religion
Without Revelation,” dismantling this
construction. He constantly echoes Bon-
hoeffer’s sentiments, and I heartily agree
with him when he says, “The sense of
spiritual relief which comes from re-
jecting the idea of God as a superhuman
being is enormous.”
For the real question of belief is not
the existence of God, as a person. For
God is ultimate reality (that’s what we
mean by the word), and ultimate reality
must exist. The only question is what
ultimate reality is like. And the Christian
affirmation is that reality ultimately,
deep down, in the last analysis, is
personal: the world, incredible as it
may seem, is built in such a way that in
the end personal values will out.
That, in the world of the H-bomb, is
a desperate act of faith. On purely hu-
manistic grounds I could have no basis
for believing it as more than wishful
thinking. Huxley ends his book with the
words, “My faith is in the possibilities
of man.” It is significant that he was
able to re-issue it in 1957 without even
a mention of the possibility, not to say
probability, that there might not, within
his frame of reference, be any prospects
for humanity at all.
The belief that personality is of ulti-
mate significance is for me frankly in-
credible unless what we see in Jesus of
Nazareth is a window through the sur-
face of things into the very ground of
our being. That is why, in traditional
categories, the survival of Christianity
turned upon the assertion that he was
“of one substance with the Father.” For
unless the substance, the being, of things
deep down is Love, the quality disclosed
in the life, death and resurrection of
Jesus Christ, then we could have no
confidence in affirming that reality at
its very deepest level is personal. And
that is what is meant by asserting that
God is personal.
This has nothing necessarily to do
with positing the existence of a Person,
an almighty Individual, “up there” or
“out there.” Indeed, as Paul Tillich, the
great American theologian, also from
Germany, has said, “The protest of athe-
ism against such a highest person is
correct .”
Tillich has shown that it is just as
possible to speak of God in terms of
“depth” as of “height.” Such language
is equally symbolic. But it may speak
more “profoundly” to modern man
brought up on “depth psychology.” In-
deed, I believe that this transposition
can bring fresh meaning to much tradi-
tional religious symbolism. Tillich talks
of what is most deeply true about us and
for us, and goes on:
“That depth is what the word God
means. And if that word has not much
meaning for you, translate it, and speak
of the depths of your life, of the source
of your being, of your ultimate concern,
of what you take seriously without any
reservation. Perhaps, in order to do so,
you must forget everything traditional you
have learned about God, perhaps even
that word itself. For if you know that God
means depth, you know much about
him. You cannot then call yourself an
atheist or unbeliever. For you cannot
think or say: Life has no depth! Life it-
self is shallow. Being itself is surface
only. If you could say this in complete
seriousness, you would be an atheist but
otherwise you are not.”
Radical reformulations
r|%osE words from his “Shaking of the
A Foundations” (now published as a
Pelican) had a strangely moving effect
on me when I first read them 14 years
ago. They spoke of God with a new
and indestructible relevance, which made
the traditional language about a God
that came in from outside both remote
and artificial. And yet they preserved
his “profound” mystery and transcen-
dence.
The ultimate Christian conviction is
that at the heart of things there is
“nothing, in death or life .... in the
world as it is or the world as it shall be,
in the forces of the universe, in heights
or depths nothing in all creation that
can separate us from the love of God
in Christ Jesus our Lord.” That I believe
passionately. As for the rest, as for the
images of God, whether metal or mental,
I am prepared to be an agnostic with
the agnostics, even an atheist with the
atheists.
Indeed, though we shall not of course
be able to do it, I can understand those
who urge that we should give up using
the word “God” for a generation, so
impregnated has it become with a way
of thinking we may have to discard if
the Gospel is to signify anything.
Not infrequently, as I watch or listen
to a broadcast discussion between a
Christian and a humanist, I catch myself
realising that most of my sympathies
are on the humanist's side. This is not
in the least because my faith or commit-
ment is in doubt, but because I instinc-
tively share with him his inability to
accept the framework supernaturalist,
mythological, religious within which
alone that faith is being offered to him.
I feel that as a secular man he is right
to rebel against it, and I am increasingly
uncomfortable that “orthodoxy” should
be identified with it, when it is simply
an out-moded view of the world.
I am well aware that what I have said
involves radical reformulations for the
Church in almost every field of doc-
trine, worship, ethics and evangelism.
This is a dangerous process, but im-
mensely exhilarating; and the exciting
thing is that it is not being forced upon
the Church from outside but is welling
up from within.


THE ARBITRATORS -
TEACHING THEM HOW
Since the engineers' case ... a new interest
By GAIUS
The spectacular success of the Asso-
ciation of Professional Engineers in
obtaining a new salary deal for pro-
fessional engineers from the Common-
wealth Arbitration Commission has led
many professional groups to turn to arbi-
tration with new interest.
In the federal sphere Commonwealth
legal officers and architects and some
experimental officers have tried their
luck with less, but still substantial, suc-
cess. Others are in the queue. Scientists
have recently succeeded in registering a
national organisation of professional
scientists and are setting out to emulate
the APEA.
In the NSW Industrial Commission
Scientific Officers in the Department of
Agriculture have obtained increases which
would have been considered substantial
before the Professional Engineers’ Case.
The staff of the University of New South
Wales has . hurriedly swept its Arts and
Commerce faculties under the carpet and
successfully presented themselves to a
Conciliation Commissioner, as consisting
mainly of a superior type of professional
engineer. The extent to which they will
hold their gains now depends on a
reserved judgment of the Industrial Com-
mission. A group of veterinary scientists
are in the process of pressing their
claims before a judge of the Commission.
All this is creating fascinating material
for sociologists and economists, and head-
aches for Treasury officials, Public Service
Boards and private employers. But it
also raises some acute questions about the
capacity of our present arbitration
machinery to handle effectively the
modern, rapidly developing professions
This is not an entirely new problem for
our arbitration tribunals, but it promises
to be far more extensive, continuous,
complex and important than in the past.
How are the arbitration tribunals to de-
cide what a professional engineer, a
research botanist, or a professor of
nuclear physics should be paid?
So long as an occupational group
accepts its existing position in the income
hierarchy, and only seeks to maintain that
position, it can be dealt with in broad
economic terms, by considering what has
happened to the economy since the last
wage fixation. This is what happens in the
periodic Metal Trades Margins Cases,
where the ACTU presents a case, not
about the value of the metal trades work-
er compared with other workers, but
about the wage earner’s entitlement to
share in economic growth and prosperity.
But the essence of the Professional
Engineers’ Case was that it rejected exist-
ing relativities and gave the Professional
Engineer a new standard. In so doing it
smashed the existing pattern of profes-
sional salary relationships, but provided
no blueprint for a new one. Each profes-
sion is now struggling to establish its
place on its own merits.
Arbitration tribunals are well used to
handling claims by groups of workers
for increased wages, sought not'as an
economic adjustment but as a reassess-
ment of an occupation's value in wage
terms as compared with other occupa-
tions. The tests to be applied to arrive
at wage justice in such cases have been
stated in varying terms. In the NSW
Industrial Commission the emphasis has
been on “work value”, the assumption
being that contemplation of the work in
sufficient details leads, by some mysteri-
ous alchemy understood (if at all) only by
the judges who practise it, to a figure of
so many pounds, shillings and pence per
week. This approach has the advantage of
being so subjective that it cannot be re-
futed, and so it is perhaps not surpris-
ing that it is taking firm hold in the
Commonwealth Commission the Pro-
fessional Engineers' Case is a dramatic
example.
In earlier days the Commonwealth
Arbitration Court was inclined to reject
the possibility of fixing wages by valuing
the work, and to insist that it could only
fix wages for one group by comparing it
with another the theory of “compara-
tive wage justice”. This was a useful
enough approach when only one group
sought to move, and the wages of other
groups could be regarded as fixed points
for comparison. It is not much use in a
situation where doubt has been cast on
all fixations, and all groups are attempt-
ing to engage in mutual leap-frogging.
But whatever the test adopted, the
implicit assumption has always been that
the tribunal could understand the work,
so as to be able to value it, or to com-
pare it with other work which it could also
understand. This is a fair enough assump-
tion in regard to the various types of
tradesmen, labourers, process workers,
and clerks with which the tribunals have
mainly had to deal, and even in regard
to more exalted positions (e.g. ships’
captains) which are characterised more
by their degree of responsibility than by
esoteric knowledge.
An intelligent judge or arbitrator, after
a bit of experience and aided by evidence,
can get a fairly good understanding of the
work, and can appreciate the nature and
extent of the skills involved even though
he has not acquired them himself. When
he is in doubt, he can usually find among
the witnesses some expert supervisor who
understands intimately the work of a
number of different workers and can help
him to put them in their correct relation-
ship.
Can these techniques be applied in the
type of professional case now coming
before the arbitration commissions? Al-
though the hearing of the Professional
Engineers’ Case spread intermittently over
several years, the members of the Com-
mission clearly did not come to under-
stand the work of engineers. The judg-
ment shows that what really impressed
them was the value of the result the
engineers produced, and the opinion of
engineers about the intensity and com-
plexity of an engineer’s training.
Even more obviously the NSW tri-
bunals could not hope to understand the
work, knowledge and skills associated
with all the various academic posts in the
University of New South Wales. It is
fair to say that in some of the recent
professional cases a substantial part of the
material submitted to the bench has
simply been incomprehensible to it.
In such cases, not only can the tribunals
not understand the work, but they can-
not have recourse to some independent
expert who stands above the work. Very
few witnesses were called by employers in
the Professional Engineers’ Case, simply
because few could locate an engineer de-
tached from the APEA Case. Not only
were their own senior engineers directly
interested in the effect of the case on
their own salaries in most cases they
were members or active supporters of
the APEA. In the NSW Scientific
Officers’ Case the salary of every scien-
tist, from the Director of Scientific Ser-
vices down, was directly involved in the
case.
It is obvious that our arbitration
tribunals cannot cope with professional
groups according to their traditional
wage-fixing theories unless they equip
themselves with a much greater under-


standing of what the various professions
do, and with sufficient knowledge of
the professional disciplines to appreciate
the skills and effort involved in master-
ing them, and the significance of changes
taking place in them. All this could not
be acquired from evidence in each par-
ticular hearing, which could never be
long enough. There needs to be a pretty
wide cultural background in the arbi-
trator, or the evidence will fall on stony
ground.
At first sight this poses a desperate
dilemma either find new wage-fix-
ing theories not involving work evalua-
tion (and good theories are awfully hard
to come by), or every arbitrator a
Leonardo da Vinci. But we can find some
relief from this dilemma in two ways.
The first is by remembering that the fac-
tors stated in the traditional wage-fixing
theories are never the only factors that
go to make an arbitral decision. Even if
he is sincerely trying to apply the theory,
an arbitrator is usually compelled to
make some kind of practical compromise
between the absolute justice sought to be
expressed in the wage-fixing theory and
the industrial, economic and social pres-
sures operating at the time.
The second way is by introducing a
greater degree of specialisation into the
arbitration system. In recent years the
Commonwealth Arbitration Commission,
pursuant to statutory provisions, has had
a presidential member specialising almost
full-time on waterside workers and
another presidential member specialis-
ing in the same way on sea-going occu-
pations. Yet all the multifarious occu-
pations, trades, callings and professions
of the Commonwealth Public Service are
assigned to one lay arbitrator and his
assistant, and there is no special pro-
vision for professional groups outside the
Commonwealth Public Service.
It would be some response to the
challenge of the professions if provision
were made for a presidential member of
the Commission to specialise on the
learned professions. Specialisation would
provide him with the incentive and the
opportunity to build up the cultural back-
ground necessary to .consider in an infor-
med way the cases . presented by the
various professions, s The professions
would remain under the supervisory juris-
diction of the full bench of the Commis-
sion through the existing processes of
reference and appeal, and so be inte-
grated into the national wage and salary
fixing policy.
But there would always be available
in the Commission a member with more
than average capacity to handle the pro-
fessions. He might even come to be ac-
cepted (although for constitutional rea-
sons, in a private capacity) as the arbi-
trator so desperately needed to settle
University salaries on a national basis.
letters
to the
editor
PARSONS AND POLITICS
Sir,
In his comments on my article, “Par-
sons and Politics” (Bulletin, March 9),
Mr T. H. Ransley accuses me of inac-
curacy and unsubstantiated personal re-
ferences. May I make four points in
reply?
(a) As a re-reading of the article will
show, I did know that curriculum com-
mittees were only advisory. In fact I
called them that. I also knew that formal
responsibility for the syllabuses they pro-
duce lies upon senior officials and ulti-
mately the Minister. Since this is a mis-
leading way of explaining what actually
happens I concentrated instead on those
who constructed the 1952 and 1959 syl-
labuses, i.e., the committees. Or is Mr
Ransley suggesting that the Director-Gen-
eral and/or the Minister actually made
detailed alterations to the draft?
(b) I did not say that the chairman of
these committees (Mr Ransley) was “re-
sponsible” for the syllabuses, either form-
ally or in fact. Nor did I say that he
“unduly influenced” the committees. I
said that he was strategically placed,
which he was, and I said that both com-
mittees had increased the Protestant con-
tent of the social studies syllabus, which
they did.
(c) Though I evidently estimate Mr
Ransley’s influence more highly than he
does, I did not choose to name him alone
among those on the committees because
of this. The simple fact is that Mr Rans-
ley, having retired from the Public Ser-
vice, has chosen to champion the 1959
syllabus in both Sydney morning papers
and the Teachers’ federation journal
“Education”. Since he signed himself on
at least two occasions as chairman of the
committees, I did not expect him to ob-
ject to his name being used.
(d) Though I did not say that Mr
Ransley was Deputy-Director of Prim-
ary Education in 1952, one sentence in
which this office is mentioned was am-
biguous. If this unwarranted early pro-
motion embarrassed Mr Ransley, 1 offer
my apologies.
PETER WESTERWAY
Sydney.
WHOSE BLUNDER?
Sir,
I read with amazement an article in
The Bulletin, March 16, headed
“Landa’s Blunder”, written by Mr Peter
Kelly. My initial reaction was to
answer all the grossly inaccurate points
in the article, but on reflection it became
obvious that almost every word written
by Mr Kelly would have to be chal-
lenged. Therefore, I propose to mention
only one or two matters which you
should know, even if the writer of the
article does not.
As far as my electoral position in
Bondi is concerned, let me say that I have
represented the area for nearly 25 years
and there has never been any doubt of
the seat being lost by me or the Labor
Government.
* The amendments to the Co-operation
Act w-ere introduced to assist and protect
our growing network of credit unions
in New South Wales and to ensure that
all people, no matter what their religion,
could invest in these organisations with
complete confidence and security against
accidental mismanagement or deliberate
fraud.
The amendments were not designed
against any particular brand of credit
union.
Not only were these amendments
supported by the great majority of
Catholic credit union leaders, but they
had actually requested the State Govern-
ment to establish a proper credit union
law.
To say that the Bill is “basically un-
recognisable,” is too fantastic for words.
I am quite confident that my colleague
Mr Downing would not agree that he
was placed in any “invidious position.”
Only one important amendment was
dropped by the Legislative Council, and
that dealt with the question of interest
rates. AJI the other alterations were of
a minor character and were, in fact,
moved by the Government because they
actually strengthened the provisions of
the Bill.
The Bill has been passed by Parlia-
ment, and the overwhelmi g majority of
people interested in credit unions agree
that the movement now has an improved
degree of security and protection for the
thousands of little people who invest
their savings in these organisations and
who borrow small toars to meet financial
emergencies.
Under the new legislation, I am con-
fident that the credit union movement
w'ill resume the phenomenal develop-
ment that has occurred throughout the
State during the last year or so.
A. LANDA
Minister for Housing
and Co-operative Societies
Sydney.
[Mr Kelly replies:
Mr Landa makes 4 points
1. He has represented the Bondi elec-
torate for 25 years and there is no
danger of his seat being lost.
2. That the amendments to the Co-


m
WOMENS WEEKLY
THIS WEEK
GLOSSARY
of FRENCH
COOKING
A concise explanation of the
terms and foods most com-
monly used in French cook-
ing, prepared by the Foods of
France Information Bureau.
Always ask for
AINSLIES
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
operation Act were not designed
against any particular brand of
credit union.
3. To say that the Bill is “basically un-
recognisable” is “too fantastic for
words.”
4. “. . . all other-amendments were of
a minor character and were in fact
moved by the Government . .
In answer to 1: My article said that
he may be in danger of losing his seat
and that co-incidentally the Antigonish
movement is thinking of starting a co-
operative in his electorate. In 1959
Mr Landa had an overall majority of
172 over two opponents. In 1962 his
majority increased to 4323. It only
needs 2161 votes for him to lose his
seat. (1962 was the year of a strong
swing to Labor which gave it a record
majority in the Legislative Assembly).
In answer to 2: There was no state-
ment in the article which said that the
Act was designed against any particular
brand of credit union. Whatever the
intention of the Act, one credit "union
stated that if the Bill went through it
would destroy them. (This is how the
fuss started).
In answer to 3: Mr Landa admits that
one important amendment was deleted
by the Legislative Council. This amend-
ment was that there should be legislative
limitation of interest fixed by the Gov-
ernment on the rate of interest charged
by credit unions. In the Assembly Mr
Landa made this his main point of argu-
ment. This was defeated in the Council
and the Act remains exactly as it was:
Credit unions can charge whatever rate
of interest they like to their own mem-
bers.
In answer to 4: Mr Landa omits to
mention that originally the Legislative
Assembly passed the Bill containing an-
other basic change. This was that the
Registrar, Mr Crosky, be empowered to
wind up any credit union without refer-
ence to any other authority. When the
Bill was first before the Council Mr
Downing explained this portion of the
Bill. The Opposition then moved an
amendment which would have meant
that credit unions could only be wound
up by legal action. This amendment was
later dropped when Mr Downing altered
the provision by giving this power to the
Governor-in-Council (not the Registrar,
or even the Minister).]
BUSY FASCISTS OF AUSTRALIA
Sir,
In reference to Fatner Kasic’s Statu-
tory Declaration (Bulletin March 9),
I wish to point out that the articles pub-
lished by The Bulletin and the “Cath-
olic Worker” are based on facts.
The evidence to substantiate this is
found in Father Kasic’s publications and
his preaching from the pulpit.
The connection between the terrorist
organisation “Croatian Liberation
Movement” and the “Cardinal Stepinac
Society”—is evident on the Calendar pub-
lished for 1963—15 t Edition. On both
sides of the Calendar can be seen the in-
iti&ls HOP, standing for the Croatian
Liberation Movement, and at the bottom
of the same Calendar you can read “Pub-
lished by the Cardinal Stepinac Society—-
Geelong”. In the middle, there is a
photo of the Croatian Quisling Army on
parade in 1942 at the time when the
Croatians as Nazi satellites were at war
with the Allies.
MARIJAN JURJEVIC
East Brunswick (Victoria).
THE CAIRNS EPISODE
Sir,
Dr Cairns apparently does not read
“Nation” (Bulletin, March 16) while
Dr Knopfelmacher (Bulletin, March 2)
seems to read it rather carelessly.
Dr Cairns will find that he was accur-
ately reported following my interview
with him regarding the abortive Sunshine
peace rally. My words were: “Dr Cairns
made it known that he never agreed to
address the Sunshine gathering, being
otherwise engaged at the time it was due
to be held.”
Dr Knopfelmacher should note that in
the context there is a difference between
“he never agreed” and “he refused” to
speak. As to exploring the double hypo-
thesis as to whether Dr Cairns would
have spoken had the meeting taken place
and had he been free to do so, that is
Dr Knopfelmacher’s interest, not mine.
In view of time and communication
factors, there was nothing “odd” in my
checking with Dr Cairns shortly after I
had put my article on paper. It is far
more odd that Dr Cairns should throw off
such an epithet without apparently look-
ing at what I published, and that Dr
Knopfelmacher should misquote me in
a way that is subtle, yet crucial.
K. D. GOTT
Melbourne.
FOUR CORNERS
Sir,
Mrs Robert Raymond’s letter (Bulle-
tin, March 23) complains that I am
guilty of an inaccuracy in calling Robert
Raymond “co-producer” of “Four
Corners.” I should point out that, when
interviewing Raymond and Charlton
simultaneously, 1 specifically asked them
whether the programme was co-produced
by them, and in reply they said it was,
and that details of its production, the
physical business of executing it, and
the entire operation were handled by
them in such close co-operation it
would be impossible to separate out their
individual contributions. Mrs Raymond
must surely know that Charlton is not
“merely” a compere of this show!
I was glad to have the additional
details of Mr Raymond’s career but must
also point out that the article was
intended mainly to be about Michael
Charlton. Some particulars, therefore,
of Mr Raymond’s television and radio
appearances had to be omitted for the
sake of length and balance. Finally, I
did not call Charlton anything as
ludicrous as “The West Australian Won-
der Boy” nor Raymond English.
CHARLES HIGHAM
Bronte {NSW).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
SURFIES STEAL THE SHOW BOAT
By KEVON KEMP
Show Boat: Jerome Kern and Oscar
Hammerstein; Tivoli Theatre.
The Wall: Millard Lampell; New
Theatre.
VlThatever merits the big-bang revival
” of Show Boat at the Tivoli may
have, the production’s handling of the
Negro problem is not amongst them. In
a wonderfully coy exercise of wrong-
headed “tolerance” every trace of Negro
has been carefully removed from the
show. No niggers work by the Missis-
sippi, only “colored folk”. Only colored
folk sit in the segregated circle of the
Show Boat theatre; only colored folk
know certain songs.
Since all folk are “colored” (white,
red, orange, black and charming mix-
tures) it isn’t clear who Show Boat’s col-,
ored folk are —certainly not from their
make-up, which is that clear, healthy tan
well-known around Sydney beaches.
They’re not downtrodden “colored
folk”. They dance with fantastic vigor
and carry their heavy loads with insolent
ease. Their clothes are certainly pretty
casual, in the shirts-out style, and some
have even achieved one or two artful
tatters, skilfully disposed, but I defy a
police dog to nose out one downtrodden
darky in the whole cast.
My own theory, for what it’s worth,
is that the Tivoli management have been
seriously misled, and what they actually
have on display is a big bunch of surfies.
Turn this alleged ca'st of darkies loose
on the northern beaches, and the assimi-
lation would be compfete and lightning
swift. Little tatters and all, they’d be
accepted as fellow surfies without ques-
tion.
This is not a facetious point, because
the show suffers a body blow from this
fundamental namby-pamby approach.
The original musical pays quite some at-
tention to the bitter white-negro feeling
of the South; the hounding of Julie be-
cause of her black blood, and her white
husband’s cutting her arm to suck her
blood so that, with Negro blood in him,
he cannot be accused of miscegenation,
is a powerful climax in the play, and a
bit of theatre which showed pretty much
where Mr Hammerstein’s heart was.
By playing down to the point of ab-
surdity something that is a strong part of
the show the management has made a
classic mistake, and will please no one.
Over and above this managerial non-
sense, the musical itself shows out glow-
ingly enough to be good value. There’s a
warm nostalgia even about the old-style,
beautifully-executed scene-cloths, with
their “breathtaking realism”, and artful
cut-cloths giving that old 3-D effect.
Most of the cast play along in excel-
lent style, and move easily in the old-
fashioned frame without ever a hint of
impatience or send-up. Mr Colin Croft
is an outstanding exception to this, and
to my eye turned in a pretty naughty
show (to use the old-fashioned term).
Constantly he stepped out of character
to invite the audience to admire the work
of Mr Croft, with a TV close-up leer.
Against the professional teamwork of
the other principals, this showed up so
badly that the management surely could
not be unaware of it, nor of the unpleas-
ant effect it had on audience.
Since some pleasant playing does come
from Ormonde Douglas, as a surfie-col-
ored Joe; Joan Thomas as a pathetic
Julie; Robert Gard as Gaylord Ravenal
—a stylish, vocally adequate hero; Ernie
Bourne as a Captain Andy who grows on
one gracefully; and Dianne Barton as
Magnolia and Judith Champ as her
mother, a lot of Sydney may well find
“Show Boat” to their liking.
Tn the New Theatre’s small and attrac-
tive new premises, the opening night
of “The Wall” came out as something of
an anti-climax. Smaller in size, the
theatre is much along the same lines as
the Old Tote Theatre—with the stage
very close to the audience, who look
down on it from tiered seats, and with
the stage walls in line with the walls of
the auditorium. New Theatre have chos-
en, however, to retain the proscenium—
peepshow theatre complete with long,
long, draw curtain. To me it all seems a
mistaken view of the theatre’s possibilities
and right function, given its size and
shape. The bold adoption of the more
or less open-stage techniques would be
the better thing in every way.
A firm and ruthless play, The Wall
comes from Hersey’s notable novel of
the Warsaw Ghetto of World War 11,
and in many terse scenes playwright Mil-
lard Lampell achieves a grim and fearful
picture of ordinary personalities being
pushed to the utter edge of endurance,
and of their integrations and disintegra-
tions under terrible stresses. It is an awe-
some piece of writing, that needs sincer-
ity of a high order, and sheer acting
quality of the highest pitch. The first was
there in plenty, the second not at all,
though one or two performances flick-
ered with the true flame.
NOT BEYOND THE FRINGE
“How do you do”. A Review by Bris-
bane Twelfth Night Theatre. Aca-
demy Theatre, Brisbane
TTow to go about preparing a topical
review? Well, in the first place, poli-
tics are out. Definitely. No, wait a bit,
we’ll have to put in one mild flutter,
just to show we are somehow involved in
a political system of sorts. Not too heady,
though. Of course we’re all simply
DYING to have lots and lots of local
satire and comment But we must re-
member our audience Can’t be too offen-
sive; just drop a few names it will be
such a novelty no one will notice if the
words are terribly witty or not. We can
make some quite legitimate jabs at the
rival theatre group, though. Bring the
house down.
Then we can borrow a few general
sketches from Phillip Street or some-
where things that have “made it” as
they say. Let’s be terribly subtle and have
a “go” at The Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
I mean, everybody is doing it. It’s quite
fashionable Can we afford not to?
What else?
Well, those old-fashioned sentimental


numbers of the ’3os are so very sweet.
No, no, I’m not suggesting we do them
straight. Only PRETEND. But those
period clothes are, well, appealing, don’t
you think? LET’S have one of them. Or
two. Or three or four. Then we can be
really original and zippy and have a Gal-
lagher and Sheehan number, and a Top
Hat and Tails. Oh, yes, we must. This is
Brisbane, we’re not beyond the fringe
here.
We’ll have to have an Opening Num-
ber a nice little song, preferably with
no distinguishing tune and out of the
vocal range of the cast. Mix in a few
more ditties, a few more sketches, and
we’re set for a record run. (We hope),
We’re very dubious about one number,
though. A scratch at poor dear Marilyn:
“Sleeping is a girl’s best friend”. I mean,
it’s actually got some bite. People will
think we’re nasty. And we don’t want
them to think that; we want them all to
come along and enjoy themselves. A real
Night-Out. Just like Television,
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
RADIO
A CHEER FOR THE ABC
HThe ABC should be praised for its new
A series of “modern” European plays
adapted for radio. The parentheses are
necessary because the first three in the
series include Pirandello’s “Rules of the
Game”, which is 40 years old if it’s a
day. Brecht’s “Life of Galileo” was
written in 1943, only 20 years ago. An-
ouilh’s “The Fighting Cock” is more
contemporary.
No other medium is likely to offer
Australian audiences a series of plays of
this quality at the rate of one a month, let
alone one a week as ABC radio is doing
in most States. It is virtually a University
of the Air in 20th century drama, with
the usual paradox that it remains almost
unpublicised.
It isn’t as though the ABC had some-
thing to be ashamed of in the series.
Anouilh’s play the other night was much
better than the general run of drama that
used to be offered on radio. It was a
bright, slightly feverish piece, with some
good vocal acting which often showed the
depths as well as the glistening surface of
the stream.
The value of drama on radio, even if
it isn’t radio drama, is considerable. It
retains many advantages. The actors,
not required to try to do everything per-
fectly at once, can, if ably directed and
given time to rehearse, deliver with a
degree of virtuosity and perception which
is rare on television or amateur stages.
They can, and in this instance most of
them did.
For instance, Brian James as a retired
General managed to sound very rarely
like Captain Bligh or Jonah or Brian
James, and very much like a puzzled
elderly reactionary fogbound in a time of
rapid change but able to see occasional
rays of truth. Within the hour Mr James
was called on to progress from the
brusque blockhead who greets the infor-
mation that a “non-play” which is gib-
berish to him is “a drama of tomorrow”
with the dictum “Then save it for to-
morrow” to a man who has caught up
sufficiently to be able to remark finally,
“That’s the engaging thing about man,
he laughs regardless.” And Mr James
answered the call nobly, 1 suspect more
so than he would have in full dimension.
A fault in drama on radio is that it is
directed to the most accurate of the
senses, the ear. Triteness shrieks when it
occurs in plot or dialogue, and there is
no way of disguising it with superb act-
ing or effects. The proposition in “The
Fighting Cock” is a real chestnut, the
old man married to a much younger
second wife and finding it difficult to
understand her, and his children.
Great dramatists often take chestnuts
and make classics of them. “The Fight-
ing Cock” may be one in its full length,
but not in the one-hour adaptation. But
if the whole was not superb, parts were
good. Some of the dialogue was. The
General, soliloquising on faithfulness as
a quality in women, murmured, “There
is a kind of fidelity which is only to one-
self.”
Later, to a young man who seems to
him in his old-fashioned view to have
compromised his daughter, he mutters,
“You have, I dare say, no notion of
honor.” And is answered, “I’m rather
young yet, but my father has the Legion
of Honor, if that’s any help.” Then un-
fortunately the young man begins one of
those interpretations of the modern
world for an elder which have become
dramatic cliches, although this one had
thrusts of bitter irony. The General
considered them, and tempered them,
and decided that “man is an animal in-
consolable and gay.”
That left woman, in the shape of the
young wife, an enigma unresolved. But
even Shakespeare dodged that one, and
Shaw, however bravely he flew, went
down in flames. Anouilh merely skirted
around it with a gentle priest’s observa-
tion, hastily qualified as mere theory,
that “She has everything to make her
happy, but that doesn’t always, in the
case of a woman, suffice to make her
happy.”
FRANK ROBERTS
TELEVISION
THE BEST OF
KENNEDY
T ast week “The Best of Kennedy” was
far and away the best Australian
variety show I’ve seen on television,
which is not saying much; but it creates
a flicker of hope for the future. I realise
that the show has the advantage of a
selection of the best acts from a week of
“In Melbourne Tonight,” but we poor
viewers care not how a show is made,
only how little we have to suffer from it.
I also realise that GK’s honest smirk
makes it impossible for some people to
watch the show, just as Mo’s spluttering
used to, but I find it preferable to the
antics of other comperes who try to be
unnaturally folksy.
The smirk is useful when Kennedy is
delivering a commercial, or saying,
“That was —hah—Mark Wynter. Yes, it
was,” after the soda pop kid who makes
one admire the kids who admire O'Keefe
had sung a number about tellin’ lollipop
lies in a reedy voice and without suffici-
ent animation to disturb his coiffure.
Nothing but a smirk would do, and
only Kennedy dares.
The show had a pleasant ballet, open-
ing with a shot of two girls sleeping, one
holding a clown doll, and dissolving to
a lively dance with imaginatively costum-
ed circus people and animals, and the
nightgowned children. For once it was
not merely people scampering and pos-
turing. And later a trio danced excellent-
ly as two cafe waiters and a girl, after
hours. A couple sang, an American nam-
ed Helen Boice entertained with “Red
Hot Momma” patter song and dance, and
the Hi-Fi’s sang a good, brief number.
It was all reasonably entertaining and
well paced. Kennedy appeared in three
sketches. The briefest one was absurd
and funny. We’ve all been ordered to
the back of the bus, but this one tipped
up, leaving the driver gaping at the
ground far below his front wheels.
The final virtue of last week’s show
was that in it, at last, Graham Kennedy
showed signs of taking the business seri-
ously, avoiding the easy laughs, and
working for some in ways that did not
come off but made one cheer the attempt.
And Kennedy sang and danced.
In about two minutes flat he made a
desirable mockery of all the finger snap-
ping, hand waving, hip swinging waiters
of television. It was done easily, smooth-
ly, passed off as a joke, or satire in song.
And the dance routine was much the
same, done with a nimble partner and a
“Look, I’m dancing!” air.
FRANK ROBERTS


ART
POUNDED INTO EXCITEMENT
Contemporary Art Society. Argus
Gallery. Melbourne.
Ronald Millar. Leveson Street Gal-
lery. Melbourne.
Contemporary Art Society’s ex-
A hibition this year at the Argus Gal-
lery is unusually well stocked. It has
been supported by some good names,
especially among interstate exhibitors,
and not been let down too often by the
profusion of young and unknown pain-
ters for whom shows of this kind are
primarily designed. By far the strongest
small group is from New South Wales:
Coburn, Guy Warren, Peascod, Lynn,
Lanceley, Charvat, Judy Cassab and
Nancy Borlase. Much of the work has
been exhibited before, but its presence
here gives a sound basis for comparison
with the ruck. South Australia and
Queensland too are better represented
than usual, especially by Ostoja Kot-
kowski and Sibley.
The balance seems to favor the vari-
ous forms of semi-abstract expression-
ism, particularly that based on land-
scape, with which we have become fam-
iliar- over the last few years. There is
little, in short, that is very original, but
a good deal of thoughtful exploration-
of the possibilities of a style. I seldom
find it easy, or fair, to pluck a few
names from a large collection, but some
of those who repaid a second look were
William Ferguson, Warwick Armstrong,
Arch Cuthbertson, Robert Grieve, Gar-
eth Jones-Roberts and Erica McGil-
christ. None of course is a complete
unknown, but they do better what so
many of the younger ones seem content
to follow.
If there is a general fault in a lot of
this work, it is its excessive brashness.
Too much is loud and coarse, almost a
self-conscious effort to seize attention
against deafening competition. One
wearies of being pounded into a state
of excitement.
Ronald Millar’s group of watercolors
at the Leveson Street Gallery are some-
thing of a confusion of means and in-
tention. To a great extent his oils rely
on very rough, active texturing which
gives an agreeable, flowing movement
to his homely subjects. He is not a
satisfying colorist, and in these water-
colors his deficiencies are obvious. His
forms too, once they lose the solidity
of the paint, mostly lose their point.
Simple compositions like these need a
finer touch and more attention to detail
if they are to attract and sustain interest.
BILL HANNAN
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING ADELAIDEIAN
is the time of year when the Ade-
A laide markets are filled with moun-
tains of melons, grapes, celery and cab-
bages, plums and pears, apples and
oranges, so that the eclectic seeker after
some okra or a pamplemousse has to look
very hard. Gluts may be quite general
in late summer, for also in one week over
a thousand works of art have been on
view more or less within a few yards of
one another.
There were a special exhibition of Aus-
tralian artists in the State Gallery for the
Queen; the autumn show of the Royal
SA Society of Arts (1856); ofif first look
at a one-man show by Kevin Connor in
the Bonython Gallery; an exhibition of
prints and drawings by members of the
new SA Graphic Art Society in David
Jones’; and the “Advertiser” Open-Air
Exhibition in Elder Park. Dutifully visit-
ing them in turn, they left total impres-
sions on your observer of being, in se-
quence, well-chosen, crumby, disturbing,
delicate, and earnest.
The pictures for the Queen were not
catalogued. They were assembled by the
Gallery staff presumably without outside
interference and made up a steady col-
lection which included all the regular
players on the Australian Painters’ Team.
The number of works le.nt by Kym
Bonython was very noticeable, say a
third of about 70 modern oils on view
and many of them well known as color
reproductions, even though at the same
time he has several on loan to That
Other Exhibition now at the Tate.
The RSASA show was more than a
bit chimerical. There was a light sprinkl-
ing of works in the modern idiom 'among
a number of others which looked like
safe reproductions from the glass and
framing department of a hardware store.
Kevin Connor from Sydney showed
two dozen figurative paintings. The
people in them had circular heads and
big eyes, as when a child draws, but no
child could have done these. The
anonymity of a railway queue or a man
on a park bench, the eeriness of the
couples in “Dawn 1” and “Dawn 2”,
showed that although you may think the
face is an important organ the atmo-
sphere of adult human relationships can
be communicated without paying atten-
tion to it. This is not new, but it is dis-
turbing, as was the added impression
that the artist was casting about for
further consequences of this approach,
and that anything could happen next.
Under the presidency of Udo Sellbach
the SA Graphic Art Society, which
consists largely of artists connected with
the Adelaide School of Arts, presented
line drawings, engravings of all types,
lithographs, and some works in miscel-
laneous media such as light-sensitive
paper one cannot really call it photo-
graphy. The result was a variety of small
modestly priced contemporary works of
art mysterious abstract balances of
forms and shades, action drawings which
are expressive but confined in a small
space, colors and lines which darken and
recede where they merge.
The huge open-air popular exhibition
in Elder Park was crowded and well
organised. It included paintings by some
established local artists, many imitative
amateur works mostly sentimental in
uncontrolled media but not so bad for
all that and many sold, and every now
and again the startling spree of a psycho-
path saved from crime by sublimatory
exposure of his secret in a frame.
There should be some general con-
clusions to be drawn from such a con-
centrated experience of five exhibitions,
and, once again in sequence, here are
mine. There are a few people in Adelaide
who for years have been unobtrusively
very good at spotting winners among the
painters. Some traditionalists in an
established artists’ society here are not
prepared to release themselves in any
of the loosened styles of this generation,
and this may be funny for the present
but could be a useful leaven. No artist
in Adelaide is painting in a technically
or psychologically disturbing way, com-
parable to the sauce and nerve we get
from the States to the east. One
Adelaide group looks like excelling at a
small-scale art which could become very
popular because of low prices and small
size for hanging in modern houses.
Adelaide people are very good at organ-
ising exhibitions and attending them
earnestly.
A dull place, then? It depends.
Adelaide may not be pushing back
frontiers in art, but such is only
occasional anywhere. Inconspicuous
noticing, collecting, editing, admiring,
copying, marshalling, these are secondary
activities but necessary to complete the
civilised procession of art. The import-
ance of being earnest is part of the
importance of being.
EARLE HACKETT


THE RED PAGE
THE PERVERSE MIND
The reminiscence of a madman?
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Pale Fire. Vladimir Nabokov.
Weidenfeld and Nicolson. 265.
VTladimir Nabokov’s misanthropic
" novel “Pale Fire” opens with some
notes on a poem by the recently dead
John Francis Shade (1898-1959), a dis-
tinguished elder poet who has been in
residence at New Wye, Appalachia,
USA. The notes are by Dr Charles Kin-
bote, Shade’s self-styled “friend and ad-
viser” a homosexual litterateur who
fancies himself to be the exiled monarch
of Zernbla, a kind of northern Ruritania
which exists only in his imagination.
Like Nabokov himself, Shade has writ-
ten his work on a series of cards;
Charles Kinbote has set himself the task
of analysing them, and does so at ex-
haustive length.
Before the poem itself, we have Kin-
bote’s account of his relationship with
Shade. Despite its self-flattery, it’s quite
obvious that Shade could barely tolerate
this crawling, sycophantic creep. The
poem is a prolonged rumination on
Shade’s own life: he was orphaned when
young when his parents, both ornitholo-
gists, died of bad heart and cancer of
the pancreas. The boy was raised by
Aunt Maud, a spinster out of the joke-
book, complete with intellectual preten-
sions. Pubertal passions are briefly
touched on, followed by thoughts about
the hereafter; Shade falls in love with
Sybil, his future wife, and they have a
child, Hazel who is doomed to
misfortune.
Apart from her name, Hazel is aff-
licted with plumpness, a squint, and
tends to be cast in roles like Mother
Time in plays when other children of
her age play elves and fairies. For
Hazel, the telephone never rings; there
are no dates; she drowns herself in a
swamp. Once again, the poet is plunged
into thoughts about life after death, and
in a brilliantly funny passage describes
a visit to a woman who has come back
from the grave after her heart has been
rubbed by a surgeon’s hand.
The conclusion of the poem only
lightly concealed by the wit and sparkle
of Nabokov’s language has a grim
irony as chilling as anything Nabokov
has given us.
Although bad poetry, this long medi-
tation is spectacularly clever rhymed
prose. Throughout, the mind revealed
in the poem is cynical, destructive, feline
and consistently tough about the inani-
ties of contemporary life. Yet dazzling
as it is, it isn’t really conceivable as
the work of Shade, who reading be-
tween the lines is evidently meant to
be a kind of Robert Frost figure of
dignity and gracious old age. The ac-
count of his daughter’s death by suicide
is so heartless that one can only take
Shade on his own evidence as a monster
of Dracula-like proportions. And Shade,
as we are shown him, simply wouldn’t
have been clever enough to have writ-
ten these lines, describing the Shades
watching TV while their daughter heads
for the swamp:
A male hand traced from Florida to
Maine
The curving arrows of Aeolian wars.
You said later a quartet of bores,
Two writers and two critics, would
debate
The Cause of Poetry on Channel 8.
A nymph came pirouetting, under
white „
Rotating petals, in a vernal rite
To kneel before an altar in a wood
Where various articles of toilet stood.
I went upstairs and read a galley proof.
The rest of the book—more than
200 pages is taken up with Charles
Kinbote’s commentary on the poem, a
flat-footed, pedantic exercise reminiscent
of those terrible American volumes in
which some six-lined masterpiece from
the Norse is subjected to 60,000 words
of heavily analytical prose. As Kinbote
waffles on about his own imaginary ad-
ventures and his own preposterous
“kingdom” of Zernbla, Nabokov strews
the text with innumerable traps for
critics who are looking for literary ref-
erences: this isn’t just a parody of “tex-
tual” criticism but a way of snaring
“textual” critics. A modern Chambers
or a Frazer (or a Mary McCarthy)
might well spin out dithyrambs on Nab-
okov’s deliberately inserted mentions of
legends from several nations, and in
Miss McCarthy’s case ( vide “The New
Republic”) dithyrambs have actually
been spun.
On the surface, then, “Pale Fire” is
a joke, a squib, a collection of always
self-admiring, sometimes witty, some-
times facetious quips, parodies and com-
ments on society. Below the surface one
has to venture carefully, because Nab-
okov’s cynicism and nihilism are such
that the moment one surfaces with a
solemn literary judgment one can hear
him laughing hollowly in the back-
ground. It would be easy to say that
this is at heart a book about an
obsession as fierce as Humbert Hum-
bert’s: the obsession of Charles Kinbote,
not for nymphets but for faunlets. Cer-
tainly, if there is any hint of genuine
emotion in the book, it is that of Kin-
bote’s pederast lust. The whole of his
mad militaristic kingdom of Zernbla,
his crawling to the older man, his
spying on people voyeuristically through
bushes, his obsession with people who
are tough, powerful all these are
stamped through and through with
homosexual feeling. No contemporary
writer is more brilliantly equipped to
describe a perverse mind, and if “Pale
Fire” has any serious meaning at all
I would hazard that the meaning lies in
Kinbote’s perverse adoration of John
Francis Shade, and all that this symbol-
ises of weakness worshipping strength.
The character of Shade himself, seen
through the neurotic tanglewood of Kin-
bote’s mind, is ingeniously fitted together
through the narrative, like a jigsaw
puzzle of a human face. Yet despite all
the cheats and tricks with which he is
presented, he doesn't really make sense
as a human being and, since Nabokov
has been writing a novel, not doing a
crossword puzzle, this is an important
fault. Apart from the fact I referred to
earlier that the poem is too heartless,
too cunning, to be feasible from Shade's
hand none of the other things he is
doing in the book suggests much more
than the activities of Kinbote himself,
unlikeably clever and sly.
But then a curious thought strikes me.
Perhaps Kinbote wrote the poem and
made Shade up, together with the story
of Zernbla, and everything else in the
book as well! Perhaps the entire work
is simply the reminiscence of a madman,
the poem included as a kind of padded
cell version of “The Prelude!” Half the
fun of reading this book is in looking
for this kind of solution to the problems
Nabokov poses, even if this literary
hunt-the-slipper is a waste of time. A
waste of time? But then, as the author
is always reminding us in this harrow-
ing maze of a book, everything’s a waste
of time anyway.


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D' Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
DON'T SHOOT THE ANTHOLOGIST
A Century of Australian Short Stories.
Edited by Cecil Hadgraft & Richard
Wilson. Eleinemann. 30s.
Creative Writing in Australia. John
K. Ewers. Georgian House. 12s. 6d.
T ike the villain in an old-style melo-
drama, the anthologist is bound to
be pelted with rotten tomatoes.
Hadgraft’s and Wilson’s new collec-
tion of Australian Short Stories will
inevitably be compared with the volume
edited for World’s Classics by Walter
Murdoch and H. Drake-Brockman in
1951. The new collection contains the
work of only 32 authors compared to
48 in the old. However, that book in-
cluded a few sketches which scarcely
belonged in an anthology of short stories,
whereas Hadgraft and Wilson manage
to be reasonably representative without
printing any story which is really poor.
A more serious quibble is with the
sources of selection with a few very
recent exceptions these sources are all
published books. It is time some editor
went back to taws in Australian writing
there is too much discussion of Archi-
bald’s and Stephen’s “influence” and not
enough knowledge of what really was
published under their editorship. Nor
did The Bulletin exist in a journal-
istic vacuum a side, glance'is due at
some of the other journals of that time.
Book publication is so often a matter
of luck or influence; there were people
like “Scotty the Wrinkler” (Phil Mow-
bray) who had neither, yet who produced
a great deal of material which Archibald
was glad to publish and which has never
been printed between covers.
Next to anthologists the compilers of
“handbooks” are easy targets for tomato-
throwers. John K. Ewers’ useful book
has proved its worth by the best of
tests time. First published in 1945 it
has been revised and/or reprinted sev-
eral times since then and now appears as
a well-stitched paperback, newly revised
and including discussion and description
of work printed between 1956 and mid-
-1962. The author stresses that the book
merely presents “trends” and is to be
regarded as a “selective” survey for
its size it is invaluable. On occasion
Ewers contrives to convey an extra-
ordinary amount of description and com-
ment in a very brief space compare,
for instance, his assessment of Geoffrey
Dutton’s fine novel “The Mortal and the
Marble” with that in H. M. Green’s
large history. Ewers marshals great
amounts of material so logically that
one is unaware of “fuss,” and on the
whole has a remarkable eye for significant
detail. My main quarrel with Ewers is in
the selective reading lists appended to
the book the omissions of Rosemary
Dobson’s and Roland Robinson’s books
among the poets, or Ray Mathew’s name
from either the poetry or short story
categories are glaring, and other missing
names might be questioned, to say the
least.
NANCY KEESING
GENTLEMENS DISAGREEMENT
Towards an Australian Philosophy of
Education. A. Boyce Gibson (Pro-
fessor of Philosophy, University of
Melbourne). The NSW Depart-
ment of Education. 21s.
three lectures were given at the
A invitation of the NSW Department
of Education before an audience of “over
500 school principals, lecturers and ad-
ministrators” in September, 1962. A fore-
word written by an anonymous depart-
mental officer explains that they are part
of “a programme of inservice courses”
designed to set school principals think-
ing about the purposes of education and
reviewing their own theory and practice.
Moreover, we are told, “the Department
believes that principals of schools ought
to be given the opportunity to express in
practice the aims and ideals which they
come to affirm”.
Either this statement is a gratuitous
piece of insincerity or the writer assumes
that no school principal would be foolish
enough to subscribe to Professor Boyce
Gibson’s “aims and ideals”. Professor
Gibson pleads for “differential schooling
for different types of ability” whereas
the Department has plumped for com-
prehensive schools offering a common
core curriculum to all pupils; he urges
“a great expansion in language teaching”,
whereas the Department now forbids
high school principals to provide more
than a smattering of one foreign language
in first year, and places further restric-
tions on language teaching in subsequent
years.
Clearly aware of the fact that his own
ideas are unfashionable, Professor Gib-
son refers to “self-styled progressives
(who) are congratulating themselves on
the contraction of language studies,”
complains that modern educational the-
orists dislike subjects like languages and
mathematics “on sight” because to mas-
ter them “there is a great deal one just
has to learn,” and deplore the increas-
ing tendency to inflict syllabuses and
teaching methods of a “practicalist” na-
ture on pupils who take readily to ideas
and would be better suited by an abstract
approach. “We provide for the average
as well as anyone . . . but it is those
outstanding in intelligence and imagina-
tion who are needed to think in new
terms and lay hold of our future; and
we are perhaps too timid about discrim-
inating in their favor.”
It would be misleading, however, to
suggest that these lectures are a brutally
direct attack on current educational
practice in New South Wales. Conscious
of his status as “a guest in this State
and of its Department of Education,”
Professor Gibson deems it improper to
pronounce on matters that have “given
rise to local controversy.” Admittedly
this is said with specific reference to the
State aid issue, but it is clear that the
same courtesy has inhibited his presen-
tation of the case against the present cult
of mediocrity. Accordingly he contents
himself with a little gentlemanly sniping,
and devotes the greater part of the lec-
tures to somewhat vague theorisi \g with
which no one would want to quarrel. In-
deed, so urbane and good-humoured is
his tone that unless they took to heart
his central recommendations and worked
out their full implications members of
the audience might well have tailed to
realise just how heretical Professor Gib-
son’s opinions are.
His concept of a spec : fically “Aus-
tralian” form of education is a revo-
lutionary one. Australia’s geographical
position is often used as a pretext for
discouraging language teaching. We are,
it is said, too remote from Europe for
French and German to be “of any use,”
and it is impracticable (for reasons that
are never fully examined) to teach Asian
languages. Instead, more and more time
is given to “learning about ourselves,”
so that the curriculum is increasingly
dominated by a hideous national narcis-
sism. Professor Gibson argues on the
contrary that Australian schools must
teach both European and Asian langu-


ages so that we may understand both our
own culture (which is derived from Eur-
ope) and the culture of our neighbours.
This is a matter of such national urgency
that time must be found for these sub-
jects “at the expense of no matter what”
in the curriculum.
“If we are to be the bearers of our
tradition,” he writes, “in an area largely
occupied by other traditions, we shall
have not only to understand ourselves
and what has made us the Austral Euro-
peans that we are, but also to understand
those amongst whom we have to make
ourselves understood . . . The arrogant
monoglot who expects the other fellow
to learn his language but will not recip-
rocate just will not understand what is
happening. The rhythm of a people’s
feeling is mirrored in its language ... to
have acquired the rhythm of a language
is to be in a position to know not merely
what others are talking about (for which
purpose translations may serve) but to
gain access to the attitudes which their
explicit conceptual expressions do not
disclose. To present ourselves in our own
mental rhythm to those whose mental
rhythms are unknown to us, especially
if our mental rhythms are known to
them, is to ask to be comprehensively
out-manoeuvred.”
We are so often told that Australia’s
future depends on the expansion of
science teaching in the schools (at the
expense, if need be, of the humanities)
that it is refreshing to find the case for
the humanities (at the expense, if need
be, of science) stated with equal urgency
and plausibility. It could even be said
that trying to understand and negotiate
with our neighbours is a more realistic
policy than trying to intimidate them by
technological supremacy.
In fact, however, there is no real con-
flict between the demands of the hu-
manities and the demands of science.
Both could be satisfied if only educa-
tional planners were willing to cut time-
wasting diversions from the curriculum,
and, by selection, to allow abler pupils
to progress without pointless delay.
JOAN MACKIE
POETRY OUT OF ANYTHING
The Horse That Laughed. K. W.
Bloomfield. Hawthorn Press.
17s. 6d.
Parents Keep Out. Ogden Nash. Dent.
17s.
African Negatives. Alan Ross. Eyre &
Spottiswoode. 15s. 9d.
IT - . W. Bloomfield is a Victorian wo-
man doctor; Alan Ross is editor of
“The London Magazine”; Ogden Nash is
Ogden Nash.
They all write verse with a clarity un-
usual in these days and the quotation
from Aldous Huxley prefixed to Dr
Bloomfield’s volume covers the three
books: “It should theoretically be possible
to make poetry out of anything whatso-
ever of which the spirit of man can take
cognizance”.
Dr Bloomfield writes on four suicides,
a racehorse she owned that surprised her
by winning and her first solo flight. Alan
Ross writes about a Bantu on a bicycle,
miners dancing on Sunday at Johannes-
burg, a man who was kind to negroes
but one of them raped his wife, a dandy
walking up a main street and the author
and a girl driving another car playing
chasings along English highways. Ogden
Nash’s book is a collection allegedly for
children, but that is just the come-on.
Both Dr Bloomfield and Mr Ross give
you some fresh thought on their subjects.
Many and many a respectable motorist
playing chasings on highways with a
beautiful stranger must wonder what
might have happened if . . . and he is
penetrating about (among many things)
the dandy:
Chest puffed out, a nylon pigeon, his
lips are bugles
Blowing fanfares of his pride from
door to door.
Yet, salesman of himself in imaginary
encounters,
Randy dandy on the loose from rancid
shanties,
He wears out self-respect, over-drawing
by instalments,
Spiritually bankrupt, though a strolling
millionaire.
At home, the suit hangs up, still bluff-
ing its contentment.
Below, its owner sags: the dandy is
up there.
And Dr Bloomfield's cool considera-
tion of the early deaths of the man who
ate too much and the man who ate too
little as contrasted with the long life of
him who was consigned to the loony
bin, and her dispassionate survey of the
lives that led to suicide, have point. But
in sum the methods of both Dr Bloom-
field and Mr Ross are more related to
essay-writing than to poetry.
Dr Bloomfield and Mr Ross share a
habit of rhyming an additional “s”
“below” and “grows”, etc. Ogden Nash
would never do that. When the rhyme
won’t fall pat, he falls it pat with a
baseball bat:
Farewell, farewell, you old rhinoceros,
I’ll stare at something less prepoceros.
I should say Ogden Nash is the best
poet of the three on display. This book
contains the famous version of “I think
that I shall never see”, which I had
thought was by someone else:
Indeed, unless the billboards fall
I’ll never see a tree at all.
On the opposite page one reads:
“And one of his partners asked, ‘Has
he vertigo?’ and the other glanced out
and down and said, ‘Oh no, only about
ten feet more’.”
Ogden Nash can make poetry out of
“anything whatsoever of which the spirit
of man can take cognizance” (maybe
not great poetry, but then so many are
described as “light-verse writers” merely
because they don’t know how to be dull);
and besides taking cognizance of Aldous
Huxley he has done a bit of bien entendu
on Mallarme’s remark that poetry is not
made out of ideas but words.
Dr Bloomfield's closest approach to
the slight derangement of the senses these
observations imply, it is only fair to add,
is her “Alphabet for a Materialistic Age”.
I remember it gave great pleasure on the
week it first appeared in The Bulletin:
T was tempted to take his profits—
and did so,
U uncovered a few tid-bits for the
Daily Echo,
V valiantly tried to stave off the credit-
ors,
W wondered at the perfidy of man in
general.
X marked the spot where the Chair-
man was found in the lightwell . . .
RONALD McCUAIG
MIGRANT
MELODIST
The Hebrew Melodist. Catherine
Mackerras. Currawong Publishing
Co. 255.
IT is notable, but perhaps not so sur-
prising, that the celebrated musicians
who came to Australia in the early
days all seem to have been fairly queer
fish. They would have to have been
eccentric, or in desperate circumstances,
to have travelled so far and so uncom-
fortably to a place so short of sustenance
for the professional musician.
In the 1830 s there was William Vin-
cent Wallace (not then celebrated, for
his “Maritana” was nearly 10 years in
the future), the talented, footloose Irish-
man who started Sydney’s first school
of music and left behind nearly £2OOO
in debts when he sailed covertly for
Valparaiso.
In the 1850 s there came the oddest
fish of all Nicholas Bochsa, the most


famous harpist of his age, a bigamist
who was wanted by the French author-
ities for embezzlement, and who had run
away with the wife of England’s most
respected musician, Sir Henry Bishop.
He died a few weeks after his arrival,
and lies buried in the old Newtown
cemetery.
And between these two, in 1841,
came Isaac Nathan, a fugitive from
debts and a curious past.
Nathan was an English-born Jew of
mysterious Polish descent (he hinted
that his father was the illegitimate son
of the last King of Poland, but he may
have made that up). He had been fam-
ous in his youth as the man who had
persuaded Byron to write the “Hebrew
Melodies,” for which Nathan wrote or
arranged the music, and later he had
earned a reputation among the learned
for his History of Music.
He appears to have acted as a secret
agent of George IV, possibly gathering
evidence for the divorce suit against
Queen Caroline; he later performed
some shadowy service for William IV,
and disappointment over his failure to
obtain remuneration for this was one
reason for his migration to Australia.
He was the only one out of these
three musical migrants to settle for a
long period in Sydney and have much
real impact on its musical life. He was
51 when he came here; 13 years later
he was killed by Sydney’s first horse
tram, and he, too, lies buried in New-
town cemetery.
His Australian descendants include
the author Charles MacLaurin, Cather-
ine Mackerras (the writer of this biog-
raphy) and her son, the conductor
Charles Mackerras.
Mrs Mackerras writes the story of
her great-great-grandfather’s life in an
engagingly downright style. She is a
diligent and sceptical historian, irrev-
erent enough to present Nathan as any-
thing but an attractive figure.
He appears again and again as a
vain opportunist. He was a toady to
Byron and a bully to his children; his
violent temper and fondness for vitu-
perative controversy made him many
enemies.
Mrs Mackerras is generally disparag-
ing, too, about his .compositions. But
it is evident that he ha.d some taste and
learning by the standards of his day,
for his first concert in Sydney included
works by Mozart, Beethoven and Handel
a respectable showing for 1841.
During his time here he was one of
the first organists and choirmasters of
St Mary’s Cathedral; he composed the
first opera to be entirely written and
Produced in Australia, “Don John of
Austria”; and he established himself as
a sort of composer-laureate to the
colony.
How much permanent influence did
Nathan have on Australian music in
his 13 Sydney years? Mrs Mackerras
has disappointingly little to say on this
point. Nathan was an active teacher,
but he does not seem to have founded
any long-lived musical institutions. The
assessment of just how wide or deep
his influence was will presumably have
to wait until someone publishes an ade-
quate general study of Australian music
in that period.
MARTIN LONG
YOU SCRATCH MY BACK
"Research workers who did most of
their main work a generation ago
must look with envy on the riches in
historiography and bibliography which
are being opened to them in a flood of
source books and periodicals.
The table of a regular reviewer seems
always to be full of these. In the pile at
present are regular visitors like Historical
Studies Australia and New Zealand ,
which is issued at Melbourne University,
contains academic historical articles and
papers, reviews, some excellent but many
of the you-scratch-my-back-I-scratch-
yours variety. The most useful features it
contains are the complete lists of writings
on Australian history both separate
publications and periodicals.
Among the other historical journals
recently received is The Year Book of
Proceedings of the Royal Historical
Society of Queensland, 1961-62, which
contains two important papers Sir
Raphael Cilento’s Medicine in Queens-
land ( 1824-1894) and Clem Lack’s
History and Potential Future of Cape
York Peninsula with a useful chronology
and synopsis of events in the Peninsula
from the days of Torres to the days of
Weipa.
From the University of Western Aus-
tralia comes Volume IV, No. 1, of Uni-
versity Studies in History, edited bv J. I.
W. Brash, controlled by the heads of the
History Department, and published by
the University’s own press. Tt is singular
that the smaller and newer universities
are better off in means to publish histor-
ical papers than some of the larger on**s.
Westralian University has shown itself
particularly enterprising in this field The
current issue of its h'storical journal con-
tains papers on “British Investment in
Western Australian Go'd Mining 1894-
1914,” bv Dr J W. McCarty, Lecturer
in Economic History at Svdney Univer-
sity, B. J. Smith’s extensive review of
“Earlv Western Australian Literature”
and “The Governors of Western Aus-
tralia Under Representative Government
1870-90.” bv P I Boyce of the Uni-
versity of Tasmania.
a different category is the import-
ant work being done in organising source
material about the New South Wales
Parliament. Some good indexing work
has been achieved in this field by the
Clerk to the Parliaments, Major-General
John Stevenson, who is producing in fr ; e
volumes (of which Vols 4 and 5 are
on issue) the Proceedings and Printed
Papers of the Legislative Council. The
two already published sections take the
index back from 1954 to 1914. When
complete the series will be of inestimable
value to historians.
In a more sophisticated class is the
series of Sydney Studies in Politics which
is being issued under the General Edit-
orship of R. N. Spann, Professor of Gov-
ernment at the University of Sydney,
whose associate in the project is Mr
Henry Mayer, senior lecturer in his de-
partment. The series is published by
Cheshire. No. 2 of the series is designed to
be read with its forerunner, Group Theory
and Practice, by Peter Loveday, and
Groups, Parties and Federation, by lan
Campbell. It is by Joan Rydon and the
General Editor and provides a useful
remembrancer on New South Wales
Politics, 1901-10. It is based on “a read-
ing of the ‘Sydney Morning Herald’ sup-
plemented by the New South Wales Han-
sard and the ‘Worker’ and, occasionally,
by a number of weekly papers”. It seems
a pity that the compilers did not also
read the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” which
was more powerful politically in that de-
cade than the “SMH” which was some-
what out of tune with its age. There
seems to be a presumption in the mono-
graph that the “SMH,” the “Worker”
and the “Catholic Press” were the only
journals which influenced or interpreted
events in a way worthy of notice in an
age when the “DT” and some of the
country journals and The Bulletin
were at the height of their influence.
The monograph, moreover, scarcely pays
sufficient tribute to the impact of
Federal politics on the trends of events
in the State. The courses taken by
Hughes, for instance, in the great coal
strike of 1909-10 and afterwards when
he came to office as Federal Attorney-
General after the Fusion debacle are
only sketchily dealt with. At the same
time, if somewhat academic, the little
book is a base from which the student
may readily expand his knowledge. It
has a useful supplement of reference
notes, in the main directed to giving
dates of events and articles, and an
appendix giving the personnel of New
South Wales Ministries and general
elections during the period.
M. H. ELLIS


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
THE GODDESS IS IN BUSINESS
By JOHN GILMORE
a 214 ft by 78 ft, two - storey
marriage of glass, steel and concrete
engineered to starkly functional require-
ments of plant scientists, the Canberra
CSIRO phytotron, Ceres, has a beauty of
its own to an agriculturist. Opened by the
Prime Minister last spring after the
Commonwealth had picked up the bill
for £600,000, the phytotron has com-
menced what is virtually its first test-
run under true phytotron conditions of
asepsis.
So far there have been experiments
with white and sub clover, wheats,
phalaris, tropical grasses and legumes,
corn, gum trees, vines and cotton and
other plants, all under non-sterile con-
ditions. Now the unit has been sterilised,
and the full schedule of work for 1963
has begun under “true” phytotron
control.
All equipment and plants enter via air-
locks where they are fumigated, air is
filtered and visitors are required to don
special clothing. For one errant spore of
some plant disease could wreck an ex-
periment that may be the culmination
of years of patient work by an agri-
cultural back-room boy.
Ceres is the brain-child of CSIRO’s
Plant Industry dynamo, New Zealand’s
Dr O. H. Frankel. When someone dis-
covered that the initial letters of Con-
trolled Environment RESearch laboratory
made up the name of a mythological
Roman goddess symbolising plant growth
and other fundamental processes, this
must have pleased the courageous and
witty Frankel at the completion of his
term as chief of an organisation he has
turned into the largest and most force-
ful division in CSIRO’s land industry
portfolio. For the Canberra phytotron
is a scientific goddess with powers avail-
able nowhere else in the world to the
plant experimentist.
Ceres is all-Australian. Other coun-
tries have phytotrons—the USA, Hol-
land, Russia and France, and New
Zealand is likely to build one —but none
of them has the degree of control or
the versatility of Ceres.
Plant industry development under
Frankel, who takes great pleasure in the
intellectual climate he has nurtured there,
has been parallel to that of major re-
search institutes anywhere. This makes
the Canberra phytotron a suitable monu-
ment to his work for Australian graziers
and farmers. Dr Lloyd Evans, in charge
of the installation, already has a number
of complex studies of plant environment
to his credit.
There are 15 naturally and artificially
lit glasshouses in the building plus 150-
odd cabinets with their own temperature
and humidity and other controls. It is
use of the cabinets as glasshouses-within-
glasshouses that give the Australian
phytotron its superiority over the few
others in the world.
A large pond of water under the
building is made to absorb day tempera-
tures and release this stored heat at
night, on reverse - cycle refrigeration
principles. Automatic shutters simulate
any required day length—a factor which
is vital in many plant functions such as
flowering. Wind, cloud cover, frost,
drought and other influences can be
turned on at will.
Some climatic effects on plants are
well enough known. Sugar cane, for
instance, flowers only within a narrow
range of day lengths, and many grasses
only on long days after a long dry spell.
But with many other useful plants little
is known about how climate affects
things like germination, dormancy (im-
portant in drought resistance), stem
length (important in harvesting), leaf
expansion and so on. These things can
now be tackled by Ceres.
Ceres is not only an all-Australian
designed installation, but also a national
facility. Already, plant scientists from all
parts of the country have conducted or
have scheduled work there, as well as
some from overseas. Future scheduling
is tight and complex, for Ceres is a
costly lady to keep, and management is
concentrated on getting the most from
her for the money.
AUSTRALIA'S IMAGE IN JAPAN
"50 YEARS OUT OF DATE"
Australia’s image in Japan is weak
and 50 years out of date, according
to Mr A. W. Spooner, chairman of
directors of Tom Piper Ltd, Melbourne,
who has returned from a tour of the Far
East.
Mr Spooner led the Commonwealth
Government’s food industry survey mis-
sion to Japan.
He said few Japanese knew anything
of Australia —even though Japan was on
the verge of becoming our best customer.
Mr Spooner claimed there was an
urgent need for Australia to project a
new image of itself in Japan —the image
of a dynamic young nation.
He said Japan’s standard of living was
rising more rapidly than that of any
other nation. It already equalled that of
Italy and within 10 years was expected
to equal that of the United Kingdom.
This was in spite of the fact that Japan
crammed a population of 96 million into
an area half the size of New South Wales
—an area of which less than 20 p.c.
was suitable for agriculture.
“We must plan now for this great
market which is opening up,” Mr Spoon-
er said.
“Japanese farmers are the most effici-
ent in the world, but they are now reach-
ing optimum production in some com-
modities. In addition, there is a definite
trend to Western-style foods in Japan.
“It is a great challenge to Australia on
a Government and private level. The ball
is at our feet.
“If we act smartly there need be no
talk of surplus agricultural production in
Australia. Instead, we will be expanding
production.
“The rest of the world is moving to-
ward Japan, but we got in first. Now we
must capitalise on it . . . not by sending
second-rate goods, but our very best.”
Mr Spooner said between 50 and 60
top Japanese executives would visit Aus-
tralia in the next few months.
Australia’s best selling opportunities in
Japan were in the field of high-protein
foodstuffs. He listed beef, sugar, dried
fruits, honey and wine.
He said there was no doubt about
Japan’s ability to pay. and to pay cash.
Food prices in Japan were about twice
as high as in Australia, with the excep-
tion of rice and fish.
Australia’s products, however, would
have to be “engineered” to meet the
Japanese market. In many cases he
thought this would mean bulk shipment
and processing or packaging of the foods
in Japan.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
On the Interest Rate Band-Waggon
IT now is popular to clamor for a reduction of interest rates
and abolition of the 30/20 Government securities regula-
tion. By implication, this involves a pleasant “fix” in the
form of an injection of inflation into the business bloodstream.
Certainly, from a business viewpoint, this would be a cosy
solution to the present problem of reducing further those dis-
turbing unemployment figures. But let us not clamor too loudly
without considering if there are any adverse side effects. The
business patient is recovering slowly (too slowly, they say), but
Dr Kildare might suggest we consider all effects before inject-
ing the booster serum.
Aside from the political issue that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment would like to withhold any concessions until Budget
time, it is appropriate to consider the feelings of the people
who are subscribing the loan money those plentiful funds
which were such a blessing to the Government when it
handed out extra sums for public works and housing and
absorbed many people into Government employment.
The big subscribers to Government loans, the life offices and
other institutions, are committed under the 30/20 legislation
to place 30 p.c. of their funds in Government securities. Those
which were not already complying with this ratio discovered
they had to withdraw support from the share and debenture
market so as to meet their commitment. Some found it con-
venient to subscribe even larger amounts to Commonwealth
loans because of the favorable comparisons achieved by tax
advantages.
The same volume of bond investment need not apply if
lower bond rates are introduced. Existing bond investments
will look good. But when the chain reaction from lower bond
rate works its way through the interest structure, actuaries
and accountants will continue to seek the best available
return for their corporations.
And if the institutions are not competing with one another
to buy bonds on the open market, prices could ease.
Brokers say the bond market is resigned to a cut in bond
rate and, in fact, has already adjusted its yields in preparation
for a reduction below 5. p.c.
Right. Now let us consider the general public and the other
various companies, superannuation and trust funds, etc. which,
even after complying with a 30/20 requirement (if applicable)
have surplus funds for investment. Will they rush into advance
subscriptions for bonds bearing a lower coupon rate?
Take the reverse position.
Public investors do not always behave the way others expect
hem to behave.
Cast your mind back to the days of Sir Arthur Fadden
w hen, as Treasurer, he sharply raised the bond rate. Vitupera-
tion was heaped on his genial head and it took many years for
the bond market to recover. Certainly there was no 30/20
Plodder in those days.
Newcomers to the bond market welcomed the higher return
but the old subscribers were soured because their existing
bonds dropped in value. Instead of investing in new bonds
with a higher interest coupon, they were inclined to switch
their allegiance to other securities.
Analyse some of the arguments for a lower bond rate. It
is claimed a reduction in bond rate would help to stimulate
the ailing debenture market by permitting sound companies
to borrow at a slightly lower rate. This would inject more
funds into housing, hire purchase, etc. and in turn stimulate
the production of more goods. But only if the debenture rate
is attractive compared to bond rate.
A diversion of funds from Commonwealth loans could
make it extremely difficult for the Commonwealth Treasurer
to raise loan funds while commercial industry is booming
and outside interest rates are competitive with bond rate.
For this reason he doubtless would consider it expedient to
retain his 30/20 persuader to ensure a solid core of bond
subscriptions.
A lower bond rate alone will not woo back into the deben-
ture market the unfortunate debenture investors who, on
paper, lost at least part of their savings in recent company
crashes. Their natural instinct will be to hold on to their
wilting debenture certificates and hope for some recovery.
The finer theories of economics do not appeal to them.
They are more concerned with income and the safety of
their capital, particularly if they are retired. These people, in
many instances, switched from their debenture investments
to savings bank deposits or bonds. It will take a great deal to
change their attitude.
So it would seem the money market must be prepared for
some paring of bond rate all right, but no overnight miracle
on the debenture front. And that 30/20 gimmick, which has
proved itself an Aladdin’s lamp for the Treasurer, is far too
valuable to be tossed aside even in the exultation caused by
the recent loan oversubscriptions.
NO ENTERPRISE IN
FREE ENTERPRISE?
Australians frequently are labelled as gamblers. They
will bet on anything, overseas visitors say. When ap-
plied to the share market, this trait shows up in the oil
market where speculators buy heavily on rumors and disregard
the dangers of pushing up prices too steeply.
But what about risk capital for new enterprises?
Australians are reluctant to take risks on an industrial
enterprise which cannot show five years’ audited profits.
The sharebrokers do not underwrite new company flotations


without plenty of assurances that it is a “good thing.” Why
should they? The public must be protected, is the usual cry.
usual cry.
No one seems to care particularly about the public purse
when a juicy oil flotation comes along. It is everyone for
himself.
So, what about the enterprising businessman who tries hard
to get an industrial enterprise off the ground? He is told to
go fly a kite and come back in five years with figures which
will justify a public company flotation.
It would be nice, just for a change, to see a bit of risk
capital injected into the economy. Why should not underwrit-
ing brokers earn their fee occasionally? Why should overseas
capital be permitted to absorb the benefits of local enterprise
by takeover? And, for that matter, why should large local
industrial companies eliminate competition by takeover tech-
niques?
The danger of such practices is that it helps to breed ineffic-
iency. Cost savings quite often are achieved by takeovers
because bulk buying or elimination of overhead are important
factors. But competition is a stimulus to greater efficiency and
certainly is better for the public if profit margins are shaved.
These radical thoughts, which may make the moustaches of
venerable company directors quiver with indignation, are
prompted by Stock Exchange statistics showing that 27 listed
companies disappeared by takeover in 1962 and 40 in 1961.
Companies disappear from the official Stock Exchange list
for other reasons, too, such as liquidation.
Therefore it is disheartening to note that 31 listed companies
were removed from the Stock Exchange roll call last year and
only 42 came on.
The additions to the list have fallen from 90 in 1960 to
53 in 1961 and 42 in 1962.
More significantly—and this includes mining and oil explora-
tion companies—the new enterprises added to the list dropped
from 33 in 1960 to 20 in 1961 and to 8 in 1962. Seven of the
8 new enterprises in 1962 were oil stocks.
No one quibbles over the fact that “risk” money is just what
it says. It must take risks. But if someone wanted to raise
money to build shops or a retail store in an up-and-coming
development area he would be struggling to obtain any risk
money from the investing public. For a start, no sharebroker
would handle it.
So Australians might be described as a race of “chicken”
gamblers when it comes to investment in free enterprise. But
we are really keen when it comes to investing in unlisted
vending machine companies offering 20 p.c. or some other
unlikely prospect.
HEADACHE FROM
KENNEDY’S COCKTAIL
"President Kennedy is discovering that, although he can
encourage Bob Rogers to walk from Sydney to Palm
Beach, Congress is showing a definite resistance to his boyish
charm. The youthful vigor he brought to the office of
President evidently is showing some signs of wear, judged
by the recent peevish ultimatum he gave to Congress.
He told Congress it must approve a tax cut and a Budget
deficit, otherwise the nation would suffer a further recession.
Hard on the heels of this unpleasant medicine he warned that,
without his proposed tax cut, unemployment would rise to
7 p.c. of the work force by 1967 compared with the present
6 p.c. and an average of 5.6 p.c. in 1962.
There are good reasons for his obvious anxiety. Private
enterprise must be kept buoyant to provide the taxes needed
to finance the staggering arms and foreign aid programmes.
US businessmen and farmers are uneasy at the effects of the
Common Market, with European nations showing a liking for
US foreign aid but a marked resistance to US exports.
Persistent purchase of gold stocks by outsiders and the run
on the dollar are a blow to Uncle Sam’s prestige. They indicate
a long term possibility of devaluation per medium of a rise
in the price of gold.
The US Administration is so worried about the drain on the
dollar and the balance of payments deficit that it is considering
the introduction of controls on the sale of securities in the
US by foreigners. It also is considering the need to screen
applications by US citizens to invest dollars abroad and to
place restrictions on the quantity of dollars taken abroad by
US tourists.
Supposing J.F.K. obtains his tax cuts and builds a big
budget deficit? Will it generate sufficient internal expansion
to feed the arms burden now carried by the USA? And will
it offset the growing resistance to American-produced goods
which Europe would like to exclude while it encourages its
'own industries behind a tariff barrier?
America’s paternal backing of Britain for Common Market
membership was seen by Europeans as the thin end of the
wedge with America exercising her influence through Britain.
Europeans still tend to treat America as the brash, rich tourist
who must be tolerated for the dollars he brings but who must
be shown no mercy when extracting those dollars.
Wily Europeans are expressing their attitude to the dollar
at the moment by buying gold as a hedge against the day when
Uncle Sam may be forced to r aise the price of gold.
Regardless of whether Britain eventually enters the Common
Market, Europeans see quite clearly that for Britain to have
a fighting chance in European trade, it may be necessary to
devalue the £ sterling, thus making Britain’s exports more
competitive. If this happens, there will be increased pressure
on the dollar.
Cagey operators are selling sterling and converting into
dollars. In turn, they are prepared to switch to gold immedi-
ately the £ sterling is devalued, or even before such event, if
they think they can pick it. Their reasoning is that, if sterling
is devalued, the dollar could not stand the strain.
Both Britain and America have indicated they will fight
this trend vigorously. But the more people who adopt this
line of reasoning, the more likely they will help to precipitate
the event.
Is it any wonder, then, that the American businessman
feels a bit grumpy that he is shouldering what he considers
to be an unequal burden? Uncle Sam may have entered World
War II a bit on the late side, but some of the international
burdens inherited from Britain as a leading power in the
Western World are headaches of long duration. They spare
neither youthful Presidents nor dollar-conscious businessmen.
A REASON FOR SELLING
AUSTRALIAN SHARES
of a devaluation of the £ sterling has caused hesitancy
A among investors from the dollar area and this factor has
influenced some holders to sell their Australian shares.
Similarly, North American companies are becoming a
little wary of placing funds “down under” unless they can
receive some assurance that their money will be repatriated,
when required, at the current rate of exchange. Obviously
they believe that Australia, along with other Commonwealth
countries, would follow Britain’s lead in deyaluing the £.


COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
jpjMDp;
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
ssr
INCREASE
PROFITS
fi
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
LEASING CORP.
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
STABILITY IN THE DYNAMIC SENSE
By “CROESUS”
fpHE Government purports to be a
neutral in the current Margins case
still being argued before the Arbitra-
tion Commission. But it has come pretty
close to saying, through its counsel, Mr
C. I. Menhennitt, the country’s “stability
in the dynamic sense” would be jeop-
ardised in the event of the unions’ claims
being granted.
There can be no doubt about the
stability in consumer prices terms over
the last two years. Over this period the
official consumers price index has in-
creased by only half a point a year
that is, from 123.3 in the December
quarter 1960 to 124.4 in the latest De-
cember quarter, with an interim peak of
125.0 in the June quarter 1961 and a
low of 124.0 in the June quarter 1962.
In the two years up to December
1960 the consumers price index rose
by 7.5 points, of which 5.3 were added
in 1960 itself. So, compared with that
period, the last two years have been
very stable indeed.
But what about dynamism? This was
certainly not evident in 1961-62. Recent
statistics show there was actually a drop
in the number of factory workers (usu-
ally regarded as a key indicator of de-
velopment) and an increase of a mere
H p.c. in gross national product.
There has been a little more evidence
of dynamism .since then, however, even
if it is not quite convincing with 96,000
unemployed still on the books in Janu-
ary. Private investment is far too slug-
gish and, despite Mr Menhennitt’s sug-
gestion that demand is now rising
strongly, public spending is very patchy.
(Victorian retail statistics for January
show a rise of 6.5 p.c. for Melbourne,
but only 1.5 p.c. rise for country areas
over January 1962, which was an ex-
tremely poor month for retail sales.)
Still, with a rise in gross national
product of 7.9 p.c. in the latest Decem-
ber half year, albeit compared with a
poor December half year in 1961, the
economy has shown some dynamism.
Most economists perhaps wouixl prefer
the term “spirited recovery power,” leav-
ing “dynamism” to describe conditions
evidencing rapid development rather
than mere recovery.
If, indeed, the Government is sin-
cere in its professed neutrality towards
an increase in margins, it is rather path-
etic that it should pursue the line that
there is sufficient steam in the system
to cause a boil-over in the event of an
increase being granted. For this seems
to indicate it has little confidence in
the potential of the economy or in itself
to usher in the new wave of economic
expansion being urged on it from all
sides.
Mr Menhennitt, doubtless speaking to
a tight brief, made much of the point
that any breach in price stability would
be to the detriment of our competitive
position in world markets. Perhaps it
would; but he also pointed out that
wages had been rising in countries “of
vital significance to our export-import
relations,” which was rather giving the
point away.
It is all very well to say that the
ticking of the clock of development here
should be dictated by the terms of trade
and that we should husband our re-
sources in the interest of long term de-
velopment, but there is a real danger of
making too much of these con-
siderations.
We have to take some risks in pushing
on with development, just as we did
in the 1950’s when doubts on the terms
of trade and the availability of overseas
capital to support the balance of pay-
merits at a time of rapid development
were confounded.
Mr J. Robinson, the employers’ advo-
cate at the hearings, also weighed in
heavily in support of maintaining stabil-
ity. One of his arguments was that the
increase sought in margins would lead
to “economic chaos,” which was put-
ting it rather strongly.
He made the interesting point that
this would mean “stop and go” policies
would be necessary and these would in
turn militate against productivity in-
creases, one of the bases lor the unions’
claim.
But his main point was that the
unions were asking the Commission to
write into margins productivity in-
creases which were simply not there.
Over-award payments already took ac-
count of productivity increases to date.
“The only fact demonstratable is that
there is capacity to pay the present wage
rate, including margins and over-award
payments, at the existing price level.”
He proceeded to show that 10 p.c.
of total wages is already made up of
some form of over-award payments, the
present breakdown of wages in the met-
als trades being: 63 p.c. basic wage,
17 p.c. margins, 10 p.c. overtime, and
10 p.c. over-award payments.


A. 1. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 188TW
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
3 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
INVESTMENT RISKS AND RETURNS
Tt has been sticking out a mile for a
long time that the Government has
been offering far too much to satisfy
the public’s cautious predilections about
the future of its savings.
Although The Bulletin has been
saying this in various ways for the best
part of a year, even some of the most
astute financiers have doggedly refused
to accept its implications for monetary
policy. Only now, after pondering the
massive over-subscription to the Febru-
ary loan, are they coming round to ad-
vocating drastic changes in official in-
terest rates and the removal of some of
the inducements to invest with the Gov-
ernment.
If the Treasury accepted the view of
these gentlemen, as it sometimes has in
the past, it would be ironical if develop-
ments in the monetary situation were
such as to warrant thinking twice about
cutting bond rate by some of the frac-
tions mentioned last week. Not that such
developments look to be pending at the
moment, or even that the £240 million
loan conversion operation in May would
be the most appropriate occasion for a
cut except to a level strictly in line with
market yields.
4i p.e. high enough?
A couple of weeks ago The Bulletin
opined that it might be possible from
pressure on market yields to prepare
the ground for a cut to as low as 4i
p.c. for the longs. Under current circum-
stances of the Government’s general pol-
icy of price stability and the streamlined
facilities for dealing in bonds, 4i p.c.
should be high enough a price for the
Government to pay the public for hold-
ing resources in what is virtually cash.
On this it may be remarked that if
you can get more than 4 p.c. (at present
more like 5 p.c.) for holding resources
in virtual cash, practically without any
risk to the lender, it is axiomatic that as
soon as you can get away from bonds
into investments carrying risk elements,
you will need progressively higher re-
turns proportionate to the degree of risk
involved.
Going from the gilt-edged end of the
scale to the other extreme equity in-
vestment it would seem from what
some brokers have been telling their
clients that current returns, or even pros-
pective returns, on equities are not in
the race for investment funds.
Return on equities
A Melbourne broker considers that a
return of at least 8 p.c. over a
period of years is needed on equities,
otherwise they are not worth holding and
should be sold with the idea of re-invest-
ing in a fixed interest stock to give a
return of 7 p.c. or better.
With current average yields of only
4.3 p.c. on equities he considers that an
annual capital appreciation (taking an
average stock) of 3.7 p.c. would be
needed to make up the difference.
However, it is worth remembering that
the lower the return at the gilt-edged end
of the scale, other things being equal,
the lower would be the required return
at the equities end. Moreover, given a
degree of inflation, which would be
likely to occur in the event of a lower-
ing of bond yields, the greater would be
the chances of capital appreciation on
equity investments and a consequently
lower dividend return. All of which was
clearly demonstrated in the investment
pattern of 1959-60.
Reverting to the current situation,
the case for a sharp reduction in the
returns afforded on Government securi-
ties is strengthened by what has been
happening generally in the intermediate
range of investments between bonds and
equities. That is, in the commercial and
industrial fixed interest sphere.
Element of risk
TJsually in a period of internal price
stability it might be expected this
intermediate range of investments would
enjoy the support of investors in much
the same way as government and semi-
government securities. Indeed, with
money stable and some margin offering
above returns on gilt-edged, debentures
and notes would seem in these circum-
stances to have some pull over gilt-
edged, though admittedly the market in
them is inferior.
On the other hand, a combination of
circumstances has militated against in-
vestment in debentures and notes in the
last year or more. In a word, the risk
element in this type of investment has
increased, putting the margin between
required returns on them and bond
yields (boosted in the case of life com-
panies by additional tax concessions)
higher than it otherwise would have
been.
It is a direct consequence of the de-
fault on interest and capital repayments
by a number of big (largely develop-
ment) companies. It has made a mockery
of the traditional relationships between
returns and risks in the fixed interest
intermediate range of investments, as
well as warping the relationship between
this range and investments at either end
of the scale.
Current moves to repair the damage
done to fixed commercial and industrial
investment are timely, though it is re-
markable that so many gaps have re-
mained so long in both official stock
exchange listing requirements for deben-
tures and notes and also in Government
legislation in this matter.
Unhappy experience
Some time is needed to restore fixed
investment in industrial and com-
mercial concerns to its proper place in
the order of risks. The recent unhappy
experience of investors in this type of
security have been unfortunate, but they
will not have been in vain if the pro-
posed measures reduce the risk element
in company fixed investment financing
to its proper proportions, perceptibly
narrowing the differential return de-
manded on bonds and secured first
charges on company assets.
This in itself would put investment in
equities closer in court. Though in times
of uninhibited buoyancy in the industrial
and commercial worlds it might well
mean the Treasury would be hard put
to finance loan expenditure in the public
sector without offering extravagant in-
terest rates and inducements.
The trouble with the Treasury, how-
ever, is that, through bad times and good
for the industrial and commercial world,
it is too often on the defensive, always
fearing that it won’t get enough loan
money, never thinking it might get too
much and seldom worrying about the
effect of its own loan terms on com-
mercial interest rates and economic ac-
tivity in the private sector of the
economy.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New
South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
10
2
PER
ANNUM
FOUR
YEARS
REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES
CM IO
«< «<
“5 ~Z
Vi Vi
■uio
p >^p
(S'
■o
b
rfgb
Funds may be with*
drawn in a personal
emergency as set
out in the pros-
pectus.
Applications for
these notes must be
made on the form
attached to the
prospectus, which is
now available from:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. Georges Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange}.
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.l.
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
Clip and Post Coupon
CCi5B/AB
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with
application forms.
NAME
ADDRESS
PROFITABLE ROCKS OR
TOUGH ROCKS?
Congratulations to James Wallace
Pty Ltd in obtaining The Rocks
contracts are qualified by doubts whether
this successful builder was too drastic in
undercutting rival developers.
Calculations on the cost of such enter-
prising tendering by James Wallace sug-
gest that, by letting the State Government
off the financial hook, a total expendi-
ture of up to £sm. may be necessary to
shift the existing pebbles and boulders.
Checks on some of the dwellings in
the area indicate there are plenty of
sub-tenants who will want to be com-
pensated.
If the State Government estimates it
would be £im. out of pocket by accept-
ing <£2m. from the L. J. Hooker group,
obviously it believes it would cost £2im.
to gain vacant possession from existing
tenants and re-accommodate them.
The company may not need more than
£2im. in the early stages and, fortunate-
ly, the £lim. payment to the Govern-
ment will be spread over 10 years.
Directors now indicate that the private-
ly owned and leased property in the area
will be resumed by the State Government
and handed over progressively to James
Wallace as and when required.
Even so, it must reimburse the Govern-
ment for whatever compensation is paid
to tenants Evidently this is to prevent
the company from being held to ran-
some. Final details are to be thrashed
out before signing the contract.
Hawker Siddeley, which apparently
withdrew from the contest, is said to
have made a higher cash offer than the
others. It is understood the company
stipulated that if its costs of resumption
were more than £Hm. the additional
amount should be deducted from its
purchase offer.
The tenderer for The Rocks project
must re-build the bond stores for the
Government 'at an estimated cost of
£lm. and also provide the water, sewer-
age and stormwater facilities for the
area.
The company now must raise some
extra capital for the project, the inter-
est rate on which must be a vital factor.
There is no doubt the other developers
would like to be the winning tenderer.
Considerable prestige must go to the
builder of this new gateway to Sydney.
James Wallace undoubtedly is a good
builder. But when some of its hard-
headed competitors (who spent a lot of
time and money calculating the possible
returns on a project they would like to
tackle) refused to meet the initial ex-
penses set out in the prospectus, the
casual observer must wonder how James
Wallace will recoup this extra cost.
Building is so competitive these days
that some developers talk of making a
5 p.c. return on building and a net 5
p.c. on rents, after all holding charges,
costs, tax, etc., are deducted.
This is based on the use of other
people’s money, where possible. It still
permits a reasonably good leturn on the
developer’s own capital if, say, his own
capital is £lm. and he uses £lom.
of someone else’s money.
But the margins for profit, or error,
are a bit fine.


==E»S>
T fO
A happier choice for every occasion . . .
Aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
YOUR FAVOURITE BRANDY . . ST. AGNES BRANDY
TOMORROWS SPENDERS' PARADISE
YJSTe’ve been hearing a lot lately that
the future of Australian industry is
not as rosy as it was painted a year or
two back. Also, that investors would do
well to take note of the fact that tomor-
row will be the day of service and other
tertiary industries,
Similar reservations appear in a pre-
circulation copy of Professor Alex Hunt-
er’s composium on the Economics of the
Australian Industry by university writers
shortly to be released by Melbourne Uni-
versity Press. This will be reviewed in
next week’s Bulletin.
In his introduction Professor Hunter
states: “It is unlikely that Australia will
ever become a major industrial power,
but, within the eastern hemisphere, it
could be a substantial contributor to in-
dustrial production providing the
industries with important relative advan-
tages can be found and developed”.
Why so many ifs and buts?
For all that, Bulletin readers will
not be strangers to the thought that we
will have to rely to an increasing extent
on the tertiaries for future labor absorp-
tion. It does not necessarily follow that
the rest of industry will have to take a
back seat on the investment scene.
There is unlimited scope for expansion
of basic and other industries alongside
the inevitable development of tertiary in-
dustries. For that reason alone there is
little reason for investors to alter their
investment alignments as between indus-
tries.
However, it is worth having a close
look at the views of a Melbourne broker
now telling his clients that the best pros-
pects for investment lie in what the young
population will buy in the consumer field
in the next five years or more. He ex-
pects an increase of 25 p.c. in the
15 to 24 age group, equal to about twice
the rate of increase in the population as
a whole.
From this assumption comes a vista
of an economy hell-bent on satisfying the
demands of youth, an age group which
“by comparison is well paid and, having
few financial commitments or respon-
sibilities, tends to spend freely”. This
age group, nonetheless, will need the
assistance of hire purchase, one of the
industries given a place in tomorrow’s
sun.
For the rest it will be a sort of glori-
fied and licensed world of companies like
G. J. Coles (an investment the broker
particularly favors as likely to be worth
at least 19s. in 1969 giving a dividend
yield of 5.6 on the current purchase price
of 13s. 6d.!) in which beer, soft drinks,
pre-cooked foods, “individual” electrical
appliances, ready-made clothes, sporting
goods, low-priced sports cars, entertain*
ment, gramophone records, hosiery, leis-
ure and, not least, cosmetics will com-
mand most of the spending attention.
Over the rough trot?
'l7’ictorian steel merchant and engineer,
* Harco Steel, made a good recovery
in the six months to last December and
its 4 p.c. interim makes us regret calling
the company’s shares dividendless in an
issue last year.
Things never got as bad as that,
though after showing promise with a
maiden 10 p.c. dividend following listing
in 1960, the company had a fairly rough
trot during 1961-62, and shareholders
had to be content with a 4 p.c. payment
for that year following a drop from
£16,382 to £9,414 in profit. Now its
4 p.c. interim puts the company on an
8 p.c. annual rate.
The better performance in the latest
half year derives from a widening of
activities. The chairman said last De-
cember that steel fabricating then repre-
sented only about 50 p.c. of the com-
pany’s total activities. The shares are
still well below par at 4s. 2d. at which
they yield a good round 10 p.c.
Steel Mills’ Assets
Oteel Mills Ltd has been in the news
lately, following a persistent slide
in the price of the shares.
Possibly, with the ialk about the com-
pany’s rolling mill and its new steel mesh
activities, the quite profitable steel rein-
forcing side of the business has been
overlooked.
This relatively new division was set up
about two years ago to supply materials
to the building trades. It is an important
contributor to earnings.
Another factor is that the company’s
land area of 9 acres, purchased at around
£2,000 an acre some years ago, has
never been re-valued. It is currently esti-
mated to be worth about £lO,OOO an
acre.
The 60,000 square feet of buildings
are in the books at cost, which suggests
that the value of fixed assets must be at
least £lOO,OOO above book value.
( It was not so long ago the market was
talking about prospects of a bonus issue
from Steel Mills Ltd.
The current market setback may have
dampened that enthusiasm. But it is
apparent that any definite evidence of a
profit recovery later this year will revive
such prospects.


A o/
W/o
PER
ANNUM
INCORPORATED
A
1926
Dl RECT
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION
LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DOUGLASS (CHAIRMAN)
F. E. JONES W. J. FARRAM
An issue at par (£100) of £500,000 Registered First
Mortgage Debenture Stock and Registered Unsecured
Notes.
TRUSTEES for the Debenture Stockholders and Unsecured
Noteholders: Perpetual Custodians Pty. Limited, 33-39 Hunter St. f
Sydney. P.T. Pty. Limited, 33-39 Hunter St., Sydney.
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8% -5-10 years
7%% —4 years
7!/2% 3 years
7% —2 years
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
8% —4 years
7%% —3 years
7 1 /2% 2 years
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORM
Applications can be accepted only on the form of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
which may be obtained from:
1. Direct Acceptance Corporation Limited,
Interocean House, 261 George St., Sydney.
’Phone 27-8611.
2. Bank of New South Wales.
Any branch in N.S.W., Vic., Qld., A.C.T.
until 31st May, 1963.
3. Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
< or the UNDERWRITING BROKERS—
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley House, 33 Biigh St., Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne
340 Queen St., Brisbane
19701
Bonus issue in sight?
rpHE dividend yield of a mere 2J p.c. on
■*- the ss. shares of highly regarded
Adelaide department store retailer John
Martin looks indicative of a bonus issue
for shareholders in the not too distant
future.
Net assets and reserves backing for
the shares are very strong. Even judged
on earnings backing the present price
of around 18s. 6d. a share a high
premium looks justified.
Last year earnings covered the 81
p.c. dividend 2.6 times. The current
earnings yield is around 6} p.c.
Effect of Brewery Bonus
TI/lelbourne Co-operative Brewery
with 975,000 and Carlton Brewery
Ltd with 851,250 ordinary shares in
Carlton United Breweries will get the
lion’s share of the benefit from the pro-
posed one-for-two bonus issue for
CUB’s ordinary shareholders. Next in
line would be Melbourne & General In-
vestment Trust with 215,062 shares.
Last year’s earnings look conservative
because CUB reported higher sales in
the last December half year, despite the
union ban on overtime before Christmas.
Relating this to the current price of
CUB's “Z” Shares, it is calculated that
the theoretical price of Melbourne Co-
operative shares would be 325. as against
the market price of 295. 6d. The theo-
retical price for Carlton Brewery Ltd.
would be 41s. 3d. compared with the
market price of 365. 6d.
Activity in Tin
/''lose on the heels of its prospectus
for the Ardlethan Tin float comes
further evidence of the high activity,
emanating from 100 Collins Street, in
tin exploration which this stable is car-
rying on in four States.
Most of this is under the aegis of the
Aberfoyle Tin Development Partnership
formed last year and including Aber-
foyle Tin, NAUC, Metals Exploration,
South Alligator Uranium, Paringa Min-
ing and Exploration and Western Ti-
tanium.
According to the latest reports the
partnership has been exploring and test-
ing in four fieldk in Tasmania, two in
NSW and one in WA. Work at the
Greenbushes tin and tantalite field in
WA is clearly the most advanced.
The wire has it that Greenbushes will
be floated as a separate mine later on
this year.
Some 930 holes involving 28,000 ft.
of boring have been tested at Green-
bushes and 60 bore sites have been
checked in the selected dredging area,
which comprises a fifth of the total area
selected for dredging.
Reserves of proved or possible ore
amount to 36.7 million cubic yards with
values of 0.62 lb ton oxide (70 p.c. tin)
concentrates and 0.063 lb tantalum
oxide. This gives a combined recover-
able value of ss. 5.4 d. a cubic yard at
current Australian metal prices.
About 26 million yards of total ore
is dredgable from ground averaging
around 15 ft deep and the rest is con-
sidered easily minable by a variety of
open cast methods.


m
ir
ws *
'■ •• ■ ?>%■
What!... you mean
banks
CARE
about me?
Yes, they do. There are thousands of bank branches throughout
Australia and all of them keenly competing for new customers —
and this includes you. It is this real competition that ensures the
best in banking at the lowest cost and guarantees your freedom
to choose the bank that serves you best.
EVERY
: AUSTRALIAN,
benefits
from competition
between banks
the ADELAIDE • the E.S. & A. * the A.N.Z. • the NATIONAL • the WALES • the C.B.C. • and the C.B.A.
HI 19
Shipowners becalmed
Oevelation that the oft-rumored
merger of Mcllwraith McEacharn
and Adelaide Steamship was being dis-
cussed at board levels left the shares of
both becalmed.
After evasive action -from H. C.
Sleigh’s onslaught in 1959, Adelaide
Steam has been heavily capitalised, and
a note issue which converts to ordinary
shares in mid-1965 will not help any.
Directors were not able to keep faith
with shareholders by maintaining divid-
end on the bonus-inflated capital, even
by digging into the darkest recesses.
Market valuation of the whole Ade-
laide Steam organisation is about three
times that of Mcllwraith’s.
There are obvious advantages in com-
bining forces, for the pressure is on per-
manently from alternative means of
transport, and the two companies have
common interests in Bulkships.
The chairman of Mcllwraith, Sir lan
Potter, has no doubt master-minded a
deal, rather than the conservative Ade-
laideians. He was closely associated with
Bitumen and Oil’s acquisition of the
Huddart Parker business in 1961, and
the subsequent sale of the shipping fleet
to Mcllwraith which resulted in Boral
becoming the biggest shareholder in Mc-
llwraith.
An interesting sidelight is: What will
the convertible note holders in Adelaide
Steam get from a merger? No provision
was made for this contingency according
to the notice of the note issue which was
circularised to shareholders in 1959.
(The notes are traded only on the
unofficial list in Adelaide.)
Old Aquaintance
Sir Walter Bassett, chairman of Mt
Lyell Investments, told the annual
meeting in Melbourne last week that the
company had been taking advantage of
low stock exchange prices to build up
its portfolio since December, but
wouldn’t reveal what it had bought. He
said the company had only a small in-
terest in the Tasmanian mine, but he
hoped it might be increased “if only
for old times’ sake.”
Sweeter Sound of Music
T>usiness in the music shops has been
•*-* sounding a lot sweeter in the last
year or so with the strong revival in
record and instrument sales following
some souring during the recession.
After dropping from 41,244 to 24,448
in 1961-62, production of phonographs
staged a big recovery in the six months
to last December when it practically re-
gained its 1960-61 record rate with a
half year total of 23,100.
Local production of records had its
worst year for a long time in 1960-61,


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
Registered 19 th December, 1929
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
PER ANNUM FOR
6 YEARS.
5% PER ANNUM FOR
12 MONTHS
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED
UNSECURED NOTES
PER ANNUM FOR
k. 6 YEARS. A
U% PER ANNUM FOR
12 MONTHS
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms
available. Your copy available from all Members
of Stock Exchanges, over 750 branches of the A.N.Z
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches. Applications
will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane. 8300 N
but improved to 7,195,000 last year and
in the six months to December last in-
creased to an annual rate of 8,200,000.
This is little below the 1958 record and
it might well be surpassed before June.
With production of radios, TV sets
and similar sound contrivances also
mounting during the last six months, the
outlook for both producers and retailers
looks promising.
Mauri Bros neglected
A stock which has been spurned since
August last year is Mauri Bros and
Thomson ss. shares, now drifting around
18s. to return a still ungenerous 2.8 p.c.
The company, which supplies bakers,
bottlers, confectioners and brewers’ re-
quisites, published its first consolidated
accounts last year. It was expected that
this 42-year-old merchant would reveal a
large array of previously hidden assets.
The immediate market reaction gene-
rally was one of disappointment that the
coffers were not so well lined with goodies
as expected. The shares fell promptly
from 235. 3d. to 21s.
Disclosed earnings were 16.5 p.c. on
capital, as against a dividend of 10 p.c.
Gentle dividend increments are the rule
from this company in between capital
issues every four years or so.
Interim report issued late in February
disclosed a steady 5 p.c. pay-out and
maintenance of turnover. In the usual
reserved language of this company, “earn-
ing capacity was not affected by any un-
usual factors.”
Traditionally short on public relations,
the company has not given sufficient
reason for shareholders to sell out now.
Indeed, current market prices should
justify a buyer's faith within a year.
Behind the clock
"CVoated late in 1961 Mellody’s Hold-
ings, Victoria potter and clay
products concern, has belied its early
performance as a listed company by
having to climb down from the 9 p.c.
dividend rate established last year by
cutting its interim from 4i to 3i p.c.
This arises not so much from any
deterioration in but rather
from delays in getting its new £300,000
continuous tunnel kiln pipe - making
plant in production and alterations in
factory layout necessary for its co-
ordination with existing plant. These
have put it about six months behind the
clock.
Last year the 9 p.c. dividend was com-
fortably covered by earnings of 14.1 p.c.
and there seems no reason why this rate
shouldn’t be repeated or bettered once
the new facilities are in full stride next
year. The market has a good opinion of
the ss. shares, now around twice par.


£1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
[Per Annum 6-10 Years]
Convenient periods are as follows:
3 months 6 months 9 months 12 mpnths
4% 41% 4i% 5i%
Applications must proceed only on the form enclosed
in the Prospectus which may be obtained from
* THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
* Any recognised Stockbroker.
* General Credits Limited. * The Underwriters.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited owns 41% of
the Ordinary Shares of General Credits Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulburn Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
21 East Row, Civic Centre, Canberra. Phone: 4 4360-9.
Cnr. Dennison & Hunter Sts., Newcastle. Phone: 61 4288.
and at: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
1273/N


On time ...
every time
-
m
£
j
Q
*j
V •
mm
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia’s most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
INCORPORATING ANT ILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY - MELBOURNe*BRISBANE*PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
(jr
iz§l^Sa3^ji>
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
Glass giants may clash
k n American glass giant is believed
to have been surveying the Austra-
lian scene.
With a near monopoly—which it
jealously guards—in Australian glass-
making, Australian Consolidated Indus-
tries Ltd would strongly resent an in-
truder.
ACI tried recently, albeit unsuccess-
fully, to wrap up the New Zealand
market by binding the NZ Government
to guarantee the company a monopoly
for ten years and grant an immediate
rise of £lO a ton in the price of sheet
glass, if it rescued McKendrick Glass
Manufacturing Co. Ltd of NZ from its
technical difficulties.
On another tack, if Sydney glass
merchants have been obliged to cut their
prices four times in eight weeks, one
imagines the maker, ACI, must be push-
ing to register sales.
The slowness in the building industry
could be reflected in several ACI divi-
sions—fibreglass, plastics, wall tiles and
sheet glass.
A steady 3i p.c. interim dividend was
declared in January, in respect of the
December six months.
Engineers’ interims
Thvo engineers, Vidor Ltd, small. New-
A castle company, and Evans - Deakin
Industries Ltd, of Brisbane and Port
Kembla, reported lower profits but
steady interim dividends for the Decem-
ber six months.
Evans Deakin reported that good pro-
gress in reorganising the NSW subsid-
iaries (Thirlwell and McKenzie and W.
A. Hodkinson) was being made, but no
profits could be expected this financial
year.
The directors’ statement that orders
for general engineering were the highest
they had been for a considerable time,
was the most encouraging feature of
the report.
ONE TO BUY
BHP FOR BASIC GROWTH
Bulletin claims no prize for
originality in choosing Broken Hill
Proprietary Co Ltd as this week’s “One
to Buy.” In fact, we selected it for recom-
mendation on July 7 last year, when the
shares were 58s. At the present price
of around 525., we endorse that nom-
ination with even more conviction. We
believe they have made permanent re-
covery from the trough of 495., and are
now on the way up the market ladder.
Last year’s dividend of 6i p.c. (Is.
3d. a share) must mark the low-point
in BHP annals, as the latest interim has
been lifted to 3i p.c. so this year’s total
pay-out should be at least Is. 4d.
The company’s last call for capital
was made through the loan market,
which soured investors’ opinion of the
shares as an investment (particularly the
foreign shareholders). To be fair, the di-
rectors had laid down their financial
policy several years ago, when they told
shareholders that the company’s huge
capital requirements would be satisfied
from internal funds, equity capital and
from borrowings.
The £l2 million Australian debenture
issue of April 1962 was oversubscribed
by £9.5 million, and the London issue
brought in £9.3 million two months
later.
Capital expenditure has been running
at slightly less than the rate of £5l
million per annum prevailing in 1962,
thanks to quite substantial economies
in construction work and the purchase
of equipment. But even so, the loan
money raised last year would have been
expended in a little over seven months.
What now, Mr Chairman? Will it be
more loan money, or an issue to soothe
shareholders’ ruffled feelings?
Although the last four cash issues have
been at par, interspersed with bonuses
to reduce the dividend on new capital,
a return to premium issues (as made in
1954, 1951 and 1949) is the only reason-
able alternative to more loan financing.
In earlier issues, the premium was
10s. per 20s. share. Assuming main-
tenance of the current dividend rate of
61 p.c., a 10s. premium issue of shares
would cost more to service than a 7 p.c.
debenture issue, because debenture in-
terest is deductible for tax purposes.
The share issue would have to be at
about 15s. premium for the new capital
to be serviced cheaper than a 7 p.c.
debenture issue. This is one reason why
the directors would like to see the shares
at a higher price in the market. It
would help to justify a reasonably stiff
premium on a new share issue.
The half-yearly report to November
30 announced that domestic demand for
the company’s products was currently
buoyant, in contrast to excess steel-
making capacity overseas. While Aus-
tralian exports of steel have dropped
from an annual rate of about £.40
million to £24 million, BHP exports
are always small in relation to domestic
consumption, so this is not considered
of great moment.
A drop in the annual rate of £7O
million for steel imports at the height
of the boom to about £lB million now,
is bringing some stability to local steel
stocks also.
At no time during the recent reces-
sion has BHP hesitated in its formidable
expansion programme. The labor short-
age, which previously fettered its ex-
pansion, has now virtually disappeared.
The set-back in profit experienced
last year (to May 31, 1962) was the first
in 13 years. Directors now report that
results for the first six months of the
current year are substantially improved.
It is The Bulletin's view that di-
rectors should make an addition to the
current dividend rate and offer share-
holders the right to participate in a new
capital issue within the year.


ARE FIBRE CONTAINERS SHARES
APPROPRIATELY PRICED?
BY “SECURITY”
sphere may be stocks which have shown
-*• better growth records over the last
seven years, but there are few, surely, that
seem to have continued through the reces-
sion of the last two years almost without
interruption as is the case with Fibre
Containers Ltd. Only in the last year
has there been any hesitation in the
growth of adjusted per share earnings
and this could have been expected after
the first share exchange takeover in the
company’s history.
Fibre Containers is also an example of
the theory that high and increasing earn-
ings must bring their eventual reward.
The following table shows the trends in
earnings and dividends adjusted for cash
and bonus issues and expressed as a
percentage of present capital:—
Yeor to —
June 30 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Dividends 7.2 7.2 7.2 8.7 8.7 3.7 12.5
Earnings 11.0 12.8 15.5 20.1 21.5 22.6 20.3
Times div.
covered 1.53 1.78 2.16 2.29 2.45 2.57 1.62
From these figures, it can be seen
that, although dividends increased in
1958/59 as a result of the bonus content
in the new issue on a 35-for-100 basis
made in that year, the dividend cover
actually increased. Considering that in the
same year ordinary shares were issued to
redeem the preference capital in addition
to the new issue, it can be safely assumed
the growth was proceeding at a rapid
rate.
It is also fairly clear that this growth
has continued uninterrupted at least
until 1960/61, but now that the Johnell
company has been incorporated in the
group it becomes difficult to say whether
the old Fibre Containers has continued
its growth into 1961/62.
Any attempt to assess this must be
complete guesswork, because the only
figures available for Johnell are those
applicable to the period when it was
Kia-Ora Industries Ltd, and they include
the results of the food division which
was sold to Campbells Soups in Decem-
ber, 1959.
Fibre Containers had been formed in
1947 to manufacture solid fibre and cor-
rugated containers. Conversion to a
public company and listing of the shares
on the Stock Exchange occurred in 1955.
Today, eight years later, the company is
one of the most highly regarded stocks
among the listed container companies.
Although the distributing arrangements
seem to have broken down since the days
when members of the Fibre Distributors
Association held the “B” shares in the
company, supply arrangements apparent-
ly present no problem. Apart from other
factors, Fibre Containers’ factory at
Matraville enjoys the close geographical
proximity to APM’s mill.
Probably the most dramatic occurrence
during Fibre Containers’ history as a
public company was during the closing
months of 1961. At this stage, the
company’s earnings had been increas-
ing at the remarkable rate of 17 p.c.
per annum without any benefits of
gearing.
Interest also was centred on the then
recently listed Reed Paper Products. A
little earlier, Fibre Containers made a
successful bid (at second attempt) for
Johnell, and there can be little doubt that
this combination must have looked a
formidable group to overseas interests
who, it was alleged, were anxious to ex-
pand in Australia.
Early in December, 1961, Bowaters
made a bid for Fibre Containers which
the directors had accepted and recom-
mended to shareholders. This offer was
worth about 16s. sd. a share (as they
stand today after the one-for-one bonus
made subsequently).
This bid was followed by an offer from
Reed Paper Products which was worth
about 17s. lid. on their market values.
Although the sequence of events is
now a little difficult to work out, it
appears that Bowaters withdrew, Fibre
Containers’ board rejected Reed’s offer
and a one-for-one bonus was announced.
As it appears today neither offer,
Bowaters nor Reeds, would have been
as favourable as continuing to hold
Fibre’s shares. Reed Paper Products’
shares have fallen by over 20 p.c. and
Bowaters by just on 13 p.c. while Fibre’s
shares have increased by 31 p.c.
No doubt at the time Fibre Containers’
board could see some considerable bene-
fits arising from the Bowaters offer and
this does, perhaps, point out the diffi-
culties which must face any board of
directors considering an offer from an
overseas company.
It could be that the subsequent bonus
issue to shareholders, which had the
direct effect of lifting their dividend in-
come by nearly 43 p.c., as well as the
indirect effect of raising the market value
of their holdings by the 31 p.c. mentioned
earlier, would not have occurred if the
bids had not been made.
It may be noted that in the years since
listing up to 1961, dividend income was
increased only by the bonus content of
the 35-for-100 issue, i.e., by about 22 p.c.
On the other hand, the remarkable growth
in earnings would surely have brought
about a bonus issue sooner or later.
The question remains whether Fibre
Containers’ shares are appropriately
priced at around 19s. 3d. bearing in mind
that less than 18 months ago a bid,
equivalent to 16s. 5d. was apparently
considered adequate for them. At 19s. 3d.
the shares show a 3.2 p.c. dividend yield,
taking the current 121 p.c dividend as
the basis.
The company could raise the rate
back to 17i p.c., and the dividend would
still be covered nearly 1.3 times, but
even at this dividend rate the yield
would be only just over 4.5 p.c. At
such prices the market is clearly anti-
cipating growth over the next ten years
at the same rate as the last ten years,
and this could be difficult to achieve.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT STATEMENTS
(£,000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 349 451 592 643 1077
Current liabilities 296 311 390 401 543
Working capital 53 140 202 242 534
Fixed assets 491 529 625 698 1200
Investments 30 11 6 1 —
Total capital 574 680 833 941 1734
Represented by:
Minority interest — — 45 52 56
Preference capital 75 — — — —
Ordinary capital 280 378 378 378 1041
Reserves 219 302 410 511 583
Net operating income 241 335 354 405 595
Earnings 106 151 162 170 232
Dividends 49 66 66 66 143
Surplus 57 85 96 104 89
Dividend yield (a) 6.1 3.6 3.5 2.9 3.5
Earnings yield (a) 13.3 8.1 8.5 7.6 6.2
(a) based on last sale in Month Accounts presented.
HARDWARE TRADE TOUGH
Tf A. J. Benjamin’s found many build-
ers bad payers in the last year or
two, what about Swan’s Ltd?
Swan’s may have been even more vul-
nerable, as it caters more exclusively
for the building trade from stores in the
city of Sydney, Hurstville, Parramatta,
Chatswood and Wollongong.
Since 1960 the company has succes-
sively planed the dividend from 12i p.c.
to 10 p.c. and then 9 p.c., with a steady
interim for the half-year to November
30 of 4 p.c.
The 20s. shares have not varied much
since the New Year (top price was 30s.
3d. against the latest sale of 29s.), but
they could weaken.
Meanwhile, Sydney hardware mer-
chant Epstein and Co. Ltd may also be
feeling the pinch.
It has stores at Double Bay, Gordon,
Marrickville, Caringbah and Gladesville.
Last year’s earnings performance
would hardly support an ordinary share
issue, and ordinary capital will be in-
creased anyway to £145,000 by the con-
version of £30,000 of notes in Sep-
tember.
It is surprising that the 5s. shares
still command a 75 p.c. premium.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. ML Minnett, M A. Gle son-White,
lan McFarlane, G. X Kryger
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V. Betts
NON-MEMBER PARTNERS
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
BRANCHES AT: _ . ,
150 Queen St., Melbourne • 359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams: ‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
LAMSON INDUSTRIES AUSTRALIA LTD
FINE RECORD OF PROFITS
T amson Industries Australia Ltd
was formed in 1962, but it had
its beginnings in this country 66 years
earlier, when Lamson Paragon Supply
Co. of Australasia Ltd obtained the right
to use certain patents of the Lamson
Paragon Supply Co. of England.
The original company operated from
Melbourne headquarters as a manufac-
turer of business stationery.
The new company name marked the
embrace of engineering and control
systems business formerly conducted in
Australia by subsidiaries of the English
company.
The 1962 accounts, therefore, present
a snapshot picture of a very different
company landscape from that sighted
on October 31, 1961.
The profit picture is difficult to analyse
because the latest accounts to December
31 reflect 14 months' trading for the
old Lamson Paragon Industries business,
6 months’ trading for Lamson Engineer-
ing Australia Pty, and 12 months’ trad-
ing for Control Systems (A’asia) Pty.
In the case of sub-subsidiaries, it re-
flects 14 months’ trailing except for
Lamson Paragon (WA) Ltd (15 months)
and Lamson Engineering Co. (NZ) Ltd
(12 months).
The group net profit was declared as
£303,079 (“highly satisfactory” in
directors’ terms), after tax of £225,521
and depreciation of £119,401.
On a pro-rata basis the 14 months’
profit of Lamson Paragon Industries
showed a satisfactory increase; Lamson
Engineering’s six months' profit was in
accordance with budget, and Control
Systems' 12 months' profit showed a
substantial increase, the chairman (Mr
H. F. Walsh) reported.
The two new sections of the business
earned higher profits than when under
English control, but whether the total
return on the new capital structure is an
improvement on the 1961 earning rate
of 13.1 p.c., it is impossible to ascertain
at this juncture.
The board sounded confident on the
immediate future prospects of each
aspect of the group’s business.
Control Systems incorporates the sole
Australasian selling agency for Bell
Punch Co. of London. Products include
ticket issuing machines for theatres, rail-
ways and transport services, taximeters
and adding and calculating machines,
typewriters and other office equipment
A totalisator division has negotiated
long-term agreements with the principal
country racing clubs of Victoria. Im-
proved totalisator equipment has been
designed in Australia and is now in the
course of manufacture to capture in-
creased business.
The engineering section markets air
tube systems, conveyors, internal tele-
phone systems, automatic pallet loaders,
ventilation and dust extraction plant and
industrial vacuum cleaners.
Returning to the accounts, directors
had to attribute certain profits to the pre-
acquisition period, so £ 198,106 of profit
was capitalised.
A 3 p.c. interim dividend had been
paid by Lamson Paragon Industries
in June, 1962, in respect of the half-
year to April 30. Directors then recom-
mended a final dividend of 6 p.c. for
the group as newly constituted. The
total dividend accounted for £205,027
of profits, leaving a carry-forward of
£3,818.
Lamson Paragon Industries had a fine
record of continuous profits and divid-
ends back to 1929, with the exception
of 1930 when no dividend was paid,
although trading was profitable.
In the post-war period three
bonuses and four premium issues have
been made. The last call on shareholders
was in 1959 —a note issue which con-
verted to shares coincidentally with the
English merger.
Holders of the 10s shares and 10s.
notes in Lamson Paragon Industries Ltd
received two 10s. in the new holding
company plus 20s. cash for every three
held.
The cash consideration was provided
by Lamson Industries Ltd. of London
subscribing in cash for 1,247,870 10s.
ordinary shares at 20s. each. Together
with the 1,629,760 fully paid shares issu-
ed in exchange for their English subsid-
iaries, this gave the English company
approximately 54 p.c of issued capital.
A 9 p.c. dividend could be looked for
in 1963 out of higher profits representing
a modest return on paid capital. The
10s. shares, traded in Melbourne and
Sydney around 20s. 9d., yield 4.3 p.c. on
that expectation.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'000
Lamson
Industries
Lamson Paragon Industries Ltd Ltd.
(October 31) (December 31)
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current
assets 1394 1351 1476 1669 2620
less current
liabilities 773 462 641 818 1011
Working
capital 621 889 835 851 1609
Fixed assets 1194 1337 1454 1561 2036
Intangibles 730 736 726 731 105
2545 2962 3015 3143 3750
Loan
capital 250 599 563 557 119
Outside
interests "192 203 209 219 317
Ordinary
capital 1419 1419 1419 1439 2686
Reserves 648 741 824 928 <528
2545 2962 3015 3143 3750
Depreciation 55 58 68 79 119
Taxation 88 108 134 128 226
Net Profit 147 172 222 189 303
Dividend 99 114 128 130 205
Surplus 48 58 94 59 98
Earning
rate" p.c. 10.4 12.1 15.6 13.1 *
Dividend
rate p.c. 7 8 9 9 9(a)
Dividend
yield (b) 5.0 4.6 5.0 4.3
Price/earnings
ratio (b) 13.9 14 5 11.5 14.5
High Price (c) 15/1 19/7 20/- 13/6 24/6
Low price (c) 11/8 13/5 15/6 15/9 19/6
* Not aonropriate.
(a) Including 3 p.c. paid by Lamson Paragon
Industries Ltd.
(b) End of March.
(c) Calendar year.
NALLY LTD
ACUTE LIQUIDITY PROBLEM
Nally Ltd, Sydney based plastics
moulder, has an unbroken dividend
record since listing in 1947. For the past
nine years it has paid 10 p.c. However,
both in 1960-61 and again in 1961-62
the profit gave only a small cover to
the payment and the same will probably
apply in the current year.
The company’s history goes back to
1930 when it was formed to take over
an engineering business at Glebe which
also manufactured phenol-resin. Later,
the factory moved to St Peters where
it still operates.
Since flotation, the company has been
generous to shareholders in the form of


For my money
*■“ §t s u • • •
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN 31% INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
9884/1/62
share issues. From a paid-up capital of
£30,000 in 1947, this has increased more
than ten times to the June 30, 1962,
figure of £309,142.
Issues, all at par, have included one-
for-two in 1947, three-for-five in 1950,
one-for-six in 1953, one-for-four and
one-for-two in 1954, and one-for-four in
1958. In addition there have been two
issues of convertible notes, one in 1956
and one in 1960.
Late in 1960, directors forecast an-
other share issue, but this was deferred
when liquidity improved. However,
directors must by now again be con-
sidering another share issue.
The accounts at June 30 last showed
the company to be experiencing an
acute liquidity problem.
Current liabilities of £374,955 ex-
ceeded current assets of £355,396 by
£19,559. In the previous year current
assets of £277,645 managed to exceed
liabilities of £272,883.
The 1962 figures showed stock up
from £165,420 to £195,523 and debtors
up from £102,440 to £149,634 indicat-
ing more business. But much of the
increase was financed by trade creditors
up from £118,743 to £181,143
and by greater use of bank funds—up
from £88,954 to £128,513.
However, mortgages were reduced by
£7375 to £38,094 and hire-purchase
liabilities on the plant installed in late
1960 were reduced from £53,122 to
£15,372.
Freehold at £182,834 showed little
movement, but, with the land at 1954
valuation plus additions at cost, is prob-
ably considerably undervalued.
Capital during the year was increased
from £261,430 to £309,142 by conver-
sion of the 10 p.c. notes on November
30, 1961. The 8 p.c. notes convert to
ordinary shares on November 15, 1965.
Coupled with the growth in capital,
earning rate has shown a steady decline
in the past two years, although the
profit showed a small rise last year.
From a peak of £44,865 in 1960,
equal to 18.1 p.c. on capital, profit the
following year fell to £33,105, equal to
12.7 p.c. Despite a small recovery to
£35,065 the following year, earning rate
eased further to 12.1 p.c.
The company’s reserves of £84,734
include capital reserves of £22,857. Net
tangible assets backing of each ss. share
6s. 4d.
Current outlook for the company is
only fair. Sales for the first half of the
current year were higher than in the
preceding corresponding period, but
competition reduced margins with a
consequent paring of profit. This in-
dicates that unless results in the current
half year show a distinct improvement,
cover for a 10 p.c. dividend may be
only very slight. An interim dividend
has already been declared. However, in
1957 profit failed to cover dividend and
three years later the company had set a
new record for profit.
At 7s. the shares give a 7.2 p.c. divi-
dend yield and an 8.7 p.c. earnings
yield. Until the full year’s results are
known they appear fully priced.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY — £'000
June 30 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 368 278 355
Less current liabilities 330 273 374
Working capital 38 5 Dr 19
Fixed assets 381 563 542
419 568 523
Represented by
Capital 247 261 309
Reserves 64 78 85
Loan funds 108 229 129
419 568 523
Depreciation 33 36 55
Taxation 26 11 19
N'et profit 45 33 35
Dividends 25 25 29
Surplus 20 8 6
Earning rate 18.1 12.7 12.1
Dividend rate 10 10 10
Dividend yfeld (a) 5.4 8.1 7.3
High price (b) 13/6 10/- 7/3
Low price (b) 8/- 5/9 5/11
(a) End of Oct., month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
WARBURTON FRANKI LTD
STIMULUS FROM ELECTRONICS
HPhe recent interim report of electrical
engineer Warburton Franki Ltd,
covering the December half-year, more
than confirmed the return to normal
profit levels evidenced in 1961-62.
Directors were able to disclose a net
profit, after tax, at <£59,054.
That furnishes every sign of con-
tinued acceleration from the previous
full year’s £74,967, itself a thoroughly
effective recovery from 1960-6 l’s dis-
astrous slump to £9,855.
Happiest situation of all, the latest
interim dividend of 5 p.c. restores the
10 p.c. rate ruling between 1957 and
1961. The company had budgeted for
improvement during the current financial
year and appears to be getting reason-
ably close to its targets.
In such an old firm, too, it is pleasing
to notice directors’ sustained enterprise
in seeking new selling lines and product
developments. Only two years ago, for
instance, the acquisition of Instruments
Ltd brought along a group of American
agencies embracing electronics equip-
ment and electronics testing devices
a move well in line with present electrical
engineering trends.
The chairman (Mr W. McPherson)
mentioned in his last annual address
that an active “Product Development
Committee” exists to keep the company
up to date.
Warburton Franki was founded in
1903 as a private company, being taken
over by the present company in 1910
by issue of 250 preference shares and
16,000 ordinary shares. Authorised
capital was 20,000 preference shares and
30,000 ordinary shares, all of £ 1 each.
By 1921 when shares were listed issued
capital was 20,000 7 p.c. preference
shares and 16,000 ordinary shares. Since
that date several alterations to authorised
and issued capital have been made, but
shareholders have been the main bene-
ficiaries through bonus issues (l-for-4 in
1927, l-for-5 in 1954) and some 10
rights issues.
Outside issues have been 139,837
ordinary shares for Warburton Franki


(Melbourne) Ltd, 61,334 for Warburton
Franki (Brisbane) Ltd and 77,903 to
acquire Ellis and Clark Holdings Ltd.
The company has concentrated on
refrigeration and electrical fields in which
classes it must be considered one of
the leaders in the local sphere of
operations.
From 1947 to 1960 (inclusive) the
company paid ordinary dividends of
between 10 p.c. and 17i p.c., but 1961
with its financial restrictions and lifting
of import restrictions saw a fall in
dividend to 2i p.c., and even this was
not covered by earned profit. Share
prices fell to a low of 15s.
In 1962 turnover was again lower
but by “close attention to costs” profits
recovered. The phrase in inverted
commas is quoted from the annual
report.
The 1962 figures reveal the strength
of the company’s reserves, but the profit
index, which much recovered, is still
below the 1959 figure. However, 1963
should see a full recovery.
All subsidiaries are trading profitably,
as they did last year. With the better
atmosphere all round, the company could
take special benefit from Queensland,
where last year in particular turnover
dropped more than elsewhere in the
group.
After the interim report share prices
did not take long to start shifting. They
are now around 24s., equalling the 1962
top price. At this price, dividend yield
is 8.3 p.c. and earnings yield 9 p.c.
Since the company has re-established
its old solidity, the return looks attrac-
tive. Prices could even edge somewhat
higher under the impetus of general
economic improvement.
WARBURTON FRANKI LTD
Analysis Summary (£'000)
1959 1960 1961 1962
Preference capital £ 20 20 20 20
Ordinary capital £ 601 601 679 679
Reserves £ 859 860 825 849
Shareholders' funds £1480 1481 1524 1548
Index 100 100 102.9 104.3
Total investments £1961 2277 2344 . 2156
Index 100 116.1 119.5 110.
Working capital £ 714 839 854 942
Index 100 117.5 119.6 131.9
Investments £ 6 *5 5 5
Land and buildings £ 564 649 697 693
Plant £ 195 246' 276 230
Depreciation £ 34 45*"' 70 61
Tax provision £ 57 37 18 33
Net profit £ 83 76 15 75
Index 100 91.6 18.8 90.5
Preference dividend p.c. 10 10 7 7\
£ 2 2 1 1
Ordinary dividend p.c. 10 10 2 \ 7\
£ 50 64 17 51
Undistributed profit p.c. 37 3 13.15 nil 30.6
Percentage profit to :
Av ord capital 16.27 1151 1.96 10.95
Shareholders' funds 5 6 5 13 .99 4.85
Total investments 4 23 3.34 .64 3.48
NT A 5.68 5.2 1. 4.94
leverage
NTA per 20s.
share (ord.) 48s.7d. 48s.7d. 44s.4d. 45s.Od.
Assets backing
Conv. notes (£100) £ — 205 01 208.3 232.2
Share prices:
High 32s.6d 39s.Od. 23s 6d. 24s.Od.
low 25s.6d. 29s.Od. 15s.Od. 18s.3d.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
"Dack to my favorite subject the
** dismal tone of the stockmarket.
Two logical reasons from different
sources were propounded last week for
“the share recovery” that has just not
come.
I went along first to a symposium
conducted by the Economic Society of
Australia and New Zealand, not quite
knowing what a symposium was. This,
I subsequently learned, strung along a
number of different and contrasting
views about those memorable company
collapses in 1962. The argument was
presented by an accountant, then by a
lawyer, and finally by a stockbroker. Is
this a sign of the times when a stock-
broker takes the end of the line?
Perhaps the most interesting fact to
emerge was that seven companies in
the last two years had built up a
mammoth total loss of £l6 million and
that 1963 will see a substantial addition.
The worst offender will be Reid Murray,
a name which was apparently taboo at
the meeting.
A few days later, to a gathering of
businessmen at North Sydney, Mr
Philip Shrapnel pounded home the
background of the sound recovery in
the economy. (You may remember that
he is one of the foundation members
of the Mcßeschs Club.) His only note
of disappointment seemed to be that
recovery looked like being a little
delayed by the consistently pessimistic
headlines of “The Financial Review.” Of
the last 11 issues, nine of the headlines
have been downright depressing.
Perhaps this prelude of opinions is a
mere letting off steam following the
weekly contortions of my portfolio
The first disappointment turned out to
be Plastyne. My choice of a recovery
industry was right. One example in the
industry, Moulded Products, behaved
properly. Alas, not Plastyne! I sold out
at my purchase price of Is. 3d. but,
owing to that perpetual brokerage, lost
£9.
No Rocks Project for Hooker con-
stituted the next development (or should
I say non-development?) Everyone, in-
cluding the other tenderers, sounded
happy that James Wallace finally won the
guernsey.
Yet Hooker still looks an interesting
proposition. Its real estate division
should be quietly stowing away profits
from sales of written-down property. On
the rural side, it should also be doing
very well. Despite this favorable back-
ground, the options have come back to
my purchase price. As a gesture of
supreme confidence, I bought another
1000.
G. E. Crane is another static share
without anything on the immediate
horizon. It possesses that right com-
bination for a long-term growth—a well
established company with a sensible
capital in an expanding industry. The
market price looks dead, however. So I
chalked up a further loss of £9 for the
week.
In an effort to offset these losses, I
put in a selling order for Bennett
and Wood at 16s. 6d. limit. Some kind
soul took 400. thus giving me a profit of
£32. I decided to hold the balance.
I have resolved that Courtaulds on its
performance deserves an option partner.
General Industries looks worthy for this
role. It may be argued that the loss of
£500,000 in 1962 should discredit this
company for ever. We’ll see.
Another company, Lowes, staged its
recovery two years ago and has not
looked back since. Some 65 years old,
it now devotes its whole energy to the
retailing of men’s and boys’ clothing
through some 8 stores. Earning rate has
risen from 2.4 p.c. in 1960 to 10.9 p.c.
in 1961 and then up to 14.7 p.c. in 1962.
Results due next month should show a
further similar rise. At 9s. the stock
looked cheap, so in I strode with an
order for 1000.
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
400 Bennett & Wood, 16/6 £323
100 G. E. Crane, 78/- £385
1000 Plastyne ctg., 1/3 £62
BOUGHT
2000 General Industries
opts., lid. £92
1000 Lowes, 9/- £464
1000 L. J. Hooker opts., 1/- .... £55
The credit balance of £l6O in my
account looks very healthy. But it is
more than outweighed by those Carriers,
of which I am still short.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 10/2-
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/6
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 15/6
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 16/9
1000 Tasman 7/1/63 1/2 1/2
400 CRA 7/1/63 16A- 17/6
1000 'Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
300 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 42/6
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/3
3000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/- lid.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 \/~
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/3
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/6
600 A. V Jennings 28/2'63 9/10 10/-
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 53/3
500 Carrier (short) 8/3/63 9/3 8/10
50C Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 8/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 3/9
2000 Gen. Ind. options 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Lowes 21/3/63 9/- 9/3


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill, Sydney
Requires a
MASTER TO TEACH MATHEMATICS
to Third Year standard or beyond.
Duties begin on 28th May, 1963.
Ability to take part in extra-curricular
activities will be a recommendation.
Enquiries should be addressed to the
Acting Principal.
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication. The balance have been answered personally.
1 have £4OO to invest which is at pre-
sent in the savings bank earning a low
rate of interest. 1 already hold 300
Broken Hill South (cost 10s.) 100 E.Z.
Industries (14s. 6d.) and 200 Ampol
(11s. 6d.). Would it be advisable to add to
these holdings, or buy others? What do
you suggest for a reasonably high divi-
dend and future capital gains? H.M.,
Jerilderie (NSW).
We would not suggest adding to your
existing holdings at the present time.
If you feel like investing about £ll5
in an “outsider” you could buy rights,
selling at around 4d., to 400 Cambridge
Credit shares, which on payment of ss.
application on April 5 would return you
11.7 p.c. It would not be unreasonable to
expect these shares to move up to 6s. 6d.
if directors’ profit forecasts prove correct.
G. J. Coles at 13s. 9d. yields 4.0 p.c.
which, because of its standing as a re-
tailer, may appeal to you.
Felt & Textiles shares are now 9s. Id.
cum rights to a l-for-5 par issue as from
April 19. The cost will then average down
to Bs. sd. a share, to return 5.9 p.c. We
recommended this stock as One to Buy
in the issue of Feb. 9.
If you bought 400 Cambridge, 200 G.
J. Coles and 300 Felts, this would cost
you just on £4OO, bringing in £25 10s. as-
suming maintenance of current dividends,
or an overall return of 6.3 p.c. Each has
some prospect of capital gains in the
medium term.
★ ★ ★
1 hold 1026 BHP shares, 4500 Myers
and 300 Tooheys. Would you advise me
to split some of these into other com-
panies? M.P., Mullally (NSW).
Holding such a swag of BHP shares
must have disturbed you in the last year
or so when prices fell so consistently. This
would illustrate to you the virtues of
diversification but at the present level of
around 52/- we can only see that they are
excellent buying. Therefore, we could not
suggest you sell any.
The larger parcel of Myers shares
should not have caused you any loss of
sleep up to now. This company is emin-
ently sound, and the shares are not sub-
ject to much price fluctuation, so we
would be at odds to suggest a superior
investment.
Tooheys shares are considerably lower
than usual, since publication of the 1962
results, when profit did not cover divi-
dend. However, your holding in this com-
pany is relatively small, so you need not
worry unduly.
All in all, we recommend you main-
tain the present holdings. Any additional
funds available should be invested in
additional companies.
★ ★ ★
Is there a law concerning the produc-
tion of a balance sheet for shareholders?
—W.G., Clovelly (NSW).
The Companies Act requires that all
companies must produce a set of accounts
within 18 months of incorporation, and
thereafter at intervals of not more than
15 months. The accounts presented at
an annual meeting must be not more than
six months old.
★ ★ ★
1 am planning to put aside £5 weekly
to invest with a view to long-term re-
turns. What do you suggest l do when
1 have suitable sums accumulated?
D.A.F., Richmond (NSW).
If you are entirely new to investing,
perhaps unit trusts might be a good
beginning. An initial investment can be
made for as little as £2O in Scottie Units,
which are managed by E.S. & A. Managed
Investments (NSW) Ltd, a subsidiary of
the E.S. & A. Bank. These units can be
bought over the counter of any E.S. & A.
branch. Your immediate return will be
at least 6 p.c.
Once you have bought, say, £lOO of
these you may feel confident to step out
on your own, after you have accumulated
sufficient to buy a marketable parcel of
shares.
On the other hand you may feel in-
clined to form or join an investment club
which would collect a sum of £5 or so
each week or month from members, for
co-operative investment.
If you do not know of an existing one,
you could write to the Sydney Stock
Exchange which will refer you to a
broker that encourages their formation,
and will be able to give you relevant
literature.
the world of business
"As well as the regular family size, Mrs Coogan, we hare the large
economy and super kingsize portfolios!"


FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6i% .. 3 YEARS
7% .... 4 YEARS
7i% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
• All Branches of the Bank of New
South Wales in New South Wales,
Australian Capital Territory, Victoria,
Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W KING & YUILI
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland:
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers in Australian Capital Territory:
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
OIL SEARCH
MORE DRILLING TARGETS NEEDED
TTnfortunately the international oil
groups engaged in Australian oil
search never spring to attention when a
proponent of accelerated exploration here
accuses them of taking their time about
exploration. Mr R C. Sprigg, noted
oil geophysicist, did this at the meeting
of the Australian Petroleum Association
in Brisbane last week.
Nor, for that matter, is the Govern-
ment visibly shaken when someone like
Mr Sprigg points an accusing finger at
its oil search policies (notably the reduc-
tion from 50 to 30 o.c. in subsidies
allowable on individual wells last year)
or the lethargic payouts of subsidies.
However, Mr Sprigg’s criticisms both
of the internationals and the Government
should not be allowed to go unheeded
by either, because the unencouraging
picture he painted of the prospect for
an expansion of drilling activity in Aus-
tralia next year is largely colored by their
attitudes to exploration.
Mr Sprigg told the Association that,
“Today, partly as a result of hasty modi-
fication of the subsidy support pro-
gramme by the Federal Government and
because of the international oil glut, the
drilling programme is dangerously depen-
dent upon geophysical discovery.
“The country now faces a serious
shortage of well prepared drilling targets.
This situation cannot be remedied over-
night. It is difficult to estimate how
many good targets are at present ade-
quately outlined for test drilling during
the present year.
“Past experience has shown that one
seismic team can only be relied on to
locate two or three drilling targets a
year. At present, with approximately
half of the available 40 seismic teams in
Australia idle, scarcely more than 60
or 70 new targets can be outlined for
1964 as a result of this scale of activity.
“Present predictions indicate 100 wells
are to be drilled this calendar year. Very
obviously next year will see a drastic
slowdown in adequately targetted drilling
unless the situation s rapidly remedied.”
As for prospective drilling, the an-
nouncement of the.AAO group’s acceler-
ated programme for search in Queens-
land gave a mild fillip to shares of the
various associated companies a week or
two back, but there was little follow
through. Obviously something more
exciting than the promise of a few more
wells in the Sunnybank or any other
area will be needed to justify a lift in
share prices much above current levels.
This could well come from Sunnybank
No. 3 which is being drilled half a mile
west of the No. 1 well. The latter initi-
ally reported 600 barrels a day but,
like the No. 2 which got a small amount
of oil after much persuasion, has since
become a victim of poor porosity and
permeability.
Though the No. 3 well has been stated
to be 100 feet structually higher than the
No. 1 well (which puts it 200 feet higher
than No. 2) there is no knowing without
the aid of the drill whether any oil sands
encountered will be any more porous or
permeable than the other two. This is
the big enigma of the area.
Taking a long shot, it may well be
that sands to the east in the Surat Basin
will prove a better proposition than those
westwards of No. 1 'veil, as The Bulle-
tin suggested some months ago. Mean-
time, the group appears to be intent on
probing only within close range of the
original discovery area despite the pretty
clear evidence of very tight sand forma-
tions around there.
Further afield it would not surprise if
the results of the Southwood No. 1 well
being drilled by AOG more than one
mile outside the proven area at Moonie
(now reckoned by Mr N. E. Avery, of
AOG, as holding about 3,500 million
gallons of oil) provided the next excite-
ment in oil search.
This well is three miles north-west of
Moonie No. 1. Drilling started on
March 11 and has since been proceed-
ing without interruption at a fairly rapid
rate of some 500 ft a day, so should
soon reach the target area.
A find in this particular well obvi-
ously would be a good indication of a
continuation of the Moonie structure well
beyond the present proven bounds, but
for the moment it has been regarded
as a wild cat.
Having abandoned the Undulla well
at 9849 ft, AOG’s only other live hole
in Queensland at the moment is Cocka-
too Creek No. 1 which has been having
drill pipe trouble at around 4281 ft,
some 7300 ft above the total drilled
depth of the well. AOG is also in pro-
cess of drilling two wells at Singleton
(NSW).


Positions Vacant
VACANCY 2nd TERM 1963
CRANBROOK SCHOOL,
BELLEVUE HILL
MASTER REQUIRED TO TEACH L.C. AND 4lh YEAR
ANCIENT HISTORY AND I.C. ENGLISH AND
HISTORY.
Resident Bachelor and non-resident two bedroom
flat available. Preference given to resident young
Honours graduate with teaching experience.
Write giving full particulars, age, qualifications
and out-of-school interests to the Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: HERBERT ERWIN EGIDIUS RAUTERT.
TAKE NOTICE that RENATE MARIE
RAUTERT has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 226 of 1963 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an
Answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the 26th April, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
McDonald & McDonald, solicitors, 17
Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN COR-
CORAN & CO., Solicitors, 2 York Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
HAVE UNIVERSITIES ANTIPATHY
TOWARDS ADVERTISING?
TTniversity graduates and undergradu-
ates in the faculties of Economics
and Commerce seem to have developed
an antipathy towards the present selling
and advertising structure.
In an effort to overcome this, the NSW
4As education committee plans to ar-
range for undergraduates of these facul-
ties to ✓isit advertising agencies, and so
learn the real facts of marketing proce-
dure. A similar move carried out last
year by the 4As Victorian committee was
a marked success.
Mr Noel Adams, chairman of the
NSW committee, said last week that
a brief look at agencies by undergrad-
uates could produce two definite benefits:
• They would gain a better under-
standing of the vast range of factors
which had to be taken into consideration
and the many special skills that had to
be applied to produce effective advertis-
ing;
• Undergraduates would be more
likely to be attracted to the advertising
business.
Mr Adams believes there is an increas-
ing need for more university graduates
in advertising agencies, but fears that
many university people have no appre-
ciation whatever of advertising.
The 4As also plans to arrange that all
the facts in relation to careers in adver-
tising be brought to the attention of
vocational guidance officers at schools,
colleges and Government departments.
Mr Adams said that the invaluable
service rendered by vocational guidance
officers to young people entering industry
and commerce could be used on behalf
of advertising agencies to interest young
people of at least Leaving Certificate
standard. The proposal is for a series of
open sessions at which a representative of
the association would speak to the guid-
ance officers.
Some proposals for the 4As to run a
higher education lecture series have been
also considered, but it has been decided
that the greatest need in this are.: is for
the development of creative media plan-
ners as distinct from space buyers. Prob-
ably later in the year the committee
will institute a higher education series.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 738
ACROSS
I—One shall not eye the ember against part of Ghana.
(7)
s—Citrus permitting me to appear in sport. (6)
9—Master race dispensing with its mother’s row of
houses. (7)
10— Wish Ali to hold his tongue in Zanzibar. (7)
11— Rusting animal feminist in Gilbert and Sullivan
turned it on. (9)
12 — Jungle best reduced for parish church land. (5)
13— Pagan worshipper with whom Yours Truly acts
subsequently. (8)
14—Some of Sydney which is cer-
tainly not without charm. (6)
17 —Chaplains spread wildly. (6)
19—Climate’s affected this shrub.
(8)
22 —It makes one forget a block
of land is given to you and
me. (5)
24 Tickle it badly until consum-
ed. (9)
25 He slept badly, according to
this girl. (7)
26 — Steam is to be expected of
this painter. (7)
27 — Who seeks to preserve some
meat angle. (6)
28— Clergyman and I have a ses-
sion, so call again. (7)
DOWN
1— Coat’s lumpiness, adjusted,
behaves without consideration.
(4, 2,8)
2 Robust audacity is difficult to
one mobster. (9)
3 Falls when again rising before
an artist. (7)
4 and the Maori skinflint who
details his expenses. (8)
5 Working as a model post-
office chant. (6)
6 Muscular trouble makes my
Capone a private one. (7)
7 Oriel smashed a European
river. (5)
8— A leaden-footed workman
orphaned 26-across before
chaps come to tea music.
(14)
15 — Pirates swing these girls who
have been slighted. (9)
16— Veteran exponent of the stop-
watch, (3, 5)
18—He is careless with a severe
oriental. (7)
20— Missouri block of land to
ring against the Russian
hammer. (7)
21— And so on her artist. (6)
23—Italian poet sat up like this.
(5)
Solution to Crossword No. 737


\
w 2
I
.
■
*m
*' •
ufi
mIM
m .Am
|P’
wm
\x
3f
§Mi W ■
mm
t/'
Make sure of receiving
your new, brighter
Bulletin regularly
Read our announcement on page 3
and then fill in and forward this form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street,
NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
months


RY
O
V/
A
Y
APR 1963
2
o
s£i
*N
*
"V
extras
20
U«Y
Carlyle HHO the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
#^4
ithjust
a touch
of Turkish
Wo rid Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR“THE AMERICAN CIGARETTErcOMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.I 13 8
