

The Bulletin
APRIL 20, 1963
AUSTRALIA 21- N.Z. 2/- MALAYSIA $1
Registered in Australia lor transmission by post as a newspaper,
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
MY KING’S CROSS HMi SYDNEY
4 PAGE
COLOR
INSERT


%
'S
Priclad
\
&
r*
<
xi
fe*
.-■
a
§
i
_,v- - r v— "
7bt/Mzfouafi}
Alice is pictured in a wonderland of toys from Driclad Tty. Ltd.
The toys (and even today 9 s raincoats) are based on Geon.
takes Alice through wonderland
When she floats oil water, hugs her doll or bounces a ball, Geon is her playmate. Film made from Geon, in a
wide range of applications, opens up a wonderland to manufacturers of plastic toys. Soft and pliable, it brings
life-like quality to cuddlesome toys. Waterproof and colour-fast, it’s a safety factor in swimming aids, makes any
toy brighter ... to stay that way. Resistant to wear and tear, it stands up to daily adventures in any Alice’s
or Johnny s wonderland. In almost any industry, Geon can improve products or help evolve new ones. Have
you a product which we can help you improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich - C. S. R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited
MS52">3


National Notebook
Enough Rope
JEhe Melbourne University students’
committee, which agitated last year
to save murderer Robert Peter Tait from
the gallows, has regrouped itself as a
permanent society to work for the aboli-
tion of the death penalty in Victoria. It
has chosen the name “Melbourne Uni-
versity Anti-Hanging Society” and draft-
ed its constitution so that students, grad-
uates, staff members “and ether persons
who have shown themselves interested in
its aims” may join. The society has al-
ready started work on preparing a com-
prehensive case against capital punish-
ment which it intends to publish as a
paper-back. Chapters on legal aspects,
public opinion and the changing con-
cept of insanity will be contributed by
experts in these fields.
Meanwhile, the Citizens’ Anti-Hang-
ing Committee which initiated and car-
ried through the legal moves which
eventually forced the Government to re-
prieve Tait, also has work on its hands.
It cost over £2300 to save Tait, of
which the Committee has so far raised
about £lBOO. Its financial mopping-up
operation is still going on.
Verbal Jazzman
Jt’s some time now since American
comedian Lenny Bruce paid us a
brief visit. At the time we, in our un-
sophisticated way, felt that
we were hearing a standard
Bruce performance, which
had been accepted without
wince or gasp by audi-
ences in America and
England. Now it appears
that Mr Bruce was using
Australia for an out-of-town try-out of
the new Bruce. Last week Bruce proved
too hard for even the English to handle
and was refused admission to Britain,
where he was booked at London’s Estab-
lishment Club.
A critic in the American “New
Leader” reports: “As recently as two
years ago Lenny Bruce was still the
sharp-tongued, fast - moving, stand-up
comedian. Walking briskly out on the
floor, impeccably groomed and dressed
in a chic Italian suit, he would run off
his routines with professional aplomb.
“It was something of a shock, there-
fore, to see Bruce come on the floor of
the Village Vanguard last month stiff-
legged and stooped, his attire nothing
niore stylish than a crumpled black rain-
coat, his once-handsome face a pale
mask of dissipation framed in the long
black sideburns of a Brooklyn tough. As
the show went on, it became obvious
that the one-time Broadway comic was
now an underground man, funnier than
ever, but also angry, tragic and com-
pletely exposed. In 50 desperate minutes,
packed with wit, malice, humor,
blasphemy and poetry, Bruce evacuated
the total content of the American
repression.”
In spite of the critic’s shock at facing
the new Lenny Bruce, he comments that
the rapidity and agility of Bruce’s mental
movements “puts him in the company
of those other masters of free-associative
spontaneity, the Bop musicians.”. “Bruce
is, in fact, America’s first verbal jazz-
man,” he adds.
Russian Invention
A few days ago, the Press carried the
story of a DC7 standing by at Idle-
wild Airport, New York, with 16 tons of
matzos, the unleavened bread essential to
Jews for the proper celebration of the
Passover. The plane was destined for
Russia where the baking of matzos has
been banned for two years as part of the
Soviet Union’s campaign against the Jews.
The plane was unable to leave America,
however, as the Russian authorities would
not give Soviet Jews permission to receive
the matzos.
Bulletin readers will remember that
during the exchange of letiers last year
on the subject of Soviet anti-semitism,
the Novosti Press Agency
in Moscow wrote to The
Bulletin quoting (alleg-
edly) Moscow’s Chief
Rabbi to the effect that
the only reason matzos
was not available last
Passover was that the
bakery happened to have broken down.
It seems an odd coincidence that the
bakery should break down twice in two
years, just at the time it is needed.
The Drop on Boxing
YV/e asked our man at Rushcutters Bay
" to look in on the Billy Males-Gene
Aragon match, to see whether the con-
troversy about boxing had had any vis-
ible effect on attendances or crowd atti-
tudes. His report, scrawled symbolically
on the back of a laundry ticket, began:
“Boxing all washed up according to el-
derly gent in white coat who’d seen ’em
all since Burns-Johnson, 1908. Said
modern fighters stood too close to hit
properly. Possible explanation for ban-
tam champion Males’ failure to hit
veteran Filipino club fighter Aragon, to
utter despair of big Sydney punter Perce
Pag®
ORSON WELLES 34
Father of the “New Wave”
•
John McCallum and the Wooing of
Aunt Edna 11
Conversation with a Dentist 13
A Fall-out among Theologians .. 13
“The Barabran Girls” Short
Story 18
The Return of the Australian
Dollar 22
Sex in the West 25
Confusion in Canada 29
My King’s Cross, by Kenneth
Slessor (with four pages of color) 30
No Guts on Sundays 36
A Page of Poetry 39
Why Millions Starve 40
A Lead on Depreciation 41
Don’t Wait Too Long to Invest .. 41
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 9
OUT AND ABOUT 11
FORUM 22
OVERSEAS 25
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 34
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
FEIFFER 57
CROSSWORD 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4340


Galca, who is to Males what Vic Fiorelli
is to Rocky Gatellari, whom Billy had
challenged.
“Rain had audience down to 3000.
Arrived during round 8 of semi-windup
with two boys knocking one another
about inexpertly and crowd shouting to
call it a draw, make ’em both learn
boxing before letting ’em fight again.
Males and seconds entered ring wear-
ing Galea's racing colors, black and
gold. Aragon in pure white. Two
rounds enough to show Males com-
pletely outclassed.
“Referee Ron James declared Aragon
winner on points. Crowd cheered visitor.
Old gent in white coat said none of ’em
would have got a fight in the ’twenties.
Said these fellers don’t know enough,
train enough, fight enough. Repeated
boxing all washed up. Went home and
turned on television. Elderly gent in
New Orleans put aside trumpet, shook
head, said no musicians left, none knew
how to play any more, all this rock and
roll.
“Read next day Males in hospital for
checkup. Feel one-sided fights should be
stopped or, better, not promoted. One
sight of Aragon in gym. would have con-
vinced any Commissioner match bad for
Males, public, boxing. But no Commis-
sioner in Australia. Obvious. How else
could Gary Cowburn be matched for
Brisbane return with Tommy Collins
after Sydney Stadium shocker few weeks
ago? Feel old gent in white coat had
something.”
A Hushed Silence
as long as anyone can remember
it has been Melbourne’s dream to
roof over the Jolimont Railyards. It’s
been a hardy annual in all the news-
paper leaders. A Victorian Railways ar-
chitect even suggested the idea as far
back as 1892.
At long last Mr Bolte, the Premier,
called a Press conference to announce
that it was on. The first stage would cost
£5,000,000 and the company in charge
would be Princes Gate Pty Ltd, owned
by Oddenino’s Property and Investment
Co. and Lend Lease Corporation Ltd.
A model was placed on the table.
Here was St Paul’s Cathedral with a
lovely plaza stretching across the ugly
yards plus two 17-storey office buildings.
Built in a buff-colored brick of a very
simple design, not to detract from the
beautiful design of the cathedral, accord-
ing to Mr L. Perrott, the architect.
We were very happy to learn that
eventually the area would cover 20 acres,
compared with the 19 acres of The Rocks
scheme in Sydney. The platform would
be completed late in 1965 and the first
tower building would be ready early in
1967. Naturally the number one ques-
tion at the Press conference was “when
do you start?” Mr Bolte said: “Tomor-
row.” A hushed voice pointed out to-
morrow happened to be Good Friday.
Seeing that Princes Gate is so close to
the cathedral you will be pleased to hear
the date was amended to Wednesday.
At this stage the project looks taste-
ful, useful and well backed. The hideous
Princes Bridge station will go under-
ground and this will connect with the
Melbourne underground which we are
still hoping will open in 1972. Actually
work on Princes Gate will be the first
real evidence of action on our under-
ground plan, apart from the sinking of
bores.
Furthermore, it is quite a nice anni-
versary. After all London opened its
underground just 100 years ago last
January.
A Matter of Pride
pride is almost a profession in
Adelaide, and lately, professionally
speaking, things have been looking up.
A few months ago, Adelaide wasNome-
what mortified to learn that in one aspect
of civic beauty she lagged considerably
behind most of the world’s cities. It was
pointed out in the City Council that Ade-
laide did not have any fountains. Worse,
Sydney and Melbourne were considerably
advanced in this field.
The Council hastily developed plans
with the idea of installing a few small
fountains for the Royal Tour, and one
Councillor suggested blocking off Victoria
Square, putting a big fountain in the
middle and one in each of the four corn-
ers. Nothing eventuated, but it now ap-
pears likely that by next summer foun-
tains will be flowing in the heart of the
city.
Another cause for civic discontent is
also about to be removed. Adelaide has
become rather embarrassed in recent
years by the lack of a decent concert-
hall. Louis Armstrong bypassed Ade-
laide on his recent Australian tour be-
"At last Labor is escaping from
narrow parochialism
and looking outwards to other
nations for ideas


cause the only suitable hall was being
used for the Royal Adelaide Exhibition
Now the Government has declared
that it is willing to meet half the cost of
a national theatre.
This Week’s Cover
/Aur cover this week is of the El Ala-
mein fountain at King’s Cross. Staff
artist H. Lloyd-Jones caught it one Sun-
day morning reflected in the windows of
the newsagent opposite. The
its short life has become today’s symbol
of King’s Cross. On page 30 poet Ken-
neth Slessor gracefully recalls yesterday’s
King’s Cross —the Cross as he knew it in
the twenties.
But King’s Cross is only part of Syd-
ney. Our color portfolio this week is
Sydney seen by Melbourne artist Allen
David. Mr David came to Sydney less
than two years ago. He had not used a
camera until he went to Central Australia.
The pictures he took there were publish-
ed by Grayflower Press, Melbourne. He
still has an amateur’s lack of expertise
about aperture and exposure, but an art-
ist’s interest in the right aspect and the
right light.
Mr David plans to go to Europe at the
end of June. Barry Stern will have a one-
day exhibition of Mr David’s abstract
paintings, based on how he saw Central
Australia and how he sees Sydney, on
April 20 at the Paddington gallery. The
pressure of art exhibitions in Sydney is
so great that Mr Stern could find only one
day for the showing in the short time be-
fore Mr David goes overseas.
Tanner
Their defence policy is the same
as the Canadian Conservatives."
PLAIN ENGLISH
A SORRY FARCE
A sorry farce was acted out in Paris last week at the SEATO con-
ference. Firstly, there was the location: a conference about South East
Asia was held in Paris—as if to encourage Asian suspicions of SEATO
as an agent of European imperialism—solely because one of its members
is France—which no longer has any military commitments in Asia. While
the Ministers were meeting, Laos, one of the countries SEATO is meant
to protect, was falling into Communist hands; and when it was all over
the Minister issued a communique “hoping” that efforts to secure peace
and neutrality in Laos would succeed! To add to the absurdity, our
Minister, Sir Garfield Barwick, stated that SEATO was “the best hope
of deterring Communist aggression in South East Asia.” (Perhaps this
was only equalled for fatuousness by the British Minister’s comment on
the assassination of the Laotian Foreign Minister—that he will be “sadly
missed.)”
It is clear that SEATO has become a useless instrument. It has no
independent military power, no unified command, no budget to speak
of (the US Information office in Thailand has a bigger budget) and it can
make no decisions unless there is unanimity among members, which
means, in effect, no decisions at all. (France will certainly never again
commit itself militarily in Asia and, after the Malaysian Federation is
established, Britain’s military interests in the region will, apart from an
uncertain Singapore base, be closed up.) To round the matter off, SEATO
is only intended to operate in the event of formal declarations of war
and the Communist guerrillas do not oblige by observing the formality.
It is not surprising that the only serious action to further the SEATO
objective of containing the Chinese Communists is being taken by the
Americans in South Vietnam—acting unilaterally and without reference to
SEATO.
Australians are currently re-thinking their defence and foreign
policies, and Sir Garfield Barwick’s reinforcing of old illusions about
SEATO could not have come at a worse time.
OUR TWO AIR FORCES
Tt is not before time that the Federal Government is finally doing some-
A thing about new bombers for the RAAF. Disinterested observers of
the battle that goes on each Budget time between Australia’s two rival
air forces have long felt that too much money has been wasted preserving
the antique Fleet Air Arm.
Perhaps the cheapest way to expand the RAAF would be to leave
the Sabre and Canberra squadrons intact when the Mirage fighters
and new super bombers are delivered. This would not only double the
RAAF s Air Order of Battle but would be relatively inexpensive. It is
cheaper to buy extra men to fly and maintain the new planes than it is
to purchase extra aircraft. Most of the Sabres and Canberras have many
more hours of effective use left in them and indeed for ground support
work in South East Asia are more effective and more heavily armed than
the new planes. This could also mean that the trained pilots and ground
crew in the Fleet Air Arm, who become redundant when their obsolete
machines are finally grounded, could transfer to the RAAF.
The Senior Service may well shudder at the thought. Perhaps it is
about time that somebody in Canberra pulled rank on the Admirals?


THIS AUSTRALIA
OVERSEAS CAPITAL
Treasury v. Trade
Our heritage at 5 per cent?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
JOHN McEWEN
“A bit every year”
As Federal Treasurer, Harold Holt
conveys the impression that he wants
overseas capital, irrespective of the form
in which it comes. He might prefer it in
a form that would add significantly to
Australia’s employing and producing
capacity. But if it does not come in that
form it is equally welcome. He seems to
consider that his basic task is to get the
money into the country, and to regard as
secondary the use to which it is put.
On the other hand, the Federal Trade
Minister, John McEwen, has now made
it clear that he would prefer Government
policies which would lay some emphasis
on the way in which the overseas invest-
ments would be used.
Here is a quite fundamental clash in
viewpoint. Mr Ted Peters (Labor, Vic.)
drew forceful attention to it in the House
of Representatives last week when he
questioned the good sense of the Govern-
ment in raising a loan in New York at
more than 5 p.c. when it was obvious
that a loan of this volume could be raised
in Australia at a little over 4 p.c.
Holt rationalised the situation quite
neatly. He told Peters that New York
was one of the very few international
money markets left in the world. Aus-
tralia, having established entree and a
regularity of approach to the New York
market, was reluctant to interrupt that
regularity. It was a great advantage to
Australia to have investors on the New
York bond market regard an Australian
issue as a matter of regularity and to
include some part of that issue in their
portfolio of investments. Additionally,
Australia had to take a long term view
of its overseas reserves, currently high.
This was a kind of insurance against
future deterioration.
But while these points may have some
pertinence, they do not dispose of Peters’
basic charge. Holt’s attitude probably
to some extent reflects the attitude of the
Treasury, against which McEwen, when
he made his statement to the annual con-
ference of the Victorian Country Party
on April 2 that “we are selling a bit of
our heritage every year,” was making
an indirect protest.
As I see it there is some justification
for McEwen’s protest. The Treasury
does appear to have this urge to acquire
investment without worrying unduly
about the use to which it is to be put.
“There has been a tendency,” he
said, “for capital to flow into Aus-
tralia, not to establish some new and
highly complicated technical activity, but
to buy out an Australian flour mill or
an Australian bakery cr an Australian
dairy factory, and sometimes a co-opera-
tive. I don’t welcome the transference
of ownership to overseas people of these
simple food processing activities.”
Mr McEwen then threw in an illustra-
tion as homely as any produced by Sir
Robert Menzies. “We in this room are
mostly established farmers,” he said. “If
we earn enough annual income we can
live comfortably. If we don’t earn
sufficient annual income we can still live
comfortably by selling a bit of the farm
every year. That is pretty much the
Australian situation. We are selling a
bit of our heritage every year.”
FAKING AUSTRALIAN HISTORY
Tn the report of the trustees of the
x Free Public Library there is a
passage that wants to be read between
the lines. It is that relating to the re-
printing and republication of the
SYDNEY GAZETTE and of the
Orders in MS. of GOVERNORS
HUNTER and PHILLIP. The re-
production of these interesting docu-
ments, for the benefit of the future
historians and students of the found-
ing of civilization in these regions,
was recommended to the Minister in
1882, and the Under-Secretary replied
that provision would be made for the
purpose in the Estimates for 1883.
Yet no such provision has been made,
And in the course of a few years, on
account of the badness of the printer’s
materials used, the GAZETTE will
be illegible. To explain this seeming
neglect, we have an episode of
last Friday night’s consideration of
the Supplementary Estimates. Mr
STUART asked for a sum of money
to defray expenses of “editing” some
papers which had just reached the
colony relating to its early days. It
would, he said, be necessary that these
papers were edited by some “corn-
petent” person, so as not to wound
anyone’s feelings!
So, by devious ways we arrive at
the truth. The republication of the
GAZETTE and the MS. Orders is
delayed and the new papers are to be
“edited,” in order that the Potts Point
and Darling Point school of wealthy
proletarians, the shoddy jeunesse
doree might be spared.
ffiJtiulCetCn
April 21, 1883
RELIGION
The Cross
To bring home the message
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
“T am slightly fanatical about Good Fri-
day,” the Reverend Mr Peter Hodge
told his congregation the Sunday before
Easter. Two days earlier, he had proved
his fanaticism by standing on a replica
of the Crucifixion Cross in the middle of
the business centre of Midland Junction,
one of Perth’s biggest industrial suburbs.
Dressed in old gardening pants and
boots and a frayed shirt and with his face
hidden behind a pushed-down baseball
cap and dark glasses, Mr Hodge had
stood on a narrow piece of wood for an
hour with his arms outstretched and tied
to the cross with pieces of rag.


Propped at the bottom of the cross was
a hand-written sign bearing this message:
“This is not a stunt. It is a simple but
solemn reminder that next Friday is the
annual commemoration of the death of
Christ.
“Please keep Good Friday holy.”
Just as his hour’s vigil was up, police
came along and ordered him to get down.
They said he was causing an obstruction
on the footpath, despite the fact that he
was standing in the grounds of his church
which faces on to busy Great Northern
Highway.
Intrigued by this unusual demonstra-
tion of Christian fervor, The Bulletin
visited Mr Hodge’s church on the Sunday
night for the evensong service. In the
pleasant old brick building with high jar-
rah panelling Mr Hodge conducted a
friendly but quite usual service in the
pattern of the High Church of England.
There was an old-fashioned bellows
organ, no choir and a black dog that
wandered in and out at will. The con-
gregation numbered about 40, with a
fair sprinkling of young people, includ-
ing two youths in open-necked shirts with
rolled-up sleeves.
In his sermon, Mr Hodge said he did
not think it was necessary to apologise
for reiterating the message of Easter. TV
advertisers did not apologise for repeating
their propaganda, so why should the
Church?
Afterwards, he talked about his esca-
pade in a matter-of-fact way. Though
he had been a minister for 25 years he
had never done anything like it before, he
said. He had intended not to be recog-
nised because he wanted the figure on the
cross to represent an ordinary man. Why
had he chosen this particular way to con-
vey the spirit of Easter? He pointed to a
pile of Church literature in the vestry,
and said the printed word was not en-
ough. He had felt a more personal ap-
peal was needed to bring home the mes-
sage.
THE COMMUNISTS
The Night
of the Long Knives
The split reaches its sordid climax
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TED HILL
The end
HThe big split in Australian Communist
circles is now moving towards its
sordid, pathetic close. The climax
should be reached at the imminent Vic-
torian State Conference when about 20
more leading Victorian cadres will be
axed unless they repudiate ex-Secretary
Mr Ted Hill and his pro-Chinese faith.
(Among his adherents are Flo Russell,
Ken Miller, Harry Bouquet, Vida and
Vic Little, Malcolm Salmon and
Thought - Controller Ernie O’Sullivan.)
There will be some surprises, however.
Even that past master at the art of
survival, Mr Frank Johnson (Central
Committee and Political Committee
member who won his spurs by selling
out his former comrade Mr Jack Blake
in the 19505, then won an accolade in
the present dispute when he deserted
Ted Hill at the last moment and took
over the State Secretaryship of the Com-
munist Party in Victoria) is now in
worse odor with the anti-Hill Secretariat
than a Chinese egg. Although he was
given the job along with the perennial
Ralph Gibson of holding things together,
Johnson was recently found to have
acted as message-carrier for Ted Hill
and the ultra pro-Chinese NZ Secretary
Vic Wilcox who was on his way home
from China via Australia.
Bernie Taft, shrewd, ambitious and
intolerantly pro-Soviet, now has the ball
squarely at his feet. He has been given
Flo Russell’s position as Trade Union
Organiser and if he can only get the
trade union cadres on side the Victorian
Secretaryship is his.
But all has not been plain sailing for
him. A petition ostensibly protesting at
Flo Russell’s dismissal but really aimed
at damning Taft, gained the signatures
of 20 trade union cadres. Most of these
signatories, however, were relatively un-
important figures. On the other hand,
in Taft’s favor is the fact that J. J.
Brown of the Australian Railways Union
is swinging the enormous prestige he
holds in Victorian Communist circles
behind the pro-Soviet group—as a tactic
to regain the ground he lost when he
defied the Secretariat by nominating for
and winning his old position of Victorian
ARU Secretary in the ’fifties.
Meanwhile in Hill’s spiritual home-
land he is still receiving plenty of
support. The March 29 issue of “Peking
Review” attacks both Communist Sec-
retary L. L. Sharkey and President R.
Dixon. But there is no point in asking
for them in the Communist bookshops.
The magazine has been withdrawn and
enquirers are told (ambiguously):
“Sorry, we’ve sold right out.”
EDUCATION
Up to 15
After 17 years
FROM AN ADELAIDE CORRESPONDENT
Qouth Australian Governments some-
times move slowly, but they get
there in the end. Early this month a
piece of SA legislation was finally dealt
with after waiting around for 17 years
for Cabinet approval and the school-
leaving age was raised to 15.
The SA Parliament first gave Cabinet
the power to raise the age from 14 in
1946. But it never did. Agitation con-
tinued until, in February last year, Sir
Thomas Playford said that the school-
leaving age might be raised to 15 during
the year.
By October, nothing had happened.
Then the Education Minister, Sir Baden
Pattinson, said he proposed to ask Cab-
inet to raise the age progressively to 15.
(The law then allowed children to leave
school at the end of the term in which
they turned 14.) Meanwhile the SA Insti-
tute of Teachers and the SA Public
Schools Committees’ Association, both
large and influential bodies, made strong
appeals for action, and a number of let-
ters appeared in the Press.
Finally, last month, Sir Baden Pattin-
son actually made a concession. He said:
“In almost every occupation a higher
standard of education is being de-
manded.”
Even so, the Executive Council’s pro-
clamation this month that the leaving
age would at long last be raised to 15
came as a shock.
At the same time Sir Baden announced
that “most sympathetic” consideration
would be given to applications for exemp-
tion from the new law this year. It will
be strictly enforced next year. (The new
law could keep an extra 2,400 children
in departmental schools this year, but a
recent addition to the teaching staff
will easily handle this.)
The SA Employers’ Federation said
that the higher leaving age would reduce
unemployment and help the assimilation
of school-leavers into industry.


ON THE WATERFRONT
The Phoney Strikes
Back to 1956
By MUGGA
“nPHERE is no question of it: these
strikes are phoney.” This is how one
prominent waterfront official summed up
the present industrial turmoil on the
Sydney and Melbourne waterfronts. He
added: “There will be a slight lull of
two or three days before Easter so that
the wharfies can get some money over
the Easter break. Then it will take about
a week for them to get organised and it
will be on again.”
Dozens of examples could be given
to prove his point. One example: on
one ship the job delegate stopped the
men and demanded industrial clothing
on the job. A Board of Reference (an
official from the Australian Stevedoring
Industry Authority who settles disputes
on the spot) was held, and the men were
granted the clothing.
An hour later the wharfies discarded
it.
The officials of the Federation make
no secret of one of the main reasons
why they are striking: they want to
force the shipowners to give them four
weeks’ annual leave, a pension scheme,
and substantial rise in wages. If you
can't win these through the arbitration
system you win by “militancy”.
But the Federation also wants to go
back to the conditions which existed
prior to Mr Justice Ashburner’s changes
in their award in 1956. Mr Ashburner
altered the award in two significant ways:
for the first time it was up to the
employer to decide (subject to the re-
quirements of safety) the number of
men working in the hold, on the wharf,
and in the sheds. The second alteration
was that the employer also had the right
to decide the number of items in a sling
load.
At the same time mechanisation be-
gan to make inroads on the waterfront.
This meant that the Federation could
see a continual dwindling :n the number
of wharfies and the importance of their
union.
But if the Federation could succeed
in fixing the number of men needed
for each type of cargo and standardis-
ing the method of loading re-
gardless of mechanisation, this would
mean that whatever changes modernisa-
tion brings will not affect the number
of wharfies employed. And most of the
current series of disputes are rigged up
about these very questions of the number
of men needed for particular jobs and
the size of sling loads.
COMPANY LAW
Where are the Trustees?
With £30m. gone
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
nPo a chorus of Opposition jibes that the
A horse had already gone and taken
something like £3O million with him,'
Mr Hamer, Victoria’s Assistant Attorney-
General, introduced the firs! leg of legis-
lation in the State Parliament last week
to shut the door against the issue of in-
different class paper in the name of
trustee-backed debentures. The Bill
makes it illegal for other than designated
trustee companies and their subsidiaries,
banks and insurance companies to act
as trustees for debenture holders.
This will certainly put a stop to the
likes of Testros Bros, whose £1.4 mil-
lion of debentures is in default, garner-
ing public money on debenture simply on
the flimsy protective ticket of a company
formed by themselves for the purpose
of acting as trustee, such as Public
Fidelity and Audit, with capital of a
mere £3. Its directors in the issuing
company’s stable and its registered
office are not in the phone book.
But what is worrying a lot of people
is whether the statutory trustee com-
panies, who will be allowed to act
as trustees for debenture holders, are
fully equipped for the job. Doubts of
this sort were much in mind last week
when P. D. George and A. W. Ogilvy,
two well-known accountants now acting
as joint receivers in Stanhill Consoli-
dated, revealed that they could find only
a bare £lOO,OOO worth of realisable
assets in the company, compared with
the £Bi million stated in the audited
books such a short time ago as Decem-
ber 13 last year. What is more, over the
whole range of defaulted debentures of
the Korman group of companies are to
be found one statutory trustee company
after another.
Although the 21 statutory trustee com-
panies in Australia are assumed by the
enabling Acts in the various States in
all circumstances to be able to discharge
their responsibilities, clearly, as a result
of the wide disclosures of poorly backed
debentures in the last year or more, some
of them will have to pull up their socks.
They have their opportunity at the stage
of the preparation of prospectuses to
say yea or nay to the issue of debenture
stock.
On the bare record, some of them
have been pathetically less than vigilant
about what they lend their high sound-
ing names to.
BUSINESS
The Receivers
In Flinders Lane
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HHhe drapes were up in Flinders Lane
■*" last week when the Victorian Gov-
ernment announced it is to put two in-
vestigators into Reid Murray Holdings
and 70 or so of its 200 subsidiaries now
under receiverships.
RMH with a capital of nearly £9i mil-
lion (the ordinary ss. shares were up to
18s. three years ago and are now a mere
6d.) was the biggest offender in over-
borrowing during the boom, having at
its last balance date more than £3O mil-
lion (excluding its capital) outstanding
to the public.
It was an equally sombre week down
St Kilda Road way for Stanley Korman
who has had respected Melbourne ac-
countant V. T. Gladstones battling for
eighteen months or more to save a third
company in his empire, Factors Ltd,
from the fate of a receivership following
the fantastic flow of money through
the sieve of its bankrupt subsidiary,
Rockmans Ltd, which Factors have writ-
ten off as lost long ago but which its
unsecured creditors have not.
And it was these unsecured creditors
who eventually sealed the fate of
Factors, for a mere £140,000 unsecured
debt owed them by that company.
What neither Mr Korman nor Glad-
stones reckoned on was that the separate
trustees for the debenture holders of
Factors and Rockmans wouldn’t see eye
to eye on the composition of the com-
mittee of management, the latter (T. and
G. nominees) insisting that none of the
old board should participate, whereas
the former said the committee couldn’t
function properly without them.
This failure of the two trustees, per-
haps incongruous in itself though no love
is said to be lost between them, left only
one course open for the Supreme Court —■
a receivership.


Around Melbourne
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE (CULTURAL) BARREL
\\l e Melburnians haVe always con-
" sidered ourselves to be rather
cultured. Look at us. Dame Nellie
went to school right here at PLC. We
have the Felton Bequest. We decorate
our saloon bars with classic nude
paintings. And, indeed, we are spend-
ing £4 million or so on a cultural
centre. Yet this year we have had
some agonising blows which could in-
dicate that we are not so cultured after
all.
When the season dawned it appeared
that the ABC would be 2000 subscrib-
ers down for its annual subscription
concerts. Here was an emergency of
majestic proportions. The ABC launch-
ed a full-scale advertising programme.
In fact, the ABC peppered its own
programmes with so many appeals that
there were those among us who won-
dered whether the national stations
were trying to outdo 3UZ. 1 think they
tried everything but a singing com-
mercial.
Next, the members of the sub-
scribers’ committee tried a ring-
around, calling all those who had
failed to renew their subscriptions.
The answers were revealing.
“You can never park near the Town
Hall” . . . “We'd rather put our money
into records” . . . “Hubby finds the
‘tele’ more relaxing” . , . “We're
decorating the house and working at
it every night.”
Then there was the young gentle-
man who reported that he wasn't go-
ing to concerts because now he had a
regular lady friend. In a flash of in-
spiration the caller said: “Why don't
you get two tickets one for her,
too?” This he did. So now the sub-
scribers' committee is acting as a
matrimonial agency, all to the strains
of Brahms and Beethoven.
Eventually by good public relations,
telephone calling and hard sweat, they
reduced the deficit to 400. Now the
number of subscribers is 7052, not as
bad as the 6000 figure two years ago
before the arrival of Georges Tzipine,
but, even so, downright embarrassing.
Last year the number might have been
boosted by the idea that Joan Suther-
land was coming. Ever since, the
organisers have had to suffer the
query: “Who is the big star you're not
bringing out this year?”
But don’t you see the problem?
Don’t you understand what is making
all this so baffling in Melbourne?
Sydney has 12,000 subscribers right
now full capacity houses and
there are 200 on the waiting list for
the good seats. Sydney is the pin-up
town. Adelaide and Brisbane both
have nigh on 3000 subscribers, Perth
has just under 2000 and Hobart 600.
Count the heads and that puts us at
the bottom of the entire cultural bar-
rel.
Nor can you say that the Sydney
interest is based entirely on a desire
to get into Nola Dekyvere’s column.
Take the subscribers to the youth con-
certs. Last year we had 2700 young
subscribers. In Sydney there were
5000.
Then we had the visit of the
National Radio Orchestra of Poland —
a big event this, the visit of a large
overseas orchestra. All the subscribers
were mailed a brochure and offered
special rates. The Sydney critics pan-
ned the Poles; the Melbourne critics
raved over them. Mr Dorian le Gal-
lienne, of the Age, thought they were
so good he went so far as to say he
would have bought his own tickets at
£2 each.
Well, you know what happened?
Sydney had some near capacity
houses, one not so good. For Mel-
bourne's first night only one-third of
the seats were occupied and the
Town Hall was rarely better than
half full.
HThese sad comments on our un-cul-
A ture come on top of the disaster
of Moomba. There was a real attempt
this year to lift Moomba above the
level of street parades, dancing
girls, races for drink waiters and such.
This was an attempt to stop people
forever talking about that darned
Adelaide Arts Festival. As Moomba
finished, Mr W. D. Johnson, chairman
of the Moomba Arts Advisory Com-
mittee, wrote a letter to the news-
papers crying “Where were the cul-
tured Melburnians?”
He said that Schkolnikova, an artist
to be compared with Heifetz and
Oistrakh, played to an empty house;
art exhibitions drew the cognoscenti
but not the crowds; the organ recitals
given by four top organists went al-
most unheard. He summed up with
these lines:
“The fault, dear Melbourne, lies not
in us, but in yourselves that you are
cultural underlings. We were led to
believe that the City of Melbourne
had a population of art-starved wor-
shippers of the Muses, but the facts
seem to refute it. It seems that, in-
stead of giving pride of place in our
festival to the sacred cow of culture,
it should be the golden calf.”
Do much for Moomba. As for the
rest of the year it is not easy to
define the sincerity of our culture.
The Little Theatre, the Elizabethan
Theatre Trust, and the Union Theatre
have big programmes and normally
good houses, but J. C. Williamson’s
and Garnet Carroll, who really have
to make a quid and fill large theatres
. . . that’s a different story. They are
terrified of the serious, cultured play.
“The Miracle Worker,” the best play
to be put on by JCW's for many a
year, utterly failed to attract
audiences.
Yet, on the other hand, we like
opera and we adore ballet. With the
possible exception of Brisbane there
is no better ballet town in Australia.
We are supporting splendidly a ten-
week season of the Australian Ballet.
What's more, Marcel Marceau, the
famous French mime—and he doesn’t
even say a word —is filling the
Comedy Theatre night after night.
And there’s nobody more cultured
than Mr Marceau.
Even so, it must be reported that
one of the regular first nighters wrote
in and asked for seven seats. Now
seven seats is a pretty tall order on
the first night four usually is the
limit. They had to put him back
a few rows. So he cancelled. In fact,
he made the remarkable comment on
Mr Marceau: “I'm not going to sit
right back there where I can't hear a
word.”
BATMAN


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
Mali n ARB A
\ n LT
: f*V NT ACC Iff*
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “ Estate ” (as the word “Chateau” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
CI3NR
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
DEFENCE
The Man With a Rifle
For millionaires only
By Ek Dum
npHE rifleman has been a traditional
Australian figure: he was one of
the great assets in getting the First and
Second AlFs together. But today the
amateur enthusiast is no longer popular
with the Staff Corps where the extent of
firepower rather than expertise and
accuracy has become the central theme
of military theory. Rifle shooting is
becoming a sport for millionaires only.
Fifty-four years ago, when the popula-
tion of the Commonwealth was round
about 4.5 millions, the strength of Aus-
tralian rifle clubs was 58,000. The
system under which members of clubs
were required to fire a prescribed
musketry course was well established,
and a capitation fee was paid to clubs
for each member classed as efficient.
Members were attested under the
Defence Act and the introduction of
compulsory military training certainly
did not inhibit the movement which
continued to provide a basic official
reserve. In the midst of World War I
there were 1,542 rifle clubs in the Com-
monwealth with a membership of
102,700.
Since the new scheme of defence
came in with its presumption that
amateurs are no longer allowed to shoot
an enemy until the professional has first
tried his magic on him, efficiency grants
to rifle clubs have become a thing of
the past.
The phrase “rifle club” has dis-
appeared from the Commonwealth Year
Book whose editors apparently do not
feel it worthwhile to acknowledge the
existence of the clubs even in their
statistical tables.
Under the five-year plan which began
to operate in 1960, the efficiency grant
per member which kept the clubs going
was liquidated. In its place the Common-
wealth granted ammunition and acces-
sories at cost of production, the clubs
selling ammunition to members at the
rate of £lO per thousand .303 rounds.
Today, on this basis, the civilian rifle
shooter finds himself out of pocket any-
thing from 12s. 6d. to £1 per shoot and
this will increase.
From July 1 next the price of ammu-
nition will go up to £l5 per thousand
and from July 1, 1965, it will be £3O
per thousand and even that will be un-
payable to clubs.
Already rifle clubs are down to token
strength and numbers. Including service
clubs, the total membership in NSW is
about 11,000 against over 30,000 round
the beginning of World War L Many
clubs are merely token organisations
with a dozen or so die-hards the
United Service Institution of NSW with
2500-odd officers in its membership can
only run to a few faithful battlers, and
Sydney University Regiment numbers its
club shoots in dozens, not hundreds.
With the increase in cost of ammuni-
tion, weapons, maintenance, travel and
accessories, the rifle club may be doom-
ed by 1965.
ENTERTAINMENT
The Strippers
A shocked Inspector
FROM A TASMANIAN CORRESPONDENT
'EVdllowing the footsteps of the Sydney
Vice Squad sergeant who in the
“We Were the Rats” case agreed that
Byron might have been on Lord Mount-
batten’s South-East Asia Command staff,
Launceston’s unfortunate Det.-Insp. L.
H. W. Rothwell was drawn by his in-
herent scrupulousness into clumsy opin-
ions on the offensiveness of the female
nude.
The inspector was on safe ground
while he described to Magistrate D. T.
Oldham the garments chosen by 19-
year-old “strip-tease dancers” Sandra and
Sandrina for their appearance in a Laun-
ceston hotel cabaret. Each had three
items of covering, with very considerable
spaces between them.
It was when Insp. Rothwell was cross-
examined by Mr M. B. Lamacraft (for
the defence) that he got into deep water.
Mr Lamacraft had submitted that for
the prosecution to succeed it must ne-
cessarily prove that some reasonable per-
son had had his feelings wounded, or
had felt anger, disgust or outrage at the
spectacle. If no such feelings were
aroused, the performance could not be
offensive. Insp. Rothwell clearly indicated
that he had been offended by what he
saw at the hotel.
The way Sandrina was dressed “dis-
pleased” him, he said. Sandra’s perform-
ance as such brought no comment, but
“I told her I was displeased with the way
she was dressed and that I was going to
report her for offensive behaviour.”
The naked figure of any young fe-
male was disgusting to him, he said.
Sculptures of nudes were not offensive,
but photographs of them were. He had
not, he admitted, been shocked by a
picture of the Venus de Milo.
Magistrate Oldham decided that the
case should be dismissed. The charges
had been laid, he said, under a section
which was aimed at protecting the pub-
lic, not the individual. Insp. Rothwell
had not told the Court why the act dis-
pleased him (nor had Sgt. McCormack
who had gone with him) said anything
of his having been offended. And no one
among the audience of 80 men and
women had been called to support the
complaint.


OUT AND ABOUT
The Wooing of Aunt Edna
" A kind of distinguished obscurity"
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Smooth as a practised silk, Googie
Withers’ husband John McCallum
—joint managing director with Sir
Frank Tait of J. C. Williamson has
the glossy steel hair, topflight tailoring
and quiet level voice one tends to asso-
ciate with matinee idols and advocates.
He sat talking about his career in a big,
sombre office in the Sydney head-
quarters of The Firm. Now in his late
forties, he has been Brisbane stage-
hand, small-time actor, film star in Bri-
tain and now operates hi d kind of dis-
tinguished obscurity, moving from capital
to capital and occasionally travelling over-
seas to look at new shows.
Of his films, few were really memor-
able. The best, probably, were Anthony
Asquith’s “The Woman in Question” and
Robert Hamer’s “It Always Rains on
Sunday”. Among the directors he had
worked with, he had felt that Asquith
was the best with film narrative, Hamer
with details of a performance. At Ealing
Studios, he had always felt part of a
team, whereas at J. Arthur Rank there
had always been far too many films to
make, and quality suffered in conse-
quence. At one stage he had been making
three films at a time, and he felt this was
ridiculous.
After working with Herbert Wilcox for
a time, McCallum had become a success-
ful stage actor. He had been in the
theatre previously, his father had run the
well-known Cremorne Theatre in Bris-
bane, and he had been born on an open-
ing night (comedian Gus Bluett had
telegraphed his father, “Congratulations
on two howling successes”). So after
his film career he had been glad to get
back to the boards.
McCallum played “Waiting for Gil-
lian” with his wife and appeared in Sir
Charles Snow's play “A View Over the
Park”, at the Lyric, Hammersmith. Talk-
ing of Snow, McCallum said: “He is a
very good dramatist and has a wonderful
flair for rewriting. Priestley had it, too —
he would recast a whole act at Brigh-
ton.” But Snow had been discouraged
by his play’s failure to reach the West
End.
Touring Australia with Googie in
“Simon and Laura” and “The Deep Blue
Sea” in the mid-19505, McCallum was
offered the chance to become assistant
managing director of The Firm (he has
since been promoted). Had there been
any qualms about giving up his acting
career? “Well, performing in the theatre
is a very pleasurable life, but I was
looking to the future and thinking of
my children. It’s much better for them
here. And,” an expert, deprecatory
actor’s shrug here —“I could see my-
self getting bald and fat.”
What had been the main challenge on
the new job? “Well, I had always been
interested in theatre management because
of my father. It was exciting to have a
say in what should be put on, to please
the shareholders and yet maintain a high
standard to combine an artistic theatre
with a commercial one.
“Of course, one's not always going to
win. I don’t think it’s a secret we lost
money over ‘Carnival’ and ‘Bye-Bye
Birdie’. But we must keep on doing this
kind of thing. We'll be staging ‘How to
Succeed in Business Without Really Try-
ing’ and ‘Camelot’ later this year.”
McCallum said that on the physical
side there had been the re-equipping of
the theatres, air conditioning and re-
decorating everywhere. In some cases
productions had to be done exactly as
overseas “My Fair Lady” was a case
in point but in general he liked to
avoid this and give work to the many
good stage designers in the country.
William Rees’ death had been a great
loss, and Raymond Westwell had done
a beautiful job on “Irma La Douce”.
“Lerner let us do ‘Camelot’ ourselves.
John Truscott has designed it and given
us some lovely sets. I believe the over-
all effect is better than New York. We’ve
spent at a conservative estimate
about £lOO,OOO on the production. It
has to run at least six months to make
its money back.
“Of course, with us it's a tremendous
operation all the time. A lot of people
don’t realise we are the largest theatrical
organisation in the world, in fact we’re
one of the very few which owns theatres
and operates them at the same time, as
the Shuberts used to do ; n America. We
own seven theatres and operate 10 and
we've always got seven or eight corn-
panies going.”
What about the notorious Australian
talent shortage? “Well, of course, that’s
very serious. But we can now offer a
leading actor or actress rather more than
they would earn on the London stage, un-
less they were really big international
names. How many actors are there here
who can hold an audience in a starring
part? You mean Australian actors? Well,
maybe six.” Who were they, I asked, and
he could only think of three, Kevin Col-
son, Grant Taylor and Jill Perryman.
Sophie Stewart and Sheila Bradley, of
course, came from the London stage. So


X
A,</ (fv
/
\
f M}a
j
\ *
Tn©r ©
rig
than
,/ w
STEEL
B:
m i-
a
ars
X
/•/- f ; w- / A
• •'/. J
??s&
r
.JgSwSlS^
eSsgjpSSs*^
'■ :. •••-:-;
ffl
in
W^'
m
t >#
'■&
m
m
00t
*5*V
m
mmm j n
Wfc
••/•■•-•>-
5? : - *3B: ;
, i
sk :m<
iCs
1t ' f
Owrt
'ijZU
X
•V. ,
X
;.<*>^
fc&<3
2*
«»w
x\xxi
»? *
r‘,
//,#
/ /*&*
if:-' W ,
\ Jii /'• • ; •;;
.
>fcf ; M:,,:,, M
• \ \ \ \ V / . M,*
4 $T 4
?: :•>•■ > : vfflf#
;\\\ \ \ /
ssss»
>■ ■?
m
\
\
AA
W
r , •?
• ,-'•<: >-• *sSs>»
X
\\
\
Post this coupon now for miniature portfolio of
LYSAGHT HOME PLANS
Your new home plan could be in this handy
little portfolio! Each one of these architect
created Lysaght plans is spacious yet can be built
at moderate cost. All offer interesting and attrac-
tive variations on the world-wide trend towards
lower-pitched rooflines . . . and are ideally suited
to the streamlined ‘new look’ of steel sheet.
Whichever plan you choose, there is no sub-
stitute for the innate strength of Lysaght Steel
Sheet. No other roofing material is as strong
a Lysaght roof is fireproof and weatherproof
with durability ensured by a protective heavy
zinc coating of at least 1.75 ozs. per sq. ft.
Costs less than most other roofing materials
. . . needs little maintenance.
LYSAGHT
HOME PLANS
SERVICE
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited ®
50 Young Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me, free and post free, the
Lysaght Miniature Portfolio of Low Cost
Home Plans.
name
ADDRESS
.STATE
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
DSACC


there was always the terrible problem of
finding stars.
And could he attract the big names
from London? “We’ve tried, but it’s get-
ting more difficult every year. You see,
it’s all so centralised now that most of
them don’t even like going up to Man-
chester. They’re afraid of the provinces,
and what the journey from London might
mean to their careers.”
And then, of course, when there was
a flop they always had to find a replace-
ment in a hurry. “Carnival”, for instance,
had been playing to bad houses but they
had to go on running it at a loss because
there was nothing to put immediately in
its place.
As for obtaining overseas plays, Mc-
Callum said he went to Broadway and
London about every two years. William-
son’s had a scout in New York, Agnes
Doyle, who gave an initial report which
one or other of the directors would later
follow up. In London, The Firm main-
tained a permanent director, Charles
Doming.
What did Doyle, Doming, Bowden,
McCallum and the rest look for in a
production before they decided to bring
it to Australia? “Well, we have to bear
in mind that the audience for theatre here
is largely a family one of middle-aged
people. No doubt we could revive ‘The
Maid of the Mountains’ over and over
again to full houses. But we must try to
keep up with the times.”
It was easy to see that Aunt Edna was
Queen of the Stalls in these parts just as
much as in England. I couldn’t resist
mentioning the heinous names of Ten-
nessee Williams, William Inge and Ed-
ward Albee, all of whom seem destined
to cause oohs and aahs and the tinkle
of falling teacups. “I’m afraid they’re
against the grain of audiences here,”
McCallum said sadly. “Although we did
try to have the world premiere of Wil-
liams’ ‘The Milk Train Doesn’t Stop Here
Any More’ in Australia. But Tennessee
wanted it done in Italy because his last
play was premiered there. He's very
superstitious, you know.”
The Professions
2. Conversation with
a Dentist
" Patients forget ..."
By PETER HASTINGS
As a dentist of some years’ standing
would you recommend young men to
dentistry as a career?
I don’t think I would. The rewards
of the profession are no longer worth the
risks.
What are the financial rewards?
According to an Australian Dental
Association survey the average establish-
ed dentist in this country earns about
£3,800 after tax. I personally wonder
whether that average wasn’t inflated
by including some of the big earners.
Even the big earners don’t make all that
much. I’d be surprised if your top Col-
lins St. or Macquarie St. oral surgeon or
orthodontist earned much more than
£B,OOO. Another survey not so long
ago showed that dentists came well after
lawyers—particularly barristers and
doctors as income earners.
What are the risks?
Capital outlay in getting a dentist start-
ed is one of the big risks in terms of ul-
timate returns. It costs about £5OOO in
fees, fares, living expenses and so on to
put a young man through a five year
dentistry course. It then costs between
£2,000-£3,000 to equip his surgery when
the time comes to start in practice. A
basic unit with drill costs £3OO. A high
speed drill costs another £3OO. A chair
costs £l5O. An X-ray unit costs £4OO
and that’s a necessity nowadays which
few dentists care to work without. On top
of that there are instruments, forceps,
drugs, etc. Then he has to fit out a
waiting room, a work room with lathe
and instruments and, if he can manage
it, and X-ray darkroom.
What other risks?
Health mainly. Dentists are particu-
larly prone to flat feet, fallen arches,
varicose veins, arched back and so on.
A dentist is on his feet far too much in
one spot bending and peering. There is
a terrifying premium on the use of his
hands and eyes. Rheumatism or failing
eyesight are tragedies. I could afford a
month off but I’d hate to think of my fin-
ancial situation if I had to take three
months off. This applies to holidays, inci-
dentally. I take a month off over the
year but never as four straight weeks.
Patients forget . . . There are many den-
tists still working at 70 you know.
What about overheads?
Pretty high. There’s rent, gas, elec-
tricity, telephone and so on. And of
course there’s the question of one’s nurse-
receptionist. An expert nurse these days
earns £l5-£l6 a week. A nurse who is
quick on chairside work, pleasant on the
telephone, intelligent in anticipating de-
mands can help to make a practice . . .
Remember, too, we don’t get expense
accounts either.
What about your work load?
It depends on the dentist. I’m a care-
ful worker and I particularly enjoy some
types of work at which I think I have
above average skills. I like to work on
some patients for an hour or an hour
and a half at a time. My average weekly
load is between 60 and 70 patients. The
average given in the ADA survey was
4,000 odd patients for a 29 minutes ap-
pointment in a 45 weeks working year
—or about 90 a week. I know of some
dentists who push through 30 patients a
day . . .
Why is that?
Various reasons. Some dentists haven’t
the patience or skills required for thor-
ough work. Some believe money is more
important than good dentistry. Some
deal with patients who haven’t the
time, the money or the desire for extend-
ed work on their mouths—even though
they may need it.
Do you have many bad debts?
You get your regular sprinkling of bad
debtors. I remember one man whose
name I gave to a debt collection com-
pany which advised me to forget about
it. The man had worked his way through
a number of dentists in the district before
he came to me for treatment and
then had moved. Many patients are slow
settlers, however. They seem to think the
dentist can wait.
Is dentistry tougher now than it was?
If you mean there is more to know,
more skills to acquire and perfect, I’d
say yes. On the other hand mechanical
aids, drugs and new techniques are mak-
ing some aspects of dentistry easier, or
at least, the results better.
Are dentists conscientious?
Yes, and becoming more so. More
and more dentists attend dental lectures,
congresses and so forth and they are
making determined efforts to educate
the public.
With any results?
Personally I wonder. I believe that
70 p.c. of the population seldom or
never goes near a dentist or only to
have a painful tooth removed or get a
set of dentures fitted. That’s an appal-


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
Bills of Exchange Act Review Committee
The Committee appointed by the Attorney-General
of the Commonwealth to inquire into the Bills of
Exchange Act 1909-1958 will hold public sittings
in the Conference Room, 11th Floor, Common-
wealth Bank Building, 46-48 Market Street, Sydney,
on Tuesday, 30th April, 1963, and Wednesday, Ist
May, 1963, commencing at 10.30 a.m., for the
purpose of receiving submissions from the Aus-
tralian Bankers’ Association and the Chartered
Institute of Secretaries, Australian Division.
The Committee will hold public sittings in the
Creditors’ Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, 450 Law
Courts Place, Melbourne, on Thursday, 2nd May,
1963, and Friday, 3rd May, 1963, commencing at
11 a.m., for the purpose of receiving submissions
from the Institute of Chartered Accountants
in Australia and the Australian Society of
Accountants.
The Committee does not intend to sit in States
other than New South Wales and Victoria.
Transcript of proceedings at the hearings will be
available for purchase, at the prescribed rates,
from the Commonwealth Reporting Branch Offices
at 4th Floor, 119 Phillip Street, Sydney (telephone:
2-0321), and at sth Floor, 451 Law Courts Place,
Melbourne (telephone: 60-0501).
R. T. KENNY, Secretary.
Rnsett Freight Express
V \ M
( :• - -> 7 _
EVERYTHING GOES . . .
ANSETT FREIGHT
■XPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
Dailyscheduled services to all capital cities.
Co-ordinated road, rail, sea and air transportation.
★ Flexi-van system between Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. ★ ‘Piggy-back’
and container van services between Adelaide-Perth. ★ Container Van
service between Brisbane and Darwin via Mt. Isa. ★ Sea-road to Tasmania.
★ Operates the Australia-wide system of the Cargoclippers.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS HANDLES ALL TYPES OF COMMODITIES
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
ling statistic. But the remaining 30 p.c.
are more teeth conscious than they used
to be. I think the percentage of dentally
conscious people must increase with time
and education. But from my experience
it’s an uphill battle.
Is it true that doctors feel superior
to dentists?
By and large I think they do. It 5 s
largely a conventional attitude reinforced
by ill-informed public attitudes and so
on. It’s also absurd when you think that
a dentist does a five year course exhaust-
ively studying the mouth, head, neck and
thorax while a doctor spends six years
studying the whole body. Where does
the superiority lie? And in what? This
attitude is helped of course by certain
sections of the public which tend to re-
gard a dentist as a skilled tradesman
and a doctor as something approaching
God. After all a well trained dental
practitioner is in actual fact a medical
specialist.
Is there much co-operation between
doctors and dentists?
Not as much as there should be. Closer
checks between doctor and dentist on a
common patient might at times save a
lot of trouble. Many systemic ailments,
for example, have oral symptoms.
Is there any type of patient which
you particularly abhor?
Yes, the one who ignores or despises
his own dental health. The mother with
the full set of upper and lower dentures
who brings in her little daughter beauti-
fully dressed, hair shining, with new
shoes and so on but whose teeth are
shocking. If you remonstrate with the
mother she takes personal umbrage. Or
the pretty girl of 28 who is quite resigned
to getting false teeth and thinks your job
is merely to extract not to save teeth. Or
the patient on whom you have worked
hard to save a tooth and who just simply
couldn’t care less. There are other types
of course. The neurotic, change of life
woman patient whom nothing can satisfy.
But patients like her are mere irritants.
The others are a tragedy.
Do some dentists offer cut rates?
Some do although most dentists charge
roughly standardised fees. You can’t
blame it all on dentists however. I’ve had
many patients ring me or see me in sur-
gery asking me what I charge and then
complaining that dentist X will do the
same job quite a bit cheaper.
Are there many “sharks” in the pro-
fession?
Not disproportionately. There are the
few who overcharge for shoddy work, or
those who are careless, greedy and im-
patient. But most dentists are hard work-
ing and skilled.
Is it true that dentists secretly don’t
want to educate the public dentally?
Most decidedly not. The vast major-
ity of dentists would willingly see their
incomes reduced if wider education
meant better teeth. Dentists are behind
fluoridation of water supplies for ex-
ample, which in the long run can only
mean fewer patients.
The biggest kick I get in my practice is
the young person whom t need to see less
and less because I have managed over the
years to instil in him some sense of dental
care. It makes the profession worth-
while.
Do you think there should be a Na-
tional Dental Scheme, similar to the
NHS?
I do. Many dentists are against it and
claim that the results are like putting
sausages through a factory. Personally
I believe if it were properly administered
and organised the standard of dental
health and knowledge would rise con-
siderably. Many people would seek den-
tal care if they thought they could afford
it.


London Newsletter
A Fall-out among
Theologians
Pursuing the Bishop of Woohrich ..."
A LONDON COMMENT
Where all the Missions, jazz Mas-
ses and tabloid newspapers have
been tried and have failed, a suf-
fragan bishop’s slipped disc seems to
have succeeded.
The Bishop of Woolwich lies flat on
his back for three months; he decides to
use his leisure to put down and publish
thoughts and ideas derived from his
reading and experience over 10 years;
and, before you can say John Robinson,
ordinary uncommunicative Englishmen
are talking about God.
Letters rain in on the newspapers, the
book is sold out on the day of pub-
lication, bishops are besieged with de-
mands for their views and threats of ex-
communication mingle with expressions
of relief and thanks. We have, in fact,
been witnessing the sort of breakthrough
which occurs in most fields only once
in a generation or so.
This whole episode which is only
in its first beginnings has brought
into the limelight that small, shy body of
men, the theologians, men who work in
academic life rather than in the parishes.
Four more of this learned tribe, known
only to the initiate, will give a new twist
to the story tomorrow, when they pub-
lish a book on “Objections to Christian
Belief” moral, psychological, histori-
cal, intellectual. Their views, originally
given last term as open lectures to the
University of Cambridge, attracted vast
audiences: the lecture on psychological
objections was heard by more than 2,000
undergraduates and at the end the lec-
turer, Harry Williams, contrary to
custom, received a volley of applause.
This Cambridge quartet were not act-
ing as advocates of the Devil. Like the
Bishop of Woolwich, who a few years
back as the Red Dean of Clare was a
colleague of theirs, they were voicing
doubts and questionings which, though
committed Christians, they themselves
harbor and feel bound, in all honesty,
to express.
Two of them, Williams himself and
the chief organiser behind them all, Dr
Alec Vidler, appear on television tonight,
and already the BBC has cancelled a
programme next Sunday in order to give
time for their Objections to be Over-
ruled.
Professional theologians in England do
sometimes engage in controversy. But
they very rarely attract or deserve such
public attention as this. More usually
they work away in a private world of
their own.
The “Journal of Theological Studies,”
their trade paper, is filled with the arcane
lore to which they devote so much of
their time. Notes on “A Lost Hebrew
word in Jsaiah II 6” jostle with articles
on “An Eighth-century Melkite Colophon
from Edessa” and “Scientific Hermene-
utics according to St. Thomas Aquinas.”
Careful, scholarly stuff, filled with nice
distinctions and a happy use of argot like
exegesis and eschatology and soteriol-
ogical.
Theologians are scattered unevenly
about the country. At Oxford there are
eight professors alone to one in
engineering. None of the New Univer-
sities plans to have any just yet. But
London recently added three more pro-
fessorships to its quota, and Birmingham
sponsored a second; while Liverpool,
whose original Charter ruled out the-
ology, has recently had it amended.
As in other disciplines, theologians
tend to specialise strongly. They are Old
Testament scholars or New Testament
scholars, philosophers or historians; and
are soon out of their depth. (As a New
Testament man, Dr Robinson showed
some temerity in venturing into philoso-
phical country in his recent book.)
Most English theologians have the
reputation of being judicious and balan-
ced. But they- treat their subject as if it
were a branch of classics. When they
touch on doctrine, they most often
treat it historically. Being thoroughly
English and empirical, they do not erect
dogmatic systems. Some of the new
Cambridge rebels complain that their
colleagues hardly allow themselves to
recognise the ideological implications of
what they are doing.
On the Continent they do these things
differently. The great German Protestant
theologians as thick on the ground as
tennis-players in Australia have not
been content simply to interpret and
refine; they traffic in ideas. Barth, Brun-
ner, Bultmann, Bonhoeffer, Tillich: their
ideas have reflected the turbulent history
through which they have lived and have
in turn contributed to it.
As early as 1936 Bonhoeffer had been
forbidden to teach by the Nazis. During
the war he did church work by day and
acted as a courier for the plotters by
night. In 1943 he was arrested and, two
years later, he was hanged. While he was
in prison this Christian humanist so far
from falling back on the fatherhood of
God outlined his concept of religionless
Christianity, of modern secular man
having grown up, grown out of the need
for a supernatural God.
Paul Tillich was influenced by his ex-
periences as a chaplain in the First
World War. He wrote of the Battle of
Champagne in 1915: “All that horrible
long night I walked along the rows of
dying men, and much of my German
Classical philosophy broke down that
night.”
After the war he prescribed a form
of “Religious Socialism,” was dismissed
when Hitler came to power and went to
teach in America.
Tillich can be so obscure that he has
been compared with the peace of God,
i.e., passeth all understanding. God sits
lightly on him. He prefers to call God
Being-Ttself or Ground of Being. He
regards the Christ and the Resurrection
as symbols, not to be mistaken for the
real and unknowable thing behind.
Faith to him is not so much belief
in God but “ultimate concern,” and he
regards doubt as an essential ingredient
in it. A man’s doubts make him more
effective, he thinks, in bringing other
doubters to faith; and all his life
Tillich has been trying to make the


fV
111
: ::
m\ - '
mmm
' s, ,' s i
&®s
m ;
s*s'
■■ V'
¥S«!»!l»SSl»SS»o4x«o«cstsesM
OMO
■■■■■-
: 9
affix*:®
»S
: : :
B:||
jSS
l
"Revolutionary” is the word for UNICHROME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
unichrome


Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Mandemar Avenue,
Homebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
new ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221
UC3
mm
MULTI-COLOUR MOTTLE
ilimll
?4M
■m*
WM
wMi
MMIM
INMI
:
■g-sspps
■
Wp&piM
■ .;■
SMEBBKBS&3
g&ggPSra
\ '-"-v. V v XC' ; iO
SPATTER FINISH
i..7-.y- '. .>;■ ■ •' v : ....
;*' - t V
: y ' s y : -'V'' *
.
"\ - :y 7 \ - 'Vr ~'
;Xi*s'?ys
\m
Christian message meaningful for
estranged twentieth-century man.
In this attempt he seems to some to
have made it meaningless.
These different attempts to bridge the
gap between secular and religious thought
chime at some points with the Bishop of
Woolwich and at other points with Dr
Vidler’s Cambridge men. But they do
not chime at all with the thought of the
greatest living theologian, Karl Barth,
once described by the late Pope as a
Protestant St. Thomas Aquinas.
Barth’s reaction to the First World
War was to go Left politically but Right
theologically. He is the system-builder
par excellence: 12 long volumes of
Church Dogmatics based solidly on the
Bible, concentrating on God’s dealings
with man rather than man’s relationship
to God.
Barth and his disciples appeal much
less to English theologians than to
Scottish. They share the same attitude
to the Reformation. At Glasgow, Pro-
fessor Gregor Smith was actually mar-
ried by Barth; at Edinburgh, Tom Tor-
rance was once in his household. But
English theologians by temperament and
training shy away from Barth.
There are among them men with minds
as brilliant as any nuclear physicist. The
Chadwick brothers, one at Oxford and
one at Cambridge; Cross; the fragile,
profound, wayward Warden of Keble,
Austin Farrer; these and many others
concentrate on their pure scholarship
without overmuch concern for the
secular world. But Dr Vidler and his
men tend to feel that the work of analys-
ing the Bible and studying the Early
Fathers is just about finished. That
way nothing much new comes: it’s just
another shake of the old kaleidoscope.
For them this is a time for new
insights. The old labels don’t fit any
more. (As it happens, both Vidler and
Williams were Anglo-Catholics, Vidler
even getting disciplined in the twenties
by Bishop Barnes.) Vidler’s scrupulous
emphasis on intellectual integrity, his in-
sistence always on questioning assump-
tions, are much admired in King’s. A
shy, formidable-looking man, his per-
sonal views are probably not as un-
orthodox as they sometimes sound.
As for Williams, his concerns are
thoroughly subjective, his emphasis on
some say obsession with psycho-
logy springing straight from his personal
experience.
It is this attitude, with its roots in
Bultmann, Tillich, Bonhoeffer, that has
suddenly come to the fore thanks to the
Bishop of Woolwich. It is in its way a
revolution and it could sweep across
British theology much as Wittgenstein
swept cross British philosophy. It
strikes many chords among the young
vocal churchmen of the Prism school.


The Barabran Girls
“They were hold and brassy and they
stared at strangers with wide, knowing
eyes, half-inviting, half-defiant”
A SHORT STORY BY CRAIG McGREGOR
The Barabran girls were bold and
brassy and they stared at strangers
with wide, knowing eyes, half-in-
viting, half-defiant. They wore thin cotton
frocks which ended just below their knees
and soiled knickers and sometimes droopy
satin bows in their hair. They had bare
feet and slim brown legs discolored with
dust and lank hair shorn off abruptly
at the ears, and their language was vile.
Every morning, as he rode the ten
miles from the homestead to the town-
ship of Tarrabanda to go to school, he
had to ride past Barabran and the Bara-
bran girls. The dirt road wound right past
the dusty encampment with its tin
shanties and lopsided weatherboard
shacks, the wire netting and upturned
kerosene drums and brown beer bottles
which looked like dark topazes in the
cruel sun. There were always a few thin
dogs around which barked at anyone who
drove past, and perhaps one of the
women in a faded floral dress sitting
on the back step of one of the houses,
cool and indistinct in the deep of the
house’s shadow, and nearly always some
of the girls playing in the dust in front
of the encampment or shrieking as they
chased each other around the oil drums
and sawn tree-stumps. The Barabran
girls never seemed to go to school.
Whenever he rode past in the morn-
ings they came up to the wire netting
fence and watched him, fingers hooked
through the holes, staring at him with
their bold appraising eyes; and some-
times one of the older girls would call
out something coarse which he could
never quite hear and then they would
all laugh and shrill away across the
encampment, bare legs blurring in the
sun and the smaller ones strung out
behind.
In the afternoon, though he looked
hard out of the corners of his eyes, he
could never see them.
His mother didn’t like him to have
anything to do with the Barabran girls.
“They’re not our kind of people, Jim,”
she would explain, dusting down the
Aladdin lamp in the fibro sleep-out with
an old striped shirt of his father’s.
“They’re a bit ... . common. No need
to ask me about it, they just are. Now,
why don’t you go out with that Nichol-
son girl from across the river? Now
there’s a nice girl for you . . . . ”
Dolly Nicholson from across the river
was blonde and buxom and she was all
right but she was a bit stuck up; maybe
it was because her father had the biggest
shearing shed in the district. He’d met
her a couple of times and didn’t fancy
her as a girl-friend.
But he wouldn’t have minded having
one of the Barabran girls.
“What do those blokes at Barabran
do for a living, Mum?” he asked.
“They don’t do nothin’ much at all,”
she said. “Sit on their bums in the shade
all day, is what your father says. They
do odd jobs around the town, you know,
and help out with the lamb marking,
and a few of them got regular jobs as
stockmen. Now, you take Teddy Harris
over at the Nicholsons’, he’s a Barabran
bloke, and I won’t say nothin’ against
him. As for the women they do some-
thing else again. But you’ll not be
worryin’ your head about that, now.”
“The blokes at school reckon some
of them girls are abos.”
“Well, I’m not sayin’ they are and
I’m not sayin’ they’re not; but some of
them have got a touch of the tarbrush,
to be sure.” His mother transferred her
energies to the window-sill, dusting up-
turned flies on to the floor. “But you
don’t want to be believin’ all you hear,
Jim. I could tell you a few things about
the people that goes spreadin’ all this
gossip around, but I won’t. Now the
drip-safe needs emptyin’, and when
you’ve finished that I want some water
for washin’; so get a move on, my boy.”
It was a long time before he got
a chance to meet any of the Barabran
girls. He was a couple of years older
and had begun to drove sheep up to the
high mountain leases by himself, a tall
stringy youth with big hands and a ten-
dency to keep himself to himself when
anyone else was about. His mother cal-
led him a “shy bugger” and left it at
that.
One Sunday afternoon he was out
trapping along the erosion creek on the
far side of the property when a white
figure appeared around a bend of the dry
creek bed and then went out of sight
behind some thistles at the side. He
dropped his traps and hurried along the
pebbly watercourse. Striding around the
bend, he suddenly came across a girl in
a light-colored dress sitting on the slop-
ing bank. She jumped to her feet.
“Who are you?”
“Who wants to know?” the girl said,
with a quick toss of her head. She had
a sharp brown face and thin limbs, tan-
ned and angular and yet almost graceful.
He didn’t know but the gestures seemed
familiar.
“I’m Jim Stribley. Who are you?” She
didn’t reply. “What are you doing here?”
“Lookin’ for rabbits, if you must know.
Mr Harmsworth said I could come down
and have a look around the burrows
and then next Sunday I’m gonna set a
few traps. But I ain’t seen a bloody thing
yet.”
“You’re not one of the Harmsworth
girls,” he said flatly.
“No, I ain’t I come from Barabran.
I’m workin’ for Mrs Harmsworth to help
her with the kids, see. Anyhow, what’s
it to you?”
“Nothin’ much. Except you’re on our
property. That’s Harmsworth’s fence up
there,” he said, pointing up the hill to
a barbed-wire fence which ran across it
near the top.
“I know,” she said, and suddenly
smiled at him". “But you don’t mind,
do ya? Old Harmsworth’s got no rabbits,
and I thought you’d be glad to get rid
of ’em.”
“Well . ...” he said. “I’m just doing
a spot of trappin’ meself. You can come
along if you want to.”
“Too right I do.”
They walked back along the creek
bed to where he had left the traps. The
girl was careful to keep a couple of feet
away from him on his left. They talked
desultorily, he kicking the pebbles with
his riding boots, and it was a relief to
start laying the traps again.
The awkwardness between them might


have lasted all afternoon but for the
accident. He had been setting traps in
the mouths of burrows tunnelled into
the creek walls, laying strips of paper
over the trap-plates and then covering
them with fine dry earth; he had only
three traps left when the girl decided to
select the next burrow for him. “What
about this one here?” she said, bending
down in front of a burrow further along
the creek. He looked up just as she rested
her hand near the entrance. With a
vicious snap the concealed trap he had
set the day before sprang up and caught
her near the wrist.
She gave a scream and fell backwards.
The peg held fast, and by the time Jim
reached her tears were pouring down
her face.
“Christ, I’m sorry,” he said, and jam-
med hard down on the steel spring with
both thumbs. The jaws edged apart and
she carefully lifted her hand out.
The trap had missed her fingers, where
it could have been dangerous, and had
merely broken the skin across the back
of her hand. The girl, however, was still
crying, letting out a string of curses in
between sobs, so he sat down beside
her and tied a handkerchief around the
bleeding jaw-marks. Somehow the opera-
tion drew them closer together, and by
the time she had stopped crying and they
had started to lay the remaining traps
they were friends.
“How long you gonna be workin’ at
the Harmsworths?” he asked her. They
were walking side by side now, the girl’s
thin arm occasionally brushing his; the
sun had begun to slide along the ridge
above them, and the start of a dusk
breeze was shaking through the thistle
bushes.
“Aw, two or three months. Until the
missus drops her kid. She’s carrying one
you know.”
“Go on. Another one?”
“Yeah. I reckon they oughta put old
man Harmsworth into the stud ram sec-
tion at the show.” She laughed crudely.
“He even has a go at me sometimes, the
old bastard. But I’m too good for him;
I know a bit about bloody men, I do.”
Jim felt his stomach contract, as it
had the first time he climbed on board a
buckjumper at the Tarrabanda show,
like the time he dropped his mother’s
wedding vase and caught it just before
it hit the floor. He managed a weak
laugh.
“You cornin’ down this way again next
Sunday?” he said.
“I dunno. 1 might.” She looked across
at him, sly and unapproachable sud-
denly. “Sunday’s me day off, see. I
might come down.”
“Well, might see you if y’do,” he said
casually. “I reckon there’s a bit more
trappin’ to be done around here yet.”
He looked around at the dry red creek
banks, pitted with hollows and the oc-
casional burrow, and then down at the
water-smoothed skimming pebbles at his
feet, and finally back at the brown intent
face of the girl.
“I’d better be goin’. Hooroo.”
“Hooroo.”
He turned on his heel and walked
away down the creek bed, a little self-
conscious and not quite sure how to hold
his shoulders. When he looked back,
having reached the next bend, the girl
had gone.
Jim Stribley saw the girl quite a few
times after that. Every Sunday at the
same time he went out trapping along
the erosion gully, until he reckoned the
rabbits could set their watches by him;
and after a while the girl would come
stumbling down the ridge from Harms-
worth’s, through the three-strand fence
and down into the creek where he was
working. A couple of times he even
found her waiting for him. They set the
traps together and then walked aross
the sun-browned sheep paddocks, clouds
of grasshoppers springing out of their
path; or took a rifle after wedge-tailed
eagles in the high boulder-strewn hills
which overlooked the Stribley farm; or
else just sat and talked in the shade about
the people they knew in town. He was
surprised to learn how different her life
was to his. Like most of the Barabran
girls she was one of a big family, but
only she and her younger brother still
lived at home. Her father was a real
down-and-out who did nothing but yarn
with his cronies under a tree all day,
and sometimes staggered into town for
a drink; when the beer ran short he
wasn’t above taking a swig of metho.
Her mother kept the family going by
working part-time in the Tarrabanda
steam laundry, but she was always
threatening to “pack up and quit” as
soon as the two youngest kids could look
after themselves.
“Sooner she does the better, I reckon,”
the girl told him. “Moanin’ and grizzlin’
all the time. No wonder me old man took
to the drink. I like me old man, even
if he is blotto half the time. But I can’t
stand her.”
He never told his mother and father


he knew the Barabran girl, because he
knew they wouldn’t like it. Instead he
told them he was going trapping or shoot-
ing and that he wouldn’t be back till
sunset.
Nothing much ever happened between
them. The closest they came to it was
one blazing day late in the summer when
they were lying in the shade of a great
overhanging gum tree, heads propped
against a coat; after their usual tight-
lipped and unsatisfactory kissing he
quickly slipped his hand down the
front of her cotton dress and touched
the nipple of her small undeveloped
breast. She let his hand stay there for a
bit as he clumsily tried to caress her,
but then flung away from him with an
oath and a burst of laughter. “Jesus
Christ, you’re as bad as old man Harms-
worth,” standing up and adjusting her
thin dress “only he tries a bloody
sight more than that.”
A couple of weeks later she didn’t
turn up at the erosion creek; nor the
week after. He asked his mother about
Mrs Harmsworth and was told that she
had lost her child a month early. It had
been stillborn.
After that whenever he rode into Tar-
rabanda”he kept a lookout for the girl
in the dusty settlement on the edge of
the town, but he never caught sight of
her. There was a fresh bunch of young-
sters clinging to the netting fence and
staring out of wild unblinking eyes at
whoever rode past, but the older girls
with their pubescent breasts and arrogant
carelessness seemed to have disappeared.
He often thought of riding right into
Barabran and asking about her, but he
never got around to it: he was always too
scared of making a fool of himself.
The shearing season came around, then
lamb marking, and then the shearing sea-
son again. Jim Stribley’s wrists thick-
ened and his muscles hardened. He spent
most of his time helping his father on the
station trying to keep some crops going
so they didn’t have to rely on the wool
prices alone. He didn’t have much chance
to get into town.
"EVery now and then, however, his
father declared a holiday and the
youth rode into Tarrabanda to attend the
dance in the local church hall or to have
a booze-up with his mates from other
properties in the district. They were
pretty rowdy affairs, those booze-ups:
all the farmers’ sons crowding into the
bar of a pub for half an hour or so,
yarning and laughing and shouting
rounds, and then staggering down the
main street, singing at the tops of their
voices, to the next pub on the list. By
the time the pub crawl was over they
would all be as full as ticks, someone
would’ve chucked up, and a few of the
blokes would be all for driving out to
Barabran and “pickin’ up a coupla good
sorts.”
It didn’t take him long to find out
what some of the Barabran women did
for a living. They charged a fiver a time,
so his mates said. And once he even
went out there himself with half a dozen
others in the back of an old utility.
It was a dark, cool night with clouds
scurrying across the sky, and the young
men talked quietly among themselves
as the utility jolted over the rough dirt
road which led down to the shanty town.
The pubs had closed only a little while
before but nobody felt like singing. The
truck’s headlights wavered over the rutted
track and then cut out altogether as the
driver parked next to one of the houses,
right up against the wall. He went inside
to talk to one of the old crones who acted
as a go-between while the others stood
in the dark in the back of the utility,
peering out at the badly lit shanties and
rundown tin sheds. They had sobered up
quickly, and now that they were inside
the wire fence of the settlement the
whole idea didn’t seem such a good one.
Jim Stribley, looking at the dull shapes
of figures moving between the houses,
found that he was shivering.
About ten minutes later the driver
returned. Something had gone wrong;
there was nothing for it but to clear out
and come back some other night. The
utility reversed around the corner of the
house, engine burbling and spitting
through the silence, and then roared up
the potholed track towards the main
road. In the back of the truck everyone
felt relieved.
Still, he liked the Barabran girls. Every
now and then he ran into some of them
in the main street of the wool town, and
a few of the more daring used to turn
up at the Saturday night church-hall
dances though they’d never been inside
a church in their lives. He liked the way
they didn’t give a damn about what
anyone thought of them and stalked
around the girls’ end of the hall near
the piano with their heads high and
looked straight at you when you danced
with them and dared you to put a finger
out of line. He liked their brazen in-
quiring faces and eyes and the sugges-
tion of temper and tantrums about their
skinny bodies, and the feeling of barely
docile animality they exuded when you
danced close to them. At one of these
dances he thought he saw the brown-
faced girl who had worked at Harms-
worth’s, but he wasn’t sure it was her
even when he looked straight at her.
Maybe she’d changed, or maybe it wasn’t
her. She didn’t give any sign of recogni-
tion. In the end he danced with someone
else instead.
Yeah, he’d always liked the Barabran
girls. He took quite a few of them out
and used to enjoy being with them,
though his mother didn’t like it and
reckoned he could “do better.” They
weren’t as bad as the townspeople made
out; some of them were pretty wild, and
a couple of the older ones sold them-
selves to the drunken station hands for
the sake of a quid or two, but most of
them were just rowdy high-spirited girls
who enjoyed having a good time and
weren't above giving him a clout over
the ear if they thought he was carrying
on a bit too fast.
Anyway, he knew that somehow they
were the sort of people he felt closest
to. He always thought he would like to
marry a Barabran girl.
"Out then . . . well, a bloke grew older.
He moved to the city for a while
and then went to one of them agri-
cultural colleges where you got to know
another sort of woman altogether, and
then the army, Christ, it was different
there, that’s when you really began to
find out about what different sorts of
women there were. And then after the
war, back on the station where you
didn’t go to the church-hall dances any
more because that was for youngsters
but went out with the daughters of the
other farmers and became respectable
and somehow the Barabran girls and all
they had meant to him faded away and
got lost in the background somewhere.
And yet he had never quite forgotten
them. Even now, whenever he drove into
town in his new utility and passed by
the untidy camp of shacks and tin sheds
he remembered the brown girls in their
skimpy cotton dresse* and the way he
had felt when he first stared into their
bold, crudely innocent faces and defiant
unflinching eyes, which he had never felt
before and had never really felt
again ....
Jim Stribley, 36, sheep farmer, of Road
Mail Box 109, Tarrabanda, Australia,
looked across the bed to where his con-
tented wife lay half-asleep beside him,
her faded blonde hair in curlers and the
blanket drawn up ovei her pudding-basin
body, and then up at the fibro ceiling
of their bedroom. Carefully, so as not to
disturb his wife, he put his hands behind
his head and stared up at the wooden
joints in the ceiling as he had done for
hours on end when he was a boy. His
wife, however, must have felt him stir
because she reached a hand across and
began to touch him familiarly.
“Ah, for Christ’s sake, Dolly, leave
me alone and go to sleep,” he said. There
was an unexpected harshness in his voice.
He turned his back towards her and
tried to drag himself painlessly into
sleep.


7^'"'
- aqm
mm
m
f#ppiipp
■>» ..j
...
71
7L
ti
mmm
ill
1111
.
-.
W
■:■ ,• . ' :
. - • ; ■ : -:
'■TL*- •.. '•;•:■■ ;■■ •. ■
i» ~. • - . Vi->r ■ •■= I
11-
'W''£?§
•• i:
:
■MI
i rm %a
, .. 4 * ,'fs V -T WWiM, aoer-^^&c
K& ’'' 7181111
mmsm
HU
3iS'&s;«
::llllll:llllllg^^^^^B
••-* V ■■••*.-:¥i
m m
) f 1 ’'Jam
111®
A
: /fa
«M!
1
'////KAf
mm
i
USTRALIAS
<
FLIGHT 007
r* :
< '
'ls,
as < v£* - &
J
SYDNEY LONDON I2oohrs
- PERTH » BFIRIIT
SINGAPORE - RflMc
1
.
< '
ISBltill
|
.
IitHBKIId:H!I!<JII.M
II Hi
4274
i-<n
K(0
0 LU
CL Z
* 0)
U 1
D
0 CD
EXPORT
ACTION
Export action is a by-word of the Repco Organisation. Sales, administrative and
technical personnel are constantly on the move throughout the world seeking
new markets, establishing additional sales outlets and assessing local require-
ments. Repco Engine, Brake and Transmission Parts, Tools and Service Equipment
are distributed throughout 63 countries. Repco operates in close liaison with the
Australian Government to increase its own overseas trade and to support the
Australian drive for greater exports.
’ where the standard
is perfection
REPCO LIMITED, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA; MANUFACTURERS, MERCHANDISERS
AND EXPORTERS OF AUTOMOTIVE PARTS, SERVICE EQUIPMENT AND MACHINE
TOOLS FOR TRANSPORT, INDUSTRY AND AGRICULTURE.


FORUM
The Return of the
Australian Dollar
The Currency Lads
By M. H. ELLIS
With the advent of the decimal
system Australia surely comes
to the end of its long series of
currency changes which began almost
immediately after its foundation.
If there was one subject on which the
original Government thought not to have
difficulty if it thought at all it
must have been the circulation of cur-
rency in a convict settlement with every-
body under duress but the military guard
and the very limited civil service. There
was no native population to exchange
goods for money with. The convicts of
the first couple of fleets were lucky to
have a pair of trousers or a smock, much
less a pocket. The upper crust had their
purses and guineas, their bills on their
agents in London or elsewhere and
Treasury bills paid for salaries and goods
which ran as good as cash.
For hoi polloi a few copper pennies as
heavy as possible were considered enough.
The ships of the East India Company
and other transports and the whalers and
American rum runners soon brought in
the usual eighteenth century miscellany
and the convicts contributed stolen
guineas; and dollars, round and silver,
as of the Maria Teresa thaler variety
the most useful currency to have about
you even a few years ago in Asia came
down from China pock-marked with the
imprints of the hongs and lai sheung-yans.
The locals soon began to establish
their own systems of exchange, and
plumped for the enclosure of its highest-
valued “coin of the realm” in a keg or
mug.
It has always been a tradition with
Australian historians (who are the heirs
of the clergy and missionaries, the most
vocal and literate section of the early
community) that the exchange of liquor
for work and commodities was the ex-
clusive monopoly of the wicked soldiery.
But the fact remains that almost the
very first specific use of rum as a cur-
rency had for its father one of its chief
denouncers no less than the Reverend
Richard Johnson who, having built his
first church, sent home a detailed account
of the equivalent of £74/7/9! which he
declared that he spent on it. And the
first and largest item on the list of
articles of barter which he paid to his
laborers in 1793 was spirits which
he obtained from the Government
at 4s. 6d. a gallon and paid to his
workmen at 10s. a gallon, making a
nice profit. He likewise made a
profit on the rest r.f the “provisions”
which he issued, of which that favorite
beverage of methodism, tea, totalled only
5 ozs against the 20! gallons of spirits.
He made just as big a gross percentage
profit on that. The money part of the
transaction was dealt with in the uni-
versal international currency of Spanish
dollars a large satisfying coin it was
too, handsome, beautiful to stroke in the
pocket, and there is some evidence in his
figures that he did not go lacking on
rates of exchange in this money trans-
action, either.
The currency system from then on-
wards was conducted on the basis of
barter and it was this method which
enabled the seller to nominate his
medium and thus made the universal
rum and tobacco system, io notorious and
so fraught with evil, not only feasible but
universal in a naturally debauched and
nine-tenths-criminal population.
Elizabeth Macarthur in a letter dated
Ist September, 1798 —the year is wrongly
given as 1795 in the historical records
—describes it in the mature condition of
its first stage:
. . . some thousands of persons are fed from
the public stores perhaps between three and
four thousand all of whom were formerly
supplied with flour from England to meet the
demand for bread. But since, many individuals
have cleared farms and have thereby been
enabled to raise a great quantity of grain in
the country which ... is purchased by the
Commissary at 10s. a bushel, and issued for what
are termed rations ... in payment of which
the Commissary issues a receipt approved by
the Governor, and these receipts pass current
here as coin, and are taken by masters of ships
and other adventurers who come to these parts
with merchandise for sale.
When these receipts accumulated they
were turned back to the Commissary
who gave a bill on the Treasury in Lon-
don for them.
Governor Hunter in an order in 1796
(“Parole Honor Countersign, Integ-
rity”) sought to inhibit this system which
he thought “extraordinary” and calculated
to promote “fraud and imposition”. He
decreed that no ration receipts pass cur-
rent thereafter but that they be exchanged
for notes which would be issued by the
Commissary, “no other persons being
authorised to issue notes payable by the
Government.”
But, as Mrs Macarthur’s letter written
two years afterwards shows, this system
was honored only in the breach. More-
over, Commissaries soon found that (so
long as they were not caught by the
Governor) it was quite profitable to
establish their own private currencies
But unfortunately some of them did get
caught and there was what the Germans
call dicke Luft to pay.
In any case, the Colonial Secretary,
the Duke of Portland, had nearly suffered
from apoplexy at the idea of Commis-
sariat’s issuing currency. It was around
this time, with the advent of the great
merchants and traders Robert Camp-
bell as a freely-come one and Lord &
Kable, the Reibys that others began to
find it profitable to enter the note issue
field. And everybody got into the money
changing system with alacrity and em-
bellished it with a lot of nice refinements.
Even the ladies, in fact (for in a com-
munity in which men far outnumbered
the women and the number of women
who worried to get themselves married
was not overlarge), had a currency of
their own which was always in demand,
the outward evidences of which at the
opening of the nineteenth century were
the 400 children out of the total less
than 1,000 in the Colony who were
politely described in official parlance as
“orphans”, but who in the main were
the abandoned offspring of the free-rov-
ing ladies’ nocturnal “currency” opera-
tions.
Hence, apparently, the more popular
term for these waifs among the respect-
able, “currency lads and lasses”, a phrase
which the colonial-born later made re-
spectable by adopting it as their own
generic description, though for a genera-
tion “currency” applied to humans was
a fighting word.
The Currency Lads may fill their glasses
And drink to the health of the Currency
lasses;
But the lass I adore and the lass for me,
Is a lass in the Female Factory.
Which was the ladies’ convict reposi-
tory at Parramatta.
Tn 1800 some steps were taken to deal
with the legal coinage for the first
time. The British Government sent a
quantity of copper coins to be paid for
grain and animal food supplied by the
Government. As these coins weighed an
ounce each, they were something of an
encumbrance, but this no doubt was out-
weighed by the facts that they were
“stamped with the profile of His Majesty
on one side, and of Britannia on the


other.” They were to pass current at two-
pence which meant a nice profit for the
Treasury.
At the same time a list of exchange
rates for current coins, headed by the
guinea (£l/2/0), showed how cosmopoli-
tan was the trade in money at the time.
The gold mohur, the half-Johanna (£2),
the Spanish dollar, the ducat, the pagoda,
rupee, Dutch guilder were all rated. But
the only English coins outside the guinea
were the English shilling (Is. Bd.), the
one ounce pennies (2d.), and half ounce
and quarter ounce copper coins at Id.
and 4d. respectively.
To Macquarie belongs the honor of
having established our pioneer silver
coinage when the Government at home
at his request sent him £lO,OOO worth of
Spanish dollars in the Samarang in 1813
to help him abolish barter and promis-
sory note finance. He promptly had the
central part of the great and satisfying
silver coins cut out by a capable coiner,
and on “such small circular piece of
silver, on one side” ... of which is “im-
pressed the figure of a Crown with the
words ‘New South Wales’ above such
words and the figures 1813 beneath the
same, and on the other side . . the
words fifteen pence and having the edges
grained.” The large ring remaining be-
came a “holey dollar” worth ss.
These coins formed the legal tender
recognised as the sole media in all con-
tracts and financial transactions in the
Colony. They were the first local coin-
age properly protected and regulated by
law in Australia, outside copper. If any-
body today has even a handful of “holey
dollars” or “dumps” (as the smaller coin
was known) he has a small fortune.
Despite the advent of silver as a med-
ium, however, the trade in promissory
notes, with all its abuses, went on. Even
a judge became involved in it. And it
was as a direct result of this trade that
the Bank of New South Wales was
organised at the end of 1816.
It issued its own bank notes in sterling
coinage terms. Yet even this regularisa-
tion of methods of payment was very
soon shown to present its pitfalls
The issue of notes was sparing in the
beginning: 639 at £5, 1794 one pound
notes, 440 at 10s., 1192 at 55., 809 at
2s. 6d. and £27 odd in larger bank tokens
£5635 Bs. worth in all, plus a few
thousand shilling, eighteen-penny and
2s. tokens for small change, all dated
with the opening date of the bank
“eighth of April in printed characters.”
All the notes were made out to a
mythical acceptor named “J. Lee” and
each was signed by two directors of the
Bank.
The Government and others soon
noticed a remarkable tendency of the
note issue to grow of its own internal
generative qualities. And presently the
cashier, Mr Edward Smith Hall, whose
only qualifications as a banker seemed
to be that he had formerly been secretary
to the Benevolent Society, had to be ques-
tioned about this inflation which seemed
mysterious to all until an investigator
asked Mr Hall a simple question:
“When these notes were handed round
at Directors’ meetings for members to
sign,” he was asked in effect, “did you
take the numbers of the notes and the
names of the directors who signed them?”
“Certainly not,” replied the indignant
cashier, “the directors are all gentlemen
and would have felt insulted if I had
done so.” Which may sound queer but
which was no doubt rational in respect
of a Board, one of whose members re-
signed when the Bank refused to accept
his promissory notes as cash deposits!
As late as 1825 the figures in bank
deposit books of the Bank were expressed
in dollars as often as not. W. C. Went-
worth’s bank book, which I found among
family papers in a solicitor’s office many
years ago and which is the oldest known
Australian bank deposit book, was made
up in dollars after he began practice in
1825.
The British Government sent out its
first consignments of sterling silver
(£60,000) in 1825-6 just as the name
‘‘Australia” was about to come into
official favor, but it resisted the local ad-
ministration’s appeal for sovereigns on
the ground they might be snapped up by
exporters since British gold was such a
coveted medium in the Eastern and
American trades
The old system of commissariat and
Military Board notes, which had provid-
ed the classic official currency, remained
in existence till 1828 when all existing
notes issued. under the method were
solemnly burned. In 1832, fines and
penalties which hitherto had been pay-
able in dollars became payable in
British currency.
Yet the dollar continued to haunt the
currency and there was at least one at-
tempt in Governor Bourke's period to
reinstate it. It was the only large coin
available.
It was only with the discovery of gold
and the opening of our own mints in
the early 1850 s that the coinage system
of Australia settled down to a sterling
basis, with all the British coins and Aus-
tralian minted gold and other coins in-
discriminately in interchangeable use.
Gold itself was a common currency
right up to the beginning of the present
century the writer bought his first
school books and his first pony with gold
cradled in his own back yard—and with-
out benefit of a miner's right. The dollar
(and “half-a-dollar”) survived only as a
hard-dying expression until the American
invasion of 1942.


V
X
dtJ
u
ZM7
:
m
*7
S£
«
5S
SJ
©
Eg
s*.
9n
a>
B
>*
as
K
«
a>
®fl
*<s
C
«
s*.
a>
as
\=
a>
\LA*
j ~;■
<a
as
s*.
&
as
it
.
M
<a
as
it
S 2
m
<a
O
■ ..
■'V
■
No more chilly corners. No more roast-one-side-
freeze-the-other. Oil space heating is here to
give you luxurious warmth the modern way ... all
through your home, all through the winter. You’ll
be more comfortable you’ll pay less for it.
Oil space heating is ideal not only for homes —•
existing as well as new —• but offices, schools,
halls, swimming pools and all buildings requiring
ample heat at low maintenance and running cost.
OIL
HEATING
Easy Heat. No messy filling, or cleaning out.
Modern oil space heating looks after itself.
Clean Heat. No dust or ash to ruin paintwork and
fabrics. You save on cleaning and redecoration,
too with oil space heating.
Safe Heat. No open flame, no glowing elements,
no dangerous hot spots. A child can safely touch
the heater fume free too.
And you’re never out of fuel. Your outside tank
is filled regularly by your Caltex Heating Oil
distributor. Your bills are monthly and small!
FREE 16 PAGE BOOKLET
Caltex Heating Oil Division,
Caltex Oil (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. (in Capital city of your State)
Please send me without obligation your free 16 page booklet
on Oil Space Heating. I am interested in heating: (tick as
appropriate) a New home Existing home Other buildings
NAME ....
ADDRESS
CA777


OVERSEAS
Sex in the West
A Guide to the new morals
FROM OUR CORRESPONDENTS
A recent report produced by a group
of Quakers in Britain reviewed
modern developments in people’s
attitude toward sex and called for a radi-
cal new approach towards morality. The
report, “Towards a Quaker View of Sex,”
was not an expression of official
Quaker thinking, but was compiled by
a group of 11 members including
teachers, psychiatrists, a barrister and
a housewife, all except one being
married.
It criticised, among other things, the
Church’s attitude to sexuality throughout
the centuries. “This historical survey,”
it said, “supports us in rejecting almost
completely the traditional approach of
the organised Christian Church to
morality, with its supposition that it
knows precisely what is right and what
is wrong, that this distinction can be
made in terms of an external pattern of
behavior, and that the greatest good will
come only through universal adherence
to that pattern.”
On modern developments, it revealed:
“An increase in transient pre-marital
sexual intimacies generally. It is fairly
common for young men and women with
high standards of general conduct and
integrity to have one or two love affairs,
involving intercourse, before they find
the person they will ultimately marry.”
The report provoked much discus-
sion and controversy. Comments from
ministers of other denominations in-
eluded: “Too muddle-headed to do any
real good”; “over-emphasising the per-
sonal relationship at the expense of the
overall purpose of sex, which is procre-
ation”; and “no real attempt to discover
the scriptural teaching on the matter.”
It was supported, however, by some
other churchmen.
In a round-up of the modern attitudes
to sex in various countries, our corres-
pondents report their findings below.
FRANCE. From Paris:
P'RANCE has always had a reputation for
A laxity in sexual relations. “French
novels,” then “French comedies,” now
“French films” do what they can to pre-
serve the country’s bad name. In the
traditional boulevard farce, the plot is
usually built on adultery and the set
around the bed. The deceived husband
is a figure of fun. The whole of Paris
society, it seems, flits from couch to
couch between the hours of 5 p.m. and
7 p.m., every self-respecting man has a
mistress and every wife a lover. As for
the younger generation, films teach us
that in France boys and girls sleep to-
gether, almost with a yawn of boredom,
and never give the matter a second
thought.
The other side of the picture is a
Roman Catholic country in which
adultery is very definitely a sin, in which
contraceptives are theoretically banned
by law, and where family planning clinics
operate against immense difficulties.
Between strictness and profligacy, the
French have worked out a reasonably
balanced attitude to sex. It is obviously
not perfect. The French take marriage
seriously but, despite the influence of the
Church, one marriage in 10 ends in
divorce.
Adultery is not a joke in real life.
French courts tend to accept it as an
adequate excuse for murder, and are
invariably lenient in cases of '‘crime
passionel.” But, while French women are
just as likely to be hurt at their husbands’
infidelity as in any other country, they
have a down - to - earth approach to
marriage and sex that is remarkably
tolerant.
A detailed poll showed that while the
majority of French women considered
the loss of virginity before marriage a
serious matter, very few considered it
utterly dishonorable. This toleration
extends to the unmarried mother, who is
no longer regarded as having ruined her
life and hopes of happiness.
While far from treating adultery
lightly, the poll also showed that only
5 per cent of French wives considered
a passing affair by their husbands
sufficient reason in itself for divorce.
Since the war, France has closed the
brothels that were previously allowed to
operate openly. At the same time, there


have been many complaints of a lower-
ing in sexual morality. It is true that
teenagers, especially in large towns, have
much greater freedom. They often have
a tendency to ape what they think is a
sophisticated adult attitude to sex. But
they are not abnormally preoccupied
with it.
It is a curious fact that, since the war,
too, English women abroad have
developed a reputation in France as man-
eaters. French boys sent to Britain for
educational purposes return with reports
of easy conquests.
The French do not pretend to be
straitlaced, but a French weekly paper
recently suggested that chastity is coming
back into fashion. And it is true that
the latest comedy by M. Andre Roussin,
“Un Amour Qui Ne Finit Pas,” features
the unusual theme of a platonic love
affair.
ITALY. From Rome:
Ttalian society is moving rapidly from
a partially industrial to a fully
industrial economy, and traditional
attitudes towards sex are affected by the
tremendous changes in the social environ-
ment. At the end of this period in,
say, another 15 years—it may be possible
to generalise about an Italian attitude
towards sex. At present this is difficult.
Differences of custom between North
and South are so sharp as to represent
different civilisations. To a slightly less
degree, the same is true of social classes
and of rural and urban communities in
the same parts of the country. What is
standard is the non-existence of the legal
institution of divorce. Another new
factor is the fairly recent abolition of
legally-tolerated and controlled brothels.
Within this legal framework and
against the background of un-
paralleled economic boom Italians of
the young and middle generations have
shown remarkable balance. Sex problems
are not a social disease except in the
South, and even there things are improv-
ing. In Southern Italy the attitude to
sex is still allied to a concept of personal
dignity or “honor.” This means that
a breach of faith must be wiped out
in blood. Italian justice is extremely
clement towards a woman who kills her
seducer or a man who murders a faith-
less wife; less so when it is the husband
who deceives his wife. Wives are not
expected to take justice into their own
hands. The “honor” concept is more
pronounced in Sicily than in any other
part of the South.
In the prosperous, industrial North,
sexual morality tends to be fairly lax,
particularly in the rich but rather dull
provincial towns. La dolce vita is more
characteristic of these cities than of
Rome. By and large, the younger genera-
tion tends to be more honest and straight-
forward in its sexual relations than its
parents were. There is less hypocrisy.
Girls in the middle classes enjoy a
greater degree of economic independence
and personal freedom than was custom-
ary.
Sexual problems, often accentuated
by religious taboos, certainly appear to
worry large sections of the population
judging from the correspondence pub-
lished in the advice columns of the
magazines. Some of these columns are
edited by priests, and several papers
have both a religious and a lay adviser,
usually a woman. But it would be un-
true to say that sex is a preoccupation
of modern Italian society. Unlike many
northern peoples, Italians enjoy talking
about politics or money quite as much
as, if not more than, sex.
W. GERMANY. From Berlin:
Yl7hen West Germany’s popular picture
" paper “Bild Zeitung” recently pub-
lished a letter allegedly written by a girl
named Martina, asking if she was old-
fashioned to be a virgin at 17, the
response was enormous. Staff members
of “Bild” guarantee that the letters pub-
lished were genuine. Most of them came
from teenagers.
Since “Bild” specialises in upholding
virtue by denouncing vice (with pictures),
most of the letters printed said Martina
should be proud of herself. There were,
however, enough dissensions to show that
the public pollsters are probably right
in saying that sexual relations before
marriage, especially in the towns, are
more common than not in West
Germany.
Pre-marital pregnancy is one of the
causes of West Germany having the
lowest average marriage age in Europe.
This contrasts somewhat oddly with the
low birthrate among married couples.
Young people complain that they get
married early because their parents are
too straitlaced and do not understand
them. Among middle-aged businessmen,
who in post-war Germany are almost
compulsive travellers, one finds, however,
that nearly all have a mistress or so to
comfort them during their out-of-town
visits.
Post-war conditions have broken down
the old morality more obviously in West
Germany than anywhere else because
the post-war conditions were more un-
bearable, and the old morality more
strict. Many teenagers may congratulate
Martina on remaining a virgin at 17
(“better than being a mother of two at
15” wrote one), but clearly most of
them share her anxiety that she may lose
popularity by being thought a prude.
SWEDEN. From Stockholm:
Qex has few mysteries for Swedes.
the schools from the age of seven. The
idea, as set out in the report of the chief
medical officer of the School Board, is
“to protect the children from acquiring
their knowledge of sex from adults or
school-friends which may result in a
sense of guilt or fear, and generally
protect them against thoughtless, ill-
disposed or abnormal persons.” The
text books are compiled by teachers,
doctors and ministers, and are aimed at
not only providing biological instruction
but also in affirming ethical values. The
schools’ sex programme includes an out-
line in the use of contraceptives for
children aged 14 and above.
In Sweden sex matters are discussed
freely in public but seldom in private.
One rarely hears ambiguous remarks or
dirty jokes. Yet there does seem to be
a certain interest, chiefly among older
men, in “pin-up” pictures and films,
judging by the frequent advertisements
in the Press, the sale of_“girly” maga-
zines, and the popularity of nudist films
in some Stockholm cinemas.
The loss of virginity before marriage
has never, or at least not for many
generations, been considered a stigma
here. Few parents object to their child-
ren “going steady,” and this generally
intimate relationship usually ends in
marriage.
There is also no stigma on unmarried
mothers. On the contrary, they are given
all assistance necessary including matern-
ity benefits and access to day homes and
nurseries for the children.
It would be true to say that Swedish
youth is overwhelmingly decent and
moral. There are exceptions such as the
“raggare,” youngsters who drive around
the streets in large American-type cars
in search of an easy pick-up, mostly
teenage girls. These youngsters have
been in the limelight recently; they have
been featured in films and novels, and
have given the police a good deal of
trouble. Their actual proportion is small,
however, numbering only a few thousand
among more than a million young
people.
Swedish morals have hardly changed
in recent decades. A matter-of-fact at-
titude towards sex long ago removed
most taboos. Pre-marital sex relations
are common and contraceptives can be
obtained from machines in the streets.
Children bathe naked in the public
pools or play on beaches until school
age. The parks abound with nudes in


3?
u
Sm
INC, of history’s fools
originated the phrase
"curiosity killed the cat’*
and ever since thousands
of parents have been
using it to silence the awkward questions of children.
A very much wiser man described curiosity as the
lifeblood of civilisation.
And driving, insatiable curiosity is certainly a characteristic
of the successful man, whatever his field.
Curiosity is why you are reading The Bulletin, and this
advertisement in it.
Curiosity is what we hope will induce you, if it has
not already done so, to break an established habit in
order to stay at Melbourne’s most complete hotel, the
Southern Cross. You simply need to discover what
Australia’s largest hotel is like for yourself.
Since you will then make up your own mind about us,
we will answer in this text only one of your questions
in advance: room rates (from £4.0.0 single) and all
Southern Cross prices are fully competitive with other
leading Melbourne hotels and motels. As we say
in some of our advertisements, you would expect to
pay more but you don’t.
We think you will be glad you were curious enough
to experiment.
1HC38.44
marble and bronze. Nearly all schools
are co-educational. Young Swedes thus
grow up with an open and healthy-
minded attitude towards sex. This is
mirrored in the serious public debates
in high schools and universities on the
ethics and morals of sexual conduct, and
in the increasing number of marriages
with both parties in their early twenties.
From the US:
United States officially has a more
A conventional attitude towards sex
than most countries in Europe. In areas
where the Roman Catholic vote is a
major political factor, and in parts of
New England where some of the
puritanical laws of the early settlers still
stand, official standards are most rigid.
In New York State it is impossible to
be divorced for any reason other than
adultery; in Connecticut there is a law
banning not only the sale but also the
use of contraceptives. In hospitals across
the nation there is still reluctance to give
information about birth control, even in
cases where it is medically recommended.
Despite all this, or perhaps because of
it, Americans have a considerable pre-
occupation with sex.
There is a wide sale of medical-type
books on sex techniques, and a steady
increase in the under-counter sale of
pornographic literature, which is usually
solicited through the mails, and is
estimated by the US Post Office to have
reached a SSOO million a year business.
There is an increasingly liberal attitude
towards sexual morality by doctors and
marriage guidance specialists. Some
openly advise sexual relations between
engaged couples; others go so far as to
suggest that an adulterous affair, kept
secret from the marriage partner, can
help rather than destroy a faltering
marriage.
A surprising viewpoint was expressed
recently by Mgr George Kelly, director
of the Family Life Bureau of the
Roman Catholic Church in the US, when
he stated: “A random act of infidelity
represents nothing more than the
capitulation of a man or woman to the
weakness of the moment. We cannot say
that people commit adultery because
there is something wrong with their
marriage.”
A New York psychiatrist has estimated
that in one out of every four marriages,
one or both parties is currently having
sexual relations with another person.
And a Protestant minister in this city
recently complained that it was a waste
of time for him to give sex counsel to
couples about to be married because, he
said, more than half the girls were
pregnant already.


;.
& m
>M *
*
‘
iisiiliiis
-
Why won't your wife let you buy one?
Some women don’t like the Volks-
wagen’s shape.
At first.
Or the noise it’s supposed to make.
But the shape gets kind of lovable
and the noise is kept outside. (We
soundproofed the interior three years
ago.)
Volkswagen’s shape, like the marvel-
lous gearchange, is designed to make
driving easier and cheaper.
And that’s something women do like.
The wedge-like bonnet is important
when you’re driving it into a wind. The
wind keeps it down, not up, so the car
rides solidly, nose to the ground. You
don’t use as much petrol, because you
aren’t pushing a heavy, upright radiator.
Also the Volkswagen doesn’t date. It's
still the latest fashion in five years
time.
Because of the shape.
By making mechanical changes, and
improving finish, instead of adding
curves and chrome, you get a car that’s
honest, reliable, and durable.
But talking about Volkswagen prob-
ably won’t convince her.
The thing to do is have her drive and
park one. Steering, gearchange, com-
fort. She'll think there’s nothing like it.
But watch out when you start sharing
a Volkswagen with your wife.
After a while it isn’t ‘our’ Volkswagen.
It’s hers.
But from £849 tax paid,
why not have two Volks-
wagens and no arguments?
VW1200 Sedan, from £849
tax paid.VW1500,from£1199
tax paid. (Prices for State capital cities.)
Volkswagen (Australasia) Pty. Ltd.


Confusion in Canada
Would Dief do “the gentlemanly things"?
From GEORGE McGANN in New York
A CONFUSED and divided Cana-
dian electorate has failed once more
to put a political party firmly in
power. The Canadian national elections
of April 9 resulted in a narrow victory
for Lester Pearson and the Liberals and
a defeat for Prime Minister John
Diefenbaker and the Conservatives,
obvious to everyone but stubborn old
Diefenbaker himself.
Nobel Prize winner Pearson, a career
diplomat who campaigned on a pro-
American theme, won 127 of the 265
seats in the House of Commons —
enough for a Liberal Party victory but
not enough for a working majority. He
lacked six seats for that majority.
However, Diefenbaker, who failed to
win the Canadian public over to his
peculiar brand of anti-Americanism, re-
fused to concede defeat in the bitterly-
fought electoral contest. Taking advan-
tage of a quirk in the Canadian constitu-
tion, Diefenbaker vowed to cling to
power, even with a minority of 96 seats,
and to keep Pearson out of the Prime
Ministry he had clearly won.
His own Conservatives were expected
to force the prairie spellbinder to do the
“gentlemanly thing” and resign. Mean-
while he was holding out for full returns
from the “soldier vote” of absentee
servicemen abroad, but they usually vote
Liberal. So the days of Diefenbaker rule
seemed numbered. But the forthcoming
days of Pearson rule promised anything
but smooth sailing for the Liberals, since
they would have to depend on a coalition
with the Conservatives, New Democrats
and Social Credit members to pass the
legislation needed to put the Canadian
economy into higher gear. Canadian poli-
tics had been bedevilled for six years by
Diefenbaker's failure to win workable
majorities, and more of the same chaos
now loomed ahead.
Diefenbaker, a trial to both friends and
foes in times of crisis, cited the case of
the late William Mackenzie King in de-
fending his refusal to acknowledge Pear-
son's victory. Mackenzie King ruled for
a year with a hopelessly outnumbered
minority, as the Canadian constitution
allows. However, Diefenbaker conveni-
ently forgot the example of his immediate
predecessor, Liberal Prime Minister Louis
St. Laurent, who resigned promptly when
he won only 107 seats to Diefenbaker’s
112.
Diefenbaker had suffered a dramatic
loss of favor with his fellow Canadians
in the six years since he assumed the post
of Prime Minister with a massive backing
seldom matched. Even before his Govern-
ment fell on a vote of no confidence last
February there had been a serious revolt
within his own Cabinet. Three trusted
aides Defence Minister Harkness,
Associate Defence Minister Sevigny and
Minister of Trade and Commerce George
Hees resigned in protest against
Diefenbaker’s refusal to honor Canada’s
commitment to accept American nuclear
warheads for its armed forces. Three
other Ministers had subsequently with-
drawn from the Cabinet.
The US State Department had assisted
the fall of the Diefenbaker Government
by publicly pointing to its failure to im-
plement an old agreement to fit nuclear
warheads into the missiles which helped
guard the North American continent from
Russian attack. Diefenbaker, who had
consistently thwarted all American efforts
to force acceptance of the nuclear war-
heads on the Canadians, campaigned
vigorously on this issue. Pearson, a former
Canadian Ambassador to the US, said he
would accept the nuclear warheads if
elected. Diefenbaker called him “an
American stooge.”
The 67-year-old Prime Minister failed
to sway the majority of Canadians with
his claims that “an invisible incognito in
Washington” was insidiously working
against him. He also failed to convince
the electorate that the Liberal Opposition
was primarily responsible for the current
unemployment rate of more than eight
per cent of the total work force.
Diefenbaker’s loss of Press support wais
a telling factor in his election defeat.
The “Toronto Globe and Mail”, tradition-
ally staunchly Conservative, advised him
to get out of politics. “Everyone is
against me but the people,” he shouted,
echoing an old Truman chant, but it did
not sound very convincing.
There is no question that Washington
would be delighted to have an old friend
like “Mike” Pearson in power in Ottawa.
Neither John F. Kennedy, who once re-
ferred in writing to Diefenbaker as a
“son of a bitch”, nor Harold Macmillan
could get along with Diefenbaker at their
Nassau Conference which resulted in the
agreement to scrap Skybolt and adopt the
Polaris missile. The Canadian attended
the Conference, but his role was very
much that of the outsider looking in—
disapprovingly.
Pearson, a career diplomat and former
president of the UN General Assembly, is
the only Canadian ever to receive a Nobel
Prize. He was awarded the honor in 1956
for bringing the explosive Suez crisis to
a peaceful solution. He is often described
as boyish (even at 66), diffident and dis-
arming, as well as an unhappy warrior in
politics. He failed four times before this
election to succeed to the Prime Ministry.
He is no match for the likes of Diefen-
baker in the rough and tumble of political
debate.
Pearson endears himself to those
around him but leaves no clear image
on the public mind. “If Mike could sit
around and talk with every single voter
privately for five minutes we would win
in a landslide,” one Liberal politician ob-
served during the election campaign. His
speeches sound like the dry and fact-
filled lectures he used to give as a history
instructor at the University of Toronto
Pearson has been likened to Adlai
Stevenson, the “egghead” of American
politics who became the darling of the
intellectuals but never struck a major
chord of sympathy with the rest of his
countrymen.
“The thing that terrifies me is
demagoguery,” Pearson once confessed.
“Since the early thirties it has been clear
that if our democracy is to be brought
down this will be the way.” He dislikes
many other things about politics that
Diefenbaker revels in. “The hoopla, the
circus part of it, all that sort of thing
makes me blush,” Pearson confessed.
If and when Pearson assumes his long-
sought role as Liberal Prime Minister a
dramatic change in Canada’s relationship
with both London and Washington is in
prospect. He has promised to fly to Lon-
don to discuss trade and Commonwealth
relations with Macmillan and to see Ken-
nedy as soon as possible to bring about
close co-operation for the common de-
fence of the American continent.


My King’s Cross
Mary Gilmore and Bea Miles, Chris Brennan
and Hector Bolitho
By KENNETH SLESSOR
WrilEN I say “my” King’s Cross, I
don't wish to give the impression
that I ever owned King’s Cross
or even felt that it belonged to me after
a couple of drinks on a Saturday. I
mean “my” in a sense of time and not
of property. The time I mean was my
(and the century’s) twenties, which is the
right age for appreciating indigestible
food, dubious drinks, prehensile women,
exhausting conversation, hair-raising
gymnastics and about two hours’ sleep
a night. At this time, however, I con-
sidered the food and drink as exciting as
the conversation and I could still bounce
like a golf ball after walking five or six
miles and sleeping two hours.
Today my King’s Cross is somebody
else’s King’s Cross. It seems to have
vanished utterly. So, of course, has my
youth, and it seems only fair to take into
account the possibility that one depended
on the other. There are still swarms of
young human beings eating, drinking,
talking and making love in what passes
for King’s Cross today, and no doubt
they are enjoying it as intensely as I did.
But, looking at it from the anguished
plateau of my (and the century’s) sixties,
the place just doesn’t seem the same.
I don’t know whether my King’s Cross
was any better than today’s - or any
worse. For, whatever happens to its
landscape, King’s Cross will always be
a tract apart from the rest of Sydney,
still contemptuous of the rules, still de-
fiantly unlike any other part of any other
city in Australia. And, though its sky-
line keeps on changing in an unpredict-
able and bewildering way, its essence of
individuality does not change, its flavor,
noises, sights and smells remain the same
immutably. For this reason I find as
much pleasure in contemplating it today
as I did when I looked out of a Wool-
cott Street window in 1922 indeed,
with its unending flux of lights and
colors, its gaudiness and reticence,
its sunsets and midnights, it seems
(to me) a good deal more beauti-
ful than the highly advertised stones
and sand of Central Australia. To
me, the Chevron Hilton hotel, with its
glittering windows and huge verticals, is
as awe-striking as Ayers Rock.
Where is King’s Cross, or what is it?
Literally, I suppose, the Cross is where
the five streets cross at the top of
William Street. But, in the geography
of the Post Office, letters addressed to
King’s Cross may go to Darlinghurst,
Elizabeth Bay, Potts Point, Woolloomoo-
loo or even the fringes of Rushcutter’s
Bay. It is a term rather than a place.
Its boundaries are flexible. People who
“go to the Cross” or “live at the Cross”
may mean anywhere from Taylor Square
to Wylde Street. This doesn’t matter.
They are expressing a state of mind, just
as the Cross itself is perpetually expres-
sing a state of mind.
With the exception of some vexing
intervals in places like Melbourne,
Buqbuq, Port Tewfik and Tidworth
(Wilts), I have lived in or on the margin
of King’s Cross for more than 40 years.
The Harbor has never been out of my
window. During that time I have
watched hundreds of houses decay and
vanish, streets change their names as
well as their geometry, rows of buildings
topple and become holes in the ground,
and other buildings rise almost instantly
like the mango-trees of Oriental con-
jurors. I have seen the swishing trolley-
buses come and go and I have watched
horses change to station-waggons. I
have watched the pushes give way to the
bodgies and the bodgies to the rockers
(or whatever is the newest name for flash
young men in search of adventure). I
have watched the old William Street
eating-places (21 meal-tickets for £1)
turn into bistros, niteries, wine-and-dine
cafes, steak houses, spaghetti-bars and
espresso lounges.
Through all these transformation-
scenes the Cross has managed to cling
defiantly to the tatters of its uncon-
formity. Its streets today are just as
crowded with eccentric, extroverted or
fantastic people, but instead of the ripe
Australian idiom of the C. J. Dennis
period most of them issue torrents of
Italian, Hungarian, Slavic, Dutch, Ger-
man and Greek. The skysigns still blos-
som as brilliantly as ever in the electric
gardens overhead, but their alphabets are
fluorescent now where they used to be
spelt out with clusters of naked globes.
The buildings are higher, straighter,
airier, lighter and more antiseptic, but
the extraordinary old contrast between
mansion and slum (a grimy two-floor
tenement huddled next to a tower of
“luxury” apartments) has practically
gone.
In spite of its vestigial flamboyance,
for all the survivals of its native sauci-
ness, King’s Cross is not the King’s Cross
I remember from the ’2os and ’3os. Its
people, certainly, are noisy, irreverent,
crackpot and emotional but they are not
the kind of people who used to charm
and horrify and puzzle me when I lived
in Old Hampton Court. Where have they
gone? Where has my digestion gone?
Where has my hair gone?
Last week I dug up an old book of
jingles which I wrote about “Darling-
hurst” over 30 years ago. In those days,
Darlinghurst meant nothing but King's
Cross
“Where the stars are lit by Neon,
Where the fried potato fumes,
And the ghost of Mr Villon
Still inhabits single rooms,
And the girls lean out from heaven
Over lightwells, thumping mops.
While the gent in 57
Cooks his pound of mutton chops . .
and also:
“Where the Black Marias clatter
And peculiar ladies nod,
And the flats are rather flatter
And the lodgers rather odd.
Where the night is full of dangers
And the darkness lull of fear.
And eleven hundred strangers
Live on aspirin and beer.”
The fried potato has given way to deep
freeze or instant food, all mutton has be-
come “lamb” (just as all fowls ha've be-
come “chicken”), the Black Maria seems
to have disappeared with its nickname,
and the 1100 strangers living on aspirin
and beer have proliferated into 11,000
strangers living on aspirin and beer and
also on smoked eel, metwurst, goulash,
salami, Vienna schnitzels, benzedrine and
tranquillisers.
No doubt the strangeis and lodgers
are still odd enough, but they no longer
charm or horrify me. Nor —possibly be-
cause I have since acquired fixed ideas
about the hours at which I rise or retire
—do I seem to see, as I used to, un-
shaven gentlemen in boiled shirts and the
remains of black ties tottering about at
7 a.m. as if the daylight hurt their eyes.
Nor do I see blondes in nightgowns or
pyjamas clip-clopping in and out of deli-
catessen shops at high noon, a spectacle
which aroused little or no comment in the
19305.
As for the food, it has been said that
the postwar influx o f Europeans has wid-
ened our taste and improved our cook-
ing. This strikes me as boloney in the
full sense of the Bologna sausage. It is
true that King’s Cross is crowded today
with restaurants and cafes of a dozen or
more nationalities Dutch, Hungarian,


SYDNEY
Looking east across Macquarie Street to the harbor from the top of the Qantas Building.
NIGHT AND DAY BY ALLEN DAVID
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO, APRIL 20, 1963
A small sailing-boat has the freedom of the harbor as it passes Kirribilli where blocks of flats crowd the waterfront slopes.


View across the Domain to Woolloomooloo and Potts Point.
Left, the Archi-
bald Fountain in
Hyde Park at
sunset.
Right, a picture
which needs no
explanation—it is
characteristic of
Sydney.


Sydney’s congested and not very elegant “front-door,” Circular Quay. There is a
fashion to revive the Quay’s old name, Sydney Cove.


St Andrew’s Cathedral caught behind the bare branches of autumn.
Sydney Harbor Bridge seen from Millers Point.


Announcing a rare
<3
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
- Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
IPIEWFQILID)£
POT STILL
BRANDY
WZAf***
brands
German, Russian, Indian, Italian, Swed-
ish, Indonesian and others but this is
no evidence of better food. Since the only
two great cuisines of the world are French
and Chinese, both of which flourished
superbly in Sydney before the war, the
new tides of Slavs and Balts and middle
or southern Europeans have merely im-
posed the exigencies of their sparse na-
tional larders on the Australian menu.
They have contributed a number of sau-
sages as well as a number of ways of dis-
guising veal. But anybody who believes
they have improved this country’s cuisine
is clearly ignorant of the state of Sydney’s
restaurants in the first quarter of the cen-
tury. The claim is preposterous to any-
one who remembers the glories of Mon-
sieur Lievain’s Paris House, Stewart
Dawson’s Ambassadors, the first
Romano’s, Pearson’s fish cafe and
Watson’s Paragon, the Cavalier in
King Street, the Cafe Francais in
George Street, Petty’s Hotel and a dozen
more dining-rooms, all now vanished. I
find little compensation today in walking
through King’s Cross and looking at the
spaghetti-bars, the hamburger-counters
and the lines of electrically “barbecued”
chickens rotating in their glass coffins.
The Dinner-plate Targets
I>erhaps something a little too calcula-
ting, a little too prudent, a little too
commercial has corroded the joie de
vivre. There were few inhibitions of cost,
respectability or the quest for publicity
in the King’s Cross I remember. I never
saw the spirit of the Cross more charm-
ingly demonstrated than one night long
before the war when I was living in a
balcony-flat directly over the waters of
Elizabeth Bay. I had come home late
from the theatre and stepped on to the
balcony to enjoy the silence of the Har-
bor, glittering with reflected lights. Sud-
denly I became aware of a regular plop-
ping noise, followed by soft thuds and
hisses. Qazing up, I was delighted to find
that someone on a balcony above me was
engaged in sailing large white dinner-
plates into the moonlit air. They soared
out into the night, glimmering for a
moment and splashed into the water be-
low. But what was the hissing noise?
Peering farther up, 1 was even more de-
lighted to observe that someone on an-
other balcony was taking advantage of
these targets from Heaven by firing an
airgun at them.
Perhaps there was some of the same
spirit in the disc-smashing parties which
were popular in the ’3os, before long-
playing and almost indestructible records
were invented. The host would provide
piles of old played-out records, those
which bored him most, and the enraptur-
ed guests would shatter them over each
other’s heads untii they were ankle-deep
in vulcanite. I recall, too, a “house cool-
ing” party, given the day before the en-
tire apartment-building was due to be
demolished, at which the guests were in-
vited to lend a hand by sawing doors in
halves, pulling up wainscoting and rip-
ping the wallpaper down in strips.
Perhaps, indeed, the inhabitants of
King's Cross have changed in 30 years.
At any time I can shut my eyes and see
them again—“Hop Harry,” the amiable
retired welter-weight who became an “in-
terior decorator” (i.e. bootlegger); Chris
Brennan shambling to his lonely bed-sit-
ting-room in Rockwall • Crescent; Bea
Miles, then like Lil Abner's girl, shapely
and brown in shorts far ahead of their
time; Arthur Allen, the rich solicitor,
floating past in his transparent electric
buggy; Mary Gilmore gazing out from
her flat in Darlinghurst Road; Will Dai-
ley, delicately wheeling a game-pie home
in a borrowed perambulator: Hector Bol-
itho, the Royal biographer, darting along
Macleay Street in lavender gloves and a
bowler hat; “Bad Bill” Quinn, self-ap-
pointed guide to the underworld; Dulcie
Deamer, inextinguishably vivacious in a
leopard-skin after the Artists' Ball; Geof-
frey Cumine with his red beret, sky blue
shirt and brass ear-rings and a butterfly
tattooed on his forehead; DrifF, the black
and white artist who hired a taxi-driver
to take his old white cockatoo for a ride
around Centennial Park—hundreds more
in the procession.
But even the streets have altered.
Woolcott Street has become respectable
and changed its name to King's Cross
Road. The old mansions—Cairo, Marra-
manah, Oriana, Bomerah, Kinneil —have
been pulled down. William Street itself,
with its broad double lanes and flowery
centrepiece, has been transformed com-
pletely since the days when I walked its
length coming back from the Stadium.
Then it was less than half its present
width, a narrow and somewhat sinister
street lined on one side with frowsy
terraces and dimly-lit shops. It was the
original “Dirty Half-Mile,'’ a title after-
wards transferred to Woolcott Street and
now without a claimant.
This was my King’s Cross. Whether it
was any better or worse than today’s
King’s Cross I wouldn't know. But I
loved every inch of it.


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
YauOA
1
I «
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
NO ROYALTIES FOR METHODISTS
Sir,
With reference to an article by Keith
Willey entitled “Woman Trouble”
(Bulletin, March 16), I would like to
point out that his statement with refer-
ence to royalties from bauxite to be
mined at Gove in Arnhem Land, has no
basis in fact. I quote, “They (Methodist
Overseas Missions) can expect thump-
ing royalties from the bauxite . . .”
Methodist Overseas Missions will not
receive any royalties from, the bauxite.
I understand that double the usual
amount of royalty for such mineral will
be paid into a Government Welfare
Fund for the Aborigines, as is the case
with all mining projects in Aboriginal
Reserves. The Methodist Church is in
complete agreement with this, but
wishes it to be clearly known that none
of this money will be paid into Mission
Funds.
R. S. BROWN
(SA State Secretary,
Methodist Overseas Missions)
Adelaide.
SENATOR CAVANAGH AND
THE PLASTERERS
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to an
article headed “Breaking the Rules”
(Bulletin, March 16), dealing with the
activities of Senator Cavanagh in the
Plasterers’ Society.
I have been directed by my manage-
ment to reply to this article in so far as
it is inaccurate in many statements. On
no occasion has the Management Com-
mittee of the Plasterers’ Society issued a
circular attacking the late Secretary, Mr
Robinson, and I would request you
correct this false statement issued in
your journal.
You then go on to state that at a meet-
ing of the Society, Mr Marshall, a can-
didate for the position of Secretary,
publicly stated that he was a Communist,
and then Senator Cavanagh spoke and
called for support for Marshall, and
asked the Union to give Marshall 12
months’ trial as secretary.
The true position is that Robinson
gave a report on the reasons for his
resigning from the position of secretary,
Senator Cavanagh then moved that the
Committee’s action be endorsed. At
some later stage Marshall spoke.
Senator Cavanagh pointed out that
politically he could not support Marshall
for the position of secretary, but owing
to the operation of the rules the action
of Robinson in handing the job of sec-
retary over to Marshall, the members
had no alternative other than to accept
him, and he appealed for co-operation
for the following 12 months for the sec-
retary, when the rules would permit a
reconsideration of the position.
F. R. WALSH
President
(SA Plasterers’ Society)
Brompton (5^4).
THE SOOTHING DOCTORS
Sir,
The Bulletin surprises me in its
attitude towards the new doctor legisla-
tion.
Papers and magazines such as yours
are the NSW people’s only tongue at
present why are so many of us being
penalised in this way? Is a referendum
only necessary for hotel trading hours?
Why aren’t we consulted in something
which affects every individual we all
need the doctor sometime in our lives,
few of us even see the hotel!
Have you seen any man, other than a
doctor, work 48 to 60 hours without a
break (without overtime)? Have you
seen the humiliating sight of a man so
physically exhausted he crawled up the
stairs to his bed? Can you tell of one
general practitioner who could retire
comfortably at 63?
Must a man be punished because he
does a job only the best can do and it
is not his patients who should decide it
anyway the women in this State are
having no say! Only the overpaid
politicians! And worse! Your magazine,
which normally speaks the truth, does in
fact condone it!!
I would expect the next issue to come
out on pink paper, I should expect that
you blush with shame—possibly the
mother country has its head screwed on
properly, gaoling two newsmen. Are not
both cases so very similar?
(MRS) MARGARET PITT
Bingara (NSW).
REFORMING VICTORIA
Sir,
As a member of the Pulp and Paper
Workers’ Union concerned in the recent
Court action mentioned in your article
of April 6 (“A Step Towards Reforming
Victoria”), in one important matter
your correspondent was wrong.
The article states “as a result of a
Commonwealth Industrial Court judg-
ment last week rejecting the (Rank and
File Rights) Committee’s challenge to
some of the Union's rules (the Com-
mittee has already successfully amended
a mere 65 of these rules), Mr Brebner’s
main opponent has been disqualified
from standing on the grounds that he is
unfinancial.”
As the person referred to as being
disqualified on the grounds of being un-
financial, may I correct you.
In fact the Court judgment was
fundamentally in favor of the claimants
—a number of candidates disqualified by
a rule inserted by Mr Brebner last year.
This rule demanded that candidates for
office should be continuously financial
for three years.
The judgment given by the Court was
that this retrospective financial status
was unreasonable “the Rule which was
registered on August Bth, 1962, should
only apply from that time.” This
judgment automatically admitted me to
the ballot.
In my 14 years’ membership of the
union I have consistently paid my
union dues in accordance with collecting
practices at Maryvale.
K. DAVIDS
(Maryvale) Victoria.


“Pm not really a Duchess ...
but it's nice to be treated like one!”
And that’s the way it is when you fly Qantas. Nice things happen. The smile that says ‘welcome*
(and really means it) . . . the flattering and friendly way things are anticipated for you . . . the
feeling of confidence you get when you realise that with Qantas, you fly overseas with home-travel
ease. It’s a good feeling—and for good reasons.
The fine record of dependability built up by Qantas during 42 years as the oldest-established
airline in the English-speaking world, is one. Another is the knowhow and efficiency of Qantas
people, developed through standards of training and skill unsurpassed anywhere in the world.
Thirdly, there is the excellence and superiority of the Qantas 707 V-Jet—the fastest and most
thoroughly flight-tested aircraft in commercial service.
Today, Qantas is a world-wide organisation of over 6,500 know-
ledgeable people, each contributing to the feeling of comfort and
dependability that invites comments like, “I’m not really a
Duchess, but it’s nice to feel I’m being treated like one!”
« YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
Q 89.105.43


REV IEWE S
FILMS
Orson Welles’s “Citizen K.”
From FRANCOIS BONDY in Paris
T ike Orson Welles’s earlier film “Citizen
Kane”, his film version of Kafka’s
“The Trial,” now showing in Paris, ends
with the words “My name is Orson
Welles.” These final words are like a
painter’s signature, in the sense that a
film by Orson Welles is not the result
of compromises and the conflicting pur-
poses of different vested interests, but
entirely the work of one person who
accepts complete responsibility. The
usual introduction, including the names
of the cast, is spoken as an epilogue by
the director himself.
The film version does not begin in
the middle of the plot like the novel,
which opens with these words: “Some-
one must have been telling lies
about Josef K.” —words that take
us straight into the horror of the arrest
by night of the 30-year-old senior bank
official in Mrs Grubach’s boarding-house.
Instead, it opens with the parable of the
porter, which occurs towards the end of
the novel. The porter refuses admission
to the man from the country. When the
man dies after waiting for many years
outside the door, the porter cries: “This
door was intended only for you!”
In the film the parable is presented
woodcut-fashion in a series of pictures by
one of the greatest imaginative graphic
artists of our time, Alexander Alexeyeff.
The dreamlike expressionistic style of the
film is thereby established from the out-
set. Orson Welles evidently regards this
parable as expressing the meaning of the
mysterious action of “The Trial”, though
this Josef K. is not in the least like the
“man from the country” who thirsts for
righteousness. He does not wait outside
any door. All he wants is to be left in
peace by the intangible and malignant
authorities who are interested in him.
Generally speaking, it is in the places
where Orson Welles has deviated furthest
from his source that his attitude to
Kafka’s world, an attitude compounded
of fascination and repugnance, is best
seen. For example, K’s fellow-lodger Miss
Buerstner (Jeanne Moreau) is no longer,
as in the novel, an ‘office-machine opera-
tor’ but a night-club dancer, and the Miss
Montag, who in the novel goes to live
with her, becomes a cripple who drags
the dancer’s heavy suitcase through a
frightfully dreary suburban landscape
and refuses to accept any help from
Josef K. This scene, added by Welles
himself, is one of the most oppressive
in the film.
The most remarkable divergence from
the source concerns the circumstances
of the execution of Josef K. in a quarry.
As in the novel, the two executioners
hand one another the knife across the
recumbent body of Josef K. But instead
of thrusting the knife into his heart, the
two men move away and throw, into
the hollow where Josef K. lies half
naked, a bomb which, on exploding,
forms a mushroom cloud.
In the novel the defendants, in spite of
their harassment, are still intended to be
recognisably members of the upper
classes. Here they are portrayed as pri-
soners in transit from one concentration
camp to another. We also feel that Josef
K. is not the product of a dream-world,
but of a quite real and credible world of
horror. For this reason, Franz Kafka’s
“Trial” is for us today more or less the
illustration of a parable of the indivi-
dual’s search for justice.
Orson Welles is a highly gifted show-
man, piling up one tremendous and vio-
lent baroque effect after another, in the
footsteps of the German silent film. He is
at the same time the father of all the
“new waves” since he was the first to use
the camera like a pen, developing from
light and shade a masterly script all his
own. Thus, his baroque understanding
of the Shakespeare of “Macbeth” and
“Othello” is incomparable. But Kafka is
not Shakespeare. Nor is he a fanciful
surrealist introducing us to a strange
world of dreams. On the contrary, he is
dry and unemotional, the master of in-
direct speech, of sober, uncomfortable
humor —just the opposite of that baroque
quality which is evoked by his native city,
Prague. This tangible, sober trait, which
merely serves to intensify the horror,
because it is firmly established in a
plausible everyday world, is quite alien
to Orson Welles; it runs counter to his
own gloomily violent temperament, with
its tendency to demoniac exaggeration
No one who has only seen the film
version would dream that in the novel
Josef K. becomes the accomplice of his
own destruction and does not call for the
help of the policeman who might have
saved him from the two murderers.
Orson Welles ignores Josef K., the defen-
dant who agrees to his own trial and who
finds the organisation that attacks him
represented inside himself.
“The Trial,” like some of Kafka’s
other stories, contains a tendency to
self-destruction, to masochism, which
the critics have interpreted in very dif-
ferent and varied ways, but which cannot
be denied. Orson Welles has failed to
see this point. Otherwise, how could he
have chosen for the part of Josef K. an
actor so ill-adapted to the grey anonymity
of the man without a surname and who
shows not a trace of resignation or of
complicity with his own enemies?
Local Discovery
Embryo 11. Compiled by Adrian
Rawlins. Balwyn Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
Although it had only a two-night
showing, and is well over, “Embryo
II” deserves notice first to ensure that
there will be an “Embryo III,” and sec-
ondly to give news f a strikingly talented
local film-maker Dusan Marek of
Adelaide. In this programme of Aus-
tralian films, both ancient and contem-
porary, Marek’s animated cut-outs stood
out in spite of the entrancing opposition
of Fatty Finn. Compared with the “ex-
perimental films that have been shown
in y ecen ‘ festivals Marek; s work
ls " orld c > asa : Adam and Eve, in parh-
cu,ar’ !S bnlllantl >' successful,
One is not surprised when cut-outs
achieve quaint, comic effects as they do
in his “Nursery Rhymes,” but it takes
a rare talent to make a moving visual


experience from such materials. More-
over, “Adam and Eve” is remarkably
successful in its sound, which cannot be
said of “Nursery Rhymes” where sound
has been unwisely subjected to gimmicks.
Marek has also in this programme a
little tale, “The Magic Trumpet,” made
in conjunction with Eltham Films. Its
intent is lightly satirical and it has some
charming moments, but it does lack co-
hesion. The idea is reminiscent of Gerald
Macßoing Boing, and is a good one,
but just a trifle erratic and unconvincing.
Nevertheless the possibilities are enticing.
B.H.
TELEVISION
Bob’s Mob
BP Pick a Box. Channel 7.
TV Ballroom. ABC Television.
Don’t Listen, Ladies. ABC.
Tn case you’ve been feeling mildly
A guilty for watching drama and opera
and documentaries and neglecting the
folk arts of television as exemplified by
Bob’s Mob, don’t. Leave such masochism
to the critics, who at least get paid for it.
Let it suffice that the old-fashioned
Dyerama is showing its age, nothing
much on the set has changed, Bob still
asks the questions, Doll awards the
booby prizes and fetches the boxes,
Barry is still around, answering most
of the questions and clapping his brow
and pouring out gallons of information
all around the subject to prove he knew
every damn thing about it except the
right answer when he misses.
There is also, currently, a lady named
Marjorie who has picked boxes worth
£2OOO but does not look too happy
about it, probably because she knows
she’s next up in the glass box when Dr
Webster vacates it, doomed to answer
questions like “What do you think of the
European Common Market?” and worse,
doomed to listen to Barry’s opinions.
Having glanced at something old, I
looked in later at the “premiere” of a
new series of TV Ballroom, compered
by Diana Ward. The previous series had
left me cold, and it was a pleasant sur-
prise to find this one bearable. The
dancing was expert, the types of dance
varied from formal to mildly exotic, the
dressing was good, and the camera work
and lighting had improved.
Lighting, or make-up, or both, were
also responsible for some unflattering
shots of the actors in the ABC’s “Don’t
Listen, Ladies,” a drama which radio
used to do about once a year, but having
its first time around on local television.
Produced by James Upshaw, it was good-
looking, harmless, tolerable entertain-
ment, with a couple of oldsters named
Alex Archdale and Neva Carr-Glynn
acting the ears off the rest of the cast.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Threadbare Gimmicks
The Changeling. Midleton & Rowley.
The Dolphin. Perth.
Majority of One. Leonard Spiegel-
glass. The Playhouse. Perth.
Tn Perth, this is the second work from
the Jacobean period to be per-
formed this year with the promise of
more period plays to come. “The
Changeling” is grand tragedy, lacking
Shakespeare’s lyricism, but forceful,
penetrating and swift-moving. Though
it is marred by a sub-plot of little worth
and less relevance, it remains a master-
piece.
An austere, heroic approach might
have been expected from Bankside
Theatre Productions, a new University
group devoted to the presentation of
classical drama. Certainly Jean Brad-
ley’s production was most competently
designed and executed; inside the ap-
proach she elected no serious fault could
be found. But “The Changeiing” is a
genuine tragedy, not a melodrama, and
to present it as such is to sin against
the authors and the audience.
A battery of theatrical tricks, for the
most part used not even singly but to-
gether, underscored so many scenes and
lines that the miracle was that the play
did not degenerate into farce. Fancy
lighting, flamboyant posturings, an un-
seen celestial choir a la Hollywood, and
the extravagant, unsubtle use of back-
ground music were some of these. Gim-
micks have their uses but Mrs Bradley’s
were threadbare by the end of the first
half.
ITlhough “Majority of One” is a new
A play (first performed New York,
1959) it derives nothing from con-
temporary influences in the theatre and
with minor alterations to the plot detail
could have been written at any time
since the rise in popularity of “delightful
comedies.”
Bertha Jacoby, who might have been
lifted neat out of “Abie’s Irish Rose,”
is lousy with good qualities. She is warm,
loving and lovable, shrewd, practical,
emotional, gregarious, knows a good deal
about life and about people. Her one
fault, a hatred of the Japanese, is due to
the death of her only son in World
War 11. After a lecture on racial pre-
judice she agrees to live with her
daughter and son-in-law in Japan. As
we expected, Mrs Jacoby can only hate
the Japanese in absentia ; she finds all
human beings irresistible.
Nita Panned, who seems to have made
“Mums” a speciality, delivered this one
with her customary aplomb and bravura,
though her characterisation was more
broad than artful. John Tasker’s produc-
tion was deft with some charming
touches, particularly in the Japanese
scenes.
MARY LORD
ART
Late Classical
Leon Golub. The Colossal Drawings.
Gallery A. Melbourne.
A this year has taken a re-
freshing and rewarding direction. Its
first exhibition was of the highly skilled
and stimulating lithography of the Lithu-
anian printmaker Romas Viesulas. The
second is of recent drawings by the Chic-
ago painter Leon Golub. Both have been
excellent and well-informed choices, and
the gallery deserves thanks for persisting
with such a valuable but difficult policy.
Golub is generally associated with a
return to figurative painting in the United
States—figurative in the most literal
sense in that he concentrates on the hu-
man figure. The present exhibition of
drawings, called the Colossi, presents ex-
clusively powerful male figures strongly
evocative of late classical art, in fact
deliberately so. The heads and bodies are
of massive naked gladiators in aggres-
sive muscular action. Thus in the fore-
ground of meaning is a strong affirma-
tion of the continuity and worth of man,
and of the persistence of culture. It is an
art which strips men of the accidents of
time and place and calls forth their liv-
ing strength as a symbol of their domina-
tion over the world.
At the same time it is an art which re-
cognises the corrosion of the ages. The
drawings have none of the clear defini-
tion of classical figures. They do not
stand apart in space and they are broken,
partly effaced, sometimes joined to an-
other incomplete figure. Man’s strength
persists but time has worn it down, civili-
sation has snapped it, and he merges with
the world about him. A classical human-
ism remains but it lacks the heroic
stance. Golub touches, perhaps as far
as one can today, on universal themes
of life and decay.
BILL HANNAN


THE RED PAGE
No Guts on Sundays
One looked for the ferocious egotism,
one got a tea-table conversation
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Encore. The Sunday Times Book.
Michael Joseph. 31s.
Monitor. Edited and introduced by
Huw Weldon. Macdonald. 275.
T recall the way in which Karel Reisz,
the director of “Saturday Night and
Sunday Morning,” dismissed the “Sunday
Times” film critic Dilys Powell whom
I had said I thought the best of her kind
in existence. “She’s too old,” Reisz said.
“She’s done it too often.” I thought
then and still think he is wrong, but the
point is that his comment reflects a very
widespread attitude to both the “Sunday
Times” and other pillars of the journal-
istic establishment. A great many lively
and intelligent people in Britain whose
opinion one respects find “The Sunday
Times” a smooth, glossy bore, mad-
deningly detached about everything that
matters, uninteresting below the surface
and so elegant it hurts. Where I differ
from these critics is in their dislike of
good writing as such they are deeply
suspicious of beauty and fluency of
phrase, of clear and poised thinking.
Where I agree with them is in their
annoyance at the blandness of so many
of the contributions. They are cool,
“lucid” in an anaemic way.
Passion, idiosyncracy, edge are mostly
lacking.
Take the interviews in this book
drawn largely from “The Sunday Times”
magazine section. Derek Prouse, whose
writings give the impression of an agree-
able but edgeless individual, talks with
Edith Evans, an actress who has
triumphed over a quite formidable ugli-
ness to give some highly stylised per-
formances of classic roles, and who
like that other paragon of dire visage,
Flora Robson —is frequently, and gush-
ingly, referred to as “lovely” by stall-
bound matrons. With an apparently
limitless amount of space at his disposal,
a free hand and a large audience, Prouse
one might have thought would
have been able to probe deeply into the
personality of a major actress. One
looked for an exploration of the ferocious
egotism, temperament, intellect, dis-
cipline and anguish that mark a star,
and the way in which Dame Edith had
managed to overcome her own physical
deficiencies to captivate audiences. In-
stead, one got a tea-table conversation,
genteel and chintzy and fragile as bone
china, culminating in a nauseating ex-
change: “Prouse: \ Well, Dame Edith,
we've come a long way from the little
girl in Ebury Street. Dame Edith: Yes.”
The editing policy behind the “Sunday
Times” magazine section seems set on
providing us with the spectacle of one
well-known person confronted with an-
other, yet the results rarely catch fire.
Too many of the pen portraits provide
little more than an effete pat on a stiffly
complacent back. A number of writers
are represented below their best. Cyril
Connolly, the paper’s literary editor
and a contributor of a weekly piece
about a current book, provides an essay
on Hemingway which sadly lacks the
penetration, precision and brilliance of
“Enemies of Promise” and “Ideas and
Places.” The Hemingway piece emerges
as little more than a smooth endorsement
of the kind which publicists are trained
to write in their sleep. J. W. Lambert’s
“The Misjudged Genius” (about D. H.
Lawrence) adds nothing to the available
information about that intolerable genius
and little to the existing canon of critical
opinion on the subject. It seemed to me
a total waste of space. Since I know
nothing of golf or cricket, I can’t say
whether the pieces on those subjects are
good or not, but I wonder why they
were though worth preserving anyway.
Grumbles over, I would like to say
that a great deal of the anthology is
worth reading, worth keeping, and per-
haps going back to one day. Noel
Coward is in wonderful form in his
attack on the Royal Courtiers in “Those
Old Fashioned Revolutionaries” (Kenneth
Tynan’s reply in “The Observer” wasn’t
in the same class). Dilys Powell (pace
Reisz) wrote what to my mind was the
most brilliant single piece of reportage
on Hollywood in several years (but un-
fortunately this was cut from the much
longer coverage printed in the paper).
Her meetings with Hedda Hopper and
Hitchcock make the book worth buying
on their own. An excerpt from J. B.
Priestley’s autobiography has an admir-
able honesty and warmth.
And in the last analysis? Well, to be
candid, “Encore” did strike me finally
as a bit of a bore. True, it has felicities,
it is full of polished prose, it is well-
tailored. But it lacks guts and real
intellectual energy, the feeling of a
dynamic at work in a group the kind
of feeling one gets in “The Spectator”
at its best, and now and again in “The
Partisan Review” (not, one might add,
in “Encounter”). Look at the names on
“Encore’s” dust-jacket—Beaton, Gielgud,
Betjeman, Lady Diana Cooper. Doesn’t
your heart sink a little? Mine does.
JJuw Weldon’s “Monitor” a selec-
tion of transcripts from his popular
TV series in Britain (it passed the 100th
edition last year)—is by contrast verv
much alive. The unblinking eye of
Television shows us people more nakedly
than even the cinema can do. No art
form, TV is a scalpel as well as a gold-
fish bowl. To judge by this book, Weldon
is a better interviewer than either Mug-
geridge or Bob Sanders. While Mug-
geridge mugs away relentlessly, scatter-
ing cigarette ash from the end of a
baton-sized holder, grinning away with
that monkey’s death’s head of his, and
Sanders tiptoes to the subject like a
worried boy scout on the prowl, Wel-
don gets gruffly in and engages his inter-
viewees like a boxer. Seconds out, hand-
shakes, and let’s find out what their
stuffing is made of.
Most of the people he talks to —in
the interviews published here, at any
rate are artists (writers, painters,
musicians) who talk to him about their
work with an engaging obsessiveness.
His purpose, clearly, is to find out some-
thing of how the creative mind works
a futile endeavour, but it’s fun seeing
him hurdle most of the obstacles on the
way. His humorlessness and their grim
concentration don’t make for light read-
ing (or viewing, one imagines) but we
do see personalities—Zadkine, Tortelier
and others expressing the wracking
suffering all major artists know. Enter-
tainment? No. But “Monitor” is good
medicine for those of our own inter-
viewers who like to make everything
“nice” and end up providing conversa-
tions for the old ladies.
Nixon’s Six
Six Crises. Richard M. Nixon. W. H.
Allen. 525.
HThe ultimate crisis of Nixon’s political
A life occurred after he produced this
book: his defeat in his home state, Cali-
fornia, in the election for Governor.
So Whittaker Chambers was apparently
wrong when he wrote to Nixon, after
his defeat in the Presidential elections:
“I do not believe for a moment that be-


cause you have been cruelly checked in
the employment of what is best in you
. . . that that check is final. It cannot
be.” But Chambers, who never lacked
penetration, went on to say, “On the
other hand ... it seems to me that exe-
cutive office has passed to the other
party for a long time to come.”
Those who have not succumbed to
the unthinking “tricky Dick” type of
calumny (and they include, apparently,
a very large proportion of American
voters) may well echo Chambers’ senti-
ments. Nixon lacks both the personal
brilliance and the intellectualism of Ken-
nedy but he seems to exhibit a greater
solidity of decision. In the field of for-
eign affairs, for instance, his statements
of policy are clearly related to each
other and show a common background
—in refreshing contrast with the need-
less ad hoc quality of many of Kennedy's
statements, in the Presidential election
campaign at any rate.
Nixon pretty clearly demonstrates
this sort of thing in the longest chapter
in the book, “The Campaign of 1960”:
Kennedy’s gratuitous suggestion that if Ei-
senhower had apologized to Khrushchev
over the U 2 incident the Paris confer-
ence may have been saved; Kennedy’s
footwork over the Quemoj'-Matsu issue
in which his final position w ? as that he
had meant that the islands should not be
defended in the unlikely event that an
invasion of them was not the prelude to
an invasion of Formosa.
On the Cuba issue Nixon says that
Kennedy changed ground, firstly advo-
cating that the anti-Castro forces be
“sustained and assisted” and, then, that
the anti-Castro forces in and out of
Cuba be strengthened. The independent
reader may see less difference in these
attitudes than Nixon alleges: the latter
does not seem to advocate armed inter-
vention. In fact, in view of Kennedy’s
later clarification that he only meant
using “all available communications, and
the moral power of the American Gov-
ernment” it is hard to locate any defin-
able policy at all.
But this incident is more interesting
for the rather ingenuous sidelight Nixon
sheds on the faking that American poli-
ticians seem to think quite in order.
Kennedy, he says, had been fully, but
secretly, informed by the CIA that .Cuban
exiles were being trained for an eventual
invasion of Cuba. Kennedy knew this,
but he knew ? that Nixon could not allude
to it in his reply to Kennedy’s advocacy
of this very thing; so what Nixon did, in
a fast double-shuffle was to condemn
these recommendations as “dangerous”
and in breach of Latin-American treat-
ies.
Nixon’s other crises are; The Hiss
Case, The Fund Speech, Eisenhower’s
heart attack, the violence in Caracas and
the debate with Khrushchev.
The Hiss Case is something of a chest-
nut these days. The controversy already
seems old-fashioned: the case’s exposure
of the forces working within the "New
Deal” and of the morality which the
“New Deal” nurtured is still historically
important but it lacks surprise (which is
not to deny the credit due to Nixon).
The “kitchen debate” with Khrushchev is
not as revealing as the private argument
between the two later at lunch. Nixon
reports this in detail and the book is
worth buying for it alone. (“Captives,”
says Khrushchev—when asked whether
that term may be applied to people in
countries where the bourgeoisie will not
give up its power—“is a vulgar term,
not ‘scientific’.”)
One of the more striking—if less in-
tended —impressions the reader will carry
away from this book is of the complex,
almost enigmatic, character of Mr Eisen-
hower. Where was he and why did he
not lend his support, not only in the
crisis of the election campaign, but also
in the Fund crisis (an affair clearly
trumped up against Nixon) and again in
the crisis of the Caracas riot (where
the rioters’ “spit was flying so fast that
the driver turned on nis wind-shield
wipers”)?
ALWYN KARPIN
The Slums of Sao Paulo
Beyond All Pity. Carolina Maria de
Jesus. Souvenir Press. 31s. 6d.
HThis is the diary of a poorly educated
negress living in a slum in Brazil’s
Sao Paulo.
Her picture of Sao Paulo life is
appalling. Drunkenness, incest, prostitu-
tion, violence, suicide, murder, child rape,
fraud, plain animal indecency, disease
(parasitic and other) are commonplaces in
her diary.
Hunger dominates all. Every page of
this five-year span is dominated by her
unceasing daily efforts to get food for her
children. Each morning means hours
spent in drawing drinking water from a
single tap that serves literally some hun-
dreds of people. Then comes her trek
on to the business streets where she filled
heavy sacks with waste paper, cans,
bottles —anything to bring in a cruzeiro
(less than a farthing). There were the
rounds of garbage bins, the begging—
one housewife donated an ostensible par-
cel of food scraps which proved to con-
tain two dead rats. People shouted taunts
at her poverty and dirtiness. “I walked
thinking of my wretched life. For two
weeks I haven’t been able to wash clothes
for lack of soap. The beds are so filthy
it makes me want to vomit. I don’t get
upset when I see a stranger looking at
my dirt, I think I’ll start travelling
through the streets with a sign on my
back ‘lf I’m dirty it’s because I don’t
have any soap’.” One could quote end-
lessly from this diary by a woman whose
entire schooling was limited to two years,
ending at the second grade. Perhaps
some of her phrases are traditional
aphorisms, perhaps her own. Despite her
degradation she has humor, she often
yearns for poetry. Where we might say
several people are “tarred with the same
brush” Carolina has “He who hangs on
the vine also turns into a bean.” She ob-
serves, “We have only one way to be
born and many ways to die” and “A wo-
man’s tongue is like a candle wick, al-
ways burning.”
Hypocritical political promises earn
her ire. Those of us who respond to
the “Freedom from Hunger” and similar
appeals must often question food dump-
ing. It is a very immediate problem in
the favelcis (slums) of Brazil: some child-
ren sickened from eating rotten melons:
“I don’t know why it is that these sense-
less businessmen come to throw their
rotted products here near the favela, for
the children to see and eat.” A child dies
after attempting another stinking dump.
“In my opinion the merchants of Sao
Paulo are playing with the people just
like Caesar when he tortured the Chris-
tians. But the Caesars of today are worse
than the Caesar of the past. The others
were punished for their faith. And we,
for our hunger! In that era, those who
didn't want to die had to stop loving
Christ. But we cannot stop loving eat-
ing.”
Carolina and her diary, written on
scraps of waste paper, were discovered
by a Sao Paulo journalist. She now has
her brick house, is clean and well fed.
She lectures at Brazilian universities, her
book is required reading for sociology
classes. By some people’s puritanical
standards her life has not been exemp-
lary, but her spirit, her frequent rejection
of suicide. (“I refuse to die of hunger”),
makes her a living testament to the
wastefulness of potential human ability
—how much greatness is starving to
death the world over?
NANCY KEESING
THE HEROES
Red Rumba. Nicholas Wollaston.
Hodder and Stoughton. 375. 3d.
German archaeologist Schliemann
once held that the Heroic Age end-
ed with the destruction of Troy and that
very few since then could claim to be
the equal of Ajax or Achilles. But go to
Central America; things are different
there. Although nothing much has hap-
pened, it seems, since the Spaniards, the
spirit is well and truly overproof.
“You, can’t treat these Latinos as hu-


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. -
man beings,” Nicholas Wollaston was
told by an American who had worked
for both Batista and Trujillo. “I know.
I know ’em all, from the Magellan
Straits to Mexico. Ninety per cent of
’em are sub-human, and the rest are
crooks. What they need is somebody
to crack the whip. Now take Trujillo.
He was a much-maligned man.” “Yes,”
said a German, “dictators are best.”
The author spent four months looking
over ten countries of the Caribbean area
and his story, vivid and personal as it is,
is a melancholy litany of futility, blasted
hopes and poverty. In El Salvador eighty-
two per cent of the population is born
illegitimate, seventeen per cent of the
women who enter hospital are found to
have syphilis, and the second most popu-
lar cause of death, after gastritis, is
homicide. In Haiti the taxi-driver offer-
ed him voodoo, folk-dancing, cock-fight-
ing, Haitian women, Dominican women,
Spanish women, women on women, men
on men, and other less-mentionable deli-
cacies which he reluctantly turned down.
The reality was tyranny and oppression.
Most of his time was spent in Cuba and
his general conclusion, after citing the
evidence, is that the results under Castro’s
regime have been tragic. “The Cuban
people had done nothing to deserve that.
The Cuban people, in fact, had done no-
thing at all.”
DOUGLAS TERRY
A Kremlin-like View
of Canberra?
The Long View. Australia’s National
Capital. Lionel Wigmore. F W.
Cheshire. 425.
Tt is a useful book bringing up to date
all the Public Relations work of the
past about the National Capital. It con-
tains all the formalised history of the
processes by which Canberra became the
capital and all the details about what sort
of a capital everybody thought it should
be and shouldn’t be, and about all the
contentions which developed around its
planning, but which now have been crush-
ed under the judgments of experts and
politicians.
Looking at the scene through the spec-
tacles provided by official Canberra one
can understand (if not duplicate) Mr
Wigmore’s admiration for all its makers
and shapers and statistical magnitudes of
their works. Who can fail to admire the
works of those who have succeeded in
divesting the inhabitants of a great com-
munity, the most prosperous and free-
spending in the country, of the right to
govern themselves municipally or even to
vote in national affairs? The measure of
the achievements of officialdom are to be
seen in the facts that only flies and mag-
pies are free in Canberra and are able to
defy Big Brother.
It is natural to his viewpoint that Mr
Wigmore should have a somewhat Krem-
lin-like approach to his theme; and there
is no denying the mesmeric effect of his
method on the reader. One seems to ab-
sorb subliminally the fascinating flow of
potent names, the stately processions of
statistics and the accepted judgments
which seem to add up to the conclusion
that Canberra is almost too perfect to be
true. Thus:
“Private enterprise invested £8,400,000 . . .
Government invested £7,950,000 . . . Griffin
. . . Griffin . . . Griffin . . . number of students
reached 1250 in 1962 . . . waiting list for houses
rose to 4000 . . . residential block sizes were
from 7000 to 9000 square feet . . . road widhs
varied from 20 to 34 feet with verges varying
from 15 to 18 feet . . . the architecture con-
sidered by experts to be irreproachable . . .
Griffin, Griffin, Griffin . . . O’Malley, O’Malley,
O’Malley . . .
Relentlessly Mr Wigmore records the
cash and the ukases and the flat-roofed
cottages as they pour down into the Can-
berra spiderweb in a steady rain. Fiercer
every year becomes the struggle of those
lured into it to get out and fiercer that of
would-be new victims to get in and
tangle with its bright lights and tourist
guides.
To me it was more real and part of
Australia in the days when A. P. Herbert,
here for the Imperial Press Conference in
1925, described it as Mr Wigmore quotes
him in a moment of relaxation after tell-
ing us how the Commission “approved
371 plans” of something or other:
“Finally they took us out to a grand terrace
. . . Our friend pointed to an empty field and
said: ‘That is the National Library.’
“ ‘Remarkable,’ we said; and so it was. for
at that moment there was passing through
the National Library a real Australian cow.”
M. H. ELLIS
The Whalers
Harpoon. Jamieson Brown. Harrods.
Australia, primarily a maritime
nation, has not enough novels about
the sea; and not enough of those it has
are as good as this. It deals with the
evolution of a whaling-captain on one of
the shore-whaling ships that keep the
industry alive in Australia, one of the
successors of that bay-whaling which is
still alive in remote corners of the world’s
oceans.
It is a worthy novel, lively and read-
able. When he is w'riting of whaling, as
practised out of Albany, Jamieson Brown
is very good indeed. His exposition is in-
formed and skilful; he can evoke all the
interest and excitement that whaling has
to offer. His situations at sea pander to
the needs of the armchair adventurer,
and will stand up to the analysis of the
mariner. “Harpoon,” in other words,
is a good book, and Jamieson Brown is
an author to whom we can look in the
future.
There is, of course, a “but,” or sev-
eral “buts”; one of them is connected
with the fact that the author, having
deemed a romantic interest necessary,
has invented one and applied it to his
basic story much after the manner in
which his hero fothered a stricken ship
with a “collision mat.” He has been
emotionally involved with the marine
section of his novel and made a gallant
attempt to present his romance with an
equal intensity; but somewhere there is
an emotional block, and the result is as
though a minor Captain Ahab were en-
raptured with a heroine or two from
“Peg’s Paper.” Brown’s women are not
real, his love scenes are not limned with
the integrity one would expect from the
father of two sons and two daughters,
and the general effect is of the juxtaposi-
tion of two stories by different authors.
In the whaling episodes the only criti-
cism that can be made is of an occa-
sional lapse in remembered detail, a lapse
emanating obviously from an incomplete
visualisation of the scene. But the hero's
romantic life comes into a lesser cate-
gory and incidentally bars this book
from what would be the delighted ap-
preciation of a juvenile audience.
I missed, too, adequate description in
a number of passages; particularly, per-
haps, of Albany harbour, or of the lush
and beautiful forest that hugs at least
some of the road between Albany and
Denmark. True, the karri and the tingle
come in for their mentions; but these
do not re-create their magnificence, nor
the beauty of the bush at their feet, nor
the shapes of orchids, nor the scent of
blossom, nor the sounds of birds. A pity;
because since the late forties (the period
of this novel) such sights and sounds
have lessened.
But it is a good novel, owing nothing
to prototypes and culled from direct
observation.
OLAF FUHEN


POETRY
Monologue of Cesare Borgia
(Pope Alexander VI, father of Cesare Borgia, died 1503.)
The cadre of my power now is done:
A statue’s crumbled and each fragment’s lost.
I seldom worshipped it; but there it was,
And I was sent to France so that a king
Could shed a wife, and grow another marriage.
So while I journeyed to the walls of France,
I knew a giant sat in Rome and grinned.
And just behind that figure, God looked down,
A statue even larger than my father-Pope.
Death broke my father, but my God remains
Without a glimpse of feeling for His child.
Disease and imbecility will tear me down,
Each murdered man returns.
Twelve years ago,
How could I tell that evil stays forever
And dead men grow like grafts?
My life is theirs,
And phantoms use my hand and write my life,
And every act becomes a bead to thread
Onto a cord that weighs me down. I killed
Like armoured children killing in a game.
What good are beads, the abacus of prayers?
Some men forget, but I remember details.
The ghosts are me; I’d quickly lock them in
Forgetfulness to suffocate each memory
Of pain ... a sister crying in the night
For gentleness that lovers only sense.
Each child must break a father, help him die
And watch affection scatter and decrease.
Now men defy my skill and never break
Like a godless Pope.
Now since my father’s death,
I’ve learnt to walk a maze of loneliness
Expecting daggers at every turn. I see
That men need only tenderness, not faith.
When child-like I was legate to the Pope,
I saw men for their hate, stupidity
And greed, and judged too easily. I know
This was disease: but still I can’t afford
To dwell with subtleties that show each man
(The true, concentric circles of each self)
For like a fly, they’d pin me to a wall
And every dagger would be held by God.
R. A. SIMPSON
To the Future
Deal out the hand; whether for good or ill
I care not how the cards may chance to fall,
The sharp and foYtunate face of Diamond Jack,
Or that dark Queen who marks the end of all.
The blue-faced King of Clubs, with scowling
Knave,
And sword of retribution lifted high!
I see my doom reflected in his face,
His curling lip and stern, implacable eye.
Deal out the hand; for next time it may be
Another fall of cards which fate allows,
And smiling from the table I may see
His gentle Queen with mercy in her brows.
NANCY CATO
Pregnant Woman
The sunlight of that afternoon
Moves quietly around her mind
As years crept in the little room
And still as time it lies behind
One delicate, unfolded rose.
I love their smell, she says. Alone
(My child and I) I love the bands
Of city roses near the stone.
Now quietly as shadows come
On table and on chair and stove
She dusts these three and lightly moves
To windows where those discs of sun
Turn fiercely upon the floor,
Her big nose peering with the sun:
Within this aching flesh I store
A stronger and more pleasing rose.
DAVID WOOE
FRAGMENT
Still, here, is the water. Still
As the morning of creation. Quiet
As the first rain when a snake
Slid from a tree and shivered
In the wet grass.
And wind stirred the wings
Of a dead bird.
KETTH VINCENT SMITH
Return Is Not Again
King Akhnaton slouches off among rocks
in the heat of his sun; he leaves the new-made palace.
Soon the evening will remember jackal shrieks.
Soon the priests will mutter, who are jealous.
Great Anubis sniffs the walls and hears
with sharp ears that this citadel must fall.
Enemies brush the dark where the King prays.
No one will move. The eyes of the dead must tell
nothing. Then will his one sun surely die
in a scatter of voices; again the gods will stride
everywhere, that we must placate and satisfy.
Where is the King, then? Let us finish the deed.
(He has abandoned his palace. On the clean walls
each image distorts him. A decade and no one will
know
rightly what was that man.) Anubis calls
each night for his old position. We cannot go
safely out of doors, the oldest fears
hold us. What is a life?
So the King dies.
Easily all the ways return to those
safe forms he had transcended, But it is
an imperfect ritual now. No one is wise.
Young men hear the jackals at his tomb
scratch and fret and finally be dumb.
THOMAS W. WHQPCOTT


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
Why Millions Starve
Agricultural and livestock problems
could be met only if science were
effectively applied if competent ad-
visers were available to disseminate
knowledge, if farmers were able and
willing to make use of it, and if the
social resources of the country provided
sufficient incentive.
Mr Brian Jeffries, retiring president
of the Tasmanian branch of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Agricultural Science,
told members this in his address when
reviewing the world’s food problems.
Every 100 million people added to
the world's population needed 13 mil-
lion tons of additional cereals and 14
million tons of animal products a year,
he said. By 1980 it would be necessary
to double the production of milk, meat,
eggs and fish if the world’s diet were to
be brought up to a reasonable level.
Indeed, to achieve an adequate stand-
ard of diet a 300 per cent increase
would be required in animal products,
and to reach this would call for drastic
measures.
Today nations were starving, and the
first step was to help them raise their
own diet levels to a point where they
could produce more goods and make
enough to be able to import. A better-
fed people would be less dissatisfied and
less likely to become a prey to ideologies
and ruthless leaders who capitalised on
poverty for their own ends.
But the privileged people must offer
help without expecting any return, al-
though in most cases it would bring a
return, even if only in good will. A
great deal more could be accomplished
if people’s lives were so transformed by
Christian teachings that they really cared
for one another.
Once a government had been con-
vinced that something must be done
about better feeding, the first step was
to carry out an expert survey of existing
conditions. There was also a need to
lessen the psychological and social handi-
caps that harassed hungry countries.
The main difficulty was the shortage
of technical personnel. Yet this could
be remedied in three to four years by
co-operative work from technically de-
"I don't care if some dear little thing did follow you home; we already
have a dog!"
veloped countries. Australia was con-
tinually demanding more trained per-
sonnel, but it should be possible to im-
plement a programme which would al-
low some experts to be released for
periods of work overseas in helping
other people to help themselves.
Mr Jeffries said mechanisation was
not the essential prelude to solving the.
world’s food problems. In Western agri-
culture the emphasis was on output per
man, but in under-developed countries
the concentration must be on higher
yields per acre.
There was a real need not so much
for more tractors but for improvements
on the local clumsy appliances now
worked by hand, so that simple imple-
ments of sound design could be produced
that would be light yet durable, he added.
Letter to the Editor
Egg Board Feud
Sir,
After reading “Man on the Land”
(Bulletin 23/3/63) I feel that 1 must
offer some opinions from an efficient
section of the poultry industry in Vic-
toria.
Your correspondent stated that the
Board must vary its prices from time to
time in accordance with seasonal produc-
tion fluctuations. Today, with improved
farm management methods, any efficient
poultry farmer can regulate egg produc-
tion throughout the year. The Victorian
Egg Board continues to delude the public
that seasonal fluctuations must occur. The
real reason why seasonal production
fluctuations occur is the existence of the
Board, which condones inefficiency in the
industry.
Your correspondent also stated that
“One of the most startling changes dur-
ing the Bain era has been the incredibly
good Press the Board has been getting ”
Everybody knows that advertising reve-
nue is a most important part of newspaper
operations. According to the Board's
annual report for the year ended June 30,
1962, money spent on “advertising and
sales promotion” for the year amounted to
£52,643, an increase of £5,737 over the
previous year’s expenditure.
Many of the modern merchandising
and packaging techniques credited to Mr
Bain were suggested to the Board by egg
producers in 1953. It will take more than
Mr Bain to remove the anomalies in the
poultry industry. Individual private enter-
prise is the only answer to rectify twenty-
five years of muddling mess.
J. C. WOODIER
President Poultry Farmers’
Protection League
Epping (Vic.)


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
A Lead on Depreciation
FLEXIBILITY of depreciation allowances is an important
item in the UK Budget which might be copied in
Australia. The UK move is designed, among other
measures, to encourage industry to buy new plant, increase
production, and establish new factories in the hard-hit north.
Management is given the option of “free” depreciation
write-offs. They can use their own methods of writing off
depreciation for tax purposes.
At once it can be seen that this flexible treatment of
depreciation must be of tremendous value in planning a
company’s operations. Some companies may choose to write
off the whole of the depreciation in one year, thus keeping
money in the business for working capital instead of handing
it over to the Exchequer. The following year they may buy
more plant and repeat the process.
This encourages rapid development; possibly too rapid
for some who see the danger of over-expansion and prospects
of a lot of idle plant in future years. Nonetheless it gives
scope for custom built tax returns to suit the pockets of
businessmen.
Too often a business is hit by tax when it can least afford
it. Depreciation does not eliminate tax, but it can help to
stave off the day until profits are more buoyant after a period
of plant expansion.
Arguments against special depreciation allowances, or
“investment” allowances, include the view that a manufacturer
must have sound hopes for selling his goods before outlaying
huge sums on plant. If the economic climate is not good he
may buy new plant and go broke watching his idle machines.
It also costs money to mount a big selling and promotion
campaign in conjunction with new plant expansion. But these
are inevitable business risks and no one can deny that
improved plant efficiency, plus a good sales promotion, is
usually a sound plan for success.
Increased competitiveness among the manufacturing nations,
plus outright or hidden Government subsidies, make it
necessary for Australia to consider every method likely to aid
its producers. And flexible or “free” depreciation seems to
be a tool worth having.
A CASE TO ABOLISH
PROVISIONAL TAX?
VTow that the Treasury is so brimful of cash, taxpayers who
pay provisional tax each year may feel there is a case
for abolishing this deposit-in-advance system. It is hardly
likely that this suggestion would be received happily in official
quarters. The shudders in the Treasury and the Department
of Taxation might make the buildings totter.
Nor is such a suggestion likely to gain much backing from,
company taxpayers who, fortunately for them, are paying
their taxes well after the close of the financial year . . .
nearly nine months later in most cases.
It should appeal in principle to the pay-as-you-go tax-
payers who often pay more tax than necessary and claim a
refund. Pay-as-you-go taxpayers also must pay provisional
taxes if they receive outside income.
Provisional tax has been with us for a sufficient number of
years to be accepted as an inevitable facet of those two
certainties death and taxes. But in a period when the
Treasury’s coffers are full and taxpayers, in many cases, are
experiencing leaner years, there is some justification to look
at the arguments advanced by provisional taxpayers. They
claim it is unfair for the Treasury to extract interest-free loans
from taxpayers who may or may not incur that tax liability
in the ensuing financial year.
A tax expert says that the only time a provisional taxpayer
is out of pocket is from April to June (meaning that pro-
visional tax is payable usually on April 1 and that strictly, if
the taxpayer were on a payroll for all of his income, he would
be paying a weekly pay-as-you-go tax from July 1).
But what about the pay-as-you-go taxpayer who had £5O
kept back from his tax refund last December to cover pro-
visional tax for 1962-63? That £5O was paid during 1961-62
in weekly deductions. If his assessment comes out in
December of this year and the £5O provisional tax is not
required, the Treasury will have received a free loan for 18
months or so.
Treasury, of course, may argue that provisional tax is
-*■ levied because it is difficult to extract pay-as-you-go tax
from a taxpayer who may receive special or unexpected
income from sources where he is not listed on a payroll.
But the iniquitous part of this system is that the taxpayer
deposits money in advance to cover a tax on income he may
never receive. Even if he invested that money in Common-
wealth bonds he could obtain, say, 4i p.c. while he worked
for a year and awaited his tax assessment.
It represents only a small saving to the individual, sure
enough. Added up over many thousands of taxpayers, it
represents a very large forced loan to the Government.
Already saturated with a £66m. oversubscription to its
£6om. February loan, the Commonwealth Government does
not need to raise any more cash loans this year. So it should
be liquid enough to make a gesture on provisional tax.
Also, while talking on tax anomalies, it seems ridiculous
that the tax gatherer should require small income earners to
furnish tax returns just to collect a few shillings or a few
pounds.
Doubtless it conditions young wage-earners to the need
for tax returns and keeps a tab on many others whose incomes
fluctuate (and who would try to get it down to the minimum
anyway?). But a minimum income of £416, or £8 a week,
seems low enough to start demanding tax returns.
The Statistician may be robbed of a few details when
counting heads, but he already gleans a lot of information
from payroll returns.


DEBITS AND CREDITS
OF DECIMALS
VUith the increasing mechanisation of office and industrial
" machinery it was pretty obvious that the longer we
delayed in introducing a decimal currency system the more
expensive the conversion would be for the business world.
That consideration is quite apart from the general one that,
although the £.s.d. system is deeply ingrained in us, it has
served us admirably in the past and we’ll probably be nostalgic
about it for the rest of our days. The decimal system will not
only speed up business arithmetic over the whole internal
commercial front, but will be a great boon in our international
trading.
The wonder is why we have delayed so long in making the
change. After all, we have had four reports since Federation
favoring it, and, since 1900, 70 of the 107 countries now
using the system have made it. Maybe, the answer lies partly
in our own conservatism, but probably mainly in the fact
that Britain, our principal trading partner, has resisted it.
(Last year Mr Holt was assured by the British Government
that it also was going to change to decimals though that was
when the door to the Common Market was still wide open.)
Apart from Britain, Australia and New Zealand are the
only two sterling area countries not on decimals, South Africa
having converted in 1960. But, for the historically minded,
Australia was virtually on decimals for a period from 1822
to 1826. In 1822 Governor Brisbane imported a quantity of
Spanish dollars and these were the basis of the Australian
currency system until the British Government decided to
replace it with sterling in 1826.
The advantages of the decimal system lie in three basic
points:
• Decimal currency requires only one set of rules for
calculations, whereas the present system uses three.
• With decimals no conversions are necessary in multi-
plication and division.
• Decimal notation requires fewer figures than the £.s.d.
■piiscouNTiNG the initial confusion which will doubtless arise in
shopping and probably most business circles, the advan-
tages of extra speed and ease in calculating with decimals will
be universal in community and business life, as much for the
man in the street as for business. But the main economies
will accrue in commerce, both internal and international.
One manufacturer told the Decimal Currency Committee
which recommended the change that his firm had saved 4650
man-hours a year by adopting decimals for its internal
accounting and estimated that an additional 6400 man-hours
a year would be saved in the event of the country going on
to decimals.
The economies arise from simple arithmetical calculations
for staff, greater accuracy and less fatigue (because of the
elimination of monetary conversions), speedier checking,
greater flexibility of office machinery, and fewer digits in
recording.
Decimals open up a vast new range of calculating machines
for business here. Some of the most important revolutions in
machinery have occurred in decimal countries, notably the
United States and Germany. Hitherto most of the machines
imported from these and other countries have had to be
converted here for use in £.s.d. at considerable cost, often
leaving some restriction on their usefulness for sterling
calculations.
On the introduction of decimals a wide range of existing
specialised types of machines already on the market overseas
will be available for use in Australia. Moreover, we will have
the advantage of availing ourselves of the most modern
machines in a period when revolutionary changes are still
occurring in this field from the simplest office machine to
the giant computor.
The overall cost to business is going to be colossal. The oil
industry has estimated that the conversion of its 70,000 or so
pumps will alone cost in excess of <£2 million. This is apart
from the cost of converting its office machines.
On the other hand, while it would gain virtually nothing
from the conversion of its pumps in terms of net income, the
oil industry considers it will ultimately be more than recom-
pensed through man-hours saved in other directions, such as
office accounting. In its case the international character of its
operations makes the change to decimals all the more desirable,
especially in the event of a parallel change being made by
Britain. (The US has been on decimals since 1786.)
All in all, the total cost of the conversion to business and
government might be estimated not far short of £5O million.
But how much of such a sum will the Government be prepared
to pay?
If, as announced, the machine conversion programme, which
is expected to extend over 18 months, follows the recommenda-
tions of the Decimal Currency Committee, it will proceed on
the criterion of age. Age limits will be set up by a supervisory
body. Machines over a stipulated age would not be included
in the official programme, and owners would have to make
their own arrangements for converting or replacing them.
BEER EXPLOSIONS
IN BRITAIN
lITho said the UK Budget was just right to meet the current
"" situation in Britain? Already it is causing explosions in
countless kitchens and bathrooms all over the country.
Judged by the keen demand of UK shoppers for do-it-your-
self kits on home brew, the British Budget has aimed a serious
blow at the breweries. The Budget announced that it is no
longer necessary to have a licence to brew beer for home use.
Immediately following the announcement, home brew
recipes appeared in British newspapers so that anyone could
try his hand at brewing beer. Even a child's imagination could
be stirred at the prospect of making an adult’s drink for the
ridiculously low cost of 4d. a pint . . . with no chemistry set
needed. Draught beer in hotels is much more expensive, costing
between Is. lOd. and 2s. 4d. a pint, including a large portion of
excise tax.
People who had never tried their hand at bootleg brew now
have their curiosity aroused by a tempting array of beer
recipes which legally can save them some money.
It requires up to 23 days of patience before tasting the
brew, including 14 days in the bottle. But there are plenty of
enthusiastic home-brewers who are trying their skill, despite
medical warnings on the dangers of incorrect ingredients and
metal poisoning from galvanised buckets. Home brewers have
been warned of explosions caused by using too much sugar.
No one appears to have mentioned the obvious explosions
which must have occurred in the directors’ boardrooms of
brewery companies. If the home brew recipes prove successful,
the brewers may have to find new outlets. This may bring
Charringtons and other British brewers running to Australia.
Regardless of the success or failure of do-it-yourself brews,
there are unfortunate side effects for UK breweries. If a big
percentage of British families end up with ghastly tummy-
aches, it may destroy the public’s taste for regular draught
or bottled beer. And if the others are satisfied with their
cheap home brew, they will not need to patronise the local inn.
It is a real poser for those security analysts who plot a
brewery company’s earnings record to determine the worth
of its shares. Their judgment might need to be supplemented
by the results of their own home brew efforts.
Burp! Ours wasn’t left long enough in the bottle.


mmm
C.B. A
—J
—
CBA/37/Z4R
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
A Diversified Mining Investment
Qydney stockbroker A. B. S. White &
Co. has prepared an excellent treatise
on the merits of Placer Development Ltd.
The foreign headquarters (British
Columbia, Canada), the high price of
the shares, the vulnerability of a mining
company to the vagaries of world com-
modity prices, and a general lack of
knowledge of this company’s interests
account for Australian investors’ shyness
towards Placer.
The shares are listed on Montreal and
London exchanges, as well as in Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane.
The broker recommended the shares
at £ll 12s. 6d. Indicated dividend for
1963 is sCan. 1.00, on which a 15 p.c.
Canadian withholding tax is payable,
later allowed as a credit against Aus-
tralian income tax. The dividend yield
was calculated at 3.49 p.c. The shares
have since strengthened to £l2.
Investment in Australian coal mines
has provided the bulk of recent revenues
of the company, but Canadian copper
and zinc mines are expected to contribute
substantially to future profits.
The wholly-owned subsidiary, Cana-
dian Exploration Ltd, owns lead, zinc,
and tungsten mines in British Columbia,
and has a 44.6 p.c. interest in Craig-
mont Mines Ltd, mining copper in that
State. Craigmont is expected to make
generous dividend payments to Placer by
the end of 1963, its second year of op-
erations.
Canadian Exploration wholly owns
Wollclift Pty Ltd (Fox group Australia)
which owns Burragorang Collieries Pty,
South Clifton Colliery Pty, Coal Rights
Pty, S and M Fox Industries Ltd, and
Excelsior Collieries and Coke Works Ltd.
It also owns Clutha Development Ltd
(100 p.c. interest), which produces coal
at the Foybrook-Newdell open cut mine
near Muswellbrook (NSW).
In 1961-62 the Fox group produced
1,545,000 long tons of coal, and Clutha
556,000 long tons of the total NSW coal
production of 19,083,000 tons. Placer
therefore produced 11.1 p.c. of NSW
coal.
For the same year NSW exported
2,961,800 long tons to Japan (Bellambi
Coal has important contracts). Queens-
land accounted for another 292,000 tons.
The Coal Board estimates that NSW
could be exporting 3.2 million tons by
1965-66. But if Australia continues to
supply 27 p.c. of Japan’s coal needs and
her steel consumption rises under the
‘‘Double Income Plan” to 48 million
metric tons by 1970, Australia would
have a Japanese market of 6i million
long tons by 1970. Although the Thiess,
Peabody, Mitsui syndicate will increase
its exports, there’s plenty of scope for
Placer and others, such as Bellambi Coal.
Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd of New
Guinea is 20.9 p.c. owned by Placer,
ut Placer is currently negotiating to
fu Hy acquire its assets, which include
Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers
Ltd, Associated Plywoods’ timber mill in
Lae, and a cattle property nearby.
Other interests of the group include
tin and lead lands in Australia, copper
in the Philippines and oil and natural
gas in Canada and Ireland.
The patient, long-term buyer with fix-
ed limits can avoid paying too much for
a “recommended” share if he waits for
the initial surge to die down.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Confusion on Economic Inquiry
Maybe now that the Committee of
Inquiry into the economy has
been in smoke for a month or
two it has managed to crystallise its line
of approach. The omnibus terms of
reference will not have been easy. These
were framed in what looked to be global
and sometimes very vague terms, with-
out any suggestion that a novel general
approach was required to delineate the
future availability and optimum use of
resources.
It is possible, however, that committee
members are as confused as the public.
Not, perhaps, about the sort of document
they are expected to produce, but on how
the wide range of inquiries can be pur-
sued. The inquiries demand a logical pat-
tern, always assuming that each of the
problems set is not being treated in isola-
tion from the general approach.
Of course, nothing has been said as
yet on how the Committee is approach-
ing its task, whether it has agreed on
a synthetised structure of inquiry, novel
or otherwise. All along The Bulletin
has held the view that unless the Com-
mittee breaks away from traditional
lines of economic analysis in Australia
the result of its inquiries could well be
uninspiring, even a tedious repetition of
familiar diagnoses.
The old style of economic analysis
has served its purpose well enough in
the past but now is less appropriate if
we really want to pursue a consistent line
of rapid economic development in the
years ahead. We should adopt some of
the techniques developed recently by the
EEC and Britain.
One approach which might yield fruit-
ful results for this economy still in the
infancy of industrial development would
be to examine future economic possibili-
ties in terms of potential sources of in-
come generation.
Australia, seemingly, is prepared to
gamble on a big future for manu-
facturing exports, even to the detriment
of its primary and main export-earning
industries, reliant to an extravagant de-
gree on central government in economic
direction and conditioning, and des-
perately in need of a blueprint for future
labor absorption.
This would not be an entirely novel
approach, since the germs of it were
generated some 30 or more years ago
by L. F. Giblin, when Richie Research
Professor at Melbourne University. But
it has somehow been rather neglected in
recent years after having been perfected
theoretically by R. F. Kahn and others
at Cambridge. The Committee would
find all the material it wanted for an
empirical study along these lines in the
various government departments, though
it might take a deal of time to assemble.
Of course, the projection of any useful
findings from a study of the contributions
of the various sources of income genera-
tion in the past would strike the same
difficulties in estimation of the availa-
bility of resources as any other method
of inquiry. However, the results might
be much more rewarding.
In any case, it would serve little pur-
pose if the Committee spent much time
in the fact-finding exercise set by the
terms of reference, because most of the
facts and a good deal of the research
are already available. It only needs dig-
ging out. Its task is rather more to make
intelligent forecasts of the future availa-
bility of resources and what will be
economically expedient for Australia to
do in the light of such forecasts.
This will take time. It has to marshal
the facts and should be marshalling the
results of any worthwhile research done
by government departments and anyone
else on the problems before it. However,
there is no indication, as yet, of anybody
outside the Civil Service being called
upon to furnish either facts or research.
/Autside the central problem of eco-
nomic forecasting, the Committee
will have to give attention to various
facets of economic policy, if only to
follow its terms of reference. On a good
many of the subjects listed sound
answers are already on record, and the
Committee, at best, can put only its own
slant on them.
It would be preferable for it to
look at a lot of these subjects in terms of
the general thread of their inquiries
rather than delay long in attempting
expert dissertations on them. Examples:
“The Situation With Respect to the
Balance of Payments,” the “Availability
of Credit” and so on. Otherwise the in-
quiry could go on interminably and the
report would be out of date before its
appearance.
Another general approach is sug-
gested by the IPA. It says the 64-dollar
question is whether the economy can ex-
pand and grow faster, on average, than
it has done in the past, or than it is
doing at present. “There is one school
of thought which believes it can. There
are others who think it unlikely. This
is the big central issue of Australian
economics, and indeed politics, at the
present time.”
Further, “What is the bearing on the
balance of payments of this question?
Is faster growth possible without more
imports? Or can it be achieved by ex-
panding home production of things at
present imported and by a more rapid
industrialisation encouraged by strong
policies of protection? How far is it pos-
sible to replace imports in a rapidly ex-
panding economy?”
Again, “In the Australian economic
context, can the rate of growth be regu-
larised from year to year, or are fluc-
tuations inevitable? And, if there must
be fluctuations, how can they be
minimised?”
Finally, “Should stability of costs and
prices be a prime purpose of policy?”
A lthough the terms of reference touch
on these problems here and there,
the IPA says that “Affected apparently
by some strange timidity, they refrain
from mentioning them.”
It might be a reasonable assumption
that, as these are among the foremost
questions, they would come naturally
into any thorough analysis of the econo-
mic potential, and that the Committee
would do well to refrain from treating
them piecemeal but rather put them into
the general synthesis. It is hard to
imagine a Committee of this calibre
neglecting any of them, though the IPA
seems to think there are not enough
economists on what is, after all, an
economic inquiry.
The IPA says, “The principle of con-
stituting the Committee on a representa-
tive basis has little to commend it. The
only question to be asked of those con-
sidered for appointment is whether they
can make a worthwhile contribution in
their own right to the immensely com-
plex economic questions which the Com-
mittee is expected to answer.
This means that all members should
have more than a nodding acquaintance
with broad economic matters. They
should have given evidence in their car-
eers of having contributed in a sub-
stantial sense to economic thinking on
national problems.
“This does not mean that the Com-
mittee should be composed wholly of
economists. On the contrary, it is very
desirable there should be a leavening of
members who have been concerned with
practical business affairs. Nevertheless,
the make-up of the Committee with only
two economists on it is surely ill-
balanced.”
The IPA consoles itself with the
thought that “Some things that have
unpropitious beginnings end up on a
happy note.”


LEASE
m
COMPANY CARS!
ppr . . « -<4f»
YOUR
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING COUPi
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
MLC’s Friendly, Easy Terms
A lthough the MLC offer to acquire
H. G. Palmer (Consolidated) Ltd
came as a shock to the market, there is
solid reasoning behind it . . . assuming a
continuance of successful electrical ap-
pliance retailing
Moustaches may bristle at the thought
of buying a TV set and a life assurance
policy over the same counter. But the
MLC is in a unique position to make
large profits from the H. G. Palmer ac-
quisition because of its huge share premi-
um and its ability to borrow cheap funds
for Palmer.
Inevitably rumor-mongers said that the
MLC is trying to save its =£484,099 in-
vestment in H. G. Palmer (if the 117,-
199 ordinary shares are given an approxi-
mate market value of 205.). But the
MLC's holding is mainly in preference
shares and debentures, which have a
prior claim over ordinary capital.
Few others could apply such a unique
set of circumstances to a takeover deal.
Certainly not a competitor in the same
field.
One of the criticisms levelled at H. G.
Palmer has been the expensive rate of
debenture borrowings, with possibly half
of its £22m. of short and long term
borrowings acquired at the old long term
rate of 10 p.c. This cost is increased by
the amount of advertising needed to pro-
mote such loans.
The MLC’s access to cheap funds will
alter all that and will place H. G. Palmer
in a much better competitive position.
The saving in interest charges, etc., to
the H. G. Palmer organisation is estima-
ted at possibly £4 million. It will not
happen overnight. The old debentures at
10 p.c. have to be paid off or replaced.
But it is quite feasible that H. G. Palmer’s
net profits, under the MLC banner, could
rise as high as the £617,460 capital be-
ing issued by MLC for the takeover.
The H. G. Palmer shareholder must
consider an immediate cut of 30 p.c. in
dividend income if they exchange shares
for MLC scrip. Offsetting this, they will
benefit by the tremendous status enjoyed
by the MLC. Proof of a much higher
earning rate would help to lift MLC
shares over a period.
Dr A. H. Pollard, the deputy general
manager of MLC, will join H. G. Palm-
er’s board, but it is clear the MLC wishes
the old management to continue. In fact,
it is a condition of the offer that Mr
Herbert G. Palmer shall sign a five years’
service agreement. It also restricts the
Palmer family from selling more than
25 p.c. of its shareholding in those five
years.
There are weaknesses in any takeover,
of course. The hire-purchase paper has
to stand up 5 the stock must be reliable
and the management must ictain the drive
sustained in building up the original busi-
ness.
But, on paper, there are so many tre-
mendous advantages that it is difficult to
see why the MLC should be refused.
Degotardi for Listing?
Oydney real estate agent, C. H. Dego-
tardi, is seeking back-door entry to
the Stock Exchange via Salamander Salt
Ltd.
Salamander, with issued capital of
760,000 ss. shares which brought
between 9d. and 2s. 4d. last year, would
be a suitable vehicle for Degotardi.
Directors of Salamander announced in
February their decision not to resume
operations. They were to consider pro-
posals to gain the “best possible future
benefit” for shareholders, and submit
their report “soon.”
It is known that Degotardi has been
keen to achieve public listing for some
time.
Ansett on ihe Wing
]I/|ost directors maintain in public that
A their company’s shares are under-
valued by the Stock Exchange. Mr
R. M. Ansett, chairman of Ansett
Transport Industries Ltd, inferred in
November, 1962, that the investing
public had not correctly assessed his
company. On current market prices, he
is proved right.
Mr Ansett said: “The year has shown
how little understood by the public is
the significance of this legislation (the
1961 Civil Aviation Agreement Act) to
the civil aviation industry and to this
company in particular.”
This Act extended the existing two
airline systems until 1977, yet Ansett’s
ss. shares drifted below par.
Influenced by Mr Ansett’s state-
ment, the shares rallied to 6s. by the
end of 1962 and to 6s. 6d. just before
the current one-for-six par issue was
announced in mid-March.
Choice of Austarama Television Pty
Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ansett
Transport, for the third Melbourne
commercial television licence, kicked the
Ansett shares along in the last couple of
weeks.


¥
mm
■. .. ..
: »
mm
.
m
P
BPf
W
V
<y : -'
■
w
“I refuse to be
AKE
for granted”
And rightly so ... a woman should be given attention and considera-
tion. Fortunately, in Australia, when it comes to banking, she is
assured of both, as there are thousands of bank branches competing
for her custom. Because of this competition, every woman has the
right to choose the bank that serves her best.
EVERY
AUSTRALIAN
benefits
from competition
between banks
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
The E.S. & A. • the A.N.Z. • the NATIONAL 9 the WALES • the C.B.A. • the C.B.C.
and the ADELAIDE
K 1528
Patience With
Hooker
Patience is a virtue to be possessed by
shareholders of L. J. Hooker Invest-
ment Corporation Ltd.
Interim report, for the six months to
December, of modest profits equal to
about 5 p.c. on capital, on a yearly basis,
illustrates how much more prolonged is
a recovery than a fall, especially when
it is of the dimensions of last year’s
trading loss of <£639,249 plus write-
downs.
There will be no dividend for 1962-63,
and the dividend position will be dis-
cussed at the annual general meeting
next October.
The ss. shares, standing at about 6d.
below pap, are not for the impatient,
nor for those reluctant to see 4s. 6d. tied
up unproductively. But within two years,
holders may see considerable improve-
ment in that price.
Directors expect continuation of
economies instituted in the bleak period
just endured. These were partly achieved
by the use of electronic processing data
and the resumption of certain functions
inside, which precluded the necessity for
major retrenchments.
One good thing emerging from the
squeeze was the lower borrowing costs;
banks and institutions have supported
the Corporation for the first time, and
overseas banks have also demonstrated
willingness to assist with term loans.
The agency company and the hotel
division were profitable, as was the
Hooker-Rex land subdivision business
which has a couple of pot-boilers for the
immediate future.
Reconstruction of the homes division,
which now caters for medium price
rather than low economy homes, should
reinstate that division on a profitable
basis, particularly since the reduction
in interest on loans available for housing.
The management is anxious not to
dissipate valuable assets which are not
quite ripe for development, even if this
means relatively meagre profits now.
The Royal Exchange site will not be
developed before 1966-67, for instance.
A large-scale recovery in profits can-
not be looked for by the market before
1965, when the company expects, for
one thing, to have a substantial turn-off
from the Victoria River Downs cattle
property. A sum of £700,000 is
currently being invested in this one
property which is giving no immediate
return.
The salt leases in South Australia, to
be exploited jointly with an American
company, will be supplying America and
Japan, and directors see the possibility
of a large local alkali market.


“IF ONLY I HAD PROOF!”
ft
i
V cr a ™’iQ
_,*o>»S f*o
O <Ss o
r
<r
$
THERE IS PROOF OF POSTING & DELIVERY
if you use CERTIFIED MAIL.
IDEAL FOR MAILING CONTRACTS, DEEDS, TITLES,
SHARE SCRIP AND TRANSFERS BECAUSE
IT IS SIGNED FOR BY THE ADDRESSEE
A RESPONSIBLE MEMBER OF HIS HOUSEHOLD
OR HIS AUTHORISED AGENT. HOWEVER, NO
ADDITIONAL SECURITY IS UNDERTAKEN DURING
TRANSIT AND THERE IS NO COMPENSATION
FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE TO ANY ARTICLE.
COSTS ONLY 6d. PLUS postage
COPY OF DELIVERY RECEIPT--AN ADDITIONAL 9d.
FULL INFORMATION FROM ANY POST OFFICE
AUSTRALIAN
Don’t Wait Too Long To Invest
TTncertainty is the handmaiden of
Ferdinand the Bull Ferdinand in
this case meaning the investor who is
buying in hopes of a market rise. The
buyer who enters the market when
others are hesitant is the one who gets
the good prices ... if the market is due
for a rise.
The Government is prodding the
market with a cut in short and medium
term bond rate, plus a reduction in bank
overdraft and fixed interest rates. The
stage is set for a bull market. Why, then,
does the market shy away disbelievingly?
Interim company results coming for-
ward fail to indicate there is a strong
industrial recovery under way. And
there are nagging thoughts about over-
seas conditions, with the US fighting to
avoid a downturn, sterling struggling to
retain its value, and an ever-increasing
threat of trade competition from other
nations.
The overseas pattern of trade suggests
there is a surplus capacity to export and
not enough customers who can afford to
buy. So, while Australia is emerging
from a Government-induced “adjust-
ment”, the rest of the world is displaying
a rash of economic problems.
Which is the greater influence on the
Australian economy? The internal prod-
ding designed to push things along, or
the external influences which could re-
duce our trade and undermine our
currency?
If you are inclined to be pessimistic,
you could say over-strain and over-ex-
tension in the US is a copy-book
example of what the Marxists hoped
for . . . the road to economic collapse
for the capitalistic systems. The cost of
buying allegiance against Communism
may be too great.
But Marxism is like art. There are
changing fashions. And, in the Soviets
today there is evidence of the impact of
education. In its own way it is devel-
oping a form of capitalism which pro-
vokes scathing criticism from the still
struggling Chinese Mainland.
This exercise stretches a long way
from local Australian problems. But the
overseas influences must be considered
in context. Since the outcome of such
matters too often is dependent on some
ridiculous quirk of political fate, it is
best to take the only logical viewpoint.
It is necessary to assume that common
sense will prevail in solving overseas
political problems. If not, the value of
money and investments must decline
relatively in terms not of our own eco-
nomy but in accordance with the world
situation.
The only sensible attitude to take is to
follow our own economic trends and
accept the fact that overseas trends may
be unpredictable. After all, several
books have already posed the suggestion
that Australia may be the only Western-
ised nation in existence if nuclear war
blasts the Northern Hemisphere to pieces.
These conclusions, naturally, are not
in the economic textbooks. But they
must be considered because they involve
the everyday fears of modern man. So
by confining the projection of Austra-
lia’s future to the economic indicators
within Australia, the weight of emphasis
is very much on the side of a bull
market for the next year or so, particu-
larly since Britain has indicated she will


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
Australian Equity Corporation Ltd is engaged in Commercial and Industrial Finance
including Hire Purchase, mortgages, leasing, bills of sale, discounting and bulk finance.
A NEW ISSUE AT PAR OF £250,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A. 5-10 YEARS
4 YRS.
7i% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
7% P.A.
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
8
,*
2
P.A. 5 YEARS
4 YRS.
8% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
7}% P.A.
(Also shorter term currencies to 3 months)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
6 Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67-7701
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9-3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane,
# Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
200 Queen Street, Melbourne.
# Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
# Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
# Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
isool
continue to borrow heavily to bolster
sterling.
True, there will be plenty of company
balance sheets appearing which will
reflect the influence of delayed recovery.
Those not so buoyant influences already
color the interim reports now being pub-
lished.
However, there are coming to hand
plenty of company reports which speak
hopefully of improvement for the last
six months of 1962-63. Unfortunately,
some hopeful statements issued during
the December half year were not borne
out, with the result that investors are
entitled to suspect some of the confident
statements still being issued.
But, as one investment analyst put it,
this might be the lull traditionally asso-
ciated with the period prior to a bull
market. No one rings a bell when the
market starts on its upward course. And,
once the market begins its upward
course, the hesitant investor who strag-
gles behind invariably tends to push prices
to levels much higher than he is prepared
to pay today. The psychology of con-
fidence, once established, is a marvellous
thing.
The warning is clear. Don’t delay too
long if you are considering entering the
investment share market.
If, on the other hand, you believe that
America will be unable to avoid a dec-
line and Britain will be unable to save
sterling from a devaluation, you must
keep your money on fixed deposit.
At this stage, however, it seems un-
likely those possibilities will occur over-
night. It may still be possible to invest
in the market and get out again before
such a situation occurs. At least you will
expect some time to elapse before it is
known if Maudling’s measures are
effective.
An Interesting Grocer
A mongst the heavyweights currently
being recommended by a conserva-
tive Sydney broker is A. G. Campbell
Holdings Ltd, a wholesale self-service
grocery business with stores in the
Sydney suburbs of Camperdown, Brook-
vale, Kirrawee, Liverpool, Penrith and
Chatswood
Its turnover has more than doubled
in the four years to 1962 when self-
service became a generally accepted


'-Vi.: . *•?
o
PER
ANNUM
INCORPORATED
DIRECT
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION
LIMITED
J. W. DOUGLASS (CHAIRMAN)
F. E. JONES W. J. FARRAM
An issue at par (£100) of £500,000 Registered First
Mortgage Debenture Stock and Registered Unsecured
Notes.
TRUSTEES for the Debenture Stockholders and Unsecured
Noteholders: Perpetual Custodians Pty. Limited, 33-39 Hunter St.,
Sydney. P.T. Pty. Limited, 33-39 Hunter St., Sydney.
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8% -5-10 years
73/4% 4 years
71/2% 3 years
7% 2 years
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
8% —4 years
m% 3 years
V/2% 2 years
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORM
Applications can be accepted only on the form of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus
which may be obtained from:
1. Direct Acceptance Corporation Limited,
Interocean House, 261 George St., Sydney.
’Phone 27-8611.
2. Bank of New South Wales.
Any branch in N.S.W., Vic., Qld., A.C.T.
until 31st May, 1963.
3. Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
4. or the UNDERWRITING BROKERS—
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley House, 33 Bligh St., Sydney
iv. 84 William St., Melbourne
'>'■ 340 Queen St., Brisbane
t? 701
feature of the grocery trade. Earning rate
climbed from 14.7 p.c. to 21.1 p.c. for
the same period.
In November last, a one-for-five issue
of 10s. shares at ss. premium allowed
entry at 225., although the opening price
for 1962 was 16s. 9d.
The shares are currently obtainable
more advantageously at 20s. at which
they return 6.2 p.c. from the 12i p.c.
dividend. They were listed only about
15 months ago, and moved up strongly
in the market after several broker recom-
mendations.
Interim report of a 14 p.c. improve-
ment in sales for the December 1962
half-year, notwithstanding keen competi-
tion, confirms that the company is mov-
ing in the right direction.
Appliance Market Saturated
llJith nine electrical wholesalers gone
"" down the drain in recent times, dis-
count houses buying cheap lines, and
repossessions of significant proportions
being auctioned off, the market for home
appliances looks pretty well saturated for
at least another year.
Regular home appliance retailers and
manufacturers will be struggling to pre-
sent a good profit picture for 1962-63.
Scouts Were Tricked
HThe way to the motel bedroom is
through the kitchen, or so it would
seem from the announcement that Scotts
Provisions (Holdings) Ltd intended to
make a bid for Motel Corporation
(Australia) Ltd.
The guessing game as to the identity
of the bidder covered almost everyone
in the field already, but scouts failed to
observe that the chairman and managing
director of Scotts was a director and
substantial shareholder in the ailing
motel company.
RMC Shares Move
A fter enduring a long period of mar-
ket disaffection, Ready Mixed Con-
crete shares received more attention on
its report for the December half-year.
Comparing the results for the Decem-
ber 1962 six months with the similar
period of 1961, unaudited tax profits
from the UK company rose from
£95,000 to £lOO,OOO, and from opera-
tions in Australia, Malaya and Brazil,
from £418,000 to £487,000.
The after-tax profits for the last three
"consecutive half-terms (beginning July 1,
1961) were £513,000 (12.6 p.c. on cap-
ital), £541,000 (13.1 p.c.) and £587,000
(14.2 p.c.).
Directors mentioned that the unusu-
ally severe winter in the UK and Europe
was an abnormal factor affecting re-
suits for the current year. This suggests
that the continued freeze in January and
February could affect the UK subsidiary’s
profit. However, the general impression
is one of steady recovery,
A steady interim dividend of 6i p.c.
leaves £71,000 for internal use.


"We plan to be in
business in 1973" ...
says the “Chair-man”
That’s 10 years’ time.
That’s how long we guarantee Sebel furniture for,
structurally.
Chairs can get a lot of use and abuse in 10 years. They
have to be extra strong if they’re Sebel chairs, as other-
wise we’d be in real trouble before 1973.
Which is the main reason we take so much care in
designing our products. Not only do we have to be
worried about such things as good looks and comfort
and price, but we have to make sure that the internal
construction is right, so that it won’t let you—and us—
down for a long, long time.
Every one of the wide range of Sebel chairs has this
extra durability built in. You need it, and so do we!
It you're thinking oi buying a quantity ot chairs
or tables tor a hall, club, hotel, etc., perhaps
you'd better ask us tor a copy ot our quantity
price list.
Also ask tor the Sebel 44-page catalogue, and !
the most informative “Complete Chair Manual.
"CHAI R-MAN”
Sebel chairs are most economically priced.
For 200 or more, you can buy Utility Stak-
a-Bye chairs for £2/4/-. Other chairs in
the Sebel range cost £5/8/7 for the
Saratoga; for top-quality installations, the
Celebrity costs £6/14/4 (Sales Tax extra).
1
b
s
e
SEBELS (AUST.) LTD., 96 CANTERBURY ROAD
BANKSTOWN, N.S.W. PHONE 70-0771
581.84
Amalgamated’s Worth
/Chairman of Amalgamated Chemicals
Ltd told shareholders at the annual
meeting that he felt the 1962 balance
sheet fully justified directors’ attitude
not to recommend other than a very
substantial takeover offer.
Parke Davis and Co., the leading
American pharmaceutical group, re-
cently looked over the company with
acquisitive eyes, but made no formal
offer.
Mr J. D. Wilson, Amalgamated’s
chairman and managing director, was
at pains to explain that the group is
chiefly concerned with formulating and
distributing agricultural chemicals and,
as such, had no problem of over-capa-
city or the need for tariff protection.
Amalgamated Chemicals supplies
specialised products to the agricultural
industry, made from basic materials
freely available in Australia or from
overseas.
Removal of three smaller factories to
the Bankstown factory will result in
lower costs of production, and further
cost savings when the properties are sold.
Inventories, which rose from
£1,221,472 to £1,701,225 in the year to
December 31, have been built up so that
customers, instead of waiting three weeks
or more, now get delivery the day after
the order is received.
Sales increases and extended credit to
customers during the economic restric-
tions account for the increase in debtors
from £1,097,201 to £1,202,125. (Ade-


INVESTMENTS WANTED
FOR GENUINE CLIENTS
WITH CASH £15,000 to £50,000.
SHOPS (Inner Sub.),
FLATS (could be older Bldg.),
CITY PROPERTIES
SPEEDY INSPECTIONS —SALES ASSURED
S. KLIGER & CO., PTY. LTD.
406 Lonsdale St., Melbourne
67-2587 67-5457
FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
BANK.
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
B
quate provisions have been made and
precautions taken against non-
realisation.)
These policies, plus the need for new
plant, occasioned the premium issue just
completed. In the opening three months
of the financial year, progress already
shows a satisfactory increase.
If Amalgamated Chemicals already
has the stature to attract an overseas
bid, perhaps the curiosity of others may
be aroused. It would be worth knowing
the conclusions formed by Parke Davis.
New Grading for Aust. Fert.
\ ustralian Fertilizers 20s. shares have
** shown a spectacular price advance
since the announcement in November of
the recently completed share issue (one-
for-three at ss. premium).
They were then 475. 9d., whereas the
rights in March commanded a price of
round 265. 6d., making the entry price
51s. 6d. The shares ex the issue were
then traded at 535.
The motivating force was the Nov-
ember news that ICIANZ had bought
back into the company, paying 455. a
share for 100,000 shares —with the issue
to follow, of course.
The market also took note of the com-
pany’s substantial programme to produce
phosphoric acid by wet process and high
analysis NPK fertiliser.
Freighters* Sales Improve
equipment maker, Freighters
Ltd, traded profitably in the Decem-
ber 1962 half-year, but no interim
dividend will be paid.
At June 30, 1962, the company had
a debit balance of £314,952 in its
appropriation account, after the year’s
trading loss of £289,017 and other
losses amounting to £247,000.
Sales for the six months were up 16
p.c. on those of the previous correspond-
ing period.
In February last the newly appointed
general manager (Mr J. A. Locarnini)
said he could see no reason why the
better trend should not continue.
Gum and Matches
"jl/TAKERS of two small, inexpensive,
everyday items recently revealed
profits for the first time, reporting for the
year to December 31.
Bryant and May Pty Ltd (Redhead
and Crown matches —which dominate
the Australian market in southern States)
paid out £102,104 of its £159,302
profit to its shareholders, Bryant and
May Ltd of London (80 p.c.) and the
Swedish Match Company (20 p.c.).
Profit was 7 p.c. on shareholders’ funds
of £2,220,114.
Wrigley Co Pty Ltd, maker of chewing
gum, distributed £125,000 of its
£ 133,086 profit.
Profit was 33.3 p.c. on ordinary capi-
tal of £400,000.


NOW OPEN
f RIC ANDERSON
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
RA
SHORT TERM
6 months 6%P-a. 12 months 61%p.a.
LONG TERM
2 years 7% p.a.;3 years 71% p.a.
4 years 8% p.a.[s years 81% p.a.
10 years 81% p.a.
DIRECTORS: E. A. M. Newton (Chairman), B. W. Solomons, E. S.
Pratt, A. D. K. Cochrane, E. J. Cameron, G. L. Martin.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:— P. T. PTY. LIMITED, a wholly
owned subsidiary of PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED), 33-39
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to in and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from and applications lodged with
Any Branch in New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory
and any City or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks
* THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
☆ BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or at
☆ ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
iS ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Sydney and Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembla,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
iS PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED.
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country.
iS ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE, OR THE
m
Underwriting Broker?: RALPH W. KING & YUiLL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20 O'CONNEU STREET, SYDNEY
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
Prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
E.A.(ConsoL) —2
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Insurance Co. as
a Retailer
most unexpected news last week
was the MLC takeover offer for
H. G. Palmer.
in market performance, H. G. Palmer
has far outshone other electrical appli-
ance retailers, Eric Anderson and Good-
wins. Yet of the three it has probably
been the most risky. Its gearing is as high
as most pure hire-purchasers 6-to-l.
Melbourne retailer Cox Bros is discover-
ing what happens to a highly geared com-
pany that loses favour with the market.
So here we have a somewhat specu-
tive venture receiving an offer from one
of the most respected institutions in the
land. A very happy event for Palmer
shareholders and all those people who
took out call options at 16/- on the after-
noon before.
Let's look at it from the point of
view of the MLC shareholder. He has
the right to ask: “What does the MLC
know about appliance retailing?” Only
the previous week, a senior representative
of the MLC in a talk emphasised the
the fact that the MLC should not neces-
sarily be familiar with the detailed opera-
tions of different kinds of businesses. He
actually gave retailing as an example.
Admittedly it was stressed that Palmers
“will continue with the same management,
with the same administration and with
the same directors” (plus a representative
of the MLC). But surely as a wholly-
owned subsidiary the MLC directors
should ultimately assume greater control.
Then there is the complication of ap-
propriating the potential profit from this
source between shareholders and policy
holders.
Of course, the argument is advanced
that H. G. Palmer will be able to borrow
money at cheaper rates in the future.
If the MLC would like to carry this ap-
proach further, the next bid will be for
Ansett (its gearing is 4to 1). We would
not only be able to “fly the life assurance
way”, but the MLC would also have
a television station, something the
Broadcasting Control Board wasn’t pre-
pared to grant it in its joint application
through Commercial Television Enter-
prises Ltd. Then what w'ould Mr Cal-
well say!
Pushed into the background was the
announcement of the TV licences. A few
pangs of sorrow that the portfolio did
not have an interest in any of the success-
ful companies involved. It would have
been a good opportunity to sell on an
inflated market. AWA is perhaps the best


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. ML Minnett. ML A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
•>->*>*
@;V3
@53
®23
@53
f&5
@53
@5s
S&5
@53
«A5
@53
®£5
@53
S&5
@53
sas
<e53
saa
@53
saa
@53
«43
@53
saa
saa
e£53
saa
i@53
saa
@5?
saa
iife
saa
@53-
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
811
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
a/so available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Si
551
£51
c£l
£51
£51
£51
S®
£51
cSS
£51
5®
£51
tss
s®
£51
C?I
551
SSI
551
551
<£&
551
5®
551
&§>
«L*©
Full details of these issues will be found in
the Company’s Prospectus which is available
at all branches of the Company’s Bankers,
the Bank of New South Wales, any Member
of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited.
Applications may be made only on the form
attached to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE CC160
example, as it fell from 225. at the same
rapid rate as it had risen to that level
the previous day.
Those of us who have not seen the
“Go North Young Man” selection of
stocks probably are unaware of the
existence of Amagraze, a pastoral com-
pany. Yet it has been listed on the Bris-
bane Stock Exchange since 1959.
As a fully integrated meat company,
Amagraze incorporates a cattle property
west of Mt Isa, a meat works at Cairns
and wholesaling and retailing businesses
in both Townsville and Brisbane. A
successful smallgoods manufacturing
business is also conducted in Brisbane.
Recently a move has been made into
bacon curing by the takeover of
Callide-Dawson Co-op.
At first glance, the profit record does
not read as impressively as the above
description. Because of severe droughts,
losses were incurred in both 1960 and
1961. The year 1962 saw a change in
the weather and subsequently the state
of trading. The profit of £114,000,
equal to 15 p.c. could mark the
beginning of a profitable era. Current
trading is well up, being helped along
especially by export sales.
By buying 500 at 7s. 6d. I am not
getting in on the ground floor. The
shares w'ere as low as 3s. 2d. in 1962.
The one transaction for the week
looks somewhat bare.
BOUGHT
500 Amagraze, 7/6 £194
I feel more at home with the debit
of £53 in the account.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/9
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 14/6
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 18/-
1000 Tacman 7/1/63 1/2 1/1
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/- 44/3
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/6
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/- lOd.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lOd.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/6
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 52/3
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 8/11
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. options 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/2
1000 Holyman Woods 4/4/63 4/5 .5/4
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/6


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 linesj No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Monbulk Recovers W ell
"E^xamination of the trend in trading
by Monbulk Preserves Ltd over the
last four years might lead investors to
the conclusion that here was a solid little
show making steady progress.
Unfortunately, the inclusion of 1957-
58 figures as a base year reveals that
recent growth is a recovery after the
heavy slump in 1958 in the canned
fruit export trade.
Monbulk began as a sole proprietor-
ship in 1912, marketing jam and canned
fruits under the “Quail” brand. It
attained its present style in 1957 when
shares were first offered to the public at
3d. above par, 55., to qualify for listing.
The company cans mainly stone and
berry fruits, jams, marmalades, bakers’
jams, and pie fruits, under the “Mon-
bulk” and “Home Maid” brands at
factories in Hobart (Tas.) and Monbulk
(Vic.). Frozen berry fruits are a
relatively new addition to the company’s
range.
It has berry farms at Oyster Cove in
Tasmania and at Monbulk.
Profit rose in the year to September
30, 1962, from £50,122 to £53,979,
after providing only £16,437 (£24,874)
for tax. Expenditure in the export market
accounts for the apparently low tax
figure.
In the latest term, freezing facilities
have been developed to cater fully for
present needs, and an increased range
of frozen foods was brought into pro-
duction. These are being presented in
new domestic and institutional packs
which is considered a “most important
feature in the future development of the
company.”
Directors are pursuing export markets
in USA, Japan and other Eastern
countries, with the object of ensuring
that entry to the Common Market by
Great Britain would not directly in-
fluence the company’s future prospects
to any marked degree.
Group sales were declared a record,
although certain canned lines have been
eliminated from production.
The only capital change in its public
history was a one-for-five par issue in
September, 1958. Dividends have been
a steady 10 p.c. each year.
The company relies heavily on
deposits of £110,357 from shareholders,
which are repayable in 1967 or earlier
at the company’s option. It will be in-
teresting to see what alternative financial
arrangements the company will make on
these.
Other loan capital at last balance date
was £61,006 in other deposits at call,
and £lB,lOO in secured loans on
mortgage.
The Tasmanian - based Henry Jones
Co-operative is in terms of capital about
nine times as big as Monbulk, and, of
course, there are other large private fruit
canners on the Australian scene.
The Australian canned fruit industry
is extremely sensitive to competition in
world markets, particularly from low-
cost producers such as South Africa,
Malaya and California. Even with the
best efforts of Monbulk directors it is
hard to envisage a major break-through.
Local consumption will, therefore,
largely determine the company’s future.
Provided Monbulk adapts to the changing
conditions of the Australian grocery trade
and the changing habits of consumers, it
should at least hold its own.
For an income stock, Monbulk shares
at under 9s. are reasonably good value.
Recent trading at 8s. 6d. gave an income
yield of 5.9 p.c. and an earnings yield
of 11.6 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY — (E'000)
September 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 645 581 573 614 620
Less current
liabilities 416 350 365 367 357
Working capital 229 231 208 247 263
Investments 1 5 2 — —
Fixed assets 343 376 406 401 411
Intangibles 30 29 29 30 30
603 641 645 673 704
Loan capital 202 221 207 225 224
Capital in advance 41 — — — —
Ordinary capital 230 276 276 276 276
Reserves 130 144 162 177 204
603 641 645 678 704
Depreciation 16 15 16 16 17
Taxation 46 25 26 25 16
Net profit 71 45 45 50 54
Dividends 28 28 23 28 28
Surplus 43 17 17 22 26
Earning rate 31.0 16.2 16.5 18.1 19.7
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 7.1 5.7 7.6 5.7 5.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 4.5 10.7 8.0 8.7 9.2
High price (b) 9/2 10/- 9/1 8/9 9/6
Low price (bl 6/6 6/11 7/6 6/6 8/—
(a) End of March (month accounts presented) of
following year.
(b) Calendar year.
J. C. GOODWIN & CO. LTD
Glass Co’s Difficult Year
IVespite the recovery in the building
industry generally, intense com-
petition is still the order of the day. The
latest to suffer is J. C. Goodwin and
Co. Ltd, long established glass merchant.
The company has passed its interim
dividend because of a substantial fall in
profit.
The company was formed in 1875 and
achieved public company status in 1949
with a placement of ss. shares at 6s. 3d.
Paid up capital at that time was £95,000.
The company has been generous to
shareholders with numerous issues all
at premiums. These included a one-for-
five issue at 3s. premium in 1950 and
a one-for-four at Is. 3d. premium in 1955.
At the same time as the latter issue the
company also made a one-for-three bonus
issue.
Three months later 190,000 shares
were issued to acquire the Premier Glass
Co. Pty Ltd, lifting paid-up capital to
its present level of £228,000.
Profit history was good before last
year’s lapse. The company also had an
excellent dividend record since flotation
with 12 p.c. payouts to the 1955 bonus
and cash issue and 10 p.c. payments for
the five following years.
The company seemed to escape the
effects of the credit squeeze in 1960-61,


On time ...
every time
vs
6
•if-
m
L
m
Q
« :•
+ * ■ '•
*—
mi- i\ ,*jiL
J* ~>y '*
:t... • • H &*!stfjnc* i«k<«: .•: 1
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Nickless
operate Australia’s most reliable interstate freightways. To
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nickless main-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick-up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS LTD.
. INC ORPORAHNG ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freightways
SYDNEY* MELBOURNE-BRISBANE-PERTH
ADELAIDE • CANBERRA • NEWCASTLE
PORT KEMBLA • LAUNCESTON • HOBART
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
-T- r -i nf\ ff 'HfTp
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT NEED
and actually lifted profit by 42 p.c., fol-
lowed by a 15 p.c. dividend payment.
However the following year the company
was hit, especially in the second half of
the year.
Profit for the first half of 1961-62 was
better than in the previous corresponding
period and interim dividend of 1\ p.c.
confirmed the previous year’s 15 p.c.
rate, comprising an interim 5 p.c. and
-final 10 p.c. However competition began
to take full effect in the second half of
the year and eventually dragged profit
down 26 p.c.
Final payout was brought back to 5
p.c. making 124 p.c. for the year and
was barely covered by a 12.8 p.c. earn-
ing rate.
Despite hopes of maintaining this divi-
dend rate for 1962-63, severe competi-
tion continued and resulted in very low
profit margins. No dividend was paid.
The current outlook is better with
turnover up considerably, but it is un-
likely that profit margins will show much
improvement. The market does not seem
to expect a dividend of more than 74-
or 8 p.c.
The last accounts revealed the com-
pany in a fairly sound position although
showing the effect of the more difficult
conditions. Stocks were up from £122,882
to £154,568 but debtors fell from
£132,819 to £128,126.
To finance larger stocks the company
increased its bank overdraft from £3,771
to £47,378, and relied on longer terms
from creditors. Trade creditors were up
from £17,486 to £22,118.
Higher stocks were partly accounted
for by expansion during the year which
also was reflected by an increase
in fixed assets from £163,932 to £185,540.
A subsidiary began operations in Tam-
worth, a building was erected in Can-
berra, while a half interest was acquired
in Cronulia Glass Service Pty Ltd. In
addition, the company last November
formed a half-owned subsidiary, Good-
win Glass (Newcastle) Pty Ltd, which
should begin operations shortly.
The reserve position is good. Capital
reserves of £82,992 make up more than
half the total of £156,251 shown at June
30 last. Subject to intangibles (principally
goodwill on consolidation) of £12,699,
they give an assets backing of Bs. 2d.
for each ss. share.
The shares are currently on offer at
well below 7s. to show an earnings yield
of around 10 p.c. On a 74- p.c. dividend
basis the yield would be about 54- p.c.
This is low and the shares may settle
down near the 6s. mark. Should they go
below 6s., they could be worth picking
up because the company has demon-
strated its strength in the past and has
the ability to fight its way back.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES £'000
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 245 278 258 286
less current liabilities 70 79 70 104
Working capital 175 199 188 182
Fixed Assets 187 167 164 186
Intangibles 12 12 12 12
Investments 20 5
374 378 384 385
Represented by
Capital 228 228 228 228
Reserves 146 150 156 157
374 378 384 385
Depreciation 4 5 5 4
Taxation 13 17 25 19
Net Profit 24 28 40 29
Dividends 23 23 34 29
Surplus 1 5 6 —•
Dividend p.c. 10 10 15 12A
Earning rate p.c. 10.6 12.2 17.4 12.8
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 7.1 6.5 8.3 6.2
High price (b) 7/6 9/9 10/- 12/-
Low price (b) 5/2 6/6 6/- 7/3
(a) End of October month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
Lucky
Taxpayers!
owners in USA have an advantage
over Australians in income tax de-
ductions. They may deduct the following,
even if the car is used solely for personal,
non-business purposes:—
© Automobile registration fees;
• State and local taxes on petrol (but
not Federal tax);
© Interest on money borrowed on the
security of an automobile;
@ Losses not covered by insurance
resulting from fire, storm or theft
or accident, provided the accident
was not the result of the taxpayer's
wilful act or negligence drunken
driving, for example.
If the car is used for business as well
as personal purposes, many other deduc-
tions are available.
Talent in Industry
/Complex problems brought about by
the growth of industry demand much
more highly trained executives than
those of the last generation. This
was emphasised by Mr S. Downie, presi-
dent of the Sydney division of the Aus-
tralian Institute of Management, at its
recent annual meeting.
“There are never enough good mana-
gers to go around,” he said, “and it is
vital that we search harder than ever for
the right material. It is the country with
the best executive talent that will survive
in a competitive world.”
Mr Downie regretted that there were
still some areas of business which did not
really recognise the need for a scientific,
planned approach to management. But
it was a good sign, he said, that an in-
creasingly wide section of Australian in-
dustry was becoming more alert to this
pressing need.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
Registered
First Mortgage Debenture Stock
Va
PER ANNUM 10 YEARS
Prospectuses and Forms of Application should be
obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney,
Brisbane, Perth.
Applications for Debenture Stock can be accepted
only on the printed form referred to in and attached
to the prospectus.
I
i
C 231
ONE TO BUY
Bank of Adelaide Appeals
T>ecent adjustments in the interest
-*•* structure have swung market atten-
tion once more to the banks and finance
companies.
Federal Government’s efforts to
stimulate the economy, accelerating the
use of money by lowering the overdraft
rate and the interest rate payable by
banks on new fixed deposits, will first
be felt by these two sections of the
market.
There will be a small loss of profits
by the banks, although it is estimated
the new structure will have no marked
effect on them.
Hire-purchase financiers, paying out
less on their borrowings, and presumably
less for their services, should be much
busier if the Reserve Bank action has
the desired effect.
It should pay, therefore, to look at
the finance companies, particularly
those in which the banks have taken up
capital. The accompanying table high-
lights the very high proportionate
interest held by the smallest bank, the
Bank of Adelaide, whose shares now
look an exceptionally sound purchase.
Its holding in Finance Corporation
Ltd’s capital will be enlarged to
£1,005,681 by the one-for-four par issue
recently announced by that company.
The £201,137 to be contributed by the
bank will be payable half on May 31
and half on December 1, 1963.
The bank’s investment in hire-pur-
chase will then produce <£100,568 in
dividends, assuming maintenance of the
10 p.c. rate predicted by directors of
Finance Corporation.
Bank of Adelaide’s profit in the last
year to September was £230,468, an
improvement of £11,876 over the
previous year. Profit did not include
anything from the Savings Bank which
began business on May 31, 1962.
“It is confidently expected that in the
coming years the Savings Bank will con-
tribute usefully to the overall profits of
the bank,” the chairman (Sir Arthur
Rymill) told shareholders.
The decimalisation of coinage, sched-
uled for February, 1966, must produce
side benefits chiefly in conversions
for the banks, although as their opera-
tions are highly mechanised now the
change will not have an enormous in-
fluence on bank profits.
Recent sales of Bank of Adelaide 20s.
shares at around 525. return just under
3.9 p.c.
The shares of two London-based Aus-
tralian banks —ANZ and ES & A
have the lowest yields (2.9 p.c. and 2.5
p.c. respectively), followed by the Bank
of NSW (3.8 p.c.). The Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney (3.9 p.c.) is next.
With the greatest extra-banking in-
terest, proportionate to its own capital,
Bank of Adelaide seems to have the
greatest capacity for growth, as an
investment, and in the event of new
alignments in the banking field, Bank
of Adelaide would be the first to be
considered as a takeover prospect. (There
is one other small bank, The Brisbane
Permanent Building and Banking Co.
Ltd, which could be enfolded by one of
the major banks. This has an issued
capital of £1 million.)
The last share issue by the Bank of
Adelaide was a two-for-five at 7s. 6d.
premium in May, 1954. If the bank


Home for Invalid
TRAINED NURSE with spacious home,
beautiful views and gardens, Manly, will care
for invalid or semi-invalid lady. Taken for
drives and every amenity. Thirty guineas per
week.
Box 9463 BULLETIN.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM CHARLES MARK CHRISTIAN
(formery called Donald Charles Conner) and
formerly of 1 John Street, Wallsend. TAKE
NOTICE that NOREEN VERONICA CHRIS-
TIAN (formerly called Noreen Veronica
Conner) has filed a Petition for Divorce in
Suit No. 228 of 1963 on the ground of your
cruelty. If you wish to defend you may file
an answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 17th of May, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD &
SYMONDS, Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: GRAHAM BRODRICK INSTONE late of
Glen Innes. TAKE NOTICE that MARJORIE
ENID INSTONE has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 992 of 1963 on the ground of
separation. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
20th day of May, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors, 4
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ULLA ERIKA DYRO, formerly of 57
Hebburn Street, Hamilton. TAKE NOTICE
that MICHAL DYRO has filed a Petition for
Divorce in Suit No. 1044 of 1963 on the ground
of your desertion. If you wish to defend you
may file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Mint Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on
or before the 17th day of May, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from MESSRS. JOHN D. NORTON RICKARD
& SYMONDS, Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
is not to be outstripped by its hire-
purchase off-spring, an early issue will
be required.
A genuine investor buying in at up
to 535. should be well rewarded.
AUST. BANKS' INTEREST IN HP
Bank Bank's HP Co.'s Bank’s
Capital Interest capital equity
in HP (par value)
(£'000) (£'000) (£'000)
Adelaide £1,750 40 p.c. of £2,514 £1,005
Fin. Corp.
Ah'Z £A 13,805 14 p.c. of £12,077 £1,690
I AC
CBA £6,223 45 pc. of £3,439 £1,547
Gen. Cred.
CBC £8,500 40 p.c. of £4,000 £1,600
CAGA
ES & A £A6,250 100 pc. of £A2,490 £2,490
Esanda in 1961
National £10,089 40 p.c. in £7,000 £2,800
Custom Cr
NSW £21,950 40 p.c. of £8,950 £3,580
AGC
Letters to the Editor
THE POOR NFU
Sir,
The Man on the Land (Bulletin,
2312/63) highlights the embarrassing
position of the NFU in having to forego
international representation because of
penury.
Your writer places the blame for this
unedifying state of affairs on our over-
representation on the home front, where
“petty jealousies” assure disunity among
farmers’ organisations.
Until serious historians find the rural
political scene worthy of their interest
we must agree with your appraisal. How-
ever, in the meantime we might hope
that a Pearl or a Hardy might find the
unsavoriness or the Gilbertian muddle-
headedness of our farmers’ organisations
worthy of their pen.
Do those same factors which split the
whole community religion, politics,
income levels, social background
operate in the wholesome country air?
M. PIGGOTT
B dinar ring (Vic.).
MOTOR VEHICLE IMPORTS
Sir,
Regarding the article “Economics
Anonymous” (The Bulletin, 23/3/63)
it is interesting to record that, of the
total imports of motor vehicles and com-
ponents over the last six months of 1962,
importations by General Motors-Holden’s
amounted to 17 per cent of the total
value.
During the same period, the GMH
share of all vehicles registered was 43.7
per cent, which indicates that those who
enjoyed the remaining 56.3 per cent of
the market, in addition to other import-
ers of components, were responsible for
83 per cent of the imports. Importations
by GMH are in the main associated with
Vauxhall, Bedford, Chevrolet and Pontiac
vehicles and the needs of its spare parts
division.
The Holden is 99 per cent Australian.
J. H. HORN
Director.
Melbourne.
Feiffer
P/ERWTiHC SHE PHOUED I ALWAWS EsEi
TO HAVE A FI&HT 101 TH MW MOTHER.
STP SAW "TO ME / tfou POMT CARE
IF I LIVE OE pie." AMP IP SAW To
H6R ,"r WAMT TO BE FREE" AMP
SHE'D SAW TO ME/WHEM AM I
60ILte TO SEE WDDf " AMP IP
SAW to HER ,'TH BDSW APP I
lOEEK" AMD ’ SHE’P SAW TO ME /
'WU PPfO'T CARE IF I O(2 PE.
I TALKED TO MW FRIEMPS FORAPWCO,
''PAREMTO ARE LIKE CH/LPREM," THEW .
TOLD ME, "APP THEW WAMT /$
.attemtiom. call them mcßzm
THEW CALL you. SEE THEM
OMCEA MOMTH FOR DIMMER. Jbrl>
HANW-E THEM." jgj|.
50 I HAMPPFP MW MOTHER, DMCE
A WEEK I CMLfcO HER. DMCE •
A MOMTH I took her out to m
DIMMER. AMD MORE AMD A
MORE I FOPMP THAT I £a
PIKED HER/-I ACTUALLW JM
COULD TAPK TO HER/
J ST/W CALLNJ6 HgR. E/EH
PAW AMP AAfiWfe Pp THERE THREE
.timed a weeic sometimes ip
k TALkT 50 LOV6 Qtf. WW/OY
L 6ET A WORP |M AI4 MI&Hf,
PAST TIME I fOOIV M
SEfeaw 6'.SAKIM6 LOOK'S
MAIL/,
'TH9O SOOOCtim THIS idEEfE I CALLED
HER EVERW PAW AMP r CPPPPIOT
. 6ET HER lU. FIMAUW THIS M0B)(M6
k I REACHED HK/iOHfi) AM I
I &OIM6 TO DEE W"I ASKED
HER. * I'M BPSW APP MFPKI"
A 6HE ADBidEREP.
SHE POESMT CARE
if I tii/f oe pie.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4083, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME !
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, N'EW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick -y/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? □ or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
I'll©
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880.
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 741
ACROSS
I—Crowbars used against team hair well down from
the temples. (4-6)
6—Do wrong in mentioning a subject of Nordic wor-
ship who’s nothing at first and a big noise there-
after. (4)
10— Brainless in mist, (anagram) (15)
11— Nothing but a relative haven for desert nomads. (5)
12— Business woman who has taken orders queer
riddle. (9)
14— Two times the daddy of them all. (4)
15— An offside fieldsman and the other side garment.
(4-2)
17—A married native has this
black spirit. (3)
19— It’s the devil when I get a
seat. (3)
20— A Chaldean city or a dawn.
(6)
21— Twice halved, the cone is
broken. (4)
22 Be shallow. (4, 5)
25 Bend over a drinking vessel.
(5)
26 Small meal we can be seen
to hold in, not without “the
grape” though. (5, 6,4)
27 Stalls far away from such
high theatre idols. (4)
28— Coppers expended are no
more to be reckoned with.
(5, 5)
DOWN
1— Maid’s petticoat is her mis-
take. (4, 2,1, 4)
2 American prosecutor to ex-
amine a legislator with a
post-office cancellation. (4-5)
3 Is in the van sinkers. (5)
4 Sail curve, (anagram) (9)
5 About one Grand National
rule. (5)
7 Ban the false beard. (5)
8— Foreign born. (3)
9 Annie is confused enough to
be stupid, as I figure. (7)
13—Fellow let put up with some
music surrounds for the fire-
place. (11)
16—Separate layer on some
feature of the Acropolis. (9)
17— Venetian who has a row also
has the Negro idol smashed-
(9)
18— Protectorate assignation with
some bloke. (7)
23 Imprisoned musical theme of
five notes. (5)
24 Fussily proceed with the
toilette edge in pianissimo.
(5)
25 Feature of Roman lettering
backfires? (5)
26 Fuel journal. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 740


FROM
STOP
TO
FULL
**, wmmm 41
AHEAD!
. ' PilP^
jjt g #
jggjf
-■ :^4^
maw
r w flBP*
ill
gSL> J !
5 5,
w ■
BE
•IfFfJLjjj i r>'i~
iiiaSf Hii 1
I §££%'. !^?]Matauat
Ilf
w*£-
:•«*
✓
» /
;,i- *
. . . you're AUTOMATICALLY on your way!
It's the Wolseley tradition to be way out in front with quality, performance
and engineering. Look at Wolseley's luxury, then examine other cars in the
same price range. Listen to the purr of the 'Blue Streak Six'. Feel the power
at the press of a pedal and the roadholding that makes driving a
pleasure. And now compare the Automatic transmission that's automatically
better. The three speed hydraulic torque convertor; the light, compact,
space saving unit; the manual overide that allows engine braking and
emergency push starting. IMo other car matches Wolseley value for money.
Buy wisely buy Wolseley.
NEW WOLSELEY 24/80 AUTOMATIC
£1,338 including sales tax. A product of the British Motor Corporation (Australia) Pty. Limited
BMC service backs your
Wolseley 24 80 all
the years of its life.


The Symbol of the World’s Best known Largest-Selling King Size Virginia Cigarette.
*
m<\ :,a
i
%
F I LT E R
BQTMMANS OP PALL MAUL AUSTRALIA LTD.
the
Wrlk
BAND
of
Rothmans
King Size
Filter:
20
DOUBLY SMOOTH-FILTER TIP
PLUS THE EXTRA LENGTH
Over the years the distinctive blue band has
been synonymous with the high quality and purity
of Rothmans King Size Filter Australia’s most
wanted cigarette.
Many attempts have been made to imitate Rothmans
—even the blue band has been copied. But f no
other cigarette has been able to equal the quality of
Rothmans King Size Filter.
So long as Australians continue to compare the
tobacco, compare the filter and to demand true King
Size flavour, Rothmans King Size Filter will continue
to be FIRST IN AUSTRALIA - FIRST IN THE WORLD
Wi
