

The Bulletin
JULY 6.1953
Australia 2/-; New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - E&T. 1880
a.?' iiiiiiiij fim


Light it
you’ll like
■SSI
a - wmm m
:.va:V V - ■:! \ ~;■ ■■
'
- r
i-’
■
iiHHi i
i
m-
*s» W Iff-Fi
1
-■ -
mSmm


National Notebook
Strictly for the Birds
T’-he other night we dropped in to the
Birdcage, Sydney’s newest (and
oddest) addition to an increasing number
of junior nightclubs. To us, junior night-
clubs suggests institutions where teen-
agers can enjoy themselves undisturbed
by the presence of adults, and indeed
rumor had it that one would only be
admitted to the Birdcage with a teenage
date. As it turns out, no one under 18
is let in.
Heading for the box-office, we found
a large (stuffed) red parrakeet installed.
Nearby, in what was once a theatre foyer
(the Birdcage used to be the Kings
Cross Theatre), a cage full of more
winged creatures reached to the ceiling.
Two huge seagulls with wings out-
spread added to the rote of Our
Feathered Friends. Inside, where you
took your own liquor, stereophonic
music blasted the few couples at the
tables.
Asked what gave him the idea for
the Birdcage, owner Peter Bergin (who
recently handled the Louis Armstrong
tour) said: “There was the
idea of sweet music. And
a place to hear it in. The
Birdcage.” To judge by
the note of confidence in
his voice, we would guess
the Birdcage has an Angel.
And it will also have a
gospel singer soon —Brother John Sellers,
who will spend some time there provid-
ing uplift for the over-18s.
When Union Isn’t Strength
Tn early April this year the Australia-
Soviet Friendship Society advertised
in “Tribune” a Friendship Art Union.
Sales of tickets at £1 each were to be
limited to 6000. First prize was a tour
of the Soviet Union for two persons, all
expenses paid, value £l4OO. The second
prize was a Russian camera, valued at
£34/15/0; the third, a Russian wrist-
watch, £lO/19/6. The art union was
to have been drawn on September 5.
A profit of at least £4OOO was expected,
and as it was advertised as Friendship
Art Union No. 1 the art unions were
obviously expected to be a continuing
source of revenue to the Communist
Party and its subsidiaries.
However, although the boasted strength
of the party is roughly equivalent to the
number of tickets it was hoped to sell —
6000—and more than four months were
allowed in which to sell them (that is
five a day), the art union crashed. The
NSW Chief Secretary, Mr Gus Kelly,
has been asked for permission to cancel
it. Perhaps the prize should have been
a trip to Red China.
The Hub of the Wheel
Sydney radio man Maxwell
A Dunn, now chief of Visual Informa-
tion in Asia and the Far East for the
United Nations, is home on leave.
Dunn’s headquarters are at present in
Delhi, but he feels perhaps that when
Malaysia becomes a reality, his unit may
go to Kuala Lumpur as the natural hub
of the Asian wheel. “We would be able
to cut down a lot on travelling time,” he
said, “and Kuala Lumpur is, of course, a
good city to live in. It seems to have as
many Holden cars as Sydney.”
Dunn said that during a recent UN
exhibition for schoolchildren in Delhi,
several schools chose Australia from
among the UN countries to study in con-
trast with India. “There is a great deal
of interest in Australia in India,” Dunn
said, “but no doubt much of it dates from
the Chinese invasion. India found out
then who her friends were
and Australia, as a mem-
ber of the Commonwealth
and geographically in a
special relation to India,
began to count with her.”
Dunn said that Delhi
was still full of the
signs of the shock which the Chinese
invasion had given India and of the con-
viction that the threat is not ended. “There
are slit trenches in gardens,” Dunn said,
“you see schoolchildren drilling in the
playgrounds. We lived in Old Delhi and
each day as I passed the Red Fort I saw
thousands of young men, stripped to the
waist, waiting for their medical examina-
tion to join the forces.”
Dunn said that each country of his
area presented special problems and these
had to be met in different ways. “For
example,” he said, “take television. Thai-
land is not a prosperous country yet there
are 400,000 TV sets in Bangkok alone.
As you go down the canals you see these
shacks, each with an antennae. Yet in
Delhi television is only used for educa-
tional purposes. The Ford Foundation
gave the equipment and UNESCO the
sets but they are used only for schools.
For a few hours in the evening adults
may go to ‘teleclubs’ but here again the
programmes are educational.”
Chronicling the Country Party
THus week Melbourne University Press
A has placed in the bookshops the
second volume of Professor Geoffrey
Page
THE DALAI LAMA 20
A nation in exile
McEwen’s Dry Run 6
America’s Looming Racial War .. 12
Melbourne’s Fitzroy: Downhill All
the Way 14
Paroling Murderers 18
Laos: Heading for a Full-scale
War? 27
Three Lessons from the Profumo
Case 31
The “Season” Revisited .. .. .. 37
Tobacco Growers are Fuming .. 46
Farmers Kept in Ignorance .. .. 48
Pressure for Tax Cuts 47
«
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 14
OVERSEAS 27
FORUM 31
LETTERS 35
REVIEWS 37
FEIFFER 40
RED PAGE 41
MAN ON THE LAND 46
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 47
CROSSWORD 62
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4351


Sawer’s “Australian Federal Politics and
Law” which provides a factual back-
ground to Commonwealth affairs from
1901 to recent times. The same publisher
has announced the forthcoming publica-
tion of a history of the Federal Country
Party by Ulrich Ellis whose history of
the NSW party was published by Che-
shire in 1958. The new volume will cover
a wider field, ranging from the forma-
tion of various farmer movements in the
1890 s to the evolution of the State Coun-
try Party groups and the establishment
and history of the Federal Party since
its debut in 1920.
Ellis is well placed to write this history.
He has been both on the outside looking
in and vice versa and over a long period.
He has known every member who
served in the Federal Country Party and
many State personalities; and has been
intimately asociated with the four men
who have led the party since 1921, Sir
Earle Page, A. G. Cameron, Sir Arthur
Fadden and John McEwen. He was Par-
liamentary secretary to Page from 1928
to 1936 and collaborated in the writing
of Page's posthumous autobiography
“Truant Surgeon”.
Ellis made his debut in the gallery of
the Federal House, meeting in Mel-
bourne, in 1921, the year after the Coun-
try Party was formed and was later
Federal (and State) political roundsman
for various metropolitan dailies. He has
been campaign director of the New Eng-
land New State Movement since 1960.
Wasted Waterway?
T'he last voyage of the old paddle-
A steamer Marion brought back a lost!
excitement to the River Murray. Cheer-
ing crowds turned out at all the river
towns and landings when the 66-year-old
riverboat steamed from Berry to Man-
num recently. The steamer has been
purchased by the National Trust of SA,!
and she will be preserved at Mannum. 1
The last voyage of the Marion has
had a more important effect than
reviving memories; it has started moves
to revive the river trade. The voyage
highlighted the riverman’s oldest com-
plaint that the Murray is the world’s
most wasted waterway. At Mannum,
Premier Sir Thomas Playford, who
signed on as a deckhand for the final
stage of the Marion’s voyage, said he
believed the Marion’s voyage would not
be the end of river navigation. Later,
Sir Thomas told Parliament that he had
instructed the SA Tourist Bureau to
investigate the possibility of establishing
The World of Business
2nd May.
Received your communication of the
ult.,
the 25th, perhaps, or thereabult;
It’s overdue and look at the result,
the consequential loss is all your fult.
We trust you will reply upon the inst.,
And hope more thoroughness will be
evinst
at your end in this trying circumstinst;
Believe us we’ve been worried even sinst.
Ist June.
Your ult. communication is to hand,
Your actions we here fail to understand,
Consider please your programming as
cand
and go ahead with takeover as pland.
In case of any problems please consult,
and pray conduct yourself as an adult
while you are in our service, or we
shult
be forced to give you what we call the
bult.
sth June.
Received your communication of even
date,
Your remedy, we fear, is far too late,
You’ve put our projects in a sorry state,
Our good name is no longer reputate,
The thread it hung by is excoriate,
What we propose is merely tit for tate:
Get out!
You’re fired!
Without pension!
PAT FLOWER
"Joint naval exercises would be a
wonderful force for peace. . .


a paddleboat tourist industry on the
Murray.
Scenically, the Murray has much to
offer, but in SA only one riverboat, the
Coonawarra, plies the river. There has
been talk of putting a luxury, Mississippi-
type riverboat on the Murray, but old
hands feel the shallow-draught paddle-
steamer is the best vessel for the Murray.
However, the type of vessel is only one
of the problems facing a revival of
river navigation. Snags, locks and the
Chowilla Dam could all threaten the
proposal.
Our Cover
rpms week’s cover by Tanner shows
Independence Day at Exmouth Gulf
on some future Fourth of July.
According to Tanner, by the rockets’
red glare various symbols of independ-
ence are found. These include Ameri-
cans celebrating their independence by
signing more mutual assistance pacts,
an aboriginal symbolising independence
of the burdens of citizenship and the
Leader of the Opposition, Mr Calwell,
representing independence under the
slogan of “No Annihilation without Rep-
resentation”. In the sky burn those sturd-
ily independent beacons Mao tse-Tung
and Nikita Khrushchev. Mr Sharkey has
gone over the hill.
Next week, to mark Children’s Book
Week our book reviews section will deal
with children’s books and the winner
of the Best Australian Children’s Book
for this year will be reviewed.
Tanner
we should learn enough about
each other's weaknesses to make
war unnecessary."
PLAIN ENGLISH
LIVING WITH INDONESIA
r\ESPITE what is now almost a national injunction in this country
to learn to understand and accept Asia, there are signs that we are
still a long way from doing so. The dour reception—mirrored in some
sections of the Press—accorded by many Australians to Indonesian over-
tures to hold joint Australian-Indonesian naval manoeuvres seems to reflect
an almost neurotic anxiety to have everything on our own terms. Part
of learning to understand and live with Asia is the fact that nothing is
going to be entirely on our terms although the terms we eventually get,
if we are diligent and sensible and frank, may be better than we deserve.
Caution with regard to Indonesia is entirely justified. So is some display of
political imagination and a generous approach. What exactly is it that we
will lose by having joint naval manoeuvres with Indonesia? Nothing. We
may quite bluntly learn that we are a technically superior civilisation.
Indonesians may learn, if subscription to fane’s Fighting Ships hasn’t
already told them what their Embassy in Canberra should have, that
our navy is small and in some respects very out of date. Will the holding
of a joint exercise change the fundamental political color of either
Indonesia or Australia? Highly unlikely. Indonesia will remain non-
aligned and anti-colonialist. Australia will remain a partner in SEATO
and ANZUS. Australia will remain a western democracy in the Pacific
and Indonesia will still contain the largest Communist Party outside the
Soviet bloc. The IMF team now in Indonesia will be followed by a
Russian one and so on.
rpiIEREFORE while it would be wrong to read into these overtures more
than is there it would be foolish to ignore an opportunity for closer
relations with our nearest neighbor. Indonesia, no less than Australia,
needs friends and one of the lessons to be drawn from its recent change
of heart over Malaysia (and its interest in a pan-Malaysia) is that no
less than Australia, the Philippines and Malaya it regards the security
of South East Asia as vital in the face of Red China’s immense military
power which now forms an immediate menace. There are also other
aspects of the offer which the pessimists should consider and take
moderate comfort from. Although the offer of joint exercises does not
constitute anything very major it nevertheless has a definite domestic
significance viewed from the tangled politics of Djakarta. In the first
place it is a departure, however small, from the principles of non-align-
ment. In the second place the offer comprises a sort of minor confrontation
between President Soekarno and the Indonesian Communist Party which
actively disapproves collaboration between Indonesia and an “imperialist”
power like Australia just as it bitterly denounced Indonesian approval of
“neo-imperialist” Malaysia. The point that should not be missed is
that it seems yet another demonstration of the way in which the
Indonesian Communist Party, despite its size, is being systematically cut
off from effective power.


THIS AUSTRALIA
FOREIGN INVESTMENT —I
McEwen’s Dry Run
To frighten Holt
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
J. McEWEN
“Troubled”
nnn rK7» r <OUNTRY Party
Kfl fffi M leader John
W (“Black Jack”) Mc-
Ewen in Orange (NSW) last week set
out to do three things. He gave himself
a dry run for the Cabinet Budget dis-
cussions (which start next month after
Prime Minister Sir Robert Menzies re-
turns from abroad). He sought to give
the weather-beaten, rather stolid exterior
of the Country Party a new look. He
tried to throw a fright into the Liberal
Party.
McEwen obviously believes that the
Commonwealth should obtrude massively
into the field of decentralisation. Ortho-
dox policies have failed, he trumpeted.
Why should not the Commonwealth,
dominant in the financial field, adopt
techniques similar to the ones which
have proved effective in the export drive
and, in McEwen’s words, “ensure that
the prospect of profit-making in country
industry is rather better than that of city
industry?”
Clearly McEwen is going to be a
thorn in the side of Treasurer Harold
Holt during the Budget discussions. “I
do not believe . . . that taxation con-
cessions, financial aid, and other new
and important measures to enable the
profitable expansion of our rural indus-
tries are necessarily the limit of what
might be done in this field,” McEwen
told his Orange audience.
Jolted by the population drift from
the country which translated itself into
reduced parliamentary representation
under the redistribution proposals which
Menzies had to withdraw when the
Country Party demonstrated its hostility
to them in Parliament this year, McEwen
has now also set himself up against Holt
on the question of funds for starting
young men on the land. Holt has always
insisted that adequate finance for the
primary industries is available.
Said McEwen: “The Development Bank
has never had enough money to engage
widely in mortgage lending. Unless their
parents or someone else close to them
can find a pretty sizeable deposit, young
Australians can never start to purchase
a farm for themselves.”
But there is going to be an even more
fundamental clash between McEwen and
Holt during the Budget discussions. This
clash will be on overseas investment.
The Treasury, which Holt administers,
has given the public appearance of being
prepared to welcome overseas investment
indiscriminately. The inflow of overseas
capital, which has run at about £200,-
000,000 a year, has given the Treasury
a temporary relief from the eternal pro-
blem of balance of trade shortcomings.
The Treasury has even advocated bor-
rowing overseas when the money was
available locally at a lower interest rate.
McEwen now wants a more discrimi-
nating policy. He expresses himself as
“troubled” by the extent to which over-
seas investors are buying out existing
Australian firms and, without adding
anything in the way of new techniques,
know-how or any other fresh addition
to national wealth or skill, acquiring con-
trol of a significant sector of Australian
industry.
Unless the overseas investor bring
new techniques, know-how or something
like that, McEwen prefers borrowing to
investment. Ultimately you pay back a
loan and the enterprise the loan pro-
duced belongs to your nationals is bis
theme. But if you sell something out-
right it belongs to the other fellow for
all time. Now 63, McEwen declared
himself for growth even at the risk of
“pleasant stability.” “It is the rich and
the old who always oppose change,” he
said. “I am not spending my strength
fighting for the rich and the old.”
FOREIGN INVESTMENT —II
A New Mood of Anger
The aluminium case
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
/"kNE disturbing trend towards more
foreign ownership of Australian
industry dominated the Tariff Board
hearing held in Canberra last week to
adjudicate on the future protection to
be given Australia’s now self-sufficient
but extensively overseas-owned alumin-
ium smelting industry.
At the same time the Minister for
Trade, Mr McEwen, was telling the an-
nual conference of the NSW Country
Party he was greatly troubled by other
aspects of the trend, such as take-overs
by foreign companies which merely
substituted overseas ownership for Aus-
tralian without adding anything new to
the economy.
All this followed some recent power-
ful shots by Labor Opposition leaders in
Victoria at the blatant subsidisation of
BP and Alcoa by the State Government,
and also some strong words from Mr
Staniforth Ricketson, in Melbourne, who
wanted a minimum 30 per cent stake for
Australians in the capital of subsidiaries
of overseas companies operating here.
It seemed that the national mood was
verging more towards anger than mere
irritation or worry on this issue.
The Tariff Board submissions by Com-
alco (half owned by Kaiser Aluminium
Corporation US) and Alcoa (in which
Alcoa of America has a majority in-
terest) asked for a continuation of the
ban, imposed as from March this year,,
on imports of overseas metal. They sayj
that no tariff would be high enough to]
prevent the dumping of cheap metal here ]
by overseas suppliers currently embarras- •
sed by surplus production. Alcoa wasj
quite blunt about this, believing “that;
the Board is not unaware of, and our j
confidential submissions refer to, sophis-
ticated methods by which anti-dumping .
legislation can be circumvented.” (sic.)


They also say that even with an im-
ports ban, and a carve-up of the whold
Australian market between them the two
companies would still have to carry ex-
cess plant for another five years, when
they expect local consumption to catch
up with the 92,000 tons a year capacity
they will have established by the end of
this year. (This year’s Australian consump-
tion is estimated to be only 66,000 tons.)
The question the Tariff Board has to
resolve is whether, and if so to what
extent, Australian consumers of alumin-
ium, including to a fast-increasing ex-
tent the building industry whose high
costs militate against adequate expansion,
should be required to subsidise Comalco
and Alcoa by paying substantially more
than world prices for the metal as,
indeed, they are now doing. For a while
it may well be that the returns of the
two companies will be merely marginal
until their plants can be worked much
closer to capacity, but in the end their
expectations are for a payoff of GMH
proportions, a good part of which would
go overseas to Alcoa and Kaiser in
America and Comalco’s other parent in
Britain.
What will make the Tariff Board’s
eventual findings on the aluminium case
more important for deeper Government
consideration than the many others over
the years, which have resulted in lucra-
tive payoffs for a host of overseas com-
panies here under tariff protection and
quantitative import restrictions, is that
the ban on imports gives the two com-
panies the whole market. By the same
token, it puts the clear-cut onus (as
well as the opportunity) on the Gov-
ernment to see that Australian alumin-
ium consumers are not exploited. After
close consultation with the industry the
Government, in this case, should fix
the price.
CND
Spies For Peace
Who circulated the 500?
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
SIR G. BARWICK
A comment
npHE much publicised Sydney Branch
of Campaign for Nuclear Dis-
armament (CND) was launched in
March, 1962, by English migrants, Aus-
tralians returned from Britain, idealistic
young Australians, and some who had
left the Australian Peace Movement in
disappointment. Most of them were
motivated by a sincere desire to
minimise chances and causes of nuclear
disaster. But soon the bored, the
irresponsible, and the sensation-seekers
attached themselves to the movement
and in due course representatives of the
extreme political parties saw an oppor-
tunity to manipulate the new group for
their ends.
Branches of CND are now established
in NSW, Queensland, WA and Victoria.
The Sydney group elected as its sec-
retary and guiding star Mr R. Gould, the
young energetic secretary of West
Darlinghurst branch of the ALP. Mr
Gould is noted for his passionate per-
formances at the Youth Council of the
ALP. (One of his more notable efforts
caused his dismissal from one of its
meetings.) He is also a leading member
of the Australian Trotskyist group.
Until a few weeks ago the CND had
created little impact. Its activities, which
were confined to Peace demonstrations
and walks, and its meetings were always
swamped by the superior numbers of the
Australian Peace Council. Jazz even-
ings and other social activities were held,
but the CND just did not grow,
In this state of frustration the CND
Committee received a copy of the “Spies
for Peace” pamphlet which had created
such a furore in Britain. Realising its
propaganda value they decided to dis-
tribute roneoed copies in Australia. Miss
Alison Mclntyre, a 19-years-old univers-
ity student and a member of the Gordon
branch of the ALP, volunteered to
authorise the document and her name
duly appeared on the document,
The first copies to appear covered
seven foolscap pages and were sand-
wiched between pages two and three of
CND Newsletter No. 5, June, 1963.
Miss Mclntyre stated that about 750 of
these were posted to various individuals
and organisations. But at the same time
another 500, in slightly different form,
were circulated to newspapers, radio
stations and politicians. These 500 were
issued under the name of “Spies for
Peace (Australia) Inc.,” and urged
citizens to seek out official secrets about
Australian preparations against nuclear
war and to make them public,
Who caused the second batch to be
distributed is not known. Miss Mclntyre
had denied all knowledge of the origin
of this second version, and the Sydney
“Telegraph” reported her as saying
simply: “Some other group is responsible
for the circularising of this other
pamphlet. ... It is possible ours (CND)
has breached the Crimes Act, but as far
as I can see it’s almost certain the other
circular has breached it.” Mr Gould has
not commented.
Both Miss Mclntyre and Mr Gould
have been interviewed by Common-
wealth police. The WA chairman is
reported to have said his group is
organising the printing and distribution
of a pamphlet on the US Navy radio
communications base at North-West
Cape and that if any secrets about the
base come to light, the CND will do
all it can to publish them. Prudently
he added that no top military secrets
would be disclosed.
In any event the CND has received
more publicity in a week than it would
normally have got in a decade; and the
Commonwealth police are still investi-
gating every avenue in its search for the
distributors of the second batch of the
Spies for Peace pamphlet. The Attorney-
General, Sir Garfield Barwick, is ex-
pected to comment when the facts are
assembled.
NORTHERN DEVELOPMENT
More
Ghost Towns?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
HPucked away in a few paragraphs un-
A der the property sales at the back
of the “Age” it did not rate a men-
tion in the “Sun” or any Sydney news-
paper was a report of a challenging
address in Melbourne last week by the
former Administrator of the Northern
Territory, Mr A. R. Driver.
Like Sir Douglas Copland who tackled
the same theme in a talk at Melbourne
University last Thursday, Mr Driver is
disgusted at the lack of general aware-
ness, both in Canberra and the southern
capitals, of the need to make a bold
drive for economic development in the
north.
As for Canberra, quite apart from
Mr Driver’s perfectly valid point that
the Federal Government’s beef roads
programme appears to lead nowhere in
particular (though one can’t agree with
him that it should be scrapped) it seems
perilously slow in grasping the idea of
setting up a Northern Australian devel-
opment authority along similar lines to
Sir William Hudson’s for handling the


Snowy hydro-electric and irrigation pro-
ject, which he sees as running out of
tasks sooner than generally realised.
As Mr Driver said, the Snowy is well
over half way to completion, its executive
officers and engineers, its workmen also,
will soon be looking for new worlds to
conquer; so why not organise now to
set them and their like the task of de-
veloping the north before the United
Nations or even land-hungry neighbors
in Indonesia and Asia begin to take our
lack of interest in the area seriously?
(At present only 3 per cent, of the Aus-
tralian population lives north of Cap-
ricorn).
On the same point he believed im-
mediate plans should be laid for keeping
such valuable northern settlements as
Mary Kathleen and Rum Jungle on the
map when their present uranium acti-
vities come to an end. Time is running
out for both these isolated centres of
civilisation. Is anything being done to
prevent them from becoming ghost
towns?
Coming from a northerner freshly
planted among the welter of steel and
cement going into a never-ending spate
of new office buildings and roads in the
southern capitals this is a refreshing
angle, deeply felt and realistic. The stark
contrast between the sparing use of
capital in the north and the profligacy
of capital spending in the south of the
continent, needs to be driven home to
Australian consciences. Mr Driver in-
stanced the paltry £4 million being
spent on the Ord River development
where at least £2O million is needed.
On the other hand he did not denigrate
the several but isolated efforts, such as
this project, the new dam on the Fitz-
roy and the recent building of three new
meat works by private enterprise in
W'A. But he saw them only as evidence
of what can be done to open up the
unlimited protein-generating potential of
the north against which the million or so
Australia is contributing to the Freedom
from Hunger Campaign is but a puff of
conscience-easing wind.
However, while Mr Driver has no
qualms about putting the screw on
southern pockets he also thinks that in-
ternational capital, from the World
Bank for instance, would back a con-
certed drive under a properly consti-
tuted development authority with a clear-
cut plan to tackle the north. But has
anybody even suggested yet that an ap-
proach be made to such quarters?
EDUCATION
The Cuts In Academics’ Pay
Some are vindicated...
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
/Yn June 26 the State Industrial Com-
mission announced its long awaited
decision on academic salaries in the
University of New South Wales and indi-
cated that its detailed reasons would be
available about a week later.
The salaries actually being paid were
fixed by an industrial agreement of
February 12, 1960, and broadly accorded
with the general level of academic
salaries in Australian universities. In
the meantime, however, the Teachers’
Federation of New South Wales, which
represents the academic staff of the Uni-
versity of NSW for the purposes of the
Industrial Arbitration Act, had sought a
new award from Conciliation Commis-
sioner Gorman. Relying heavily, but by
no means exclusively, on the Common-
wealth Commission’s decision on Profes-
sional Engineers, and the presence of a
substantial number of professional engin-
eers on the staff, the Federation persuad-
ed the Commissioner last September to
increase salaries dramatically.
Now they have been almost as
dramatically cut back by the Full Bench
of the Commission, as the following
examples show:
1960 Gorman Full Bench
Agreement Award Decision
Teaching Fellow 1142 1500-1900 1295
Lecturer 1772-2477 2200-2910 1895-2595
Senior Lecturer 2592-3042 3040-3550 2745-3245
Professor 4292 5125 4595
Considerable bitterness has developed
over the handling of the case. The
strong reaction of the NSW Government
to the Gorman award probably reflected
a variety of factors —alarm at the finan-
cial burden involved in paying the in-
creases to its three universities and
possible repercussions in claims by
teachers and others; a desire to demon-
strate to the Commonwealth Government
that it had done all it could to avoid
the additional burden; and in some
quarters an anti-intellectualism that was
irritated by what was regarded as the
pretensions of the academics.
If it was going to intervene at all the
Government should perhaps have inter-
vened in the case from the beginning.
By not doing so it laid itself open to
the charge that its subsequent interven-
tion was an interference with the arbitral
process because it did not like the result
it produced. The Government’s 1959
amendments to the Industrial Arbitration
Act had taken away the power of the
Commission to suspend a Commission-
er’s award while an appeal was being
determined, and had also taken away
the right to appeal to a Full Bench. So
it seemed that the Gorman rates would
have to be paid pending the final hear-
ing of the matter by a single judge whose
views would not necessarily be as “safe”
as those of a Full Bench. Private
employers who had opposed and suffered
under these amendments were amused
to see the Government hoist with its
own petard.
However, the Government had another
CENSORSHIP OF LITERATURE
bulletin
80 Years Ago: July 7, 1883
A Tasmanian correspondent writes
thus to the N.S.W. LIBERAL: “Re
the late prosecution for obscene liter-
ature in Launceston, just fancy them
suppressing Dr. Trail’s ‘Sexual Physio-
logy,’ and 'Maria Monk.’ It is thought
by many that the Popish party have
™ •* x
f ~ , , ’ 1 ’ °” , accoun t
of Maria Monk, Woman, Priest, and
Devil, and \\ Oman and the Confes-
sional, which Osborne publicly ad-
vertised for sale. The Superintendent
of Police, who had the books seized,
is a Roman Catholic. 1 he real fact of
the matter is it being a ‘Free-thought
Bookshop’. This being the case, Pro-
testants and Catholics are allied to
put it down, and they have (in my
opinion) only made the ‘Obscene
Literature’ a pretext for action. Not
content with destroying the books,
they have given Osborne three
months.”
The so-called “Free-thought” book-
sellers have, in our opinion, much
t 0 answer for. At almost every so-
?.ail ed '’Free-thought” bookshop you
find exposed for sale publications
which are a great deal more filthy
than they are scientific . Perhaps the
reason is that the “Free-thought” book-
seller finds science and philosophy,
properly so-called, don’t pay. The in-
dividual who habitually buys and
gloats over such books as “Maria
Monk” and “Sexual Physiology” is and
must be filthy-minded, and is not a fit
associate for even a leprous China-
man. And the bookseller who gets
his living by the sale of such publica-
tions should be flogged.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
196 1
V» NT A C, t
: i\
mm
l odbury estate
BURGUNDY
j >U„,
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
I#
as
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
weapon in its armoury. The Act gave
the Minister for Labor and Industry
(Mr J. J. Maloney) power to refer “any
industrial matter to the Full Bench of
the Commission. He referred the ques,
tion of the appropriate salaries for the
j • , 11 n . , c ...
academics to a Full Bench, before which
the Government intervened “in the public
interest” to present argument directed to
cutting down the rates in the Gorman
award. The finalisation of the Gorman
award was meanwhile held up by legal
argument as to the effect on it of the
Ministers reference.
Few academics will pretend to be
pleased with the loss of possible in-
creases, or with a decision that clearly
did not regard the Professional Engineers’
decision as of any great relevance, but
there is a significant group which will
feel its judgment vindicated. This will
include those who believe that in the
long run their interests will be best serv-
ed by keeping themselves out of the
atmosphere of the ordinary industrial
tribunals. This view is affected by a
fear that submission to industrial arbi-
tration will prejudice the special condi-
tions that attach to university work.
Either the conditions will tend to be
assimi | at e d , 0 ordinary industrial or
... . ,
public service conditions (a tendency al-
r TT . r { T
read y a PP arent m ‘he Umverstty of New
South Wales) or will appear so favorable
in comparison as to constitute a major
off-setting factor in salary claims.
There is also a substantial academic
view which feels that the Federal Gov-
ernment has treated the universities gen-
erously since the Murray Report. It is
argued that everything cannot be done at
once and the Government should be en-
couraged to concentrate on increasing
the facilities of universities—buildings,
colleges, libraries, equipment and extra
staff. On this view pressure for marked
increases in salaries is premature—they
would be bought at too high a price if
they delayed improvements in the staff-
student ratio and in accommodation and
equipment.
CENSORSHIP
“Bad Taste
But Not Obscene”
A statue is not a painting...
FROM PETER COLEMAN IN SYDNEY
J. D. HOLMES, Q.C.
A victory
YI/hile the literary world’s ’phones
hummed over a Customs Officer’s
decision to refer Mr Hal Porter’s auto-
biography, “Watcher on the Cast-Iron
Balcony,” to the Literature Censorship
Board in Canberra (which on past per-
formances must surely release the book:
this is the Board that wanted “Lady
Chatlerley’s Lover” released and was
overruled by Cabinet) a victory was won
for “artistic freedom” in the Sydney Cen-
tral Court of Petty Sessions last week
when Mr A. N. Bott, SM, dismissed the
police charge against Dr Bernard Lake of
having an obscene Sepik River statue
for sale in his art shop (see Bulletin,
May 25, 1963). Mr Bott found that the
statue, though representing a perverse
act, was not obscene and ordered its
return to Dr Lake.
He based his judgment on a distinction
between statues of this type which, being
“cold in character,” cannot stimulate or
corrupt people, and paintings or photo-
graphs, which can a distinction un-
precedented in the history of censorship
and one which has aroused the rage of
the smut-hounds. There is talk of an
appeal on this point to the Supreme
Court.
His final decision nevertheless was in
line with decisions over the last 10 years
in NSW which since the crazy days of
the late 1940 s when Angus & Robertson
were fined for publishing Lawson Glas-
sop’s “We were the Rats,” have been
liberal and progressive in character
(unlike those of Victoria and Queens-
land).
Mr Bott accepted the defence argu-
ment of Mr J. D. Holmes, QC, that the
statue was typical of primitive art (how-
ever “crude if judged from the view-
point of an accepted and highly skilled
viewpoint”). And he accepted the
police argument that it had a sexual
meaning. The whole question, therefore,
he said, was: is it, in the circumstances
of its exhibition for sale in a shop win-
dow, obscene? He agreed the exhibition
could “give rise to varying reactions of
disgust, offence, and in some cases even
anger. That, however, in my opinion is
not the test.”
The test is whether it would deprave
or corrupt the people likely to see it or
whether it unduly emphasised sex. He
said it would not or did not. It was here
that Mr Bott made his distinction be-
tween a statue of this kind “cold in char-
acter, not importing life or something
living” and therefore not tending to de-
prave people unlike paintings or
books which are presumably “warm in
character” and therefore can be obscene.
Mr Bott, however, made two con-
cessions to the police. One was his
opinion that while exhibition of the
statue in a public museum would be
“acceptable”, exhibition of it in a public
shop showed “extreme bad taste” not to
be expected “from a person of such high
qualifications and standing in the com-
munity” as Dr Lake. (But “bad taste” is
not a punishable offence.) His second
concession was, despite his judgment
against the police, to order Dr Lake to
pay his own costs. The police for their
part refused to let Dr Lake take his
statue away for the statutory 21 days.


LAW
The Little World of Di Camillo
“Magistrates should stick, to the law ”
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
A 19-year-old student walking along a
Perth suburban street on a balmy
April night this year paused to admire
the view through a house window the
-interesting one of two girls in a bedroom,
one of them in bed. Minutes later he
was under arrest for having loitered and
failed to give a satisfactory account of
himself.
The next day Joseph Di Camillo
pleaded guilty to the charge on the
advice, he claimed, of a detective and
despite his plea that he had important
examinations to sit for, he was gaoled
for a month with hard labor. Magis-
trate A. G. Smith told him sternly: “I
don’t have any sympathy for people like
this. One moment they are loiterers. The
next, they are likely to be murderers,
burglars, thieves or even rapists.”
Then the ball really started rolling. A
group of citizens, which included sev-
eral prominent doctors, expressed “ser-
ious doubt” on the court’s judgment in
its “hysterical association of the normal
male’s reactions (to the sight through the
window) with serious sexual offences.”
They said Di Camillo’s non-attendance
at his examinations would affect his
medical career.
Another irate citizen said there was
an urgent need to protect the public
against “irresponsible utterances of some
magistrates” and said it was outrageous
that a young man guilty of no more than
momentary folly should be immediately
classed with far worse criminals. “Mag-
istrates should confine themselves to the
administration of the law,” said one
letter to the Press. “We can dispense with
their foolish and pernicious comments
and their preaching.”
The WA University Guild of Under-
graduates offered to pay the costs of an
appeal and, on lodging it, Di Camillo
was released, having spent a week study-
ing in his cell. His counsel told Mr
Justice Hale in the Supreme Court that
the magistrate had erred in accepting a
plea of guilty and that the sentence was
grossly excessive.
Crown counsel R. D. Wilson denied
that the detective had advised Di Cam-
illo to plead guilty and that if he did he
could be fined £5 or put on a bond. As
the student had pleaded guilty, Mr Wil-
son said, the judge had no power to
quash the conviction, though the Crown
did not seek Di Camillo’s return to
prison and justice would be done if the
sentence was reduced to nil.
When the judge asked Mr Wilson
whether it was usual to apply the maxi-
mum penalty to a first offender he was
told it had been applied to deter other
loiterers. (At the time, Perth was still
jittery over an unsolved girl strangling
believed to be the crime of a loiterer).
The judge also asked whether the magis-
trate’s remarks on loiterers being likely
to graduate to the class of murderers,
burglars, thieves or rapists were “in
ascending order of heinousness.”
Last week he decided that the magis-
trate’s remarks were totally irrelevant
and that he had allowed himself to be
influenced by cases of a much more
serious nature, with the result that the
sentence was excessive. There was no
evidence, Mr Justice Hale said, to show
that Di Camillo was contemplating any
truly criminal activity. He set aside Di
Camillo’s gaol sentence and instead
placed him on a £-50 bond to be of
good behavior for six months, adding
that he had no power to quash the conj
viction because Di Camillo had pleadeci
guilty and the magistrate had not beei!
wrong in law in accepting this plea. H«
said he had strong suspicions that thf
student was under a misapprehension a
to what he was being charged with ant
if he had the power he would hav
ordered a retrial.
The judge went on to say that it wa
unsatisfactory that the Supreme Coui
lacked this power when the propriet
of a plea of guilty in a lower court wa
open to doubt, and suggested that tb
law be amended in this respect. Withi
hours of his decision Justice Ministe
Griffith said the judge’s remarks woul
be examined with a view to introducing
suitable amendment to Parliament th
year. The Law Society attacked the la'
as being deficient and in need of ament
ment and said a judge should have powt
to order a retrial even if a person ha
pleaded guilty in a lower court. Th
acting dean of the WA University
medical school, Professor C. W. I
Lewis, said Di Camillo’s future woul
have to be discussed by University at
thorities since his conviction still stooi
But he was confident that Di Camill
would be allowed to resume his medic;
studies and that he would be given tb
chance to fulfil the high promise 1
had already shown.
HEALTH
The Alcoholics
Queensland recruits Monty Benjamin
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Monty Benjamin, who resigned as
Secretary-Director of the Victorian
Alcoholism Foundation last year be-
cause of “public and Government
apathy”, has started work in a similar
but lusher job in Brisbane. He will be
Executive Officer of Queensland’s Health
and Education Committee on Alcoholism
with a secure £5O a week and expenses
as a State public servant. Mr Benjamin,
after being virtuallv starved out of his
Victorian alcoholism job, filled in by
working for the Freedom from Hunger
Campaign before accepting the Queens-
land post. Jubilant at his new appoint-
ment, he commented last week that “the
Queensland Government is the only one
in the southern hemisphere to support
and finance completely a body to fight
alcoholism.”
The Victorian Alcoholism Foundation
has had an unhappy history since its
foundation in 1959. Although at one
stage it handled over 2000 inquiries in a
year, it ran into debt and at one sta;
its bankruptcy was announced. A publ
appeal for funds flopped badly and
1961 the Premier, Mr Bolte, declared
* a complete frost and said his Gover
ment had wiped its hands of it. Lat
Mr Bolte relented but only to the e
tent of giving it £lOO a month subsid
The Foundation avoided complete cc
lapse, but only operates on a very limit*
scale these days. It lost the services
Mr Benjamin and for a time cou
only afford to pa\ the rent of
premises. Since last November its wo
has consisted of directing alcoholics
other organisations for help and tret
ment.
The Foundation’s last annual repc
shows that it had patronage of thr
knights and a judge. Its medical adv
ory committee included tour medic
professors and nine of Melbourne’s lea
ing physicians, surgeons and specialis
On other committees were clergyme


businessmen, lawyers and members of
Parliament De-pite (he impressive show-
ing, however, the Foundation has been
unable to raise enough money for its
work from either private or Govern-
ment sources.
After his hand-to-mouth era in a
Melbourne basement, Mr Benjamin, a
former school teacher, will have a Gov-
ernment grant of £30,000 a year for
his work in Queensland. He will be
responsible to a committee which in-
cludes the Director-General and Deputy-
Director of Education, the Director of
Secondary Education, the Director of
Special Education Services, the Director-
General of Health, Senior Health Officer
and the Chief Officer of the Health Edu-
cation Committee. Victoria has nothing
like it and the NSW Foundation for Re-
search and Treatment of Alcoholism will
need to look to its laurels. (Recently the
latter’s Executive Director, Mr O. S. Wil-
liams, claimed that NSW led all States
in its scientific and humane approach to
alcoholism.)
Last week Mr Benjamin said Alco-
holics Anonymous was doing a wonderful
job for the State’s estimated 60,000 alco-
holics, “but it relies on alcoholics com-
ing to it. Little is being done by the
Government through the health, penal
and mental hygiene departments to beat
the problem.” Victoria needed new
ideas and attitudes as much as new treat-
ment facilities, he added. “We need to
know a great deal more about the prob-
lem in Victoria why alcoholics are
rejected by the community and many
doctors and hospitals as valid patients.”
BUILDING
Plastic Homes
Built to last 25 years
FROM A CORRESPONDENT
"Oack in 1955 the successes of plastics
in everything from floor tiles to
guttering so intoxicated a few chemical
manufacturers that they went overboard
and built all-plastic houses. But on the
acid test of cost plastics were still for-
bidden the structural side of building
and the builders sat pat. It seemed that
the House of the Future was a thing of
the past.
Perhaps the most startling revelation
of the Building Science Forum held in
Sydney at the Hotel Chevron last week
was that plastics are about to do it again
and muscle in on new territory. The
key to the new technology is the
structural sandwich. Make your plastic
as a closed cell rigid foam, 20 times
lighter than wood. Since it is 98 per
cent gas, it is bulky and cheap. This
sort of plastic foam is mechanically
weak (you can crush and crumble it in
the hands), but if you bond on both
its surfaces a strong cheap cladding
sheet, such as plaster, cement sheet,
hardboard or galvanised steel, the result-
ing sandwich has the rigidity of an I
beam, and the total cost is within range
of stud wall prices.
The plastics sandwich is the secret
weapon of the plastics industry, and
Australia is at least abreast of the
USA in its development. Particular
point was given to the convention
by the fact that Chevron Sydney is
probably the largest building in the
world externally clad with such panel.
This is one of a number of Australian
multi-storey blocks faced with foam
sandwich curtain wall having porcelain
enamelled steel as the external surface.
Clearly the trend is upward. Plastics
quietly take over in many fields of build-
ing and the growth rate means a doubling
in tonnage every five years. The next
phase will take plastics into structural
uses, in partnership with the orthodox
materials.
The rate of change is so rapid, and
the diversity of synthetics is so great
that the building and chemical tech-
nologies have seen the need for joint
studies to impose order on the chaos of
change, to write specifications, set up
standards and evaluate the new systems.
Literally millions of manhours of
development work by assorted specialists
power these inexorable changes. The
purpose of it all is better and cheaper
building.
One came away from the convention
with the impression that 20 years hence
homes will look fairly like those of to-
day, but labor costs will be greatly
reduced. They will be better insulated
with thinner walls, air - conditioned,
acoustically excellent and efficiently lit.
They will not be built to last more than
25 years but they will probably carry a
maker’s guarantee for that period. They
will, like the motor car of today, date
the occupant. Metal and glass, concrete
and plaster will be as important as ever,
but the synthetic organic will have
largely ousted the natural organic
materials. The structure itself will have
ceased to be the biggest single capital
item in the citizen’s life: it will be a
place to plug in appliances.
HIRE PURCHASE
Larceny not
Repossession
The case of the seven Venetian
blinds
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
A repossession agent who entered a
dwelling and removed seven sets
of Venetian blinds on behalf of a client
was sentenced to six months’ gaol in
General Sessions last week. The agent,
Charles Hamilton Humphreys, 47, a di-
rector of Mercantile Recovery, was act-
ing for a finance company, Contract
Investments Ltd, and this was his second,
less fortunate appearance in court aris-
ing from an episode on November 17
last year.
In General Sessions the Crown alleged
that Humphreys went to the home of
Thomas Joseph Curwood in Glenroy to
repossess the blinds which Curwood had
obtained on hire purchase. Curwood and
his wife were absent at the time and their
daughter Joy Marie, 14, refused Hum-
phreys permission to enter the house
and take the blinds. The Crown claimed
Humphreys climbed through an open
window, brushed the girl aside and took
the blinds. Humphreys admitted “step-
ping through” the window but said no-
body tried to stop him, since the room
inside was empty at the time. In cross-
examination he denied he had “climbed”
through the window or brushed the
daughter aside when she tried to bar his.
entrance. He also said he believed a
repossession notice had been sent to
the Curwoods by the finance company.
The jury found Humphreys guilty of
larceny of the blinds from a dwelling,
but he was cleared on charges of larceny
and common assault. Sentencing him,
Judge Flannagan said his methods had
been “most reprehensible,” and the of-
fence was too serious to be dealt with
by a purely monetary penalty. The judge
directed that Humphreys serve a mini-
mum of two months before being eligible
for parole.
Humphreys’ earlier court appearance
arising from his visit to the Curwoods’
home had been in Broadmeadows Petty
Sessions last February. On that occasion
he was found not guilty of making
forcible entry to the premises where a
breach of the peace was likely to be
attained. In repossessing the blinds, he
had found himself facing, in all, four
charges. On three of these he was found
not guilty, but his conviction on the
fourth earned him six months’ gaol.


Washington Newsletter
America’s Rapidly Looming
Racial War
President Kennedy: “I am in this thing up to here.”
From GEORGE McGANN
The battle lines have been drawn in
this country for the bitterest race
struggle since the Civil War. One
hundred years after the Negro gained
emancipation from slavery he has finally
determined to win economic and racial
equality with the white man. It is
important to realise the extent of this
determination. It is nothing less than a
revolution, and before it is over the
streets of Northern as well as Southern
cities may run red with blood from
antagonists on both sides.
The cold and brutal slaying of Medgar
Evers, an outstanding leader of the
National Association for the Advance-
ment of Colored People, in Jackson,
Mississippi, was the signal that the ex-
tremist forces of entrenched white sup-
remacy were prepared to fight to the
death to prevent the Negroes from at-
taining first-class citizenship.
For the man charged with the slay-
ing was no Mississippi Delta redneck,
no “poor white trash” fired to kill by
moonshine whiskey. He was Byron de la
Beckwith, a member of an old and re-
spected Mississippi family, a Marine sur-
vivor of Guadalcanal and Tarawa and,
most important of all, a leader in the
white supremacy movement in his State
and a man who flew into violent rages
whenever he talked about the Negro
problem.
Lines of battle were also drawn between
the moderate, respectable elements of
both sides in the long struggle when Presi-
dent Kennedy demanded that Congress
act in the crisis, and the solid Southern
bloc in Congress which closed ranks
against any legislation by invoking the
threat of filibuster, that ancient tool of
Southern Democratic politicians used to
thwart Northern attempts to improve
Negro status.
Mr Kennedy, spurred into action by
the increasing number of racial incid-
ents not only in Birmingham, Oxford and
elsewhere in the South but in Negro
ghettoes in Chicago, Detroit, New York
and other Northern cities, and climaxed
by the Evers murder, sent to Congress
the boldest civil rights programme any
President has proposed in the past 100
years.
“The rising tide of discontent threat-
ens the public safety, ’’ the President warn*
ed Congress. “The events in Birmingham
and elsewhere have so increased the cries
for equality that no city or state or
legislative body can prudently choose to
ignore them.”
The President also took the occasion
to point out the latent dangers in failure
to right the situation by legal methods:
“The results of continued Federal legisla-
tive inaction will continue, if not in-
crease, racial strife, causing the leader-
ship of both sides to pass from the hands
of reasonable and responsible men to the
purveyors of hate and violence.” j
In other words, the President seemed
to be saying, if the issue cannot be re-
solved with restraint in Congress through
the passage of his Bill it will eventually
be solved with guns and terror in the
streets of Harlem and other Negro
centres.
Although the headlines from Birming-
ham and Oxford are more arresting than
those from Chicago or New York, it
must not be thought that the Negro suf-
fers any less discrimination in the North;
than he does in the South.
In the South the main aim of the Negro
spokesmen and their committed follow-
ers is to break out of the segregated world
symbolised by lavatory signs- that read'
“White Ladies” and “Colored Women”.
The right to sit at lunch counters with
white persons has been another target
of the NAACP and similar movements
in the South. And despite the Supreme.
Court ruling forbidding segregation in
public schools, only 8 per cent of Negro
children go to school with white children
in the Southern States.
Less than one-quarter of Negro citi-
zens in the South are registered to vote.
Foil taxes and other forms of discrimina-
tion operate to keep the Negro effectively
away from the ballot box. All these forms
of discrimination are strongly defended
by “the Establishment” in the South—-
the courts, the clergy, and the ruling
white class.
Tn the North discrimination against the
Negro is subtler but no less real.
Officially there are no barriers raised
against the Negro in most schools, hous-
ing and public accommodations and they
may attend theatres and dine in restau-
rants freely.
But, as the Federal Civil Rights Com-
mission reported a few months ago, “in
the North segregation and discrimination
are usually de facto rather than de jure,
and it is here that the last battle for
equal rights may be fought in America.
The ‘gentlemen’s agreement’ that bars
the minority citizen from housing out-


side the ghetto, and the employment
practices that often hold him in a menial
status, are subtler forms of denial and
more difficult to eliminate.”
In the North Negroes, with few excep-
tions, may not buy homes or rent flats
in middle or upper-class neighborhoods.
The bitter experiences of colored United
Nations delegates forced to live in Har-
lem and other Negro districts of New
York is testimony to this widespread
form of discrimination.
The unemployment situation is far
worse among Negroes than whites every-
where in the North. This lies behind
much of the violence erupting this sum-
mer throughout the urban areas of the
country. In Chicago, for example, one
out of every five able-bodied Negro
workers is jobless. The national average
of unemployed is less than one in fifty.
Some Negro families in the North have
been on relief, existing on public wel-
fare, for three generations.
“White blood will flow”
kind of explosive situation has
given Negro extremists such as the
Black Muslims the ammunition to work
their followers into a dangerous mood of
desperation. As the “New Yorker” mag-
azine recently reported, a Muslim leader
could predict triumphantly: “There is
going to be a lot of white blood flowing
in this country. We have guns and we
are going to make our presence felt
there’s going to be trouble. On a hot
summer night it wouldn’t take much to
set off a riot in Harlem not isolated
violence, but a kind of revolution.”
The President and his brother, At-
torney-General Robert Kennedy, have
pledged themselves to fight way down the
line for passage of the Administration’s
civil rights legislation.
“I am in this thing up to here,” the
President told a recent visitor, motioning
to his neck.
The principal proposal in the Pre-
sident’s controversial Bill is a guarantee
of equal access to all public facilities
hotels, restaurants, shops and the
like even though they be privately
owned. The constitutional basis of the
proposed law is the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce and the
Fourteenth Amendment, which forbids
the States to deny any citizen, regard-
less of color, “equal protection of the
laws”.
The Bill would also grant the Attorney-
General authority to sue against school
segregation when those affected cannot
afford the expense of litigation or fear
reprisals for suing. The President also
asked for 400 million dollars for Federal
aid in job-training for Negroes and basic
adult education. He was stressing the
heart of the Negro dilemma here
“the distressing number of unemployed
Negroes, illiterate and unskilled, unable
to do simple computations or even to
read a help-wanted advertisement.”
The reaction of Southern congressmen
to the comprehensive Kennedy program-
me was exactly what might have been
anticipated. Senator Richard Russell, of
Georgia, the acknowledged leader of
the segregationists and a veteran par-
liamentary tactician, pledged himself
and his followers to use every device to
block passage of the Bill, including the
filibuster.
Senate rules permit unlimited debate
(filibustering) on any measure unless
two-thirds of the senators vote “cloture”,
ending debate. The Southerners and
their allies usually can muster enough
voting strength to prevent cloture and
keep a filibuster going for days or even
weeks, effectively halting the work of
Congress.
Senator Russell, in his first public
comment on the President’s civil rights
proposals, accused him of lending “aid
and comfort” to the mass movements
in the South rather than to the local
authorities, by saying “if you do not im-
mediately pass a law, the situation will
become much worse therefore you
should pass a law and give them what
they are demonstrating for.”
The senator also disclosed what would
be the main line of Southern attack on
the President’s proposal to outlaw dis-
crimination in places of public accom-
modation.
He contended that this passage of the
bill was unconstitutional. He recalled
that “in the dark days of reconstruc-
tion” after the Civil War Congress had
passed a similar law, making it an of-
fence to deny any citizen ‘full and equal
enjoyment of public accommodations,
such as inns, public conveyances and
theatres.’ The senator pointed out that
the Supreme Court had later declared
the law unconstitutional on the ground
that the Fourteenth Amendment was ap-
plicable only to Slate action, and did
not extend to the decisions of private
citizens in the use of their own property.
Preliminary hearings on the contro-
versial legislation were begun in Wash-
ington while the President was in Europe
in late June. Many Washington observ-
ers predicted the battle in Congress
might rage until the end of the year.
“We might not be out of the trenches for
Christmas,” one legislator said dole-
fully.
Republicans and non-Southern Demo-
cratic congressmen hold the key to suc-
cess for the President’s programme.
Republicans for the most part pay
lip-service to all civil rights legislation
for political reasons. It remains to be
seen how many will actually support a
Democratic President on such a crucial
issue.
Meanwhile the President came under
attack by spokesmen for various Negro
groups, many of whom felt his Bill was
“too late and too little.” The Reverend
Martin Luther King, head of the power-
ful Southern Christian Leadership con-
ference and the outstanding fighter for
Negro rights in the country, admitted
the President had done “some significant
things” for civil rights, but he faulted
Mr Kennedy for not providing
the leadership “that the enormity of the
problem demands.”
Mr King voiced a widespread impres-
sion among Negroes that the Kennedy
brothers were well-meaning but woefully
out of touch with the reality of the Negro
problem.
“I think they must understand more
about the depths and dimensions of the
problem,” he commented, “and I think
there is a necessity now to see the ur-
gency of the moment.”
One of the principal spokesmen for
the Black Muslim movement, which
seeks complete independence for Negroes
from White America, denounced the
Kennedy administration for failing to
use Federal power to protect Negroes
from the dogs and fire hoses of the police
of Birmingham.
100,000 plan march
ITe mocked the efforts of Mr King and
other Negro moderates to seek racial
integration and equality. “Complete sep-
aration is the only solution to the black
and white problem in this country,” he
contended. “The white men are due for
elimination. We don't want to be with
them. We are not trying to integrate
with that which we know has come to
the end of the rope.”
Mr King and his fellow leaders were
making plans for massive demonstra-
tions in Washington if the Southern sen-
ators should resort to the filibuster to
block the Civil Rights Bill. As many
as 100,000 Negroes were prepared to
stage a dramatic “march on the capital”
to support the legislation, Mr King de-
clared.
One hundred years ago the city of
Washington was under siege in the midst
of bloody civil war. In a sense it is still
under siege in a continuation of that
war.


OUT AND ABOUT
Fitzroy: Downhill all the way
A special slice of Melbourne life
By J. C. KAYE
Melbourne’s Fitzroy is the smallest
of the capital’s 28 municipalities,
yet its name stands vividly for
slums and crime. It shares poverty and
vice with other suburbs Carlton to
the west and Collingwood to the east,
as well as places like Richmond, North
Melbourne, Port Melbourne and South
Melbourne. Yet around its name some
special aura hangs.
This is unkind in a way. When slum
investigators list house equipment, from
cold water taps to kitchen sinks, they
find Fitzroy’s old houses have a fair
record as slums go. Neither does Fitz-
roy have a monopoly in villainy; it just
illustrates it well.
Modern Fitzroy has prosperous indus-
tries, and many of the new homes stand
beside the old places like contemporary
furniture beside packing-cases. On paper
Fitzroy has the facilities of a modern
suburb, including 18 banks, 21 churches
and 40 pubs. The record lists schools,
sports grounds, a towered, Victorian-style
Town Hall, the Edinburgh Gardens of
33 acres and much else.
Yet attempts to create a new image
for the locality have not succeeded. They
may get testy at the Town Hall when
Fitzroy is denigrated; traders, business-
houses, property-dealers and many rate-
payers try to brush off the past and claim
the brighter future mentioned so often
in speeches at the municipal centenary
in 1958. It remains that Fitzroy still
has some of the seediest, foulest and
most depressingly vice-ridden streets of
Melbourne.
The Federal Statistician wasn’t any
help when he noted recently that Fitz-
roy has kept its title as the most densely
populated suburb in Australia. Some
30,000 people crowd on its 923 acres.
The only place openly jealous is King's
Cross, but the Cross is no suburb, so
Fitzroy keeps its rusty medal.
On its 923 acres Fitzroy packs 6000
dwellings and 200 industrial premises,
ranging from Macßobertson’s sweets
through shoes and textiles down to ice-
works, car-wreckers and rag-and-bone
yards. It has about 400 shops, most of
them along Smith Street, once a sub-
urban Bourke Street, but now shabby
and without vitality.
Fitzroy lies at the north-east edge of
Melbourne City, overlooked from the
south by the towers of St Patrick’s Cath-
edral and the fire-brigade headquarters
in East Melbourne. Until 1858 it was a
ward of the city. State Government feel-
ing is that it hasn’t much hope of pro-
gress until it gets back under the wing of
the Melbourne City Council again as
Carlton has. A struggle is going on now
over that idea. A merger would raise
complications by increasing Labor seats
on the Right-wing-dominated MCC. The
Fitzroy Council has 15 members, 14
ALP and one DLP.
Fitzroy is half a mile wide at its
southern end, and stretches li miles to
the north. The top half is North Fitzroy,
somewhat more pleasant and better pre-
served than the southern section. The
north is socially conscious. I asked one
woman, a publican’s wife, if she lived
“in Fitzroy.” At once she replied: “Oh,
no! We’re in North Fitzroy.”
Rising fortress-like at the southern
edge, from streets housing some of the
most skilled safe-breakers in Australia,
is the note-printing branch of the Com-
monwealth Bank. (No one has had any
luck with it yet.)
West is St Vincent’s Hospital, one of
Melbourne’s best. It has seen its share
of the sickness, wounds and death of the
Fitzroy people. This is the spot where
the gangster Squizzy Taylor died in
October, 1927, from Snowy Cutmore’s
bullets, only one of many crims who have
gone to their reward in St V's calm and :
compassionate atmosphere.
To the north is another listening post
for news of despair in Melbourne. This
is the Alexandra Parade Clinic of the
Mental Hygiene Authority. It's in a con-
verted factory, which is a point someone
like Brecht might have done something
with. Its main work is to help alcoholics
and people feeling they should or might
kill themselves.
Fitzroy, like many of its people, had'
an unlucky start. A large part was auc-
tioned to the public in Sydney in 1839.
It was sold in 25-acre blocks at an


average price of £7 a block. Buyers
sub-divided into small sections and sold
with frontages as narrow as 10ft. This
has been the bane of the district ever
since.
The State granted £50,000 for street
widening in 1854, and there have been
other improvements. Wide roads now cut
the district both north and south and
across. But space does not necessarily
mean morality. Gertrude Street, one of
the wide ones, is w'here the worst clubs
and dives fester. The number of arrests
near the intersection of Gertrude and
Brunswick Streets, for example, is put at
around 7000 a year.
Fitzroy was known as New Town un-
til 1850, when it was named after Sir
Charles Augustus Fitzroy, who was Gov-
ernor in Chief of NSW then Governor-
General of the Australian colonies.
Fitzroy’s links with New South Wales
have been continuous. The two-way flow
of criminals of all types between it and
its Sydney counterparts, like Redfern and
Surry Hills, is one of the basic patterns
of police geography.
It’s ironical now that Fitzroy once
had hopes of being another Toorak. A
primitive hamlet in 1843, it was a popu-
lar residential area inside 20 years, hous-
ing many politicians.
Alfred Deakin, Australia’s second
Prime Minister, was born in Fitzroy in
1856, and lived to 1919. He went to
Melbourne Grammar and ended up as a
Liberal which is not in the local
Fitzroy tradition at all.
It was around the 1850 s, too, that
Fitzroy got its first Australian Rules
football team. The Lions have taken
eight premierships since then, but the
last was in 1944. Now they rest at the
bottom of the League ladder. Their
neighbors, Carlton and Collingwood,
thrash them. Their ground is one of
the worst in the League for spectator
comforts. Everywhere you look, Fitzroy
is a bit of a downhill story.
Nasty element
T\espite its struggle for gentility, Fitz-
roy gained its nasty element early.
The Fitzroy murderers were one of the
bad pushes at the end of last century,
say 1870 to 1890. Like other gangs of
the time they were finally beaten out of
business by police fists and batons. But
the gang tradition lingers.
The man who dominated the under-
world of Melbourne just after the First
World War was Theodore Joseph Taylor,
known as Leslie or Squizzy Taylor, a
pint-sized, bowler-hatted rat who had
Henry Stokes for ally and Long Harry
Slater as a principal enemy.
Taylor has been described as “black-
mailer, incendiarist, bootlegger, bandit,
sneak killer, jury squarer, stool pigeon,
house-breaker, dope peddler, welsher,
perjurer, two-up racketeer, race rigger,
coward and squealer.” All the same he
had Melbourne bluffed.
It was in a beer den in Fleet Street,
Fitzroy, in 1919 that Squizzy’s girl,
Dolly, took too much and woke up
stripped of her 80-guinea fur coat and
£250 worth of diamonds her
“sparks.” Squizzy blamed Slater. This
touched off Melbourne’s last Chicago-
style gang-war with wild bullets flying.
Doctors at St V’s extracted 18 bullets
from wounded mobsters. The casualty
list seems to have been one dead, 15
wounded.
The man who finished off Squizzy
was Snowy Cutmore, a Fitzroy brawler
and sadist. Part of his reputation was
that he had once burned a girl with a
hot iron. Snowy and Squizzy fell out
over another woman. When Snowy was
in bed in a house in Barkly Street, Carl-
ton, suffering from the ’flu, and with a
poultice on his chest, Squizzy appeared
with a gun in his hand. He obviously
thought Cutmore would be a sitting shot.
Squizzy got Cutmore but Snowy
reached for a pistol under his pillow and
cut his attacker down. A taxi rushed
Squizzy to St V’s. and he died as they
took him in. There was no need to rush
Cutmore anywhere. He was dead. Old
Ma Cutmore, Snowy’s mum, also caught
a bullet in the melee, but survived.
Long Harry Slater was shot dead at
La Perouse in 1940 by someone who
rode off on a bicycle. This w'as after
Harry had survived three trials for al-
legedly having killed a Peter Monaghan
in a Surry Hills beer-house brawl.
The gun a pistol, sawn-off shot-gun,
or pea-rifle is still the weapon of
Fitzroy. There is much use, too, of the
knife, the razor, the bottle, the billet
of wood, the piece of pipe, the knee
in the groin and the thumb in the eye;
but the firearm has prestige.
Police raiding a club or pub look, as
a matter of routine, for weapons tossed
out of the windows as the cops close in,
just as they make a routine check for
wallets or bankrolls stolen from drunks
in the establishment and thrown out of
sight for later recovery.
Not only is the gun a local symbol.
Shooting crimes seem to occur largely
in much the same sort of Fitzroy pat-
tern. A few men and girls get tight in a
room or lane. Language flies. A fight
starts. Blood flow's. Then someone either
reaches for a gun or goes home to get it.
Frederick Gordon Shea, 29, is doing
seven years at the moment for man-
slaughter in what you might put down as
the essential crime of the locality. Firing
a pea-rifle from inside a room, through
a closed door, he killed Michael Anthony
Corcoran, who was only 18. Earlier
there had been a brawl in which Shea’s
de facto slugged Corcoran over the head
with a bottle . . . Corcoran went off,
but came back apparently to get Shea.
So it was Shea who reached for the gun.
Shea said he had fired the shot in a
“mad stupor,” which was probably right.
Corcoran in 1959, when he was only 15,
was involved with two other young thugs
in the hold-up killing of a Fitzroy news-
agent. In 1961 he was a witness when
five youths beat a man to death at a
pie stall near Flinders Street station.
The most notorious area in Fitzroy’s
history lasted until just before the last
war. This was The Narrows, which ran
north of Webb Street, almost in the
centre of the southern sector of the
suburb. The place got its nickname from
Diggers back from Gallipoli. Few of
the houses were w'ider than 10ft. In the
19205, it was probably the most fetid
spot in Australia.
The Narrows
beer dens, the brothels, the gamb-
ling joints, the thieves’ kitchens, the
filth, the smell, the behavior of the scum
of Melbourne made The Narrows
terrible. From the ’twenties, up through
the years of the depression, it got little
better. The council pulled it down in
the late ’thirties.
New Australians are a big part of
Fitzroy’s population, and many of them
have been a boon to the district. They’ve
taken scores of the old houses and reno-
vated them, putting in the right plumbing
and even painting them in Mediterranean
colors. Some old places now stop you
with their charm.
Local dignitaries claim that the
wicked exploitation of New Australians
by Australian and other landlords has
ended, but not everyone thinks so.
They’re clearly fleeced, just on the evi-
dence of advertisements, in being
charged £3OOO or so for many of the
dumps they buy.
The business of cramming new ar-
rivals into houses so that they share
beds in shifts still goes on. Postmen
still deliver to some addresses letters
from overseas adressed to an extra-
ordinary number of different people.
Among men the lack of women and
the lack of other social outlets are
serious. Moveable brothels, each of a
couple of girls in a panel van, are still
doing well in the district, a taxi-driver
told me. “There are a couple of girls
operating in Webb Street right now,”
he said. This again, the local dignitaries
deny, but it’s the sort of situation about
which a taxi-driver usually knows best.
About 40 clubs are said to operate
in and around Gertrude Street alone.
The police are limiting them pretty well
to one region. Some clubs are quiet
and well-run. Others, like many of the
pubs, are hang-outs for crooks and pros-
titutes, including teen-age and male pros-
titutes, and particularly the young crims
who cause the law most trouble.
Some of the clubs put on crude strip-


m
Count down at Concord!
It will never get into the air but then we’d be
terribly surprised if it did. We, at Cranes, and our
clients, are more than happy with the job it does
on the ground.
Where accuracy counts and tolerances are specified
in ten-thousandths of an inch, Crane Copper and
Aluminium Pty. Ltd. at Concord use the Sendzimir
Rolling Mill for the rolling of brass and copper
strip.
This rather complex operation (we find it hard to
agree with the operator that the control panel
illustrated above is simple to follow) is just one
of many that the metals undergo before they are
passed to our clients.
The small illustration above is of the
Sendzitnir Machine in operation and, at top, is the
panel from which the machine is controlled.
CRANE
GROUP
ALUMINIUM C BRASS • COPPER
CP-51


tease. Police who went into one club
not long ago spotted a full-hand five
known or suspected killers at one table.
The club scene is enlivened by a feud
among operators. The Layka, in Bruns-
wick Street, was wrecked and messed
up with acid and sump oil a little while
ago. At the corner of Gertrude and
Smith Streets you can see the broken
street sign of the Blue Angel, wrecked
in the same warfare, and later closed
down.
The strongest police weapon is to get
a court order for the application to any
club of the “quarantine” provisions of
the Police Offences Act and the Li-
censing Act. These make it an offence
for anyone to be so much as sighted
in the place, or entering or leaving it.
Father Aldo, an energetic young Italian
priest at All Saints’, has taken a leading
role in the fight against the clubs. He,
as well as social workers of other
churches, often infiltrate supporters into
the clubs, not to collect evidence so
much as to try to rescue any young
people they see being debauched.
Fitzroy has little to offer young people.
There’s not even that old stand-by, a
Police Boys’ Club. Most youngsters drift
to other suburbs in search of pleasure.
It’s one of the standing complaints of St
Kilda, for example, that too many Fitzroy
people come over there for Luna Park
and other joys.
The Rev. David Cox of the Victorian
Council of Churches told the recent Citi-
zenship Convention in Canberra that a
survey of nearly 400 young migrants
around Fitzroy had shown that about 50
of them had never had a job. They lived
by playing cards, he said. Their only con-
tact with girls was with prostitutes. One
young migrant charged with having as-
saulted a girl spent four weeks in gaol on
remand before anyone asked where he
was. When the case came on trial, the
judge interrupted it to dismiss it. But
when the lad got back to Fitzroy, he had
lost his room and all his possessions had
been stolen.
That’s Fitzroy.
More touching than the problem of
New Australians is the problem of the
old. Fitzroy has not only the Old Colon-
ists’ Home but also a high quota of in-
dependent pensioners trying to battle on,
through cold and malnutrition in all
kinds of hovels. Cheap rents have kept
them in the district as much as anything
else.
Evictions of the old are still often
brutal. The newspapers take no interest.
The Fair Rents Court gives almost no
succor. One old dear had her rent of
15/- a week for an insanitary hutch lift-
ed to more than £2 in the court. The
magistrate expressed his regrets.
Absentee property owners, some of
them impersonal “estates”, are selling up
more of the old places to make way for
industries, some of them noxious and
many of them noisy. Already many old
people, clinging to their homes as fac-
tories, transport yards and so on appear
around them, have been driven almost
out of their minds by noise.
The way so-called “residential” areas
are being taken over for industry points
up again what many people have known
for a long time, that Melbourne’s so-cal-
led Master Plan for development is noth-
ing but a joke.
The Anglican Brotherhood of St.
Laurence, the churches generally, and
the Salvation Army, do what they can to
ease misery for young and old. But the
cancer is in. The State Housing Commis-
sion has set aside 47 acres of Fitzroy
for slum clearance, but has had little im-
pact. The Commission has built 27,000
dwellings in its time. Of these Fitzroy
has got 290.
You can add to the sad figures of Fitz-
roy many of the aborigines who still live
in the district. Many attend the abori-
ginal mission of the Church of Christ at
the corner of St. David’s Street and Gore
Street. Some of the aborigines hold their
own and keep their heads up in their
strange environment. Others are no-
hopers, winos and small-time crooks.
The Fitzroy Council seems helpless to
do much to improve the district. Roads
are among the worst in Melbourne. A
year or so ago, five vehicles of the gar-
bage collection fleet were declared by the
police to be unroadworthy. The garbage
that accumulated in back lanes roused
public protest, and the outcry gave a
boost to the Fitzroy Ratepayers’ League,
which now has 400 members and is
wielding influence.
A lot of the energies of the council
seem to go on internal fights and back-
biting. At the moment, resentment is
largely over the way Mayor John George
Black has been chosen for a second term,
on his own casting vote.
When he was first mayor in 1958, Jack
Black survived a court case which could
have cost him thousands. It was alleged
that Black had sat at 76 council meetings
while he was not eligible to do so under
the Local Government Act. Black, with
the brilliant John Starke, QC, as counsel,
convinced the Supreme Court that, al-
though he lived outside Fitzroy, in
Thornbury, he qualified as a resident by
paying both rent and rates on a Fitzroy
room.
Had the case gone against him, Black
would have been liable for a fine of at
least £5O for each of the 22 council
sittings that the court took into con-
sideration. When the court decided in
his favor, the mayor and his mayoress
went straight to St Paul’s Anglican Cath-
edral, fell on their knees and thanked
God.
"They're certainly droll fellows in that Taxation Department—it says
here, 'State amount of income derived from'—wait for it-
'PERSONAL EXERTION '!"


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O'SULLIVAN y /j
:•% ptvud. rJp'
TRADE
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
••JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Paroling Murderers...
Wanted: more Parole Officers
By GORDON HAWKINS
/Yn 4th April, 1962, Leonard Keith
Lawson, aged 34, commercial artist,
was convicted at the Central Criminal
Court, Sydney, of the murder at Collaroy
on 6th November, 1961, of Jane Mary
Bower, aged 16, and sentenced to life
imprisonment. It was alleged, although
he was not tried for this offence, that he
had on 7th November, 1961, murdered
Wendy Sue Luscombe, aged 15, at the
■Church of England Grammar School,
Moss Vale.
Considerable public interest in the case
and widespread criticism of the Parole
Service was stimulated by the fact that
Lawson was, at the time of these murders,
on parole after serving less than seven
years of a fourteen-year sentence for
rape. Lawson, incidentally, had originally
been sentenced to death for rape, but the
Executive Council had commuted the
sentence.
On 21st June. 1963, John Eric Jenkins,
aged 65, clerk, was convicted at the
same court of the murder at West Rvde
on 22nd December, 1962, of his sec-
ond wife, Irene Lillian Jenkins, aged 50,
and sentenced to life imprisonment. Jen-
kins too had committed a previous capi-
tal offence. Nine years earlier on 4th
November, 1953, he had murdered his
first wife, Eileen Joyce. On that occa-
sion the jury had found him not guilty
on the ground of insanity and he was
ordered to be detained “during the Gov-
ernor's pleasure”. In May, 1956, after two
and a half, years in custody, he was, like
Lawson, released on parole.
In May, 1958, he was released from
parole supervision. Less than five years
later he strangled his second wife after
they had been married less than a year.
Not altogether surprisingly further public
criticism has been aroused.
It would be disingenuous to pretend
that there is no cause for alarm or criti-
cism. On the other hand it would be a
great pity if such cases as these should
lead to a curtailment of the Parole Ser-
vice. Parole is not only an extremely
valuable part of the correctional system,
but is the one distinctively Australian
contribution to penological theory and
practice.
It is true that the development of
parole has until recent years been
largely American, but it is significant
that when, in 1865, the Massachusetts
Prison Board made the first American
plea for a parole system, it was to be
the “ticket-of-leave system” instituted by
Governor Phillip in New South Wales
three-quarters of a century earlier that
they referred.
Even today although parole is much
more widely used in the United States
than here in Australia (approximately
50 per cent of all prisoners released
from US state and penal institutions
being paroled), the parole system in
New South Wales has some claim to be
considered one of the most advanced
in the world.
It is unique in its employment of pre-
release counselling groups conducted
by parole officers inside penal institu-
tions: and almost unique in the setting
up of Civil Rehabilitation Committees
to enlist public aid and support in the
work of resettling ex-prisoners the
only parallel being the Netherlands
Rehabilitation Councils.
Parole services are currently being
provided for about 1600 cases in New
South Wales and as the vast majority
will undoubtedly be successful it is un-
likely that the public will ever hear about
them. Frank Hayes, who has been with
the Prison Field Service since 1951 and
was appointed Principal Parole Officer
in 1959, says wryly that “successes in this
field are rarely noticed, although break-
down or failure can make headlines”.
It is necessary, therefore, to look the
facts squarely in the face and answer at
least two pertinent questions. The first
of these questions concerns the available
alternatives. Curiously enough, the death
penalty, which has the unique advantage
of a nil reconviction rate, is comparative-
ly rarely canvassed as a possibility in
this connection.
It should also be pointed out that capi-
tal punishment like parole is itself not
without attendant risks. There is first
of all the risk that innocent men and
women may be hanged. Those who are
tempted to dismiss this possibility should
read Leslie Hale’s recent Penguin Hanged
in Error (1961). There is secondly the
risk, which history shows should not be
underestimated, that juries aware of this
possibility may well acquit in cases of
even minimal doubt and thus allow to go
free those from whom it is the function
of the criminal law to protect society.
The other alternative is imprisonment for
the term of natural life with release ab-
solutely interdicted. But would anyone
advocate that all rapists for example (the
category to which Lawson belonged)
should be automatically sentenced to life
imprisonment without any hope of re-
lease?
This would surely be generally re-
garded as unacceptable not only because
of the often equivocal nature of the act
but especially in view of the fact that
rapists have one of the lowest reconvic-
tion rates for any class of offender. Yet
what is true of rapists is true also of
murderers. Experience in other countries
where capital punishment is no longer
employed suggests that released murder-
ers represent little danger to the com-
munity. Thus Queensland and New Zea-
land together produced only one case of
a released murderer even attempting
murder again over half a century.
In these circumstances does anyone
seriously suggest that no convicted mur- -
derer should ever be released? It seems
unlikely that there would be many who
would do so.
What steps need to be taken to ensure
that the likelihood of the recurrence of
cases like those of Lawson and Jenkins
is reduced to an absolute minimum? It
is difficult to resist the conclusion that
what is required is not a curtailment
but rather an extension of the present-
parole service.
The following recommendations could
be considered:


IpciSlip
ofthisill
our contra
cards fySSlif
ONLY XEROGRAPHY*
MAKES THIS POSSIBLE
Push-button copying on bond paper . . .
that’s xerography, which works by static
electricity.
Xerography—in the form of the fXerox 914
Office Copier gives you the world’s
newest, most efficient copying process.
The Xerox 914 Office Copier copies any-
thing . . . from any colour. Even pages from
thick books. Sharp, clear, black on white
copies exact in every detail. Dry copies.
Xerography fuses the image right into the
paper. Just dial the number of copies you
want and out they come 7 perfect copies
a minute.
There’s nothing to buy - you borrow our
machine and pay only for the copies you
make. Call your Rank Xerox office now, or
post this coupon and arrange a demon-
stration.
* (you pronounce it zer-ography)
1 Regd. Trade Mark
if
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
49 Market Street, Sydney . 2 0663
316 Queen Street, Melbourne 67 6185
163-7 Halifax Street, Adelaide 8 6963
Siije 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place,
Canberra City 4 7575
164 Melbourne Street, Sth. Brisbane 4 3836
83 King Street, Newcastle B 1994
1095 Hay Street, Perth 21 2662
Get to know more about the amazing Xerox 914 Office
Copier by posting this coupon now.
Could I please: (Tick which applies):—
□ Have more details of the Xerox 914 Office Copier.
H Have a demonstration at the nearest Rank Xerox
sales office.
Name
Company
Address ...
246/63
© The recruitment of more parole offi-
cers to reduce case loads. In this con-
nection Dorothy Gage, an American
Fuibright scholar who made a detailed
study of the subject, wrote in her “The
Probation and Parole Services of New
South Wales” (1961): —
“It is generally accepted as sound proba-
tion and parole practice that an officer
should not have more than fifty indi-
vidual cases under continuous supervision.
The Prison Field Service staff in New
South Wales are carrying case loads in
excess of one hundred cases. At this rate,
effective social work practice degenerates
into a system of surveillance, lacking the
thoroughness and attention necessary to
perform substantial supervision”.
• The introduction of different degrees
of parole supervision. Just as within the
prison system it is recognised that differ-
ent degrees of custodial supervision are
required, and institutions of minimum,
medium and maximum security are pro-
vided, so, in the field, the classification of
parolees according to the degree of
supervision required would facilitate
more effective casework, control and
surveillance.
• Closer liaison between the New South
Wales Parole Board and the Prison Field
Service. This would enable reclassifica-
tion of offenders in the various super-
vision categories as and when required
and enable the Board by means of regu-
lar reports to be kept informed of the
progress of parolees.
• Extension of powers of the Parole
Board. The present Parole Board was
established in 1950 as an advisory body to
the Minister of Justice on questions of
the release of prisoners earlier than the
normal date of discharge. It might pro-
vide more effective protection for the
public if the Board were empowered to
order immediate recall to an institution
at any time in any case where revoca-
tion is recommended by a parole officer.
They could also be empowered to extend
the period of supervision under licence
whenever necessary.
• Reconstitution of the Parole Board.
At present the Board consists of a retired
District Court Judge as Chairman, a
former Comptroller-General of Prisons,
a former Chief of Detectives (CIB) and
the Government consultant psychiatrist.
In Victoria it is notable that the Parole
Board is presided over by a Supreme
Court Judge and in view of the character
of its functions there is ample justifica-
tion for the inclusion of someone of that
status. It seems reasonable also to suggest
that a board concerned with matters of
such serious public interest should be en-
larged to effect a wider representation of
community interest by the inclusion of,
for example, representatives of the civil
rehabilitation committees, trade unions
and employers’ associations. In addi-
tion provision should be made for a
representative of the Prison Field Service
to be present at all meetings in an ad-
visory capacity.


Tibet: Nation in Exile
A visit to the Dalai Lama
By J. M. RUSSELL
High above the northern plains of
India there are the old British
hill stations, towns like Simla,
Mussoorie, Dalhousie, the names of
which conjure up the Raj, dapper offi-
cers, and elegant women with no pre-
occupation beyond the next dance at
the club or the next dinner party in
their own comfortable stone villas. Dal-
housie was a centre of the Northern
Command and a popular summer resort
until after the Second World War, when
the independence and partition of India
brought life as it had been for nearly a
century to a complete stop.
The troops based there moved back
to Pakistan, there were no tourists and
for ten years the town was virtually de-
serted. Now the solid stone villas run
with damp, monkeys play over the roofs
throwing slates at one another, and the
Club stands empty, bridge rooms quiet,
bar deserted, and the library full of
moths and silverfish. There is a glass
cupboard containing trophies for golf
the Baniket Cup last won by Mrs
O’Donel in 1941, and in the library
register the last loan entry was signifi-
cantly entitled “Hard Facts” borrowed by
Mayor Llewelyn. It is a curious, fos-
sillised piece of recent history.
These stations which were the resort of
an old imperialism have now, however,
become the refuge from a new one. It
is Tibetans who occupy cottages with nos-
talgic English names, The Oaks, Gras-
mere Cottage, Fair View. The Tibetan
refugees in Dalhousie are mostly either
the very young or the very old. They
draw their rations once a day from the
Sikh Relief Officer, and sit about in the
sun, looking across the valleys to a fan-
tastic skyline of peaks of snow behind
which lies their native country.
In a few minutes by plane, in any di-
rection except south, there are borders,
mostly troublesome ones: Kashmir,
Ladakh, Tibet, Russia, Nepal, China.
Three times a day the silence is shat-
tered by the roar of supply planes going
to the Ladakh garrisons of the Indian
Army, where, except for a short season
of the year, every item of equipment and
all supplies have to be dropped by para-
chute to the shivering soldiers. Most of
these come from the southern plains and
need three months to accustom them-
selves to the freezing cold and rarified
atmosphere of 14,000 feet above sea
level.
All through the valleys of the Hima-
layas you find Tibetan refugees, in relief
settlements, in road gangs and camps,
their prayer flags fluttering from the trees
and nearby rocks painted with the figures
of Buddhas and Bhottisatvas. Tough,
resilient, and for the most part unquench-
ably cheerful, they laugh and wave to
travellers, shouting greetings.
For the Tibetans in exile, all roads lead
eventually to Dharmsala, another hill
station, perched over the Kangra Valley
in North Punjab. Windswept and dilapi-
dated it was damaged by an earth-
quake in 1905 and never fully restored
it is nevertheless the focus of inde-
pendent Tibet. Here lives the Dalai Lama,
with his Kashag, ministers and council-
lors, the last ruler of that remote
theocratic state with 1500 years of his-
tory and nearly 1000 years of Buddhist
culture.
This is the 14th Dalai Lama, one of
an unbroken line of spiritual and tem-
poral rulers, reincarnated from one gene-
ration to the next, who are manifestations
of Chenresi, the Buddha of Mercy. The
boy was one of a poor family in Eastern
Tibet, found as a reincarnation of the
13th Dalai Lama in 1936 and enthroned
in Lhasa when he was four years old. He
lived there in the Potala, a vast build-
ing, part palace, part monastery and
national storehouse. The Chinese moved
into Tibet when he was 15. The Chinese
eventually shelled the ancient palace but
the Dalai Lama had gone and in the end
he managed to reach India, where he is
now established at Dharmsala.
Swargashram, the simple, verandahed
bungalow where the Dalai Lama lives, is
set on top of a steep hill a little apart
from the upper town, where we were
staying, and it was here that we were
granted an audience with him one morn-
ing in April. We woke, after a night
of violent storms which are common
in that region, to hear the chanting of
a group of monks who had recently es-
caped from Tibet and were on the last
stage of their journey “To receive the
blessing of His Holiness, the sole master
of Tibet and our Lord in this life and
the next.”
To reach Swargashram we climbed the
steep hill from the upper town under the
eyes of Indian Army guards and passed
through a security check, measures im-
posed by the Indian Government to pro-
tect the life of this distinguished guest.
At the bungalow we were met by a
court official, and a monk secretary, and
when we reached the Dalai Lama’s apart-
ment two monks in red robes threw open
the doors, with deep obeisances to his
presence inside. He received us at the
door, a tall, well-built young man, shaven-
headed and bespectacled, dressed in a
wine-colored robe over a yellow under-
shirt, with the right arm bare. Clasping
our hands between his in greeting, he
motioned us to sit on cushioned mats
while he sat in the Buddhist lotus posi-
tion in front of a decorated panel.
I have only a vague impression of the
room. A paper prayer wheel slowly
turned above an altar lamp, Buddhist
scrolls hung on the walls and the dark
carpets were woven with Tibetan motifs.
The surroundings were insignificant and
dominated by the quiet and powerful
personality of the man we had come to
see.
The Dalai Lama addressed us in
Tibetan through Sonam Topgai Kaze as
interpreter, although it is well known that
he has a good command of English.
Everything that was said was taken down
in Tibetan shorthand by the secretary.
This is one of the last vestiges of cere-
monial usage, for in the past the Dalai
Lama never addressed strangers directly
and most certainly would never have ap-
proached or touched them. He has dis-
carded the last rule and, as the conversa-
tion progressed, it was clear that he was
becoming impatient of the first. He fre-
quently cut short the interpreter and
made direct replies in English.
He spoke a little about the history of
Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism, but he
was chiefly concerned with the future.
The older generation would, he felt, re-
tain their traditional culture and out-
look, whatever their difficulties, but they
were being killed or carried off into China
in great numbers and the future was in
the hands of the young, especially the
children who were now in India.
“I cannot put enough emphasis on the
importance of care and education for the
younger ones of my people. They are the
tender saplings who will one day be the
pillars of the new Tibetan nation. As a
young bird must learn to fly with the
balance of two wings, so they must
learn to live with the balance of their
ancient culture and the modern education
which will fit them for the new world.”
We had expected to be impressed
by the Dalai Lama, with his unique posi-
tion and spiritual qualities, and indeed
we were. What we had not expected to
find, however, was that someone brought
up in the remote and rarified atmosphere
of the Potala should have such a practical


FINEST
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
JjF I x l
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI. B Takumar
Lens and leather case 190.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C3348
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
19 12 1962
FIRE, marine, accidenTT pubuc
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
T I RECTORS-
ALFRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D G PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E G - CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A G PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
grasp of the present situation and such
a businesslike approach to its problems.
It is clear that the Dalai Lama is in a
very real sense the practical leader as
well as the spiritual head of his people,
and, unlike his predecessors, is closely in
touch with them and available for advice
and help of every kind. He is a remark-
able organiser, quick to grasp essentials
and to assimilate new ideas and give them
practical formulation. A reformer as well,
he was introducing long-needed changes
in Tibet when the Chinese arrived with
their own brand of change, and has since
drafted a new constitution for the coun-
try. He maintains contact with world or-
ganisations, particularly the UN, and
world leaders, and, apart from the hours
set aside for prayer and meditation, he
devotes all his time and energy to the
welfare and organisation of his people,
infusing a sense of courage and direction
into these scattered, sick and dispossessed
fugitives.
Despite the danger and the extreme
physical difficulties of the journey, about
85,000 of the decimated population have
followed the Dalai Lama out of Tibet.
Though life in their native land was im-
possible for them, the difficulties which
face them outside are, unfortunately, very
great. Although they represent all sections
of society, the people are mostly from
the poorer classes, and nearly all are
completely destitute. Their language is in-
comprehensible, and the climate, except
in the hills, is to them intolerably hot
and unhealthy, for much of Tibet is over
12,000 feet above sea-level and there
W'ere few infections or epidemics there.
Work is hard to get, as India has a
big unemployment problem of her own
and ever-increasing calls on her finances
for defence. Most of them work on the
roads in the mountains, gruelling work
w'hich also splits up the families, as the
hard, constantly moving life of the camps
is unsuitable for children or old people.
The Indian Government is doing what it
can, settling some in mountain farming
communities and one large-scale settle-
ment in Mysore, giving road work, mak-
ing housing available and providing many
basic necessities, but much more is need-
ed. The Dalai Lama has organised gene-
ral settlements, schools, nurseries and
training centres, all planned with an ap-
preciation of differing needs—of children
orphaned or uprooted from their families
and homes, able-bodied young people
who must find purposeful work, old
people w-ho need security and care,
monks who must be able to pursue the
religious life.
We saw some of these plans in action,
and there are others, well conceived,
efficient and cheap to administer, but
hampered by lack of funds. One could
only admire the courage of the refugees
and the determination of those who were
trying to relieve their distress and carve
out some coherent kind of future for
them. Almost the whole of the Dalai
Lama’s personal resources have gone into
this work, but now he must rely a great
deal on the aid of overseas relief organ-
isations, and as the years pass the help
has dwindled, though there are more
refugees than ever.
The occupation of Tibet has been one
of the most flagrant and savage actions
of recent history. One can only read the
report of the International Commission
of Jurists, especially the section on geno-
cide, with horror. Shot, beheaded,
strangled, burnt, buried alive the
deaths of the people reflected on a more
violent note the misery of survivors who
did not immediately co-operate in the
destruction of their own way of life.
The commission’s report presents an
overall picture of the unbelievable cal-
lousness with which the Communists have
systematically destroyed this peaceful
nation, killing or driving into exile half
the population, destroying their homes
and religious institutions, carrying off
adults for forced labor and thousands of
children to be indoctrinated in China.
They have taken over land, housing and
food, appropriating the grain supplies and
reserves for their army and the 9,000,000
so-called settlers, so that the country
which never before had known famine
is now starving in many areas and the
people reduced to eating grass and bark.
The condition of the recent arrivals is
pitiful; starving, diseased, suffering from
frostbite and snow blindness, they are a
terrifying example of what can happen
at the hands of ruthless conquerors.
Those who have recently escaped felt
that it was the duty of .as many people
as possible to carry on Tibetan traditions
and culture as best they could in a coun-
try where they would be free to do so.
The feelings of Tibetans in India are
expressed in the advice given to one party
by Nyalgla Rimpoche, a 93-year-old lama
unable to join them in their flight.
“The truth of your cause must in-
evitably bear fruit. At present, it is im-
possible for you to live in your own
country, therefore you must go to India
and see the Dalai Lama. You will still
have to face difficulties and sorrows with-
out cessation, but if you keep your
thoughts pure and do not diminish the
courage of your hearts, you will certainly
see the precious face of the Dalai Lama.
All of you must remain firm in your
thoughts and the incomparable mind of
His Holiness will find a cure to bring
back Tibet’s independence once again.
Of this I have no doubt.”
One would like to have the same con-
fidence, but of one thing there is no
doubt. The dignity of the past and the
religious ideals of Buddhism mingle with
hope and determination for the future
of his people in that remarkable young
man the Dalai Lama.


Around Melbourne
BEASTLINESS - DYED IN THE WOOL
fFo be perfectly honest, it is very
-*• difficult to maintain one’s equili-
brium. Your correspondent always
attends the annual party turned on by
the Wool Board, Wool Bureau or
whatever. Last year it was in Golds-
brough Mort’s ancient wool store in
Bourke Street, and it was a little
beauty. We had hot rum punch,
damper, Irish stew, tea with gum
leaves, folk songs, hurricane lamps.
Chips Rafferty, wild colonial girls,
the lot. Sir William Gunn even did
a jig-
All this was to demonstrate the
wild colonial colors for 1962 —Botany
blue, Ned Kelly green, Bligh blue
even Katie green, for heaven’s sake,
in honor of Ned Kelly’s sister. As
we departed we were all handed
bottles of grog.
This year the invitation arrived
right on schedule. It was labelled:
“Wool’s sulky colors for 1964
young, moody, arrogant, sexy . . .
colors for being perfectly beastly in—
colors for being pampered in—colors
for being loved like mad in.”
It was all too frightening. No
sooner had a man got himself into a
Captain Bligh, Ned Kelly, tobacco-
chewing mood than he had to switch
around and be sulky, moody, beastly,
smouldering. It was a straight jump
from the colonial to the avant garde,
enough to give one schizophrenia.
The invitation said that the show
would be compered by Murray Rose.
At first we thought Murray Rose was
one of the new colors; but no, further
on we learned that “Murray Rose,
youngest triple Gold medallist, is now
making plans for a film career . . .
he won a scholarship to USC, where
he graduated last year with the highest
grade average of any athlete in the
class.”
No wool store this time; the show
took place at Her Majesty’s Theatre,
and first we were greeted by the stars
of the Wool Board, Sir William Gunn
and Miss Nan Sanders, and one tried
to imagine how it all came about.
Perhaps it went like this:
Nan: Sir William, We’ve got to get
away this year from pint pots, horses
and all this wild colonial caper. What
can we do?
Sir William: Nan, I’ve got it. We’ll
be young, moody, arrogant, sexy . . .
Her Majesty’s darkened, and the
show started with a film titled “A
History of Great Looks.” We had
a run-down on cave women, Nefertiti,
Cleopatra, Mona Lisa, Marie Antoin-
ette Madame Pankhurst . . . then we
had a diversion, a whole series on
“The Perils of Pauline”; Pauline tied
to the railway track, Pauline going
over a cliff; then we came back to
Mae West, Garbo, Swanson, Dietrich,
even Shirley Temple and Lassie.
A ll this led to the great smouldering,
intelligent, unwashed Continental
look that was modern and exciting.
Then suddenly . . . wham ... up went
the curtain and there was Murray
Rose himself, twisting like crazy in
front of a stage full of twisting boy
and girl models, all wearing the new
sulky colors. Not a smile on any of
them either . . . they were being
beastly, angry, moody. Murray Rose
was wearing a MISTY grey cardigan
and tight pants. According to the
programme, MISTY was a low-keyed
shade that harmonised with the
moody, broody, rebellious young . ..
No one could find fault with Mur-
ray Rose as a compere. Not only was
he beach-washed and handsome, but
he was smooth, assured and he had a
big voice. Every twisting girl and
every twisting boy was a color. For
example, Nicki Ham was in sulky
green. The copy obviously was writ-
ten by the same fellow who writes
all those True Love stories.
“SULKY GREEN ... a colour that’s
a sexy under-statement... a seemingly
quiet, respectable green with a pul-
sating undercurrent of ‘still waters’ im-
plications. Sulky green borders on the
safe, but watch your daughter when
she wears it . . . boys have to find out
the hard way.”
Mr Rose showed us Barry Berner
in BLASE blue. “A nonchalant,
‘Don’t ’phone me, I’ll ’phone you’
blue for the boy whose dad lends him
the Jag when the ‘G’s’ in for repairs
... a clear - eyed blue that looks
deceptively innocent.” Just for a
second he said something which I
don’t think could have been in the
original scripts . . . “Wouldn’t it make
you sick?”
We went through the whole range;
then, when it was all over, we were
invited on stage. No damper or
billy tea this time. Red - jacketed
waiters served us champagne and
chicken sandwiches. It was interest-
ing to tune into conversation among
guests ...
Example No. 1: “What’ll happen if
I go into a shop to buy a sulky green
tie? The girl will know that this green
is ‘a sexy under-statement . . . with a
pulsating undercurrent of still waters
implications’ . . . gee, you might get
your face slapped.”
Example No. 2: “If we could only
have had a real grazier to listen to all
this. You know, a real wide-plains
bloke from the back of Goondiwindi
somewhere, a bloke who was paying
his 10 bob a bale levy. Oh, brother!”
Already it was late, so I fled. As
I went out the door I was handed two
bottles a bottle of sulky arrogant
perfume for girls and a bottle of
sulky arrogant cologne for boys. I
dabbed some behind my ear and
hurried off along Exhibition Street
trying to look moody, broody, arro-
gant.
Next afternoon the Wangaratta
Wool Festival committee came to
town, bearing a report on the bril-
liance of their Wild Colonial Wool
Festival.
The Wangaratta committee demon-
strated the Wild Colonial mood per-
fectly, but how will they go in 1964
with the sulky mood? It won’t be
easy. For example, they invited Sir
Robert Menzies to town and gave
him a cardigan in Ned Kelly green.
Now they will have to be more tact-
ful.
The fashionable green for 1964 is
GREEN with ENVY. The catalogue
says: “A noble color! ... a rich ful-
some shade for being positively
beastly in.”
BATMAN


'S,. :
..
1
am
:■
m
f
■
1
■ ' .
m
A
•:• \
ii
M
1
1
$
/
<« 'm&m-
''v&SZ&Sw&s'
.
modulate ... fly Lufthansa
Modulate.
Change key, change pace and fly Luft-
hansa, the world renowned German
international airline.
Lufthansa serves 49 cities in 5 con-
tinents, has flown 6.8 million pas-
sengers, made 160,009 flights in the last
8 years alone.
Lufthansa 7208 Boeing jets are as
familiar at Santiago De Chile as they
are at Zurich. Or Karachi. Or San
Francisco.
Or most places that Australian busi-
nessmen fly to.
Lufthansa instituted the first airmail
service across the South Atlantic and
was exploring routes to the Far East
as early as 1926.
But it takes more than history and
statistics to tell the full Lufthansa
story.
Of calm, comfortable, confident flying.
Of Europe-inspired good food.
But then experienced travellers who
have enjoyed the Lufthansa way of
flying can tell you of these things.
And your travel agent can tell you
how you can join a Lufthansa flight
for Europe or the world as close as
Bangkok, just 9 hours away.
Or Hong Kong. Or San Francisco.
Why not ask them?
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES
‘.A117428


MIDDY’S MEALS
“Watch how your Father mauls his food—that’s how I want you to eat.”
“Now we owe them a missionary!”
“Darling,- he’s playing our steak!”
“My compliments to the Wine-Waiter.”
“I’m ploughing back
into the business.”


SPORT
Being Wise After the Event
The game can he more important than winning
By DISCUS
It is easy to seem wise after an event
but it did seem weeks ago that any
person with more than one eye must
shudder at some of the wild notions
going around Rugby League circles when
the New Zealand team arrived for a
series of Tests against “Australia,” as
represented by NSW and Queensland
players.
Bad enough that the Australian team
is drawn from only two States now. If
the selectors had been of the same mind
as the Sydney enthusiasts, a NSW team
labelled “Australia” would have played
the Second Test in Brisbane, with dis-
gusted Queensland RL supporters stay-
ing away from Lang Park in their
thousands.
Admittedly the prelude to the New
Zealanders’ tour had some weird aspects
in Queensland. The State selectors picked
13 men and matched them with The Rest,
who played them to a draw. “Forget the
drawn result,” said Queensland’s captain,
Barry Muir. “The team will give nothing
away to the big reputations of NSW when
the chips are down.”
The chips flew the following Saturday
in Brisbane when the NSW team over-
ran Queensland 53 points to 7, to the
disgust of 20,000 spectators. On the fol-
lowing Saturday the New Zealanders beat
NSW by 5 points to 2, in a poor exhibi-
tion of football in which the backline
kept trying to break through the centre
instead of throwing the bail around and
opening the game.
The selectors chose some Queensland-
ers in the Australian 13, shocking the
Sydney enthusiasms who declared that if
this “scratch” team won it would be
only because the New Zealanders were
not good enough, which did not quite fit
the facts ot the previous week’s match,
but when did wild enthusiasts ever worry
about facts?
Nearly 50,000 people saw Australia’s
“scratch” team win the first Test and
50,000 is a solid crowd at the Sydney
Cricket Ground.
The New Zealand team then went
north to beat Queensland by only 14
points to 10, before winning the second
Test against an “Australia” which again
included players from two States, as it
should but would not have if the wild
Sydney enthusiasts had had their way.
Sometimes the game is more important
than the winning, and when a code is
as shakily based as Rugby League, the
game is much more important than local
prejudices peddled by one-eyed men.
Rugby League’s most urgent task now
should be to strengthen the game in
Queensland.
★ ★ ★
In the other League code, known as
Australian Rules or League, depending
whether or not you live in a Rugby State,
there have been complaints from here
and there that the drop-kick and stab-
kick seem to be on the way out, both
replaced by the punt.
If that is so, it’s a damn shame because
wonderfully accurate drop-kicking, send-
ing the ball from man to man right
around the ground, was a feature of the
game which has inclined many NSW and
Queensland people towards it as a spec-
tator sport after a winter visit south.
Fast, hard drop-kicking on the move
is much harder than just booting the ball
into the air, but once players have the
technique the low trajectory and speed
of the ball make it less amenable to wind
gusts and anyway, it gives the game
speed and excitement from where the
spectator sits.
Rugby lost a good deal when fast back-
line men lost the art of getting past tower-
ing forwards by drop-kicking over their
heads, nipping around the bemused
Goliath, and gathering in the ball with
hardly a stride lost.
★ ★ ★
When Arthur Persley, seventh world
ranking lightweight, took a points win
over our welter champion, Gary Cow-
burn, one of the critics remarked that if
little Arthur was a good lightweight,
heaven help the rest. Much more recent-
ly, Cowburn took a lot of punishment
but managed to hold our middleweight
champion, Reg Hayes, to a draw in Bris-
bane. From the critics, silence.
Persley’s appearance at Sydney Sta-
dium was the year’s big event in boxing
so far, and if li’l Arthur bothered to read
the reviews of his match he must still
be smiling, because he was obviously a
good-humored bloke.
He was outpointed by Gary Cowburn
nearly two years ago in Manila, but two
years in Gary’s life has been a long, hard
time. I felt that Persley could have club-
bed him into submission within three or
four rounds. But he seemed a merciful
man.
Soon after the opening bell he hit
Cowburn with a left and right swing to
either side of the head, and Cowburn hit
the ropes and it looked all over. But
Persley stood off, boxed and kept work-
ing just hard enough to remain in front.
At odd times during the match, just
to be sure that Cowburn knew the score,
Persley bustled him against the ropes,
swung to the head, and saw Cowburn’s
gloves shoot up to cover his ears and
leave his entire front open. Then Persley
stepped back.
It was still a good fight, or exhibition,
and if Stadiums Ltd encourages Mr P. to
return, he’s worth travelling to watch.
★ ★ ★
Fair exchange section: We’ve sent
swimmers to Japan, a West Australian
schoolboys’ Soccer team to Singapore and
Malaya, and plan to skate an ice hockey
team to Japan later. In return, basketball
teams from the Philippines, Formosa and
possibly Korea are due to visit us. Per-
haps it is time to realise that late ’63
and all of 1964 will be very big years for
all amateur sport in the Pacific zone.
As the Tokyo Olympics come nearer,
all of the neighboring nations will be
looking for strong competition. In many
instances this will be the first time they
have been inclined or able to field large
teams. And this could be a blessing to
many of the good but not popular sports,
such as basketball, because those which
are not afraid of the very word “pub-
licity” will be able to use international
meets to improve their financial positions.
That in turn could reduce the quad-
rennial squawk which occurs when the
various sports find they haven’t enough
capital to send a big squad to the Games.
Let’s hope that next year there will be less
panic and more reason. Many nations
cheerfully send squads of from one to
ten persons, paying (or begging) only for
those who have some faint chance of
winning. And that, 90 per cent of Aus-
tralia’s 1960 squad didn't have a hope of.
The usual excuse is that international
competition is beneficial but often the free
trip to the Games is just a bang-up pre-
lude to retirement. And the public pays.


SMSiiSSISSe
- ■ 3HhHhm m
iii
&
a
\
■
I
who said
ntertaining had to be expensive
to be good!
Some people think that all entertaining is alike. But if you check with Chevron
Hilton's New 'HOSTPLAN' you’ll find an important difference, important
because it affects you, different because it allows you to budget to an exact price
that includes all your party requirements. As a result of Chevron's vast experience,
their 'HOSTPLAN' will give you an accurate appraisal of the needs of your
guests and relieve you of the worry of the many aspects of party organisation. It’s
the most economical All-inclusive plan ever offered and contains no hidden costs.
So if you're planning a cocktail party for seven or a banquet for seven hundred
call in Chevron, you'll like their Personal Service.
For further information phone ‘HOSTPLAN’, 35-0433, and ask for ext. 215 or 270.
Ji
CHEVRO IST HILTON
MACLEAY STREET. POTT’S POINT. SYDNEY
CH.1557A


at
the
Black
it
is
not
true
(To be continued next week . . . .)
OVERSEAS
Laos Heading for
A Full-scale War?
Reflecting the Sino-Soviet split...
By P. J. HONEY
Few countries in the. world today pre-
sent so complex a picture to the out-
side observer as the remote South-
east Asian kingdom of Laos. The inter-
nal rivalries there reflect not only the
struggle between the Communist and the
non-Communist worlds, but also the in-
creasingly bitter dispute going on inside
the Communist world. Both affect, and
are in turn affected by, the happenings
in Laos.
Prior to the Geneva agreements of
July, 1962, three rival Laotian factions
were engaged in war. The Right-wing
group, with US help, was opposing the
neutralists and the Communist Pathet
Lao. The Soviet Union was providing aid
to the neutralists, while Communist
North Vietnam directed the Pathet Lao
and, in addition, supplied them with sea-
soned Vietnamese soldiers. Fighting was
ended by the 14-nation conference in
Geneva, which agreed that Laos should
have an independent neutralist status and
a government in which all three factions
were represented. The solution reached
at Geneva was unsatisfactory because it
relied upon Communist goodwill to make
it work, and recent history has shown
that this is a poor guarantee of any set-
tlement. In exchange for a cessation of
hostilities, the West conceded that all
foreign troops should be withdrawn,
SEATO protection withdrawn, and that
the International Control Commission
(ICC) —comprising India, Canada and
Poland established to supervise the
armistice, should act only on unanimous
decisions and with the consent of the
Laotian authorities. This latter conces-
sion gave the power of veto to the Com-
munist Pathet Lao and to the Polish ele-
ment in the ICC.
US troops were withdrawn but the
North Vietnamese soldiers, who resem-
ble the Laotians physically and are dif-
ficult to detect, remained in the terri-
tory controlled by the Pathet Lao. Pre-
dictably, the Pathet Lao refused to ad-
mit the ICC to their territory and set to
work to establish total control over the
neutralists, their former allies in the
struggle against the Right-wing group.
This was the first step in a Communist
takeover bid for the whole country. Un-
fortunately for the Pathet Lao s c\.c ne,
not all the neutralists were willing to ac-
cept Communist control, and renewed
fighting followed the murder of Colonel
Ketsana, a leader of those resisting Pathet
Lao pressures. Soon afterwards, Quinim
Pholsena, the neutralist Foreign Minister,
who had fully collaborated with the
Pathet Lao against his own faction, was
killed by his bodyguard, and the scale of
the fighting increased.
At first, the fighting was between those
neutralists who wished to maintain an
independent position and the faction
which had gone over to the Communist
side, but the Pathet Lao quickly came to
the support of the latter and began a
military action which has virtually driven
the independent neutralists off the Plain
of Jars. The success of the Pathet Lao,
which was due in large measure to the
help they received from North Vietnam-
ese troops, drove the independent neu-
tralists to seek assistance from their
former enemies, the Right-wing faction.
That is how the situation stands today,
and there is an imminent danger that
a full-scale war may once again engulf
Laos.
The international picture is no less
complicated than the internal Laotian
one. Communist North Vietnam is en-
gaged in a bloody armed struggle against
the Government of South Vietnam, and
the supply line to her forces there runs
through eastern Laos. Unless that part of
Laos remains in Communist hands, this
vitally important route may be cut, so


For carefree winter motoring-you need
CASTROUTE
u
>\
s
m
A*-
K
V*
First-time starts In the coldest weather save strain on battery,
engine and temper. Castrolite circulates quicker, protects engines
the'way oils should. For really trouble-free motoring this winter
change to Castrolite for a start!
Consult the Castro/
chart at better garages
with the Bottle
Stand out front.
a
Casfrolite
m
r-
ui
ma
'•ml
£&§i*ol


that North Vietnam has a direct interest
in the success of the Communist Pathet
Lao. Moreover, the North Vietnamese
founded, directed, armed, and support-
ed the Pathet Lao, and the victory of
that faction would place the control of
Laos almost exclusively in North Viet-
namese hands. Britain and the Soviet
Union, as co-chairmen of the Geneva
Conference, share a special and continu-
ing responsibility for the carrying out of
the agreements in Laos. When the fight-
ing was renewed, Britain made immediate
approaches to the Soviet Union with a
view to taking joint action to stop it, but
the Russians were unco-operative. Even
when President Kennedy sent his special
representative, Mr Harriman, to consult
with Premier Khrushchev, the latter re-
mained unmoved. The reasons for Soviet
inaction are not difficult to find.
Pathet Lao victories in Laos mean the
further spread of Communism in that
country, an outcome which can hardly
displease the Russians. Should the Soviet
Union collaborate with Britain and the
United States in any action calculated
to halt the advance of the Pathet Lao,
she would certainly become the target
for violent Chinese abuse. It is not dif-
ficult to imagine how the Chinese pro-
pagandists would accuse her of working
with imperialist Powers to damage world
Communism, and these charges could be
listened to by other countries in the Com-
munist bloc.
Already Russia has hurriedly with-
drawn the planes she had put at the
disposal of the Laotian Government
because these were being used to carry
supplies to the neutralist and Right-wing
groups for use against the Pathet Lao.
It is, therefore, difficult for the Soviet
Union to carry out her commitments as
co-chairman of the Geneva Conference.
The furthest she can be expected to go
is possibly to collaborate with Britain in
sending joint messages to the Laotian
Government.
Of all the States in the Communist
bloc, only North Vietnam has remained
uncommitted in the dispute at present
dividing the Soviet Union and China. The
North Vietnamese are, in consequence,
being wooed by these two major antagon-
ists who both seek her support for their
cause. North Vietnam, as has already
been pointed out, has a vital interest in
the victory of the Pathet Lao, so that
any Soviet action which militates against
the Pathet Lao risks causing offence to
North Vietnam and driving her closer
to China.
China was undoubtedly pleased by the
withdrawal of US troops from Laos un-
der the terms of last year’s Geneva agree-
ments, and she would be glad to see the
Pathet Lao secure the whole of Laos for
Communism. If that came about, then
her common frontier with Laos would
be more secure than it is today.
Chinese troops have not been involved
in the Laotian fighting, so that the Com-
munist successes have been achieved
without risk to her. Her vast size and her
proximity put her in an excellent posi-
tion to exert her influence over a Com-
munist Laos, and she has already com-
pleted the building of a road there from
Yunnan. If, however, the Soviet Union
should act to restrain the Pathet Lao,
then China would still stand to gain
from the closer links with North Vietnam
which would result.
Britain, France, and the United States
made important concessions to the Com-
munists during the Geneva Conference
in order to secure an independent,
neutral non-Communist Laos. Through
the bad faith of the Pathet Lao, these
hopes have been jeopardised and the
earlier concessions have reduced their
power to take effective counter-measures.
That is why they are anxious for the
Soviet Union to exert her influence to
restrain the Pathet Lao from further
breaches of the agreements.
In practice, the International Control
Commission has proved ineffective be-
cause the Pathet Lao have consistently
refused to allow it to make inspections
in the territory which they hold. In ad-
dition, the Polish element of the Com-
mission has shown itself unwilling to
agree to measures designed to prevent
Pathet Lao aggression. Under these cir-
cumstances, there would seem to be little
prospect of avoiding further attacks by
means of the ICC.
In recent weeks, the Pathet Lao have
suggested partitioning Laos as a solution
and have received support from Com-
munist States, but the West regards this
as impractical for several reasons. The
nature of the terrain would make such
a truce line impossible to police, and in
neighboring Vietnam partition has not
prevented the Communists from waging
war against the non-Communist part
of the country.
A renewal of Pathet Lao onslaughts
against the neutralists could provoke the
United States (which is heavily com-
mitted to the support of the neighbor-
ing South Vietnamese Government and
can ill-afford to see Laos fall to the Com-
munists) to move troops into the area.
Perhaps Soviet and Chinese reluctance
to see American forces introduced into
Thailand, or even into Laos herself,
offers the best hope that they will re-
strain the Pathet Lao. But even if they
were to do so, there now seems little
hope of restoring the kind of indepen-
dent, neutralist government which was
envisaged by the 14 nations meeting at
Geneva less than a year ago.
Red China
And the
Bomb
Only a matter of time?
From JOHN CANTWELL
in Hong Kong
think the American imperialists
have nuclear weapons and we
don’t,” the Red Chinese general shouted.
“I can tell you that if a war breaks
out between China and the United
States, we’ll fight them with the same
kind of weapons they have.”
Air Force General Liu Ya-lou was
speaking recently to a group of students
in Nanking.
The students, worried by Peking’s
endless exhortations that America is
about to attack China, had asked what
sort of defence precautions “our
esteemed Comrade-Leaders have taken.”
Liu’s placatory answer was un-
doubtedly exaggerated.
But although his claims of nuclear
equality with America are nonsense, in
the last few weeks reports have been
filtering through to Hong Kong that
China is about to take its first step up
the nuclear ladder.
Western intelligence reports indicate
that China will explode its first nuclear
device “in a few months.”
And recently the Peking People’s
Daily, the official mouthpiece of the
Chinese Communist Party, said:
“China’s working class and scientists
will certainly be able to make the most
up-to-date aircraft and atomic bombs in
the near future.
“Then we can use atomic weapons
and rockets to cope with enemies who
dare to invade our country.”
Even the United States’ commander-in-
chief of Pacific Forces, Admiral Harry
D. Felt, lent credence to Peking’s propa-
ganda when he said recently that America
and its allies “should expect Communist
China to explode a nuclear device in the
near future.”
In fact, many Western scientists have
been expecting China to explode a
nuclear device since the beginning of the
year.
Red China began its programme to
develop atomic and hydrogen bombs as
early as 1952.
But little progress was made until


(&lIV
Quarterly Economic Reviews cover world economic,
financial and political developments: 58 reviews, each
country published quarterly.
AUSTRALIA
This review describes the present favorable economic conditions. It also discusses
the latest important wage award and gives news of various industrial projects.
Further details from:
THE ECONOMIST INTELLIGENCE UNIT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.
52 Queen Street. Melbourne, C.L Tel.: MA 2730.
LX VL
IN
m
M
Good for cars, t u ks, buS2s
and combustion engines.
Do It Now NU-METAL (Pat.)
SAVES £££'s
SELF-ENGINE RECONDITIONER
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds,
main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed,
zip. SAVES. Adds £.s.d. to re-
sale value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Metal
to oil, petrol or plug holes, 4,6,
8 cyls, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testi-
monials engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. Morn.
Distributors required.
ORDER FORM
RE NU CO. (Estab. 1932),
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Sin.,
VICTORIA. JB 1755.
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name .
Address
"Bull.''
or send free particulars describ-
ing action of Nu-Metal.
1955, when Russia signed a nuclear aid
agreement with China.
Soon after the signing of this agree-
ment, Russia helped China build four
nuclear reactors —at Peking, Chungking,.
Sian and somewhere in Sinkiang, prob-
ably near Tihwa.
China later built nuclear reactors at
Nankai University and Tsinghua Uni-
versity.
In 1956, Peking launched what it
called a “Twelve-Year Long Range
Science Development Programme.”
The main aim of this programme was
to explode a nuclear device. Later this
12-year target date was reduced to
seven years, which places the explosion
date late this year.
Also in 1956, Russia, in collaboration
with China and other Communist
countries, set up the Joint Institute for
Nuclear Research at Dubna, near Mos-
cow.
At least 1000 Chinese have been
trained in nuclear physics at Dubna.
In addition to these scientists, China
has several brilliant, American-trained
nuclear scientists.
Among them are Dr Chien Hsueh-
seng and Dr Chien San-ziang, who
earned their degrees in the United States
and participated in the development of
atomic bombs in America.
Dr H. S. Chien, one of the world’s
leading authorities on rockets and jet
propulsion, worked at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology with Professor
Herman von Karman, the great aero-
dynamicist who died recently.
Dr Chien was an advisor to the US
Air Force and held key research posts
at the California Institute of Technology
and in US Government defence organisa-
tions.
Sometimes called China’s von Braun,
he went to Germany to study rockets
after the war and later returned to
America.
In 1955 he was deported after he
had been discovered sending atomic
secrets to Red China.
At 51 he now heads the Research In-
stitute of Dynamics at Peking.
Another outstanding Chinese scientist
is Dr Wang Chang-kan, who is Dr S. Z.
Chien’s deputy at Peking’s Nuclear Re-
search Institute.
Red China has several highly-trained
foreign physicists.' An American
woman, Joan Hinton, who worked at
Los Alamos during the US bomb pro-
ject, is reportedly working at a research
centre in Inner Mongolia.
Italian-born physicist Bruno Ponte-
corvo, who defected from Britain to
Russia, is believed to have helped the
Chinese for a while.
But most outside aid came from
Russian physicists, until 1960, when
China’s programme had a big set-
back when Moscow recalled all its
scientists.
Moscow’s suspension of aid for a huge
Sino-Soviet hydro-electric dam project in
Heilungkiang also held up the pro-
gramme.
But China has pushed ahead without
Russia and, as recent reports have it,
is almost ready to start testing.
Reports say China now has stockpiled
more than 30 kilograms of plutonium-
-239. The detonation of a nuclear device
requires about 10 kilograms.
A Prevalence
Of
Commissions
Contracting out in Sweden
From ROLAND HUNTFORD
in Stockholm
Qwedes believe that if you have all
the facts you must know the truth,
and public life here consequently blos-
soms with commissions of inquiry. One
is now dealing with the disestablishment
of the State Church and to help in its
investigations has asked for 290,000
kroner (about £20,000) for a survey
of the place of religion in society.
Three thousand Swedes are to be
interviewed on their attitude to religion
and the influence of religion on them.
It seems that if religion can be shown
to be a good and useful social factor,
Church and State stand a good chance
of remaining intertwined: if not they
may be separated.
Disestablishment is an issue that usu-
ally fulminates in the background but
at intervals erupts in a polemical blaze
with radicals, socialists and nonconform-
ists for, and conservatives and staunch
churchmen against. The present com-
mission, which started work in 1956,
shows no signs of a decision.
There is much to quarrel about, par-
ticularly membership. Every little Swede
is automatically born into the State
Church and although withdrawal is eas-
ily effected by a visit to the parish priest
many would prefer to avoid that. ‘-‘Con-
tracting out” does not appeal to the dis-
senters who would like the State Church
shorn of its medieval right to the new-
born.
Intellectuals who find faith gravitate
to the Catholic Church and Protestant
evangelism is concentrated in sects scat-
tered up and down the country. “The
State Church looks after the book-keep-
ing”, a TV comedian once said, “and
the free churches take care of the re-
ligion.” (OFNS.)


FORUM
Three Lessons From
the Profumo Case
1. England Made Them
By FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
rriHE Australian Press has generally treated the Profumo scandal as a
purely English affair and by stressing its titivating aspects it has
helped to obscure its political significance. Yet, for Australia, a country
officially described as consisting of “Queens men to the soles of their
boots”, in which even the basic currency unit is used as tranquillizer
to sooth the pain of loss of the British Empire, there are obviously some
important political lessons in all this which cannot be ignored.
The Profumo affair —merely the latest
of a long series involving in varying
degrees administrative imbecility, sexual
deviance, blackmail and treachery
against a general background of decad-
ence on all social levels —brings into
focus two things which must be serious-
ly considered by all Australians: The
problem of internal security against
Communist agents and their tools, and
the wider issue of political and cultural
contacts with contemporary England.
The two issues are connected in many
complex ways.
There is now ample reason to believe
that British security procedures are quite
inadequate. Soviet-controlled operators
have penetrated the English social struc-
ture on all levels, including the policy-
making levels of the English Establish-
ment. Dr Ward, an alleged procurer of
prostitutes and self-confessed Soviet con-
tact man, found himself in a position from
which he could influence a Press mag-
nate like Lord Astor, and members
of the British Government at the height
of the Cuban crisis. The near total
collapse of British Press opinion during
the Cuban crisis (with the honorable
exception of the “Daily Telegraph” and
the “Spectator”) has been noted with ap-
prehension and astonishment both in the
USA and on the European Continent. It
must now be viewed in a much more sin-
ister light.
It is not too fanciful to assume that
blackmailable persons in high places or
their friends and unwitting accomplices
could “create” such public opinion as
may be desired by those who hold the
strings. Lower down on the English
social scale a tiny Communist Party con-
trols many important trade unions and
parts of industry, and among the intelli-
gentsia and in widening circles of middle-
class opinion, unilateralist daydreaming
and neutralism promoted by the Cam-
paign for Nuclear Disarmament have be-
come badges of intellectual respectability.
Oome of the numerous English spy inci-
dents barely get a mention in the
Australian Press. For example, a few
years ago some Polish exchange students
at the University of London were caught
red-handed, transmitting, in microfilm,
sex-dirt about their English fellow-stu-
dents to Polish intelligence. The pur-
pose was to gain strangleholds on future
scientists. The spies were expelled, yet
“cultural” contacts with the Soviet bloc
continue unabated. Grossly overstaffed
embassies of several Communist coun-
tries, a vast network of more or less bogus
cultural and trade agencies, all promoting
“good relations with the Socialist coun-
tries,” have infested London with a dip-
lomatically sanctioned blackmailing and
pimping racket with which the British
security apparatus is, apparently, not
equipped to deal.
It would be both childish and unprofit-
able to make guesses about possible de-
fects of the British security machine since
the ordinary citizen does not know the
relevant facts. And these guesses are
quite unnecessary since there are plainly
visible social causes which are quite
sufficient to explain the British security
debacle. They are, simply, the prevailing
doctrines which dominate British public
opinion on matters of Communist sub-
version. In a society such as England
which labels active concern with Com-
munist penetration almost automatically
as “McCarthyism,” and dismisses mili-
tant anti-Communism as a vulgar Ameri-
can importation, security officials are
faced with a hopeless task. Public opinion
is against them, and no police apparatus
can protect a free society against a dan-
ger which that society has chosen not to
acknowledge.
The Profumo debacle and the mess
which it brought to light is the direct re-
sult of the English ideology of “anti-
McCarthyism,” a system of self-decep-
tion quite unconnected with the very
real delinquencies of the late Senator
McCarthy. English “anti-McCarthyism”
derives its strength from two sources..
One, far the less important, is straight.
Communist propaganda. Yet the other
originates from the English Establishment
and the English intelligentsia, where it,
is nourished by two motives, neither of
them too honorable. The first is envy
and resentment directed against America
and the consequent fake moral posture
of moral superiority assumed towards the
United States. The second is upper-class
disdain towards anything reeking of
plebeianism.
The American congressional commit-
tees, the chief targets of English oppro-
brium, are essentially plebeian instruments
with little regard for rank and status.
Throughout their history congressional
committees have damaged and humiliated
top-level bureaucrats, generals, professors
and other types, which in the unwritten
code of the English upper stratum have a
divine right not to be judged by those
below them in social status. It was envy
and obsessive status anxieties of a declin-
ing governing class, rather than proper
concern for civil liberty, which pro-
vided much of the emotional fuel for all
those moralising anti-American sermons
with which the English Press regaled the
world in the early ’fifties.
The phantasy is now over. Australians
will have to admit that the American
system of internal security, rather than
the “mature” British approach, has
proved its mettle. The much maligned
congressional committees have shown
themselves to be forces for the good.
Their powers to summon and to humiliate
protected and established power-holders
have proved to be a safeguard against
treachery and a deterrent to connivance.
Like all human institutions, congressional
committees can and have been abused,
particularly by Senator McCarthy. Yet,
in future, demagogues like McCarthy
(and the redoubtable Colonel Wigg comes
pretty close to the type) will no longer
have to fabricate all those stories about
“traitors and perverts in high places” in
view of the fact that English reality has


by now far outstripped the McCarthyite
imagination.
It would be unreasonable to assume
that Soviet agencies may not try to do in
Australia what they have achieved in
England. Certain practical measures are,
therefore, clearly indicated. The staff
of the Soviet Embassy in Canberra should
be reduced in numbers and drastically
circumscribed in movements. The Sov-
iet Government may then take the hint
and withdraw its personnel altogether.
All communications of private organi-
sations and individuals with Communist
countries business transactions, pri-
vate trips, cultural exchange visits, and
such like should be put under the
strictest possible official tutelage of the
Australian Security Intelligence Organi-
sation. At the present time many such
transactions which appear to be organised
from Australia are in fact directed by
Sino-Soviet agencies disguised in various
ways and manned by local Communists.
The Government should identify these
organisations and their personnel in a
White Paper. Communists should be re-
quired to register and the mail of Com-
munist organisations should bear clear
identifying labels. Individuals who ac-
cept gifts from Communist governments
and their affiliated network of organisa-
tions should be publicly identified in a
manner which would discourage others.
A set of applicable criteria as to what
constitutes a Communist front should be
worked out and the Government ought
to publish a list of such fronts from time
to time. Security screening of migrants
should be extended to immigrants from
the United Kingdom. Individuals likely
to transmit material suitable for black-
mail purposes should be removed from
positions where they can obtain such
material.
Dealing with Subversion
npHERE exists in our society a vast net-
work of institutions dealing with ab-
normal, delinquent or otherwise socially
vulnerable individuals. They include not
only prisons, but mental hospitals, men-
tal health clinics, various counselling and
guidance agencies, private psychiatric
practices, etc. In many such agencies
socially vulnerable individuals are, quite
properly, encouraged to bare their souls
in extensive psychiatric interviews. An
extortionist or blackmailer could find a
goldmine there. It is quite intolerable
that Communist agents should be allowed
to work in such places.
The Government should also give ef-
fective assistance to organisations which
are, at present, fighting Communist
penetration in various institutions, at
considerable personal risk to their mem-
bers and with very slender resources. As
in England, the term “anti-Communist” is
still one of obloquy in Australia. As long
as this state of affairs persists, Australia
will be exposed to enemy machinations
from within, no matter how technically
efficient her security organisation.
More important than the purely tech-
nical security implications of the Pro-
fumo case is its symptomatic value for
the sociologist. Contemporary England is
a fairly decadent society a cross be-
tween the Weimar Republic and Vienna
of 1913. There is even statistical evi-
dence for this, disclosing a stagnant
economy and a steadily rising crime rate
despite growing material affluence. Yet
there are other, more directly political,
indicators. Most people do not seem to
realise that the obsessive preoccupation
with status symbols of the past and
the antics of the CND crowd are symp-
toms of the same disease. The people
who urge England to disarm unilaterally
so as to give the world a moral lead,
and those who pin their hopes on the sus-
taining powers of the monarchy and on
traditional (Victorian) ways, differ
merely in their choice of symptoms. The
disease alienation from reality and
failure to cope with it is the same in
both cases.
For the first time in modern history
there is now in England something re-
sembling a counter-government poised in
defiance and opposition to the established
institutional system a sure sign of
social disorganisation. The Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament and its manifold
derivatives and affiliates comport them-
selves as if they, rather than established
political institutions, constituted the legi-
timate focus of loyalty. They issue dip-
lomatic notes to foreign governments, in-
cite public servants to breaches of loyalty,
they openly flout public order and ob-
struct defence installations, and tarnish
those who object to all this with the
smear of moral turpitude. Tumultuous
mass rallies in rain and hailstorm, involv-
ing thousands of people, ugly brawls
with the police, long and arduous
marches, all these are some of the more
external analogies with the Weimar Re-
public.
Even more telling, perhaps, are some
of the less dramatic symptoms of the
English social situation, which can be
gauged from novels, films, police courts
and divorce proceedings. They reveal a
mass of psychological misery among the
middle and working classes which cannot
be due to material privation. In the field
of consumer affluence Englishmen of
all classes have, indeed, never had it so
good. The misery seems to be due to
the perpetuation of an anachronistic and
malignant class system, which has lost
its constructive social function with the
loss of Empire, to which it was geared.
The one remaining role of the Public
School-Oxbridge push is now the de-
structive one of condemning the masses
of the English people, including mem-
bers of the despised “meritocracy”, to
an absurd and undeserved pariah status
through an elaborate system of social
snubbing and institutionalised parasitism.
The life of the English scholarship boy
and Redbrick product is a long chain of
social humiliations and undeserved dis-
advantages, destructive of his inner poise
and character. His reaction, typified by
the literary products of the Angry Young
Men, has been one of wingeing envy
or sterile, thoughtless excitation, com-
bined with rather bitchy attempts at
self-assertion within the existing system.
One day envy may be replaced by Swift-
ian indignation and wingeing by intelli-
gent political action. When that happens
England may become great again, and
the British Labor Party more than a
collection of moralising prigs and old
women.
Why Perpetuate Decadence?
Inhere is no reason why Australia
A should perpetuate a cultural and poli-
tical dependence which breeds decadence.
Our cultural and political life should be
de-Anglified. The practice of importing
elites for top jobs in the Universities,
in the Churches, and in business pre-
dominantly from England should be dis-
continued. The grand tour of Australian
university graduates should be redirected
from Oxford and Cambridge to more
appropriate institutions in the USA. The
social effect of Oxbridge on young Aus-
tralians, in so far as I could observe it,
is almost uniformly bad. They do not
learn anything which they could not ac-
quire elsewhere and they pick up harm-
ful intellectual and social affectations and,
sometimes, an obsessive concern with
social status. And the unspoken assump-
tion of whatever it is that passes as the
Establishment in Australia, that when in
doubt England is and ought to be the
model, must be given up. It rests on a
phantasy picture of an England which
ceased to exist in 1914.
All this will probably be miscon-
strued as an anti-British tirade. It is not.
British political and social institutions
are the best I know, and let us, by all
means, protect and safeguard them here
in Australia. But the best way of doing
just this at the present time is to give
contemporary England a wide berth.


2. Sex Among the Conservatives
By DONALD HORNE
FpfIERE is very little to learn about the Conservative Party and nothing
at all about the morale of the British from the fact that Mr Profumo
had an affair with a call girl for three months in 1961, or that he lied
about it in the House of Commons earlier this year.
Every reader of a daily paper must
know by now that Lloyd George for-
nicated in the Cabinet Room, that Curzon
had an affair with Elinor Glynn, that
Gladstone used to take prostitutes home
for a quiet talk, that the Duke of Wel-
lington said “Publish And Be Damned” to
a blackmailing ex-mistress, and so on.
One cannot establish any general con-
nection between sexual conduct and
political life. Knowing about the one
seems to tell you nothing about the other.
To argue otherwise is so insupportable
that it seems legitimate to question the
motives of those who make such out-
rageous suggestions. (Please make your
own guesses.) Some people are such
cranks about sex that they give it an
over-riding importance so that some-
times they will condone almost any
kind of political mischief-making and
skulduggery all in a good cause
but raise hell if someone gets into the
wrong bed. I am expressing no view
about the personal rights and wrongs of
this particular case. They are quite ir-
relevant to an estimate of its political
significance.
Of course, the fact that politicians do
not normally talk out loud about their
own or their colleagues’ sexual lives
does not prepare the innocent for what
is revealed when an MP is caught hav-
ing a promiscuous sexual life. Even this
is changing. To be divorced for adultery
no longer means the end of a Parliamen-
tary career. The trouble may be that
British politicians have for many years
believed it necessary to preach what
many of them don't practise. Members
of both parties say one thing and do the
other. It might be better if they stopped
being such humbugs and ceased to say
what they do not believe. But does any-
one seriously suggest that the sex lives
of MPs should normally be subject for
open debate? The answer is yes. “The
Times” does. In an hysterical editorial it
says: “Morale that is sustained by sec-
recy and ignorance has a hollow core.
If there is anything more, the sooner it
is out the better.” Of course there’s prob-
ably a great deal “more” all over the
House of Commons and everywhere else.
But what is supposed to happen about
it? That MPs who feel safe should make
accusations (viz. inform on) those whom
they suspect of sexual philandering? Why
stop at sex? If the field of inquiry were
widened everybody could end up in-
forming on everybody for something or
other and dig out some dirt that
would have more political significance
than sexual conduct.
Mr Profumo panicked, told a lie, and
later admitted that he told a lie, so that
had to be the end of him. But because
one politician has confessed to a lie
does not allow one to make any assump-
tion about the Conservative Party or
British morale. Politicians often lie,
either for quite sinister purposes or, as
Mr Profumo did, to cover up. Cover-up
lies are often fairly obvious but on mat-
ters that are of more political importance
than sexual habits a politician can usu-
ally wriggle himself into hiding under
a mass of words so that political scandal
is avoided. The word “lie” itself is not
used. It is unparliamentary.
T'he little one does learn about the Con-
A servative Party from this episode one
knows already. It has lost its grip
under the present management anyway.
All this mess, fumbling and disarray
need not have happened if Mr Macmil-
lan were a bit more in touch, perhaps
a little less old. A quiet word with Mr
Profumo months ago and an unobtrusive
retirement from his ministry could have
been arranged. One learns about Britain’s
security arrangements what one knew al-
ready: they are too unco-ordinated and
there is muddle at the top (Mr Mac-
millan again). This is serious, but old
news. What is new is the great fuss that
is coming from those who have been
suddenly converted to securitv-conscious-
ness now that it seems to be a way of
attacking the Conservatives. How far
do they want the security services to go?
Put a tail on all the Ministers? And on
those on the extreme “left” of the Brit-
ish Labor Party who are straight Com-
munist supporters? What about that ? One
should remember that security (though
not Mr Macmillan) acted expeditiously.
When Profumo got a security tip-off
about Captain Ivanov in 1961 he stopped
seeing their mutual girl-friend. It is true
he was a fool not to have worked this
out for himself.
One of the most disgusting uses of
the Profumo affair has been its use as a
weapon to attack Britain’s present com-
parative prosperity, the “never-had-it-
so-good” philosophy and, in general, “af-
fluence.” This usually comes from people
who don’t want other men’s wives to
have washing machines. One should re-
member that the British middle classes
(whether on the Right or on the Left,
although in different ways) have only
lately had to get used to the idea that
practically everybody can now remove
some of the greater traditional discom-
forts, that the domestic symptoms of
class difference are diminishing. On the
Right the rhetoric about self indulgence
and lack of national purpose can be a
disguise for nostalgia about the old class
dominance: not necessarily insincere, it
can express the genuine wonder of the
old-fashioned that a people can still be
decent when they are buying things for
their houses on HP. How can you keep
the troops in order if they start living
like officers? The defence of poverty
and the old rackets was partly moralis-
tic; in this line of reasoning even a
modest prosperity becomes immoral; it
turns things upside down. On the Left
the worry about “acquisitiveness” and
so on can be a disguise for a very deep
disappointment that liberated wage
earners are spending their time and
their monev as thev wish fand in some
ways like their Left-wing critics) instead
of acting as members of the Fabian So-
ciety hoped they would act in 1910.
In any case what has any of this to
do with the Profumo affair? Were there
no prostitutes or promiscuous ministers
before working-class British people could
afford bathrooms?
To be a man who can look at himself
honestly and not wince one must em-
brace the prospects of affluence for other
people as well as oneself. We are enter-
ing a quite mysterious period of social
history that is going to be unlike any-
thing history has ever known before.
Most of the drudgery that was once re-
moved only by slaves or servants is now
going to be removed for everyone by
machines and gadgets; unparalleled lei-
sure is already available; there are huge
ranges of choice in how we can use it.
Can’t we be happy about this wonderful
change and be patient if some of it
does not come out (for the moment) as
we had hoped?
For those in Britain who wish to
exercise power there are still plenty of
other things to do. In Britain itself a
new economic climate is needed to keep
the prosperity going and there are still
many hateful symptoms of British snob-
bery to fight. Outside Britain there is
still Europe to go into; and still the
evils of totalitarianism and under-de-
velopment to fight. A spread of “afflu-
ence” is not a threat to such aims, it
is part of the same thing.


3. The British Press
From BRIAN INGLIS in London
the Vassall affair, the case against the popular Press seemed to
he overwhelming: to join “The Times” and the “Guardian” in
criticising the “Mail” and the “Express” seemed neither treacherous nor
smug. It is disconcerting to find that over Profumo the roles have been
reversed. The popular Press has, on the whole, performed its function.
The “Guardian,” flushed with rec-
titude from its Vassall performance,
argued that Mr Profumo’s admission he
had lied to the House of Commons
should be the end of the affair. “It
would be as well if the Profumo disaster
could be allowed to sink into oblivion,
security permitting”—a comment which
was picked up and derided, not sur-
prisingly, by the “Guardian”-resenters of
Fleet Street. They soon had more am-
munition; in particular that wonderful
prognostication “In the end the affair
could turn out to be far worse than it
now seems or far less serious. There is
no telling.”
“The Times,” by contrast, embarked
on an exhilarating surf-ride. Not for
“The Times” the escape hatch of letting
bygones be bygones: Profumo’s lie was
the signal for a crusade, with Sir William
Haley as its Peter the Hermit.
The reason, according to the
“Observer” last Sunday (and it sounds
likely enough), is that Sir William
believes that a great newspaper should
exist as a moral force in its own right;
“he disapproves of ‘The Times's’ tradi-
tion whereby the editor used to go round
the town meeting the Establishment in
the club, and then come back to write
down their views in a leader. Sir William
thinks an editor should edit from the
office.” This decision to extricate “The
Times” from the deplorable condition to
which Delane originally reduced it, of
acting as a PR of the Government —and
from the even worse condition it reached
under Dawson, who made it an official
arm of the executive, a kind of unparlia-
mentary Minister without Portfolio
was the best thing that Sir William did
for “The Times” when he became editor;
but it is questionable whether, when he
did so, he was not simply rationalising
his own dislike of that kind of socio-
politicking.
“The Times” was at its most in-
fluential under Thomas Barnes, an editor
whose ear was always available when
Peel or Melbourne or any other influen-
tial servant of the Crown wanted to
talk to him: the difference was that
Barnes was less pervious than Delane
or Dawson to flattery or influence. Sir
William has rescued “The Times” from
living on the immoral earnings of as-
sociation with the executive, but at the
cost of making it almost as remote as
the “Guardian.” The correspondence,
for example, which its crusade brought
in was flimsy stuff; the thunderer’s ham-
mer-blow struck no spark where it
needed to be struck, in the Conservative
Party—even if it won the ecstatic en-
dorsement of the “Mirror.”
And what can we make of the invita-
tion to MPs, on the morning of the
debate on Monday, to realise that they
were free from the trammels of the law
of libel? Sir William’s leader read like
a direct invitation to MPs to throw in
what scandal they have heard, in the
assumption that the air will be cleared
thereby. There may be a case for a
tribunal to investigate the flood of
rumors that have engulfed the country in
the past three months; perhaps some of
the notables at whom rumor has pointed
might welcome it as the only chance to
stop the flow —as, no doubt, Mr Gal-
braith was glad of the Vassall tribunal;
but what possible argument can there be
for MPs throwing out accusations where
there may be no opportunity for the
accused of rebuttal, or of legal action?
Mr Wilson has shown how evidence,
when obtained, can honourably be used:
it can be sent to the Prime Minister and
if he, either through negligence or any
other cause, fails to appreciate its sig-
nificance, it can as a last resort be
brought up in the House.
T>ut where does this leave the Press,
groping towards compromise be-
tween its duty to the public (and itself)
of presenting the facts, and its duty to
those abstractions —morality, taste and
the public interest? The Profumo case
has been valuable in one respect; it has
demonstrated that Press morality cannot
be divorced from public morality: that
its blemishes are not peculiar to Fleet
Street, but part of a wider contagion.
In a perceptive article on Monday
“The Times” Political Correspondent
suggested that the beginning of Mr Pro-
fumo’s undoing was the Kuwait opera-
tion. Mr Profumo made specious claims
for its smoothness and effectiveness
which did not square with Colonel
Wigg’s findings, and “the upshot was that
the backbencher came to be bitterly con-
vinced that the Minister had been
evasive, tricky and misleading at the
expense of the Army’s best interests.”
Mr Birch, too, may have been con-
ditioned by exasperation with the Sec-
retary of State for War for similar
reasons. Some of the tricks and evasions
could be attributed to venial political
expediency; but the way (for example)
that the figures for what constituted the
basic minimum for the Army were pro-
gressively reduced to avoid reintro-
ducing conscription smacked of an
expediency that came very close to dis-
honesty.
Why, in such circumstances, should
the Press alone be virtuous? It sees a
man like Profumo elevated to high
office: a man described by Boris Kidel
in “l'Express”: “Ce n’est pas tellement la
vie privee de M Profumo qui preoccupe
les Anglais. Le Ministre a ete toujours
considere comme un poids plume plus
apte a la vie de societe qu’aux rigueurs
de ses responsibilities politique en
matiere de defense.” This much was
widely known, but for some inexplicable
reason it was accepted as natural and
inevitable that a social lightweight should
be Secretary of State; the astonishing
argument was even put forward in his
defence that, as the Irish say, he was
“not the worst.”
And, of course, he wasn’t, and isn’t.
Although Mr Profumo’s final crime was
lying to Parliament, he would have had
to resign anyway if his affair with Miss
Keeler had been proven. But was he any
more of a security risk in that context
than if, say, he had been apt to enjoy
taking drink in sufficiently tongue-loosen-
ing quantities at social functions, like
you-know-who? This is certainly no
party matter: there are members of the
Shadow Cabinet as blabber-mouthed as
any in office.
But the Press cannot say these things,
even if it ought to. A further indication
of how removed the Prime Minister is
from the realities of life was his belief
that the fact Mr Profumo issued writs
for libel confirmed his innocence: in
some cases, regrettably, the law has been
used by men with flyblown reputations
to prevent the publication, or to obtain
the retraction, of statements which editors,
well know to be true but which, in the
recent state of public opinion about the
Press, might have led to a jury giving
damages simply out of a feeling that,
true or not, it is no business of the Press
to enlighten its readers on such matters.
While we insist on public observance
of a moral code that is privately ignored
and derided neither the Press nor
Parliament can function satisfactorily.


letters
to the
editor
AGHAST
Sir,
Charles Higham found Sir Herbert
Read, predictably, aghast (1/6/63). And
so he well might be, and so are many,
when they survey the world in which
our children and young people are grow-
ing up. With ever-increasing leisure time
available when they do grow up, little
or nothing is done to equip them to use
it except in realms of sport.
The thousands ot youth clubs in this
country and (from what I saw during
my six-months visit there in 1960) in
Australia also, are missing golden op-
portunities for opening up the realms
of painting, modelling, acting, dancing
and making music, not only because
they are blind to it, but also because
those who run them are for the most
part totally unqualified to open up these
fields of recreation to the children.
Sir Herbert Read found, however, that
the prospect is not entirely bleak. At the
Bradfield Centre he “found it wonderful
to see the sheer joy the children took
in their creative activities.” This centre,
and the others established by the Boys’
and Girls’ Centres for Creative Leisure,
are indeed beacons shining brightly in
the welter of cheap, commercialised en-
tertainment with which children and
young people are spoonfed today. Of all
the youth work that I have seen, in this
country and in Australia, nothing has
impressed me so much as these centres
and the job that they are doing. To our
shame, we have nothing of the kind in
England.
Now I hear that some of these centres
are being taken over by the city author-
ity. This is disquieting news for their
success up to now has been the direct
result of wise and inspired direction on
the part of their founder, Miss Mary
Matheson, and her helpers. It is diffi-
cult to envisage the same spirit emanating
from a government department.
ANTHONY THOMAS
Hon. Director,
Ellen Terry Theatre Club
Tenterden {Kent), England.
WHITE AUSTRALIA
Sir,
Although several years have now pas-
sed since the new broom swished briskly
through The Bulletin and the old
masthead born of a different climate
of opinion was torn down, it is surely
a trifle premature to brand White Aus-
tralia as a lost cause. Few in this genera-
tion have really got to grips yet, economi-
cally and politically, with the causes and
issues involved in this celebrated piece of
Australiana. There has been a great deal
of vocalising about the color bar and, in
spite of what is occurring in America and
Africa, there is a tendency to dispose of
the whole thing, particularly in The Bul-
letin, as a paper doll.
It is very far from that. White Aus-
tralia means many things to many people.
It is part of the old stance of the Aus-
tralian people, born of the struggle for
the goldfields and the Queensland sugar
belt. Several books could be written on
the subject still. But the important thing
to bear in mind is that while we obviously
are working our way towards a new
stance to meet the changing circum-
stances of our international position and
our economic opportunities, we are
clearly out of balance, as The Bulletin
itself appears to be, since it is not al-
ways fully conscious of the true signi-
ficance of all it prints
For example, Peter Westerway
(27/4/63) claims that no one can say
with confidence why our “Government
now lags behind” organised public opin-
ion ... on the “settled issue” of White
Australia. Mr Westerway instances post-
war prosperity, international travel ex-
perience of the Colombo Plan students,
increasing awareness of Asia and so on,
admitting that these can only be guesses;
while the same issue quotes, with some
admiration, from the Melbourne Uni-
versity Students’ Representative Coun-
cil’s pamphlet on education, the Council’s
summing up of Australia’s national achie-
vement as understood by some among
an important group active in the recent
spate of propaganda against the White
Australia policy. A second look at this
remarkable piece of writing, from the
hands of those who aspire to be among
the leaders of the future, provides the
clue Mr Westerway requires. As The
Bulletin rightly remarks, few if any of
the students have yet begun to earn a
living.
EDARD WRIGHT.
Glenbrook {NSW).
Sir,
In a letter concerning the White Aus-
tralia policy (8/6/63) Mr J. E. Mena-
due, Federal President of the Australian
Natives’ Association, refers to “the great
body of public opinion in Australia which
stands firm behind the policy”. Despite
the slight ambiguity, most people will
read this to mean that “White Australia”
still has majority support. On the con-
trary: Gallup polls have shown an al-
most unbroken trend towards allowing
the entry of a small, regular intake of
Asians. The latest poll known to us was
conducted in June last year, and gave
the following result:
In favor of change 64%
Against 30%
No opinion 6%
In face of these figures, and of the
fact that many politicians are known to
want immigration reform, it is indeed
interesting, as Mr Menadue says, that the
main political parties support the present
policy. What are his grounds for stating
that “the church leaders would themselves
be fearful of carrying the so-called
‘Christian principles’ (sic) into effect?”
(Rev.)
PETER M SAPHIN
Hon. Secretary, NSW Associa-
tion for Immigration Reform.
Sydney {NSW).
"THE POLICEMAN’S LOT”
Sir,
Laurence Payne’s principal point
(22/6/63) that there are significant dif-
ferences between the British and Aus-
tralian police forces is indisputable. And
although I did not “blithely equate” the
two. it is true that in an article arising
out of a United Nations Seminar con-
cerned with problems common to all
police forces 1 stressed similarities rather
than differences. It is also true to say that
I dealt with “public relations with each
as though they were comparable”; as
indeed they are.
Curiously enough, despite the arming
of the police here, my impression, based
on extensive observation in both countries,
is that Australians are less uneasy in the
presence of policemen and indeed less
impressed by authority generally than
the English. No doubt if Mr Payne were
right and a million Australians had been
shot “by accident while escaping” their
reaction to their police would be “one
of pure fear”. As it is, his use of this
kind of hyperbole merely illustrates my
thesis.
GORDON HAWKINS
Senior Lecturer in Criminology,
University of Sydney.
Sydney (ASIT).
THE ANGLICAN CHURCH
Sir,
I should like to comment on one
paragraph of your article “Why the
Anglican Church is Declining”
(22/6/63): “Australia does not have
enough authentic Doctors of Divinity
to staff so many colleges adequately.
Yet, on they go, small as they are, un-
der-staffed as they are, with libraries
so tiny and obsolete that they made me
weep.”
This conveys an inaccurate impres-
sion. The fact is that in the universities
of Sydney and Melbourne the Depart-
ments of Semitic Studies provide training
in a very wide field of Biblical scholar-
ship at a higher standard, achieved
through restriction of university entry
to students of established ability, than
the theological colleges of any denomina-
tion could hope to offer.
It is now becoming a status-symbol
among clergy to possess a university
degree, and as this spread of relevant
university subjects becomes wider, as


it is bound to do, so the academic at-
tainments of theological colleges will
shrink pari passu until ultimately they
will probably restrict their teaching to
pastoral theology and similar subjects.
Anglican clergy today are better trained
than they have ever been in the past;
the weakness of the Church, so far as
the clergy is concerned, lies in the com-
pletely inadequate number whom it can
afford to train for the priesthood.
E. C. B. MACLAURIN
Department of Semitic Studies ,
University of Sydney.
MOUNT SCOPUS
Sir,
We have read with interest your sec-
tion of National Notebook headed “What
about Einstein” (15/6/63).
We, the teachers of the matriculation
class at this college, strongly object to
the statement that the matriculation
results obtained by students of Mount
Scopus College, Melbourne, were poor.
We give you the actual results:
In 3 subjects 100 p.c. passes; in 4
subjects 80 p.c.-100 p.c. passes; in
4 subjects 70 p.c.-80 p.c.; in 4 sub-
jects —6O p.c.-70 p.c. passes. In the re-
maining two subjects the pass rate was
less than 60 p.c. In addition, all students
who commenced in the matriculation
form in February, 1962, presented for
the examination and of these 76 p.c.
passed in the examination for matricula-
tion.
We, as experienced teachers, with wide
knowledge of standards in many types
of schools, regard these results as very far
from poor.
J. M. Stevenson, 8.A., Dip. Ed.;
T. F. Hackett, 8.A., 8.C0m., B.Ed.,
AAS A; L. E. W. Morgan, E.D., B.Sc., B.
Ed.; E. K. Trende (Mrs), B.Sc., Dip. Ed.;
N. A. Wilson, 8.A., Dip. Ed.; Robert
Patterson, B.Sc., Dip.Ed; Robert G.
Fergeus, B.Sc., Dip. Ed.; L. Arwas
(Mrs), Licence-et-Lettres; J. L. Koskie,
Dip. Art, FRSA; J. Schreiber (Rabbi);
A. Klag.
Mt Scopus College,
Burwood (Vic.)
“LIED LIKE A GENTLEMAN”?
Sir,
Having read Neil Kelly’s factual back-
ground to the Profumo affair (22/6/63) I
consider that history will record that the
prevailing British sex and security com-
plexes turned what should have been a
mere storm in a tea-cup into a major poli-
tical scandal. The significant point is that
in March, 1963, when charged with help-
ing Miss Keeler to leave Britain, Mr
Profumo with one exception gave the
whole truth to the House of Commons.
Particularly important in his statement
was the fact that he had not seen Miss
Keeler since December, 1961. The ex-
ception to the truth was the denial of his
former relationship with Miss Keeler.
Having regard to Mr Profumo’s back-
ground it was to be expected that he
would “lie like a gentleman,” not neces-
sarily to protect Miss Keeler, but to
prevent his wife being made to look a
fool in the eyes of the public. It is not
unreasonable to suppose that his threat-
ened libel actions were mainly aimed at
rebutting the charge that he had helped
Miss Keeler to flee the country.
Any security risk, other than Mr Pro-
fumo laying himself open to blackmail,
disappeared in December, 1961. No sug-
gestion has been made as to who would
blackmail him, and why.
CRASTER C. M. USHER
Cmdr., RN (ret.)
Hornsby {NSW).
NORTH QUEENSLAND
Sir,
As a North Queenslander I was inter-
ested to read your article “North Queens-
land Is In” (11/5/63). Though I have
great faith in the future of North Queens-
land I consider your article was rather
vague, not in the least critical, and rather
misleading.
You mention sugar, beef, cabinet
woods, dairying and tobacco as industries
that are not static. Is this a polite way to
say that some are moving forward and
some backward? Neither the timber in-
dustry nor dairying have made great
strides during the last few years.
I was astounded to read that Mr
Sweeney was a lone man doing the work
of six. The Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock has carried out
investigations on tropical pastures since
1938 at South Johnstone, and has had
workers in the field ever since. At present
there are at least seven pasture men
stationed north of Tully who, though they
do not enjoy the publicity of Mr
Sweeney, have carried out excellent work
in all aspects of agrostology.
“NORTH QUEENSLANDER"
Mareeba (Qld).
FASCISM AND THE PAPACY
Sir,
In Plain English (22/6/63) your writer
displays an abysmal ignorance of the
heroic struggle of Popes Pius XII and
John XXIII against totalitarian forms of
government. As Secretary of State, Car-
dinal Pacelli (later Pius XII) helped Pius
XI draft the encyclical against Fascism
in June, 1931, which condemned the
totalitarian conception of the State. In
March, 1937, there appeared the papal,
encyclical condemning Nazism ("Mit
Brennender Sorge”), containing stern
and pungent words about men who had
‘‘absolutely no respect for truth” or “the
shadow of a sense of justice.” Words
hardly calculated to please Hitler! Five
days later there appeared the papal con-
demnation of Communism in another
encyclical (“Divini Redemptoris”). It is
well known that both encyclicals were
inspired by Cardinal Pacelli.
Your writer would seem to be echoing
the sentiments of the young German
playwright Herr Hochhuth, whose play
about Pius XII has been running in
Berlin and is to be produced in London
this year. It has been noted by German
critics how closely the dramatist follows
a Communist publication, “The Vatican
and the Second World War,” with its
attempt to blacken the Holy See as the
instrument of a calculating capitalism!
The great assumption that Herr Hoch-
huth and your writer make so easily is
that Pius XII could have helped by a
public denunciation of Hitler’s wicked-
ness. In fact the reverse is true, as is
shown in Cardinal Sapieha’s request to
the Pope to stop making protests be-
cause these would only make things
worse for the Poles.
Pius XII had only too much reason to
fear that he could easily make things
worse rather than better, if he kept at-
tacking Hitler concerning Church per-
secution and the Jewish atrocities. He
said this when he addressed the cardinals
in 1943 and told them how often he
had knocked at doors that refused to
open to him and how many representa-
tions he continued to make.
It was John XXIII who, in April,
1959, signed the decree forbidding
Catholics to support or help not only
Communists but all individuals or par-
ties which, in fact, helped Communism
in any way. If he decided to be courteous
to a Soviet representative in order to
lighten the burden of Catholics behind
the Iron Curtain, he did not intend
Catholics outside the Iron Curtain to
become soft and indifferent in the face
of Communism.
J. G. BOWIE
Roseville (NSW).
NOEL COWARD
Sir,
I would like to raise a lone voice in]
the wilderness in protest at the last para- [
graph of your article on Noel Coward
(1/6/63). In essence it was implied that
he is a creative personality who has not
faced up to the world with real creative
guts, written truly, and waited for taste
and time to catch up with him; nor has'
he taken a stand on the deepest issues
facing humanity.
This is a pretty hard thing to say about ;
anybody with a number of successful?
plays, films, songs, and short stories to
his name, in addition to being something
of an actor and showman in the cur-
rent night-club style. I see talent as a*
very rare and valuable thing, and I
imagine Mr Coward would have a very]
real sense of accomplishment in looking
back on his active life in the lively arts.
We have had plenty of Australians!
who have taken your man's advice and
faced up to the world, written truly, etc,
etc., and, being dull and dreary self-con-
scious suburban gardeners, they have
sunk without trace.
DAVID BODYCOMB
Ballarat (Vic.)
THE ROYAL
Sir,
It is well known that Oriental people
have difficulty in pronouncing R’s. If
Australia is to take her place in South-
East Asia, why put another stumbling-
block in the way? Especially in the most?
important sphere: financial transactions.
G. C. UTMAN.
Melbourne (Vic.)


REVIEWS
THEATRE
The Wrath of Achilles
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
“And the Big Men Fly.” Alan Hop-
good. Union Theatre Repertory
Company. Russell Street Theatre.
Melbourne.
“Where Do We Go From Here?”
Jon Finlayson and Arthur Young.
St Martin’s Theatre. Melbourne.
“A View from the Bridge.” Arthur
Miller. Secondary Teachers’ Col-
lege. Melbourne.
“A Tall Story About Football” is
the sub-title of Alan Hopgood’s
play. It is a play for Melbourne, the
city where, in the winter, not only the
sporting pages but the news pages as
well are full of the doings and disasters
of the players and umpires. On the back
pages we see photographs of the mud-
bespattered and desperate men flying
high with the ball; while on the front
pages , they appear scrubbed and clean,
suited and smiling, getting engaged,
married, wheeling the baby in the park,
or appearing before the VFL tribunals.
And at the beginning of every season
there is fierce competition among the
clubs to recruit promising players.
East Melbourne (the “Crows”) dis-
cover a wheat farmer in the Mallee
called Achilles Jones who can kick a
sack of wheat 10 yards with his bare
feet. The Crows have not won for 30
years, but when J. J. Forbes (their
manager) hears of Achilles his hopes of
getting into politics soar and he leaps
into his Mercedes.
Slow of wit and pure of heart,
Achilles has the strength of 10 men or,
rather, of 18. He lives on his farm with
Lil, his wife, and Milly, his mare (who
is so old he has to carry her about),
and he is perfectly happy. Unlike the
Greek hero, fame, worldly goods, the
acclaim of the multitude, all mean
nothing to him.
But J. J. Forbes discovers Achilles’
heel in the ambition of Lil, who is easily
enticed by a fur coat and the prospect
of riding in big cars. Achilles will do
anything that his conscience allows to
please Lil, and so the tender-hearted
superman from Manangatang signs up
with the Crows.
But it is one thing to get Achilles on
to the football field, another to make
him actually play. This Achilles is a
mere tortoise until his anger is aroused.
Only then can he unleash his legendary
strength to win the game single-handed.
Every week J.J. and Lil must think of
something to stir up the wrath of
Achilles.
Throughout the season manager,
trainer, television commentators and the
unseen crowds chew their nails and tear
their hair as the nerveless, incorruptible
Achilles remains sublimely indifferent to
the rules of the game and the fever of
the crowds. The story ends, as a fairy
tale should, with Achilles defending the
right and confounding his enemies with
one mighty kick. This farcical fairytale
is delightfully funny even for someone
like myself who has never been to a
game of football, though doubtless the
very cream of the jest can only be
appreciated by the devoted “Footy” fan.
Alan Hopgood's satire is very gentle.
John Sumner has coached a crack
team for the season. Dennis Miller is
the stubborn farmer with the snail-like
mind and the rock-like integrity, while
Elspeth Ballantyne is the fresh-faced,
open-hearted Lil. Alan Hopgood him-
self plays the harassed J. J. Forbes, and
Simon Chilvers and Paul Eddey are good
as the television commentators, Harry
Head and Wobbly Coates.
Qt Martin’s Theatre appears to have
a new policy as well as a new
name. When it was the Little Theatre it
used to alternate serious plays such as
Eugene O'Neill’s “Long Day’s Journey
Into Night” and T. S. Eliot’s “The Elder
Statesman” with lighter entertainment.
These productions were important be-
cause St Martin’s, as well as being a
comfortable, pleasant theatre, has ex-
perienced producers, actors who are pro-
fessionals or very talented amateurs,
excellent set designers and loyal sub-
scribers. Productions usually attain a
high professional standard. This is why
it is so much more important that St
Martin’s should stage “Long Day’s
Journey Into Night” than the local
amateur dramatic society. Nothing but
the best that the theatrical profession
can achieve is good enough for the best
plays.
But this year St Martin’s has pre-
sented only one play with even a claim
to be considered seriously: Anouilh’s
“Becket.” “Where Do We Go From
Here?” is typical of the new St Martin’s,
It is very well done, fast-moving and
glossy, and has in Lesley Baker a
natural comedian. But it has very little
originality, and the satire has no bite.
Compared to New York’s “Premise” and
“Second City”, or to London’s “Beyond
the Fringe”, it seems about as intellect-
ually stimulating as a nice cup of tea.
Carbone, a 40-year-old Ameri-
can of Italian descent, a longshore-
man of the New York waterfront, is
unconsciously in love with his wife’s
niece Catherine, a girl of seventeen
whom he and his wife have brought up.
Driven by feelings he can neither under-
stand nor acknowledge. Eddie betrays
Catherine’s lover, an illegal immigrant,
to the authorities.
This is a straight realist play, except
for the presence of a narrator, the local
lawyer, Mr. Alfieri. This device seems
to me to blunt the tragedy. Why does
Miller use it? Is he suggesting, when
he uses a narrator who understands the
background of the characters but is
more educated and civilised than they
are, that if these people had been more
educated, more Americanised, the
tragedy would not have happened? Or
is he afraid that if he lets Eddie stand
forth without an interpreter he would
seem a monster, not a tragic character?
It seems to me there is a failure on
Miller's part to trust his own creations.
This makes Eddie a difficult part to
play, especially since John Hood is
handicapped by his youth. However, Lois
Smith achieved a very taut production
with her student company, presenting
the play arena-style with audience on
three sides. Heather Christensen gave
a very imaginative performance as
Catherine with her vivid freshness, her
youthful candour and idealism.
The “Season”
Revisited
Otage shows three similar suburban
back gardens and three kitchens in
which, l. to r. live the Cokers (he's a
businessman) and their daughters, the
Nortons (he’s another) and the Giddings
(his job keeps him out at night and is
mysterious). George is a poet who just
happens to be around most of the lime
commenting.
Mrs Norton: I must remember to go
to the butcher. Yes, to the butcher.
(Dreamily.) Down a long, tedious road


to a pound of sausages and a small
weekend shoulder of lamb; to the empty
exchange of reluctant greetings with a
man in a blue and white-striped apron
who is too familiar, it seems to me, by
half.
Little Rosie (precociously): And 1 shall
sit here at the breakfast table reading
Froude and, between thinking of royal
murders, dream of dogless suburbs until
commanded to wash up the breakfast
things by my mother who knows nothing,
has never known anything and never will
know anything.
Big Jeanie: And I, now that I have
given up my mouth organ and the music
had to stop, must go to my typist’s chair
to sit suspended in boredom between
the twin boredoms of leaving home and
returning to it.
Mr Norton: And if I don’t catch my
bloody bus I’ll be late. The bus is about
the only place where I can think in peace
about the day and what’s to be done
with it apart from paying, now that I
remember it, the instalments on the car,
the frig, the vacuum cleaner, the TV set,
the furniture and the house. On the
completion of 2520 monthly payments
in 35 years time I will own everything.
I will also be dead.
George (with evident affection): And
who’s to say this is not the way things
are with the Nortons of Ethel Street,
Boronia? Or that it wasn’t the way it
was yesterday or will be tomorrow? This
is life, this is living. How I love life.
How I love living.
Mrs Gidding (appears on her kitchen
steps blonde, frowsy and guilty in dress-
ing gown): Ah, Gawd, I’ve done it again.
Why is Charlie on night shift? Why are
my hips not grooved like other women’s?
George ( with affection and pity): Ah,
yes she’s done it again. It’s not the
regularity of her transgressions that
worries one, it’s the having to listen
afterwards that takes it out of a man.
(A slight note of irritation in his voice.)
Come to think of it, why the hell can't
Charlie get a day job.
Mrs Coker (appears in kitchen l.
wheeling pram): Well, that’s that. He’s
fed, the dinner’s on, Bill’s on his way
home after a beer or two and there’ll be
TV tonight. That’s how it was yesterday
and that’s how it’ll be right through to
Sunday when he goes fishing, thank God.
I suppose you can call it living.
George (with transcending affection):
Yes, I suppose you can call it living in
Ethel Street if it comes to that. They
hardly know how well off they are, the
poor sods, on a fine summer’s evening
in Boronia, a typical bit of Australian
suburbia inhabited by typical suburbanites
in the golden era of HP and TV. (In
a perfect paroxysm of affection he
departs immediately for the Falkland
Islands.)
P.D.H.
FILMS
Song of
Innocence
Sundays and Cybele. Palace Theatre.
Sydney.
lAirector Serge Bourguignon starts his
first feature film with a body blow;
a brief, shattering, nightmare-like sequ-
ence totally removed from the mood of
distilled lyricism that prevails through
the main part of the film. In those few
seconds Bourguignon proves himself an
adventurous and individual film maker;
but it does not take long to realise that
he is a great deal more than that. He is
an artist of patient skill and intense sen-
sibility, completely in command of his
medium, and his first long film places
him squarely in the front rank of pre-
sent-day directors.
Writing of another film a few weeks
ago I made the distinction between the
praiseworthy movie that has many virtues
and few faults, and the really excep-
tional film that grips the mind and
haunts the memory. “Sundays and Cy-
bele” is decidedly in that exceptional
category.
The screenplay is adapted (by Bour-
guignon himself and Antoine Tudal) from
a novel by Bernard Eschasseriaux, “Les
Dimanches de Ville d’Avray” which
is the French title of the film. The
central figure is a haunted amnesiac, a
young ex-war pilot. The strange intro-
ductory sequence records the traumatic
experience—an air raid involving the
slaughter of a small girl—which has
sealed off his conscious memory. This
lost soul meets by chance and befriends
another human who feels equally isolat-
ed: an appealing imp of a 12-year-old
girl thrust into an orphanage by an
indifferent father.
The man poses as the father in order
to take her out for Sunday jaunts, and
they gambol innocently together in the
lovely setting of winter trees and lake-
side. Here Bourguignon and his two
principals (Hardy Kruger and Patricia
Gozzi) convey most movingly the feeling
of release from the shadowed, cut-off
world of their normal lives.
But there are shadows on this world
of shared play, and they grow steadily
more ominous. The amnesiac has sud-
den outbursts of possessive jealousy and
irrational protectiveness: passers by look
strangely at the pair; events bring their
friendship into collision with their week-
day lives.
The first to discover the secret outings
is the young man’s mistress, a hospital
nurse who mothers him with an anxious
passion that he cannot return. She sec-
retly watches the two at play, and assures
herself that there is nothing harmful in
their attachment.
But others are less understanding, or
less optimistic. Experience, always well
meaning, even when most wrong, closes
in upon innocence, and finally destroys
it in a violent outbreak of good inten-
tions.
Bourguignon’s small cast serves him
brilliantly. Patricia Gozzi is a wonderful
child actress, with a strange mixture of
precocity and simplicity that makes her
seem sometimes younger and sometimes
older than the 12 years allotted to her
in the film. Kruger exactly captures the
amnesiac’s shifting moods of brooding
despair and trance-like happiness. Nicole
Courcel, the mistress, is a most subtle,
varied and appealing actress.
Visually the film is a delight. Bour-
guignon, an ex-cameraman himself, has
employed Henri Decae (cameraman of
“The 400 Blows” and “The Lovers”)
to create beautifully composed images,
precisely matched to the mood of the
film.
At times, absorbed though one may
be, a critical corner of the mind may
discover a certain self-consciousness in
the director's technique, an anxiety to
avoid cliche that sometimes runs perilous-
ly close to artiness. He is inordinately
fond of opening a scene not with the
conventional “establishing shot” but with
a close-up of some inessential detail; re-
flected shots (even one in the rear vision
mirror of a moving car) abound. In a
film less sure in its touch this sort of
thing could be irritating trickiness; here
it often seems unnecessary, but never
damaging.
MARTIN LONG
Loss of Roses
The Stripper. Director, Franklin
Schaffner. Regent Theatre. Sydney.
Nine Hours to Rama. Director, Mark
Robson. Century Theatre. Sydney.
Notable chiefly for a moving perform-
ance by Joanne Woodward, Franklin
Schaffner’s “The Stripper” (based on the
play “A Loss of Roses,” by William
Inge) was nominally the last production
of the late Jerry Wald. But since Wald
was already ill during its making and
died before it was completed, the film
lacks his fine professional touch (it was
finished by his assistant, Curtis Harring-
ton). It bears evidence of drastic cut-
ting, which may have reduced its run-
ning time to a near 90-odd minutes but
has also oversimplified the action and
motivation.
The central character is a sad, pretty
blonde on the seedy fringe of show
business. One of life's predestined vic-


tirns, she has an unhappy combination
of cheap good looks, total lack of talent,
a great capacity for loving and no com-
mon sense. Stranded by her lover in
the small town where she spent her
childhood, she has a brief affair with
the son of an old friend, and dreams
that she has at last found someone to
take care of her. But the boy rejects
her with guilty embarrassment, and she
is forced to return to her absconding
lover and to a striptease act which dis-
gusts her and for which she obviously
has no qualifications.
Joanne Woodward reveals the girl’s
nature with pity but without sentimental-
ity, expertly suggesting a half-provoking,
half-moving human being. She is sup-
ported by a uniformly expert cast. Rich-
ard Beymer plays ably the small-town
boy, and Robert Webber is convincing-
ly unpleasant as the girl's self-seeking
lover.
In “Nine Hours To Rama” Mark Rob-
son has mistakenly tried to use a simple
thriller technique to tell the story of
Gandhi's assassination.
On its more serious side, the film is
most successful in the scenes featuring
an Indian actor, S. Y. Casshyap, as
Gandhi. This performance is remark-
able not only for Casshyap’s astonish-
ing physical resemblance to Gandhi, but
for his complete identification with the
character.
BEVERLEY TIVEY
ART
Art and
Humanism
Helena Rubenstein Prize Exhibition.
Perth.
“T)ortrait painting is in a bad state,
•*- and this is one of the liveliest Helena
Rubenstein Prize shows for some time.”
This- year’s judge, Eric Westbrook, said
both these things, and he didn't contra-
dict himself.
The choice we are offered is between
expressive painting and photography in
oils. With the expressive work one sus-
pects that one is getting more artist than
sitter, but the photographic material is
short on feeling and often on tech-
nique too.
Westbrook criticised what he calls
“the puritanism of craftsmanship”, but
I don't think he should have. Lack of
craft is precisely what damages most of
the “traditional” portraits in this show,
though with Lorna Prendiville and Ger-
aldine Thompson, for instance, one gets
moments of good straight painting; and
Alan Baker’s oil sketches of Chris
Hamilton and John Birman look as
though, worked up, they might be very
good indeed. But with the exception of
George Vadouris’ self portrait, most of
the traditional style looks, or is, unfinish-
ed. Vlase Zandis is the great exception: he
over-finishes, and in such a curious man-
ner, with weird “mosaic” backgrounds,
that one is inclined to rate him highly—
as a pop artist.
Even in art the ethics of humanism
should take precedence over the ethics of
art: what the portraitist is supposed to
do is tell us about a person in his unique-
ness and individuality, and not about the
artist himself, his own originality, or the
state of painting in his time. The merely
photographic mode has a point: photo-
graphy in oils is something the artist
must put behind him, but you can’t put
behind you what you haven’t already
learnt to do. Representation may be a
means rather than an end, but it is a
means.
The Boissevains, both eminently
craftsmanlike, seem to me this time to
have been shifted a little from their
proper courses by what I would call the
snobbism of immediacy: they have
craftily made their work assume a kind of
spontaneity foreign to it —as though
their own style were not as spontaneous
on its own account as the manner they
assume. Even so, the portrait of Rose
Skinner by William Boissevain is really
first-rate of its kind.
In general the “happy accident” theory
of painting seems to have got out of
hand: one need not court catastrophe.
Which is what, for example, David Hen-
wood’s “Paul Korda” does. The political
cartoon style looks much better in line
than in full war-paint.
The winning painting “Mr and Mrs
Weaver Hawkins,” by Vladas Meskenas,
is highly expressive, and whether it is
a likeness or not I cannot say. In a
harsh conjunction of red and green it
gives a schematic portrait of a middle-
aged couple, and a degree of pathos
serves to balance its strong tendency to
caricature. In design it is strong and
complex, and as a semi-abstract it
achieves a high degree of excellence. But
as a portrait one feels that there is some-
thing missing. Even so, and despite one’s
own predilections, one is inclined to agree
with the judge: it is the best painting on
show.
Caricature rather than craft dominates
this exhibition as a whole, and one feels
uneasy about it: all there is to this chap
is . . . and then some slick shorthand.
Maximillian Feurring’s “Self Portrait” is
an exception; here caricature is, one feels
(and this is all one can do), genuinely
expressive: but W. A. Gordon’s “Self
Portrait” might serve as a kind of com-
ment on a lot of the rest: not amusing.
Genuine stiffness and perhaps sheer
absence of craft can be highly effec-
tive, as in Coral Stahal’s “Self Portrait 5 *
which recalls American Colonial paint-
ing, but the big simplifications of Kahan’s
three portraits will hardly do. Lord Casey
dees not really look like a villain from
an Ealing farce; whatever Dickerson does
look like it can hardly be this, and while
one is prepared to accept Mr Hughes’
hambone arms # one supposes that the
dent in his head is unlifelike.
PATRICK HUTCHINGS
MUSIC
Quartet
&
Quintet
Musk a Viva Society. Third Subscrip-
tion Concert. Wilson Hall. Mel-
bourne.
"jV/fozAßT’s life lies almost exactly in the
centre of Boccherini’s (about 13
years shorter at either end). Therefore
it is not surprising to find Boccherini
handling much the same tonal and har-
monic idiom as we are familiar with in
Mozart and Haydn. But it is instructive,
once in a while, to hear a living example
of the difference which lies in mastery
of this handling, whatever general re-
semblance there is in the sound made
by great and small musicians.
In the andante which opens Boccher-
ini's C major quintet (first on this pro-
gramme) there is virtually no deepening
or development of the image the music
first presents. 1 he whole movement has
a preiudial quality: at every full close
we expect to hear the beginning of a
full-scale sonata-allegro, the kind of
movement which either of the more
famous masters would have set down as
the meat after this appetiser. The com-
parison was particularly well made on
this night, because the Boccherini (neatly
and attractively played) w 7 as followed by
the admirable C major quartet of Mo-
zart. Its third movement, with the pas-
sionate leaping trio, found the ensemble
in one of its very few thin spots of the
performance, when Charmian Gadd fal-
tered in her concentration. The experi-
ment of giving this talented young vio-
linist the leadership of an experienced en-
semble was a bold one, and reflected a
great deal of credit both on the Society
and on herself. The overall quality of the
playing of these five resident musicians
was very satisfying indeed, and is a fit
reminder of the unique work the So-
ciety has done in fostering chamber
music in Australia.
KENNETH HINGE


Feiffer
.eo m
finish®,
IS IT?
Ate
1200
PASTS'
kaput, mv\ i mcweiH
fpx this (9 m mr
•i*mr. a mvi°f wtcewoi
pmm
HOO
Re AM
me
1WR.0V6\\
k oio me
o%M,
I Hem?
i
I'se tm,lA 6660 PMB6T f
: mv. THAT OPTIOfO Fm
M6M. HmV A LOT OF
come, amp M Tm PAPTR-
wcK.Avmce amp w~of-
M'MWH-Cm 06MI FS6L
its a i iFhivT mm\s>
'me 'OF IriORK.
itf i/te
A oeeAM
•comf TRue,
HUT HFPM?
A F(M$H£P
fjoveu
[*M£K WAlOTeP TO CO nAT Fim.
BUT He WAfUTFP IT AO A l/CHICLF
FOR H«A WTTf. A FAT TOT OF
600P A PeRCFMTABC OF THAT
Route oo m{ i Tat you, f&f
A RRITFR OOFSMT HBAP AM/W6
To tnese Miwmv peopoe.
mm has its ?mme r
mo. OK) THIS 0106 T HAP A
6m veso of micom
OW TH6 MATRICAL RIGHTO.
but as oooio as nemoowem
MERMAN mw TO VO IT 66
cm PISHT (MxC
PIP f>S
me m -
ftamie
op it
at Ate
Hem?
ROtt, I
HOPS IT
SAHS AU-
LjOU WAfJT
IT to mt-
wm. [
J POP'T WAtOT TO
BUT ITS TUB RPOfW
OF MlMB IV£ 51/51? BOOM
comerav emfiev mu.
1 SOT A 6RFAT SFRIAtlZAm)
OTAT O’M THF BACK OF ]?ICg
krispib Boxes. /
mr t o mi •
m£, what ITS
ABOUT, «M?
ITS HARP To
FRFCU WKOF
ir as a wva of
PROT66T. i
Painless Pianism
Alfred Brendel. Second Recital. Town
Hall. Sydney.
A slight, aesthetic, youngish man of
somewhat rueful countenance, Alfred
Brendel is a pianist of great integrity.,
devoted to his art and instrument though
perhaps too self-effacing for his music’s
good. One is struck by his command of
the keyboard but Brendel is no mere
facile virtuoso he is an intense and
dedicated musician who visibly “experi-
ences” every note he plays.
The highlight of the second Sydney
recital of Brendel (who has just arrived
in Australia) was unquestionably his
masterly performance of the B Minor
Sonata by Liszt. Subordinating his tech-
nique and his personality to the demands
of the music, the pianist gave an un-
forced and completely unaffected inter-
pretation of this brilliant work. Brendel
is above what Hanslick called “the in-
sipid trifles of virtuosity” and there was
nothing meretricious nor perfunctory
in his performance.
As if to show he had not exhausted
his range of technique, Brendel followed
this impressive performance with the sec-
ond of Liszt’s two Legends, “St Francis
Walking on the Water ’ producing in
its teeming arpeggios and intricate
chordal passages an even more as-
tonishing range of tonal values from
his instrument. Again there was nothing
superficial in his playing; indeed, Bren-
del has a temperament that would make
him play Raff’s Cavatina with studied
candor. After this display of high-
powered but finely controlled pianism, it
is not surprising that the first of his
two encores a Musical Moment by
Schubert—was lacking the full measure
of easeful charm and spontaneous gaiety
it deserves, though this criticism can-
not be made of the sparkling interpreta-
tion he gave of a movement from the
Sonata in E flat. Op. 31, No. 3 by Beet-
hoven which followed.
While Mr Brendel’s performances
throughout the recital had the merit of
style, it may be said that to some extent
they lacked personality. It is one th'ng
to give an exposition of a work that
is fundamentally sincere and honest to
the composer’s intentions; quite another
to interpret a work in such a way that
its drama is intensified and tempered by
the artist’s vision. In this respect Mr
Brendel errs on the side of the angels
and one wishes at times that he had a
bit of devil in him. Mr Brendel played
the entire concert with the tips of three
fingers and two thumbs bound with ad-
hesive tape. If this was to cover sore
fingers it argues a devotion to art be-
yond the call of duty and an infinite
capacity for avoiding pain.
PETER SAINTHILL


RED PAGE
Heritage of Dust
Randolph Stow’s wasteland
By LEOME KRAMER
Tourmaline. Randolph Stow. Mac-
donald. 20s.
“T say we have a bitter heritage, but
that is not to run it down.” These
are the opening and closing words of
Randolph Stow’s latest novel, “Tour-
maline”. They are spoken by the narrator
(“I am the Law of Tourmaline”), and
variations on them are sung in drunken
melancholy by Byrne, the “poet” of
Tourmaline, who utters his laments on
the steps of the War Memorial. Our
heritage, if I read the symbols right, is
sterility and spiritual anaesthesia. Tour-
maline, our estate, “is not a ghost town.
It simply lies in a coma. This may never
end.” Here, in a word, is an Australian
“Waste Land”, but without the thunder.
“Tourmaline” ends with no promise of
rain, but only with the memory of rain
long past a memory which is almost
obliterated by the clouds of red dust
rising from the sterile earth.
To dilapidated Tourmaline, with its
one surviving tree (which significantly
persists in blooming beside the abandoned
church) comes a young man who pur-
ports to be a water-diviner, and who is
found half-dead from thirst and exhaus-
tion on the road into the town. On him
the hopes of the inhabitants become
fixed. He will make the desert blossom,
and will rescue them from their depen-
dence upon the predatory pub-keeper
Kestrel, the brutal exploiter of Tour-
maline’s unquenchable thirst. At first the
diviner is an enigmatic figure, the some-
what reluctant victim of his rescuers’
hopeful affection. But gradually he as-
sumes unpleasant characteristics. He is
revealed as a religious maniac, himself
as much in need of salvation as his
would-be disciples. His gospel is as arid
as Tourmaline’s ground; his most posi-
tive qualities are histrionic fanaticism and
a joyless moral censoriousness. When he
fails to find water and his promises are
proved worthless, he accuses God of
betraying him. And so he departs, leav-
ing Kestrel once more in charge of Tour-
maline, a now almost featureless town,
enveloped in a red flood of dust, haunted
by the tolling of its church bell
“purposeless, moved by the wind.”
Even this bare outline should be suffi-
cient to disclose the story’s essential sim-
plicity and its symbolic emphasis. Here,
we must suppose, is figured forth not
just a town but a whole country waiting
for the drought to break. “Here is no
water but only rock . . .” Gold, once the
source of Tourmaline’s wealth, can no
longer buy it life. The church has lost
its power to sustain hope. “There is the
empty chapel, only the wind’s home. . .”
Each of the characters is imprisoned in
his own sterility. Hatred is without real
impulse, and love itself is barren, “like
an ache, like an emptiness.” Nothing is
real except the land, “blunt and red and
barren, littered with the fragments of
broken mountains, flat, waterless.” In-
deed, the Law, the recorder of Tour-
maline’s fate, is so only from a desperate
desire to prove to himself that “there
has been life on this planet.”
Here, then, is a chronicle of defeat and
bitterness; and perhaps it is captious to
complain that the figures in it are a good
deal less convincing than the environment
of which they are victims (there is no
need for “Tourmaline” to carry the
formal reminder that all the characters
and incidents are imaginary, and any
resemblance to persons living or dead
is “purely coincidental”). I do not intend
this as a disparaging comment; it merely
suggests the extent to which Stow has
generalised and formalised his characters
and incidents.
In “To the Islands” Stow seemed to me
to have achieved a balance between the
observation of actual human conditions
and emotions, and the generalisations
which could be, and in fact were, drawn
from them. Heriot is Everyman, facing
death and his own spiritual and moral
shortcomings; he wanders in the wilder-
ness of his guilt and despair, a lost
traveller in the country of his mind. But
Heriot is also a convincing individual,
pushing on through an unknown but en-
tirely real Australian landscape, alive in
every detail of its colors, sounds and con-
tours.
Tn “Tourmaline” Stow has tried to strip
A away individuality from character and
landscape; to give not their surface but
their essence; to describe not a particular
person, but his ideological significance in
the dead town of Tourmaline. We are
invited to look not at landscape, but at
the meaning of landscape; not at people,
but at their symbolic value.
In issuing this invitation, Mr Stow
compels our close scrutiny of the “ideas”
in the book; and these I find less than
satisfying. Some, one can recognise as
specifically Australian, such as the
mildly satirical account of the annual
celebration at the Cenotaph, and the atti-
tude behind the question, “Do we like
strangers blowing in and sending the
word round they got special powers to
change the place?” But the basic ideas
of the novel are quasi-religious. The nar-
rator enunciates its unanswered prayer,
“Lord, fill me with sap and make me
grow.” A few pages later he sounds its
•pessimistic note, “It came to me suddenly
that man is a disease of God, and that
God must surely die.” Stow employs
the currently fashionable, but in this case
rather creaky, machinery of Christian
allegory. The significance of his referen-
ces to sin and expiation, to piety and
prayer, to imprisonment in the self and
the brotherhood of man, to the sterility
of godless humanity, is more apparent
than real; it is insisted upon but not
demonstrated. It is difficult to avoid the
feeling that one has visited Mr Stow’s
spiritual country before, in the company
of T. S. Eliot, Saul Bellow, Patrick
White and others. It is one of the more
popular tourist resorts for the modern
writer; even Salinger has picnicked in
one corner of it.
Y ET wouldn’t matter if one could
be persuaded of the force of Mr
Stow’s vision. Here I suspect the form he
has chosen lets him down. What he wants
to do is not comfortably accommodated
by the novel. It is not surprising that
he should attach to “Tourmaline” a quo-
tation from Saint-John Perse’s “Ana-
base”. His own poetry indicates his sym-
pathy with the free form of the prose
poem, and his liking for amassing images
which are heavily significant, though not
always meaningful. In “Tourmaline”, it
seems to me, he has tried to match the
prosaic demands of the novel and his
own poetic inclinations. In the course of
this experiment he has produced some
fine writing, which does much to com-
pensate for the book’s thematic deficien-
cies. Yet my central criticism remains.
To the question “Shall these bones live?”
I must answer “No” in terms of “Tour-
maline.” No skeletons, clothed though
they may be in the rags of thought and
temporarily animated by their creator’s
will, can compensate for the “want of
human interest”.
Bloody Balfour
Arthur James Balfour. Kenneth Young.
Bell. 955.
Tn 1900, two men who were soon to
be Prime Ministers of their countries
met in London. One was an Australian,
Alfred Deakin, who was seeing the
Federal Constitution through the British
Parliament. The other was the famous
Mr Balfour, Conservative Leader of the


House of Commons. They were two
specimens of that rarity, the successful
politician of high culture and complete
integrity. Deakin has left behind a neat
sketch of Balfour, with a “quick flow
of nervous entertaining conversation”, his
style of debate gay, off-hand, unpreten-
tious, “sometimes slipshod but always
straightforward”. It is an attractive pic-
ture, though Deakin also thought that his
subject lacked constructive capacity and
was strong only in resisting change.
This, as Mr Young shows us in his
excellent biography, was unfair; in 1900
Arthur Balfour was only half-way
through his 50 years in politics, and his
best work was still to come. There cer-
tainly was a negative side to his tempera-
ment, he was a sceptical conservative, in
politics as in the philosophical works
he wrote between-times. He had a well-
justified suspicion that the world was be-
coming an unpleasanter place. Most of
his political colleagues bored him. He
never married Mr Young has found
some rather thin evidence of thwarted
love affairs, and sufficiently establishes
that Balfour enjoyed conversational
tennis with intelligent and charming
women.
He started life with many advantages.
His father, who died young, left him
four million pounds (his canny grand-
father made the family money, provis-
ioning the British Navy in India). His
mother was a Cecil, sister of the great
Lord Salisbury, knowledgeable in litera-
ture and science. She was also a strict
and forceful Evangelical Christian.
Arthur seems to have loved her; his bro-
ther Gerald detested her; two other sons
later died of drink. Her three daughters
hated one another; Alice hated all men
except her bachelor brother, whose ec-
centric housekeeper she became. Yet this
brood also included two Cabinet Min-
isters, a Cambridge don, and wives for
the philosopher Sidgwick and the physi-
cist and Nobel prizewinner Lord Ray-
leigh. The reader may calculate profit and
loss.
Arthur Balfour himself was always
“delicate”, but lived to a ripe old age.
The same unexpected vein of toughness
is to be found in his politics. As Chief
Secretary for Ireland, he had earned the
title of “Bloody Balfour” (his Irish policy
is defensible, and Mr Young does his
best for it). However, Deakin’s reaction-
ary charmer is also the man who, at
some risk to his Government, pushed
through the 1902 Education Act which
revolutionised English secondary educa-
tion. He was the main author of the
Committee of Imperial Defence, that first
great engine of national “planning” in
the twentieth century. He perhaps did
mest to cement Anglo-American rela-
tions in World War I. He played an
important part in the establishment of
the Committee of Scientific and Industrial
Research, ancestor of our own CSIRO.
In his last years he was a sort of “Minis-
ter of Science”.
His vision of the future was always
clear, too clear for comfort. When the
Liberals won their landslide victory in
1906, his comment was that a new
political era had begun, “which will end,
I think, in the break-up of the Liberal
Party”; as duly happened. He appreciat-
ed, long before other Conservative lead-
ers, the genius of Lloyd George and the
young Churchill, though they were poles
apart from him in temperament, and he
disliked most of their pre-war policies.
He joined Lloyd George’s Government in
war-time and wanted to stick by him in
1922, when the Tories were after his
blood. Balfour thought a Tory-Liberal
combination might keep Labor out of
power for the foreseeable future (so it
on the whole later proved).
He kept in touch with the main intel-
lectual currents of his time. At his
country house in the Scottish Lowlands,
he had to stay people like H. G. Wells
and the Webbs, “extraordinarily pleasant
and interesting”. He read Bergson, Croce,
Bertrand Russell and Freud. He is also a
good index to changing literary taste.
Thackeray’s “greasy moralisings” made
him sick, he disliked Tennyson (except
the first volume), and expressed pleasure
on hearing that Browning was dead.
Balfour’s career has some minor links
with Australia. He came here as a young
gentleman on a world tour. His least
presentable brother was banished here
after forging Arthur’s name on a cheque.
It was he who persuaded a very reluctant
Edward VII to send his son to open
the first Federal Parliament. He took a
lead in promoting the “Commonwealth
idea”. At the 1926 Imperial Conference
he invented the famous formula about
equal status and common allegiance
the “Balfour Commonwealth", as Sir
Robert Menzies christened it nostalgical-
ly in the era of its decline.
Balfour once said that he didn't mind
praise or blame, but “I have moments
of uneasiness when I am being explain-
ed”. Mr Young does not do very much
explaining of a complex figure, who de-
serves an even better biography than this.
But it is a sound and readable book.
R. N. SPANN
Man With a Hoe
The Happy Critic and Other Essays.
By Mark Van Doren. Oliver &
Boyd. 345. 9d.
title-piece of this collection is
a plea for the amateur critic that
is, the “normal critic”, who has no
statable theory of literature, who enjoys
literature. Thirty, 20, perhaps even 10
years ago, this kind of plea would have
been laughed out of court without further
ado. It is now assured of sympathetic
if rueful and cautious attention, and
in some quarters, of acquiescence. You
can now object to the grim mechanics
of contemporary criticism without being
automatically written off as a gracious-
living armchair fuddy-duddy.
You might still be that sort of fuddy-
duddy, of course. One is likely to find
strange fellows in one's bed these days,
in this time of the Breaking of Move-
ments, when the turning wheel of fortune
has brought to the top not only Robert
Graves (for instance) but also a gaggle
of nondescript Georgians, and even the
minor aesthetes and decadents of the
’nineties are coming back into print.
But Mr Van Doren's plea if indeed
this happy critic’s good faith were not
already guaranteed by his early book on
that author is backed up by his refer-
ence to Dryden here. “Dryden must have
seemed to Rymer a careless amateur,
without true consistency or a statable
plan. Yet he was the first to praise Shake-
speare and Chaucer as we praise them
now. Judging by the critical equipment
he exposed, he should not have known
how to do this. But he did know, and
that is everything.” If this statement
seems obvious and unremarkable, then
look at George Watson’s treatment of
Dryden in his recent and authoritative-
sounding Penguin, “The Literary Crit-
ics”: “The examen of The Silent Woman’
would not be acceptable as pass-work
in any modern school of English,” “the
average schoolboy of today is probably
capable of analysing more closely and
more accurately than Dryden or any
of Dryden’s contemporaries . . .”, “the
logical status of his criticism remains
puzzling and ambiguous”, “. . . the
elusive achievement of Dryden as a
critic.”
In the light of that, or in its darkness,
it seems that Mr Van Doren's plea is
valid enough and worthy of repetition..
For the present situation above all,
the cynical naivety which supposes that
literary criticism is safely on the way vo
becoming a science and thus respectable
at last almost reconciles one to his
comment in the succeeding essay that
“The happy poet does not worry any
more. For. one thing, he has stopped
reading criticism . . .” Almost.
Mr Van Doren’s modest scepticism
and his freedom from pretentiousness
are equally evident in the essay on “The
Uses of Translation” and the pedants and
language snobs who, in their pride of
knowledge of one or two foreign lan :
guages, reject translation outright, con-
veniently forgetting how much they owe
to translations from languages they don’t
know. And there are similarly tonic pas-
sages in “The Possible Importance of


BECOME A
FREELANCE WRITER
AND EARN IN YOUR SPARE TIME
Many STOTT students pay tor their Course
before completing it. If YOU have a flair for
writing, then Stott's Literary Courses will
develop your talent.
Stott students are taught to write successfully
for both Australian and overseas markets, and
they study under the guidance of instructors who
are themselves successful writers.
There is a constant demand for well-written
stories, articles, pars, radio and TV scripts, etc.,
and the lucrative field of Freelance Writing is
waiting to pay well for good work. Write today
for full particulars of Stott's Literary Courses
15!) Flinders Lane Melbourne; 14!) Castlereagh
Street. Sydney; 290 Adelaide Street, Brisbane;
21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22 Howard Street,
Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
TO STOTT'S: Please send me. without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
AGE
8.1263
Poetry”. It is dangerous to assume that
the reason why “the people” don’t read
poetry lies simply in their illiteracy.
“Whenever poetry has been good it has
had good subject matter good for any-
body, and it has not agonized about num-
bers. Today, I think, we do not hear
enough about the subject matter of
poetry. Criticism tends to ignore the
question altogether. Poets are damned or
praised for their way with language, as
if language were the aim and end of all
their art.”
We may agree that ultimately there
is no distinction to be drawn between
subject matter and style, but nonethe-
less we are for ever implying some such
distinction in practice. Perhaps this
doesn't matter, except when we part com-
pany with our common sense. In our time
there is little danger that poetry will be
praised on the grounds that, however
fumbling its style or derivative its langu-
age, it embodies “great thoughts.” We are
too clever for that. But there is plenty of
evidence to show that poetry can be
praised for its stylistic aspects, for its
“form”, notwithstanding its lack of adult
and engaging subject matter. There our
cleverness lets us down. Much poetry
now being written in English though
it wouldn’t recognise the description,
since it imagines itself immune to the
temptations of fin de siecle is essen-
tially ‘aesthetic’: smugly drifting no,
not aspiring! towards the condition of
music. The critics (who are often also
the poets) discuss it in terms of form
and technique a procedure which is
hardly going to win readers for it from
among “the people” and are visibly
embarrassed when somebody’s bad taste
forces them to notice subject matter, that
poor relative of style. In a different age,
Mr Van Doren's remarks could be obtuse
and reactionary: in our contemporary
context they are shrewd and refreshing
and forward-looking.
In addition to the four short pieces I
have mentioned, which seem to me the
most valuable, this collection includes
long, careful and appreciative studies of
Whitman, Hardy’s poetry, “Don Quixote”
and Mann’s “Joseph and His Brothers”,
and a final cluster of shorter, chatty
and lax pieces. This is not a “great”
book, or a “seminal” work. You cannot
construct a theory out of guerrilla attacks
on theorizing, on the attempted “scientifi-
cation” of literary studies and on the
exploitation instead of enjoyment of
literature. But Mr Van Doren is doing
something which has to be done at pre-
sent. Critically speaking, the present is
not the season for sowing, it would seem,
nor the season for harvesting. It is the
time for the hoeing out of weeds.
D. J. ENRIGHT
Read’s
Utopia
To Hell with Culture. Herbert Read.
Routledge. 345. 9d.
VS/ould there have been any sort of
“modern movement” at all in Britain
during the 1940's if there had been no
Herbert Read? Read possessed a most re-
markable talent for theoretical exposition
and the clear systematisation of advanced
ideas. No one better than he expanded
the ideational connections between
Freud, Marx, art, creativity and society.
Read was intellectual gauleiter of not
only Henry Treece with his “personal-
ists,” Stefan Schimanski and the “New
Apocalypse”, George Woodcock with his
anarchist cultural journal “Now” but he
was also the seminal influence on the
antipodean “Angry Penguins”, on Sidney
Nolan, Albert Tucker, John Reed, and
myself. When the Ern Malley affair broke
it was Herbert Read who seized on the
phenomenon with avid curiosity and led
the defenders of the Malley faith in
battle.
It is impossible to estimate what kind
of debt the non-representational art
movement owes to him since his “Sur-
realism'’ and “Art Now”. Certainly his
instance on the mythologising, uncon-
scious component in the creative process
hit the Australian school of painters dur-
ing their most impressionable years and
has remained with them through the two
decades of consolidation. One of Read’s
greatest contributions to the intellectual
life of the late 1930's and early 1940's
is little understood and even less appre-
ciated his advocacy of theoretical
anarchism. Following the days of the
seduction of the intellectual innocents
(Auden, Spender, David Gascoyne, etc.)
by Communist orthodoxy, the question
arose in acute form of what other ideal
social systems could be envisaged as an
alternative to anti-romantic anti-humanist
tenets of Christopher Caudwell’s version
of a roseate world Communism. The
Read-Woodcock adaptation of Kropot-
kin’s theories had a marvellous and life-
saving logic about it. Anarchy as a social
system seemed superior both idealistically
and humanistically to Communism, and
this seemed borne out empirically by
the disinterested heroism of the anarchist
elements in the Spanish Civil War.
Herbert Read’s “Poetry and Anarch-
ism” became the text book for those of us
who rejected both Russian Communism
and international capitalism, and the set
of ideas led fruitfully in the end to the
“I and Thou” humanism of Buber and
the “humanist existentialism” of the early
Sartre.
But Herbert Read was basically an
enthusiast rather than a social philoso-
pher, a sounding board rather than an
original thinker. His books were clear
and blinding responses to the needs of
given moments in social and intellectual
history, and there is no certainty that they
will have weathered the years. Indeed, in
the recent past only “Education Through
Art” (which is of a specialist character)
and his formal art histories have pos-
sessed any active reading life. The time
has come for the long view of Herbert
Read's work, to see how much of it has
weathered the radical cultural changes of
two decades.
“To Hell with Culture” is a reprint of
his 1943 “Politics of the Unpolitical” with
the addition of a few essays of more
recent date. At the same time he has
rehashed in another volume his auto-
biographical writings, adding new diary
material, all under the title “The Con-
trary Experience”. It is this personal docu-
ment which reads well on republication
the questing, restless, da Vincian
curiosity of the man commands pure
admiration. Read's eager belief that crea-
tive activity observes the highest human
needs is quite irresistible. It depicts the
kind of model response that poets ask
of ideal readers, the kind of creative re-
ceptivity which stands in polar opposition


to the anatomising habits of the modern
Leavisite.
The leading ideas of “To Hell with
Culture” still remain satisfying as
Utopian formulations. The artist, non-
political by virtue of the creative impulse
itself, should call forth the “natural
society”, the community organically free
and operating from group controls as a
spontaneous and leaderless social order.
But it is all far from home; not dated
and old fashioned so much as unreal; a
pattern cut from a non-existent cloth.
Read now seems to be the last “progres-
sive” of them all, hating the excesses,
disorders, and vulgarities of the present
human condition, but full of optimism
that conceivable systems of total better-
ment are attainable. He is the last of the
optimists, quaintly pre-Camusian. To re-
read “To Hell with Culture” is a bitter
exercise in Brave New Worldism.
MAX HARRIS
Total
Recall
Before My Time. Niccolo Tucci. Cape.
31s.
HThis is a book of memories of things
past. And yet it is much more than
that. The author places his age at around
five when he peeps briefly into the open-
ing of his story. He then discreetly fades
out to give adult perception to his story
of the family of which he was part but
in which he never intrudes. But his
presence is felt, in the sympathy and
humor with which he writes.
Niccolo Tucci has lived in the United
States since 1939. He is of Italian-Swiss
birth, but his family, as he describes
them, are a mixture of German and
Russian and above all European in the
old aristocratic tradition that has barely
survived.
Books of “my family” are often so
highly personal and soul-bearing that one
hesitates to pursue them. The works of
Thomas Wolfe come to mind. He ties
to his southern origin, his parsimonious
mother, the gaunt and horrific deter-
mination of his people create in him only
an impending web from which he can
never escape. And so his struggle is up-
permost. His unrelieved grimness makes
its effect, but how often do we long for
the humanity of humor?
Tucci has this humor and looks at his
family in their period, which is the early
20th century. We are introduced to a
wealthy family dominated by a matriarch
who spends her time shaping the lives
of those around her while she apparently
fritters away her own in search of some-
thing she can never regret not achieving.
“My grandmother’s exceptional vir-
tues,” writes Tucci, “were the same as
my greatgrandfather’s exceptional faults,
and they boiled down to one: intolerance.
Nothing was good enough for her. She
had managed to detest every place in the
world, she had dragged her unhappiness
from town to town, from hotel to hotel,
taking time from her major sorrows to
note in passing that the cooking was hor-
rible and none of the guests had enough
wit to cheer her. Not that she wanted
to be cheered, God forbid, but were
they supposed to know this? ‘No, no,
they just don't have the wit to even try,’
she said. She herself had that wit, or so
it seemed, but she had sacrificed enough
to amuse others, let them now do their
part.”
And so she progresses, robbed by un-
scrupulous lawyers who act on her be-
half, cheated by her servants, hotel
owners and others who wait upon her
wishes. She has spent five million roubles
in 15 years carting her family, her
furniture and herself in search of the
perfection she demands but can never
even begin to appreciate. Her two
daughters, Mary and Ludmilla, move with
her. She has committed a third daughter,
Katia, to an insane asylum because the
girl was supposed to have turned on her
“arranged” husband. An unscruplous
son, Pierre, thrives as a Moscow indus-
trialist carting his mistress with him
wherever he travels with his family.
Into this domain steps a simple and
earnest young doctor from southern Italy
possessing one suit and a confused set
of religio-social principles that are con-
stantly warring within his frail psyche.
Although he is married, and Mary has
a son by a misty first husband, divorces
are arranged and she marries her young
idealist.
The autocratic mother, the daughter
whose life is irrevocably bound up with
her and the vague and sensual Ludmilla
are poised against this newcomer with
his crude peasant ways. One by one his
ideals fade. He had dreamed of work-
ing in local politics to help his impoveri-
shed province. He leaves Italy forever,
to live in the mundane atmosphere of
Lugarno.
Attracted to Ludmilla, yet aware of
her demonic charm, he is instrumental
in forcing her to leave with an impossible
German archaeologist. In the vast house,
bearing the contempt of the thieving ser-
vants, begrudgingly admired by the
mother for his difference and above all
dependent on the family for his very
subsistence, he lives out his wracked life.
“Before My Time” is a difficult story
to summarise. It consists so much of the
interplay of personalities, the reactions
to situations that are magnified in
the limiting scope of the mother's world
to which Mary and her husband are
bound.
Situations that are readily soluble to
those uncontrolled by rigid mores blow
up into major crises, yet one never feels
impatient. A great and absorbing book,
“Before My Time” contains the whole
range of human endeavor condensed into
a small but exquisitely conceived canvas.
CHARLES SRIRER
Precosity
Mrs Galbraith’s Air. M. Villa-Gilbert.
Chatto and Windus. 20s.
Tt seems that in M. Villa-Gilbert we
have another of those alarmingly
knowing young people who nowadays
manage to turn out novels of some dis-
tinction almost before they are out ol
diapers.
“Mrs Galbraith's Air” is an interesting
first novel reminiscent of Francoise Sa-
gan’s early work in its mixture of sophis-
tication and pretended lack of compre-
hension. It is written from the viewpoint
of a highly intelligent child who observes
with precision but often fails to make the
correct deduction from these observa-
tions.
A boy of 15, on the brink of sexual
maturity, is fascinated by a woman ir
her forties. The woman, fearing the onset
of age and bored by her marriage, is
seduced into a brief love affair. But the
boy, though intelligent and physically
mature, is as yet emotionally unfitted tc
face such a situation. To his alarm, Mrs
Galbraith refuses to behave like a ro
mantic heroine and persists in acting as
a human being something he is noi
yet equipped to deal with.
Though the charm and beauty of the
boy are stated, M. Villa-Gilbert hardly
succeeds in making us believe in them
he seems more like a conceited little brat
The character of Mrs Galbraith has more
solidity, and the perverse relationship is
treated with some delicacy.
M. Villa-Gilbert's descriptive prose is
generally limpid and accurate, evoking
charmingly the leisurely summer in s
prosperous English country house, am.
no doubt she will soon learn to avoir
such turgid bits of fine writing as: “White
the tortuous groups of classic figures
twined cold, wet-limbed together.” Hei
ear for dialogue is less sure (though
possibly a woman does address her boy-
lover as “my tiny poppet.”) And she
has odd lapses into such phrases as “He
felt like as if . . .” and “if you'll excuse
me saying so,” which apart from theit
innate gracelessness fit uneasily into the
class and educational background of the
characters.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


Sheep
drenched
Outlook
Qantas flies Australian drug to keep Kenya sheep in trim
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Australia) Pty. Limited, a subsidiary of the world-famous manufacturer of
pharmaceutical and veterinary products, recently received an urgent order from East Africa. Supplies of the
Company’s sheep drench “Thibenzole” were required desperately to treat outbreaks of parasitic disease in
sheep. Within hours, stocks of the drug left Australia by Qantas. The emergency was met . . . the outbreaks
brought under control. But then, M.S.D. are old hands at the use of Qantas Air Cargo. The Company
constantly utilises Qantas services to meet the day-to-day requirements of its subsidiaries in New Zealand,
the Philippines, Japan and India. The Company enjoys low special-commodity rates with Qantas and, further,
obtains delicate handling of drugs and their despatch with a minimum of fuss and forms. As the M.D. of
M.S.D. told us, “Our first aid is Qantas when it comes to exporting life-saving drugs’”
QANTAS AIQ mo
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
14 GOOD REASONS FOR USING QANTAS AIR CARGO:
1 Low, special-commodity rates.
2 Increase use of production faci-
lities and equipment.
3 Reduce time in which capital is
tied up in goods in transit.
4 Meet unpredictable demands
and emergencies.
5 Reduce client’s inventory invest-
ments.
6 Reduce risk of inventory obsole-
scence.
7 Reduce investment and opera-
ting expenses.
8 Reduce distribution costs.
9 Reduce risk of loss, pilferage,
damage or spoilage in transit.
10 Reduce packaging costs.
11 Enhance control or manage-
ment of goods in transit.
12 Reduce insurance costs.
13 Airfreighted samples steal
march on competition.
14 Qantas with its associates
operate more than 100 flights
a week into and out of
Australia.
Specify Qantas to
your air cargo agent, or call
Qantas Air Cargo TODAY!
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL.
QAC.68.FP8.63


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Tobacco Growers Are Fuming
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
VlThat’s going on in the Australian
tobacco-growing industry, with its
incredible ups and downs?
It seems you are either on top of the
world or dead broke in the tobacco game.
If there is a middle course it is difficult
to chart.
Until the season before last every puff
on an Australian-made cigarette was
money in the pockets of jubilant tobacco
growers in areas as far apart as Mareeba
in Queensland and Myrtleford in Vic-
toria.
The industry grew at a phenomenal
pace . . . probably too rapidly. But that
did not ease the blow for the hundreds
of growers who had to get financial aid
to avoid bankruptcy when prices crashed
almost overnight at the 1961 auctions.
Last year there was not so much leaf
about, largely a result of the crash, and
prices improved once again. This season
growers expected a return to some sort
of stability and looked on generally
higher quality leaf as an insurance of a
reasonable future.
But at the latest Victorian leaf auc-
tions the axe has fallen again. Once more
growers are screaming ruin, calling for
urgent Commonwealth intercession and
threatening drastic retaliatory action.
What has happened this time?
It is not yet clear. But to growers and
many auction-floor observers the big
tobacco firms appear to be buying to a
pre-arranged plan. This plan appears to
involve a definite price antipathy to leaf
of all quality grades from some areas
especially the Murray Valley, but in-
cluding the Markwood district, between
Wangaratta and Myrtleford, and
Whorouly.
The market overall is down some
observers say by an average Bd. to lOd.
a lb —on what are regarded as “true”
values as assessed by independent ex-
perts, but leaf from these districts is
down even further. Even top quality
leaf from these districts is bringing below
its true value.
Unlike the year before last, very few
bales are failing to attract a bid. But an
astounding number of bids are well below
reserve prices. This means an unusual
number of bales 35 p.c. of offerings
at some sales are being passed in and
sold later by negotiation at the reserve
price.
Sale by negotiation means buyers get
their leaf without competition and at a
minimum price.
The overall price trend is shown clearly
by the average of the first eight sales this
Victorian season —129.5 d. Last season
the first Victorian series of sales averaged
142.9 d. Growers who were getting more
than 130 d. a lb for their leaf last year
are getting less than IOOd. in the "un-
popular” areas this year.
Gunbower growers, who are leading
the vocal protests against the price “dis-
crimination”, say this difference could
force many growers to walk off their
properties. They have appealed for Com-
monwealth intercession without success.
They claim they are the victims of the
big tobacco companies who would
rather import leaf than use the Aus-
tralian product. (Tobacco firms get
import duty concessions if they use pre-
determined percentages of Australian
leaf.)
Growers say the firms hope to stub
out tobacco growing in many areas and
thus cause an artificial shortage of Aus-
tralian leaf so that they can call for
greater imports.
And they add that they have reason
to believe that the manufacturers are also
urging the Government to cut the amount
of Australian leaf required in cigarettes
to obtain the import duty concession.
Farmers Kept in Ignorance
"IVlelbourne journalists specialising in
primary industry affairs are finding
themselves cut off from one news source
after another.
They have never had an easy task.
All but a resolute few gave up the
struggle for news years ago and joined
the listless queues awaiting innocuous
public relations handouts and waffly,
post-meeting “press statements.”
With two or three notable exceptions,
Victorian publicity organs tell farmers
only what their leaders believe they
should know, not what they are entitled
to know. Their pages are bare of stories
of controversy or challenge. They make
no effort to search out real news.
A few doughty characters who have an
old-fashioned idea that the farmer is
entitled to know what is being done with
his products and his money, have for
years trudged eagerly into the Wool
Board boardroom, the Graziers’ Associa-
tion conference room, the Assembly Hall
and other equally salubrious haunts of
rural oratory with pencils sharp and
ready to record every word for Joe Blow
down on the farm.
Yet year after year they get fewer and
fewer stories. Not because less has hap-
pened, but because less and less business
of the organisations is being conducted
in open meeting.
The last few weeks have been the last
straw. Recently, in one period of six
weekdays, six important national pri-
mary industry organisations met in Mel-
bourne. Five of them conducted business
behind closed doors. These were the
Council of Egg Marketing Authorities of
Australia, the Australian Wool Board,
the Australian Dairy Produce Board,
Australian Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council and Australian Wool Industry
Conference.
The sixth organisation, the Austra-
lian Wool and Meat Producers’ Federa-
tion, spent part of its time in committee
. . . but its meeting was not reported by
the general Press anyway. It had care-
fully avoided notifying any paper that
it was meeting.
On top of this, the council of the
Victorian Graziers’ Association, which
formerly held at least part of its meetings
under the scrutiny of the Press, has an-
nounced that henceforth all meetings
will be in committee.
“If necessary” there would be a Press
conference later, or a prepared state-
ment would be issued.
Even at annual meetings executives
often reel off prepared reports that care-
fully skirt the information members
should be given.
The most frightening thing is the in-
credible apathy of the people who should
care most about this situation the
farmers. Seemingly they don’t care that
they are not being kept fully informed
on matters affecting their pockets and
their futures.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Pressure For Tax Cuts
The end of the financial year always brings urgings for
tax cuts. It is a time when the Commonwealth Budget
is being knocked into shape for presentation in August.
The strident pleas for tax reductions cannot be completely
successful each year, otherwise tax would be eliminated. But
the general, unselfish attitude this year is that a definite
impetus is needed to boost the economy.
Sober people like the Commercial Bank of Australia say
the Australian economy has not reached a state of recovery
consistent with a satisfactory rate of growth. A key argument
here is that the rate of expansion still depends too much on
Government financing of special public works.
Others have taken up cudgels on behalf of private enter-
prise and claim that, to get the economy moving at a
satisfactory rate, private enterprise should be assuming a
larger role.
There is no doubt that private enterprise, particularly in
the shape of manufacturers, is ready and willing to grab a
large slice of expansion, but the public is not spending on a
sufficient scale to justify increased production. The public
is not really short of money, judged by the huge deposits
in the savings banks and the unused bank overdrafts. Yet
there are many who have had a lean time . . . losing a job,
a cut in income, loss from a debenture crash, or some similar
backwash from the credit squeeze. So, naturally, they are
hesitant and, in some cases, unable to spend.
The general attitude in business circles is that the Budget,
when brought down, will aim at stimulating public spending,
which suggests a direct cut in income tax. The Treasury,
looking at the recent record of economic stability and gradually
improving productivity, may not want to push the public
into a spending spree, because inflation seems to be its greatest
fear.
A little compromise seems justified. Some public spending
should be encouraged.
SHOULD AUDITORS
SPEAK UP?
crashes, company debacles and tearful tales of
financial losses bring in their wake a tendency to witch-
hunt ... to find a scapegoat or at least to castigate some
official who should have prevented the collapse. The auditor
is a likely victim. If he hadn’t appended his seal of “June 30
and all’s well,” widows and pensioners may have rescued their
savings. At least this is the conclusion after the crash.
It doesn't take into consideration that a stamp from an
auditor saying “All is not well” would, in many instances,
cause a minor crash in itself. But, if auditors spoke up and
showed they were willing to dispute the actions of a board
of directors, the directors would be careful about adopting a
doubtful course in the first place.
Auditors cannot forecast the inevitable problems and pitfalls
of business risk. They are not supposed to do so. But a case
has arisen in London of a dispute between the auditors and
directors of City of London Real Property, which seems to
illustrate that auditors generally, if they are carrying out
their duties efficiently, must be prepared to speak up against
the board of directors, and without penalty.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales states that if auditors issue a report expressing dis-
agreement with the directors of a company, it should not of
itself provide a reason for the removal of the auditors from
office.
Stockholders certainly should agree with that. In fact, they
should be grateful that auditors are prepared to draw attention
to certain situations which otherwise might go unnoticed.
After all, the stamp of approval by the auditors is supposed
to mean that everything is in order and above board. The
petty cash balances, the office boy hasn’t been robbing the
company, and the directors have complied with all require-
ments.
The situation in London reached the stage where the
Institute of Chartered Accountants saw fit to intervene, with
double proxies being sent out by the company, and circularisa-
tion of shareholders by the auditors, Messrs Turquand,
Youngs, to explain their side of the dispute.
The appointment of auditors is approved by shareholders
for a definite purpose. It means that auditors, although paid
by the directors out of company funds, are supposed to be
watching over the interests of shareholders. This can be done
discreetly, and the watchdog should need only to growl to
keep everyone in place.
If business conditions deteriorate progressively, a company
can go into liquidation despite all the proper legal precautions
of directors and auditors. So. at the outset, it must be
recognised that auditors are not magicians who can prevent
losses.
Yet it seems that auditors should adopt a greater share of
responsibility in the affairs of companies which handle public
moneys and should screen thoroughly debenture deeds and
other legal documents in advance. Sensible company directors
consult their auditors on financial procedures so there is no
belated plea of ignorance at the end of the financial year.
There is another type of director who tends to browbeat his
auditor with remarks like “You’re only supposed to see that
the books balance.”
But modern accounting is so complex that it needs a
common acceptance of definitions, a clear and uniform
standard of financial reporting, and a willingness to speak out
loud if company records do not comply with strict accounting
requirements.
Professor D. S. Anderson, of Edinburgh University, who
presented a paper to the International Congress of Accountants
in New Lork last September, said: “Company accounts and


reports are, we must remember, presented by the custodians
of corporate funds to the owners of these funds and receive
wide circulation among the public. These owners and the
many other interested sections of the community are entitled
to the fullest information which can be given without harming
the best interests of the company concerned. They are equally
entitled to expect that the information given be supplied in
such a form that it can be understood by even the less well
educated among them.”
“Reports on company accounts represent the great majority
of the accountant’s public communications and while the
accounts themselves are generally the responsibility of the
directors, the accountant’s influence on the development of
the art of financial reporting is in fact very considerable and
presents a challenge to us all. How are we as a profession
meeting this challenge? In my humble opinion the answer
must be ‘Not very adequately’.”
SELF-RAISING WOULD
HELP FLOUR
Considering how long Australian flour exports have been
progressively squeezed out of world markets, it would
seem pretty remarkable if the industry were in fact only now
waking up to the realities of the situation. Yet this in effect
is what the Australian Millowners, through their Victorian
Council, declared in a statement last week saying the industry
had no alternative but to rationalise itself.
This is not to deny the industry’s right to a little sympathy,
but it does seem to have achieved a fair measure of rationalisa-
tion already. About 30 mills have been closed down in recent
years, some quite big amalgamations of interests achieved and
other streamlining has taken place. One of its present hurts
is so much short-time working in some of the mills with big
shares of the home market, quite apart from the plight of
many mills catering largely for exports.
This certainly points to the need for further rationalisation.
Moreover, at present local productive capacity is three times
home market consumption (which is growing, but not all that
rapidly), and exports are continuing a decline which has
brought them down from 900,000 tons to around 500,000 tons
since 1948.
The Victorian Council, which is calling on the Government
in Canberra this week, gave the impression that it despaired
of getting support there to compete, say, with subsidised
European and United States flour, which in particular had
displaced big quantities of the Australian product in Far East
markets. It lays the charge that France and Germany are sub-
sidising exports of flour (made from Australian wheat) by the
use of revenue from flour sales at high prices in their home
markets, and were able to undercut Australian flour by £4 a
ton in the Far East.
But don’t let anybody suggest the Government tries the
same trick on Australian consumers. Bread prices are high
enough here already, and, in fact, we are looking lor a
reduction in the not too distant future when local cost formulas
for wheat growers are revised.
If the flour millers want to recover their markets in the
Far East why don't they follow the examples they quote of
other countries, setting up mills there and avail themselves
of the cheaper labor available to mill Australian wheat on the
spot? That would be no worse than manning Australian tankers
and other vessels with labor from Hong Kong.
Further tidying up the structure of the industry would be
a very good thing, but a little more self-raising would be even
better.
VIP TREATMENT
FOR EXPORTERS
Australian manufacturers are being needled into raising
their sights beyond the local market and to seek export
outlets. It’s fashionable, because nearly every nation in the
world is trying desperately to promote exports as an offset
to a balance of payments crisis. EPIC and the Department
of Trade are bending over backwards to provide background
information, advice and assistance to exporters.
Trade Minister Mr J. McEwen points out that world prices
for primary produce have so declined that Australia would
have to export 50 p.c. more by volume than it did ten years
ago to buy the same quantities of imports. So Australia’s
manufacturing industries, which are heavy importers of raw
materials and capital equipment, are being urged to increase
their exports.
Australians are discovering that the export business is not
as difficult as imagined. The export of crayfish tails to the
EISA, for example, is now big business. Electric motors are
going to Southern Rhodesia, saucepans to Singapore and
Australian companies also are setting up subsidiaries in the
East.
Prospective exporters are wooed with special tax concessions
and given free assistance from unexpected quarters. Inter-
national airline companies like Pan American are helping to
bring buyers and sellers together in world trade by providing
a free marketing service through their 114 cargo offices
throughout the world. Its trade magazine, “Clipper Cargo
Horizons”, boasts an impressive 185,000 circulation in 80
countries. A manufacturer of hole saws and a maker of golf
and beach umbrellas are two prospective Australian exporters
which are offering to do world business in the latest Pan
American publication.
This free, world-wide marketing service is no sudden in-
novation. It has been operating for some years. But few
manufacturers are aware of these service facilities. The pros-
pective exporter merely contacts his nearest Pan American
office and gives details of the commodities he would like to
export. The information is sent to the airline’s Marketing
Advisory Service in New York, which then relays the details
to countries where interest has been shown in the purchase of
such commodities. The gimmick for the airline company
naturally is that it may promote some cargo business, or the
trader may make a quick trip to investigate a new market.
Once the trade contact has been made, the buyer and
seller must proceed independently to negotiate the transaction.
Obviously such matters as price, packaging, terms, credit
rating and other essentials must be established, but the Com-
monwealth Department of Trade usually has in the area a
Trade Commissioner who can help to iron out details. So
the trader, whether an exporter or an importer, has plenty of
free modern aids to help create business opportunities, pro-
vided he can meet the market requirements.
PANDERING TO LIFE
ASSURANCE POLICYHOLDERS
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life
Assurance Society Ltd has established a club in its new
building at Canberra for the convenience of policyholders who
visit Canberra. It could be the start of a new era for life
assurance policyholders.
It’s only a modest beginning, but think what could happen
if the AMP put a swimming pool atop its building at Circular
Quay and invited policyholders to take a plunge. The MLC,
to top this, might start a helicopter service from the roof of
its North Sydney building to the roof of its Martin Place


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION/LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March. 1950.
registered
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
1
A
A
TO
YEAR
3)2. •
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B|% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company's Prospectus
which is available at all branches
of the Bank of New South
Wales, any Member of the
Stock Exchange, or any office
of Cambridge Credit Corpora-
tion Limited.
Applications may te made only
on the forms attached to the
Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House
249 George Street, Sydney
Phone: 27-8621
Sydney •
Melbourne
Newcastle • Wacga
• Brisbane • Adelaida
CC 164/AB
premises, thus saving Bridge congestion
for its policyholders.
It opens up a magnificent vista. Maybe
the Prudential could take over David
Jones and offer special discounts to pol-
icyholders.
Of course, the T & G Club does not
involve wild night life. Those who rem-
ember the old nickname for T & G
(Tickle and Giggle) should be put straight
that there is no hanky-panky in this sort
of club. It is purely a tourists’ club to
assist visitors in sight-seeing. Club mem-
bers can use “a lounge, reading material,
writing tables, stationery, telephones and
toilet facilities.”
But it is a start in the right direction.
T & G Nominees Pty Ltd, which was
trustee for Chevron Sydney debenture-
holders, might consider taking over the
hotel and providing hotel accommodation
for T & G’s interstate visitors.
FIRST IRON ORE
EXPORTS
T'wo years’ intense prospecting of the
A Western Australian iron ore de-
posits has now resulted in a first firm
supply contract. The news is good and
of great economic importance.
The Federal Government can con-
gratulate itself upon a liberalised ex-
port policy. WA’s Cabinet may feel
pleased that the lanes to Japan were
kept open during a period of consider-
able recession in the Japanese steel in-
dustry.
Lastly, the Western Mining Corpora-
tion-Hanna-Homestake group is justi-
fiably happy at having pulled off a £29
million deal.
As soon as the encomiums are dis-
tributed, however, the hard facts of the
iron ore market thrust themselves for-
ward. This one particular success does
not establish an easy guide to the dis-
posal of tremendous available ore re-
serves.
To begin with, the ten Japanese steel
mills, which on foreign coal and ore
orders join together, set the pattern for
luture discussions. They emphatically say:
“The prices decided in the WMC-Hanna-
Homestake deal are angled at promot-
ing Australian-Japanese friendship and
should be treated as an exceptional case
not to be applied to other contracts for
Australian ores. Even in the event that
the contract to be signed is based on a
c.i.f. price, other contracts for Aus-
tralian ores are to be on a f.o.b. basis.”
Other parties now in the middle of
negotiations, notably the Consolidated
Gold Fields - Cyprus Mines-Utah Con-
struction consortium, may like to know
that better business conditions in Japan
are leading to an increase in steel out-
put (and also to a price rise). The steel
companies’ agreement to lift July pro-
duction 8 p.c. above June’s reduces
overall curtailment from 30 to about
23 p.c.
Still the optimistic projections of
doubled output by 1970, to make Japan
the world’s third largest steel producer,
appear difficult of fulfilment. And if
80 p.c. of ore requirements have to be
imported, not only Australia but Mal-
aya, India, Goa, The Philippines, Can-
ada, South America and Africa are clam-
oring for the pickings.
Every cost advantage that Australia
can pull out of the locker will be needed.
The Japanese press a fine bargain on
prices. They also call for efficient and
punctual methods of delivery.
On this latter point it is imperative
that Government and private bodies con-
cerned in WA should get quickly to-
gether. Though the WMC contract does
not call for first deliveries until 1966,
no time can be lost in constructing the
vital rail and port facilities.
In this instance the ore supply comes
from Tallering and the Koolanooka Hills
areas, with shipment centred on the port
of Geraldton. Relatively short links to
existing rail services are necessary, but
the lines must be strengthened to run
heavy rolling stock.
Geraldton harbor has to be improved
and deepened to take, if at all possible,
the large-type ore carriers the Japanese
prefer. These matters, as the chasing of
further contracts, call for no delay.
On latest advices the price is being
narrowed to between £.5 12s. 6d. and
£5 15s. a ton c.i.f. and the ore will
move in vessels chartered by the WMC
group.
With the discussions almost at cul-
mination, WMC must soon announce
details of financing the operation. Its
group holding totals 50 p.c., Hanna and
Homestake each having a 25 p.c. interest.
“PEOPLE, JUST
PEOPLE"
HThe Institute of Public Affairs has join-
A ned forces with those who say “the
evidence strongly suggests the economic
sun is beginning to shine brightly”, but
at the same time it says “more than a
few businessmen give the impression of
being vaguely unhappy,” as still suffering
“a reaction from the over-exuberance
and rather unthinking optimism of two
or three years ago.”
The IPA makes quite a thing in its
latest Review of the failure to take human
reactions into account in formulating eco-
nomic measures for the economy, and
pours buckets of cold water on what
used to be called the concept of the
“economic man”. It thinks that eco-
nomics has got too far away from the
humanities and is centred too much on
national aggregates. It sees this as having
led Canberra into errors in economic
policy.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Importance of Being Effective
4 s has been strongly brought home to
us in Australia during the last two
years, an economy in which people are
obsessed with caution in spending their
incomes has a devil of a job in reaching
full employment. Even when incomes are
benefiting from special tax concessions,
as during the June quarter a year ago,
there is no certainty that personal spend-
ing will increase to any marked extent
and filter through to the industrial struc-
ture in terms of bigger orders and ulti-
mately higher production and capital ex-
penditure.
You can have a position where all
sources of income generation are run-
ning strongly, yet the bulk of the addi-
tions to income is being lost to the
stream of effective demand in stagnant
pools of savings.
In an economy with such a high stan-
dard of living as this one, in which most
of us are highly efficient practitioners
in the art of spending, the cloak of cau-
tion surrounding spending these iast two
years or so could be more a cyclical
phenomenon than an endemic obstacle
precluding the eventual attainment of
full employment. Indeed, it would be a
grave reflection on the energy and drive
of the employers, both private and Gov-
ernment, in this young, under-developed
country if ways and means could not be
found on a long-term basis for side-
tracking caution in personal spending in
the cause of pressing on with the mas-
sive tasks of resources development wait-
ing to be done.
Doubtful solutions
/Ane method, for instance, would be to
give away to the undeveloped and
hungry countries the consumer goods
which people refuse to buy, as Mr Har-
old Wilson has proposed for the excess
production in Britain. Another would be
for the Government to take the ball more
away from consumers and divert a great-
er, part of resources into basic develop-
ment. However, both such lines of ap-
proach could run us into highly infla-
tionary situations given the return of,
say, the 1960 welter of uninhibited
spending in this country.
But what does seem very clear is that,
as well as getting a clearer understanding
of the process and synthesis of sources
of generating demand as a guide to
economic full employment policies, we
should also get to know a lot more about
the disposing of incomes, of maintaining
a high level of effective demand, which
is just as integral a part of the employing
process as the generation of income
itself.
It would be doing a grave injustice to
August Heckscher who, incidentally,
is President Kennedy’s special White
House consultant on the arts to say
that his recently published work The
Public Happiness is mainly concerned
with this problem of effective demand,
through the mists surrounding spending
are certainly as thick as the many others
he sees as diminishing the chances of
public happiness.
Penetrating analysis
VTo economist would, perhaps, feel per-
J fectly at home in a book which
might have been a defence of mystics
with a panegyric to mists, but all can
wander comfortably along one particular
trail which starts: “There has never
been such a superfluity of objects, but
the way men and women relate them-
selves to these objects reduces and
diminishes them, so that in the end they
hardly seem to exist.” On the way
Heckscher unravels the most penetrating
analysis, albeit somewhat abstract and
philosophical at times, of the basic prob-
lem of sustaining effective demand in a
highly modern economy.
It doesn’t particularly matter that the
starting point of superfluity is more ap-
propriate to the United States economy
than to any other in the world. Anthony
Trollope was saying the same thing in
the middle of the last century. “It is not
only that Americans have long been busy
and wasteful,” says Heckscher. “They
have more recently developed a system
which ensures a mounting flood, one ob-
ject begets another, one need proliferates
into a dozen.”
The problem is to keep up the mo-
mentum of the creation of new wants.
The passions of today’s citizen must be
played upon hour by hour by those who
make it their business to find customers
for the remorseless output of the
machine.
But only if one can put out of mind
the sub-living standards of countless mil-
lions outside the United States, does the
immensity of the American advertisers’
problem become real and even appalling.
“We must do nothing less than con-
vert the consumer to new ways of living
and new habits of thought; within this
decade, moreover, we must achieve as
much improvement in our living stand-
dards as has been accomplished in the
previous two hundred years,” one of
them has stated.
This disturbs Mr Heckscher very much
because he fears what sort of citizen
will come out of the process when his
education in consumership has been
completed. Indeed, he doesn’t like the
results of the process even thus far in
America’s progression.
He thinks there is no end and no rest-
ing place in the upward surge. “The ad-
vertisers are not asking the individual
who now lives in squalor to pull him-
self together and attain the standards of
a decently clean and respectable exist-
ence. They are asking that he adopt the
habits of a particular income group. As
income increases all along the line,
people are being submitted to pressure,
pushed into new ways of living not
because they necessarily desire the new
way, but because only thus, it is claimed,
can the productive capacities of the
economic system be fully utilised.”
Contradictions, uncertainties
"Out, says Heckscher, the result is an
individual not only unsettled at the
deepest level of his existence, but with
a very special attitude towards the things
of the world which has the effect of
dematerialising them.' “Goods which
have been produced abstractly are con-
sumed abstractly.”
But, as one said, it would be wrong
to give a wrong weighting to the econ-
omic implications of Heckscher’s theme
of the world of reality being in flux, its
baubles rising before our eyes and disap-
pearing again into the vast flow of
things eternally being made and re-made.
He sees the same tendency for reality to
dissolve and for contradictions and un-
certainties to prevail also in art and
theology, for instance.
The point is, even discounting mater-
ialistic philosophies (difficult enough to
do in a modern materialist society), the
economist has to take serious note of the
theme’s implications for keeping the
productive machine in top gear, of the
interaction of any flagging of effective
demand on the processes of income
generation, and the weakening of the
employment function which depends just
as much, even more perhaps, on what
is happening in the shops as in the fac-
tories, on the export wharves and even
in the Treasury.


INVEST
NOW
£l f OOO f OOO
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
o
y
k
o
20
10
years
7 \°/o
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
( Sk°/o
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£l*ooo,ooo
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6%
12 months
5%.
6 months
4 °!o
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
A
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
l_Ai> 2'i 186
“CROESUS”
New Debenture Safeguards
T'he first instalment of new Victorian
legislation to tighten safeguards for
investors in debentures came into effect
this week. This prevents the issue of
debentures except where the trustee is
one of the following:—A bank, a life
assurance company, a statutory trustee
company (or a fully owned subsidiary of
one of these), or a corporation approved
for the purpose by the Attorney-General.
This is a step forward in that it now
rules out the indiscriminate issue of deb-
entures whose trustees have no standing,
such as some in the last two years. It
may also make those appointed more res-
ponsible and vigilant in carrying out their
duties.
But as both the Attorney-General and
the Stock Exchange recognise, there is
still a long way to go before the gates
for the full protection of investors on
debentures are closed, if, indeed, they
can be effectively closed. (Some eminent
company lawyers, like Mr Oswald Burt,
seriously doubt if they can —Mr Burt said
the other day that it was mainly a moral
question, depending on the integrity of
company boards as much as anything.)
Victoria seems to be ahead of other
States in its efforts to do this. A second
instalment of legislative safeguards is
presently being drafted. This is being
designed to give trustees more timely and
effective lines of intervention in the af-
fairs of companies on behalf of debenture
holders, such as the provision of special
reports as deemed necessary by trustees.
At present they are powerless to act until
a default has occurred in either interest
payments or redemptions of principal.
This limitation has in the past let out
many a horse before trustees got to the
stable gate.
Before the second leg of legislation is
put before the State Parliament the draft
will be considered at a meeting of the
attorneys-general of all States later in
July.
This whole matter is, of course, also
under close consideration by the As-
sociated Stock Exchanges, but Mr A. B.
Mellor, chairman of the Melbourne Ex-
change, told The Bulletin that although
progress was made at their meeting in
Melbourne last week, they preferred to
delay a public statement until plans were
crystallised. They are working in co-
operation with the States’ attorneys-
general and also with the HP Con-
ference, accountants and other interested
parties.
While brokers seem to be fairly con-
fident about getting effective measures
against future “unsafe” debenture issues
one way or another, the problem of pre-
venting the on-passing of funds raised
on debenture into questionable activities
of subsidiaries still appears to be baffling
all concerned.
It is understood that one avenue ex-
plored, but apparently found wanting, is
the limitation of company, particularly
finance company, borrowing. Naturally
the HP companies are dead against
that, though as a broker close to Keid
Murray explained to us during the week,
that group’s HP activities were the root
cause of its downfall.
But it would, it seems, be a pity if the
last word has been spoken on the limit-
ation of finance company borrowings.
We don’t want another hammer blow
such as Mr Holt struck at them with his
tax-on-interest in November, 1960, but
now we have a uniform companies act
and the States’ attorneys-general are in
the mood for co-operation to get effective
safeguards for investors on an Australia-
wide basis, the limitation of finance com-
pany borrowing might well be the best
bet of all.
The GM Has Gone
T'he Stock Exchange of Melbourne has
lost its untiring and personable gen-
eral manager, Mr D. S. Rogers, at a time
when the Exchange is still streamlining its
operations to meet modern necessities.
Moreover, the Exchange is not replacing
him, for the time being anyway, the
chairman, Mr A. B. Mellor, told us. But,
having broadened its administrative staff
considerably in the last few years, there
is no real urgency in the matter.
Since he joined the administrative staff
as assistant secretary in 1951, soon to
become secretary, and more recently its
first general manager, Mr Rogers has
piloted the Exchange through the major
hazards of modernisation, including the
momentous change from the call system
to post trading which diehards hoped
never to see. It is, perhaps, a pity he
has not stayed to finish his work to speed
up transfers and introduce automation.
But now as a joint partner with the
long experienced Mr H. G. Tredinnick in
Edward Ward and Co., he will be near
at hand to give guidance to the committee
on future changes, including the envis-
aged move into new premises in Collins
Street. Also, as a member of a small
broking firm, he will perhaps lend his
authority and experience to the cause
of much needed purification of the brok-
ing function, sometimes swamped in the
multi-phased activities of the bigger
“broking” houses.


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
7o
1 P.A
2
5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
• Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
• Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.
• Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
• Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3611
INVESTMENT SECTION
Sophistication Marks Share Dealings
a line from the Sydney Stock
Exchange all-ordinaries’ index, aver-
age Australian share prices put on slight-
ly more than 8.5 p.c. during the financial
year just ended.
By far the greater portion of the ad-
vance, some 8 p.c., was recorded in the
six months between January and June,
1963.
During the previous financial year,
1961-62, overall prices had fallen back
about 1.2 p.c.
It seems advisable to interpolate at
this point that the markets saw June out
quite firmly, giving no sign of withdraw-
al. Trading now takes place within a
generally traditional lack of excitement
conditioned by pre-Budget hesitancy. Of
course, the early company reports cove-
ring the full 1962-63 year are also
awaited with eagerness.
Taking those qualifications into ac-
count, demand looks well spread. Turn-
overs keep comfortably close to the high-
er levels attained near April, when they
received stimulus from a wave of many
favorable interim statements.
As perhaps could have been conclud-
ed from comments in this section last
week, there is no need for pessimism
in the sharemarket. Buyers continue, in
Mr Ricketson’s words, to exercise “a pro-
per discrimination”.
Returning to the picture suggested by
the past year’s statistics, it can be seen
that such discrimination, hyperfine for
the first half, has distinguished most of
1962-63. Neglecting improving economic
indicators, investors were content to hold
their considerable resources of liquidity
under tight rein.
The equity situation was further com-
plicated by the strong protective entice-
ments of Commonwealth bonds, so much
so that long-term yields here in the last
six months have been brought down from
4.95 to 4.57 p.c. Large and small in-
vestors alike tended to play safe. But
a steady rise in share prices cannot be
long ignored.
Of the roughly 25 point index gain
posted since June, 1962, only 3.58 points
were added up to December. The index
furnished something of an illusion in
rapidity between October and December.
Striking the year’s low early in Octo-
ber, a mild pick-up suddenly met an ar-
rest from the Cuban crisis, an influence
wholly removed from the Australian eco-
nomic background and far too readily ab-
sorbed. On one day, October 23, the
index lost 5.35 points and on the next
4.13.
Sanity reasserted itself with commend-
able speed. However, the ground thrown
away was not wholly recovered until late
December.
While on external factors, the same
Cuban crisis largely provoked dramatic
increases in world sugar prices, thus mak-
ing Australian sugar shares (both millers
and growers) among the most keenly
sought in recent months.
Their rises, though, have been more
than matched by the base metals. With
the Barriers unleashed into full produc-
tion and Mount Isa as well working to
capacity, better world prices have again
done the rest. Here is an advance which
was noticeable all through the year.
Strict attention to local conditions pro-
duced sectional advances by retailers,
automotives, bank, insurance and hire-
purchase shares.
Building materials and fuel and power
remained alone in actual retreat over the
year, the former very heavily. Their un-
certainty has recently extended to elec-
trical and engineering issues.
This quick summary reinforces one
fact, especially casting back to pre-1960
investment patterns. The year’s rise was
certainly not hectic and, in the six months
since January, it has given every indic-
ation of being well considered.
By and large the leaders are regaining
their technical ascendancy after two years
of investment restlessness. They are join-
ed by more and more industrials, judged
closely on obvious reliability and per-
formance.
Purely from an investment standpoint
all that is to say a genuine sophistication
replaces a rather brash simplicity. The
change should be for the better.
No loss of faith in Australia’s econo-
mic future is involved. As the Treasury
Survey put it: “Here it is enough to say
that growth rates recorded in a cyclical
upswing do not reliably indicate what
could or should be capable of accom-
plishment year after year”.
The position has to be worked out, not
plucked from the easy air.


The “Rights” and the “Lefts”
underwriters for the £7.8 million
issue of dividend deferred shares
being made by Ampol Petroleum Ltd
have reported that trading in the rights
and the stock units has broken all Stock
Exchange records.
Apart from its size, the relative un-
conventionality of the issue and its high
ratio (three for eight) account for this
great market activity.
The deferment of dividends would
not suit most institutional holders, who
might feel inclined to re-invest proceeds
from the sale of rights in more shares,
as they offered a particularly good yield
for a stock of this calibre. The reverse
process would appeal to others who
could afford to go without income for
the time being.
Readers may recall the learned argu-
ments in March on the methods of
calculating the theoretical price for the
rights and the ex-rights price of the
shares.
Conventional methods arrived at a
rights price of 81d. and ex-rights share
price of Bs. sid. Trading in fact opened
at Bs. 6d. for the shares ex-rights which
sold first for 7d., 6d., Bd., and 9d.
Because the issue is dividend de-
ferred, other market students asserted
that the method of calculation for
normal share issues did not apply. They
arrived at a theoretical price of Is. sid.
for the rights and 9s. 2id. for the
shares.
The shares have actually been above
this level, but the rights have not so far
topped Is. 2d.
Trading in the rights has another six
weeks to run, and even then only 2s. is
required on application, with the final
3s. due 7i months later.
The risks entailed in investing in
Ampol now are possibly as great as
they were in 1947, except that manage-
ment has already proved its quality.
Many people have gnashed their teeth
for not being in on Ampol’s success in
the intervening years and it is not often
that a second opportunity presents itself
being right or getting left.
Battle to the Swift
and chemical merchant Swift’s
move into Hong Kong may be
seen by the sharemarkets as a further
sign of vigor renewed. The company’s
energy looked sadly dimmed in the light
of last year’s profit, down by 24 p.c. to
£85,906 and the lowest since 1956-57.
A normal 10 p.c. dividend, the rate
from 1958 onwards, had to be helped
from reserves. Directors have sub-
sequently reported “considerably higher”
earnings for the December half-year
and confirmed the dividend.
Establishment of a Hong Kong
branch, to service a wide stretch of
Asian markets, was mentioned at
October’s annual meeting. It occurs well
on time.
An expanded export department is
also collecting a measure of success from
Czechoslovakia, Norway, Sweden, Britain
and America. “Previously considered”
difficult markets are being brightly
assaulted.
The 10s. shares have held rather
fixedly about 15s. 10d., where they yield
6.3 p.c. Even this year they have
reached higher— to 18s. 3d. —let alone
1962’s 21s. 6d.
Some advance would seem justified
before final results for 1962-63 become
available.
Food Pickings
TTnilever’s expected move into
Queensland may now threaten
Queensland United Foods (the Peters-
Pauls group) in more ways than one.
Not only is the Street’s subsidiary to
engage in ice-cream distribution. After
proper establishment in Brisbane, it will
move into manufacture.
The process can hardly stop there, for
Unilever will certainly be preparing to
extend a broader food range throughout
the State. The food war won’t spare any
part of Australia.
QUF ss. shares have slipped to near
12s. 9d., yielding 3.9 p.c. at this price.
Whatever is in store, they’re quite a
fascinating buy.
Palmer Repercussions
Mow that the MLC Ltd has reported
receiving acceptances from holders
of at least 90 p.c. of H. G. Palmer
Consolidated Ltd capital, investors can
take another look at companies with
close associations with these two.
Hire Purchase Securities Ltd was
formed in 1954 under H. G. Palmer’s
sponsorship. Its present capital of
£500,000 is 40 p c. held by Palmer.
Although unspectacular it hasn’t
sought loan money from the public since
1958 earnings of close to 15 p.c. have
each year comfortably cleared the 10
p.c. dividend.
It’s not unreasonable to assume that
the MLC will want to tidy up its interests
by making a bid, in time, for the shares
publicly held in Hire Purchase Securities.
Failing that, it could channel more
business to HPS.
At 7s. the ss. shares return 7.1 p.c.
and could be attractive to the specu-
lator.
Since 1958 the MLC has held 44 p.c.
of the issued shares of Alliance Holdings
Ltd. But because its holding is only in
contributing ss. shares, paid to 35., its
share of paid capital is at present only
32.4 p.c.
Although dividends have been trimmed
from 15 to 12i to 10 p.c. in the last
three years, the substantial increase in
business transacted and profit earned
for the last December half-year suggests
1962-63 has been much healthier than
its predecessor.
A seller offering Bs. 9d. (yield 5.7 p.c.)
found no buyers recently, but a deal
at this price or thereabouts should not
entail much risk.
4 ‘Categorically Speaking”
TV/IcKinley Wilson & Co., Melbourne
broker, has done a fine service to
clients in bringing out an up-to-date clas-
sification of Australian ordinary shares.
It is the more valuable in that its cross
indexing, though not perhaps foolproof,
answers just about all the questions on
the identification of firms. Clients will
find its appearance most timely with the
flush season for company reporting only
a few weeks off.
the world of business
"I've never heard of a more outrageous swindle! You're an unmitigated
rogue, sir! You're a scoundrel! You're hired!"


X
#*»
V : • <;
-1 trfi " ,
vi
'
F.C.A. LEASING will
expand production
and conserve capital
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capital
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing
■ frees working capital for
more profitable use.
■ allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.CA. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objectives through leasing—and why it pays
to lease from F.C.A.— write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St. Telephone: 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St. Telephone: 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts. Telephone: 27 700-
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St. Telephone: 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone: 21 3181
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED


HOW TO
UNDERSTAND
PUTS AND CALLS
A "PUT" option is an option to sell
(or put) a certain share at a specified
price within a specified time.
A "CALL" option is an option to buy
(or call for) a certain share at a
specified price within a specified
time.
The main advantage in the buying
of options is the feature of limiting
any possible loss and on the other
hand not limiting any possible
profits.
On the stock market in the case of
PUT options the choice or option
belongs to the holder of the option
contract.
He can decide to exercise his con-
tract if he so desires and only if it
is to his advantage to do so.
To learn more about this or other types
of option transfers Phone or post
coupon today.
To MONTGOMERY HUGHES & CO. PTY. LTD.
324 Pitt Street, Sydney. Phone: 26 1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address.
Peko Prospers
T)eko-Wallsend Investments Ltd
ss. shares at 11s. 3d. look one of the
most interesting growth stocks within
the range of the small investor.
Dividends paid in the last four years
have improved from 7i p.c. to 9i p.c.,
lli p.c. and this year to an indicated
12i p.c. The expected final dividend of
6i p.c. will be mostly tax-free.
Many investors are perhaps shy of a
mining stock, although this one, produc-
ing coal, gold, copper and beach sands,
is classed in the industrial section.
Last week's news that gold production
for 11 months to June 11 was more than
double that of the previous full year
should boost the company’s fortunes.
Orlando, the new gold mine at Ten-
nant Creek, began producing in August,
1962.
An April bulletin that Du Pont had
exercised its option to increase rutile
supplies from Rutile and Zircon Mines
(Newcastle) Ltd (half-owned by Peko)
from 30,000 to 50,000 tons a year for
five years is another strengthening in-
fluence on Peko shares.
The contract ran from October, 1962,
and already Rutile and Zircon Mines has
shipped 23,800 tons.
Gilt-edge<l Lacquer
ss. shares of Melbourne paint and
lacquer maker Brolite Industries have
sold up to 31s. this year. Even at ruling
levels around 245. 9d. they still yield
only 3.1 p.c. on a confident 15 p.c. divi-
dend held on bonus-increased capital.
The company’s market status is once
more confirmed by an interim report for
the half-year to March 31. Both sales
and net profit are up. A new factory
for the NZ subsidiary is getting off the
drawing board.
Last year's profit went from £ll4 327
to £125,963, within hailing distance of
1960’s peak £129,449. Earning rate came
out an admirable 40.5 p.c. Liquidity has
been a byword for some years.
Supplies go to a wide range of in-
dustries, so Brolite does not depend only
on its principal customers—motor and
electrical goods firms. Particularly effec-
tive technical liaison comes from ex-
clusive association with some British and
American paint companies.
Being Ernest
ILfEN’s wear maker Ernest Hiller Hold-
± ings gives every appearance of fight-
ing back well. After directors’ forecast
of better profit in the current year, some
interest should now be directed to the
final dividend, payable in October.
Earnings for both 1961 and 1962
fell back solidly from 1960's peak. Fol-
lowing 12J p.c. dividends between 1957
and 1960, a 7 i p.c. payment was made in
1961 and only 6 p.c. in 1962. The latter
rate was preserved by this year’s interim.
The full 1962-63 profit is not expected
to hit 1960 level. Cost and competitive
problems must be nagging, since sales
and production will be records. An extra
good order position holds special prom-
ise for the coining year.
Investors have merely put the ss.
shares up 2d. to ss. 2d. Hitherto they’d
been under par during most of 1963, but
touched ss. 7d. last year.
Shareholders’ Demands
T osses totalling £390,000 in three
years, with no return to profitability
in sight, has prompted action by some
shareholders of Vesta Ltd.
A group, holding more than 10 p.c. of
issued capital, is calling for blank proxy
forms from shareholders for use at an
extraordinary meeting.
The company’s financial and trading
position over the past four years, and
what remedial action has been taken
by directors, will be discussed at such
a meeting.
The inquiring shareholder group, in-
cluding a former director, Mr Sidney
Airens who retired last January as he
was over age, is calling for the resigna-
tion of the existing board.
Vesta shares w'ere highly regarded as
an investment up to 1957 when 15 p.c.
dividends were the rule. The ss. shares
are now 2s. lOd.
Father Knows Best
paternalism towards those un-
fortunate necessities, shareholders,
can’t be carried much further than a re-
cent statement by Tooths. When asked,
at the annual meeting, for the basis of
valuation of breweries and freeholds,
chairman Mr R. J. Vicars had the answer
pat and uninformative: “The valuation is
one made by directors in the best interest
of stockholders.”
Perhaps some more confidential de-
tails were disclosed when refreshments
were served after the meeting.
Neon’s Green Light
/Chairman of Neon Signs (Australasia)
Ltd surely gave the green light to
intending investors with his remark
recently that 1962-63 earning rate would
be within “kicking distance” of last
year’s 22.8 p.c.
In December last a two-for-five issue
at 50 p.c. premium was made to holders
of shares, options and notes, ranking
for dividend from January 1, 1963. The
shares were 14s. on the day of the
announcement, giving an ex-rights value
of about 12s. 2d.
The ss. shares are now around 7s. 3d.
to return 8.6 p.c. on the apparently safe
12i p.c. dividend, and if the company
earns say 20 p.c. on capital this year,
the earnings yield obtainable now is
13.8 p.c.
Loss by Beef Company
Tt’s no good directors or shareholders
of Australian Beef Cattle Develop-
ment Co. Ltd beefing about the fall in
market value of Santa Gertrudis cattle.
That price is determined by supply
and demand is an economic fact of
life. Now that Santa Gertrudis cattle
are available in greater numbers, down
goes their price.
Natural increase will in future be
valued at a nominal figure, say directors,
and the company’s stock of cattle will
be revalued to bring them in line with
the market.
This write-down is expected to result
in a loss for 1962-63. No more properties
will be purchased, at least for the time
being, and management will concentrate
on pure-bred Santa Gertrudis.


■3fe?
&
mm
u
o
9?
r"y
*
ye
Ts>,o
2r*
s*
rT<
K
s
3^
-XjP
8?s
8
!/>>
5C
?*
C'
or 2
eo
n
a>
&6T\
£
w
o«t
*t>
o
o
u
o
Croesus said:
(,(.
Rich? Sure! Just can’t stop
w/orrijing about Death Duties
99
EES
He was the richest man in the world, but if he
were alive to-day he’d certainly have a “man-sized”
Death Duty problem.
The Death Duty problem is not difficult to
handle if an adequate supply of cash is available
just when it is needed.
An A.M.P. “Probate” policy does exactly that,
Let an A.M.P. man tell you about it,
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY COVE. Offices in cities and towns throughout
Australia and New Zealand and in the United Kindgom
Every A.M.P. member enjoys the unquestioned security afforded by assets exceeding £600.000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to members.
MI2OB


SECURITY ANALYSIS
AW A Shares are Fully Priced
A lthough the ss. shares in AWA Ltd
currently selling at 22s 6d. are
priced well below the 1960 peak of
345. 3d. and the 1961 peak of 28s. 9d.,
their immediate dividend yield of 3.1
p.c. still suggests that investors regard
the company’s shares as being in the
“growth” class. However, investors
seem to be showing great faith in a
company which has provided many dis-
appointments over the past few years
including a dividend cut, falling earn-
ings and an unexciting set of con-
solidated accounts which appeared for
the first time in the year ended June 30,
1962.
The company, which was formed in
1913 to take over the Australasian Wire-
less Co. Ltd and the Australian branch
of Marconi’s Wireless Telegraph Co. Ltd
of London, has since grown to such an
extent that its activities cover an
extremely large area.
The Consumer Products division,
whose results are probably most affected
by the general economic conditions
(apart from the stability of the industry
itself) manufactures TV and radio
receivers, radiograms and car radios,
while in addition it distributes domestic
refrigerators, washing machines and
other appliances made under the trade
name AWA by Email Ltd, a company
with which close liaison is maintained.
The sharp profit reversal experienced
in the 1960-61 financial year was mainly
due to the falling off in demand for the
consumer products division’s goods to-
gether with the excess capacity in the
industry, causing discounting of prices
and resulting in decreased profit margins.
Continuing extension of TV to country
areas will not give any great impetus
to demand because of the low popula-
tion surrounding these particular stations.
Rather, the replacement market should
provide a steady future flow of demand.
As far as the Engineering Products
division is concerned, the equipment
range manufactured has become more
diversified over time as a result of new
applications derived from the develop-
ment of electronics. Apart from the
company’s own research, AWA is
associated with Marconi Wireless Tele-
graph Co. Ltd (UK) and with Radio
Corporation of America. In 1959 AWA
entered into a manufacturing and dis-
tributing agreement with the Klein-
schmidt division of Smith-Corona, USA,
covering the full range of Kleinschmidt
equipment (including various special
communications devices) which is stan-
dard military equipment for the US
Signal Corps. The manufactures of
this division are mainly of a capital
nature for overseas and domestic com-
munication, as well as navigational
devices for marine and aviation purposes.
Some stability is probably achieved in
this division due to a steady stream of
orders received from various Govern-
ment departments and public utilities
such as electricity authorities, fire
brigades and ambulances. While this
division of AWA has performed well in
export markets, the directors have con-
tinually stressed that such success is
dependent on strong home sales support
in order to assist in absorbing overheads
and spreading of design costs.
Qther activities of the group include the
marine and aviation division, in-
volving the manufacturing of naviga-
tional devices, and the broadcasting de-
partment where AWA is financially and
technically interested in a number of
broadcasting and television stations.
2CH Sydney is one of the eight com-
mercial broadcasting stations operated
by AWA, and the company also has an
interest in United Telecasters Sydney
Ltd, which will form Sydney’s third
commercial television station.
In the first set of consolidated ac-
counts released by AWA for the year
to June 30, 1962, group net profit, after
tax and provisions had been deducted,
came out at £592,451, or 19.7 p.c. on
year-end ordinary capital. However,
from this figure £lOO,OOO was appropri-
ated as a “provision for long service
leave,” and this is usually regarded as
a provision to be charged against the net
profit figure. If one so regards this
provision, then the earning rate drops
to 16.4 p.c., giving only slight cover for
the 14 p.c. dividend (including 4 p.c.
bonus).
Two points of interest, though, did
arise from the first consolidated ac-
counts. Total reserves of £6,582,420,
consisting of £793,000 capital reserves
and the remainder revenue surplus, rep-
resented a steep increase over the
previous year’s £3,984,000 (approx.).
On the opposite side, however, the
group profit figure was only slightly
higher than the parent company’s profit
figure had been a year earlier.
It should be remembered that back in
December, 1961, the chairman of AWA
sounded a sombre warning on the future
of the bonus dividend, stating that one
could expect a bonus to be added as
conditions warrant. This would indicate
that the present 14 p.c. dividend (con-
sisting of a basic 10 p.c. plus 4 p.c.
bonus), which was cut back from 16 p.c.
paid in the 1959 and 1960 financial years
(11 p.c. basic and 5 p.c. bonus), in view
of the small cover by current earnings,
could well be maintained for a couple
of years.
Over the past five years, however,
AWA has not proved a good investment.
No new issues have been made, the earn-
ing rate has declined sharply, the divi-
dend has been cut from 16 p.c. to 14 p.c.
and its servicing has been increased by
the conversion of the notes issued in
1956. Further, for current prices of
around 22s. 6d. yielding 3.1 p.c. to be
justified, over the next five years divi-
dend income should increase at an
average annual compound rate of just
over 10 p.c. (and thereafter at 3 p.c. p.a.)
so as to give an eventual yield of 7 p.c.
comparable to that obtained on fixed
income securities.
PPhis would be achieved if the dividend
rate was gradually raised over the next
five years to about 23 p.c., or alterna-
tively if a one-for-two bonus issue was
made together with a small dividend
increase. Clearly on the present earnings
trend neither alternative seems possible
—only the emergence of another “boom”
of the 1960 variety would improve its
likelihood.
The only conclusion to be drawn
from this is that at current prices, the
shares of AWA are fully priced. How-
ever, this is not to deny the possibility
of a slight improvement in the price of
the shares when the current financial
year’s profit figure, which should advance
on last year’s figure, is announced.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
Consoli-
dated
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ord. capital 2226 2226 2226 2226 3000
Reserves 2522 2913 32S6 3984 6555
Ord. SHF. 4748 5139 5512 6210 9555
Minority interests — — — — 312
Convertible notes 774 774 774 774 —
Loan capital — — — 25 129
Total capital 5522 5913 6286 7009 9996
Represented by:
Current assets 6310 6983 8009 7349 10060
Less current
liabilities 3263 3614 4569 3553 3826
Working capital 3047 3369 3440 3796 6234
Fixed assets 2010 2048 2141 2379 3299
Investments 379 410 619 748 363
Intangibles 86 86 86 86 100
5522 5913 6286 7009 9966
Operating income n/a n/a n/a n/a 1792
Op. Inc. p.c. total
capital n/a n/a n/a n/a 25.6
Earnings 671 701 719 490 492
Earnings p.c. ord.
capital 30.1 31.4 32.2 22.0 16.4
Dividend yield
p.c. (a) 3.6 2.9 3.3 3.4 3.6
(a) Based on last sale, month accounts presented,


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
More Jam on the Shelf
A further increase in turnover in the
year to March 31 enabled Cottee’s
Ltd, food and drinks maker, to improve
on past profit records.
Transfer of the soft drinks manufac-
turing operations to a new factory at
Auburn (Sydney), now completed to the
first of three stages planned, created
unexpected trouble and expense, but this
has now been solved and directors report
that the new plant is operating efficiently.
Liability for taxation was reduced by a
special investment allowance on new
manufacturing plant, chiefly connected
with the Auburn factory, and production
of frozen concentrated orange juice
which involved capital outlay of
£125,000.
The tax provision was thus down from
£lOB,OOO to £96,000, while the de-
preciation charge was increased from
£104,107 to £113,357.
The net result from trading and in-
vestment income was £202,673, com-
pared with £183,128 in 1961-62 and
£162,369 in 1960-61.
Shareholders received a one-for-four
bonus in August, 1962. These shares
ranked for the full year’s dividend at the
unchanged rate of 15 p.c.
The company was launched in 1927
to develop the passionfruit industry and
has since moved into aerated Passiona
and other soft drink concentrates mar-
keted throughout Australia by franchised
companies and licensed bottlers, and
into the production of grocery, cordial
and milk bar lines.
These include jams and fruit spreads,
peanut butter, jelly crystals, instant pud-
dings, soups and frozen vegetables.
Addition of frozen concentrated
orange juice to the range this last year
has met with initial success and sub-
stantial export orders.
Cottee’s owns about 600 acres of citrus
orchards at Kulnura near Gosford
(NSW).
The aerated soft drinks market is be-
coming increasingly competitive, and
Cottee’s appears to be aware of the over-
seas trend towards pure fruit juice
drinks.
Apart from the new plant at Auburn,
/ already mentioned, the company’s build-
ing programme covers substantial factory
extensions in Melbourne.
Cottee’s has not turned to sharehold-
ers for funds since August, 1955, when a
23-for-100 issue at par was made. A
one-for-two bonus in July, 1959, pre-
ceded last year’s free distribution.
Various issues have been made to
acquire companies Dyasons (Mildura)
Pty Ltd in 1958, Passiona Bottling Co.
(Sydney) and Passiona Bottling Co. (Bris-
bane) Ltd in 1959, and Cahills Quick
Freezers in 1961.
Paid-up capital is still small at
£631,000 in ordinary shares and
£30,000 in preference shares. The latter
are being redeemed at the rate of £5OOO
each year.
Directors seem anxious to maintain
reserves used in the business at the tidy
figure of £1 million, apart from the
balance in profit and loss account. Hav-
ing achieved this position in 1962, a
transfer was made from profits to gen-
eral reserve after the bonus issue of
last July.
The company has an excellent reputa-
tion in the trade, and from the invest-
ment angle its financial situation is char-
acterised by stability without stagnation.
There is no apparent reason why earn-
ings should not continue their current
trend, and the company appears well
able to handle present expansion pro-
grammes without depending too largely
on outsider or shareholder assistance.
The 5s. ordinary stock units sold re-
cently at 26s. to return 2.9 p.c., and show
an earnings yield of 6.1 p.c.
Opportunities should recur when the
stock can be picked up at rather less
than this figure, but that is not to say
that the stock is not worth its current
level.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 684 873 896 973 1093
Less current liabilities 477 512 578 473 580
Working capital 207 361 313 500 513
Investments 47 49 49 £2 55
Fixed assets 593 900 1066 1233 1468
847 1310 1433 1785 2036
Loan capital 29 160 196 185 334
Reserves 500 653 745 1060 1041
Preference capital 50 45 40 35 30
Ordinary capital 268 452 452 505 631
847 1310 1433 1785 2036
Depreciation 36 64 83 104 114
Taxation 81 84 106 108 96
Net profit 131 142 162 183 202
Net profit for ords. 123 140 160 181 200
Dividends 1 44 68 68 76 95
Surplus 84 72 92 105 105
Earning rate 47.6 30.8 35.5 36.0 31.9
Dividend rate 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 4.9 3.2 3.2 2.8
Price (earnings
ratio) (a) 9.7 15.1 13.3 18.5 —
High price (b) 17/6 23/1 i 25/9 28/9 35/-
Low price (b) 13/— 15/72 18/— 18/- 23/—
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
MALLEY’S LTD
The Whirlpool Agreements
Revision of the agreement between
Malley’s Ltd and Whirlpool Corpora-
tion of USA, announced at the end of
May, puts rather a different complexion
on Malley’s shares
The original agreement, made in Sep-
tember, 1960, was on the following
terms: Whirlpool made an unsecured
loan to Malley’s of £350,000 at 6 p.c.
interest, repayable on October 1, 1963.
Whirlpool had the right to convert at
maturity into ordinary shares at a pre-
mium of 12s. 6d. per share or market
price, whichever was the lower, subject
to a minimum premium of Bs. per 20s.
share. Whirlpool had the right to leave
accrued interest and technical assistance
fees on deposit with the company at 6
p.c. These also had conversion rights,
but the maximum conversion that Whirl-
pool could make was limited to no more
than 20 p.c. of total subscribed capital
after conversion.
During 1961-62 (year ended June 30)
the unsecured loan standing to Whirl-
pool’s credit grew from £.376,918 to
£491,133.
On May 31, Malley’s shares closed at
245. The new agreement permitted satis-
faction of a £276,000 debt from royal-
ties by the issue of 209,091 20s. shares
at a premium of 6s. 4.8 d. a share pre-
mium, that is 10 p.c. above the current
market.
This raises paid capital to £1,820,240*
giving Whirlpool an 11 p.c. shareholding.
The original loan of £350,000 has been
extended, and will be repayable in three
equal yearly instalments starting on Sep-
tember 30, 1964.
Future royalties will be convertible


into ordinary shares at 10 p.c. above the
market price on the day of issue, not
exceeding 28s. before September 30,
1964, 295. before September 30, 1965,
and not exceeding 30s. thereafter.
Recent developments in the appliance
industry suggested that stronger support
from Whirlpool would be in Malley’s best
interests. The chairman (Mr N. H. Rout-
ley) said this in explanation of the in-
crease from 20 to 25 p.c. in the Malley’s
equity which Whirlpool can hold under
the new agreement.
Mr Routley said the rate of technical
assistance fees payable to Whirlpool
would be greatly reduced after June 1,
1963, thus improving group profitability.
Management expected that conversion of
future fees to capital would largely pro-
vide the funds necessary to repay the
£350,000 loan.
The original licensing agreement with
Whirlpool in 1954 covered the manu-
facture of washing machines. In 1960
this was extended to include refrigera-
tors, laundry dryers, dish washers, gas
and electric stoves, etc.
Malley’s business dates back to 1835,
and incorporation in 1919. It has al-
ways manufactured sheet-metal goods,
builders’ and plumbers’ hardware, and
sanitary ware.
The original tie with Whirlpool was at
the beginning of the 50’s, and was suc-
ceeded by a run of very profitable years.
The market for domestic appliances is
now well supplied, and the conditions of
pent-up demand which applied then may
never be repeated.
In the year 1961, management drew
£50,000 from tax-paid stock pro-
vision to boost apparent profits. The
following year was decidedly better, but
losses carried forward in some subsidia-
ries reduced the liability for taxation.
Tooling costs of £41,000 were included
in the depreciation charge and written
off during 1961-62 and, as a measure of
prudence, £lOO,OOO was transferred
from general reserve to a provision for
plant and tooling obsolescence.
Factories in Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane also provide most of the group’s
own manufacturing needs, such as deep
drawing presses, roll forming machines,
galvanising, enamelling, painting and
plating processes, plastic companies and
so on.
The programme for transferring manu-
facture from Revesby to Auburn (NSW),
which was interrupted by the economic
recession, has now been completed with-
out major difficulties, and the Revesby
property was put up for sale.
The Auburn plant produces the do-
mestic appliances, while the Alexandria
plant is basically concerned with the
sheet metal products and industrial en-
gineering equipment.
Interim dividend from higher profits
of the December 1962 half-year, was
lifted from 3 to 4 p.c., indicating an
annual rate of 8 p.c. At this rate the
20s. shares at 245. 6d. return 6.5 p.c.
The financial obligations to Whirlpool
will keep a lid on the share prices for the
next two years or so, but they could im-
prove a couple of shillings if the full
year’s results, usually announced in Sep-
tember, reflect the improved trends ex-
perienced by Kelvinator and General
Industries.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 1345 1868 2079 2730 2841
Less current
liabilities 743 975 1225 1091 955
Working capital 602 893 854 1639 1886
Fixed assets 939 1472 1628 2222 2154
Intangibles 23 90 86 32 28
1564 2455 2568 3893 4068
Loan capital 46 544 542 1118 1291
Preference capital 30 30 30 30 30
Ordinary capital 905 1068 1069 1611 1611
Reserves 583 813 927 1134 1136
1564 2455 2568 3893 4068
Depreciation 56 56 112 180 199
Taxation n/a 118 125 — 76
Net profit 180 215 227 26 163
Net profit for ords. 177 212 224 23 160
Dividends 90 107 107 71 96
Surplus 87 95 117 —48 64
Earning rate 19.6 19.9 21.2 1.3 10.0
Dividend rate 10 10 10 5 6
Dividend yield (a) 6.5 4.9 5.6 5.0 5.6
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 8.0 10.2 8.4 55.5 10.0
High price (b) 34/- 41/- 49/- 38/3 25/-
Low pflce (b) 25/- 30/3 33/- 19/9 19/6
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
Mount Isa Peaks
'M'ot unexpectedly Mount Isa finished
its year with a dazzling record ore
treatment in the final 28-day period—■
277,634 tons, nearly 10,000 tons a day
The full year saw a 34 p.c. rise in ore
treated, yielding 65,805 tons of blister
copper (previous year 53,925 tons),
59,630 tons of lead bullion (41,484),
57,852 tons of zinc concentrate (45,837)
and something above 4m ounces of silver
(4,964,912 oz).
The stijl favourable base metal markets
presage advantageous sales and more than
a return to 1960-61 profits. The ss. shares
are selling at this year’s top prices around
71s. 6d.
ISAS (NSW) LTD
Bad Debts a Major Problem
Tntense competition still prevails in the
heavy equipment field, but Isas
(NSW) Ltd was able to achieve a high-
er turnover in its latest year. But directors
pointed out that recovery in the construc-
tion and timber industries from the reces-
sion was slower than desirable.
The company was formed in Sydney
in 1956 to exercise franchises from
International Harvester Co. of Australia
Pty Ltd and Armstrong-Holland Pty Ltd.
It distributed throughout NSW their
industrial tractors and power units, earth-
moving equipment and Smith Rodley
cranes and excavators. The first branch
was opened at Cooma in 1958.
In 1960-61 the company acquired
franchises for Gabon and Britstand
graders.
The company paid annual dividends
of 10 p.c. for the first four years after
listing, but in the last two years profits
have just covered dividends of 5 p.c.
and 7± p.c.
While parts and service demands con-
tinued at a satisfactory level during the
recession, the directors were concerned
with the fall in equipment sales, because
current profits and future demands for
parts and services are thereby reduced.
Bad debts were a major problem in the
last two years, and large sums were writ-
ten off in the latest year ended March 31.
Since balance date sales have been
satisfactory, directors report, particularly
of equipment delivered to government
and local government departments.
As a mere distributor, Isas is in a
fairly vulnerable position: the loss of a
franchise could seriously affect profits. It
is by nature a cyclical stock, and does
not provide much security to the investor.
At about 2s. 6d. below par 20s., the
shares currently return 8.5 p.c. They
could move up to par if industry picks
up as expected in the next 12 months,
but beyond that they begin to look top-
heavy.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 580 629 978 982 1064
Less current liabilities 440 500 682 675 747
Working capital 140 129 296 307 317
Fixed assets 117 157 169 159 155
Intangibles 12 — — —
269 236 465 466 472
Reserves 19 36 75 76 82
Ordinary capital 250 250 390 390 390
269 286 465 466 472
Depreciation 7 9 12 13 12
Taxation 17 34 31 16 25
Net profit 28 54 40 21 35
Dividends 25 25 33 20 29
Surplus 3 29 7 1 6
Earning rate 11.2 21.7 12.5 5.3 7.8
Dividend rate 10 10 10 5 7\
Dividend yield (a) 9.3 5.7 9.8 6.6 —
Price/earning
ratio (a) 9.6 8.0 8.2 14.3 —
High price (b) 23/- 30/3 40/- 25/- 20/-
Low price (b) 20/6 20/6 27/- 17/3 14/-
(a) End of June, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous financial year.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord. J A M. Minnett, (VI. A Gteeson
White, tan (VlcFarlane. G T. Kryger
Members ot t.he Sydney Stock Erchanof
L L de Groen, S R. Ravenscroft
R. V Betts
Non-Membei Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEA
Tel 25 5711 25 6011 Telex 5243
Branches at.
150 Queen St. Melbourne
359-369 Queen St.. Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
•Orderley Sydney Melbourne & Brisban
A. 1. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER,
\ W C. DRAPF.K, R. F. CORMIE.
G H STEPHENS
(Mbmbe.ru nl Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITT CO’ 1
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines!
P.O. BOX
No IHB7W
lOWNSVII.LE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street Phone: 6089.
Hire-purchase Queries
npHE genial managing director of
General Credits Holdings (Mr D. G.
McOmish) should feel the need of being
very explicit when he presents the com-
pany’s full 1962-63 accounts next
month. After last December’s cheerful
interim statement, attentive shareholders
might be getting a vague sense of let-
down from preliminary figures for the
year to April 30.
A good deal more than confirmation
of a 61 p.c. dividend on a 7 p.c. earning
rate could have been expected. Even the
45 p.c. leap in group profit from
£165,247 to £239,652 can’t be greeted
entirely on its real merits.
For in the six months to October,
pre-tax profits were stated to have
exceeded the whole 1961-62 result. This,
with tax added back again, would be
about £190,000.
The pre-tax 1962-63 earnings seem to
be around £312,000, bringing back an
apparently low tax provision of £72,382.
So on the surface the second six
months endured a fairly marked de-
celeration, harder to accept on top of
October’s profitability from all sub-
sidiaries and expansion continuing on
steady lines. Diversification and spread
were thrown in for good measure.
An exact picture of the full year will
be keenly awaited.
The ss. shares are patiently holding
around 7s. 4d. They have been as high
as Bs. sd. this year.
ONE TO BUY
Geared For Growth
ss. shares of Jacoby Mitchell
Holdings, distributor of electronic
and electrical equipment, are now avail-
able around 145., at which price they
yield 4.5 p.c. and possess an earnings
yield at 10.1 p.c.
Ruling levels linger close to the year’s
lowest and rather distant from 1963’s
top 16s. 9d. In 1962 prices ranged
between 12s. and 16s.
No untimely descent need be feared
or waited for. But the present does
appear a good time to buy into a healthy
and well-run company, whose operations
are becoming tailored to a growing and
more complex industrial economy.
The electronics side should be
especially noted, since the technical ex-
pansion of Australian industry will soon
tend to make more and more demand for
this type of equipment. Though small,
Jacoby Mitchell is preparing to meet
those demands.
However, the company is not narrowly
based just on industrial and research
sections. It spreads into office auto-
mation and process control, industrial
plastics, wires, cables and switchgear,
and industrial and domestic lighting.
Some, if not all, of such activities
might be felt to have been shaken by
the slow-down in business investment.
But directors during March were able
to advise a “very satisfactory increase”
in group sales for the seven months to
January 31. They carefully qualified
that profit, “whilst slightly higher, has
not risen in proportion to sales because
of higher development and selling costs.”
A similar proviso was attached to
1961-62’s then record sales and profit,
from which it may also be concluded
that the group still protects its develop-
mental opportunities a very essential
attitude in this particular field.
Directors, though, have had no
hesitation in keeping to the 12i p.c.
dividend rate established by the initial
public payment in 1960. The company’s
listing had been effected by a placement
at 6s. lOd. in the February of that year.
Since then earning rates have been
held consistently high: 1960, 29.69 p.c.;
1961, 29.95 p.c.; 1962, 28.24 p.c. The
latter year produced net profit of
£45,545 and the dividend took £20,156.
At this stage the net tangible assets
backing stood at 7s. 9d. a share. Re-
serves comprised capital £1825, share
premiums £27,500 and surplus profits
£75,951. They were subject to in-
tangibles £17,812.
Capitalisation looks moderate at
£161,250 and will suffer only mild
increase when <£30,000 of unsecured
notes convert on December 31, 1964.
Both debtors and creditors increased
out of proportion last year, due
principally to “a special deferred pay-
ment arrangement granted to a sub-
sidiary company by a supplier of a
seasonal product.” The benefit was passed
on to customers.
No overdraft requirement has been
found necessary. Indeed, at June 30
last, cash item was a handy £87,814.
Directors guardedly describe the
manufacturing subsidiaries as small.
They can justly add that these offshoots
“are keeping pace with overseas develop-
ments.” Joint and licensed manufacturing
ventures are constantly sought, so the
group is kept technically on its toes.
As early as last October a better
current order position became visible.
The company also obtained major
defence contracts for some of its over-
seas principals.
All in all, Jacoby Mitchell impresses
by its organisation and its obvious gear-
ing for future growth.
Investors may appreciate its con-
temporary reliability and anticipate later
rewards.
“Offer Accepted”
Shares
A recent refinement in Sydney Stock
Exchange practices is the separate
quotation of stocks where the holder
has accepted a takeover bid.
The shares are distinguished in the
lists by O/A (offer accepted), distinct
from those in respect of which no accep-
tance has been given. There have been
several stocks so quoted H. G. Palmer,
Olympic Bowling and Salamander Salt.
This innovation means that sharehold-
ers, having accepted an offer, be it shares
or cash, are not deprived of liquidity.
In the past, delays in issuing scrip by
the bidder making a share offer have
meant that some investors have had to
wait several months be'ore they were
able to sell their new shareholdings,
unless they were prepared to run the risk
of being bought in against for failure
to furnish scrip.
And in the case of cash offers, a share-
holder need not await the pleasure of
the bidder to pay up, but can cash in,
provided he is prepared to accept a dis-
counted price.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
TO: JOHN KEITH WEEKES, late of 107
Alfred Street, Parramatta. TAKE NOTICE
that MARJORIE HELEN WEEKES has filed
a Petition for Divorce (No. 325 of 1963) on
the ground of separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court Mint Building,
Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
29th day of July, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the Petition and Notice of Petition without
charge from MESSRS. K. B. MORGAN & CO.,
Solicitors, of 46 Darcy Street, Parramatta. If
you do not wish to file n Answer but wish
to receive a copy of each document filed in
the proceedings you should file a Notice of
Address for Service, on or before such date.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: JAMES PHILLIP MCCARTHY, late of
Haberfield. TAKE NOTICE that AIRINI
PATRICIA McCarthy has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1194 of 1963 on the grounds
of cruelty and desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before 39th July, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from T. G. D. MAR-
SHALL, LANDERS AND CO., Solicitors, of
251-253 George Street, Sydney, or HARRIS,
WHEELER WILLIAMS and McKENZIE,
Solicitors, of 43 Bolton Street, Newcastle.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NORMAN WILLIAM JAMIESON, late
of Liverpool, N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that
PATRICIA ROSEMARIE JAMIESON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1686 of 1963 on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 9th day of August,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition and
Notice of Petition without charge from
GREGG & MILNE, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT ’
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KENNETH EDWIN ROBINSON, late of
Mosman. TAKE NOTICE that CHRISTINA
WYNNE ROBINSON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No 1805 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may enter an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the 3rd of
August, 1963. and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from BULL SON
SCHMIDT & BERG, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT ’
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: NORMAN JAMES HODGINS, late Of
Surry Hills. TAKE NOTICE that NORMA
IRENE HODGINS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1866 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion and separation. If you wish to
defend you may enter an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, S5 r dney, by the 3rd of
August, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from BULL SON
SCHMIDT & BERG, Solicitors, of 34 Martin
Place, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF TASMANIA
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
Launceston District Registry No. M. C. 39/63
Between: MARGERY EMMA WOODS petition-
er and RICHARD REGINALD WOODS res-
pondent.
TO: RICHARD REGINALD WOODS, formerly
of George Town in Tasmania. TAKE NOTICE
that MARGERY EMMA WOODS has filed a
Divorce Petition against you on the ground
of desertion. Included in the Petition is a
claim for costs AND TAKE NOTICE that if
you intend to defend the Petition you must
file an Answer within 28 days of publication
of this notice at the Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Cameron Street, Laun-
ceston, from which address further information
can be obtained otherwise the Court may hear
and determine the proceedings in your ab-
sence. DATED this 25th day of June, 1963.
J. V. TANNER, District Registrar.
SPECULATOR'S DARY
An Early Annual Report
Tn my own small way, I will figure in
the mad race to be first out with a
report at the end of the financial period.
I should imagine my main competitor to
be Custom Credit, although its usual
enthusiasm may be dampened by the
slip up of £1,000,000 last year in its
unearned income provision.
But first to the transactions of the
past week.
Still cursing my not immediately ap-
preciating the details of the Degotardi
offer to Salamander Salt, I decided it
was not too late to pay 2s. 3d. for the
2s. par value shares. I fell into that
group which assumed that a holder of
300 Salamander shares should accept
the offer. He would then receive Is.
sd. cash per share for 200 shares and
100 shares in the reconstructed com-
pany.
But the whole crux of the offer was
that Degotardi required 66 2/3 p.c. of
the shares in Salamander Salt. The moral
was for the shareholder not to accept
the offer. As Degotardi only scraped in
eventually with a 70 p.c. acceptance it
looks as though the assenting shareholder
loses out.
In the May 16 circular to Salamander
shareholders, Mr J. C. Degotardi spe-
cifically stated that “it is not our inten-
tion to extend our offer” if sufficient
acceptances are not received by May
23, 1963. The next thing that happened
was an announcement by the directors
on May 27 informing shareholders that
the offer had been extended!
An estimated profit of £77,000 this
year on the reconstructed capital of
£250,000 looks very good. It is over-
simplifying the exercise but this would
give an earning rate of over 30 p.c. Some
people may shy away from land devel-
opers but with the shares at just above
par, it still looked an enticing proposition.
If those Salamander shareholders who
accepted the offer are now bewildered,
how then do the Mark Foy’s shareholders
feel? The shares suddenly jumped from
10s. 6d. to 12s. last Wednesday. Ap-
parently the present board did not think
the sale of Target Woollen Mills for
about £400,000 (double the book value)
was of any importance to shareholders.
It was only officially announced after
Mr H. M. Macken, who will try and
gain control of the board at the annual
meeting, made shareholders aware of
this event on the Thursday.
The meeting should be well worth the
price of one share, even at 12s.
To balance up the account at June
30 I sold out the 1000 Goodwins at
4s. The strong rise in the last couple
of weeks is beyond explanation by me.
My motive was simply the desire to take
a quick profit of £2B.
Transactions for this week are:
BOUGHT
3,000 Salamander 2/3 £344
SOLD
1,000 Goodwins 4/- £192
In bare statistics, the portfolio at
June 30 has a value of £7105. As
the value at the beginning of the year
was £5,750, profit to date stands at
£1,355. Annual earning rate on the
opening value of the portfolio would
therefore be 48 p.c. A reasonable per-
formance considering I still have not
been in any issues or placements.
Perhaps of most concern as regards
potential profits is the behaviour of that
ill fated oil market The loss in this part
of the portfolio is over £2OO and in-
cludes a realised loss of £29 for Alliance
Petroleum and the combined book loss
for Petroleum Investments and Woodside
ctg.
Looking at the breakdown, profits
made on 31 different transactions total-
led £1,530. Heading the profits list was
Marcus Clark notes with £230, closely
followed by Fairymead’s effort of £219.
In the 10 transactions where losses total-
ling £165 were made, F’eter Lloyd finish-
ed in front with a loss of £3l. If only I
had still held them!
My only short transaction in the period
was Carrier at 9s. 3d. Time beat me and
by buying back at Bs. lOd. I lost £l. Two
months later, the shares were down to
4s. 6d. If 9s. 3d. was too high then 4s.
6d. was too low and I am now long at
ss. 6d.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
Mo. ot Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/1
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/i/63 2/1
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/-
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/5
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/3
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
1000 Felt, new 24/4/63 8/3 8/9
200 W. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 47/0
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 20/6
800 Formfit 30/5/63 10/6 11/3
1000 Carrier 3/6/63 5/6 6/3
1000 ODE 5/6/63 4/2 4/7
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/4
100 James Hardie 13/6/63 £5 £5/7/-
2000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/9
200 Flarden & Johnston 18/6/63 19/- 19/6
5000 Ampol rights 18/6/63 lOd. 1/1
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/3


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K; Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 188®
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 752
ACROSS
I—Eight dozen of this to the royal vehicle. (5-8)
9 —Cheap beer crinoline. (11)
10— Queer Nelson’s blood. (3)
11— Horse may be thus described near the land. (7)
12— The office of an influential Moslem makes them
furious. (7)
13— You and I would marry. (3)
15—No hen-bird character of the Old Testament. (9)
18 —Make it complex; make it certain in a complex
way. (9)
19—One legislator not without
some spirit. (3)
22 A device used in turning a
girl’s name. (7)
23 Protest against a bad smell
isn’t genuine treatment for
the hair. (7)
25 Cackleberry urge. (3)
26 Fed up with organisations
which thrive on the revenue
of poker machines, such a
minor honour. (4, 2,5)
27 — Stealthy pursuit tories wrong.
(13)
DOWN
1— A sudden blast in bird. (6)
2 Spoilsport’s disorderly ranks.
(5)
3 Dopes sounds like the affirma-
tive of a German who’s
ignorantly represented. (6)
4 Change for the inane Miss
Oakley. (5)
5 Merchant service which
succeeds competition in inter-
national commerce. (5, 4)
6 One who details the knotted
tie niggard. (8)
7 Element available from
marine gum. (9)
8— Burdened Latin with an order
to become communist. (8)
14— Alienates no time standard
for Adelaide and Perth over
the mountains. (9)
15— Have canal reorganisation
because of this landfall? (9)
16— Italian cloth mail seen to be
mislaid. (8)
17 — Vessel of the dark bird. (8)
20— The sleeping place of mother
has charm. (6)
21— Main timbers of floor or
ceiling is in iotas. (6)
23 Turf information dismissed
talk a lot? (5)
24 God of the Underworld. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 751


I
m
M
/.<!
m
mm
...
■: A
6
X
m
m
,iZ
m
f, - -:’ ■
Sfe-
'¥ . m M
jmmmm IS H 1 1
n
Official photograph Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition
What car broke the ice in Antarctica?
Do we have to name it?
Does any other car have the Volks-
wagen’s talent for taking on tough jobs,
and getting them done?
Like crawling across an Antarctic
crevasse.
Or climbing mountains of frozen snow.
Or cruising across the polar ice-cap.
Or just plain giving.
The VW is the first sedan car ever to
crack Antarctica, which adds up to this:
when you’re looking over a new car,
think of those miles of ice like broken
glass, and ask yourself some questions.
Could the suspension handle it?
Could the body take it?
Would the engine take it?
Will the car you’re considering give
you the strength and stamina and sense
we build into the VW?
Or the special pleasure you get from
driving one?
Will it give you the Volkswagen’s low
repair bills at high mileages?
And still look and act young at 100,000?
We build a lot of things into the VW
you don’t get in some cars costing over
£lOOO.
Things like an automatic choke and
heater/demisters.
All for way under £lOOO.
At £849 tax paid, no other car offers
you this combination of real value, re-
liability and stamina.
Talk it over while you’re taking that
five-mile test drive.
VWI2OO Sedan £849 tax paid.
ANTARCTICA
L


W & I Wsm
’ |4, / ?^ f 2 ? il
1
It 1 ■' s - • JkA'.'s*'
A
m
V.SSS ,
i •"
CullM!
-
*c *i •
H
;i jM£> *#i
il
felPPl?
IS
111
SJi
#.■ ;■;
gft MSS
Mia
£SSt
; ,s
X
,'. I
■
ii
■i: \' lilted
-
m
,M
$m
C
j#~..
!§&'* • ■
S 3
' • : ■
Vista of Fulfilment .
What pictures flash across the mirror of your mind as
you dine to the sophisticated accompaniment of a
Coonawarra Estate Claret? Do you think, for an
instant, of serried rows of well-laden vines where life
begins for this distinguished wine? Do you spare a
thought for the shadowy depths of the Coonawarra
Estate Cellars in which four entire vintages slowly
attain maturity? To the initiated, each of these vistas
is vital. It is an assurance that the claret which graces.
vour table in restaurant, hotel or home
have all the bouquet, colour and distinction of ev
wine labelled “Coonawarra Estate” The recc
mended vintages are:
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
1957 Vintage
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD., WINE-GROWERS, 348 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOUR
