

The Bulletin
[tEBRU ary 1963
■fflt'HNHMffHlWttWflll
m m&w .* .
Hk' cmi&Bk.. : 8 1 jfltk fij| S && 'j§Plk ®W® ,®fi® fl| ILfljjjK
' V^ v IUI w jaG .',■ SK , .
■fifes »fito»fc MWHL H W B£ H 1 B 13 K 1
W* •■ •-«i w, ■yßw J| %~w. S ■1 Nk
mm sußvivoes’ um
iL?.. mjiir*i
*;&/ *C jP' Safi g»fr ' ,v ImX
% cKv ' ’ .#*J %FKpT»® ? *3BHI%r*.»|WI «•.


'rinceton
THE ONLY
CIGARETTE
WITH REAL AMERICAN TOASTED FLAVOR
m
m
Mv'f-
f'W-
/•
hmp*
■■ 'ft .. • K: ft
m
m
■ft- ;
*
.
. :
a
mm
m§
m
WSmsXM
lr»5I
-v'> ‘ft ; ><
iff:
ISie*
#5
I
m
%*
as
mm m
m
IBi
«si
.
»*•
m
- :: ft
TOASTED
*
. ■ te* #
•.a- j
.
.
■ -
: .
eem
after action
2.P121.11.62
satisfaction
Rich, blended tobaccos toasted to bring full,
satisfying American flavor. That’s Princeton,
the filter with the flavor you’ve been wanting!
So, after action get the satisfaction that
comes with Princeton filter, the honest-to-
goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
* Made for the Riggio Tobacco Corporation of New Y° r^


National Notebook
Thanks to Mother
W handout on American entertainer
I Mamie Van Doren called her “a
vidim of her own entity. A striking
blonde, endowed most generously by
nature, she has spent most of her adult
life looking for the proper disclaimer to
the legacy most females could only
dream about; a startling face and figure!”
We asked her if she agreed with this
description. She took the sheet, frowned
as s he read it and handed it back.
■’Agree? 1 don’t even know what it
means.”
However, Miss Van Doren, who is
appearing at Sydney’s Chevron Hilton,
outlined her achievements to date a
(number of Hollywood productions that
gave her little joy to work in. “There
isn’t much going on in Hollywood these
days,” she told us. 'Three or four spec-
taculars and an awful lot of TV produc-
tions and that’s all. Most of the big films
are being made in Europe.”
She has finally received the offer of
a role with dramatic value. “I think this
is fairly definite yes, you can say it’s
definite. This is a film about a young
man who returns to visit
his father’s grave in Italy.
The father was killed at
the Anzio Beach invasion.
be a shot from a
’helicopter of the military
cemetery. All those
crosses! Have you ever
seen those thousands of crosses?
“I was offered a role in a film by a
director who plans shooting out here in
Australia. I believe he has already
sped up a couple of local actors. But
I refused. It wasn’t the kind of part
that interests me.
,l I do mostly night-club work these
days. I did play in Wildcat on Broadway.
J played the role Lucille Ball had. Gosh,
i Was really work. I was on stage for
two and a half hours every show. I find
night-club work a lot easier. Oh, and I
do about two TV shows a year.”
She introduced her partner, Alex Plass-
s- ert, who had arrived with her. He is
! an amiable young man with a well-
pcpibbed appearance and the air of a
tolerant hipster. “We do a number in
®y show here which I think is quite
wagmal,” Miss y an Doren said. “I dance
1 Alex and he wears a series of
P s * starts with me singing ‘A
j“ od , Man Nowadays Is Hard To Find’
then Alex comes on with a Churchill
,J ' The band goes in to—you know,”
ilia” T aew k ars of “Rule Britan-
u ’ anc * I sing a little song to him,
figure he’s a little old and then a
whole series of other characters come on.
“They’re all Alex in masks. These
masks are so realistic! We had them
specially made by a man at MGM.
There’s one of Frank Sinatra and I sing
a song that ends ‘Perhaps if I should
please, Frankie might ask me up to hear
his LPs.’
“Say, do you have Ben Casey on TV
here?” She sighed a relieved sigh when
we told her we certainly did. “That’s
good,” she said, “because 1 have a very
special number with \lex wearing a Ben
Casey mask and one of those doctor’s
blouses. We dance together and he’s
behind me with his hands under my arms
and held up in front of me, you know,
with rubber gloves. He holds his hands
up like that all the time, but he doesn’t
caress me though. I have a punch line
at the end which goes . . . ‘but, of
course, he’s so sterile!’ ”
She described other mask numbers
that include Jimmy Durante and Presi-
dent Kennedy. “I was thinking of put-
ting in Khrushchev and Castro. But I
thought better of it. Too political! Al-
though 1 have taken a political stand. I
study politics a great deal,
and European affairs. I
campaigned for Nixon you
know. 1 supported him
both for President and
Governor. I’d always ad-
mired Eisenhower and
thought Dick Nixon had
been a very good Vice-President.”
How does she feel now? “Well, I
suppose if the people want Kennedy then
you’ve got to listen to the people. Be-
sides, my opinion of Kennedy has
changed a lot recently. I think the Re-
publican Party is almost washed up any-
way.
“I end my act by stripping,” she ex-
plained. “That’s the one part of the
act that worries me. I’m always afraid
my skirt will get caught up or something.
Of course, after I’ve peeled I’m left wear-
ing a leotard, then I sing a song. It’s a
kind of tribute to Gypsy Rose Lee. It’s
called ‘Thanks to Mother’.”
Second Guess
Quite a few people have been doing a
lot of second guessing about the
name of the new deputy-secretary of the
Department of Territories. Several names
have been mentioned including that of
Dr John Gunther, the able assistant-ad-
ministrator of Papua and New Guinea.
Our own information is that it will be
Mr Malcolm Booker who is currently
Australian Ambassador in Bangkok. Mr
Booker will become deputy to the present
Territories Department secretary, Mr
SAM AARONS
Royal Family of Australian
Communism Page 22
•
The British After Brussels 6
The Tongan Survivors’ Story .... 12
A Page of Kurt Nodt 15
Marcel Marceau Mime Goes
Everywhere 16
King Charles de Gaulle 29
Independence for Captain Bligh’s
Islands? 31
Earle Page Memoirs: Curtin v.
Churchill 33
Ralph Rashleigh Dr Roderick’s
Latest 40
Where Does Cruelty to Livestock
Begin? 44
No Complacency on Trade 45
Bank Problems for the Government 48
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 11
OUT AND AROUT 16
OVERSEAS 29
LETTERS 36
REVIEWS 37
RED PAGE 40
MAN ON THE LAND 44
WORLD OF RUSINESS 45
SPECULATOR’S DIARY . . 54
FEIFFER 62
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St, Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4330


E. Lambert, in the near future. Pre-
sumably he will become Secretary of the
Department when Mr Lambert retires
later this year. It is a controversial ap-
pointment, both in the department to
which Mr Booker is, of course, a com-
plete stranger, and in Canberra public
service circles generally.
The Last Minstrel Passes.
A lmost forgotten by the new Australia,
but a great name in his day, Will
Ogilvie is dead, at 92, the last and long-
est lived of the old Bulletin minstrels;
the last, too, perhaps of the Scottish Bor-
der. For he belonged to two Borders
the Border of Walter Scott, being born
in the heart of the “Marmion” country
at Kelso; his family sent him to the new
school of Fettes to tame him a bit and
then to that other Border lying across
the Queensland tributaries of the Dar-
ling where the floods came down on
sunny days 40 miles wide.
In that molten region, as he wrote 50
years afterwards, amid striking shearers,
campfires round billabongs, and stations
that shore a quarter million sheep,
“where was music in everything” . . .
“the roaring of whips and beating hooves
and jingling chains” . . . “wrote them-
selves down in one rhyme or another.”
There he was admitted to The Bul-
letin's brotherhood.
He fell into the atmosphere naturally
as he rhymed, moving “from South
Head Light to the upper reaches of the
Warrego,” droving, horse-breaking, be-
ing station hand. He soon was playing
laureate to the whole Queensland South
West which recognised from the moment
he sent his verses “Beyond the Barrier”
to the Bulletin under the pseudonym
“Glenrowan” in 1895, a bush voice more
authentic than those of Paterson who
smelled strongly of station “big houses”
and “picnic races” and Lawson who
learned about the bush mostly in city
bars.
He left Australia in 1900 just before
The Bulletin published “Fair Girls and
Grey Horses,” his first book of verse
which became a runaway best seller by
Australian standards of the time, as
did its successor, “Hearts of Gold,” in
a less degree. From then onward save
for an amusing two years as “the first
professor of agricultural journalism in
the United States” at the college at Ames
in still rough and ready lowa, he sang
in his native minstrel country, settling
down near Selkirk by the Ettrick.
Australia and the West almost forgot
him in the turmoil of two wars while
he poured out song after song and book
of verse after book of verse, until his
response to a query jokingly relayed
from the “S.M. Herald” via The Bul-
letin office as to “how long ago he
died,” was to play Rip Van Winkle and
establish his record as the longest prac-
tising Bulletin bard with his verses
“Welcome Our Queen.” They were pub-
lished on February 3, 1954, in The
Bulletin, 59 years after his first effort
appeared and almost nine years to the
WILL OGILVIE
day before his death and her second ap
proach to the South Pacific.
Recurring Rumors
Tf you are saving cigarette packet
A stamps, silver paper, colored si
or butterflies’ wings under the impie
sion that a certain number or weight)
them will provide some blind pea
with a guide dog, please take the advic
of the National Guide Dog Associate
and save yourself the trouble.
Each year, for some human reasoi
which defies explanation, fresh rumor:
arise and go around, causing an unknow
number of people to begin collectiij
" The teaching of religious tolerance
“has always been


0 r another of civilisation’s waste
°ijucts, nearly always in the hope of
tying a seeing-eye dog”. They end in
frustration. The going rate for silver
pef) for instance, is Is. 3d. a lb., when
i cpn find a salvage concern interested
in silver paper. A ton of it would return
jlfO, and it would take about four tons
t 0 “buy” a guide dog.
Last year it was packets from a certain
biand of cigarette, which embarrassed
tie company, a fairly ready giver to
many charities but not in the habit of
asine promotional stunts to boost sales.
Tie rumor did much harm and no good
at all. The dogs don't cost the association
much, and many come free. The period
of training for a guide dog costs money,
and then the blind person has to spend
many weeks in residence at the school.
He National Guide Dog Association
heeds money which no amount of silver
' paper would provide.
Incidentally, in the course of gather-
ing this information we heard of one
rumor which was new to us but ap-
parently has been in circulation for many
years. The Guide Dog Association sec-
retary in Sydney, Mr Hunt, is a retired
chemist who reports that each summer
he used to be invaded by plagues of
small boys bearing “locusts,” or at least
a pair of cicada's wings, for which they
would demand 155., no more, no less.
These were supposed to be needed by
j chemists for some kind of powerful
nature unknown to the locust-
I catchers. Human credibility is a rernark-
I able thing.
Tanner
"a hot subject".
PLAIN ENGLISH
SCUM AND DREGS
AT. a recent address in Canberra to the Institute of Political Science
Miss Joan Rydon of Melbourne stirred up a democratic hornets’ nest
when she rounded off her discussion of compulsory voting with the
remark “In Australia where the apathetic and ill-informed are forced
to the polls by law it is even more likely that the ‘scum and dregs’ of
political life will decide who is to govern the country.”
Most reactions to her observation were like that of Mr C. T. Oliver,
President of the Labor Party in NSW: “What an impudent thing to sayl
Just what I’d expect from Melbourne University. You’ll find the scum and
dregs of political life around the universities these days.”
One can appreciate his democratic fervor but he may have been less
indignant if he had realised Miss Rydon’s remark was based on the
facts, for example, that the Labor Party was beaten in the Senate
election in NSW in 1949 simply because the Liberals had a higher position
on the ballot paper; that the same thing happened again for the same
reason in Western Australia and Queensland in 1951 (giving the Liberals
control of the Senate for the first time); and that the Liberals won the last
Senate seat in Victoria in 1961 because of Communist preferences.
Similarly in the House of Representatives elections: in 1961 there were
seven seats decided by the position of the candidates’ names on the ballot
paper, and four of them were won by the Government by this piece of
luck. (The most famous case was that of Mr D. J. Killen, the well-known
anti-Communist of Moreton, Queensland, who got in by 110 votes because
he got some of the preferences of the Communist candidate whose name
was above his on the ballot paper and he therefore won the donkey vote.)
In other words, although the donkey vote makes almost no impres-
sion on landslide elections, it decides the closely fought ones. It can
do so only because of compulsory voting. In the light of this it is surely
ridiculous to regard compulsory voting as a sacred cow of democracy.
In any case everyone knows the real reason why compulsory voting
was introduced in Australia; it was because the political parties did not
want to spend the money or effort persuading people to go to the polls.
But it is not an essential part of democracy to make life easier for the
professional politicians.
Probably the best defence of compulsory voting in the recent contro-
versy was made by Mr Laurie Short who, no doubt generalising from his
trade union experience, pointed out that where voting is not compulsory
fanatical undemocratic minorities such as Communists or Fascists can
more easily seize power in elections. This has certainly been the case in
trade unions, and where the Communists have been defeated in unions,
it has usually been in secret ballots, which do not mean compulsory
voting, but have the same effect of greatly increasing the percentage of
non-fanatical democratic voters.
This observation is worth remembering before anybody tries to work
up a movement to abolish compulsory voting; but even this is an admission
of our own weakness as democrats; apparently we have to be forced to be
democratic. But it is better to see the facts clearly than to dismiss the
mere mention of them as “impudence”; Australia has far too many sacred
cows already. - /1


THIS AUSTRALIA
COMMON MARKET AND COMMONWEALTH
THE BRITISH
AFTER BRUSSELS
From ROBERT STEPHENS in London
HAROLD
MACMILLAN
A cool head
"The British Government will not try to create new
economic groupings with the Commonwealth . .
The peremptory fashion in which Pre-
sident de Gaulle has vetoed the entry
of Britain into the Common Market has
inevitably provoked a strong reaction
from British opinion. There are very
few people who would go as far as the
three indignant patriots who renounced
their agency for Renault cars and gave
up drinking French wine as reprisals.
But the Press and political commentators
have not concealed their bitterness and
indignation
The Macmillan Government, laced
with a situation which could be disas-
trous for its electoral chances, has so far
kept a cool head.
Most informed opinion in London rec-
ognises that the crisis is not simply be-
tween Britain and France: it is a Europ-
ean crisis, a confrontation between two
different diplomatic and military strate-
gies which concern the future of the
whole Western alliance and its relations
with the Communist bloc.
The irony of the situation has not
been lost on the British. They note that
they have been rejected by President de
Gaulle, because, according to him, they
are not yet European enough. But the
British Government is convinced that in
reality de Gaulle has taken up his pre-
sent position precisely because Britain
was becoming more ‘European” than he
1S himself and faster than the General
had expected.
The British believe a technical solution
for th e Common Market negotiations in
Brussels was in sight. In accepting in
th e Nassau agreement with the United
States the idea of a NATO nuclear force,
even at the cost of the eventual loss of
her own effective nuclear independence,
Britain was moving closer to the nuclear
defence policy of the majority of the
European members of NATO, and es-
pecially of Western Germany,
In fact, President de Gaulle has ask-
ed Britain, as a proof of being truly
European, to reject a foreign policy and
a military system approved by every
other member of the Common Market,
except France. He has asked Britain to
accept a foreign policy and a military
system rejected by the whole of West-
ern Europe, except France, and which,
even in France, is seriously questioned
by a broad section of political opinion.
There has been a good deal of i a |
in both London and Paris about tbs
“special relationship” which Britain is
supposed to have with the United States,
But, curiously enough, what seems to
have incensed General de Gaulle is not
the privileged help given to the British
by the Americans but, rather, the fact
that Britain has had to give up her spe-
cial position as a. independent nuclear
power and accept the eventual merger
of her nuclear weapons in a NATO force,
The idea of this Atlantic force, the es-
sential kernel of the Nassau agreement,
has now been accepted by all France’s
partners in the Common Market.
Thus, almost simultaneously with the
signature of the new Franco-German
treaty which envisages an intimate co-
operation in foreign affairs and defence,
Western Germany has accepted a milit-
ary relationship with the United States
as close as that which, in General he
Gaulle's eyes, disqualified Britain from
being considered European. Yet the Ger-
man decision to acept the plan fori
NATO nuclear force is scarcely sur-
prising since the idea was more or less
invented by Bonn.
Nor is there really anything very sur-
prising for the British Government and
informed British opinion in President de
Gaulle’s disapproval. For anyone »1#
had followed the evolution of the Pre-
sident's thought, it was obvious that he
would always have preferred Europe
without Britain. But the British Govern-
ment hoped that de Gaulle might jt
convinced that this preference was M
longer realistic, and that, if Britain pb
ed her cards well, the General would be
forced to risk the disintegration of,®
European alliance in order to ensure
Britain’s exclusion.
No one in London expected him*
take this risk as openly as he has;®
British Government was more afraid®
a war of attrition in the Brussels m
Mr Macmillan was anxious to avoid!
all costs responsibility for a breakdowt
in Brussels: his only hope of forcing
General’s hand lay in showing clears'
France’s partners in the Six that
was no longer any serious obstacle
an agreement except the political w
General de Gaulle. J
But Mr Macmillan could not a
to wait indefinitely. The continued un|
tainty was having a serious effect on
British economic situation and the F
tical position of the Conservative j
It was thought that in any case Mr j
millan would have been obliged
to get a decision in Brussels by
The Macmillan Government has
given a brief respite by the temp®’ |
weakening of the Labor Party
THE DRINKERS
February 10, 1883
It is undeniable that the opponents of
the late PARKES-ROBERTSON
Cabinet had the solid and active sup-
port of the Licensed Victuallers at the
recent elections.
This situation is fraught with danger
to the community. There is a risk that
the Government and the Parliament
may misinterpret the wishes of the
country with respect to the Licensing
Laws and carry amendment beyond
proper limits. The absurd provisions,
for example, which shut metropolitan
houses on Sundays and have merely
induced an exodus of thirsty souls to
swelter in the overcrowded bars of
seaside hotels is evidently worse than
useless. Nevertheless, public sentiment
is steadily progressive in the direction
of encouragements to sobriety.
Two generations back, our fore-
fathers constituted a nation of drunk-
ards. Professional men, military men,
merchants and tradesmen of all
degrees habitually fuddled their brains
every night. And if the Government
or the Assembly conceive that they
will welcome a return to bygone
license, it will be a grievous mistake.


, uneX pected death of Hugh Gaitskell.
Rut unless the Government can find ways
f reviving the languishing economy and
reducing the still growing unemployment,
there is a strong probability that the
Labor Party, even without Gaitskell,
nia y win the next election.
y f jffacmillan had counted a great
deal on the British entry into the Com-
mon Market to supply a stimulant to the
economy and a new political dynamic for
the Conservative Party.
He would have presented the Conser-
vatives at the next election as pioneers
m a great international adventure, the
building of a new modern society with
wider horizons. This would have helped
to wipe out the embarrassing image of
an imperialist-minded Conservative Party
[or which the retreat from empire had
ken a painful process.
He would have left to the Labor
Party the thankless role of guardian of
the traditional sentiments towards a
Commonwealth now mostly of mixed
races and very poor countries, the
economic advantages of which were be-
coming more and more doubtful and
whose political ideas were more and
more suspect.
And what happens now? The truth is
that nobody in London nor probably
in Washington or Bonn yet knows
how the crisis is going to work out. The
situation is compared in official circles
here to the crisis caused in 1954 when
the French National Assembly rejected
the plan for a European Defence Com-
ifflity. The British Government will not
If)' to create new international economic
groupings with the Commonwealth,
EFTA (Norway, Denmark, Portugal,
Austria, Sweden, Switzerland and Britain)
and the United States. It will continue to
co-operate with the other members of
EFTA and will have to seek interim
agreements with the Common Market.
But it is unlikely to accept the idea of
“association” with the Common Market
and will maintain its application to be
accepted as a full member of the Euro-
pean Community.
It is recognised here that a solution
can now only be found on a political
level. General de Gaulle has thrown into
question the future of the European
Community and of NATO. President
Kennedy, with the agreement of Mr Mac-
millan, and the support of a great part
of European opinion, has proposed a
method of reconciling the evolution of
European unity, the maintenance of the
Atlantic alliance and the realities of
thermo-nuclear strategy. President de
Gaulle has rejected it. In its place he has
offered nothing very precise, but he has
let it be understood that he envisages a
Europe which can, when the time comes,
declare its independence from the Ameri-
can alliance and, if it wishes, make its
own peace with the East.
If the Gaullist vision is not ignoble, it
is also not very convincing. For the
majority of Britons, whether Conserva-
tive or Labor, a practical policy must
recognise not only the advantages of
European unity but also the need for the
American alliance and for peaceful co-
existence with Moscow, especially in the
nuclear field.
BUSINESS
THE TESTRO ENQUIRY
HENRY BOLTE
Superimposed
"The reaction in the Labor Caucus will be
interesting
week the Victorian Executive
Council authorised an investigation
affairs of Testro Bros Consoli-
date! and four other associated com-
The action was taken under a
'on of the Companies Act em-
# * er 'ng the Governor-in-Council to
( Er such inquiries if a prima facie
, as been established that they are
i e for the protection of the public
jobholders or creditors.
inquiry will be held by Mr J. B.
’ vC, a former President of the
L °uncil. Now aged 72, Mr Tait is
Chairman of Directors of Owen Dixon
Chambers, the handsome modern build-
ing which has replaced Selborne Cham-
bers as the headquarters of barrister
fraternity.
On November 20 last year, Testro
Bros Consolidated Ltd issued a prospec-
tus for £300,000 in mortgage debenture
stock, offering interest rates ranging from
4 per cent on monies requiring seven
days’ notice of withdrawal to 7i
per cent on 12 months’ notice and ten
per cent on sums lodged for seven to
ten years. The Chairman, Mr Rex Testro,
m a message accompanying the prospec-
tus said the company had five main
spheres of activity:—finance, road con-
struction, building development, pharma-
ceuticals and printing.
This was a more restrained account of
the Testro Group’s activities than seen
in earlier brochures which included plas-
tics and public relations (“the secret
weapon of modern business”). The bro-
chures, always elaborately printed on
heavy glossy paper, have described the
Testro Group as one of the “select few
international organisations of Australian
origin” and “the largest organisation of
its kind in the world”. Testro office ad-
dresses in London, Paris, Tokyo, Hong-
kong, Manila, Los Angeles, Bombay,
Singapore, Wellington, Sydney and Perth
were prominently featured as evidence of
its world-wide character.
The group’s tenth anniversary in 1958
elicited a brief formal message from the
Premier, Mr Bolte, in which he struck
his familiar note of confidence in the
future of Victoria. This was displayed in
photostat, with a picture of Mr Bolte
superimposed in one of the organisations’
publications. Even heavier and more
multi-coloured was the prospectus of
Suncoast Development Ltd, a Testro
subsidiary, which was issued the follow-
ing year to raise £lOO,OOO in shares and
£200,000 in ten per cent first mortgage
debentures for a Queensland North Coast
project. This contained a smiling portrait
of the Premier, Mr Nicklin, but alas,
no message from him. The issue of
shares and debentures was underwritten
by Testro Bros Consolidated Ltd and the
debentures were secured with a deed of
trust made with Public Fidelity and
Audit Pty Ltd of 123 William St., Mel-
bourne. A search last year reported that
paid capital of this company was £3.
The four other companies subject to
the coming investigation are Testro Print
Pty Ltd, Testro Bros Pty Ltd, Surfers
Paradise Land Development Corpora-
tion Pty Ltd and Suncoast Development
Pty Ltd. These by no means exhaust the
companies linked with the parent firm,
Testro Bros Consolidated. The 1962
prospectus lists over a score, some of
them being Public Credit Corporation Pty
Ltd, Skoda Distributors Pty Ltd, Welbecic
Pty Ltd, and Garrisson Industries Ltd.
The latter is a company listed on Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange which came into
the Testro orbit last year when Mr Peter
Garrisson, LCP Member for Hawthorn,
sold out his interests to the brothers
Rex and Keith Testro. Garrisson Indus-
tries Ltd shares stood 4/6 at the time
and soon eased sharply. Last week they
were traded at 1/-.
Mr Garrisson resigned as Chairman
of the company, while the board was
joined by Rex and Keith Testro and


the Labor MLA for Melbourne, Mr R. A.
Clarey, an accountant.
The presence of Mr Clarey on the
board of this Testro subsidiary may pos-
sibly be vexing to the Labor leader in
the upper house, Mr Galballv. Last year
w ' .. , , .. , ,
Mr Ga bal y called publicly for a royal
.. C , rr ■ c , rr :
commission into the affairs of the Testro
Group after it had received unfavourabe
mention in a report tabled in parliament.
The report was by Mr J A Nimmo, QC,
following his inquiry into the K S Rees
Group of companies.
The K S Rees group ended in financial
fiasco but in charting the processes by
which the funds of creditors and de-
benture-holders were dissipated, Mr
Nimmo could not forbear from some
comments on the Testro Group. “I am
satisfied on the evidence before me,”
he wrote “that the moneys lost could
never have come into his (Rees)
possession had it not been for the en-
eouragement, advice and assistance he
received from Testro Bros Consolidate
Ltd, principally through the agency of
f Rex Cl,(ford Testro . Mr N.mmo
also commented that in mv opinion
, . .... , , : , T .
Rees, who is gullible and lacking in
bllsiness acumen> regarded Mr Testro as
a flnancial wizard and aspired to emulate
him.”
The inquiry, while not a royal corn-
mission, will no doubt give Mr Gal-
bally some satisfaction. It may not, how-
ever, please his fellow Legislative Coun-
cillor, Mr “Uncle” Doug Elliott, publican
and publicist for mattresses, soft drinks
and Testro’s debenture stock. Mr Elliott
is possibly the only member of Parlia-
ment in the British Commonw'ealth who
appears regularly on radio and TV as
an announcer of commercials.
ON THE FRINGE
A REPUBLICAN RALLY
IN DARWIN
JEFF KEEGAN
“Getting things moving”
"People like this should be deported to Russia
Territory politics have acquired a new
“ratbag” fringe with the formation
of a Republican Party branch in Dar-
win. Less than a week after party
organiser Mr Jeff Keegan arrived in
Darwin he had the worthy burghers of
the town enraged and even won from
the Government the ultimate accolade
of a Security Police investigation.
Mayor Harold Cooper was “highly
indignant,” and the Darwin president of
the Country Women’s Association, Mrs
Elizabeth Drury, accused Keegan of
“desecration and an insult to the Queen.”
But wildest of all was Mr Ron Tay-
lor, president of the local branch of the
Royal Commonwealth Society, who said:
“People like this should be deported to
Russia!”
Then it all got too much even for the
Administrator, Mr Roger Nott, normally
a hard man to ruffle. He announced at a
Press conference that he had ordered the
Special Branch to investigate the party.
Keegan, cause of all the fuss, is a 22-
year-old caterer from Sydney. He is on
the NSW executive of the Australian
Republican Party and- is touring the out-
back to form new branches and drum up
support.
Keegan particularly annoyed the locals
when he took down a photograph of the
Queen from the wall of the Country
Women’s Association Rest Room, where
the Republicans held their inaugural
meeting, and hid it behind a piano,
More than 20 people attended the
meeting, including a police sergeant and
three warders from Fannie Bay Gaol,
all staunch anti-monarchists. Proceedings
were orderly and Keegan summed up
his party’s aims:
• Independence for Australia as
Republic, without the symbol of RovJ
• National and social security. '
• National development.
He promised that the Republican
Party would field candidates in fut U[e
NT Legislative Council and Federal elec,
tions; and that it would be “active” dur-
ing the Queen’s visit to Darwin in Marcli
(one member is toying with the idea of
a Gandhi-style hunger strike as a protest
against Royalty and the Government's
“colonial” policy towards the Territory),
This was heady stuff, and at 9.30 p.m,
after replacing the Queen’s photo on the
wall, the gathering adjourned to the near-
by RSL Club for drinks. Plans were laid
for an inaugural dinner to be held soon
in a local hotel, at which the “Loyal
Toast” will be replaced by one to “Tie
Republic of Australia.”
Next morning the storm broke. Wit!
a swiftness possible only in Darwin,
word of how the Royal photograph was
treated spread around town. A founda-
tion member of the party told pressmen
that Mr Keegan had described the pic-
ture as “an object” before hiding it be-
hind the piano.
Keegan, a fourth - generation Aus-
tralian, was puzzled. “1 took the picture
from the wall and put it behind tit
piano,” he said. “And I put it backup
again after the meeting finished. No in-
sult to the Queen was intended. It just
wasn't an appropriate picture for a Re-
publican Party meeting. He added
that “something would probably be done
about it” if a photo of Mr Menzies was
found hanging in a hall where the Labor
Party was holding a meeting.
While verbal storms raged about his
head Keegan went on quietly signing up
members. By week’s end he had 25.)
figure he hopes to at least double in tie
next fortnight. After that he will go®
to Alice Springs to “get things moving
down there.”
KEITH WIL[?]
THE PUBLIC SERVICE
DR MOYNAGH'S VACANT POST
Refusing to toe the line
T ast year’s resignation of Mr Digby
Moynagh as chief of Western Aus-
tralia’s medical health services is an
issue that won’t lie down.
The controversy has been renewed by
the Government announcement that
attempts to fill Dr Moynagh’s vacant
post have been unsuccessful. Though the
advertisements attracted eight applicants
for the £4418 a year job, none was accep-
table to the Government. It has now in-
creased the salary limit to £4700 a year
and re-advertised the job.
While the post remains unfilled, the
controversy will continue. Those who
support the reasons behind Dr Moynagh’s
resignation will hold up the vacant cp
as a symbol of Government and
service autocracy over men who dot
like to toe the public service line.
It is certain that Dr Moynagh was sut
a man. He introduced modern ®o
health methods to WA, and was recei*
nothing but praise for his efforts to '
down the number of institutional
patients and increase day treatment
the mentally ill. It now turns out tha
was conducting a behind - the - sC
battle with the administrators an *
cessive Health Ministers during nl
of his four-year tenure of the p° st ' ~
The trouble came to the boil ovo ■


iiiiiSlfi
1111 WmmmiiiiMm
;
mmw
m m
w'v
m
v £Bsgg| ||| /:
j
H
n
f"- ",
: :
n
•' : ■
.. Mmm f§ n |
' ' ! : ' - ■ : ' ' 1
, . ,
. ■‘Vet-'**-
% \- s . ‘ '
:■
44
■> '* 'Wus-c <■« ;
■ ' •■ : :
'• '>• '■■ •
;.: : ; . .
"W#
**»
The first primitive pipe was,
probably, of hollowed-out
bamboo joined together.
Since then man has experim-
ented with many materials
clay, earthenware,copper, lead
and even the hollowed-out log <
It’s an awesome thought that
without the simple tube or
pipe-much of the world’s pop-
ulation could soon perish
great cities become silent;
without it industry would be
paralysed and vast areas of
richly productive land revert
to desert.
Today, the pipe of steel pre-
dominates almost universally
- steel, of course, being used
for its strength, its long span
of life, its all-round adaptability
and, above all, its basic econ-
omy.
S& L have been engaged in making steel tube for over a century. In their
Australian factory are specialists who will be happy to advise and help you
with any tube problems you have whether industrial, agricultural or domestic.
STEWARTS and LLOYDS (Distributors) PTY. LIMITED
BRANCHES : All Capital Cities, also Cairns, Townsville, Rockhampton, Newcastle, Wollongong,
Geelong, Fremantle, Darwin and Alice Springs. AGENCIES : Mackay, Kalgoorlie. SPG.-4.63


appointment of a temporary successor to
Dr F. Fitzgerald as physician superinten-
dent of Claremont Mental Hospital
during a leave period last year. Dr
Moynagh put forward a strong claim for
the appointment of Dr H. Prentice to the
position, a claim which was apparently
opposed by the Under-Secretary, Mr. J.
Devereux, who seemed to support the
claims of Dr B. Bignold, who was acting
deputy superintendent of the hospital. Dr
Moynagh told Mr Devereux he was
opposed to Dr Bignold's appointment be-
cause Dr Fitzgerald did not think he was
able to do the job and because he had
been opposed to some of the ideas intro-
duced by Dr Fitzgerald. He suggested
that Dr Prentice was the only man to
act in Dr Fitzgerald’s absence, and that
he should be appointed permanent
deputy superintendent after his return.
This, of course, would have involved a
demotion for Dr Bignold.
A fortnight after Dr Moynagh's recom-
mendations went before Mr Devereux
and only a week before the State elec-
tions, Health Minister Hutchinson told
him to put Dr Bignold in as acting super-
intendent. The same day Dr Moynagh
resigned.
The record of Dr Moynagh's corres-
pondence with the Under-Secretary and
the Minister over ths issue would not
support the claims of his opponents that
he was administratively inefficient. He
seems to have acted in what he thought
was the best interests of his department in
the sense that he wanted a man to act
for Dr Fitzgerald during his absence who
would carry on progressive work in
mental health.
On the other hand, Health Minister
Hutchinson has stated publicly that Dr
Moynagh was administratively incapable
of doing his job.
The real issue behind the Moynagh
case is one that is bound to crop up more
frequently in the Australian public
service in the future. Should specialists
be expected to be administrators as well,
or should they just specialise and leave
the paper work to laymen? Judging by
the poor response to the advertisements
for Dr Moynagh’s position it would seem
that the specialists feel they need more
freedom of decision.
UNIONS
WHO LEAKED TO
"THE BULLETIN'?
To Moscow via USA
E. C. BENNETT
Staying home
members of the printing industry
are well known for their deep
regard for their craft traditions. At
Milano’s restaurant in Sydney, during the
last week in January, the Federal Council
of the Printing Industry Employees’
Union of Australia demonstrated this
when they took part in what can only
be described as a mild 20th-century
form of a medieval witch-hunt. One by
one the 22 members of the Federal
Council stood up and denied that they
were responsible for “leaking” informa-
tion contained in official Council circu-
lars to The Bulletin.
After this unusual spectacle, the
Council appointed a sub-committee to
make a more thorough investigation and
report back to the full Council. The sub-
committee discovered nothing. The story
containing the information which so an-
gered the Federal officers of the union
appeared in the July 28 issue of The
Bulletin last year. In the light of deci-
sions made at the recent Council meeting
the story is still relevant.
The Federal Executive of the Union at
one of its meetings accepted an invitation
from the Cultural Workers’ “Union” of
the USSR to visit Moscow and chose
three of its number to go on the pilgrim-
age: Federal Secretary C. Colborne, Vic-
torian Secretary E. O. Heintz and
NSW Secretary E. C. Bennett. With the
two largest States represented by their
Secretaries the Executive was assured of
ratification by a majority of the 22-man
Federal Council—the ruling body of the
Union.
Normally, this would have been
enough for the Executive troika to pack
their bags with the Australian union
paying their fares as far as Tashkent and
the Soviet “union” footing the bill for
the rest.
However, rank-and-file members from
the NSW branch got their backs up at
what they described as a waste of money
and the surprising de facto recognition of
a Soviet trade “union”. By a series of
meetings and a petition (signed
by the newspaper section of the union)
asking for a nation-wide ballot on the
question, the NSW Board of Manage,
ment went against State Secretary j eil .
nett by 62 votes to 12.
The Federal Executive, recognising th e
way the wind was blowing, held a ballot
among the Federal Councillors request-
ing that the trip be cancelled “because of
new attacks being launched by employes
on the Graphic Arts Award.” This was
agreed to and the trip was off.
After The Bulletin story appeared
the South Australian branch submitted a
motion for the agenda of the recent
meeting which touched off the Federal
Council's game of “find the heretic”. I| £
motion read: “The South Australian
branch expresses its concern at the un-
authorised release of information con-
tained in Federal Circulars to an anti-
union press and requests Council to in-
vestigate this leakage.” (Since unionists
increasingly rely on The Bulletin for
information about their unions, “anti-
union” is a rather ridiculous way to des-
cribe The Bulletin.)
In the light of the cancellation of the
Moscow trip two other decisions of the
Federal Council are relevant. The first
is that the Council will send Federal
Secretary Colborne to America this year
to study the technological changes in the
industry. The second is that the Council
accepted a new invitation from the
Soviet Cultural Workers’ Union and Mr
Colborne will visit the USSR either on
his way to the US or on his way home.
Whether or not the acceptance of this
new Soviet invitation means that some
time in the future the Printing Union
will invite “fraternal delegates” front the
USSR remains to be seen. It certainly is
a possibility.
¥|Uhile Mr Colborne is certain of going
to Moscow a number of other Aus-
tralians are doubtful about going to
China. In December last year the All-
China Federation of Unions sent a letter
to the Communist Party of Australis
inviting them to send 25 “guaranteed ot
“loyal-to-China” Australians to be then
guests for 1963. With the Communist
Party of Australia now a confirmed sup-
porter of Moscow against Peking, tW
invitation was declined.
The pro-Chinese group within U
Australian Communist Party (stronger®
Melbourne than Sydney) is now taW
about defying the Australian leaders!
and sending some of the trade-unio|
members of their faction to China,
this happens it will split the Party
further apart than it is now and ha'
some interesting repercussions within
Australian trade-union movement
MUGGA


Around Melbourne
MAYHEM, RAPINE AND SIN
Since “Truth” newspaper became
anaemic and devoted itself to
tiresome TV gossip, life has been
awfully dull in Melbourne. One of
the pleasures of the week-end was
to lie in bed, read “Truth” and cluck
one’s teeth in horror over the week’s
blood, mayhem, rapine and sin.
However, all is not lost. It is still pos-
sible to get a nice fill of blood from
(he radio.
Once upon a time radio was rest-
ful on Sunday mornings. You would
get hymns, organ music, wholesome
church services and commercial sta-
tions would go so far as to play clas-
sical music. Now at 9.30 a.m., after
a warm-up with the Top 40, 3UZ
gives us “Newsbeat” and repeats it
again at 12.30. Newsbeat is adored out
in the suburbs and there's no doubt
it rules the waves on Sunday
mornings.
How does Newsbeat work? Like
this. Should you have the misfortune
to be in a violent smash the chances
are that very quickly you will have
the company of the tow-truck gentle-
man, the police, the ambulance, the
Newsbeat microphone and, with a
bit of luck, a TV cameraman, not
necessarily in that order. It must be
admitted that the Newsbeat man is
very fast out of the blocks and some-
times he gets there first.
So as'you lie there bleeding in your
car you may find a microphone under
your nose with a superb opportunity
to tell the Sunday morning listeners
all about it. It is interesting to note
how Melburnians react to this sort
of thing. Even in their state of shock
some are thrilled. They say: “Do you
mean this will be on 3UZ in the
morning?” After being told that un-
doubtedly it will, they tell all. They
accuse the other driver of not giving
way on the right, of deliberately pas-
sing through a red light, even being
drunk. In short they hand out some
superbly actionable material if it were
reproduced in a court of law.
Others, curiously enough, object
strongly to the microphone. For ex-
ample, the other morning we heard
the case of an accident between a
Morris Minor and a push bike. The
mother of the cyclist was quite glib
but we heard nothing from the driver
of the Morris Minor. “Dead silence,”
said the announcer, “greets all
questions.”
We listened and sure enough dead
silence was greeting all questions.
Later there was another car-push-
bike accident in Nicholson Street.
The roundsman, John Ford, said to
the driver: “So you don’t want to
say “anything?”
“What’s your name?”
“My name’s Ford.”
“You work for 3UZ?”
“Yes.”
“Good on you, mate. I'll not say
a word.”
However, he got words from all
the others in the vicinity and we had
a satisfying picture of the accident.
rpHE piece de resistance in recent
weeks was a piece of drama at
Fitzroy announced in these terms:
“The idiots of the night showed them-
selves in their true colors.”
It wasn’t easy to follow exactly
what happened but it appeared that
a vintage Plymouth filled with “young
bucks and a couple of girls” careered
down a hill in Fitzroy striking several
cars on the way until it hit a taxi
head on. When Mr Ford arrived there
was confusion everywhere. He noticed
a girl with her dress almost ripped
off, a girl with blood on her. He tried
to talk to one of the bucks and this
was the conversation:
“You were driving in that car
weren’t you?”
“Turn it up pal.”
“You have a lot of blood on you
you must have been in that car.”
“No I wasn’t.”
Voice: “Tell him to mind his own
business.”
Thereupon the young bucks hop-
ped into another car and fled. The
taxi man called for help and immedi-
ately four Yellow cabs set off in pur-
suit and cornered the young bucks in
Carlton. Mr Ford, also in pursuit,
was there to hold out his microphone
as one of the young bucks gave his
opinion of a Yellow cab driver.
Voice: “I’m gunna get you. I’m
gunna mess you up that much. Your
face is like a picture to me. I’m
gunna kill you. You mug.”
Mr Ford’s voice: “This youth
seems very annoyed with you.”
Taxi voice: “They hit my mate’s
cab.”
And the cabbie explained there was
an obvious reason for the annoyance
for it was he who had led the pursuit.
Amidst shouts and yells a police
car arrived, the bucks were bundled
inside and taken to the Watch House.
There was another intriguing item
which Mr Ford described as the mys-
tery of the night. He called to a flat
out at Windsor. This was a nasty one.
There was blood on the stairs and
inside there was all the evidence of
a tremendous brawl. A TV set was
upended and there was wreckage
everywhere, but most remarkable of
all a semi-clad girl was lying on a
divan.
At first she appeared, to be dead
but the ambulance man assured us
she would come through. She was
drugged.
The neighbors and eye witnesses
were rather unsatisfactory. We learned
nothing about the identity of the
brawlers, or the reason for the blood
on the stairs, or any more about that
semi-clad girl on the divan, but News-
beat left us hanging in the air.
And so “that was the night and
the early morning in our city” on
3UZ, the station for “instant news.”
BATMAN


THE TONGAN SURVIVORS' STORY
How Qlaf Ruhen wrote his forthcoming book on the "Minerva Reef"
By OLAF RUHEN
ON the morning of October 17 last
year 1 got up early, brewed a pot
of tea and picked up the two
morning papers off the lawn. I took one
to my wife along with her tea, and
settled myself in the early sunshine to
read the other. A minute later I was
sitting on the edge of my chair, in some
excitement; and immediately after that I
was back in the bedroom reading the
lead story aloud to my wife. It was
such an item as does not appear very
often in a lifetime, and it carried par-
ticular meaning and emphasis to me.
It was the story of twelve Tongan
survivors of a shipwreck. They had
spent 101 days on a decrepit and aban-
doned hulk, stranded on the South
Minerva Reef three hundred miles from
land. The newspaper account described
the reef as “waterless”, and gave the im-
pression of a permanency of dry land;
but in my knowledge it was, for most
of every day, submerged. The Tongans,
finding the hulk after their own vessel
had broken up, had lit a fire with a
single match and kept it alight for the
period. They had constructed a still for
water, caught fish for food, and finally
had built a sailing-ship, manned it, and
sent it out on a rescue mission. Five of
their companions had died.
1 did not have time to read more than
a couple of paragraphs when the tele-
phone rang. The man at the other end
of the wire was the Sydney represen-
tative of a London publisher. He asked
me had I seen the story in the morning
papers apparently, like myself, he
had not been tempted to buy the after-
noon editions which had carried garbled
versions the day before, along with maps
almost totally imaginative and construc-
ted, like the story details, within the four
walls of the office.
“I’m going to cable for the exclusive
rights,” this publisher said. “I'll make a
good offer. If I get them, would you be
prepared to get to Tonga right away and
do the book?”
Would I? I was the most excited man
in Sydney that morning. I spent the
next few days clearing my desk, getting
rid of some urgent jobs that were waiting
for attention, bringing my passport up
to date, looking out my tropical clothes,
and staying as close as possible to the
telephone.
For one thing this seemed to me, and
still seems, the most amazing feat of
survival that has ever been recorded.
The reef is probably the most exposed
reef in the world, lying outside the range
of the tropics, just about as far south as
reef coral will live.
The actual record for survival at sea
was established by Poon Lim, a Chinese
steward on the British freighter Ben
Lomond. He was blown into the water
when his ship was torpedoed near Cape
Town in November, 1942, and two
hours later he found an empty life raft.
On this he survived 133 days drifting
across the South Atlantic until, when he
was near the coast of Brazil, he was res-
cued by fishermen. He had lived on fish,
seabirds and rainwater, as well as the in-
adequate provisions that came with the
raft. He is reported to have expressed
the hope that no one would ever have
the misfortune to break the record he
had established.
If actual length of time abandoned is
the only criterion, the Tongans did not.
But the gravest dangers of shipwrecked
men are provided by the nature of
humanity. In such ordeals men are dev
troyed by their own hungers and pas-
sions; they fight among each other; they
reject all disciplines; they resort to the
most incredible and the most horrible of
practices; frequently they have been
known to eat each other, to murder their
companions for food, to toss them into
the sea for the better conservation of a
water ration.
That the Tongans survived so long in
amity could not have been by chanced
believed when I first read the story that
in the explanation of their survival would
be uncovered a story of strong leader-
ship or great faith; and I wanted to make
the story mine.
Also I always had a romantic leanins
towards the 158 islands that make up the
Kingdom of Tonga. When I was an im-
pressionable lad of 11 years my eldest
brother went there as a doctor; and, a
hero-worshipper like any lad of my a ? £|
I adopted the country in my imagination.
My collection of Tongan stamps (
checked lately) was at least the equal®
that owned and displayed by the Tonga®
Post Office itself. I read everythin?
could get about the islands. I conceive
an admiration and respect for th o '
Queen, who was the same age as mj
brother, and came to the throne wn ol
she was 18, and whose ancestry ? o£i
back in three great Royal lines to 1 j
centuries when Europe was still P eO P
with savage tribes.
I devoured my brother's letters,
could recognise not only the Ton?
flag but the coat-of-arms. In a 1
while I used a sheet of Tongan tapa as <


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
*iM r * c E !»>•
At Coonavvarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “ Estate” (as the word “Chateau” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product of the winegrower’s own
vineyard. _ , .
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
CI3NR S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
ver for my bed it lines my study
II today, and, incidentally, is the
warmest blanket I have ever used. I
|, neW something of Tonga’s surprising
history, and became a strong admirer of
> these Western Polynesians.
Added to that, I have an attachment
to the sea. I’ve even been lost at sea,
luckily for no more than three days. I
had an intensive course in the theory of
survival during the 1939-45 war, in
which it was an essential for air-crew
study. I’m familiar with coral reefs;
earlier last year I appeared in and helped
to write a film about the Great Barrier
and its islands, a place I’ve visited more
than a dozen times, usually for a few
weeks at least. The title of my last
book, “Tangaroa’s Godchild”, could even
have been applied to the leader of these
survivors, for Tangaroa is the god of the
sea, and as Tangaloa he is eminent in
the Tongan theogony.
So 1 was hungry to write the story, for
my involvement was already begun; but
day followed day without response to
the publisher's cable. I had all but
given up hope of the assignment.
Captain “besieged” with offers
TN the meantime, in a Fiji hospital,
1 Captain David Fifita, who had com-
manded the survivors, was being besieged
with offers of all kinds; and he had no
way of knowing how to choose amongst
them. It was a new world for the captain,
an extremely intelligent and able man,
and he did not know what to do.
In Auckland, New Zealand, while 1
had been reading the papers in Sydney, a
woman who also had an immediate sense
of identification with the story had taken
matters into her own hands. She is Mrs
Esther Faigan, the energetic, attractive
2nd business-like proprietress of the
Minerva Bookshop. Her identification
was based originally upon the coinci-
dence of names. She has been extending
her rocketing business into the realms of
publishing, and becoming a publisher’s
a gent; and she felt that a best-selling
book would have possibilities for pub-
licity too. She had just returned from a
l f| P to Tonga and Fiji; now she flew
back immediately, and by Friday of that
was talking to the captain in his
hospital bed, making a proposition to
secure the exclusive rights to the story,
the survivors had been rescued on
Tuesday.
The funeral of the last of the victims,
efaiaki Pulu, who had died on Monday
ni §ht, was arranged for Saturday; the
Ca Ptain himself and nine of the others
j! ere too weak to attend it; and Mrs
Taigan suggested that they arrange the
e tails of publication rights on Monday.
In the meantime, Prince Tungi, Pre-
fer of Tonga, was staying in Suva. He
Was concerned about the multiplicity of
publishing offers and a certain vulner-
ability of the Tongans, and decided that
it would be best if the control of the
story remained in the hands of a man
who knew the publishing business, who
understood Tongans, and who could be
completely trusted to establish the basis
of a fair deal for the men. During that
week-end, therefore, at his suggestion,
Captain Fifita signed a document for a
consideration of £lOO, in which he dele-
gated all rights in the story to the Fiji
Times and Herald Ltd, represented by
its editor and publisher, Mr L. G. Usher.
The money was merely to seal the
bargain, and it was never anticipated that
this should be the only return for the
castaways, who are already assured of at
least ten times that amount. Prince
Tungi, who has degrees in both law and
accountancy and has an extremely able
mind, had simply indicated the most
direct steps that could be taken to en-
sure a fair deal, without himself be-
coming implicated in any of the trans-
actions.
When Mrs Faigan arrived at the hos-
pital on Monday and heard of these ar-
rangements she was disappointed, and
very naturally pleaded her prior agree-
ment with the captain, taking her case to
Prince Tungi himself; and again a solu-
tion leading to an amicable arrangement
was proposed: that Mrs Faigan should
have an agent's control in the final dis-
position of the book publication rights.
She flew to Sydney, and brought Angus
and Robertson Ltd into the picture.
The first inkling I had of this was when
I answered my telephone late on Friday
of that week and was asked by Mr R.
W. Robson, a director of the Fiji Times,
and of Pacific Publications Ltd, whether
I would be prepared to write the book.
Indeed I would. On Wednesday we
signed the various contracts, and on
Thursday I was in Suva. Under these
contracts I shared equally with the casta-
ways in the normal proceeds of royalties
and rights; the Fiji Times, in a generous
gesture, accepting nothing but the re-
imbursement of expenses.
Now I was really glad that I had been
made the first abortive proposition, for
I had nothing to delay my departure and
it was important that the book should
appear quickly, in order to take ad-
vantage of the impact the news had
made. I gave a guarantee that I would
deliver the manuscript before the end
of February.
At this stage I did have certain mis-
givings lest the story prove less spec-
tacular than the newspaper reports had
indicated. There had been discrepancies
in these reports one had referred to
“a raft of palm-tree logs”, and since I
knew that palm-trees were non-existent
at Minerva Reef, and I could not imagine
that a navigable raft could be made of
their trunks, I did not know how much
of the rest of the news might be spurious.
In the event, the truth was much more
amazing than the reports. The “raft”,
which I went over inch by inch, was a
finely-constructed, decked-in sailing ves-
sel; and it had been built in little more
than two weeks with no tools other than
a hammer, a chisel-ended spike or nail
and a knife with a serrated edge.
The men had not only survived on the
Japanese vessel; they had performed
arduous tasks directed towards their sal-
vation; they had launched, for example,
30 large, be-flagged rafts carrying rescue
messages, which they had despatched
also on more than 300 planks, drums
and other floats.
There were stories of heroism that
have seldom, if ever, been excelled. And
it was largely documented. The captain’s
log had been lost, but a number of
diaries, written on scribbling books found
on the hulk on the reef, had been pre-
served in part; and the men’s memories
carried their stories in amazing detail.
From my point of view another note-
worthy factor was the very generous co-


maximum
. . . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
WITH
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to" its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group. . .
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wh,;ii opens
all locks in all groups. ,
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE°KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System is an essentia!
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation. _
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost-keys or damaged locks “true to code", and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
Ycmz/iukwcC
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
operation I had from everyone con-
cerned, however slightly and in whatever
capacity, with the affair. The owner of
the Tuaikaepau, the wrecked Tongan
vessel, was still full of praises for the
captain who had lost his ship, though it
was a well-loved vessel, and he carried
no insurance. The Royal New Zealand
Air Force, when I applied to them, gave
me full details of the unsuccessful
searches they had carried out. The Fiji
Times provided me with all their photo-
graphs and information, and took the
chores of booking accommodation and
air passages off my hands. The Tongan
Government provided me with an inter-
preter, who in his turn gave me fully
and generously of his own time. Tonga
Radio made a tape recording for me in
Tongan, and then its chief announcer
translated and transcribed it.
Most of my days I spent in the hos-
pital in Nukualofa, the Tongan capital,
interviewing the survivors. David Fifita,
who was the key to the whole story [
spoke English well. Nevertheless,
preferred to use an interpreter.
interpreter, an exceptionally pi easai))
companion named Enoki Faletau, Was
sometimes at a loss with his nautical
terms; and sometimes, w'hen he struggled
for understanding, David Fifita would
cut across and give me the explanation
directly - “I meant the triatic stay” 0 r
“We were on a starboard reach”.
Enoki took an intense interest not
only in the story but in my methods of
questioning, and rapidly learnt to
recognise which points were salient,
For the Minerva Reef story was not
a simple one of sterling characters work-
ing together. The unity of the result was
achieved by design; a master intelligence
brought about the survival of the twelve;
and to be successful that intelligence had
to make use of a hundred and one small
factors, to impose and to keep a disci-
pline upon strong and strong-minded
men, under circumstances in which nor-
mal discipline no longer had any cur-
rency.
It was in the personality attached to
this intelligence, the personality of
Captain David Fifita, that the ultimate
strength of the story lay. He is an
amazing man, with a clear mind that is
buoyed and supported by a religious
faith of impressive proportions. He used
this faith to impose his own will upon
the others. They in their turn all had
faith; all the survivors and some of the
dead. For some their faith w'as religious,
for others it was a faith in Fifita himself,
for the rest a combination of the two.
This was the secret of their survival
Behind the amazing physical achieve-
ments was this mental one; a strength of
mind that took the varying personalities
and welded them into a unit.
There was also an epic of sacrifice;
for essentially the story of Minerva Reef
is a story of tragedy. There were five
who died. Each death carried its own
drama. Not one of the dead passed from
this world except in circumstances that
still evoke awe and wonder when 1 think
of them, though I have lived with the
story from that day to this.
The circumstances took a comply
hold on me. From the time 1 returned
to Sydney I worked night and day-
Within a month I had finished both the
first and the final drafts of a substantia
book, and I can do no more with d
It was an account of an epic of courage
and endurance; but I am too close t°
judge my own part of the work. I M*
no one else, ever, anywhere, has to sup
the privations that these Tongans s ut
vived; but perhaps through my accoun
of them some man somewhere, or some
company of men who stand on the
of disaster, may get courage or gu^j 11
from this story I’ve been so pro u( *
transmit.


MORE
KURT
NODTS
"AWAKE, AWAKE, WHAT BOOTS IT TO REPEAT?"
"IT'D MAKE A TERRIFIC DESIGN FOR
TRADE MARKS AND LABELS AND LETTER-
HEADS "
"I BROUGHT A SPOT OF
WORK HOME TO DO AT
THE WEEK-END, DEAR!"


OUT AND ABOUT
MARCEAU: MIME
MOVES EVERYWHERE
"From youth to maturity to old age man is trapped"
By CHARLES HIGHAM
am, of course, an optimist—with
one reservation. There is always
death.” Marcel Marceua, who is
appearing this month at Her Majesty’s
Theatre in Sydney, was talking about the
philosophy of pathetic irony which in-
spires his performances as the world’s
greatest mime. Sometimes, as he talks,
the sensitive lama's face with its deeply
graven lines looks immensely old (Mar-
ceau is 39), sometimes like a wistful
child’s. The black fleece of hair, framing
the face with heavy sideburns, clustering
down the back of the neck over the
collar of his shirt, gives him an oddly
fin de siecle appearance, while the body
with its steeply sloping shoulders, ant
waist, powerful chest and thin legs, is
always firmly controlled by the steel-
spring intellectual machinery. His voice,
silenced on stage, reminds one of the
Jewish actor Joseph Schildkraut’s: high-
pitched, edged, snapping off the ends of
sentences like sharpened scissors.
“I draw my inspiration from a belief
in man’s hopes, his struggles and his
dreams,” Marceau said, each syllable
rounded as carefully as by a linguaphone
instructor. “The mime I am presenting
in Australia the same I presented in
New York in 1955 is in two parts.
“The first part shows the struggle of
man against the cage he is trapped in.
He gets out of the cage only to find a
cage which is bigger. It is like Kafka’s
‘The Trial.’ From youth to maturity to
old age he is trapped.”
By circumstances? “No, by nature,
which ends everything in death. All our
triumphs, all our failures, eventually end
in death. The second part shows the ad-
ventures of BIP” (a name suggested by
the Pip of “Great Expectations”), “gj,
represents the little struggles of ljf e |
frustrations and hopes of man. He \v ani ,
to be a great performer and becomes
street musician; he tries to be a skate
he would be a hunter and only becomes
a trainer in a zoo.
“BIP provides the poetry of struggle
between reality and dream, the struggle
between cowardice and heroism, love and
hate, death and life. . .”
Marceau’s performances, then, sought
to mirror the whole tragic comedy "of
civilisation. Did any fixed philosophy or
religious belief underlie the performance!
“1 accept all philosophies,” Marceau
said, “for their beauty. I like the pomp
of Catholicism, but I reject its methods,
I like the ritual, the beautiful myth of
the Christ, but—”
He gave an almost invisible shru»,
To him, then, Catholicism provided only
a beautiful myth? “Yes. And 1 admire
Protestantism for its austerity. But to-
day man has arrived at a stage when he
must judge himself. He is a prisoner of
nature. I am optimistic when I think of
what he can achieve Mozart, Beet-
hoven, when I hear them I am opti-
mistic.”
It seemed to me, then, that Marceau
admired religions for their plastic quali-
ties for their works of art, buildings,
rituals but was an atheist humanist
not far removed from the existentialists
in feeling, a Kafka who believed in
beauty. He nodded, saying that he had
only gradually evolved this vision of life,
deepening and strengthening his perfor-
mance until he had been able to crystal-
lise an attitude, a conviction, in a fffl
gestures.
Had it been difficult, at first, to restore
the art of mime in France, where it had
been dormant since the turn of the
century? He said yes, that after he left
the Barrault company of the Theatre
Marigny in the late 19405, started pel'
forming at the smallest Paris theatre (the
Theatre de Poche) and at the Studio de
Champs-Elysees, he had only been able
to attract small audiences of artists, of
intellectuals. It was only when he toured
Germany in the early 1950 s that he
began to find a wider audience, and then
suddenly he broke into internatioM
fame with a season in New York (which
I recalled, had been reviewed with bovine
insensitivity by Wolcott Gibbs in 1*
New Yorker”). Why had he found sue
an immediate and warm response fr ol ®
the American public when the public®
home had regarded him with indififl
ence?
“It was the spontaneity of
When you go there for the first time as«
performer you either go to the utm®
heights or you go to the depths, there
nothing in between. They accepted ® ■


jot surely the French, who, after all,
ff jth the Germans have developed the
most advanced standard of theatre in the
world, had the same spontaneous reac-
| lion to greatness of performance? “No,
n 0 You see, the French are too clever,
too sceptical and critical, too slow to
accept. But when America and Ger-
raany __ accepted me, they also accepted
me.
I asked Marceau about the influences
at work in his career, and he said that
Jean-Louis Barrault’s celebrated mime in
“Les Enfants du Paradis” had only af-
fected him in the early stages, as had
the silent-screen genius of Buster Keaton,
flarry Langdon and Charlie Chaplin,
jjjev, of course, used props, scenery to
add color and variety to their perfor-
mance, but he created everything out of
the air life, color, beauty out of
silence and emptiness, just as the world
itself came out of nothing and would
return to nothing. But he did feel that
he still had a close affinity with the Marx
Brothers, whom he regarded as the
greatest of comedians.
“The Marx Brothers’ act is the poetry
of the absurd,” he said. “It is the Corn-
media dell’Arte with a modern setting.
Harpo is Polichinelle, the simpleton,
Groucho is Harlequin, the cynic, and
Chico was the average man. Harpo is of
course the greatest of mimes, the sum-
| mary of 300 years of the Commedia.”
Looking towards the future, Marceau
said that he hoped to immortalise his
entire performance in a film, and that he
was dissatisfied with the 1953 two-reeler
on his work. Would the film be in color?
“No. I prefer black and white. You see,
my performance is black and white.”
And if he died, would there be others
to carry on the tradition? “Yes, in
Czechoslovakia and Poland. And there
are two Israelis. And, of course, in Japan
tee is no break in the tradition. They
respond very much to me. But their
understanding is essentially tragic. The
English love the humorous in me, they
"'ant to laugh.”
Looking back on his performances
finally, which audience did he find the
most sensitive? “The Americans. They
re spond to both humor and tragedy.
They have a deep understanding of
poetry. And there is a great deal of
poetry in New York.”
Suddenly it was time to go, and the
crinkled, narrow face concealed on stage
behind a white wall of make-up looked at
once sad and humorous, eyes smiling
w hile the mouth stayed glum. He looked
ar °und the room of his hotel as though
he furniture were alive. “Mime moves
aver ywhere,” he said, “in the end. Even
ere > the end of the world . . .”
ONLY
PLEASANT
SURPRISES
A book-reader does not make
a book-collector
By PATRICIA ROLFE
The boom in Australian art is now
a well-established cultural and finan-
cial fact of life. The smallest child,
finger-painting in some kindergarten
somewhere, can probably tell you the
ruling market price of a Dobell. Paintings
are considered money in the bank, with
the added advantages that they hide
marks on the walls and impress your
friends.
However, this interest and perception
has not yet extended to some other ob-
jects which are traditionally collectors’
pieces. It has not, for instance, extended
to rare books, although Mr I. Berkelouw
believes that in time it will. Mr Berke-
louw came to Australia 15 years ago and
has already, from small beginnings at the
wharves end of King Street, built up a
business which occupies three storeys of
a slender building in the more fashion-
able area between Castlereagh and Pitt
Streets.
On the ground floor with access to the
street are shelves and tables, mainly of
recent books, although some rare books
are held behind glass. Around these tables
mill the lunch-hour crowds of book-
readers, who perhaps want to pick up a
second-hand copy of a book by a favo-
rite author. But these people are mostly
book-readers, and book-readers, Mr Ber-
kelouw insists, are not often, in fact or
in prospect, book-collectors or book-
lovers.
A book-reader has completely the
wrong frame of mind to become a book-
collector. He is interested in the contents
of a book, and to make the contents his
own he may prop the book up at table so
that it falls in the jam. He may leave
coffee-cup rings on it. He may dog-ear
leaves or make marginal notes. The book-
collector loves the book, not its contents,
which he may never read.
The conditions do not exist here yet
•—although there are, according to Mr
Berkelouw, some impressive private col-
lections on a variety of subjects — for
book-collecting to become an accepted
form of acquisition.
These conditions, as outlined by Mr
Berkelouw, are simple. You merely
require enough people with enough
money that they don't know what to do
with. “We seem to be at an in-between
stage,” Mr Berkelouw said. “The older
families have in many cases dissipated
their fortunes and the newly rich are
still at the stage of buying more houses,
cars, yachts the obvious possessions to
collect. But a man may buy three houses,
three cars and three yachts, and after that
what will he do? The absurdity of buying
12 houses, 12 cars and 12 yachts will
strike him. So he will turn to something
else. Even if he has never read a book
in his life, if someone points out the
pleasures of book-collecting, he may
begin. And once he begins nothing will
stop him. It is just acquisitiveness. He
will not stop until he has got the best
collection in his field, or everything that
is available in his field.”
Mr Berkelouw said that book-collec-
ting could be a highly profitable business,
but he felt that Australians so far lacked
the “financial stamina” to try to make
money this way.
“It is not like the stock exchange,”
he said. “It is easy to take a gamble on
something but book-collecting is some-
thing more. I can tell a customer that a
book is a good buy, but I cannot tell him
with any certainty what it will be worth
in another year, as a broker sometimes—
although not always—can.”
Mr Berkelouw gave as a classic ex-
ample of the financial stamina required
to make money out of book-collecting
Rosenbach, the New York dealer who
acquired almost every available copy of
the Shakespeare first folios. “He dealt in
other books, of course,” he said, “but
once he had settled on the first folios as
a suitable venture, he concentrated all his
efforts on finding them and acquiring
them. He had friends bid against him at


... ><:
m -. ■
■
111
&
QANTAS
c AHfiO
Air Cargo’d with Care . . . to anywhere!
This day-old chick is really going places. In style, by Qantas Air
Cargo. In an ingenious package that ‘breathes,’ thus ensuring its
safe-and-sound arrival at a destination which could be anywhere.
Now your product may not be live and chick-small. Is it inert, and
car-large? No matter. Whatever the commodity, you can count on
Qantas to handle it with an efficiency and skill born of 42 years of
air cargo experience.
Air Cargo to the World. Qantas Air Cargo, with its associated
airlines and interlining facilities with over 90 lATA airlines, enables
you to airfreight your goods to anywhere in the world. Qantas has
the experience, the know-how, the equipment, the people and the
aircraft to enable it to offer you fast, dependable Air Cargo services
to almost any part of the world.
Major markets only hours away. In effect, Qantas brings you
instant world markets. Think Qantas Air Cargo and think in terms
of hours, not weeks. Rest assured that Qantas has an appreciation
of the importance to you of the arrival on time and in perfect
condition of the merchandise you entrust to their care.
42 years of dependable service. The oldest established airline
in the English-speaking world, Qantas has grown up in the Air Cargo
business and has helped to make Air Cargo the dynamic force it has
become in the expanding world of international trade. Next time
you want to get your product there in a hurry, specify Qantas to your
Air Cargo Agent or contact Qantas.
QANTAS AIK CARGO
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
HOW THE QANTAS EXPORT
CONSULTANT SERVICE CAN HELP YOU:
Qantas puts at your disposal one of the
most comprehensive transport systems in
the world. Qantas analyses each export/
import problem individually and offers you
this Qantas six-point service—FßEE.
1. Distribution time and static time
analysis gives you a time and motion
plot on your goods from despatch to
arrival.
2. Costing breakdown on your complete
shipping operation.
3. Systematic appraisal of packaging with
suggested modifications for the lighter,
more economical handling and
packing of your freight needs.
4. Advice on alternate routings,
accelerated cartage, taxation and
insurance reductions.
5. Analyses of current economic situation
of world markets, quarantine, import,
currency and customs regulations.
6. A business venue in many overseas
countries in Qantas offices in Europe,
America, Asia, the Orient, New
Zealand and Africa.
EXPORT it by Qantas if it’s
IMPQRTant to you!
t)ANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL,
-QAC72.FFB' 13


, r on( ion salesrooms to force the price
” e Finally, he sold the collection to a
Siss banker, who kept them in a safe
deposit, purely as a valuable property.”
gr Berkelouw said that although he
Id not tell a client whether a book
would increase in value, there were some
classes of books which his firm would
always buy because he knew they would
always sell. What were these? “We are
jive generations in the book business, he
s aid.°“l learnt them from my father who
got them from his father. They are our
trade secret.”
Mr Berkelouw said that many rare
books would keep their value, but there
had been fashions in book-collecting
which had cost the collectors a lot of
money. One of these fashions had been
for the first editions of 20th-century
novelists.
Mr Berkelouw said that one thing
which stood in the way of Australians
becoming astute book-collectors was a
basic idea that anything new was of value
and anything old should be thrown away.
“In Europe everything has some value,”
he said. “In Holland there are many
second-hand shoe and clothes shops.
Nobody would think of throwing away
something without finding out first
whether it is worth something. And in
London even wealthy people sell their
clothes. But here everything is thrown
away. It used to distress me when I first
came here to know that people unheed-
ingly burnt valuable books, but now I
have got used to it, and 1 say to myself,
why worry, it means that the old books
become rarer.
“I remember soon after 1 came here I
went to a house where they were selling
up their possessions and I bought their
collection of books. 1 asked for some
paper to wrap them in and what do you
think they brought me? Copies of the
Sydney Gazette.’ The people were ter-
ribly surprised when I told them they
We valuable. They said they had burnt
‘stacks’ of them.”
Mr Berkelouw said that a common
idea was that the older a book was the
rarer and more valuable it became. This
was not true. “For example, early copies
°f Cook’s journals are floating around
everywhere,” he said. “Many editions
were published in the early 19th century
because many people were interested in
'he voyages. If a client wants a copy I
tan gethim one within three months. But
'here is a book, published in the 1920 s by
%is and Robertson, on an Australian
ratural history subject, which remains
, e °nly comprehensive book on the sub-
j ec '. I can get <£2o or £3O for one of
ese—if I can get my hands on it
I get enquiries from all over the
' Or M. Angus and Robertson must have
Se i Un dreds of enquiries for it them-
Ves > but they have never republished it.
God knows why. But I don’t mind. It is
very profitable for me.”
After 15 years Mr Berkelouw has
achieved his primary object in Australia,
that is, to make enough money to live the
way he wants to live. He has also, he
says, grown used to our funny little ways.
But why in the first place did he liquidate
a business begun by Solomon Berkelouw
in Rotterdam in 1812 and come to Aus-
tralia to begin again?
Mr Berkelouw came because he had
a young family (his sons, Henry and Leo,
and his daughter, Frances, are now in
the business) and wanted to leave Europe.
He chose Australia first because it was
a country with no import restrictions on
books and free flow of currency.
“Book-selling is entirely an interna-
tional thing,” he said. “And all that I
needed was a country where I could go
to a bank and they could send money
to any other country for me. Language
was not an important factor, as far as
books were concerned. Many people
collect books in languages that they do
not read. For instance, there would be a
market here for a book in Dutch on
Australian exploration, but not a book
in Dutch on a subject not related to Aus-
tralia. Of course, the fact that I spoke
English and had worked in the London
branch of our firm was a practical help.
“But the number of book-collectors in
Australia was not so important, although
I may not have gone to a country where
there were no book-collectors. But books
flow in all directions at all times. Perhaps
25 per cent, of my turnover is Austra-
lian, and that is very nice, but I had
handled books on Australia in Holland.
It was not a new field to me.”
Although Mr Berkelouw did not go
straight to book-selling when he came
here, it was always his intention.
“That is because we know it best,” he
said, “and because we love it. Every
second-hand book is a different commo-
dity and we have to put a price on it.
Every book we sell is recorded and if
we get another copy 10 years later we
can look up our records and know what
it was worth then. There is no ruling
price for any rare book. There is only
the price we know we can get for it.
Although I do believe,” he added with a
smile, “that our prices are tending to
become the standard prices in Sydney.
“And we have no supplier. We have to
go out and look for our books, look
everywhere for them and know where
to look and what is of value. It is not like
a seller of new books. He just writes out
an order to a publisher and along comes
12 copies of this and 20 copies of that.
But for the seller of new books there
are many unpleasant surprises. For us
there are only pleasant ones.”
FACING A NEW GENERATION
Melon-and-lemon jam in a Sukiyaki age
By JAN SMITH
When Kitty Bluett joins the five-
strong panel on Melbourne tele-
vision’s “Daly at Night” show,
she will face a generation of viewers to
whom she is little more than ancient
history.
“Daly at Night”, which is compered
and arranged by American comic Jona-
than Daly, has the usual guest celebrities
visiting firemen, cabinet ministers cur-
rently in hot seats but will consist
mainly of topical discussion among Vikki
Hammond, Frank Thring, Horrie Dargie,
Daly, and Kitty Bluett.
Miss Bluett left Australia 17 years ago
for the United States, ostensibly to do
radio work. “I was romancing, God help
us, with Ron Randell,” she said with a
weary smile. Apart from a short visit
here three years ago to show her English
husband her old stamping-ground, she
has spent the last 14 years in London.
She was born in England and came to
Sydney at 10 weeks. Jack Davey boosted
her young career in a comedy radio series
called “Doctor Davey”, and she starred
in radio plays, Tivoli and J. C. William-
son shows, as well as in two straight
plays, “Patsy”, and Noel Coward’s
“Point Verlaine”, at the Theatre Royal,
After an unsuccessful marriage in 1942
to Australian musician Wally Portingale,
which ended in 1947, there were rumors
of a wedding with Randell they starred
in a film “A Son Is Born” and a
short-lived engagement to Micky Ashton
of Ashton’s Circus.
In England she had a large following
for 26 weeks of each year as Ted Ray’s
wife in the BBC comedy series, Ray s
a Laugh,” and for the other half of the
year it was a case of take what you could
get an hour-long variety act in the
middle of an ice show, some TV ap-
pearances with Jimmy Edwards. At the
Birmingham Hippodrome she met Julian


FOR ALL TRAVEL
CONSULT . . .
MACDONALD HAMILTON 8 CO. PTY. LTD.
Accredited Agents for:
• The major shipping companies of the world.
• All airlines—domestic and international.
• The leading motor tour companies in Australia, New
Zealand, North America, United Kingdom and Europe.
• Hotels throughout Australia and the world.
We offer expert advice and assistance for passports and
other formalities and deliver tickets within the city area.
These services are entirely free of charge.
Ju
0[ A
N.S.W.: 4 Martin Place, Sydney. Telephone 25 1901. QLD.: 193 Mary Street, Brisbane. Telephone
31 0221. 279 Kent Street, Maryborough. Telephone 2497. Quay Street, Bundaberg. Telephone 34.
VIC.: 311 Collins Street, Melbourne. Telephone 62 3281.
Jover hanging by his heels from a
trapeze. They married and daughter
Jody was born. “I always wanted a
daughter called Clover,” she told press-
men, “but Clover Jover ...”
One way and another the Bluetts were
always good copy. The family has been
in show business for four generations
her grandfather was a comedian, and her
father, Fred Bluett, was a veteran vaude-
villian. Her brother Gus, who died in the
19305, was also a household name.
When the Jovers arrived back in Syd-
ney, the press rallied nobly, but a lot of
water had flowed under the bridge.
“Kitty Bluett?” said the fellow clock-
watcher at the Hotel Australia. “No, I
wouldn't know what she looks like.” An
actress, was she? “Maybe you’d better
watch out for a big limousine.”
But four generations in show business
doesn’t always build a fortune to match,
the name.
Kitty Bluett, with faded blue eyes and
reluctant blonde hair under a sequinned
beret, arrived by cab with her husband.
Jover, darkly handsome, wore a look of
amused resignation. He had been straight
man to comedian Cyril Fletcher for
several seasons at Eastbourne, and hoped
the offers he'd had from Melbourne
would work out. Daughter Jody came
along too, wide-eyed and with waist-
length hair. “I think she’ll be our one-
and-only,” Miss Bluett said, “so we’re
trying very hard not to spoil her. You
know what it’s like in the theatre.”
Because of Jody, we went to a nearby
restaurant, where Miss Bluett, pouring a
cup of tired coffee, declared that Sydney
was terribly Americanised. Everyone was
in such a hurry, advertising distasteful,
drive-ins mushrooming. But she was glad
to be home, just the same. She’d never
leave, no matter what.
The day before she’d been guest of
honor at a round-the-clock theatrical
party at Whale Beach, where she’d drunk
about 10 cups of tea and eaten melon-
and-lemon jam sandwiches. She really
loved the stuff, and when the girls
(Thelma Scott and Gwen Plumb) came
to London, they brought her bottles and
bottles of jam, wrapped up ia frilly
underwear in their suitcases.
So the party had been a great success,
meeting all the old gang, and she was
only sorry that in a few days they’d have
to drive down to Melbourne and start
flat hunting. “I’d like one of those home-
steads, you know?” she said. “Verandahs
all around and painted white. Last week
I just about leapt out af the car every
time I saw one. But I suppose they’re
terribly dear.” Terrace houses she isn’t
keen on. You're still living in a row of
buildings, and with Jody she needs space.
A house in Vaucluse would be ideal.
“But I’m afraid I have expensive tastes.”
But life in Sydney had another dis-
advantage. There were far too niani
Japanese, Miss Bluett said. Not jj[
Asians, but real live Japanese. The who]
Oriental influence was a thing she really
hated about Sydney. All those Sukiyaki
places and cane matting. Mr j oVer
smiled in a she’s-off-again way. but Miss
Bluett persisted. “If it hadn’t been f or
them more of our boys might have had
a place in the sun,” she said. The Ger-
man infiltration in Britain was just as
bad. In 1942, with Gladys Moncrieif
and Bebe Scott, she had entertained in
the thick of the New Guinea campaio ns
and so she hated Japanese.
She went on in a serious vein. Tm
the most un-pro pro you’ve ever met;’
she said. “I loathe comedy. It’s pretty un-
funny when you’ve worked in it as long
as I have.” Her sister Belle, a former
J. C. Williamson’s showgirl, is married to
comedian Jimmy Jewel, back in England,
and her 80-year-old mother, to judge
from press clippings, is never short of
bon mots.
Miss Bluett likes heavy dramas and
tragedies. There were lots of good actors,
Method and otherwise, but somehow
comedians weren’t what they used to be.
What had Australia produced lately
(after Dyer, Davey, Bentley) that could
in any way touch the genius of Peter
Sellers, for instance? It made her sad to
read of so many great actors dying, but
she would never desert the theatre for
televiewing. “I love to dress up and go
out, get all prettied up, instead of slop-
ping around in slippers,” she said.
She likes Sydney television with the
extra channel. “1 jump up and down all
night changing the channel,” she said
“It’s marvellous to have such a choice.’
They could see European TV programs
in London, but unfortunately there was
always someone singing in French or
playing an accordion.
In Australia they’d miss the opportuni-
ties for Continental jaunts, but she and
Julian would have a good holiday soon,
preferably on the Barrier Reef. Julian
thought Brisbane would be charming, but
alas, America seemed to be making in-
roads even in this tropical paradise. The
films they’d seen of the Gold Coast,
coming out on the ship, had been a nasty
shock.
At their London flat in Little Boltons,
she lived in hope of a closer look at
Douglas Fairbanks Junior, who li ve “
nearby. “Julian’d yell ‘here he conies,
and I’d race off to the window for 3
look,” she said. “I think he's wonderfu,
and so handsome.” They used to see Pe®
Finch quite often too, in a neighbor)'
way. It remains to be seen what com-
pensations the Melbourne flat will ofW
but with an assured job and a steady be
ageing public, the Asian invasion shou
fade comfortably into perspective.


1
Sr
■
1
J
.
.
'“I!
A
* * o -J:
: ;^>
n
Z 4
ft
■
•••*••
■
*
■
■'
i
\
mm
ll§f
*
'. ' ’ *'' ''• *■'■,'■ > •;
—■n
.
: •.■
■
I
•: ■•' :■'
■ 8
H
■
mi
m
Nylex Vinyl Coated Fabric, applied to the upholstery and watts as illustrated, is produced from Geon Vinyl.
by MOULDED PRODUCTS (A'SIA) LTD .
rides the Southern Aurora
This is first class travel to remain that way for years to come
• • . upholstery and wall covering of Geon vinyl used on the Southern Aurora.
Here are materials as modern as the train itself . . . tough and easy to
clean, water proof and stain proof. Upholstery and wall coverings
such as these are further examples of Geon’s versatility. In every
industry, Geon improves products or evolves new ones.
Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty, Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road, North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. ' <-
_ 0N Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
MSSSSA


THE ROYAL FAMILY
OF AUSTRALIAN COMMUNISM
Profile of the Aarons Family: Professional Revolutionaries
By FRED WELLS
Joseph Kennedy and his sons are
often said to have built a family
political machine within the Demo-
cratic Party of America which has no
counterpart in modern politics. But
the comparatively unknown Aarons
family of Australia leave the Kennedys
looking like also-rans.
Although the Communist Party of
Australia has shrunk to some 5500
members it still has a higher pro rata
membership than that of the Russian
Communist Party when it seized power
in 1917, and consists largely of hard-
core, dedicated Communists. Its cadres
are educated in the theory of Marxism-
Leninism to a particularly high level.
Within this Party the record of posi-
tions of power held by members of the
Aarons family is remarkable. The main
five (Sam, Annette, Laurie, Eric, June)
are included in the family tree above,
as well as other family members hold-
ing positions ranging from the minor
to the semi-important, such as Miriam
Hampson, State Secretary of the New
Theatre, Sydney. Others still are not
mentioned there.
This power was gained over a period
of time longer than that of the official
history of the Australian Communist
Party itself; it is a microcosm of all Com-
munist politics.
The story began in the Victorian So-
cialist Party with boot-repairer Louis
Aarons and his wife Jenny, parents of
Sam and his three sisters. Although the
Australian Party was not formed until
1920 (and officially recognised by the
Communist International in 1922), the
minutes of the Victorian Socialist Party
dated October 13, 1919, mention that an
L. Aarons was acting as spokesman for
a Communist group. Both Louis
Aarons and his wife were active in the
old Victorian Socialist Party and, with
others, were attempting to form a
national Communist Party.
Louis, his wife Jenny and his son
Sam were among the first members of
the Party when it was established in
Melbourne in 1920. This branch was
later disbanded; in the faction-ridden
Party of those days branches were
formed and disbanded almost overnight.
Whether Louis and Jenny ever rejoined
the Party is not known, but Sam cer-
tainly did.
In the mid-1920s Sam moved to Syd-
ney with his family. He opened a quick-
repair boot shop in Pitt Street, which
did not prosper, and contacts were made
with the Communist Party. By 1926
Sam and at least two of his sisters were
members of the Party. The decade that
followed must have been a hard and
hungry one for Sam. Apart from a
family to support there were the tedious,
often dangerous Party duties to perform.
Party records attest to the large num-
ber of diverse characters who came, saw
and fled when they realised the hard,
self-sacrificing work they would be
obliged to do. Sam performed it all
ungrudgingly, and when the cards were
down he left the talk behind to go to the
filth and heartbreak that was the lot of
the International Brigade in Spain.
He crossed the borders of France into
Spain in mid-1937, where, because of
an old leg injury, he served in transport.
After service on the Madrid, Teruel,
Aragon and Ebro fronts he returned to
Australia at the end of 1938.
Spain spelt the finish of Communism
to large numbers of those who went
from far corners to fight for democracy,
Some saw the emulators of Stalin at
work; such men as Erno Gero of Hun-
gary, Ercole Ercoli (Togliatti) of Italy,
and Andre Marty. They heard the
epithets of Trotskyite, anarchist and fas-
cist applied to those who disagreed with
whatever line it was that the Communist
Party followed at that particular time,
They saw the measures adopted against
those who did not conform. Many left
the Party quietly, some not so quietly.
But not Sam Aarons or his wife
Annette. Reading his works or listening
to him, one sees and hears the finished
product of the Stalin era. All that came
from Stalin, his prophets and his home-
land was right. All else was wrong.
While this attitude in a person such
as Sam was by no means an isolated
phenomenon of that time, in this case it
helped to lay down the line which the
Australian Communist Party was to
follow in future years.
Dam’s two sons Laurie and Eric were
now young men. Both were active
in the Party and must have been deep j
impressed by the experiences an
theories Sam brought back with Ho l
from Spain.


Now the pattern for the family’s role
professional revolutionaries began to
a * L e . Sam was com P letel y involved
1 an organiser for the Party, and by
the early 1940 s official publications re-
ferre( j to him as the “National Orga-
n j ser ” Such a position enables those
wllo so desire to lay foundations for
future power.
After guiding the South Australian
branch of the Party through its period
of illegality, by 1943 he was made State
Secretary, a job which he held for some
years. The sons, Laurie and Eric,
meanwhile had set out to seek room at
the top.
Room at the Top
(t would be naive to assume that their
1 father’s position and reputation were
not of considerable help to them. But
there was another external factor which
lent impetus to their rise to power.
Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union in
June, 1942, had resulted in the great
about-face of Communist parties the
world over, and large numbers of active
young dedicated Communists rushed to
join the Services. This, along with the
sudden influx of new members into the
Party, left it desperately short of orga-
nisers and people properly trained to
cope with the situation. (This is not
meant to imply that Laurie or Eric
evaded war-time duties. Both gave their
services; Laurie in the RAAF and Eric
in a highly-essential war-time industry.)
Although physically alike, in their
teens the two brothers showed a dif-
ferent approach to life. At the age of
15 Laurie set out unhesitatingly on the
path he has followed ever since. On
leaving school he worked in the boot
trade, joining the Boot Trades’ Union
as a matter of course. He served on the
union’s committee of management in an
honorary capacity for a short period,
and was for some time a delegate to the
Sydney Trades and Labor Council. He
1S still a member of the union, though
he has not worked in the industry since
i the mid-19405.
ft is claimed that Laurie joined the
Communist Party in 1932, but this was
actually the year in which he became a
member of the Young Communist
h- ea gue, the forerunner of today’s
fureka Youth League,
ffis application to join the RAAF in
hhf- was rejected, presumably because
his political affiliations. But on re-
plying he was accepted, and he served
® the ground staff of the RAAF until
ls discharge not long after. A civilian
j! Dce again, he opened a boot repair shop
! e his father and grandfather before
1111 This flirtation with bourgeois re-
ntability soon ended.
11 1943 Laurie was appointed as
Party organiser on the Sydney water-
front, then as now a vitally important
area of Communist Party work. In this,
his first big Party job, he crashed badly
when both Communist candidates, Tom
Nelson and Stan Moran, were defeated in
the Waterside Workers’ Federation
annual elections. (They were re-elected
the following year.) But this failure
does not appear to have harmed Laurie’s
prospects or his reputation, and he was
much in demand as a lecturer and radio
spokesman for the Party.
During the years 1943-1945 his first
articles on Communist theory appeared
in the “Communist Review.” In one of
these, “Discussion on Armed Forces
Summed Up” (November, 1943), he
displayed remarkable candor. It fol-
lowed a discussion held by Communists
in the armed forces. After explaining
how the former Imperialist War had
now become a People's War, Laurie com-
plained that private enterprise was pre-
venting complete mobilisation of the
country. Then, in answer to queries on
rank-and-file control in the Army, he
stated: “What is meant by rank-and-file
control in the Army? ... In the Soviet
Union there is no such thing . . . Dis-
cipline is stronger there than anywhere.”
In effect he suggested it was time to cut
the cackle and get on with the war; the
Soviet Union was in danger.
In three articles written during 1944-
45 on the problems of repatriation and
returned servicemen, however, he showed
a firm grasp of the subject and a sur-
prising humanity. There seems more
concern with people than with propa-
ganda. One can only assume that his
contact and experiences with non-Com-
munists in his union, in the RAAF and
on the waterfront had not yet been
coated with an armor of Stalinist dogma.
Nineteen hundred and forty-seven
found him once more dipping his pen
deep into the ink-well of class hatred
during a short period when he relieved
his father in South Australia. Sam had
been appointed secretary of the Western
Australian branch to combat problems
arising from right-wing deviation.
Laurie’s writings and speeches from
South Australia began to reflect his in-
creasing interest in the fields of cadres,
finance and industry—in all of which
he later specialised. He had risen from
the ranks of the Young Communist
League to an acting State secretaryship
of the Communist Party, and was re-
garded by such people as Sharkey and
Dixon as one to be trusted and groomed
for top leadership.
Academic Career
who had not joined the YCL until
strictly black and white shades as did
the rest of the family. He had wished
to follow an academic career, having
graduated in science from Sydney Uni-
versity.
One of the early intellectuals of the
Australian Communist Party (who has
long since severed all connection with
it) has told of the last Party class which
he tutored. The year was 1939, the sub-
ject was Dialectical Materialism. The
tutor still has vivid recollections of two
of his pupils, the Aarons brothers.
Laurie, the typical young Communist
who was active in industry, avidly
assimilated the works of Marx and
Engels, Lenin and Stalin. He was a
good pupil. He questioned nothing and
learned quickly the basic Marxist tenet,
how to apply theory to practice.
Eric, on the other hand, accepted
nothing as the absolute truth. He
queried and argued endlessly, seeking the
opinions of his scientific friends on
Marxist theories. His questioning of
Marxist-Leninist theory and his desire to
continue his academic career precipi-
tated a minor crisis in the family.
Whatever arguments the family used
are known only to them, but Eric re-
nounced both his queries and his aca-
demic ambitions. In the company of his
father, brother and aunt he set out on
the rocky road of the professional revo-
lutionary.
Laurie Goes to Newcastle
Touring the war years he worked in the
vitally important chemical industry,
but still found time to join the team of
speakers who broadcast in the Commu-
nist radio programme “Voice of the
Countryside.” He was a regular tutor
at the Party schools held at Marx House
in George Street, the headquarters of
the Communist Party at the time. What-
ever tasks were allotted him Eric per-
formed well and, like his brother, he was
soon marked down by Sharkey and
Dixon as trustworthy and destined for
higher things.
Both Sharkey and Dixon knew that
staunch allies and competent organisers
would soon be needed. For the Com-
munist Party was preparing to take on
the ALP in a struggle for power, while
high-ranking Communists Blake and
Henry were planning to take on Sharkey
and Dixon in a struggle for leadership.
The Aarons family was to play a major
role in both affairs.
It had long been decided within the
Communist Party to challenge the Fed-
eral Labor Government openly, using
the strike weapon. Coal being one of
the most essential commodities of the
time, and the field in which the Gov-
ernment appeared most vulnerable, the
immediate tactic was a strike by the
coalminers. Not only was the Miners’
Union Communist-led, but it also had
genuine industrial grievances. When


and wherever possible other unions were
to be drawn into the struggle.
Obviously the key points in such a
strike would be Newcastle, Sydney and
the Wollongong-Port Kembla area. As
far as the Communist Party was con-
cerned Sydney was well taken care of;
the national leadership and the NSW
State Committee were both centred
there. To direct operations on the re-
maining fronts two of the best orga-
nisers were needed. For the more im-
portant area of Newcastle Laurie was
chosen, while Eric was sent to organise
Wollongong-Port Kembla. By the time
the strike started each was secretary of
his respective district.
How the ALP, led by Mr Ben Chifley
and Dr H. V. Evatt, broke the strike
is now history. What is of interest here
is that although the Communist Party
suffered a staggering defeat the coal
strike actually enhanced the reputations
of the Aarons brothers.
The Aarons Territory
Tt was the experience gained in these
A centres that caused Laurie to say later:
“NSW is the most important State in
Australia, both industrially and agricul-
turally . . . What I say does not claim
a special place for our Party in NSW,
but it sets out facts which lay a heavy
burden upon our Party in NSW. The
most important area is the narrow
coastal strip from Newcastle in the
north to Wollongong in the south. Here
is concentrated the core of Australian
heavy industry, 99 per cent, of steel,
80 per cent, of black coal and the main
engineering base. Australian monopoly
is based here, especially BHP.”
From that date this area has been
known as Aarons territory. And a sur-
vey of strike and political demonstration
action in the area is evidence that Laurie
was not talking through his hat.
After the strike the brothers remained
in their respective districts, waiting. The
next move was not long in coming.
Sharkey, having clashed head on with
the State, was gaoled for seditious utter-
ances. But before beginning his sen-
tence he had initiated moves which re-
sulted in Laurie's becoming NSW State
Secretary. Thus Sharkey's long-time
comrade Dixon was not left to face the
challenge of Blake and Henry alone.
Wherever possible all contacts that
were still important (which had been
made by Sam and his sons throughout
the family's long political career) were
persuaded to line up with the Sharkey
faction led by Laurie and Dixon. They
managed to hold out until Sharkey's
release some 18 months later, when the
main battle was joined.
At that time the top Party commit-
tee, the Secretariat, consisted of Sharkey,
D/vnn, Blake and Henry. As both
SAM AARONS
Learnt in Spain
Sharkey and Dixon had made prolonged
visits overseas during the preceding
years, it would be naive to imagine that
Blake and/or Henry had not at some
time or another helped in furthering the
careers of the Aarons.
Whatever patronage Laurie owed to
Blake and Henry counted for nought.
He was foremost amongst those who laid
the blame for all the errors of the Party
at their door. Blake and Henry were
beaten and began the slide to oblivion.
Henry held on only a short time until,
thoroughly humiliated, he left the
Party. His last action was to send a
letter to the delegates of the Party's 18th
National Congress in which he said: “I
do not wish to nominate for any official
position ... I am returning from where
I came, back to the workers. I have
been wrong. The Party does not build,
it breaks people.”
Blake fought back, and as late as
1953 he criticised the NSW State Com-
mittee (and Laurie by implication) for
poor work. Laurie humbly accepted the
criticism. He knew he had Blake’s job
on the Secretariat in the bag. Shortly
afterwards Laurie was appointed acting
Secretariat member, and was officially
elected to the position in 1955.
It is interesting to note here that
Khrushchev has since laid down as
Marxist law many of the ideas which
Blake was then propounding. Not that
Blake was to profit from this. Only
dead men are rehabilitated; live men
are too dangerous.
/An his election to the Secretariat
Laurie was given charge of cadres.
With his experience as a trade unionist
and a member of the Services he was
regarded as an ideal choice to resolve
the constant bickering between the
Party’s political wing, composed of full-
time functionaries, and the industrial
wing of Communist trade-union, officials
and activists. It is the latter, of course,
who do the real work in transposing the
schemes of the political wing somehow,
sometimes into reality. Without the
there could be no Party.
To reconcile the two wings would
test a better man than Laurie, for in *
other party is the antagonism between
them so pronounced. Ever since Lenin
advanced the doctrine of bringing social
consciousness to the working-class move-
ment from outside by a body of p ro .
fessional revolutionists, and declared
that “Communists’ ideal should not be a
trade-union secretary, but a tribune of
the people,” Party functionaries see
themselves as the elite. Not only are
Communist trade-union officials regarded
as being of a lower strata, but there is
much derision of their high wages, their
cars and telephones.
In some cases political wing members
distrust those of the industrial wing be-
cause of refusals by the latter to parti-
cipate in hare-brained schemes involving
nonsensical strikes and demonstrations.
For their part, Communist union offi-
cials take umbrage when Party func-
tionaries assume it as their right to use
union premises for Party meetings, and
union office staff in office hours to type
and roneo Party documents, etc. They
make little effort to conceal their resent-
ment of those officials who. having been
defeated in their own union election, join
the ranks of the Party's full-time orga-
nisers and then proceed to lay down the
tactical lines which they should follow,
Monolithic unity under such circum-
stances tends to go down the drain. It
is not unknown for rank-and-file mem-
bers to sit back and enjoy the spectacle
of leaders of political and industrial
wings assaulting each other with shafts
of Marxist dogma barbed with good Aus-
tralian expletives.
True to type
4 nother manifestation of this contra-
diction between the two wings is that
no trade-union official makes the Secre-
tariat. No matter how far such indus-
trial wing men as Pat Clancy of the
Building Workers Industrial Union or
the late Jim Healy may tower above the
political wing candidates they do not
reach that small, select group.
Ex-union-officials-turned-P a r t y-func-
tionaries J. McPhillips, E. Thornton and
J. Hughes now often feud violently with
other union officials to whom they wets
once as brothers when all were indus-
trial leaders. It would appear that once
such people become Party organiser*
their former experiences are either Pj
gotten or reinterpreted to comply wit
official Party policy.
There is a constant turning inwards, 1
divorcement from reality. F° r
most part Party functionaries mix o®<
with other Communists. They '
think and write only in the accept
Party jargon.


Always there must be complete con-
frmity to the prevailing interpretation
f Marxism-Leninism. . An instance of
JL is w hen some years ago Frank Hardy
te what was probably one of the
t joyous and hilarious stories ever
written of Australian workers in militant
action. Titled “Up the Garbos” it was
never published because, in the eyes of
the Party bureaucracy, it did not cor-
rectly portray the Australian worker in
terms of socialist realism.
For the professional revolutionary
there is only one way of life. Its centre is
the Party headquarters, its periphery the
Party’s subsidiary groups. Even within
this small sphere one sees only that
which one wishes to see.
Laurie runs true to type.
To Peking
Eric’s reward for his work since re-
nouncing an academic career is one
of life's ironies. The Party decided that
he should resume his academic studies,
but this time in the science of Marx-
ism-Leninism, or, as it then was, Marx-
ism-Leninism-Stalinism.
In mid-1951, in a highly conspiratorial
cloak-and-dagger affair, Eric led a group
of Australian cadres by a devious route
via Western Europe to a Communist
Party school in Peking. The school lasted
some three years. There were appar-
ently no queries or doubts at this school,
from which Eric returned to Australia
with a reputation greatly enhanced. This
was the era in which the “hard” and
‘soft" line theories began to emerge.
On his return Eric was made respon-
sible for education and propaganda for
the Party and was soon acknowledged as
its top theoretician. Plugging incessantly
the theme of Marxist education, he has
been the person primarily responsible for
making the Australian Communist
Party, pro rata, one of the most highly
theoretically trained in the Western
world.
Some statements on Australian Com-
munist tactics made by the Aarons
brothers during the period 1952-55 bear
studying, for they form an integral part
J fan Y Communist Party’s attitude to a
fabor Party in any democracy. They
are based on tactics laid down by Lenin;
:tactics that have not and will not change
w il e Communist and Labor Parties
exist.
In the “Communist Review” (Septem-
er ’ 1952) Laurie wrote: “The Political
omm it tee s second main decision was
; at the political situation in Australia
inlands the development of the United
r °nt of the working class . . . some
pnirades are a little concerned that our
o j tor the United Front for the defeat
:j e Menzies Government will result
j>art U '^' n B U P illusions about the Labor
LAURIE AARONS
Only one way of life
“If we have done our work correctly
then the position of the ALP leaders
will be extremely difficult. They will
be ground between the upper and the
nether millstones . . . And if we have
done our job correctly, then they will
meet united opposition from the work-
ing class.
“And the Labor Government will also
fall, but this time not to give way to
the Tories but to a People’s Govern-
ment.”
The inference needs no elaboration.
This tactic of the United Front led
to a tremendous surge of enthusiasm by
Communists to create friendly relations
with ALP members, leading to con-
certed political action. The main sphere
of action was, of course, in the trade
unions. In attempts to draw ALP mem-
bers into positions where they could be
used by the Communist Party, unity
tickets became the order of the day. In
some cases Communists resigned from
union positions leaving ALP nominees
unopposed.
It was not long before the phrase
“sharing the leadership” became the
vogue with many Communists in trade-
union circles. And a great many rank-
and-file members who used the phrase
were prepared to implement it honestly.
The result was a foregone conclusion.
Once the Party realised it was in
danger of being hoist with its own
petard it acted quickly. Others may have
spoken on the subject before him, but
Eric was the first leader really to come
to grips with this new development. He
stated categorically that such foolish-
ness must stop.
The Communist Party shared the
leadership with no one, he declared. For
tactical reasons it would allow represen-
tatives of other political parties to par-
ticipate in discussion and action. But
it was the Communist Party who would
make the decisions and it was the Com-
munist Party who would lead. In the
process, the Party would educate these
representatives of other parties in its
theory so that they would lead their fol-
lowers over to it. This would help bring
a “People’s Australia” into being. But
the Communist Party would lead, and
would never share that leadership.
Within a short time the fallacy of
sharing the leadership was dead.
After the death of Stalin the struggle
in the Soviet Union for the succession
had raged. Alliances between top Soviet
leaders were formed and broken over-
night.
Stalin’s heir, Malenkov, attempting to
initiate a “soft” line, began to relax con-
trols and propounded a programme for
increased production of consumer goods
to the detriment of heavy industry. He
also pronounced the theory that a war
with atom and hydrogen bombs would
spell disaster for all and the end of
civilisation.
Khrushchev joined forces with the old
Stalinists Molotov and Kaganovich. He
attacked Malenkov first on the heresy of
putting consumer goods before heavy
industry. This was followed by a vitri-
olic attack by Molotov on the theory
that a nuclear war would bring about
the destruction of civilisation.
Molotov derided the strength of the
capitalist world and dwelt on the su-
perior strength of the Communist forces.
His speech implied that Communists
should not be afraid of a war as it could
only mean the end of capitalism and the
triumph of Communism. Malenkov re-
signed the same day.
The Chinese leaders rejoiced at the
turn of events and the “hard" line, with
Khrushchev as one of its chief protagon-
ists, was launched, or rather relaunched.
The first Australian Communist to
comment was Laurie. In a speech
“Civilisation Will Not End in a Hydro-
gen Blast,” reported in the “Communist
Review” (May, 1955), he followed the
Molotov line, with such phrases as “this
myth of US superiority,” etc., sprinkled
liberally throughout.
The Family vote
nFHE Australian Party’s 17th National
A Congress, held in May, 1955, proved
a triumph for the Aarons family. Seven
of the clan attended, one as a guest, the
remaining six with a vote. Four mem-
bers of the family were nominated for
the Central Committee. Three were
elected—Sam, Laurie and Eric. The
latter two were elected to the Political
Committee, while Laurie also went on
to the Secretariat. There were a few
present at the Congress who expressed,
privately, unease at the power concen-
trated in the hands of one family.
After the Congress Laurie went over-
seas once again. This time it was a
year’s schooling in Peking. He was


ON-THE-SPOT storage
the commonsense way to hold feed for flood-bound stock
Plan your property layout so as to
provide Lysaght 500-bushel Grain
Silos in each stock paddock ... for
the safe storage of feed oats over long
periods and the quick easy feeding of
stock when normal transport con-
ditions are impossible.
The commonsense way to avoid stock
losses during floods, drought or fire,
Lysaght 500-bushel Grain Silos im-
prove the value of your holding and
put extra profits into your bank
account every year.
■ymm
-
:
SB
IS
m
■
f.bi
m
mm
m
I ill It
> > : M ms <
* u a • r
■1
m
M
* LYSAGHT
”500 BUSHEL
GRAIN
SILOS
* Patent Pending No. 55007/59
LYSAGHT SILOS PRICES F.O.R. Newcastle
* Prices include steel floor.
Silos from 1,200 bushels capacity upwards are fitted with full-size
“walk-in” door.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle
Manufactured by: John Lysaght (Australia) Limited, Special Products
Division, Newcastle Works, Newcastle, N.S.W.
• Vertically rigidised walls and 6-ply horizontal ribs for added
strength.
• Two bagging outlets complete with steel covers.
• Improved centre and side-filling hole assemblies, complete with
hinged lids and positive fastenings.
• Combined roof step and ladder support.
• Wide turned-down eaves on roof panels.
• Segmented steel floor.
• Fully rodent-proof construction.
• Steel earth ring (optional extra).
Post coupon now for complete details to: B.
John Lysaght (Australia) Limited
(City)
Please send me full details of the complete range of Lysaght Grain
Silos.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR RMB NO.
DISTRICT STATE
SSCC


, ere when the storm broke. Khrush-
,eV*s denunciation of Stalin at the 20th
Congress of the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union caused ferment and con-
sternation in Communist Parties every-
where, Australia not excepted.
Eric, who had busily organised schools
and classes on an unprecedented scale,
using as basic material “A Short His-
tory° of the CPSU” (which was a
paean of praise to Stalin, and commonly
supposed to have been written by him),
as well as other works by the old tyrant,
scored another first.
In a speech, “The Congress of Ideo-
logical Work” (May, 1956), he turned
on his old idol —not violently, but, then,
neither had Khrushchev. Complaining
that overmuch use was being made in
ideological work of his old bible “A
Short History of the CPSU,” he even
went so far as to cast some doubts on
the use of the classics of Lenin and
Engels. He was fulsome in his praise
for Khrushchev.
Like others, he soon realised that
Khrushchev had indeed opened a
Pandora’s box. In the November, 1956,
issue of the “Communist Review,” under
the heading of “Democratic Centralism,”
he turned on those who were demand-
ing open discussion of the Stalin era. He
termed them Trotskyites. Making
veiled threats of expulsion, Eric claimed
there was already too much criticism.
The Sacred Flame
T aurie’s return in late 1957 with the
u news that Khrushchev was speedily
implementing the very reforms first pro-
moted by Malenkov, thereby making
Khrushchev a “revisionist,” and that the
Chinese leaders headed by Mao Tse
Tung were the real guardians of the
sacred flame of Marxism, set the line in
Australia for the next five years.
All the Party leaders were Stalinists at
heart, and it is fairly obvious now that
they expected a political coup in the
Soviet which would remove Khrushchev
and restore the status quo. Thus they
found little difficulty in turning their eyes
towards Peking rather than Moscow.
Sharkey, Laurie and Eric, in particular,
"ere as pro-Chinese as it was possible to
get.
In 1958 Laurie journeyed once more
to the fountains of knowledge. He atten-
ed as Australian “Fraternal Delegate”
te ingress of the Czechoslovakian
onimunist Party (of notoriously Stalin-
® character), where he backed up the
'nose delegate Pi-Wu’s attack on re-
monism. From Prague he went on to
oscow, then home via Peking,
he years from then to 1961 can
est he summed up as a period of
lengthening of Aarons power in a
candling Party. Laurie concentrated on
res > finance and monopoly, as well
as showing increasing interest in the
South-East Asian area. Eric, sent to
guard the northern outpost of the Aarons
territory, was installed as Secretary of
the Newcastle district, from where he
supervised education and propaganda.
Sam visited China for the 1959 May Day
celebrations, where he remained until
the end of the year. June Mills made her
trip to China for the May Day celebra-
tions of 1958.
All were reconfirmed in their respec-
tive positions at the various Party Con-
gresses and elections, and now were
often privately referred to as the Royal
Family of the Communist Party.
Meanwhile, within the Party murmurs
of protest were being made by rank-and-
file members and some officials as to the
wisdom of following the Chinese “hard”
line in opposition to the seemingly
peaceful one of Khrushchev.
Eric, in his role as head of education
ANNETTE AARONS
The family vote
and propaganda, made public what
Sharkey, Laurie and others had only
obliquely implied. In a lengthy dis-
course he stated:
“Our Chinese comrades discovered
neither ideological work nor the mass
line, but in my view they have unques-
tionably lifted them to a qualitatively
new level.
“True, their conditions are vastly dif-
ferent from our own, but the conclusion
should surely be to strive to grasp more
thoroughly the universal truth contained
in their experience . . .”
He then recommended eight works
for Communists to study, seven of them
by Mao Tse Tung.
Yet all these valiant upholders of
the purity of Marxism were soon to
make another about-turn. Indeed, so
many did they make, it is surprising to
find them still able to stand.
In 1960 the Political Committee,
greatly influenced by the Aarons, pro-
vided Sharkey with what he wanted—a
unanimous decision to vote for China at
the acrimonious meeting of the 81 Com-
munist Parties in Moscow. To its sur-
prise the Australian Party found itself
voting with the minority—and a small
minority at that.
Back to Russia
|L/Tean while more and more Party
■L'*- members were becoming aware of
where China’s “hard” line would lead,
and what had once been murmurs of
protest changed to ominous growls. For
once the small coterie at the top realised
how completely divorced from the mem-
bers they were.
Just who made the decision to switch
back to Khrushchev is not yet known,
but it was more than likely reached by
a small handful of people, with Sharkey
and the Aarons brothers playing the
dominant roles.
Both Eric and Laurie allowed pro-
Soviet sentiments to creep into their
works. The November, 1961, “Com-
munist Review” contained articles writ-
ten by each of them before the 22nd
Congress of the CPSU. Laurie’s effort
eulogised the 44th anniversary of the
Russian Revolution. Eric's consisted of
his speech to the Central Committee sub-
mitting plans for education and propa-
ganda for 1962. It is a complete swing
away from China and back to the Soviet.
That this decision was not immedi-
ately made known to all is obvious.
“Tribune” was still gently plugging for
China at the very time that Sharkey was
voting against it. But once the vote had
been cast and publicised, the Aarons
family applied themselves with the same
gusto to the task of squashing the “hard”
line theory as they had once spent in
propagating it.
Eric, in his statements on propaganda
and education, speaks now with the same
sincerity of the Khrushchev line as once
he spoke of Mao Tse Tung's.
One of the ironies of this phase was
that the Victorian State Secretary, Ted
Hill, who, along with Eric, had played
a major role in putting on the ideological
screws in the attack on “revisionism,”
was this time himself purged by his erst-
while comrades. That Hill should have
been Laurie’s main rival for leadership
could only, of course, have been a sad
coincidence.
Sam, still in Western Australia, ac-
cepts it all just as he has accepted it all
ever since Spain, while the lesser mem-
bers of the family nod in agreement. He
remains on the Party’s Central Com-
mittee and his wife Annette remains on
the State Committee in Western Aus-
tralia.
So there they are, the family of pro-
fessional revolutionaries, on top of the
pile. The Royal Family of the Austra-
lian Communist Party, with their do-
minion shrinking so rapidly that they
may soon have only themselves to rule.


••v.
m
m
I
m
a
m
3k
*§
4?
m
i
-
NEW POLICIES EVERY WEEK!
1962 was a year of progress
and achievement by the T.&G.
The 86th Annual Report of the T. & G. Mutual Life Society shows that the close
links between the Society and people in all walks of life were still further cemented
during 1962, when a total of 86,268 new Life policies were issued by the Society.
Thus the T. & G. provided new protection for no less than 237 members of the
community every day of the week, by issuing one new policy every six minutes!
This is convincing proof of the great reliance placed by people throughout Australia
and New Zealand on the Society’s ability to provide a standard of Life protection
unsurpassed anywhere.
SECURITY
With assets totalling £187,497,002 the
financial position of the Society is un-
assailable.
ASSISTANCE TO INDUSTRY
The attractive benefits and conditions
available under T. & G. Staff Superannua-
tion and Group Assurance schemes in-
duced many industrial and commercial
organisations to place their schemes with
the Society.
SERVICE
The Society give excellent
service in all respects. During the year
more than £.15,000,000 (over £41,400
each day) was paid to policyholders and
beneficiaries.
INCREASED BONUSES
The Report reveals a surplus of
£6,975,728, which will provide for in-
creases in the Bonus Scales in the Life
Departments.
c 7\futualjtfe Society
The Australasian Temperance and General Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited
(Incorporated in Victoria 1876)


HQ
IS PROUD OF HAVING
FURNISHED FOR TENANTS
OF VICTORIA BUILDING
SUPPLY CO. PTY. LTD.
of course!
OFFICE CONTRACT FURNISHERS
SYD/93 YORK ST.* MELB/21 ALFRED PL.
OVERSEAS
KING CHARLES DE GAULLE
"De Gaulle is mad. He thinks he is de Gaulle”
From JOHN WEIGHTMAN in Paris
VER since I first saw General de
E Gaulle in a BBC studio in 1940 I
have been fascinated by his per-
sonality. I remember finishing the news
bulletin and then sitting bemused while,
on the other side of the microphone, he
bellowed his way slowly through his
speech. I can still see a broad chest and
feel the highly rhetorical wind of history
blowing across the table.
Later, I read his two little books and
my enthusiasm for La France libre was
somewhat chilled by their semi-Fascist
paternalism. Later still, I followed his
speeches and his political activity at the
same time as I was studying the last
hundred years of the Ancient Regime
from Louis XIV to Louis XVI, and was
amazed at the parallels that suggested
themselves between his personal behav-
iour and that of the absolute monarchs.
It was no surprise to learn that during
the First World War his companions had
nicknamed him le Connetable (i.e.,
“Constable of France”) or to notice that
the cartoonists were beginning to repre-
sent him as Le Roi Soleil.
There can never have been any man
who so carefully built up his personality
on historical reminiscence and so com-
pletely identified himself with the mythi-
cal figure of his nation. In one sense this
is magnificent; in mother sense it is
ridiculous and even pathological. Parody-
ing Cocteau’s famous aphorism “Victor
Hugo was a madman who thought he
was Victor Hugo,” we can say “De
Gaulle is a madman who thinks he is
France, and he is”; the miracle is that,
after many accidents and near-misses, he
has now more or less succeeded in mak-
>ng the country synonymous with his per-
. sonal will.
The French themselves seem rather
as if they did not quite know how
this had come about, or whether it is a
temporary solution to their problems or
| e beginning of a new form of adventur-
-ISm' me will inevitably show, but mean-
a number of interesting publica-
I ' ons have appeared on the psychology of
‘■ General and his management of the
j Mhcal scene.
Fhe series was brilliantly opened,
h ° me two or three years ago, by J. F.
Revel’s “Le Style du General,” a funny
and cruel analysis of the semantics of
the General’s speeches. Revel had no
difficulty in showing that the General’s
tours of France are royal progresses,
during which the faithful are called upon
not to think but merely to salute the
True Presence. Revel also gave an en-
tertaining account of the “policy of
greatness” as a logical component of the
General’s Gaullocentric universe.
The only point missing from Revel’s
book was recognition of the fact that,
when it comes to handling men and get-
ting one’s own way, the General’s care-
fully composed character and tricks of
speech (his ambiguities* archaisms and
sudden descents into military or aristo-
cratic coarseness) can prove very effec-
tive. De Gaulle set out to be a living
compendium of everything imperious in
French history and the antithesis of the
average politician, except in nimbleness
of equivocal manoeuvre. The result is a
superb piece of walking, talking folklore.
Over the last two years the portrait
has been elaborated in the weekly
“Chroniques de la Cour” of the satirical
paper “Le Canard enchaine,” now avail-
able in two volumes, “La Cour” and “Le
Roi.” They contain apparently well-in-
formed gossip about Gaullist circles,
written up very wittily by Andre Ribaud
in the form of a pastiche of Saint-Simon’s
memoirs of the court of Louis XIV, and
illustrated with excellent drawings by
Moisan.
Tt is “Le Canard enchaine” which has
finally completed the identification of
de Gaulle with Louis XIV. Mme de
Gaulle is referred to as “Madame de
Maintenant”; the Prime Minister is
“Pompidou, Baronet d'Auvergne, Premier
Commis du Roi”! The General’s ego-
centricity is emphasized by prefixing the
possessive adjective to everything. “Ma
Mediterranee,” “Ma Bornbe,” etc. Tele-
vision, that important Gaullist weapon, is
“Mes etranges lucarnes” (strange little
windows), and the term has caught on.
The chansonniers have naturally
taken up the theme and their, not very
exciting, efforts can be studied in the
anthology for 1962, “Chansonniers,
aidez-moi!”, a parody of the slogan:
“Franqais, aidez-moi!” Most of these
night-club satirists avoid anything dan-
gerously controversial and concentrate
rather on the General’s habit of using
archaisms, sometimes pseudo-archaisms
of his own invention, to denounce his
enemies: e.g., “la grogne” (grumbling
opposition), “le tracassin” (the bother-
someness of those people who will not
fall into line), “le quarteron” (the con-
temptible quartet of rebellious generals).
Other terms which lend themselves to
risible development are “le machin” (the
thingummy-jig, i.e., UN) and “les vola-
piiks” (the advocates of European
integration).
The one outstanding exception among


-■
B
■ teOT/wwrW® w
.. .SS
EVERYTHING GOES
AHSETT
WEIGHT
■J XPRESS
GETS THERE ON TIKE
DAILY
scheduled services to all capital cities. Co-ordinated
road, rail, sea and air transportation.
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 ■ Sydney 67 0533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 47 1481 • Perth 244926 ■ Tasmania —Devonport 2 2659
ABOl6
Buy Odol
MOUTHWASH
from your Chemist
After meals refresh with Odol.
A few drops provide protection
against bad breath and germs.
NOW MADE IN AUSTRALIA
by SCOTT & BOWNE (A/ASIA) Ltd.
for Complete Of at Hygiene
\
MOUTH
: WASH
Hio >?y C oncertfratfiCJ
and
roanormcat m Use
NETT CONTENTS: 21 FL. OZS.
the chcinsonniers is Henri Tisot, whose
two Pathe Marconi records imitating the
General’s weird and wonderful style of
public speaking have been best-sellers
for a long time. It is claimed that the
General himself has studied them and
that when, after the first flush of success,
Tisot’s sales began to fall off slightly, he
uttered one of his celebrated witticisms.
Tisot is going down! I shali be all on my
own again soon!
Some scores of these witticisms have
now been collected in “Les Mots du
General,” by “Ernest Mignon,” who is
said to be a disgruntled member of for-
mer Prime Minister Debre’s entourage.
Even if only half of the anecdotes in
this volume are authentic, they add up to
a graphic picture which fits in both with
what can be deduced from the General’s
own books and from Ribaud’s
“Chroniques.”
A still further piece of evidence is
Alfred Fabre-Luce’s “Haute Cour,” re-
cently banned by the authorities and
now briskly circulating under cover in
the usua j manner of forbidden books,
Why it should have been singled out
f or censorship is hard to say because its
criticisms of the regime are no fiercer
than those to be found in the anti-
Gaullist Press. The reason may be that
Fabre-Luce, an extremely intelligent
pamphleteer with a long and varied past.
was once a Petainist, although he lat ei
fell foul of the German. He has g one
on maintaining, in post-war France, that
Petainism was a justifiable attitude, and
it may be for this that the General can-
not forgive him.
“Haute Cour” is a sort of novel of
anticipation; Fabre-Luce supposes that a
few years from now de Gaulle has falj en
from power and is brought before the
High Court on the charge of crimes
against the nation; the book consists of
the evidence put forward for and against
de Gaulle, while the General himself
maintains an icy silence. T he story comes
to an end just when the court, havino
heard both sides, is about to pronounce
judgment.
Fabre-Luce has been criticised by the
anti-Gaullist “L’Express” for not decid-
ing on a verdict, but 1 think his hesita-
tion is genuine. 1 found the book enthral-
ling precisely because it is such a clear
expression of love-hatred. Fabre-Luce
objects, among other things, to de
Gaulle's jettisoning of I'Algerie
and to his ruthless treatment of those
people who thought he was on their side,
and yet he cannot help admiring him for
having succeeded, so spectacularly, in
imposing on France and Europe a pat-
ernalism far grander than Petain’s.
The character who emerges from these
various publications is a mixture of awful
simplicity and Machiavellian guile. He
is a man whose conviction of the worth-
lessness of existence is such that he can
make life interesting for himself only by
projecting his personality on to 1,000
years of history. He is utterly without
fear, because nothing matters except the
idea of France, and that is, in any case,
eternal. His spirits rise in adversity; an
attack on his life or an attempt at revolt
on the part of his Ministers stimulates
him to ironical jocularity. He demands
absolute loyalty, yet he himself has no
loyalty to any individual, not even to his
most devotdd followers, whom he can
discard without a pang. He can charm,
if necessary, and he bears malice in-
definitely. His only form of self-indul-
gence is an urge to humiliate.
The trouble with the General is that
practically everything he does can he
interpreted in two different ways. With
superior flair or diabolical cunning he
has temporarily wiped out political ac-
tivity in France and replaced it by his
personal will, backed by non-politica
expertise.
After reading these books, I have the
keenest appreciation of the General as 2
unique human specimen, but if I were
French I think I would be beginning 10
wish France had been able to do withe* 11
Mm.


IS PROUD OF HAVING
FURNISHED FOR THE ROYAL
AUTOMOBILE CLUB
m t
SUPPLY CO. PTY. LTD.
of course!
OFFICE CONTRACT FURNISHERS
SYD/93 YORK ST.* MELB/21 ALFRED PL,
INDEPENDENCE FOR CAPTAIN
BLIGH’S ISLANDS?
From a Correspondent in Fiji
To discover the feelings of Fiji about
its future, Britain has sent Mr Nigel
Fisher from its Colonial Office to
this group of 322 islands in the Pacific
Ocean.
Fiji was discovered by Tasman in
1643 but the islands were first recorded
in detail by Captain Bligh, after the
mutiny on the Bounty in 1789.
Only one-third of the islands (about
106) are inhabited, and the total popu-
lation is fewer than half a million. All
the islands became part of the British
Empire in October, 1874, when the
Fijian chiefs ceded “to Queen Victoria,
her heirs and successors, possession of
and full sovereignty over the whole of
the group of Pacific islands known as
the Fijis, to the intent that they should
be annexed to and be a possession and
dependency of the British Crown.”
The document, signed by the para-
mount chiefs and by Sir Hercules Rob-
inson on behalf of Queen Victoria, is
known as the Deed of Cession, and forms
the basis of the present Constitution.
On the face of it there seems no rea-
son to alter this state of affairs, because
in December last year the Legislative
Council passed a resolution “recognising
the wish of the Fijian people that there
should be no change in the present Con-
stitution of the Colony until the Fijian
people express their desire for further
constitutional changes.”
But the real situation is not quite so
clear. The Legislative Council consists
of the British Governor, the Speaker,
and 16 official members, five European
members (three elected, two nominated),
five Fijian members (selected by the
Great Council of Chiefs) and five In-
dian members (three elected and two
nominated).
It was the suggestion of the Governor,
Sir Kenneth Maddocks, that the Coun-
cil should consider steps to be taken
towards independence and self-govern-
ment. The mover of the motion, Ravu-
ama Vunivalu, left no doubt where the
Fijians stand. In a highly emotional
speech he declared:
We have kept our part of the bar-
gain by our devoted loyalty to the Crown,
which has been shown in no uncertain
way by sacrifices in life and in other
ways. . . We demand to know whether
our h°nd with the Crown is the same as
w en the High Chiefs of Fiji handed over
eir land and their people to her late
9 ueen Vic toria.”
hen it came to the vote the Euro-
pean official members, under instruc-
tions from the Colonial Secretary, ab-
stained. All the Fijians and all the
European non-official members present
voted in favor. But all the Indians voted
against.
The significance is this: in the popu-
lation of Fiji there are about 11,000
Europeans, 170,000 Fijians, but more
than 200,000 Indians. So the Indians
outnumber both other races, and if
their members in the Legislative Coun-
cil fairly represent their people's views,
they are not content with the old fealty
to a British Queen who died more than
60 years ago.
The rapid growth of the Indian com-
munity is the main cause of unrest in
Fiji. When the first Indian immigrants
arrived in the last century no thought
was given to the present consequences,
and when a campaign was launched
recently to train Indian women in birth-
control it was too late to alter the pat-
tern. Fijians realise that the disparity in
numbers between them and the Indians
is likely to grow rather than lessen. In
any democratic application of the one-
man-one-vote principle Indians will
command a majority over Fijians.
It would matter less if Indians and
Fijians looked at life in the same way.
But they are poles apart. The Fijian
lives off the land. He is easy-going
and indolent. Little effort has been
made to develop the productive value
of his land. He has little business apti-
tude and is still partly subject to tribal
law and discipline.
The Indian is a hard worker with a
shrewd business sense. Apart from a
few overseas firms almost the whole of
the shop-keeping community is Indian.
Tourism is an important source of
revenue for Fiji, and when a tourist
ship is in port the shopkeepers do well.
But the really golden harvest falls to
the taxi-drivers, and these are nearly all
Indian.
In the rural areas Indians are the main
body of sugar-cane growers; and most
practising lawyers are Indian too.
Since the Indian is not only a shrewd
businessman but also a careful saver
living an abstemious life, his community
now has a solid financial stake in the
islands. The great majority are peaceful
as well as prosperous, but there is a way-
ward element which seems susceptible to
the agitator.
What are now locally referred to as
“the disturbances” the almost total
disruption of the Colony’s internal
economy and essential services some
three years ago—were caused almost en-
tirely by agitators among the Indians.
Predictable attitudes were manifest
in the December debate. Said one of
the European members: “The world has
seen too much, in the last few years, of
countries being given their freedom, so-
called, when some of them did not want
it and certainly in most cases were not
fit for it ... ”
One of the most influential Fijian
chiefs, Ratu Penaia Ganilau, poured
scorn on the activities of UN represen-
tatives of newly-sovereign States, “some
of them men in their twenties who make
speeches in New York telling other
people just how they should run their
countries . . .”
And Ratu George Cakobau, a direct
descendant of one of the Fijian chiefs
who signed the Deed of Cession, said
he wanted no change, but if Britain with-
drew from “her obligations” then the
Colony must be handed back to Fijians
in the spirit in which the Fijians gave it
to Britain.
But the general Indian view is that
they have nothing to lose and much to
gain if independence is brought to Fiji.
And one of their spokesmen, Dr Sahu
Khan, condemned the idea that only the


BUY
WISELY
BUY
OLSELEY
AUTOMATIC
at
Wolseley
North
Shore
Showrooms
£1338
TAX
PAID
DEPOSIT FROM £267
5% FINANCE TO
PUBLIC SERVANTS
CROWS NEST
MOTORS
222 Pacific H'way
CROWS NEST
X 81166
Fijians were entitled to be consulted if
Britain proposed any variation in the
Deed of Cession.
This is the rift that Britain’s envoy,
Nigel Fisher, faces on his visit. But he
will also find one subject on which
Europeans, Fijians and Indians are
agreed. The islands that Captain Bligh
surveyed cannot stand on their own
feet economically, and none of the
communities would willingly pursue any
course of action that jeopardised Brit-
ain's policy of financial aid. Over the
last 15 years this has amounted to some-
thing over £4 million. Nobody in Fiji
wants to see that dry up.
JAPAN MOVES WEST
But wants trade with all
From a Correspondent in Tokyo
TITTth increasing frankness Premier
Hayato Ikeda of Japan is now
tending to identify the political and eco-
nomic future of his country and his 95
million people with that of the West,
after an uneasy phase in US-Japanese
relations, during which many American
officials accused Tokyo of neutralism.
Mr Ikeda said last week that although
Japan had no intention of increasing
her defence commitments she hoped to
help strengthen the free world by im-
proving economic conditions in under-
developed Asian countries. The Prime
Minister was commenting on President
Kennedy’s Budget-message appeal to
Tokyo to make a greater economic and
military contribution towards the task
of containing Communism in Asia.
The Prime Minister's current thinking
was succinctly expressed in his recent
review of the nation’s prospects, in which
he spoke of Japan as a new economic
complex “dedicated to co-operation with
the free world . . . and offering a very
promising market for the products of
European industry.”
In early December, he had already
advocated three-way economic co-opera-
tion between Japan, the United States
and Western Europe, and declared that
he had found the European Powers “in-
clined to admit'’ Japan into the Organi-
sation for Economic Co-operation and
Development.
It cannot be taken that Japan will
firmly follow America’s anti-Communist
lead in international affairs, however.
Last year Tokyo neither sided with
Washington over the Cuba crisis nor
condemned Chinese aggression in India.
The US Ambassador to Japan criticised
the Government for “unclear” policies,
and last month President Kennedy in-
sisted that America and Japan must work
together to contain Communist China.
But these strictures only evoked strong
protests in Tokyo. The Japanese Press
riposted that Japan should normalise her
relations with Communist China, not
adopt an attitude of inflexible hostility
towards her great neighbour as junior
partner and catspaw of the United States.
Officials privately accused Washington
of “political blackmail,” of refusing to
suspend the “Buy American” drive
which severely challenges Japanese trade
expansion in South-east Asia until
Tokyo had swung from a neutralist to
a pro-Western policy.
For after an era of profitless militar-
ism to which the A-bomb wrote finis,
the post-war Japanese have a strong in-
stinct for peace and political neutrality
which dovetails with their desire to do
business with all. In consequence, the
Japanese and the Chinese Communists
not only exchange goods through
“friendly traders” in Japan, but are now
implementing a five-year barter agree-
ment worth £36 million sterling
annually.
In recent years, on the other hand,
trade with the Soviet bloc has represented
well under 3 p.c. of Japan's overseas
commerce. Nevertheless, these considera-
tions have not weighed enough to relieve
post-war Japanese Premiers of thr neces-
sity of striking a balance between anti-
communists on the one hand and ‘ neu-
tralists” —in big business and the ruling
Liberal Democrat Party as well as to
the Left on the other.
Mr Ikeda's hand has been much
strengthened by his visit to Europe last
November, however, and by the signing
in London at the same time of the Anglo-
Japanese Treaty of Commerce, Establish-
ment and Navigation. There is a feeling
in Tokyo that with this the trade barriers
began to crumble, that by the coming
summer a rich and expanding market tot
Japanese goods will have opened in
Western Europe, a region w'hich hitherto
has absorbed less than 13 p.c. of Japanese
exports. j
The Anglo-Japanese Treaty, while still
providing for protection against Japanese
competition for numerous British com-
modities, was warmly welcomed in Japan
because Britain had agreed to stop ®‘
plementing clause 35 of the GATT,
which enabled her to discriminate sweep-
ingly against Japanese products.
Not only American pressure, but the
vision of Western Europe as a map
consumer of Japanese goods, persua £*
many leading Japanese that they mai
now take a more positive political sta"
in favour of the West. But in fact m° s
of their compatriots would far r at e
have the best of both worlds.


1
U
yi
I-'
"H
* '
' <>
!
KlSlMiSl
w
T)
sap i i
m
INSIDE THE WOLSELEY 24/80 No other car in Australia offers the
traditional Wolseley luxury of furnishings at such a small price. Upholstery is genuine
chrome leather over deeply cushioned seatings. Stipple carpets cover the floors.
Instrument fascia and door cappings are in gleaming burr walnut. Fittings include heater-
demister and fresh air unit, with booster fan. A cigarette lighter, backing lights, electric
clock and windscreen washers; childproof safety door locks, coat hooks, parcel shelves,
built-in walnut radio speaker and a big boot with the spare housed separately. Everywhere,
you get fine craftsmanship & every appointment that can get you away from the everyday.
STw
%
m
m
itCPV*
m
i
m.
1./.
IX
Blue Streak


/ } *
r-t
*
V \
fßlftlP
mm
wm
mm . m
■-•»i ■■SSKbSbss
*■■
m
5
»
•■-
2*s
iiiplF*-:
m
mm
. ,■■ *
v
-... .
r .
r
1
■■■(l
-
H
■
<* - v .
■S_ A • ..
/ "'
' ■
Jw£Shhl


.
:
iM^pM
\ “ *
i®B«
»
Si
-Pi
M
»*
<M
I -a < %A*. *£s**»'
llaKlglHi
HP
■
MI
■
* :
■
Wm Wm i
T»*i % ! ;
| -?b 4' v , gn
wm
>
- i-
-7 V '^^£
~: gg
•v^
HI!
■ ■■
■
*« **t<mim
L IV
■
1
s


WOLSELEY
SPECIFICATIONS
ENGINE. In-line, water cooled, 0.H.V.,
6 cylinders, 2,433 e.c. capacity, 4-bearing
counter-balanced crankshaft, bore 3.0 ins.;
stroke 3.5 ins.; maximum B.H.P. 80 (n
4,350 r.p.m.; compression ratio 7.7:1 R.A.C.
rated horsepower 21.6; maximum torque
123 ft. lb. (a 1,650 r.p.m. AUTOMATIC
TRANSMISSION: 82.0 B.H.P. (a 4,300
r.p.m.; 129 ft. lb. (<» 1,750 r.p.m.; com-
pression ratio 8.2:1.
COOLING. By pressurised system
assisted by impeller pump and fan. Circula-
tion thermostatically controlled.
IGNITION. Battery and coil. Automatic
advance and retard with centrifugal and
vacuum control.
FUEL SYSTEM. S.U. electrical fuel pump,
type S.P., feeding a 34 VN Zenith down-
draft carburettor; paper element air cleaner;
petrol tank capacity, 10 gallons.
MANUAL TRANSMISSION. Clutch,
single dry plate diaphragm type,
diameter, hydraulic operation, change
speed lever on steering column; gearbox
ratios —lst 3.09, 2nd 1.62, top direct;
reverse 3.67. Single piece open propeller
shaft with needle roller universal joints.
Rear axle, £ floating, hypoid bevel crown
wheel & pinion, rear axle ratio 3.91, oil ca p-
acity, approx. 2 pints. Overall gear ratios
Ist 12.08, 2nd 6.32, top 3.91; reverse 14.34.
Road speeds at 1,000 r.p.m. 18.6 M.P.H.
AUTOMATIC TRANSMISSION Borg-
Warner, type 35, driven through 11’ open
type torque converter. Three forward
speeds and one reverse. Ratio changes
hydraulically controlled with manual over-
ride. Controlled by lever mounted on left
side of steering column. Positions: P
Park; R —Reverse; N —Neutral; D
Drive; L— Low, on illuminated scale.
BRAKES. Girling hydraulic fully com-
pensated brakes; pendant-type foot pedal,
9-in. diameter brake drums front and rear,
two-leading shoe front brakes, leading and
trailing shoes at rear; simple shoe adjust-
ment which simultaneously adjusts the
handbrake; handbrake operates on rear
shoes from pull-up lever through simple
compensating system.
BODY AND CHASSIS UNIT. The
mono-construction 4-door saloon body
incorporates the body shell, floor, bulk-
head, frame members, and wing valances.
Large wrap-round bumpers front and rear
with over-riders. Deep, well-sprung up-
holstery with foam-rubber seat cushions.
Large luggage boot, 19 cu. ft. capacity, with
counter-balanced lid; boot lid with lock.
SUSPENSION. Independent front sus-
pension by coil springs and wish-bones;
hydraulic piston-type dampers with arms
forming upper suspension link. Rear sus-
pension by semi-elliptic rubber-mounted
springs and piston-type hydraulic dampers.
Vt HEELS AND TYRES. Ventilated disc-
type wheels with 4-stud fixing, 5.50 xl4
tubeless tyres. Spare wheel stowed in
special carrier below luggage boot.
STEERING. Cam and peg steering gear-
box, variable ratio 15:1 in straight ahead
position, on full lock. Two-spoke,
17-in. safety steering wheel with half horn-
riTg. 2.8 turns lock to lock.
ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. High-out-
put dynamo with compensating voltage
control; 12-volt, 68 amp.-hr. battery;
double-dipping headlamps with pre-
fo;used bulbs, foot dipping switch,
separate side-lights; twin stop and tail
lamps; rear reflectors; numberplate lamp;
ncn-glare instrument lighting; dual-arm
self parking wind-shield wiper; twin wind-
to le horns; flashing direction indicators
with automatic cancelling control; roof
lamps; reversing lamps; ignition, head-
lamp main beam, and flashing signal
warning lights.
IM»§TRUMENTS. Speedometer with trip
and total distance recorders; fuel gauge;
oil pressure gauge; engine temperature
gauge; electric clock.
CONTROLS. Lighting switch; panel light
sv.itch; combined ignition and starter
switch; windshield wiper switch; choke
control; flashing direction indicator con-
tra;) mounted on steering column; wind-
shield washer control; fresh-air circulation
control; heater and demister control
VENTILATION. Heating equipment with
heat control and windshield demisting
ducts; winding windows and hinged
ventilating panels to all doors; fresh-air
circulation system.
OPTIONAL EXTRAS
Safety Belts
BMC Radio (Push button or manual)
Wheel Trim Rims
External Sun Visor
Mudflaps front and rear
External rear view Mirrors
Door Weather Shield
Tailored Suitcases
Insect Screen
Exhaust Deflector
Tow Bar
Numberplate Frames
Protective Floor Mat
GENERAL EQUIPMENT. Heating and
demisting equipment with booster fan;
windshield washing equipment; safety belt
anchorage points; safety glass all round;
large, wrap-round windshield; driving
mirror; pile carpets with underfelt; ash-
trays; 2 sun visors; door locks with fixed
handles and push-button door release;
key-operated door locks both front doors.
“Childproof” catches on all doors making
interior handles inoperative, but allowing
doors to be opened from outside only;
split bench-type front seats with individual
adjustment; folding arm rest in rear seat;
glove-box fascia with locking lid; sponge
rubber protection rail above fascia; large
parcel tray; provision far fitting BMC
radio; cigarette lighter; door-sill scuff
plates and kick strips; coat hooks.
DIMENSIONS. Wheelbase: 100tV';
length 178"; width 635"; height 59"; track
front rear 5T|".
- h °
? Xi V
Th( Company reserves the right on the sale of any vehicle to make before delivery, without notice, any
alteration to or departure from the specification, design or equipment detailed in this publication. The
issue of this folder does not constitute an offer. The goods manufactured by the British Motor Corpora-
tior (Australia) Pty. Limited are supplied with an express warranty which excludes all warranties
corditions and liabilities whatsoever implied by Common Law Statute or otherwise.
The red-white-and-blue BMC rosette is the good sign of service. It backs your BMC car with a
national distribution system of spare parts and body panels which means a security of service
wherever you find yourself. It stands behind the famous BMC Warranty of twelve months or twelve
thousand miles. It is the sign of parts which are factory approved, and economically priced. It is the
sign of factory-trained mechanical skills guaranteed to refit your car to original specifications.
PRINTED AS AN ADVERTISEMENT BY AUSTR,p,N CONSOLIDATED PRESS LIMITED


WINNER OF THE MOBILGAS ECONOMY RUN 1962 (CLASS C)
THE WOLSELE Y 24/80 AUTOMATIC
The luxurious Wolseley 24/80 Automatic
proved in the Mobilgas Economy Run that
outstanding road performance can be
matched by outstanding economy to show
the competition a clean pair of heels. The
Wolseley Automatic returned an official
winning figure of 31.6 miles per gallon. The
famous Borg-Warner three-speed trans-
mission system, fitted to the Wolseley
24/80 Automatic, delivers the maximum
power at the minimum cost with a progress
through the gears which is so smooth it is
barely discernable. The ratio changes are
hydraulically controlled with a manual over-
ride and the lever is mounted on the left
side of the steering column. The Wolseley
24/80 Automatic has all the luxury finish
of the manual model and is powered by the
rocketing performance of the Australian
‘Blue Streak' Six engine.
til
if
S'
i ,j4dmk£A
I <>v3q|SPff*'■
; >
Hm Vi
INCLUDING SALES TAX
THE CAR THAT TAKES THE COST OUT OF LUXURY
THE LUXURIOUS WOLSELEY 24/80
Performance is something you take for
granted in the Wolseley 24/80. Powered by
the ‘Blue Streak’, the triumphant Aus-
tralian engine that rocketed the Austin
Freeway 8,100 miles around Australia on a
marathon road test, the Wolseley 24/80
matches its get-up-and-go with an ease
in handling and an adhesion on the road
that can’t be matched by any other car in
this class. The outside beauty is Rotodip
finished. Inside you get more than you
bargained for. From the chrome leather
upholstery to the burr walnut instrument
fascia and door cappings, the Wolseley
24/80 is furnished with an elegance that
makes ownership an abiding pleasure.
Everywhere, from bonnet to boot, you get a
distinction of finish that is well away from
the everyday. At this price, for this car, you
have never bought so much for so little.
13
INCLUDING, SALES TAX


/
,
'Smm
mm*
< v; : < V v,":
:V
,
HORSEPOWERED BY THE 1 BLUE STREAK ’ SIX
THE MAGNIFICENT WOLSELEY 24/80
r\
*g*s*
;v
41


THE PAGE MEMOIRS
CURTIN v. CHURCHILL
This final instalment from the late Sir Earle Page's just published
memoirs, "Truant Surgeon", covers the dramatic exchange ot telegrams
between John Curtin and Winston Churchill over the Australian Govern-
ment's insistence in February 7942 that the 7th AIF Division on its
way to Burma from the Middle East be diverted to Australia.
By SIR EARLE PAGE
ON 19th February, the day on which
the Japanese bombed Darwin, my
worst fears were confirmed when
the Prime Minister cabled me (as Special
£nvoy in London) advising: “After most
anxious consideration the Australian
Government has decided that it cannot
agree to the proposal that the 7th AIF
Division should be diverted to Burma.”
It had been understood, his cable
continued, that the AIF divisions were
to be sent to the vital Netherlands East
Indies sector to help stop the southern
thrust of the enemy, but Wavell had deci-
ded not to reinforce this area further. The
Australian Government believed that, in
pursuit of the same objective, the troops
should now proceed to Australia, which
was in imminent danger of attack, was
an essential Allied base, and was the
nearest area of concentration south of the
Netherlands East Indies.
I replied immediately, suggesting that
the Australian decision had been reached
before receipt and consideration of
Wavell's advice. I also underlined the
American offer of 19th February to pro-
vide an additional division for service in
Australia in exchange for an Australian
division diverted to Burma.
I am holding your telegram secret
till receipt further advice [I advised the
Prime Minister], No instructions to
divert its course from proceeding to
Australia have been sent to the Con-
voy.
I have discussed the American offer
with Churchill who will try to expedite
the arrival of this American division
to Australia if the 7th Division goes to
Burma. The 6th and 9th Divisions can
sM go to Australia if so determined
By the Australian Government. The
6th Division is in the process of em-
’ barkation for Australia.
In our conversation Churchill ex-
pressed great anxiety of the effect on
I China of not reinforcing Burma, espec-
| ] ally if troops so near the battle front
! a nd the only troops that could be
available are not allocated at this
critical moment. Both he and Roose-
(i k e '’ eve that China is ultimately the
| ke y of the whole Asian situation.
| Curtin’s reply of 20th February, set
in a lengthy cable, confirmed the
Ptralian Government's determination.
| e Government, he said, regretted the
decision not to reinforce the Netherlands
East Indies since they represented the last
screen between the enemy and Australia,
who had fulfilled, to the very limit of her
resources, every requisition made to
support the Netherlands East Indies as
part of the general plan of preventing
the extension of the enemy’s southern
thrust.
Curtin recalled that it was Churchill's
own suggestion, made in the House of
Commons, that the AIF should return to
Australia from the Middle East. He indi-
cated that in recent weeks the Govern-
ment had envisaged the AIF in the
Netherlands East Indies and falling back
upon Australia if retirement were
ordered. If the Netherlands East Indies
were eliminated as a theatre of opera-
tions, then the AIF should return to Aus-
tralia.
The Australian Prime Minister refer-
red to the fact that the Japanese had ad-
vanced as far south as Rabaul and were
therefore on the outskirts of the main
base (Australia) from which alone a
counter-offensive could be staged against
Japan with the aid of USA. Now that
Singapore was lost, he said, and we were
unable to concentrate a superior fleet,
Australian strength could not satisfac-
torily defend Australia, as a main base,
against the enemy. Our militia was only
partly trained and very short of modern
equipment. We lacked air support, pos-
sessed no fighters, and our bomber and
reconnaissance planes had been reduced
to about fifty machines. In the opinion
of the Australian Chief of General Staff,
we should have only a “sporting chance”
of successful defence if the AIF re-
turned.
The Chief of the General Staff had
also reported, said Curtin, that to divide
the AIF divisions would diminish their
effectiveness as a united fighting force.
The great advantage to morale of fight-
ing in or adjacent to their homeland was
also important.
He recalled that whatever calls had
been made, Australia had answered with
practical action. When the state of the
land and air defences in Malaya was
revealed by the first Singapore confer-
ence, Australia did not hesitate to send
the bulk ot an AIF division and three
squadrons from the RAAF. We had also
sent Australian land and air forces to
Ambon, Koepang, Portuguese Timor,
New Caledonia, and the Solomon Islands,
and there were 6250 Empire Air Scheme
personnel abroad. Our resources were
not merely strained but desperately
small. Equipment which we could not
reasonably spare was furnished at the
request of the British Government. He
concluded:
We feel first from the point of view
of success in war against the Axis, it
is of fundamental importance to retain
this base. We are also satisfied that
we would be completely failing in our
duty to the people of Australia if we
agreed to the diversion of any divi-
sion of the AIF from the Nether-
lands East Indies theatre of war to
which it was allocated at the sugges-
tion of the UK Government. The
object of allocation was to stop the
contemplated thrust south. That ob-
jective can be now achieved only by
allocating the AIF to Australia.
Therefore, in case the Netherlands
East Indies is now ruled out as the
agreed destination of the A.1.F., it
should come to Australia with the
greatest possible expedition.
At 1 a.m. on 21st February, Colonel
E. I. Jacob, Military Assistant Secre-
tary, War Cabinet Secretariat, rang me at
the Dorchester and said he had three
cables which Churchill wished me to see.
He brought them to me, one from
Churchill to Curtin, one from Churchill
to Roosevelt, and one from Roosevelt to
Curtin.
Churchill’s cable to Curtin of 20th
February was, as he himself described it,
couched in strong terms:
1. I suppose you realise that your
leading division, the head of which is
sailing south of Colombo to the Nether-
lands East Indies at this moment in
our scanty British and American ship-
ping (Mount Vernon), is the only force
that can reach Rangoon in time to
prevent its loss and the severance of
communications with China. It can
begin to disembark at Rangoon about
the 26th or 27th. There is nothing else
in the world that can fill the gap.
2. We are entirely in favour of all
Australian troops returning home to


defend their native soil, and we shall
help their transportation in every way.
But a vital war emergency cannot be
ignored, and troops en route to other
destinations must be ready to turn aside
and take part in a battle. Every effort
would be made to relieve this division
at the earliest moment and send them
on to Australia. I do not endorse the
United States’ request that you should
send your other two Divisions to Bur-
ma. They will return home as fast as
possible. But this one is needed now,
and it is the only one that can possibly
save the situation.
3. Pray read again your message of
January 23rd, in which you said that
the evacuation of Singapore would be
“an inexcusable betrayal”. Agreeably
with your point of view, we therefore
put the 18th Division and other im-
portant reinforcements into Singapore
instead of diverting them to Burma,
and ordered them to fight it out to the
end. They were lost at Singapore and
did not save it, whereas they could al-
most certainly have saved Rangoon. I
take full responsibility with my collea-
gues on the Defence Committee for
this decision; but you also bear a
heavy share on account of your tele-
gram.
4. Your greatest support in this hour
of peril must be drawn from the
United States. They alone can bring
into Australia the necessary troops and
air forces, and they appear ready to
do so. As you know, the President
attaches supreme importance to keep-
ing open the connection with China,
without which his bombing offensive
against Japan cannot be started, and
also most grievous results may follow
in Asia if China is cut off from all
Allied help.
5. I am quite sure that if you refuse
to allow your troops which are actu-
ally passing to stop this gap, and if, in
consequence, the above evils, affecting
the whole course of the war, follow, a
very grave effect will be produced up-
on the President and the Washington
circle, on whom you are so largely
dependent. See especially the inclina-
tion of the United States to move
major naval forces from Hawaii into
the Anzac area.
6. We must have an answer imme-
diately, as the leading ships of the
convoy will soon be steaming in the
opposite direction from Rangoon and
every day is a day lost. I trust there-
fore that for the sake of all interests,
and above all your own interest, you
will give most careful consideration to
the case I have set before you.
Churchill's cable to Roosevelt, dated
20th February, advised:
The only troops who can reach
Rangoon in time to stop the enemy
and enable other reinforcements to
arrive are the leading Australian divi-
sion. These can begin to arrive there
by 26th or 27th. We have asked the
Australian Government to allow this
diversion for the needs of battle, and
promised to relieve them at the earliest.
All other Australian troops going
home at earliest. Australian Govern-
ment have refused point blank. I have
appealed to them again in the interest
of the vital importance of keeping
open Burma Road and maintaining
contact with Chiang.
In view of your offer of American
troops to help defend Australia and
possible naval movements, I feel you
have a right to press for this move-
ment of Allied forces. Please there-
fore send me a message which I can
add to a very strong cable I have just
sent off.
To this Roosevelt replied: “I hope
you can persuade Australian Govern-
ment to allow temporary diversion of
their leading Australian division to
“In this grave situation which engages
all our thoughts, I demand, I insist on
—another vote of confidence!”
—The Bulletin, February 18, 1942
Burma. I think this is of the utmost
importance. Tell them I am sending
additional troops as well as planes to
Australia and that my estimate of the
situation here is highly optimistic and
by no means dark. Harry [Hopkins] is
seeing Casey at once.”
Roosevelt to Curtin
T>oosevelt’s cable to Curtin, also dated
20th February, was a direct response
to the British Prime Minister’s request.
I assume you know of our determin-
ation to send, in addition to all troops
and forces now en route, another force
of over twenty-seven thousand men to
Australia. This force will be fully
equipped in every respect. We must
fight to the limit for our two flanks —
one based on Australia and the other
on Burma, India and China. Because
of our geographical position we Ameri-
cans can better handle the reinforce-
ment of Australia and the right flank.
I say this to you so that you may
have every confidence that we are
going to reinforce your position with
all possible speed. Moreover, the
operations which the United States
Navy have begun and have in view
will in a measure constitute a protec-
tion of the coast of Australia and New
Zealand. On the other hand, the left
flank simply must be held. If Burma
goes it seems to me our whole position,
including that of Australia, will be in
extreme peril. Your Australian division
is the only force that is available f or
immediate reinforcement. It could «
into the fight at once, and would i
believe, have the strength to save wk
now seems to be a very dangerous
situation.
While I realise the Japs are moving
rapidly, I cannot believe that, in vie*
of your geographical position and the
forces on their way to you or operating
in your neighbourhood, your vital
centres are in immediate danger. |
While I realise that your men have-
been fighting all over the world, and'
are still, and while I know full well of
the great sacrifices which Australia has!
made, I nevertheless want to ask you]
in the interest of our whole war effort!
in the Far East if you will reconsider
your decision and order the division
now en route to Australia to move
with all speed to support the British
forces fighting in Burma.
You may be sure we will fight by
your side with all our force until
victory.
Curtin replied to Churchill’s communi-
cation with equal spirit on 22nd
February.
1. I have received your rather
strongly worded request at this late
stage, though our wishes in regard to
the disposition of the AIF in the
Pacific theatre have long been known
to you, and carried even further by
your statement in the House of Com-
mons. Furthermore, Page was furn-
ished with lengthy statements on our
viewpoint on February 15.
2. The proposal for additional mili-
tary assistance for Burma comes from
the Supreme Commander of the
ABDA area. Malaya, Singapore and
Timor have been lost, and the whole
of the Netherlands East Indies will
apparently be occupied shortly by the
Japanese. The enemy, with superior
sea and air pow'er, has commenced
raiding our territory in the north-west,
and also in the north-east from Rabaul.
The Government made the maximum
contribution of which it was capable
in reinforcement of the ABDA area
It originally sent a division less >
brigade to Malaya, with certain an-
cillary troops. A machine-gun bat-
talion and substantial reinforcements
were later dispatched. It also des-
patched forces to Ambon, Java, an
Dutch and Portuguese Timor. »
squadrons of the Air Force were aM
sent to this area, together with t*
cruisers from the Royal Austral 13
Navy.
3. It was suggested by you that W
Australian divisions be transferred
the Pacific theatre, and this sugg® l
was later publicly expanded by)
with the statement that no obs
would be placed in the way 0
AIF returning to defend their h
land. We agreed to the two divP
being located in Sumatra and
and it was pointed out to Page in j
cablegram of February 15 that s
fortune still favour the Jap anese
disposition would give a line or
drawal to Australia of our f° rce '


4 With the situation having dete-
cted to such an extent in the
theatre of the ABDA area, with
which we are closely associated, and
the Japanese also making a southward
livance in the Anzac area, the Gov-
Sent, in the light of the advice of
Chiefs of Staff as to the forces
'necessary to repel an attack on Aus-
tralia finds it most difficult to under-
stand that it should be called upon to
make a further contribution of forces
t 0 located in the most distant part
of the ABDA area. Notwithstand-
ing your statement that you do not
agree with the request to send the
other two divisions of the AIF Corps
to Burma, our advisers are concerned
with Wavell’s request for the Corps
and Dill’s statement that the destina-
tion of the 6th and 9th Australian divi-
sions should be left open, as more
troops might be badly needed in
Burma. Once one division became en-
gaoed it could not be left unsupported,
and the indications are that the whole
of the Corps might become committed
to f this region, or there might be a
recurrence of the experience of the
Greek and Malayan campaigns.
Finally, in view of superior Japanese
sea-power and air-power, it would ap-
pear to be a matter of some doubt as
to whether this division can be landed
in Burma, and a matter for greater
doubt whether it can be brought out as
promised. With the fall of Singapore,
Penang, and Martaban, the Bay of
Bengal is now' vulnerable to what must
be considered the superior sea and air
power of Japan in that area. The
movement of our forces to this theatre
therefore is not considered a reason-
able hazard of war, having regard to
what has gone before, and its adverse
results would have the gravest con-
sequences on the morale of the Aus-
tralian people The Government there-
fore must adhere to its decision.
5. In regard to your statement that
the 18th Division was diverted from
Burma to Singapore because of our
message, it is pointed out that the date
of the latter was January 23, whereas
in your telegram of January 14 you
informed me that one brigade of this
division was due on January 13 and
the remainder on January 27.
6. We feel, therefore, in view of the
foregoing and the services the AIF
have rendered in the Middle East, that
we have every right to expect them to
be returned as soon as possible, with
adequate escorts to ensure their safe
arrival.
7. We assure you, and desire you
t° so inform the President, who knows
Mly what we have done to help the
common cause, that if it were possible
to divert our troops to Burma and
India without imperilling our security
"? the judgment of our advisers we
should be pleased to agree to the
diversion.
Up to 9 p.m. on 20th February, the
°nvoy proceeded through the Indian
cean in the direction of Java. But,
anticipating a favourable reply to his per-
sonal appeal to the Australian Govern-
ment, and without informing me,
Churchill issued instructions to the
Admiralty to turn the convoy northwards.
He did this in order that the troops might
be landed with a minimum of delay when
Australian agreement was given. This
decision was communicated to Curtin, to-
gether with Roosevelt's message to
Churchill, on 21st February.
Curtin responded with a strong pro-
test to Churchill, sent through the
Dominions Office on 23rd February.
From your telegram it appears that
you have diverted the convoy towards
Rangoon and had treated our appro-
val to this vital diversion as merely a
matter of form. By doing so you have
established a physical situation which
adds to the dangers of the convoy and
the responsibility of the consequences
of such diversion rests upon you.
Australia’s outer defences, the Prime
Minister continued, were vanishing and
her vulnerability was completely exposed.
“In the circumstances,” Curtin con-
cluded, “it is quite impossible to reverse
a decision which we made with the ut-
most care and which we have affirmed
and reaffirmed.”
“A great mistake”
1%/Iy own personal view was that, on the
basis of global strategy, the Aus-
tralian 7th Division should have been
diverted to Burma. I felt then —and I
feel as strongly now—that a great mis-
take in judgment was made in the deci-
sions of the Australian Government.
I believe that history has vindicated the
correctness of this view.
Field-Marshal Lord Slim’s story de-
monstrates that only a narrow margin
separated the defeat they suffered from
the victory they would have achieved if
he had had at his disposal a month
earlier the well-equipped, war-trained and
seasoned Australian division.
Despite the extreme disabilities which
beset Wavell, he remained in Burma with
his ill-equipped forces until 20th May.
Had the Australians been with him they
could still have been released to partici-
pate in the heavy fighting in New Guinea
late in 1942. The arrival of Australians
in Burma, accompanied by substantial
equipment, might have turned the tide,
prevented the destruction of the Burmese
oil wells, given heart to the Chinese, con-
solidated Burmese support, and stopped
the Japanese advance. A successful Bur-
mese campaign taking the Japanese on
their flank high on the Malayan penin-
sula, would have forced the enemy to
concentrate his extended forces on the
mainland or risk a series of isolated de-
feats, such as befell the Japanese Navy
at Guadalcanal in the Solomons in
August. The pressure thus imposed on
the Japanese forces could have disrupted
their basic strategy, halted the southward
thrust into New Guinea and confined the
contest to the Asian mainland.
Bold action through Burma could con-
ceivably have relieved the agonies of
thousands of Australian and British sol-
diers, incarcerated from February, 1942,
until August, 1945, living in squalid con-
ditions, working like beasts of the field on
the Burma railway and dying like flies.
The Allied failure in Burma, to which
Australian reluctance contributed so sub-
stantially, was an irretrievable blow to the
ultimate prestige both of Britain and Aus-
tralia, which was to have severe repercus-
sions for the British Empire in the Far
East once the conflict was over.
In holding
these views, I
must make my
own personal
position quite
clear. My young-
est son, Douglas,
was serving in the
7th Division Cav-
alry Regiment of
the 7th Australian
Division. His sec-
tion was with the
convoy sought for
Rangoon. When I
saw him in
Queensland, later
in the year, he
told me that when
the convoy head-
ed south his com-
panions were very
angry. His regi-
ment was recruit-
ed mainly from
young profes-
sional, business
executive, and
university men
who had dislo-
cated promising
careers to enable
them to fight for
NORMAN
LINDSAY’S
EARLE PAGE
The Bulletin,
July 24, 1935
their country and especially to keep war
from Australian territory. Their bitter
complaint on the decks that day was,
“Why should we not be allowed to go
where there is real fighting instead of
being dragged home?”
This division arrived in Australia in
March, 1942, and stayed in Adelaide
until the following May. 1 met my son
in August, training in jungle warfare at
Caboolture. In September, the regiment
was sent to Port Moresby, New Guinea,
and went into action in December with
such intrepid bravery that only a small
percentage are still alive. Yet the bitter-
ness of the Burma diversion lingers to the
present day.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE EARLE PAGE MEMOIRS
Sir,
Anyone with a recollection of the
political events of April 20, 1939, and
the repercussions ~of Sir Earle Page’s
highly controversial and personal ac-
count, on the floor of the House, of his
reasons for refusing to serve with Mr
Menzies, will read with surprise the brief
•summary of this speech given in Sir
Earle Page’s own account in the chapter
“The Nineteen Days” in his autobio-
graphy “Truant Surgeon’’ serialised in
your issue of January 26.
As editor of “Truant Surgeon”, work-
ing in close collaboration with Sir Earle
Page until his death, when the manuscript
was in the publisher’s hands, I would
like to place on record the fact that Sir
Earle Page’s manuscript included a full
account of the reasons he gave to Parlia-
ment on this historic occasion, together
with relevant extracts of his speech and of
Mr Menzies’s reply, produced in an Ap-
pendix.
This material, and the Appendix, has
been removed from his autobiography by
Sir Earle Page’s literary executors.
In view of the widespread excitement
generated by the speech, and the criti-
cism to which it exposed Sir Earle Page,
the omission of this material is likely to
disconcert those who are familiar with
this piece of history, and seriously to
mislead and confuse those wh j are not.
I feel it is necessary to call attention
to an alteration which might otherwise
reflect upon the integrity of Sir Earle
Page’s record.
ANN MOZLEY
Canberra.
CAIRNS V KNOPFELMACHER
Sir,
Recently an article in your issue of
January 19 by Frank Knopfelmacher was
drawn to my attention. I understand
that he is a qualified academic, and in
case anyone from that may assume that
he would write truthfully and fairly, I
would be pleased if you would publish
the following:
At one point Knopfelmacher says: “Dr
Cairns is said to have refused to speak”
at the Sunshine Town Hall on December
16. Putting aside the second-hand basis
for this statement, a dozen lines down he
slips into direct . . . “the refusal of . . .
Dr Cairns to participate.” At no time
did I ever refuse to speak at this meeting.
Next, Knopfelmacher goes on: “Dr
Cairns refused to participate (with the
ALP Club Aid India Committee) on the
grounds that the Sino-India conflict was
a mere border incident.” I quote my
letter of December 3 to the Secretary
of this Committee:
“Thank you for your letter of Novem-
ber 27 and enclosed Indian Information
Digest. I was pleased to have Professor
Hudson’s statement and the special re-
lease of the Indian Information Office.
“I am fully in favor of the maximum
economic aid we can give to India, not
only now but on a permanent basis. I
recognise that the aggressive initiative on
the border comes from the Chinese side.
However, as long as it is clear that
Chinese action is limited to the border
issue, and not an invasion of India, I
believe that stress should be laid upon
negotiation and not upon further military
action.
“I hope to hear from your Committee
in the future.
“With best wishes.”
I am quite unconcerned with Knopfel-
macher’s opinions, but his writing is a
mixture of carelessness or malice. I
hope he will take the opportunity to
say which it is in these cases.
J. F. CAIRNS (MHR)
Richmond (Victoria).
THE BRUNEI REBELLION
Sir,
From Press reports about the recent
insurrection in Brunei, it would appear
that the rebellion was a direct reaction
by diehard Brunei Malays to Tungku
Abdul Rahman’s proposal for the forma-
tion of a Malaysia Federation.
I was living in the oil-rich sultanate
for five years during the inaugural and
formative years of the People’s Party led
by Sheik Azahari. When I arrived there
in 1952 Brunei's 50,000 predominantly
Malay inhabitants were with good
reason looking ahead to a golden
future.
An enlightened Sultan, under British
guidance, had set about the formation
of Asia's first model welfare State with,
presumably, an inexhaustible Treasury to
back him up, and no unemployment.
The new party appeared to resent the
presence of Europeans in Government
posts even we temporary ones. Their
slogan was “Merdeka!” (freedom) deliv-
ered with a raised clenched-fist salute. If
we were puzzled, the Sultan was equally
mystified. He asked anyone with a com-
plaint against the Government to re-
port it.
Then in October, 1953, three young
Brunei Malays were sentenced to jail
terms varying between a year and two
years after being found guilty on charges
of conspiracy and sedition against the
Government. The “Borneo Bulletin”
newspaper reported that at the trial pro-
secution witnesses admitted they had all
been members of a secret society formed
by the accused. The report continued
“. . . At a secret meeting Mohamed was
stated to have told a gathering of about
80 society members that the object of the
society was to seize power from the
Government by force.
“When they had taken all the arm
and other weapons, they would captu
all the Europeans and other promine!
local men, take them to the Sultan’
Palace and request the Sultan in tIA
presence to sign a declaration of indepeif
dence. If the Sultan and the ‘big’ jL
refused, they would all be tried by the
people and ‘punished’.”
Things were quiet on the surface after
this. The malcontents had nine long years
to wait before their plan could be per.
petrated and even then the basic moves
were fundamentally the same to o a j n
control of police stations and arms first
then round up Europeans as hostages
with which to bargain with the Sultan
It seems plain to me the plans for last
December’s revolt were laid nine vears
ago and long before the concept of
Greater Malaysia had been mooted.
JUDITH E. LINDSAY
Howrah (Tasmania).
GAG THE PRESS
Sir,
It was inexcusable of Mr Rivett (“Gag-
ging the World Press”, Bulletin, Febru-
ary 2) not to have mentioned the one
place where the anarchy of libellous free-
dom among editors is being properlv
“gagged.” That is in England over the
Vassal case.
If the London journalist, Mr Clough,
was not yet jailed (when The Bulletin
article appeared) for his refusal to reveal
the names of the informants who re-
vealed to him that Vassal was a spy and
a known homosexual, his criminal secrecy
before lawful questioning was clear. One
can only second Lord Radcliffe's censure
of these irresponsible reporters: “they
have mistakenly preferred what they be-
lieve to be the requirements of their pro-
fession to what we believe to be the
greater public interest.”
And one must also censure the Ameri-
can judge who recently extended unre-
strained libel among the Press, saying,
absurdly: “Newspapers willing and
courageous enough to fight for good
government and against corruption .. -
cannot provide their readers and general
public with important information unless
their sources are assured of protection,
PERCY McCARTY
Prospect (South Australia).
A WARNING
Sir,
As a newly recruited member of the
National Socialist Movement I wish to
warn you that all pro-Communist anil
Leftist statements made in your maga-
zine are being carefully recorded tot
future reference. After we have defeate
the Marxist-Jewish foe and establishe
a New Order in Australia your recot
shall be carefully studied: if it is f° UII
to be, on balance, anti-Australian an
anti-Western, the appropriate measur
will be taken to prevent the publicatio
of any further subversive literature
the Bulletin Newspaper Co Pty y
E. R. CAWTHRON BA. Se.
i Somerton (SA ).


REVIEWH
THEATRE
FIRST FLOWERING
By JACK DAVIES
The Cherry Orchard. Old Tote Theatre.
Sydney.
T he wonderful thing about the Old
Tote’s production of “The Cherry
Orchard” is that one comes to feel that
Chekov would be as pleased with the
whole thing as are both the actors and
the audience. Indeed, the best criticism
that can be given of the performance,
Robert Quentin's direction, and the gen-
eral conception of an Old Tote Theatre
Company, is that everyone is basically
concerned with and enjoying what they
are doing in the play. And this is the first
and most important step in fulfilling
Stanislavsky’s dictum about Chekov’s
plays and, eventually, all theatrical pro-
ductions: “One should live them, have
one's being in them, and follow the deeply
buried arteries through which their emo-
tions flow as blood flows from the heart.”
But beneath the most ingratiating
charm of this involvement, there are
some serious lapses at crucial moments.
And these are basically of two types: an
imperfect development of the relation-
ship between the individual and group
parts of the characters, and a tendency of
the players occasionally to fall behind
their parts. For instance, Sophie Stewart
loses a great deal of Madam Ranyev-
skaia's character in the second act when
she sets forth on the pivotal “Oh, my
sins!’ speech. Unsure in that difficult
area between farce and pathos, she tends
to muddle on the surface of what should
the amazing faith and energy of her
Grand Affair. The effect is a certain
shallow undermining of what is otherwise
a v ery competent performance, a slight
but significant dulling of the impact of
'be final axe.
Such occasional flaws are, however,
more 'bun overcome by the extraordinary
v jgor of the production. Owen Weingott,
u though obviously suppressing a predi-
ction towards up-staging and ham, does
? n ama zingly full and imaginative job as
Ron Haddrick is an excellent
yev even if an over-tightness some-
™es mars his flights of fancy and run-
billiards-game. Janice Dinnen would
e M about perfect as Ania if she
could add a little more of the constant
glow of idealism to her girlish warmth.
Indeed, her performance and that of John
Bell as Trofimov make it somewhat hard
to believe that they have much basis for
mutual love.
Mary Reynolds continues the line of
good acting as Varia. She might, how-
ever, subdue some of the quasi-religious
hand-wringing in the first act and end-
eavor to work out a more consistent
pattern between her earthly and heavenly
aspirations. Philippa Baker is a finely
frustrated governess, if a little awkward
in her magic. Ellis Irving is without flaw
as Simeonov-Pishchik. Charles Tasman
mumbles and grumbles beautifully as
Feers, the constant serf, although he
tends to almost mumble the dialogue
away at the finale. Gordon Chater fulfils
at least 20 of the “two and 20” mis-
fortunes of Yepihodov, the clerk. And
Tim Cohen’s reluctance to be completely
obnoxious as Yasha, the greasy valet,
makes him just about obnoxious enough.
Anna Volska is far too good as Dooni-
asha to let her slight stage-fright last
much longer.
Most of the minor imperfections in
acting and production will, however,
hopefully and probably be erased through
future performances. And, again, it is
hard not to marvel at what a good job
the Old Tote has done in its debut with
what is essentially a very difficult play.
SOMETHING OLD, SOMETHING NEW
Flaming Youth. John Crane. Phillip
Theatre. Sydney.
Marcel Marceau. Her Majesty’s
Theatre. Sydney.
TTeaven knows I have no wish to make
the life of Sydney's men of the
theatre any more complicated than it is,
but someone has to say that this is now
a big sophisticated city—and the time is
ripe for new productions intended for the
Sydney stage to be given try-outs in an-
other place before the city opening. A
good show never fails in Sydney, and the
theatre that wants to make money (as
who doesn’t?) should burnish its produc-
tions just as brightly as a trial run and
expert opinions can.
Phillip Theatre’s new Australian musi-
cal comedy, “Flaming Youth,” is a sharp
instance. Here is a play with plenty of
promise, lots of laughs and sufficient situ-
ations to stock several comedies. The
cast is uneven, but at its best the playing
is very handsome indeed; the decor does
not hang together as happily as it might
but is bright and evocative; the dressing
is smart and expensive. What is wrong is
the actual production too many cur-
tains, too many breaks for scene changes;
numbers run too long, verses don’t make
their point, and on opening night, under-
rehearsal of some scenes showed up very
starkly.
A good try-out, with maybe the city
critics invited to the party for a private
view, would have revealed all this. Musi-
cal comedy above all, whose cast and
spectacle cost so much genuine folding
money, is the genre where production is
all-important.
As it is, Mr William Orr now has a
job ahead of him with “Flaming Youth.”
He has to sit down and be ruthless, and
if he will do this, if he will cut and shape
and stitch enough, he will have a first-
rate show, one for him and his theatre
and his city to be proud of.
For make no mistake, there’s some
very promising stuff in this first essay at
the stage by Sydney scriptwriter John
Crane.
Among the cast, all of whom revel in
the chance to dig around the Charleston
boop-de-boop-boop treasure chest, Miss
Robina Beard stands right up and carries
the show along on her dumb-blonde
shoulders. Mr George Foster, after a
sticky start, came up to her level with
tremendous professional aplomb, playing
Duke to her would-be lady. Miss Diana
Perryman, nobly biting back the temp-
tation to look like Medea playing bur-
lesque, hit off her first musica. role with
brio. Perhaps her dressing could have
been kinder, but Miss Perryman shows
what a fine all-rounder she is. Miss Do-
lore Whiteman makes much of her song,
and Miss Shirley Sunners dances well. Mr
Alton Harvey puts more than average
oomph into his playing, and shines
wonderfully in the hilarious film segment
which sends up the Valentino seduction
and horseback caper.
It’s an abrupt shift from potential


talent like “Flaming Youth” to the highly
cultivated display of dum’o-show that is
M. Marcel Marceau’s contribution to our
times. My worship of mime stops a long
way short of spelling it with a capital
and breathing heavy, but it does go far
enough to recognise that M. Marceau is
someone to be grateful for. In this
country, where so many actors think that
voice and a few standard turns an
gestures ere enough. ,t is good to see an
artist wno has cultivated a truly expres-
sive body
Marceau has trained and freed himself
to the point where he can most accura-
tely represent a vast range of human
activity. He can walk against wind, up-
stairs, downstairs, in my lady’s chamber
and through a park and never for a
moment is one in doubt of exactly where
he is, nor of the reception he is getting
there. " "
His portrayals of BIP, Marceau’s
famous little man of many faces and
livelihoods, have much of the pure sun
of comedy and all the grace of a per-
fectly-controlled human. But the short-
comings are there, those particular short-
comings which are part of mime itself. So
ma ny of the lunatic fringe of theatre will
c i a im that mime is the only true art, (and
even t he foreword to M. Marceau’s pro-
gramme has a fair dollop of this sort of
nonsense) , ha , it is „ well to get it aU in
.
true P ers P ec i lve -
Dumb-show is part, and only part, of
the art of the theatre. It is not an end
in itself, though it ought always to be
one of the great means of the Theatre and
its artists. This is the value of Marceau s
visit h ere ‘> that he is a marvellous remin-
der to all serious actors of how the body
ought to be trained, and of what expres-
siveness the body is capable.
KEVON KEMP
TELEVISION
ROCK-BOTTOM ALKIES
npELEVisioN seldom has a stab at im-
A portant public issues. When it does,
it’s usually with a panel, trade name
Instant Bedlam. So when my glance fell
on “The Alcoholic, Study of a Disease,
Discussion of . . .” in the programmes,
my heart faltered, but I gritted my teeth
and faced the set. The anatomical ex-
ercise proved unnecessary. It was an As-
sociated Rediffusion feature, and if the
British have TV panel shows they rarely
export them.
AR's study did not add much to the
information the public already has on
alcoholism. Indeed, it confused the issue
by making it clear that heavy drinkers
are not necessarily alcoholics, so how do
you know whether to sympathise or ring
the police when a rolling drunk crosses
your path? The feature’s purpose became
clear only when a Dr Byrne remarked
that alcoholics are forgotten people in
the welfare state, which probably applies
to Australia as much as to England.
Everyone is quite familiar with the
problems involved, and knows exactly
when to look the other way.
If the study was meant to stir up some
action, its presentation at first seemed
too quiet and reasonable to do that. But
it broke new ground, for me anyway, in
its photography, and in a clean, un-
pretentious commentary which I hope
will be remembered locally as a model.
The feature began with a film of a
group of rock-bottom alkies passing a
bottle of surgical spirit in some bomb-
blasted corner of purgatory. It ended
with more shots of the same, God help
them, human beings “punished by the
law, judged, and found unworthy of
compassion”. The faces and actions
looked terribly familiar. I had seen them
25 years ago in a park adjacent to
school, the “methos” we used to laugh
at, a bit. Some of us could be there
now.
Dr Byrne told us alcoholism is a di-
sease of addiction, motivated by a state
of mind—probably the key factor—and
physical makeup, and environment. L ate
he showed a WHO graph which lj sted
“first blackout, uncontrollable desire fo’
alcohol, secretive drinking, and rock
bottom” as the four stages to purgatory
There was a graphic of a young woman
seated, huddled, as an actress spoke
Flower designs, changing from positive
to negative, and a bottle montage
graphic, as a man said the alcoholic feels ■
he is what he'd like to be. And so it went
on, the facts simple, the camera ad-
venturous.
No one pushed AA as the only p os .
sible solution. For many it is impossible
Dr Byrne mentioned drug therapy and
psycho-therapy, but said the places for
treatment were pitiably few. A woman
spoke flatly, almost dully, of delirium,
and the cameras recreated some of the
reptiles, rats, hordes of ants, and hard-
eyed birds which she had suffered. Many
who reach this stage go right out. Dr
Byrne used graphics to show that alcohol
in some quantities is beneficial, but in
excess swamps the liver and heart with
fats, and damages the mind. And there
again were the ultimately damaged, pas-
sing the bottle, in perspective now.
It was very quiet, British, moving, and
not meant to or likely to shock many,
in an age of Belsen, “Psycho”, and Cuba
crisis.
FRANK ROGERS
FILMS
FOR THE HOME MARKET
Indian filmgoer demands variety
for his admission money. A little bit
of everything is what he likes—comedy,
tragedy, fights, romance and, most im-
portant of all, music. No producer of
popular Indian films would dare release
a production that didn’t include at least
one song-and-dance scene. Consequently
one feels that the Indian producer-direc-
tor most famous in the West, Satyajit
Ray, is not likely to be particularly po-
pular at home, judging from the famed
“Apu” trilogy and his simple master-
piece, “The Postmaster.”
It’s hard to know, but one might
even suspect that a “production-value”
conscious Calcutta equivalent of the
much-maligned Hollywood “front office”
is the reason why Ray has at last made a
film more in keeping with the require-
ments of his home market. Music,
droning Indian music, takes up a large
amount of “Jalsaghar” (“The Music
Room”), which was given its Australian
premiere during the Festival of Perth.
Visiting Ceylonese dancer, Chitrasena,
told me that one of the singers featured
in the film is India’s equivalent (in po-
pularity, not style) of that protector of
Hollywood investments, Connie Francis.
Joining in the hard-sell spirit, Festival
organisers proclaimed after the manner
of Mr Harry Wren that the film had a
Full Supporting Cast and Musicians
and Dancers ’. (Question: when is a sup-
porting cast not a Full Supporting Cast?)
But there is a great difference between
the musical interludes in "Jalsaghar
and the old Hollywood production num-
ber. Though it can be said that there is
more music in “Jalsaghar" than is strictly
necessary, it is always relevant to the
mainstream of the film.
It seems characteristic of Ray (who
adapted, produced and directed “Jalsa-
ghar”) that his films do not use charac-
ters and situations to expound larger
themes; the very antithesis of Bergman,
the cinema’s allegorical poet, Ray specia-
lises in unambiguous character studies
without any higher significance or sym-
bolic profundity. “Jalsaghar” is no &
ception. In telling an almost operatically
melodramatic story of a proud mans
downfall, it never becomes a parable on
Pride.
After a brief introductory scene, Ray
tells in flashback how the inept, music-
loving owner of a large estate being
gradually encroached upon by ®
Ganges loses his little remaining wealG
his wife and his beloved only son


„ us e of his pride and impractical refusal
C give up the expensive musical evenings
he loves to hold in his own music
com. This told, we go on to see how he
cannot resist holding a last extravagant
0-ee to give an upstart usurer his come-
ance before meeting a melodramatic
accidental death. The End.
Despite the superficial melodrama of
it all, Ray’ s handling of it is unmelo-
dramatically understated. The drowning
of the landlord’s wife and son in a whirl-
pool, which in other hands might have
become a Big Scene, is not even shown.
Nothing (except the music) is allowed
to divert our attention from the landlord.
Like all Ray’s films, “Jalsaghar” is prob-
ably most memorable for its small,
quiet moments, little details that are al-
most thrown away, never underscored.
Subrata Mitra’s low-key, often murky
photography creates an atmosphere
more three-dimensional than anything
that has to be seen through Polaroid
glasses. The sound track, and notably
the background music (as distinct from
the musical numbers), is a gem, fading
into silence at all the right places. Cast-
ing, acting and direction have produced
in the landlord, his touching old man-
servant, and the usurer a trio of memo-
rably flesh-and-blood characters, though
Chabi Biswas as the landlord is the only
actor credited in English.
But for all “Jalsaghar’s” merits, it is a
pity that the least important of Ray’s
films should have been given the audi-
ence-attracting cachet of a Festival
season (presumably because it gave the
Festival another Australian premiere)
while his infinitely superior “Postmaster”
has as yet been shown only once in WA,
at an unpublicised Sunday night univer-
sity society function.
GEOFFREY HALL
RADIO
GETTING UP STEAM
Among many of our institutions which
Lord de L’lsle mentioned in his
Australia Day message was one, “steam
radio.” In some ways it was an unkind
joke, however kindly said, on a medium
which still provides most of the music
heard in Australia, and most of the
schooling and day-to-day information
required by people in the vast areas
without television. More Australians fol-
lowed the Tests on radio than on tele-
vision. It’s still useful. All it needs to
keep up are some diesel-engined
programmes.
One of radio's strange virtues is that
it remains the medium by which many
Australian writers, particularly the
novelists, reach a mass public with their
work. This may be news to you. It
occurs in serial readings which are
mostly and probably entirely pro-
grammed during “business” hours. I
don’t think anyone has considered ex-
perimenting with book readings at night,
1 where they could easily be a success.
Radio drama is very rare now, and many
People miss it.
Book readings are one of the oldest
forms of radio entertainment, and it is
notable that one of the oldest surviving
hands in radio has turned to this late
in his career and seems to be doing it
hdter than anyone else. The ABC
usually give the work to an established
actor ! with frequently poor results. The
tr, ck is to suggest the many voice
changes, rather than try to accomplish
t “ eni > as most of the actors do, and
* en > also, to establish an atmosphere for
eac hbook and carry it through all of the
readings. It is one of the many good
things in radio which never developed,
never went anywhere, in 30 years and
more.
John Dease, minus his Quiz Kids and
other once-national programmes, is now
reading Australian books on radio in a
virtuoso manner. He has already re-
corded four novels, from yesterday’s
“Coonardoo” to today’s “The Young
Wife,” and is into his fifth, but so far,
apparently, only NSW listeners have
heard any of them. I suggest that the
commercial stations in other States drop
“Dr Paul,” “Mary Livingstone MD,”
and that damn girl who never marries,
and clamour for the services of John
Dease, the only Australian reader I’ve
heard make books come to life on the
air consistently.
Mr Dease manages to suggest a
woman’s voice, a young or old man’s,
a child’s, without straining his larynx
or the listener’s sensibility. He handles
accents and dialects admirably, includ-
ing the Australian vernacular, which
throws most Australian actors. He be-
comes the medium through whom the
author reaches out and moves people
as he must have intended, making them
smile- mist over, and think. And the
audience he is reaching in NSW must
be at least 50,000-100,000. The ABC
book readers reach many more.
If there is one flaw in Mr Dease’s
work it is in the tone of his “establish-
ing” remarks in each episode, and this
seems to me to be due to a conscious-
ness that he is speaking to a mainly
female audience. It may be a long time
before commercial radio can escape
from its harnessing conception of its
average female listener as one of the
dear, dull dimwits who used to be found
in studio audiences. While it holds to
that idea, it might well be called “steam
radio.”
DALE MILLER.
"Well, if that's the Eiffel Tower, the BBC is asking the French to do
the impossible!"


THE RED PAGE
DR RODERICK'S LATEST
Who wrote "Ralph Rashlelgh"?
By M. H. ELLIS
Ralph Rashleigh. James Tucker.
Angus & Robertson. Pacific Books.
7s. 6d.
PT‘HE manuscripts of Ralph Rashleigh or
The Life of an Exile by “Giacomo
di Rosenberg,” Jemmy Green in Aus-
tralia by "The Author of Nix”, and The
Grahames (sic) Vengeance by “Otto von
Rosenberg" all turned up at an exhibition
organised by the Royal Australian His-
torical Society in 1920. They were all in
the same handwriting. Ralph Rashleigh
had been described by a writer who
called himself "The Spectre” in the “S.M.
Herald" in April, 1892. He had ascribed
its authorship to “a most eccentric
genius ... an architect transported for
forgery ... a learned man withal .
employed upon many buildings in the
city, and . . . specially occupied over the
construction of old St. Mary’s Cathedral.”
The manuscripts having fallen into the
possession of Angus and Robertson, an
edition of Ralph Rashleigh was issued
with a ponderous introduction by Mr (as
he then was) Colin Roderick in which
the authorship was attributed to a con-
vict storekeeper at Port Macquarie named
James Tucker, in whose handwriting the
manuscript in fact was. The manuscript
gave a clue to its date, in that its adver-
tisement among the “extras” in the
front of the book and signed “A Squat-
ter” was dated “December 31, 1845.” It
indicated that the book had been com-
pleted before that date, since it asserted
that “the tale comprised in the following
pages was compiled by the Editor as it
fell from the lips of the person who was
at once the author and in some sort
the hero of the adventures therein nar-
rated.”
Despite a patient “two year” trek
following the spoor of the author and
using the novel as a guide, Roderick
found “the course of his life” during the
decade or so after his arrival in Port
Jackson in the Midas in February, 1827,
“elusive.” It was so elusive that after
his book was published, the late Mr Tom
Mutch and I filled the vacancy in Dr
Roderick’s knowledge within 24 hours,
and proved him wrong in some of the
most important surmises with which he
had filled the empty spaces.
This will appear from the analysis
which follows. For instance, Tucker’s
record, which showed him to have been
an 18-year-old blackmailer, sentenced at
the Essex Assizes in March, 1826, for
having attempted to blackmail a kindly
cousin (who had given him employment
in a moment of distress) of five pounds
by threatening to charge him publicly
with having tried to or succeeded in com-
mitting sodomy with himself on five
nights. The cousin had promptly had
him arrested and at the trial the young
miscreant had made no attempt to sub-
stantiate the charge and had been sen-
tenced to transportation for life to New
South Wales.
And there he had spent the 18 years
between his arrival and his apparently
sudden burst of literary activity which
produced at least two plays and a three-
decker novel within a year (according to
Mr Roderick's original conception); this
while engaged in various menial convict
avocations. He had been in the Sydney
convict barracks, working in a timber-
"After studying the book and
Dr Roderick's ever-changing in-
troductions, I do not know who
wrote it. I only know that, on
stolen paper, James Tucker
wrote it out in what appears to
be a copy of the original."
felling gang round the foothills of the
Blue Mountains, quarrying, acting as
convict messenger, ganger of a gang at
work rock chopping, under sentence on
the treadmill, in the iron gang, in Port
Macquarie in the category of convicts
who could read and write and who were
become or were congenitally so frail that
they were unfit for any manual or outside
work, and finally in gaol at Goulburn. He
was a Catholic. His trade according to
the assize papers had been “shopman-
clerk” which meant a shop assistant who
could do the simple clerking needed to
encompass the accounts and correspon-
dence of a shop.
The two literary efforts identifiable
beyond doubt as his were little encour-
agement to any champion who wished
to hold up Tucker’s hand as the proved
winner in the contest for the authorship
of a work of artless genius like R a u
Rashleigh.
The first was his blackmailing ] etter
produced as evidence against him at the
Essex Assizes for what Mr Roderick
considers a “trivial” offence, though he
admits that it involved a groundless
charge against a kind patron, %
notoriety of which probably drove his un.
fortunate victim off his farm and out of
his neighborhood, while submitting M r
Tucker himself allegedly to a brutal
official martyrdom which wrecked his
young life.
This letter even Mr Roderick himself
characterised as “ill digested and melo-
dramatic, written with a contempt of
legitimate punctuation that James Joyce
might envy”—there was virtually none,
thus: “if I do not hear from you by
Saturday morning you will hear of it
(enclosing five Pounds) now consider
Ruin and Beggary on one side and Wealth
and Comfort on the other.”
The second piece of writing identifi-
able as Tucker's is in the Port Macquarie
papers of late 1846 which established him
to Dr Roderick as the author (or copyist)
of Ralph Rashleigh and the other dispar-
ate manuscripts. His diction and punctu-
ation had certainly not improved during
20 years of colonial experience as shown
by the following specimen:
A large quantity of Excavations, and the
necessary labour, has been done by pris-
oners, attached to the Iron Gang; at
several of the above places; which has
not been taken into this valuation; the
men not belonging to the RE.
Department
Roderick was faced with the task of
proving that the author of this stuff
could write, typically—like this:
Given to the fool, the vain, the mi
the evil
To Ward, to Waters, Chartres and the
Devil
And surely, the men among the freed con-
victs of New South Wales who had ac-
quired riches offered abundant evidenceof
the truth of the above couplet, the nucleus
of their gains having been acquired either
by the exercise of every art of fraud,
or at least of chicanery, and in some cases
by pandering to the grossest vices of then
fellow-convicts, whose chief luxuries, and
in fact the grand prima mobile, or sumM
bona of whose existence were rum and
tobacco, to wallow on beastly drunken-
ness being to them the very acme ot
earthly bliss. ff .
He had to prove that Tucker was sum-
ciently endowed with a liberal education
to be able to quote Rochefoucauld in
French; to interlard his text with qu° ta '
tions produced from an obviously capa-
cious memory stored with the products
of wide and liberal reading from Shakes-
peare, Milton, Dryden, Nash, Arbut
not’s Anecdotes, Thomson’s Seasons,
Goldsmith, Edmund Burke, Burns*
Byron, Scott, Bloomfield and even tho se
two darlings of ladies’ seminary P
days in his age, Felicia Hemans and t e


ST. IGNATIUS’ COLLEGE
LIBRARY, RIVERVIEW, NSW,
seeks runs or odd volumes of
Survey of International Affairs
(0.U.P.), 1936-58, to complete set
IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time in-
come. There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 21 Grenfell Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 363)
STOTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
Thomas Dale. These would have
available to Greenway, whose wife
bee or ted his later years with her fash-
SUP a ble girls’ school, but scarcely to
if in the belly-boxes of the Nepean,
h quarry or the treadmill or the mes-
the |! r ’s lair in the Colonial Architect’s
se £ __ though some carelessly flung
manuscript of Greenway’s might have
conie his way in the last place.
rrpnfh^ — with accents
ta r Roderick had to further argue an-
V ot her test: Was the wretched Tucker
sufficiently facile in his familiarity with
French and Latin to seed his lucubrations
with dozens of French locutions, all with
accents correctly omitted or placed with
absolute accuracy out of his own memory
and from whom we hear in the midst of
text obviously composed by an habitua-
ted writer of English prose, correctly
punctuated, even in the most complicated
sentences, of ad Graecas Kalendas, meum
d%wn, ignus fatuus, el hoc genus
onB; terra incognita and Quern Deus
yutfjjerdere, prius dementat and (correc-
tly uhcapitalised) casa inglese.
He, moreover, had to account for the
fact that his Catholic author-elect
followed the Greenwayan habit of using
Masonic phrases in his text and that when
he elected to draw on the Bible he used
the Authorised Version and not the
f Catholic version.
! To educate Tucker Roderick decided
to send him to a “reputable” Catholic
school, since he suggests (wrongly) that
as a Catholic he could have obtained a
liberal education otherwise only by go-
ing abroad. Because Tucker was born in
Bristol, according to the records, Rod-
: erick selected Stonyhurst as his alma
mater.
In his first introduction, 1952, he finds
the only James Tucker who went to
Stonyhurst was there from 1814, when
this Tucker was six years old, till 1821
and that the account books show this
Tucker to have been born in August,
£,1803. Roderick therefore suspects that
the accountant must have read the figure
T in mistake for “8"; but he admits
that ,l in the unsatisfactory state we are
forced to leave this attempt to discover
something of the boyhood and youth of
fames Tucker.”
In his introduction to Jemmy Green
(IWS) he next asserts that “Tucker”
ad “actually been baptised with his
br °ther on 15th November, 1807.”
Finally, in his introduction to the Paci-
c Books edition of Rashleigh (1962) he
sa b> “Tucker was born at Bristol in
Clt er 1803 or 1808; if in 1803 he be-
C^ e a pupil at Stonyhurst College in
. I n this Catholic seminary he would
j| eie rec eived a thorough training in Eng-
lish composition and in French and
Latin.”
When Mr Mutch unearthed the fact
that Tucker actually was sent to Emu
Plains like Rashleigh —according to a per-
fectly routine procedure—a month after
his landing in Sydney, Roderick embel-
lishes it like this: The fact that he was
listed in the ship’s indent as a clerk shop-
man was “enough to earn him the dis-
pleasure of convict officialdom, especi-
ally since his offence was writing a threat-
ening letter.” All educated prisoners
(writes Roderick) were suspect, for
Sydney in 1827 was a hotbed of political
agitation. Governor Darling was “living
on the edge of a volcano, and his daily
care was to prevent another Rum Rebel-
lion.” So “any clerk in the habit of
writing threatening letters might expect
short shrift from him”, and “when his
eye fell on the word clerk alongside
Tucker's entry in the Midas muster roll,
he ordered the unhanpy wretch to Emu
Plains.” Actually, as his despatches
showed, Darling felt perfectly secure
with two strong fighting British regiments
behind him and discontent was repre-
sented by a few noisy agitators and jour-
nalists. Most of the junior civil service of
Sydney was composed of educated con-
victs and they were very much at their
own devices as Rashleigh himself pro-
fessed to be when he first arrived, dress-
ing as they liked, seeking each other’s
society in the town.
A description dismissed
Tn his original introduction Roderick dis-
missed the description of the architect
author as that of a “mythical individual
conjured up by legends clustering round
the figure of Greenway.” In February,
1953, after this had been published I
showed that Tucker had been a convict
messenger in the Colonial Architect’s
Department and gave references for the
facts. In his addenda to Jemmy Green
(1955), Roderick then presented these
references verbatim as if they represen-
ted a tour de force of research virtuosity
—they had taken me a whole two hours
to find! And he proceeded to use the
facts to show that Tucker was a man of
importance in the architectural world of
Sydney. He represented the Colonial
Architect, Mortimer Lewis, a pillar of
Government House society, who referred
to Tucker in his correspondence as “the
prisoner,” as “frequenting his company.”
He suggested that the fact that Tucker
slept out of barracks was a tribute to his
good conduct —it was a matter of con-
venience.
Among the letters which he quoted in
full was one that showed that in April,
1837, Tucker left his job to become over-
seer (ganger) of a gang making improve-
ments in the Domain —it was a chain
gang chopping new paths out of the rock.
There is no record anywhere that he was
employed anywhere else as an overseer.
In fact he had been sent back to the con-
vict barracks. But it apparently occurred
to Dr Roderick that rockchopping super-
vision was scarcely consistent with “The
Spectre’s” architect’s description which
he now seemed to accept as in some de-
gree justified. So in his final version
(1962) to accord with “The Spectre's”
version he writes: “In April, 1837, he
was made an overseer and was so em-
ployed upon various buildings about the
city.” This follows the words used by
“The Spectre”. There is no warrant for
it that I know of.
Tucker lost his ticket of leave, was
sent to the treadmill in 1839, failed to
recover it through the “probationary
gang”, having committed some fresh
offence. He was given a ticket to reside
in Maitland where he still was at the
end of 1844, approaching the period of
the gestation of his literary works. In a
note in Ralph Rashleigh (1952) Roderick


writes (p. 244): “There is no doubt the
manuscript (Rashleigh) was written in
1845.”
Then a cutting in the Maitland
Mercury, November 16, 1844, came to
light showing that Tucker had been con-
victed of forging two letters complete
with postmarks, to fraudulently aid two
persons who wished to marry when
falsely swearing that their respective
spouses were dead. He was sentenced to
work in chains for a year, putting him in
a condition not conducive to writing two
plays and a three-decker novel during his
sentence. So in 1955—relegating this in-
formation, Which he now had, to the
more discreet recesses of his appendices—
Roderick puts a note in front of his book
which states that “palaeological examina-
tion indicates clearly that both Jemmy
Green and The Grahame’s Vengeance
were written before Ralph Rashleigh,
during the year 1845” and that, there-
fore, there is every reason to accept and
no evidence to reject Tucker’s date of
commencement of writing Ralph Rash-
leigh, 31st December, 1845.
If the advertisement indicated any-
thing it is—as Roderick undoubtedly
accepted in 1952—that the work had
been finished by that date.
“Verdant Green”
Ooderick avers that there is something
about the play Jemmy Green that
makes it “linger in the memory.” With
me it is its resemblance in nomenclature
both in title and dramatis personae to
that of The Adventures of Verdant
Green, a character as well known in the
middle of the 1850 s as Nino Culotta is
in Australia a century later. Even Ver-
dant’s faithful nurse, Mrs Tooseypegs,
might have found affinities between
Verdant Green and Jemmy Green, Mr
Sampson Smash, the Australian banker,
and Mr Lucre the Oxford moneylender,
Mick Nipcheese of New South Wales
and Bob Filcher of Oxford. But, alas,
“palaeography” dictates that Jemmy was
born in 1845 and Verdant only saw the
light in 1853, though possibly having
regard to the proclivities displayed
(according to Mr Roderick) by young
Jimmy Tucker he may have been
baptised before he was born!
In his final edition Roderick fails to
mention the information that he gave in
the appendix to Jemmy Green about
Tucker's sentence of 12 months in the
iron gang in November, 1844. He merely
states the denouement of his forgery as:
He lost his ticket . . . “He was sent to
Port Macquarie as a special.” There is no
evidence that he didn’t serve the sentence
and he is not found at Port Macquarie
until August, 1846. Alas for “palaeo-
graphy”, since all the manuscripts are on
stolen Port Macquarie paper!
How did the convict storekeeper of a
store of which the Superintendent kept
the key secure paper, pens, ink and time
to write his very substantial works?
Roderick says with the rehabilitating help
and encouragement of Colonel Gray, the
local police magistrate, and of the super-
intendent of convicts, Mr Partridge. He
thinks it “no idle fancy to picture the
interest both . . . might have displayed
in the progress and completion of the
work” and that they “would pat the
enthusiastic author’s back as he went on
with his tale from day to day,” elaborat-
ing his pictures of their fellow magis-
trates and veteran fellow military offi-
cers as monsters in human form. They
“patted” a convict author, who might
have been more capable of writing Ralph
Rashleigh or at least Grahame’s Ven-
geance than Tucker, away for some
months hard labor late in 1846 for
“libelling the magistrates”. They scarcely
seem to me to have been likely to share
the alleged “rapture” of the part-convict
audience as the play Jemmy Green
lampooned those in authority with jeer-
ing ribaldry and held up a former Gov-
ernor under the name of “Hominy Tom”
in the Port Macquarie theatre where
Roderick thinks the play must have been
acted.
After a discussion in which I stated the
case for Greenway as the author (with-
out, of course, accepting that he was)
Roderick acquired a witness, a “firm-
minded old man” of 78 whose affidavit
on the facts was submitted to me along
with a medical certificate that he was fit
to testify. This witness had emerged into
Mr Roderick’s consciousness at first (vide
the 1952 introduction), because he had
written 19 articles about Port Macquarie’s
early days at some time without men-
tioning Tucker, an old man who was
reported on stated authority to “have
taken it into his head to dump a number
of documents at sea at a time when he
was mentally unbalanced.” But now this
witness had changed his view and not
only had come to believe that Tucker
wrote Rashleigh. He was able, also, to
detail other works (now lost) Tucker
had written and to pass on reminiscences
of “old lags” galore—“four convicts still
living (in the 1880 s) who spoke of
Jimmy Tucker ... in terms of affection-
ate recollection ... of the theatre he
organised for the recreation of the con-
victs and of the farces he composed for
representation . . . some of which strained
the intellectual capacity of his audiences ”
“Highly educated,” he was, it appear-
ed, “a lovable personality who used to
write all night [Note: He had now
mysteriously come to live outside convict
barracks], sleep all day, and who was a
clever oracular weather prophet.” Dr
Roderick accepts it all gratefully as
gospel.
When the Convict Establishment at
Port Macquarie was being broken un •
1847 Tucker got a new ticket of lej’
specifying that he must stay i n J e ’
trict of Port Macquarie. In 1849
ever, he was sentenced to a year in
in Goulburn for having absconded fr °
his district. He was in further troubl"
in Goulburn; and finally in 1853 Wa ,
given another ticket to go to Moreton
Bay—as far as possible from Goulburn-,
and stay there.
Death in an asylum
is no evidence whatever of what
happened to him after that, but for
some reason which he does not state
Roderick is “convinced that he returned
to New South Wales in 1859 or I 860”
and that he is identical with a James
Tucker reputed to be 72 years old -4
years older than the real Tucker —who
was adjudged officially to have been 30
years in the Colony with no record of his
convictry, as there certainly would have
been had he been a “lifer.” This Tucker
died in June, 1866, of “decay of natnh'e”
in Liverpool Old Men's Asylum, which
Roderick believes wrongly to have been
exclusively a lunatic asylum. No detail
about this ancient character corresponds
to the details of Roderick’s own version
of James Tucker's. But, deducing that
“decay of nature,” which actually means
“senility” or “old age” in the medical
parlance of the time, means something
far more disgraceful, Roderick treats us
to this . . . The last fifteen years of his
life were hopeless and degraded. He
had “stolen away” from Port Macquarie,
perhaps to look for gold, or perhaps to
“seek a cure for the scourge of convictry
which carried him off twenty years later
with general paralysis of the insane in
Liverpool Lunatic Asylum” . ... 4
man incapable of connected thought or
coherent speech, his flesh and bones
corrupted, his memory completely gone,
himself a gibbering, lolling helpless
idiot.”
It doesn’t even occur to Dr Roderick
that so far from suffering from the syp-
hilis of which he thinks he died, there is
no record that the gentleman whom he
describes as “our forgotten hero . ■ • th ,s
mild mannered man with a colonial
record of mere technical offences” ever
suffered from so much as a common cold.
Nor does it appear strange to him appar-
ently that the victim of a foul and deadly
venereal disease should have “stolen
away” to Goulburn on the outer marches
of southern civilisation to find a cure for
his fatal malady.
After studying the book and Dr
ick’s ever-changing introductions, I
not know who wrote it. I only k noW
that, on stolen paper, James Tucker wt° le
it out in what appears to be a copy of an
original.


COUSIN JACKS AND JENNYS
Australia’ 8 Little Cornwall. Oswald
| Pryor. Rigby. 255.
W rltin g this crowded historical
chronicle of South Australia’s
“Little Cornwall” the copper mining
of Wallaroo, Kadina and, es-
pecially, Moonta, on Yorke Peninsula,
“where there were once Cousin Jacks
a t the bottom of every mineral-bearing
hole,” a nd at the top also should have
come easy to Oswald Pryor.
p or a dozen years from 1911 till
1923 when the place closed down for
fceeps, after some 60 years of exceed-
ingly rich production —he was one of
those at the top: surface manager of the
Aloonta mines. He had been born and
bred there, son of Cornish parents, and
as a 13-year-old was already working in
the mines. Later, acting on the sugges-
tion of C. J. Dennis—the best specimen
of library ore to come out of those parts
-Oswald Pryor depicted the local
Cornish humor and characters in
actually hundreds of Bulletin cartoons,
and after his mining days he became this
paper’s South Australian managing rep-
resentative.
For some of that time the Bulletin’s
editor was S. H. Prior—slightly different
spelling, but of the same Old Country
— who particularly relished his
quiet Cousin Jack brand of humor of
the absurd; a taste not shared by all
Bulletin readers.
There are plentiful photographic
illustrations but only a few of his
drawings in his latest book. Still, a good
leaven of the humor of the Cousin Jacks
and Cousin Jennys of Moonta and
thereabouts enlivens its soundly factual
chapters.
Fair f.a.q. sample of the Cousin Jack
v ariety is the local preacher asking an
interested visitor from Adelaide what
he thought of a widely famed religious
.manifestation in Moonta:
Perfect organisation,” said the visitor,
hut not enough spiritual steam to blow
a whistle.”
Hey, what do ’ee mean by that?”
Prayerfulness.”
Prayerfulness! Damme, I’ll pray
fiveV^ 011 * n bhe week for a
Hie Cousin Jennys are perhaps better
presented by acts than by words.
in^ e Com F ) ined Cousin Jennys’ effort
l e act ion line followed an address
a strike leader, when the Moonta
hrok Ust ’H a bly downed tools over the
t 0 J P r °mise of a rise when copper
|PPc a very high price. Instead of
addressing the gathering of men, the
leader turned to their accompanying
womenfolk.
“There’s a rumor,” he told them,
“that you’re going to sweep all nuisances
out of the engine-houses and stables.”
The ladies took that as enough. Arm-
ing themselves with solid brooms, they
stormed through the mine buildings,
literally sweeping all such “nuisances”
as bosses and directors’ representatives
clean off the premises.
A good sprinkling of other picturesque
detail helps to lighten the close-packed
pages. Instance the young chap named
William Horn who rode the 164 miles
to Adelaide in 24 hours to get in first
with a mining claim.
From such beginnings came the
Wallaroo and Moonta group of mines,
which, in a working life of 63 years,
produced copper worth nearly <£2l
million, the mines being developed
wholly by Cornish miners, engineers and
managers (these last from long tradition
always called “Captains”).
Indeed, Oswald Pryor claims for his
breed of Cousin Jacks that “they came
to this continent to develop all the great
mining fields, from Burra Burra and
Moonta in South Australia to Mount
Morgan in Queensland, from Kal-
goorlie in Western Australia to Broken
Hill in New South Wales, and from
Mount Lyell in Tasmania to the deep
leads and the gold reefs of Victoria.”
Another significant detail touches on a
rather unusual yardstick of Moonta
prosperity—the number of churches. No
fewer than 16 of them to be counted
from one point, and 14 of these
Methodist. In every other Australian
mining chronicle that this reviewer has
read the yardstick of one-time greatness
has always been the number of pubs.
Yet another touch of the picturesque
comes in here, on this religious side —-
a Sunday" school operated on such novel
lines that it drew visitors to Moonta
from very distant parts to observe how
it worked. It had ten graded depart-
ments, ranging from “Little Beginners”
under three to a “Home Department”
for the aged and infirm. There were two
Sunday sessions, morning and afternoon;
the roll-call bordered on 800; and there
was a precise ritual, with everything
done to the sound of a bell: march in,
stand, sit, kneel.
Oswald Pryor notes that, despite their
virtually unrivalled record, there isn’t
anywhere a monument honoring the
Cornishmen’s part in our mining annals.
He could have added that even the goats
(four-legged) which flourished on all
mining fields are honored by at least one
group statue near a Victorian roadside
approaching a once rich and populous
mining centre.
CECIL MANN
VICTORIAN SYDNEY
Sydney Lace. E. Graeme Robertson.
Georgian House, Melbourne.
£lO 10s.
]Y|R Robertson’s “Sydney Lace” de-
serves a better fate than to be left
to lie, impressive but unread, on coffee
tables (made of marble from salvaged
wash-stands and with legs of cast-iron
leftovers) in refurbished terrace-houses,
because Mr Robertson's intentions are
much more solid and serious than just to
catch a prevailing fashion. ‘“Sydney
Lace” is a perfect companion to his
“Victorian Heritage,” which Georgian
House published a few years ago.
In “Victorian Heritage” Mr Robertson
made some comparisons between cast
iron in Victoria and similar decoration
in other places. However, “Sydney Lace”
almost entirely confines itself merely to
description of what can be seen in Syd-
ney. A third volume will, it is hoped,
be devoted to comparison of styles seen
in Australian cities and in other places,
including, of course, New Orleans.
Mr Robertson has mostly been content
here to let the pictures tell their own
story. The text is devoted mainly to his-
torical detail, although he is not afraid
of a critical or caustic comment. Inev-
itably, some favorites are missing, but
in compensation Mr Robertson has un-
covered some delightful surprises.
“'Sydney Lace” can truly be said to be
timely, or even, sadly, almost too late.
Since it appeared, the American Club
has announced that it will demolish the
terrace it occupies, and its companion, in
already gap-toothed Macquarie Street,
and the Rocks re-development schemes,
although rather being pushed around by
politicians, number the days of Susannah
Terrace and other houses on the east
side of the Bridge.
Mr Robertson seems to have been just
as interested in the people who live in
the houses as in the houses themselves.
He records his conversations with some
of these people. Many of these conversa-
tions began with '“Are you from the
police?” Others began with the truculent,
“Don’t try to buy this place, mate, we
won’t get out.” Then there was the little
girl who passing him with her friend,
remarked, “Some houses are so pretty
that you can't help wanting to take
photographs of them.”
PATRICIA ROLFE


THE
MAN
ON THE
LAND
WHERE DOES CRUELTY TO
LIVESTOCK BEGIN?
Tn recent weeks the anti-cruelty cru-
saders of three States, fresh from
their partial victory in the “stop-the-
slaughter-of-kangaroos-campaign,” have
turned their attention to the subjection
of horses to cruelty.
In New South Wales the outcry has
concerned the capture, transport and
slaughter of horses rightly or wrongly
termed brumbies rounded up on
Bulloo Downs, in Queensland.
In Victoria and South Australia the
outcry has been over the rail transport
of half-wild station horses (also wrongly
called brumbies) from Alice Springs to
Melbourne, via Adelaide.
Some thousands of horses have made
this long, gruelling rail journey in recent
years. But somebody tipped off Mel-
bourne newspapers to the trade, and they
seized eagerly upon a recent consign-
ment in which more than 20 out of about
200 horses died or had to be shot on
the trip.
Unlike some much publicised cases
of “cruelty” this was undoubtedly a
genuine instance of animals suffering.
One batch of horses inspected by The
Bulletin at Melbourne's Newmarket
trucking yards presented a sorry sight.
Almost every horse was bleeding
about the legs and several had strips
of skin torn from their flanks and
rumps. The injuries appeared to have
been caused by the horses fighting and
struggling among themselves in the rail-
way trucks.
The railways especially the Vic-
torian Railways, who have an enlight-
ened attitude to livestock transport
took the wise course and did not try
to hide a thing. This even stretched to
permitting near rodeo performances by
newspapermen, TV cameramen and
animal welfare crusaders during the
arrival of horses in Melbourne.
The representatives of some of the
smaller animal welfare groups not
including the conservative and officially-
recognised RSPCA did not exactly
cover themselves with glory and showed
a lamentable ignorance of the animals
they were trying to protect.
During the unloading of one con-
signment of the horses three women at-
tempted to stop the transfer of horses
from rail truck to semi-trailer by shout-
ing for them to be watered. All three
women represented anti-cruelty organi-
sations and had earlier adopted pin-
pricking tactics by having the semi-
trailer declared unroadworthy because
of allegedly bald tyres.
Fortunately, as it emerged, they failed
in their endeavors to have the horses
held in the yards while they had a
drink. Experienced stockmen explained
later that had this been done the horses
without food or drink on the long
haul from Adelaide would probably
have dropped like flies.
Railwaymen kept an eagle eye on
the horses and any batch which looked
suspect was spelled in Adelaide or at
Serviceton, on the South Australia-Vic-
toria border.
The Victorian Railways permitted rep-
resentatives of one Melbourne news-
paper to inspect the horses at several
intermediate points and even pro-
vided facilities for this. The frank at-
titude spread even to the buyers of the
horses which were mostly meant for
the Melbourne pet food trade.
These men put in personal appear-
ances at Newmarket during the unload-
ing, answered Press questions freely and
admitted their own concern over horses
which had arrived injured.
When the flurry of publicity appeared
to be past its peak several of the buyers
announced they were suspending pur-
chases, at least temporarily.
Unfortunately, to these men and
to many associated with the transport
and slaughter of livestock the whole
outcry appeared slightly 'udicrous. They
asked: “If these people feel so strongly
about cruelty, why haven’t they taken
any interest in the transport of cattle
and sheep, and other animals?
“Just as great cruelty perhaps
greater is often associated with the
transport of these animals, but not a
word is heard. It seems the public is
only concerned with animals which be-
come pests, such as wild horses or
kangaroos.”
Nobody raised the broader q Uest j
of just where cruelty to animals begin”
Surely many of the practices 0 { 01|
huge pastoral industries are extreme]!
cruel • including ear-marking, Castrj
tion, the mules operation, winter shear
ing, de-horning, etc.
If a case can be stated against
slaughter of horses, surely a similar case
can be made out against the killing f OI
human food of sheep, cattle, pj ss
poultry and other livestock.
It seems almost as if the term crucltv
is reserved for those forms of animal
suffering which benefit only a minority
of the human community. As long as the
“cruel” act benefits enough people it is
condoned.
Letter to The Editor
SHOULD CHOWILLA DAM
BE BUILT AT ALL?
Sir,
In all the recent publicity and con-
troversy over Chowilla clam one point
has been avoided or passed lightly ova
—why is it to be built at all?
Senator Spooner states that the tech-
nical difficulties can be overcome tat
gives no reasons for building Chowilla
other than saying that “extra storage was
seen to be necessary to improve the regu-
lation of the river by storing its airplus
flows and the surplus flows of its
tributaries.’
Is this the only reason for Chowilla
being built? To “iron out” the stream
flow and provide insurance during
drought for existing irrigation projects in
South Australia? Or is it to be used for
large-scale development of new irrigation
areas in SA?
If it is the former, the estimated £l4
million plus (equals £2O m.) cost of
construction would be better spent in
controlling stream flows at their source.
Investment of this size could work
wonders with the rehabilitation and
afforestation of the headwaters. The bene-
fits of such action would be manifold-
improved summer flows, flood mitigation,
permanent and increasing unsubsim
production in the timber and alliedm
dustries and a substantial saving 0
imports.
If the Chowilla dam is to be used 01
further irrigation development the aut 0
rities should say so. This would
the further public expenditure of mi |OI J
of pounds on the development of n£ "
areas. ,
The high-cost produce could not
sold either at home or abroad.
Apart from political reasons, "
should Chowilla be built? Salt encrus
or not, it looks like an expensive "
elephant.
COLIN PRA TT
Boolarra


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
No complacency on trade
The Minister for Trade, Mr J. McEwen, moved quickly
and significantly to scotch any feelings of business com-
placency that might emerge as one result of Britain’s
rejection from the Common Market. It is not too much to say
jhat Australia must be denied even a brief luxury of relief that
her period of trade adjustment has been lengthened.
Quite apart from the fact that the UK may again try for
admission to Europe in the fairly near future, we are unlikely
to be granted overmuch repose even in our most traditional
markets. Mr McEwen was wholly correct in maintaining that
the Common Market “was still in a state of flux.” This state
is also a precise description of world trade as a whole.
As if to make matters more complicated within the Com-
monwealth, there are not wanting London sources to suggest
that Britain should examine the exact possibilities of “asso-
ciation” somewhat derisively tossed forth as a sop by General
de Gaulle. After the early reactions, whether they be pleasure
or disappointment, many Englishmen could be ready to explore
this path,
k lt is evident that Britain has to seek some overall trading
pattern and find one speedily. Mr Macmillan’s television
statement made that plain. The pattern will obviously not be
entirely Commonwealth-directed.
“Well, there isn't in a sense a sort of ready-made plan,
better than the one which we have been pursuing. Of course,
if it had been possible to create a Common Market with all
these characteristics, a common tariff and all the rest inside
the Commonwealth, why we would have done it years ago.
“It would have been very attractive to us because of all the
reasons of history and sentiment. But for technical and other
reasons, it is not possible in that shape, and so there isn't an
alternative in that sense. What I call easy, ready-made,” Mr
Macmillan declared.
Then he naturally stepped on to the main line of any future
trading pattern, bringing plumb into the centre America.
IWe must work for the lowering of tariffs all round, for that
rs one of the best ways in which we can hope to increase world
trade. And we can do this in the tariff negotiations, the Ken-
Round as it’s called, which is just about to start, in which
a of us—-the Commonwealth, Europe, America, EFTA—
aof us will take part.”
it is not merely sufficient for Australian traders, official
Private, to comfort themselves with the next renewal of
. Australia Trade Agreement, held in abeyance because
the EEC negotiations. Mr McEwen himself, both in his
N$W S '° n interview and his Coff’s Harbor address to the
Country Party, was no doubt inhibited in suggesting a
«it, e [.P ro § ra mme since Cabinet had yet to deliberate on the
Nation.
tlon!' 6 3 tr *^ e re i axe( T i n maintaining that Australia’s posi-
ts B)een stren gthened by Britain’s failure, he firmly
i 1 e on at least one fruitful possibility—international com-
modifies agreements. Mr McEwen sees these as more likely
since the Brussels breakdown.
Certainly this is one area in which America, too, may attempt
a salvage operation. The Bulletin has argued before that
this is also an area in which Australia may espouse common
cause with its close northern neighbors.
Australia may have led the battle for greater security for
bulk exporters, with number one in mind. It was good to hear
Mr McEwen this time add: “We have pointed out that under-
developed countries would gain from a commodities agree-
ment.” C
HEAVY WEATHER IN
WORLD’S SHIPPING
Particularly oppressive clouds darken the fortunes of world
shipping at the present time, as those who have followed
successive reports from the giant P and O group have had
brought home to them. But the chairman of the century-old
Shaw Savill Line, Lord Sanderson, now visiting Australia,
sounds able to express a guarded optimism—at least as far
as passenger trade and his own company are concerned.
He has to tread a pretty grim path to reach this lighter con-
clusion, though “the short answer is that, taking the world as
a whole, there are too many ships afloat for the cargo which
is moving and there will have to be a large expansion in
world trade before all these ships are again profitably
employed,” Lord Sanderson said in Sydney last week.
In illustration of what this means for shipping companies
he mentioned that for the UK, industry generally in 1961 gave
an average return on capital of 9 per cent, but “the shipping
industry was the Cinderalla of the party with a return of 3.1
cent.”
Lord Sanderson declined to touch too deeply on the problems
of tanker and tramp owners. It is well known how common
carriers are fighting a desperate battle with subsidised govern-
ment shipping lines and trade available for them is shrinking
perceptibly. A tremendous amount of tramp and tanker tonnage
just remains tied up.
Shaw Savill, of course, is fairly happily placed in that its six
passenger and 27 cargo vessels ply almost exclusively and
traditionally between Australia, New Zealand and the UK and
to the Continent. Volumes, either of passengers or cargo, have
not suffered any market diminution.
Given intelligent design, the owner of passenger vessels
should be able to attract a steady flow of custom, Lord
Sanderson believes. He does not consider these ships as being
in direct competition with air. They offer “a delightful
alternative.”
Much of Lord Sanderson's business travelling has been done


by air, but he declines to count the wasted hours he has
spent “hanging around airports.”
Vessel replacement remains one of the main shipping
worries. “At today’s cost of building it is almost impossible to
conceive that a new vessel will earn sufficient to meet both her
depreciation (i.e. the 5 per cent per annum which will write off
the cost of the vessel in 20 years), and in addition leave a
margin of profit on the capital invested.” Since ships are intro-
duced into a fleet one by one over the years, though, “it is
generally possible by averaging the total building costs of the
fleet to justify the introduction of the more expensive vessel
built at today’s prices.” The alternative is gradually and pro-
gressively to go out of business.
So the shipowner “chooses the lesser evil of replacing his
older ships in the hope of better times to come.” In this hope
Lord Sanderson consoles himself, and with the further reflection
that all his company’s fleet is now in use.
A ROYAL TOUCH FOR
THE MOONIE STRIKE
T>oyal, as well as investment, imprimatur is soon to be given
to the commercial certainties of Moonie oil. Hardened
and oft-bitten speculators need no longer recall the number of
times they wondered at the non-declaration of this magical
term.
For, on March 6, Her Majesty the Queen goes to unveil
a memorial on Bulwer Island to commemorate the discovery
of “Australia’s first commercial oilfield” at Moonie. Bulwer. at
the mouth of the Brisbane River, is also the terminating point
of the proposed 200-mile pipeline from Moonie field
To grace the happy occasion will gather a collection of top
executives from Union Oil Co. and Kern County Land Co.,
each of which possesses a 40 per cent interest in the field.
Flying the 7000 miles from America are Union’s chairman,
William Lyman Stewart Jnr., and its president, Albert Cyrus
Rubel. To represent Kern County come the chairman, George
Granville Montgomery, and the president, Dwight M. Cochran.
The two companies propose to build and dedicate a park
around the memorial.
Union claims to be the (American) West’s oldest and largest
independent oil company, established as a California corpora-
tion in 1890. Kern was founded as a partnership in 1870 and
incorporated in 1890, yet oil did not engage its attention until
the discovery of an oilfield in Kern County in 1936. Both
companies are still intent upon further exploration.
WORLD ADVERTISING
FILM FESTIVAL
HThis year’s International Advertising Film Festival, to be
A held at Cannes, will hold special interest for Australian
advertising agencies. Following negotiations between the
Four A’s and the festival director (Mr Peter Taylor), arrange-
ments have been made for the distribution of applications to
enter to all AAAA members.
The categories for entry are: (a) Cinema films in color for
cinemascope; (b) color cinema films (35 mm.); (c) black and
white versions of cinema films (35 mm.); (d) television com-
mercials.
Mr Bernard Holt, federal director of the AAAA, is negoti-
ating with Mr David Keffel, Australian representative of Inter-
national Screen Advertising Services, to show the 1963 winning
commercials to the whole industry.
Tremendous interest is displayed by the advertising business
throughout the world in the reel of prize-winning commer-
cials, and Mr. Holt regards the large expense involved as
well worthwhile in view of the need to keep abreast of inter-
national advertising trends.
ECONOMIC INQUIRIES:
TWO VERSIONS
F|r James Vernon’s tasteful refusal, a week or two ago t)
say whether he had been asked to chair the Federal
Government’s economic inquiry, has only meant that another
veil of silence has descended upon the whole project. Admit
tedly Britain’s rejection from the European Common Market
throws a heap of new problems, both policy and programme
into Cabinet’s lap. Mr Menzies moved reasonably quickly to
summon a discussion on the situation.
That fresh complication, though, really does not constitute
sufficient excuse to shelve or delay the inquiry. A good and
pressing argument can indeed be put up for its increased
necessity, and on the most comprehensive and concrete term
too. The vague atmosphere and dalliance since last October
with still no resolution in sight is definitely overlong.
Business and labor interests have not been at all disturbed by
the prospects of an examination into their future behavior, so
whatever early excitement followed the first announcement
quickly faded away. Certain academics, however, were keenly
alive to the importance attaching to any contemporary survey
of the Australian economy. This enthusiasm does not seem
to be entirely dispelled by the delays.
Rumor has it that the Australian National University, which
could reasonably aspire to furnish some members for the
inquiry, was the centre of a good deal of discussion. This
found itself directed towards replacing the backward-looking
and overtly factual foundation of the inquiry with some stiffen-
ing from the contemporary and tested doctrine of overall target
planning.
High ministerial and official Canberra is supposed to look
askance at this modernistic radicalism. So, again rumor has it,
ANU economists have decided not to support the enquiry. Lest
such steps look academically one-sided, it must be added that
recruitment difficulties are apparently widespread.
One hopes that the situation is not so completely grim and
that the Government may soon see the need for something defi-
nite and thorough along this section of the economic front.
Governments and semi-independent bodies elsewhere are able
to reach agreement on the planning concept, which certainly is
not extreme in the light of the complexities of a free-enterprise
system.
Meanwhile, Britain’s National Economic Development
Council, formed late in 1961* is about to publish its first
report and a proper flurry this is naturally causing. A council
member has already labelled it the most comprehensive and
far-reaching review of the British economy ever attempted.
Most importantly, the report contains a solid basis for policy
decisions.
The germs of this benefit were undoubtedly contained in the
terms under which “Neddy” was set up. The then Chancellor
of the Exchequer responsible, Mr Selwyn Lloyd, did not burke
at the target notion. He had earlier believed in the possibility
of a gross national product expansion of 3 per cent deriving
from a 6 per cent growth in exports. He therefore resolved to
discuss with both sides of industry what such a target impli ed
for the different sectors making up the economy.
The council thus had laid upon it a clear command to
examine the co-ordination of plans and forecast for the econ-
omy’s principal sectors and to tackle the desiderata for long'
term growth. Not surprisingly, the council has rediscover
the indivisibility of all significant economic problems.
Target planning, notably in Japan and France, may establis
itself as the new orthodoxy long before we ever catch up *
it. Whether or no some sources in Australia are nervous ot <
implications, it’s surely about time we became as positive aw
some form of inquiry as the British were about theirs.


■w
■vV
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you cars
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
h
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CBA/37/24R
paper industry
PONDERS
tfwo senior executives of the vast
»] Albert E. Reed paper group, at pre-
touring their Australian interests,
t last week have had to cast a back-
id and worried glance to Europe,
competition and tariff problems here are
had enough. But with failure to get into
L Common Market, the situation is
jike ly to become just as critical in Britain
ltS jhe British paper and packaging in-
dustry wished to avoid a two-bloc
Europe at all costs. Over-capacity is rife
and world-wide. Under such conditions
|he broadest possible markets are pre-
ferable, with at least equality in facing
tariff hurdles. . .
}As things have turned out, Britain
remains a full member of the European
Free Trade Association. In paper
though, its main competitors are ihe
Scandinavians and they will soon get
easier entry into the British market —an
8 per cent tariff against the EEC's 14
per cent. It’s more advantageous for the
Swedes and Finns to cultivate this than to
struggle for alternative markets.
The Reed parent company has long
been conscious of the need to cope with
this kind of complication. Its survey,
“Reed in the World,” sets out some early
steps taken and why: “The grouping of
iEuropean economic affairs into two parts,
the European Common Market and the
European Free Trade Association, is of
particular significance to Britain's paper
industry. By far the greatest part of
Europe's forest potentials are located in
the Scandinavian countries, which like
Britain are in EFTA, and in both trading
areas tariffs will be removed progres-
sively. This means that after a long
period of tariff protection the British
paper industry will be materially
affected.”
“From the first indications of the crea-
tion of EFTA, energetic action was taken
By the Reed Paper Group to minimise
(Ike difficulties to the group’s paper-
waking activities in Britain and to take
full advantage of the new opportunities in
packaging and paper manufacture in
candinavia. The action taken will be
advantageous to the group even if the
o| iimon Market and EFTA countries
eventually come to an agreement.”
Australians will remember the local
ln >n this protective process of inter-
national diversification—the acquisition
® Pa P er Products (Holdings) Pty Ltd in
nnd an announced intention to pro-
°^er ta^eovers - The optimism
e l ' me gave rise to projections of a
P- C ' lift in Australia’s paper de-
n over the next 25 years, “with par-
u Uar em Phasis on packaging.”
Reed Paper Products (Holdings) look-
ed like one of the genuine glamor flota-
tions here. Yet uncertainties were bound
to creep in as competition on this side of
the world hotted up and as some of the
wilder early projections were seen to be
a bit reckless.
Talking with Mr W. F. Amies, chief
of Reed's overseas division and a local
board member, one senses a new mood
of hesitation. The old takeover enthu-
siasm has been moderated a little as well.
Mr Amies, though, sounds quite con-
fidemt that wider markets can be found
for local production. Technically, Reed
in Australia is thoroughly able to cope
with all demands and receives constant
improvements from the English head-
quarters.
Of course we can hardly leave this par-
ticular industry without some mention of
the two big native enterprises, APM and
APPM. Both join the ranks of improving
industries with their interim reports. Yet
there is still an awful lot to ponder in
the ruling situation.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
BANK PROBLEMS FOR THE TALKS
Tt is hardly likely that the Government’s
-*■ talks with the private bankers will be
as protracted this year as last, when they
resulted in a series of concessions which
have considerably assisted the profit earn-
ing capacity of the banks, if not doing
much to resolve the underlying conflict
between the banks and their freelance
rivals of the so-called second banking
system, or to restore the banks to their
traditional position as the cornerstone of
the country’s financial system.
It was the excesses of the second
banking system which, it will be remem-
bered, prompted the Government to in-
troduce the tax-on-interest in November,
1960, and sparked off the recession.
In the interim, nobody, even the PM
(as evidenced in his John Storey Mem-
orial Lecture in Melbourne in Decem-
ber) appears to have had any new ideas
on how to bring the activities of the fringe
financiers under control in the official
scheme of things. The game of provid-
ing the country’s short-term credit needs
is still all played from their angle, albeit
that the pitch is on the damp side for the
time being what with big question marks
over the whole debenture and deposits
fields.
But if the time may be inappropriate
for another challenge by the fringe finan-
ciers to the hegemony of the banks, may-
be this is just the time to prod a little
deeper to ensure their wings remain
clipped for any ensuing boom.
/Certainly it would seem that the Gov-
ernment could advance on the con-
cessions it made to the banks last year—
such as giving them a fist in the long-
term development finance field by the
establishment of the £55 million term
fund and the abolition of compulsory
averaging of interest rates on advances—
by, for instance, giving them a bigger
scope for attracting deposits for longer
terms, possibly at higher interest rates,
and by introducing greater flexibility into
this side of banking.
After all, this is one further aspect
of possible reform which could well have
been attended to last year, for it is possi-
bly more important for the country as a
whole than the concessions made to both
profits and long-term lending activities of
the banks a year ago.
In the quietude of the present when de-
posit activities of the fringe financiers
are still out of favor but have by no
means been given away, it would be a
good idea to move, silently perhaps, to
ensure that the banks would be in as
good a position as their rivals to attract
deposits when the next boom comes
along.
Maybe the present inclination of the
banks is not to worry too much about
future threats of competition for deposits
what with borrowing from them still sub-
dued, their fists in HP activities firmer
than ever, and their savings bank subsidi-
aries culling in record deposits.
On the other hand it would be alto-
gether wrong to base long-term disposi-
tions of the banks on the assumption
that the state of credit and the capital
market is going to persist along present
lines.
If bank advances have been slow to
respond to the rising yeast in the indus-
trial side of the economy these last six
months or more, there seems little doubt
that in the next phase of the upswing the
demand for bank accommodation will rise
much more rapidly and the banks will be
called upon to honor the present almost
record overdraft limits they have granted.
In such circumstances, the swing out
of their deposits into savings bank sub-
sidiaries over the last couple of years
might take on another color, but it
might not easily be reversed unless they
were in a better position to attract de-
posits into their trading banks.
On the other hand, it seems that the
idea of depositing money with fringe
financiers has been to a large extent dis-
credited as a result of the unhappy
experience in this direction since the
heyday of 1960.
Be this as it may, the important aspect
from the public's viewpoint is that the
banks should be in a position to increase
advances without much increase in in-
terest rates to assist the financing of the
further uplift in economic activity now
seemingly on the horizon. Nobody wants
a return to the hectic days of 1960, when,
failing the banks, borrowers could turn
to a wide range of fringe lenders pre-
pared to accommodate them at a price
readily accepted in the prevailing buoyant
business climate.
The best defence against that happen-
ing would be to ensure that, when the
time comes, the banks are in as good
a position as anybody to attract deposits.
But then they must be armed with the
appropriate weapons to do this, and this
is certainly not the case at present despite
the discrediting of some of their rivals.
While we still await (unhopefully, one
may say) constitutional reforms which
would bring short-term lending activi-
ties outside the banking system under
official control, the authorities have an
obligation to see that at least the bank
are armed with the necessary weapons
compete effectively. Equally the author!
ties should contrive themselves to y
the available supplies of short-term cat
tal to the essential national requirement
a task they failed to perform in 19bo it
may be said.
It would be interesting to hear if thw
have had any new thoughts on that in the
last two years. Certainly the wrong
approach is to go half-heartedly at sucl
a task and faute de mieux put the screw
on the banks and allow other lenders to
engage in a free-for-all.
If the authorities are to avoid another
bout of speculative activities to develop
as we range up to full employment condi-
tions, it is high time they came up will
some new ideas on this subject, the more
so since 1960 the arena of quasi-bankine
type concerns, factors and the like has
grown appreciably. And even if deposi-
ting with fringe financiers as a form of
saving is now out of favor it could easily
revive, given some of the old induce-
ments.
A ll this is heady stuff compared wifi
the more sedate sector of the field of
development finance the banks managed
to wrest from the authorities at last
year’s talks.
The latter is pure investment stuff of
the medium and long-term variety. Ufr
like the short-term financing activities of
the banks, it gets into the pattern of»
come generation on the side of private
investment and, as such, it has to 1*
considered as part of the overall invest
ment picture in which short-term financt
is a subsidiary element.
The question of whether the trad®
banks should go further in this field-®
they would dearly like to do —was pro-
bably answered last year when the Gov-
ernment let them get a leg in, probably
thinking more of medium-term lending
along former traditional bank lines t)
rural industries and exporters, rather than
long-term investment in secondary ®
dustry. Maybe as private investment 11
still rather laggard, the forthcoming ta “
might well consider how much further'
would be advisable for the banks to et
tend their activities in this direction-
By and large, it is hoped that h aV ®-
palliated the profits position of the tfl
ing banks by last year’s concessions.
Government will soon go a step m
to restore them to their former dom I,ia .
position in the Australian fi nanC
hierarchy. I


Dsl
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
FINANCIER
ISSUE OF £1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
Directors:
W. R. SCHOFIELD (Chairman)
T. H. MARTIN Dr. W. F. PATTINSON
G. L. A. DONOHOO
Alternate Director: R. V. AGNEW
Trustee for Debenture Stock Holders:
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
APPLICATIONS AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the prospectus.
Prospectus may be obtained from:
• All branches of the Bank of New South Wales in
New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory,
Victoria, Queensland.
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Telephone: BW 4521.
AND BRANCHES
Underwriting Brokers:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O’Connell Street, Sydney
84 William St., Melbourne. 340 Queen St., Brisbane
BROKERS IN VICTORIA
Clarke & Co., 450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
BROKERS IN QUEENSLAND
Charles Elliott & Son, 356 Queen St., Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
BROKERS IN CANBERRA
T. J. Thompson & Sons, C.B.C. Chambers,
Petrie St., City, Canberra.
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
.
z
2
PER ANNUM
FOR 6 AND 10 YEARS
6% for 2 YEARS
61% for 3 YEARS
7% for 4 YEARS
71% for 5 YEARS
HP COMPANIES LEAD THE INTERIMS
. usTß alian sharemarkets last week
A very wisely decided not to follow the
* temporarily hectic London excitement, or
relief, or whatever one might care to call
it Resolution of the Common Market
all there certainly has been and it may
even look a bit clearer for London. Not
much changed here, though, and investors
may take some more time out to consider
local industry's immediate problems.
A good deal, in these external issues,
w iH be seen to depend on Government
policy and especially upon such manifes-
tations of it as the Japanese Trade Treaty.
Meanwhile examination of the possible
beneficiaries in a changing exports situa-
tion may still proceed unhurried and with
caution. The market should be congratu-
Mated for not rushing into light-fingered
imitation.
Presumably the retention of this kind
of atmosphere is what one broker de-
scribes as the “background to a steady
share market.” On solely domestic
grounds, however, investors seem to be
taking that mood rather too much for
granted. There are surely enough signs
to get them budging from a long-imposed
discipline.
Old-fashioned observers continue to be
amazed that the markets do not react to
one of the oldest of their outside stimuli
—a better level of wool prices and clear
signs of its continuance. If that's an out-
worn and discarded guide, the same
should not be said for the judgment deriv-
ing from a comforting stream of fine
interim reports.
The season should be in full spate
soon. Already enough prominent com-
panies have reported favorably to justify
the perpetual examination of our econ-
omic situation in terms only of improve-
ment, of moving upwards from a 1960-
61 trough. Isn't it time we began talking
about proper growth again, basing our
mood on all the increasing signs of this,
and generating a feeling that may even
allow business to cope with one outstand-
ingly recalcitrant snag unemployment.
k is good to be able to seize on one
Vei T detailed interim report to show the
Wa y affairs are moving. For this our
thanks (for the detail) can go to Sydney
nancier Associated Securities Ltd. Not
or them the bare statement of “very
satisfactory” and no factors of an un-
mvard character, if that's the vaguest
allowable phrase.
Associated had an excellent Decem-
er half-year and took pains to tell us
exact ly how. Admittedly the profit ad-
nce was not particularly cheering, but
■jj Active jump in outstandings pro-
'^ s best shape of things to come.
veh'f Urally t^le B reat lift i n motor
ICe sales is visibly affecting Associa-
ted’s receivables. The very pace of this
additional income has also led to care on
the unearned income front, larger pro-
visions in which stem from a rapidly in-
creasing number of motor contracts
written.
We would wish that other companies
could see fit to parade the detail lavishly
given in this particular case. All that we
know from Commercial and General
Acceptance and Custom Credit is that
they support the general picture painted
by Associated. Australian Guarantee has
also joined the throng and there are
hopes that it may provide a scrap more
detail soon.
Observers have not been slow to
notice that all these advances have taken
place against a relatively small gain by
overall Australian HP receivables.
Doubtless this gain will show more posi-
tive forward movement over the coming
months. As affairs stand at December,
however, some of the smaller companies
may be seen to have found the going
torrid. Not everybody picks up at once.
Greener pastures
A lthough the Elder Smith Goldsbor-
ough Mort Ltd interest in Grouped
Holdings Aust. Ltd, finance and mer-
chant banking company, appears at first
sight to give the pastoral company a
new dimension, its finance interest is not
new.
It previously held shares in All States
Discount Ltd, a Sydney short-term
money market operator, which began
business in October, 1960. Part con-
sideration for the sale of these shares
was a parcel of 48,000 shares in Grouped
Holdings.
Now Elders has arranged to subscribe


CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
PER ANNUM
FOUR YEARS.
6mth5....61p.a.
12mths..7^p.a.
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Funds may be withdrawn in a personal emergency as set
out in the Prospectus
Applications for these Notes must be made on the form
attached to the Prospectus, which is now available from:
All branches of the Company's Bankers, THE BANK OF N.S.W.
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. George's Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any ot the following Brokers to The Issues
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melbourne)
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
cc\m
Clip and Post Coupon
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with appl* cat,on
forms.
NAME '
ADDRESS £1
to 300,000 Grouped 2s. shares at Is. 9d.
premium, with a right to subscribe to a
further 200,000 shares within the next
five years. Elders’ final holding will be
548,000 shares, or about 15 p.c. of
Grouped’s capital.
(Grouped Holdings is currently making
a three-for-five issue to shareholders, and
a placement of 325,760 shares to two
Australian institutions on the same terms.
The company was sponsored by a Mel-
bourne stockbroking firm, A. C. Goode
and Co., and has equity interests in
three official money market companies,
one in New Zealand.)
Annual returns filed recently by money
market operators showed how lucrative
this business is. Together with healthy
wool prices, this factor is an encourage-
ment for Elder Smith Goldsbrough
Mort followers. The 10s. shares are
now available around 17s. 5d., returning
4.6 p.c., but the earnings capacity of the
two recently merged pastoral companies
will not be measurable until October this
year, and even then the elimination of
duplicated facilities may not be complete.
Much needed lift
Tnternational Resistance Holdings
■*- Ltd, electronics maker, reported sub-
stantially higher sales for the latest
December half-year.
It needs them, for the ordinary divid-
end commitment will be £180,250 this
year, up £51,500 after the two-for-five
premium issue in October, which ranks
fully for the interim dividend at the
annual rate of 12! p.c.
In 1961-62 profit of £195,250 gave
an earning rate of 18.2 p.c. on ordinary
capital.
Less jam off the shelf
rPHE annual result of Melbourne jam,
preserves and prepared food manu-
facturer, Rosella Preserving and Manu-
facturing Co. Ltd, for the period to
September, reinforces the opinion that
imported foods and the keen buying by
supermarket retailers have combined to
make it tough for the relatively small
independent local food manufacturers.
Rosella has an impeccable record
stretching back to first world war years.
In recent post-war years it has made two
premium issues and a generous bonus,
hence the present high ranking on a 3.8
p.c. yield basis. The 10s. shares are
traded around 335.
The 1961-62 profit dropped 17.5 p.c.
to £182,149, the 1959 level, and the
earning rate of 18.2 p.c. compares with
an unchanged 12! p.c. dividend. The
new earnings yield is an unconvincing
5.5 p.c.
The chairman said a year ago that
profit margins were as fine as the com-
pany had ever known.
Spectacular recovery
A . V. Jennings Industries (Aust.)
Ltd continues its admirable re-
covery from unavoidable difficulties in
1960-61, with reports of a large increase
in group turnover for the December half-
year, and confirmation of the 10 p.c.
dividend with a higher interim of 5 p.c.
Turnover was £6 million for the
half-year, compared with £9.25 for the
full year to June. Profit margins were
maintained.
If this sort of improvement is sustai
and maybe even accelerated, an earn'
rate of over 23 p.c. for the current
would not surprise.
In 1961-62 the company earned 17j
p.c. on capital. Trading conditions had
seldom been so competitive, but not one
contract completed was unprofitable
Sellers are wisely refraining from to.
ing their orders, while buyers were 0%
ing 9s. 6d., then 9s. 9d. At this price
the return is 5.3 p.c.


HELPING
BUSINESS
IN A#
CHANGING
(WORLD
/
Mtilftl
LTUiLiI
(JJJ
Change creates growth and strength. This is
the experience of the C.B.C. since it opened for
business in 1834.
Men of enterprise, ready to meet the challenge
of the future, will find the C.B.C. provides construc-
tive services to help them and that it is ready to
share its knowledge and experience with them.
The manager of your nearest C.B.C. branch will
be glad to talk things over with you. Call and see him.
m
&JSI
BIC
TV surprises
Though Herald-Sun TV Pty Ltd
1 (channel 7in Melbourne), in which
the Herald & Weekly Times has a
LoritV interest, managed to increase its
m J fits j,y 21 p.c. last year, the out-turn
P f°£205,157 shown by the first profit
Lures to be disclosed was unexpectedly
ILll, both as viewed against its rival and
S in’st the mammoth profit figures of the
parent. It was struck after £127,000 taxa-
tion and £139,000 depreciation, no figures
for these deductions having been shown
in striking the previous year's profit of
£169,5 90.
A 1 Consolidated hopes
After the disappointments at Morning
Star mine, in the Woods Point area
of Gippsland, it is refreshing to hear
tliat higher production at A 1 Conso-
lidated, whose mine is along Gaffney’s
Creek, has brought this company in
sight of a possible dividend, but share-
holders will note that the chairman, Mr
Paul Jones, held out the same cherished
hope at the annual meeting in 1961 as
well as at the latest one.
However, the prospects for a dividend
get better and better. The company’s
accumulated loss is now a mere £39,719
after earning a profit of £11,949 last
year, as against a loss of £20,221 in the
year before that. This is a fairly high
grade mine, even if a small one, the
l 12,000 tons ore reserves at latest balance
*date averaging 12 dwts of gold a ton and
average grade for the 10,290 tons milled
last year was as high as 16.07 dwts.
Shareholders will be pleased to know
that no further calls on their shares are
envisaged for the time being.
What's in store for LNC?
When the announcement of LNC in-
'' dustries Ltd capital moves .was made,
it looked as if there could be a nice
profit for contributing shareholders.
The plan was to repay the 30,000 20s.
preference shares, return 2s. 6d. capital
on each of the ss. fully paid ordinary
t shares, call up 6d. capital and 9d. pre-
mium on the contributing shares paid
|° 25., cancel their 2s. 6d. unpaid liabil-
'tyi and consolidate all ordinary shares
1° ss. units.
The closing market before the news
: c ame out was Bs. Bd. for the fully paids
ss. Bd. for the contribs. This would
ave allowed eventual entry after these
j moves of 9s. lOd. via the contribs, as
a B a inst 12s. 4d. per ss. share via the fully
paids.
1 , following day the market for the
% paids had moved down to Bs. 6d.,
> an for the contribs up to 4s. sd. By
[ rida y most of the differential had dis-
PP ea , re d, the fully paids bringing Bs. Id.
the contribs 4s.
. 0 directorial predictions were made
about dividends on the reduced capital,
except that they “should be very satis-
factory.” This unwillingness to state
even a minimum figure adds to the in-
vestors’ difficulties in assessing prospects.
Last year to June, shareholders re-
ceived 12i p.c. dividends, exceeding the
earning rate of 9 p.c. on capital. The
pay-out, including the small preference
dividend, involved £146,038.
Profits for the December, 1962, six
months exceed the unchanged interim
dividend of 5 p.c., and thankfully are
substantially in excess of the previous
corresponding period.
The new capital of £753,781, operat-
ing from October 31, 1963, or there-
abouts, could probably easily bear 15
p.c. dividends, which would require
£94,222.
Release of a large VW sedan last
Friday, adding to LNC’s range, is yet
another variable—but promising—factor
in analysing this security.


r*."
■~lg
F.C.A. LEASING will
expand your business
WITHOUT capital outlay
An F.C.A. Leasing Plan can
allow progressive and compe-
titive companies to acquire
productive use of new plant
and equipment without capita]
outlay.
F.C.A. Leasing.
■ frees working capital for
more profitable use.
■ allows immediate expansion
or replacement of plant
without change in capital
structure.
■ provides new plant NOW,
increasing efficiency, pro-
duction and profitability.
Under F.C.A. Leasing Plans
you select the equipment, deter-
mine its cost, choose the vendor.
As specialists in Leasing
F.C.A. Leasing Limited offers
the services of its staff of
expert leasing consultants to
design a Leasing Plan to meet
specific requirements.
To find out how you can achieve your objective through leasing—and why it pays to
lease from F.C.A.—write, phone or call any F.C.A. Leasing Limited Office.
ADELAIDE: F.C.A. Building, 15 Franklin St., Telephone 51 3781
MELBOURNE: Union House, 51 Queen St., Telephone 61 3051
SYDNEY: Anchor House, Cnr. George & Bridge Sts., Telephone 27 7003
BRISBANE: Mercantile House, 262 Adelaide St., Telephone 31 2861
PERTH: M.L.C. Building, 171-177 St. George’s Tee. Telephone 21 3181
Leasing
Limited
INCORPORATED IN SOUTH AUSTRALIA
F.C.A. LEASING LIMITED IS A SUBSIDIARY OF FINANCE CORPORATION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED


BALANCE
SHEET
AND PROFIT SUMMARIES
£’000
Year to June 30.
1956
1957
1958
1959
1960
1961
1962
Current assets
1105
1345
1406
2086
2809
5880
7096
Less current liabilities 922
967
1171
1691
2131
3702
4859
Working capital
183
378
235
395
678
2178
2235
Fixed assets
809
1268
1508
1587
3259
9591
11695
Investments
2
12
62
184
199
381
187
Intangibles
19
25
25
25
25
25
25
Total capital
Represented by:
1013
1683
1830
2191
4161
12175
14142
Ordinary capital
889
1136
1501
1751
2854
7866
8443
Reserves
124
547
329
440
990
3847
4316
Outside shareholders
—
—
—
—
117
—
575
Loan capital
—
—
—
—
200
462
808
1013
1683
1830
2191
4161
12175
14142
Earnings
105
151
193
299
500
1004
856
Earn. % ord. cap.
(a) 13.0
10.0
' 14.6
12.2
13.5
13.2
10.3
Ord. div. %
10.0
12.5
10.0
12.5
12.5
11.25
10.0
Dividend yield (b)
7.5
7.9
4.9
3.3
3.2
3.6
4.5
Price earnings ratio (b) 11.7 12.6
(a) adjusted for cash and bonus
(b) based on last sale in month
15.8 23.0
issues.
accounts presented.
31.1
25.6
21.6
CHEAP ENTRY INTO GROWTH STOCK
By “SECURITY”
although much of the glamour has
A n ow worn off the shares of the
, » co ncrete” companies as a result
f difficulties which have affected the
building industry and which still mani-
fest themselves via harsh competition,
several factors would seem to indicate
that an interest in Concrete Industries
(Monier) Ltd, Australia’s largest con-
crete products manufacturing organisa-
should pay handsomely in the not
too distant future.
First, and from the average share-
holder’s point of view probably the most
important point, shareholders have in
be past been very well treated always
an encouraging sign for the future. Thus,
an investor who exactly ten years ago
held 100 £1 shares and received £lO
pa, dividend income would now. without
anvadditional capital outlay, hold slightly
over 900 ss. shares and be receiving in
excess of £22 10s. Od. p.a. in divi-
dends. as a result of numerous cash and
bonus share issues.
Secondly, the company should now be
entering the first phase of a period of
consolidation of existing activities fol-
lowing a spate of takeovers and expan-
sion generally, which resulted in paid-
jup capital increasing since 1956 about
ten times to its present figure of
£8.443.383. This expansion has occur-
red mainlv since Mav 1960 when Stan-
ford Portland Cement Co. Ltd was
acaiiired.
This vertical integration was followed
hv horizontal integration in the form
of such comnanies acauired as C. C.
En°ineerine I td. C. C. Die Castings Ltd,
2nd Hurll & Douglass Ltd.
Other later acquisitions, all of a ver-
tical nature. include Javwoth Besser Ltd,
Lightweisht Aggregate (NSW) Ptv Ltd.
Blue Metal Quarries Ptv Ltd. and Tillet
Masonry Ltd. and these subsidiaries in
r particular have not yet contributed to
1 the group’s earnings to any significant
e ? ree - though they are reported to be
operating profitably now.
h was not surprising then that the
ownturn in building and motor vehicle
activity (the latter undoubtedly affecting
■ Die Castings), coupled with the
s >dden increase in paid-up capital from
a y 1960 and the unprofitable trading
? severa l subsidiaries, caused the ad-
lUsted earning rate on capital to fall from
® Ver 13.5 p.c. in the year ended 1960
’2p c. in 1961 and further down to
• Pc. in 1962. giving scant cover for
" e 10 P.c. dividend.
L tries° We^ er ’ P rov ' c ' e d Concrete Indus-
k les decides to digest its acquisitions in
preference to a further round of take-
overs, then the foundation could be laid
for a steady expansion which could be
of great benefit for shareholders.
Concrete Industries has assured sup-
plies of raw materials in such com-
panies as Standard Portland Cement and
Blue Metal Quarries the whole pur-
pose behind takeovers of a vertical nat-
ure. Further, the company’s subsidiaries
in its steel division, such as Hurll &
Douglass which specialises in making
steel reinforcing and steel mesh, are
closely allied to the group’s concrete
activities in the public works and com-
mercial construction fields.
This tendency away from catering
strictly for residential construction should
favour the company, for while private
dwelling construction historically has
been subject to violent fluctuations, pub-
lic works expenditure and commercial
constructions have in recent years oper-
ated at a high level of activity and will
continue to do so. And, of course, any
redevelopment schemes such as the plan
for the Rocks area of Sydney, will result
in large demands for the group's products
whether the group secures the contract
or not.
Thirdly, the current price of 10s. 7d.
is low when compared with the standards
set over the preceding three years. Then,
a price at about 25 times earnings (and
such that it yielded about 3.5 p.c.) was
the norm. This was a high standard, but
it reflected the great growth potential,
both as regards capital gains and dividend
income gains. Now the stock is priced at
about 20 times 1962 earnings and show-
ing a lucrative 4.7 p.c. dividend yield
which is reasonably attractive for a
stock of this nature alone.
One could hardly deny that the great
growth potential is still there. What most
shareholders are waiting for is an im-
provement in the earning rate. An in-
dication was given at the company’s
annual meeting in November of last
year, when the chairman said that the
turnover of the company during the first
' three months of the current year was
comparable with the same period of the
previous financial year. In addition there
was every indication that turnover would
improve as the year progressed.
Thus, if the earning rate in the cur-
rent financial year recovers to around
13.5 p.c. then a price of 13s. 6d. based
on a price earnings ratio of 20 would
not be unreasonable. Even if recovery is
slower and the current financial year’s
results do not produce a 13.5 p.c. earning
rate, a price of around 13s. 6d. would
still be reasonable based on previous
years pricing of the stock calculated on
both price-earnings ratios and dividend
yields.
Thus, at the present low price of
10s. 7d. the shares represent a cheap
entry into a growth stock with reasonable
expectations of a short term profit re-
covery which could make the shares
worth about 13s. 6d. within nine months.


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A ll those steel enthusiasts must have
shuddered when they read about
the loss by the Kaiser Corporation. Per-
haps this accounts for the contrary
American investor and his attitude to
BHP. It is a little harsh to couple this
result with BHP and its prospects. After
all, BHP still directs nearly all its output
to local requirement which, in defiance
of the weakening market price, have
shown a steady rise.
Unfortunately, BHP serves as a won-
derful example of that past favorite term
“safe investment.” To hear some of those
investors—l use the word carefully—who
bought BHP last year, one could easily
assume that they were now talking about
an oil share going out backwards!
This criticism being levelled at BHP
would have been far more appropriate in
1962, when it showed a 25 per cent price
drop. It is not solely the company's pros-
pects but a combination of those pros-
pects and the share price that determines
what can justly be described as a “safe
investment.”
To further this point, I took my own
portfolio of shares held at August 11,
1962. (I picked this particular portfolio
not for any specific reason —simply be-
cause it was the only one I could find
lying around.)
Company Price Price Price
11/8/62 Sold 1/2/63
O'Donnell Griffin 19/- 19/- 18/6
United Motels 4/3 3/9 3/3
Auto & General Finance 27/6 26/6 28/-
Mauri Bros. (S) 23/3 21/1 TB/6
Goodwins 6/2 6/- 5/1
R.M.C. (S) 17/3 13/- 10/9
M.L.C. (S) 135/- 120/- 138/-
Malleys 22/- 24/6
Merica 7/6 9/3 12/6
Hanimex 6/1 9/- 8/9
National Consolidated (S) 26/- 27/-
Marcus Clark Notes 29/6 44/- 44/-
Barrett Burston 22/6 23/- 25/
James Hardie (S) 102/6 99/4 105/-
John Lysaght (S) 65/6 63/- 61/
Burns Philp (S) 84/- 84/- 76/6
Courtaulds. 11/6 13/9 14/9
C.S.R. (S) 49/3 53/- 58/6
F.C.A. 22/6 23/- 22/6
Of the eight companies which the less
vain brokers would have described as
safe investments six months ago, only
one, CSR, has shown any reasonable
market gain. Three in fact, Mauri Bros,
RMC, and Burns Philp, have fallen
heavily.
In those few words, I have built up a
strong case against that portfolio. I
hasten to add that the defence would be
the timing of the selling. In a couple of
cases, including MLC and Merica, tn&
timing was obviously premature but gen-
erally it was a feeling of distinct relief as
I watched the share price turn into a
downward orbit.
That’s all very well for the past, but
what about the future? One share that
won’t be in my portfolio in the near
future is AOG. Probably because of the
strain of its hectic life early in the 60’s.
the share price did not even flicker when
Moonie No 12 was dry. To keep my
Farmouts company, I decided to buy
back those 2000 Alliance Oil. Its wide
interests in leases and its close associa-
tion with Oil Development should
strengthen that ailing market price of Is.
Id. Perhaps an unfair comparison, the
gap between the Oil Development Is.
paid shares at 2s. 6d. and Alliance seems
too great. Furthermore, if the past is any
guide there seems less danger in buying
an oil share when the oil market is weak
than buying one of the accredited safe
industrial stocks.
This was probably the major reason
for my buying 1000 Petroleum invest-
ments. Corrie & Co. the underwriting
broker, was very quick to let the public
know that the issue had been 10 times
over-subscribed last month. Bringing
back fond memories of those cereal and
soap advertisements, one wonders what
happened to those nine out of ten people
who were unsuccessful in their applica-
tions. Of the £250,000 issue of capital,
£50,000 had already been invested, gen-
erally at lower prices than the current
market prices. The prize purchase was
the 8000 Associated Australian Oilfields
at 13s. Id. Under the direction of an im-
pressive board, the company will continue
to invest in both oil exploration com-
panies and industrial companies Profits
will be increased by participation in
sub-underwriting agreements and put-and-
call options. The many stags have
helped to push the price down f roni
3d. allowing this humble oil specuh
to quietly buy 1000 at ss. 4d.
While Petroleum Investments h
been going down, LNC ctg. have C
going up. Bless that board for decidi ß ,
on the capital reconstruction. Frankly'
very wise move. Still, I could not re s k
selling at 4s. 4d., when I worked out th at
the profit would be £l4o—equal to 5|
p.c. on the original cost.
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
2000 LNC ctg 4s. 4d
BOUGHT
2000 Alliance Oil Is. Id. £j|j
1000 Petroleum Inv. ss. 4d. £27!
After paying the call of £lOO on the
ICI shares, my broker was quick to i»
form me that I have a £9O debit in nr
account.
My portfolio now is:
cos'
Vo. oi Name ot Date Pei , f . (
Shares Company Bought Share frm
400 Malleys 3/5/62 20/9 JJ/.
1,000 hianimex 23/5/62 5/11 8/1
300 National Consol. 30/5/62 26/1 27/-
1,000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 i/(
400 Nightingale 17/10/62 14/11 18/J
1,000 Functional 2/11/62 7/0 7/(
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- lj/(
20C Waugh &
Josephson 14/11/62 16/6 18/-
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3
300 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 37/- 43/-
200 ICI ctg. 7/1/63 43/- #
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 60/1
1,000 Tasman New 7/1/63 1/2 1/1
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 16/!
1,000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 l/i
1,000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
1,000 Farmouts 14/1/63 1/7 I/I
200 Farrymead 21/1/63 40/- 41/-
600 David Jones Notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/6
2,000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 1/- 1/1
2,000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 I/I
1,000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/1
the world of business
"Why! Mr, Carslake from Accounts made me exactly the same o ffer Kiss
night! Talk about collusive tendering!"


| General Credits Lm
£1,000,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK ISSUE
[Per Annum 6-10 Years]
Convenient periods are as follows:
3 months 6 months 9 months 12 months I 2 years 4 years 5 years 6-10 years
4% 4i% 41% 5i% 16% 61% 7% 7i%
Applications must proceed only on the form enclosed
in the Prospectus which may be obtained from
* THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
* Any recognised Stockbroker.
* General Credits Limited. * The Underwriters.
The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited owns 41% of
the Ordinary Shares of General Credits Holdings Limited.
GENERAL CREDITS LTD.,
Cnr. Pitt & Goulburn Sts., Sydney. Phone: MA 8581.
21 East Row, Civic Centre, Canberra. Phone: 4 4360-9.
Cnr. Dennison & Hunter Sts., Newcastle. Phone: 61 4288.
and at: Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Hobart.
Underwriters:
lAN POTTER & CO.
ASK ANY BRANCH OF THE C.B.A.
1273/N


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
WUMllliHlilililliHiH illlllilHlilM
&
P.A
FOR
Si
YEARS
LJ
LJ
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
E
o
o
m
a
o
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
CORPORATION LIMITED
{Registered 19th December, 1929)
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
\ HOBART —CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
ONE TO BUY
FELT AND TEX.
MAY GO
EVEN HIGHER
T|uoyant wool markets turn one's
** attention to Australia’s reputedly
largest processor of greasy wool and
exporter of processed wool, Felt and
Textiles of Australia Ltd.
Although at 9s. 6d. to return 5.2 p.c,
in income, and show an earnings yield
of 8.0 p.c., the shares are the highest
they’ve been since 1960, The Bulletin
considers the shares will go higher.
Last year the relation of profits from
the three countries in which Felt and
Textiles operates was roughly as follows:
Aust. N.Z. S. Africa
EA'OOO £A'OOO EA'OOO
Profit before tax .... 656 838 1000
Tax 246 424 245
410 414 752
Minority interests 68 238 426
Group net profit for Felt
and Textiles of Austra-
lia Ltd 342 176 326
So that although earnings were greatest
in South Africa, the large proportion
due to outside shareholders in that coun-
try meant that the Australian subsidiary
contributed most to group net results.
Total group sales for 1961-62 were
a record £41.2 million, of which £3.3
million were in exports from Australia.
It should not be hard to exceed this
figure in 1962-63. Judging from the
chairman’s remarks at December’s annual
meeting, the company expects this as a
matter of course.
Current wool prices, especially the dis-
tinct rises in individual greasy classes,
look like bringing obvious benefits. The
company sells for overseas consumption
the greater part of its scoured and
carbonised wool not used within the
organisation.
Of the many other activities, PVC tiles
and continuous floor coverings should
make especial contributions during the
present year. Latest official production
statistics bear out significant increases®
soft and hard floor coverings, wool y arn
and wool woven cloth.
Felt and Textiles has interrupted a pro-
cession of dividends and profits onV
once since 1937 with a loss and omission
of ordinary dividend in 1952. A nnlia
dividends of 10 p.c. have been paid since
1954, and this could be increased to 1
p.c. if really favorable trading conditions
were encountered this year.
The last share issue was a one-for-
at par in March, 1961, the only C *PL|
move concerning shareholders for e) e
years. It is primarily an income s 0 ’
but should in the short to medium te
show capital appreciation in the ma


CYCLONE CO.
OF .
AUST.
LTD
Analysis Summary (£'0C0)
1958 1959 1960
1961
1962
Capital pref.
£650
650
650
650
650
ord.
£2351
2351
2804
2825
2911
Reserves
£2131
2283
3322
3533
3614
—
—
—
—
S'holders' funds
£5132
5284
6776
7008
7175
Index
100
103
132
138
140
Total investments
£7691
7794
9972
11695
12647
Index
100
101.2
129.6
152
158.3
Working capital
£1693
1834
2036
2722
2776
Index
100
108.2
120.1
160.9
163.8
Mortgages
£785
702
728
1219
1231
Notes
£1000
1000
1000
2122
2572
Loans
£ —
—
—
—
13
Land & buildings
£2811
2819
3411
3714
3850
Plant
£2278
2200
2826
3518
3923
Investments
£116
115
—
—
—
Outside s'holders
£333
335
347
381
391
Depreciation
£240
226
266
319
384
Taxation
£350
244
337
325
201
Directors' fees
£8
24
28
28
26
Profit
£506
444
492
540
316
Index
100
87.7
97.4
106.9
62.5
Pref dividend %
6
6
6
6
6
£39
39
39
39
39
Ord. dividend %
121
.121
121
121
10
£294
294
303
354
288
Surplus profit %
34.2
25
30.4
27.2
—
Percentage profit tc
Av ord capital
19.86
17.23
18.67
17.67
9.63
S'holders' funds
9.9
8.4
7.26
7.63
4.4
Total investment
6.6
5.7
4.96
4.62
2.5
NTA
12.25
10.35
8.85
9.51
5.55
Leverage
1.71
1.68
1.63
1.84
1.94
NTA per
10s crd. share
17s 7d
18s 3d
19s 8d
20s Id
19s 7d
Share prices:
High 30s 1 28s 6d
33s Od 1
28s 2Jd
27s 9d
Low 22s 6d 21s 3d
22s 3d 1
22s Od
17s 6d
CYCLONE COMPANY OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated: February 9, 1914, in
Victoria. After various name and
status changes finally became present
public company on February 17, 1947.
Directors: A. L. Chambers, Chair-
man (director of Briscoes Ltd), R. S.
Chambers (director of Atlas Assur-
ance Co. Ltd; Lightweight Structural
Development Ltd); L. S. Chambers, E.
C. Milner, J. D. Munro, D. C.
Cooper.
Capital Authorised: £650,000 in £1
6 p.c. pref. shares, £4,350,000 in 10s.
shares.
Nature of Business: Manufacturers
of metal gates, wire fencing, etc.
Subsidiaries: T. N. Chuck Pty Ltd,
Cyclone Forgings Pty Ltd, Cyclone
Double-grip Scaffolding Pty Ltd, K-M
Steel Products Pty Ltd, Wm. C. Lynch
Pty Ltd, MP Metals Pty Ltd, MF
Steel Washers Pty Ltd, MP Metals
(Geelong) Pty Ltd, MP (Transport)
Ply Ltd, MP Metals (Export) Pty Ltd,
MP Metals (Melbourne) Pty Ltd,
Heart Metal Co. Pty Ltd, H.M.
Trading Co. Pty Ltd, Skinners Pty
Ltd, Glen near Properties, Glenn Gate
Ltd, Glenn Gate Distributors Ltd,
Glennear Plant Ltd, Glennear Wool-
press Co. Ltd.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
RECOVERY POTENTIAL HERE
The company was originally founded in
1 1898 to exploit the Australian rights
for an American patented machine for
weaving wire fencing on previously
erected posts. The following year saw
foe first tubular-framed gates being
manufactured.
For years the company concentrated
on this limited range of products and
steadily progressed and after the re-
organisation in 1947 the company made
a 3-for-5 bonus issue in June, 1950, a
l-for-4 in February, 1952, and a l-for-5
m November, 1954. Meantime between
1963 and 1957 it paid a 15 p.c. dividend,
jjfoich was handsomely covered by profits,
n fact 1957 saw the profit peak of
and also the take-over of
sever al companies.
Capital as a result has grown, while
urther finance was raised by the issue in
U " e . 19 57 of £1.000,000 in 8 p.c. notes
in September, 1960, by the issue of
• 21,536 20s. 7 p.c. convertible notes.
i Se notes mature on June 30, 1966,
0 -. W 'M be repaid by the allotment of
De 10s. ord. share at a 10s. premium
cr eac h note held.
to P r ' c e of the ord. shares will have
I riSe between now and maturing date
c ena bj e holders to break even. Of
I Se ’it can be argued, and rightly, that
|, S Conv ersion is three years away, but
| e a look at the profit figures and the
gradual fall away, especially in 1962,
when profit was insufficient to pay a
reduced 10 p.c. ord. dividend.
Another point of interest is that fol-
lowing this increase in capital in 1966,
£700,800 of the £1 8 p.c. notes mature
the following year, and two years later a
further £434,200 becomes repayable.
This could create a liquidity problem.
On the other hand the company “has
given a great deal of attention to the
development of export markets,” but this
does not yet appear to be firmly estab-
lished. However, this should favourably
affect the company's trading and profits,
especially if manufacture is conducted
overseas (and on a pioneer basis) using
local capital in part.
The year 1963 should see a return to
what could be termed “more normal
profits”, particularly as the motor trade
has recovered and much plant reorgani-
sation and renewal was made in 1962
and will thus come into production.
In fact, this could well be termed a
recovery stock. It has all the potential
and, with this in mind, the shares at 17s.
6d. or below appear a good investment.
What is intriguing is that the 20s.
conv. notes, which are equivalent to a
10s. ord. share, and at 7 p.c. interest,
are more highly priced than the 10s. ord.
share, which carries a 10 p.c. dividend.
The answer, of course, is the 20s.
note is below par and the yield thus be-
comes 7 point something, while the 10s.
shares are at a premium, which reduces
the yield to 5 point something. But on
conversion the 20s. note becomes equal
to a 10s. ord. share and this fact should
be kept well in mind when assessing the
investment potential of shares and notes
(convertible).
From the income point of view (on
present figures) the conv. notes are better
than the shares, but a return to 12i p.c.
dividend would make the shares at 17s.
6d. a comparable investment, while at a
higher dividend the shares would yield
a higher return, and this is worthy of
note with the recovery potential well in
mind.
LARKE CONS. IND. LTD
SHARES SHOULD SOON RISE
\ nxious to remove the impression that
the group is still largely a motor
vehicle distributor, Larke Consolidated
Industries Ltd showed in its latest set
of accounts for the year to June 30 the
proportion of stockholders’ funds in-
vested in the various activities.
Vehicle distribution accounts for only
24 p.c. of stockholders’ funds; vehicle
manufacture, assembly and general en-
gineering 26 p.c.; product manufacturing
(chains and access equipment) 18 p.c.;
motor vehicle replacement parts 16 p.c.;
manufacture and supply concession for
Australia 9 p.c.; investments 5 p.c.; and
building and construction 2 p.c.
The year 1961-62 saw a 43 p.c. profit
improvement on the previous year, al-
though turnover at £8 million was only
7.7. p.c. up. Better profits and turnovers
have been registered in several years
since 1950, by the former Larke Hoskins
and Co Ltd or Larke Hoskins Industries
Ltd, but in that period three major profit
reversals were experienced.
In the new role of motor industrialist
and product engineer, with a wide spread
of interests in and out of the motor in-
dustry, the Larke group hopes to iron out
excessive fluctuations.
Pressed Metal Corporation Ltd, the
major subsidiary, produces and assembles
vehicles for Rover Australia Pty for des-
patch to Rover distributors throughout
Australia, on the basis of a progressively
increasing local content. The Rover com-
pany has a substantial share interest in
Pressed Metal. This subsidiary also pro-
duces or assembles for BMC, GMH,


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
£'000
June 30
1958
1959
1960
1961
2107
Capital assets
Less current
2201
1692
1864
l!i|
2244
liabilities
1167
586
883
683
Working capital
Investments
1034
421
1106
421
981
1424
131!
Fixed assets
1726
1533
2084
1722
11
]7/r
Intangible assets
—
—
33
i/65
II!
3181
3060
3098
3146
321)
Loan capital
488
397
192
136
] Jfl
Minority interests
290
313
474
352
31!
1081
Ordinary capital
1067
1067
1081
1081
Reserves
1336
1283
1351
1577
1646
3181
3060
3098
3146 .321)
—
—
—
— .
Turnover
8779
6720
9101
7431
8007
Depreciation
67
75
126
92
111
Taxation
130
55
161
71
104
Net profit
145
5
181
no
158
Dividends
107
107
108
108
2
101
Surplus
38
—102
73
S)
Earning rate
13.6
0.5
16.8
10.2
14.8
Dividend rate
10
10
10
10
10
Dividend yield
10.8
8.6
7.7
9.1
7.0
Price earnings ratio
6.8
23.2
8.0
9.3
10.0
High price
5/4
6/7
10/6
7/4
8/-
Low price
4/11
4/2
6/-
5/6
5/!
(a) End of November
(b) Calendar year.
, month accounts
aresented.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-27G1
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
S Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
QUEENSLAND
CAN
CO. LTD
Analysis
Summary
(£ 000)
1960
1961
Capital
Reserves
£
£
758.7
435
1050.5
485
2421,1
1608.5
Surplus profit
£
155.1
167.7
Shareholders' funds
£
1348.8
1703.2
4338.6
Index
100
126.5
$LL
Total investments
£
1462.1
2183
357.6
994.3
133.7
109.5
250
Index
100
149.3
Working capital
£
742.4
554./
Index
100
74.5
Mortgage
£
113.3
105.3
Notes 8%
£
—
—
50
Long term loan
£
—
—
1959
Land and Buildings
£ ) 719.2
507.4
Plant
£ i
730.9
Depreciation
£
197
192.8
190.7
Taxation
£
193.3
171.5
327,7
Profit
£
143.3
155.5
Index
100
108.5
10
Dividend
%
10
10
182.6
£
75.9
93
444
Surplus profit
%
47
40.2
Concealed profit on
61.8
Tax Prov.
£
178.9
Percentage profit to:—
16.73
9.13
7.12
9.13
1.28
17,71
Ord. capital
Shareholders' funds
18.89
7.45
10.63
4.11
Total investments
9.8
7.41
N.T.A.
10.63
1,1
Leverage
1.09
N.T.A. per 5s share
1279
Backing for mortgage
£100 —
314
Backing for notes
£100 —
Share prices High
Low
* Per 20s. share.
Fiat and Ford. Land Rovers are produced
under long-term contract.
Motor bus production and contract en-
gineering also are a significant part of
Pressed Metal business. Production capa-
city of this subsidiary was more fully
used by the end of the period than at
any time for many years, the managing
director said in his review.
Larke Hoskins Pty became one of
several retail distributors for Austin and
Morris vehicles on August 1, 1961, when
the British Motor Corporation took over
the dealer organisation in the metropo-
litan area. Larke Hoskins is also a dealer
in Canberra and Tamworth for BMC
vehicles.
It sold 644 more new vehicles (1730
in all) in 1961-62 than in the previous
year when the company was sole metro-
politan Austin distributor. Used vehicle
sales were also 555 higher at 1416.
Distribution of Fiat vehicles in NSW
by Turin Distributors Pty was slow in
the first half of the year, but improved
later so that the year’s deliveries totalled
1012 against the previous 986.
Under a concession which became ef-
fective on October 1, 1961, Neal Invest-
ments Ltd arranges for the production by
Pressed Metal of Fiat vehicles, and their
distribution in the various States. It also
imports fully built up vehicles against
distributors’ firm orders. During the first
three months 274 vehicles were delivered
and 1305 in the last six months.
Mclntosh Pty holds a concession,
which became fully operative only in
January, 1963, for the supply of Fiat
parts and accessories to distributors.
Ausfield Ltd wholesales BMC parts
throughout NSW, and handled increased
volume in 1961-62.
Funds from the sale of Southern
Aluminium and Ados Tool and Die Co.
Ltd in 1960-61 were partly applied in
the purchase of Rogers Chain Holdings
Pty in the year under review, for
£217,523 cash. This firm has made
heavy industrial chains for mining, dred-
ging and earth-moving equipment for
the last ten years. Its acquisition has
already proved profitable, and export
markets are being explored.
Lyte Metal Industries Pty (previously
written off in the accounts) was revived
and enlarged to make other fabricated
aluminium products as well as ladders.
A small loss was incurred for the deve-
lopmental period.
Rydal Steel Ltd, which rolls steel
merchant strip, had a lower turnover
than in the previous year, and recovery
. from credit restrictions was slower than
expected. This subsidiary usually shows
the highest investment return in the
group. The company bought the plant of
W. J. Stevens Pty during the year, and
this is of a type not previously operated
in Australia.
Sydney Holland Constructions Ltd, the
building subsidiary, was very quiet and
made a small loss.
The group net profit of £157,583
was after providing £103,990 for tax
and £111,847 for depreciation. The
steady 10 p.c. dividend continued the
company’s record of 28 years’ standing
for paying dividends of not less than 10
p.c. on capital.
Working capital position is entirely
satisfactory, and the group is burdened
with very little loan capital.
At Bs. 6d. the ss. shares yield 5 §
in income and 8.7 p.c. on earn
While primarily an income stock a/
holders seem destined for some real *
appreciation within the next 12
QUEENSLAND CAN CO. LTD
GOOD STOCK FOR GROWTH
/"Originally formed in 1922 with a
£lOO,OOO authorised capital,
Queensland Can Co. Ltd four years
later amalgamated with Cole &
Grice Ltd, shareholders in this company
receiving 14,700 £1 shares in considera-
tion. Prior to this amalgamation Queens-
land Can shareholders received 6648
bonus shares and in 1927 a further 8435
shares were issued. A second bonus issue
(1 for 5) was made in December 1934.
Further issues at par were: 1941, 25,000
shares; 1945, 21,455 shares; 1951,
202,675 shares (one-for-one basis); 1952,
202,675 shares (one-for-two basis); 1960,
151,742 shares (one-for-five basis).
In 1960 a technical agreement was
made with Containers Ltd of Melbourne
and in return the Melbourne company
was allowed to make application for
140,000 £1 shares, and it should be
noted that part of these shares would
become the property of the Metal Box
Co. of England which leads in the
English field and Which has subsidiary or
associate companies in many countries,
and is a very powerful concern.
In November, 1961, the company took
over Paper and Board Industries on the
basis 2 Queensland Can £1 shares for
5 Paper and Board ss. ord. shares.
The financial year 1961/2 was, how-
ever, chiefly notable for the take-over of
Howards Ltd, the highly successful motor
dealer of Brisbane and Toowoomba,
which incidentally had a substantial share
portfolio. To acquire the 1,163,252 ss.
Howard shares the company issued ss.
stock units to a nominal value of
£581,626 and paid cash £58,162-125.-0d
(Is. per share). As investments rose from
£15,500 to £408,205 it is a fair sup-
position that most of the increase came
from the Howard takeover, and with a
market value at balance date of £502,050
the full value of the takeover can be
assessed.
This point is important, because the
full value of the Howard acquisition will
be felt only in the present year, a factor
investors could well keep in n.ind.
To sum up, it is considered this is a
growth stock which more than merits a
second look.


HELP
LEGACY
oil the year round,
169 Elizabeth St.,
Sydney. BM 2001. -
ii
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £188,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia. /
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED *
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia —
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
MARKETING
MULTI-COLORED TRUTH
IN ADVERTISING
By ROGER WELCH
■ lthough Basil is 47 years old, his
A m other still imagines him in a bon-
ne] and baby clothes and keeps him at
borne. She just wants someone to baby.
Basil, consequently, is naive in know-
ledge of the world. All he knows of life
j s gleaned from advertisements. He stud-
ies them avidly, and does not doubt that
they mirror life exactly as it is. He is
►unlearned in the duplicity of advertising,
and so he accepts as gospel everything
the advertisements say.
Hence he believes that a certain break-
fast food makes noises like musketry
and turns cry babies into juvenile gang
leaders. He thinks that certain cigarettes
are smoked only by men with tattoos on
their hands He knows that certain den-
tifrices turn teeth into chunks of glis-
tening quartz. He believes that virile
types go around cracking milk bottles
...that new cars come equipped with
pretty girls who wave at you . . . that
users of certain soap flakes always wear
of ghostly whiteness and pair-up
r with people whose clothes are dingy
grey. He is convinced that land devel
opers with lakeside lots for sale include.
; as a bonus, a girl on water skis, children
building sand castles, and a man with
a fishing rod landing a whopping fish.
If one drinks a brand of soft drink,
a crowd of eager youths and maidens
gather round and sing a merry jingle.
And when you uncork another drink
you get bottled sunshine relished by
those who like their solar radiation neat.
Basil believes that the application of
after-shave lotion is enough to make
young girls fall instantly in love with
V°u. And young men fall instantly in
|o\'e with girls who use a particular per-
wme or hair spray or skin cream or
g'fdle or gargle or fiddle or faddle.
& has seen romance fade when a boy
whiffs a girl’s breath. But later on the
>s game enough to back up for
. an °ther sniff, by which time she has
changed toothpastes and the romance
rekindles.
He notes that girls are always gor-
geous. Basil has never seen a plain wo-
man depicted in advertisements. He
figures his mother must be on loan from
the zoo.
And the only middle-aged men he
knows of are those who smile from ad-
vertisements because they wear a well-
fitting truss.
Basil believes that people in real life
talk as they do in advertisements; in a
direct and didactic manner that brooks
no argument. There is no small talk. A
man will point an imperious forefinger
at you and exclaim, “You Can Lose
501bs. of Fat in 3 Weeks!” A stranger
accosts you in the street with such a
remark as “I Got Instant Relief from
Constipation with Easoids” and then
mumbles to himself in six-point type.
And a woman does not gabble and gush
when she meets a friend; she jumps
straight in with the statement, “I just
washed my dentures and can’t do a
thing with them.” Her companion’s ri-
poste is not “Well, well!” or “So what?”
She snaps back, “You need Nicholson’s
Nerve Nuts.”
The household chores that Basil sees
his mother pursue such as washing
floors and washing clothes and washing
up and making beds and making do —•
are incomprehensible to him. The ladies
in advertisements manage to make life
a lovely round of effortless housework
and sweet-tempered fun.
If ever Mother lets Basil out into the
world, he is in for a Super King-Size
shock.


THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
for publication, The balance have been answered personally.
Last year I invested £4OO in 100
BHP shares at 575. 6d., and 200 Cribb
and Foote at 9s. 6d. Should 1 hold on
and wait for better things or sell and
buy others? 1 am only interested in
capital appreciation over two years at
the most. There will be another £5OO
to invest soon with the mine object. —
P.8.M., Strathfield (NSiV).
BHP shares are down about Bs. 6d.
on what you paid for them, but we would
not recommend selling. Reports are that
the company will have an exceptionally
good year, as although export markets
are difficult, the local demand for steel
is strong, and that’s where the most pro-
fit is to be made.
Cribb & Foote shares, while quoted
in Sydney as well as Brisbane, are rarely
traded in Sydney. We presume the shares
you hold are the contributing shares paid
to 2s. 6d. now selling around 10s. 6d.
The return on present market price is
only 3 p.c., compared with 4.4 p.c. on
the fully paids, which sell around 14s. Id.
If the fully paids are the ones you hold,
we would be satisfied with the profit and
get out. If you hold the contribs you
should perhaps sell.
The extra £5OO you have to invest
could buy 400 CRA at 17s. 3d. and 200
Marrickville Holdings at 235. lid. The
yield on CRA is 3.5 p.c. tax free. The
company was fully documented in our
“One to Buy” feature for January 5.
Marrickville returns 3.1 p.c. It is the
maker of “Marville” margarine and other
oil products, Eta nut foods, potato crisps
and confectionery.
Both of these companies appear suit-
able for short or long term investment
for capital appreciation.
★ ★ ★
My portfolio was bought to maximise
returns until mid- 1964 when I shall prob-
ably need to sell. Although Cox Bros
has so far proved one of the worst pur-
chases, I don’t want to sell unless they
are likely to drop much further, because
l get a 10 p.c. trading discount at Cox
Foys in Adelaide.
The cost of my investments was as
follows: 400 Adelaide Steam 6s. 2id;
200 Associated Pulp 7 p.c. 1964 con-
vertible notes 21s. 3d.; 400 Harris Scarfe
4s. 5d.; 400 Cox Bros Is. 3d.; 400 Ampol
6 p.c. 1963 convertible notes 10s. 3d.;
200 Yarra Falls 21 s. 9d.; 1000 Mt.
Lyell Investments 4s. 5 d.; 2000 Mt Lyell
Mining 2s. 1 d.; 400 Courtaulds 12s.
I have another £lOO to invest and
have been recommended Cellulose or
Camelec. — J.D., Glen Osmond (SA).
Cox Bros reassured the investing
public only in the last few' weeks that
it had no liquidity problems, was trad-
ing profitably, and had never departed
from its established role as retailer. The
present price of about 6s. Id., therefore,
seems undeservedly low, and we would
not expect them to go lower.
The stock which could give you more
worry is Harris Scarfe which has not
yet reported for the half-year to Decem-
ber, 1962. Presumably you bought the
shares in the hopes of a recovery after
last year’s loss. The hardware and tk
business has not been very buoyant "
you should watch this one carefully
Associated Pulp is sufficient represent
tion for the paper industry i n a y*'.
portfolio. You should, therefore i, *
pass Cellulose Australia Ltd f 0r ’
Adelaide newcomer Camelec, ,
makes and supplies electrical wj r j ni
harness for the automobile indush!
(Ford, GMH, VW, International Ha!
vester, etc.), for the domestic applj ana
industry (especially the Adelaide com.
panics Kelvinator, Simpson and Pop e )
and “straight” cables for the building
industry. Group turnover for the first {
months of the year is 100 p.c. up on the
corresponding period of 1961-62, and
staff is working four shifts a day, seven
days a week to maintain supplies. Last
year earning rate was 12.1 p.c., dividend
10 p.c. A one-for-two par issue of ss. S>
shares is currently being made to finance
the higher turnover and expansion of
factory floor space on adjacent property
recently acquired.
Present price of the shares ex rights
is about 7s. 9d., giving a return of 6.5
p.c. assuming maintenance of the 10 p.c,
dividend. This yield should be attractive
to you and, of course, there is scope for
capital growth.
★ ★ ★
If Kauri Timber was liquidate (j
wouldn’t we shareholders receive more »
than present market value after all other •
liabilities are met, as latest balance sheet
figures disclose that current assets exceed
both current and deferred liabilities, ani
fixed assets cover shareholders’ fundsl-
F.V.S., Briar Hill (Vic.).
It is probably true that shareholders
of Kauri Timber would receive more
than the present market value if the
company was wound up. But the aim of
the management is not to kill the business
but rehabilitate it. Directors are more
concerned with salvaging the organisa-
tion for the sake of the shareholders of
long-standing than breaking it up t 0
provide just a quick profit for the specu-
lator.
It is unfortunate that confidence ®
the profitability of the industry generally
is lacking, so that the price of Kaun
shares has fallen below par, making m e
task of raising additional finance very
difficult.
The independent investigator who
estimated that the company could pay
dividends of at least 10 p.c. on the new
capital structure (after the capital wrie
down and five-for-four par issue) is re
vealed as Mr M. T. Hansen, a directo
of several timber and hardware com
panies. He has agreed to join the Boar,
and this must be construed as an expr es
sion of faith in the Kauri business.
INVESTMENT ADVISORY SERVICE
Oeaders of The Bulletin can use
a personal investment advisory
service.
If you have an investment prob-
lem, write to the Financial Editor,
attaching the coupon at right.
The Bulletin financial staff will
seek out the information you require.
Selected letters of enquiry will be
published (without the names of
writers) together with the Editor’s
answers.
All communications will be treated
as confidential.
COUPON
ATTACH REQUEST, AND POST
TO:
FINANCIAL EDITOR,
The Bulletin, BOX 2521 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY
NAME MR
MRS
MISS
ADDRESS:
STATE


Positions Vacant
DISTRICT SURVEYORS
NORTH BORNEO
There are vacancies for District Surveyors in North
Borneo. Applicants should be between 25 ond 45
and should be licensed surveyors. The duties are
to take charge of a Survey District under the
Director of Lands and Surveys, to supervise Survey
Assistants mainly on title surveys and to prepare
cadastral plans etc. Applications should be made
to: Professor Zelman Cowen, Dominion Liaison Of-
ficer for Overseas Civil Service Appointments,
University of Melbourne, who will supply further
details.
Professional
THE COURSE IN EUROPEAN LITERATURE
The course conducted in city area by European writer
returning to Europe the next year, will cover European
literature to modern times. French, German, Italian,
Spanish literatures will be stressed. For enquiries,
please write: The Course of European Literature c/o
68 Wemyss Street, Marrickville.
Divorce Notice
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT 1959
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AUSTRALIA No. 2764 of 1962
BETWEEN: DOROTHY CHRISTINA GIBBS,
Petitioner, and THOMAS NIGIL ADOLPHUS
GIBBS, Respondent. To THOMAS NIGIL
ADOLPHUS GIBBS whose last known address
was Railway Terrace, Solomntown, in the
State of South Australia. TAKE NOTICE that
Dorothy Christina Gibbs has presented a
petition to the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia in a suit in which she claims against
you an order for dissolution of marriage on
the ground of your desertion and an order
for costs. Unless you file an answer or notice
of address for service in the office of the
Master of the Supreme Court of South Aus-
tralia within 30 days of the publication of
this advertisement orders may be made
against you in your absence. BRIGHT &
McLEOD, Ware Chambers, 112 King William
Street, Adelaide. Solicitors for the Petitioner.
People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my BULLETIN to
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
BY DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION
Please tick ( whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
the bulletin.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington. N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z
currency, ] / 2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency)
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
Incorporating The Australian Financial Times
TANKERS REPLACE
MILK CANS
DPhe old battered milk can on its road-
{ si( j e stand is fast becoming a rare
sight in many parts of Victoria.
In its pl ace i s a s l ee k modern tanker,
racing from farm to farm and pumping
niilk straight out of cooled or refrigerated
tanks in the milking sheds.
Victoria, which accounts for 40 p.c.
of Australia’s dairy production, is lead-
ing the way in the swing to bulk milk
collection.
At the last count Victoria had more
than 3250 farm bulk milk tanks—a rise
of 76 p.c. (or 1400) in 18 months.
This represents 29 p.c. of the potential
for bulk collection —a figure expected to
reach 40 p.c. this year.
In the United States, where there are
180,000 farm bulk milk tanks, 47 p.c.
of the potential is estimated to have been
converted, so Victoria is not lagging far
behind.
This is a remarkable position when one
remembers bulk collection began in 1940
in America and not until 1956 in Vic-
toria and that Victoria’s annual in-
crease is about five times the American
figure.
On the other hand, Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture officers point out
that in the USA all bulk milk tanks
are refrigerated, compared with only 60
p.c. in Victoria.
MOBILE DESALTING
PLANTS
An Australia-wide survey by the
Water Research Foundation indicates
considerable areas of semi-arid Australia
could be developed by the use of mobile
desalting plants to convert brackish bore
water into fresh water.
The survey has been carried out by the
Foundation's honorary research director,
Professor C. H. Munro, and research
fellow, Mr J. B. Clampett.
Their survey showed that on many
properties carrying capacity is restricted
by lack of fresh water, although ample
brackish water is available at shallow
depths. Unfortunately this water is un-
suitable for stock.
Although Professor Munro and Mr
Clampett have provided tables of costs
graziers can expect to pay for desalted
water, they emphasise the need for field
trials of mobile desalting plants under
scientific supervision.


Feiffer
6o oite.m okm kw
MOMMM A9cet7 Mf -
p a>HAT t? 0 W OMMT
TO &0 U)HW HOV
612000 UP, UOOq?"
AW I SM(7 " A
cowoV
$0 VAM SAW TO MOMMVHCS
a time old to Bern so mu
me TO APPW P-I6HT Am “
A w HE TOOK HE TO THIS
FiMW KIW OF SCHOOL /
THAT 6A 1/e ME A DHOLE (
101 OF TESTS. 1
wee. w tesu me ttacwr told
vaie&s ?me mr soeu
HAS IHS APTf im To Be a couom,
•m Mental Aimm* to ee a
calm AW-M CAzeen meesr
’To Be a ccMecci. or cojr%
Heu me ro me aw
tWotOtiAL QUALIFICATION
em."
*>o THg'f 6MMOM. AfJ 0
AFre£ M -rest m oocra>
SAIC7 TO PAPW/ M fr« t
resr pern Mr joey (
jdouu? MAO Afj exeeueUA c
ApateiMeur t<? w
4t) OHM 10oK HI HOMg ADC? SAi O 10 HOHHW-
"Mu 6er hi m iui» exereß aw inert iutc
HARVARO AMt? Hg CAW TAKC HK 6PAVUKC6
tOOfSkT l(0 000>BW AT glTWefi ‘9TANFORP
C£ V-C-L.^-poe SWT THAT MAKC W
HAPPM, JOC4?"
AfJP 1 066A0 75 CR^.
AfW MOMM4 SAIO, "WflAT's IH6
HATTER, 0(96^"
AMP r SAIC?,
• V I CHAM66P
MIMP. I IdAMT
TO % A k)U^£."
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 731
ACROSS
I—lnnings to which I give some topping penalty for
a golfer or racehorse. (8)
s—Forcefully convincing business man. (6)
7 Mistress of Pericles makes a poisoner continent. (7)
8— Mother unfortunate with a dog graduate’s squabble.
(7)
11— Nobody wins in this railway sleeper. (3)
12— Accumulate the morning burro. (5)
14— A fruit to exist on love. (5)
15— Have high regard for the broken sceptre. (7)
16— A place for medical treatment without inclination.
(7)
17—One shall not eye some tree
against part of the Gold
Coast (7)
20—Baby one one century type of
plague. (7)
23 A tree spoilt one who grati-
fies the inner man. (5)
24 A considerable time to muse.
(5)
25 Supreme spinner. (3)
26 She is to report a dive. (7)
28— Teaching of the Twelve Apos-
tles was not without pain. (7)
29 Scoundrel commanded the
Governor General to produce
a six-note musical theme. (3-3)
30— Drag seen modified by little
bombs. (8)
DOWN
1— People are made very unhappy
by such a suit on surf. (5-8)
2 Crustacean equipment for at-
tacking children. (7)
3 This month fed set in place.
(7)
4 A mother managed your un-
fading. (11)
5 In being taken from China
tea. (3)
6 Not to be confused with Ely-
sian glide across syllables. (7)
9—Louse from a Korean city. (5)
10—Gendarme’s centimes. (6,7)
13—The ship’s right royal per-
sonage who gets most-favored
treatment. (ID
18— Australian tennis player taking
in the quick-tempered chap.
(7)
19— Roman spoilt Bellini’s opera.
(5)
21— Enlarge the lateral dimension
to make a little brother a
lair. (7)
22 A cake without topping is
thus seen. (7)
27—She can certainly pick a
horse. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 730


loan Sutherland
RUSSELL BRADDON
: X
V-
-7
\
Is
isp**
11
r/
- *
STARTS IN
"Hi CUMfiflii
WOMENS WEEKLY
ISSUE DATED FEBRUARY 13
CP292


m
•-
mm
■ :
mm
liaii
n
■ ‘ :
aw
*
%
it
i m
b
iLWUIPRtyr.
/
: ;;
fSgjPgS"'
4"
»
*;
WW
M
•:
|gg
M
H
1
It
*•■
*
mm
. ;-•
RS
m
SH
■
mmMMI
_ M
Sfc2?
*
Ml
8M
S§§§g®
l i
- :fe £> «*
3fs
' ' pta
- MNHKiM
.
i^SS
SgU 1
I*2 *,-I—4 , JL** -
' as • :
aspniftiifiil
* “ 1 > *?r - ’
I &#:* *> >;
'. "■ 'v: ' '•■: "'■■ , ’
Treat yourself to tlo^imcts»
J J i|- 1 4F£61^5
HOLDEN'S
quiet luxury 0
” Ride
Only Holden gives you the“ Red Carpet”Ri(fEr~Whatever the road ahead,
it guarantees you’ll travel in armchair comfort. Smoothness and quiet
go right down to the last engineering detail. What’s more, Holden’s
“Red Carpet” Ride is just one of the many reasons why this is Australia’s
best-liked, best-selling car. Holden is proved by over a million owners
. . . its resale value is the highest and operating costs are lower. It’s
the lowest-priced six-cylinder car, and gives you unmatched value for
your money. Discover the difference! See your Holden* Dealer and try
Holden’s “Red Carpet” Ride today!
HOLDEN AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
LOWEST-PRICED
SIX-CYLINDER CAR
FROM
£BB5
PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
PTY. LIMITED
