

The Bulletin
• ALAN WALKER - "MR METHODISM"
3 fr*3& &Shtf&l‘2t23s£* ■ *«*!
SEPTEMBER 21, 1963
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF FACT AND OPINION - EST. 1880
Inside
Brisbane
★ FOUR COLOR PAGES


ass».\
a
- -
K
U WSmm
%
: •
an '
1
-
m
;
m
■
V
-
-
1
®§
H
■-
■
i
*
3*
’. 'vS
W&BBSBk
: ' - ■ 1’
■
5 •..?•
■ • -
1
1
,
VINYL FLOORING IS MADE FROM GEON RESINS IN AUSTRALIA BY: Dunlop Flooring Pty. Ltd..
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co. Pty. Ltd.. Moulded Products Australasia Ltd.. Dermide (Aust.) Pty. Ltd..
Storey Davies & Co. Pty. Ltd. (Plastics Division oj Felt & Textiles of Australia Limited). Michael Nairn &
Co. (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.. C.S.R Building Materials (Division of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd.)
builds a better vinyl floor
Better building starts from the floor. Modern vinyl floorings are deep in colour, easy to clean, scuff and scratch
proof. Because they’re made with Geon, their pore-free surface is resistant to dirt, dust, oils and solvents.
Today, more and more manufacturers are using Geon in vinyl asbestos tiles, flexible vinyl tiles and sheetings.
In any industry, Geon’s versatility helps break the stalemate to product improvement. Have you a product we
can improve or develop?
B, F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Fty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone: 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney. Telephone: 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., Q'ld,: Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) Limited.
.'Vtooo i A


National Notebook
Success Story
Sydney publishers Ure Smith are having
the success they deserve with their
handsome “Gold Fleet for California”.
This is Charles Bateson’s history of the
forty-niners who crossed the Pacific from
Australia and New Zealand.
Seventy per cent of the first printing
was pre-sold for export, with separate
American and New Zealand editions and
a quantity for the United Kingdom mar-
ket as well. A reprint had to be ordered
before publication day earlier this month.
Ure Smith is hoping to repeat this suc-
.cess with its “Australian Aboriginal Art”,
edited by R. M. Berndt of the Univer-
sity of Western Australia. This, out
early November, has 73 color plates.
Half the printing will go to Macmillan’s
of New York for the American and Bri-
tish market. “Australian Aboriginal Art”
will sell in Australia for £5 17s. 6d. This
price is possible because an anonymous
gift has defrayed publication costs.
Rough Around The Edges
nPHE other night we went along to a
A Sydney motel to talk to Jack Lee,
director of “Robbery
Under Arms” and “A
Town Like Alice”, about
his latest Australian pro-
ject, “Rough Around the
Edges”, from a novel
“The Delinquents” by
Melburnian Creina Rohan.
A tall, slim man of around 50, Jack Lee
is a keen Australophile who was con-
verted to the place after a trip to the
outback which involved breakfast (in 90
degrees temperature) of Irish stew.
“I first noticed the name of Creina
Rohan’s novel in a publisher’s catalogue”.
Lee said. “And when I read it I knew I
wanted to film it. The young people in
the book a boy and a girl who fall in
love in an Australian small town
aren’t delinquents really, but people
think they are. They’re more a product of
their environment his mother has had
many lovers and he is frustrated, un-
happy.
“My first film was a documentary
about a very similar situation, and this
seemed to offer an extension of it. Joseph
Janni, my producer on ‘Robbery’, was as
excited by the book as I was and we
began looking around for a possible
script-writer.
“We eliminated a few some were
in Australia and some weren’t suitable,
and then I heard about Alan Seymour.
His plaiy ‘One Day of the Year’ had had
very good notices. I had been out of
England when the play was on, so I
hadn’t seen it. But 1 got a script of it
from James Laurie, who had produced
it in London.
“Joe and I liked it, we thought the first
two acts were good, but the third wasn’t
so good. We asked Alan to do an out-
line. The first outline, I have to say this,
was pretty ghastly. It was really our
fault, we’d made it difficult for Alan
because of the three-way conversation
we’d had.
“Then I came out to Australia to do
a brief reccy for a location. I looked
at several places and finally I knew I had
the right one —at Cairns. It’s really a
marvellous place.
“When I went back to London Alan
did a new script. Now it seems we will
make it. We don’t expect to use any
stars and we will have a complete cast of
Australians. Our casting director, Miriam
Brinkman, has seen every play and I’ve
been interviewing actors every day from
two to six. I don’t feel I’ve anything to
worry about. It’s just like meeting peo-
ple in London, talking to them about a
part. I’ve met so many vital, exciting
people there will be no trouble having
a completely professional cast. We ex-
pect to shoot the film over about 10
weeks, starting in Novem-
ber and going on to
Christmas. It will run
about 105 minutes. The
budget will be —not huge.
And we’ll be doing it in
black and white”.
Talking of the author,
Creina Rohan, who has not lived to see
her novel made into a film: “I met her
in a terrible smog we had in London last
year, before the very cold winter. It was
ghastly—awful —a week of it. I went
to see her in the midst of it—she lived in
two rooms off the Fulham Road. A most
awful place, a slum. She was very poor,
you know.
“Her husband Otto was there he’s
a seaman. She was in bed and she looked
very ill, she had TB, I think. I said to
her, ‘You’ve got to get out of this, you
know, you’ll die’. Otto said he would
see she got on a plane. They had a
pretty, charming little girl, aged 10.
“Two days later she was gone. When
1 got out to Australia she was dead”.
Sam’s Parly
A rugged-looking Italian who’s passed
the ultimate test of assimilation by
playing Australian Rules is now playing
Pied Piper to Launceston’s Italian com-
munity. On November 8 he will lead
52 of his former countrymen to citizen-
ship at a special Launceston ceremony
He is Santino Raimondo Sam to
Page
TISE REV. ALAN WALKER 12
“Mr. Methodism”
©
Tariff Board Lashes Out 6
Berman Off the Bar Stool .... 16
The Magic Name Oistrakh 19
Surgery Without Bleeding 23
After Malaysia, What? 24
Short Story: “Young Woman in a
Wimple” 27
A Love Affair with Brisbane 32
Sydney’s Struggle for Chamber
Music 35
Book Review: Michael Oakeshott’s
Scepticism 37
More Confidence in Britain 43
The Example of Elizabeth 46
New Five-Year Plan for W 7 heat .. 61
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND ABOUT 1G
MEDICINE 23
OVERSEAS 24
SHORT STORY 27
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 35
RED PAGE 37
BUSINESS AND FINANCE . 43
MAN ON THE LAND 61
CROSSWORD 02
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box '4OBB. Phone 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4362


everyone who knows him. Sam has
buttonholed the Minister tor Customs,
Senator Henty, to badger Immigration
Minister Downer to the gathering. It’s
precisely the sori of spontaneous move-
ment to Australian citizenship that Mr
Downer is pushing nowadays, and he
shouldn't miss Sam's party.
The idea took root a couple of weeks
ago when Guiseppe Piccolo called on
Sam to help him with naturalisation.
“Don’t you \yorry, I’ll fix it,” Sam
assured him. Then he thought of all
his other Italian friends, so he began a
round of their homes, his pocket full of
naturalisation papers. Soon he had 52
applicants, and he decided that nothing
less than a mass ceremony would fit the
occasion.
Mr Raimondo arrived in Tasmania in
1951. He first worked on a hydro-
electric project, was naturalised in 1956.
then turned to tin mining, with Austra-
lian Rules for recreation. Now he works
in Launceston railway workshops. More
migrants would seek citizenship if only
someone would seek them, he believes.
“There are big and strange problems in
settling in a new country with a different
language”, he says. “Personal contact
by someone who speaks the migrant's
language will overcome their fears and
doubts more quickly than pamphlets.”
Impresario
... ~ x ,
vvan ° c an § e 1 e old conce Pt °f
the Jnipresario as a cigar-smoking
tycoon with a blonde on each knee , Mr
Harry Mll l er told us - Miller, an athletic
six-footer from New Zealand, is partner
/,th Wong m the recently formed
Pan Pacific Promotions. They have al-
ready brought to Australia New Zealand,
Hong Kong and Japan Sammy Davis
Junior and Shelley Berman.
“Without mentioning names”, he said,
“it would be truthful to say that the pub-
lie was left with an unpleasant taste in
Its mouth after experiences of some past
promotional enterprises. The promoters
simply didn’t deliver the goods and the
public reacted. How did they react?
Wei| . ™ give you an example.
or .i r, , . . . ,
When Shelley Berman opened in Mel-
bourne the audience was still arriving at
a quarter to nine although the show was
billed to start at eight o clock, D you
know why? Because they’d become used
to previous attractions with lousy open-
ing acts and the main attraction giving
a skimpy show about half-way through.
They couldn’t understand that we were
offering them a good opening act the
Howard Morrison singers and Shelley
Berman doing a show that lasted over
an hour.
“Then there was the question of salar-
ies. Did you know that some of the acts
brought out here were offered three times
the fi gure they get j n La S y egas or any
other top US booking? Naturally, they
grabbed it and, naturally, the promoters
} e ft themselves in the red. Nowadays,
w jth j et travel, j t j sr p t suc h an effort 'to
p j ay Australia. When the new jets get
go i n g it will be no more strain for a per _
former to play Sydney than to go from
New York to California for a booking,
Mr who is 36, is proud of
f ac * 1 16 * s now an Australian
citizen. He is less than happy about his
new country’s liquor laws. “People
come down here and ask me, Where s
I* l6 b ar ?’ They’re used to the American
idea where customers can drop in sit
at the bar and take in the floorshow.
when j (e|| , hem we - re n 0( a| , owed
have a bar th can ., be|ieve me . what
kind f nigh , dubs . thisT . t hey ask.
“You think this is bad”, put in Harry
Miller, “why down in Melbourne last
week I tried to get a fresh orange juice
after 10 p.m. ‘No sair, it’s not allowed,’
the waiter told me. ‘All right’, I told
him, ‘call room service and get me one’,
No dice. As long as it was served in a
glass I couldn't get even a fresh orange
juice!”
Tanner
"Bashed you up? Charge them with impersonating a policeman!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Indonesia, Malaysia and Us
TN the din of the discussions and
A sometimes the sabre-rattling
over Indonesian attacks on Malay-
sia, the importance of a number
of recent developments in Indonesia
have been underestimated. Taken
together they present one line of
Indonesian policy that conflicts with
the view popular in some circles
that President Soekarno is a
tool of the 2,000,000-strong Indo-
nesian Communist Party.
One is President Soekarno’s ac-
ceptance of the advice given by that
arch - imperalist organisation the
International Monetary Fund to take
measures to reduce the inflation
which has produced the hardship on
which the Indonesian Communists
depend for support.
Secondly, earlier this year Indo-
nesia extended foreign oil conces-
sions for 20 years—thereby frustra-
ting the Communists’ demand for
seizure of the concessions and the
sale of Indonesian oil to Red China
which is still humiliatingly depen-
dent on Soviet oil.
But above all is the formation of
the Maphilindo pact between Mal-
aya, the Philippines and Indonesia.
This will serve several purposes, one
of which will allow Indonesia to
justify its hostility to “neo-colonial-
ist” Malaysia by appealing to the
wider spirit of Maphilindo. But
Maphilindo has also led to plans for
a mutual defence pact against any
form of subversion. The pact, in
other words, is an official recogni-
tion by Indonesia that these three
countries face a common threat
from Communist China.
These three developments show
how in many respects Australian
national interests coincide with Indo-
nesia’s as is underlined by the
repeated attacks on them by the
Indonesian Communists.
At the same time, of course, the
idea of Malaysia is anathema to the
Indonesian Communists, and they
have taken the initiative in the In-
donesian guerrilla attacks on East
Malaysian territories which are at
the moment the main threat to the
security of Malaysia.
In short, then, while frustrating
the Communists in one direction
President Soekarno makes conces-
sions to them in another, particular-
ly on the popular issue of anti-colon-
ialism where the Communists have
the nationalist Army’s support.
This is simply to say again that
Indonesian politics can only be
understood in terms of the balance
within Indonesia of President Soe-
karno, the Army, and the Com-
munists.
It is an unstable balance and at
no point do we know what may
happen next. But it follows that
before Australia takes any action in
relation to Indonesia we must con-
sider the effects it will have on its
internal politics. It will not advance
our interests if in order to oppose
Indonesian guerrilla aggression we
choose methods which end up help-
ing the Indonesian Communists to
come to power.
This is not to say that we should
do nothing. We support and wel-
come Malaysia and we accept ob-
ligations to support it with our
Armed Services. But we should
remember that we are also, in some
of our long-term interests, allied
with Indonesia.
It is, in other words, a typical in-
ternational situation and those who
reduce everything to simple black
and white should do some fact-
finding to get their picture in more
realistic perspective. And those who
attack the Minister for External
Affairs for calling in at Djakarta
on his way to Malaya to explain
Australian policies are oversimplify-
ing the realities and blinding them-
selves to our national interests. It
is all very well for Great Britain
to scorn such tactics. She is with-
drawing from Asia; we are not.
Department of Complaints
HPHE idea of establishing a Public
Grievance Investigator or
omsbudsman is gaining increas-
ing popularity. People of all politi-
cal views in all States have called
for one either in irritation with
ever-extending power of Govern-
ment bureaucracy, as in Queens-
land, or in dissatisfaction with the
administration of the Police Depart-
ment, as in NSW.
But advocates still get small
change out of the Governments.
Most of them say, as did the NSW
Premier, Mr Heffron, that a com-
plainant can always take civil action
in the law courts, or like Sir Robert
Menzies, that Parliament exists to
investigate the citizens’ grievances.
But it is precisely the proven
weakness of these two avenues
important as they are in some cases
that has led to demands for a
special grievance investigator. The
law courts are slow and expensive,
and in any case many complaints
are not about illegal actions. They
are about the actions o-f bureaucrats
operating with perfect legality
but still oppressively and arbitrarily
under regulations granting them
discretionary powers. As for Par-
liament, the favorable reaction to
the Yirrikalas’ “bark petition”
shows this is often still an effective
body for such purposes, but as a
rule ordinary government busi-
ness takes up most of the Parlia-
ment’s time, leaving little for small
complaints; and Party discipline also
tends to restrain members from
bringing up these matters in the
House. Sometimes a Member does
ask a question, or raise a matter in
an Adjournment Debate, but many
genuine grievances are too small
for such cumbersome machinery.
There are, of course, other avenues
such as direct appeals by the citizen
to high departmental authorities, or
the use of Press publicity. Some-
times these are effective, but often
they are not.
There is undoubtedly a good case
for a public grievance man, as
New Zealand has already found. It
will give the ordinary citizen back
some of his old rights and, at
the worst, will attend to a lot of
minor complaints that our massive
parliamentary and bureaucratic
machinery is unable even with
goodwill to handle. ,


THIS AUSTRALIA
BUSINESS
Tariff Board Lashes Out
Getting nearer reality
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
G. A. RATTIGAN
A new slant
Qo many bouquets have been lavished
on the economy this year by the
Treasury and the Arbitration Court that
the latest missiles, first from Dr Coombs
and last week from the Tariff Board, hit-
ting at unemployment and surplus indus-
trial capacity, bring us a little nearer
reality.
The annual Tariff Board Report (now
prepared under the chairmanship of Mr
G. A. Rattigan) spells it out in capitals
for those who want to listen that the main
obstacle to stepping up the rate of growth
is the basic fact that in too many in-
dustries (particularly some of the many
claimants for increased tariff protection
over the past year) growth has over-
reached the capacity of the relatively
small Australian market to absorb the
full production potential already estab-
lished.
Now that the Tariff Board is virtually
a captive of the Department of Trade,
this almost looks like a new slant on the
time-honored and by no means quiescent
battle between Treasury and Trade, be-
cause ih ’ treasury expressed the view in
its economic survey a couple of months
ago that surplus capacity wasn’t a prob-
lem worth bothering about. It was quite
confident that surplus capacity would
disappear like magic in the natural course
of events as the yeast of general economic
activity rises. Content w'ith the massive
head of steam it sees in the private sector,
it will be remembered that the Treasurer
followed this exact line in the Budget.
If the Tariff Board is right, the
welter of surplus capacity in many in-
dustries is not going to be swallowed up
in any hurry, indeed if at all in some
industries. Nor, and this is equally
realistic, does the Tariff Board intend to
pass to the public from the industries
concerned the cost of carrying the sur-
plus by granting the necessary tariff pro-
tection. It states quite bluntly that the
builders of such capacity got themselves
into their present predicament and they
must pay the piper.
In attacking what it calls “unjustified
excess capacity” the Board attributes its
existence largely to lack of commercial
insight, such as failing to make adequate
surveys of the market before installing
plant. No names are mentioned but this
could well be aimed at Alcoa of Austra-
lia who came into the Australian smelt-
ing scene at a time when the locally
established concern, Comalco, was plan-
ning to build sufficient capacity at Bell
Bay, Tasmania, to take care of the im-
mediate future needs of aluminium con-
sumption in this country. Now Comalco
has been forced to look to outside mar-
kets for the disposal of some of its envi-
saged output of metal, and with the plan-
ning by one of its two parents, Rio Tinto-
Zinc Corporation, of a new fabricating
plant in Britain it seems assured of a
certain market for at least 10,000 tons
a year at any rate.
Board was also probably thinking
of the application of the aluminium
companies applying for protection during
the year when it ranked the “com-
petitive strategy of local and international
manufacturers” as another cause of un-
justified excess capacity. This is old hat
for the competitive industrial scene
abroad and something which the
increasingly sophisticated Australian
economy will have to get used to.
Again, pulling no punches, the Board
criticises various State authorities for in-
citing the creation of excess capacity by
offering overseas manufacturers incen-
tives to establish industries in their States
irrespective of the existence of similar
and adequate industries existing else-
where in the Commonwealth. This is
certainly a point worth chewing over by
the Premiers before they set out on their
periodic tours to woo overseas firms to
their separate territories.
It is not just a matter of overall surplus
capacity in some industries. The Tariff
Board is equally emphatic that the field
is crowded by too many firms seeking a
share of the limited market and this pre-
vents them from growing to an econo-
mic size, offering no way out of their
cost disadvantages. Apart from this, the
Board also points the bone at many firms
for not doing enough to help themselves
by paying greater attention to manage-
ment and sales promotion.
On top of all that —and this is some-
thing which has been niggling industry in
general since import restrictions were
lifted in 1960 the competitive position
of some firms has been weakened by
“certain trade practices” which have en-
couraged imports, though this year the
Board refrains from repeating suggestions
offered a year ago that some action out-
side its own terms of reference should be
taken by the Government to counter
some of these nefarious practices such
as purchasing end-runs of overseas
manufacturers below cost and virtually
dumping the goods on the Australian
market.
One gets the impression from the
Board’s preoccupation with the limited
size of the Australian market in its report
this year that it is not only these “certain
trade practices” that are worrying it on
the score of import competition, but
also the open door policy itself which
subjects local manufacturers to the full
blast of overseas competition in quanti-
ties, quality and price. Clearly it has
grave doubts on the ability of many local
firms to survive in such a raw climate.
RELIGION
The Archbishop for Profumo
“I have real admiration ”
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
newly appointed Anglican Arch-
bishop of Perth, the Most Rev.
George Appleton, has already shaken
Perth up by his expressed admiration
for the way the former British War
Minister, Mr Jack Profumo, had faced
his problems after the storm broke over
his association W'ith Christine Keeler.
In an interview on a Perth television
station he said: “I had some small part
in the Profumo affair and I have a real
admiration for the way Jack Profumo


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
05
&
ill u ,
At wine tastings through-
out the Commonwealth,
this claret stands out as
being the most enjoyable,
distinctive and authentic
in style.
* “ Estate ” (as the word "Chateau” in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product o' the winegrowers own
vineyard.
CUN
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTV. LTD.
has handled the situation. He has admit-
ted his faults, he has resigned positions
of trust and honor and is going to
try and build his life in a new way. That
is something w-hich someone ought to
express appreciation of, and I do. You
can weigh that w'hen you compare it
with what happened to the other main
character in this situation, who aroused
much criticism but ought also to arouse
some compassion.”
Asked later to amplify his statement,
he said he could not reveal his part in
the affair because it was confidential.
There is no clue to any association
between the Archbishop and the ex-War
Minister, except his previous post as
Canon Residentiary at St Paul’s Cathe-
dral and his outspoken view's on religious
and social issues.
He worked as a missionary in Burma
for 20 years before returning to London
in 1946. He once turned the crypt of
an East London church into a club for
teenagers and a meeting place for dow'n
and outs, and has advocated the re-
vision of many Anglican hymns.
Well versed in comparative religion
through his work in Asia, he gave his
first sermon in Australia on the theme
of Australia’s opportunity to re-establish
the reputation of white races in the
minds of the Asian people.
ABORIGINES
After the Bark Petition
A milestone
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
KIM BEAZLEY
The proper course
T'he thumb-printed bark petition to
Parliament from the Yirrikala people
who live on the 35,000 square-
mile aborigine reserve in Arnhem Land
has produced an epoch-making response.
The Yirrikalas possess artists to whom
Picasso has written expressing his envy-
ing admiration and whose works sell in
New York and Paris at 300 or 400 guin-
eas an item, but they became uneasy
about their future when the Gove Mining
Company, to which mining leases have
been granted, began to exploit the im-
mense bauxite deposits in an area of 140
square miles that has been excised from
the reserve.
Two Federal politicians went to in-
vestigate. They were Labor MHRs
Kim Beazley, WA, and Gordon Bryant,
Victoria.
I have since heard accusations that
Beazley and Bryant were mischief makers
because they did not merely point out
the advantages that could accrue to the
Yirrikalas from having a mining com-
pany and job opportunities located so
close and leave it go at that.
Instead they pointed out the advan-
tages that the Government believed would
accrue to the Yirrikalas from the arrange-
ments the Government had made with the
mining company to protect the Yirrikalas’
rights and interests but they also advised
the Yirrikalas to approach the National
Parliament themselves.
As I see it this w'as the reverse of mis-
chief making. If Beazley and Bryant
had been mischief making, they could
have advised the Yirrikalas to go to the
United Nations (as an aborigine group
in Victoria was advised to go) and pro-
duced serious difficulties overseas for
Australia. Or they could have left the Yir-
rikalas’ sense of grievance to be exploited
by professional troublemakers with
overseas loyalties. Advising them to go
to the National Parliament, the traditional
protector of the rights of every Aus-
tralian citizen whether of European
extraction or indigenous, was an entirely
proper course to take.
The Parliament’s reaction shows that
Beazley and Bryant did the right thing.
The Yirrikalas’ petitions were received
and noted in the traditional form. Then
Beazley moved for a Select Committee
to inquire into their grievances, with the
Committee to report its findings to the
House not later than November 12 next.
Beazley went to great pains to point
out that he was not prejudging the issue.
The Committee might find that it was
in the Yirrikalas’ best interests to have
the kind of set-up that the Government
was contemplating. He praised the qual-
ity of men the mining company were
sending into the reserve, saying that even
the unskilled laborers gave the impres-
sion that they would not trespass in any
way upon aborigines’ rights.
But he went to the core of the issue
by pointing out that only dispossessed
people could be deprived of their land
without consultation. The aborigines
were not conquered people but citizens
of the Commonwealth.
It was quite a milestone in Australia’s
history.
MORALS
IIIegitimacy
Back to World War II
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
A Doctor-MP told the Queensland
Legislative Assembly here last week
that the worst social problems of our
day were the tremendous increases in
illegitimacy and venereal disease. Dr
Peter Delamothe, a Liberal from Bowen
(North Queensland), pointed out that this
year the incidence of ex-nuptial births
in Queensland had reached 7.1 per cent,
the same rate as in World War 11. In
1951, the figure had fallen to 4.8 per


cent. Other figures given by the doctor:
In 1959, there were 32 ex-nuptial births
to children 15 years and under. By
1962, these had risen to 62. The 16 to
20 age groups had 634 illegitimate births
in 1959 and 807 three years later.
“When the number of children born
within the first nine months of marriage
is added, the total ex-nuptial conception
rate is two out of three for mothers
under the age of 20,” he said.
A corollary to all this, the doctor said,
was the rise in venereal disease. For the
1962-63 year, there were 1473 cases in
Queensland a rise of 40 per cent in
three years. In 1959-60, one child under
15 was treated for the disease. Three
years later, 30 children were.
CIVIL RIGHTS
The Public Grievance Man
Liberals for Omshudsmanship
FROM A QUEENSTAND CORRESPONDENT
SIR LEON TROUT
Watchdog
TI/hile Mr R. Askin, Leader of the
Parliamentary Liberal Party in
NSW, was calling for the appointment
of an omsbudsman a public grievance
investigator—moves to the same end were
gaining momentum in Queensland. For
months, Mr Tom Truman, senior lec-
turer in political science at Queensland
University, and Sir Leon Trout, a former
Queensland Liberal Party president, have
been plugging for the establishment of
such an appeal authority. Now, State
Liberal Party members are preparing to
vote next month on the matter. It will be
discussed at the party's State convention
in Rockhampton (Central Coast) on
October 4-6. A special sub-committee of
the party's State policy committee has
compiled a report. Last year's conven-
tion accepted in principle the idea of an
omsbudsman, and the sub-committee has
been investigating since then. It has ex-
amined the New Zealand scheme. The
Liberal Party's State secretary (Mr
Charles Porter) said last week that he
understood the sub-committee's report
covered the question of an omsbudsman
for the State and for local authorities
within the State. (Mr Truman specially
mentioned the Brisbane City Council's
bureaucrats in his Bulletin article of
September 7, although as they get many
directions from aldermen, blame is not
always theirs.) F the idea of a State
omsbudsman is approved by the conven-
tion, it would become part of the official
policy of the State Liberal Party, the
junior party in the Country-Liberal
State coalition Government.
Meanwhile, Sir Leon Trout has dis-
agreed with Prime Minister Sir Robert
Menzies who in Canberra last week re-
fused a request by Mr Webb (Labor,
Western Australia) for an omsbudsman to
“safeguard our civil liberties”. Sir
Robert’s reply indicated that he thought
an omsbudsman was unnecessary, that
Senators ar.d Members, and Parliament
itself, were sufficient. But Sir Leon said
that an omsbudsman was needed to deal
with complaints against Commonwealth
Government departments. He added:
“The Prime Minister's reluctance to have
anyone reporting to Parliament on any
of his departments’ actions or injustices
is understandable. Politicians don't wel-
come watchdogs . .
THE ORD RIVER SCHEME
80 Years Ago: September 22, 1883
HThe little party of explorers, con-
sisting of Messrs. O'Donnell,
Carr - Boyd, O'Malley, Linacre, and
West, has now been long unheard of,
and fears are entertained lest they
may have met the fate so frequently
encountered by Australian explorers,
and succumbed to lack of water, or to
attacks by the natives. It seems only
yesterday that young Carr-Boyd was
in The Bulletin office, gaily dis-
cussing the expedition he was about
to enter upon. When they were in
Sydney, they purchased horses for
shipment to Port Darwin, whence
they intended to mark a practicable
road for stock, &c., to the Ord River.
It was their intention thence to run
the river down to its supposed mouth
in Cambridge Gulf, and then
thoroughly explore and inspect big
tracts of land leased by the Cambridge
Downs Pastoral Association on the
Ord watershed. Another object was
to form a depot at the mouth of the
Ord, with a view to the establish-
ment of a future township.
Tt is time there was a stop put to it.
A The extravagance of our legislators
must-be crushed. Take, for instance,
this last Quixotic prank of the
Premier—his promise to put on the
estimates a pension of £25 a year for
old TOM BOYD, of Tumut, the last
survivor of the HOVELL-HUME ex-
ploration party in 1824. Why, how
much is £25 a year? It is very close
upon ten shillings a week. Just fancy
giving an old man ten shillings a week
to riot and revel upon, simply because
he happened, long ago, to assist in
opening up a country that is now the
finest in Australia! If we go on at
this reckless rate we shall soon be
accused of gratitude. Surely the
pension of eighteenpence a week
which we are now paying old
MARGARET, the aboriginal Queen
of Lake Macquarie, is enough for
the colony to be saddled with, with-
out this new drain on our resources.
IN THE RED
Lost Generations
Two new magazines
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TI/hen Peking’s man in Melbourne, Mr
E. F. Hill, said it was not for him
to decide to form a breakaway Com-
munist Party, what he meant was that
any such decision would be made in
Peking. But the new pro-Peking Com-
munist Party has come a step closer with
the issue of a paper, “Vanguard,”
described in its own columns as “the
only paper that upholds the universal
truth of Marxism-Leninism.”
For the time, “Vanguard,” a four-page
tabloid, will be published at irregular
intervals. The first issue contains the full
text of the nuclear test ban pact, but
only “so that people can see for them-
selves what a cruel fraud it is.” Its most
interesting announcement, however, is
that a book of speeches by E. F. Hill
will shortly be published. Included in
the book will be a stenographic record


||| <vU V* *J vf y
H; rs. U n H \ a \\
■ ■ •. a ;; U ; ; a ? u. < ;•
I / \ ,«?**!
/ \
# /
u
[ 1 i
i :
CO
i\v
m
sr.
I r-
/ i-
? }
M
r •
i
AX i
> ■**?
-is ?
7 l
*
V..v
tfsffV* \ \ ri ( { f.
WLk\\
\ /
1 1
esr ; i//o
imu — I ? i ft.
'*'*<*.
y \ VI
This machine
really earns its keep...
No desk flower—this copying machine. It’s a down-to-
earth, shirt-sleeve, day-long worker that really earns its
keep in any office, large or small.
That’s because the “Thermo-Fax” brand copying machine
is so versatile and can do so many office jobs for you.
It produces perfectly dry facsimiles of almost any typed,
written or printed original on a variety of papers both
white and coloured in just four seconds flat. No mess,
no fuss, no inks or chemicals, just four second efficiency.
Multiple copies of correspondence and figures can be
produced quicker than carbons neater and cleaner
too with new “Thermo-Fax” Systems Papers. At least
eight vital office jobs are handled with equal ease,
from speeding up your answering of correspondence,
easily and personally, to producing printed gummed
labels quicker than you can use them.
One of the range of “Thermo-Fax” copying machines can
help solve your internal paperwork problem for you. So
why not ring or write the 3M Company in your capital
city and ask them to show you how a “Thermo-Fax” ma-
chine can best earn its keep in your office.
rmo
BRAND
TRADEMARK
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
ANVdUUDD
2 WENTWORTH AVE., SYDNEY 2-0930 ■ 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE ST., SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 61-3841 H 9 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
LA 5971-6 ■ 178 BARRY PARADE. BRISBANE 5-4131 ■ 238 LORD STREET. PERTH 28-4651 ■ 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART 3-1620


36in.
V::
CLEAR WATER
is ensured by using “ABBOT” water filters
Ideal for farms, stations and for hot-water systems,
and household requirements. Easy to install. Inexpensive
to operate and will last a lifetime. Large quantities in
use throughout Australasia. Other types for different
conditions available.
Send for detailed leaflet today
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Agents and Manufacturers of “Everlasting” Boiler Blow
off Valves, “Curvilinear” Mining Tables, Rapid Magnetic
Machines, Ellison Switch Gear, Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc.
of talks between L. Sharkey, R. Dixon
and Mao Tse-tung presumably sup-
plied by courtesy of Mao’s tape recorders.
But at the same time Communists of
the Moscow persuasion are also pro-
ducing a new magazine this one,
called “Arena,” aimed at regaining their
lost influence among intellectuals and
students. Its publishers hope it will be
“the most stimulating event in ‘little’
magazine publication for years.”
The present editorial board consists
of Rex Mortimer, a full-time Communist
functionary, Mr Geoffrey Sharp, a lec-
turer in Melbourne University, John M.
Legge, a leading member of the Com-
munist-front Labor Club, and son of
John W. Legge, reader in biochemistry
and veteran Communist, and finally
Henry Zimmerman. Mr Zimmerman is
a 39-year-old part-time law student who
has recently returned after 15 months in
the Soviet Union. He is widely believed
to be a grey eminence behind the re-
cent revival of the University Labor
Club.
Contributors to “Arena” include Lloyd
Churchward on pressure group theory
and political pluralism—Mr J. D. Blake,
who reviews unfavorably a recent book
on “Marxist Ethics” by Dr E. Kamenka
(which was also attacked recently in the
Soviet journal “Problems of Philo-
sophy”), Mrs N. Sharp, who contributes
a closely reasoned effort on State Aid
to Catholic Schools, and finally an article
by Mr Geoff Sharp on modern American
sociology and the task facing Com-
munists operating among intellectuals. In
universities this boils down to working
for the kind of situation now prevailing
on those English campuses where unila-
teralism sets the tone.
The most striking feature of “Arena”
is its intellectual sophistication, unusual
among Australian Communists. Another
interesting aspect of the “Arena”
group is the fact that writer
Judah Waten, who invariably bullocks
his way into Communist cultural activi-
ties, is not associated with it. This ap-
pears to be the choice of the group,
rather than of Waten.
TASMANIA
The Last Step in
the Aylett Affair
Still seeking endorsement
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
SENATOR G. COLE
After his seat
IA/foRE because he has embarrassed and
discredited the Labor Party than
because he has failed to meet even his
obligations to the electors, the ALP is
determined to get rid of Tasmania’s ab-
sentee Senator “Bill” Aylett.
Aylett didn’t take the hint to seek
the Queensland endorsement appropriate
to a permanent resident of the Gold
Coast. Neither has his former home
State received any intimation that he
might quit his profitable business enter-
prises at Surfers Paradise; but out of
the blue has come his application for
endorsement as a member of the Tas-
manian Labor team for next Senate
election.
Earlier it had been suggested that
the now elderly Aylett might not seek
re-election. Born in 1900 and a senator
since 1937, Aylett has repeatedly stated
that his chronic physical disabilities de-
mand his living in Queensland’s warmth,
and he could quit, take his pension and
use it to supplement his business earn-
ings. This would involve loss of parlia-
mentary perks, but he seldom uses his
travel privileges or enjoys the lush faci-
lities of the Senate.
His application for endorsement will
go before a special December con-
ference of the State ALP, called to select
candidates for the next Federal and
State elections. Party officials take a
bleak view of his reappearance, which
can do the party no good and may blight
the hopes of men who have worked a
long time for Senate seats. DLP Leader
George Cole comes up at the next
Senate election, and both the Liberals
and the ALP have eyes on his seat.
So has the new Tasmanian Country
Party. Justin O’Byrne, the other retiring
Labor senator, can be regarded as home
and hosed.
Seeking endorsement are the popular
and effective Bert Lacey, State secre-
tary of the ALP since 1947, and Don
Devitt, who was narrowly pipped at
last election when the Independent Dr.
Turnbull upset calculations by taking the
fifth Tasmanian Senate seat. Labor men
say they’ve earned the right to an open
go.
The odds are very long against Aylett’s
repeating his successful defiance of the
past, when he won as an unendorsed
candidate after failing to secure a place
on the party ticket.
LABOR
Indian Splits
Political unionism
FROM LLOYD ROSS IN CALCUTTA
A soka Mehta, a leading anti-Congress
socialist and prolific writer on the
problems of trade unionism in under-
developed countries, has written: “The


AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
C.H-RHHi
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
rq
ULOV
Vodka
m
01!
main defects of Asian trade unionism are
their unsound finances, low and irregular
membership, faulty administrative and
accounts work, lack of experience and
maturity among union leaders, influence
of outsiders, exploitation for political
purposes, rivalry and multiplicity of
unions’ loose structure at various levels,
absence of welfare work and heavy re-
liance on government.”
After my short visit to India I am not
in a position to comment on all the de-
tails of that indictment, but there are
obvious signs of serious disunity among
Indian unions, of divisions which have
their origin in political aims and needs.
There are four central trade union
bodies, each claiming to be the ACTU
of India They are all closely linked with
different political parties The Congress
Party, the Communist Party, the Praja
Socialist Party, and the Revolutionary
Socialist Party.
During the one day I talked to officials
of two large railway unions the
National Federation of Indian Railway-
men and the All India Railwaymen’s
Federation. The former (NFIR) supports
the Congress Party, the latter (AIRF) is
associated with the Socialists. So long
as we discussed working conditions there
did not seem to be any serious differences
between the two railway unions, but as
soon as attitudes to strikes and to politics
were mentioned, the two unions split
asunder.
The National Federation of Indian
Railwaymen accepts not only the strict
logic of being the industrial expression
of the governing Congress Party but has
developed a theory of responsibility.
When, in 1960, the rival AIRF conducted
a strike, the NFIR helped to break the
strike. To the NFIR the actions of the
AIRF are traitorous since they are jeop-
ardising the success of India’s plans of
development.
Or take the recent Bombay strike.
More than 1000 people were arrested
during the strike. All except those in-
volved in crimes of violence were re-
leased. The strike developed from cur-
rent unrest, due to rising prices, but it
is believed that it was provoked by the
desire of a “Left” Socialist group to
retain their hold over Bombay workers.
That sounds like an Australian set-up
but there are two basic differences.
Very rarely and then only temporarily
has Australian unionism split along poli-
tical grounds. Communists, Socialists
and ALP have remained in their organisa-
tions and fought within them. Moreover,
the trade union formed the Labor Party,
whereas in India the politicians have set
out to form unions and make them in-
struments of political aims and ambition.
THE FIRST LANDING
The Chief Justice’s
Committee
Getting the Facts
FROM M. H. ELLIS IN SYDNEY
HERRON, C.J.
A precedent
Tn celebration of the 175th anniversary
of Governor Phillip's landing in
Australia a large number of historic
sites are to be marked. It is to be hoped
they will be done more accurately than
some have been in the past when the
say-so of professed historians have been
accepted without a proper check as
is evidenced by the pillar erected by the
Royal Australian Historical Society
which sites the first Government House
at the corner of Bridge and Phillip
Streets, whereas from February 20, 1788,
to the end of May, 1789, the Governor
occupied a prefabricated house which
he had brought with him and erected
somewhere at the south-eastern end of
Macquarie Place.
In the current markings of sites the
Sydney City Council is going to great
pains about the most important one
the site of the actual landing and display
of the English colors on January 25,
1788, which, in fact, is the foundation
site of the Colony. In some manner it
has come to be accepted that this land-
ing took place midway down the western
side of Sydney Cove in the vicinity of
the Overseas Terminal, where it is al-
leged that the union flag was hung up on
a gum tree.
This picturesque legend has obtained
so much credence that it was even per-
petuated in the historical tableau pre-
sented before the Queen early this year.
It was, however, disputed by the His-
torical Committee of the Pioneers’ Club
which suggested to the Lord Mayor,
Alderman Jensen, a scheme for a fact-
finding committee consisting of a Sup-
reme Court Judge and appropriate tech-
nical non-historians to sift evidence and
officially determine the spot on which
Phillip, in effect, took possession of the
soil of Sydney by raising the British
flag in Sydney Cove. The Lord Mayor
promptly agreed and the committee en-
dorsed his agreement. The committee
is now coming into being under the
chairmanship of the Chief Justice, Mr
Justice Herron.
It is a precedent which other public
bodies might follow.


Mr Methodism
The Rev. Alan Walker, Evangelist, Reformer, Advertising Man
By PETER COLEMAN
Even before Mr Louw implied he
might be a liar the Afrikaner
racialists demanded the South
African Methodists cancel the Rev.
Walker’s Mission to South Africa, it was
already too late Mr Walker's public
relations officer, Harold Henderson,
was already there and the plans worked
out in detail: the Defence Department
had agreed to having a 100-foot illu-
minated cross put up on Signal Hill to
shine from Sea Point across to Stellen-
bosch; the Goodwood Stadium had been
booked for mass rallies in Capetown
and the Caledonian Park in Pretoria;
an aerodrag had been organised to
advertise the Mission across the Pen-
insula; 20,000 lapel badges had been dis-
tributed; 10,001 copies of Mr Walker’s
book “Christ is Enough” had been bought
and chapters Torn it serialised in Metho-
dist Press; and 1,000 seats had been
booked for the citizens’ dinner. Long
before he arrived, Mr Walker’s tall, up-
right figure, his tanned, surfer’s face—
which makes him look decidedly
younger than his 52 years and his
drooping, rather melancholy pale blue
eyes were almost as well known in South
Africa as in Australia.
For Mr Walker this is not just
1963’s Mission. True, he does one
each year. Last year it was Texas,
before that Canada, and next year
it will take in Nebraska, Missouri,
Ohio and California. Earlier on he
held Missions in Europe and New
Zealand, and one for Christian-Muslim
understanding in the Lebanon. Nor
will this year’s be the biggest Mis-
sion; that was obviously the Mission
to the Nation (Australia) which was
planned as a short, sharp cam-
paign of six months in 1953 but lasted
four years—by far the greatest of what
he calls the pre-Graham campaigns ever
witnessed in Australia. But the four weeks
in South Africa will certainly be
his most challenging Mission —in a coun-
try where his fame is great but which
officially adopts racial policies he has
already attacked and where a word out
of place may lead to violence. It will be
the biggest test yet for that particular
mixture of evangelistic message and ad-
vertising agency techniques that he per-
fected in the 19505. He can be sure of
one thing —he will, in his phrase, “hit
the headlines”.
For Alan Walker, MA, DD, it is a
long way from that day in 1928 when the
poor scholar, who had failed in second
year at Fort Street High School and left
after third year to be a counter-jumper
at David lones’ department store, fell on
his knees to pray in the hotel suite of
the visiting American evangelist Gypsy
Smith. Until this conversion in the Hotel
Sydney —his lather, a Methodist mini-
ster in Newtown, had taken him along—
he had planned to be a businessman and
“I still have,” he says, “a farewell letter
from one of David Jones' directors to
the effect that had I stayed on I would
surely have reached the top.”
But in one sense by deciding to become
a preacher he was maintaining the fam-
ily tradition. He is the 13th Walker to be
a minister since the Walkers settled in
the Hawkesbury district about 1810
since, to be precise, the second genera-
tion Walker, John Joseph, had got so
drunk at a funeral wake that, in his
shame, he took to the Bible, was con-
verted to a New Life, and became the
first Walker preacher.
Young Alan Walker with his savings
of £6O, supplemented by hawking fruit
and vegetables from door to door be-
tween Marrickville and Strathfield, did
three years at Leigh Hall to qualify as
a Methodist minister (and to matriculate
to the University of Sydney). Ordained
in 1934, appointed Associate Director of
the Methodist Youth Department in 1936,
he continued his studies and completed
an Arts degree, concentrating on soci-
ology and anthropology under the influ-
ence of Professor E. P. Elkin.
The next turning point in his career
was in 1938 when two of his admirers,
a flour miller and a politician, agreed to
finance him for a year overseas. It was
in London that he had a fateful meeting
with Dr Donald Soper, the controversial
pacifist and socialist (and had the experi-
ence of preaching in Soper's famous
pulpit in Kingsway Hall). Soper’s pacifism
as much as Gypsy Smith’s evangelism
shaped Walker's subsequent career. As
Walker was leaving for home, he recalls:
Soper said: ‘Alan, a minister can be a
policeman, a pirate or a pacifist. What
will you be?’ It was not until our ship
was crossing the Great Australian Bight
that I made my decision and God gave
me Christian pacifism”.
Soon after he began to “hit the
headlines”. By now married to Winif-
red Channon, a physiotherapist and
an accredited Methodist preacher she
too will be preaching in South Africa
he took up his new ministry on the coal-
fields at Cessnock. On his first day there
he asked for and got time on the local
radio station for a weekly broadcast, and
about the same time his apparently un-
ending series of books and booklets be-
gan to appear. With over 250,000 sales
he is, commercially, the most successful
Christian apologist in Australia, though
he minimises his royalties by keeping the
prices low. Then in September, 1939, he
signed the Coalfields Manifesto opposing
the war-effort. Only a handful of Metho-
dists and the Communists supported him.
At first his church began to empty
and he feared he would have to resign.
But the tide turned in Lent, 1940; his
church began to fill again, and he stayed
on in Cessnock until 1944, preaching and
studying the coal industry—studies
which culminated in his M.A. thesis
and the book “Coal-town’’, a sociological
survey and a call for nationalisation of
the mines. (“I still have a letter from
Professor Elkin saying the thesis was of
Ph.D. standard.”)
At one point in those days his involve-
ment in politics and his disappoint-
ment with the Church's position over
the war was so great that he consid-
ered leaving the Church for a political
career. Support for the Labor Party was


mm
A
W&
A real live ANGEL
In a wonderful world of fending and caring, our lovely
nurses are indeed real live angels. And every nurse you'il
ever see always looks fresh, crisp, and neat as a pin thanks
to Cesarine. Used almost exclusively by every leading Hospital
in Australia, Cesarine is proud of its wonderful record of
service. Hospital uniforms take really hard wear they're
laundered frequently severely. Thanks to Cesarine, they
always look smart, stylish, fresh and crisp. Make Cesarine your
first choice for uniforms.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD. —Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
IW
. SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORMLY
CPB3I
in the family tradition one of his
uncles had written a book “The Gospel
and Labor” and his childhood in
Newtown, his youth in the depression
and his experiences in Cessnock, had re-
inforced his family sympathies. Then a
citizens’ committee in Cessnock urged
him to stand for Parliament. “I felt the
temptation,” he said, “but I rejected it.
I'm sure God wanted me to be a mini-
ster. I’ve not been tempted since”.
He has of course participated in politi-
cal debates since then advocating
nationalisation, visiting Mr Chifley about
the 1949 coal strike, acting as adviser to
one of Dr Evatt’s diplomatic missions to
the United Nations and attacking the
DLP, not to mention his views on
nuclear tests but these sorties, he in-
sists, have always been in his capacity as
a Christian minister.
Lessons from Advertising
Tt was only after he left Cessnock, in his
A ten years as Superintendent of the
Waverley Methodist Mission and his four
hectic years Director of the Mission to
the Nation, that he really became Mr
Methodism in Australia, the Man in a
Hurry to Save Souls with his car
always parked at an angle for a quick
getaway.
His success, he believes, is largely due
to his solution of the two problems, Lan-
guage and Message. “The Church has
great ideas but it can’t get them across:
I’m no theologian. I’m a middle-man
trying to communicate the gospel. But I
love the sentence: ‘the common people
heard him gladly’. I want to be heard
gladly. That is why I've always valued the
help of Hansen Rubensohn, of the adver-
tising agency”.
Mr Rubensohn perhaps the third
great influence after Gypsy Smith and
Donald Soper came into Mr Walker’s
life about 1953. “He taught me to drop
my in-group academic language, to drop
all four-syllable words, and to talk in
short sentences”. When the Mission to the
Nation started in 1953, Mr Rubensohn,
anxious to help in a purely honorary
way, drew up a campaign programme in
a two-color brochure. “When they saw it,
my friends thought I had gone mad”.
The campaign is now history. In three
years Walker preached to 1,000,000
people throughout Australia and New
Guinea usually in “neutral” (i.e., pub-
lic) halls. “We didn’t want to seem too
‘churchy’ ”.
Mr Walker himself received an OBE
and invitations to America, Canada, New
Zealand, the Middle East. He was
visiting Professor of Evangelism at the
Boston School of Theology, and in Chi-
cago he received an Honorary Doctorate
of Divinity from Bethany Biblical Sent-
inary. (“Of course I never use the blanky
thing in Australia”.)
On his return from America in 1958
he began his TV programme, “I Chal-
lenge the Minister”. Seen in all States by
up to 500,000 people in each week, its
rating has been as high as 19 but aver-
ages 9-10. This, he points out, “is pretty
high for Sunday afternoons when only
about 26 per cent of sets are on.”
But one of his greatest exercises in
popular communication has been his
more recent Life-Line Movement. Al-
ways looking for a phrase that will “hit
the headlines", the name "Life-Line” was
selected when a newspaper sub. made
a heading of these words after picking
them out from a statement made by
Walker explaining his plans. The next
step was the right slogan. Mr Walker


• v
for people with strong ideas about coffee
(and its price)
Nescafe Espresso is a stronger, richer coffee. Specially
prepared for the one person in three who prefers more
strength, more full-bodied flavour than you find in regular
instant coffees. It is a strong, high roast instant coffee
for strong-minded people who appreciate only the best.
And now Nescafe Espresso is at a new popular price.
Nescafe espreSSO
INSTANT
COFFEE
NE3O6


'
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
SUPERS NEW
ASAHI PENTAX MODELS
y cv ...nr u„;n <
Asahi PENiAX SV with built in self timer
and juftomatic resetting film counter. Auto-
matic Super Takumar Fl.B lens and E.R.
case £9O.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with automatic re-
setting film counter. Automatic Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case £75.
Full range of Auto-Takumar Lenses
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo dealer
C334/1
hit on “Help is as near as the Telephone”,
but Mr Rubensohn suggested the word
“close” instead of “near”. Mr Walker
agreed.
Life-Line is designed to reach “the
lonely crowd”—the 1,000,000 people
in Sydney who have no one to turn to
when faced with the fear of death, the
temptation of suicide, a broken home,
the prospect of illegitimacy, desertion,
insanity, physical agony. Its aim, he says,
is to place the mantle of Christ over
Sydney.
The centre of the Movement is a tele-
phone control room manned 24 hours a
day in four shifts; its number, 31 0971,
is listed on the inside front cover of the
telephone book under Emergencies. The
idea is that a sufferer rings, and a Trouble
Team in radio-controlled cars are always
on call. Their emergency counselling is
followed up by Answers in Depth pro-
vided by the legal, medical, employment,
psychiatric and financial panels.
The busiest period for the Trouble
Teams is 5.30 p.m. to 10 when the shift
has to be doubled because of the load.
The total number of callers per day is
between 25 and 30, most of them at
night. One minor consequence is that
Mr Walker can now get some uninter-
rupted nights’ sleep; for some years
hardly a night passed without some
phone call from a distraught person or
a practical joker. “I have never had a
silent number”.
The Double Thrust
Out this effort to have himself “heard
gladly” is only as good as the mes-
sage he has to give which he calls
the Double Thrust. “My friends teli me”,
he says, “that as far as I have any place
in the Church it is in the synthesis of
personal salvation and social reform.
When we are planning a Mission, we
don’t want to make just a ‘Come to
Jesus’ appeal of course I’m not say-
ing that scornfully we want to cru-
sade on social as well as personal issues”.
Hardly a day passes without Mr Walk-
er being quoted on almost any social
question with the odd exception of
censorship. (“I’ve been influenced here by
good old Milton. But I do believe un-
redeemed man cannot be left to himself.
The way films are going, for example,
we'll soon reach the ultimate stage of
seeing a sex act on the screen. In book
censorship we just have to trust the
authorities, as we trust other authorities
to keep the sewers clean. I myself haven’t
read ‘Lady Chatterley’s Lover’. I don't
want to read it. I wouldn’t waste my
time. There are too many things to
read, as Emerson said”.)
But otherwise, day in day out, the pub-
lic reads of his attacks on drinking or
gambling (including condemnation of
the Government for having a Melbourne
Cup stamp and the Catholics for en-
couraging housie-housie); of the forma-
tion of Gamblers Anonymous to help
the victims; of the demand for a Theology
of Growth appropriate to a young South-
ern Hemisphere Country with a Future
instead of our inherited Theology of
Crisis appropriate to Europe; of attacks
on “White Australia”, on avaricious
capitalism, on the Exmouth Gulf Base,
on nuclear tests, on the non-recognition
of Red China . . .
“I know people call me a fellow-travel-
ler. But I have never had anything to do
with Communists. I’ve got nothing on
the record to show it. One of my first
books was ‘John Wesley or Karl Marx’,
“Certainly I do think Christianity can
come to terms with Communism . . .
It’s doing it already, in Russia. China
is a more serious problem, but we’ve
mishandled this by keeping her out of
the United Nations. It’s like teenage de-
linquents: if 1 can get them inside our
fellowship for a year, we can save them.
It would be the same with China in UN.”
There is no doubt that the charge of
fellow-travelling both wounds and con-
fuses him though it is just as obvious
that the charge will continue to be made
while he continues to see the troubles of
the world as due to the delinquency of
people who do not share his faith in
Methodist Togetherness.
In his own “electorate”, that ring of
Sydney’s middle suburbia from Waverley,
Rockdale, Eastwood, Epping, Roseville.
Chatswood. Artarmon around to Manly,
the faith is strong. (It is weak in the ex-
tremes of Redfern or Newtown, Vaucluse
or Wahroonga.) Himself a Roseville man,
Mr Walker’s Methodists are neatly
dressed, mild-mannered, clean living
Christians, concerned with the problems
of buying a home, holding a family to-
gether, keeping up appearances, doing
the right thing by wife, husband, child-
ren, fellow-workers, employers or em-
ployees . . . and mankind. It is a religion
of “wholesome” pleasures and definite ob-
ligations, without self-abasement or fana-
ticism. Its believers are alarmed by loose-
living, drunkenness, race bigotry and
war. When they rally on Pleasant Sunday
Afternoons at the Lyceum Theatre to
hear Mr Walker's passionate and timely
appeals to the leaders of the world (he
makes a point of timeliness while in
the Anglican Cathedral they are probably
talking about the Battle for Britain and
across in St Mary's the Qatholics are
carrying on about State. Aid, Mr Walker
will be addressing Mr Kennedy or Mr
Khrushchev about nuclear tests) his
listeners are convinced that crime, war
and international delinquency would dis-
appear if everyone shared the ideals of
decent Christian Anglo-Saxon suburban-
ites. And they know that while the men
of Djakarta, Peking, Cairo, Moscow or
. . . Johannesburg seem indifferent to
the spirit of Rockdale and Eastwood,
there is no excuse for complacency. . . .
After South Africa, Mr Walker has
many years of crusading ahead of him
yet.


Here’s a
Christmas Gift
that will go
boomeranging to your
friends each month.
WALKABOUT, Australia's way of life
magazine is packed with interesting articles
and illustrations each month, so by just
filling in the coupon, we will arrange for
your friend's gift subscription to be sent
monthly to any part of the world. This
is a- wonderful way of spreading your
Christmas gift over twelve months.
May we suggest you start your gift with
the Special Annual WALKABOUT, which
this year is an 80-page issue with a 24-
page colour supplement? Selling for 4/6d.
this is included in regular subscription
rates.
Single copies of the Special Annual Issue
will be posted to friends overseas at your
request. Send us 4/6d. plus postage
(within Australia, New Zealand and Fiji
1 Od., Britain, Ireland and Commonwealth
countries lid., other countries l/Bd.) for
each issue you want sent, the names and
addresses of the recipients, and your name
and address so we can enclose a gift card.
SUBSCRIPTION FORM
To WALKABOUT,
18 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(Please write in BLOCK LETTERS)
I would like WALKABOUT sent for
months
to the address below. I enclose remittance
of
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
State
Country
My name and address
Subscription to start with issue dated
This is a =! ; NEW/RENEWED subscription,
as necessary to avoid duplication.
OUT AND ABOUT
Berman
off the Bar-
Stool
No preaching, no playing down
By CHARLES SRIBER
To Australians, depending for their
concept of the United States on
the various image dispensers, Shel-
ley Berman rounds out the picture nicely.
There he is, portrayer of the neurotic,
hungover, vexed American, chain-smok-
ing himself into abstracted confusion,
sitting quite naturally on a bar-
stool.
Of course, Berman does have a piece
called “The Hangover”, does talk to an
imaginary psychiatrist, does straddle a
bar-stool and appears somewhat less than
at ease with the world. But it is no less
dangerous to assess the record or night-
club Berman as the complete man than
it is to accept the United States as a
nerve-frayed nation headed rapidly for
the glue factory.
Shelley Berman is first and foremost
an actor. His contes have as little in
common with the “Funny thing happened
to me” comedian as they have with the
hipster outpourings of Lenny Bruce. His
act is the result of long and tortuous
work in the theatre where he has played
in everything from summer stock to
musicals.
When I saw Shelley Berman in the
second show of his first night in Sydney
it was hard to gauge reaction. To begin
with, Chequers was jam-packed with an
audience, many of whom had obviously
come on from the Oistrakh concert at
the Town Hall. Whether they came to
unwind, for further stimulation or be-
cause many of them had to have some
place to go, I don't know. The point is
that they were an above-average audi-
ence. Most of them were “with” the very
American urban humor, a few were
annoyed that they couldn’t get with it
and yelled interruptions that were drown-
ed in the general laughter. Quite a num-
ber obviously reasoned that this Shelley
Berman was a big name, therefore he
must be funny.
Before the show his secretary looked
grave when I said I would like to inter-
view him. He had left strict instructions
that there were to be no Press interviews
until two days after his first show. I must
remember that his was a one-man show;
not an easy thing. It was most unlikely
that he could spare me even the few
minutes I asked for.
When, after the show, his Sydney
agent tapped me on the shoulder I was
surprised. Mr Berman would see me.
Only briefly. Five minutes. No more. He
was tired, worn out, the climate had
affected him, he had a cold. His docter
was with him now. So I wasn't prepared
for the rather bouncy Berman who
strode smiling from his dressing room,
shook hands and sat down at the table
with me. He began talking. A half an
hour later he was still talking.
There is nothing of the keyed-up per-
former about Shelley Berman. He
answered questions considerately, mod-
estly and with a great deal of genuine
charm. “Nervous? No, I wasn’t nervous.
Oh, I told them they made me nervous,
but don't you believe it. They were a
very good audience and playing here
was easy. Did I feel they were with me?
Yes, indeed. You can say I’ve found Aus-
tralian audiences quite as sophisticated
as American. In fact, tonight, I loved
them. I find night-club audiences pretty
much the same and that mob out there
were about par. Of course, tomorrow
I might get an audience I’ll hate. There's
a distinct difference with theatre audi-
ences. In Melbourne I played in a
theatre. It was easier of course and re-
quired a different approach.
“This similarity of audiences is quite
amazing. As long as they can understand
me I can make them follow.” He smiled
and shrugged. “Yet look at Danny Kaye,
he played to all those kids got them
laughing without understanding a word.
I’d like to do a show completely in
mime. That would be a real challenge.
I’m getting something ready now. I asked
my staff the other day; ‘Give me a list of
doors, any kind of doors!’ and they let
me have them garage doors, front
doors, cupboard doors. I’ll plan a mime
around doors.”


:
m "•
2
Si
n
ZJ
1s
3
o :
JL <JL
“You’ve no idea the trouble we go to . .
... Not to make a cup of coffee, of course. But we do
go to extremes to make good petroleum products
and petroleum chemicals and to ensure at all times
that Shell people everywhere
are always ready to help you
with the best products on the market.
IVs got to be good to be Shell
SHELL
PWS32
Shelley Berman ranged briefly through
his career. The piece he does about the
Jewish boy on the ‘phone to his father
only approximates his own story. He
joined the Goodman Theatre school in
Chicago when he came out of the Navy
in 1945. He acted his head off and made
a living selling pots and pans in a depart-
ment store. At the school he met an
aspiring actress in Sarah Herman. They
married and she helped pay the family
bills by wrapping gifts in another
store.
Shelley Berman now has a nine-room
apartment in New York, his LPs sell in
millions and he presumably dictates his
own performance fees. He travels with
his wife, a manager and a secretary.
I asked him his views on social com-
ment. “I’m against it. I am an enter-
tainer. I consider it the duty of an enter-
tainer above all to entertain. If, in the
course of his work, something that might
be construed as social comment gets
through, then it’s because this is inherent
in the entertainer. I make it a principle
to avoid preaching.”
It was when his voice croaked a couple
of times that I reminded him he must
be tired; he'd done two shows, had a
cold; it was 2.30 a.m. He seemed sur-
prised at the information and grinned
before getting up to leave. “God, I enjoy
talking,” he said.
A Four-Books-a-Year Man
“ Wonderful things in publishing”
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Three times in one week recently
Sydney writer Olaf Ruhen heard
the most gratifying sound a writer
can hear —the thud of author’s copies in
the letter-box. And these were only three-
quarters of his production this year. He
has published “Tangaroa’s Godchild”,
“The Flockmaster”, “Mountains in the
Clouds” and now “Minerva Reef”.
“Minerva Reef” sold 10,000 copies in
three days in New Zealand and 330
copies in one bookshop there in one
afternoon.
For the past couple of weeks Mr
Ruhen has been away from his type-
writer looking after Captain and Mrs
David Fifita, of Tonga, who have visited
Australia and New Zealand on a pro-
motion tour for “Minerva Reef”. In
this book Mr Ruhen tells the story of
how Captain Fifita commanded the 12
men who survived for 101 days on the
Minerva Reef, 300 miles from land, last
year.
Four books in a year tend to make
Mr Ruhen sound rather like a word-
factory. However, this is the pay-off of
a lifetime of travel, some years in journ-
alism so often a graveyard rather than
a seedbed for promising writers and
many years of learning how to get the
free-lance game by the throat.
He has emerged from all this with a
reputation for on-again, off-again feud-
ing in a mild way with other writers.
This is balanced by his reputation for
being forthcoming with practical help
for those who haven’t got the game by
the throat. He recently gave two Syd-
ney journalists their first leg into the
difficult American market. But this sort
of help isn’t given to everyone who
stands next to him in a bar. “Some
people want to write, others want to be
writers”, he says, and he has nothing
to offer people who want to be writers.
It would be hard to say where Mr
Ruhen thinks he fits into the Australian
literary scene (if such a thing exists), but
his estimates of where other people fit
are pretty shrewd. He was generous in
praise of Hal Porter, and hopes that his
“View from the Cast Iron Balcony” will


" ,
•: A
m
wmmmmmm*
' s ,'Xi®Kg24;
: ■
The art of bending
over backwards
All Qantas people are trained to bend over backwards.
They do it easily, cheerfully, constantly.
It’s a Qantas custom.
Air crew do it.
Engineers do it.
Reservation officials do it.
Line managers, branch and section managers do it.
Cooks and caterers backbend with the best.
So do ground crews.
And cargo consultants.
Qantas travel agents bend over backwards.
So do Qantas people overseas.
There’s nothing particularly new about it—
fact is,
it’s been going on for 42 years.
And that, of course, is why Qantas is so good at it.
And why it’s so good for Qantas travellers.
It’s the sort of thing that makes
all the difference
between air travel and Qantas travel.
It means quite simply that Qantas people the world over
bend over backwards
to make certain your overseas trip
is exactly what you’d like it to be.
Unbending is something else that Qantas people
do with natural ease. It comes home to you in
the warm and friendly way things are done for you—
in the ‘now you’re our guest’ atmosphere that
greets you wherever you go. It’s fun
to go along with Qantas.
42 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
Q 22.105.43
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in association with Air India. b.0.A.C., S.A.A. and 1 tAL.


DOES WORK STOP
EACH TIME HE DOES?
DO YOU HANDLE
CORRESPONDENCE EFFICIENTLY?
■
PHILIPS
XJ?
HILIPS
DICTATION MACHINES
Slash your correspondence hand-
ling costs by introducing a fully
integrated dictation machine sys-
tem to speed your written corres-
pondence.
Why not initiate, AT NO COST
TO YOUR FIRM, a survey to
accurately determine the savings
possible. Our free Dictation
Machine Systems Analysis Hand-
book tells you how.
SEND FOR IT TODAY.
WRITE FOR FREE BOOKLET
1 PLEASE SEND COUPON TO: I
I Philips Electrical Industries Pty. Ltd.
| Box 2703, G.P.0., Sydney.
I tl Details of the Philips Advisory Service;
| tt A copy of the Philips Handbook on Cor- |
i respondence System Analysis.
1 NAME |
j COMPANY I
I ADDRESS I
I !
enable him to break through to wider
recognition.
“Wonderful things have happened in
Australian publishing in the past few
years”, Mr Ruhen said. “Books are being
written that should be written, so that
Australians can know what they are and
where they belong, although there are
still gaps, of course. But it is just as im-
portant for Z to communicate with Y as
for B to communicate with A. We need
our Maysie Greigs and Carter Browns
as much as our Patrick Whites. And
I’m afraid that in my opinion a ‘popular’
writer like Maysie Greig is a much better
writer than some of the literary ladies”.
Mr Ruhen normally works for four
hours each morning, Monday to Friday,
and says he still devotes six months of
the year to travel. Travel in his way
of thinking is rarely jet-flight or boat-
deck stuff. This year he undertook a lec-
ture tour for the Commonwealth Literary
Fund, a fairly daunting venture. Next
year he hopes to return to Tonga where
friends have offered to help him build a
small house. He will then help them
build an open boat from which they plan
to go whaling with harpoons. “A whale
is worth £7OO in Tonga”, Mr Ruhen
said. “They eat the meat and throw
away the blubber. The boat will cost
£5OO so that if we get even one whale
we’ll be ahead”. Will a book come out
of this? Perhaps, but otherwise Mr
Ruhen will set it down to experience.
Another expedition which so far Mr
Ruhen has set down to experience was a
trip he made a couple of years ago with
five aboriginal drovers, 300 head of
cattle and 80 horses over part of the
country covered by Frank Jardine from
Rockhampton to the tip of Cape York
100 years ago. Mr Ruhen is also col-
lecting material on “Bully” Hayes, buc-
caneer and blackbirder, who sailed the
Pacific at about the same time.
At present Mr Ruhen is collecting his
sea-stories for publication in New Zea-
land. Although he has had more than
20 short stories published in “The Satur-
day Evening Post” he is not dismayed
because the Post’s fluctuating fortunes
have temporarily dried up this source of
income. “Short stories bring in more
money quickly but books can do better
in the long run”, he said. He is not
even sure what is happening to the
“Post” because, by one of the caprices
of an addressing machine, his copy is
no longer coming to him.
The Magic Name Oistrakh
Breaking the language harrier
By MARGARET CLARKE
Igor Oistrakh began his career as a
virtuoso violinist with a distinct ad-
vantage the magic name “Ois-
trakh.” When he first came to the West
from Moscow his father David had pre-
pared the ground for him over a period
of almost two decades. And when he
arrived in Australia the name “Ois-
trakh” had been advance publicity
enough to warrant a special orchestral
concert and to bring appreciable crowds
to his rehearsals.
Igor, in his early thirties, is a short,
rather stocky man with crisp black hair,
inscrutable teapot-brown eyes and a
roundish pale face. He walked on to
the rehearsal platform in a dark business
suit of American cut. Under his arm was
his precious and almost priceless Guar-
nierius violin, date 1679, from the So-
viet State collection perhaps once the
possession of some Russian aristocrat
dilettante.
The conductor’s suave, ironic Italian
face was framed by hunched shoulders
in a white bulky-knit as he raised his
baton. The bass sonorities of ’cellos,
violas and bassoon, and presently a
horn, announced that Brahms’ violin
concerto was under way. In a moment
or two the nightingale burst from the
thicket as Oistrakh drew his bow across
the strings.
Before leaving home I had played
my recording of this work with Ois-
trakh pere as soloist; now I tried to
gauge the differences in the approach of
father and son. This concerto is a com-
plex song for violin striving against an
orchestra, or, in pictorial terms, a night-
ingale singing in the Vienna woods amid
the murmurs and whisperings of dusk
when an autumn breeze is blowing down
the leaves. Oistrakh pere is a little bit
cool about this, and austere, but Igor
sang his song with all the anguish and
beauty of the nightingale in Swinburne’s
poem.
Later I asked him could he put into
words how his conception of the work
differed from that of his father; he
couldn’t, at least not in English.
Igor had his first violin lessons from
his father at the age of six; by this
time the family had moved from Odessa,
where Igor, and David too, was born;
Igor studied the violin and piano at the
conservatorium in Moscow, and nearly
became a pianist, but now has married
(Continued on page 21)


*e<
I
1
38
: :siv
Idea for a new era
In 1882, at the age of 25, W. S. Burroughs gave up book-
keeping to work on a revolutionary idea. This was to make a
machine that would add mechanically and obviate error.
He died at the age of 41. The long line of diverse machines
that stem from his invention is a lasting memorial to his
genius. Today, Burroughs make most of the world’s
accounting and business machines.
The range includes adding machines, cash registers,
accounting machines, electronic data processing systems
and computers. Burroughs research and design keeps pace
with progress in business accounting to produce machines
to fit every need and to modernise existing systems.
Burroughs is the machine to grow with...
For details of a taiiored-to-measure
accounting procedure ...
Call your Burroughs man
at the nearest Branch Office or write to
Burroughs Ltd., 40 Miller Street,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Phone 92-0851
BUIB2B
Where necessary, Burroughs machines can be converted to Decimal Currency


Finance for expansion or plant re-location is just one of the
many services provided by ASL. All over Australia ASL is
financing industrial equipment, real estate development, new
vehicle fleets, hire purchase and home building. Nobody is
better qualified to advise you on the best use of finance than
your ASL representative. Fast, fair, friendly! That’s ASL
finance.
Sydney, 25 5281; Brisbane, 21991; Melbourne, 67 6551;
Adelaide, 8 7183; Hobart, 2 2426.]
Associated
Securities
Limited
KEEP ON
THE MOVE
WITH ASL
FINANCE
V
fr
¥■
S«S?
m
'j
I
&»
f X“
V
sb
FINANCING INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION SINCE 1926
ASLII.IO-3
one instead. At the conservatorium he
also learned English; bread-and-butter
English.
As we talked the barrier of language
rose between us again and again; in
response to certain kinds of questions
it became impenetrable. For instance, I
asked if the young people of Russia
were more open-minded than their par-
ents in the acceptance of new musical
idioms and ideas.
Igor (with a suspicious glance): I don’t
understand what you mean.
I tried the question again, in words of
one syllable; but didn’t evoke a glimmer
of comprehension.
What I actually wanted to know was
upon which side he stood in the battle
reported to be raging in Russia as at-
tempts are made to redraw the Zhdanov
Line which Soviet composers, and writ-
ers, were forced to toe in the 1930 s and
which had changed the home-coming
Prokofiev from the mordant and satirical
composer of his days of exile into a
kind of cops and robbers social realist
and which had almost ruined the white-
haired boy of Russian music, Shostako-
vich. I put a question about Prokofiev.
Igor's face lit up. Beautiful music; yes,
he loved to play it; Russian audiences
loved it, too. Prokofiev’s ideas? His ex-
pression became blank again; his Eng-
lish was not good enough, he said, to
discuss ideas. To my question was it
true, as reported, that Shostakovich al-
ways appeared very nervous, nervous
to the point of incoherence, Igor turned
the diplomatic cheek.
“Every great artist is not a simple
man,” he said, “but very complicated.”
Then, without giving me a chance to
pursue the subject any further, he
whisked the conversation to Bartok, all
smiles as he exclaimed how he, and the
Russian audiences, loved Bartok.
I asked him had he heard any of the
British festival of music concerts in Mos-
cow last March. Yes, he had, the Britten
’Cello Sonata, and he rattled off spon-
taneous sentence after sentence in praise
of it, and of Britten himself who had
played the piano part, with the great
Russian ’cellist, Rostropovitch (who
toured Australia some few years ago).
The audiences had loved it, too, Igor
said; altogether they, and he, very much
enjoyed British music.
Our conversation now skirted round
an amiable exchange of compliments
on safe ground: how modern Russian
composers were emerging from the
various Soviet republics and using their
own folk material the song, the dance
and the march was the basis of this
music, not serial cerebrating.
“Greater musicians than I dislike serial
music,” Igor pronounced, with affable
authority.


gJLj
mim
msmm
CO
-
'i US
- :
*0
i\ r r i J
" J v .1'
=•••■■.
11l
OJf
s
A nai* an£ *
Ann Vy , BaJ.
Ann by j BaW
s;dn e * J -
pey
Wr
i;-
The Ampol Book of
AUSTRALIAN
BY SIDNEY J. BAKER
54
SECTIONS
PLUS
37 ON
SPORT
A unique and stimulating
book of reference for
young and 01d... a _____
for every student.
240 pages filled with Australian “firsts” - . ■ basic facts
. . . records . - . curiosities. Special Section on Sport.
Whether your interests lie principally in sporting statistics, in the realms of
literature, drama and music, in sheep and cattle, industry or commerce,
history or the professions, you will find many surprising facts here about
the Australian scene. It is an accumulation of thousands of interesting
facts gathered over a period of 30 years by this noted Australian author.
To encourage widespread readership of this valuable work, Ampol has
purchased the entire first edition for sale to customers at Ampol Service
Stations and country Agents—at less than half the normal retail price!
SPECIAL PRICE
(less than half-price)
o
fr
AUSTRALIAN
AP496
AVAILABLE FROM AMPOL STATIONS AND COUNTRY AGENTS


nn
10
m
8 ? 1 S 4. '
i> r afTr
9021 N
ANSETT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCKETs an *
LEAVES FOR
ADELAIDE • MELBOURNE
SYDNEY * BRISBANE
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will be
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone:
MELBOURNE 68 0541 SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337 BRISBANE 47 1481
SCIENCE
Surgery Without Bleeding
Freezing the stomach for ulcers
FROM A SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
The knife still reigns supreme in
the surgeon’s armamentarium.
There are, however, occasions on
which what might be described as con-
ventional surgery has its drawbacks
when, for instance, the growth to be re-
moved is particularly inaccessible, or
when it is in a part of the body which
has a particularly good blood supply and
therefore haemorrhage is liable to occur.
Yet another example of when surgery is
of relatively little use is where a growth
is so widespread that simple cutting away
of it is out of the question.
For these and other reasons progres-
sive surgeons have always been on the
look-out for alternative methods of re-
moving, or destroying, noxious lesions,
such as growths or ulcers.
At the moment interest has become
focused on the use of profound cold, or
freezing, as a means of surgical extirpa-
tion, and the possibilities of cryogenic
surgery, or cryosurgery, as it is known,
are being extensively investigated.
Its merits have been summarised in a
recent issue of the “New England Journal
of Medicine” by one of its leading pro-
ponents in the United States. “As a
surgical agent,” he states, “cold offers
the advantages of combined anaesthetic,
coagulant and destructive properties. The
extent of its action is predictable and
controllable according to known physical
laws of heat conduction.” Further, it
prevents bleeding.
There is yet another advantage which
is particularly valuable in operations on
the brain This is that the effect of a
minor degree of cooling is reversible.
What this means is that if the surgeon
is not quite certain how much tissue he
wants to destroy he can first use a
moderate degree of cold. This tempor-
arily puts the area concerned out of
action and he can decide whether or not
the area he has selected for destruction is
too extensive or not extensive enough. If
the former, then the tissue is allowed to
thaw and no harm has been done. On
the other hand, if he had cut the tissue
with his scalpel, he might have done ir-
remediable harm.
The method of refrigeration, or freez-
ing, now being used is liquid nitrogen,
the temperature of which is —l96°C
when it is stored under a pressure of
22ib. per sq. in. A heavily insulated
cannula, 2.5 millimetres in diameter, car-
ries the liquid nitrogen to the tip of the
cannula which is first sited at the area
to be destroyed.
The apparatus now available is so
constructed that it automatically main-
tains the desired temperature within 2 C
and by means of a thermocouple the
temperature is constantly monitored on a
visible record. The surgeon thus has the
whole situation well under control the
whole time.
The condition in which cryosurgery
has been most widely used is Parkinson-
ism, or paralysis agitans. In this condi-
tion the most troublesome features, so
far as the patient is concerned, are the
tremor and the rigidity of his muscles
which he develops. It is now known
that by destroying a small part of the
brain this tremor and rigidity can be
abolished.
Hitherto, this has been achieved by
the process known as electro-coagulation.
It has now been shown, however, that
cryosurgery is a mere satisfactory
method.
Other conditions for which it is now
being used include certain brain tumors,
tumors in other parts of the body, and
cases of intractable pain. An interesting
and recent development is the possibility
of its being of use in the treatment of
certain eye conditions.
There is yet another and entirely differ-
ent use of the freezing technique now
under investigation. This is for the
treatment of gastric and duodenal ulcer.
The rationale here is that such ulcers are
associated with disturbances of the secre-
tion of the gastric juices and that these
can be controlled by cooling the stomach
or gastric hypothermia.
A machine has now been produced
which accomplishes this with relative
ease. A deflated latex balloon, attached
to a system of tubes, is introduced into
the stomach, and is then filled with cold
fluid at a carefully regulated temperature.
Within quite a short space of time the
temperature of the stomach can be re-
duced to as low as -20°C, and maintained
at this temperature for the prescribed
period of treatment.
The precise value of this form of
treatment has still to be established. In
the United States, where the machine has
been in use for several years, some in-
vestigators are claiming up to 85 per cent
satisfactory results.
What is not known yet, however, is
for how long the improvement is main-
tained. There is a multiplicity of vaunted
remedies for gastric and duodenal ulcers
and all have been hailed initially as
being better than their predecessors.
Only a few, however, have stood the
test of time, and we shall have to wait
several years before we can determine
whether or not the “freezing technique”
has come to stay. “The Times”, London.


OVERSEAS
After Malaysia, What?
Will Indonesia use Maphilindo to undermine it?
By JUSTUS M. VAN DER KROEF
Almost forgotten in the launching of
Malaysia is the idea of “Maphi-
lindo”—the proposed confedera-
tion of Malaya, the Philippines and
Indonesia. The announcement that
Premier Rahman and Presidents Soekarno
and Macapagal, already at the end of the
second day of their Manila conference
(July 31, 1963) had agreed to launch
Maphilindo in order “to insure a lasting
peace, progress and prosperity” in and
among their respective nations was re-
garded as a most auspicious beginning
of the conference, which contrasted all
the more sharply with the impasse which
soon developed.
Yet a closer inspection of the idea of
Maphilindo in terms of the conflicting in-
terests of Malaya, Indonesia and the
Philippines would soon have revealed
the illusory nature of a confederation of
the principal Malay nations at this time.
It is not impossible that the idea of
Maphilindo was born not out of a grow-
ing sense of Malay regional unity, but
out of a growing mistrust. Not until
July, 1962, when the idea of a Malaysian
Federation had taken firm root and its
implementation by London seemed as-
sured, did Philippines President Maca-
pagal announce his idea of a “greater
Malayan Confederation” comprising the
Philippines, Malaya, Singapore, Sarawak,
Brunei and Sabah (North Borneo), and
pointedly omitting Indonesia. Macapagal,
with the Philippines campaign to “re-
trieve” Sabah in full swing at the time,
thus was evidently thinking of a “Map-
hil”, not a “Maphilindo”.
The increased involvement of Indonesia
in the Malaysia dispute apparently caused
Macapagal to rethink the premises of
his idea of a Malay confederation, and by
November, 1962, the Manila press was
reporting Soekarno's sympathetic interest
in a Greater Malaysian Confederation,
which now presumably included Indo-
nesian participation. By March, 1963,
Macapagal, after a conference with
Subandrio, was referring to the Philip-
pines, Malaya and Indonesia as “triplets
who after birth were placed under the
care of three different foster parents”
but who now, having matured, “should
try to rediscover their common origin”.
To the Tunku all this may have seemed
as but harmless theorising and at any
rate as but a small price to pay for the
realisation of his fondest political dream,
the creation of Malaysia. Then, too, the
idea of having two neighbor states as
godfathers of Malaysia may have seem-
ed attractive. And so “Maphil” became
“Maphilindo” and found official appro-
bation at the conference of the Foreign
Ministers of Indonesia, the Philippines,
and Malaya in Manila (June 1963).
This bit of history suggests the old
adage “If you can’t beat them, join
them” and reveals perhaps the chief
reason behind Maphilindo's creation: it
gives the Philippines and Indonesia a
moral right of sorts to influence the
affairs of Malaysia by appealing to the
“spirit" of Maphilindo, just as the “spirit”
of the Bandung Conference of Afro-Asian
nations in 1955 afforded some justification
for all manner of policy pronouncements
and interventions in Asian international
affairs.
Indonesia, in any event, seems to be-
lieve that because of her territorial size
and population she will be in a position
to dominate Maphilindo and thus the
world has been presented, since the
Manila “summit” meeting, with the “baf-
ling picture” of an Indonesia evidently
approving of Maphilindo while continu-
ing to oppose the formation of Malaysia.
(This paradox becomes understandable
if it is realised that Indonesia would
be quite agreeable to a Maphilindo con-
federation which, next to the Philippines,
included relatively small and separate
states which would naturally gravitate to
Indonesia's leadership, but would oppose
a Maphilindo which included federated
unity of these same smaller states backed
by Britain’s military might.
All this is not to say that a measure
of regional co-operation and even solid-
arity is impossible among the participant
nations of the Manila “summit”; far
from it. It is to say, however, that little
interest seems to have been taken in
what exactly the area of common con-
cerns among the three nations presently
is. Politically the differences between
them are not so much a matter of formal
structure as of political temper: the
charismatic authoritarianism of Soekarno
and the extensive civil powers of the
Indonesian army contrast sharply with the
freewheeling and intensely partisan
democratic process (replete with seem-
ingly endless revelations of corruption in
high places) in the Philippines, and with
the more decorous, constitutionally bal-
anced and British-influenced style of gov-
ernment in Malaya.
Where is the common bond here in
the functions of power or even in the
concepts of public law and administra-
tion? Economically too there is more
likely to be conflict than a meeting of
interests. To be sure Maphilindo's mem-
bers are alike in their low level of
technological development, their depen-
dence on just a few basic commodities
in their export trade, their need of
economic diversification and so on. But
these similarities are precisely a source
of friction. For example, rubber is
Malaya’s and Indonesia’s principal agri-
cultural export as well as a major
foreign exchange source in the undiversi-
fied economies of both countries; hence
as principal competitors in the world's
natural rubber market a basis of economic
co-operation would be difficult to forge.
Culturally unity is even more difficult
to come by, not least because of the real
profusion of ethnic groups and subcul-
tural differences within each country it-
self and because a “national’’ culture is
still in statu naseendi. Which leaves race,
as some Maphilindo defenders have
frankly admitted. But if Maphilindo is
to justify itself upon a Malay racial unity,
what must vital non-Malay ethnic groups
like the Chinese come to think of their
place in Maphilindo's member nations?
With anti-Chinese sentiment markedly
evident in Indonesia, with repeated dis-
criminatory measures being taken against
Chinese business interests in the Philip-
pines, and with the deep-seated and long-
standing problem of Chinese-Malay com-
munal relations in Malaya, Singapore,
Sarawak and Brunei, a blatant Malay
racism as the basis of Maphilindo can
only come to be interpreted as a signal
for a renewed “desinicisation” campaign.


‘SCRATCHING AROUND’.
FOR EXPORT MARKETS?
TRV SOUTH AFRICA
“Side-tripping” to South Africa, on your way to
(or from) Europe/U.K.. is a very logical thing to
do. Firstly, it enables you to investigate per-
sonally today’s excellent export opportunities in
South Africa and her northern neighbours.
Secondly, it offers wondrous sight-seeing
opportunities (such as Kruger National Park)—
a welcome break from the beaten tracks of tra-
ditional routes. And finally, it costs as little as
£15.10.0* in extra air fares, including S.A.A.’s
Boeing Stratojet service between London and
Jo’burg. Your travel agent has full details.
S.A./4., in association with Qantas, operates
twice-fortnightly services between Australia and
U.K. via South Africa and Europe.
‘Economy class from Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart.
Slightly more from other Australian capitals.
The
SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE
route to U.K./EUROPE
# b
# if
V
E 3
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
In association with Qantas, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. and E.A.A.
SAASI/2SN AT
Iff
I •■■■
■m
m
m
%
■
-.4.
Indonesia is far less easily reconciled
to the creation of Malaysia than is the
Philippines. For Indonesia the “ascer-
tainment” of North Borneo opinion was
not just a face-saver, it was a device which
she can use against Malaysia even after
the UN found Sarawak and Sabah major-
ity opinion to be in favor of Malaysia.
Any doubt there may be about the UN
enquiry may be augmented by bands of
guerrillas of a “national liberation army”.
Such bands have already begun forays
into North Sarawak territory, and on
August 6, 1963, according to a Reuter
despatch from Djakarta, Indonesian
Armed Forces Chief General A. H.
Nasution declared that Indonesia was
training these bands.
Continuing Indonesian complaints,
coupled with Indonesian-inspired guerrilla
activity in the area, can only bring, over
time, a climate of opinion prepared to
come to terms with Indonesia, and to this
end the anti-Malaysia parliamentary op-
position in the territories (one thinks here
readily of the Sarawak United People's
Party) is likely to contribute all its
efforts, even after the territories join
Malaysia. The threat of war, too, is likely
to be kept alive.
British and therefore Western neo-
colonial and imperialist influence will
be the justification of Indonesia’s meas-
ures, and thus Maphilindo can even be
seen as an “anti-colonial” front. Maph-
ilindo also necessitates that opposition
to Malaya as such be softened for the
time being, and at a meeting of Indones-
ian parties and mass movements on Aug-
ust 11, 1963, it was in fact announced
that Malaya (not Malaysia) would no
longer be a target for hostile pronounce-
ments and actions. The long-range strat-
egy of Indonesia seems to be to turn
Maphilindo against Malaysia, to exploit
the opposition to Malaysia in such areas
as Singapore and Sarawak, and then “re-
constitute” the separate parts of Malaysia
in an Indonesian-dominated Maphilindo
confederation.
Tt is argued in some quarters that after
A the UN verification of opinion in the
Borneo territories there is really no rea-
son for continuing Indonesian opposi-
tion, and that Malaya, by consenting to
a UN “ascertainment” at the Manila
“summit” conference, gave undeniable
evidence of its peaceful intentions and
good will. This view overlooks the fact
that a principal reason —perhaps the prin-
cipal reason —for Indonesia’s anti-Malay-
sia strategy lies not in her foreign policy
but in her domestic needs, i.e., it is dic-
tated by the strength and influence of
the more than 2-million-member Indones-
ian Communist Party (PKI).
Malaysia is anathema to the PKI,
which will never be reconciled to its
existence under its present anti-Commun-
ist leadership. Government in Indonesia
involves, as is by now generally known, a
delicate balancing of the three principal
power centres, viz,. Soekarno, the PKI,
and the Army, and an assent to Malaysia
or an acceptance of its unmolested con-
tinuing existence would, under the cir-
cumstances, involve a major disturbance
with unforeseen consequences in Indo-
nesia’s political power structure.
The US realises the importance of the
Malaysia issue in the domestic Indo-
nesian balance of power. Hence Washing-
ton’s obvious reluctance to go beyond
pro forma pronouncements welcoming
Malaysia, although at the Manila "sum-
mit’’ indirect US pressure on Indonesia
is said to have contributed to breaking
the impasse over the manner of con-
ducting the UN “ascertainment” of
Borneo opinion. But a much more decis-
ive intervention in Maphilindo affairs
may well eventually be necessary if the
US wishes to see Malaysia survive. Such
an intervention the US would be equally
loath to undertake, realising also the
sensitivity of new nations, and quite
clearly US hesitancy in turn could well
become one of Indonesia’s strongest
weapons in her opposition to Malaysia.


m
in i
mm you use power, Goodyear makes what you heed
Win
w
if
: S:';
fr
makes light
of heavy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
'U' Specified
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS
Mora industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
GOODYEAR
!■
W
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—•
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
ST
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
m
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
S’ AV
m
ill
■m
3
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this harbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
I
I
Australia’s greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C 2640


YOUNG WOMAN IN A WIMPLE
A SHORT STORY BY HAL PORTER
Just as I found the right compartment
and my reserved window seat, the
country train started. Flinders Street
Station, Melbourne, disappeared like an
illustration ripped from a book. 1 had
caught the train only by running, and
had, as it were, been running since
Athens, forty hours aw ; ay, on the other
cheek of the world, and the other side
of reality. For me much of this still per-
sisted: the taste of mud-thick coffee at
Zonar’s; the smell of roasting chestnuts
that odour of Greek poverty and
autumn Athens; the feel underfoot of the
fissured and perilous pavement of Veni-
zelos Street; the sound of lottery-ticket-
sellers huskily squawking; the image in
negative on my eyeballs of the melo-
dramatic fountain in Omonia Square.
There w'ere even 20 -drachma pieces
mingled with the Australian florins in
my pocket, metallic actualities from
what now seemed merely a figment of my
five over-fatigued senses.
One, of course, alw'ays w'akes up.
During mouths of sensuous stagnation
in an older, dirtier and wickeder world,
behind the seedy glamor, cataclysm had
battened A cable from thousands of
miles south w'oke me. My widower father
W'ho had for years hypochondriacally
proposed dying was, indeed, doing so.
I esteemed him most for the useful
example he had set me of inherited fail-
ings to bypass. 1 filially loved him enough
to start metaphorically sprinting from the
Alpha Hotel to the Qantas office in
Constitution Square. Now, 1 was on my
last lap to what had been home when 1
was a barefooted Gippsland boy.
In the compartment w'ere a chisel-
chinned schoolgirl of some unseemly
elevenish age, and two butch-sized nuns.
Oddly, these two and the child, none of
them really women, all had the same
curious and feminine expression of bra-
zen modesty. The meat of each nun's
face was agonisingly clamped in a wimple
of enamelled-looking w-hite.
In the window seat opposite mine was
a third wimple but, oh! but, oh!
Chiffon of tawny fashionable color was
swathed with elaborate simplicity about
a face of unquestionable, singular and
yes tender beauty. It forbade de-
sire, but encouraged amazement. It was
not the face one expected in a country
carriage, first class or not. Something
had breathed a tilted and faintly rueful
smile on it. The clothes of the young
beauty had cost a pretty penny. This
was subtly obvious. Colors? Autumn
leaf.
The wimpled three sat opposite the
unwimpled minority: the schoolgirl and
me. I was as hatless as I had been for
the quarter-century since I w'as 20. The
schoolgirl wore a sombre green, unorna-
mental object wdth a brim. The crest
woven on the breast-pocket of her blazer
(sombre green) ticketed her as a pupil of
a provincial convent. Not for her, how-
ever, did I resist taking out my w'hisky
flask. The nuns! I am C of E. Thev were
the first holy women I had ever been
in earshot of, and enclosed with. They
daunted me. I did, nevertheless, have
enough aplomb to open my smuggled-in
Lolita which, in its me-made brown
paoer jacket, looked exactly like a ban-
ned book probably Lolita. And I
relentlessly lit a cigarette.
As I exhaled, the enchanting nostrils
vis-a-vis quivered as at a Patou scent.
The tilted wraith of smile flickered. So!
The divine creature in her Wife-of-Bath
hat wanted to smoke! Under that ac-
tressy but elegant shell I sensed the
delicacy and discretion of a well-brought-
up Young Miss, also Protestant, also
daunted.
My first nuns, dedicated representa-
tives of a sect that can envisage hell
without perturbation, disappointed me I
somehow expected their black-gloved
fingers to fondle religiously the heavy
black crucifixes on their black laps. Per-
haps they would murmur prayers, at
least utter a saintly profundity or two.
Instead, they and the child no Lolita
she chattered with the witless incon-
sequence of birds trained to talk. In an
hour I learned that the schoolgirl was
Coralie, the nuns Sister Monica and
Sister Hildegarde. Nothing more. When
the train reached the outermost suburb,
half-urban, half-country, they shut up
as though the springs of platitude had
run down, arose with conviction, and
left. The young woman, the fragile slant-
ing smije, and I were alone.
She had her cigarette case out and
open, while the nuns were still advancing
with the professional sang-froid of police-
men towards the ticket barrier. As I
leant to light her cigarette, the smile
intensified the merest fraction of a
fraction.
“Absurd, isn't it?” she said, milksop
First Murderer to sympathetic Second.
"I didn't dare. Really! Sister Monica and
Sister Whatsis. You know?” She inhaled
fervently. A sudden thought checked her
intensity. I saw its startled face behind
her eyes. “Oh! Oh, dear! You're not one
of them? Are you? Really?”
1 shook my head. “1 don't think they’d
have minded,” I said, I who had not
dared whisky.
She looked me over, scanned the me
behind the fatigue-marked fagade with
eyes that, although autumn-coloured,
were unequivocating, even schoolmis-
tressy: “One doesn't know. Does one? I
mean, really? 1 mean, you can't tell a
book by its cover. Can you? Really?”
No, I thought. Lolita in brown paper
could be Trout Fishing in Tasmania.
“No,” I said. “No, I suppose not.”
“Me and my outre bonnets! Me and
my wimple!” She stopped She blew
smoke ceilingwards. Her smile, ever un-
fading though half-ghost, ever minutely
askew, twitched, and became lightly
salted with . . . could it be sardonicism?
“Very becoming,” l said, “very.”


mm
round trip to the moon
More than half a million miles of paper and paperboard a year enough to reach from here
to the moon and back with sufficient left over to stretch to England and back —this is the
impressive output of the 19 machines of Australian Paper Manufacturers Limited working
round the clock the year round to meet Australia’s ever-increasing demand for these vital
materials.
Paper and paperboard in scores of different grades
for fibreboard shipping containers, paper bags and
wrappings, cartons and set-up boxes, multiwall paper
sacks, envelopes, stationery and posters, paper
containers and cups, toilet tissues, and as laminates
for building boards and panels.
A.P.M. is a truly Australian enterprise owned
by more than 30,000 Australian investors and
directly employing over 5,000 Australian
workers in nine mills located in every State of
the Commonwealth. Besides a continuing
modernisation and expansion programme at
its established mills the company is building a
new mill at Spearwood, near Perth for the
developing Western Australian market. Every
pound spent on an A.P.M. product is an
investment in Australia’s industrial progress.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS
Head Office, South Gate, South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all states.
jpR6346CS


■ >; . • :• .>'
So
(D -vi
§s»
iSd
I!-
ROCOI ADDS Life TO YOUR ENGINt
1 8 6 at your Service Station. *•
n>- -> i -> > ■
Truth, indubitably. Moreover, what else
to say?
“Do you really think so? Really?” For
a moment, she seemed to plead almost
desperately. Next, she snapped at herself,
“Stop that, you fool of a woman! Don’t
be arch. Really, I disgust me. I know
it’s becoming. I go to a lot of trouble.”
She ground out her cigarette in self-
contempt. She immediately began an-
other. Her eyes explored me again. “Not
the kind of chapeau I dote on. But I
have to.” The wrings of her lopsided smile
trembled. “Go to a lot of trouble, I
mean. Really.”
I w'as too battered by my sprint from
the Alpha Hotel and Athens, through all
those steam-bath airway lounges, over
all those twinkling, stinking cities miles
below, all those exhausted lands, all those
goffered leagues of useless salt water, to
unpick her meaning. I fell back on trite
Edw'ardian gallantry: “My dear young
woman, you would be ravishing in . .
“No!” she said, and sharply, through
her smile. “Forgive me. But don’t say it.
Please. Really.” She turned her eyes to
November and late spring outside. The
train was laboring discreetly through
the undulations of country between the
feminine curves of the Gippsland Hills,
and the plains billowing dowm to the
Southern Ocean. It was well-fleshed
country, covered by a pelt of green, sod-
den w'ith rains stimulating as hock, and
veined w’ith effervescent creeks.
After long silence, “The air,” she said.
“So soft. Soft to the skin. Soft to wounds
and scars ...”
She was right. I had forgotten, w'hile
inferior winds from Libya or Turkey had
puffed Grecian dust like turmeric into
my ex-patriate nostrils, the velvety Gipps-
land air. Beyond the window were haw-
thorn hedges curdled w'ith blossom,
ditches congested with buttercups, rivers
overhung by weeping willows. There
W'ere the farm-houses and their pine
avenues, the sheds shawded in old-fash-
ioned roses, the windbreaks of cotton-
W'ood, the sheep, the cows, the lichened
post-and-rail fences. We stopped briefly
at a weedy wayside station. No one got
in or out, but magpies, drunk, on air and
sun, sang deliriously. In Europe, I
thought, birds chirp* m Australia, they
sing. The train n>6ved.
She hacj not spoken for some time.
She turned from the succulent landscape,
and spoke: "Do you think that what
people call a tragedy seems unreal? My
mother does. Do you?”
I did not know.
“It doesn’t. Mother was so wrong. It
doesn’t seem unreal or strange. It seems
unstrangely real. It seems certain. One
wakes up. I know. i<eally.”
There was no doubt anywhere that
she was resolved to talk or, rather, to
discuss something w'ith herself. Talking
to strangers is, after all, no more than
that. Without disturbing her inclined
smile, she talked. She told her tale with-
out immodesty, with careful and callous
clarity, as though she had learned by
heart what she was tearing out of her
heart.
Tw'o years ago, her mother had egged
her into a beauty contest run for a
charity, something heart-rending: blind
babies or spastic orphans. She had won.
Her mother was elated, and more elated
w'hen a stage contract came up.
“They,” she said, “even talked films.
Mother developed all sorts of hopes.
But that kind of nonsense had never
entered ...” Her smile grew more
rueful. “ . . . my pretty little head.
Deeply, really deeply, I wasn’t interested.
My people have been on the land in
these hills since the early days. I love
the life. Mother doesn’t, not really. She’s
sweet, but sort of of disappointed. I
expect that’s why she was so exhilarated
when it seemed that I . . . poor mother.
Yet, I did try. Photographs. Interviews.
Flatteries. Oh, all that, for w'eeks. And
there I was, at the first rehearsal of the
play they were launching me in. There
I w'as, in a dream I didn’t really u'ant to
be in. But ...” She became very earnest,
as if confessing mortal sin. “. . . I was
starting to enjoy it ail. Absurd, isn’t it?
There I was, quite ecstatic about saying
the silly lines I didn’t want to be saying.
I u'as thinking that mother would be
madly happy. Really! Then, from high
up, dowm fell this monstrous arc-light.
That’s why I wear this wimple thing.”
Carefully, very carefully, she lit a
cigarette. She looked out at the slopes
cushioned with grass, and the hedges
sagging with blossom.
“Not long now. There’s Chatterton’s
place,” she said. “Beautifully kept. Prize
Friesians. Chatterton w'orks like a dog.
We all do. Mother does. I shall. One
more station, and I’ll be home. So happy,
so happy.” She turned her autumn-col-
oured eyes on me once more. “Actually,
I w'as very lucky. Another inch to the
left and . . . kaput! The doctors did mar-
vellous things, but the right side of my
head and neck is an absolute mess. No
ear, and not one strand of hair to drape
artistically over the spot marked X. Un-
aesthetic. You know? All shiny patches,
and hemstitching, and hollows . . . ”
My expression must have faltered. “Oh,
dear,” she said, “have I embarrassed
you?” Her eyes illustrated polite dismay.
The smile at its quivering perpetual angle
towards the right remained as 1 knew it
always would, concealed imperfections
tugging at it, tilting it enchantingly.
“Not embarrassed,” 1 said, “but I am
very . . " Very what? I could not
finish. As one is by the grub in the
peach, I was embarrassed. Why had she
told me? Because she was happy? Be-
cause she had been jolted awake to the
value of life?
“Perhaps I shouldn’t have told you.
Should I? Really?”
“Of course,” 1 said. “Why not? Of
course. I'm happy it all turned out
so ... ”
“Oh, so am I. Wildly happy. Really!
But are you, I mean, really?”
“Really!’ I said, I half-lied, Not only
could one not tell a book by its cover,
one could not really! tell it by its
contents Was she, with the smile no
anguish could unpin, and no agony sub-
due, happy? Was she awake?
At her station, behind and somewhat
apart from those excitedly greeting her.
stood her mother, instantly and unmis-
takably to be recognised. She must once
have been her daughter’s replica, tall,
lithe, superbly proportioned, with a fault-
less tender face. Her elegances were now
angularised, her beauty siphoned off.
However rich the hills, however bland
the air, however sweet the rains from the
heights, and the showers from the ocean,
something had sealed off her hopes, and
desiccated her dreams. Her face was set
in a design of terrifying patience, end-
less acceptance. She stood upright and
gaunt, leafless, an image of inevitable
winter.
It was high noon, and late spring.
Through noon and spring the woman
dressed as autumn ran past the hands
of the others to offer herself first to her
mother whose engraved face suddenly,
like a miracle, permitted itself a smile
of searing brilliance and final loveliness.
In a flash, I perceived that the young
w'oman in the wimple was running to
meet herself.


m
I'l ' ',l
IS
ijlijA 1 { i
sUgs
i
'
11
mm
■m
siPlili
nil
; ■
m
s
5 ! : §:1
Ms
SKSfI
i
iSSHftttlisiis £ lltflli is
*i\-&
4509
A LINK
WITH POWER
i'
-
EXPORT
ACTION
The modern high power engine relies on efficient transmission.
Repco Transmission Parts have proved their reliability throughout the
world. Because of their precision manufacture and their acceptance for
automotive, industrial and agricultural applications, Repco Transmission
Parts are finding ever increasing outlets in world markets.
REPCO: where the standard
is perfection.
REPCO LIMITED, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA; MANUFACTURERS, MERCHANDISERS
AND EXPORTERS OF AUTOMOTIVE PARTS, SERVICE EQUIPMENT AND MACHINE
TOOLS FOR TRANSPORT, INDUSTRY AND AGRICULTURE.


letters
to the
editor
EMIGRANTS
Sir,
Both Mr Rogers (“Australia for a
Ride” 3/8/63) and Mr James “Emigrants
Misled?” 31/8/63) have presented mis-
leading pictures of the situation regard-
ing the return of British migrants to
England, and the information given
them by the emigration authorities before
they leave.
These adventurous young Englishmen
and women are just the type of people
we need in Australia today. Although
some of them do come with the idea of
working their way round Australia for
two years and then returning home, they
contribute to the gross national product
whilst they are here, and many of them
become so enamored of this wonderful
country that they settle down here and
marry Australians. I know of several
such cases.
In the financial year 1962-63 British
migrants arriving in this country totalled
36,414. Over a period of the last five
years only 9 per cent of British migrants
returned to the UK. When you consider
that many of these people found they
could not settle, and eventually came
back to Australia, it will be seen that
the true percentage of returning migrants
is even smaller.
Regarding the information given about
Australia to intending emigrants, my own
experience (and that of many of my
friends whom I sponsored) was that an
unhurried and friendly interview was
given to the whole family in a private
office. A warning was given about the
difficult housing situation, and there
were definitely no rosy pictures painted.
ELIZABETH LAWRENSON
B right on (5/4).
RESTRICTIVE TRADE BILL
Sir,
I have just read the latest article by
your correspondent Roger Randerson
(“The Case Against a Restrictive Trade
Bill No. 5: A Visiting Professor’s
Ideology”), and am now forced to
wonder whether this gentleman believes
the readers of your journal to be
mentally incompetent. I hope you can
spare the space for a reply to this non-
sense.
Let it be known at once that I am
firmly in favor of the Barwick legislation
(or some variant of it); and I base my
support on the economic doctrines
of Marshall, Pigou, Chamberlin, Stigler
et al.
In this article Mr Randerson has made
a spiteful, indeed personal, and bigoted
attack on a prominent academic, Pro-
fessor Alex Hunter —“academic” used in
the pejorative sense. “Visiting pro-
fessor”? Professor Hunter was appointed
Senior Lecturer in Economics at Mel-
bourne University in 1958, and held
that post for three years until his
appointment to the chair of Economics
at the University of New South Wales
in 1961. Six years is a long visit; per-
haps the Professor has outstayed his
welcome! “Scientific detachment”? One
must recall the biblical injunction: “Let
him who is without sin, etc. . . .” At
least Professor Hunter is not afraid to
admit an element of personal bias in
dealing with a subject which must in any
case, involve some degree of personal
value judgment. Mr Randerson makes
no such explicit admission of his own
quite apparent lack of objectivity.
Mr Randerson, why don't you like
academics? Did you suffer some
traumatic experience at their hands in
your undergraduate days? True, much
of what they say is no more than arm-
chair speculation, but then what quanti-
tative information can Mr Randerson
supply to confute the evidence on re-
strictive trade practices in Australia put
forward in the many factual articles pro-
duced by these poor, closeted fellows?
Irrational and scurrilous arguments
added to protestations that the spotless in-
nocent, wholesome Australian business-
man is being ravished by chief villain
Barwick, serve only to damage whatever
case there may have been against this
proposed legislation.
“A Harvard Professor”: I'll have a
punt —Hansen or Haberler. The litera-
ture on wage-price rigidities is consider-
able, and controversy still continues; a
casual dismissal of this discussion (based
on out-of-date information) together
with a swipe at Dr Coombs clearly de-
monstrates intellectual dishonesty, or lack
of knowledge.
Competition in Australia: why are busi-
nessmen apparently somewhat afraid of
the Barwick legislation? Clearly the
proposed legislation will be highly dis-
ruptive in its effects; but this is not a
fault of the proposed legislation itself
it is really the fault of Australian busi-
nessmen who have sought to shield them-
selves from competition for the last 100
years, initially by means of protective
tariffs, supplemented later by cosy little
arrangements which tend to make life
easier. “Free enterprise” in Australia is
a peculiar animal anyway, I suppose.
The great Australian tradition is, “If in
trouble, ask for a Government hand-out”
However, inactivity leads to a harden-
ing of the arteries and a spreading middle,
whereas present world business condi-
tions, and this country’s economic future,
have room only for the fit, healthy and
wideawake: the strong and independent.
If the Barwick legislation stirs Australian
businessmen out of their torpor and
makes them get out and sell, then it will
be worthwhile.
WILLIAM J. CUSHING, B.A.
Newman College,
Parkville (Vic.).
R. M. ANSETT
Sir,
In your article on Reginald Ansett
(7/9/63) you gave his age as 44. He is,
in fact, 54.
R. E. S. PLANT
Sydney {NSW).
[Sorry a typographical slip. Ed.]
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Sir,
Now that libraries are multiplying so
rapidly, many are anxious to acquire Aus-
tralian books unobtainable through
booksellers. Some of these books are
quite valuable; almost all can be most
useful in a library school, municipal,
state or university. One thinks im-
mediately of local histories, manuscript
or printed reminiscences, maps and
sketches, theatre programmes, poetry and
drama. Almost everything about Austra-
lia and the Pacific written before 1880
is hard to come by.
The response to an “Operation Book-
Hunt” we organised last year has shown
how pleased and how surprised people
are to find in a library a home for books
they do not want, and even for those
they treasure but can no longer keep.
It has also brought harrowing tales of
century-old collections pulped or burnt.
As many Bulletin readers have col-
lections rich in Australian and historical
material, perhaps you will allow me to
suggest that they offer their books and
papers to a library rather than destroy
them.
(Rev.) JOHN W. DOYLE
St Ignatius’ College Library.
River view (NSW).
THE ABC AT MANILA
Sir,
Not to challenge Charles Higham’s
agreeable article on Bob Sanders
(7/9/63), but, in the record, the ABC
did have a staff reporter at the Manila
Conference on Malaysia, also at Tokyo;
we have our own reporter in Saigon at
the moment, and another in Borneo. In
Malaya we are completing a major
documentary on Malaysia. Wherever
there is news in SE Asia we aim to be
there, the area being very much our
abiding concern.
W. S. HAMILTON
Controller of News
Sydney (NSW).
Charles Higham writes: My reference
was solely to the omission of the Manila
Conference from Bob Sanders’ “People”.


A Love Affair with Brisbane
Everything is hopeless but nothing is serious
By STORY
I can’t say exactly what started my
love affair with Brisbane. More than
anything else it was a feeling, like
that old saying about Berlin and Vienna.
In Berlin things are often serious but
nothing is hopeless. In Vienna every-
thing is hopeless but nothing is ever
serious.
Well, to me Melbourne or Sydney was
Berlin and Brisbane was Vienna. It
seemed to be, and still is, the part of
the country most essentially Australian.
The hunt for the almighty quid was not
so important here. Nor was it so im-
portant to other people if you didn’t take
part in the hunt.
I mean you could go off fishing down
the bay at the weekend and have a bottle
of rum with the fellow who made £5OOO
or £7OOO a year. It didn’t matter to
him what sort of money you made. The
politicians would always talk about
“Queensland, the coming State” or “the
vast potential of Brisbane.” That vast
potential never seemed to arrive. It
wasn’t serious.
The decision to go to Brisbane was
made during the war. How would my
wife take it? I thought the best idea
was to tell her the truth. I told her that
nigh on a million Americans had been
through the place during the war. So
Brisbane looked like a lady who had
suffered a long, hard night.
Frankly, the city was pretty hideous.
Nobody had ever painted it much. The
houses looked queer, they were all up
on stilts. The kids liked to go to school
in bare feet. There wasn’t much in the
way of sewerage; in fact some people
thought it indecent to have a lavatory
inside the house. In the summer there
would be plenty of mosquitoes so, for
heaven’s sake, get some mosquito nets
from war disposals.
She made no comment whatever. By
this stage she was used to being dragged
from town to town. However, I shall
never forget her comment on that first
night as we drove down Queen Street.
She looked around and said: “Now isn’t
that nice. They’ve got electric light.”
We moved into one of these houses
on stilts and in the beginning we found
the sounds a trifle unnerving. Through
the night hours terrible crashes came
from the house next door. We were
convinced that the gentleman there was
thrashing his wife, but the explanation
was simple. He was killing cockroaches
with a slipper. This is an old Queens-
land practice which has all the thrill
of the hunt.
The cockroaches are splendidly de-
veloped, an inch to two inches long,
and they scoot across the wooden floors
with the speed of a motor bike. You
have to run, lay off the right amount
of deflection, then WHAM. A skilful
blow with a slipper is more effective
than any insecticide.
The most disturbing noises that night
came about 1 a.m. This was a gentle
THUD . . . THUD . . . THUD at
regular intervals. At first I tried to ignore
it and rolled over in bed. By 2 a.m. it
was louder, more insistent, and the
thuds were taking on meaning. Good
grief, there was a burglar on the roof.
Again the explanation was simple.
The noises were nothing more than the
plopping of mangoes from the great
tree in the garden.
House on Stilts
'VT'ext morning the neighbors began to
call. One lady lent us an ice chest.
Another came in with a basket of paw-
paws. Within 48 hours we knew half the
people in the street. These were the
friendliest, warmest people on earth.
I found out why the house was built
on stilts. Just in case you ever won-
dered about Queensland houses these
were the reasons:
(a) It put us on an elevation so that
we could better catch the breezes . . .
and the cyclones.
(b) It left a marvellous place under-
neath where we could put stuff like
old pianos.
(c) It left a ready-made garage, plus
a space where we could hang the wash-
ing during the wet season.
(d) Like most Brisbane houses it was
on a precipitous hill so it had to be on
stilts anyway.
(e) When the white ants began to chew
away the foundations it was so easy to
see them in action.
The years passed and the love affair
became complete. It was the easy-going
nature of the place that appealed. I
liked the way that almost any day of
the year you could wander out into the
garden in bare feet, check to see which
pawpaws were ripening, how the custard
apples were progressing.
Then there were those marvellous sub-
tropical evenings, when you could sit
out on the front veranda. Everything
would be so incredibly still and quiet.
You could hear a man cough half a
mile away.
Things were unhurried. When the
young Queen and Prince Philip came on
their first visit, Brisbane was determined
to show the south what it could do. The
City Council urged a vast paint-up,
clean-up campaign, particularly on the
route from the airport.
One friend of mine failed to paint
his house, nor did he fix his garden,
but on the morning of the big arrival
he did the decent thing. He got out his
lawnmover and cut a great E II R in
the long grass. It looked good too. And
I was enchanted by ,the day a big British
industrialist arrived at Lennons. He cal-
led up the hall porter and asked: “How
do I get on to the Valet?”
Now there’s only one Valet in Bris-
bane, Fortitude Valley, of course. Said
the porter: “That’s easy, mate. You get
a tram in Queen Street.”
Like many an immigrant or refugee
I became fiercely protective about my
new town. I recognised that all Aus-
tralians were divided into two types
Queenslanders and Southerners. I could
spout figures, no end. I knew that the
average minimum temperature was 59.9
degrees and that the average maximum
was 78 degrees. This indeed was the
finest climate ever given to mankind.
If anyone mentioned Perth the ans-
wer would be this. “True, Perth has a
higher mean maximum, but don’t you
see over there it’s too hot in the sum-
mer and their winter is not as warm as
ours.”
When it rained like hell in February
it was necessary to tell the Southerner:
“Yes, it is a bit misty today. But you
feel that water. See how warm it is.
Warmest water in Australia.”
Then in the winter let us mention
it only in whisper when the westerlies
blew and howled through the open air
houses, Brisbane was very nearly the
coldest place on the continent. Yet one
columnist, he had the answer. He would
say: “This is not Queensland weather.
It is blowing in from Collins Street,
Melbourne.”
But what is Brisbane like now? It is
changing. There is a real sense of some-
thing stirring. When I arrived the popu-
lation was 500,000 and I considered any
town over half a million was inhabitable.
It is developing some of the traits of an
uninhabitable big city. The population
now is 624,000 and it is keeping in
front of Adelaide as Australia’s third
city.
The phrases are changing. Before it
was “the city of vast potential.” Now
it is “on the threshold of big things”
or “we have crossed the line.”
Two oil companies, Ampol and


BRISBANE
Brisbane's sea of red roofs a characteristic of most Australian cities seen from Highgate Hill.
A BULLETIN
PORTFOLIO
SEPTEMBER 21, 1963
An 80-years-old poinciana tree in the suburb of Sherwood. The weatherboard house is characteristic of Brisbane.


The Brisbane River
with the Victoria
Bridge which leads
into Queen Street.




Jacarandas in bloom
in New Farm Park.
These home units, the largest in Brisbane, are almost in the heart of the city.


Amoco, have announced that they will
build oil refineries and the £4i million
pipeline is expected to start the oil flow
into Brisbane by the end of the year.
Can you imagine what this does for
phraseology? Brisbane is now “the Aus-
tralian oil capital.” Or even better, one
newspaper gave us Brisbane as “the
Oil Capital of the South Pacific.”
So there is a new sense of pride.
There’s a sprinkling of fancy new build-
ings in the city and Queen Street, which
had barely changed since the 1893 flood,
is starting to look quite different.
Yet for the old-fashioned sentimental-
ist all the changes are not for the better.
The character of the place is changing.
At one stage it seemed that in the hands
of a good public relations man Brisbane
could have been turned into another
New Orleans.
A Face Lift
Tt had everything, lashings of cast-iron,
A old houses with the Ronald Searle ver-
andas, gorgeous pubs with the Wild
West swing doors. Artists like Donald
Friend, Arthur Evan Read, Kenneth
Jack, Margaret Olley and others, revel-
led in the place.
Most of the old pubs are being
changed. The thing to do is to give them
a face-lift, cover them with tile and
plastic until they are as antiseptic as an
aluminium urinal. Even Chardon’s, that
incredible pub in Annerley Road which
looked like a cross between a Rhine
Castle and Luna Park’s giggle palace, is
coming down. Thank heavens though,
the nice, old Bellevue Hotel with its
multiple verandas on the corner there
of Alice and George Streets is still carry-
ing on.
And the Queensland Club opposite is
still as immensely respectable as ever.
Glory be, this is a city club which still
manages to maintain a grass tennis court.
Admittedly the distinguished members
are not always seen playing there. It
brings in £l5 a year whereas the rates
for the land are nearer £6OO, but it
helps the gracious image.
Back along George Street there is a
small park. Remember the old CIB
building? This was something to see.
Originally it was one of the buildings
of the pro-cathedral and although ser-
vices were never held there it was of
solid stone and eminently ecclesiastical
in appearance. The police occupied it
and the standard gag used to be that it
was a marvellous place for hearing con-
fessions.
Now it has gone to make the park
larger and more beautiful and to provide
a fine view of Queen Victoria in front
of the Executive Building.
At last eating is better in Brisbane.
There are at least six restaurants that
can provide a good meal, but always
they have been held back by this Aus-
tralian passion for curious liquor laws.
Until last year no restaurant in
Queensland had a wine licence. Yet
when the Nicklin Government gathered
enough courage fo do something about
this it acted in a most Gilbertian manner.
The logical idea would have been to
hand out licences to all those capable
of handling them for the benefit of
hungry, thirsty Queenslanders.
But no, there were 32 wine saloons
in the State. These would be closed down
and the licences handed progressively
to 32 successful restaurant applicants.
Well, nine licences went to Brisbane, but
it wasn’t as simple as all that. The drink-
ing had to be done between noon and
2 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. with an
hour of grace to 11 p.m. To rate a
bottle of beer or wine you had to order
a substantial meal of at least two courses.
Then, just to confuse matters a little
further, the licences did not cover spirits
or fortified wines.
So, gentlemen, that’s the situation in
Brisbane restaurants today. If you want
a dry sherry or a martini before dinner
you have to bring your own. Yet the
situation is infinitely better, and in a
city which should be ideal for eating
out, things are beginning to happen.
For example, there is a restaurateur
here named Michael Karlos. He is start-
ing a floating restaurant called the Car-
ousel. Evans Deakin & Co. are building
what will be a three-deck, 120-ton vessel.
It will be parked 60 feet off-shore from
Edward Street in the Botanic Gardens
reach of the river. So the customers, to
the accompaniment of sweet music, will
be able to look across to the lights of
the city and when the glasses are finally
cleared off the table at 11 p.m. they
will walk across a pontoon to the jetty.
Yet some things have passed Bris-
bane by. It has received only a thin
stream of migrants. Always they have
preferred to settle in Sydney and Mel-
bourne where the job prospects are
brighter. How do you overcome this?
The Housing Commission has been try-
ing to woo them by offering immediate
occupancy of houses. Then there have
been other ideas. One time there was a
suggestion that Queensland should have
specially low death rates, so that people
would come to Queensland to avoid
death duties.
The public relations men then would
have the challenge of finding interesting
slogans such as: “You can't take it with
you but you can leave more of it in the
Sunshine State.”
Most of all there has been a resent-
ment of Southern control. That is why
Queensland all too often will vote one
way in a State election then react
viciously against the Government in a
Federal election.
Sometimes you get the impression that
all Brisbane is owned in Collins Street.
All the big department stores have gone.
McWhirters is owned by Myers, T. C.
Beirne’s is owned by David Jones. Fin-
neys is owned by David Jones. Waltons
is a southern store. Pikes is owned by
Melbourne’s Leviathan. Allan and Stark,
which once had the proud slogan “The
Queensland Owned Store,” now is owned
by Myers.
Only the little ones like Weedmans,
Bayards and McDonnell and East are in
the hands of Queenslanders. The news-
papers, all of them, are controlled from
the south. This goes through the pat-
tern of everything: industries, food stores,
chain stores, the lot. The big firms send
their bright young men to Brisbane for
early training before they return south
to grander things. It hurts.
Once upon a time Brisbane had an
establishment just like Adelaide. The
town was ruled by the fine old families;
GHQ the Queensland Club. Now the
establishment has almost had it. The
power man in Brisbane is Alderman
Clem Jones, the Lord Mayor, and he’s
a beauty.
To understand this you must under-
stand the administrative set-up in Bris-
bane. He has by far the biggest civic
job in Australia. Clem Jones really runs
this town, he’s no ceremonial Lord
Mayor. There are no lesser councils.
His domain covers 375 square miles.
Greater Brisbane used to be the second
largest city in area in the world, second
only to Los Angeles, 400 square miles.
Now it has sunk behind Shanghai and
Moscow, but that’s by the way.
Clem Jones has a mighty job because
he has to spend nigh on £ 1 million a
week and his council is responsible for
making and maintaining streets, foot-
paths, drains, electricity supply, city
transport, water and sewerage. He’s
elected by the adult franchise of the
whole city and his election is as exciting
as the election of the Mayor of New
York.
Kennedy Image
|>UT let’s talk about Clem. Some say
he is an absolute dictator, some say
he is the best thing that ever happened to
Brisbane. He is aggressive, confident, he
has all his blond hair and he is only 45.
He is young in the President Kennedy
image and like the President he has to
get elected every three years.
He is a Bachelor of Science, an
authorised surveyor, a member of the
cricket Board of Control and a member
of the Queensland Central Executive
of the Labor Party. He did the extra-
ordinary thing by suddenly announcing
his retirement at the age of 37. He had
built his surveying business from nothing
into the largest practice in Australia.
So he sold his business to his employees


GIFTS TO BRITAIN
SAVE MONEY, POST AND TAX
Food, wines and hundreds of fine gifts.
Swift delivery. Send stamp now.
FREE CATALOGUE
Box 32, Elizabeth, South Australia
Chardon’s Hotei, Annerley, drawn by Kenneth Jack
and said: “It is senseless to continue
working to amass a large sum of money.”
So he went on a series of world tours
and he studied local government on the
spot in England, USA, Hong Kong and
Tokyo. He did a course in local govern-
ment at the University of California
and as part of his practical studies
visited 36 selected US cities. He stood
as Labor’s candidate for Lord Mayor in
1958 but was beaten. Then after speak-
ing at something like 300 meetings he
tried again in 1961 and got in with a
big majority.
A major part of his platform was
sewerage. It is not often that a mayor
has to campaign on a sewerage platform
but Brisbane is a special case. Brisbane
wasn’t sewered at all until 1923.
Figures taken in 1960 showed that
Adelaide was 95 per cent sewered, Mel-
bourne 78, Sydney 69, Perth 63 and
Brisbane 38.
Brisbane, with its great sprawling area,
its hills, its foundations of solid rock
and this river which meanders through
it, is a devil of a place to sewer. Then
with the later start it has never been able
to catch up to the other cities.
Clem Jones has his office under the
campanile of his £1,000,000 City Hall.
He’s an overpowering man and he's
capable of giving the impression that
after its late start Brisbane is now catch-
ing up with all the speed of the Russians.
For example, on sewerage he says:
“We are spending £2.2 million this year,
it was £2 million last year and one mil-
lion before that. By 1964 Brisbane will
be more than 50 per cent sewered and
within five years sewerage no longer will
be a problem.”
One of his big aims is to give Bris-
bane something which the city fathers in
Melbourne and Sydney have failed to
achieve a real city square.
“No, I’m not trying to create a Clem
Jones monument. It was Jim Slaughter’s
idea and he thought of it 20 years ago,”
he said.
Jim Slaughter is the Town Clerk, who
has administered Brisbane efficiently
since 1940; a retiring man few people
know and maybe it’s inevitable Bris-
banians like to call the City Hall the
Slaughter House.
What else is Jones pleased about? Sun-
day sport is now legal in Brisbane. The
old snide “donation” system has gone and
customers can pay cash on the barrel-
head for Sunday football, or the Davis
Cup can be played on a Sunday with-
out screams from the wowsers.
Jones has now decided that he will
stand for election again next year. There’s
little doubt that he will win.
Oo you see things are beginning to move
in Brisbane. Furthermore it is not
as unpainted and as ugly as it used to be.
Hamilton, Ascot and Clayfield still tend
to be “it” for the older generation. But
the newer suburbs like Indooroopilly,
Kenmore, Moggill, Taringa and Jay
Park, where the young people have dis-
covered that gum trees look better un-
ring-barked, are among the loveliest in
Australia.
In the American style it is the thing
to do not to have fences and incredibly
there are 1300 swimming pools in Bris-
bane. At Jay Park, most of the houses
are on 2J-acre plots and one of the joys
of life is to wake up and hear the kooka-
burras laughing along the river.
The mosquitoes are still frightful,
even worse than Darwin. The great nuis-
ance is the salt water mosquito, aedes
vigilax, a horrid little black fellow.
Characteristically it is only the females
that do the biting. The male is quite a
kindly creature.
Most of the houses have no
wire screens. It is felt that this stops the
delightful evening breezes. So the thing
to do is to burn half a dozen mosquito
coils attached to the necks of beer bottles
and just take it. After 40 years or so
one becomes inured. After all, by that
time you and aecles vigilax are blood
brothers, or blood brother and sister.
There are other things which drive you
to distraction. Water sprinklers are ban-
ned all the year round. It is against the
law to use anything but a hand-held hose,
which means that for more than half the
year the city and most of the gardens
look like old toast.
You complain about this and you are
told it costs money to treat water for the
Brisbane water supply. “Do you want to
pay higher water rates?” But it breaks
your heart when you think that Alice
Springs with a quarter the rainfall is
four times as green.
Culturally Brisbane is certainly as
strong as any other city. The Queensland
Symphony Orchestra has a good conduc-
tor in Rudolf Pekarek, and members of
the Elizabethan Theatre Trust look upon
Brisbane as the best opera town in Aus-
tralia. They used to think the same for
ballet until the incredibly disappointing
season with the Australian Ballet.
The National Gallery has its splendid
£55,000 Picasso nude and Brian John-
stone of the Johnstone Gallery will tell
you that Brisbane people spend more per
head on good paintings for their houses
than anyone else in Australia. Take, for
example, the recent exhibitions that sold
out, or nearly sold out, in one day:
Charles Blackman (£4500), Ray Crooke
(£5500) or Margaret Olley (£4000),
surely an Australian record for a woman
artist.
Yes, some things are hopeless and
never serious, but the charm of the place
is apt to captivate one in the end. There
are all sorts of little things like the gar-
bage men who come right round to the
back of the house to pick up the tin or
the munificent City Council which will
change the washers on your taps free of
charge.
There's the good life, like being able
to keep your boat at the bottorp of the
garden on the river, and let us not forget
the glorious cycle of flowering trees
buckinghamias, bauhinias, coral trees,
flame trees, poinsettias, jacarandas and
poincianas.
It won't be long now before those
superb jacarandas are in bloom, turning
the sky above and the ground below into
a marvellous world of blue. The best time
for this is late November and there’s a
saying over at the University: “What you
don’t know by Jacaranda time, you will
never know.”


PEVI EWS
MUSIC
Hardly an Occupation
Sydney’s struggle for chamber music
By JOHN SMALL
Mtsislav Rostropovich is re-
puted to have said after his Aus-
tralian tour that Sydney must be a very
musical place, because he had given more
concerts there than would have been pos-
sible in any other comparably sized city
in the world. True or not, the story
evoked some hollow laughter amongst
Sydney musicians, who have generally
not met with great success in their efforts
to establish chamber music groups in that
city in recent years.
The biggest difficulty local musicians
have is getting audiences. Concert-goers
are attracted by big names and familiar
works, but tend to avoid concerts that
feature resident artists. A concert at
which Igor Oistrakh played the Beethoven
and Tchaikovsky violin concertos sold
out in two hours, whereas a concert at
which an excellent group of local artists
played string quintets by Mozart and
Beethoven drew an audience of about
150.
Poor attendances make concerts by
local musicians bad financial proposi-
tions. Most such concerts are run at a
loss by the body that sponsors them.
Musica Viva, whose policy it is to en-
courage the local product, loses some
hundreds of pounds annually on its Sun-
day night recital series. Paradoxically,
these recitals are subsidised out of profits
made from Musica Viva's subscription
concerts, most of which feature over-
seas musicians. Various specialist
societies such as the local branch of the
International Society for Contemporary
Music, and the Music Department at
Sydney University, are the other main
patrons of local musicians.
The limited amount of work offering
from concerts sponsored by these bodies
means that musicians must rely on other
sources of income. Many of them join
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, which
contains most of the best string players
in Sydney. But because of the scarcity
of good players and the orchestra’s
heavy schedule, playing in the orchestra
is a full time job. (In this respect, the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra is unlike,
say, the Boston Symphony and Vienna
Philharmonic orchestras, whose members
are able to spend a considerable amount
of time on non-orchestral activities.)
This restricts the amount of time that
members of the orchestra can put into
chamber music, and sets an upper limit
to the standard of performance that
groups in which they play can hope to
reach.
One by-product of this situation is
that chamber music groups in Sydney
tend to break up and change personnel
rather more often than they would if
chamber music were not just a spare-time
activity for most players. This does not
help performing standards.
the handicaps under which
local chamber music groups work,
some of them have achieved excellent
results. The Austral Quartet, which with
violist Robert Pikler gave the quintet
concert mentioned above, is a fine group
by any standards, as is the piano trio led
by pianist Romola Constantino. Neither
of these groups is the equal of the best of
the overseas ensembles that have come
here, but it would be absurd to believe
on this account that they are not worth
hearing. Also worth attention are the
Andrew Hoffman quartet, which acts as
a kind of quartet-in-residence at Sydney
University, and the Sydney Harpsichord
Ensemble, led by harpsichordist Dorothy
White.
Standards are not uniformly high.
A number of concerts this year have
shown signs of insufficient rehearsal and
unsure technique (which, however, are
not confined to the less well patronised
concerts). The best concerts, however,
have been notable artistic successes. On
the strength of these it seems fair to say
that given the opportunity, some Sydney
groups could attain world standard.
How can the situation be improved?
Concert-goers’ habits at present seem to
be a product of three misconceptions
about music. The first is that what hap-
pens at concerts is that some musicians
perform, not that a piece of music is
played. The concerts given by local
musicians by and large have more enter-
prising programmes than those given in
the established series of subscription con-
certs. If audiences were more interested
in music than in the way music is per-
formed, local musicians’ problems would
be largely solved.
The second misconception is that what
comes from overseas must be of world
class, while what is produced locally
must be of inferior quality. The third
is that what isn't world class isn't worth
hearing. Both these ideas are, of course,
mere snobbery, but they seem to be at
the root of many people's attitudes to
local musicians.
As things stand, it seems unlikely that
audience habits will change very much
in the foreseeable future. The ABC,
which in the past has done a great deal
to form musical taste, seems to have be-
come rather determinedly middlebrow,
and to be more concerned with catering
to audience prejudices than with trying
to overcome them. As the ABC is the
biggest purveyor of music in Sydney, its
attitude is of prime, perhaps decisive,
importance in determining what kind of
concerts audiences are going to attend.
The second condition that needs to be
fulfilled before chamber music can
flourish in Sydney is that the best play-
ers have more time off from their other
duties. Here again the ABC's attitude is
of importance, as it is the largest em-
ployer of local musicians. The ABC
expects the money it outlays to be
accountable for in terms of work done
for it (which is understandable when one
considers how much public money it
spends). Hence it is not inclined to
relieve the burden of work on orchestral
players. It would in any event find this
hard to do, for it could not reduce the
number of the orchestra’s concerts with-
out being subjected to criticism, and it
could not take on more musicians and
devise a roster system for them without
spending still more money and possibly
lowering playing standards.
In the absence of interested audiences
or of large-scale patronage of one form or
another, prospects for Sydney chamber
music seem poor. Nevertheless, there is
a certain amount of optimism amongst
musicians. Musica Viva's success has
demonstrated that concerts can be made
self-supporting, and the number of con-
certs given by local artists, though small,
has certainly grown in the last three or
four years. One musician said: ‘"You can
hardly call music an occupation here. But
things are only just beginning, and com-
plaints are misguided. I expect a big im-
provement in the next ten years or so.”


THEATRE
Gentleman
Johnny
The Devil’s Disciple. Bernard Shaw.
Union Theatre Repertory Company.
Union Theatre. Melbourne.
Ohaw’s “The Devil’s Disciple” sparkles
with incidental wit and humor
which is fully exploited by the Union
Repertory Company. Frank Thring plays
the urbane, witty General Burgoyne
(Gentlemanly Johnny) with well-
disciplined verve. Leslie Wright gives a
masterly sketch of the venal but highly
patriotic British sergeant. Dennis Miller
as the oafish Christy Dudgeon and
Simon Chilvers as the bureaucratic Major
Swindon also contribute to the hilarity.
But John Sumner's production fails to
exploit the central comic idea.
Like all Shaw’s comedies “The Devil’s
Disciple” is anti-Romantic. Richard
Dudgeon and Judith Anderson are the
two romantics in the play and the central
theme is the exposure of their romanti-
cism. Richard Dudgeon, The Devil’s
Disciple, is an inverted Puritan. While
in the eyes of his conventionally respect-
able relatives he is a wicked profligate,
he is actually an ascetic who is nar-
rowly and passionately devoted to his
own strict code of values. In the first
scene Frederick Parslow plays Richard
as a dashing, debonair young man, a
relaxed Cavalier rather than the pas-
sionate Puritan he should be. It is true
that Richard has a flair for histrionics,
but he should be more like Jimmy
Porter than the Laughing Cavalier.
Judith Anderson, the minister’s young
wife, also has a flair for histrionics.
Judith takes the conventional romantic
view that Richard is a black-hearted
villain. But when this romantic villain
suddenly changes to a romantic hero,
offering his life to save her husband’s,
she switches to another conventional
romantic view—that he has been trans-
formed by romantic love for her. She
instantly steps into the role of romantic
heroine, ready to cast herself into the
flames for the man who loves her with
such a deathly passion. Richard ic so
busy playing his own heroic role that
for a while he doesn't notice Judith’s
state of mind. When he does he is
shocked that his actions should be
interpreted as having such a trivial
motive. Anthony Anderson, practical
realist, minister turned soldier, rescues
them both from their heroics. In the
light of his triumphant, beneficent,
common sense the competing histrionics
of Richard and Judith stand exposed.
Not that Richard does not show true
courage: His romantic error was to
suppose that he was the devil’s disciple.
If Frederick Parslow had played
Richard as more passionate, priggish and
more puritanical, if Gerda Nicolson had
played Judith as more intense and more
romantic, then the production would
have been tauter and the denouement
more explosively funny. But this would
have required that what Shaw has to
say about the nature of puritanism
should be taken seriously.
Brian James gives a very intelligent
and rounded performance as Anthony
Anderson, the wise, wordly Presbyterian
minister.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
ART
Still Lives
Transfield Art Prize. David Jones’
Art Gallery. Sydney.
“1Vf ODERN Still Life”, this year’s sub-
ject, produced a better level of
achievement than last’s. The subject, so
near to some of the really important
trends of the last fifty years, is not so
far from non-figuration. A small jump
is necessary from cubism to abstraction
or from texture painting to expression-
ism, none are far from the elements of
still life. Practically all of the great of
this century have found a useful form
in it; at one stage crucial advances were
made and could not be thought possible
without it. Still life is essentially con-
templative, studio bound and microcosmic
in extent. Here is a small world in which
an artist can be master of his means.
Most of the exhibitors found the jump
from their usual form slight. Margo
Lewes’ yellow, dark-textured painting
could be born out of any experience, yet
its closed spaces bring it near the subject.
Winner Maximilian Feurring enriched a
fascinating array of textured surface with
a few statements in high-pitched color,
not altogether integrated. But this was
certainly one of his best pictures to date.
With Lynn, Gould and others, texture
becomes the paramount activity. Guy
Grey-Smith, on the other hand, uses wide
expanses of firmly controlled color, thick
paint and simplified form to invest his
de Stael manner with authority. Ken-
neth Hood's assured still life reflects a
recently found subtlety of penetration
more sunny or earthbound than Hessings’
delicate, wry and tense forms and tex-
tures.
Besides a fair group from Western
Australia which arrived too late to be
better hung, Tom Green, Guy Warren,
Bernard Lawson and several others made
interesting contributions. No doubt none
of the paintings were worth £lOOO, but
the sponsors have no cause to growl about
the support they are receiving.
JOHN HENSHAW
FILMS
Stealing Thunder
The VIPs. Director, Anthony Asquith.
Metro Theatres. Sydney.
JTJgm’s production and release of “The
VIPs” represent such a masterly
piece of commercial strategy that any
discussion of the merits of the film seems
almost irrelevant.
After 20th Century-Fox suffered
months and years of anguish and the
expenditure of several fortunes on “Cleo-
patra”, and gathered in the process more
free publicity than has ever been lavished
on one picture and. its stars, MGM
quietly purloined those stars, Elizabeth
Taylor and Richard Burton, provided
them with a screen story that carried
enough vague overtones of their own
very public romance and made this film
in time for it to be released ahead of
“Cleopatra” throughout most of the
world.
Terence Rattigan’s adroitly artificial
screenplay concerns a group of top people
waiting to board a fogbound Transatlantic
airliner at London airport. To all of
them the delayed departure brings crisis:
the tycoon’s wife who is running away
with a playboy and has left her husband
a note of farewell that he is supposed to
receive after the plane has left; the Aus-
tralian minor league tycoon has to get
to a director’s meeting in New York in
time to save himself from ruin and pos-
sible imprisonment (the financial details
of this episode seemed obscure and im-
plausible to me, but I assume Mr Ratti-
gan and MGM know more about money
than I do); the international film pro-
ducer (Orson Welles “hamming” exuber-
antly) has to get out of the country by
midnight or pay a huge sum in income
tax.
The weakest component of the film,
even by its own standards of slick, sooth-
ing entertainment, is the central episode,
that of the fugitive wife (Elizabeth Tay-
lor), the possessive tycoon (Richard Bur-
ton) and the reformed rake (Louis Jour-
dan). Miss Taylor is an often-underrated
actress, but her performance here is re-
latively perfunctory; Burton’s screen per-
formances have never measured up to his
reputation as a stage actor.
But the film picks up in interest as the
action moves towards the perimeter.
Director Anthony Asquith (in the VIP
spirit, the film has a Prime Minister’s
son to direct it) catches the feverish mood
of arrival and departure; some of the
minor figures, such as Margaret Ruther-
ford as an eccentric duchess and Richard
Wattis as a distracted airline official.
>
evoke more sympathy and belief than
the major figures.
MARTIG LONG


RED PAGE
Across the Shadow Line
Michael Oakeshott's scepticism
By PETER COLEMAN
Rationalism in Politics and other
Essays. Michael Oakeshott.
Methuen. 575. 9d.
T7or many years the London School of
-*• Economics has figured in Australian
political mythology as the sweaty breed-
ing ground of doctrinaire socialists and
other types of foreign eggheads. This
reputation was largely a tribute to the
fame of the School’s Left-wing professor,
Harold Laski; and it is at least one
measure of the achievement of Michael
Oakeshott, Laski's successor, that the
LSE has now almost completely lost this
reputation.
It was clear that this was already hap-
pening on that famous afternoon late in
1951 when Oakeshott delivered the In-
augural Lecture which exorcized the
ghost of Harold Laski. Sensing it was to
be a symbolic occasion, hundreds of
students/graduates, and visitors, includ-
ing contingents of Africans and Asians,
crowded into the LSE's main hall,
and hundreds more into the overflow
rooms which were fitted out with a public
address system. When the microphone
was switched on, it seemed that not only
the LSE but the whole of Houghton St.
fell silent. You could have heard a pin
drop as Oakeshott’s sonorous, insinua-
ting and occasionally acidulous voice in-
toned through the corridors. Everyone
strained to catch his slow opening
references to his predecessor: “It seems
but an hour ago that he was dazzling us
with the range and readiness of his learn-
ing, winning our sympathy by the fear-
lessness of his advocacy, endearing him-
self to us . . . etc.”; then more slowly and
sonorously still, as if reading a
poem: “and it seems perhaps a little un-
grateful that he should be followed by a
sceptic; one who would do better if he
only knew how”.
By the time he had finished an hour
later with the quotation from Bradley,
“The world is the best of all possible
worlds, and everything in it is a necessary
evil”, it was clear that it was this
scepticism that accounts for his immediate
appeal to young people, then and since
By 1951 it was obvious to everyone that
socialism, which was still the creed of
most middle-aged intellectuals, was a
gospel of dreariness, servility and intel-
lectual squalor. But at the same time
conservatism was still associated with all
sorts of economic biimpishness, religious-
imperialist claptrap, and intellectual
stuffiness. Oakeshott’s rebellious scepti-
cism about all ideologies was, paradoxi-
cally, an exhilarating, liberating influence.
(Now, twelve years later, it is not his
fault if, ironically, he is sometimes
classified as the leading ideologue of the
“progressive” conservatives.)
But his special appeal to the young—
which has been one of the curiosities of
his career as a professor goes further
than this. His type of conservatism not
only involves scepticism in politics but
another paradox sympathy for
extremism, commitment or eccentricity
in non-political fields.
T>olitical conservatism has been regu-
larly associated with conformity, with
hostility to “modern” art, bohemianism,
moral eccentricity, religious enthusiasm.
Conservatives are supposed to value the
Golden Rule, moderation in all things.
But for Oakeshott, life is not a play-
ground for reason or moderation but for
passion whether it be commercial, in-
tellectual, religious or political passion,
and government, which is a secondary,
even seedy activity, exists only to pre-
vent our passions destroying the condi-
tions for their satisfaction. Political con-
servatism in other words assumes a
society not of conformists but of extrem-
ists passionately committed to commerce,
religion or something else; and we learn
more about politics from Thomas Hobbes
or David Hume than from Burke.
It follows, however, that the young
are unfitted for politics and should be
discouraged from taking it too seriously.
Their proper sphere is the world of
excitement, commitment, enthusiasm:
“Some unfortunate people like Pitt
(laughably called ‘the Younger’) are
born old, and are eligible to engage in
politics almost in their cradles; others,
perhaps more fortunate, belie the say-
ing that one is young only once, they
never grow up. But these are excep-
tions. For most there is what Conrad
called the ‘shadow line’ which, when
we pass it, discloses a solid world of
things, each with its fixed shape,
each with its own point of balance,
each with its price; a world
of fact, not poetic image, in which
what we have spent on one thing we
cannot spend on another; a world in-
habited by others besides ourselves
who cannot be reduced to mere reflec-
tions of our own emotions. And coming
to be at home in this commonplace
world qualifies us (as no knowledge of
political science can ever qualify us),
if we are so inclined and have nothing
better to think about, to engage in
what the man of conservative disposi-
tion understands to be political
activity.”
I have emphasised Oakeshott’s unusual
appeal to the young and his separating
of conservatism from conformity because
these indicate something of his special
flavor. But more generally his basic theme
throughout his articles collected in this
book is a critique of Rationalism, of
the dangerous influence of the ideal
of a rational society, whether it is capital-
ist, socialist, scientific, Christian, or any
other ideal. His “model”, if that is the
word, is not the pursuit of ideals but the
enjoyment of our flexible ways of life
and the adaptation of them to new needs
without the misguidance of abstract
ideals or ideologies. (Custom, he says,
is not blind, it is only blind as a bat.)
In this hostility to all ideologies (in-
cluding doctrinaire Christianity, as dis-
tinct from a Christian way of life), his
work sometimes seems like a Nietzschean
revival and, like Nietzsche, one of his
techniques is the sketching of concrete
moral types. For example (if readers
will excuse the Englishry of it): "The
morality of the Rationalist is the morality
of the self-made man and of the self-
made society . . . When he is not arrogant
or sanctimonious, the Rationalist can
appear a not unsympathetic character.
He wants so much to be right. But un-
fortunately he will never succeed. He
began too late and on the wrong foot.
Like a foreigner or a man out of his
social class he is bewildered by a tradi-
tion or a habit of behavior of which he
knows only the surface; a butler or an
observant house-maid has the advantage
of him.”
He begins with a theory of the nature
of activity whether it be fishing or
poetry, philosophy or cooking, science or
politics—and the rules or principles that
are supposed to guide them. In fact
any activity is an habitual way of doing
and enjoying things, and the rules we
work out about it are not standards to
which we try to conform but generalisa-
tions from something we do already with-
out rules. A cookery-book, for example,
will not teach anyone how to cook; it is
only a short-hand and inadequate sum-
mary of someone's knowledge of cookery;
rules of poetry (or “scientific method”)
will not teach anyone how to be a poet
(or scientist); they are only a short-hand
and inadequate summary of someone’s
knowledge of poetical (or scientific)
activity. These lists of rules and ideals
may be of some limited use, but only if
the reader knows how to use them, that
is, if he is already a cook, a poet, or a
scientist.
The trouble is that in politics and
morality it has become accepted that a


YOUR GARAGE
DESERVES GENUINE
w
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere T . 134/2
book of rules, a syllabus of ideals, a crib
on how to do the right thing is more
important than the inherited ways of
doing things; and to be without a book of
rules, a sense of crisis, a model of reform,
is to be unworthy, even immoral This
is a New Age, requiring a New Morality.
New Politics, New Education, New
Religion, New Literature —New Idiocy
in some shape or other. Hence we live in
a period of intense idealism, servility
and horror saved only by what is left
of our unselfconscious moral habits and
by the fact that no one has yet managed
to reduce ordinary decency to an Ideal.
This is not of course to deny the
reality of political reforms, but, where
they have worked well, it has not been
(whatever the reformers may say)
because of the application of an ideal,
but because the law has finally recognised
a change that has already taken place—
the legislative “emancipation of women”,
for example, was only the recognition of
the fact that women were already eman-
cipated. Politics, in other words, is a
matter of adapting of political arrange-
ments, not of New Brooms, Fresh Starts
or Great Leaps Forward.
The Politics of the Book of Rules did
not start yesterday or in the 20th century
Idealism is in the air we breathe and
probably began when the ancient
philosophers and Christians reduced their
ways of life to self-conscious principles,
to a set of rules on How to be Good.
This was, however, a misfortune our
civilisation learned to live with; but for
the past three or four centuries the posi-
tion has grown steadily worse, as we
have systematically destroyed our tradi-
tional institutions as primitive survivals in
the interests of our idealism. And no cure
is in sight in fact every time something
goes wrong we assume another dose of
some New Ideal or other is needed, and
the position gets worse.
In the end the cure will depend not on
medicines but on the native strength of
the patient. But at least, Oakeshott some-
times implies, we cannot do much harm
if we identify the corruption, throw out
the doctors, and relax. It is characteristic
that one of his earlier books was “A
Guide to the Classics, or how to pick the
Derby winner” (only to be read, of
course, by those who already understand
racing). He also seems these days to
find some Wisdom in the East, approv-
ing Lao Tzu’s criticism of Confucius:
“All this talk of goodness and duty, these
perpetual pin-pricks, unnerve and irritate
the hearer; nothing, indeed, could be
more destructive of inner tranquility.”
It is all, of course, an extraordinarily
detached position. (I remember once in
London being taken aback to find his
name and number in the ’phone-book;
it seemed, somehow, an unnecessary
concession to the world.) But in a period
when every barbarian carries himself
with an air of moral arrogance, it is re-
freshing to read a sceptic who only be-
lieves in freedom and does not despair,
because he had no illusions about it all
in the first place.
It is impossible to do justice to this
book briefly 1 have not even attempted
to deal with his chapters on Thomas
Hobbes or the nature of poetry and his-
tory and a reviewer can only urge
people to read it. It is an exception to
the usually reliable rule that whenever
a new book comes out, one should read
an old one. This is one of those books
destined to be an old one, read for a
long while to come. Few books as im-
portant in political philosophy have come
out since J. S. Mill’s “On Liberty”.
Bobilla Days
Childhood at Briodabella. Miles Frank-
lin. Angus & Robertson. 255.
PTVie feature which one best remembers
A about Miles Franklin was her gentle
vivacity of mind. She never seemed to
be in complete repose, but she never
seemed to be agitated. She was always
in an absorbent state taking in impres-
sions, enjoying them, processing them,
storing them away in refined form. Her
memory for little incidents and scraps of
conversation was remarkable and sure.
She had intense curiosities about every-
thing. She could not let a book rest once
her mind had come to grips with it and
she would absorb it bit by bit worrying
it like a bee getting the last sip of honey
out of a flower.
Her personality matched her outward
appearance. Little, neat, exhibiting a sort
of humble pride, she liked being her-
self and enjoyed her capacities and sought
to make the best of them. But she had
no competitive spirit in her, no envy of
others. She took a simple pleasure in
everything and particularly in the work
and the joys of others. At the same time
her own life was very private. She kept
secret to the end as secret as she
could her authorship of the “Brent
of Bin Bin" books, though many people
who had discussed the Snowy country
and its fringes with her could have had
little doubt.
A generation ago when the first bio-
graphy of John Galsworthy arrived, I
showed her one of his letters in which
he referred to “a story of mine called
‘Had a Horse’ in ‘Caravan’, ’’ adding:
“It is only second to Nat Gould who is
quite the worst writer in the world, and
only redeemed by what he writes about
horses, the which are the pink of crea-
tion.” At once she began to talk about
horses and the effect of living with them
on men and the effect of living with men
on horses. This led- to reminiscences of
the country of her birth and by the time
the talk had finished, she had virtually
given herself away. When I exclaimed:
“Trapped! I have caught Brent of Bin
Bin”, at last she seemed so distressed I
was sorry. She let the remark pass but
went on earnestly to talk about Gals-
worthy and how she sympathised with
him in the anguish he must have suffered
when all his relatives angrily identified
themselves in his life-like portraits of
them and vented their wrath on him.
She was sure he was “too kind to do
it out of malice”.
But the interesting thing about her
point of view was her insistence that if
she ever did make use of the lives of
those about her for literary purposes, it
was certainly not the consequences which
would trouble her, but her sense of guilt
at having breached the rights of privacy
and reticence of the originals of her
characters, whether the impressions she
congealed in words of them were good or
ill.
Her sensitiveness about the human
right of privacy extended to herself and,
always to a certain extent in the lime-
light, she hated publicity and unsought
intrusions into her life. There was, also,
a sort of self-effacing diffidence about
her and reserve in coming into other
people’s lives which manifested itself in
many ways such as beginning her
letters to people whom she knew very
well, “Dear Mr”, while signing them
simply “Miles”.
If she had lived till 1963 she died
in 1954 I doubt if her last and
littlest book which Angus & Robertson
have printed under the title “Childhood
at Brindabella” with the sub-title “My
First Ten Years” would ever have seen
the light.
She mentioned it several times after
Pixie C’Harris, or somebody else, per-
suaded her not to write it, but to consider
printing it; for she seems to have written
it voluntarily out of nostalgia which
used to come to her in the small hours
of the morning during the years of the
war which affected her deeply with a


Finest English crystal Decanter, with solid Sterling Silver mount,
c-j the Georgian Period.
-s-
-m
k
w
Almost certainly, for so many who appreciate
the fine Vat 69 blend treat this distinguished
Scotch Whisky in the same gracious manner as
their forebears. The Whisky does
deserve it, certainly . . . but it loses
nothing in being served directly
from its characteristic bottle.
VAT 69 . . . MORE THAN A SCOTCH
A TRADITION—FOR 100 YEARS NOV/
BY APPOINTMENT
10 HER MAJESTY
QUEEN TLI7ABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LTD.
NZL 9/10.4


WRITERS,
AUTHORS
WRITERS' & PHOTOGRAPHERS
MARKETING GUIDE
1962-63 EDITION
Aust., NZ and Overseas Markets for all
types of MSS. Also publishers, literary
agents, etc.
Complete, up-to-date Information
15/- (post lid.). Most booksellers or
direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Box 28, PO, Collins St., Melbourne
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
longing for the tranquil days of her early
girlhood.
The barriers to her giving it to the
world were that she could not believe
that an excited public would find any-
thing in it worth note and again the obses-
sion with the right of other people’s pri-
vacy and the wish that no word of hers in
print should ever cause a qualm of pain
or annoyance to the original of any
character.
Now that it is out, I believe she would
be secretly delighted with it. It is a
classic of bush childhood, a charming
little book about life in the often snow-
topped mountains between the Australian
Federal Capital and the lovely Tumut
River Valley, much of which is to dis-
appear for ever soon under the opaque
waters of the Blowering Valley Reser-
voir. It depicts life as it was lived in the
childhood of that countryside itself, long
before there was a spot marked Frank-
lin Chalet up among the Brindabellas on
the border of the Federal Capital Terri-
tory and when there were no trout jn
the Goodradigbee and no Burrinjuck
Dam to receive the waters of that
stream. And when the only way to get
to Tumut from Brindabella station was
the rough bridle track through the
Fiery Ranges and the Bogong country
The editors have been at great pains
to identify places and people disguised
by the authoress: Gool Gool for Tumut,
Bobilla for Brindabella, Ajinby for Tal-
bingo, and initials for members of her
family. This Miles herself would not have
liked very much: she would have been
as much disturbed, on the grounds of
good taste, by the pinning of her flattery
of some of her characters on living
originals near and dear to her, as at the
printing of anything which might seem to
be offensive to people who gave her
simple amusement through their weak-
nesses.
It can be safely said that if the book
had been published in her lifetime, or
intended for publication at all, instead
of as a sort of secret exercise in reliving
an enchanted childhood, much that now
appears in the open glare of publicity
would have been made much less
recognisable.
M. H. ELLIS
Faith and Reason
Reason and Faith in Modern Society.
Liberalism, Marxism, and Demo-
cracy. Eduard Heimann. Oliver &
Boyd. 655.
Tn 1950, the four French Roman
4 Catholic Cardinals issued a pastoral
letter commenting on the then Pope’s
encyclical against Communism. In
criticising Communism, they said, the
Holy Father could not have meant to
side with Capitalism for to do that
would mean to side with the cause of
Communism.
Dr Eduard Heimann, a German-born
economist and Protestant Christian, who
is now lecturer in Christian Ethics in the
Union Theological Seminary in New
York, has written a large, diffuse and
pedantic book in defence of the same
position. Heavily, teutonically, and yet
unreliably, Dr Heimann leads us through
individualism, Marxian dialectic, atheist
theocracy, economism and statism to the
triumphant but inadequately supported
conclusion that only Christianity can
save man from the dire consequences of
relying on his own reason. Capitalism and
Communism, though mutually antagon-
istic, are the necessary consequences of
such a reliance; unless man finds a third
force in the application of a Christian
social ethic, he is doomed. “Society,” as
Dr Heimann puts it, “is constituted and
held together by religion; the belief in
reason splits society and is incapable of
healing it.”
Greater minds than Dr Heimann’?
have held to this last proposition, but
rarely has anyone written a more pretcn
tious, self-confident and unconvincing
book in support of this thesis.
Dr Heimann begins with a model. The
society of classical Western capitalism
is the society of pure rational individual-
ism the individualism described and
rejected by both Hegel and Marx. Such
individualism, he believes, is necessarily
incoherent. In theory, it is incapable of
systematic development; it stultifies social
science, and produces the dreary abstrac-
tion, of one field of investigation from
another. In practice, it leads logically to
the world of unrestrained greed and
competition, to the Hobbesian war of all
against all. Individual freedom alone,
“not directed by Christian conscience,
becomes the freedom of the strong at
the expense of the weak; in a commer-
cial civilisation, the freedom of property
rather than of man. As a result we have
social injustice, economic disorder, and,
to clinch the superior freedom of the
strong, the outrage of racialism”.
So far, perhaps, so good. But con-
stantly Dr Heimann wants to push mat-
ters far beyond what his argument will
support. For his thesis is not that unre-
strained competition will lead to social
injustice, economic disorder, racialism,
etc. His thesis is the triumphant sen-
tence: “The rational pursuit of self-
interest is self-defeating, in that it
destroys both individuality and civilised
society.”
The difficulty for Dr Heimann is
obvious, yet it is never faced honestly.
The Western society we know to-day is
largely based on the foundations of en-
lightened self-interest, on the belief that
in a guided capitalism men can combine
the most feasible maximum of oppor-
tunity for individual development with
the most feasible maximum of political
and economic protection. They can do so
because the capitalist market has given us
a model for co-operation in which men
can agree on common means without
having to agree on common ends. For the
first time in history, social cohesion does
not depend on the physical or mental
subjugation of man.
Dr Heimann grants the differences
between our actual existing “capitalist”
society and the Hobbesian chaos he
portrays as a necessary result of rational
individualism. To account for these dif-
ferences and to lend some plausibility to
his indictment of rational self-interest, he
is forced into three supporting arguments,
each of which is false.
First, Dr Heimann wants to clinch his
argument against the society of indi-
vidualism by arguing that it necessarily
produces modern Communism as its
“shadow”. Communism, he argues, is a
Western product. In a sense, this is true
but not in the sense that modern
totalitarian Communism arises out of the
logic of capitalist development and the
society based on entrepreneurial values
On the contrary, Communism takes root
in those societies in which rational in
dividualism is weak, in which there is
no strong entrepreneurial tradition, in
which men have been bound to the
land, to religion and to feudal-bureau-
cratic oppressors. The two largest com-
munist states in the world are in China
and the old Russian Empire; the largest
Communist party in Europe is in Roman
Catholic Italy. In the highly developed,


Published This Month
Minerva Reef OLAF RUHEN
In July, 1962, seventeen Tongans were marooned on
a reef that was totally submerged except during the few
hours of low tide each day.
How can one survive on a reef for over a hundred
days? What is the effect of such an ordeal on men’s minds?
In the final count these Tongans showed how men
apparently divided by temperament and character could
work together to a common end, and answer disaster with
magnificent integrity and resourcefulness.
Minerva Reef is a great true story of men against the
sea. It is also a profoundly moving document of human
faith and endurance. 255. (post Is. 3d.)
Wake Up In Europe COLIN SIMPSON
A new edition of the book that has become firmly
established as the best travel book on Europe, and has sold
38,000 copies. On a recent visit, the author gathered
material to bring it up to date, and the result is an even
more handsome book than before, with 56 more pages,
an excellent index, a new jacket, and some beautiful new
colour plates and black-and-white photographs.
455. (post 2s. Id.)
Children’s Books
Australian Children’s Annual
Edited by T. S. HEPWORTH
This year’s Annual (number six) is in
a new, attractive format, and will appeal
to children between 6 and 12 years old.
It includes features on many subjects,
adventure stories, cartoons, and 24 pages
of photographs, some in colour.
30s. (post 2s. Id.)
Amelia Muddle JEAN CHAPMAN
A lively book about the somewhat
alarming adventures in the life of 11-
year-old Amelia, who is learning to do
what her mother calls “the right thing”.
Gaily illustrated by Adye Adams, it is
a charming story for 8 to 10 year olds.
13s. 6d. (post lOd.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHED BY
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
commercialised and industrialised socie-
ties of north-western Europe, of America
and Australia, Communism is not a
serious, internal threat resulting from the
triumph of rational individualism.
Second, to account.for the humanisa-
tion and welfare-orientation of contem-
porary capitalism, Dr Heimann is prac-
tically forced to parrot the ridiculous
Communist claim that capitalist reforms
(including Disraeli’s) were forced on
capitalism by the internal menace of
Communism. This is simply untrue. The
position is rather that which has been
brilliantly expounded by Schumpeter:
capitalism, in producing a rational cli-
mate, a belief in universality and in raising
the material status of the worker, itself
gives that worker the power to affect the
system. It is capitalism internal logic
of capitalism and not the Communist
menace that produced the welfare state.
Third, not all of the humanisation of
capitalism, even on Heimann’s view, is
to be traced to the threat of Marxism.
Some, he believes, results from the force
of a lingering Christianity. But is there
any evidence that men guided by what
they take to be Christian teaching are
any more co-operative, tolerant and just
than those guided by a belief in reason,
in the individual, or even in their own
rational self-interest? Cromwell, says
Dr Heimann, was a more liberal ruler
than Stalin only because he humbled
himself each day before God. So did the
men of the Spanish Inquisition, the
Calvinist city fathers in Geneva and the
monk Savonarola in Florence. It was
Jesus Christ who was formally pro-
claimed the “King” of that horrible re-
public.
EUGENE KAMENKA
Lord of
Language
The Stories of William Sansom. Ho-
garth Press. 31s.
Tf the word “story” is checked in any
modern dictionary the title of this
latest and most concentrated collection
of William Sansom’s work is unexcep-
tionable. The reader who, carelessly, ac-
cepts the meaning as “short story” and
confirms this hasty (as it turns out) esti-
mate with the introductory essay by
Elizabeth Bowen, is self-deceived. For
these are not short stories, as the short
story form has been developed. They
have no plots, their characterisation is
limited, and they do not fall within the
narrow limits of the definition.
If Sansom throws away a hundred and
fifty years of story development, as he
does, his backgrounds, those of the
casual traveller, in Denmark, in Corsica,
in Norway, in war-torn London, are de-
lightful. His sentences, though some-
times defying the rules of grammar, con-
tain an excellent rhythm; his descrip-
tions (seldom informed by a personal
experience of contributory life) are still
exact and precise.
Most of these stories have appeared
before, in one or other of the author’s
eight previous collections. Their re-ap-
pearance argues that there is a public,
a strong and vigorous one, perhaps, for
this work. But their reversal to the tech-
niques of the fifteenth century and be-
fore, without a reversal to the larger-
than-life characteristics of fifteenth-cen-
tury protagonists means the sacrifice of
factors of proved entertainment value.
The tendency, which Sansom has not
been alone in following, is, I think, re-
sponsible for at least some of the decline
in magazine fiction.
At fifty years of age, William Sansom,
in spite of an enormous output, is by no
means committed for life to such nega-
tive exercises. He is a master of words,
and may yet cast aside his self-imposed
restrictions.
OLAF RUHEN


ou
AN
*
WORKING
87.8% of ALL Victorian TV homes are reached by GLV-10/GTV-9 Melbourne, Australia’s
first relay, with one “special rate” buy.
Strength in coverage and strength in personalities make GLV-10/GTV-9 the greatest
selling team in Australian Television. Here’s what you get, when you buy them ... Buy
GLV-1Q alone, and you buy the key to Victoria’s richest country area—the £55,000,000
Latrobe Valley market-containing 32.9% of all the licensed TV sets in rural Victoria.
You buy, also, the strongest team of selling personalities in Country TV . . . Malcolm
Searle, Don Ewart, Johnny Chester and Cheryl Thomas.
Johnny Chester
Don Ewart
Cheryl Thomas
Malcolm Searle
Buy the GLV-10/GTV-9 Relay and you
reach at once 87.8% of all the licensed TV
homes in Victoria . . . 454,494 sets—plus
these nationally famous TV personalities—
Graham Kennedy, Bert Newton, Noel
Ferrier, Tony Charlton, Kevin Sanders and
Professor Browne. No other TV buy gives
you this tremendous dominance in cover-
age; this unique combination of strong
local and national personalities. Ask your
local GLV-10 or GTV-9 representative for
the full story.
Graham Kennedy
Bert Newton
/
Vs#*
Kevin Sanders
Noel Ferrier
m
Tony Chariton
Professor Browne
Melbourne Representatives:
Victorian Country Telecasters Pty. Ltd.,
99 Queen Street, C.l. Telephone 67-7372
Ask for Co|in Fraser or Hugh Lyon.
Sydney: J. M. Sturrock Pty. Ltd.,
47 King Street. Telephone 29-6069
Ask for Jim Sturrock or John Sutton.
Adelaide: Keith Coles Media,
95 Currie Street. Telephone 51-4926
Ask for Keith Coles.
GiPPSLAND
VICTORIA


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
More Confidence in Britain
A Three p.c. rise in exports from Britain in the three
months to July (compared with the previous three
months) has encouraged some optimistic forecasts in
that country. The Stock Exchange also is optimistic, judged
by the recent advances. And the motor industry boom con-
tinues, with production at around 33,000 vehicles a week.
Manufacturers have been encouraged to increase production
in many industries and a popular Budget is expected in April,
1964, to cope with next year's tough general election (which
may be delayed until October, 1964).
There are qualifications, of course. Manufacturers have
expressed uncertainty about large capital investment at a time
when they believe there is an
excellent chance that a Labor
Government will be back in
power next year. Offsetting
this, and encouraging factory
owners to take the plunge, is the
very attractive investment allow-
ance and depreciation conces-
sions introduced in the last
Budget. The heavy write-offs
recently permitted on new plant
and buildings are regarded as
too generous to last, so that
there are many manufacturers
who are taking the opportunity
while it is available.
The cumulative effect of new
plant expansions is not expected
to be felt until next year. But
the current programmes of in-
vestment in plant and equip-
ment are expected to help
counter a seasonal slow-down in
activity during the coming winter, when fingers will be
crossed to avoid a repetition of the last very severe winter,
which had dire effects on the whole of Europe.
the other side of the slate, imports are showing a sharp
” revival as manufacturers re-stock. The 5 p.c. rise in imports
in the three months to July (compared with the previous three
months) caused a widening of the trade gap of £stgsom. a
month, seasonally adjusted, compared with £stg4lm. a
month in the February-April period.
Not all of this will be reflected in the balance of payments,
because sugar imports were valued by the Board of Trade
at the world price. In fact, most of these sugar imports will be
paid for at the lower Commonwealth Agreement price. Tobacco
imports, up 39 p.c., may be classified as a re-stocking item for
manufacturers, but half the UK increase in imports was in
food. Imports of industrial materials (representing one-third of
the increased imports) were up by only 5 p.c and basic
materials by 4 p.c.
The encouraging part about the export position, however,
was that it was widespread, with a 2 p.c. increase in exports
to the difficult Western Europe market, which hit back with
a 7 p.c. increase in exports to Britain. Largest increase in
UK exports was an 18 p.c. lift in Soviet and Eastern Europe
markets. Coal exports made a remarkable recovery, up 46 p.c.
in seven months.
The claim that UK holdings of Scotch whisky are worth more
than its gold reserves may be no exaggeration because whisky
was mainly responsible for the rise of 10 p.c. in the beverages
and tobacco group in the three months to July. Some of this
was held back to take advantage of tariff cuts on whisky.
British industrialists are being assured that, if there is any
obvious setback during the coming winter, the Exchequer will
introduce new doses of stimulation. On the investment side, it
is too early yet to discern the
effects of J. F. K.’s measures to
protect the dollar. But it is
obvious it will have some detri-
mental effect on sterling
balances.
Having said all this, there is
no denying that the Chancellor’s
tax reliefs may have been too
late to have any marked effect
on the unemployment pool and
that, by next April, the current
revival may have petered out,
or at least be in need of further
stimulation. Nevertheless, there
is an increased note of con-
fidence in UK business con-
ditions and an air of resignation
that perhaps a Labor Govern-
ment may not be so bad after
all.
This confidence will need to
be reviewed next year when the
balance of payments will show more clearly how Britain has
fared in her recovery programme.
The Sun Never Sets
on the £ Sterling
"Britain is moving closer to decimal coinage, but legislation
** is expected to be delayed until after the next general
election. Reports circulating in Britain indicate that the £ ster-
ling will be retained as the major unit in the decimal currency
for reasons of prestige and tradition.
There are arguments that Britain can lead the world with
a Pound, Florin, Cent system which has many advantages
because of wide application of the intermediate unit . . . the
Florin. It is claimed it is easier to add up 6.3 florins and
the increased imports) were up by only 5 p.c. and basic
cents.
The florins, at 10 units to the £1 sterling, may be handy
in everyday purchases. But the penny would be cumbersome,
because one cent would be equal to 2.4 pence.
It becomes more complicated when it is suggested there


would need to be a smaller unit equal to one-tenth of a cent
(possibly to be called a "Mill") which would allow the existing
penny to remain in circulation as a 4-mill piece. But a cent
then would need to be broken down into two pennies and 2
mills, or 10 mills, which becomes awkward. There would
be more mills floating around than American one-cent pieces
which already are regarded as a nuisance.
The Australian system, which proposes the use of a 10s.
note as the basis of its decimal system, seems to be less com-
plicated, where the cent would be equal to 1.2 pence.
One of the UK arguments used against this is that it would
be virtually impossible to withdraw old pennies from circulation
and the penny would need to be revalued by 20 p.c., thus
causing confusions and distortions in prices.
Maybe so. But the introduction of any new monetary sys-
tem inevitably causes dislocations. Past experience has indi-
cated a need to eliminate small coins rather than create them.
New Computer Service
for Melbourne
A ustralia’s first independent electronic data processing com-
pany, EDP Australia Ltd, officially pressed into action
its new Burroughs 8280 computer at the company’s service
bureau in William Street last week. The ceremony was per-
formed by Melbourne’s new Lord Mayor, Cr E. L. Curtis.
The new computer, valued at £250,000, has been leased
from Burroughs by EDP, a three-year-old proprietary, to re-
orient its leasing service for processing mainly scientific data
(by a Bendix 315) to cater for the growing trend to provide
medium-sized and smaller businesses with a fully integrated
electronic data processing service.
As the Burroughs 8280 is a general purpose computer, it
is capable of a wide variety of applications. EDP can turn
into a simple operation most of those daily, weekly, monthly
or annual “peak pressure tasks” that are the bane of all
businesses. The use of electronic data processing can reduce
a task which normally takes weeks into an operation of a
few hours with complete accuracy and often with a broader
result saving money at the same time.
The EDP installation includes a Burroughs high-speed MICR
(magnetic ink character recognition) Sorter-Reader, which
EDP states will read and sort paper documents under com-
puter control, at speeds up to 1560 items per minute.
This is the only machine of this type in Victoria. The MICR
system was adopted by the Australian Banks Automation
Research Committee in 1962 for automation of cheque hand-
ling and accounting within banks.
Shell’s Stiff
Tuition Fee
Tn the past seven years, Shell has made a series of notable
advances in off-shore drilling equipment and techniques.
These include drilling from a floating vessel and completion
of oil wells on the ocean floor by remote control from the
surface. Also, a new type of drilling vessel was evolved which
incorporates an automatic pilot, similar to that in aircraft, to
keep the vessel in a fixed position without the use of anchors
while drilling goes on.
A new approach to underwater drilling was needed because
the expensive platforms and land-type rigs, commonly used for
offshore exploration, are limited by mechanical and economical
considerations to water depths of about 200 ft. Adaptable to
depths as great as 1000 feet, Shell’s advanced methods will
allow exploration of the continental shelf for new oil and gas
reserves, at rates of progress which do not dift'er significantly
from those hitherto obtained with conventional equipment in
shallow waters.
Naturally Shell has spent huge sums in developing these
off-shore drilling techniques so although in the interests of
stimulating research in this field it is prepared to pass on the
results to other oil companies, it is not doing so on the cheap.
In fact, it recently held a school at Houston, Texas, USA,
for “students” from twelve major oil companies to initiate
them into its new devices and techniques. The fee for each
“student” was SIOO,OOO (£A 43,750).
Shell showed its “class” several training films and provided
course members in Houston with 150 portfolios containing
descriptions of Shell patents and more than 1000 visual aids.
Two major companies have already used all or part of the
new drilling and completion system in their offshore operations.
In Australia several companies, including Shell Development
(Aust) Pty Ltd, hold permits to search extensive offshore areas,
but so far activity has been limited to aeromagnetic surveys.
Harnessing a Baby Boom
for Investors
T'hat indefatigable Brisbane broker Mr Robin Corrie has
set his research staff to examine Australia’s population
growth and structure as they might influence overall company
profits. A new publication, “Population and the Share Market”,
dredges up some very promising relations.
Serious investors are well advised to consider the high
rate of population increase and especially its age composition,
which at present puts about 45 p.c. of the country’s inhabitants
into the under-24 group. Indeed more than 38 p.c. is under 20.
Effects of the accelerated postwar birth rate now become
plainly discernible. “The initial spearhead of this wave is at
present in the 15 to 19 year group. This ‘population bulge,’
with its enormous purchasing power, is already creating
increased demand for a wide range of goods and services,
some of them unknown to previous generations.”
The picture grows infinitely attractive: “In a short time from
now, these young people will be marrying and seeking houses
and all of the other necessities of family life. And then, of
course, this pattern will tend to perpetuate itself with yet
another ‘baby boom.’ ”
Having laid the glowing foundations the study gets down
to the tin-tacks of working out the impact on selected industries.
Not all is plain remunerative sailing, however: “The one pitfall
for the investor seeking to capitalise on these trends is that
excessive competition may restrict profitability in some
industries.”
The typical Stock Exchange industrial groupings are run
through the mesh of a particularly fascinating classificatory
system.
Under “estimated initial impact” is given the year when
the population bulge starts to make itself felt with a genuine
shock effect. Then the “estimated degree of competition”
receives a ranking by high, medium, low, rationalised, mono-
poly and variable. Finally a “current investment rating”
faces up to excellent, good, average and poor.
Banks and assurance, for example, are at this moment
excellent investments, both will take their first big impact
from the bulge in 1966 and onwards, but banks must face
only rationalised competition and assurance companies high.
With various impact and competitive qualifications for the
future, other “excellents” include foodstuffs, footwear, iron
and steel, newspapers, beer, maltsters, carpets, pharmaceuticals
and cosmetics, plaster and asbestos materials, quarries, and
motor accessories.


COMPETITION
drove this car
off the road
Know what made theJimousine of 1909 the jalopy of today?
One thing, competition.
The manufacturer who does not improve his product or
service to the public to keep ahead'of his competitors, fails.
Competition is the driving force that is the spur to progress.
In Australia there are many banks, each in competition for
your business, with the result that Australia has a banking
service equal to the best in the world.
Every Australian benefits
from Competition between Banks
.. J
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
i m . i i-mm b :■ i
THE A.N.Z. » THE NATIONAL • THE WALES . THE C.B.A. . THE C.E.C. • THE ADELAIDE • THE E.S, &At
Tariff Board Praises
And Blames
HThe Tariff Board very definitely returns
to the fray of industrial overcapacity
in its latest report. To last year’s strictures
one significant addition is made.
Earlier the board had ascribed some
harmful excess capacity, carrying no off-
setting benefits, to an inadequate survey
of market needs and “the competitive
strategy of local or international firms
without regard to the capacity of existing
producers”.
Now notice is taken of “the action of
State authorities in competing for the
establishment of industries by offering
various incentives”. Most observers will
agree this trend has recently grown more
marked, with various distinguished and
vociferous advocates touting the advant-
ages of particular States locally and over-
seas.
On general economic grounds, and with
the frequent evidence of widely miscalcu-
lated excess production thrown up by
the credit squeeze, there does not exist
any room for fostering Australian de-
velopment solely in terms of State ag-
grandisement. Such a programme may
introduce haphazardness when delicate
planning is called for.
The report makes no bones about the
penalties attaching to these practices: “In
such cases the board has taken the view
that at least part of the cost of carrying
excess capacity should be borne by the
manufacturers concerned and not by the
community, and has determined the level
of duties it recommends on that basis”.
It’s welcome news that the board can
discern a number of signs of productivity
outstripping wages increases in some in-
dustries, thus suggesting a reduction in
labor costs per unit of output. How-
ever, the impression of improvement still
has to stand up against the effects of the
Arbitration Commission’s margins and
longer leave judgments.
Lacking exact measurements of pro-
ductivity changes, the fate of other in-
dustries meeting import competition is
not properly determinable. The board
feels, though, that Australian industry
lifted competitive status in respect of
Britain, Germany and Japan, where
wages, costs and prices are not. so easily
held as of yore.
The board whisperingly repeats an
observation of “certain trading practices”
weakening “the competitive position of
some manufacturers on the domestic
market by encouraging imports”. If the
mysterious cap fits, wear it, appears to
be the attitude since the operations stay
unnamed.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-27G1 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. tBB7W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
The Example of Elizabeth
Development of Adelaide’s Satellite City
recent descent on Sydney of forces
from the north of NSW to advance
claims for the creation of a new State
should be taken very seriously as a step
towards recognising the economic as well
as the political and social desirability
of development outside the capital cities.
You can count on two hands the number
of Australian towns outside the capitals
with any claim to recognition as indus-
trial centres, and on one hand the number
developed since the war.
The uniqueness of the new industrial
centre of Elizabeth, 17 miles north of
Adelaide, in this connection is in the
successful creation of a residential com-
munity from scratch with the object of
attracting industry to an area by vir-
tue of the ready availability of labor. In
Elizabeth the hard core of job oppor-
tunities has been created by firms estab-
lishing themselves in the city, and on top
of these many others have sprung up
simply because, metaphorically, those in
basic employments need a whole army of
others to take in their washing, so making
the whole economic community-creating
process snowball.
The adjacency of Elizabeth to Salis-
bury’s Weapons Research Establishment,
where a lot of the original inhabitants
first found employment, takes something
away from this conception of the estab-
lishment of . the city because, perhaps,
without that particular source of em-
ployment, the project might have run
into a lot more difficulties in the filing-
out process than has been the case.
Elizabeth is not strictly a
country city, being only 17 miles or
22 minutes by rail from Adelaide. It is
similarly located to a capital city as
Dandenong is to Melbourne. It therefore
attracted many commuters with jobs in
Adelaide and still does, just as many
Melbourne commuters live in Dande-
nong. This adjacency to Adelaide also
played a strong part in Elizabeth’s growth
to a population of more than 30,000 in
the short space of eight years.
Indeed, the attraction of industry to
Elizabeth may not have been as spon-
taneous as it appears at first sight. Un-
derstandably, having backed up to the
hilt this city building project initiated
by the South Australian Housing Trust,
the South Australian Government has
gone out of its way, as has the Trust
itself, to give the most favorable terms
to industries willing to establish them-
selves there.
Equally the city's growth has been
greatly assisted by the comparatively
short distance from the Adelaide market
and Port Adelaide. Firms operating from
there are at very little disadvantage com-
pared with Adelaide-based firms in re-
spect of transport costs.
In planning new cities at greater dis-
tances than Elizabeth from a metropoli-
tan market or a suitable port, assistance
for new industries would probably have
to be more generous to make up for
higher transport costs. Bearing this in
mind, Elizabeth is proving to be such an
exciting success as an example of bal-
anced development based on the theory
of a ready labor force being a strong
attraction to new industry to come to an
area, that it would be well worth while
making experiments on the same lines in
other States.
At any rate this seems to be the
ideal way of attracting and settling
migrants. The whole concept is geared
into a home and community facilities
building programme under which
migrants can be assured of housing in a
community setting.
The response of industry to come to
Elizabeth has been astonishing. And as
the city builds up at the rate of 1,000
new houses a year to provide for a
designated population of 50,000 by 1968,
the number of new industrial applicants
continues to grow. Those firms already
established are continually expanding.
The most energetic of the latter is
General Motors-Holden's, whose pre-
sent work force at Elizabeth is around
3,000 after only five years’ operations
there. Originally occupying 300,000
square ft. of floor space GM-H now has
more than 1,000,000 and is currently
adding a further 500,000 square ft. for
a stamping department and vehicle
assembly.
Naturally quite a few of the big firms
manufacturing automotive components
have been attracted to Elizabeth in the
wake of GM-H. These include Die Casters
(which has based its SA activities at a
new plant there), Schrader-Scovill, an
Australian subsidiary of the US air valve
equipment maker; National Springs,
maker of industrial springs; and Texas
Instruments, an Australian subsidiary of
another US company which produces
electric control devices.
/"|n the other hand a lot of general in-
dustry has also come to the area such
as Metal Manufacturers, Broons Con-
tainers, Cable Makers (Australia), Aus-
tralian Liquid Air (making industrial
gases), Micro Industries (precision tools
and die-makers), World Wide Camps (an
Australian subsidiary of Alberta Trailer
Company of Canada), Kenwood Manu-
facturing, maker of food mixers and food
processing items, and James Hardie.
New firms at present being established
in the city include Elizabeth Construc-
tions Ltd, building contractors; Kenneth
Constructions Ltd, building contractors;
National Tyre Company Ltd, tyre retread-
ing; Dawn Engineering, precision
engineers; Ready Mixed Concrete (SA),
bulk concrete manufacturer; Static
General Engineering Co., general
engineers; Transway Services Ltd, pas-
senger bus operators; Universal Ready
Mixed Concrete Ltd, bulk concrete manu-
facturer; and Wadlow Limited, timber
and building requisites (with drive-in
facilities). In addition other manufactur-
ers have purchased sites in the industrial
areas at Elizabeth.


Pity the Poor Oil Speculator
nPHE poor oil speculator is a sorry speci-
-*■ men. He is ridiculed by know-
ledgeable experts as being unsophisti-
cated and ignorant. At the same time
he is fed with all sorts of conflicting
statements and carefully worded (opti-
mistic) reports which achieve nothing
more than add to his confusion. In the
final outcome, however, he is expected to
cough up bravely when more money is
needed for exploration.
Some confusion arose earlier this
month when Queensland’s Minister for
Mines, Mr E. Evans, was quoted as
saying that within a few weeks the two
oil groups that have found oil in
Queensland Could be called upon to
relinquish part of their prospecting areas.
The explanation given was that, when a
field is declared commercial, the pros-
pecting company is required to surrender
portion of its lease, which reverts to the
Government.
Oil speculators immediately took this
published report as an indication that
both Moonie and the Richmond area of
the Associated group had been “declared”
commercial. Share prices hardened and,
the same day, Associated Oil announced
a new share issue.
Although Moonie and Richmond are
on two entirely different structures 100
miles apart, the share market began to
rejoice that the fields were complemen-
tary to each other and would justify an
extension of the Moonie pipeline.
The situation needs to be placed in
perspective, based on available know-
ledge. First, there is no significance in
the fact that Union Oil (the operating
company for Union-Kern-AOG) has ap-
plied for a petroleum licence as distinct
from its existing Authority to Prospect.
The application was made at least two
months ago after the group proceeded
to install a pipeline to Brisbane.
A pplication for a Petroleum Lease on
Moonie in no way affects the Union
Oil group’s right to prospect and does
not entail the surrender of part of its
prospecting concession, of which Union-
Kern have been the beneficial owners
since the drilling of Cabawin East in
July 1961, a company spokesman states.
Union-Kern-AOG’s Authorities to Pros-
pect in Queensland were issued for fixed
periods. When each of these periods
expires, the holder can be called to re-
linquish the respective Authority to Pros-
pect, but because of the fixed term of
those Authorities, they are in no way
affected by an application for a Pet-
roleum Lease, the company claims.
Some of those Authorities to Prospect
may be coming to the end of the fixed
period which was written into the ori-
ginal grant. The Queensland Mines De-
partment then may put those Authorities
up for auction and sell them to the high-
est tenderer. But, in view of the past
performance of such operators as Union-
Kern-AOG, the State Government no
doubt would give very serious attention
to any bid from that group, because of
its proved performance record.
More than a year ago, rumors were
circulating that the Union-Kern-AOG
group had avoided declaring Moonie
commercial or payable because it would
be compelled to relinquish some of its
prospecting area to other drillers and
pay higher rental for the area it re-
tained. At that time it was indicated that
Union-Kern-AOG’s arrangement with
the Queensland Department of Mines
was based on certain minimum work
requirements over a specified licence
period. Details of those licence arrange-
ments have never been disclosed.
TTnion-Kern-AOG has exceeded the
minimum work requirements and has
drilled more wells than it would be re-
quired to drill under a “declared” pro-
gramme. So it would not incur extra
drilling expense by declaring the field
payable. Under the Act, when an area
is declared payable, it must be blocked
out specifically into a maximum area of
100 square miles and a rental paid of
£lO a square mile compared with the
existing 3d. a square mile paid by the
group on its 43,000 square mile Au-
thority to Prospect.
Under the Act, the word “payable” is
defined as the production of petroleum
of such quality and quantity as can be
won with profit.
As a spokesman for the Associated
group told The Bulletin last week, you
would need to be selling the oil at a
profit before you could claim a field was
payable.
For an oil prospecting company or
the Mines Department to decide what
is payable, it must first calculate trans-
port costs to tbe nearest refinery. And
an allowance also must be made for the
10 p.c. royalty which goes to the Queens-
land State Government. This 10 p.c.
royalty is 10 p.c. of the gross value
payable at the well head. The selling
price of crude oil is the price actually
realised less expenses in transporting it
to the buyer.
It would appear from the Act that
the Queensland Mines Department, at
its own discretion, can call upon the
holder of the Authority to Prospect to
apply for a Petroleum Licence. The
holder then would be required to under-
take a minimum drilling programme but
is not required to relinquish any of the
other areas covered under an Authority
to Prospect until such time as the fixed
period expires (or unless the holder fails
to carry out the exploration expenditure
requirements under the Act).
As soon as a holder applies for a Pet-
roleum Licence, the Commonwealth
Government becomes involved. Certain
subsidies paid on wildcat drilling in the
area must be refunded to the Common-
wealth Government. In Moonie’s case,
this would apply only to Moonie No. 1
which was drilled as a wildcat well.
The 16 development wells drilled at
Moonie since the No. 1 wildcat have
not been subsidised.
On the score of “declaring” an area,
Mr Evans recently was reported to say
it was not the province of the Queens-
land State Government to declare a
field commercial because the Federal
Government did that in respect of sub-
sidies. Presumably it can be construed
from this that the Federal Government
can withhold subsidies if it decides an
area is commercial and also demand the
refund of subsidy payments on wildcat
wells which subsequently are included
in a proved commercial field.
A clear definition is required.
The day comes closer when Moonie
can be called commercial after the Pet-
roleum Licence is issued and the oil
is in the pipeline. But Union Oil is
quite emphatic that this does not require
it to give up its Authorities to Prospect,
which are held for a fixed period of time.
To call the “Associated” field com-
mercial on the strength of the Rich-
mond strike is heaping confusion upon
confusion. Similar claims were made
over Sunnybank last December, but
the tight sands prevented commercial
flows. The Associated group fortunately
has an encouraging well at Richmond.
But it remains to be proved if the group
can develop a commercial field. In the
meantime, Mr Evans could enlighten
the public by clarifying some of the
recent statements attributed to him.
Clock with no
Moving Parts
\ T the recent Basle Fair in Switzerland,
Swiss firm showed a new elec-
tronic quartz clock which is unique in
that it has no moving parts. Measurement
of the hours is ensured by 168 miniature
lamps. Three lamps are lighted at each
instant giving the hour, minutes and sec-
onds. Measuring 1.5 inches in height and
6.2 inches in diameter and weighing 2.7
lb. the clock contains 580 transistors,
240 condensers, 1170 resistors and 4700
connections.


COMMONWEALTH BANKING CORPORATION
Combined Assets and Liabilities of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and its three member
banks—Commonwealth Trading Bank, Commonwealth Savings Bank and Commonwealth Development
Bank as at 30th June, 1963, were:—
Highlights for 1962/63 were:—
COMMONWEALTH TRADING BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Trading Bank provided financial assistance for a wide range of rural, industrial
and commercial purposes as well as for export trade. New lending in the past two years was almost equal to the
total recorded for the preceding four years. Total advances outstanding rose by £lB million to £lBO million
during the year. Deposits increased by £l5 million during the year to £3lB million in June, 1963. The Trading
Bank extended its services to a further 65 points and is now represented at 921 branches and agencies.
1962/63 profit after tax £1,064,400
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA
Depositors’ balances increased by £66 million to £939 million at 30th June, 1963, and active accounts
increased by 100,000 to 5,660,000.
Loans for housing and to local and semi-governmental bodies totalled £57.7 million during the year.
Since 1946, the Savings Bank has lent over £283 million for housing alone.
Commonwealth Savings Bank services are now available at over 8,500 branches and agencies.
1962/63 profit £2,525,002
COMMONWEALTH DEVELOPMENT BANK OF AUSTRALIA
The Commonwealth Development Bank approved finance totalling £24.8 million during the year
ta primary and secondary industry for developmental purposes. Outstanding advance balances at 30th June,
1963, totalled £53.4 million. Since it began in January, 1960, the Commonwealth Development Bank has
approved financial assistance of £89.6 million.
1962/63 profit £890,675
'N C
The Annual Report and Balance Sheets are available at any branch
of the
COMMONWEALTH
BANKS


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
registered
first mortgage
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANNUM
- 5 TO 10 YEARS -
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7|% P.A. 3 YEARS
7i% P.A. 2 YEARS
6i% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to Bi% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CCI66/I/AB
CLIP AND POST COUPON - j
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney. I
Please send me Without obligation a copy of I
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDRESS.
Tb 21/9
I
INVESTMENT SECTION
Hooker Tightens the Reins
fTHE markets greeted the L. J. Hooker
-*■ Investment Corporation preliminary
statement with a very proper sense of
values, shifting the ss. shares back a
trifle and keeping the first exercisable
options (1964 and 1965) reasonably
steady.
Investors’ judgments were thereby
neatly balanced between respect for a
newly won appearance of stability and
mild censure that dividends are highly
unlikely before 1964-65 at the earliest.
Given continuance of the atmosphere of
strict and accurate control, respect
should predominate.
It's no mean performance to turn the
£639,249 loss of 1961-62 into a £275,000
profit. Furthermore, small profits also
came from the sale of revenue assets
written down last year and from the sale
of capital assets.
These have correctly been taken to
provisions and reserves. Better still,
directors remain convinced that no more
write-downs will be necessary.
Probably the best feature of the
return to profitability, however, is the
closeness to budget. A result within
£20,000 of estimates signifies firmer con-
ceptions of management and planning.
The various divisions are held on tighter
rein, which can be only for good.
Such an attitude, once established, has
fortified the faith of banks and institu-
tions, both local and overseas. These
bodies continue willing to lend on
improvingly advantageous terms. And
the corporation bends a lot of its policy
to lifting its borrowing ability.
As things stand at present interest
charges probably involve some £ll
million a year. But the wild rates of
old are gradually disappearing. Savings
during the past year have perhaps cut
average rates down between one and two
p.c.
Existing liquidity has met all obliga-
tions and permitted a few developmental
projects to begin. In addition, mending
status led to satisfactory institutional
financial arrangements that provide for
re-development of all the group’s Sydney
city properties including Swains and the
Royal Exchange.
Many observers may feel too much
reliance is being placed upon postponed
earnings from the northern pastoral
properties. Here about £600,000 capital
expenditure has taken place over the
last couple of years and interest pay-
ments make a charge of nearly £lOO,OOO
on group profits.
Three or four years must elapse until
adequate returns become available,
though when they do the contribution
to profits is expected to be several
hundred thousand pounds annually.
The pastoral and other similar
longer-term ventures of course convey
a necessary image of stability, which
directors are anxious to preserve. The
South Australian salt enterprise, to be
undertaken with the US Leslie Salt Co.,
wears the same look.
Shareholders will certainly wish to
know exactly how the basic agency
division fared during the latest year.
Directors just mention better earnings,
but the full report will have to deal with
the onslaught of powerful overseas rivals
now confirming their position throughout
Australia.
The corporation has clearly made its
claim to be worth preserving where other
developers fell. And all divisions with-
out exception are budgeted for higher
earnings in the current year.
Mount Isa Spectacular
IV/fouNT Isa Mines came close to the
expected thing by getting its latest
profit within hail of the 1960-61 peak.
The 1962-63 earnings, at £5,597,769, re-
mained £331,318 below the record but
took a mighty jump to reach £2,204,793
ahead of 1961-62.
No major industrial trouble marred
last year. As well the remarkably
increased outputs benefited from much
better world prices in all metals
copper, lead, zinc and silver. Copper, of
course, has been particularly well sus-
tained by producer support.
In the face of all these advantages
many investors must have believed a
new top profit could be achieved. That
attitude probably put the ss. shares up
to 38s. 6d. just before the preliminary
statement. A measure of disappointment
caused prices to slip immediately after-
wards.
It is, naturally, always a ticklish mat-
ter to know exactly how much growth to
read into Mount Isa. Prices almost cer-
tainly went a little too high immediately
after the recent three-for-two bonus.
But there’s hardly any doubt that pre-
dicted world conditions and completion
of the present capital expansion pro-
gramme around 1966 should combine
greatly to lift earnings. Successive bonus
issues are equally predictable from per-
formance and technically to give earn-
ing rate a decently modest appearance.
Though low yielding at some 1.3 p.c.,
Mount Isa shares demand an honored


For every transport requirement
Mercedes-Benz’, the world’s oldest automotive
manufacturers, now offer a complete range of
passenger cars, commercial vehicles and engines
for marine and industrial purposes. They are
available from dealers throughout Australia.
TVS ERCEDE S - IS ENZ
''mal !!
M ! 4w
1
479/545
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.. MELBOURNE.
place in both small and iarge portfolios.
Investors won’t be allowed to wau ioo
long before deciding to come in, since
prices must soon start to climb once
more.
Directors’ explanation of the present
result in the light of average prices will
be awaited with considerable interest,
together with their medium-term fore-
casts. Shareholders know post-bonus
dividends give them the same return as
the 25 p.c. rate paid over the last four
years.
High-level profits during the next year
or two will permit ploughback for self-
financed development and also enable a
bonus dividend progression to continue.
A Temporary Stain?
"W/avering share prices gave every sign
of what was coming for electrical
and home appliance retailer Eric Ander-
son (Consolidated). At the time of
writing the ss. units are desperately close
to par.
Under happier auspices they touched
a top 6s. lOd. earlier this year and 7s. 7d.
in 1962.
Although the full report must declare
the whole sad story of the second half
of 1962-63, it still seems possible to
stress at this stage that the group is
organisationally and financially sound.
Directors could perhaps be chided for
the sudden contradiction to declared
prospects. Their past behavior makes
it likely that they felt the harsh in-
congruity of reversing the message of
the March interim statement.
Unfortunately the company does not
remain the only one to have bad debts
mount so quickly before discovery.
“Write-offs during 1962-63 were much
higher than for the previous year,” the
preliminary statement says.
The steps from that situation to a
further contingencies provision totalling
£llO,OOO need complete explanation.
As well as bad-debt and repossession
problems, directors were forced to cope
with wet weather adding costs to the
servicing division and reduced turnover
in a highly competitive time. Consoli-
dated profit went down by <£48,426 to
£230,223. Dividend was cut from 10
to 8 p.c.
The company’s growing store complex
provides all the elements for a recovery
in turnover and a larger increase in
finance business than was shown last
year. Confirmation of the better sales
levels since mid-August will be keenly
awaited.
Big Sister Grows Fast
a vigorous adolescent is Big Sis-
ter Foods Ltd, which pushed up
earning rate to 38.6 p.c. with a 20 p.c.
lift in profit for the year to June 30
Overseas and local turnover showed a
“satisfactory increase”, and the company
is apparently chasing export markets
with verve.
The market appreciates the bonus
potential of this stock in pricing the ss.
units at 345. 6d. to yield a microscopic
2.2 p.c. Otherwise it would be easy
prey for takeover vultures.
Spreading Fertiliser
Tcianz’s last report, for 1961-62, spoke
of record fertiliser sales “despite a
rather unfavorable dry season”. Pro-
duction at the Yarraville (Vic.) plant was
then considered adequate to meet in-
creased demand.
The climate for fertilisers has since
changed in more ways than one. “Inte-
gration, rationalisation and modernisa-
tion” of the Commonwealth Fertilisers
and Chemicals subsidiary can now scarce-
ly be considered sufficient.
So, true to progressive form, ICI is to
add £4,600,000 of new plant, including
£1,250,000 for sulphuric acid production
and £1 million for phosphoric acid. The
latter will become the largest plant in the
Southern Hemisphere, with a daily target
at 200 tons, and is designed to use the
Nissan Chemical process for the first
time outside Japan.
Together with its Botany (NSW) plant


SMITH-CORONA
New 400 DE LUXE ELECTRIC
m
Mm
=***
World's most automatic office typewriter
Introducing Push-Button Typing
Easy to use push buttons control every one of the features
on the fast, quiet, New Smith-Corona 400 Electric. Here's
the electric office typewriter that will increase any typist's
output, turn out "print perfect" work every time.
Sole Australian Agents:
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
SYDNEY. 29 1151
MELBOURNE 32 4161 • ADELAIDE 8 6361 ® BRISBANE 2 9498
A.C.T. 4 8160 • NEWCASTLE 75 2136 • WOLLONGONG 2 2495
ICI will thus produce a complete selec-
tion of concentrated fertilisers for local
usage. The new and improved granular
lines possess the added virtue of lower
manufacturing costs.
Despite the group’s well-known effi-
ciency, perhaps this is just as well. Com-
petition in this particular field looks like
growing especially keen. A string of
companies, including Adelaide Chemical,
Cresco, EZ Industries and Cuming
Smith, are chasing a bounty-stimulated
market.
Dnv>lop' , s Dividend Question
•Phe question exercising investors’ minds
A about Dunlop Rubber Australia
Ltd is “Can the company afford to pay
more than 8 p.c. after its one-for-four
bonus and one-for-three cash issue?”
This was the minimum rate predicted
by directors in the announcement of the
issues last March.
Latest profit of £2.2 million was a
clear record, and a distinct advance on
1961-62’s result of £1.9 million.
The earning rate on pre-issue capital
was 23.3 p.c., more than twice covering
the 10 p.c. dividend.
Either of the new issues could be ob-
tained at about 41s. 6d., at which the
yield on an 8 p.c. dividend basis is 3.9
p.c.
Before Dunlop established the 10 p.c.
rate in 1957-58, rates of 8} p.c. 5 9 p.c.
and 9} p.c. had been paid. A current
purchase would give a yield on these
rates of 4.1 p.c., 4.3 p.c. and 4.6 p.c. re-
spectively.
It’s too much to hope for an unchanged
10 p.c., as the bonus issue was interpre-
ted to be motivated by directors’ desire
to cheapen dividend costs.
Food Empire Grows
share market has marked time with
Peters Ice Cream (Vic.) Ltd. The
2s. shares sold for Bs. 4d. at the end of
December, and are around that price
now, even though the rest of the market,
as measured by the Sydney all ordinaries
index, has climbed from 298.6 to 350.82.
Peters rocketed into the big time in the
previous term, by buying up Holdenson
and Nielson, Four ’n Twenty Pies, Gro-
cery and General and Gordon Edgell.
Investors have been a little wary as to
whether Peters’ undeniably brilliant
management could weld these into a cor-
porate whole for maximum profit-
making.
The profit before tax actually fell
£134,328, but tax allowances for new
plant reduced liability for taxation by
£155,607 so that the net result was up
2.6 p.c. to £834,265. Tax benefits are
not exhausted either.
Peters is currently concerned with
centralising Victorian manufacture of
ice cream, cones and refrigeration cabi-
nets at Petersville at a cost of £1.25 mil-
lion for land and buildings and £750,000
for plant. This will be operating fully
next month.
Additions to the group in the first half
of 1962-63 were Tasmanian Ice Cream
Co Pty, J. Hargreaves and Sons of Manly
(Queensland), R. E. Cam and Son Pty,
and Buttercup Ice Cream.
If directors ever stop their expansion
programme the perverse market might
enthuse more about the stock. Their
aggression and acquisitiveness surely de-
serve great respect, and over the medium
term these shares should reward the
patient holder.
Amalg. Che in. Interim
HPhe market for Amalgamated Chemical
shares suffered some downward
correction on the news that profitability
in the June half-year did not keep pace
with the 18 p.c. turnover increase.
The one-for-four issue in March at
50 p.c. premium will of course be a drag
on the earning rate for 1963, but last
year’s rate of 28.8 p.c. gave plenty of
coverage for the 124 p.c. dividend.
New seeds of growth are being
planted, the latest being the Aerosol
packaging business acquired from Kiwi.
This has high profit potential in relation
to the capital involved.
The hint dropped by Amalgamated’s
chairman in August, that the association
with Kiwi could have other interesting
facets of mutual benefit, should not be
forgotten.
A Blind Spot
Vet another victim of Sydney’s
A abnormally w'et season was Hunter
Douglas, maker of Venetian blinds.
Sales were “considerably below ex-
pectations” for the year to June 30.
However, fair warning was given to
shareholders in February’s interim state-
ment.
Profit dropped from £221,305 in
1961-62 after amalgamation with Mello-
Lite, to £156,220 currently, equal to
11.4 p.c. on capital.
The 20s. shares now bring 345. to
return 5.9 p.c.
Pastoral Giant
'C'lder Smith’s reported turnover of
£238 million for 1962-63 puts it in
the top three of Australian public com-
panies.
This remarkable aggregate divides into
42 p.c. for sale of wool, 33.6 p.c. for live-
stock, 14.7 p.c. for merchandise, 8 p.c.


Hm
ft
©
©
©
w
£§>
m
«§©§£
ft
2&§£B
©
AV
wssv
K
XS,S
?<\ \
v& ■ H v ,v'-'^'
£P
Edgeworth the connoisseur’s
choice made from the finest
Kentucky white hurleys. Sliced
or ready rubbed in pocket tins.
At all tobacconists.
ITHE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH. Virginia. U.S.A,
for property, 0.8 p.c. for insurance and
0.8 p.c. for hides and skins.
Profit for 1963-64 should benefit
both from a bigger wool clip and better
prices, and from completion of the
rationalisation of Elder’s and Goids-
brough’s business.
David Jones at Cairns
T|avid Jones Ltd added anothei link to
its chain of Queensland stores when
it accepted the proposal to take over
Bolands Pty of Cairns.
In terms of sharemarket values, the
offer is worth over £500,000, compared
with the £278,000 takeover of Marsh
and Webster Pty of Mackay, only two
months ago.
David Jones is represented in Towns-
ville (Mcßimmins), in Brisbane (Finney
Isles and T. C. Beirne) and indirectly in
Ipswich and Mackay through minority
shareholdings of T. C. Beirne.
Out of the Box
/Aut of the box and printing profits,
Dodge Consolidated Industries Ltd
dispenses largesse in the form of a one-
for-five bonus at a date to be announced.
From a humble start in 1960 when pro-
fit was £11,721, Dodge has made extra-
ordinary progress to turn in a profit,
this last year to June, of £121,086.
Placements and issues to vendors have
financed growth by Dodge’s own efforts
and by astute takeovers.
Confidence exudes from the prelimin-
ary profit announcement. Earning rate
swelled from 27.2 p.c. to 30.6 p.c., but
directors remark that the premium issue
in July did not contribute to profitability,
as the plant bought with these funds was
not producing until June, 1963.
Given a continuation of current trends,
directors expect to pay not less than 15
p.c. This is equivalent to paying 18 p.c.
on the pre-bonus capital. Actual divi-
dend was raised from 15 p.c. to 17T p.c.
for 1962-63.
The ss. shares at 225. 9d. cum bonus
offer a return of 3.9 p.c. after allowing
for the bonus.
Sustained Fizz
Qchweppes (Australia) Ltd continued
its unspectacular but solid way with
another dividend advance, and an in-
crease of 1 1 p.c. in profit for the year
to June 30.
First dividend was 7 p.c. in 1960-61,
followed by 8 p.c. and now 9 p.c. Earn-
ing rate is currently 14.9 p.c. on capital.
Shareholders have had one capital
benefit a one-for-six at 50 p.c. pre-
mium in 1961.
As the UK parent holds about 78 p.c.
of issued capital, the shares do not
fluctuate violently.
At 13s. the ss. units now give a sedate
return of 3.5 p.c., and should continue
to be worthwhile holding.
Backing for Beneficial
TJ eneficial Finance Corporation
** Ltd, Adelaide - based financier,
evidently is obtaining further institutional
backing with an issue of 192,000 ss.
shares to South Australian Farmers’ Co-
operative Union Ltd at a premium of
2s. Id. a share.
After Beneficial’s current new issue
of one-for-five at par to all ordinary
shareholders, South Australian Farmers’
Co-op will hold about 13i p.c. of the
ordinary capital, while the MLC will
hold about 6.2 p.c. This removes one of
the earlier criticisms of Beneficial that
it did not have much institutional
backing.
It is understood that several other
institutions such as CML have a share
interest in the company.
A Fair-yielding Stock
As an income stock Davis Gelatine 20s.
shares at 30s. give an attractive
return, in today’s high market, of 5.3
p.c.
Profit for the year to June 30 ad-
vanced 9 p.c., under the influence of
higher gelatine prices, from £234,013
to £255,090, even though the latest
result does not include anything from
Safre Holdings Pty, which was sold
during the year.
The local industry is still affected by
imports competition which, presumably,
will be a permanent feature.
Mayfair Disappointment
TJrofit of Mayfair Hams Ltd in the
year to June 30, 1963, was sliced
to one-third of that for the preceding
year.
Explanation in the preliminary report
was that severe competition cut profit
margins, and shortage of livestock
aggravated the situation.
The usual profit level is about the
£200,000 mark, so the slump to £76,124
was a shock.
Australian Bacon had only just re-
ported a loss of about £25,000 for the
year to April 30, attributed to swine fever
and restrictive measures to control it.
Mayfair is holding the 10 p.c. dividend
rate, which was still covered by profits
The 10s. shares, which had been sell-
ing for 325., lost 2s. 9d. the day following
the news.
Pvrox In Trouble
"Dyrox Ltd fell on troubled times in
the last year to June 30, and despite
directors’ mid-term talk of a possibly
“lower profit” in 1962-63, last year's
profit of £60,574 was reversed to a loss
of £44,297.
Development of a major manu-
factured product involved delays and
expenses in the first half, directors said
in March. They spoke then of bright
prospects for large sales on behalf of
overseas principals in 1963-64.
The company’s main lines are heaters
and hot water systems, tape recorders,


if it’s urgent
IPEC
■C-
iPEC\
INTERSTATE papcsl EXPRESS
M
send it IPEC
EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE W
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
projectors and high-precision equipment.
Pyrox got in the red in 1956, and
omitted dividends for three years. No
dividend is payable for 1962-63, so the
ss. shares are, with reason, lingering
around 3s. 6d.
Waltons Satisfies
Waltons Ltd profit increase of
A £185,799 or 15.4 p.c. to £1,394,458
was equal to market expectations, and
the shares remained around 17s. 7d. to
return 3.6 p.c.
Preliminary announcement showed
higher depreciation and taxation in the
financial year to July 31, 1963.
As the largest Australian retailer in
the field of higher-priced household
goods, much of which is based on credit,
Waltons’ experience with bad debts in
1962-63 will make particularly interest-
ing reading.
Late Disturbances
T>radford Cotton Mills Ltd, in the
latest period to June 30, had its third
uncomfortable year since the removal of
import restrictions.
In those three years a 10 p.c. dividend
prevailed, compared with the habitual
121 p.c., and in 1961-62 and 1962-63
the lower rate was maintained only by
resort to past profits.
The ss. shares now available around
6s. 5d., compared with the once proud
level of over 10s., should reward the
patient holder, but the uninvolved in-
vestor could stay out for the time being.
The tenor of the preliminary report
is that the trading recovery was more
difficult in the second half than the first.
Profit rose by £143,030 to £400,188
giving an earning rate of 9.1 p.c.
Ferris Wheels?
npELEVisiON and car radio maker Ferris
A Industries begins to look a good deal
more assured of recovery. The battle is
always on in this particular field, yet
directors are hopefully embarking upon
a 16,000 square feet factory extension.
Unlike some other companies this one
was obliged to swallow its bad-debts
lesson some years ago.
Earnings for 1962-63 advanced from
£26,331 to £34,200 on a 21.5 p.c. sales
increase. Sales “would have been still
higher had new television stations come
on the air in the April/June quarter as
was officially anticipated. The benefit
from these new areas will now be felt
in the current financial year.”
Dividend goes from 5 to 6 p.c. and
directors give notice of an interim in
April next.
A best profit of £44,252 in 1960 fol-
lowed the previous year’s disastrous
£48,221 loss. If the troublous times are
over, the ss. shares, now at 4s. 5d., are
worth watching. November’s annual
meeting should hear news of the Malay-
sian offshoot which started production
in March.
Leroy Troubles
bad debt bogey reared its ugly head
in Leroy’s accounts and contributed
to the falling off in profits from £17,934
to £2,499.
Past conservation paid off, for the nor-
mal 10 p.c. dividend will be recom-
mended for payment from past profit
retentions. Fortunately, liquidity is high.
This Melbourne maker of fashion
goods was compelled to price-cut more
drastically than usual at the end of last
season.
Text Her Prospers
Quince “Security” investigated Burns
Consolidated Ltd, Sydney yarn sup-
plier and dyer, in The Bulletin of
August 10, the ss. shares improved
Is. 3d. to 16s. 3d. before news of the
1962-63 profit broke.
Profit rocketed from £24,905 to
£45,537, and earning rate from 33.5 p.c.
to 53.6 p.c. on average capital.
The capital was a tiny £45,340 at 1961
balance date, but two par issues in March
1962 and 1963 have brought this to
£102,000.
Reward for shareholders is the 171 p.c.
dividend, including a final 6d. per share,
payable in November.
Tobacco’s New Leaf
Hearing its subsidiary interests seriously
is British Tobacco Co. (Aust.) Ltd.
which recently announced formation of
a new company to cover its printing and
packaging interests.
Furthermore, in a break from the
Wills tradition of internal financing,
Mardon International Ltd of England
will hold a substantial minority share of
the initial £4.5 million capital.
Mardon is jointly owned by Imperial
Tobacco Co. and British-American To-
bacco Co., so the new arrangement will
not be so far from the tobacco business
after all.
Swift recovery
and chemical merchant, Swift
and Co., recouped much of the
ground lost in the financial years 1961
and 1962, with a profit of £131,770 for
1963.
Investments in non-listed shares were
revalued by some £177,000 during 1962-
63, and this surplus was realised by their
sale before and after balance date.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
{Registered 19th December, 1929 )
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6 j
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS
f HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z.
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART - CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter <6 Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8388 N
An Exercise in Gearing
T ike most things in life, says a Mel-
bourne broker in a new brochure
on “gearing,” the optimum result is usu-
ally a compromise, and it is usually con-
sidered that, generally speaking, borrow-
ing up to the amount of the paid capital,
that is 100 p.c. gearing, is a pretty safe
figure.
But the broker thinks it is relevant to
observe that it is considered sound prac-
tice not to pay as much for the earnings
of a highly geared company as for a
lowly geared one and he gives two rea-
sons. “The lowly geared stock is safer
and also has potential for increasing its
borrowing and hence its earning rate.
If the company has already borrowed
heavily this potential is not present. By
and large, the market has taken this fac-
tor into account in the prices of relative
stocks, but it does not usually make a
very great distinction for the gearing fac-
tor. Perhaps more attention should be
focused upon this point.”
The firm’s view is that “the gearing
factor should be included besides the
P/E ratio when looking at this latter in-
dicator. The market relationship is usu-
ally somewhat complex and certainly
does not bear any straight-line relation-
ship between P/E and gearing factor.
Rather does it tend to discount the P/E
ratio only slightly in relation to the
gearing factor. However, anomalies can
sometimes be discerned in the market’s
valuation between similar type stocks
with wholly different gearing factors. For
example, in newspaper stocks there is
one company geared approximately 125
p.c. but which nevertheless commands
almost as high a P/E as two stocks in
this category with nil-gearing. We know
which we would prefer, other things be-
ing equal.”
Moreover “the yery fact, in a well
established company, of not having any
long term borrowing at all, usually indi-
cates a degree of conservatism in man-
agement which is usually reflected in con-
servative financial results and hidden in-
ternal strength, which again indicates the
safety of a nil-geared stock.” Further,
“a nil-geared stock will tend to be much
more stable in price over a long period
than a geared one, and much safer.”
New “House” for
Melbourne
A pparently feelings were quite strong
among a small minority of Mel-
bourne Stock Exchange members against
the eventually accepted proposal to move
to 351 Collins Street where a new £3
million 26-storey building is to be built.
It will be jointly owned by the Exchange
and the ANZ Bank and ready for occu-
pation in 1968. The big snag from the
smaller firm’s viewpoint is that although
most of the finance for the building is to
be found on mortgage, Exchange mem-
bers will have to put up half the capital
plus further small levies during the
course of construction.
But everybody agrees the Exchange
needs more breathing space than can be
found at its present habitat in Little
Collins Street where its operations are
split haphazardly between the recon-
structed previous call rooms. The new
Exchange will have double the area of
the old and treble its trading space. Com-
pared with Sydney’s fine new citadel in
O’Connell Street, Melbourne Stock Ex-
change’s present building, which has
served well enough for nearly 40 years,
is an antiquated anachronism in today’s
more sophisticated financial world.
Swiss Aluminium Rise
Switzerland’s production of alu-
minium last year increased by
50,000 metric tons, or 18 p.c. This was
due to the increased capacity offered
by a new aluminium works.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limifed
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra
Cutten & Harvey, Adelaide, Melbourne and Mt. Gambier
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Executor Trustee and Agency Company
of South Australia Limited, 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
Executor Nominees (N.S.W.) Pty. Limited
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney
ONE TO BUY
Another Farm Supplier
A mong rurally engaged industries the
fertiliser suppliers are not the only
ones likely to gain from the farming
concessions which decorated the Budget.
The sharemarkets have therefore recog-
nised possibilities by spreading their
attention, for instance, to makers and
distributors of plant and equipment.
A beneficiary already of this directed
interest is a relative newcomer to the
Sydney list, Newcastle rural builder
R. and N. Statham Ltd. The ss. shares
fully deserved examination before the
latest stimulus. Prices have recently
moved, however, under the combined
weight of the Budgetary atmosphere and
an announcement on 1962-63 trading.
For on August 21 directors enliven-
ingly reported, without giving any
accounting details, that sales for the year
to June 30 had jumped about 60 p.c.
above the previous year’s levels. They
circumspectly added that the final profit
figure would be declared “at the same
time as last year.”
So investors will have to contain their
passion for analytic background, though
a proper assurance can be strengthened
by the March interim statement. Here
the substantial turnover increase was
joined with a “satisfactory increase” in
net profit. Directors kept a modest
sense of proportion by remarking that
the first half of the year includes seasonal
sales.
The twin effects indicated above have
now brought prices to around 10s. 9d.,
where the yield is 4.7 p.c. on a pre-
vailing 10 p.c. dividend rate. In the
company’s first public year, dividend
was paid in one amount. The 1962-63
period has produced a 5 p.c. interim,
with the final due for declaration in
November.
Everything suggests a rewarding in-
terest in the kind of smallish enterprise
probably able to provide income and
growth benefits as it progresses.
Statham, too, should not be regarded
solely as a rural builder reaping only
immediate advantages. Indeed the com-
pany actually describes itself as a steel-
building specialist and its range extends
well into the industrial field.
Demand has been found for com-
mercial and industrial type buildings in
both Sydney and Newcastle, together
with the more specific country con-
structions.
To the line of shearing sheds, ram
sheds, garages, all-purpose buildings,
sheep and cattle yards, grain silos and
such like, the company last year added
a division specialising in bulk wheat-
handling equipment. Progress came
quite up to expectations.
Operations have even extended to
Rabaul, Madang, Lae and Goroka. But
in the present circumstances it is evident
that the organisation is absolutely pre-
pared to press its rural contacts.
After official listing on March 13,
1962, Statham’s initial public profit, at
£40,556, showed a 16.5 p.c. earning
rate on capital totalling £288,752.
CapitaL has gone slightly ahead to
£305,002 this last year. The earning
rate can obviously more than keep pace.
Last accounts displayed a satisfactory
debtors-creditors position, while over-
draft at £69,369 was not unduly
heavy. As at June 30, 1962, net tangible
asset backing of the shares stood at
6s. Id.


m
x-;:-
Customlife is increasing
this man’s life assurance policy
That’s what we mean by “Guaranteed Insurability”!
Four years ago, at age 36, this
man took out a Customlife policy,
with guaranteed insurability.
Today, although stricken with a
heart attack, he is exercising his
option to increase his cover by
£5,000 —the amount of his
original insurance.
It is granted without question.
Without penalty rate.
This option, unique to Customlife
Assurance Limited, is possible
only through our “Guaranteed
Insurability.” Briefly, it guaran-
tees you the right to buy more life
assurance periodically without
the need for further medical
examination—regardless of your
state of health at the option dates.
Customlife realises that one cannot
depend on constant good health, and,
realising this, provides for your protection
in the event of any illness at any time.
Let’s look at specifics:
From birth to age 40, it is possible for
you to increase the cover on your life
five times. Option dates exist at ages 24,
28, 32, 36 and 40 to increase cover by
an amount not exceeding the original sum
assured . . . which can be up to £5,000.
Thus, taking advantage of all options,
you have a maximum amount purchas-
able of £30,000, with only the one
medical examination when the initial
policy is taken out.
Even if you should delay to, say, age 35,
you still have two further option dates.
Perhaps you are thirty now; you have a
young family and a responsibility for
their future and your own. You can
take out an initial policy for any amount
up to £5,000, and increase it as you will
at the option dates, with no fear of
refusal on medical grounds.
The coverage, of course, applies to
women, too. The same complete protec-
tion applies to you as a career woman,
or a young wife sharing family responsi-
bilities.
This is worry-free security, enabling you
to plan for the future with a new
confidence.
You can have more specific details of
this unique Life Assurance plan by con-
tacting your nearest Customlife office
(listed below). If you have delayed buy-
ing life assurance, this may be the wisest
time for you to move. Customlife will
tailor a policy to your requirements
immediately.
CUSTOMLIFE ASSURANCE LIMITED
Executive Office: 100 New South Head
Road, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
Branch Offices —New South Wales, A.C.T., Victoria,
South Australia, Queensland, Western Australia,
Tasmania, Northern Territory, United Kingdom.
{U
m
CL.4.FP


SECURITY ANALYSIS
APM Strengthens Position
Tust over 21 months ago, I suggested
** that APM’s shares were low at a
price equivalent to 18s. sd. in today’s
terms and suggested that 235. 3d. (again
in today’s terms) was more reasonable.
I also suggested that the dividend rate
could increase to 9 p.c. or 21.6 pence
per share before 1966 and, if this should
be the case, then the shares were worth
buying up to 265. 6d.
Since that time the company has made
a one-for-four bonus issue and main-
tained the nominal dividend rate. This
was equivalent to raising the dividend
rate from 20 pence per share to 25 pence
per share but today the shares are priced
at 31s. to yield just under 5.2 p.c. In
view of this substantial increase in price,
a reappraisal of the stock seems desirable.
Certain changes have taken place since
November, 1961. Perhaps the major one
is the establishment of the tariff with the
main rate at £32 13s. 4d. per ton or
40 p.c. ad valorem an increase of
nearly 50 p.c. on the previous rates.
APM has produced an excellent re-
port for many years and there is much
more information contained therein than
normally appears in any company report.
The following table has been produced
from the consolidated accounts merely
to be consistent in approach but the
figures do not differ materially from the
figures given in the company’s own
statistical information given in the annual
report in “loose leaf” form.
% of Sales
Net Net
Year to Operating Operating
30th June Sales Expenses Profit Expenses Profit
1958 122 122 121 77.8 22.2
1959 130 130 129 77.8 22.2
1960 144 146 136 79.0 21 0
1961 133 138 118 80.3 19.7
1962 135 136 129 78.6 21.4
1963 155 155 156 77.6 22.4
Average 1955-7 = 100
The implication of these figures seems
fairly clear. The company needs a high
level of output to maintain profitability.
Any reduction in this level produces a
pronounced fall in operating profit and
an even more pronounced drop in earn-
ings.
index of sales in volume terms over
the last six years shows a greater
increase than sales in money terms be-
cause the average price per ton has been
declining. This index rose from 120 in
1958 to 159 in 1963 and if the trend
from 1955 to 1960 is continued sales
volume could reach 460,000 tons by
1968. Sales in value terms will depend
upon the average price per ton and if
this should be £lO7 (the 1961 level) sales
value would be £49.2 million, but, if the
1962-63 average is achieved only, sales
value would be about £48.1 million.
Assuming the same relationship of sales
to net operating profit, this would pro-
duce a figure for net operating profit
of between £10.9 million and £10.7 mil-
lion.
As mentioned previously, the fall in
sales from 1960 to 1961 produced a more
than proportionate fall in earnings and
any future predictions must be based on
the assumption that sales will continually
increase. The following table shows the
trend of earnings, dividends and retained
income (which includes depreciation).
Retained
Year to June 30 Earnings Dividends Income
1958 118 104 135
1959 124 104 148
1960 123 125 153
1961 84 125 128
1962 110 141 145
1963 155 176 175
1955-7 = 100
Retention levels have been high since
1957 at over 50 p.c. of net operating
revenue suggesting that the expansion
during this period has been financed
mainly from retained profits. Total ex-
penditure during this period (including
increases in net working capital) seems
to exceed £3O million and 80 p.c. of this
amount has been provided from depre-
ciation and retained earnings.
I>y 1968 the interest bill, currently run-
ning at over £500,000 per annum,
should have been reduced by about
£300,000 per annum following the con-
version of the notes in 1965, and at this
stage it is difficult to foresee any neces-
sity to raise further capital. Ffowever,
the company has to face, between 1965
and 1970, the repayment or refunding of
its debenture issues and if it should need
to refund the whole of the £3£ million
outstanding, this could mean an increase
of £lOO,OOO in the interest bill.
A possible projection of the 1967-68
profit statement could therefore be as
follows:
£ million
Net operating revenue 10.8
Interest 0.3
Depreciation 45
Taxation 2.4
Earnings 3.’<s
Even if the depreciation provision is
increased by 50 p.c. in five years, earn-
ings would still be equal to 32.6 pence
per share. However, this does not leave
much room for increasing the dividend
per share unless the company increases
the payout level. By this time, develop-
ment could have been completed for a
while and the company could feel that
an increase from 20 pence to 22 pence
per share (just over 67 p.c. payout rate)
is desirable. From this point of view the
trend since 1955 in dividends and earn-
ings per share does become of interest.
These figures are after adjusting for the
bonus issue of July, 1962.
per share — pence (a)
Year to 30th June Dividend Earnings
1955 14.4 21.6
1956 14.4 21.6
1957 15.4 24.9
1958 15.4 27.2
1959 15.4 28.9
1960 15.4 26.3
1961 15.4 18.1
1962 16.0 21.8
1963 20.0 30.6
(a) no adjustment has been made for the convertible
note issues.
Looking at this record, one could quite
easily come to the conclusion that another
bonus issue on a l-for-5 basis is possible
in the next five years, lifting the dividend
rate from 20 pence to 24 pence per
share. But in view of the unfavorable
comment made in the press at the time
of the last issue because the convertible
note holders did not participate, such an
issue would almost certainly be delayed
until after the note conversion. Of
course, the company could achieve the
same result by raising the dividend rate
form 8 1-3 to 10 5-12 p.c. and this would
not excite any comment.
it is hard to admit that 31s. is
reasonable when a figure of 26s. 6d.
was given only twenty-one months ago,
there is little doubt that APM is in a
stronger position today to what it was in
1961. Furthermore, if APM shares were
selling with the same price/earnings ratio
as Union Carbide, they would be priced
at 54s. and it is difficult to see that the
prospects of the two companies are very
much different.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963
Current Assets 10754 11976 12234
Current Liabilities 6863 7471 7615
Net Working Capital .... 3891 4505 4619
Fixed Assets 30096 33797 34356
Investments 1684 909 1103
Intangibles — 2825 2825
Total Capital 35671 42036 42903
represented by:—
Loan Capital 4454 5275 5177
Preference Capital —
Convertible Notes 4590 4590 4590
Ordinary Capita! 17535 17535 21919
Reserves 9092 14636 11217
Depreciation 2751 2837 3105
Tax Provided 1048 1039 1392
Preference Dividend — —
Earnings 1516 1988 2792
Ordinary Dividend 1291 1461 1827
Surplus 225 527 965
Earnings % Adjusted 7.5 9.1 12.8
Dividend % Adjusted 6.4 6.7 8.3
Dividend Yield % (a) 7.7 7.1 5.4
Earnings Yield % (a) 7.7 8.5 8.2
(a) based on lest sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Millaquin’s Great Reserve Power
A part from the dizzy height to which
profit soared in the year to June 30,
1963, the most outstanding feature of
The Millaquin Sugar Co's accounts is
the strength of its reserves.
During the year independent valua-
tion of buildings, plant and machinery,
tramline, rolling stock and equipment,
but excluding freehold land at Bundaberg,
produced a surplus of £468,687 which
was credited to assets revaluation reserve,
bringing that account to £550,000.
The one-for-three bonus will capitalise
£300,000 of this sum, bringing paid capi-
tal to £1.2 million.
Other reserves include £1,297,500
general, and £lBO,OOO for dividend
equalisation.
Net profit, up from £207,598 to
£343,453, includes dividends from the
two subsidiaries, The Bundaberg Distil-
ling Co. Ltd and Australian Rum Distil-
lers (Sydney) Pty, but not their undis-
tributed profits for the year. Both com-
panies remitted 15 p.c. compared with
the previous rate of 12} p.c.
Bundaberg Distilling’s profit was
£50,448, of which £30,000 was paid out
in dividends. Millaquin appears to own
approximately 60 p.c. of its issued capi-
tal. Australian Rum’s contribution to
Millaquin's parent profit was only £306.
Directors decided to transfer £200,000
from the profit and loss appropriation
account to a new plant reserve, to avoid
resorting to an overdraft or the sale of
sound income earning investments.
They expect to spend between
£400,000 and £500,000 on new plant
and equipment required to attain a
higher crushing rate per hour for the
increased tonnages anticipated in 1963-
64.
Shortfalls in overseas supply and the
Cuban impasse have produced a boom in
world sugar markets, but Millaquin
directors are wary that other producing
countries might be just as quick as Aus-
tralia to move in, taking advantage of
the high prices.
During the year, 573,915 tons of cane
were crushed at the Millaquin and
Qunaba mills, 23,495 coming from the
company’s own plantations, Windermere
and Qunaba. This produced 83,433 tons
of sugar.
Both mills are expected to harvest
another full crop this year, despite the
fact that some young plant cane was
affected by frost and may need replant-
ing.
A high degree of liquidity is revealed
in the parent company’s balance sheet;
bank balance was a credit of £134,625,
and there was an additional £450,000
in short term deposits with the bank.
Commonwealth and semi-government
securities costing £460,654 had a market
value of £481,220, and listed investments
shown at cost £162,559 had a market
value at balance date of £344,705.
Earning rate accelerated from 23.6 to
38.2 p.c., and dividend was again 20 p.c.,
including a bonus of 7} p.c. After the
bonus issue of scrip, directors envisage a
minimum dividend rate of 17i p.c., given
normal production and marketing condi-
tions.
The bonus is the thiid in eight years,
but these issues have not over-extended
the company’s capital. Millaquin keeps
plenty of strength in reserve.
Purchase of the 10s. units at 71s. would
give an average-cost of 53s. 3d. including
the bonus shares, and on the 17! p.c.
dividend rate, an immediate return of
3.3 p.c. This is undoubtedly no bargain,
so the timid investor who is not already
in this excellent stock could profitably
look elsewhere for earlier rewards.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
(Parent Co. only)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1233 1281 1554 1453 1604
Less current
liabilities 1334 13/53 1452 685 752
Working capital -101 -82 102 768 852
Fixed assets 1588 1582 1745 1764 2313
1487 1500 1847 2532 3165
Ord. capital 750 750 900 900 900
Reserves 737 750 947 1632 2265
1487 1500 1847 2532 '3165
Depreciation 181 180 165 159 174
Taxation n/a n/a n/a 95 230
Net profit 175 175 202 208 343
Dividend 150 150 185 180 180
Surplus 25 25 17 28 163
Earning rate 23.4 23.4 22.4 23.6 38.2
Dividend rate 20 20 20J 20 20
Dividend yield (a) 4.5 3.6 5.8 5.2 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 18.9 14.4 15.6 — —
High price (b) 38/6 58/4 55/- 28/2 —
Low price (b) 30/6 35/3 46/- 33/- —
Sugar cane
crushed (c) 465 391 412 416 574
Sugar tons
94 n.t. (c) 63 57 62 58 83
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
(c) Thousand tons.
W. E. SMITH LTD
New Plant Helps Printer
Qydney based printer and stationer
W. E. Smith Ltd might have had
difficulty in maintaining profit during the
1962-63 financial year but for the bene-
fit obtained from new plan-t installed
during the previous 12 months.
Group profit for the year to June
30 fell from £100,403 to £90,032
equal to 13.9 p.c. on paid-up ordinary
capital of £630,000. The 5 p.c. payment
made on the £50,000 preference shares
took £2,500.
A buyers’ market for the group’s
products and services predominated for
most of the year, particularly during the
last quarter, but trading has improved
since balance date.
Despite the profit fall, ordinary divi-
dend was held at the 12} p.c. rate paid
for the previous three years.
The company was established in 1911
and was reorganised in 1920. Profit
earning history has been good except
for losses from 1931 to 1933.
There have been several issues to
shareholders since the war, including
par issues in 1951, 1952, 1956 and the
last a one-for-two issue late in 1961. The
shares were split to ss. units in 1960.
Accounts consolidating the figures of
the subsidiary, Wingrove and Co. Pty
Ltd, were presented for the first time in
1961-62.
Operations of this offshoot have been
moved to Croydon where a large part of
the group’s activities are now being car-
ried on.
Wingrove incurred a clean-up loss in
the latest financial year, but the return
to profitable trading, forecast for the
current year, should materially assist
group figures.
The 1963 figures show the group to
be in a strong liquid position.
It had £25,000 in deposits at call,
while cash in hand stood at £45,395
at balance date of June 30.
The reserve position is strong, with
£91,834 in capital reserves, and another
£287,620 in surplus profit and general


reserves, giving a solid backing to the
paid-up capital. Subject to intangible
items, of £2463, net assets backing of
each ss. ordinary share is Bs. In ad-
dition, the Croydon freehold is in the
books at 1955 valuation with additions
at cost.
The shares are currently selling around
15s. 6d., and appear to be fully priced
for the short term, but they could well
be locked away for long-term ap-
preciation.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Consolidated
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 466 596 572 651 644
Less current
liabilities 182 256 152 220 230
Working capital 284 340 420 431 414
Fixed assets 610 565 512 866 879
Intangibles — — — 2 2
894 905 932 1299 1294
Represented by
Ord. -capital .420 420 420 ,630 630
Pref.- capital 50 50 50 50 50
Capital reserves 80 80 92 92 92
Other reserves 199 218 242 279 287
Mortgage 145 137 128 248 235
894 905 932 1299 1294
Depreciation 37 30 29 45 46
Taxation 41 53 73 71 68
Net profit 64 74 104 100 90'
Pref. dividend 3 3 3 3 3
Ord. dividend 42 53 53 66 79
Surplus 19 18 48 31 8
Ord. div. p.c. 10 12J 12J 12J 12£
Earning rate p.c : 14.7 17.1 24.8 18.7 13.9
Div. yield (a) 5.3 4.8 4.9 4.7 4.0
High price (b) (c)38/- 13/6 15/- 14/6 16/3
Low price (b) (c)26/6 8/6 9/- 11/3 14/9
Net ord. assets
backing (c)32/2 8/6 8/11 7/tl 8/-
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
(c) 20/- basis.
DRAFFIN EVERHOT LTD
“Most Rewarding” Year
jQiRECTORS of Draffin Everhot Ltd do
not express any positive optimism
for the immediate future of the home-
building industry, for which the company
largely caters.
Nevertheless they saw fit to restore the
10 p.c. dividend rate after a two year
retreat to 8 p.c.
Profit of £43,474 is fairly comparable
with levels ruling in the four years ended
March, 1957, to 1960, but the paid capi-
tal is now £187,500, where then it was
£150,000.
Latest earning rate of 23.2 p.c. justifies
the dividend increase.
Turnover was higher in the latest year,
and operating expenses were continuous-
ly controlled. Directors described the
results as “most rewarding”, considering
the severe competition encountered.
The company, Melbourne-based, makes
“Everhot” hot water systems, slow com-
bustion ranges, cookers and space heat-
ers at Fishermen’s Bend, and Delmatic
toilet cisterns in South Yarra.
The company is pursuing the develop-
ment of electric and gas cookers
After qualifying for public listing in
1950, two par issues were made in 1953
and 1954, then shareholders were treated
to a bonus issue (ratio one-for-four) in
1959.
May, 1960, saw a convertible note issue
to shareholders, two-for-five. These 7 p.c.
10s. notes convert at par to shares on
March 31, 1966, meantime carrying
rights to cash and bonus issues the same
as the shares.
The only noteworthy change in the
company’s financial structure this year
is the improvement in liquidity. An over-
draft of £20,278 was converted to a cash
position of £40,353.
The 10s. shares were lately traded at
around 19s. 3d., yielding 5.2 p.c., com-
pared with the 4.3 p.c. return on the
notes at about 3s. less.
As an income stock, primarily, they
have fair prospects.
.ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 358 437 461 472 437
Less current liabilities 160 235 224 225 217
Working capital 198 202 237 247 270
Fixed Assets 231 244 287 283 276
Intangibles 45 82 84 84 82
474 528 608 614 628
Loan capital 110 100 163 151 142
Ordinary capital 150 183 188 188 188
Reserves 214 240 257 275 298
474 528 608 614 628
Depreciation 24 28 22 24 25
Taxation 30 30 23 23 35
Net Profit 42 44 31 32 43
Dividends 15 19 15 15 19
Surplus 27 25 16 17 24
Earning rate 28.2 23.3 16.6 17.1 23 2
Dividend rate 10 10 8 8 10
Dividend yield (a) 4.8 4.9 5.9 6.5
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 7.5 8.8 8.1 7.2
High price (b) 19/3 24/6 28/- 15/6 17/-
Low price (b) 16/9 18/9 15/9 11/6 12/-
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
WARREN AND STRANG (Australia)
Chequered
Career
Warren and Strang (Aust.) Ltd,
" Queensland softgoods and leather
merchant and manufacturers’ agent, re-
stored the 10 p.c. dividend rate for 1962-
63 after a much healthier profit. Turn-
over was substantially increased in the
year to June 30, but competition was
keen and profit margins difficult to
maintain.
Net result, after providing £698 for
depreciation and £6,338 for tax, was a
profit of £9,468, compared with the pre-
vious figure of £4,362.
The company has had a chequered
career. It was incorporated in 1933 as
Niew Holland Traders Ltd, to trade with
Java. It later became Warren and Strang
(Queensland) Ltd, and assumed the pre-
sent title in 1950.
Losses were incurred in 1952 and 1953,
no dividends being paid. In 1958-59 5s.
in the £ was returned to shareholders and
the capital subdivided into 5s. units. A
further reduction in capital was effected
in May, 1962, when 2s. was returned
to shareholders, making the shares of 3s.
face value.
In January, 1962, after the proposal
to reduce capital had been announced,
Messrs S. Grosman and J. Brander
offered 3s. 9d. a share, excluding the 2s.
a share return of capital, for 70 p.c. of
shares held by each shareholder or an
equivalent amount from major sharehold-
ing groups. The offer was rejected.
The 3s. shares are now offering around
3s. 9d., where the yield is 6.4 p.c. If the
latest rate of earnings shows any sign
of permanency, the shares might be
worth staying with, but at present they
do not inspire a hasty purchase.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 160 186 111 75 81
Less current liabilities 35 69 16 16 19
Working caoital 125 117 95 59 62
Fixed assets 4 13 32 31 33
Intangibles 10 10 10 10 —
139 140 137 100 95
Ordinary capital 101 101 101 61 61
Reserves 38 39 36 39 34
139 140 137 100 95
Depreciation 1 1 1 1 1
Taxation 12 9 3 2 6
Net profit 15 ]] 5 4 9
Dividend 10 10 8 5 6
Surplus 5 1 —3 -1 3
Earning rate - 14.8 11.2 5.0 7.2 15.6
Dividend rate 10 10 7\ 8 10
Dividend yield (a) 8.7 8.7 13.6 8.0
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 7.3 10.3 14.7 13 9
High Price (b) 5/9 5/9 4/9 5/-
Low price (b) 4/9 4/9 3/6 2/-
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year, 5s. units became 3s.
paid in May, 1962.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old. J. A. iVlinnett. M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn.
Members ol the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R, V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane.
BARKER COLLEGE,
HORNSBY
SCHOLARSHIPS
Scholarships tenable from First Term 1964 for
six years secondary schooling, are open for
competition at an examination to be held at
the College on October sth next.
They include two Annual Entrance (complete
remission of Day Boy fees) one boarding
scholarship equivalent to two-thirds of the
boarding fee and several other scholarships.
The Carter Scholarship for sons of Church
of England clergy is also open for competition
and entitles the winner to free education and
board.
All scholarships are for boys between 11
years and 6 months and 12 years 9 months on
December 31st 1963 who are at present in
Sixth Class Primary.
Arrangements can be made for country boys
to sit locally.
Further details available from the Headmaster.
Closing date for entries 28th September, 1963.
UNIVERSITY APPOINTMENTS
UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE
READER IN HISTORY
Applications are invited for a position of Reader
in History.
The person appointed should have special quali-
fications in a period or aspect of one of the follow-
ing fields of Modern History: European History from
the Sixteenth Century; British History from the
Sixteenth Century; British Imperial and Common-
wealth (including Australian) History.
The salary range is £A3,000 to £A3,300 per
annum with annual increments of £AIOO. Initial
salary will be determined according to qualifications
and experience. Superannuation similar to F.S.S.U.
in Great Britain will be provided. Salaries are at
present under review.
Conditions of appointment together with further
information should be obtained from the Registrar,
University of Melbourne, Parkville, N. 2., Victoria,
and applications should reach him by 30th October,
1963.
F. H. JOHNSTON, Registrar.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: AUSTIN WILLIAM WOODBURY late of
Hay. TAKE NOTICE that BERYL BELLE
WOODBURY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1646 of 1962, on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 28th
day of October, 1963, and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from S. T.
HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
To: RAYMOND GEORGE HAYES formerly
of 156 Brisbane Street, St. Mary’s, New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that MABEL DORIS
HAYES has filed a petition for divorce No.
2963 of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before 21st October 1963. You may obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from
Mclntosh, Adrian & Fellows, Solicitors of
27 Hunter Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS,
Registrar.
24th SEPT.-sth OCT. —lO a.m.-8 p.m.
SUOMI 7 9 6 3
FINNISH EXHIBITION
SCANDINAVIA HOUSE,
430 NEW SOUTH HEAD ROAD,
DOUBLE BAY, SYDNEY, 36-1048
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Shuffling the Portfolio
Tt has been a full-time job keeping up
with all the company reports. There
have been some genuinely good results
in the last week Big Sister, Fibre
Containers and Direct Acceptance to
mention a few. In other cases like
Peters (Vic.) and Containers, the im-
provement in profit can be attributed
directly to the lower tax. We must thank
the Government for plant allowances
and export incentives.
Nothing sensational has taken place
yet in the developments of those com-
panies within the portfolio, but never-
theless it’s a good time for a shuffle.
Bennett and Wood proved a dis-
appointment. It appears as though they
are still sorting things out after the
major reorganisation back in 1961. I
did manage to get one dividend out of
them early in the piece. The net loss
was £27.
Carpet Manufacturers is worthy of
being still classified as a recovery stock
and it deserves to stay.
Waltons, by increasing profits 20 p.c.,
did well but not as well as I hoped. The
market was also cool towards the result.
Both the shares and the notes have
slipped a little but should recover in
due course.
Mt Isa almost beat its 1961 record
figure. (It is not fair to compare the
current result to the 1962 figures when
a long strike made a huge dent in
profits for that year.) For a growth
stock, however, this performance is not
good enough. So Isa joined Bennett and
Wood at the exit gate. The amount of
£76 stands alone as the only profit for
the week.
Also leaving the arena was Ducon. It
looks like November before the Plessey
offer will be finalised and that, alas, is
too long to wait. The loss here was also
£27.
Both Hunter Douglas and Aeron had
been bought with the expectation of
lower profits. Lower profits there were
and each company was able to maintain
its 10 p.c. dividend. More important
sounded the high hopes that each com-
pany holds for the future.
The latest acquisition. Pacific Island
Mines, is proving its worth. A prelimin-
ary progress report has just been issued
hy the company showing that the Umuna
lode averages 12 dwts of gold per ton.
I don’t quite understand what a dwt is.
Apparently the mining fraternity regard
it as a very good showing.
To help plug the gaps made in the
portfolio, Elder Smith Goldsbrough
Mort (what a mouthful) makes its debut.
Everyone seemed impressed with its
result except the stock market. Judging
by the tax provision, the profit was not
overstated. Although not strictly com-
parable, it represents a 40 p.c. increase
on the combined profits of Elder Smith
and Goldsbrough Mort before the
merger last year.
Prospects for this year look bright.
On the revenue side primary industry
should have another thriving year. On
the expenditure side, there should be
further evidence of economies resulting
from the reorganisation of this giant
group. At 225. the earnings yield is
6.8 p.c. not a low figure when com-
pared with other leaders. Head high, I
bought 500 at 225.
Not quite on the san.e scale as the
last transaction was my shorting of
400 Australian Factors at 7s. 7d. The
statement made by the directors some
months ago did not give much room for
hope in the year just finished. A heavy
fall in profits and the shares will be back
around par again.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
400 Bennett & Wood, 13/3 £258
500 Mt Isa, 37/6 £925
400 Ducon, 31/3 £615
400 Aust. Factors, 7/7 £156
BOUGHT
500 Elders GM, 22/- £562
With a balance of £1192 I have
rocketed back into credit again.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 11/6
500 Courtoulds 14/1/63 16/1 19/6
600 A. V. Jenn'rngs 28/2/63 9/10 12/9
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 26/-
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 3/2
1000 Waltons new 3/7/63 15/9 16/9
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 16/9
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-
1000 Plastic Coatings,
new 24/7/63 7/- 8/9
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 21/6
200 Hunter Douglas 7/8/63 33/- 34/-
1000 Vesta 8/8/63 3/3 3/4
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 8/-
400 Keith Harris 15/8/63 30/- 30/6
100 Pye Industries 21/8/63 74/- 84/9
600 Clyde Industries 22/8/63 11/ 11/-
200 AOG 29/8/63 44/- 46/-
2000 Pacific Island opt 5/9/63 1/11 2/6
400 Aust. Factors (short) 11/9/63 7/7 7/7
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 21/9


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
New Five-Year Plan for Wheat
“Pulled Out of the Red by Red China ”
“THie Federal Government's guarantee
A to wheat-growers in renewing their
stabilisation plan for another five years
is not a subsidy but the honoring of its
side of a contract with the industry.”
So spoke Mr T. C. Scott, general
secretary of the Australian Wheatgrow-
ers’ Federation, in the crop of comment
that greeted Primary Production Minis-
ter Adermann’s announcement of the
plan’s extension.
The price the Government has to pay
to honor the contract may turn out to
be of more than passing interest to the
country’s taxpayers.
In several ways, the reaction to the
new five-year phase is one of relief. The
setting for this was established when no
mention was made of stabilisation in the
Treasurer’s Budget speech. After a fort-
night’s uneasiness, growers throughout
the country relaxed when Government
acceptance of the Australian Wheat-
.growers’ Federation's recommendations
was signalled in an announcement of its
own.
In a wider sense, the prospect of an-
other five years of stability has brought
elief to a cross-section of farmers anx-
ious to embrace something a little less
umpy than wool. And this is where the
plan could become a national luxury.
Between 1958 and 1962, Australia’s
vheat area grew from 8,800,000 acres
o 14,750,000 acres. Last season's harvest
was a record 280 million bushels. It is
stimated that the current sowing could
'e as high as 16.3 million acres, and
substantial natural mishap would be
ceded to avert yet another record crop
a a country that has spent the last few
ears trying not to look as jubilant as
feels at being continually pulled out
•f the red by Red China.
|Jntil not long ago, the wheat industry
u could look after itself. A stabilisation
and was built up by levying up to Is. 6d.
bushel on all export wheat sold for
lore than the guaranteed price. Nine
ears ago the fund had grown to £2O
lillions the limit under the Act con-
oiling it and it was dispersed and
arted again.
During the years of international buoy-
ancy growers could not have been blamed
for forgetting that the terms of the plan
provided for the Treasury to come to
the rescue if the fund became insufficient
to meet guarantees. They received a
reminder three years ago when the Gov-
ernment for the first time was called on
to make up payments to growers total-
ling just over £3 millions. In all, it has
now contributed slightly less than £2O
millions.
For this, however, the industry is pre-
pared to make no apology. It points out
that for years Australian consumers were
getting wheat at half the international
price, that the Australian bread-grower
has given the Australian bread-winner
largesse to the tune of some £l9O mil-
lions, and that in calling on the Govern-
ment to make up guarantee payments it
is only getting a bit of it back. Since
1945, the growers themselves have sub-
scribed £286 million to their fund.
YI/hat pleases growers most about the
new five-year plan is that the amount
of export wheat covered by guarantees
has been increased from 100 million to
150 million bushels. Their glee is dulled a
little, however, by the fact that the
guaranteed price has fallen from 15s. lOd.
to 14s. sd. a bushel. The architects of
the plan made the reduction because the
average Australian wheat yield had risen
li bushels to 17 bushels an acre in the
past five years. The secretary of the
Victorian Wheat and Wool Growers’
Association, Mr Jim Sheahan, agrees
with them: “Growers can’t growl about
this because it is based on actuarial
figures”. They welcome the lifting of
the fund’s ceiling from £2O million to
£3O million but are disappointed at the
failure of the Federation's request that a
“reasonable amount of profit” be included
in the cost of production prices.
Those who understand it are still
hoping that the period over which the
“yield divisor” a figure accepted as
being the average national wheat yield
for the purpose of calculating production
costs is determined will be extended
from 10 to 15 years. This would span
not only the bumper harvests of the
last nine or 10 years but several failures
that preceded them, and thus enable the
grower to show the Government a larger
gap between his expectations and his
needs.
Overall, the plan pleases because it is
a plan, and there are five years of it
ahead. The swing that has doubled the
Australian wheat acreage in the past five
years will probably be accelerated by it.
One reason for the swing is that the
production pendulum happens to be
travelling that way. In the resurgence
of wheatgrowing after the war, manage-
mental innovations such as ley-farming
were adopted to raise soil fertility and
wheat quality, but the process went fur-
ther than necessary and now farmers are
bleeding off excess fertility by growing
all the wheat they can. There may come
a time when this, too, is taken too far
and the pendulum will change direction
again.
reason for the swing to wheat
is the nervousness many growers feel
about wool, which is for most an alterna-
tive line of production. Currently the
chairman of the Australian Wool Board,
Sir William Gunn, is traipsing the coun-
try trying to talk producers into paying
four times as much money for wool pro-
motion as they are now, and a section
of growers especially those who mix
wheat and sheep are making it clear
that they will resist his appeal until the
free auction system is replaced with some-
thing more certain. Although few might
care to side with it internationally, wheat
in Australia, acre for acre, is more pro-
fitable than wool.
The prospects for this additional pro-
duction are worsening every year as
living standards rise and countries ad-
vance their diets from bread to meat.
And recently the outlook darkened
several shades with the rejection by
American farmers of their Government’s
plan for controlling wheat acreages at
a high price rather than freeing them
at half as much.
It might well be that an America be-
set with additions to her already moun-
tainous surpluses of wheat will take
more interest in markets that have tra-
ditionally been left to Australia in-
cluding, perhaps, our latest good fairy,
Red China.
It is likely that when the plan again
comes up for review in five years’ time
the voices that will help to shape the
Government's decision will come from
the street as well as the land.
MONEY IN GOATS
Goat meat from Western Australia
is now being exported to the West Indies,
Singapore and Colombo.


M
a
fife
f niuuii
°7
tP
is money::.
a slogan coined 200 years ago by Benjamin Franklin today more applicable than ever. The
difference is that nowadays time is often even more important than money and you
can "produce" time by giving your dictation on the ... .
✓
y/' ■ ‘
Confere-tfce
BATTERY AND BATTERY/ELECTRIC
DICTATION MACHINE
Made in Western Germany. Battery model
operates from 4 torch cells. Battery/Electric
operates from the mains or rechargeable
inbuilt cells. Microphone stops, starts, winds
back and plays back. Foot or hand control
stops, starts, winds back. Headphones,
single or double ear attachments. Features
include: Position indicator, International
tape spool sizes. 44 minutes playing time.
Transistorised throughout. Crystal clear
reproduction. Lightweight. Battery model
complete 87 gns. Battery/Electric complete
99 gns.
For demonstration call or write . . .
W. C. Wedderspoon Pty. Limited,
193 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
29-6681
VIC. Rekla Electro-Sound. 50-4645. Q'LD. Sydney G. Hughes. 58-1014.
"The Bulletin” Crosswoid No. 763
ACROSS
I —Brook to swell if noisily passed. (5, 3)
4 —Fabric parent to make an inquiry. (6)
9—Levantine to throw a weir across a view. (9)
11— European city opens badly. (5)
12— Excessively deferential weapon. (4, 3)
13— Fag fire affected a beast. (7)
15— Whack Western Australia if in the way. (4)
16— Master of a group of draught-horses or bullocks
treats ’em badly. (8)
20—Mrs. Limb in Daybreak Water. (4, 4)
21—Not only the cannibals could
make hash of this monarch.
(4)
24—Disorderly star wed a waiter.
(7)
26 — Behind two - thirds of the
same breastbone. (7)
27 X-squared or private dog. (5)
29 — Corseted parent props which
are most important. (9)
30— Gardener gyrating far too
much for one’s personal
power-supply. (6)
31 — Shipborne watch they don’t
give up. (8)
DOWN
1— Old Bessy is corrupted with-
out flesh, bone, etc. (8)
2 And 50 in romance is a
bright light for the night of
May 24. (5, 6)
3 Feel where it’s gone wrong,
and proceed without pedal-
ling. (9)
5 The French usually drop this
angry serpent. (8)
6 Burro into a steamer. (3)
7 Much more merciful children.
(6)
8— Who composed “Wozzeck”
and “Lulu”? (4)
10—Boss looks wrecked and
blubbers. (4)
14—Cheap beer for a skirt. (11)
17—Create underclothing, or
something to serve the pur-
pose temporarily. (9)
18— You and I observed in taking
a twist. (8)
19— Male fog heartens scientists.
(8)
22 Mind! Topsy cheats too
much. (6)
23 Study upset rainy periods.
(4)
25 —Cupola assertion by me that
something meets my specifica-
tions. (4)
28—Way to be sorry. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 762


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER. BOADICEA. DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
wmm
■m mm
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick J whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
months


vBR
V
O'
v
.YRLYU
C
nJ '
&
u
m
EXTRAS
EO
i-£ y
&u ™
_ an
r.A* 5
cGHT -
B«
.
v
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness.
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
World Copyright MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERICAN CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.1&&
with just
a. touch
of Turkish
