

The Bulletin
. ; t-
WUIIWLL iWULUIUII 1 I.U|JI 1111
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION - EBT. 1880


isliltS*
I*lttss
mm
§
K
X
■: *
.
BJio
MB,
MSai&fiSS
/
ji§r/8i
mmmiA
sdKBWm:. • J
‘ • rf s@s§ii % * MS®
issSsifefciiiil
? v .'■ *'
oVo Tt<*
r «
p?#■ f * i
/ ■
<A*S
L « i
?«§**■ >*
li
/
w-
. 9 4 m
t
■ '• -••
k 4
*
*
gfei
-5
ft
I
for gifts that speak
louder than words . ..
Australia
can
make it...
£l5O million worth
of Electrical Appliances
a year! Not all are wrapped in fancy
paper and satin ribbon, but aren’t they
just as welcome whichever way they
come? Think of the work they save you
. . . of the entertainment and extra
comforts they bring you! Australia’s
Electrical Industry produces an almost
endless variety of modern, efficient
appliances—often exceeding in quality
and value the best the world can offer.
The industry pays its 45,000 employees
£47 million a year in wages, so, directly
or indirectly, the money you spend on
these Australian-made appliances helps
create job security and a better standard
of living for other Australians —some your
friends and neighbours. That’s why it is
important to look for
the Australian-made
label wherever you
shop. You help other
Australians. What
they buy benefits you.
-X**
AUSTRALIAN
MADE
S 3
The wise Australian buys Australian
Inserted by:
THF ASSOriATFD f HAMFSFRS OF MANUFACTURES OF AUSTRALIA


National Notebook
Medal
PUe’re told there’s a brisk trade in a
new line in medals bearing the
words —“I am an important Catholic. In
case of an accident please send for a
bishop.”
Red, White and Blue
"TI/lelbourne’s TAB punters were
1 A treated to two new menus last
Friday when for the first time the agency
invited them to bet on the Sydney and
Adelaide races, the lists for the three
cities being in white for local, red
(Adelaide) and blue (Sydney), acknow-
ledgment no doubt of the widening
national mood for this manner of
gambling. Hitherto interstate betting in
Melbourne had been confined to the
SPs and on-the-course bookies, the latter
being literally besieged for last races by
those who’ve done most of
their dough on Melbourne
races.
Since a TAB double
paid something over
£1250 for five shillings the
other day there has been
a perceptible thickening of
traffic into the TAB’s übiquitous
betting shops. Goodness knows what pro-
portions it would reach if the minimum
stake were reduced to half a crown and
payouts made after every race, as is pro-
posed for NSW, but nobody (except the
Rev. Mr Gordon Powell when he was
in Melbourne last year) and least of all
the hospitals and other charities who
count on getting more than £750,000
as their whack from the agency this year,
seem unduly concerned at this new
cancer in community life.
Airborne Tour
month tourist operator Neville
Salisbury will take the first group
of about 20 people by special panoramic-
window aircraft on a 16-day tour of
Papua and New Guinea with Thursday
Island and the Barrier Reef thrown in.
T he plane, a domestic charter, but with
Salisbury’s marking and flown by a vet-
eran crew, starts from Brisbane and flies
to Moresby via Cairns. In New Guinea
the tour will cover historic war spots,
mission stations, hydro-electric schemes,
native markets, volcanoes and other
places of interest.
Salisbury has been operating a main-
land air tour for five years. This goes
noith via country towns and cattle sta-
tions, detouring across Arnhem Land
(where the plane comes down so low the
wild buffaloes get worried) to Darwin.
After that the tour goes via Wyndham,
Derby, the Kimberleys, Alice Springs and
across Lake Eyre to Melbourne or Syd-
ney.
Salisbury’s operations seem to be one
answer to American visitors whose main
complaint is putting up with long dis-
tances, monotony and discomfort, just
to get a little variety.
The Band Plays On
T)atrons of a Perth night-club have
lately been treated to the pleasant
music of a four-piece Filipino band. But
the background strains have been bleak:
union charges, two court cases and com-
plaints to Canberra. The night-club own-
er, Alberto Ferrante, brought out the
Filipinos as a change from the home
brew. The Immigration Department
granted them visas valid until June 12
and they signed a four-
months’ contract with
Mr Ferrante.
The Musicians’ Union
president Harry Bluck
entered the scene with a
claim that the Filipinos
were ousting local per-
formers. He called the tune by tak-
ing Ferrante to the Industrial Court
where Ferrante was fined £2 for having
employed the Filipinos contrary to a
preference-to-unionists clause. The Fili-
pinos apparently had asked to join the
union a month before the court case but
were refused membership. Union secre-
tary E. J. Riley said this was because
they had displaced a local band which
had been employed six nights a week in
the night-club. It was immediately point-
ed out that the local men worked full
time in the day and performed only two
nights a week.
The Filipinos said most of their earn-
ings had been sent to their families in
Manila and they were practically broke
and stranded. Mr Bluck turned a deaf
ear to their plight and passed the score
to the Immigration Department, sending
off as an encore a protest to Immigration
Minister Downer about the granting of
the visas without prior talks with the
union (and presumably its approval).
Ferrante came to the rescue of the
Filipinos by lodging an appeal and put-
ting them back on his dais. But the
State Arbitration Court rejected the ap-
peal. (In a dissenting verdict one mem-
ber of the court said the preference clause
in the musicians’ award gave the union
the power to ruin a business. He said he
had come to the honest decision that
Page
U.S. DEFENCE .......... 25
Trouble in the Administration
•
Greeks in Australia 12
The Art Market—Buyers and Sellers 16
Australia’s Blackest Day 23
Wines to Buy—Those Big Reds .. 24
Reorganising the Communist Party 26
Malaysia from Manila 27
“Infamous Conduct”— Disciplining
Doctors 28
The Ugly Australian—in London.. 30
The Literary Cannibals 36
Wool Men in a Dither 40
Who has Money to Invest? 41
Wilson the Producer, Coombs the
Star 47
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
UNIVERSITIES 10
AROUND WANGARATTA . . 11
OUT AND AROUT 16
A PAGE OF JOKES 22
CELLARMASTER 24
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 28
ART 30
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF RUSINESS ... 41
FEIFFER AND X-WORD . . 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521!
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phona
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4339


they were better than any musicians
available in Perth.)
Bluck had told the court that there
were local musicians better than the Fili-
pinos, but obviously Ferrante disagreed
As the Filipinos play a variety of instru-
ments, do floor shows, perform items
from several countries and sing in Italian
and Spanish, his claim seems well found-
ed. Ferrante has decided to defy the
court and the band plays on. Bluck, under
steady sniping from people who write
letters to newspapers, has announced
that his union will try to handle the situ-
ation “with reason rather than oppres-
sion,” while noting that continued em-
ployment of the Filipinos could be re-
garded as a technical breach of the
award.
More approaches, he said, were being
made to the Immigration Department
which throughout the affair has followed
the tried, tested and infuriating procedure
of “no comment.” The Filipinos, asked
for their opinion on all the trouble, re-
strained themselves to replying that they
felt disappointed and let down.
A Dying Occupation
/"Vn stormy Babel Island, on Great Dog,
on snake-infested Chappell and on
Green Island, wherever the mutton-bird-
ers of the Furneaux Group in Bass Strait
gathered in their reeking sheds for the
opening of the season, the same story was
told: “Birding,” they said, “is a dying
occupation.” Many of the birds, they
complained, were strangely thin. This
mystery they reported to CSIRO experts
who have been studying the habits of the
birds for years. From Trefoil and the
Petrel Islands, of Tasmania’s north-west
tip, the reports were better. The birds
were fat and oil-rich, and more than
100,000 would be processed. But in the
long run the same ultimate doom faces
the industry.
The short-tailed shearwater (puffinus
tenuirostris ) still flies in annually from the
North Pacific to spend the southern sum-
mer on the rookery islands off South
Australia and Victoria, and especially on
the rocky, sea-ravaged islets of the Furn-
eaux Group. But the young people of
the islands are no longer tied to birding
as their parents were when whole fami-
lies existed for most of the year in ex-
pectation of the harvest of the rookeries.
The usefulness of the petrel was noted
as long ago as 1790 on Norfolk Island,
where the name “mutton bird” was first
used. Soon the wild sealers of Bass Strait
were indiscriminately slaughtering the
birds for their try-pots. Their mixed-
blood descendants carried on the birding,
but on a more organised basis, gathering
the feathers and the flesh as well as the
oil which was at first used for such tasks
as greasing the skids in Tasmanian timber
mills, but later acquired pharmaceutical
reputation.
The birds nest in burrows, and the
young are caught by hand during the re-
gulated March-April open season. To
insert a hand into a burrow on Chappell
Island, where authentic six-foot tiger
snakes are commonplace, requires an
inherited philosophy rather than courage.
“If you feel a pain and see a bleeding
spot on your hand, you reckon a bird
has pecked you,” a veteran birder ex-
plained. “If there are two marks close
together you can say a snake has got
you.”
The birders wring the necks of the
mutton birds, spit them on sticks so that
their oil does not drain, and carry them
to the sheds. There the oil is recovered
and the family teams remove the saleable
feathers and clean the oirds. They are
then split and salted in barrels or are sent
fresh by air to Launceston for freezing
or immediate sale. Most Tasmanian food
shops sell them ready-cooked. Many un-
suspecting troops made the mutton-bird’s
acquaintance during the war when they
bought tinned “squab in aspic” as a can-
teen delicacy. But canning was practised
only during the war.
Tom Langley, veteran owner of two
sheds on Babel Island, last week spoke
sadly of the extinction of the industry.
Fifteen years ago, he said, he had gather-
ed birds from 18 sheds on Babel. Now
he had only two sheds. Chappell Island
once had 30 sheds working. Now there
is only one. The snakes —one islander
claims to have shot 16 in an hour —have
killed off the birds. Three sheds on Green
Island will process about 30,000 birds in-
stead of the 120,000 of a few years ago.
Great Dog’s catch is halved at 150,000
birds annually.
Sydney Night and Day
Next week’s Bulletin carries tour pagse
of color pictures of Sydney by night
and day. Accompanying story is Ken-
neth Slessor’s “My King’s Cross.”
"We CAN have a non-nuclear defence
plus national sovereignty...


Wrong pitch
Touring the years he was in Australia
Mr Neville Cardus was both music
critic and cricket writer for the “Sydney
Morning Herald”, and apart from an
occasional swapping of metaphors kept
both functions separate. Mr Cardus after
the war returned to his old pitch, the
“Manchester Guardian”.
Recently he devoted a column to criti-
cism of a London concert by Mr Dean
Dixon, who will become principal con-
ductor of the Sydney Symphony Orches-
tra next year. Throughout Mr Cardus re-
ferred to Mr Dixon as Mr Dixie Dean.
Mr Dixie Dean is a footballer.
No Room at the Inn
A well-informed friend tells us that
some publicans along the North
Coast have said openly that, despite
changes in drinking laws for aborigines,
they will not serve “boongs”. And that’s
that. Of course, some of these same pub-
licans haven’t been too proud in the past
to make quite a bit of money out of sly
grogging to aboriginals—but then that’s
different. That’s only money.
Our Cover
HThis week’s cover is of Father Mil-
tiades Chryssavgis of the Greek
Orthodox Church of St George, Rose
Bay, Sydney. The church has been built
less than a year and is one of the grow-
ing number serving the Greek com-
munity. See Australia’s Greek Com-
munity—p. 12.
Tanner
I"
•• • •
PLAIN ENGLISH
MAKING BLACK WHITE
recent amendment to the NSW Aborigines’ Protection Act to permit
aborigines to drink in NSW hotels without a “dog licence” abolishes
an iniquitous law and will free aborigines from exploitation by sly groggers.
But, as the story on page 8 of this issue shows, aborigines may still, in
practice, be refused drinks in the hotels of suburbs where most of them
live. The law will certainly not influence prejudiced white people who
by threatening to boycott a hotel which serves aborigines may force a
publican to kow-tow to their prejudices in order to preserve his livelihood.
It is significant, however, that the worst prejudice is shown against
“blue-bloods” as the pale skinned aborigines call their very black-skinned
fellows. Pale-skinned aborigines frequently have little trouble getting
served. The point of this is more than a reflection on the color prejudices
of some Australians. It also suggests, however deplorable it may be, that
the solution to the aborigines’ problems will come ultimately only by
intermarriage and breeding the black skin away.
This is a cowardly solution in some ways. One would prefer a clear
and definite defeat for all forms of racialism and color prejudice, not a
dodging of the issue in the name of assimilation. Yet it is a solution;
it also seems to be an inevitable development; and, in any case, it would
be difficult to insist on maintaining miserable conditions for aborigines
in order to get a more “noble” solution later perhaps.
Yet the popular current theory implied in the slogan “Not Assimi-
lation, but Integration” demands just this. Why should aboriginal culture
be destroyed? the theory runs. Why not let aborigines have full rights
but preserve their separate cultural identity? This makes immediate
good sense in relation to the aboriginal tribes in, say, the Northern
Territory, where this integration policy should be pursued. But there
seems little point in romanticising about the cultural identity of urbanised
aborigines who, for all cultural purposes, are “white” already. Their only
distinction is that they are underdogs like underdogs of any group
in Australia. And there is no particular virtue in trying to make a national
policy of preserving that.
Legislation along the lines of the recent NSW amendments, education,
and intermarriage will in due course do more good than any sentimental
theory about preserving an identity that is, unfortunately, already lost
DECIMALISATION 1901-1963
£ast Tuesday Federal Cabinet gave the green light to the decimal-
isation of Australian coinage. Without comment we refer to the House
of Representatives Select Committee on coinage (appointed June 6, 1901)
which recommended that:
• The Commonwealth adopt decimal coinage.
• Gold be the currency basis.
• Royal Mint coinage arrangements continue.
• Decimal coins be named.
• Details of financial problems connected with decimal change
be studied.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE CENSURE MOTION
WHY MENZIES WAS KIND
TO CALWELL
Friendship restrained the "killer" instinct
ALLAN FRASER
Under the skin
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
As / see it
T'he Govern-
ment ob-
viously used
last week’s censure motion in the House
of Representatives as a dry run for the
bigger forthcoming debate in about three
weeks’ time on the bill promised by the
Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies,
authorising the establishment of the
United States radio communication base
at Exmouth Gulf, Western Australia. As
with all dry runs there were faults.
The general consensus of opinion was
that the star Government performer, Sir
Robert Menzies, did a superb job. Per-
sonally I disagree with this assessment.
It was a magnificent parliamentary per-
formance, entertaining, diverting, inter-
esting, skilled and robust. But as I see it,
it was bad politics.
Menzies pointed out the logical mean-
ing of a censure motion and the basic
purposes behind any parliamentary cen-
sure: Purpose (1) to turn out of office
the Government in power, and purpose
(2) to substitute the Opposition as the
new Government. Menzies first defended
his Government and sought to establish
that it merited being kept in office. He
then dealt with the Labor Party as a
possible alternative.
But it was here that something
happened. There the “killer” instinct
that has marked Menzies in periods of
crisis was missing. My impression was
that he allowed the undoubted friendship
and affection he feels for the Labor
leader, Mr Arthur Calwell, to intrude. He
wanted to score off Calwell and he was
well aware that recent events had given
him plenty of opportunity. He painted
the picture of Mr Calwell, nominally the
head of the Federal Labor Party, waiting
in the darkness outside the Hotel King-
ston to receive his orders from the 36
members of the ALP Federal Confer-
ence “Nonentities” and “unknown”
Menzies scornfully called them on
what should be his approach to the issue
of the Exmouth Gulf base. But he wanted
to score off Calwell not to really hurt
him and because of this there was a
benignity to his speech that gave it the
superficial appearance of flippancy.
Mr Syd Einfeld, the Labor member
for Phillip, reacted to this as probably
quite a few people outside parliament
would probably have reacted. Here
was the Prime Minister speaking on a
subject of potential life and death. In-
volved could be the future of the nation.
It was a grave, momentous issue. There
was no room for flippancy or for
benignity. It was too big. “You’re
clowning,” suddenly exploded Einfeld.
“You’re clowning.”
It was the first time for years that I
have seen Menzies thrown off balance by
an interjection.
It was a strange censure debate in so
far as everyone knew it had no real
meaning. Not only was the Government
quite safe as regards the vote but the
censure debate was conducted under the
shadow of a much larger coming event
—the proposed debate on the establish-
ment of the Exmouth Gulf base. On
the Labor side Menzies’ benignity or
flippancy enabled Allan Fraser (Labor,
NSW) to turn in the best parliamentary
performance he has yet turned in. He
has the capacity for getting under
Menzies’ skin but this time he confined
himself austerely to dealing with Menzies’
approach to this most serious of all
problems and the faults that such an
approach displayed.
This speech was quite a brilliant
display of debating virtuosity that coldly
THE EX-BUSHRANGER
ffij^ulLetCn
April 14, 1883
Years ago, in NSW, a well-educated
young fellow, the grandson of
an English poet, managed somehow
or other to ally himself with a bush-
ranging gang. He was immediately
captured by the police and “sent up”
for seven years. When the weary years
of gaol life had gone by, and he found
himself free once more, he, having
been studious while in durance, took
to teaching as a means of livelihood,
and obtained employment in a State
school in a bush township. In apply-
ing for appointment he made no refer-
ence to his offence and its expiation,
He proved a successful teacher, and
obtained the good will and respect of
parents whose children were commit-
ted to his charge. He fell in love with
a girl and married her. after commit-
ting to her the secret of his life. And
one day, there came to the bush town-
ship a ruffian who had served a sen-
tence in Darlinghurst. He saw the
school master and recognised him.
He wanted money and if the schooi
master would not give him money, he
would expose him. The unfortunate
teacher replied that he had just been
married, that he had but a miserable
salary, and that he had no large sum to
give. Whereupon the jail-bird went
to the public-house, got drunk, and
loudly proclaimed in the bar and in
the streets that the school master had
been a fellow-prisoner of his in Darl-
inghurst. The school master said no-
thing, but applied to the Education
Department for a transfei to a distant
school. He was transferred accord-
ingly. And then there came between
the teacher and his daily crust—an-
other ex-convict? No, the police. The
resident policeman informed the police
of the town to which the school mast-
ed was transferred that he was identic-
al with so-and-so, the ex-bushranger,
And the police, not content, as was
their duty, with knowing that the man
had been in jail, and telling the Educa-
tion Department, talked and blathered
among the townspeople. The Depart-
ment of course called upon the school
master for an explanation. He told his
story. His wife was near her confine-
ment. He asked his Minister for God’s
sake to spare him for her sake. But
it was decided that he should be dis-
missed. The Government has incur-
red a heavy responsibility.


took every weakness in the Prime Mini-
ster’s speech and paraded it nakedly.
If the Government conducted the cen-
sure debate along the lines they did to
give itself an opportunity to study its
own weaknesses before it launches the
full-scale Exmouth Gulf debate in three
weeks’ time, it could, if it studied the
censure debate detachedly, find ample
room for improvement.
WOOL
THE REVOLT
OF THE WESTERN DISTRICT
The Battle of Portland
HENRY BOLTE
Obstinate farmer
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TAown in Portland, in the far west of
Victoria, they believe that Melbourne
exists for one purpose—to frustrate Port-
land. It is the most historic town in Vic-
toria. It was from there that Edward
Henty opened up the vastly wealthy
Western District. And, it’s true, Port-
land has never grown into a large city,
largely because of the indifference of the
big city.
For example, it had immense natural
possibilities as a harbor. The first plans
for a harbor came out in 1860. The
Government took a while to get organ-
ised. It was precisely 100 years before
the £7 million harbor was opened. It
was as modern as any in Australia, all
part of Mr Bolte’s great hope for de-cen-
tralisation. The people of the Western
District felt, naturally, that now they had
the gateway they would take the next
big step; they would sell their wool at
Portland and ship it direct from their
own harbor. After all, they said, more
first-quality wool was grown within 120
miles of Portland than anywhere else in
the world.
So the graziers took action to turn
Portland into a REAL wool centre.
First they converted a store built by the
Government during the Suez crisis. It
is worth more than half a million and it
is really something to see. It has three
floors, each an acre in size, and it looks
as big as the Exhibition Building. The
Portland woolbrokers desperately want-
ed to please. They put in a cafeteria,
they installed a beautiful padded club
bar for the woolbuyers, better than home
away from home.
And that wasn't all. Next they built
an elaborate Wool Exchange The Wool
Exchange in Melbourne is a grim old
building that looks like tile St Trinian’s
physics lecture theatre. The Portland
Wool Exchange is more modern than a
Miami motel. It has lashings of glass,
panelling in the best Australian timbers,
and even a sculpture outside of the first
Henty bale of wool to go to England.
You can imagine the excitement on
November 13, 1961, the optimism— at
last, this great day for Portland—the big
opening!
It took a time for the awful truth to
dawn, and the shock was bard to bear.
Mr Malcolm Fraser, MIIR, broke the
news to the crowd. Only seven wool
buyers had turned up. It was impossible
for the sales to go on. The crowd storm-
ed into the wool store, and what they
didn’t say about Melburnian vested in-
terests was nobody’s business. The beau-
tiful Wool Exchange and the lovely pad-
ded buyer’s bar have been empty from
that day to this. The £7 million harbor
has gone partly to waste.
The woolbuyers stood firm and boy-
cotted the Portland exchange. The pro-
tests were so strong from the Western
District that ultimately the Bolte Gov-
ernment set up an inquiry under Donald
Cochrane, Professor of Economics at
Monash University. At me end of Oc-
tober last he issued a 232-page report.
He came out strongly in favor of Port-
land. He said Melbourne and Geelong
were approaching saturation very rapid-
ly. It was both desirable and advisable
that Portland should start selling wool
during the 1963-64 season.
That seemed to be the end of it. Sur-
ely everybody would take the professor’s
advice. But just before April Fool’s Day
the Victorian and South Australian Wool-
buyers’ Association decided to continue
their ban on Portland. The reasons were
varied. They complained of the costs
involved in setting up at a remote place
like Portland, they said Melbourne and
Geelong had not reached capacity, and
they doubted whether Portland would
have the turnover to make it all worth-
while.
Mr Bolte said he was bitterly disap-
pointed. He would introduce a wool
sales bill which would prescribe where
sales were to be held and ensure that
sales were held in Portland. The battle
was on. The chairman of the Australian
Council of Woolbuyers, Mr P. L. Lemp-
riere, accused Mr Bolte of trying to in-
troduce panic legislation. “We have made
our position clear,” he said. “If anything
Mr Bolte’s impertinent threats only
strengthen our resolve.”
It was an interesting battle. Mr Lemp-
riere, famous for his ingenious plan to
roof the Flinders Street railway yards,
versus Farmer Bolte, an obstinate fel-
low and not called “farmer” for nothing.
At the week’s end the battle was still
unresolved, but there was a particularly
pathetic letter in The Age' from an un-
named wool buyer:
“Sir, I am a poor, struggling wool-
buyer. I work very hard and I see very
little of my home and my wife and
children. As a rule I even have my
breakfast in the wool stores so that I may
lose no moment of the valuing day. Now
I notice that Mr Bolte says 1 must go all
the way to Portland and buy some wool
down there.
“But I don’t want to go to Portland.
It is 230 miles away. My car is simply
not fitted for such a long journey. There
is no air service, and the journey in the
train would take the whole of one day.
With the day spent at the sale, and the
journey home, three days of my already
full week would be taken up in valuing
just the few bales of wool, and my fatigue
would be greater than ever, if that were
possible.”
For some, even a padded club bar is
not enough.
RELIGION
TOGETHERNESS
Not with Rome?
By RICHARD HALL
A controversy simmering over the last
few months in the pages of the Vic-
torian religious weekly “New Life” incor-
porating “The Edifier” and “Standfast’*
(which describes itself as being “com-
mitted by conviction to a conservative
evangelical policy”) has given proof that
not all Protestants are happy about the
new spirit of Togetherness in the Christian
Churches, particularly when Rome is
involved.
The conflict has arisen out of the
newly established practice of an Evan-
gelical training organisation, the Summer
Institute of Linguistics/Wykeham Bible
Translators, to admit Roman Catholic
priests and nuns to their language courses
at Belgrave Heights Convention centre


in Victoria. The SIL/WBT, as it is known,
has a world-wide reputation for its ad-
vanced teaching methods of oriental
languages.
The assistant editor of “New Life”,
A. Quinton, saw this policy as “danger-
ous” and spoke of “a warped policy of ex-
pediency as a strange form of bargaining
to gain spiritual ends.” F. R. Tucker, of
Old Dandenong Road, Heathcote, asked:
“Where will it all end?” Four correspon-
dents said that the convention centre
was “for deepening the spiritual life,”
and added “we think the training of
Roman Catholic priests on the premises
would not be conducive to that end.”
Another letter-writer, from North
Balwyn, spoke of the need to “protect a
valued institution from the insidious in-
roads of dangerous error.” The
SIL/WBT responded by a vigorous de-
fence and a withdrawal from the Bel-
grave Heights Convention centre for any
future courses.
At this stage the “Australian Church
Record” of Sydney, a journal which re-
flects the thinking of the Conservative-
Evangelical party which controls the
Archdiocese of Sydney, came into the
controversy. It gave front-page promin-
ence to the dispute. In an editorial it said,
“the participation of Roman Catholic
priests and nuns in the summer schools of
the SIL/WBT as well as the organisation's
co-operation with Roman Catholics on
the mission field have been a source of
concern to many Christians in this coun-
try and overseas.”
The “Record” went on to raise what is
called “the whole question of fraternisa-
tion with Rome, with co-operation be-
coming more frequent.” It concluded
“the answer to this question is becoming
increasingly urgent.”
ABORIGINES
THE BLUE-BLOODS OF REDFERN
"We don't want no trouble"
By PETER KELLY
T ast week the amendments to the NSW
Aborigines’ Protection Act became
law. In theory the most dramatic change
is that any aborigine living in New South
Wales who is over the age of 18 can go
into a hotel and have a drink like any
“gubbar” (white man). This is the theory
anyway; and both the Aborigines’ Wel-
fare Board and the Australian Hotels’
Association claim that the legislation is
working well, that there have been no
incidents. They are wrong.
“The amendments are just a joke,” Mr
Ken Brindle told me. Mr Brindle,
a half-caste, is the Secretary of
the All Blacks Football Club. It took
less than three hours for him to prove
his point as he took me on a
minor pub crawl around the inner sub-
urban area of Redfern where there are
about 1500 of the State’s 14,000-odd
aborigines and at least six hotels which
refused to serve them.
Outside the first pub there were a
group of five browned-off aborigines
standing around. Two had just been re-
fused a beer by the proprietor, although
the barmaid had served them. We went in
and ordered beers. The barmaid, with a
sidelong glance at the proprietor who was
serving beer in the adjacent saloon bar,
served us our middies. So far so good.
Then a “blue-blood,” as the aborigin-
es call those of their race who are really
black, poked his head in the door and
agreed to go into the saloon bar to ask
the proprietor for a beer. (He was bet-
ter dressed than I.) The proprietor
ignored him for a couple of min-
utes and finally said: “I’m not going
to serve you.” The proprietor told
me he had “personal reasons”. What
were they? “I prefer to cater for
the white population. That’s all there is
to it.” We left.
At the next pub, a number of aborig-
ines were drinking normally and, satisfied,
we unloaded our relatively “white” half-
caste friends, picked up three “blue-
bloods” and went on to a third pub.
When the barman saw the blue-bloods,
he hesitated, looked over at the boss, who
shook his head and said he would not
serve them. Why not? T won’t serve
them. That’s why.” No other reason?
“I don’t want no trouble in my pub.”
During the next half-hour four aborig-
ines tried to argue with him:
“What’s wrong with me?”
“Nothing. I don’t know you, that’s
all.”
“Do you also refuse a white man you
don’t know?”
“Yes. If I think he'll cause trouble.”
“What makes you think we’ll cause
trouble?”
“I don’t think you will.”
“Well why don’t you serve us?”
“I don’t want any trouole, that’s all.”
“Why will we cause trouble? Is it our
color?”
“No some of my best customers are
black. I’ve got a Maori who’s been com-
ing here for four years.”
“Well?”
“I just don’t know you.”
“So why don’t you serve us?” and so
on and on.
During this half-hour I was able
to buy them drinks and also per-
suaded the proprietor to give us one
on the house. The end of the argument
came shortly after closing time when the
proprietor swung on his heel and said:
“These boys are all right but it is people
like you who cause all the t r ouble.”
WAGES
WINGING HAWKE
The boomerang
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
The atmosphere around Melbourne’s
law courts in William Street resum-
ed its customary tranquillity last week
with the finishing of the short, sharp hear-
ing of the margins case before the Full
Bench of the Arbitration Commission
which never before has had to digest
such a curious mixture of direct and in-
direct industrial action to get higher
wages. Nor has it ever had such a big
claim (about £2oom. a year) from the
unions to adjudicate.
Though in the latter stages of the six
weeks’ long hearing the climate outside
the court was somewhat less raw than
earlier in the proceedings when the court
was literally stormed by a militant-minded
mob, the outside pressure from marching
bands of unionists was kept up very
nearly to the end.
It was all rather shocking to those
accustomed to the usual dreary and labor-
ed pattern of arbitration cases, but it was
not so far removed from what was going
on inside the court itself.
Mr Bob Hawke, for the unions, aimed
his first shot on the opening day in Feb-
ruary when he accused the Government
of a volte-face on the point whether the
decisions of the Commission in this case
should be applied to wages generally. The
point was well made and everybody
knows that though the Commissioners de-
cided that it would not be a test case and
the judgment would not be applied “auto-
matically” to wages outside the metal
trades, nonetheless they said their deci-
sions should be some guiding reference
to individual Commissioners in determin-
ing wage margins in other industries.
But having, in effect won this point
and ensured the widest possible examina-
tion of economic issues as relating to
wage determination across the whole
country, Hawke was not content with
his rubbishing of the Government (“The”
Government he said scathingly). But his
next missile thrown at the Government
late in the hearing proved to be a real
boomerang, on the grounds that it had


The vines we tend at
Coonawarra Estate have
amongst their number a
proportion of the precious
Cabernet Sauvignon some
of which is vintaged
separately and bottled as;
“COONAWARRA
ESTATE
CABERNET”
The discriminating diner
would be well advised to
seek it out it is a rare
COONAWARRA ESTATE
CLARET
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors’.
S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
not provided the Commission with ade-
quate information to understand the ec-
onomic impact of the 1962-63 Budget
compared with that of the previous Bud-
get. Hawke stated in court that “the
Commonwealth Government has and is
still treating the parties in the proceed-
ings and The Commission itself with
contempt,” and accused the Government
of deliberately assuring that the latest
Budget had more impact than it actually
had.
If Sir Richard Kirby as the President
of the Commission was seemingly pre-
pared to wink an eye at this, Mr Cliff
Menhennitt, representing the Govern-
ment, was not. Mr Hawke was given a
hammering he will long remember for
using the Court, in Menhennitt’s words,
for “entirely improper purposes.”
LABOR
THE SECOND-CLASS CITIZENS
"Narrow-minded bigoted sectarians”
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
TOM GILHOOLEY
Has what it takes
centre-piece for the Labor Party’s
“Peace and Friendship Week” in
Victoria recently was the Executive’s
action in suspending from membership
four Oakleigh councillors for alleged
breaches of party policy supporting aid
to denominational schools. The issue has
set Oakleigh aflame and seems certain to
damage the ALP’s tandmg throughout
Victoria, if not nationally When DTP
Organising Secretary, Frank McManus
charged that the suspensions showed that
the ALP regarded Catholics as “second-
class citizens” he was only repeating
what Catholics in the Oaklcigh-Clayton
area are saying.
In passing, the usually accepted con-
cept of left and right has taken a thrash-
ing. Cr H. W. Viney. one of the four
suspended Councillors, stated that while
he supported the Victorian ALP Exe-
cutive on many issues, including its op-
position to the WA radio' base, he
regarded it as being “composed of nar-
row-minded bigoted sectarians.”
The row started last December when
Oakleigh Council resolved to award one
<£lo bursary to each of the State sec-
ondary schools in the municipality, but
not to the three Catholic ones, Sacred
Heart, the Salesian College and St Peter's.
A huge outcry followed, one local paper
referring to “a spate of bitter protests
from angry residents”, while another
spoke of “mass protests by hundreds of
irate ratepayers”. The Mayor was flood-
ed with protest letters.
The ALP councillors later pressed for
the business to be reconsidered and when
it came before Council early this year it
was agreed to give 1 ursaries to all Sec-
ondary schools, including Catholic ones.
Five of the six ALP councillors support-
ed the decision. The sixth, by agreement
of the ALP Caucus, was allowed to cast
a conscience vote against the proposal.
Four of the live councillors were sus-
pended by the party’s executive follow-
ing the interviews They are Cr T.
Gilhooley, Dr F. Slater, Cr H. W. Viney
and Cr W. Rotgers A fifth, Cr D M.
Oakley, has yet to face the music, having
been abroad when the Executive acted.
The expelled councillors are a mixed
bunch, one of them, W. Rotgers, a master
plumber, being president of the Clayton
Peace Group. D. M. Oakley is a caterer
who recently visited Moscow, while H.
W. Viney is a builder who came under
unfavorable mention by Dr E. G. Coppel,
QC, following his investigation into the
Clayton Timber and Trading Pty Ltd
on behalf of the State Attorney-General
last year. Coppel’s report said that if
complete recklessness in handling other
people’s money constituted fraud, Viney
had been fraudulent and should be pro-
secuted.
Viney has not been prosecuted and his
reaction to Coppel's report was to parade
the shopping centres of Oakleigh and
Clayton with a sandwich-board calling
on the Attorney-General to prosecute
him. “Please do, Mr Rylah”, it read, “it
is my only chance of justice”. Viney
charged that material witnesses and docu-
ments he had offered had not beer ex-
amined by Coppel at his in camera in-
quiry. He claimed that political motives
lay behind the inquiry and that it had
not been properly conducted.
Tom Gilhooley, 36, is the best known
of the four under suspension and the only
Catholic.
In the view of the ALP Executive,
Gilhooley is a dangerous critic and not
solely for what he might say at annual
conference. He has shown he has what
it takes to win council elections, having
won his seat three times in just over two
years. After being narrowly elected on
preferences in 1960 he was disqualified
on a technicality only to romp in again
with a vote of about 70 per cent —a feat
which he repeated last year. The impres-
sion has grown up that he is building a
strong personal machine <n Oakleigh dis-
trict, thereby threatening the Central Ex-
ecutive’s control.
The election of a young Italian-born
printer, Mr Tony Scarcella, as Senior
Vice-President of the party’s East Oak-
leigh branch is seen as the work of Gil-
hooley. He is secretary of the ALP
group on Oakleigh Council
Accordingly, the Executive has struck
at the entire group, the main charge
being that they have breached the Federal
ALP principle of—“aid to the pupil, not
the school” with regard to assistance to
non-State schools. The four suspended
councillors quickly lodged appeals against
the Executive’s decision with Mr J.
Chamberlain, the Federal Secretary.


GAMBLING
GRAFT, SLUSH FUNDS,
PROTECTION
Legalising the tote, suppressing SP bookies
R. W. ASKIN
“Fat inducements”
FROM BERT BIRTLES IN SYDNEY
HEhe wrangle in NSW over legalised
off-course betting promises to have
everything—graft, protection rackets,
slush funds, the lot. Already the joke
current at Parliament House is, “Shush,
can you hear the rustle of banknotes?”
That shrewd tactician Premier Robert
Heffron held up release of Mr Justice
Kinsella’s report until the dying hours
of the Parliament’s pre-Easter sittings
and 24 hours after Labor’s malcontents
had held their last Caucus meeting.
Even so. there was an immediate outcry.
Mr Justice Kinsella recommended the
Government to legalise a system of off-
course totalisator betting. He was satis-
fied this was the best method of legalis-
ing betting off the course and he gave a
formidable list of reasons—it would be
the most effective in safeguarding the
Crown revenue and contributions to the
racing industry and in eliminating cor-
ruption; it would give all sections the
chance to bet; it would have less tend-
ency than any other method to induce
excessive gambling; it would eliminate
the personal profit motive and its evils.
He recommended heavy penalties for
illegal betting to ensure that his pro-
posed lawful off-course betting would
be protected against unfair competition
of illegal bookmakers. The penalties
rocked punters and politicians alike.
They ranged from a minimum fine of
£5O for a first offence of street betting
and gaol without the option for not less
than three months or more than six for
a second offence to a minimum fine of
£2OO for a first offence of telephone
betting and gaol for 12 months for a
third or subsequent offence.
That was that—he had put thumbs
down on the SP bookies.
This seemingly simple issue caused an
immediate split in the Labor Party and
confusion among Liberals. Mr Heffron
maintained an amiable silence about what
the Government might or might not do
about implementing the report and sug-
gested that his Cabinet colleagues would
look into this question while he was
overseas. (His bags were packed and he
was getting ready to leave.)
But his Cabinet colleagues were divid-
ed just as much as backbenchers were
between those favoring the tote system
and those who favored and had hoped
the Royal Commissioner would have re-
commended the licensing of SP book-
makers. Those hostile to the tote system
claimed it would not stamp out illegal
betting and that the heavy penalties—
“lt's like a return to the convict days!”
some members protested—would only
drive it further underground. They claim-
ed it would increase bribery and corrup-
tion and that illegal bookmakers would
only try to protect themselves from the
law by offering bigger “hand-outs.”
These suggestions drew counter-sug-
gestions that if conflicting interests had
slush funds they could be used in other
ways—to stimulate opposition to any
Government move to bring in the tote
system, for instance. Opposition Leader
Bob Askin put his name to a statement
that conflicting interests probably would
offer the Government “fat inducements”
to decide one way or the other on the
form legalised off-course betting should
take. He suggested that perhaps the
Government had wanted to give an op-
portunity for fat inducements to be offer-
ed in the recess period between now and
August when Parliament would reas-
semble. He himself was against putting
the issue on Tammany Hall auction
blocks, he said.
He will have his own problem in the
Liberal Parliament Party room. Some of
his Liberal members are opposed to any
form of betting, legal or illegal. They are
a minority, but a vocal one. Legalised off-
course telephone betting with registered
bookmakers was a plank of Liberal Party
policy at the last State elections. The
Party has now to consider whether to
stick to this policy or switch to the
tote system recommended by the Royal
Commissioner.
The Government, for its part, has to
reconcile the conflicting views of its
Cabinet Ministers, of Attorney-General
Reg Downing, for instance, who is a
keen advocate of the tote system, and
Chief Secretary Gus Kelly who is just
as staunchly against it. It must also (if
it can) reconcile the rival Caucus fac-
tions.
If Mr Heffron when he returns can
make them line up as a united team he
will have no need to fear the Opposition
in the Legislative Assembly where he
has a clear majority. His real problem,
as he found out so frequently to his
cost during the short but hectic pre-
Easter sittings, will be to get his legisla-
tion through the Upper House. Some of
the indefatigable group of Independent
Labor “rebels” who hold the balance
of power there are critical of the tote
system.
POLICE
THE WATCHHOUSE
One night in gaol
FROM A BRISBANE CORRESPONDENT
/\ne Brisbane police officer has said:
“I would hate to see any relative or
friend of mine in the city watchhouse.”
A West Australian farmer, 39-year-old
Mr Ted Patterson, probably could not
agree with them more. Following his
complaint about his treatment in the
watchhouse, a police officer appointed by
the Commissioner (Mr Frank Bischof)
began investigating conditions there.
In mid-March, Mr Patterson was
arrested at night in a room at South
Brisbane and taken to the watchhouse.
Next day he was fined £8 for having
had four unregistered firearms in his
possession. They were reported to be
two Very flare pistols, which Patterson
said he had once used on a boat, a family
heirloom antique, and a war souvenir
revolver. (In some States, it is not an
offence to have Very pistols or antiques
without a permit.)
Patterson, a married man and an
officer in the CMF reserve, complained
later that his treatment in the watch-
house was comparable with that of con-
vict days. He said his shoe laces, belt
and tie were taken from him.
He said: “I was treated like a common
criminal and lodged in a cell about 12ft.
by Bft. with nine other prisoners. There
was one uncovered toilet to serve for
everyone in the cell. There was no bed,
and I was given two stinking blankets.
The cell was too crowded to lie down
in, and I was not allowed to wash.
When I went into court, they wouldn’t
even let me wear my tie so I could
appear decently dressed before the
magistrate.”


Around The Wang
GETTING PUBLICITY FOR PEANUTS
Vou have to hand it to the Aus-
A tralian Wool Bureau —it is
smart. Right now it has 31 towns
around Australia taking part in a
Wool Festival competition. The com-
petition is divided up into population
categories A, B, C and D. All it boils
down to is this a massive public
relations publicity contest, and the
Wool Bureau gets it for peanuts.
Every town has to produce a pub-
licity book on its festival, containing
all the Press clippings, everything
from the “Main Street Bugle” to the
big city dailies. We respectfully hope
that The Bulletin will make it.
There are photographs, too, of the
window displays and the towns which
produce the most potent books carry
off the big awards —£500 and a
30-guinea plaque for the A and B
categories—£2so and plaque for C
and D.
Wangaratta in Victoria (population
13,812) is desperately anxious to win
the big B award this year. The desire
does not spring merely from a warm
enthusiasm for wool. Wangaratta is
just at that stage where it has to make
up its mind whether it will remain a
medium small city or spring into
something rather splendid. Lately the
plans have gone a little awry. They
have lost two large flour mills, and
industries have been too reluctant to
recognise the charm of decentralisa-
tion in the Ovens Valley.
So Wangaratta went all out for the
Wool Festival. Among other things
they organised a “Wild Colonial”
banquet, and, publicity-wise, here was
something that must have made all
other contestants shudder with envy.
They got the Prime Minister, Sir
Robert Menzies, as guest speaker. So
it wasn’t a vast problem to sell 300
banquet tickets at £3 a head, maybe
the most expensive dinner ever in
the Wang.
And it was really something
among the fine array of dishes were
curried Tasmanian scallops, Glen-
rowan spatchcock (not as tough as
old Ned), and whole halves of pine-
apples filled with ice cream and fruit
salad. And the wines! Nine of them
from local vineyards including a meaty
1953 Bundarra Hermitage and a fine,
soft 1957 Milawa Cabernet-Shiraz.
It wasn’t easy to set the exact wild
colonial tone. The Wool Princess girls
dressed in gumboots, skirts, blouses
and hats of various kinds. One girl
had a fur hat, the kind that looks very
good on Mr K. Another said: “I was
going to wear a Davy Crockett hat,
but it didn’t look me.”
All the waiters were in ancient
regimental red jackets from the Prin-
cess Theatre in Melbourne. They
didn’t arrive until 4 p.m., so there was
real hell in the barracks fitting the
shapes to the sizes. They had one
uniform left over, the full dress rig
of a naval captain, so they put a .303
in his hand and placed him on the
door. As for Sir Robert, a local
garage proprietor magnificently dug
out his old RAAF uniform and acted
as liveried chauffeur.
Make no mistake, it was a lovely
dinner. Sir Robert enjoyed himself
immensely. All day he made much of
the fact that here was a member of
the Ancient and Noble Order of the
Thistle appearing in St Patrick’s Hall,
that he was passing the night at Bruck
Mills, Wangaratta, the makers of
synthetics, and, even worse, what on
earth would be said around Asia when
word got about that Sir Robert made
a practice of attending Wild Colonial
banquets. To top it off, Miss Nan
Sanders, the shrewd wool promotion
chief, referred to him as our “very
own Wild Colonial Boy.”
HThe Festival Committee did the right
A thing. Sir Robert and Dame
Pattie received two beautiful, green,
all-wool cardigans. Sir Robert ac-
cepted the gift graciously and pointed
out how pleased he was because the
color was the exact color of the sash
of the Order of the Thistle. Nobody
at this stage was game to tell him that
it was actually described by the Wool
Bureau as “Ned Kelly green.”
As you can imagine, there were
some mighty cuttings for the publicity
book, but that wasn’t all. The next
morning the Wangaratta Wool Festival
Committee, most of whom didn’t get
to bed until 3 a.m., had to move to
Euroa for the great re-enactment.
Now this was real genius. Apropos
of no particular anniversary what-
ever, they were restaging Major
Mitchell’s famous Australia Felix
expedition of 1836. The famous sur-
veyor set the path almost exactly
through there along the Hume High-
way.
You should have seen it. At Euroa
they had the works, the horses to
travel out front, a three-horse dray
and an honest-to-goodness bullock
wagon drawn by a team of 12
bullocks.
The expedition was to take a week
to get to Wangaratta, travelling seven
miles a day and gathering publicity
all along the route. The Shell Com-
pany, bless its heart, was sponsoring
the bullock wagon to the extent of
£4OO and Pelaco was providing
authentic pillar box red shirts for the
expedition members.
The fascinating part about it was
that this was a real bullock team. It
belonged to Wal Legg, of Maccles-
field, who still used it on his property
as he had done for nigh on 50 years.
Mr Legg pointed out there was
nothing in the world quite like
bullocks, and he didn’t hold with
switching over to tractors. What’s
more, he affectionately knew every
bullock by name.
Mr Legg was to play the role of
Major Sir Thomas Livingston Mitchell
himself. At the last moment he
objected. He preferred to be Robert
Muirhead, the chief bullock driver.
This was serious, for the 1830
vintage major’s uniform had been
hired specially for Mr Legg. Fortu-
nately, Ken Ellis, a grazier from
Grete, near Wang, managed to
squeeze into it, and he took over as
leader and rode on horseback out
front.
The expedition lurched rather un-
evenly along the Hume Highway. We
were told that everything would be
done in the traditional style. The
party members would sleep under the
wagon, eat hard radons, and the
bullock wagon would even ford some
of the streams rather than use bridges.
However, the cook, the babbling
brook, the bait layer, did admit that
they were using Porta-Gas for the
cooking and that there would be
motion pictures every night.
BATMAN


Greeks in Australia
From Ithaca and Leros , from Lemnos and Cythera
By XENOS
SAY “Greeks in Australia,” and a
series of images flashes through
the mind: an old peasant mother,
dressed all in black, kissing an icon in
some little church tucked away in the
suburbs; two men arguing politics and
playing tavli in a club somewhere in
Port Kembla or Mildura; a row of
workers along a motor-car assembly-line,
each from the same island in the Tigean;
or the roar of fifteen thousand passionate
voices at a soccer match at Olympic
Park on a Saturday afternoon. It is a
community rich in contrasts and conflicts,
made up of fanatical individualists and
yet, in its way, extraordinarily cohesive.
Nothing could be more dramatic than
the difference between the background
from which our Greeks come and the life
in their new country, yet it is doubtful
whether any other minority has suc-
ceeded in making itself more at home.
There are over 130,000 of them, which
makes the Greek the second largest mig-
rant community in Australia. Over the
last few years they have arrived at an
annual rate of six to eight thousand. In
Victoria are found between 35,000 and
40,000; in New South Wales 30,000 to
35,000; well over 10,000 in South Aus-
tralia, and so down through all States to
Tasmania with between 2000 and 3000.
The largest concentrations exist, of
course, in the capital cities, though in
New South Wales, Victoria and South
Australia some important communities
are established in country areas. There is
a flourishing community in Darwin also.
But there is probably no sizeable place
anywhere in the Commonwealth without
its Greeks ... if represented only by
Nick’s cafe, with the u-ual misspelling to
meet necessity.
The earlier migrants came mainly from
the islands, beautiful but barren:
from Ithaca, birthplace of Ulysses,
Leros, Crete famous tor its seafarers,
boxers and hot-blooded men; from the
Dodecanese, Lemnos and Cythera, the
isle of love. The post-war influx stems
more from the mainland, from those poor
and backward areas which suffered most
from the ravages of war and bitter civil
strife.
THhe average Greek migrant is a poor
man and an unskilled laborer. Even if
he had a trade at home, he will often
sink to the unskilled level in Australia,
because of language difficulties. For he
has to learn not only English but the
Roman alphabet: without the power to
read, his command of the language is apt
to remain sketchy. There is still a fair
sprinkling of de facto illiterates, and no
actual literacy test is demanded as a con-
dition for entry into Australia. What is
required is a court certificate, and the
usual police inquiries are made as to an
applicant’s character and political profile.
For Communists it works in this way,
that people with a prominent record are
excluded, but minor activists manage to
pass simply because the Greek police are
glad to see them depart.
Much scraping and saving goes on be-
fore a family is ready to leave, but the
shipping lines extend credit, financed in-
dividually by Australian hire purchase
companies at the common interest rate
of 10 per cent. No assisted passages,
other than those provided by the World
Council of Churches, obtain, with the
result that a Greek New Australian fre-
quently remains in debt tor the first two
or three years after his arrival. The Greek
community has its benevolent institutions,
but they are not strong enough to cope
effectively with the many calls made on
them. This is partly offset b> the typical
Greek migrant’s frugality and capacity
for hard work; from way back he has
had to make do without those social
supports which are taken for granted
in more fortunate countries. Family
solidarity and friends come to his rescue.
Throughout Greece you will find the
man who has done well in America and
who has returned to spend the rest of
his days among his own people. He is
rich only by local standards. But the
Australian-returned man is still a com-
parative rarity. Even Greeks who came
here between the wars, with the certain
expectation of one day going home, usu-
ally find the pull of Australia too strong.
That does not mean they have forgotten
the Motherland. There is a well-known
Greek film importer in Melbourne who
has bestowed an impressive monument
on his native island as a gift, and he is
not unique. Young men will sometimes
travel to Greece to get a bride, and for


the rest there is barely a family which
does not send home remittances: if a
law were to be introduced forbidding
the sending of money from Australia,
the day of its coming into force would
be a black one for Greece.
It is noteworthy that even during the
worst of the credit squeeze, when unem-
ployment among Australian Greeks was
bad it is still serious enough, since
they tend to work in crisis-prone in-
dustries there was no marked home-
ward exodus; certainly less than among
the Italians. This was probably due to
the fact that conditions in the old coun-
try, though improved since the war, are
still far from prosperous. Unlike, say,
a mechanic from Turin, his counterpart
from Salonika considers himself better
provided in Australia, even on the dole.
Wanted: An Aristotle Onassis?
11/lore than 10,000 Greeks are employed
in the Australian motor industry.
Thousands work on the South Coast of
New South Wales in the iron and steel
industry, while many have jobs in the
building trade. Agriculture does not at-
tract them much, though a few hundred
work the itinerant circuit on both sides
of the Murray, and the Mfldura irrigation
district is another significant focal point.
It is said that every Greek likes to be
independent, a drive which finds expres-
sion in owning a fruit shop, a milk bar
or a fish cafe, but this takes some capital,
which is not amassed in a day. Hence
Alexis or Nikos, “restaurant” proprietors,
are usually of the old-settled generation.
If not, they may belong to the more
recent stream of Greeks whom the tide
of nationalism has forced out of Egypt
and the Levant, people occasionally of
some means and of more or less cosmo-
politan outlook.
Australia has not yet produced its Aris-
totle Onassis, though there are Greek-
Australians of substance. There is Mr
Stathis Kroussos, Melbourne’s undisputed
Banana King, who hails from Kepha-
lonia and, beginning from nothing, laid
the foundations of a considerable fortune
in the ’forties. Mr Angelo Lekatsas, from
Ithaca, now in his eighties, and a one-
time Life President of the Melbourne and
Victorian Central Community, from
which he resigned in the course of events
to be discussed later, owns considerable
real estate and two cafes. Mr Theo Mar-
maras, new President of the Australian
Soccer Federation, has a very flourishing
fish import and export business. In
Sydney we might name Messrs George
Georgatos and Harry Porter, the former
a solicitor, city property owner, noted
benefactor and right-hand man of Arch-
bishop Ezekiel, and the latter, once Mr
Kallinikos, a big hide merchant, master
of a large news agency and likewise of
many desirable properties in the heart
of town. He came to Australia from Asia
Minor after the war with Turkey. Not
missing are Greek architects, doctors and
other professional men, but, as one would
expect, their number is not very great.
Most Greeks aim at giving their children
or at least their sons the best
education they can afford, but lack of
means and large families militate against
rapid progress here.
At this point it may be worth men-
tioning that the Greek Orthodox Church
frowns on birth control as much as does
the Roman Catholic, but that contracep-
tion is not a burning issue. Large fami-
lies are desired but they are becoming
rarer, especially among the new genera-
tion. And this leads one to the position of
women.
A Greek does not have to journey to
Greece to find himself a wife. Every boat
from Piraeus carries its complement of
brides who are sent out, sight unseen,
to eagerly waiting prospective spouses.
Sight unseen is probably not the right
way of putting it, however. The girls have
been carefully selected by mothers, aunts
and cousins in the old country, perhaps
with the aid of the local papas or priest,
and disappointments are less common
than would seem likely, though now and
then the match does not come off at the
last moment.
The woman is still the conservative
and tradition-minded factor in the part-
nership, yet it would be a mistake to
think of the modern Greek girl as a
superstitious, over-protected individual.
She no longer has to wait until her older
sister is married before she herself can
wed. Her brother does not lurk in the
background with a knife to ward off
predatory swains, which must not be taken
to imply that chastity has become unim-
portant. The society in which she moves
is growing less tight, but it is still a
man’s domain. The mother, and the
mother-in-law, now as ever, have a domi-
nant role, but it cannot be exercised out-
side the domestic circle. It is among
women that the influence of the Church
is strongest even in exile. Now and then,
though not too often, one still comes
across a new husband who keeps his wife
from public view, possibly because she
has not yet acquired that minimum of
sophistication Australians take for
granted.
Different again is the position of the
old folk: there can be a deep, often pain-
ful gulf isolating grandmother and grand-
father but usually the former from
the interests and customs of the young
people. Except at Easter, Australian
Greek churches, like most others, are
full of the old, but with an added poig-
nancy because the ancient liturgy pro-
vides them with a last, fading link to
their past. Fortunately, Greeks are tol-
erant in their family relationships.
The youngsters keep only those cus-
toms which suit them; that is, those
which, like wedding celebrations, have
to do with sociability and hospitality.
Rock-and-Roll attracts them as it attracts
all the rest, but when things start going
with a swing the floor may be cleared
for a handkerchief dance or a rhyming
contest. When it comes to marrying, a
Greek boy may hope that the girl will
bring him a dowry, but frequently he
hopes in vain. One hears it said, no
doubt with reason, that marriages be-
tween Greek lads and Australian girls
have a better chance of working out
happily than unions between Australian
men and Greek girls, because the latter
look for a different kind of support than
a non-Greek can give them. Of the two
types of alliance the one in which the
man “marries out” seems to be more
common and more approved. Inciden-
tally, while we have no statistics, there
is not that numerical imbalance between
the sexes among Australian Greeks
which some suppose.
Outside the home the Greek male’s
life centres around the club, of which
there are more than 50 in Melbourne
alone, with proportionally as many in
all other centres. They are generally
organised on a regional basis, gathering
together people from a given island or
district. Their chief attractions, in this
order, are talk, coffee, cards or tavli (a
form of checkers), food and liquid re-
freshments. If you are a well-liked out-
sider they will serve you ouzo or retsina
to go with your goat’s cheese and olives,
but retsina is not cheap. It doesn’t follow
from this that the club has a licence.
The other kind of licence is discouraged,
and when it became known, not long
since, that in one capital city which
shall remain nameless some Greek girls
were “working the streets,” communal
inquiries were set on foot which un-
earthed only three practitioners, and I
believe they are no longer in business.
When Greek meets Greek
Ts gambling heavy? Well —not as a rule.
A By and large the clubs are well-
conducted places. Incidentally, the pol-
ice, in its occasional dealings with Greeks,
relies for the more delicate tasks on
Greek members of the force. In Vic-
toria, for instance, there are three Greek
detectives.
There are also Cypriot and Macedon-
ian clubs. Cypriots make up the largest
single sub-section of our Greeks, in-
cluding mainlanders. Greeks become


ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £188,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia.
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
angry when Macedonians are labelled as
a separate nationality, which decidedly
they are not, unless they happen to be
Bulgarians or Jugoslavs. To a Greek a
Macedonian is simply another Greek.
Cypriots, too, are an integral part of
the community distinguishable only by
accent, a somewhat purer, more archaic
vocabulary and a slight preference for
English manners. Cypriots have their
migration papers processed in Athens, a
primitive form of Enosis.
Greek “Labor Clubs” function every-
where, with their associated Leagues and
cultural organisations: “Plato” in Ade-
laide, “Atlas” in Sydney and “Democ-
ritus” in Melbourne. All three have close
ties with th- Trade Union movement
and are, to use a w'ell-known euphemism,
under militant leadership. For all that,
their publications, especially Neos Kos-
trios, the weekly of the Democritus
League, wTich circulates in all States, are
read by people of various ideological
shades. There are many issues on which
the line of Neos Kosmos is identical with
that of “The Guardian” or “Tribune,”
although recently there have been ru-
mors of high-level differences. Right-Left
political cleavages, at their deepest just
after the civil war, are still profound,
and Greek Communists, at least in Aus-
tralia, are among the most doctrinaire.
This does not prevent a certain Greek
gentleman from marching each year in
a May Day procession, attired in what
looks suspiciously like the costume of
the Royal Ev zones.
It must be acknowledged that, on the
W'hole, the Left has the advantage, cul-
turally speaking. Atlas, for instance, has
put on some interesting plays. But the
most entertaining has come from another
quarter; the Philanthropical and Educa-
tional Society of Melbourne, which re-
cently staged a musical comedy of
migrant life w'ith a delightful libretto
that should be worth translating.
In general, Greek life in Australia
offers few satisfactions for intellectuals.
There is no regular cultural journal and
individual creative output is fairly re-
stricted. The talented James Galanis, of
Newcastle, w'hose work as a hotel pro-
vender leaves him too little time to write,
is the only one to have made a name for
himself in his new language with stories
about the fortunes and tribulations of
migrants. Costas Atanasiades, before he
went to America, published a novel lo-
cally called, “Daphne Miller”; and an-
other novel socialist-realist in ap-
proach, about the war in Anatolia
belongs to the late Alekos Doukas. Theo
Patrikareas, of Sydney, is a promising
playwright. T. Efstratiades, author of a
book of prose sketches and an artist
as well, is employed by the Victorian
Railways. Among painters and icono-
graphers at least George Politakis should
be named.
Nine Newspapers, Small Audience
VTine newspapers fervently compete for
an audience. The oldest is the “Nat-
ional Tribune” of Sydney, founded in
1914. It has had many ups and downs,
and at the moment is rather in a trough.
With Neos Kostnos, the most widely read
are “The Torch,” which has 60 per cent,
of its public in its home State of Vic-
toria and is edited by Michael Michae-
lides, an enterprising Cypriot, and Syd-
ney’s “Pan-Hellenic Herald,” the largest
selling Greek weekly in New South
Wales. It follows a middle-of-the-road
line, except in the all-pervading dispute
to which we are leading up, in which it
is taking a radical stand The “Herald”
has suffered a grievous blow in the death
last January of its owner-editor, the
doyen Alekos Grivas who, at the age of
74, was murdered. About 7000 would be
the maximum circulation of any Greek-
Australian paper. A formidable preoccu-
pation with personalities distinguishes
most of this Press from, let us say, its
Italian contemporaries.
The language of the newspapers is
not Katharevousa, or purified, “edu-
cated” Greek, nor yet Demotike, the
tongue of the streets, but something in-
between, which may be called newspaper
Greek.
The cinema, soccer and, as an increas-
ingly weak third force, wrestling, engage
the enthusiasm of multitudes. Greece
now boasts a productive film industry,
and new Greek films enter Australia
every week; sometimes as many as four.
They are not all of a quality to please
a Cacoyannis or a Dassin, but they are
emotional and tuneful. So insatiable is
the hunger for melody, particularly of
an Eastern flavor, that Greek importers
fall back also on Indian films, Tamil
or Hindi, suitably sub-titled in Greek.
They bring in receipts which would make
a suburban flea-pit proprietor turn green
with envy. The distribution centre and
primal home for Greek films in New
South Wales is the Lawson Cinema in
Redfern.


But this is as nothing to the passions
which soccer arouses. In Brisbane, Syd-
ney and Melbourne, Greek football clubs
are at or near the top of the ladder,
and big money, by local standards, is
spent on importing players. (A stalwart
of South Melbourne-Hellas, Melbourne,
was not long ago flown back to Athens
just to help save his old team from rele-
gation.) Things, happily, have quietened
down with the coming of success, but
there were times when it was no more
healthy for an anti-Hellas barracker to
be caught in a pro-Hellas crowd than for
a Crusader to be jammed in a throng of
Saracens. The brilliant showing of Greek
teams in Australia is rather odd, since
Greek soccer, though popular in its own
country, is not ranked particularly high
in Europe.
We have left to the last the much
publicised troubles that have blown up
around the redoubtable figure of Ezekiel,
the Greek-Orthodox Archbishop in Aus-
tralia, in the hope that Greek readers
will have tired of our recital before it
reaches its climax. It is a complex and
not very edifying story, but one which
has to be told, though we do not flatter
ourselves that there will be agreement
that we have related the true facts. There
cannot be, since facts are not the most
important components of the affair,
which has engendered more furore than
any dozen Ampol cup-finals.
Humble Men, Modest Attainments
Oince the days of Ottoman tyranny the
Greek Church has had thrust on it
certain functions that may justly be
called secular. Greeks are neither more
nor less “religious” than any other Medi-
terranean people, and the clergy, even
when highly respected, is not beyond the
reach of popular debate. Perhaps this
only shows how it touches the life of
the nation at a hundred intimate points.
In all this Greeks in Australia are not
different from other Greeks, though
some claim that the new environment
has strengthened further their demo-
cratic and worldly tendencies. They have
a reasonably active denominational life;
which includes a small monastery in
Queensland, another in process of for-
mation in Sydney, and soon also a Theo-
logical Seminary, the St Andrew’s War
Memorial College, Sydney, which will
give part-time training to aspiring priests
who will, however, complete their studies
in Istanbul. Most local Greek clerics are
humble men of moderate cultural at-
tainments, though they include some
learned people like the Rev. Boyazoglu
in Victoria. The Greek priesthood has
only a limited celibacy rule, in the sense
that a married pastor may not aspire to
the highest dignities of the Church or be-
come bishops. This is in line with the
sensible liberality in domestic matters
which characterises the Eastern branch
of Christianity: divorce is permitted
but not more than three times.
The main secular organisation of Aus-
tralian Greeks are the “Greek Communi-
ties,” which are chartered bodies on a
locality footing with registered voters.
The Central Communities control a sub-
stantial income and assets; in Victoria
these are put at £200,000. In other ways
their functions somewhat resemble those
of the Jewish Board of Deputies.
When Archbishop Ezekiel came here
from America in 1959, he showed him-
self to be a powerful innovator. Among
other things he launched himself on an
extensive building programme which
promised to lead to a proliferation of
new communities in the outlying areas,
with a consequent weakening of the
older corporate entities. It would be
fair to assume that he also aimed at
strengthening his supervising authority
over certain quasi-religious and educa-
tional activities which hitherto had been
in the keeping of the veteran Communi-
ties. His opponents say that he wanted
to put his hands on their funds and,
overall, give a boost to theocracy. His
Grace’s followers maintain that he was
merely doing his sacred duty under the
Patriarchate, and that Red infiltrators
have fanned an artificial scandal. But
even they cannot deny that prominent
non-Communists and even anti-Com-
munists are busy in the anti-Episcopal
camp.
There were splits and bitter wrang-
lings. Elections, open to both men and
women, are held every two years, and in
Sydney as well as in Melbourne groups
hostile to Ezekiel carried the day; though
there again it is charged that nowadays
people on the Archbishop’s side are ex-
cluded from the Community rolls, which,
particularly in Melbourne, are supposed
to have shrunken amazingly. Outraged
loyalists have resigned or refused to
exercise their franchise. The Community
has now broken away from the Arch-
diocese and some priests, who officiate
for it, are no longer licensed by Ezekiel.
It all came to a head towards the end of
1962 with the venerable Archbishop be-
ing excluded from Mass at Evcingelismos,
the old Cathedral in East Melbourne,
having the portals locked against him
under the gaze of the heathen con-
stabulary.
Tense Situation in Adelaide
Tn Adelaide the situation is still more
tense. There, too, the committee of
the old Central Community has ruptured
relations with the Archbishop; no less
than five new and smaller ones have
been formed under his patronage, and
there have been excommunications an
almost unheard of step which Ezekiel
has since offered to rescind, but his offer
has not yet been accepted. In Queensland
matters move at a quieter pace. In cer-
tain country towns, notably in Mildura
where events always tend to interesting
extremes, peace cannot be said to reign.
Everybody is taking sides; there have
been demonstrations at hallowed Inde-
pendence Day functions, the clubs are
buzzing with propaganda. The Ezekiel
men state that only a noisy minority is
keeping up the battle which is as it
may be. There is not much doubt that
the rank and file wants an ordered and
orderly religious life, but so much bitter-
ness has been engendered that only time
alone can heal it. Could it be that the
ferocity of the combat is due largely to
the workaday frustrations of migrant
life, providing a substitute for the fierce
political partisanships which abound in
Greece, but not anywhere near as satis-
fyingly in Australia? In the old days you
were for or against Metaxas: now you
are for or against Ezekiel you project
the worldly strife into the realm of the
spirit, if we may call it that.
The most unhappy men in all this
turmoil are the lower clergy, faced with
sometimes appalling conflicts. Side by
side with devotion, anti-clericalism is no
new phenomenon among Greeks. An
Orthodox priest’s influence can be wide,
but always within definite limits: in pre-
sent circumstances he may urge his flock
to vote a certain way in a Community
poll, but he would get short shrift if he
advocated support for any one party in
a General Election. At any rate, he
would not be heeded.
Australia’s Greeks go their own way,
regardless of Phil-Hellenism or its op-
posite. They are nostalgic for their home-
land. But a year or two ago, when a
newly formed Greek shipping line offered
shares to local residents, promising
them free passages home in exchange
for purchasing a certain amount of scrip,
the response was meagre. It could have
been because the dream boat still re-
mained to be firmly chartered; the novel
idea being that it would be chartered
from the capital thus raised. The refusal
to subscribe may have betokened only
hard-headed common sense. But on the
other hand, to reject this speculative
return to Greece, land of oracles, may
have had a symbolic significance which
we have failed to grasp: and this, too,
would not be unusual in matters
relating to Hellenes.


OUT AND ABOUT
The Art Market - Buying
and Selling
Three profiles by JAN SMITH
1. Major Rubin Moses manque
At 66, Major Harold de Vahl Rubin
has been many things, guards-
man, grazier, art patron, philan-
thropist and husband. As he is Austra-
lia’s most publicised millionaire one
tends to approach him with some trepi-
dation.
The stories about him are legion and
not always flattering. Fights with the
Woollahra Council over Babworth House
dragged on in the late fifties. Wives
brought claims, retracted them with re-
conciliatory smiles. He divorced, married
a young Swiss girl, and flew to London
in an unsuccessful attempt to adopt a
baby abandoned in a garbage tin. On
and off there have been artistic coups,
auctions, and ventures like the Hungry
Horse gallery at Paddington, run by Miss
Betty O’Neill.
But the Major, down from his old
colonial home, Toorak House, in Bris-
bane, to open the Desiderius Orban show
at Rudy Komon’s gallery, seemed happy
at the thought of an interview over
lunch at his Macquarie Street flat.
Beyond a predilection for notices on old
envelopes—there seemed to be a “don’t
disturb” on every door the Major
seemed quite amenable, pattering to the
door in Woolworths thongs, shorts, and
bright beach shirt.
The room was littered with sale bro-
chures, baby biscuits, religious cards
(the Major, born to Israel, is now a
Catholic) and books sheep manage-
ment, Freud, Mary McCarthy novels,
James Joyce and Benjamin Spock. In
the centre of the Persian carpet was a
baby’s playpen, giving on an upper-tax-
bracket view of Sydney Harbor and a
random selection of paintings from the
Major’s several-hundred-strong collec-
tion.
The Major thought he now owned 22
properties “I’m counting the actual
homesteads, although some of the
places are really combined” in
Queensland and Western Australia, and
a multiplicity of business interests which
appear to tax the Major’s understanding
as much as anybody’s.
After tending his flocks in the wilder-
ness for some 30 years, the Major was
discovered in 1956, when he fought the
Woollahra Council over their proposal to
turn Babworth House, Sir Samuel Hor-
dern’s old home at Darling Point, into a
block of units. The Major wanted it for
an ancillary to St Vincent’s Hospital,
still his major charitable baby.
After lengthy battles, the Major won,
and Babworth House is now supporting
93 sub-hospital cases and an equal num-
ber of staff “a higher ratio than you’d
get in most hospitals,” the Major said
proudly. “Higher than a first-class pas-
senger ship, for that matter. If ever you
want a complete rest, waited on hand
and foot . . .”
He has always been self-employed,
never gone hungry. He had a very happy
childhood. An elder brother, Bernard,
died in 1936. “Bernard was quite keen
on sheep, but his main interest was
flying. He believed in speed,” the Major
said sadly. His death from tuberculosis,
he felt, was caused by an intensive diet
programme to reduce his weight for
greater aeronautical feats.
With Bernard’s death, the Major was
heir to the properties accumulated by his
father. His forebears came from Lithua-
nia or Poland they were always hav-
ing their boundaries changed and his
father, Mark Rubin, worked in Mel-
bourne on the wharves, marrying the
daughter of a prominent Jew and
moving upwards to trade in opals and
pearls before buying his first property in
Western Australia. With a background
of English schools including Eton and a
four-year term in the Coldstream
Guards, the Major returned to Australia
on the death of his father to take over
the administration of the properties,
which now numbered four.
With his sons, both educated in Eng-
land, it was a different story. “Confor-
mists to the bone,” the Major confessed,
lighting his first cigarette for the day.
“Snobs, too. I brought Mark out to see
how the property worked, you know. He
spent a few days there, then four weeks
in Brisbane and four months in Sydney.
‘Daddy’, he said, i just can’t bear sheep’.
So he went back to London. Works in
an advertising agency now.” His second
son, David, also hated sheep. “He’s a
civil engineer in London. No feeling for
the land at all.” But with 13-month-old
Ben, newly awake and curious, it would
be a different story. “He’ll be a real
Australian,’ the Major said proudly.
“Definitely no fancy overseas education
unless, of course, he wins a Rhodes
scholarship.”
Ben, his fourth child, is the son of his
fourth wife, Julie, but for the Major he
is obviously the only baby in the world.
There was no doubt in the Major’s
mind that others would follow, and this
hope was behind the purchase of an
extra home at Double Bay.


C.B.A
m
At
The Show
F 3!
n • ■
9
THE COMMERCIAL
BANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL
SAVINGS RANK OF
AUSTRALIA LIMITED
A complete, modern
Trading and Savings
Bank service right on
the spot at the Royal
Easter Show The
Commercial Bank of
Australia Limited is
operating just that. If
you’re visiting, exhibit-
ing, or a stall holder,
we can help you.
Location: 97-99 Manufacturers Hall
OPEN DAILY, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
7.30 p.m. to 10.30 p.m.
Excepting April 8 and 12 9 a.m.
to 6 p.m.
CB A/68/16
“The owner seemed to think I might
like to use part of it for an art gallery,”
the Major said, “but my wife has con-
vinced me that at my age it’s too much
effort. I ran an art gallery for several
years in Brook Street, London, and it’s
quite exhausting work.”
During this period began his long
affair with La Belle Hollandaise, which
he owned in partnership with Oliver
Gollancz. “It was right at the end of
Picasso’s blue period,” the Major ex-
plained. “He was only 24 and he went
to Holland for a holiday with a friend.
La Belle was just a girl he picked up one
night he never saw her again but
the painting is full of the most exquisite
tenderness.” The Major used to gaze
upon the painting by the hour, returning
it to Gollancz every three months on a
strict share basis.
La Belle, a generous blonde nude in a
Hollandaise cap, is now at the Queens-
land Art Gallery in Brisbane, the pride
of connoisseurs and the despair of the
decent. “When you love anything as
much as I loved La Belle,” the Major
said, “You can’t just keep it. You must
let others enjoy it too”. Tenderness, he
felt, wasn’t seen as often as one might like
in Australian painting. Eric Smith had it,
and John Passmore, “but if there seems
to be a stress on hard technical bril-
liance and virtuosity then it’s only a sort
of off-scraping, a clearing-away of
something that’s got to be said before the
true warmth can emerge.”
Drysdale, he thought, had captured it
in some of his outback paintings, per-
haps most in Two Children, but it was a
quality that came with the years, if at
all. As well as Dobell, Smith and Pass-
more, he also admires Queensland pain-
ter Jon Molvig. A wonderful sensitivity,
the Major agreed. Like Van Gogh? “I
hope not,” said the Major, missing the
point with practised deliberation. “Van
Gogh had syphilis, you know.”
Now he is beginning to retire the
Major would like to live in Canberra. “I
have definite political affiliations, oh, yes.
But I haven’t made a practice of discus-
sing them. Actually I belong to the
Labor Party. I believe Jack is every bit
as good as his master and always have,
although it was considered heretical
when I was a boy.”
“As far as ethics go I’ve been a Chris-
tian for many years, although sympathe-
tically and racially I’m 100 per cent
Jewish. But the Mosaic law has outlived
its usefulness. It’s not enough not to do
unto others. You have to be more posi-
tive,” he said. His conversion to Catho-
licism was the outcome of early doubts
about the sufficiency of the Jewish
faith, and he is very concerned with the
question, and the need, for immortality.
Over the trout, sent by a friend from
Cooma, the Major smiled with tired
gallantry. “It’s not me tickling your
knee,” he explained. “It’s my son. The
next generation,” giving the baby an in-
dulgent smile as it surfaced under the
tablecloth.
Reassured about immortality, the
Major suggested a look at his paintings.
The owner of nearly 70 Dobells, includ-
ing sketches, the Major likes to ration
his viewing time. “The charm wears off
eventually if you live with a work of art
too long, so most of them are in storage.
Just an occasional reverent look, you
understand.”
Smoking his third cigarette (he has one
lung) his tiredness became more appa-
rent. From breakfast on there had been
business calls, decisions about the house
and discussions with architects about the
hospital buildings. Yet the impression is
less of a cultured businessman than of a
late-blossoming patriarch, and in his
parting joke about his artistic talents
“I’m a real old Grandma Moses”
there is possibly more truth than wit.


2. Komon —Living Like a
Human Being
“There is only good art , not good artists"
From the back seat of a spacious con-
vertible, Rudy Komon made an ex-
pansive gesture at the Royal Sydney
Golf Club. “You see,” he cried, “mental
defectives, all of them. Practise, practise
with a silly little ball. If people knew how
short life is, they would live like human
beings.”
A large blonde Czech with luxuriant
eyebrows and a passion for good food
and wine, Komon has retained, after 12
years in Australia, a been-through-it-all
sort of Mittel-Europa charm. A former
journalist, he is adept at handling inter-
views, leaving you in mid-life-story with
a bottle of 20-year-old brandy “Help
yourself, my dear. You do not mind
waiting one moment?” while he puts
through profitable sales. After celebra-
ting the sale with champagne and a fresh
round of visitors, there is nothing for it
but to relax, join the visitors for lunch
at Komon’s sink, and seize what you can
between mouthfuls of clobacsi and horse-
radish.
Things began quietly enough at the
Paddington gallery, where Komon em-
barked obediently on his life and times.
He came to Australia in 1950 and started
an antique shop in Waverley, dealing in
art as a sideline and eventually moving
into the present gallery (a converted wine-
shop) in 1959.
In 1959 Komon's gallery was an in-
novation in art circles, and the first of the
three Paddington galleries which have
tended now to overshadow the older
establishments like the Macquarie, Blax-
land and David Jones. Komon encour-
aged young artists, gave them advances
on sales, stockpiled works of particular
painters, and reached his peak of news-
worthiness with an exhibition of work by
the Subterranean Imitation Realists in
the winter of 1962.
There were gaspipes in baby baths, old
survey maps, girls, beer labels, cigarettes,
newsclips and phallic symbols put to-
gether in marvellous confusion. Bob
Dickerson’s Austin Sheerline, embellished
with grey stripes and iunatic faces, was
parked outside to entice visitors, who
came in droves to hear explanatory lec-
tures by a beaming John Olsen and to
marvel with shaky broadmindedness at
something called Mary Lou, which Olsen
described as “a kind of Australian folk
art.”
Subsequent exhibitions have been quiet,
conventional. No standing room only, no
madrigal singers. But business was doing
nicely. Apart from showing paintings,
Komon also attends auctions, values for
insurance and probate, finds specific
works, arranges for restoration and main-
tenance of paintings and maintains liaison
with overseas and interstate galleries.
He has two part-time secretaries, both
devoted to him —“it's a marvellous place
to work,” one of them said while Komon
was busy selling. “In fact, it’s hardly
work at all ’ and an English-born wife,
Ruth, who teaches science at Sydney
Girls’ High School. They have no
children.
Born in Vienna, one of four children
of a Czech tailor, Komon led a normal
urban childhood. He has never painted
but in his newspaper days, as political
correspondent in Vienna, he had been
great friends with cartoonist Jiri Trnka.
Komon knows a lot of politicians
partly as a result of his background, but
mainly from his membership of the Syd-
ney Food and Wine Society. Queensland
painter Jon Molvig, who Komon has
done much to encourage, is in Komon’s
view our most unlucky artist. “Always
he misses an Archibald by just one point,
because one of the trustees will say, ‘But
I know Percy Spender or Harold Holt,
or so and so and he doesn’t look like
that. So . . . ?” Komon shrugged. “You
understand how trustees are.”
Komon thinks that Leonard French
is another of our brilliant painters not
sufficiently recognised, but that there
aren’t many good young ones coming on.
“Naturally they think they are good, but
not really. There are people like Olsen
and Hessing and Dickerson, sure, sure,
but mostly they are in their 30s or even
40s. After them, what?”
In his own youth, Komon covered the
Social Democrats’ uprising against Fasc-
ism in Vienna, fled from the Nazis into
Czechoslovakia for a brief year of free-
dom until the country was overrun in
1939. “One day they send you a letter.
‘As from tomorrow you are no longer a
journalist. You are undesirable.’ So I
became a 10th producer” (“No, no, not
tents,” holding up large fingers and be-
wailing his pronunciation) “for a film
about stone quarries.” The film, a docu-
mentary piece glorifying the role of the
Czech laborer under Nazi leadership,
was never finished, but the sudden
estrangement from his career made him
decide journalism was too uncertain as
a post-war profession.
At this point some customers arrived,
a Polish gynaecologist and his wife.
Komon returned an hour later, flushed
with four successful sales. “I haven’t
sold him a thing for 10 years,” he ad-
mitted, “but then his wife comes to all the
shows.” Most of his buyers were profes-
sional people, especially doctors and bar-
risters. “So much money they are making,
naturally they can afford a hundred here,
two hundred there. When your house
costs twenty or thirty thousands, it is
nothing. But young people very much
lately are coming to the gallery ...” A
good sign, and he yearns for the day
when Australian architects will include
paintings in the cost of a client’s house.
Or, better still, hire paintings as the fancy
takes them. “They have done this in
Europe for years, sure, sure, but here
the architects are not co-operative. Maybe
sometimes Seidler will call, but others,
no.
But there was no real cause for pessi-
mism, and the arrival of two fellow wine-
and-fooders banished all worries. Cham-
pagne was produced, gossip exchanged.
“Rudy’s a real Australian,” the visitors
told me. “You should hear him swear.
One night at a restaurant this Hungarian
waiter came up and . . .” Mr Komon
looked uncomfortable, but the story, if
true, is proof of his conversion. He be-
longs to Rotary, but there was mirth at
the thought of him joining anything else,
such as the RSPCA.
“Dogs,” Komon shuddered. “You can
imagine them in here . . . even the
society ones that the ladies say are train-
ed. There is a time and a place for dogs.”
“In sausages,” the visitors roared, but
Komon battled on. In Europe there was
no misplaced sentiment for animals, but
the British, ah, they were really hypo-
crites. On a trip to New Zealand he had
suffered mightily. The food was unspeak-
able, the people worse. “They try to
be English and proper. They are cold,
barbarians.”
Which reminded him there was food
at home to burn, and wouldn’t everyone
come? Speeding towards Watson’s Bay,
he said he’d done a lot of ski-ing in
Czechoslovakia until he hurt his knee,
and now liked nothing better than watch-
ing soccer “the only intelligent game
the British ever invented. It requires skill,
you see, not just muscle and practice.”
At the newly-bought semi-detached
house fronting the council pool at Wat-


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON *
O’SULLIVAN
LX mtm A
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Fruiters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
son’s Bay “you can join me here any
morning at 7, or at the Paddington
steam baths, if you like” slabs of
sausage were produced, cut with an
ancient stubby knife and lovingly an-
notated. “My dealer gets it from Victoria,
but they’re not making it any more,” he
said sadly. “Hanging for nine months is
too expensive.” He produced red horse-
radish for the hanru “Anyone want bread?
No? Good, I have none. Life is too short
to eat rubbish.”
He poured more wine, cut more
Camembert. “Now I am three times born,
friends are everything.” The morning’s
cheque for £415 was really of no impor-
tance, and his wife had more money than
he did, anyway. There was wine to spare,
too, in the sitting-room furnished with
a 17th-century Spanish table with
wrought iron struts and evidence of
arrested borers. He showed us a Dutch
dresser “it’s only about 150 years
old" filled with Chinese figurines and
Milton Moon pottery. There were stacks
of early Dobells and dirty shirts in the
bedroom. (His wife was on holiday)
Kafka, encyclopedias, and condensed
novels in the bookshelves.
In the Darling Point home where he
had first seen the handsome scroll-ended
German clock, he had met his wife. “I
wanted the clock, but I had to marry to
get it,” he joked. The interview struggled
to life going back to town, but traffic and
directions kept intruding. He had known
Kafka, admired Tom Roberts, who, he
felt, was better before 1900, and didn’t
care for Norman Lindsay. “He had some-
thing to say, sure, but he just kept on
saying it. Artists should be flexible.”
Actually Percy Lindsay was better, but
even a good artist had his bad spots, and
art from any period was no better than
art from another. “There is only good
art, not good artists.” He liked whatever
was good, whatever was human. Religion
was for children, and he had never be-
longed to any political party. Whom did
he favor at election time? “Naturally,”
he smiled “the ones who are most
human.”
3. Stern—The Napoleon of
Glenmore Road
66 Swearing is neither gentlemanly ,
bold nor polite ”
From the tips of his pointed leather
boots up the five-feet-odd to his
carefully combed black hair, art-
gallery owner Barry Stern is every inch
a socially acceptable young man. There
is nothing of the scruffy Bohemian
about him, no suggestion of cheap sherry
and coffee cans under the Queen Anne
sofa in the upstairs gallery. Imperturb-
ably cheerful and good-natured, he is
the sort of boy mothers instinctively trust
to wash the Spode china or, maybe, sell
it at a handsome profit.
Yet Barry Stern is very much at home
in the 20th century, and the Paddington
gallery, now in its second year, is proof
that private pleasure can be turned into
profitable commercial enterprise. But
the accent is still on art, and in the
gallery kitchen “it’s a bit of an honor
to be allowed in here” canisters of
well-bred tea sit side by side with Sepik
crocodiles, gilt - encrusted portraits of
Queen Victoria and pre-Columbian heads
mounted on green velvet.
Stern insisted the framed text
“Swearing is neither gentlemanly, bold
nor polite” came from some ancient
English pub, but it is nice to imagine it
hanging in the family nursery. In spite
of the boyish charm, there is nothing
effete, and when a daily paper art writer
called him a Napoleonic young man,
everyone, including Barry Stern, was
delighted.
“I’ve always been rather keen on
Napoleon,” he admitted, pouring Chablis
for his opening-day patrons. “Usually
by this time you can’t move in the
gallery, but last time I had to turf a
few people out some obviously un-
interested types who’d just come for the
grog and maybe word has got around.
I don’t expect people to buy all the time,
but I do want them to be interested.
Students, of course, can come any time.”
At the John Bell show, which was sold
out before it opened, there had been
queues of people down Glenmore Road
from early morning. “We sold 48 paint-
ings out of 49 in one hour, bringing in
about £2OOO for a painter who was
having his first show, so you can
imagine.” The story of Bell, an under-
nourished 24-year-old with a wife and
child in a seedy garret, was classic rags-
to-riches and newspapers treated it hand-
somely. By the time the Brian Dunlop
show came along, a few weeks later,
Stern was ready for the onslaught with
36 gallons of dry red and a choir of
madrigal singers. Again the collection
was sold out.
While art lovers were still digesting
this second coup d’etat, Stern went along
to the Voss Smith auctions and paid
1000 guineas for a preliminary sketch
of Dobell’s The Dead Landlord, which
he sold for a handsome profit to an un-
named buyer. There were murmurs
from some people, including Dobell, who
felt the price was unrealistic for some-
thing of minor intrinsic value, but by
this time Stern was again in the lime-
light with a major Olsen won in a lottery
organised by the Contemporary Art
Society. A portrait of Stern by Judy
Cassab was entered for the Archibald
Prize.
But Stern is no nine-day wonder. The
second son of a solid businessman who
ran a chain of army surplus stores, he
has no particular artistic tradition —“I
had a grandfather who sang around the
piano, but who hasn’t?” and although
he has never had a formal painting lesson
in his life, his 30 years have been spent
in preparation for the niche he occupies
today in Australia’s art world.
At the age of 10 he began going to
art shows and has continued religiously
until today, at 30, he not only knows
a good deal about art, but can tell how
much a painting, or a piece of pottery,
brought anything up to 20 years ago.
He was educated at Sydney High


School and at 16 was given a choice
between a university course and a world
to; r He visited England, France, Italy,
where he pursued his teenage passion
for 18th-century porcelain and generally
toured grandly until he was whisked
home after a dramatic appendix opera-
tion.
In the next few years he worked for
Father, wrote art, drama and theatre
reviews for the Sydney “Jewish Times,”
and had some poetry, “sonnets and
modern stuff,” published in the journal
of the Australian Poetry Society, of
which he was president. His passion for
art showing no signs of flagging, he
started a Museum of Modern Art in the
Poetry Society’s headquarters in George
Street, moving later to Roslyn Gardens
at Kings Cross.
But it needed a lot of money, time and
organisation, which in those days he
didn’t have. “Nobody ever had a kind
word for me so I got a bit depressed.”
Today, of course, there is no need for
depression. After a brief life the Glen-
more Road gallery a converted shop
done out in stark white and decorator
colors is seldom empty.
During the afternoon there were
visitors an enthusiastic grey - haired
lady from Melbourne, one suspected
with a knowledgeable but mono-
syllabic husband three steps behind.
In the upstairs gallery, devoted to the
best of contemporary painters and off-
beat curios, they admired an early
Cassab “pretty colors and easy to live
with,” Stern suggested and agreed
with his glowing predictions for Melville
Island painter Ray Crooke, who paints in
maroons, browns and murks.
The visitors went away but the con-
versation went on. Today, says Stern,
there’s a swing back to the early Aus-
tralian painters. “A few years ago young
painters used to laugh at Tom Roberts,
but he’s definitely coming back in favor.”
People buy pictures so their children
can grow up with good paintings. “The
real thing. Prints aren’t enough.” The
art. boom stems not only from the
economic recovery from the post-war
years, but from the fact that paintings
are the most obvious form of culture.
“When you’ve got a couple of houses
and a couple of cars and a swimming
pool . . . well, you start thinking about
a few good Australian paintings for the
walls.” Although he recently sold a
Dickerson to an 18-year-old boy for 100
guineas, most of his clients are pro-
fessional middle-aged people.
But art is more than money. “If some-
one just wants something blue to match
their drapes, I generally try to get rid
of them. But if a genuine dedicated
admirer of, say, Nolan, wants a certain
picture, I’ll move heaven and earth.”
Away from the field of battle, he likes
to cook, explore restaurants, go to
theatres and relax at the beach. “I can’t
get enough swimming in the summer-
time.” His taste in books, like films, are
catholic, and a client recently gave him
two years’ subscription to Country Life.
“Every issue there’s a piece about catch-
ing foxes in chicken runs, or seeing the
first weasel. It’s fascinating.”
The Crest of a Wave
Elizabeth Kata - export quality
By CHARLES HIGHAM
One of the more curious phenomena
of Australian literary life is that
every now and again an author
crops up who becomes far better known
and respected in other countries than at
home. Among these is Elizabeth Kata,
author of the highly-praised novels “Be
Ready With Bells and Drums” and
“Someone Will Conquer Them”, whose
disciplined, tautly controlled talent has
been acclaimed in Amercia, England and
on the Continent but whose name prob-
ably means little to Australian readers
and critics.
Small, neat and quick in her move-
ments, Elizabeth Kata suggests an edged
and intensely sophisticated intelligence.
Each movement and word is judged with
scrupulous care, inessentials pared away.
She wastes no time and no talk, and the
eyes miss nothing. At the Lyceum
Theatre, Sydney, in the midst of the
world premiere of William Castle's “The
Candy Web,” she immediately caught
and held the attention. Here, one felt
straight away, was a star performer.
At present, Mrs Kata (she is separated
from her husband, a Japanese business-
man who was once a celebrated concert
pianist) is on the crest of a wave of suc-
cess that has come quite late. William
Castle has put her under contract to
write a screen play for his next picture,
and the idea is an original one of her
own. Stanley Donen, the director (with
Gene Kelly) of Hollywood's finest musi-
cal “On the Town”, is to produce her own
adaptation of “Be Ready With Bells and
Drums” on the West End stage. She has
another novel coming shortly from Mich-
ael Joseph in England and St Martin’s
Press in New York.
How had she begun as a writer? “Well,
I was working for years,” she said as she
smoked. “But I never wanted to send
anything out. There were piles of short
stories, just piles! And novels. Then in
1961 I decided to post out ‘Be Ready
With Bells and Drums’.
“I sent it to America and the publishers
turned it down. They said it should go
to an English publisher. So they sent it
across to Michael Joseph. Joseph cabled
me right away. They were very excited,
they wanted to go right ahead and pub-
lish it.
“Then I sent them another book I had
written several years earlier —‘Someone
Will Conquer Them.’ It was a less ma-
ture work, of course. And now I’ve
finished the third bock and the play.”
As the Australian wife cf a Japanese
husband she had obviously always been
fascinated by the question of people’s re-
action to a relationship between a man
and a woman of different races. I said
that I felt her books were concerned with
the moment of truth which occurs when
two lovers emerge from a state of inno-
cence into a shocked recognition of the
world’s attitude to them.
“Be Ready With Bells and Drums”
was the story of a olind girl who falls
in love with a Negro, unconscious of his
color, and what happens when she is
made to understand how he is regarded
—and their relationship is iegarded—by
the world.
“Someone Will Conquei Them” was a
straight suspense story —and it was this
book which Mrs Kata’s agent P. R.
Stephensen sent to William Castle at the
Chevron Hilton.
“Mr Castle rang me very early one
morning—at 7.30. He woke me up. He
told me he was a great fan of mine, and
that he’d been trying to buy ‘Be Ready
With Bells and Drums.’
“I went round and saw him that after-
noon. We had a long talk. Eventually
I signed a contract.”
Mrs Kata particularly wanted to men-
tion the help she had been given by P.
R. Stephensen. “He’s a wonderful man,
a marvellous man,” she said. “He’s done
more for Australian literature than any-
one alive. Yet I feel he’s never had suffi-
cient attention.”
And what, now, were Elizabeth Kata’s
plans for the future? “Well, it will be
Hollywood next. I am just waiting for
Mr Castle to call me over. And then
later to London for rehearsals on ‘Bells
and Drums.’ But I don’t want to be
away too long. I have a son aged 17 at
University and though he can no doubt
do without me I can’t do without him.”
Perhaps the most extraordinary feature
of Elizabeth Kata’s career is that she
published her first novel in middle age,
never planned to be a published author,
and had no training whatever or the
usual early flowering of untrained talent.
She still has that mountain of stories
tucked away. Somehow, I said as we
parted, I didn’t think it would be too long
before I was reading them in book form.


PARTNERSHIP PROBLEMS
SSK>
4J'dtL f stfh.l^dtc^e^ui
sr»niv
Nfc'T.' S.*)UTH W6U9
PAY.
THE SUM OF
m, ,
.. Oft BEAR6R
:
Having , or not having partnership insurance boils down to this:
Some day the executors of one of the partners will receive a substantial cheque
for his interest in the partnership. The question is who will sign that cheque
the surviving partner or the A.M.P. Society.
There are five groups of questions a partner must face today because tomorrow
the heirs of his dead partner may
AMP
1. Force liquidation of the business.
2. Decide to come into the business.
3. Sell out to a stranger or competitor.
4. Offer to buy his interest in the firm.
5. Offer to sell him their interest in the firm.
Ask any A.M.P. man or
ring any A.M.P. Office for
the leaflet “life insurance
CAN SOLVE PARTNERSHIP
PROBLEMS”.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
Australia’s largest and oldest life assurance organisation.
head office: Sydney cove — Offices in cities and towns throughout Australia and
New Zealand and in the United Kingdom.
A.M.P. members enjoy the unquestioned security afforded by assets of almost £ 600,000,000 which the Society seeks to invest to the greatest benefit to membert.
MIIBB


MIXED GRILL
"Hop on the back —but for goodness sake don't fiddle with anything!"
"Remember, alertness to the enemy
at all times!"
"I've just been checking our budget. One
of us must go."
"Coburn's gone a bit too far
this time!"


LIQUEURS
mm
AUSTBAUAIS GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
!3baffis»a
chkrrj
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
f 1
vodka
Australia’s Blackest Day
April 5, 1790: Another noble (and not-so-noble) 600 in the
mouth of hell
By M. H. ELLIS
April, 1790, was the worst month
and April 5, 1790, the worst day
ever suffered by the inhabitants
of New South Wales.
By the beginning of 1790, things were
becoming desperate at Sydney Cove. Save
for the odd kangaroo and emu, there was
no fresh meat. The nucleus of the
colonists’ cattle that had not died had
strayed away. No one had tasted fresh
beef or mutton for two and a half years.
The pork in the casks, some of it five
years old, was not only leathery but
putrid. Puppy dog pie was a delicacy.
Vegetables had only now begun to grow.
They hitherto had withered up and the
950 denizens it had become a better
description than inhabitants were mak-
ing lilly-pilly leaves into tea and dredging
succulents from the crevices of the rocks
for vegetables.
Clothes had almost disappeared among
convicts. The women had been trans-
ported, in any case, nearly naked. They
all looked like tattered “gypsies”. The
Marines were shoeless or nearly
so, unless they were lucky enough to have
built themselves moggins of marsupial
hide, or wrapped their “mundoies” in
rags those that had rags.
Now, suddenly, the whole situation
deteriorated. Th ' r e was no sign of a sail.
Expeditions k ord Howe Island for
turtle failed. A dramatic change in the
outlook took place within a few days.
Governor Arthur Phillip decided that at
one blow he must get rid of the dissi-
dent trouble-makers of the Marines, in-
cluding the Lieutenant-Governor, and
relieve the Port Jackson settlement. These
he proposed to send to Norfolk Island
where there were abundant crops and
sea food.
Towards the end of February he got
ready the Sirius and the Supply to take
to the island 65 officers and men and
five of their women and children with
116 male, 67 female convicts and 27 of
their children. Then the Sirius was to go
on to China to fill up with stores, or
charter a store ship.
On March 6 they all embarked and,
as their sails disappeared into the sea-
lume of the East, a sense of desolation
now oppressed everybody in Sydney
Cove. In February the rain came down
in torrents. Bountiful crops of melons
and vegetables in the gardens of the
industrious produced an epidemic of rob-
bery almost beyond control as the ration
was cut.
Phillip was seen going round the
A settlement regulating every house and
family, routing out the idle from hut
and bough shade or rock ledge, herding
the unsheltered into the empty huts which
the emigration to Norfolk Island bad left
behind. He gave the convicts every Wed-
nesday afternoon and Saturday free to
till their gardens.
With the rain still coming down in a
month very like the March of 1963,
March of 1790 ended for the 600-odd
inhabitants who were the possessors of
continental Australia. The working rate
became slower and slower. The enthu-
siasm for the consolations of religion
seemed the only feature of life in which
there was more intensity, as the doomed
waited for their end.
Suddenly, on April 5, the flag on South
Head was hoisted. Nobody could believe
it. Captain Tench, to satisfy himself that
the flag was really flying, rushed up the
hill to the Observatory and “looked for
it through the large astronomical tele-
scope”. He plainly saw it “but was im-
mediately convinced tfyit it was not to
announce the arrival of ships irom Eng-
land”; for he could see nobody near the
flagstaff but “one solitary human being
who kept strolling around, unmoved by
what he saw.”
Down the Harbor in his barge with
Tench and others went the Governor,
unable to wait for news. As they turned
round Bradley’s Head they were surpris-
ed to see a boat rowing towards them,
with Captain Ball of the Supply in the
sternsheets. He rose and made an extra-
ordinary despairing motion with his hand,
so that Tench could not help turning to
the Governor and exclaiming: “Sir, pre-
pare yourself for bad news.”
It was news that filled them with un-
speakable consternation. The Sirius had
been wrecked in Sydney Bay. They were
left now' with no hope of succour from
China. Only the little battered, over-
worked Supply, too small to carry any
appreciable stores, remained to form their
lifeline. It was their darkest hour. As the
rain beat down outside, all the civil and
military officers of Sydney Cove sat in
the flickering candlelight of Phillip’s new
six-roomed cottage, where Phillip Street
crosses Bridge Street today, and counted
their resources. By the end of June all
their pork would be gone; by the end of
August the last of their flour, even on
the present starvation ration. Now they
decided the ration must be cut in halves.
The conference broke up and stumbled
home through the dark.
For rescue they had to await the
awful day when the Second Fleet trailed
up the Harbor filling Port Jackson with
corpses and stench. But April 5, 1790,
when the Governor saw Captain Ball
make his warning sign off Bradley’s
Head, represented the nadir of their des-
pair and suffering, the day in Australian
history when the Australian adventure
seemed nearest extinction.


Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
m. m
UliC
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/-.
Amazing new
PANTENE'
Vitamin Hair Tonic
Always ask for
AINSLIE’S
SCOTCH WHISKY
AGENTS:
Pitt, Son & Badgery Ltd., Sydney
Halloran Manton Pty. Ltd.
Wines to Buy
What happened to those big,
gusty reds?
rpo paraphrase Cole Porter:
“Where is the wine I used to find?
Where is it now?
Gone with the wined?”
Not that there isn’t plenty of wine
around. Far from it, but there is a short-
age of those big, red, gusty wines loved
by so many of us, and the major wine
companies are doing little to remedy it.
Time and time again one is given, or has
the pleasure of sharing, an old Hunter,
South Australian or Victorian wine, full
of years and distinction, and one wonders
when and if we will see their like again.
Some of the winemakers say yes, it
is only a matter of time, the wine is
maturing slowly now, to be ready in the
future to share the prestige of past greats.
And then the same winemaker goes out
and releases another few thousand gal-
lons of a light, pleasant red for imme-
diate consumption. Not that the wines
aren't good sound wines. They are often
fragrant, pleasant and delicate; to my
palate they are luncheon wines, and as
such can be enjoyed to the full. But they
are about as Churchillian as the youngest
male member of a television Corps de
Ballet.
The trouble is that big wines take
time to mature, maturing costs money,
and wine companies are in the business
to make money. Thus it becomes very
easy to turn your grape production over
to making wine that will mature and sell
very quickly. There is an ever-increasing
demand for red table wine, so w 7 hy should
companies wait for years to reap the
reward of their labours? Thus we see
more and more light, red wines around
while their bigger brothers become
scarcer.
There are, of course, notable excep-
tions. The classic Grange Hermitage is
one, and it was gratifying to see how'
many gold medals the various vintages
won at the most recent Sydney Show,
If Penfolds keep this up, they could
well dominate the quality red wine market
for many years to come. Thomas Hardy
are making and blending some along these
lines, as w 7 ell as smaller companies like
Sal trams and Redmans. The Coonawarra
Cabernets from Wynn are worthy of
much praise, and of course Colin Preece
at Great Western always comes up with
something good. But, these are in the
minority.
What, then, is the remedy? There is
little doubt that these wines are in great
demand. How can we then persuade the
makers to attempt to afford them? Using
quicker maturing methods is one way—
in which respect the increasing use of
small French oak is a comfort. Of course
this can result in too much wood com-
ing through but the winemakers should
be aware enough of this danger to cir-
cumvent it.
Winemakers can charge much more for
a fully matured robust wine (I have yet
to meet a wine lover who rebelled against
paying a few bob more for something
special) so that the economics are not
that bad. Wine retailers can help by
buying young wine that will live and sel-
ling for an increased profit in the future.
Anyway if it comes to that 1 can see
no reason why the major companies
should not make the bigger wines and
sell them right away to the public. Why
not state on the label. UNFIT FOR
DRINKING NOW, LAY DOWN FOR
1968. In this way they can make their
profit now. We lovers of a drop of good
red will take our profit in the years to
come.
★ ★ *
Wine snobbery takes many curious
forms. I was once infuriated by a guest
where I work. He was invited to choose
the wine. He picked the most expensive
bottle on the list, a 1947 Chateau Latour,
and then sent it back because it had been
chilled and had been stored standing up. I
was in a position to know that both these
statements were absolutely untrue; I
tasted the wine immediately afterwards
and found it splendidly sound. The only
excuse I can offer for his appalling man-
ners was his obvious desire to impress.
He certainly impressed me, irrevocably.
Four out of every five bottles sent
back are quite sound. Sometimes they
are the result of the consumer having
them with sharply contrasting food, more
often because he is ‘ putting on an act.”
Well, as someone once said, a pox on
actors.
Then there is the inverse wine snob.
The man that insists that the wine he
buys' for 12/6 a gallon from a grubby
little shop around the corner is as good
as “any of your private bins”. Well, a
pox on him too.
CELLARMASTER


OVERSEAS
Dyna-Soar
and Gemini
Secretary McNamara in trouble
From GODFREY HODGSON
in Washington
/~\ne of the most energetic and respected
men in the Kennedy Administration
is Mr Robert McNamara, the formidably
efficient Secretary of Defence. Never a
man to shirk a fight in defence of his
beliefs, the Defence Secretary has, never-
theless, started a real rough-house by his
reported decision to merge Dyna-Soar, the
Air Force’s own manned space pro-
gramme, with the civilian Space Agency’s
Gemini programme.
Mr McNamara came into the Pentagon
as an almost non-political figure, with a
good reputation as a businessman with
the Ford Motor Company. That politi-
cal immunity has now gone. Mr McNa-
mara is now in the centre of half a
dozen fierce political struggles. It is the
measure of his strength and ability that
nobody is predicting that he will lose any
of them. As an Air Force officer said
the other day, “We know who’s running
the store.” But the change in his politi-
cal situation is in itself a fact of the first
importance for the Administration’s rela-
tions with Congress.
The first major political brush came
over the RS-70, a 2000 mph manned
bomber, on which the Air Force had set
its heart. Mr McNamara, after having
the exhaustive technical studies done for
which he is famous, was not convinced
of the usefulness of such a plane, and he
baulked at the estimated cost: $lO,OOO
million. He proposed to do no more than
continue research with three prototype
aircraft, without asking for funds to go
ahead with production.
The Air Force’s support in Congress
was strong enough to give him $5OO mil-
lion more than he asked for, a year ago,
but not strong enough to make him spend
it. And there, with a prototype pro-
gramme and almost certainly no future,
is where the RS-70 stands today.
By last summer, Mr McNamara was
running into heavy political sniping for
another of his cost-cutting plans, his
modernisation of the National Guard.
The Guard is by way of being the private
army of State Governors, and, especially
in the South, where States’ rights are still
a burning issue, the Governors and their
friends in the Senate were strong enough
to make Mr McNamara bring his plan
back with changes; but not strong enough
to make him drop it.
In December, it was the turn of Sky-
bolt. When Mr McNamara decided to
cancel that program, he was not only
cutting off the future of Britain’s V-
bomber force, but also threatening the
future of American manned bombers too.
The Air Force, at least as long as it is
led by General Curtis LeMay, the Big
Bomber man par excellence, believes
passionately in the manned bomber. So
do many partisans in Congress. And there
are others who cannot forget the work
which bomber-building brings to their
districts.
It was this “pork-barrel” aspect of de-
fence contracts which injected the venom
into the nastiest of all Mr McNamara’s
feuds with the Congress—oi rather of
the Congress’s feuds with him—for so
far, under some provocation, he has
shown only the first whisps of indignation.
The fight is a post-mortem on Mr Mc-
Namara’s award of the contract to build
TFX—Tactical Fighter Experimental
the biggest aircraft contract since the war
which will eventually be worth $65,000
million. To save money, Mi McNamara
insisted, over the protests of both Navy
and Air Force, that the same basic de-
sign would have to do for both Services.
Eventually the competition narrowed
down to two possible contractors: Boeing,
and General Dynamics teamed with
Grumman.
Boeing lost, mainly because they
largely ignored Mr McNamara’s request
for one basic plane for the two Services.
They also counted, apparently, on the
Services to win the battle for them by
their stressing the Boeing’s higher per-
formance.
Now Boeing’s supporters are seeking
revenge; alternatively, Mr McNamara’s
enemies are using Boeing’s case to at-
tach him. A Senate committee, under
Senator John McClellan of Arkansas, an
undoubted member of the Senate’s un-
official inner club, is thrashing the story
out. It is alleged that General Dynamics
won the contract because it would build
the TFX in Texas, a Democratic State
and the home of Vice-President Lyndon
Johnson. It is said that Mr McNamara
overruled four successive decisions in
Boeing’s favor, that he brushed aside the
advice of the military; that he wants to
be a “monarch” in the Pentagon.
To this he has replied, through a de-
puty, that it was the investigation, rather
than the decision, that was motivated by
local political interests, and that some-
body had to act like a monarch to cut
$14,000 million from this year's defence
budget.
Dyna-Soar is a winged, manned space-
craft, based on the highly successful Air
Force X-15, which would glide back from
orbit in space and land like an aircraft
wherever the pilot chose. It would be
launched by Titan 111, an Air Force
big booster. Almost all of its missions,
except manoeuvrable re-entry, could be
better and more economically met, civil-
ian officials here believe, by the Gemini
programme, which is simply the next
stage of the successful Project Mercury,
which put the American astronauts in
orbit. And Gemini would use a Saturn
booster, not Titan 111.
Its own role in space
The Air Force's case for its own role
in space is developed with great skill, not
only by fierce partisans like General Le-
May, but by highly “technical” Generals
like Schriever, of Systems Command, and
Ferguson, Deputy Chief of Staff for Re-
search. But, essentially, it boils down to
a very simple case —“Space is there. Man
is going into it. It will certainly be used
militarily. So let us be there first with
most.”
Civilian officials who advise Mr Mc-
Namara, such as Assistant Secretary John
Rubel and Dr Harold Brown, Director
of Defence Research and Engineering,
disagree. They see no military use of
space that is not being taken care of
technologically as a by-product of the
civilian space programme. And Mr Mc-
Namara seems to agree. Testifying to a
Congressional committee recently, he re-
called that Gemini and Dyna-Soar be-
tween them would cost approximately
$1,600 million. “I think we can cut back
very substantially while better meeting
both our requirements,” Mr McNamara
said.
If he does decide in effect to scrap
Dyna-Soar, the decision* like all Mc-
Namara decisions, will be thoroughly
logical and justifiable on budgetary
grounds. But it will hit the Air Force
hard.


Reorganising the Communist Party
Biggest changes since the ’twenties
By T. H. RIGBY
In the last four months the Soviet
Communist Party has been subjected
to the most far-reaching structural
changes since the ’twenties: it has been
reorganised along production lines. This
reorganisation has not yet been fully
digested by the Sovietological fraternity,
but is bound to occupy much of their
attention in coming months. Already it
has sparked off some pretty wild ideas,
such as the rumour that it presages a
split of the CPSU into two quite separ-
ate parties, one for the urban workers
and one for the peasants.
In Poland something like this was in
fact being seriously mooted by respon-
sible people six years ago. But the im-
putation of such an objective to the
Soviet leadership in 1962 betrays little
sense of political realities: such a step is
excluded on political security grounds—a
breach in the wall of monolithic direc-
tion, however carefully controlled, would
almost certainly be prised wider by pow-
erful conflicting internal pressures and
in no time tumble the whole political
structure, and the Soviet leaders know it;
and on ideological grounds—elimination
of differences between town and country
is one of the main planks of the current
programme of advancing to the higher
stage of Communism, and to give these
differences political (as distinct from ad-
ministrative) expression at this stage
would be rankest heresy.
To be fair, it should be said that such
erratic speculation about this reorganisa-
tion was invited by the exaggerated im-
pression of its scope given by most West-
ern accounts to date. As a matter of
fact, it is only at the provincial level that
separate, parallel party organisations are
being set up—a Provincial Committee
for Industry and one for Agriculture.
Below the provincial level, despite a
radical re-drawing of boundaries and re-
sounding changes of nomenclature, the
main units remain the city committees
(always concerned primarily with in-
dustrial production) and rural district
committees (always concerned primarily
with the collective and state farms).
Meanwhile, a single party committee has
been retained in each republic and at the
centre, and although the party offices at
these levels now have separate bureaux
to supervise the provincial, industrial and
agricultural committees, these bureaux
form part of a unified apparatus con-
trolled by a single Presidium and Sec-
retariat.
Moreover, it is misleading to suggest,
as some observers have done, that these
separate provincial organisations are re-
sponsible only for industrial and agri-
cultural questions and that this means a
qualitatively new party concern for
economic life.
Like party committees at all admini-
strative levels, they are responsible for
all aspects of party work, e.g., ideological
and personnel work as well as produc-
tion. The innovation is that party work
(in all its aspects) is now supervised sep-
arately for industrially and agriculturally
oriented units at a higher level than it
was previously, and that the co-ordina-
tion of party work in urban and rural
areas is now concentrated at the republic
instead of the provincial level.
Confusion on this latter point seems
to lie behind Isaac Deutscher’s account
of the reorganisation:
“Moreover, he (Khrushchev) has
set out to overhaul the whole struc-
ture of the Communist Party and to
split it and reshape it into two paral-
lel hierarchies of industrial and agri-
cultural committees. The party
should now become the nation’s
actual economic administration (and
it should ‘squeeze out the State’)
and, of course, a highly centralised
administration it would be.
“In consequence of this structural
reform the party may also become
utterly de-politicised. Is this perhaps
the unavowed intention of the re-
form? Are Mr Khrushchev and his
colleagues afraid of political dis-
content gathering in the party and
are they seeking to suppress it by
redirecting all the party’s energies
into economic-administrative chan-
nels?”
(“SMH”, January 17, 1963)
These comments appear to contain
two false assumptions:
• that the reorganisation involves a
radical shift to more direct party man-
agement of production activities, sup-
planting government agencies; and
• that party committees are now to
abdicate their other responsibilities so as
to concentrate exclusively on production
questions.
I have dealt with the second point
already, and it is worth noting that since
the reorganisation there has been more
rather than less party involvement in
intellectual affairs. On the first point,
there has been no change in the existing
distribution of functions between the
party apparatus, government agencies
and management—the reorganisation has
simply aimed at helping tne party appar-
atus to perform their functions more
effectively. In fact, at the time the party
was reorganised, a number of new gov-
ernment agencies were set up to help
administer the economy.
On the other hand, Deutscher is right
in suggesting that Khrushchey is uncom-
fortable about ideology and tends to be-
have as if non-economic problems can
be given administrative-economic solu-
tions. Moreover, although ever since the
first five-year plan material production
has always been the prime concern of
the party apparatus, Khrushchev has
been readier than most other leaders to
draw the obvious conclusions from this
with respect, e.g., to such matters as in-
tra-party propaganda and the proper
educational qualifications of party
officials.
As for the real reasons for the reorg-
anisation, most observers appear to ac-
cept, and correctly, to my mind, the
official Soviet explanation that its objec-
tives were economic. Like previous re-
organisations, massive decentralisation,
establishment of local economic councils,
and so on, it represented yet another at-
tempt to cure by better administration
irrationalities that can only be cured by
less administration. For some time now
a section of Soviet economic thought
seems to have been feeling its way to the
view that the “command economy” has
performed its historic role and the in-
creasingly complex Soviet economy can
only be effectively regulated by drasti-
cally increasing the discretion allowed to
management and encouraging a rational
price mechanism, i.e., by introducing a
“socialist market.”
Closer relations with Yugoslavia
favor such views, as the Yugoslavs
have shown that a “socialist market” can
work and need not be injurious to the
communist monopoly of political power.


AUCTION
TUESDAY, 23rd APRIL, at 3 p.m.
on the property, 16 Whitehorse Rd., Ringwood, Victoria.
66,500 sq. feet. Industrial Site.
Zoned General Industrial
74 ft. frontage to Whitehorse Road,
211 ft. frontage to Madden Street.
R.E.S.I. Auctioneers in Conjunction
MELBOURNE OWEN, 126 Auburn Rd., Auburn, Vic. WB 3268
KEITH C. MILLER, 363 Burwood Rd., Glenferrie, Vic. WA 0371
Malaysia from Manila
As big a muddle as you could want...
By DONALD HORNE
The closer you get to things the more
of a muddle they can seem. One of
my interests in visiting Manila was
to find out why President Macapagal is
putting up a Philippines claim to North
Borneo. It took only a few questions to
discover that this claim is as big a mud-
dle as you could ever get close to. It has
all the marks of personal diplomacy.
Macapagal was legal counsellor in the
Philippines Foreign Office before he went
in for politics. Even his supporters sug-
gest that he is still a frustrated diplomat.
He is also becoming a Roosevelt figure—-
progressive, dramatic and a bit gimmicky,
good on the whole but odd in parts.
When he pulled the claim to North
Borneo out of the hat the first that even
the Chairman of the Senate Foreign
Affairs Committee heard about it was
what he read in the newspapers. There
was no groundwork and the details are
still being improvised.
This Waugh-like episode began at the
beginning of last year when it was an-
nounced that the heirs of the late Sultan of
Sulu had claimed right of sovereignty in
North Borneo and ceded it to the
Philippines—on the basis of a (disput-
able) 1878 document. In September
one of the heirs was proclaimed the new
Sultan of Sulu and he confirmed the
cession. Only in December did the Philip-
pines Government officially contest
British rule and the right of the British
to pass North Borneo over to the Tunku
Abdul Rahman’s proposed Malaysian
Federation.
However, as late as last month it was
revealed that the new Sultan of Sulu does
not claim the whole of North Borneo but
only part of it. At Camp Murphy brief-
ings for senators and others, Government
spokesmen could not define exactly which
part of North Borneo was being claimed.
This is going to make them look rather
silly if they ever end up in the Interna-
tional Court.
To make the position worse the Philip-
pines has announced that it does not
really wish to acquire this territory ex-
cept pro forma. If it gains the territory
it will then grant independence to it and
let the people who live there decide
their own destiny. Filipino journalists in
North Borneo suggest that the people
who live there are amazed at the Philip-
pines claim and don’t see any destiny
with the Philippines. To make more
sense of his proposition, President Maca-
pagal has put up a Greater Confederation
of Malay States as a counter-attraction
to the Malaysian Federation. Not only
North Borneo but Sarawak, Brunei, Sin-
gapore and Malaya itself would be elig-
ible to join, as well as the Philippines.
However, apart from declaring that all of
these States would retain their sovereign-
ties, he has not worked out how this Con-
federation would work or what its ob-
jectives are supposed to be.
I am not trying to make a funny
story out of this. I think that it is a
tragedy that two such staunch anti-Com-
munist States and natural allies as
Malaya and the Philippines should get
themselves into such a mess. It is a mess
that puzzles all of their triends. In Tai-
wan I found universal support for the
Malaysian Federation and universal puz-
zlement at the Philippines attitude. Its
background—and the support for Maca-
pagal—are worth looking at.
Anti-British and Anti-Chinese
/\ne strong streak of support comes
from traditional anti-colonialism and
anti-Britishism. The whole Malaysian
Federation is represented in Manila as a
purely British deal. This is, of course,
plain wrong. The Tunku had to talk the
British into it. There may even be an
element of pique here. There are signs
that if the Tunku had consulted the
Philippines Government when he was
dealing with the British he may have got
their blessing. His subsequent belliger-
ence has got on their nerves. There is a
tendency to see him as a British stooge.
For historical reasons the Filipinos
consider themselves more Malay than the
Malays and some of them dream of lead-
ership of the whole Malaya-Indonesia-
Borneo-Philippines area. To call the pro-
posed new state a Malaysian Federation
was to them an unpleasant breach of
copyright. In Manila’s National Museum
a special exhibit stressing the Malayan
side of Philippines life was whipped up
last month and wiJLstay up during the
present period of active diplomacy. It is a
tribute to the 2,000,000 Moslems in the
Southern Philippines (who have been a
bit lacking in tribute for a couple of
hundred years). As such it can be taken
as a Philippines claim to Borneo or the
other way around or whatever you like.
The Filipinos’ fear of the overseas
Chinese as a potentially pro-Communist
force is well known and has something
to do with opposition to Malaysia. They
distrust Malaysia because of the high pro-
portion of Chinese there would be in
it. Paradoxically, Filipino fear of In-
donesia also comes out in discussion.
They are afraid that North Borneo will
succumb to Indonesian leadership—al-
though their present course is steering
them into closer relations with Indonesia,
with whom they have just signed a four-
point agreement.
The general atmosphere in Manila is
one of nervousness and dismay at finding
the Philippines suddenly landed in a com-
plicated international mix-up in which
it may be committing itself beyond its
powers. There are no expressions of
belligerence. The talk is simply in terms
of gentle devices such as the United Na-
tions, or the International Court or—and
this is finding increasing favor —a UN-
sponsored referendum in North Borneo.
If none of these is granted the incident
may be forgotten. If the matter is taken
to the International Court or a referen-
dum and the Philippines loses, it may be
a debilitating blow to self-esteem. Some-
one should be looking for some kind of
face-saver. Somehow the whole thing
seemed painfully similar to Australia’s
utterly unsuccessful intervention on the
question of West New Guinea.


FORUM
"Infamous Conduct”
Doctors ' sound and fury about the onus of proof
By GAIUS
T T is the invariable rule that any controversy in ivhich the NSW Minister
for Health, Mr W. Sheahan, is involved, becomes so full of sound and
fury that it is difficult to tell what it signifies. In his current exchanges
with the Australian Medical Association over the Bill to amend the
Medical Practitioners Act, legal issues were raised by the AM A, answered
by Mr Sheahan, and thoroughly confused in the resultant discussion.
Early clarification of these legal issues might have allowed the debate
on the substantial merits of Mr Sheahans Bill to proceed in realistic
terms, unencumbered by half-understood and largely irrelevant legal
technicalities. Unfortunately no adequate explanation of the controversial
“onus of proof” provision appears to have been given till the day of the
vital Legislative Council vote, and by that time heated and largely
irrelevant exchanges in the Press had no doubt crystallised attitudes
to a point where a few hours’ Parliamentary debate could not affect them.
A ma spokesmen claimed that the Bill
was “contrary to the very fundamen-
tals of British justice,” since under it a
doctor would be presumed guilty of in-
famous conduct until he proved his in-
nocence. It was said that while the onus
of proof provision was retained in the
Bill “established principles of justice will
be swept aside.” Mr Sheahan replied that
the onus of proof was still on the ac-
cuser and involved no change in the
legal principle that “he who affirms must
prove.” Newspaper editorials, in all but
terms, accused him of being a liar, and
partially quoted the provision to prove
it.
In full, the provision provided that
a registered person would be deemed
guilty of infamous conduct in a pro-
fessional respect if he
“refuses or fails, without reasonable
cause (proof whereof shall lie upon
the registered person) to attend,
within a reasonable time after being
requested to do so, upon a person
for the purpose of rendering pro-
fessional services in his capacity as
a medical practitioner in any case
where he has reasonable cause to
believe that such person is in need
of urgent attention but shall not be
guilty under this paragraph of such
conduct if he causes another medi-
cal practitioner to attend as afore-
said.”
It is a gross exaggeration to say, as
has been said, that this provision re-
moved the onus from an accuser to prove
the doctor guilty of infamous miscon-
duct, and put the onus on the doctor
to prove his innocence.
Under the provision there was only
one particular matter on which the ac-
cused doctor might have to carry any
onus of proof the matter of reason-
able excuse. He would need to do this
only if his accuser first succeeded in
establishing all the other matters men-
tioned in the provision.
Thus it would have been necessary
for the accuser to show
(a) that the doctor was requested to
attend upon a person for the pur-
pose of rendering professional
services in his capacity as a medi-
cal practitioner;
(b) that the doctor (not, it should
be noted, the person who made
the request) had reasonable cause
to believe that the person he was
requested to attend was in need
of urgent attention;
(c) that the doctor refused or failed
to attend within a reasonable time
after being requested.
All these things, which are the things
which give rise to the prima facie ob-
ligation to attend, would have to be
proved by the accuser before the doctor
would stand in any risk of being found
guilty of infamous conduct. Moreover,
they would have to be proved to the
satisfaction of a tribunal which was com-
posed predominantly of medical prac-
titioners, presided over by a magistrate
(in the case of the investigating commit-
tee) or a District Court judge (in the
case of the disciplinary tribunal). It is
only at that point that any onus was
placed on the doctor by the bill, which
in effect said to him “It is up to you
to show that you had a reasonable ex-
cuse for not carrying out an obligation
that you have been proved to have been
under, and that you have been proved
to have failed to carry out.” Thus he was
not required to prove himself innocent
of a mere allegation; he was required to
prove, by way of defence to a prima
facie case proved against him, that he
had a reasonable excuse. The accuser
was required to prove everything which
he affirmed, but he was not required to
negative that which he denied, viz., the
existence of reasonable excuse. That was
to be proved by the doctor who affirmed
it.
Was this “contrary to the very funda-
mentals of British justice”? Did it sweep
aside “established principles of justice”?
The principle that a man is presumed
innocent until he is proved guilty is a fun-
damental principle of the law applicable
to persons charged with criminal offen-
ces, and it is properly extended by anal-
ogy to persons under risk of the serious
consequences attached to a finding of
professional misconduct. But what is this
principle and what are its limits? In a
famous modern statement. Lord Chan-
cellor Sankey said on behalf of the
House of Lords: “Throughout the web of
the English Criminal Law one golden
thread is always to be seen, that it is
the duty of the prosecution to prove the
prisoner’s guilt subject to what I have
already said as to the defence of insanity
and subject also to any statutory excep-
tion” (Woohnington v. The Director of
Public Prosecutions (1935) A.C.462).
This statement of the principle recog-
nises exceptions by way of statutory pro-
vision of which there are many. But
even as a statement of the common law
it could well mislead the layman. For
example, provocation or self-defence will
provide justification for some acts which
would otherwise be criminal. But it is
no use a person who wishes to rely on
one of these defences sitting back and
saying “the prosecution must prove me
guilty. Therefore it must disprove provo-
cation and self-defence.” If at the end
of the case there is no evidence of
provocation or self-defence the judge
will not submit these issues to the jury.
Hence if the accused wishes to rely on
one of these defences, he must accept
the onus of getting some evidence 1 6
support it before the jury. If he does,
he will be entitled to have the defence
considered, and then, it is true, the
overall onus to satisfy the jury of his
guilt will rest on the prosecution.
Whether under Mr Sheahan’s Bill the
doctor carried no more onus than an


accused relying on self-defence or provo-
cation in a criminal case, or whether he
carried a final onus positively to satisfy
the tribunal on the probabilities that he
had a reasonable excuse, is perhaps a
matter for legal argument (having regard
to the case of R. v. Ward (1915) 3 KB
696).
At all events there is ample precedent
in legislation for expressly placing the
onus of establishing certain types of ex-
culpatory excuses on the accused. As
J. L. J. Edwards says in Mens Rea in
Statutory Offences:
“First, there is what has been con-
veniently described as the legal
burden of proof and which, in
criminal cases (unless otherwise di-
rected by statute), imposes upon
the prosecution the duty of proving
the accused guilty of the offence
charged. Any derogation from this
well-established principle is apt to
be regarded as a drastic and excep-
tional measure. But examination of
the statute book reveals a consider-
able number of instances in which
the legislature has imposed upon the
accused the burden of proving his
innocence.” (pp. 93-4).
The author then goes on to give
numerous examples from English legis-
lation creating criminal offences which
expressly place on the accused the onus
of proving "lawful excuse” or similar
issues.
If a statute defining a liability gives
certain exceptions or excuses an excul-
patory effect, but does not expressly say
where the onus of proof lies, argument
often ensues as to where the onus of
proof is intended to lie. If the absence
of the matters of exception or excuse
are characterised by the Courts as form-
ing part of the definition of the liability,
the accuser will carry the onus. If on
the other hand the matters of exception
or excuse are characterised by the Courts
as being additional exculpatory facts, the
accused will carry the onus.
Issues of this type have been a fruitful
source of litigation in both civil and
criminal law. One example of an attempt
(by no means wholly successful) to elim-
inate such issues is the type of provision
found in 5.145 A of the Justices Act of
NSW, in similar sections in other States,
and in 5.14 of the Commonwealth Crimes
Act. This provides that in proceedings
before magistrates “any exception, ex-
emption, proviso, excuse, or qualification,
whether it does or does not accompany
in the same section the description of the
offence in the Act, order, by-law, regu-
lation, or other document creating the
offence, may be proved by the defendant,
but need not be specified or negatived
in the information or complaint, and if
so specified or negatived, no proof ia
relation to the matter so specified or
negatived shall be required on the part
of the informant or claimant.”
The provision in Mr Sheahan’s Bill
was clearly an attempt to obviate the
otherwise likely but undesirable legal ar-
gument as to whether the matter of
reasonable excuse was'to be character-
ised as part of the primary definition of
infamous conduct to be proved by the
accuser, or as a defence to be proved
by the accused.
Hence it was idle to attack the Bill
by invoking an alleged principle which,
if it ever existed in the unqualified form
alleged, has long been riddled with stat-
utory exceptions comparable to the pres-
ent one. The real question to ask is
whether it is fair and just to treat “reas-
onable excuse” as a matter of defence
to be proved by the doctor, or whether
justice requires that positive proof should
be given by the accuser to negative the
possibility that the doctor may have had
a reasonable excuse.
No injustice
HPhe fact that the doctor’s reason for
refusing or failing to attend must
always be known to him, and may often
be known to no one else, supplies a
cogent reason for concluding that it is
not unjust to place the onus on the
doctor, and that it is necessary to do so
if the obligation to attend is going
to be effectively enforced at all.
Indeed once it is accepted as most
leader writers for example throughout
last week were ultimately prepared to
accept that doctors should be dealt
with for unreasonable failure to respond
to emergencies, it is unreal to suggest
that the person calling the doctor should
have to prove the absence of reasonable
excuse on the doctor's part. Normally
that person will not know the doctor’s
excuse unless the doctor happens to tell
him, and hence to place the onus on the
caller would only favour the doctor who
resorted to silence or subterfuge as
against the doctor who was frank about
his reasons. It might encourage doctors
to refuse to reveal their reasons to a
caller, thus exacerbating the exasperation
of the frustrated caller.
Indeed a provision that was treated as
fully placing on the accuser the onus of
proving what the doctor's excuse was,
and that it was unreasonable in the cir-
cumstances, would be so unworkable
that, even if the Legislative Council’s
deletion of the Onus of proof provision
remains the last word, it will probably
make little practical difference. Inevitably
one of three things will happen, and any
of them would have the effect in sub-
stance of requiring the doctor to es-
tablish his excuse.
The first possibility is that the amended
provision may, despite the absence of
express words, be construed as making
“reasonable excuse” a matter of defence
to be proved by the doctor who wishes
to rely on it. The second possibility is
that the issue of "reasonable excuse”
will be treated in the same way as the
issues of self-defence and provocation in
criminal law; although the overall onus
will rest on the accuser, the suggestion
of reasonable excuse will not be treated
as open for consideration unless there
is some evidence to support it. The
third possibility which would be cer-
tain to eventuate if neither of the others
eventuated is that the tribunal would
apply the rule that because the matter
of reasonable excuse was peculiarly
within the knowledge of the doctor, very
slight evidence would justify the tri-
bunal in finding the issue against him
if he called no evidence to show that he
had a reasonable excuse. Hence, the
doctor, if he wished to avoid the infer-
ence that he had no reasonable excuse,
would usually find that he had to prove
that he did have a reasonable excuse.
So this time it may well prove that it
was the arguments of Mr Sheahan’s
critics, so full of sound and fury, that
signified nothing. The real lesson from
the controversy is that nothing is gained
by treating “fundamental principles of
British justice” as slogans. Such prin-
ciples are valuable aids in analysing
where justice lies in a particular case,
but they are not a substitute for such
analysis.


The Ugly Australian
The Wild Colonial Boors
By R. SCHOLES
“T ORD save us from wind and storm, and from Germans living abroad.”
So runs an old German saying that Australians in London might
well adapt for their own use. Then, if the Lord should hear, they would
be spared the sight and sound of fellow countrymen trying to compensate
for not being hailed like men from Mars.
Earls Court is the place to see them
in bulk. They have turned it into an
Australian ghetto through which Lon-
doners who have not yet evacuated it
tip-toe with eyes front.
Among these part-time expatriates are
more cotton trousers, beards, sloppy
jumpers and raucous voices than are
ever seen at home. And in this setting
they bear the additional adornment of
colored badges sewn on to the shoulders
and sleeves of their duffle coats and
zipped jackets to show how many
countries they have seen looking, as
they swagger brilliantly through the grey-
ness of London, like well-stickered suit-
cases. They put flesh into spectres like
“cooee” and “bonzer,” get determinedly
drunk and boisterous while never
losing sight of the effect they are
creating and emphasise the worst
features of the Australian accent.
At Earls Court they charge their
national batteries with gangling ex-
changes of mateship spiced with scorn
for the English, and, thus fortified, go
out to impress and shock.
A favorite outpost is The Surrey, a
drab pub off The Strand where Aus-
tralians gather for Swan and Fosters
beer at 2s. 6d. a glass and are likely to
break into a spurious game of two-up
if the English content of the place gets
high enough to provide an audience.
Another haunt is the Down Under
Club in Fulham, generally acknowledged
as the place where Australians can best
be seen at their worst, and where Chips
Rafferty’s ability to portray the average
Aussie was once confirmed when, on
emerging from the premises, he was done
over by a couple of compact London
youths who were more interested in him
as a symbol than a person.
There is something compulsive in
bad Australian behavior in London. It
seems to begin with the idea that because
Australians come from so far away,
Londoners should treat them like freaks,
adventurers or at least interesting people
with something different to offer in ways
and spirit.
Some Australians see themselves as
the embodiment of much that, to the
English, is alluring. Callow young men
from Sydney and Melbourne like to be
identified with the image of the outback
Australian of the lean sunburnt face and
the eye that is equally potent over the
sights of a rifle or crinkling quizzically
at a pretty station girl.
This posturing is based partly on the
notion that the politeness of the English
is weakness, and that lustiness, vigor and
disrespect will be acclaimed as qualities
that have flowered splendidly in virgin
soil after being transplanted from run-
down stock in the blessed but exhausted
plot.
So the ugly Australian on his national-
istic rampage talks a little louder than
he should in accents a little too
broadened, laughs a little too oafishly,
criticises a little too readily and is a
little too conspicuous.
When the pale-faced Londoner fails to
admire or even notice this figure from
afar except perhaps with raised eye-
brows it is taken as a challenge or a
slight. The effort is doubled and re-
doubled. If the audience will not
applaud, it must be jolted. The performer
magnifies the act until it is so much
beyond life-size that Australians in their
own country would scarcely recognise
him as Australian and the English
scarcely recognise him as human.
He passes the point of no-return.
The less the act is appreciated, the more
he flogs it in the hope of forcing its
success. Like the losing gambler plung-
ing more and more in an attempt to get
his money back, he ends up as a dead
loss.
One of the tragedies of this character
is that there is no compensation for it
among other kinds of Australians. So
much are they at pains to disown it that
they go to the opposite end of the
behavior scale and become invisible.
For all its ugliness, the hide of these
Australians is not especially thick.
Recently a young West Australian
lawyer who belongs to the “invisibles”
was answering the question of an
English friend.
“Australians in England,” he explained,
“fall into three groups.”
A beefy man sitting at the next table
pricked up his ears.
“First there is the one who becomes
infatuated with England, idolises every-
thing English and condemns his own
country.”
The man with the red face looked and
listened stolidly.
“Then there is the reasonable type of
chap who comes to England, usually on
a job rather than as an adventurer,
accepts England and the English without
fuss and remains just as he has always
been.”
The ruddy face kept looking and
listening.
“And there is the third type who is
dissatisfied with his welcome, decides to
hate everything English and becomes
aggressively and nauseatingly Aus-
tralian.”
At this the red face purpled and its
owner bellowed: “What a lot of flamin’
rot.”
The lawyer nodded meaningly to his
friend.
For many Australians, especially
young single ones, the trip to England
is an elaborate prank, and Europe one
big fair-ground in which they can amuse
themselves in freedom from the restric-
tions of home.
Thus it is considered no more than
a wholesome jape to souvenir street
signs, make keepsakes of cutlery and
salt shakers, filch pewter from pubs and
sneak out of restaurants without paying.
Three Australian and two South
African girls sharing a flat in West
Kensington were proud of the hoard of
tinned food under which their kitchen
shelves sagged, and the visitor might
have admired their domestic prudence
until he learned that it was all stolen
from supermarkets.
Ticket collectors are good at remem-
bering faces at Earls Court Station, where
fare scalers, mostly Australians, try to
get through the barriers on tickets too
cheap for the journey and are booked if
they come up with the same trick too
often.
Some Australian girls in London state
openly that they could not make ends
meet on the money they earn unless they
cheated on the Underground.
Recently two swashbucklers from Bris-
bane returned to their Earls Court haunt
from a sojourn in France. After eating
meals for which they did not pay, and
with pepper and salt shakers freshly in
their pockets, they lounged at a bar and
described their recent exploits.
Riding in the first-class compartment
of a French train with third-class tickets,
they had been approached by the con-


ductor and asked to move. They sat
fast, and when the conductor became
insistent they “roughed him up.” Soon a
couple of French police, experienced in
real toughness, arrived and toddled the
pair off to the brig. A few days later
the heroes were freed to come back and
relate their drama at Earls Court, not
adding that the French authorities have
been instructed to be almost absurdly
lenient with foreigners for the sake of
the tourist industry.
Australian humor may be all right
at home, where mateship and its
familiarities are more important than
manners, but it can turn sour when it
is exercised without modification amid
the circumspections of London.
In a West End jeweller’s recently, a
young Sydney girl, curious to know how
wise she had been in her port shopping
on the way over by sea, was having
valued a ring she had bought in Suez.
When the jeweller, dapper and im-
personal in rimless spectacles and
alabaster collar, excused himself to take
the ring to the inner premises for
minute scrutiny, the girl’s male com-
panion joked in a loud Australian voice:
“Don’t let it outa y’ sight, Sue. They
switch stones here.”
Without flinching, the jeweller handed
the ring back. “Thank you, madam.
Would you kindly take it elsewhere?”
The girl stabbed her escort with her
eyes as they left under the cold stares
of other customers, he covering his con-
fusion with a brave guffaw.
Australian car thieves, con men and
others who specialise in offensiveness on
a grand scale are a different kettle of
fish. They are exceptions, and are seen
as such.
It is these youthful, relatively harm-
less offenders with their steady ugliness
who endanger Australians’ reputation,
for they are numerous, representative,
and their behavior is just feasible enough
to be taken as the rule.
And it is not only aesthetically that
harm is done. A colleague, interviewing
the London manager of a big Australian
firm, asked whether he thought the
unsavoury image of Australians in Lon-
don affected the prestige of Australian
products on whose promotion a fortune
is spent each year, was told: “Yes, there
is no doubt it does a lot of harm.”
letters
to the
editor
BARRISTERS AND EDUCATION
Sir,
Of several inaccuracies and mis-
representations contained in Peter
Hastings’ discussion of Australian bar-
risters (Bulletin, April 6), the follow-
ing should be corrected:
1. Although members of the legal
profession in Victoria (in common
with members in other “fused” States)
unofficially tend to concentrate on either
the work of the Bar or on soliciting
business, the professions in that State
are “fused” and not “separate” as stated
by Mr Hastings.
2. To claim that English barristers
are often better educated than Australian
ones (p. 14) is to display complete
ignorance of the requirements for ad-
mission in the two countries.
In England a person with average
intelligence may pass the elementary Bar
examinations after studying privately for
between three and six months. (He has
also to attend dinners at his Inn before
being admitted.)
In Australia, on the other hand, the
most common entrance to the Bar is
through the universities. Most Aus-
tralian barristers admitted since the last
war are university graduates. A non-
graduate wishing to enter any of the
Australian Bars has little chance of
completing the study required by the
Bar Associations in less than three years;
and before this he would have to reach
a level of general education virtually
equivalent to “matriculation level.”
J. ARMSTRONG, M.A., LL.B.
Brisbane.
THE ACE-IN-THE-HOLE
Sir,
“One is never quite sure,” ruminates
your art critic John Henshaw (Bulletin,
March 23), “whether (Olsen) is uncover-
ing a scintillating new vision or just
raising bulldust in the general formless-
ness.”
This is no more criticism than a decoy
is a duck. It offers no conclusion, and
at the same time it gives itself an air of
sagacity by suggesting that Mr Henshaw
is alive-o to all possible alternatives.
But if he cannot decide whether Olsen
is a major painter or an incompetent
farceur and he plainly admits he can’t
tell —he is in no position to write on
Olsen’s work, and his dismissal of it as
“intoxicated ravioli” is not only an
inaccurate metaphor but also a foolishly
slick judgment.
Any first-year psychology student
could refute Mr Henshaw’s belief in
“the order the subconscious mind imposes
on material it receives,” just as anyone
who has really looked at child art would
immediately question his idea that the
child’s first instinct is to imitate adult
art. Both these blandly ignorant state-
ments of Mr Henshaw’s make me wonder
just how much force his claim that
Olsen has lost both his own identity and
the identity of his experience can be
thought to have. If Mr Henshaw thinks
he has a coherent theory of the relation-
ship between image, experience and
personality, he should expound it, not use
it as an unseen ace-in-the-hole.
ROBERT HUGHES
Rose Bay (NSW).
FOUR CORNERS
Sir,
Further to Mr Higham’s letter
(Bulletin, March 30) I would like to
add that he makes my point. At every
interview with the Press both Charlton
and Raymond point out that the pro-
gramme is a complete joint effort.
However, I repeat (and the ABC
credits at the end or beginning of the
programme point out) that Robert Ray-
mond is the producer.
MARION RAYMOND
Bellevue Hill (NSW).
RICH RUBY RED
Sir,
May I, an Australian resident 12 years
in Britain, make belated comments on
the items on selling our wines in the UK
in the issue of November 10 (1962) and
F. D. Daniel’s letter of January 19,
which have just reached me?
Every “off licence” and licensed
grocer in this country displays “Aus-
tralian wines” in his windows . . .
generally “Australian Sauterne,” “Bur-
gundy” and “Australian Rich Ruby Red”
under brand names I had never heard of
in Australia. Shortly after arriving here
I bought one such, quite cheaply. After
struggling through a glass-and-a-half, I
poured the rest down "the sink. Visiting
a friend in the provinces at Christmas,
he proudly proffered a bottle of “Aus-
tralian Ruby Red” his grocer had recom-
mended as befitting an Australian guest
on Christmas Day. We both survived
a sip of this, and then, with my
connivance, the rest of this, too, went
down the drain.
T. LAKE
London, W. 3.
DON’T COME TO OCR PLACE
Sir,
Radio in Australia, as elsewhere, seems
to think that the secret of eternal life
lies in repetition, particularly as regards
the musical introduction to so many of
its shows. But of all the dreary jingles
that introduces various established Aus-
tralian radio shows, the dreariest is that
which comes with the Wilfred Thomas


m
Making a Wi11..?
Expert advice
costs you nothingl
By carefully planning your Will
now, you can ensure your estate is
administered speedily and efficiently
without unnecessary expense to your
beneficiaries.
For the past seventy-five years
Perpetual Trustee has specialised in
the administration of Wills and the
Company’s wide experience in Will
planning is readily available to you,
freely and without any obligation.
You are invited to make full use
of this free advisory service . . .
make a point of calling on Perpetual
soon.
A new booklet outlining the
Gompany’s many services is now
available. Ask Perpetual today for
your free copy.
PER F’JETUJLLj
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
'PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL ”
Show, a dreariness which is only rivalled
and often surpassed by Wilfred Thomas
himself.
How Dale Miller (Bulletin, March
9) can welcome Wilfred Thomas, in such
heartfelt accents, to his place, I do not
know. Two words from Dale Miller's
eulogy adequately describe Wilfred
Thomas “slick” and “trivia.” If you
want the slick application of sound
effects to trivia, you may well go on
listening to- retapes of Mr Thomas for
ever and ever.
But the most interesting part of Dale
Miller’s article is its last paragraph where
there is an invocation of Wilfred: “We
wish there were more like you, especially
just now, in the troubled Pacific.”
Are we to conclude from this that
Wilfred Thomas is to be looked upon
as a pourer of oil, or perhaps as a
bastion-of-our-way-of-life? This hardly
accords with the slick trivia.
And so, in response to the unutterable
boredom of Wilfred Thomas’s trivial
travelogues, I can only say: “Don’t thank
us, Mr Thomas, we’ve had you at our
place.”
A. W. B. MORTIMER
Nightcliff (NT).
THE CAIRNS EPISODE
Sir,
Towards the end of November, Mr
K. D. Gott emerged with the story that
the ALP in Victoria is freeing itself from
its Communistic associations.
Dr Cairns's alleged withdrawal from
the Sunshine meeting was widely can-
vassed by him and others to support this
general thesis. A group in the Melbourne
University ALP Club accepted Gott's
version of events. I myself very strongly
disputed Gott's version in the club,
though, knowing him to be an honest
journalist, I felt that I had no reason
to dispute his alleged facts.
On December 22, the “Gott theory”
appeared in an unsigned article in The
Bulletin, reporting at length Cairns's al-
leged refusal to speak. It said inter alia'.
‘‘Dr Cairns let it be known, unofficially,
that he was not going to speak ‘because
he had never agreed to’.” Cairns’s picture
adorned the article, thereby highlighting
the significance of the episode. On Janu-
ary 12, the “Gott theory” appeared in an
article in “Nation” signed by Gott. Again,
the Cairns episode was mentioned. My
own article (Bulletin, January 19) was,
in part, written to dispute the “Gott
theory”, though, as I said, I had no
reason to suspect that some facts favor-
able to the Victorian ALP and Dr Cairns
as reported by Gott and contained in
the previous Bulletin article, were not
authentic.
When the alleged facts about himself
appeared in two articles which were in
his favor Dr Cairns did not find it neces-
sary to react. Yet seven weeks after the
unsigned Bulletin article he thought it
fit to dispute the story of his Sunshine
refusal only in relation to my own article
which merely accepted what was written
by others and, by implication, saddle me
with it. Dr Cairns presumably knows that
I regard his foreign-policy recommenda-
tions as among the most dangerous in
Australia. Can he honestly believe that I
shall fabricate favorable stories about
him?
Whether Mr Gott's verbal quibble (not
applicable to the unsigned Bulletin
article) is a substantial point or a rather
miserable evasion of responsibility read-
ers will undoubtedly see for themselves
when they read it in the general context
of the two articles. Incidentally, in my
own article I did not “quote”
his “Nation” piece at all, relying mainly
on the previous unsigned Bulletin
article which was substantially similar.
Before engaging in public relations
chores for a group in the Victorian
Central Executive, Mr Gott should in
future make sure that his clients will not
walk out on him, and if they do, he
should have the decency of not attemp-
ting escapes by smearing innocent people.
As an experienced journalist he should
have known that public relations efforts
on behalf of the hopeless Victorian crowd
are a journalistic suicide assignment.
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
East Melbourne (Victoria).


REVIEWS
THEATRE
Norman Blood and Russian Gore
Becket. By Jean Anouilh. St. Martin’s
Theatre. Melbourne.
When the Gravediggers Come. Robert
Amos. Emerald Hill Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
TI/hy have dramatists of the 20th cen-
” tury been fascinated by saints and
martyrs? Shaw started it with “St Joan,”
T. S. Eliot followed on with “Murder in
the Cathedral,” and lately we have had
Robert Bolt’s “A Man for all Seasons”
and Anouilh's “Becket. ’ Perhaps the
reason is that, this being the century of
the common man, greatness in individuals
has been out of fashion. This makes life
particularly hard for the dramatist, for
whom the individual is more important
than for poets, or even novelists. He has
to turn to the great men of the past, and,
since we no longer really understand or
sympathise with the notion of hereditary
greatness, kings are out. But, in theory
at any rate, it is open to any man to be-
come a saint, or at least a martyr, by
dying for his principles. So any democrat
can take an interest in a saint.
In “Becket” Anouilh has not scrupled
to depart from the historical facts when
it suits him. He has made Becket a Saxon
who has risen from the ranks of his op-
pressed race and made his way at the
Norman court. So successful has he been
that he has become the King’s best friend,
but feels that he has tarnished his Saxon
honor in so doing.
By giving Becket the role of gallant
defender of the poor and oppressed,
Anouilh is able to present us with many
romantic scenes which he spices liberally
with witty dialogue. This mixture of
romanticism and wit works very well in
the first half of the play in which Becket
is still a courtier, and the scene is the
gay, hedonistic world of the court.
In the second half, however, Becket
has to become Archbishop of Canterbury
and proceed to martyrdom. But Anouilh
cannot bring himself lo take religion seri-
ously, which is something of a disadvan-
tage when your hero is a saint.
Edward Brayshaw plays the dashing,
romantic Becket of Anouilh as though
the part had been specially created for
him. Norman Kaye is equally impres-
sive as Henry 11, whom Anouilh pre-
sents as a weak man fascinated by the
clever and charming Thomas. Irene Mit-
chell’s production is faithful to Anouilh’s
play. The first half is lively and
colorful, and it is the fault of the play-
wright, not the company, that the pro-
duction becomes rather tedious in the
second half.
“W HEN t^ie Gravediggers Come” was
"co-winner of the 1961 Journalists’
Club Award. Its author. Robert Amos,
was born in Austria, spent the war years
in China, and is now living in Melbourne.
The play is set in a Chinese port in 1949,
a few weeks before the arrival of the
Communist armies. The main characters
are White Russian refugees, with the ex-
ception of two brothers who are the half-
caste sons of a Russian mother and a
Chinese father.
The set represents two houses facing
each other across a street. On one side
lives Colonel Rudenko of the Imperial
Russian Army. He is the leader of a
movement for the liberation of Russia.
Across the street lives Igor, the crip-
pled half-caste, and his brother who is a
musician. The Colonel despises Igor be-
cause he is a half-caste, but he does not
know that his wife Tamara is Igor’s
mistress.
The “gravediggers” are the Commun-
ists. The Colonel is determined to
stay and defy them, but most of the
other Russians are trying to flee “before
the gravediggers come”.
This play is fully equipped with sen-
sational items: a half-caste who also
happens to be a cripple, a knife-throw-
ing syphilitic, a prostitute, a homosexual,
adultery, murder and suicide. But it has
no unifying theme and the violence seems
gratuitous. Yet there are scenes involv-
ing Colonel Rudenko and his followers
which seem to be based on actual ob-
servation of the craziness and pathos of
political exiles. It is a pity Mr Amos did
not develop these without sensationalism.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Before the Bomb Comes
A Shot In The Dark. Marcel Achard
(ad. Harry Kurnitz). Theatre Royal.
Sydney.
Fairy Tales of New York. J. P. Don-
leavy. Ensemble Theatre. Sydney.
/Yne thing the player in the theatre has
” to have is utter belief in the value
of what he is doing. I couldn’t put the
thought from me that both these plays
showed a pretty massive lack of purpose.
Luckily for my illusions about the
stage, I stumbled across the solutions to
this disengagement of the Royal and
Ensemble players—in the foyers of the
theatres. Next productions announced
are “Season At Sarsaparilla,” by Patrick
White, for the Royal; “Garden District,”
by Tennessee Williams, for the Ensemble.
All was then clear —two great bombs
were about to fall ... we were just
playing, to fill in time.
I am not sure that you will, however,
get very much from the night at the
Royal. There is an extremely pretty girl,
Miss Martine Messager, playing the titil-
lating role of an amoral young lady whose
amours are freely discussed in front of
her, while she pouts, looks naughtily at
her bosom, smiles reminiscently. In the
second act, there are some genuinely
funny lines, delivered well by Mr David
Hutcheson as a passionate banker.
But the play is very cluttered, shifts
in style uneasily between comedy and
drama and Mr Peter Summerton’s
production doesn't help this schizophren-
ic quality. Mr John Unicomb’s talents
shine brightly in a role on which he is
quite wasted, and Miss Bettina Welch
has an impressive blaze as a bitch wife.
Mr Donleavy’s “Fairy Tales of New
York,” at the Ensemble, is a different
sort of a puzzle. Donleavy has certainly
hit off, in four separate sketches, some
highly articulate people of our metropoli-
tan times, and fetchingly put down some
of the places and situations that belong
peculiarly to great cities. Most of the
play’s charm lies in this.
The production and acting are first-
rate. Mr Hayes Gordon has got more
from the play than one would think was


in it; and the acting, especially Mr James
Scullin’s, is a night-long joy. Mr Max
Phipps, as the one character who stays
the same, linking the four sketches, has
his moments, but also has his lack of
range exposed. Mr John Denison as a
Customs man, an undertaker straight
from Dickens, a big business type straight
from ICI, is fine—with warmth and
roundness in all he does. Miss Lorraine
Bayly, a much improved player lately,
also hit off her changes well, and rose
to a piece of touching truth in her final
scene —as a young girl deserted on a
date, but whose Prince of New York
comes back for a beautifully-turned
happy ending.
KEVON KEMP
Late Shaw
The Apple Cart (G. B. Shaw). The
University of Queensland Staff Play-
ers. University Theatre. Brisbane.
\7ery late Shaw. Garrulous, full of
* tilts at long defunct Edwardian con-
ventions, full of concern for the recur-
ring political issues, crafty and theatrical
in the old sense, content to leave the
minor characters as black-and-white
sketches or something less; yet still cap-
able of giving us still another Hero or
Shaw-figure strong enough to hold us
quiet and attentive in our seats for a
whole three hours.
King Magnus, as realised with great
persuasion and presence by David Clen-
dinning, IS the play; he is on-stage for
virtually the entire time and speaking
nearly every moment he is on stage.
Set in an indefinitely close future, the
plot turns upon the crisis when King
Magnus of England threatens to use his
ancient power of veto on the Cabinet,
which is full of fools bickering and
squabbling among themselves and long
since oblivious to their duties towards
the people. The Prime Minister (played
with altogether delightful eccentricity and
aplomb by Nicholas Tarling) delivers,
after an interminable time, an ultimatum
to the King which would have him pro-
mise to refrain from exercising his one
small remaining Kingly power. After a
slapstick boudoir scene with his mistress
(Orinthia, hammed extravagantly by
Joan Whalley) the King prepares to give
the Cabinet his decision. At this point
the American Ambassador comes to in-
form the King that America has “return-
ed to the fold” (i.e. wants really to “take
over” Britain). And the play ends with
the King outwitting his Cabinet; the
members of which have no conception of
the implications behind America’s desire
to reunite with England.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
TELEVISION
First Rehearsal
producer of the new Bryan Davies
hour on ABC television seems to
have broken entirely new ground by film-
ing the first rehearsal and calling it a
show. At least that’s one viewer’s im-
pression of events during the premiere
of what was hoped might be a jolt to the
complaisances of “Startime”, “Band-
stand”, “Music Time”, et al. The best
suggestion anyone can make is that at
the next Bryan Davies Show rehearsal,
along with all the other omissions, they
lock up the cameras and save film.
Admittedly some of this expression of
nausea was caused by the poetic licence
which some publicity writer used, and
my own refusal to be warned by an
article in “TV Times” which included
such a gem as, “Bryan’s tanned, shyly
handsome face relaxed as he drank a
pre-lunch soda water . . .” The publicity
promised: . . galaxy of stars ... famous
Freddie Paris, singer . . . jazz organist
Earl Grant . . . from Paris, pantomimist
Pradel . . . from Sydney’s Downstairs
Revue, Brigid Lenihan and Wendy
Blacklock . . . Shirley Macdonald . . .
AND, of course, Neil Williams, Alan
Dean and Singers, the Don Burrows Sex-
tet. AND, of course, the old black magic
of producer Loyd Brydon.”
The show opened with Bryan and
some others milling around, all looking
shyly handsome and murmuring inani-
ties at one another. Then Shirley Mac-
Donald sang “Blame It On The Bossa
Nova”, which, now that I look at the
last two words, may have been a subtle
message from the cast to viewers.
In turn, Bryan sang, Neil sang, Alan
and his Singers sang, Freddie sang, and
Bryan sang with Freddie. The Don Bur-
rows Sextet accompanied them, more or
less. Earl Grant, who can sing, was
confined in his film clip to talking and
playing a chord on the organ; and M.
Pradel, from Paris, proved on the night
that you can come a long way for no-
thing. In Sydney we’ve heard much of
the satire of Downstairs Revue in a
Kings Cross cafe. Brigid Lenihan and
Wendy Blacklock, as two women from
a Housing Commission block the Queen
had visited, proved that however it may
be among the coffee cups, Downstairs
humor can sound pitifully weak in the
wastelands of Studio 22.
AND, of course, as Bryan said to TV
Times, “The cameras will move around
where they want to, and we can shoot
people wherever we like.” I suggest
they begin with the audio operators, who
forgot to go along with the perambula-
ting cameras as they moved around a
studio that resembled an expanse of the
Twilight Zone, populated by tanned,
shyly handsome, relaxed lost souls who
ambled, mumbled, bumped into one an-
other, and occasionally had a fling at
entertaining.
It was no way to present a show. An
air of continuous informality is a ridicu-
lous objective in a show which contains
varied and varying casts with a pre-
dominance of singers who are the least
informal people in show business. Hav-
ing proved this to everyone’s dissatisfac-
tion, producer Loyd Brydon might now
try to give us a tightly professional show,
with less of that old black magic and
more thought for what does come across
well in two dimensional television, and
what does not, and why.
FRANK ROBERTS
ART
Richly Rewarding
Royal Easter Show Art Prizes. Show-
ground. Sydney.
YMith £2,700 to give away the RAS
Art Competitions move into the field
of near extravagance. Like other lucra-
tive competitions, often winning entries
are successful only because stronger
painters failed to exhibit. However it is
the newly established sections which ap-
pear the most disappointing, namely “The
Human Image” and the sculpture. Mary
Beeston’s winning painting barely escapes
a mannered emptiness with two conflict-
ing approaches to form trying for dom-
inance. The choice can be understood in
the face of the mixed bag of styles in the
rest, though not a few of these have suc-
cessful passages of painting amid the in-
decision of jumbled composition.
Disease and decay have claimed the
bulk of the sculpture with more than a
touch of assemblage or unconscious
humor. Vonwiller’s winner, entitled
“Gothic”, manipulates desiccated and
charred timber wrapped and tied with
metal strings or strips. The forms are
upright without the surge one might ex-
pect from the ambitious title; there is a
feeling of equivocation. Another version
might succeed with this technique but
this one didn’t quite get there. Few other
pieces merit very serious consideration.
Traditional sections won by Mrs J.
Stedman (Rural) and Charles Bush (In-


everyone
digs water....
fifty-fifty with TEACHER'S
Highland Cream Scotch Whisky
Try it —and you’ll dig it too! So will
your friends! Wherever you find it,
water’s divine*— fifty-fifty with un-
mistakable Teacher’s. It’s the socially
acceptable drink. But there’s
no need to search for it. Just
ask for it anywhere—water,
fifty-fifty with Teacher’s.
*There's soda for those who prefer it.
N.S.W. Agents:
Tucker & Co. Pty. Limited
335 Kent St., Sydney.
Distributors of fine spirits
for 125 years.
Teachers
Plg«6W
"»fc.*.«7rOu «
wmisky
TW29.84S
dustrial) reveal in their ranks skills be-
longing to quite a few successful illustrat-
ors and commercial artists. The problems
of light, tone and fidelity posed, all too
often suggest that the painter moves about
but the painting remains the same sins
of which traditionalists Corot or Con-
stable could not be accused. Both these
artists reacted sensitively to their subjects
to gain insight, but the facile repetition of
externality without a touch of imagina-
tion too often repels through the artist’s
sheer indifference. Salmon, Herman Ed-
ward Hall and J. Phillips escape this
danger to enliven these two sections.
These and some others have, in fact,
benefited from their contact with con-
temporary art.
Robert Hughes’ fluent “Mineshafts”
carried off the Industrial modern prize,
buttocky perhaps but ebullient with his
particular romantic spiciness. Gould,
Rapotec and Elliot achieve a greater
sense of subject but little of the bland-
ness. Like the other modern section the
good paintings carry strongly assertive
personal statements of attachment rather
than distant or contemplative evaluation.
Rapotec’s successful landscape (Rural
Modern) is held in its flow by tensely
muscular thrusts which impose a strong
sense of unity almost equalled by Hector
Gililland’s more considered, more mech-
anistic painting. Grieve, Daryl Hill,
Gould and Plate provide strong support
in this section, mainly given over to ele-
phantive size of format.
JOHN HENSHAW
BALLET
Helpmann’s Elektra
Elektra. The Royal Opera House,
London.
/Conflicting criticism and controversy
has followed Robert Helpmann’s
return, as a choreographer, to the Royal
Opera House, Covent Garden. Initial
Press reaction was mixed, comments
ranging from “ . . . completely ludi-
crous” to “ ... a definite success,”
but the audience reaction was immediate
and thunderous.
The new work, “Elektra,” based
loosely on Aeschylus’s classic drama,
shows no definite advance or change in
Helpmann’s style. Like his ballets of 16
and more years ago he uses his innate
theatricality to cover up deficiencies in
his ability to produce first class dances
and invariably is able to do it so well
that the result is such a complete theat-
rical experience as to make it a blessing
rather than a curse. This marriage of
free and classical dance, music and
decor, produces a work that more often
than not is best described as a dance
drama rather than as a ballet.
“Elektra” is short, compressed and
powerful in impact. After a brief, violent
overture the curtain rises to show the
equally violent decor by Australian artist
Arthur Boyd. The wings and backcloth
are stark white with roughly sketched
black abstract drawings. The floor is
blood-red almost luminous. Along the
full length of the back of the stage run
three low steps, also blood-red. In the
centre sits black-draped Elektra, legs
spreadeagled, holding aloft a huge ritual
axe. In front of her writhe the eight
Furies, avengers of those killed by the
hand of a blood relation.
Violence seems to be the aspect of
the myth which Helpmann stresses and
it is echoed in both music and decor.
Classical purists might well disagree
with such details as his portrayal of
Aegisthus as a virile man, but they could
not argue with his general condensation
to achieve such a dramatic effect.
The dance style is mixed. Acrobatics
figure largely in Elektra’s dances, inter-
spersed with small portions requiring
faultless classical technique. Orestes has
relatively little dancing to do, with the
exception of some powerful double work
with Elektra. Clytemnestra and Aegisthus
are very much background figures.
The main weakness seems to be the
movements given to the Furies. For some
time they stand languidly on stage leav-
ing any suggestion of the horrors they
can, and will unfold, to their lurid cos-
tumes.
The decor has met with almost uni-
versal approval. Arthur Boyd's surrealist
imagery is perfectly in keeping with the
mood of the whole production and to a
certain extent helps to hold the whole
thing together. His costumes have been
less successful as they tend to blur the
dancers’ lines without turning them into
completely imaginary creatures, which he
might well have been aiming for. Basic-
ally a crude purple, spotted with glaring
yellow eyes, the costumes of the Furies
strike the right note of vulgarity, but
Elektra, with orange hair and ragged
black dress, is far less striking. Orestes,
in gold bathing trunks and orange-gold
hair, is nearer to a conventional idealised
view of dress for Greek tragedy.
Little can be said about the music.
Strident rhythms predominating, with
long haunting, sonorous notes for the
brass create a suitably doom-laden at-
mosphere, charged with violence. Per-
haps it can be taken as a compliment to
the composer, Malcolm Arnold, that the
music blended so well with the general
action that it was hardly noticeable as a
separate entity.
As a theatrical experience, “Elektra”
works. As a vulgar, uninhibited addition
to the Royal Ballet repertoire it is wel-
come. As a vehicle for the brilliant per-
formances given by Nadia Nerina as
Elektra and David Blair as Orestes it is
nothing short of perfect. But will it
stand up to any serious analytical criti-
cism once the initial shock has worn off?
CRAIG DODD


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round.
Donations: 169 Elizabeth St. #
Sydney. BM 2001.
THE RED PAGE
The Literary Cannibals
And a few skeletons
By LEONIE KRAMER
Australian Literary Criticism. Edited
by Grahame Johnson. MUP. 355.
(hard cover), 225. 6d. (soft cover).
rPHE main trouble with Australian criti-
cism, as anyone who studies Aus-
tralian literature knows, is that it hardly
exists; and one is constantly astonished
that what is after all a considerable body
of creative writing should have inspired
so little stimulating comment.
Grahame Johnson has adopted a most
sensible scheme for his anthology of
criticism. He has settled on what he
believes to be the “canon” of Australian
writers most worthy of critical comment,
and has then selected an essay on each.
The anthology opens with three general
essays; the remaining thirteen are on
individual authors from Brennan and
Henry Lawson to McAuley and Patrick
White. Professor Johnson has elected,
wisely in my opinion, not to include
criticism in the form of reviews or lec-
tures the one too short, the other
often too discursive for his purpose; and
not to include chapters from books. (The
one exception he makes here is Vincent
Buckley, whose essay on James McAuley
is taken from his “Essays in Poetry”. I
think he would have been wise to make
an exception in favor of A. A. Philips
as well.)
The real question is whether Professor
Johnson has provided us with an accu-
rate picture of Australian criticism. I
believe that he has done so, though in
some respects it is a discouraging picture.
This is in no sense the editor's fault. In
general he has done the best he can with
the material available, and within his self-
imposed limits. Certainly his anthology
will be valuable for many years to come
if for no other reason than that it brings
together essays on major writers; this
in itself lends historical perspective to
the subject of Australian literature. But
the collection also reflects very accurately
the weaknesses of Australian criticism.
Professor Johnson, whether consciously
or not, has uncovered a few skeletons.
One is struck first of all by the small-
ness of our critical world. It is a friendly
world, where everyone knows everyone
else. It is also a world in which the same
people tend to go on talking about “their
subject” and about each other year after
year. One is reminded of A. D. Hope's
description in “Dunciad Minimus” of the
would-be scholars scrambling and fight-
ing for a piece of an author, and defend-
ing their prize against all comers.
That of course happens anywhere. But
I wonder if other literary societies are
quite so inbred as ours. In this anthology,
for example, we have McAuley on Hope,
and Buckley on McAuley. As anyone who
follows Commonwealth Literary Fund
lectures knows, this circular motion con-
tinues from year to year; and it must be
that eventually every major poet and
novelist in the country will have talked on
all his colleagues over the course of a
normal lecturing life. It is a peculiar, one
is tempted to say cannibalistic, process,
and one which must have an inhibiting
effect upon criticism; essays by one writer
upon another inevitably suffer from a
reserve which does not make for live-
liness, nor even for reliability.
This may in part account for the lack
of a sense of excitement and controversy
in these essays, and in Australian
criticism as a whole. Some of the
critical questions raised are invented by
critics as a means of justifying their
writing. They are Aunt Sallys. Sur-
prisingly, many Australian critics follow
the formula of referring to earlier
criticism, often unspecified, and dis-
missing it; or of raising obvious questions
about the nature of their subject. So that
much of their disputation must appear
to be shadow-boxing, with themselves on
occasions as much in the dark as their
opponents. In this anthology there is no
trace of the old chauvinism which for
so long distorted critical perspective,
though the “cultural cringe” is still
detectable in some contributors. But only
from the writer-critics, and then only
sporadically, does one get any sense of
the essentially living and controversial
nature of creative writing. To say this is
not to denigrate the efforts of the
scholars and academics who contribute
to the book. But one must note in their
writing a tendency towards platitudinous
explication and unstimulating comment,
though this of course is an occupational
hazard for an academic.
Finally, I must comment upon the
casual air of much of the criticism in
this collection. Very little Australian
criticism is either stylish or graceful. I
would not wish to substitute the elegant
but vague appreciations of much pre-
Leavis criticism for the sterner essays in
modern evaluation. But surely criticism
can be rigorous without being either dull
or stodgy. Through his own stylistic
clumsiness Leavis has had a bad in-
fluence on his admirers, and even on
those who are not conscious of their
debt to him. I find the self-conscious
colloquialism and artless conversational
manner, especially when they are com-
bined with critical hauteur, as tiresome
as that academic niceness which infects
so many scholars with the disease of
hesitant qualification. To be readable as
well as read is not an unworthy ambition.
I would like to think that one of the
effects of this anthology will be to
stimulate serious and lively controversy
about Australian writing. There is ample
room already for revaluation. H. J.
Oliver’s essay on R. D. Fitz Gerald, for
example, was written in 1954, and in the
last nine years Fitz Gerald’s poetry has
developed in a way that could hardly
have been predicted then. The same
might be said of R. F. Brissenden’s
essay on Judith Wright, now ten years
old; and of Buckley’s essay on “The Tree
of Man ’. Professor Johnson provides ex-
cellent footnotes which contain refer-
ences to later criticism, but these only
serve to underline the fact that some
of the essays are out of date, and to
raise in one's mind doubts about their
permanent value. I would hazard that
some are likely to be replaced entirely,
and to hold in future only minor interest
for scholars and students.
But as Professor Johnson remarks in
his introduction, the greatest need at the
moment is debate about Australian litera-
ture (and about its critics, one might
add). He would surely be gratified if
his anthology were to provoke some
younger and less well-known students
of the subject to imitate and possibly
improve upon their elders.


Have you read these Australian books?
John Knatchbull
by COLIN RODERICK
“A real slice of genuine Australian
history.” {The Sun, Melbourne) Apart
from its historical and psychological
significance and its interest to the
criminologist, this book lays bare the
agony of a human spirit.” (Advertiser,
Adelaide) 30s. (post Is. 3d.)
Desert People
by M. J. M EGG ITT
‘‘lt's a fair assumption that more can
be learnt about aborigines from
Desert People than from any other
book on the subject in recent years.
It is enlightening and thorough.”
(Adelaide News) 525. 6d. (post Is. 3d.)
Charles Harpur: An Australian
by J. NORMINGTON-RAWLING
The story of Australia’s first poet.
“His book is as full of good things
for readers interested in history as
it is for those primarily interested in
literature.” (Sydney Morning Herald)
455. (post Is. 3d.)
The Winning of
Australian Antarctica
by A. GRENFELL PRICE
An account of Mawson’s
B.A.N.Z.A.R.E. Voyages, based on
the Mawson papers. “This hand-
somely produced and well-illustrated
volume performs a valuable and
timely service in setting history
straight.” (The Age, Melbourne)
50s. (post Is. Bd.)
Truant Surgeon
by SIR EARLE PAGE
“One of the great Australians. His
book is written with a cheerful,
chuckling verve that is wonderfully
expressive of the man.” (The Age,
Melbourne) 635. (post Is. Bd.)
The Prose of
Christopher Brennan
edited by A. R. CHISHOLM
and J. J. QUINN
“One of the most important volumes
of Australian writing to appear-for
many years.” (The Age, Melbourne)
455. (post Is. Bd.)
A History of Australia
by MARJORIE BARNARD
A new printing is now available. The
ideal history for students and
general readers. “A notable book of
some 700 pages, dealing in attractive
style with Australian history to the
present day.” (Telegraph, Sydney)
635. (post 2s. 6d.)
Woomera
by IVAN SOUTHALL
“This is Woomera brought knowledge-
ably and enjoyably to the lay reader.”
(Country Life) “Interesting and useful
. . . it is reasonably priced and rep-
resents excellent value for money.”
(Canberra Times)
375. 6d. (post Is. Bd.)
Australian Animals and Birds
by SHEILA HAWKINS
An attractively illustrated volume in
both black and white and colour.
“For anyone aged from 10 to 100.”
(Sydney Morning Herald)
18s. 6d. (post Is. 2d.)
AVAILABLE FROM ALL BOOKSELLERS
PUBLISHED BY
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD
The Sick Playwright
No vomit unturned
By HAL PORTER
Four Plays. Fernando Arrabal. 30s.
rpHESE plays give us a picture of home
life in the most fashionable quarters
of the avant-garde.
In “Orison,” a man and woman
discuss, before the coffin of their child
whom they have murdered, their next
move: to be “good.” No sex. No more
of his undressing her for the carnal use
of his mates. No more poking out dead
people's eyes. Thus self-deprived, they
foresee boredom.
In “The Two Executioners,” a woman
has her husband beaten to death in ear-
shot of her tw'o little sons. Before he
dies, she rubs salt in his wounds, and
scratches them. She convinces the boys
she has behaved correctly.
In “Fando and Lis,” a man wheels
a paralysed woman about in an old
perambulator decorated by a drum, a
fishing-rod. a football and a casserole.
For three men who walk about under
one umbrella, he lifts the woman’s slip
to let them see and fondle her thighs.
He also makes her lie naked all night on
the road for other men to see; when
she gets sick he chains and handcuffs
her, and beats her to death.
In “The Car Cemetery,” junk-heap
cars, curtained with sack-cloth, house
people the audience never sees but who
garrulously bicker and whinge, urinate
in a communal chamber-pot handed in
to them, fornicate several times, and spy
between their curtains with opera-glasses
on another fornication committed on
stage between Dila (Mary Magdalene?)
and Emanou (Christ?), a pullover-knit-
ting murderer who plays Louis Arm-
strong blues on a trumpet. Spreadeagled
on a bicycle, he is wheeled off by an old
woman and her young athlete lover
dressed as policemen, after they have
beaten Emanou to death.
These cut-to-the-bone plot outlines are
presented, not to send Arrabal up, but
to indicate his subject-matter.
I hold th' anything can be theatre.
Arrabal has carte blanche. I also do not
care to assess for others the relative
value of, say, ‘Timon of Athens,”
“Medea,” “The Mask-maker” of Kabuki,
Grand Guignol, or the innumerable plays
dealing with monstrous behavior, or
insanity in any of its test-pattern shades.
Galvanizing theatre often results. Euri-
pides and Shakespeare were no slouches
in the arena of nightmare reality.
Further, I do not even care to weigh
publicly “The Cherry Orchard” against
“Charley’s Aunt.” Chacun tue ses puces
d sa fagon, and there are enough sorts
of audiences to go round. Counting
audience heads is for those who must
draw exhilarating or depressing con-
clusions from totals, whether these be of
the heads of intellectuals, avant-garde
deludees, culture vultures, I-definitely-
know-what-I-likers, or mere hat-pegs.
Arrabal does his sort of audience
proud. In the sick genre he leaves no
vomit unturned. “The Car Cemetery,”
which the blurb calls “a brutal, in-
congruous Passion Play,” supplies a
pander, a harlot, a mute, rock ’n’ roll, a
birth, a death by whipping, acts of
urination, three kinds of fornication
private, public and en masse , voyeurisme,
and continual arch insanities. Arrabal
is a good showman, and a competently
glib writer for those who like their theatre
degenerate and dirty. His moment is
Now. He is too boring to last. He has,
moreover, set too many troublesome


problems of the sort that age producers
of “Peter Pan,” problems of presentation.
This is particularly so in the longer plays,
and makes them theatrically defective.
The go-getting publisher John Calder
-—who else in decadent England?—has
made a pleasant-Zoo/cmg book of the
plays. The 30s. asked will not seem too
much to those alert to the undergraduate
destructiveness of dedicated poseurs, the
amorally child - like non - sequiturs of
insanity, and the elusive shuttlings of
paper-flat shoals of symbols that never
quite break the surface of the shallows.
As an expose of the trite and dramati-
cally leaden being, right now, written by
the right people (undoubtedly!) for the
wrong people, and being published and
praised by the wrong people, this book is
the right one to read. Arrabal is either
as shrewd as a bagful of monkeys or
right around the bend.
I suspect the former, but do not
entirely dismiss the latter. It is obvious
he has a European particularly a
Spanish - French European view of
what makes people tick. Allied to his
own nature, this has bred plays neither
comedy nor tragedy, merely dirty.
The foregoing objectivities, even
though they are undeniable, will be
denied by those incapable of objectivity.
My own view is unimportant and un-
printable. I can only say that I should
prefer a gallery seat at a performance
of the Ku-Klux-Klan to a box at an
Arrabal play that is, in the unlikely
event of my having to make a choice
between two exhibitions of lunacy and
perversion.
The Insignificant Influence of TV
Television and the Australian
Adolescent. W. J. Campbell and
Rosemary Keogh. Angus and
Robertson. 19s. 6d.
person of common sense
knows that people of superior
mental constitutions are bound to find
much of television intellectually be-
neath them. If such innately fortun-
ate people cannot realise this gently
and with good manners, if in their
hearts they despise popular pleasures
and interests, then, of course, they will
be angrily dissatisfied with television.
But it is not really television with
which they are dissatisfied. It is with
people . . ”
SIR ROBERT FRASER.
J'o the rapidly increasing literature of
reasonableness and common sense
about the impact of TV must be added
this slim 150-page volume of Dr W. J.
Campbell (Senior Lecturer in Education
at the University of Sydney). In associa-
tion with Rosemary Keogh, he has writ-
ten a plain, jargon-free account of a
Sydney survey carried out three months
before the regular transmission of tele-
vision programmes began, and again three
years afterwards. Their immediate con-
cern was to find the changes, if any, that
had occurred in adolescent leisure activi-
ties, family relations, neighbourhood rela-
tions and identification with other per-
sons the last being the so-called “ego-
ideal” of the psychologist.
The results were significant: the
changes were insignificant. This tended
to dispel the fears with which so many
people still viewed the advent of tele-
vision.
The vast majority of television viewers,
according to the investigators, seem to
have liked what they saw. There was no
evidence of any great or widespread per-
sonal dissatisfaction with the industry's
performance to date.
Pre-television values in family parti-
cipation, the confiding of adolescents in
their parents and the acceptance by
adolescents of their home standards were
all strengthened considerably. In 1956
the adolescents tended to give high praise
to close family behaviour. In 1959 these
same trends were present in stronger
form.
The authors, however, do not consider
that this change towards greater family
unity is necessarily beneficial to adoles-
cent development. Family unity, they
feel, can be too close and the adolescent
can become too dependent on the home.
This point of view is, of course, open to
argument and, in any case, one upon
which generalization is not valid.
There was a consistent tendency for
adolescents to report a larger number of
"close friends” within the neighbourhood
than had been the case before television.
Neighbourhood values held by adoles-
cents were strengthened appreciably by
the advent of television. In this fact, the
authors see a sound foundation for the
future, through subsequent extensions to
the wider groups of district, state,
nation and mankind. They sensed here
a fostering of greater social responsibility.
In ego-ideals, post-television study
showed a greater enhancement of per-
sonality qualities at the expense of ap-
pearance and possessions. In 1956 the
most admired characteristics of ego-ideals
amongst all groups were personality ones,
such as disposition, character and intel-
lect. Achievement characteristics (phy-
sical, social and cultural) were about
equal with the other attributes (appear-
ance, possessions). In 1959, personality
qualities had forged even further ahead,
achievements had remained much as be-
fore, and other attributes had dropped
substantially.
The book offers not so much a criti-
cism of the present programmes as a
questioning of whether they are the best
that can be expected of the medium. It
does not, however, deny the real and
wholesome pleasure w'hich television
gives to so many people, even in its
present form.
Who or what is really to “blame” if
evenings at home with television are
generally preferred to what other people
insist are more worthwhile ways of
spending time? In any case, there are
at least two factors that determine the
programme we watch the one, the
presence of a television alternative, and
the other, its actual selection by those
who prefer it. A more informative pro-
gramme might reward the mind as well
as salve the conscience—but only if we
looked at it. And the viewer will always
have the final option in the matter. The
audience still maintains the humbug of
a double-standard. It tells you what it
“prefers” and then w'atches something
else.
NEWMAN ROSENTHAL.
Melbourne
Made Me
A Hoax Called Jones. Niall Brennan.
Sheed and Ward. 12s. 6d.
HThis lively Melbourne autobiography
written with ruthless force and few
surplus graces, is hard to “get into’'.
Brennan carries a sizeable Irish chip on
his shoulder which harks back to the ex-
treme sectarian Protestant v. Catholic bit-
terness of half a century and more ago.
He also holds theological beliefs and
makes theological assertions which I
imagine most non-C'atholics and very
many Catholics will find peculiar if not
outright distasteful. I think intending
readers must simply agree to disagree
with Brennan on many things—these are
his beliefs and this is, after all, his
autobiography. If one pauses to
argue mentally with the author along
the way one misses the rewards of
unravelling the main thread of his odyssey
which describes how a potential unhappy
misfit achieved peace, married love and
achievement and made a good life for
his family.
Destined for law, Brennan survived two
turbulent years of University life which
he found enjoyable in one sense, but
deeply traumatic in another, for the co-
educational and disputatious atmosphere
reinforced his merciless sense of sin.
A pacifist by political conviction, he left
the University for the Ministry of War


AUTHORS
invited submit MSS all types (including
Poems) for book publication. Reason-
able terms. STOCKWELL LTD., Ilfra-
combe, England. (Estd. 1898.)
Organisation of Industry and gives a
tuppence-colored and funny account of
his years there that will surely amuse
those of us who temporarily “clerked”
in war-time Government departments.
This interlude delayed his inevitable
period of social rejection-rebellion.
First he attempted to settle his sick
and disorganised soul in a Catholic lay
community typically he sought alle-
giance with a group which was barely
approved by most of the Catholic hier-
archy and his period at Whitlands and
loyalty to its ideals profoundly influenced
his subsequent life.
Next he hoboed about Europe (excel-
lent reading this) and both in London and
Melbourne explored the Bohemian-Beat
hinterlands of conventional society. At
last, in London, he married Elaine whom
he had long loved. Together they adven-
tured poverty-dogged, and eventually re-
turned to Victoria to carve a satisfying
life for themselves and their growing
family out of a run-down small holding
in the hills near Melbourne. True to form
they selected their home and organised
their finances against all well-meant, ex-
pert and prudent advice. The third sec-
tion of the book describing the Brennans’
rural experiences is. the best of the whole.
“A Hoax Called Jones” is a ‘sport”
among autobiographies and may well in-
terest, even inspire, a wide variety of
people for diverse reasons. It is produced
in a clear, attractive and well-bound
paperback.
NANCY KEESING
The Margaret Street Murder
John Knatchbuil. From Quarterdeck
to Gallows. Colin Roderick.
Angus & Robertson. 30s.
|"|n the moonlit midnight of January 6,
1844, John Knatchbuil entered the
shop of a widow in Margaret Street,
Sydney, murdered her with a tomahawk
and rifled her till. He needed the money
to pay for his impending wedding to a
comely young widow of the “servant girl
class” whom he had seduced and whose
little business he probably loved better
than herself.
The heart of Dr Roderick’s book is
50,000 words of autobiography which
Knatchbuil is alleged to have written in
19 days in the condemned cell in Dar-
linghurst Gaol, while under sentence of
death for the murder. He performed this
literary feat amid the preoccupations of
continuous visitors and omnipresent mis-
sionaries engaged in saving his soul.
He appears to have written it in two
different handwritings (one certainly his
own), if one may judge by the facsimiles
of pages from the magnum opus pre-
sented in the book. But if he was not
consistent in his calligraphy, he certainly
was in his unveracity, for his “life” was
a solid pack of lies from beginning to end
intended to excite public sympathy.
He held himself up as a gallant and
much wounded sea-warrior of many a
famous battle, an “injured man” who had
“suffered such persecutions and priva-
tions that the hardest of hearts would
bleed and commiserate with me in my
sufferings.” In fact during 11 years of
naval experience, he had seen shots fired
only twice, according to the record. On
neither occasion had even the ship’s cat
been killed. He was so reliable in his
unreliability that he even got himself
born before his time and married his
father off to a wrong wife.
Dr Roderick does not catalogue his
manuscript in his bibliography. He does
not tell us where it came from or any-
thing about its history, but he says in his
copyright notice that all the rights in the
book are “vested in the author” and
places a meticulous embargo on quota-
tion. How he can hold the copyright of
a manuscript written in 1844 of which he
is not the author (or even the author’s
heir) only he can know.
However, the material which he has
assembled and the pseudo-psychiatric
analyses of Mr Knatchbull’s ego and
motivations, plus reference notes, intro-
ductions and retrospects, is typically his
own; except for the introduction by Dr
John McGeorge who diagnoses Mr
Knatchbuil as suffering from a “socio-
pathic personality disturbance.”
Dr Roderick, whose psychiatric know-
ledge seems to be about on a level with
his professed knowledge of naval his-
tory and custom, thinks Knatchbull’s
“narrative leads to the inference that at
a moment of violent action he has ex-
perienced an emotional caesura, and that
his confused mind expects to discover in
due course that the ‘horrid deed’ be-
longs to the numerous fantasy forma-
tions that have become part and parcel
of his conscious mind.” A more logical
and practical deduction is that he care-
fully planned the robbery as to hour and
venue knowing that he would only have
to deal with a helpless widow in the
lonely midnight hours. And that his
conscious mind told him she was about
to scream for help, whereupon with
cool practicality he hit her with a
tomahawk.
In his anxiety to excuse Knatchbuil,
Dr Roderick shows little sympathy for
Knatchbull’s family; or perhaps he has
not the knowledge to mark the curious
fatality with which the murderer’s crimes
struck at them at vital junctures of their
career. To Dr Roderick Sir Edward
Knatchbuil is just another unkind, snob-
bish Kentish squire who abandoned his
poor young mentally-aiiing brother to his
fate while he himself wallowed in a
“lucrative office.”
Edward Knatchbuil, ninth baronet,
was, in fact, a powerful political figure,
Peel’s “great independent supporter.” Ele
had just attended the historic meeting on
Catholic emancipation in 1823 which
first brought him into political promin-
ence, when his half-brother was sent to
Australia for picking pockets. At the
height of his influence, and the heat of
the Reform Bill and Catholic Emancipa-
tion fight in the early 1830 s, came the
news that John had been sentenced to
death for forgery in Sydney. (This was
commuted.) Came 1844, when his in-
fluence was at its zenith, the news arrived
that John had been hanged ignomini-
ously in Sydney for a horrible murder.
Ele retired from politics, weighed down
by “domestic misfortune”. Parliament
knew him no more.
M. H. ELLIS
Close to the
Bone
Out in the Midday Sun. Boris Guss-
man. Allen and Unwin. 345. 9d.
YI/'e all know that the foreigner is dis-
” liked abroad, that the British are
not especially admired in their former
colonies, but what sort of case exactly
has the local against the foreigner? Boris
Gussman, a sociologist, has sifted through
a vast amount of evidence to draw up a
sort of balance sheet. In reasoned terms
and in the most thorough-going fashion
it condemns the European settler while
at the same time it offers a generous de-
fence of the African. It condemns the
white man of readily aligning himself with
the forces of racial prejudice, it condemns
him of accepting the restrictive practices
that characterise the Central African
scene. And there is little comfort to be
extracted from the author’s belief that
even where good will is shown on both
sides the situation is so intrinsically an-
tagonistic that only impartial supervision
by a body like the United Nations can
make a multi-racial constitution work. It
is not the last word on a depressing sub-
ject but it is brilliantly told and if it goes
close to the bone at times we should be
grateful for the pain it causes.


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Wool Men in a Dither
Ilf hat is afoot in the Australian wool
" industry? Or the question might read
“Who is behind the move for an acquisi-
tion-type wool marketing system? How
serious is the move? What are its chances
of success?
These questions have many industry
observers puzzled at the moment. They
follow a minor rash of daily newspaper
articles of the type journalists call “think-
pieces” and with headings such as “Wool
Auction System may be Scrapped.”
These articles—some at least obviously
based on information not available to
the average woolgrower have caused
consternation in the industry.
Wool buying and broking houses, with
huge sums tied up in the present auction
system of wool marketing, are lamenting:
“If these reports are true, surely we
should be the first to know of any pro-
posed changes in the marketing system?”
And woolgrowers, most of whom have
supported a change to a reserve price
system of wool marketing, are asking:
“Who are these people sabotaging our
efforts?”
The known facts are, broadly, these:
There IS a move for an acquisition-type
marketing system a system which
would lead to the scrapping of the
present auction system.
This move IS winning strong support
in influential quarters, including the
inner executives of some woolgrower
organisations pledged to the support of
alternative systems.
Both national woolgrower organisa-
tions, the Australian Woolgrowers and
Graziers’ Council and the Australian
Wool and Meat Producers’ Federation,
have denied any official knowledge of
the move.
Executives of associations affiliated
with the Federation are hinting openly
that “The Graziers” are behind the move.
The suggestion may be somewhat sus-
pect, however, in view of the long-stand-
ing enmity between the two organisa-
tions.
The Graziers have in the past sup-
ported the present auction system of wool
marketing. If they have changed their
views they have certainly not announced
the change.
And the label “Grazier Plan” could
well be a subtle effort to kill an acquisi-
tion campaign before it gets under way.
In Federation circles anything supported
by “The Graziers” is automatically sus-
pect.
In this case, it is being slyly suggested
that at least some people are urging an
acquisition scheme because they don’t
want what the woolgrower fondly calls
“orderly marketing”.
Nobody has been game yet to state
openly the names of supporters of
acquisition, although some highly-placed
wool industry figures have been men-
tioned.
An active Hamilton woolgrower, Mr
R. P. Rizzo, threw the gauntlet into the
ring at the recent annual conference of
the Victorian Wheat and Woolgrowers’
Association when he claimed in open
debate that some members of the associa-
tion's State executive were going against
association policy and preaching acquisi-
tion.
It was rumored at the time that Mr
Rizzo was ready and willing to follow
up his accusation with a vote of no-con-
fidence in the association’s leadership had
any member of the State executive sought
to defend himself.
As it turned out, three or four speakers
did openly advocate an acquisition-type
marketing system, but the State execu-
tive remained noticably silent.
As a result the conference reaffairmed
its support for a reserve price system,
only eight or nine delegates voting
against the motion. The mere fact that
ANYONE spoke out for acquisition or
against a reserve price scheme was in
itself significant, however.
It has been rumoured in wool circles
in Melbourne that the Australian Wool
Bureau’s publicity staff has been working
for months on a campaign to persuade
woolgrowers that a change in the market-
ing system is needed. If this is true
and it seems unlikely it would be an
extraordinary state of affairs with the
bureau clearly exceeding its authority.
Certainly there has been no sign of such
a campaign being launched.
It would seem that if such a campaign
is planned it will have to be delayed
at least until the new Australian Wool
Board has been fully-constituted and its
marketing committee has considered and
reported upon any possible improvements
in the present marketing system. This is
still many, many months off.
Bid for US Lamb Market
An imaginative plan to link with the
New Zealand lamb producers to
invade the American market has been
put forward by Mr Charles Loneragan.
Mr Loneragan is federal president of the
Australian Society of Breeders of British
Sheep. His property, “The Lagoon,” near
Gulgong, NSW, where he has a South-
down stud, was visited recently by a
party of journalists on a tour sponsored
by the Royal Agricultural Society and
ve Shell Company.
Mr Loneragan believes that the two
keys to unlock the American market are
repeatability of the product and promo-
tion.
“American foodstuffs are sold in sup-
ermarkets,” he said. “Once they accept
a line you must be able to supply it 365
days of the year. They are not interes-
ted in seasonal lines. But America itself
has only 32 million sheep—l could weep
every time I think of it—and this is not
enough with their population to keep up
a continuous supply.
“In fact, there are areas where lamb is
unknown. If we combine with the Am-
erican farmers and the New Zealanders
I believe we should be able to supply the
American market w:th high-quality lamb
12 months of the year.”
Mr Loneragan believes that the fiasco
which ended the previous attempt to in-
vade the American market with lamb was
mainly due to the fact that the meat was
sent at the time of the year when Ameri-
can lamb reached the market. This an-
tagonised the American farmer and upset
the level of supply.
“The American farmer is not conser-
vative,” he said. “He is just plain obstin-
ate.” However, he believes that relations
between US and Australian meat people
are slowly improving.
Mr Loneragan said that the New Zea-
land Meat Producers Board had “plenty
of money in the kitty” for promotion.
“And they are good meat salesmen,” he
added. ‘lf we can get them interested
in a scheme like this I am sure we can
pull it off.”
Mr Loneragan says that any attempt
by the chain stores to sell cut-price red
meat as a “get in” line for customers will
have to be fought on a national level.
"The chain stores did that with poultry
and it knocked the bottom out of the
broiler industry,” he said.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
Who has Money to Invest?
THERE was no obvious scramble by investors to buy in-
dustrials last week following the cut in interest rates.
A ripple was discernible, certainly, with a touch of
buying support here and there. But no real spark of
enthusiasm.
An interesting reaction was that bond buyers, convinced
that the 5 p.c. coupon rate for longer term bonds would no
longer apply to new cash loans, forced prices higher on an
already buoyant market. Redemption yields thus fell to around
41 p.c.
Not only were the institutions and superannuation funds
hastening to buy bonds to satisfy their 30/20 ratio. There
also was plenty of institutional buying from those who con-
sidered it wise to obtain far more than their quota if the
long term rate was going to settle below 5 p.c.
The scurrying into bonds suggests less active support at
a later date and possibly a more sedate re-entry into industrials.
A not uncommon attitude is that there is no justification for
a sharp rise in share prices. Company results still reflect past
difficulties and there is unlikely to be a dramatic overnight
change in company profitability.
And, as one broker put it: “Who has the money to invest?”
Obviously the money is available in the savings banks, on
fixed deposit, and from the regular income of life offices.
But the business income tax payment season, loss of confidence
from debenture losses, and a vital preoccupation with bond
investments all help to divert attention from the equity mar-
ket . . . for the time being.
The cut in bank overdraft rate will take some time to
percolate. The trading banks are implementing the new rates
when assessing loan applications, but it must take a while
before the cash seeps through the pipeline.
Prospective investors with plenty of cash are not com-
pletely convinced they should put it into the share market
(“Lost confidence,” “False start last year”). And others, al-
ready committed to shares bought at higher prices (including
many millions siphoned off into oil shares) are sitting tight
and nursing their paper losses.
Some are nibbling. But no broker reports a surge of
clamoring investors breaking down his door in a frantic rush
to buy. It is just as well. A sedate, progressive rise in the
share market in the next 12 months would be preferable to
a sharp gain followed by an inevitable reaction.
THE COST OF US
FOREIGN AID
The cost of America’s foreign aid looks like an annual
premium for a whole-of-life assurance policy on a death-
less tape-worm. Its voracious appetite increases each
year. So it seems after reading a report of the Clay commit-
tee against a background of declining gold reserves and a
punishing US Budget.
How much is 100 billion dollars? Roughly it is worth
£44,640 million or li times Australia’s national income
of £5,932 m. in 1961-62. That’s how much the US spent on
foreign aid in 16 years since the end of World War II —71-
times Australia’s national income. A total of 66.6 billion
dollars went on economic aid and 31 billion on foreign military
aid.
Is it any wonder the US Congress is becoming a little restive
at getting what it considers to be an adequate return for its
money? The Americans are in a pruning mood, and General
Lucius Clay (not the boxer) is having a tough fight to help
J.F.K. ward off the sharp thrusts of pruning shears aimed by
Congressmen.
Strangely enough, General Clay is on President Kennedy’s
side, even though he also is recommending cuts in foreign aid.
General Clay, chairman of a special committee set up last
December by President Kennedy to investigate foreign aid
commitments, has Mr Eugene Black, former president of the
World Bank, on the committee with him. They operate under
the colorful title of Committee to Strengthen the Security of
the Free World.
HThe Clay committee is composed mainly of Republicans and
A other conservatives. In essence, it defends foreign aid as
essential. It also provides the President with what is described
as an independent opinion against the demands of the sub-
committee of the House of Representatives, which wants to
slash foreign aid to 2\ billion dollars this year.
General Clay’s committee suggested relatively minor cuts
and said that US foreign aid was trying to do too much for
too many too soon. Although admitting that the US was
“under-compensated” for its foreign aid programme, the Clay
committee agreed that foreign aid must be continued.
The Indonesians have been told to tidy up their housekeep-
ing and to refrain from international adventures. The Ameri-
cans undoubtedly are irritated by Indonesia’s failure to show
results and they see little prospect of Indonesia’s ability to
repay the 235 million dollar grants or loans which US econ-
omists recommended in the Humphrey Report as minimum aid
requirements in the next five years. This excludes a further
125 million to 155 million dollars in foreign exchange loans
required to be raised with US support.
Indonesia’s desperate need of foreign exchange prompted
its demand for an 82 million dollar loan from the International
Monetary Fund, but Washington observers say it seems unlikely
that Indonesia could fulfil the strict requirements laid down by
the IMF.
The unfortunate conclusion now emerging from investiga-
tions of foreign aid is that the dollars intended to raise stand-
ards of living have been absorbed instead by the tremendous
population growth. This growth has been stimulated by foreign
aid, but the dollars have not necessarily raised living standards,


except perhaps for various officials who delight in riding
around in a Mercedes-Benz automobile.
The Clay report paints an uncomfortable picture by indicat-
ing that the US has been given promises instead of performance
and has yielded to various forms of political blackmail, notably
the threat of alternative Communist aid. The report suggests
that nations such as Italy, UK, Canada, Germany, France and
Japan should be asked to shoulder a large share of the burden
to underdeveloped countries.
The theme running through the report is one of entire dis-
satisfaction with a system which pours money into so many
countries without any obvious recompense, a system where
millions of dollars and men are required to maintain military
bases in readiness for an indefinite period.
It is a report of grievance and necessary futility.
CANADA’S HEAVY
DOLLAR BORROWING
HThere are some silver linings in the heavy drain on the US
A balance of payments. The flight of the US dollar abroad
does not mean in all cases that the eagle will fail to return.
A popular flight is into a neighbor’s backyard . . . across
the border to Canada. The Canadian neighbor, with 8.3 p.c.
of the work force unemployed early this year, is borrowing
heavily from the USA.
An indication of the size of this borrowing is the 300 million
dollars obtained by Quebec Hydro-Electric Commission from
US insurance companies. The loan is to be spread over 15
months to lighten the burden on Uncle Sam’s balance of pay-
ments.
Even so, with other heavy Canadian borrowings, the US
deficit for the first quarter of 1963 is expected to be around
700 million dollars.
The loans will be repaid, of course. But the book-keeping
entries will show a heavy addition to Canada’s overseas reserv-
es and a sharp depletion in the US balance of payments.
All of which goes to show the tricky elements involved in
balance-of-payments assessments. There are other elements, of
course, which are not so easily explained away, and J.F.K. is
having his troubles in trying to block the heavy outflow of
dollars, some of which will never return.
OIL PROFITS ARE
DWINDLING
world constantly is being told about the world surplus
of crude oil. But the changing face of politics in various
oil-bearing countries is providing its share of problems for
the oil barons. They must invest huge amounts of capital to
develop a possible field without any guarantee that they will
be permitted to enjoy the profits. The government with whom
they negotiate today may not be around when ,oil is flowing.
Cost of financing, drilling, transporting and marketing of
oil also has undergone a subtle change, with the areas of
importance shifting from the western to the eastern hemisphere,
where production rose last year by 13 p.c. against the West’s
5 p.c.
Oil production figures quoted for areas outside the Com-
munist bloc improved by about 90m. tons to I,ooom. tons
in 1962, with more than half the world’s oil-refining capacity
now in the eastern hemisphere.
In the petrochemicals arena, it was reported recently that
177 new plants are planned or being constructed in the eastern
hemisphere compared with only 119 in the western hemisphere.
The reason, of course, is the higher rate of return on capital
investment. American oil companies, for example, show an
average return of only 8.6 p.c. on capital investment in the
US (where a quota system is imposed) compared with 13.3 p.c.
on their foreign holdings.
Australian returns, if brought to the ofl producing stage, are
expected to be more favorable than the US pattern, provided
the cost of transportation does not get out of hand with oil
discovered in remote areas.
The search for oil in Australia could get greater impetus
if eastern oil-producing countries continue to demand a bigger
cut from oil extracted from their territories.
An example of how costs, including royalties, have jumped
in recent years is indicated by the fact that foreign earnings of
six American oil majors dropped by more than half in five
years to 1961.
Returns from the East are still more profitable than back in
the States, but they are dwindling rapidly as more hands are
extended for a rake-off from the black gold. No one is shed-
ding tears for the oil companies. The image of oil millionaires
dies too hard.
But the profit margins obviously must be shrinking if the
published returns of 8.6 p.c. (in the US) and 13.3 p.c. (over-
seas) are true. The situation is even more startling when it is
realised that the money needed by the oil industry each year for
new capital outlays is claimed to be equal to the total funds
raised on all the capital markets of Europe, Canada and the
US.
UNILEVER OPENS
ITS OYSTER
As expected, a pearl of shining beauty has been revealed by
opening Unilever’s oyster for public view. But neither
last year’s records for turnover (£29.2 million) and net profit
(£1,472,000), nor shareholders’ funds of £16.6 million as at
December 31 last, are as stunning as might have been thought
in the case of the biggest soap and detergent seller here.
After Nestle’s, it is the leading purveyor of food in Aus-
tralia. Take out confectionery and Unilever is the bigger. It
has about 200 lines going into the shops. But in sheer size
it is certainly no GM-H; nor is it anything like as expensive
in dividend remittances to its parent overseas (Unilever Ltd
in the UK) which wholly owns it.
Unilever says it has on average ploughed back into the
business about 75 p.c. of its profits over the years, but
remittances of profits from operations last year will take more
than 50 p.c. of the £1,472,000 declared profit. That, how-
ever, looks a rather conservative declaration in the light of
the taxation figure of £1,058,000.
This figure suggests that the group is depreciating its assets
on a rather higher scale than normal depreciation allowances.
Whether the difference would be made up from investment
allowances is a moot point, but a director told The Bulletin
that capital expenditure of the group was running at some-
thing like £2.3 million a year; so that could be the case. At
any rate, he explained that all the group’s current expansion
was being financed from internal resources, none of the
capital involved emanating from overseas.
The modesty of the 5 p.c. dividend payment for 1962
is shown correct relief only against the background of ' he
formation of the holding company last year. This operation
capitalised most of the accumulated reserves, leaving it
December 31, 1962, reserves of only £1,746,000 compared
with an issued capital of £ls million.
Directors are at pains to explain that the group is more
than prepared to fit into any ideas the Government might
have to oblige overseas firms operating here to let Australian
investors into the equity of their business. However, this is
out for Unilever at present, because it is only one of many
international groups in the same lines of business. Full dis-
closure of its affairs, as would be necessary for a listed public
company, would be impossible unless its competitors were in
the same boat.
Some thought has been given, also, to the listing of the


COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
«.
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capita-1.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or brea-kdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
parent company’s (Unilever Ltd) shares
on Australian stock exchanges. But it
now seems that this is not imminent.
What is apparent, however, is that
Unilever is sympathetic towards the idea
of getting closer to the Australian public
financialwise as well as marketwise
(though it couldn’t be much closer on
the last count).
Be that as it may, the group’s Aus-
tralian activities are clearly an indis-
pensable part of the local economy, not
only because of its 5000 employees, but
also because £l3 million was spent last
year by the group in purchasing Aus-
tralian raw materials and supplies used
in the manufacture of its products,
nearly all of which were sold locally.
FINDING THE MONEY
FOR ROADS
all the urgency of improving
country (not to speak of metropoli-
tan) roads in Australia, the provision of
additional funds for this through higher
petrol tax has to be examined very criti-
cally. Particularly does this apply in a
country where transport costs account
for a disproportionate part of manufac-
turing costs and where the difference be-
tween manufacturing prices and retail
prices is about the highest in the world.
Yet there is a deal of difference be-
tween what the latest report of Victoria’s
Country Roads Board says on this and
what the Leader of the Federal Country
Party (Mr McEwen) told the annual
conference of the Victorian CP at Lakes
Entrance.
The CRB wants sixpence a gallon to
be levied on all petrol sales irrespective
of town or country. Mr McEwen wants
country people to pay less and cityites
to pay more. In other words, to reduce
price differentials arising from transport
costs to depots away from the seaboard
and refineries. (This line has no appeal
at all to the petrol marketing companies).
Maybe the CRB has given up any
hope of political or any other pressure
to get more money for its roads by
higher allocations of Federal Aid Road
Grants. The Federal Government long
ago gave away the idea that such grants
should be related to amounts collected
from excise duties on petrol or from any
imposition on motorised transport.
But the general public certainly would
prefer that extra funds be tapped from
this source rather than increase the petrol
tax itself. The addition of one-third of
a penny a mile on the average cost of
motoring entailed by an increase of six-
pence in petrol tax looks small enough
when said quickly. But you start stam-
mering on long trips.
POPULARISING THE
COMPUTER
nnHOUGH theirs is a small minority op-
inion some people were saying at
the commissioning of the new computer
at the Royal Melbourne Institute of Tech-
nology that employment problems lay
ahead for the massive numbers now re-
ceiving technological training at Victor-
ian technical schools.
The Victorian Premier (Mr Bolte), who
performed the official act, himself poured
cold water on the idea that fewer people
would be needed by industry as automa-
tion advanced, but at any rate it seems
that many more students will learn to
operate this particular computer an
Elliott 803 than will ever have the
chance to use one, for of the new 22,000
students who enrol each year at the In-
stitute almost half will be put through a
course of training with the computer.
Though this is only the third Elliott
computer ordered in Australia —which
isn’t bad going since the Computing Ser-
vices of Elliott Automation Pty Ltd have
been operating here for only four months
its establishment at the RMIT is
unique in more ways than one.
For instance, the company is under-
writing 30 p.c. of the cost itself; the
Institute h putting up the rest of the
£lOO,OOO needed without extra recourse
to the Victorian Education Department.
The computer will be staffed by El-
liott people and hired out commercially
at an estimated cost of £5 per hour
computing time in all but peak hours, as
well as being used for training purposes.
The hiring charges have been kept low
by the simple expediency of hirers using
the machine themselves. The user will
not necessarily have to pay for the serv-
ices of the employees at the centre, which
incidentally is destined to be the first in
a nationwide network of Elliott NRC
centres, one for each capital city.
Talking to executives of several com-
panies at the commissioning, The Bul-
letin got the impression that most of
them were sweating on the idea of buying
computers, and were interested in at-
tending courses in computer appreciation
for “top management” at the Centre. A
layman’s hearing of some of the claims
for speed advanced for the computer
left no doubt that many of the compan-
ies would have one before long; though
Mr Bolte wanted to banish the thought
of, say, Sir Robert Menzies and Mr Cal-
well spilling 10,000 vords a minute at
each other. “The problems would be so
greatly magnified,” he said.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Industry’s Growing-up Pains
A United States survey of the Aus-
tralian economy last week pointed
to the smallness of the Australian
market as a limiting factor in the fore-
seeable growth of the manufacturing
sector of the economy. This is also high-
lighted in the recently published studies
by university economists in the Econom-
ics of Australian Industry.
The corollary of this disadvantage is
that an investment boom actively ferti-
lised by overseas capital with the aim
of securing shares of the limited home
market is liable to be followed by a
long period of investment stagnation.
This period would tend to be pro-
longed in the event of one of the condi-
tions, such as import restrictions, which
prompted much of the overseas invest-
ment in the 19505, being withdrawn.
Without a stimulus from an extension of
the market, this could give rise to a
chronic surplus of capacity.
That would seem to be a reasonable
interpretation of the current inability of
fixed private investment to get off the
ground for all the efforts to stimulate
local consumption and to increase sales
of manufactured goods in overseas
markets. But, of course, it isn’t a
complete explanation, if only because in-
vestment in fixed capital equipment has
also been strongly retarded by high
interest rates. (There is a satisfactory
break in the clouds in this direction
brought about by the cuts in bank
advances and deposit rates on March 29.)
Tn 1958 the Department of Trade esti-
mated that about three-quarters of the
overseas-dominated industries had sur-
plus capacity varying from 20 to 50 p.c.
And Professor Hunter thinks that during
1960-61 some, such as the paint, rubber
tyres, heavy chemicals, motor vehicles
and electrical appliances, must have had
more than 50 p.c. overcapacity.
True enough, a lot of the slack in
capacity has been taken up in the re-
covery over the last year or more,
particularly in the motor industry. But
the general impression given by recent
surveys—such as that undertaken every
four months by the Bank of New South
Wales and the Chamber of Manufactures
—is that surplus capacity has become the
chronic condition in many industries.
Roughly three out of five companies
surveyed in March reported they were
working at under capacity. This was
about the same proportion as four
months earlier.
It seems then that while, as Hunter
says, the surplus capacity represents a
hidden reserve power for Australian in-
dustry until it can be taken up by an
extension of the market, it will continue
to act as a brake on new capital invest-
ment and on economic buoyancy gener-
ally. Moreover, for the individual firms
with overcapacity it has to be carried
as a burden on productivity and profits,
some of which is bound to rub off on
their pricing to the detriment of the
public.
All this may be a direct result of
over-estimation of the possibilities for
the extension of the home market some
years ago, when the tendency was to
think import restrictions would become
a permanent part of the economic
framework and that immigration would
go higher and higher from year to year.
We now know that such expectations
were unrealistic; that thinking must take
note of the economic climate, and that
even in a protectionist country like this
one, import restriction can become a
nasty phrase.
HThere is a tendency in some quarters to
-*■ think that Australian manufacturing
industry must await a bound into export
markets before its present chronic inabil-
ity to rid itself of overcapacity can be
surmounted.
The record in this direction is not
terribly impressive so far, though some
progress has been made in the last year
or so, despite that no break-through has
yet occurred on the important subject of
franchises.
However, the most successful export-
ing countries know that to achieve the
necessary competitiveness in export
markets a big home market is a pre-
requisite, since volume production is
essential to achieve economies of scale.
This is one of many reasons which
should compel this country to step up
immigration at a rate consistent with
assimilation capacity. It may not be
possible to achieve the necessary
numbers without some attrition in living
standards for the present population,
though even with a bit of a squeeze in
the standard of living (which few ap-
pear to think either necessary or possible)
it is going to be a slow process.
Meantime, we have to face up to the
fact that in the export field our main
competitors are not only well entrenched
but have massive home maikets behind
them. Countries like the US, Britain,
France, Germany, Holland, Italy and
Japan have been highly industrialised
for three or four times as long as Aus-
tralia, says Hunter, and have acquired
integrated structures containing most of
the experience and technology and degree
of specialisation in manufacturing which
Australia is still in the process of secur-
ing at second hand. In addition, they
all have larger industrial structures and
are made much larger than they appear
to be from population size by reason of
their substantial export markets.
TTnlike, say, AIDA, Hunter doesn’t
think the performance of Australian
dustry in the marvellous fifties was very
much to write home about. “Manufac-
turing,” he says, “has performed only
passably since World War II despite a
number of special advantages in the
circumstances of industrialisation.”
He thinks some of the weakness is
due to inherently difficult physical and
institutional circumstances, such as the
fragmentation of the Australian economy
over the six States and the distance
problem. “Outside minerals,” he says,
“the raw material and climatic endow-
ment of Australia are markedly in-
different especially in the important
chemicals field.” But he says that most
of the indifferent performance is a func-
tion of that particular stage of economic
development which the economy is at
present going through. “On reflection
the deficiencies are no more than can be
expected of any industrial infant.”
Looking ahead, he thinks it unlikely
that Australian industry will catch up
with, say, Holland, a country of about
11 million people, in terms of produc-
tivity per man hour or industrial pro-
duction within the next 20 years.
This is a very sobering, realistic
thought But, within 20 years, given a
30-40 p.c. increase in population and
further specialisation, technological
development and integration, he thinks
Australian industry will have travelled a
long way.
Aust. - US Joint Venture
/General Aluminium Corporation, of
" Woburn, Massachusetts, manufac-
turers of aluminium sliding windows and
doors and allied products in the build-
ing field, is interested in negotiating with
small or medium size firms in Australia
that might be interested in building a
prototype plant similar to theirs in the
United States but on a smaller scale.
This plant could either be a direct
purchase by the Australian firm selected
or a joint venture.


Wffl.
il|gg|||
mGDO
£&anp*
/ i :
s fACiPp
■o&Jk^y;
L;^uanpX
ANc P^ , l™'>*
t
t
£
fine Australian
pot-still
THREE STAR
Distinctive in flavour and bouquet
OLD LIQUEUR
A superb quality Liqueur Brandy
iINTI
T
BRANDY
“CROESUS”
Sir Roland’s Errand
Getting away from the Canberra
treadmill to negotiate a new loan in
Wall Street or Washington must
always be a welcome relief for the Secre-
tary to the Treasury. Just now, however,
with his bulging swag of local loan money,
overseas reserves at well over the equiva-
lent value of six months imports at the
latest monthly rate, a buoyant wool
market and a very healthy trend in capi-
tal inflow, the question may be asked
whether Mr Holt hasn’t sent Sir Roland
on an unnecessary errand.
The hard dollars Sir Roland is seek-
ing (30 million at 5} p.c.) have a parti-
cular attraction just now as an offset to
the murmurs about devaluating sterling,
particularly as the bulk of our overseas
reserves are held in sterling.
The noises of Britain’s 700,000 unem-
ployed must be calculated to pressurise
the UK Government to take drastic ec-
onomic action in some direction addi-
tional to the “free” depreciation pro-
visions and other tax cuts in the Budget.
The anxiety of the British authorities
already has been brought into the open
by official steps to increase discount rates
in the money market. This move makes
our holding of sterling more attractive
without loading the economy in general
with higher interest rates via an increase
in the Bank Rate itself.
A ustralia has to recognise that in the
event of a devaluation of sterling the
international purchasing power of its
overseas reserves would be lowered sub-
stantially in dollar and other non-sterling
currency terms.
The potential effect of this has been
increased in recent years by the bigger
proportion of Australian imports coming
from non-sterling sources. Under import
restrictions here in 1957 43.5 p.c. of
Australian imports came from non-sterl-
ing countries, whereas last year the per-
centage had risen to 56.4. So, even dis-
counting the fact that a lot of trade with
non-sterling countries is financed with
sterling, the effect of a devaluation of
sterling on the purchasing power of our
overseas funds would be very consider-
able.
In the context of the current dollar
loan, too much should not be made of
the Treasurer’s sufficiency of funds from
the local loan market Though it will put
the Treasurer in an even more secure
position to finance public works from loan
raisings and so further ease his demands
on the local capital market, overseas loans
have a significance of their own as com-
ponents of the Government’s overall loan
raising. For instance, in allowing expen-
diture overseas on capital account to be
made without impinging on overseas
funds, they increase the amount of dev-
elopment that can be done without weak-
ening the balance of payments position.
Asa general policy Australia should
contrive to borrow overseas when its
balance of payments position is secure
rather than wait for an emergency. This
policy is appropriate both to the long term
development requirement and to the bal-
ance of payments. Possibly the case for
it has weakened a little in the last few
years, during which apparent private
capital inflow has been lifted to unfore-
seen heights and somewhat surprisingly
has been maintained there despite the
relapse in the economy in 1960.
On the other hand, it can be argued
that while private capital inflow at some-
thing like the current rate has a healthy
appearance of permanency, the feeling
exists that the tap could be turned off
without much notice. In view of our
heavy reliance on it in recent years,
when much more often than not we have
been in heavy deficit on the current
account balance of payments, it would
put us very much out on a limb on ex-
ternal account.
Mainly for this reason it is difficult
to go along with the ideas of Mr E. L.
Wheelwright and others who say that
Australia has less need of overseas capi-
tal than previously. They argue that, with
a little domestic innovation and ingenuity
in the manipulation of our balance of
payments, we could find most of the
foreign exchange resources for future
development.
Admittedly, Mr Wheelwright’s target is
mainly to cut back direct overseas pri-
vate investment with a view, inter alia,
to lessen overseas influence on the ec-
onomy, because he does allow for some
recourse to Government overseas borrow-
ings in his argument. However the lat-
ter seems to leave overseas loans as a
residual in our capital inflow require-
ments, whereas it would be preferable for
them to be sought as a positive element
as a matter of long term policy.
Of course, a cost to the Government
is involved in this policy. It cannot be
expected that the interest earned on the
short term employment of the funds
borrowed overseas would compensate for
the long term interest charges incurred
by such borrowing. But the net cost
would be small compared with the ad-
vantages in galvanising the balance of
payments and securing the uninterrupted
progress of development. Moreover, the
net cost of holding surplus borrowed cap-
ital funds overseas has to be considered
in relation to the overall earnings of our
overseas funds, so its significance is
thereby minimised.


BOOK REVIEW
Foreign Fingers in the Industrial Pie
Whether we like it or not, the
pervasiveness of overseas con-
trol in our industrial structure
is an undisputed fact.
According to a series of studies on
industry undertaken by a number of
university economists and edited by
Professor Alex Hunter, of the University
of NSW, in The Economics of Austra-
lian Industry, about one-third of manu-
facturing industry is owned abroad.
Roughly two-thirds of this proportion is
British and 27 p.c. American. The book
draws the conclusion that, given these
proportions owned, then the area of con-
trol must be considerably greater because
ownership of much less than half the
equity of a company can give control.
Latest profit figures of General Motors-
Holden’s (wholly owned by General
Motors Corporation, USA), and the likely
dividend remittances made by the com-
pany since 1959, once again illustrate
the grip overseas firms have on the Aus-
tralian motor industry.
The same applies to industrial and
heavy chemicals, petroleum products and
aluminium. As well as predominantly
owning these big industries, overseas
interests control most of several smaller
industries such as tobacco, paint, soap
and industrial gases.
/Overseas interests also predominate in
other groups which have a fair
mixture of Australian ownership
rubber, ferrous pipes and tubes, the pro-
cessing of lead, zinc and copper, radio
and television manufacture, cotton and
the spinning and weaving of synthetics.
Elsewhere in the structure the over-
seas component is smaller but still
markedly significant, as in electric wires
and cables, pharmaceuticals, office
machinery, agricultural machinery, in-
dustrial equipment and certain lines of
food processing.
Indeed, foreign fingers are in so many
Australian industrial pies that it is much
simpler to name the few of our major
industries that are mostly Australian-
owned—steel, paper, cement, glass and
sugar refining. Of these only steel is
comparable in economic importance to,
say, chemicals, motors and electrical
products.
Now this inescapable fact has often
enough boiled the blood of many a
supra-nationalist and of quite a few in
the financial and political fraternities.
But Professor Hunter is not in the mood
for recriminations. Nor, surprisingly
enough, is Mr E. L. Wheelwright, one of
the contributors to the book, even if
both think it is time to redress the bias
of ownership more in favor of Aus-
tralians.
To start with, Professor Hunter doesn’t
find it remarkable that a large part of
industry here remains substantially an
offshoot of British, American and Euro-
pean industry. Thus when the relatively
short history of Australian manufacture
is kept in mind, its derivative character-
istic “is not unexpected” and is “quite
probably an inevitable accompaniment
of rapid industrialisation.”
Furthermore, he doesn’t underrate
what might be termed the impelling in-
fluence of overseas investment on in-
dustrial and also general economic
development here over the years. He
sees this as operating strongly through
both product and process innovations—
that is, the successful introduction of new
products, processes and organisation
which are acknowledged to be the main
source of growth of the national product.
In fact “the relatively high rate of
growth of industrial production Austra-
lia has experienced over the past decade
stems chiefly from new materials, pro-
ducts and techniques, etc., which have
arrived on the scene.”
There is plenty of evidence on these
points. For instance, an examination
of 903 chemical and engineering firms
revealed that the 192 with overseas links
of ownership and of a technical char-
acter were responsible for 54 p.c. of
the new products introduced by the
sample into Australia during 1939-53.
And when these firms were graded ac-
cording to innovating status (a “major
innovator” being a firm responsible for
innovations leading to at least £ 1 mil-
lion investment) it was found that 83
p.c. of the major innovations had over-
seas connections.
HThe book provides similar results for
A years after 1953, notably in the case of
agricultural implements, heavy chemicals,
new plastic materials, rubber chemicals,
insecticides, basic organic chemicals,
solvents, paint bases, pigments, new
electronic products, motor vehicles,
petroleum products and so on.
Equally with processes and organisa-
tion. Wheelwright shows that since
1945 more than one-third of process
innovation here was introduced as a com-
ponent of the direct investment of over-
seas firms taking the form, for example,
of new machining, foundry and assembly
techniques in the motor industry, new
chemical processes, new refining tech-
niques, new electronics components and
assembly of radio and television equip-
ment. In many cases significant innova-
tions in distribution and marketing tech-
niques would be introduced at the same
time.
In fact, Wheelwright thinks that the
proportion is probably much greater than
one-third because not all innovations
arrive pre-packed in direct investment
form. Many firms, Australian and over-
seas owned, make extensive use of foreign
licences to build equipment here. Many
managerial and marketing innovations
percolate from abroad via trade literature
and specialised consultants. Also the
traffic between Australia and overseas
countries of our industrialists seeking
ideas on production layout and man-
agerial expertise is very heavy.
HThus, counting past blessings from
overseas investment and the flow of
imported innovations, the book examines
closely the economic balance of advan-
tage in capital inflow. It states the deri-
vative industrial structure may acquire
its progress cheaply in the financial
sense, but there are other costs which, by
a value-judgment of society, yet may
make the price of this progress too
great.
“Overseas ownership is the focus for
most of these dissatisfactions. Overseas
ownership means the remittance of divid-
ends overseas. So far this has been more
than balanced by the inflow of capital
funds.” But, as Wheelwright points out,
the net gain in foreign currency is no
more than 3 p.c. of the value of our
exports. A much more important con-
sideration is that the wrong combination
of outflow and inflow of funds could
conceivably make the balance of pay-
ments very vulnerable indeed.
Mr Wheelwright, in one of the most
closely argued chapters in this worth-
while publication, for once is at pains to
shun extremist comment, preferring to
let bygones be bygones. “It is now pos-
sible to argue,” he says, “that Australia
has less need of foreign capital than
formerly, and that a little domestic in-
novation and ingenuity in the manipula-
tion of the balance of payments could
provide most of the necessary foreign
exchange resources for future develop-
ment, supplemented if necessary by loan
capital.”
“If this is so,” he argues, “then inter-
nal measures, which might conceivably
reduce further inflows, such as legislation
to require more Australian equity parti-
cipation, overhaul of double taxation
agreements and a more discriminatory
attitude towards the inflow, could be con-
templated with equanimity.”
J. C. HORSFALL


Wilson the Producer, Coombs the Star
Ir may be fun for financial commen-
tators to drive their imaginary wedges
between the Reserve Bank and the
Treasury, but it would be absurd if, in
fact, there was not the closest co-ordina-
tion by these two authorities in
implementing a common monetary
policy or if, indeed, fiscal policy was not
attuned to their several actions in the
strictly monetary field.
Yet the suggestion has been made
that, in the recent reductions in bank
rates, Dr Coombs has shown himself to
be the essence of enlightenment while
Sir Roland Wilson has been dragging
his feet by not leading the way to lower
interest rates through a reduction in the
long-term bond rate.
Whatever good reasons they may have
had for being so slow to recognise the
impelling need for lower interest rates,
co-ordination of their various actions is
the very essence of monetary manage-
ment.
Financial critics of the Common-
wealth Government warned of all sorts
of financial explosions when the recovery
was moving rapidly in the middle of
1962. And were not leading financiers
warning that there would be a massive
swing out of bonds into equities even as
late as the Budget last year?
There may have been differences of
opinion between the Reserve Bank and
the Treasury in the necessity for a break
from the unsuccessful policy of achieving
the necessary degree of interest rate
reduction through the pressure of sheer
liquidity in the system. But it makes
good sense that the embarrassment of
the huge oversubscription to the Febru-
ary loan drove both to the recognition
that a change in policy was needed.
Asa matter of fact, while it was Dr
Coombs who actually cracked the
formal ice in cutting bank advances and
deposits rates, it was really the Treasury’s
decision to refrain from issuing a cash
loan in May that sparked off the recent
increase in the purchase of bonds.
Market yields thus were forced lower, a
movement which, of course, has been
accelerated following the signal from
Dr Coombs and the increased expecta-
tions that the Conversion Loan in May
will carry lower coupons for whatever
periods its replacement stocks are
designated.
If, apart from its belatedness, there
can be any legitimate complaint about
the timing of these moves, it is surely
that by not cutting bond rate as the first
step a golden opportunity was lost to
make the maximum psychological impact
on business.
Letting bygones be bygones, the
formal breach in interest rates via Dr
Coombs looks the more appropriate
with some months still to go before the
next cash loan is made by the Treasury.
Indeed, it could be argued that action
on bank overdraft rates these days is just
as effective as a bond rate change in
stimulating business expectations; possibly
more so, given the current strength of
the cautionary motive which is still
dictating predilections for high liquidity.
At any rate the complex of moves in
the interest rate field certainly puts
equities a little more in the investment
picture and the market has been reflect-
ing this, even if somewhat timidly.
Brederos and Lend Lease
"Drederos Construction Co Ltd has
** reduced its holding in the Aus-
tralian building company Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd from 21 p.c. to 1 H p.c.
In the process the Dutch Company
strengthened its visible reserves by
1,500,000 florins (approximately
£187,500).
This apparent loss of interest may
represent only a decision not to take
up the rights to last September’s one-
for-four issue, plus the growth in Lend
Lease capital by takeovers.
A spokesman for Lend Lease said he
was not aware of any actual disposal
of shares by Brederos, whose share-
holding was held by nominees of sub-
sidiary companies.
It is believed that more Lend Lease
shares have gone to local and overseas
institutions a stabilising influence
on the market for the shares.
The only large sellers known to the
broking house associated with the com-
pany are some persons who became
shareholders by takeover.
The recent retreat from a high of
14s. lOd. this year to 11s. 9d. by the
end of February (since recovered to
12s. 5d.) is more the result of the mar-
ket’s tardy realisation of lower activity
in the building industry.
The market was ready to recognise
this in assessing other companies, but
hoped for some magic protection for
Lend Lease.
Cleckheaton’s Surprise Offer
HThe recent offer by Cleckheaton
A (Yorkshire) Ltd, Victorian worsted
spinner with plants at Shepparton, Tat-
ura, Coburg and Collingwood to buy for
<£430,000 cash all the preference shares
in Lincoln Mills which it took over on a
one-for-five share exchange basis last
the world of business
"One thing anyway, by the time we're rescued the old port-
folio will be really bursting with surplus funds! Just think
of them—Reid Murrey, Lotec, Factors! Stanhill Consolidated
all growing, developing."


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
Australian Equity Corporation Ltd is engaged in Commercial and Industrial Finance
including Hire Purchase, mortgages, leasing, bills of sale, discounting and bulk finance.
A NEW ISSUE AT PAR OF £250,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8'
P.A. 5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
8
P.A. 5 YEARS
4 YRS.
7i% P.A.
3 YRS.
71% P.A.
2YRS.
17% P.A.
4 YRS.
8% P.A.
3 YRS.
7i% P.A.
2 YRS.
71% P.A.
(Also shorter term currencies to 3 months)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the prospectus which can be obtained from:
# Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67-7701
IJS& Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9-3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane.
0 Vlctprian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd,
2§o Qpeen Street, Melbourne.
0 Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
0 Ahy Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
0 Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
UNDERWRITERS: J. B. WERE & SON
year, surprised the market in the light
of the company’s meagre (£3,171) cash
resources shown in its 1962 accounts.
The reason appears to lie in the dispos-
al for cash of a large part of wool stocks
held by Lincoln Mills. These amounted
to £1,164,000 in Lincoln’s accounts at
September 1961, the date of its last pub-
lished accounts. All Cleckheaton’s op-
erations are now carried on with the ut-
most economy of stocks, average holding
time being about two months.
On top of this Cleckheaton has sold
much of the plant of both Lincoln and
Eagley Mills (acquired in 1961 on a one-
for-four share exchange) though about
£350,000 is apparently still to come
from this. It should come in very handy
for the company’s expansion programme
which includes a new £200,000 mill at
Mooroopna (near Shepparton) and a
carpet yarn spinning project in partner-
ship with Thomas Carr (Aust).
Profitwise the company is well placed.
It is understood to have lifted profit sub-
stantially in the first nine months this
year following last year’s rise from
£166,678 to £215,073, providing earn-
ings of 32.7 p.c. for the I2i p.c. divi-
dend.
This year it will have the benefit of
substantial rentals from the Eagley pre-
mises and also tax losses from both Eag-
ley and Lincoln to take credit for. The
shares have a solid look at around the
current price of 465. 6d. at which they
yield 5.6 p.c. and rightly so.
Turner’s New Issue
"Dights to the new one-for-four issue
of ss. ordinaries at par by Turner
Industries Ltd, Victorian hardware and
appliance manufacturer, to be traded in
Melbourne until April 22, give an entry
to the equity on a 7.4 p.c. basis at the
current price of Is. 9d., assuming a
dividend of 10 p.c. on the ordinary
capital to be increased by £216,591 to
£1,082,591 by the new issue.
Wm. Noall and Son and Edward Ward
and Co., underwriters to the issue, say
that earnings could rise to 18 p.c. in the
next two years, giving ample cover for
the 10 p.c. dividend. Earnings on the
old capital were 13.7 p.c. last year, but


the group has reported better trading
this term and has several big expansion
projects on hand, notably plant to manu-
facture Turner-Atkins saw chains and
Dexter (USA) “Key in the Knob” locks
and door furniture.
Notable success is being achieved in
exports as well as throughout Australia
in marketing the company’s wide range
of products.
Adelaide Steam Notes
FFhe Adelaide Steamship Company Ltd
this week clarified for us the rights
of the company’s noteholders in the
event of a takeover.
They are protected under terms of the
trust deed, with the Bank of NSW Nom-
inees as trustees.
If ordinary shareholders receive an
offer for more than half of their ordin-
ary shares, and if the offer is accepted,
then the noteholders must be advised
and given a two months’ option to con-
vert each 20s. note into four ss. shares.
Investors Fund Prospectus
Oecond Century Investors Fund has
issued a new prospectus for an issue
of further capital to add to its present
paid-up capital of £41,775. Current
offer price is ss. sd. for each ss. unit
to yield 3.3 p.c. at the present 2d. a
unit dividend rate.
The present portfolio contains 30.5
p.c. in manufacturing 14.7 p.c. in food,
drink and tobacco, 12.1 p.c. in insurance,
7.7 p.c. in mining, 6.6 p.c in iron and
steel and the remainder split widely
between other industries.
Rare Lawsuit
Tt is rare to hear of brokers suing clients
for investment bills, especially eight
at the one time who are claiming
£25,028 from a Melbourne financier,
Mr Leslie Rubinstein, of Elwood. The
alleged buying orders were well spread
across the local broking fraternity, in-
cluding some of the biggest names in the
business.
The brokers claim that Mr Rubinstein
ordered the shares but refused to accept
them, whereupon they were resold at the
abovementioned loss.
Discord at Freighters
V|yHAT looked a packed meeting of
’’ Freighters Ltd in Melbourne made
it forcefully apparent that it wanted a
new board for the company. And as the
managing director, Mr E. W. T. Hansen,
indicated he was sufficiently impressed
by the expression of views, it could
well be he at any rate will resign, despite
his attributing of last year’s big write
downs (the company lost <£536,308 last
year) to an unsatisfactory valuation
system which had now been replaced.
This is but one of many Victorian
companies subject to the attention of the
Company Squad of the CIB over the
last few months. But Freighters looks
to have surmounted its main difficulties
and, going on interim reports, is back to
profits again.
Investors’ Patience Tried
TV/Tr E. N. Avery told shareholders at
the annual meeting of Associated
Australian Oilfields that Sunnybank had
proved to be a test of staying power for
investors, but after making these remarks
some decided they had stayed rather too
long despite the two alternative in-
terpretations he gave to the results of
testing the No. 1 well.
The first possibility was that the area
of permeability around the well was very
limited. Alternatively, the section was
damaged during cementing and squeez-
ing by water or mud block by swelling
clays caused by the filtrate, or by pulling
clay in suspension.
This seems to suggest the company
hasn’t given up hope of an eventual flow
at this spot, but it seems to suggest
another well will be required there to
get it, not to speak of an improved
cementing performance.
No. 2 well was a different story,
because no permeability was obtained
from sands heavily deposited with
kaolinite clay.
The group is still considering whether
to import a pump from the US to renew
the testing of this well more efficiently.
Cores from the well are already in the
States for examination of permeability
and porosity changes resulting from
hydration of the clays, but so far no
comment has been forthcoming.
All this is indeed very trying on the
patience of investors.
Brickworks Strengthens
Otout-hearted holders ol Brickworks
shares through the recent collapse
to 475. must breathe a little easier since
announcement of a steady interim di-
vidend.
Last May the 20s. shares hit 80s. but
the 1961-62 results released in September
showed profits had failed to cover the
15 p.c. dividend.
Directors now report sales and profit
for the six months to December 31,
1962, were higher than in the previous
comparable period.
The new Blacktown texture plant is
now operating profitably.
Commercial building continues buoy-
ant although home building is sluggish
and requires stimulus, directors said.
the world of business
"Sell Dobells and Nolans; buy Fairweathers and Boyds."


SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Lesson in Conservatism
investment news into a
factual., picture is just about a full-
time job. Let me give you an exercise
on it.
What is your conclusion on the follow-
ing company’s progress—if I leave out
the first sentence about sales and profits?
“Photographic trading continued to be
difficult in the period and there has been
no improvement since. The UK sub-
sidiary increased turnover but recorded
lower profits because of the competitive
conditions.”
Wrong if your answer is: A struggling
company caught up in the recession and
still making no headway. That all-
important first sentence reads “Group
sales and profits increased for the first
six months.”
Hanimex was the company in
question.
Conservatism is a very admirable
trait, but this would appear to be carry-
ing things a little too far. More serious
is the other type of report which builds
up a temporarily or permanently broken
down company. We have had our fair
share of those.
Half-yearly figures for both sales and
profits would be far more helpful. Pro-
fessor Chambers, in addressing the
Economic Society of Australia and New
Zealand, used a somewhat grandiose
approach in arguing that there were
20,000 different valid ways of presenting
a balance sheet. This figure came about
by the many different bases for valuing
stock, debtors, plant, etc.
Agreed that financial accounts have
their shortcomings. But provided that
one considers the company’s accounts in
the past have been presented in a fair
manner, then half-yearly figures, pre-
ferably audited, serve a very useful and
discerning purpose.
Whilst on the subject of the written
word, it is a commendable effort of some
brokers to break away from the general
“buy now” message in their circulars.
So often in the past brokers simply quote
the industrial index as a general market
guide. Quite misleading with such a
heavyweight as BMP there. Not so
lan Potter, for his “Tactics for Today”
circular penetrates the surface laying
forth both the strong and the weak
points in the market.
My weak point is those oil shares.
May there be another strike before the
turn of the century!
Fairymead is where my strong point
could lie. The world sugar price is now
up to £62 sterling per ton —£17
higher than when I bought my first 200
in January.
The other major millers, Pioneer and
Millaquin, have risen more in proportion
than Fairymead. A puzzle, for Fairy-
mead is the only grower amongst the
three. Like the grazier, it is the grower
who gets the greatest benefit from record
prices. Furthermore, Fairymead’s pro-
duction was up 40 p.c. in 1962 compared
with only a 10 p.c. increase by Pioneer.
By buying another 100, Fairymead be-
comes by far the largest holding in my
portfolio.
Way down the other end of the scale
is the 100 Holyman Woods. For four
lonely months it’s had a dash against its
current price.
The reconstructed company is now
listed under the same name—but this
time with all the assets and liabilities of
the Hestia group. At this stage, this
bra and girdle manufacturer has a very
unusual asset backing minus 2s. 6d.
per share.
It may not have assets, but it has the
potential to earn profits. If the profits
are adjusted for tax at public company
rates, earning rate is 15 p.c. in 1961,
14 p.c. in 1962 and an estimated 27 p.c.
in 1963. (The profits were also given for
the first eight months of the current
year.) However, as there will be the
benefit of the tax losses from the original
company, the earning rate in 1963
should be about 40 p.c.
Hestia won’t come up to Formfit’s
share performance of 100 p.c. capital
gain last year but it should still perform
creditably. Bras seem to have brought
me luck before, so I bought another 900
Holyman Woods at 4s. 9d. on the open-
ing day. My average price for the 1000
is 4s. sd.
The purchase could be a little prema-
ture. Yet the market willingly absorbed
the heavy selling on that first day. Easter
week will be the test.
Lowes financed this week’s trans-
actions and also gave me a £l9 profit.
Transactions for the week are:
SOLD
1000 Lowes, 10s. Od £483
BOUGHT
100 Fairymead, 445. Od. £224
900 Holyman Woods, 4s. 9d. .. £224
A respectable £l4l has been built up
to the credit of my account.
My portfolio now is:—
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 9/1
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 14/9
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 18/3
1000 Tasman 7/1/63 1/2 1/1
1000 Courtaulds options 14/1/63 -2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/- 44/
600 David Jonee notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/6
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 1/- lid.
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 lid.
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/8
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/9
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/-
200 BHP 8/3/63 52/6 53/-
500 Kay Corp. 14/3/63 8/10 8/11
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 3/8 2/9
2000 Gen. Ind. options 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/-
1000 Holyman Woods 4/4/63 4/5 4/11
Revolutionary Uni. Course
Cchool of Architecture students at Mel-
bourne University are building a
house with their own hands. It is the
first University project to be undertaken
as the result of compulsory building ex-
perience being included in the school
curricula.
This is a forward step in the training
of architects which is now being watch-
ed by many universities throughout the
world. The students spend at least 14
days each term physically building “on
site” as well as giving up a large amount
of their vacations to get on with the con-
struction.
The scheme started in 1956 when,
with a gift of £5,000, the School of
Architecture acquired 48 acres of land
at Mount Martha in Victoria. Money is
always short at any university and the
students had to use considerable ingenu-
ity to make the premises efficient and
comprehensive.
Land clearing, the conversion of a
1918 army hut and the construction of
workshops and accommodation took
until 1961 when work on the house
started. It reached the cladding stage by
late 1962.
The first house is timber framed with
plywood exterior and interior panels and
is built to a design decided by a competi-
tion held among the students as part of
their first year’s programme.
Shortage of funds governed the type
of building materials used.
The students’ activities include brick
laying, cabinet and carpentry work,
cement mixing and 'aying and erecting
of studs and bearers as well as all the
small ancillary jobs such as land clear-
ing, prime coating and dram digging.
Girl students also played their full
part and proved themselves to be excel-
lent carpenters and concrete layers as
well as labourers.
A number of new ideas in materials
and fittings to be used in association with
plywood sheathing have been developed
as well as new types of plywood finishes.
The house is expected to be open to
the public in September.


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Stimulant for ARC Industries
one major sector of industry which
is still dragging behind the rest of
the economy in its steady recovery is the
building industry. But the cumulative
effects of the previously announced
increase in the War Service Homes
appropriation, plus the increased lend-
ing limits for housing loans by the Com-
monwealth Savings Bank and, more
recently, the cut in the maximum over-
draft rate charged by trading banks,
should be a well-needed stimulus to an
industry that is probably the greatest
builder of confidence in the community.
One of the many companies that will
benefit as a result is ARC Industries Ltd,
manufacturer of building supplies.
The company commenced operations
in 1919 supplying welded mesh re-
inforcements for concrete to the Vic-
torian market. In 1951 the present hold-
ing company was incorporated to acquire
the issued capital of ARC Engineering
Co. which in turn held all the issued
shares in Ovaweld Ltd, a company that
had been acquired in 1948.
group's range of products was
A extended in 1957 by the acquisition
of Agco Ltd, which manufactures
aluminium windows and insect screens
and supplies glass. In the same year the
company, in conjunction with Hall
Engineering Industries Ltd of UK,
acquired all the issued capital in the
Malayan Wire Mesh & Fencing Co. Ltd
of Singapore.
During the last ten years shareholders
have participated in four new share issues
two cash and two bonus. In 1955 a
one-for-four par issue was made, followed
in 1957 by a one-for-one bonus issue on
which the 15 p.c. dividend rate was main-
tained in subsequent years. Just before
the announcement of the November,
1960, anti-inflationary measures, the
company made a one-for-five issue of
10s. shares at a stiff 20s. premium.
Then towards the end of 1962 the
board of ARC announced a re-organisa-
tion of the capital structure of the com-
pany, which involved the sub-dividing of
the 10s. ordinary shares into two ss.
ordinary shares, together with a one-for-
one bonus issue and a halving of a
dividend rate, which was, in effect, a
simple “watering down” process.
Thus shareholders have done very
well out of ARC over the past ten years,
both as regards capital gains and dividend
income.
On the assumption that during cash
issues rights were sold and the proceeds
used in purchasing old shares in the
company (so that the investor was in-
volved in no additional capital outlay),
dividend income has increased over the
ten years at an average annual compound
rate of 10.8 p.c. per annum. This was
due mainly to the maintenance of the 15
p.c. dividend rate after each of the new
issues made prior to the 1962 “watering
down.”
However, apart from the departure
from previous normal practice in not
maintaining the dividend rate on the
present issued capital increased by the
latest bonus issue, two factors point to
the likelihood that dividend income will
not increase at anywhere near the same
rate over the next ten years.
First, the earnings of the company
have not increased fast enough to enable
continuance of the present rate of
dividend income increase. Thus, whilst
in 1956 the earning rate on year-end
capital was 65.9 p.c. as compared with
the 15 p.c. dividend, by 1962 the earn-
ing rate had declined to 32.0 p.c. giving
thereby a much smaller cover for the
unchanged dividend. The proportionate
dividend reduction following the last
bonus issue was designed presumably to
ensure a continuation of the previously
high (though declining) ploughback of
earnings.
Secondly. the income producing
capacity of the total capital employed as
measured by the operating income to
total capital ratio, has shown a marked
downward trend for the best part of the
last ten years. This more than anything
implies that ARC will have to restrain
the rate of increase of future dividend
payments if it is to finance its expansion
from internally generated cash flows.
ll7ith these factors in mind, it is worth
while looking at the implicit assump-
tion involved in the pricing of ARC’s
shares at around 11s. 9d. to give an im-
mediate yield of 3.2 p.c. Because ordin-
ary shares generally are bought on the
implicit assumption that dividends will
rise regularly in the future, the ratio of
current dividend to current price has lost
much of its relevance as an index of
investment worth.
If, instead, the investor decides that he
desires a “yield on projected future
dividends” or “growth yield” of, say, 7
p.c. (the rate of interest available on
long-term debentures), then based on an
immediate dividend yield of 3.2 p.c., the
rate of increase of dividend income over
the next ten years would need to be 6 p.c.
per annum compound, if a price of
11s. 9d. were to be justified.
However, it must be pointed out that
in the past ARC has performed rather
well, especially when compared with the
results achieved by other companies
dependent on a high level of activity in
the building industry.
Even more noteworthy is the con-
sistency and stability of the company's
earnings, especially those recorded over
the past few difficult years. These years
have been marked by an intensifying of
competition, resulting in reduced profit
margins such that continually increased
turnover is required to maintain overall
earnings.
Tn ARC’s interim report, released at
the end of February, directors reported
a continuance of the above-mentioned
trend. Thus a substantially increased
sales volume was combined with a
lessened profit margin; such that net
results were at a satisfactory level. The
report added that undelivered orders on
hand were sufficient to indicate that the
current level of profit would at least be
maintained for the remainder of the
current financial year.
Thus the quietly confident tone of the
interim announcement, together with the
recently announced stimulants to the
building industry, should result in the
company producing results roughly com-
parable to that of the last financial year.
However, because it would appear un-
likely that shareholders will benefit in
the future to the extent that they have in
the past, the shares, while selling at their
lowest price for many years, seem fully
priced at around 11s. 9d.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE SHEETS AND
PROFIT SUMMARIES
(£'000}
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ordinary capital 1216 1216 1280 1737 1742
Capital reserves 41 36 67 668 667
Revenue surplus 722 900 1234 1463 1772
Ord. shf. 1979 2152 2581 3868 4181
Pref. cap. 105 110 115 60 60
Loan capital 218 431 912 899 1364
Total capital 2302 2693 3608 4827 5605
Represented by:
Working capital 940 1062 1689 2339 2814
Land & buildings 801 990 1136 1453 1558
Other fixed assets 541 619 760 1010 1210
Investments 20 22 23 25 23
Total capital 2302 2693 3608 4827 5605
Earnings 317 360 501 477 559
Ord. dividend 182 182 191 239 261
Surplus 135 178 310 238 298
Earnings %
ord. capital 26.1 29.6 39.2 27.5 32.0
Ord. div. % 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0
Op. Inc %
total capital 30.2 30.7 36.0 29.2 24.2
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 3.5 3.5 3.3 2.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 11.0 14.5 12.6 16.8 16.8
(a) Based on last sale month accounts presented.


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W- C. DRAPER, R. F CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2701
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: GOK9.
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Tune-up for York Motors
realignment of franchises in
-*• the motor world calls for reassess-
ment of the investment ratings of the
motor stocks.
A reduction in capital by York Motors
(Holding) Ltd in May, 1962, adds weight
to the demand for a re-examination.
The proprietary company began busi-
ness in 1932. It is difficult to list the
franchises the company once held with-
out confusing the reader. Suffice it to
say that York Motors Pty and York
Motors (Sales) Pty are now NSW distri-
butors for Rolls-Royce and Bentley,
Studebaker, Peugeot and Mercedes-Benz
cars. Lancaster Motors >s Sydney metro-
politan distributor for Austin, Morris
and Wolseley cars and Nuffield tractors;
Dominion Motors (Qld) Pty is Queens-
land distributor for Rolls-Royce and
Bentley, Perkins engines, Holder tractors
and Fiat cars; and UK Motors Pty is
Queensland distributor for Austin,
Morris and Wolseley vehicles.
Rosebery Investments Pty is the hire-
purchase subsidiary, which finances the
group's own retail sales but not dealer
sales.
As from May 1, 1963, the group will
have exclusive distribution rights to the
Toyota car, station waggon and utility.
Loss of franchises caused the profit
fall in 1959, and there was inevitably a
time lag before new franchises were fully
income producing.
In 1961 the company felt the full
blow from the Government's measures to
dampen down the motor industry. Two
Queensland subsidiaries were also affec-
ed by adverse rural conditions and trad-
ed at a loss. On August I, 1961, The
British Motor Corporation began direct
vehicle distribution through dealers within
the metropolitan area of Sydney.
To compensate for this loss of business
by Lancaster Motors, York purchased
Peter Lloyd Ltd, a co-distributor of
Morris and Wolseley vehicles in the
metropolitan area, and a State-wide
BMC parts distributor. About
£600,000 worth of property, including
Chatswood and Blacktown branches and
a spare parts centre at Alexandria, was
involved.
The purchase price was not disclosed.
York took over certain obligations, and
paid £ 150,000 cash to settle the account.
Another significant change was the
sale of the group’s old hire-purchase
subsidiary, Glasgow Investments Pty, to
TAC (with which York has been long
associated). This accounts for the mark-
ed drop in deferred assets in the ac-
companying table. These represent
amounts due and to mature under current
hire-purchase contracts, less income yet
to mature.
The latest year to November 30 saw a
healthy resurgence in the profits. Past
losses of subsidiaries purchased during
the year carried tax benefits, but the
1962-3 profit will be fully taxable.
The company had a confusing system
of dividend payments, but in future it
is expected to conform with conventions.
A dividend of 6J p.c. on the old
capital of £906,666 was paid in May,
1962, from profits earned to November
30, 1961; 12+ p.c. on capital of
£453,333 was paid in October, 1962,
from 1962 profit, and a final 123 p.c.
will be paid on April 24, 1963. The
total payments thus represented an ex-
ceptional 373 p.c. on the new reduced
capital. The company is expected to
settle on a rate of 25 p.c. on the 2s. 6d.
shares.
The 1961-62 profit of £185,507 re-
presented an earning rate of 40.9 p.e,
on the reduced capital.
As at November 30, 1961, £100,000
had been transferred to provision for
stock revaluation to reduce the value
of tractor and machinery stocks held by
Dominion Motors. I hese have now been
sold, and £37,031 was transferred to
unappropriated profits.
Closing stocks for 1962 were
£1,733,819 (compared with the open-
ing figure of £1,624,156) and were
after some write-downs — amount un-
specified.
Sales and profit for the three months
to February 28, 1963, were better than
in 1962.
The company has planned expansion
of showrooms and extensions to service
and parts facilities, which are expected to
reap benefits in this current year.
Repayment of capital surplus to the
group's requirements has tidied up the
company’s finances. Similar reorganisa-
tion has taken place in the sales and
service.
The current price of 10s 6d. for the
2s. 6d. units puts the shares on a 5.9
p.c. yield for income and 9.7 p.c. for
earnings.
While recognising the cyclical nature
of an investment in the motor trade,
this stock should appeal to investors will-
ing to keep a watchful eye on it.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY £'000
November 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2909 2599 2406 3210 2831
less current liabilities 898 906 1167 549 1003
Working capital 2011 1693 1239 2661 1823
Deferred assets 3439 3572 4495 174 679
Investments 69 59 59 1205 93
Fixed assets 615 692 671 1022 954
6134 6016 6464 5062 3554
Loan capital 2064 1896 2297 1156 68
Ordinary capital 907 907 906 906 453
Reserves 3163 3213 3261 3000 3033
6134 6016 6464 5062 3554
Depreciation 26 26 25 29 25
Taxation 114 58 102 4 58
Net profit 210 147 172 64 186
Dividends’ 181 136 125 136 170
Surplus 29 11 47 —72 16
Earning rate 23.1 16.2 18 9 7 40.9
Dividend rate 20 15 131 15 37.5
WAUGH AND JOSEPHSON HOLDINGS LTD
Vagueness About Troubles
Tm mediate reaction to the interim re-
port released by Waugh and Joseph-
son Holdings Ltd on March 26 was one
of acute disappointment.
The 20s. shares, which had previously
sold at 18s., failed to find a buyer the
following morning at 15s. 6d.
With a record of consistent profits
and dividends since 1950, the news that
profitability was not achieved in the six
months to December 31, 1962, and no
interim dividend would be paid, was a
painful surprise.
The original business was established
in 1880, and Waugh and Josephson Ltd
was formed in 1920, making boilers and
other equipment. It was not until 1946
that the company vacated manufacturing
to specialise in the distribution, service
and maintenance of the products of
Caterpillar Tractor Company, Hyster
Company (winches), the Trackson Com-
pany (front end-loaders) and Athey Pro-
ducts (loaders and equipment). Since
1949 Waugh and Josephson has distrib-
uted wheel type tractors and farm mach-
inery of Deere and Company of USA.
Conversion of notes into shares in


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
June 1966 will increase the present capi-
tal of £ 1,609,312 to £2,324,562.
The last call for capital (other than
the convertible note issue) was a one-for-
four issue at 10s. premium in November
1959. The group has no chronic liquid-
ity problems.
Since the formation of the holding
company in 1957 by exchange of 2 k
new for each old share held, profits rose
to a 1960 peak, and dividend went from
8 to 9 p.c. A sharp profit fall in 1960-
61 occasioned the dividend cut to Ik
p.c., and the continued decline in trad-
ing the following year brought a further
dividend cut to 5 p c., in a single final
distribution.
Distributors of heavy equipment are
always sensitive to any slow-down in ec-
onomic activity, but W and J always had
the spare parts and servicing business to
tide it over the rough patches.
However, this time last year directors
explained the difficulties they were ex-
periencing in disruption of normal trad-
ing by government policy. Although
some government and semi-government
authorities were anxious to buy heavy
equipment, little money was available.
The report presented by directors at
the annual meeting last October referred
to the difficult conditions of the second
half of 1960-61, which continued well
into 1961-62. “There is as yet no clear
indication of complete return to normal
trading in the industries served by the
company, and the current year may still
present many problems,” they said.
New factory buildings were being
erected at Bankstown, allowing accelera-
tion in the manufacture of lesser lines
which were profitable. Commitments for
capital expenditure at 1962 balance date
were only £59,490.
Stocks, which had been over £3m. in
1961, were reduced to £2,854,511, but
no doubt were still higher than manage-
ment desired.
Debtors and bills receivable in both
1961 and 1962 accounts were shown
after providing <£loo,ooo for doubtful
debts and bills.
Directors said in the latest interim
statement that group sales rose in the
December six months. Reasons for the
loss were not given, but they said action
had been taken to terminate unprofitable
activities in certain subsidiaries.
Substantial reorganisation now in pro-
gress should bring benefits in 1963-64,
directors asserted.
Without knowing the cause of the
troubles, the market cannot make an in-
formed and realistic assessment of the
worth of the shares.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY—£'000
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 2577 2462 3523 4098 3844
Less current liabilities 1360 1169 1574 1566 1310
Working capital 1217 1293 1949 2532 2534
Fixed assets 651 741 856 1011 1053
Intangibles 1219 1219 1225 1225 1225
3087 3253 4030 4768 4812
Loan capital 40 124 306 1021 1015
Ordinary capital 1284 1284 1609 1609 1609
Reserves 1763 1845 2115 2138 2188
3087 3253 4030 4768 4812
Depreciation 33 33 35 33 35
Taxation 127 124 177 104 92
Net profit 194 200 224 144 130
Dividend 102 116 132 121 80
Surplus 92 84 92 23 50
Earning rate 15.1 15.5 15.4 9.0 8.0
Dividend rate 8 9 9 7\ 5
Dividend yield (a) 5.4 7.4 5.2 7.3 5.8
Price/earnings ratio (a) 9.7 12.2 11.2 11.4 9.3
High price (b) 32/6 39/- 47/- 33/6 25/-
Low price (b) 29/- 29/6 28/9 17/6 14/-
(a) End of October, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
EMU AND PROSPECT GRAVEL AND ROAD METAL CO. LTD
Smooth Travelling for Emu
''|^/ r HiLE other much vaunted road metal
and concrete companies have
crunched to a halt in the growth stakes,
the tidily capitalised Emu and Prospect
Gravel and Road Metal Co. Ltd quietly
heads them all.
Being a small company, it never
attracted as much attention during the
recent boom period as the more
ambitious companies within the industry.
Although the 20s. shares dropped
about 20s. in price from the £6 2s. 6d.
prevailing at the end of February, this
nervousness was proved unwarranted by
the interim report delivered on March
20.
Sales increased by 8 p.c., income from
investments by 21 p.c., and net profit
was 26 p.c. higher in the December,
1962, half-year than in the previous
corresponding period. Interim dividend
was held at 8f p.c.
Directors said competition was very
keen in the concrete aggregate business,
but they were confident that the group’s
trading results for the financial year
1962-63 would be satisfactory.
The business is an old established one,
dating back to 1903. Its main direct
activity is exploiting the sand and gravel
deposits at Emu Plains, west of Sydney.
Dividends have been paid continuously
since 1934. The only capital benefit—
apart from fuller appreciation of the
shares has been the one - for - three
bonus in October, 1959. But since 1950,
dividend has been increased almost
three-fold from 6 p.c. to the current
Ylk p.c. rate.
The company has associate interests in
Blue Metal and Gravel Pty, Bituminous
Pavements Pty, Mobile Plant Pty,
Quarries Pty, Blue Metal Industries Ltd
and two of its subsidiaries Frost De-
velopments Pty and Yarramundi Proper-
ties Pty.
Shares were bought in Frost Develop-
ments in May, 1962, payment being
made in Emu shares, utilising the high
market premium. Frost operates a blue
metai plant in the Newcastle district.
The interest in Yarramundi was acquired
by the same means in October, 1961. It
operates a sand and gravel plant at
Castlereagh, on the Nepean River.
Another substantial interest is in Emu
Ready Mixed Concrete Pty, which was
operating very successfully in October,
1962. Judging by the reference in the
latest interim report, this may be the
only trouble spot in the business, but
directors said in October it was expected
to show a very satisfactory return on
capital employed, and this is probably
still U'ue.
The financial structure of the com-
pany is simple, with no preference
capital and no loan capital. It is always
very liquid, with cash in the bank.
The revaluation of properties i.i 1959
by £101,154 provided the one and only
bonus. There is still £70,760 in the re-
valuation reserve almost sufficient for a
one-for-two bonus at any time.
The company has proved an admirable
investment. The growing price earnings


ratio illustrates the market’s recognition
of its trading performance.
The high price of the shares, currently
round £5 2s. 6d., no doubt intimidates
some investors, but as 25 shares form
a marketable parcel for anything over
£5, it is equivalent to paying 25s. 7id.
each for 100 5s. shares.
If the rate of profit improvement is
maintained for the rest of the year, a
purchase now would show a decidedly
attractive earnings yield of 9.4 p.c.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 76 93 96 98 122
Less current
liabilities 49 46 46 70 82
Working capital 27 47 50 28 40
investments 69 77 93 111 142
Fixed assets 144 137 217 231 222
240 261 360 370 404
Capital 99 91 121 132 142
Reserves 149 170 239 238 262
240 261 360 370 404
Depreciation 11 12 13 15 16
Taxation 17 18 20 19 25
Net profit 32 33 36 40 53
Dividend 11 14 18 22 24
Surplus 21 19 18 18 19
Earning rate 35.5 36.3 29.4 31.3 37.5
Dividend rate 12J 15 15 1 7\
Dividend yield (a) 5.2 5.0 3.8 3.9 3.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 6.7 10.2 13.5 14.3 14.9
High price (b) 52/3 80/- 85/6 £5/2/6 £6/5/-
Low price (b) 41/- 52/- 64/- 74/9 98/-
(a) End of October, the month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
Agency for US Drills
lndustries Inc, of Chicago,
wants to appoint an Australian
agent or distributor for the Ardis range
of portable power drills and power chain
saw adapters.
Descriptive brochures, together with
price lists are available for perusal at the
US Consulate-General.
ONE TO BUY
Cambridge a High Yielder
HThe general reduction in interest rates
which follows Dr Coombs’ an-
nouncement on March 29 should have
a pronounced effect on hire-purchase
financiers, whose business should im-
prove while their capital costs are
reduced.
Since January 2 the index for the hire
purchase and finance stocks has risen
from 568.74 to 579.30, the leading
bank - backed companies carrying most
of the rise.
A stock which offers an exceptionally
high yield in this section is Cambridge
Credit Corporation Ltd. The ss. units
opened this year at 6s. 3d., and were
6s. lOd. late in February when a one-for-
five par issue was announced.
The rights theoretically were worth
Is. 24d. allowing for a 3fd. dividend
difference. (The new shares rank as
from July 1.)
The old shares currently are selling
around 6s. 3d., which price attracts a
brokerage of 24d. The rights, before
they closed last week, sold at around 7d.
and carried brokerage of only id.
Taking the dividend difference into
account, the rights had a 6id. advantage
over the old shares as a means of entry
to Cambridge.
However, application money of ss.
was payable on the new shares on
April 5, and now the market for the
stock may improve.
The Cambridge investment image is
probably handicapped by its Newcastle
origins, but this is no Latec.
Other financiers shy away from New-
castle hire-purchase business, but Cam-
bridge finds Newcastle a verv happy
hunting ground. Cambridge’s chairman
is Newcastle branch manager and the
business is very well supervised.
Cambridge considers it has the best
dealers in Newcastle. Its bad debts are
extremelv low. and are written off every
six months. It is equipped with two-way
radio cars for quick service.
Cambridge writes important mortgage
business in Sydney but does not write
hire-purchase business in Sydney, be-
cause it considers this market well taken
care of bv other companies.
The company began business about
13 years ago. When it decided to break
into the big time in Sydney, Wagga, and
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide, its
business burgeoned rapidly.
At June, 1959, paid capital was
£175,000, assets £1,196,968. By
December, 1962, just 3i years later,
capital was £1,243,839, and assets
£14,328,447 after deducting unearned
income. j
The bulk of company funds is invested
in mortgage loans, bearing the ratio of
£5 for every £1 in hire-purchase
business. The group does not handle
personal loans. Most of the hire-pur-
chase business is on cars.
Contrary to general assumptions, the
mortgage business is not very long term.
The most common term written by Cam-
bridge is for seven or eight years, with
a lot of five-year business.
Relatively minor investments were held
at last balance date (June 30, 1962) in
land and properties for resale (£627,685),
investments in listed companies
(£209,721), and investments in other
companies (£320,518), compared with
the £ 14.5 million in mortgages and hire-
purchase debts.
Last year’s profit of £171,582 gave
an earning rate of 19.4 p.c., and directors
envisage no difficulty in profitably em-
ploying the new money from the current
new issue and maintaining the 121 p.c.
dividend rate.
The old shares give an immediate
yield of 10 p.c. and if the margin
between old and new is more than 3|d.
until October, the new shares would be
the better buy. The stock justifies some
worthwhile capital appreciation, to
support the very attractive yield. Un-
doubtedly a cautious public is remem-
bering Latec’s experience in Newcastle
and also is wary because the company
is not bank-backed. But, on information
supplied by the directors, the shares look
under-valued.
Decimal Bids For Wool
/Commencing on April 17, the Sydney
Greasy Wool Futures Exchange will
accept bids and offers in tenths of a
penny, instead of in farthings as at
present.
The immediate effect will be to bring
the Sydney Greasy Wool Futures Ex-
change into line with overseas commod-
ity markets where decimal trading is now
in general usage. The new procedure will
make it easier for quotations on overseas
exchanges to be compared with the Syd-
ney prices and should encourage addit-
ional arbitrage business.
The net result could be freer trading
and a tendency toward increased
turnover.


Changed Tastes in Meat
By M. H. ELLIS
changing tastes in meat have not
A yet seriously affected the Australian
market, but unless Australian producers
follow world trends closely, it will not
be long before the pressure will be felt.
This country has already undergone
one revolution in meat types in the past
generation. Up till the end of World
War I the accent in breeding was on size,
walking capability and maturity rather
than on youth, high quality of meat and
capacity to fatten quickly.
The old-time station owner found it
more profitable to produce the mature,
hardy beast which could be driven long
distances over routes on which water
and feed were sparse, rather than to turn
off the small compact types which could
be topped off on small properties at 18
months, producing a blocky carcase of
high quality and meat yield. The large
beast cost nothing but grass and droving,
and, apart from meat, the hide and tallow
market was still important in our small
economy and there was a regular de-
mand for working bullocks.
When the delegation from the Aus-
tralian Meat Council toured the British
ports in 1926, it was confounded every-
where by the spectacle of long rows of
baby beef carcases, each beautifully pink
and marbled, all of uniform size, weight
and conformation with choice cuts em-
phasised. These were mainly from the
Argentine.
Australian beef on exhibition was not
uniform in size or age. The sides were
often bruised with stick marks. More-
over, they were not built to fit economi-
cally into the vans which distributed
meat from ports and they were too old
for the choice-market taste.
The best of our chilled beef included
a lot that was only medium freezing
quality by comparison with the lucerne-
fed Argentines.
"ITowever, close settlement, higher
prices, better watered stock routes
and new methods of transport and the de-
velopment of discrimination by Aus-
tralian home buyers worked the change.
High wages and general prosperity en-
abled housewives to afford the best in
this, the greatest meat-eating country
save New Zealand.
The young, blocky beast at last be-
came standard. Discrimination is carried
further in overseas markets where spec-
ially fed beef has its following.
In the United Kingdom, for instance,
beef tasting evenings have become the
vogue. At these, beef is served to dis-
cern whether baby beef is generally dis-
tinguished from more mature fare by
those who eat it and whether there are
special tastes for, say, barley fed beef.
Most people in recent tests were all
for baby beef. But there is one charac-
teristic which has become more import-
ant even than age the universal de-
mand in Europe especially is for lean
meat. Marbling and fat rapidly ceased
to be associated with high quality in the
estimation of buyers.
“Lean,” in fact, appears to be the
determinative word and it has brought
some remarkable types of cattle into the
UK markets and made prime exporters
of the most surprising countries.
Forty years ago nobody would have
looked a second time at any beast from
the Balkans. But today Yugoslavian beef
is rated as the best premium type in
the UK because it is both young and
lean. Rhodesian and other African beefs
are snapped up at high prices for the
same reason.
At Smithfield show this year winning
animals were generally younger and
much leaner than any that would have
had a chance of winning a prize a few
years ago.
/Generally speaking, competition in the
” world beef markets is becoming more
and more selective. Countries which be-
fore could not afford meat are beginning
to eat it. Each has its special likes and
dislikes, though leanness generally is con-
ceded to be one of the most universally
appealing characteristics.
With the bold re-entry of the Argen-
tine into the field specialisation is be-
coming even more intensive.
Australia, which virtually has no
grain-fed beef, cannot hope to get into
the really top-class export markets.
Freight and other considerations here
dictate preference in shipment to frozen
beef, which gives us a chance in mar-
kets which producing countries near the
main markets, and breeding the right
kind of cattle, do not nurse.
Australia certainly could not succeed
in the kind of long-term plan now being
put into operation in the Argentine.
There a scheme has been adopted to re-
establish the chilled meat trade with the
UK. The plan puts permanence of mar-
ket levels before immediate profits. The
Argentine annual target in the British
market has been built up from the low
level of 140,000 tons in 1961 to 170,000
tons in 1963. A committee has been set
up in Buenos Aires to study the specific
tastes and requirements of various sep-
arate countries with a view to filling
them.
Our sales to the United States are
wholly for canning and manufacturing.
And here again the emphasis is very
much on lean meat.
In regard to all types of animals this
emphasis on leanness has reached the
point at which merit grading is being
replaced by a series of descriptions. In
pork, this already has taken place in the
United Kingdom, where the Pig Develop-
ment Authority has introduced new boar
testing standards. Formerly the criteria
in progeny testing were daily gain on
test, backfat average, food conversion
capacity, average length, area of eye
muscle and general conformation.
PDA has announced that these
■*" standards will be replaced by two new
ones of measurement (on which 'breeders
should make their first assessment of
animals, i.e., lean meat content) and
food conversion efficiency figures.
The assessment will be made at two
weights—l3olb. and 200ib., food con-
version efficiency being measured in
terms both of quantity of feed con-
sumed and conversion rate.
The Testing Board remarks that the
percentage of lean meat is now “a major
requirement of all sections of the trade,
irrespective of the weight of carcase or
its ultimate market.”
If the new kind of standard is applied
to beef, the revolution in Australia will
be really on. It will give the zebu types
an edge over the rest and is likely to
promote the cause of the part-dairy
animal and farm breeding of beef, as in
the United States where no farm is too
small to turn off a bit of fed beef.
Farm Statistics
'E'orms to be used fcr the annual col-
lection of Queensland agricultural,
dairying and pastoral statistics for the
year ended March 31, 1963, are now
being distributed to primary producers
throughout Queensland, and prepara-
tions are being made for the processing
of 45,000 returns in the shortest possible
time.
The fulfilment of this programme,
however, depends, in the first instance,
on primary producers giving prompt at-
tention to the filling in and dispatch of
returns. It is of great importance to
have the facts of the country’s produc-
tion available as soon as possible after
the close of the period to which the fig-
ures relate.
Primary producers of all kinds (graz-
iers, farmers, dairy farmers, orchardists,
commercial flower-growers, nurserymen,
etc.) who occupy holdings of one acre
or more, and all commercial poultry-
farmers and commercial bee-keepers are
required to make returns. Any such pro-
ducer who has not received a form
should obtain one from the nearest police
station.


The Bulletin Advisory Service
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's" advice on investment matters, these have been selected
tor publication. The balance have been answered personally.
Can you tell me what became of
Freightlines and Construction Company
(formerly Kwikasair and Collier Gar-
land)? Is the company still active?
R.M., Warwick (Qld).
Freightlines and Construction is still
in operation and its profit figures for
1961-62 are expected within the next
week or two. Trading in the company’s
shares was suspended last year for several
reasons, principally breaches of listing
requirements. We understand that the
company plans to seek resumption of list-
ing, but must first comply with require-
ments.
★ ★ ★
1 hold 1000 ordinary shares in Vesta
Batteries, now quoted at 3s. Should I
hold on to them? F.M., Claremont
(WA).
Vesta Ltd has incurred losses in each
of the last three years, culminating in a
loss of £242,573 in 1961-62. No dividend
has been paid since 1958. The company
has not been able to cope with the intense
competition in the fields in which it
operates, namely the supply of auto-
motive components, including batteries,
and spare parts. Despite efforts at re-
habilitation the company appears still
to be in trouble.
We can see little immediate prospect of
a recovery in the price of the shares apart
from a takeover by another group in-
terested in acquiring its accumulated
losses for tax purposes.
★ ★ ★
Here is a list of my holdings which
give me some concern: Australian
Chemical notes and shares, Carrier Air,
Bay view, Albion, Dowell, Concrete
Industries, Southern Cross, Waterwheel,
Motels of Australia, Tar ax, Jaywoth (3 s.
paid) and TWT. Should 1 quit any of
these at this late stage? If so, what do
you recommend that is reasonably priced
with good growth potential?
Are Rio Tinto Zinc shares to be listed
on Australian Stock Exchanges in the
foreseeable future? Are these good
holding?
BHP is very dormant for so small a
yield. Should 1 sell? J. M., East
Brighton (NSW).
As you have not mentioned the price
at which you bought your shares, or
their average cost, it is difficult to give
you unqualified advice, but we presume
that you bought at higher than current
prices. However, most show recovery
prospects. Ones about which we have
reservations include Jaywoth and South-
ern Cross, although in the long term
Southern Cross may come good.
From the list it would appear you have
too much in the quarrying business which
at present is experiencing difficult times.
Perhaps you should review your portfolio
with this in mind.
TWT is not having as easy a time as
prospectus notes suggested. The com-
pany’s rate of future profitability will
depend a lot on the outcome of court
action between the metropolitan stations
and the PMG. Hold pending settlement
of this action.
Should you consider buying additional
shares, we would recommend to you
The Bulletin “One to Buy” column
which makes weekly recommendations.
Directors of RTZ hope to have the
company’s shares listed later this year.
The Bulletin considers this stock good
holding. We also consider BHP good
buying at current prices, as in our opinion
the shares are underpriced.
★ ★ ★
My existing portfolio is 100 L. J.
Hooker bought at Bs. 5d., 500 Hooker
Finance at 10s. 6d., 200 Nock and Kirby
at 235. 6d., 300 Eric Anderson at 95.,
100 Tasmanian TV at 15s. 6d., 400
Strata at ss. 3d., 200 G. J. Coles at
17s. 9d. Should 1 sell these and reinvest
in shares of a higher status? M.A.M.,
Toronto (NSW).
It is unfortunate that all your pur-
chases show a paper loss. Tasmanian
Television is the one on which you are
closest to breaking even. L. J. Hooker,
Nock & Kirby and Strata should make
some profit progress this year, and the
shares should pick up in price. Hooker
Finance has maintained its earnings and,
at current prices, offers a high dividend
yield.
Eric Anderson’s interim report for the
half-year to December 31 was of
slightly higher net profit, which is not
very encouraging to shareholders who
had their income cut from 12+ p.c. to
10 p.c. last year. This one should be
watched carefully, as appliance retailers
have been finding trade much more com-
petitive in the last two years.
G. J. Coles is a sound company, and
in time you should recoup your paper
loss here.
Strata has been slow off the mark,
because of unfortunate economic con-
ditions, and has again by-passed an
interim, but may pay a final equally as
good as last year’s 5 p.c.
Nock & Kirby will take a long time to
justify the 235. 6d. you paid, but it’s too
cheap to sell now.
You could sit tight on all these shares
and hope for an improvement in each,
or, if really brave, sell some or all and
reinvest in BHP (now 535. 3d.) and John
Lysaght (now 625. 3d.) for greater
security.
★ ★ ★
Over the past four years I have pur-
chased shares (list enclosed) for medium
to long-term capital gain. In four years’
time I will want to liquidate, and in the
meantime I expect to be absent from
Australia for a short period. In the next
six months I will have a further £l5O
to invest. What changes do you recom-
mend? Should 1 exchange some for high
interest debentures? M. 0., Mosman
(NSW).
Your portfolio, although small, appears
to have been bought around the right
prices and should meet your require-
ments for medium to long-term capital
gain. As you will be out of Australia
we suggest that you take your profit in
Mutual Acceptance and reinvest in say,
BHP. Financiers do bear watching
although there is nothing against Mutual.
J. B. Young shares are depressed at
present because of the growth in com-
petition in Canberra. However, the
growth potential of the city is so good
at the moment that your shares should
show a good appreciation over your
stipulated time.
Email, which in 1961 failed to cover
dividends by trading profits, may not
have fared much better in the calendar
year just concluded. We would be in-
clined to withdraw from this one now.
Do not be misled into reinvesting
indiscriminately in high interest deben-
tures. A good rule of thumb is, the
higher the interest rate, the greater the
risk.
With your £l5O additional funds we
suggest a leading industrial stock, BHP
again, or ACI, John Lysaght or perhaps
ICIANZ. Income is low currently but
a four year projection should see good
growth of capital and income.
★ ★ ★
7 am holding about £950 for invest-
ment, seeking reasonable security with
capital appreciation in the next four or
five years. My present portfolio consists
of 1200 AW A, 1700 Woolworths, 800
David Jones, 800 James Stedman, and
600 Ready Mixed Concrete. All are
showing solid appreciation except RMC.
I have been intending to invest equally


WANTED TO SELL
“GENERATOR” LIGHTING
Trailer mounted 230/400 volts.
V 8 engine. METRO. VICK
Cost £llOO sell £5OO.
Phone weekdays, Vic. 546.0381
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: CHARLES NEIL PRESTON, formerly of
52 Wrightson Avenue, Bar Beach, Newcastle.
TAKE NOTICE that JOAN ETHEL PRESTON
has filed Petition No. 344 of 1963 seeking a
Divorce from you on the ground of Desertion
and a decree of Nullity of a prior form of
marriage. If you wish to defend you may file
an answer in the Divorce Registry, Supreme
Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 17th day of May,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MR. JOHN SIDNEY HEANEY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney. If you do not wish to file an Answer
but wish to receive a copy of each document
filed in the proceedings you should file a
Notice of Address for Service within such
time. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: JOHN HERBERT GREY. TAKE NOTICE
that JOAN MERLE GREY has filed a Petition
No. 2089 of 1962 for Divorce, on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 24th day of
May, One thousand nine hundred and sixty-
thiee, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from MESSRS. LINCOLN SMITH
& CO., Solicitors, of 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: YVONNE PHYLLIS PARTRIDGE. TAKE
NOTICE that ALLAN JOHN PARTRIDGE has
filed a Petition No. 1962 for divorce,
on the ground of desertion. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the 20th
May, 1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition
without charge from BRUCE R. MILES, Esq.,
Solicitor, 250 Pitt Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
TO: RICHARD ANTHONY, of address un-
known. TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BEVERLEY ELAINE ANTHONY, has instituted
divorce proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Victoria, No. 1736 or 1962,
for dissolution of her marriage to you on the
grounds of desertion and also asking for
maintenance for herself and child, custody
and costs and further TAKE NOTICE that
unless you file an Answer here in the office
of the Registrar, Supreme Court. Melbourne,
on or before the 20th day of May, 1963, the
case may proceed in your absence. M. S.
WILLIAMS, WINTER AND HIGGS, 90 Queen
Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
HELP
h : -
f
all the year round. Donations: 169 *
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM 2001.
between Keith Harris and Gillespie Bros,
but latterly have considered investing
equally in three of the following: Fler,
TNT, Coal and Allied, Chamberlains or
Huttons. What is the reason for the recent
fall in Mayfair? Would this stock
at around 355. compare with Keith Harris
or Gillespie? — D.B., Turramurra (NSW).
The reason for Mayfair’s price fall was
the interim report of an increase in sales
but a very substantial reduction in profit.
Outbreaks of swine fever in NSW last
year affected the outlook for both Huttons
and Mayfair, and after the latest news,
unless there is a worthwhile break in the
price, we would not particularly recom-
mend either.
The quality of your present portfolio
suggests that Keith Harris and Gillespie,
your first selections, are more the type
of investments that suit your needs than
Fler, TNT, Coal & Allied, Chamber-
lains or Huttons. Your existing stocks
have rewarded you well, so we feel you
should hold to the same investment prin-
ciples.
Gillespie, now 265. 6d. to yield 3.4
p.c., ranged between 255. and 295. 6d. last
year, so the present price appears reason-
able.
Keith Harris look a little on the high
side at 275., as last year’s range was
from 245. 3d. to 285., but here again the
yield is about 3.3 p.c. Of similar calibre
is Life Savers, now selling for 295. 3d.
to yield 2.5 p.c. This seems a good entry
price, as they have touched 335. 6d. this
year, and were 445. last year before a
1-10 bonus.
You might consider, say, 300 Gillespie,
200 Keith Harris and 200 Life Savers,
which Would cost about £985. Each has
prospects of capital appreciation.
MARKETING
Posters to Aid Exports
has been an immediate and en-
A thusiastic response to the export
poster competition organised to focus
public attention on Australia's drive for
overseas markets.
Mr H. F. Clarke, acting-chairman of
the Australian Bankers’ Association, says
that entries are being received from all
parts of Australia fci both the adult and
schoolchildren’s sections. The Educa-
tion Department in each State is judging
the schoolchildren’s entries, many of
which reveal creative ability.
The competition is sponsored by the
Australian Bankers’ Association in con-
junction with the Export Development
Council and the Department of Trade.
“Government encouragement to in-
crease exports is being supported in a
practical way by the export poster com-
petition,” said Mr T M. Ramsay, presi-
dent of the Associated Chambers of
Manufactures of Australia, “and it is
pleasing to know that the public response
has already ensured its success.”
“The more public awareness there is
of our national need for export indus-
tries, the easier it will be for individual
firms to proceed with their plans to meet
the vast potential of markets overseas.”
The Australian Bankers’ Association is
awarding a total of £l,OOO in prizes.
Section A of the competition (open to all
residents in Australia) offers awards of
£5OO, £250 and £lOO. For Section B
(for schoolchildren) the prizes are £lOO,
£5O and £l5, with special prizes for
the schools attended by the winners.
The contest will close on April 30.
Full details of the competition are avail-
able at any branch of the Bank of New
South Wales, the ANZ Bank, the Nation-
al Bank, the Bank of Adelaide, the Com-
mercial Bank of Australia, the Commerc-
ial Banking Company of Sydney and the
ES & A Bank.
Saving on Air Cargoes
International airlines have put into
operation what they call a “contain-
erisation program” for the more expedi-
tious and more efficient handling of over-
seas air cargoes. The aim is to get one
step closer to world-wide door-to-door
delivery.
The scheme, which started on April
1, is designed to benefit both shippers
and airlines by the use of registered con-
tainers or pallets that save excessive
handling and space and weight costs.
The International Air Transport As-
sociation has adopted a resolution pro-
viding that for a shipment carried in a
container or on a pallet owned by an
airline the shipper pays charges only on
the weight of the shipment, if it is pack-
aged so that it can be carried separately.
If the shipment is not packaged for
separate carrying, the charges will be bas-
ed on the weight of the shipment plus the
weight of the container or pallet plus a
charge for container or pallet rental.
When a shipment is carried in a con-
tainer or on a pallet of 18 cubic feet or
larger, not owned by an airline but ap-
proved by the Container Board, the
charge will be for the gross weight, in-
cluding pallet or container, less 10 per
cent, or less the weight of pallet or con-
tainer whichever is higher.


Feiffer
1 iove
Hov.
1 iove
Hov.
1 iove
Hov.
; iove
m
1 iove
hov.
1 iove
hov.
i m
HOV-
j iove
Hov.
I love
Hcv. v
i i m
hov.
l to %
HOV-
i iove
hov.
j iove
hov.
i love
hov.
I 'iove
Hov.
1 iove
m
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 740
ACROSS
I—Finger a suggestion about your undug garden. (5)
3—Referring to food makes a Moslem crazy. (9)
7—Suite tint affected some organisation for instruction.
(9)
9—Employ Sue in other circumstances. (3)
10— Great change in Garbo. (5)
11— Paleness is brought on by such Stadium accom-
modation. (9)
13—S-shape gates I’m to change to make Sigismund
marry. (7)
14— If after some epigram theme.
(5)
15— Who entices? (5)
17 —Where blue metal and bitu-
men may usually be located
incursions. (7)
19— What eyes of the romantic
Irishman show nothing under-
weight? (9)
20— Barker makes uproar sub-
side. (5)
21— Yours Truly liquidates one of
the Hebrides. (5)
22 Avoid brew in such a fer-
ment! The bigots won’t take
it, anyway. (5, 4)
23 Officers suiting insects. (9)
24 — This makes the flesh-and-
blood theatre go on shanks
pony. (3, 2)
DOWN
1— What busy confectioners may
boast when we’re raging.
(5, 3,7)
2 They’re puffing cigarettes. (7)
3 —Foreshadowing a moronic
sailor. (11)
4 The kings of the Italians
rage. (3)
5 Attending that place, a dis-
orderly theatre. (7)
6 Humour’s kindergarten pun.
(6, 4,2, 3)
B—Batting to portend some con-
federate in a starting-up
manner. (11)
9—Queer millimetre and editor
not ordered. (11)
12—A co-re is next to get such
expressions of loathing. (11)
16—Liver upset first mentioned to
the Queen who may use 12-
down? (7)
18—Vice regal personage is going
down. (7)
22—Penpoint turned up in a
receptacle. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 739


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA, DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
m m m
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
i mh -ii ■ ifi ■ _pim
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick / whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription?
A renewal subscription?
□
□
or
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Limited,
Limited,
months


The world’s finest tobacco is at your fingertips
tTNTIPPEP
KING SIZE
CIGARETTES
The extra length for
greater smoothness
THE ONLY VIRGINIA
KING SIZE PLAIN
