

The Bulletin
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF FACT AND OPiNWNk- EST. TBit>
WHAT SORT OF NEW GUINEA?


/
The packet's g01d...
the pleasure's priceless
4
...and isn’t that all the time?
BH/19/2/63
100’s CARTON: 17/S 20’s: 3/6


CMC IIHDIRSOH
(CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STUCK
I I
t T~ >
» ion
JLnUf
12 mths. 6\% p.a. 2 years 7% p.a.
3 years 7\% p.a. 4 years 8% p.a.
5 years p.a. 10 years p.a.
Trustee for Debenture Stockholders:—
P. T. PTY. LIMITED, a wholly owned subsidiary
of PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33*39 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the Prospectus. Prospectus may be obtained from and
applications lodged with Any Branch in New South
Wales or the Australian Capital Territory and any City
or Suburban Branch in Brisbane, Queensland, of the
following Banks:—
* THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF SYDNEY LTD.
* BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
or at
* ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED,
125 York Street, Sydney.
if ERIC ANDERSON RADIO-TELEVISION PTY. LIMITED,
Any Branch in Sydney, Suburbs, Wollongong, Pt. Kembia,
Canberra, Queanbeyan and Newcastle.
-k PACKARD BELL PTY. LIMITED
Any Branch in Brisbane, Suburbs and Country
* ANY MEMBER OF A RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGE,
Cft
Underwriting Brokers: RALPH W. KING & YUILL
' ."{Members .of the Sydney Stock Exchange) -7.'
' ' 20 O'CONNELL STREET,; STONEY >,
OR POST THIS COUPON TO:
ERIC ANDERSON (CONSOLIDATED) LIMITED
125 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
Please post me, without obligation, a copy of your
prospectus to:
NAME
ADDRESS
Page
PETER RACHMAN 21
An Early Encounter
The Ducon Affair 7
The Foreign Investment Scare .... 13
A Broadside for Britannia: Anglo-
Australian Relations 15
Thrash to Green Island: Where
the 4-Metre Boys Race 18
Viet Nam’s Religious War 27
Formosa and the Split 29
What Sort of New Guinea?
Three Page Color Insert 30
Two Million Babies 33
Graham Greene’s Nightmares 37
U.S. Worries About the Dollar .. 41
Restrictive Practices Bill: The
Case Against .. 43
•
TANNER G
THIS AUSTRALIA 7
80 YEARS AGO 7
PLAIN ENGLISH 13
OUT AND ABOUT 18
SHORT STORY 22
OVERSEAS 25
FORUM 30
LETTERS 32
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 33
REVIEWS 35
FEIFFER 3G
RED PAGE 37
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
MAN ON THE LAND 57
CROSSWORD 58
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4354


“NO, NO,
THERE
MUST BE
A BETTER
WAY!”
He’s kinda impulsive, is Charlie. Hasn’t found out
there’s more than one way of making an impression!
Paper, for instance, can make an important contribu-
tion to building a favourable “image” for a firm. Good
quality office stationery speaks with authority. Good
paper promises a vital message. (And no amount of
well-set type can make a good impression on the wrong
paper.) Granted, there’s a bewildering variety of
papers, each one best for a specific job. However,
Shoalhaven Advisory Centres throughout Aus-
tralia are at your service. Staffed by friendly people
who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
pictuie about paper. If you’ve a paper problem, large
or small, call your Shoalhaven Advisory Centre now.
We’ll gladly advise ... and supply samples of Shoal-
haven papers and boards. Because the demand for
Shoalhaven is soaring, output at the Wiggins Teape
Shoalhaven Mill is being trebled this year. New build-
ings, new machines, new streamlined production to
reduce costs! And more employment for Australian
workers. A £7 million expansion! There’ll be more
paper, more board—the perfect paper, the exact board
—from Shoalhaven ... to meet your every need. When
you’re choosing paper for office stationery and general
communications specify Shoalhaven Paper for constant
quality, constant supply!
SHOALHAVEN PAPER
The extensive range for office stationery and general
communications made at the Shoalhaven Mill includes
Goatskin Parchment, Original No. 1 Chartham Mill,
Conqueror White Wove, “77 Bond”, “77” Bank and
prestige Watermarked Papers custom-made to order.
WTS.6
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any
problem just ring . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
SYDNEY 51-6651
MELBOURNE 67-8428
ADELAIDE 51-4531
BRISBANE 4-4471
PERTH 21-9418


National Notebook
Been to Tar Lately?
A USTRALIAN UNIVERSITIES DRAMA
Festival, beginning at Sydney
University on August 10, has, according
to the organisers, “taken on enormous
proportions” this year. Actually the
programme seems to follow pretty
standard lines: performances of Brecht
and Beckett, showing of Eisenstein’s
film, “Ivan the Terrible, parts I and II,”
a talk on method acting by Hayes
Gordon, Max Harris celebrating “St
Patrick White’s Day in Australian
Theatre” and a symposium of critics,
including the übiquitous Max, discussing
“The Need for Professional Critics.”
However, the organisers have broken
new ground, and got themselves into a
higher expenditure bracket, by flushing
one of these elusive avant-garde play-
wrights out of his hollow, flying him to
Australia and presenting him alive and
palpitating to audiences at the festival.
The organisers made several tries
lonesco, Osborne —but finally persuaded
Arrabal, whose “Fando et Lis” is being
played at the Festival.
A throwaway on “Fando et Lis” says
that Arrabal’s work “combines a
dramatic brilliance (which one might
compare with the plays of Samuel
Beckett) with an essential sadism in the
manner of the Marquis de Sade. ‘Fando
et Lis’ presents the story of a young
man pushing his crippled girl-friend in
a perambulator to a place called Tar.
On this journey they are accompanied
by three men under an umbrella who
can’t seem to agree on anything. But
Lis never gets to Tar. In a fit of temper
Fando beats her to death, and patheti-
cally is left with the three men to make
his way to Tar.”
The organisers seem a bit doubtful
about whether Arrabal will actually
make his way to Sydney, and what he
will do when he gets here. His official
programme is one lecture only. His
English is adequate apparently. Spanish-
born but now living in Paris, he spent
some time at Columbia University, New
York. But he is somewhat noted for
unconventional behavior, and this time
even university students are a bit
worried.
A Pretty Big Loophole
Kristian Jensen, engineer, of
no fixed address, was imprisoned
for 18 months and his driver’s licence
was suspended until further order for
having on July 9 been in possession of
a motor vehicle believed to have been
stolen.
This cryptic court report in the
Adelaide “Advertiser” recently meant
the end of another attempt to profit
from a loophole in the SA Motor
Vehicles Act. The loophole is now a
rather ragged gap, but nobody seems
anxious to close it. It is simply this a
motor vehicle can be registered and
insured in SA without being produced
as evidence.
The tale Jensen told the Port Adelaide
police court was not a new one, but it
had not been heard for some time.
Jensen walked along a Melbourne street
and noted the number plate of a late-
model car. He also noted the engine
number of a motor he saw in a show-
room window. Then he caught a plane
to Adelaide. He arrived at 2.30 p.m.,
went to an insurance firm and took out
an insurance policy on a fictitious car,
giving the two Victorian numbers. Then
he walked down the road to the Motor
Vehicles Department and took out SA
registration papers for the Victorian car
on his insurance policy. He collected
his windscreen disc and number plates
and caught the 5 o’clock plane back to
Melbourne.
In Melbourne he answered an ad-
vertisement for a car similar to the one
on his SA papers. He inspected the car,
memorised the ignition key number, and
had another key cut. That night he went
back with his key and drove off in the
car. It quickly became an SA vehicle.
The engine number was filed off and
the SA-registered number die-stamped in
its place.
Only a suspicious Adelaide car dealer
stopped Jensen bringing his theft to a
profitable end. The ease with which he
might have got away with it is obvious.
Police remember only too well how a
family of three made a small fortune the
same way several years ago before being
detected.
The SA Minister of Transport (Mr
Jude) admitted that there was a need
to tighten legislation, and said he had
been informed of infringements of the
SA Motor Vehicles Act from NSW and
Queensland. Until the SA Act is
brought into line with the other States,
which demand the presence of a vehicle
before it can be registered and insured,
the loophole will continue to worry the
SA police force. Meanwhile, it pro-
vides a good gamble for a car thief
with a few pounds for registration and
insurance and an afternoon to spare
for a return flight to Adelaide.
Australia for the Ride
D. A. Rogers of Mt Isa writes
with some advice for Immigation
officials puzzled by British migrants
returning to Britain.
“Take a young Englishman of 18-20, a
semi or unskilled worker, probably with
a steady girl friend whom he intends to
marry, who would like to see a bit of the
world before settling down. He hears of
the £lO Assisted Passage scheme, and his
problem is solved. He comes over here,
works at various well-paid jobs and saves
most of his earnings. When his two
years are up he returns home with a
few hundred pounds in his pocket,
marries the girl and lives happily ever
after.”
Why, Mr Rogers asks, do these young
adventurers not figure in the statistics?
Perhaps the Immigration Department
does not like to admit it has been taken
for a ride.
Escapism, Indian Style
A lthough Betty Dalgarno’s chief job
during her visit home was to rep-
resent an Indian film producer, for
whom she has worked as assistant pro-
ducer in Bombay, at the Sydney and
Melbourne film festivals, much of her
time was spent looking at paintings.
Mrs Dalgarno and her husband Roy
Dalgarno have lived out of Australia
for 14 years and in India for seven.
Although Dalgarno in the 1940 s was
a leading artist here, linked with Dobell
and Drysdale in “The three Ds,” he has
seen nothing of what has been done
here since, except in books and what
was shown by the British Arts Council
in London two years ago. However,
the Dalgarnos may return home next
year.
Mrs Dalgarno said that India, partly
because of import restrictions but mainly
because of different taste in entertain-


ment, saw few foreign films. In Bombay,
a city of 5,000,000, there were only
about half a dozen houses for foreign
films.
Local films were often of the ex-
travaganza type. In southern India any-
thing which lasted less than three hours
was considered hardly worth seeing. A
successful film needed at least seven po-
tential song hits. Acting style generally
followed the Hollywood style of the
twenties and thirties, with romantic
scenes broken off for the principals to
burst into song.
Mrs Dalgarno said that audiences
often saw a film which appealed to them
at least seven times. This she put down
to overcrowded houses. People had to
escape somewhere and film-theatres were
the most likely place.
She said that Satyajit Ray, who is
perhaps India’s most noted film-producer
out of his own country, made his films
in Bengal on a very low budget, and
had almost no reputation in India.
The Rise of the Lout
"Derth citizens last week decided that
-*• hooliganism had gone far enough
when their Lord Mayor himself was
threatened with a bashing by louts in a
city street. Sir Harry Howard, hero of
the Commonwealth Games, had seen a
carload of youths drive on to a footpath
to block three young girls “of respectable
appearance” at 11.15 p.m.
When he went over to the youths and
asked them to move on, he was met with
abuse. He told them who he was and also
that he was the chief magistrate.
Obviously unimpressed, one of the
youths said that if Sir Harry had not
been so old (he is in his seventies) he
would have had his face bashed in.
Sir Harry, who said he had seen three
similar incidents recently, demanded that
Police Minister Craig and Police Com-
missioner O’Brien give better protection
to young women in city streets. His plea
was heartily endorsed by many citizens
and organisations who have watched with
growing uneasiness and concern the rise
of the lout in Perth and the ineffectual
efforts by the police to combat this rise.
Police intervention is rare unless
scuffling and/or abuse ensues, and people
are infuriated to see that the beat con-
stable’s traditional “move along” is al-
most a thing of a more gracious past.
Sir Harry’s brush came only a few weeks
after larrikins had forced out of business
a suburban restaurant and two dances.
The two joint-owners of the restaurant
claimed the closure had ruined them.
After the Lord Mayor’s plea the police
warned that hooliganism would not be
tolerated and said an all-out drive would
begin. The same day the Perth Police
Court underlined this by meting out
stern punishment to three youths in-
volved in a typical incident. The youths
had challenged a young couple in a city
street to a car race and when they under-
standably refused both the girl and her
escort were punched in the face. Sen-
tences: three months’ gaol for one lout
and a month each for his pals. All this,
of course, is scant relief for the res-
taurant owners.
This Week’s Cover
A stream of natives from the Western
Highlands of New Guinea moves
across the showground for the annual
Hagen show, attended this year by the
Governor-General, Lord De L’lsle. The
Western Highlands are the most
populous area of the Territory, the in-
habitants, although primitive, the
healthiest and perhaps the most capable.
This picture and those in our portfolio
were taken by Boris Cook.
Reprints of this portfolio will not be
available. However, copies of the Aus-
tralian Impressionists (June 15) can still
be bought. The charge is Is. at our
office, Is. 3d. posted.
Tanner
"We ARE buying Australian —Australian automobile industry, food-canning industry, petroleum industry..."


THIS AUSTRALIA
STOCK EXCHANGE
When 40,000 Shares
Changed Hands
The Story of Ducon’s Friday
FROM DONALD HENDERSON IN SYDNEY
DAVID BUTCHER
HThe phase of Ducon’s history which
A was to bring about its spectacular
absorption from abroad began very
quietly, when, on July 6, the company
(which makes condensers for the elec-
tronics industry) announced that it had
purchased all the 300,000 £1 shares in
a competitor, United Capacitors Pty Ltd
from the owners British Insulated Cal-
lender’s Cables Ltd and Telegraph Con-
denser Co. Ltd of England. The pur-
chase price is yet to be announced but
plays little part in the drama that has
followed.
The acquisition of United gave Ducon
80 per cent plus of the production capa-
city for the condenser components for
Australian electronic industry. Ducon
had truly arrived. But in so doing the
company had made itself an excellent
springboard for the overseas giant wish-
ing to “crash” the Australian electronics
field.
Ducon over the years had made ex-
tensive overseas links for manufacturing
certain products here under licence.
None of these was stronger than the link
with P. R. Mallory and Co. Inc. of
USA. The Mallory organisation holds
about 25 per cent of Ducon’s capital and
the ageing head of the Mallory organisa-
tion, Mr P. R. Mallory, in New York, is
a member of the Ducon board.
But since Ducon, itself, held no licence
arrangements with English companies,
it was no surprise when the boss of
Ducon, Mr Clifford Searle Gittoes and
his second-in-command Mr Russell Wil-
liam Wiltshire, left for abroad with the
suggested intention not only of cement-
ing existing ties but also forming new
ones.
The travels of Mr Gittoes and Mr
Wiltshire led them eventually to the
dynamic London group now headed by
Lord Kilmuir (better known to us as Sir
David Maxwell Fyfe), the Plessey Co.
Ltd. Plessey, after a series of takeovers in
England, found itself the owner of Tele-
phone and Electrical Industries of Syd-
ney. In fact, Plessey already had its foot
in the door of Australia. It needed more
than that, though.
Finally, a newcomer to the Ducon
board, Sydney tycoon (Clyde Industries)
Mr Ray Purves, then joined the Ducon
executives in London.
So four of the eight Ducon directors
—a quorum—were abroad. Those at
home were fully occupied integrating the
United Capacitor set up with Ducons
when Stock Exchange activity in the
Ducon shares came to its dramatic head
on Friday, July 19.
The Ducon shares had been strong
and active for some weeks. By the be-
ginning of the week that was to end so
dramatically, the price had moved up to
16s. 9d. under the weight of more than
usual buying. Rumours were thick and
fast; but all suggested closer links with
or takeovers by overseas companies.
Before discussing the events of Fri-
day, July 19, and later, it is appropriate
to point out that the trading pattern up
till that day was quite a usual one; a
pattern one could expect a rumour-
ridden market to follow.
In the light of subsequent events it
may prove that the buying of Ducon
shares was “informed” rather than “in-
spired.” However, the trading pattern
of Monday to Thursday, July 15 to
July 18, would indicate that the “in-
formed” buying, if present at all, was
losing courage.
Friday, July 19, saw Ducon shares
probably worth just the 16s. being paid
for them as an investment spurt,
under strong buying enquiry through
three or four brokers, to 20s.
The secretary of the Sydney Exchange,
Mr David Butcher, as is his duty, sought
Mr Gordon Rich, who was acting as
RELIGION IN VICTORIA
bulletin
80 Years Ago: August 4, 1883
Tf the denominationalists of Vic-
-*■ toria wish to ascertain how the
wind blows, let them put a parlia-
mentary candidate forward in any
constituency, and let him give a
negative or evasive answer to the
inevitable question: “Are you in
favour of the free, secular, and com-
pulsory clauses of the Education
Act?” We recommend this to those
public men who are so anxious to
smuggle in, by the back door, the
Bible that fruitful cause of heart-
burning that, a few years ago, was
ignominiously bundled out of the
front. The short-sighted bigots who,
with a view to dis-integrating the
POPE’S brigade in Victoria, lent such
effective aid to the establishment of
a “godless” system of public instruc-
tion, now find, when too late, that
they have sharpened a knife to cut
their own throats. The Victorian
State school system is as godless as
GAMBETTA could have wished. In
Victoria, things are on a fair basis.
The Christian Deity, the Jewish
Jehovah, and the Chinese Joss get
exactly the same amount of support
from the State. Each has a fair field
and no favour. In NSW it is the God
of the Congregationalists and “Dis-
senters” in general who rules the
roast. Jewish children, if they believe
certain statements made in the NSW
Public School books, cannot retain
the faith of their fathers. In Victoria,
the very name of JESUS CHRIST
has been expunged from the text-
books. The Victorian revolution is
past. The thorough secularization of
the schools, the Black Wednesday
business, and so on, were a part of
the Reign of Terror. In NSW there
will be a little reign of terror of the
same kind, by and by. Then we
shall put into the basket the heads
of the bogus statesmen who, under
the pretext of putting all creeds on
equal terms, filched from the
Treasury a thumping subsidy for one
particular kind of white-chokerism.


Ducon chairman, to protect investors if,
in fact, the rumors current were true.
Mr Rich, apparently unaware that his
fellow directors abroad constituted a
quorum, and unaware of what was going
on in London, knew of no reason why
the shares had suddenly become more
valuable.
The Exchange published Mr Rich’s
statement. Normally, a “no reason”
statement will be followed by a collapse
in the false market. But this time Ducon
shares, after a slight downturn imme-
diately after the announcement, were
even more strongly in demand in the
afternoon. Forty thousand shares
changed hands on Friday, most of them
after the acting-chairman had said that
he knew of no reason to “bull” the
shares.
Saturday morning brought the news.
The board members in London and,
presumably, Mr Mallory in New York
had received, accepted and recom-
mended a bid for Ducon worth at least
335. a share from the Plessey Co. Ltd,
England.
Plessey quite rightly sees in Ducon the
foundation for a duplication of its Eng-
lish empire in Australia. Its bid £lO
million is high and appears certain of
success.
Nonetheless, the Stock Exchange was
quick to express its concern and in the
“Sunday Telegraph” the august Ex-
change said, among other things, that
the market “was not properly informed”
and, regrettably, neither was the acting-
chairman.
Armed with new powers under the
1961 Companies Act, Attorney-General
R. Downing is investigating the appar-
ent “informed” buying. After several
days of investigation, the CIB Fraud
Squad were called in, presumably to look
at the option trading, which is not con-
trolled by the Exchange but is handled
by “outside” firms.
Several unknowns make condemnation
of anybody connected with the affair
both unwise and unfair. First, the
timing of Plessey’s approach is import-
ant to the tenor of any hostility. If it was,
indeed, Friday, July 19, English time,
then it could be said that any share buy-
ing was pure speculation and therefore
forgivable.
Second, the source of the buying is, of
course, of considerable importance to
any pronouncements on the morality
of it.
Regardless of its legal implications,
the Ducon affair comes at a bad time for
the Exchanges. Investors the “little
blokes” were just regaining some con-
fidence in equity share buying after the
likes of Reid Murray and Stanhill.
THE KIMBERLEYS
Menzies in the
Cotton Country
The gluttonous prodenia
FROM JOHN GRAHAM IN PERTH
SIR R. MENZIES
Gave nothing away
HPhe recent row over the guest list for
the dinner to celebrate the opening
of the Ord River diversion dam, WA,
is not quite as petty as it sounds on the
surface. When Labor members objected
to their exclusion from the dinner they
were unconsciously highlighting the
importance of the Ord irrigation scheme
to all parties and saying quite clearly
that its politics are just as important as
its economics.
Though Sir Robert Menzies gave
nothing away about the Commonwealth
attitude towards the projected
£20,000,000 dam on the upper Ord
when he opened the down - stream
diversion dam, State Ministers in-
terpreted his general enthusiasm about
northern development as the green light
for the dam’s construction by the State’s
target date of 1968.
On a political level, they have plenty
of grounds for confidence.
Three years ago the diversion dam
site was a tangle of rocks. Today, it is
holding back 80,000 acre feet of water,
the irrigation channels are running and
the first commercial cotton crops are
due to be planted in the coming wet. To
the end of the construction stage the
scheme has been a complete success,
reflecting the enthusiasm and know-how
of the planners who turned it from blue-
print into reality.
This achievement is a partial answer
to the scepticism Sir Robert displayed
four years ago when he announced Com-
monwealth participation in the diversion
dam scheme, which is only a pipe opener
to the main dam project. He said then
that Federal officials had doubts
about its economics, but he would not
hold the State back from a project it
regarded as vital.
On the surface, the opening of the
diversion dam has scotched those doubts.
The trouble is that most of the questions
that prompted them are still unanswered.
Cotton is the crop that has turned the
Ord scheme from a question mark to a
potential bonanza. On current market
prices and expected Ord River yields, it
could gross £l2O an acre, and net about
£3O an acre to the farmer. It is read-
ily saleable on a home market that cur-
rently imports most of its cotton re-
quirements and recent research indicated
that farmers might be able to take off a
couple of crops a year.
Into this rosy picture stepped the pro-
denia caterpillar, a gluttonous little crea-
ture that has stripped up to 40 per cent
of the cotton crops grown on the Kim-
berley Research Station in the last two
years and about 30 per cent of the cur-
rent commercial safflower crop. A mas-
sive spraying campaign involving speci-
ally chartered aircraft has brought this
year's outbreak under control, but scien-
tists still do not know how much it will
cost to control prodenia on a permanent
basis.
The point of the prodenia episode is
that it has thrown the question of econo-
mic crops back into the melting pot.
The final crop selected as the mainstay
of the scheme may not be the most pro-
fitable, but that which will resist insects
best.
The second unanswered question is the
irrigable area available to the massive
waters which will be impounded by the
major dam.
The politicians are fond of saying that
it will irrigate 200,000 acres, but the soil
surveyors haven’t found them yet. The
last major survey in 1944 recorded
56,000 acres suitable for irrigation, and
listed a further 125,000 as seeming
similar but requiring further examina-
tion. Not until the current survey is
completed will the final irrigable area
be known.
Soil erosion on the catchment area is
another problem which is far from
solved. The Ord is watered by 17,000
square miles of rugged cattle country,
and erosion has already eaten into the
areas near the river. The WA Govern-
ment is currently carrying out a
£750,000 pasture improvement pro-
gramme on Vesteys’ Ord and Turner
stations to check the worst of it, but the
long-term problem of protecting the
whole catchment from erosion has still
not been tackled.
All these questions will have to be
answered if the main dam is to be
started by the WA Government’s tar-
get date of 1965. There is a good chance
that many of them will be, but there is


COONAWARRA ESTATE*
CLARET
At Coonawarra Estate all
our skills are devoted
exclusively to vintaging
table wine. To achieve
distinctive quality we
have retained many of
the old hand methods
and each vintage is indi-
vidually made to give of
its best.
* “ Estate” (as the word “Chateau" in France)
is used to distinguish this claret as being the
genuine product ol the winegrower’s own
vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD.
CI3NR
an equally good chance that other prob-
lems will have cropped up in the mean-
time.
Such problems have already pushed
the cost of the diversion dam from its
original <£3,000,000 in 1959 to an esti-
mated £8,000,000 on completion in
1967. The 30,000 acres of irrigation
available from the diversion dam is
twice as big as the original estimate, but
this would not swallow all the increased
costs. Likewise, the estimate for the
major dam has risen from £12,000,000
in 1956 to £20,000,000 in 1963.
The economists’ doubts will no doubt
be taken into account in political think-
ing about the great Ord scheme, but they
may in the long run be irrelevant. The
growing cry for northern development
will not be stifled and the Ord scheme is
the most promising project in the North
outside the beef roads scheme, which is
not so suitable from a publicity point of
view.
As has already happened with cotton,
crops may be pushed into production on
the Ord on insufficient basic research be-
cause it is palpably desirable to develop
the North and the diversion dam is now
there. It may cost a lot more money
than waiting until the research is com-
pleted, but that is the price of pioneering.
CIVIL RIGHTS
Financing Test Cases
A lesson from the Taxation Department
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
SIR W. SPOONER
No case
Take the case of Mervyn Mansfield, a
small Adaminaby grazier, who lost
both his sheep and his natural boundary
when without warning the Snowy Moun-
tains Authority locked off the Murrum-
bidgee River above his property which
lies just under the Tantangara Dam wall.
»r (■ , , ■ ■ i, not
Mansfield originally could not get
~ f , Ua . „„
compensation from the SMA (he has
since received £1250 « gratia payment
for his sheep from the SMA, “without
. ~ t
prejudice to legal rights ) and he pro-
1 , , . , , ■ •,, • ,i Q TT- u
posed to test his rights in the High
°^ r , . ~ , x , C r ,
But he has been frightened off by
the warning that the SMA might fight
the case to the Privy Council in which
case the costs could ruin him.
The SMA is still refusing to pay for
fencing to replace his vanished river
boundary, and takes the position that it
is not legally responsibe for the fencing.
It could be right. But it could also be
wron §- . .
As I understand the legal position
there have been plenty of cases in Aus-
tralia on riparian rights when the flow of
a river had been cut off, but oddly this
particular issue of whether the authority
whose act is responsible for the dis-
appearance of a long existing and natural
boundary is liable to compensate the
person whose boundary has disappeared,
has never been resolved.
Though Allan Fraser (Lab. MHR for
Eden - Monaro), who is fighting Mans-
field’s case at the political level, suggested
in a letter to the National Development
Minister, Sir William Spooner, that this
should be treated as a test case and
Mansfield helped with finance (as the
Taxation Department has occasionally
helped wiih finance in the past). Sir
William Spooner in reply significantly
did not contest Fraser’s claim that it
was a test case. Instead Sir William said
. . . . cIV/rA , ,
that on the legal advice the SMA had
. , . ° . ..
received it was convinced that it was
" ot hable for compensation and
that it did not propose to test whether
. . p F ~
that conviction was correctly or im-
,r, , 7
properly founded.
There is quite a large principle in-
yo|yed , h|s str |e b a smal ,
farmer to have the ri ht to test his
.
, . A . .. ■ .
Possibly I am unique in Australia but
[ have a soft spot for the Federal Taxa-
tion Department in this regard. Though
zealous as any administration in the
Commonwealth in protecting the re-
venue, it does not claim to be infallible
and it is not dedicated to the proposition
that j ts j n t eres ts are superior to those
Q f individual who questions its deci-
sions. On occasions rare but signifi-
cant when taxpayers have presented
arguments sufficiently convincing to
shake the Department in its conviction
that j s taking the correct viewpoint
and when the issue has never before
been challenged in the Courts, it has
helped finance taxpayers who have wish-
ed to challenge its own ruling and who
without such finance could never have
contemplated testing their rights in a
Court or series of courts. The famous
Work Fares case (which the taxpayers
lost, the Court upholding the correctness
of the Taxation Commissioner’s ruling)
was an example of this enlightened ap-
proach to the problem of balancing fair-
ly the rights of individual taxpayers
against the might and almost bottom-
less purse of Government.
As I see it, this is a policy which could
well be extended to other Departments.
Why should Government take money
from citizens or refuse them compensa-
tion if the position is that the issue has
never been legally decided and the Gov-
ernment is collecting money or refusing
compensation solely because the citizen’s
slender purse cannot match the over-
whelming financial might of Govern-
ment?
Making compulsory for all Govern-
ment Departments the policy which the
Taxation Department has operated oc-
casionally in the past of helping finance
a genuine test case would mean that the
ordinary as distinct from the extremely
wealthy citizen would enjoy access to
the Courts, in practice as well as in
theory.


©
• •
■
*SW
Three trees
for every
Australian
Wood is the principal raw material
of A.P.M. Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited —Australia’s
leading producer of paper, paper-
board and tissues. Each year this
company processes hundreds of
thousands of tons of wood from
Australian forests into hundreds of
thousands of miles of paper and
paperboard required by the
Commonwealth's vital packaging
industries.
To A.P.M., trees are a crop and the
company is not only replacing the
wood harvested but each year is
addingtoand improving ournational
forest resources by plantation
establishment and scientific forest
development.
In 14 years the company has planted
more than 37,000 acres of tree farms
in Gippsland, Victoria, over 5,000
acres in Queensland and some
500 acres in N.S.W. a total of over
30 million trees.
Planting is continuing at the rate of
over 6,000 acres each year.
The oldest of the plantations are
now supplying a steady flow of
pulpwood to A.P.M.’s mills.
&
• »
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS
Head Office: South Gate, South Melbourne. Sales Offices in all State Capitals


THE STATUS QUO
How Unequal are Australians?
Where Do You Rank?
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
Tt would probably come as a surprise
to many observers of the Tasmanian
scene to discover that the occupation
with the highest status rating in Hobart
is that of a University Professor. This
fact and a number of other equally
absorbing trivia are revealed in “Occu-
pational Status in Australia,” the third
in a series on the subject by Athol
Congalton, of the School of Sociology
of the University of New South Wales.
Mr Congalton, one of whose previous
monographs probed the mysteries of the
status of Sydney’s suburbs, in his latest
work analyses the results of data col-
lected from 1 189 university students in
the six State capital cities.
These tests were conducted under
rigid rules laid down for the supervisors’
guidance. Any puzzled supervisor who
was confronted with “a religious objec-
tion ... a quotation to the effect that
all men are equal in the eyes of God,
etc.” had his answer laid down by Mr
Congalton: “Do not think of what status
an occupation should or shouid not
carry but decide what standing the
occupation actually has in the com-
munity.”
To the possible objection that univers-
ity students might not be a fair sample,
Mr Congalton defends his figures on the
grounds that a local “man-in-the-street”
survey in Sydney showed a close correla-
tion to the University survey.
The great mechanic of the profes-
sions, the doctor, tops the Australian
status parade. (Ordinary mechanics are
way down in C grade; ordinary butchers
are even lower.) Close on his heels
comes the university professor with the
solicitor following a respectable distance
behind in third place. The only other
city, apart from Hobart, to give the
university professor top rating was Mel-
bourne.
The two lowest occupations are
laborer, unskilled, and roadsweeper.
Readers would probably be puzzled
to learn that air hostesses were classi-
fied by the students taking the test as
professionals, equal last in that group
with “news reporters” and behind private
secretaries to executives, who, however,
were in a separate class.
It may have been the fact that the
tests were carried out in capital cities,
but it was surprising to find that the
great Australian aristocrat, the grazier,
ranked relatively low, behind people like
newspaper editors and “Departmental
Head in Public Service.”
One almost certain city vote is the
bad news for the jackaroo: he was
ranked below the shearer, the drover,
the building construction worker,
and even “butcher, for wages.” Some
consolation can be found in that the
older people taking the tests tended to
give the jackaroo a higher mark.
The jockey was placed way down
between the bricklayer and the cook.
It will be bitter news to the London
theatre critics but the cane-cutter rates
way down between the domestic worker
and the packer.
Who would have thought that
Adelaide the Athens of the South
would, in Mr Congalton’s words, “favor
salesmen and shop assistants, consistently
giving them a higher rating than do
other cities.”? Brisbane, however, gives
the highest State rating every time to
clergymen. (Could that be because of
the Knight-Archbishop?)
The list of occupations did not include
trade union officials.
BUSINESS
Naked But Not Ashamed
Driving coach and horses through
the Companies Act
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
A. G. RYLAH
Chewing it over
One could hear the pins dropping from
ghostlike models as the financial
Press made its way through the silent
spaces of the once animated Bourke
Street floors of Hicks Atkinsons to the
inner sanctum of Reid Murray Accept-
ance where the former assistant manag-
ing director of Reid Murray Holdings
held his Press conference last week. And
on arrival at Mr Kenneth Wilkinson’s
suite through serried ranks of clerks
clearing up the mess, one found former
principals of the group clad in the barest
legal clothing but not ashamed, although
now on the payroll of the liquidator of
their former £65 million empire, and
content that their nightmare of respon-
sibility is over.
The crux of the matter, as Mr Wil-
kinson said, was that the company Regis-
trar had refused to accept the filing of
consolidated accounts for the group for
the year to last August 31 without the
accompanying auditors’ report. The
auditors had made their report but the
former directors, acting on legal advice,
preferred not to hand it over to the
Registrar. (After Mr Wilkinson’s Press
conference the Attorney-General, Mr
A. G. Rylah, said if necessary his
Government would amend the Com-
panies Act to compel release of the
auditors’ report. On Friday night, the
auditors, themselves having taken legal
opinion, announced they would publish
the report. They said that they had
been seeking means to make its contents
available to shareholders for- some
months.)
For an exercise in how to drive a
coach and horses through the new Vic-
torian Companies Act tne revelations at
the conference would be hard to beat.
In a nutshell, Mr Wilkinson told us that
responsibility to shareholders lies with
the liquidator. Having resigned from
the board in the wake of the actions
brought against them by the Crown Law
Department for not filing accounts with-
in the statutory period last year and not
wanting to feel the sting of any further
legal lash, they felt no impulse to stick
their necks out in the interest of keeping
shareholders up to date with their
chances of salving something from the
wreck.
That, they say, is entirely up to the
liquidator, though by offering the ac-
counts to the Registrar without the audi-
tors’ report, Mr Wilkinson said he was
acting in what the former directors com*
sidered to be the public interest,. Be
that as it may, it was rather remarkable
that former directors, who'must presum-
ably still feel a great lead of responsibil-
ity to debenture imd share holders on
their consciences, should take refuge in
face-saving legalities. In their covering


letter to the Registrar they say: “We
have been advised that no accounts of
the company as such are in existence
and consequently there is no audit report
thereon.” This is the penultimate in de-
personalisation of responsibility!
But whatever sinister implications the
auditors’ report has for former direc-
tors, a perusal ot the accounts to which
it relates leaves one little the wiser about
what is going to be salvaged from the
wreck, how much will debenture holders
get back, whether there will be anything
left for shareholders, and so on. The
accounts only take matters up to August
31 last and even if they disclose net losses
of £5 million or more there is no doubt
at all that this will prove to be but a
shadow of the group’s eventual asset
shortfall, and that not only will prior
charge holders and creditors be very
lucky to receive more than a fraction
of their money but shareholders have
no chance at all.
the Attorney-General is chew-
” ing over this breach of the spirit of
the Companies’ Act he might well look
at what has been going on with Factors,
whose Receivers also summoned the
Pre s to a meeting in Melbourne last
week to hear the state of unscrambling.
For in the case of Factors, and unlike
Reid Murrays, the board has been kept
in being during the Receivership and its
chairman, Mr Stanley Korman, has been
saying from overseas housetops that
shareholders should not sell their shares.
Quite conservative brokers in Mel-
bourne have been saying in recent weeks
that the words of the former master
should be taken seriously and all may
eventually be well in Factors’ camp.
Well, the Receiver put into the company
by the National Bank knocked all that
on the head last Wednesday, saying quite
categorically that the group is being sold
up, even the two profitable Holeproof
companies, and when the final tally is
told nothing is likely to be left for share-
holders.
Mr Rylah may well ask himself
which is the lesser of the two evils, not
having a board at all for a company in
the hands of Receivers or having one
and letting the chairman shout the odds
and falsely encourage shareholders’ and
stock exchange hopes.
COMMUNISTS
The Red Book Society Flop
Looking to East Germany
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
troubles besetting the Australian
Communist Party have extended to
its cultural wings, notably the Australa-
sian Book Society. Former supporters are
concerned about thousands of pounds
invested in debentures and loans, and
though a large amount has been received
from subscriptions it is not known what,
or when, the next publication will be. A
phone call to Sydney Headquarters gain-
ed the information that Mr Donald
Stuart’s “Yaralie” would be the next pub-
lication. But “Yaralie” has been on sale
now for some time.
Since half of the 40 titles issued by
the Society have been written or edited
by Communist Party members (three each
by Frank Hardy and Judah Waten) and
many of the other 20 were by writers
very sympathetic to “Socialist Realism”,
the Communist Party is naturally reluc-
tant to lose such an organisation. It has
it under intense scrutiny in an attempt
to salvage it.
Latest plans include an attempt to get
East German publishers, Seven Seas, to
print for the Society. Frank Hardy
initiated discussions along these lines
with Seven Seas on his recent trip to the
Soviet bloc. Attempts are also being
made to set up a committee between
Melbourne and Sydney and to again
approach the trade unions and members
for help.
This, of course, is only the worst of the
many crises that ha\e beset the Society
in its hectic 12 years of operation,
Initially set up in Melbourne on Anzac
Day, 1951, during a period of semi-
liberalisation in the Party, the Australa-
sian Book Society was the brain-child of
a group of intellectuals who worked on
Friday nights for months to set it
moving; most of thefn have since either
resigned or been expelled from the Party,
Its first crisis came almost immediately.
The venture under way, it promptly pub-
lished one of the biggest flops ever,
Frank Hardy, whose best-seller
“Power Without Glory” had created a
sensation, had briefly toured the Soviet
Union. He felt constrained, in his own
words, to set aside the proposed sequel to
“Power Without Glory” in order to put
on paper the profound emotional ex-
perience which the tour had engendered.
The result, “Journey Into the Future”,
was remaindered at the buyer’s own price
in Party bookshops,
However, some <£3ooo was subscribed
to the Society, mainly in interest-bearing
debentures. Some trade unions put in
£5O to £2OO and members from £1
to £lOO. So the infant Society survived.
Initially books were printed in paper
covers, but when Dr. lan Turner had
some measure of control he introduced
hard covers and provided a little more
sense of standard. It was while Turner
and Mr Stephen Murray-Smith had some
say that the Society’s only real success,
Bill Wannan’s “The Australian”, was
published. To date this book has reached
five printings.
But though such good titles as Cyril
Pearl’s “Wild Men of Sydney” and A.
A. Phillips’ “The Australian Tradition”
were Society choices, the dead hand of
“Socialist Realism” was too heavy and a
further crisis was inevitable.
This came when the Society published
a foreword by Professor Manning Clark
to the late Noel Ebbels’ “The Austra-
lian Labor Movement” (Ebbels, killed
in a road accident in 1952, was at one
time a student of Manning Clark’s.) The
Communist bureaucrats quickly recog-
nised that Manning Clark's memoir of
Ebbels was anti-Communist in tone; it
implied that had Ebbels lived he would,
in the light of subsequent events, such
as the suppression ot Hungary, have left
the Party Clark also referred sympatheti-
cally to Ebbels’ disgust with the low
quality and gutter methods of many
Communists.
The Communist Party immediately
decided to reorganise the Book Society
to make sure nothing like Professor
Clark’s essay was ever again published
by the Society. (Ironically some critics of
Clark have taken Clark’s praise of Ebbels
as proof that Clark is sympathetic to the
Communists.) The Sydnev Communist
“cultural expert”, J. Beasley, was put in
charge and a second series of 3000
interest-bearing debentures of <£ 1 each
were issued at 5 p.c per annum for a
period of five years This temporarily
gave the Society new life. The form of
its books improved, though the search
for dogmatic Party-line “Socialist
Realism” still plagued the contents.
The publication of some of Price
Warung’s Bulletin articles of the
1880 s under the title “Convict Days”
revealed something of the pettiness and
intrigue that began to characterise the
Society. In his review of the book in
“Overland” in August. 1960, Stephen
Murray-Smith said: “All reference has
been omitted to Mr lan Turner, for-
merly of the ABS, who conceived the
idea of this book, collected the material,
edited it, typed it and wrote a foreword.
Such things make even a well-produced
book like this seem a bit shabby.” lan
Turner had, of course, been expelled
from the Party.
That the Society should have reached
its present crisis was inevitable. It re-
mains to be seen whether East Germany
can help out, and what the price will
be in terms of local attitudes on the Sino-
Soviet split.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Foreign Investment Scare
A NYONE with a nodding acquain-
tance with the role overseas
capital has played in balancing Aus-
tralia’s overseas accounts in recent
years is unlikely to feel any enthusi-
asm for those who think we can do
with much less of it.
Even for 1962-63, a year when
our export earnings were particu-
larly buoyant, figures issued last
week showed that thanks to more
than a trebling in net apparent
capital inflow (from £9l to £2BB
million) we were able to convert a
deficit of £214 million on our over-
seas current account into a net
addition of £65 million to our over-
seas reserves, and also to increase
our subscription to the International
Monetary Fund by a further £l2
million.
Take away capital inflow and the
result for the reserves would have
been reversed and then some.
Despite the great improvement in
the capacity and facilities of our
internal capital markets for garner-
ing the rising harvest of local
savings, only those who prefer
limited development financed
through local savings will take the
extreme view and put up the shut-
ters against capital inflow. There
are some of these, but not many.
Most people merely want to be
assured that the country is not being
blatantly exploited by overseas
interests and that Australia is not
over-mortgaging its future export
income.
It is a simple fact of our national
life that for better or worse the Aus-
tralian industrial structure has grown
to its present stature largely as a
result of the infusion of overseas
capital and expertise over many
years which all political parties have
encouraged. It was a Labor Govern-
ment, after all, which invited
General Motors Corporation to start
up here after the war and, financed
largely by funds obtained in Aus-
tralia, to become our most success-
ful foreign- owned enterprise.
Equally the Menzies Government
and all State Premiers have held out
a welcoming hand. Currently Mr
Heffron has been scouting about the
world for foreign enterprises to set
up here and other States, irrespec-
tive of parties, have been doing the
same for years. Mr Bolte’s missions
are famous. Now Mr Nicklin is
following suit.
Furthermore, to maintain a
friendly climate to continuing
capital inflow, Australian Govern-
ments have been of one accord on
the need not only to keep the chan-
nels of entry clear but also to ensure
a two-way traffic for the repatria-
tion of capital and the remittance of
dividends. This action, coupled with
golden investment opportunities, has
made Australia a powerful magnet
for overseas capital and the open-
door policy has worked well. Even
in periods of strain on our balance
of payments few overseas interests
operating here have abused the
facilities provided for the repatria-
tion of capital and, excepting the
huge overseas dividend remittances
of GM-H, foreign - owned enter-
prises don’t seem to have abused
our hospitality. In this respect the
record of the majority of companies,
even the petroleum groups, is pretty
clean. Most of their earnings have
been ploughed back to finance the
development of their Australian
operations over the years.
£0 far so good. But it should be
recognised that in future years
the increasing volume of overseas
capital invested here eventually will
seek substantially bigger remittances
of rewards. This process could put a
heavy strain on the balance of pay-
ments, particularly in years when
low overseas prices depress our ex-
port revenue and, taking an unfavor-
able view of our prospects for
further investment, there was no off-
setting inflow of capital to help us
out. Canada has been tasting some
of this sort of medicine in the last
few years and in consequence has
had to suffer an exceptionally high
level of unemployment. The same
situation must not be allowed to
develop here.
must clearly be
done to ensure not only that
we do not have to face too intoler-
able a strain on the balance of pay-
ments from the remittance of divi-
dends in future years but also that
we have a bigger hand in the con-
trol of our own industrial destiny.
Ways should be explored for doing
this effectively without frightening
off overseas capital and it is to be
hoped that the climate of opinion
fast developing in the community
for some action to be taken keeps
within the bounds of moderation.
With news almost daily of some
overseas company or other buying
into or taking over lock, stock and
barrel Australian-owned companies,
and instances of insiders beating
the gun on the Stock Exchange to
pending announcements of takeovers
by overseas interests, as in the case
of Plessey’s bid for Ducon Indus-
tries last week, there lies the danger
that extreme action will be deman-
ded by an irate community.
It should be possible by stiffen-
ing the Companies’ Acts to stop
the worst type of takeover by over-
seas interests, as instanced by Mr
McEwen, in which a straight trans-
fer of ownership from Australian
to overseas hands adds nothing to
the economy. That is capital in-
flow at far too high a price, however
much it may help the running bal-
ance of payments in the short term.
Nevertheless it will be a difficult
matter to implement various sug-
gestions put up by Mr Calwell and
others to give Australians a mini-
mum of 30 to 40 per cent owner-
ship in existing overseas enterprises
here, though not so difficult, per-
haps, in the case of new ones.
The Government should study
what has been happening in
Canada on this front. Canada’s
new Finance Minister has made two
proposals in his recent Budget. One
was to impose a 30 per cent securi-
ties tax on takeovers by non-
residents. For one reason or an-
other he has since scrapped this
idea. The other was to increase
the withholding tax to 20 per cent
for companies not having at least
25 per cent Canadian ownership.
He is sticking to this one but not
without some second thoughts on
the difficulties in making it effec-
tive.


mm
In a class by itself
mmm
Luxury . . . prestige . . . performance . . . and economical operation . . . one car
combines them all with a long, low sweeping look of beauty ... the ’63 Ford Fairlane.
No other car provides so much big-car luxury, room, ride and performance together
with ease of handling, care-free operation and economy.
The '63 Fairlane is a quality car: Enduring
elegance is the key-note of Fairlane ... you
can see it in the sleek flowing lines ... feel it
in the smooth ride that speaks of fine car
construction.
The '63 Fairlane is a carefree car: So care-
free that maintenance is reduced to ‘Twice-
a-year’ checks. You drive 36,000 miles
between major chassis lubrications, 12,000
miles between body-care servicings, 6,000
miles between oil changes and the brakes
adjust themselves automatically.
The '63 Fairlane is a powerful car: Choose
the standard 145 Horsepower engine or the
dynamic *‘Challenger 260’ V 8 that brings
rocketing power, smooth response. Any-
way you look at it, the '63 Fairlane is in a
class of its own. Only Ford brings you a
car so fine at a price so low.
Only Fairlane 500 gives you these 12 extra-
quality features: 1. 36,000 miles between
major lubrications. 2. 6,000 miles between
oil and Filter changes. 3. Self-adjusting
'63 FORD
FAIRLANE
AUSTRALIA'S MOST CARE-FREE CAR !
brakes. 4. Specially processed rust-
resistant underbodies. 5. Baked-enamel
finish (Four coats of finish, including 2 of
durable enamel.) 6. 12,000-mile body-care
servicings. 7. Thick roof insulation. 8. Life-
of-the-car axle fluid. 9. Triple-layer floor
insulation. 10. Reinforced doors and roof.
11. 36,000-mile fuel filter changes. 12. Ford
“12/12" warranty.
INCLUDING 22%% GOVT.
SALES TAX
Price includes Fordomatic Drive.
*CHALLENGER 260 V 8 OPTIONAL EXTRA
FORD SALES COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED


A Broadside for Britannia
Could it not happen here?
By GEOFFREY WILMOT
Anglo - Australian relations have
never been very good. They are
like a poisonous plant which has
its roots in the past and has been given
regular doses of fertiliser ever since.
This season the plant is flowering
luxuriously in Australia, giving off a
strong smell of self-righteousness tinged
with that delight in the misfortunes of
others that the Germans call Schaden-
freude.
Much of the comment, public and
private, on the Profumo-Ward affair has
as its underlying assumption the idea
that “it couldn’t happen here.” There
is a smug feeling that the British are
far down the slippery slope to
decadence and decay—whereas the Aus-
tralians by contrast are the repositories
of the virtues that once were British.
Frank Knopfelmacher was taking this
line in The Bulletin a couple of weeks
ago, even to the extent of suggesting
that Australia should avoid the corrup-
tion of its British virtues by giving
contemporary Britain “a wide berth.”
Could it not happen here? Why not?
People have an amazing capacity at
times like the present to detach their
moral judgments from their own
personal lives, and a great deal of quiet
fun can be had these days at the dinner
tables of Edgecliff or Woollahra, listen-
ing to grave discussions of the decline
in British morality by those whose sexual
escapades are known to everyone in
Sydney’s eastern suburbs, except of
course their own spouses. There is
nothing peculiar to Britain about the
loosening of the sexual code. It goes
with the removal of fear fear of a
baby, fear of public opinion, fear of
the wrath of God none of which
operates any more, here any more than
there.
But all this fancy sex, say the moral-
ists —two-way mirrors, naked slave stuff,
flagellation parties and multiple orgies,
not to mention the homosexuality for
which Britain has long had a reputation
in Australia; these are the symptoms of
decadence and decay.
That may be, but they are certainly
to be found also in this young country.
Sydney can provide “blue” films and an
all-male transvestist show. As for the
homosexuals, visitors from overseas who
take an evening stroll from the Chevron
might be forgiven for concluding that
in Australia most of the men are “queer”
and most of the women are tarts, un-
economic and incompatible though that
would be. Time was when the sensitive
Australian homosexual had to flee to
London in order to find a more con-
genial climate and did so to such an
extent that an arty Londoner once re-
marked to the writer that all the Aus-
tralians he had met had been “queer.”
But this is no longer necessary. You
will find them in Sydney on the stage,
in studios, art galleries, interior decora-
tors, antique shops—and at the best
dinner tables (a queer man, my dear, is
so useful when you have an odd
woman), just as in Britain. Fancy sex
grows like fungus in the anonyaiity of
great cities.
But what is Britain coming to, ask the
moralists, if a man such as John Pro-
fumo can be a Minister of the Crown?
In Australia there are at least two or
three Ministers whose—shall we say
lively behaviour makes it not at all
difficult to imagine them in the wrong
bed. Beyond that, what happened to
Mr Profumo was bad luck, in that he
did not know at the time that Captain
Ivanov was also a client. When he was
told this, he never returned there. As
for the lie to Parliament, who can say
whether an Australian Minister would
have made that desperate throw? It
looks as if Mr Profumo risked every-
thing, including Britain’s reputation
overseas and the fortunes of the British
Government, in order to keep the truth
from his wife.
But British security, people say, what
a record! and Britain is soft on Com-
munism. Are we more vigilant in Aus-
tralia? Or do we have less trouble with
espionage because there is precious little
here to interest an up-and-coming spy—•
unless it is playing improbable games
of hunt - the - cylinder with women
security officers? It is plain that the
British security organisation is in-
adequate, and perhaps its- task is made
more difficult by the fact that people
are very loth to inform on each other.
But it is difficult for people brought up
on freedom of thought and expression
and on the doctrine that a man is
innocent until he is proved guilty to
throw these principles overboard. We
should find it just as hard. One reason
why Vassall went for so long undetected
is that at the time he went to Moscow
there was nothing positive against him—
only that he was an “effeminate little
man.” No one wanted to get him thrown
out of his job for that. To that extent
his late detection was the bad result of
a good British quality. Would Aus-
tralians be more ready to report to
security a man say a clerk in the
defence department or a steward in a
service establishment—just because his
manner was effeminate?
But look at the disarray of youth, say
the moralists, look at the nuclear dis-
armers, at the attitude of the British
Press over Cuba; Britain’s moral fibre
has rotted away.
One would never think from this line
of talk that Australia had its nuclear
disarmers or that the Australian Labor
Party favors abandoning the nuclear
deterrent in the southern hemisphere
and probably pulling out of Malaya.
These views in Australia are far less
sensible than they are in Britain.
The British have learned in two world
wars the lesson that, materially speaking,
victory does not pay. They exhausted
their strength and reduced themselves to
penury and then found themselves
reproached by some of their friends for
not being able to hold down the Empire.
But that is not what is worrying the
British.
As individuals they do not care about


v m
r '4...
■/?' : :A j< y
WtWwm
FINEST
CAMERA
OF ALL!
;y~yfyy ;
'f:A
amazing proof ol
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asalii PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENTAX!
m \
SUPERB NEW SV MODEL
■with built-in self-timer, automatic resetting
film counter plus all Asahi PENTAX
quality features.
Full range of superb Takumar lenses from
28 mm. to 1000 mm.
Asahi PENTAX SV with FI.B Takumar
Lens and leather case £90.0.0.
from your photo dealer
C3348
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
1912 1 96 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALFRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director)
E. G. CONEN. T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G. PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J LANE (Manager),
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
the loss of empire—or very few of them
do. Individually they are content with
their new-found affluence.
The important thing in the last war
was that the nation, its heritage and its
contribution to civilisation survived. As
the nuclear disarmers see it, that would
not happen in a nuclear war between
the United States and Russia. The old
catchwords about fighting for freedom,
democracy, the Queen, or England,
home and beauty mean less than nothing
when all that would be left of Britain
would be a radioactive wilderness; and
many people in Britain who do not
themselves lack personal courage can
see nothing patriotic in supporting
policies that could lead to such a result.
They feel that instead of staking every-
thing she has on such a desperate gamble
Britain would do better to gamble on
unilateral nuclear disarmament. She
could thereby hope to escape being a
nuclear target and incidentally would
escape the crippling cost of being a
nuclear power; and there is just a possi-
bility that this might start the ball rolling
towards general disarmament.
Only a small and noisy minority in
Britain feel this way; Frank Knopfel-
macher exaggerated their importance.
The fact that the case suits the Com-
munist book, and that therefore they have
been almost taken over by the Com-
munists, blinds people to the fact that
there is any case to answer. Moreover,
the movement attracts all the louts in
leather jackets and girls with lank un-
washed hair. But neither Communists
nor repulsive young people are peculiar
to Britain, and there is far less logical
justification for such a movement in
Australia, which is not a nuclear power
—but which could conceivably find at
some time in the future that only a
bomb borrowed from one of its great
and powerful friends stood between it
and the menacing hordes of China.
Before we accuse Britain of being soft
on Communism we should consider how
very much more she does in the anti-
Communist cause than we do. We
have been spending 2.3 per cent of the
gross national product on defence,
whereas Britain has been spending 7
per cent and is increasing her ex-
penditure. Increases have been an-
nounced in Australian defence ex-
penditure also, but even when these
have taken place in three years’ time we
shall be spending only about 2.8 per cent
of the gross national product; and we
undertake nothing like the scale of
overseas commitments that the British
do —even in the reduced circumstances
in which they now find themselves.
Moreover, they spend proportionately
twice as much as we do in aid to under-
developed countries. As for Communist
influence in British trade unions, to
which Mr Knopfelmachcr calls atten-
tion, what about Australian trade unions!
Let us have an end to all this holier-
than-thou stuff. Let’s recognise rather
that we are in muen the same boat as
our friends. Let’s not flatter ourselves
that we shall play Rome to Britain’s
Greece in decline. A Mandy to Britain’s
Christine may be more like it.
Tactless individuals do an immense
amount of harm. One s heart some-
times bleeds for the British High Com-
missioner, Sir William Oliver whose
lively mind and charming presence make
him such an admirable representative of
his country and for all those nice
people on his staff. A James Morris
spends a couple of unenjoyable days in
Sydney, writes a splenetic little piece,
and all the goodwill that has been
patiently built up over the years lies in
ruins, shattered by a thousand little
words. Even more damaging, perhaps,
are the mordant writings of the British
about themselves. That number of
Encounter ! Ihe title alone, "Suicide of
a Nation/' was enough to nullify the
effect of years of information bulletins,
speeches, British Council tours and dip-
lomatic cocktail parties. In this respect
Australia must be a heart-breaking post,
because there can be none in which
English newspapers and magazines are
more widely read.
Meanwhile in England Australians are
doing an equally deadly job for their
country, telling the British on every
possible occasion what a lot of dead-
beats they are and how far better it is
to live in Australia. But they are out-
raged if the British make the slightest
reflection on Australia and are indignant
at the lack of interest in their country.
This demand for special treatment is
sometimes a source of grievance when
Australian Ministers visit London. In
particular the Minister for Trade, Mr
McEwen, has developed to a fine art
the technique of making British trade
negotiators feel that they are crucifying
him. He can make the Anglo-Australian
trade agreement (signed in 1957 and not
renewed but simply running on pending
the outcome of the Kennedy round)
sound like a plot to exploit Australia.
Australia’s complaints are first, that
the balance has consistently been in
favor of Britain. Why there should be
such bilateral thinking is a mystery
it would be a bad thing for Australia if
Japan took the same view. One would
think from the way it is discussed that
Australia was buying British goods not
because she wanted them but out of the
goodness of her heart, and that the
British should do the same, eating more
bread and cakes, for example, in order
to take as much Australian wheat as was


The “Space-Ag
shaver
is here!
■#
i.mt
ms
Zr-4
Millions of pounds of research money
has been spent perfecting thumb-
sized electric motors which move satellite
aerials. They are powered by even smaller
energy s cells, charged and discharged by
the sun’s rays. Light in weight, but
packing a punch that lasts for years, this
system is ideal for powering the “space
age” electric shaver.
The Sperry Division of the Sperry
'Rand Corporation plays a leading role in
'space research. This know-how is passed
on to the Remington Shaver Division.
The Remington “Lektronic” is the first
and only shaver that uses space satellite
principles in order to double a shaver’s
power, while retaining a built-in recharge-
able power supply.
Men on the move can now shave when
ever they like. Only a little bigger than a
packet of cigarettes in bag or briefcase, the
“Lektronic” draws up to two weeks’ power
from the mains in a few hours.
Start shaving with “Lektronic” now.
Exclusive to Remington, with Roll-a-
matic adjustable features.
• For Father's Day, Ist September, get the•
gift with no strings attached—a new cordless
Remington Lektronic.
22 GUINEAS COMPLETE
Other Remington shavers from £12.17.6
mmmmm
Shaver by Remington Rand
RR9OBLEV
envisaged when the agreement was
signed.
Then of course there is always
trouble about prices. The Australian
line is that producers here are done out
of a fair return and free access by
Britain’s policies of importing cheap
food and subsidising her own agri-
culture. Many people in Britain quarrel
with agricultural policy there, but it is
pursued partly for defence reasons and
partly as a matter of social policy,
because otherwise the entire population
would be urban. As for the fair return
to Australian producers, that depends on
the level of Australian costs. The same
price that yielded a loss to Australia
could yield producers elsewhere a hand-
some profit. Why should the British
housewife pay for the Australian 40-
hour week and high wage level, and for
all those annual holidays, when her own
husband does not enjoy those benefits in
Britain? There seems no reason why she
should when there is cheaper food to be
had from elsewhere.
Nevertheless, indirectly she does do
so, in the case of some commodities. For
sugar, under the agreement that runs
until 1970, Australia has been getting
a guaranteed price that was above the
world price until very recently, and this
has cost the British taxpayer an average
of £6 million sterling a year. For meat
there are guaranteed minimum prices.
Australia has not needed to fall back on
them, but they are there if necessary.
Australian exports to Britain are
mainly duty-free. But Australia con-
siders that Britain is well recompensed
for these arrangements by tariff prefer-
ences over other exporters to Australia.
But British exporters are frustrated and
bewildered by the protection that is con-
tinually being extended, especially
lately, to local industry so that they
never know what to expect. Anyway
the tariff preference is sometimes waived
and on very expensive and important
items. On at least two occasions since
the agreement was signed Australia has
allowed duty-free entry on foreign main-
line aircraft, when ii seemed to the
British that full comparable British air-
craft were available. It will be interest-
ing to see whether this happens again
over the purchase of a replacement for
our Viscount aircraft.
Today, after a period when British
immigration was falling off in relation
to European immigration, there is a
great influx of Britons again. Now,
however, they are running away from
nothing worse than the weather, and
unlike their predecessors they will bring
an affection for their old country. Per-
haps this fact will reinforce the better
relations that should come as the two
countries get on to an equal footing.


OUT AND ABOUT
Thrash to Green Island
“Remember this race is being televised ”
By LARRY FOLEY
Green Island lies 17 miles out to
sea from Cairns, just close enough
for day-trippers, just far enough
to tempt and challenge.. The island’s
charms, natural and man-made, make
it a magnet for beachcombers, fisher-
men, shell-collectors, bird-lovers and fish-
watchers, who reach it daily all year
round, easily and comfortably for the
most part, by launch or private boat.
But even without its attractions,
merely because it is where it is, it
provokes and aggravates certain people
the ones who are bothered by the
silent challenges of topography and
geography. Northerners are such people.
They go in for tough and unusual sport-
ing contests. They are a hardy folk,
and proud of it.
When the Olympic Torch relay was
being organised in 1956, the Cairns
region (pop. 50,000) mustered what
locals claim was the greatest number
of eligible starters (able to run a mile
in seven minutes) per head of population
in Australia. Some Cairns chaps re-
cently claimed a world record for non-
stop trampolining (100 hours). Some
Townsville chaps have just licked that
with 170 hours.
Townsville has, also, its annual si-
mile ocean swimming race from Mag-
netic Island. Now Cardwell, further
north, is planning a race from Hin-
chinbrook Island to the mainland. It
is tempting to conclude that envious
desire to match Townsville’s Swim with
a comparable aquatic event led Cairns
to its latest sporting endeavor. But
the event u'ould have taken place
sooner or later anyway. In the nature
of men and the things they do, it had
to come. In this case the men were
members of the Cairns International
4-Metre Sailing Club.
They would pick out Green Island,
a neat, short, faint mark on the horizon,
like a hyphen idly typed with a worn
ribbon, and wonder, some aloud, some
silently, whether they could make it.
The 4-Metre is not intended for the
open sea. It was designed by Dane
Knud Olsen in 1958 as a trainer for
the Olympic Finn Monotype But it was
so successful that it became a racing
class of its own. Today there are more
than 3000 4-Metres afloat, including
200 in Australia.
The 4-Metre, or OK Dinghy as it is
also called, is 13ft. 2in. in length,
with a beam of 4ft. Bin. It is al-
most completely decked. Three water-
tight compartments make it unsinkable.
It carries only one sail, of 90 sq. ft.
The sail is made of dacron. The mast,
stepped in the bow, is 20ft. 6in.
high and must weigh not less than
18flb. The mast is unstayed and
merely revolves on the keel, the boom
spar passing through a slot in the base
of the mast just above the decking.
Finally, club-members couldn’t stand
it any longer. The decision was made:
let’s have a go. It would, of course, be
a race.
Club secretary Dan Bolton master-
minded the event. Dan, a former
Queensland 16-footer champion and 18-
footer skipper, is a calm, quiet-spoken
man in his-forties, over six feet, broad-
shouldered, deep-chested, erect, weather-
beaten, deft of hand and clear of eye
almost too much like a man of the
sea.
Dan made the lads train. He wanted
them fit. Fooling about in the harbor
was one thing, and exciting enough in
a blovy, Dan knew, but the open sea
of Trinity Bay would separate the men
from the boys. It might well separate
them all from their boats.
There was some trepidation, therefore,
when the fleet of 11 boats moved into
the start off Hayles Wharf. The helms-
men, ranging from 16-year-old Bennie
van Balen to Dan Bolton himself, had
been pep-talked and advised down to the
last detail in both spoken and written
word. A lengthy set of instructions con-
tained such passing observations as:
If you do not enjoy yourself then it’s
your own fault . . . Conform strictly to
the regulations and signals . . . failure
to do so could result in a calamity . . .
remember, this race is being televised
act as you have never acted before . . .
Please familiarise yourself with the start-
ing procedure we want the spectators
to think we know what we are doing . . .
Wear a flannel under your life-jacket . . .
Carry a small bottle of “Nelson’s Blood”
(rum) in your pocket to splice the main-
brace if need be. (All did and, I should
think, need was.)
The race started right on time and
things went like clockwork. It was hard
to believe the organisers had never done
it before.
Two stand-by helmsmen went in one
of the escort boats, in case they were
needed to take over from exhausted
starters. (They were.) The fleet was es-
corted by about a dozen power boats
from the local Motor Boat Club, a
willing bunch who apparently have not
yet got the word from crowded Southern
ports that power men and sail men are
supposed to look down on each other.
Down-harbor the 11 skiffs gurgled
and hissed happily along in a light
breeze off the starboard quarter.
On the blue water, in the smoky-blue,
lemon-and-lime-colored setting of
Cairns, with the blue-black peaks of
the Tableland waving wisps of cloud,
the little boats looked marvellous.
Chris Bolton, Danny’s nephew, held
his craft trim, taut and rock-steady and
began to draw away. The fleet kept well
together. But anxious eyes turned to
the dark line ahead where the south-
easter ruled the waves beyond the shelter
of Cape Grafton. Here the sea changed
abruptly, as from lawn to ploughed
field. The skiffs emerged like chickens
from under the wing of Cape Grafton
and the south-easter pounced.
In a trice the fleet was scattered. Dan


IBM CUSTOMER SERVICE
.. .-.•. •... ,„•. v.i». •• • .
s
: SH
u
:
~ * pfß®
■
a m':
V, *
', sS
■XmMiMMMmMMM
...
. ■< ■■■.;■:. \ 1
V > *
fruy ' 'm
•3?
■
fm i i-
w.
to
&
Kiln
;X •:• •: ; • ■: ;•,: :■ ■• V •' WM :
■
:
: . .
afsBM»Bt«l£M
•*>«*. • v ■•*
. ,:
to
3®
&
£
an
■ •■ x”-::
' &H:> ' ' f : ::
'
if
Iff-
f >
. . '
Getting the very most from a Data Processing System
At IBM, service goes beyond just keeping present equipment functioning properly. We recognise that
equipment alone is of little value without expert human direction to help realise its full potential, and every
effort is made to help users of IBM equipment constantly improve the productivity of their systems. For
example, the IBM program library helps reduce your programming time. IBM helps train your personnel
in the efficient operation of your system. IBM continues to analyse your needs even after your system is
installed and helps you take advantage of new systems’ features as they are developed and as your needs
change. IBM representatives help reduce change-over costs by providing you with tested planning procedures
and guides.
When you employ an IBM System in your business, you can be sure of
the support of an organisation of men and women trained to make certain
you get the most from your data processing investment.
IBMI.IO 7
IBM AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED. IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES


Bolton saw his plan keep together,
for safety’s sake wrecked. He sum-
moned an escort boat, handed over his
skiff to stand-by helmsman Stratham
Amos, and then from the escort boat
took a closer look at each competitor
to see how he was making out in the
increasingly heavy going.
They were all making out. Two fled
out in front, one of them George
Manning holding closer to the wind
and veering right away to starboard.
George soon had a big lead. But the
second, Noel Wheeler, was laying his
course dead, behind the flag ship, m.v.
Sapphire, carrying RANR Lt. Com-
mander Ron McKauge, who navigated
and commanded the operation.
The heavier helmsmen, like 14i-stone
Wheeler, had the best of it. In this
stuff the boats needed ballast. Chris
Bolton, no heavyweight, fell back. Half-
way across, the fleet covered two or
three square miles. In the escort boat
knowing eyes followed George. He was
riding for a fall. On the course he was
steering, he had to come about soon,
or hit Tahiti. And coming about, in
these things, in such a sea, with no
jib . . . Suddenly George and his boat
disappeared, as though down a manhole,
plonk. It was pure Chaplin.
Our flagship raced to the rescue. But
a speedboat beat us. We resumed course,
watching George’s struggles to right him-
self. Up she came . . . and over the
other side. Up again . . . and right over
. . . The speedboat stood by, and we
turned our attention to the rest of the
fleet. The stragglers were now so far
back that the eye had to strain to pick
out the pale fleck of sail amongst the
white caps.
You counted, re-counted and re-
counted: “ . . . seven seven
where’s eight? Eight, nine . . . Nine.
Two missing. No, there’s another, that’s
ten. Ten. One down.”
You counted again, and this time
found 11. A few minutes later, nine or
ten was all you could muster. You
couldn’t be sure from minute to minute,
and were glad to know that the Motor
Boat Club boys were all around, busy
as sheepdogs.
I did not get a chance to ask George
Manning after the race why he had gone
off on his long tack. But I suspect that
it was simply a case of he who rides a
tiger, or of flying downhill on a bike,
feet off the pedals, no brakes. I was not
surprised to learn that Noel Wheeler,
who was, of course, the winner (in
2 hrs. 25 min. 11 secs.), was once a
bike-racer.
The 4-Metre has undoubtedly got
something. And the Cairns sailors have
obviously started something. They’ll
turn it on again for Cairns’ October Fun-
in-the-Sun festival, and make the Green
Island thrash an annual event.
Well-Tempered Quartet
The secret of harmony is separation
By MARGARET CLARKE
The Budapest Quartet, the most
famous quartet in the world, has
just squeezed a quick, four-State
tour of Australia into its perpetually tight
schedule. Its almost legendary reputation
preceded it and halls were heavily book-
ed or sold out. For the first few minutes
of its first concert there was a pang of
disappointment: was the reality of today
going to kill the legend sustained by
recordings since the quartet visited Aus-
tralia in 1934 and 1937? Then the magic
began to work. The audiences were
vouchsafed a glimpse into an almost
vanished world in which chamber music
was something personal, highly individual,
a musical conversation between gifted
participants who know their subject and
understand one another’s language.
Despite the name of the quartet
this is an inheritance the four mem-
bers are all Russians, who now live in
the United States. They are Joseph
Roisman, first violin; Boris Kroyt, viola;
and two brothers, Mischa and Alexander
Schneider, respectively ’cellist and
second violin. When not playing to-
gether as a quartet they go their own
ways, even playing as soloists or with
other instrumental groups, pursue their
own hobbies and see as little of one an-
other as possible.
“Our policy of non-intervention,” one
of them said, adding that they have been
able to remain together so long as a
quartet because they are together as
little as possible. They even aim not to
travel together, and if they do take the
same aircraft they sit separately. When
they leave Australia they will do so in
four different planes for four destin-
ations to take holidays before they join
up again for the winter concert season.
These men have been playing as a
quartet for 30 years; they joined the
Budapest Quartet one by one as the
original members, three Hungarians and
a Dutchman, dropped out. As none
speaks Hungarian and Kroyt alone of
them has visited Hungary it was once sug-
gested that they should rename them-
selves the Roisman Quartet, but because
of the reputation of the Budapest
Quartet the idea was discarded.
All four men left Russia while still
young and all studied music in Germany,
the country, according to Mischa Schnei-
der, which has produced the most pro-
found music. “Why these sentimental
and romantic people should have done so,
I can’t suggest,” he said, “but the various
peoples and races each have gifts that
distinguish them from other peoples and
races.”
It was as a quartet that the four men
went to America in 1930 and as such
that they settled there, establishing their
reputation through the concerts they
gave each year in the Library of Con-
gress in Washington. For 23 years in
succession these concerts were a major
event, made possible largely through a
private foundation.
Though they are as at home in modern
and romantic music as in classical, their
piece de resistance has always been the
Beethoven cycle of 17 quartets and they
still perform them each year in New
York. During one of their two visits to
Australia in the 1930 s they played them,
and they did so in 1958 in the Victoria
and Albert Museum in London. Their
recordings of these quartets, have sold
more than 2,000,000 copies far ex-
ceeding the tally of any other quartet.
‘‘We have played the cycle more than 60
times,” one of them said.
Uniting factors, Mischa believes, are
their Russianness and their Jewishness
all four are Jewish and the cir-
cumstance that they use the same tech-
niques in playing.
When I asked him could he define the
Russian temperament he laughed and
told an anecdote.
“There was a roomful of people all
weeping,” he said, “and someone asked
them why they were weeping. ‘Because
we are Russians,’ they moaned, and
continued to weep.”
More seriously he added: “If you want
to know what Russians are like read
Dostoievsky and the other great Rus-
sian novelists. I don’t believe that the
Soviets can have basically changed the
Russian temperament.”
Yet he conceded that conditions in
modern Israel may be changing the
Jewish temperament. “When I go there
I hardly recognise my own people,” he
said. “They the young ones especial-
ly have become so militant, so for-
ward-looking and so optimistic. The
old sorrow and pessimism and introspec-
tion seems to have gone.”
The characteristics, in fact, to which he
attributed the “fantastic gifts for in-
strumental music” that the Jewish people
had displayed in the past. “It may very
well have been because we were not
allowed to do the things the Gentiles
did that we turned to music, philosophy
and scholarship and to business,” he
added.


FOR
COMPLETE
ORAL
HYGIENE
During business and
leisure hours, thoughtful
people benefit from the use
of ODOL.
A refreshing, protective
mouthwash, with a clean,
pleasant taste, ODOL . . .
keeps the teeth healthy
keeps the mouth fresh
keeps the breath pure.
After each meal, sprinkle
a few drops of ODOL on
the tongue or gargle in
water . . . helps protect
against cold and decay-
causing germs, too!
Keep ODOL handy
wherever you go, and be
certain your breath won't
offend.
MOUTH WASH
“Such A Wretched
Businessman”
An early encounter with Peter Rachman
By HUGH ATKINSON
There are two artists and a sculptor
in Sydney, gently settled to wife
and family and illustrious in their
trades, who, 10 years ago in London,
had as a friend a person lately described
as the most evil man in Britain.
We had quartered in a noble old
house at 78 Lancaster Gate, being in
separate and palsied flight from the hor-
rors of the English boarding-house. I
think it was Eric who first found the
digs. The proprietor was a Pole of the
most cheerful amiability who lived with
his tiny, motherly wife in an extra-
ordinary uproar among 17 screens of un-
certain stability, innumerable cases and
trunks, three upright pianos and two
Grands in what had been the old man-
sion’s ballroom, an area sized like a
football field with a sprung floor of
parquet which had been so rocked by
age and bombing that to cross it re-
quired a delicate balance and the con-
centration of all one’s attention.
The Beetle, as we called him, had
bought the house cheaply because of
the disrepair of its upper floors which
had been wounded in the blitz, and ap-
plied himself occasionally to their re-
construction in outbursts of unbelievable
eccentricity. He was aware that the flats
he let us were daunting by the con-
ventions. And would spread his hands
to agree that in an English house one
might very well get a carpet. But in an
English house, he would continue, one
would not be expected to stand on it.
The Beetle rented freedom and tolerance
rather than umbrella stands, aspidistras
and doleful prints of Battersea Bridge,
swans and Highland cattle. We under-
stood each other well and lived there
very happily.
The floors we Australians lived on
were grand, with marble mosaics, a
great staircase and beautifully carved
oaken doors. The upper floors were an-
other matter. To ascend there was like
a vertical walk on Tobacco Road. There
was a bewildering variety of tenantry
between us and the roof. Elderly Polish
ladies in rusty shawls and handkerchiefs
knotted beneath their chins scuttled
about in malodorous blasts of cooking.
Each door announced that one or more
business companies operated inside. On
the fifth floor a rabbinical looking
gentleman rode a motorcycle on Sun-
days. He was building it, he said, from
old parts and expected that one day it
would be ready for the road.
Up there, somewhere on these floors,
Peter Rachman had his room.
Our friend Peter, Britain’s most evil
man, slum landlord, Chicago-style gang-
ster, ruthless exploiter of misery and
lover of Mandy Rice-Davies and Chris-
tine Keeler.
It was borne in on us eventually that
Peter’s sexual appetite was most shar-
pened by what it fed on and one is not
greatly surprised to read that he was
linked with prostitution. That he be-
came a slum landlord is credible. Many
of Britain’s best people have lived for
generations on the slums. I think it was
probably the size and success of his
dealings that caused us most surprise.
Peter was such a wretched businessman.
He saved enough money to finance a
tailoring business at one time, because
he had been offered cloth at a ridicu-
lous price. It was the cloth, not the
price, that proved ridiculous. The stit-
ches pulled out of the suits in a matter
of days and undressed their wearers on
the spot.
The Beetle encouraged Peter after this
disaster by suggesting they should deal
in junk. The Beetle had a serious weak-
ness for anything going cheap. Peter
invested the remainder of his capital
with the Beetle who bought 15,000
small glass panes in a variety of colors,
neglecting to first conceive of a use
for them. They lay crated in the base-
ment for years. The Beetle used to take
visitors there who would rack their
brains for a profitable purpose to which
the investment could be put. He had got
his five pianos that way, because they
had been irresistibly priced
For a time after that Peter did well
with a dental mechanic’s business. One
of the tenants had practised the skill
in Poland and as teeth were free on
the medical scheme the demand for
them was considerable. It transpired
that the mechanic had been a student
rather than a journeyman of the trade
and his plates tended to shed their teeth,
clack loudly or pop out unexpectedly.
Peter had also overlooked to properly
register the firm and there was some
trouble before the business closed down.
I think these reverses goaded Peter.
I learned later that an unexplained ab-
sence of his was caused by his detention
in jail. He had been caught trying to
smuggle wristwatches through the Cus-
toms.
I left England for another country in
1951. Peter was established in a letting
office then which probably led to his
later dealings. It is difficult to believe
that within five years he was to become
both wealthy and notorious. He used
to copy out lists of lettings in the area
on a typewriter bought by the Beetle
at an auction, from a weekly publication
that advertised vacancies for all London.
When applicants came to his office to
enquire for a letting he would sell
them the local list for thirty shillings.
At our parting Peter brought a bottle
of champagne to share and behaved with
some emotion. He was a brilliant chess
player and we had spent many hours
together while he worked patiently to
improve my game. He took off the dark
glasses which make him appear so
grotesque in his newspaper pictures and
wiped at his ruined eyes. Light hurt
them excruciatingly. Peter had been in
concentration camps from the age of
19 to 25.
He told me that he used to promise
himself that if he ever survived the
experience he would spend the rest of
his life indulging his appetites.


BOEUF A LA REINE
A SHORT STORY BY PAT FLOWER
The woman came into the butcher’s
shop and smiled at the butcher. The
busy morning meat-buying time was
over and it was getting on for lunch.
But the woman had no fears that Mr
Harp didn’t keep good cuts tucked away
for his best customers. And heaven knew
she was a best customer.
“Morning, Mrs Henderson, and what’s
it to be today?” He stood there leaning
on the bloody bench with one hand,
cleaver in the other, held delicately as
the precision instrument it was.
“Good morning, Mr Harp.” The
woman gave him her special shopping
smile. “Have you got a nice wing rib
roast?”
“Ah,” he said, pleased, proud. “About
four or five pounds, Mrs. Henderson?”
“How did you know?” She laughed
at his percipience, or was it his eternal
hopefulness.
“Just ’ad a feeling you wanted a nice
big one.” He caressed the cleaver.
“Well, yes, I’m having guests to-
morrow. I was going to ring you, but
I just wanted to make sure, and besides,
1 had to go to the library and the
florist.” Heavens, why was she making
all these explanations? He didn’t care,
he cared only about his meat; and she
certainly didn’t care.
“Nothing but the best for every guest,”
he said jollily, his pale face taking on
a sort of aura of sanctity. He made an
automatic swipe at the bits of flesh on
the bench and began to move towards the
refrigerated room, intent and holy.
Her bored smile froze on her face.
His wit really was trying. She looked at
the patterns in the sawdust on the floor,
some of them congealed by the blood
of animals. Meat was revolting stuff,
she thought vaguely, and hoped the new
recipe would turn out as well as it look-
ed in the illustration. Somehow the colors
were never quite so good in real life as
in first-rate color photography, but if
she used the same color scheme: the
rich brown of the meat with its smooth
gleaming sauce, light green baby peas,
the lambent orange of young carrots,
fluffy white mashed potatoes and a gar-
nish of tomatoes and parsley for vivid
contrast, then she couldn’t go far wrong.
And the same salad: medium-green let-
tuce shiny with French dressing, pale
asparagus spears and radishes cut into
roses. Just the thought of it all made
her feel tired. And a variety of cheeses.
Mr Harp came back tenderly holding
a chunk of bright red meat. With a
flourish he flung it down on the bench,
somehow managing to make a gesture
of it without undue spatters of blood.
He’d put the cleaver down somewhere
and now picked up a long evil-looking
knife. He placed the knife in position and
looked up at her inquiringly. The re-
maining strands of his fair, greasy-looking
(animal fat?) hair were carefully combed
over his baldness and a few had edged
down over his forehead. He looked any-
thing but charming, with his pale blood-
less skin and washed-out blue eyes, the
whites bloodshot. The bloody lines in
the whites of his eyes seemed to be
the only blood he had, she thought in
horror; as though the blood were drain-
ing from his body, from all the little
veins and great arteries, to coalesce and
concentrate in a last-ditch stand before
the body became a corpse. She shook
the fanciful thought away and her voice
was crisp and demanding.
“Yes, that looks about right. I’d like
it boned, please, for rolling.”
“Rolling!” He didn’t move. He re-
mained slightly bent over, still looking
up at her, but his expression was agonis-
ed and pained, and there was pain and
agony in his voice. “You’re never going
to roll a wing rib!” he whispered.
“Yes, I am.” She tried a gay smile
to make light of it all.
“You’re not going to play around like
that with meat like this, Mrs. Hender-
son? Not you. Always the nice whole-
some cut, that’s what you ’ave, never
the scrag ends.”
Mrs Henderson had often thought of
changing her butcher to someone pleas-
ant and business-like, who simply sup-
plied what the customer asked for. None
' of this nonsense about breaking faith
and succumbing to powerful influences.
Mr Harp was always talking about
powerful influences, as though some un-
principled foreign power had set about
undermining the constitution through the
meat industry, or rather through the
way people cooked their meat. But to-
day, for some reason, perhaps because
she was bored and didn’t want the guests
anyway, she was determined to stop
his silly nonsense.
“It’s only a piece of meat, Mr Harp,”
she said with asperity. “A piece of a
dead animal.” She shouldn’t have added
that, it made her feel sick.
“Always after the cheaper cuts, that’s
what they are,” he cried bitterly. He
picked up the heavy piece of beef and
threw it back on the bench, dislodging
the stack of white paper from its neat
rectangle. A deeper stain of red seeped
into the bench.
“I haven’t asked you for a cheap cut.
It’s an expensive cut.” Her voice was icy.
“You can’t do it, Mrs Henderson. Not
with a bit o’ beef like this. You lose
all the goodness.”
“I can’t see why.”
“Fancy American recipes!”
“Actually it’s French.”
“It’s all the same. Worse. Them Frogs,
what do they know about meat? I bet
they never seen a real bit o’ meat in
their lives.” He had been staring miser-
ably down at the bench upon which lay
the bone of contention. But suddenly
he looked up at her with infinite cun-
ning. “’ow d’you know it’s French?”
“My dear Mr Harp,” Mrs Henderson’s
smile was frigid and pitying, “it’s in a
French cook book.”
“You mean to tell me them Frogs
have a recipe for wing rib?”
Mrs Henderson was furious to find
herself on the defensive. “Actually, it’s
for veal. But they do such clever things
with their cooking. Wine and oil and
so on. The poor things don’t have meat
the way we do. I think it’s very clever
of them to have such a reputation out
of nothing, you might say. But as I can


r
STARTS
IN WINTER!
Livelier performance
and a smoother, quieter engine
18/6 at your Service Station. A
RM 1 9.22
Roco
mvsPß
ymm FOR ENGIHff
gMPHiifl gc ad A
S??,?.UA u Sr.)PTY. LIMjS
m
get good beef —at least I hope I can,”
she said with a sarcasm which was lost
upon Mr Harp, “why shouldn’t I make
the dish even better than the original?”
As she spoke, she watched with mis-
giving the sneering smile growing upon
Mr Harp’s face, and when she finished
he pounced.
“Wine and oil!” he said, metaphori-
cally throwing them in the garbage can,
“wine and oil! And why d’they ’ave
wine and oil, Mrs Henderson? I’ll tell
you why. To take away the taste of the
travesty of meat they ’ave to use. Bits
and pieces of this and that, entrails,
that’s what they eat.”
“Bits and pieces can be very nice for
a change.”
He put both hands flat on the bench,
one on either side of the beef, and
leaned towards her. “I ’ope you’re not
making a mock of me, Mrs Henderson.”
Mrs Henderson made a small des-
perate movement. Quickly she looked
away and out at the street. The sun
seemed to have gone and left everything
grey.
“You say they made a reputation out
o’ nothing. That’s right, so they ’ave.”
The gloomy hateful voice went on. “Meat
and everything else. They got nothing,
nothing, and they’ve made a reputation
out of it. Ever bin to France, Mrs Hen-
derson?”
“I had a fortnight in Paris.”
“Well, I ’aven’t, neither. But 1 know
what I’d find if I did go.” He paused
for effect. “Nothing.”
Mrs Henderson gripped her shopping
basket convulsively. The butcher leaned
forward confidentially.
“I said to the wife the other night,
Mrs Henderson, look, I said, it’s analog-
ous to all them teenagers and Mr Khru-
shchev and everything. Look at that wall
in Berlin. It's standards slipping. Every-
where. It’s the same all over. Fancy
packages.” He picked up a tin of dog
food and banged it on the bench. “All
done up in fancy packages, that’s what
they do with meat now, in cellophane,
mark you. Is it the same? Of course
it’s not. 1 know it’s not and you know
it’s not, Mrs Henderson. What’s wrong
with a nice bit of meat that you’ve
got to do it up all fancy in cellophane?”
He slapped his hand on the beef and
announced portentously, “It’s because it
ain’t fresh!”
Mrs Henderson leaned limply against
the bench, fighting back tears of rage
and frustration. She didn’t care that her
expensive linen dress might absorb a few
bloodstains. She knew that Mr Harp’s
opinions were full of flaws, holes, in-
sanities and hopeless prejudices, but she
didn’t know where to begin to put him
right, and she knew that she would
never succeed, anyway.
“Oh, never mind, Mr Harp, really I
haven’t time to . .
“No, but you’ve got time to play about
making these fancy recipes. That’s why
there’s all this cancer about, and food
poisoning, and the little kiddies born
with no arms. It’s all in the diet, Mrs
Henderson.”
Desperately Mrs Henderson clung to
her sanity. “I think I’ll just give them
crumbed sausages.”
“Sausages!” Mr Harp was aghast.
“That rubbish? That’s twice as bad as
scrag ends. You never know what’s in
them things.”
“But, my dear man, you make them,
you know what’s in them. You call them
pork sausages, or beef sausages.”
“It’s just a figure of speech, you might
say, Mrs Henderson. Mind you, they’re
wholesome, there’s nothing that isn’t
wholesome goes out of this shop, that’s
a fact. But you can’t put sausages along-
side a good bit of beef or lamb and
say it’s the same thing, now can you?”
“Mr Harp . . .”
“What would Mr Henderson think,
you giving him sausages? He wouldn’t
like it, would he? There’s a man who
knows his meat, Mr Henderson is.”
A small old woman came into the
shop. She looked neither at the butcher
nor his customer, but closely observed
tail-ends of meat left lying about, pushed
aside or deposited in handfuls for some
later thrifty purpose. Two flies came in
with her. She shooed them away, ver-
bally and with her old brown hand
fringed by greyish lace edging the long
sleeve of her dress. Mrs Henderson seiz-
ed upon the interruption.
“Serve this lady, Mr Harp, while I
make up my mind.”
The butcher gave her a reproachful
look and turned to the old woman with
an expression of short shrift.
“Righto, love, what’s it to be today,
a bit of breast? Got a nice one here
for you.”
The old woman took no notice of
him but went over to the window and
peered from the inside at what she’d
already absorbed from the outside. The
butcher joined her there.
Perhaps I could just slip away while
his back’s turned, Mrs Henderson thought
with deplorable cowardice. Now! while
the old lady’s got him reaching for
that piece of meat. But even as sfTe
thought it she knew it was no good.
How would she ever face him again?
Even if she really did change her butcher
she’d be bound to run into Mr Harp.
He’d lurk there in his doorway waiting
for her, he’d never stop gossiping about
her to other people, and he wouldn ? t
be truthful about it, he’d spin the most
terrifying stories: he’d have her poison-
ing Mr Henderson and giving birth to
armless babies in perpetuity. Every time
she passed his shop she’d see his pale
face staring out at her, his bloodless
lips moving as he told a shopful of cus-
tomers that there goes that poor Mrs
Henderson. They could move right away
somewhere, of course . . . was she mad?
How could they? They didn’t even want
to. She laughed suddenly.
“I’ll be right there, Mrs H.,” Mr Harp
said, turning with a sly smile that seem-
ed to know all she’d been thinking.
“Yes, all right. Perhaps I’ll just go
next door for a cup of coffee. And then
come back.”
“Next door?” Mr Harp, one hand
steadyingly on the old woman’s arm,
turned right round. “Next door? You
don’t mean that foreign place?”
“Oh, I don’t know,” Mrs Henderson
snapped. “I don’t know whether it’s
foreign or not. What does it matter?
They make very good coffee, wherever
they come from.”
“You mean that stuff with a long
fancy name?” Mr Harp smiled down
at the little old woman as if he’d made
a joke in which she’d share; she ignored
him and went on poking at the meat in
the window. “Coffee, you call it? Come
now, Mrs Henderson, what’s wrong with
a nice cup of Camp or Excelsior? But
listen, coffee aside,” he left the old
woman and came back to the bench,
leaning over it conspiratorially, “that
woman takes drugs.”
“Which woman?”
“That woman next door.”
“How do you know?”
“I can tell. You always know these
things. There’s all sorts of ways. She’s
got a lot of very peculiar men calling
on her.”


: : ■■ ”
. \
■y:,
■
tgigygfp 5
'M§£W'"
V
'-5
/
Sr
i
3u
m
r-
mm
■\
, •
/*S!
r s r-s- wsmm
■
sy
m
■ ■■S : : ' ■■' \:
■ y'l.--.:-
*
yy-
■ ■ ■
~' : ;■! '■ :•
■ : V: : !
.. s:
the spell of Lufthansa
You don’t have to spell Lufthansa to
enjoy the German international way of
flying.
A ’phone call to your travel agent will
book you a Lufthansa flight to most
overseas places that interest Australian
businessmen.
Actually, experienced travellers will tell
you that Lufthansa provides its own
spell.
Hearty Bavarian beer from the keg and
Westphalian ham with black bread if
you are gastronomically inclined.
Flight crews that speak your language,
know your way of life.
Boeing 7208’s and 707 Intercontinentals
that whisper the miles away.
A world service that spans Europe,
Asia, Africa, North and South America.
But comfort and convenience are only
part of the Lufthansa spell.
There’s German thoroughness and
attention to detail.
There’s the knowledge that Lufthansa
is one of the world’s most experienced
airlines, was pioneering world routes as
early as 1926, has made 160,000 flights
in the last eight years alone.
Lufthansa does not fly to Australia yet
but you can join a Lufthansa flight as
close as Bangkok, Hong Kong, or San
Francisco and name your destination.
Don’t spell it.
Just say “Lufthansa” to your travel
agent.
1A117398
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
LUFTHANSA


we hear
rumours that
Our Chairman is woolly.
Our Secretary is a wild crazy figure
man.
Our Solicitor has been in London
recently.
Our Managing Director has a work-
ing glass background and reads
Nation.
fortunately
• The Manager is very much on
the ball and his wife is very
charming.
• Our Receptionist is not only smil-
ing with her usual brilliance but
typing much better these days.
• Our Chef, who is Viennese and
an artist, now speaks quite good
English, so we would prefer not
to say much about him.
The
Black
Dolphin
MERIMBULA
“What on earth difference does that
make?” Mrs Henderson gripped her
basket and began edging backwards to-
wards the doorway. “It’s only a cup of
coffee.”
“And what about your wing rib? I
can’t just leave it lying here for the
flies. What about your meat?”
Defeated, Mrs. Henderson crept back.
“I’ll ’ave a bit o’ that, young man.”
The old woman turned from the window
and came back, very business-like. “I’ll
’ave some o’ that.” She poked at the
beef. “Just feel like some o’ that, done
tender-like in its own juices.”
With a look of supreme triumph, an
absolutely insupportable look, Mr Harp
sneered all over Mrs Henderson and ad-
dressed the old woman.
“About how much? It’s not cheap.
Beef’s scarce, they’re selling it all out
of the country and there’s just not
enough to go round. Supply and demand,
supply and demand,” he added airily.
“About that much.” The old woman
measured off a piece about an inch wide.
The butcher seized the long thin knife
and began to slice.
“And what about you, Mrs Hender-
son? Made up your mind yet?” Both
tone and words implied that she had
no mind to speak of to make up. Pro-
fessionally, he produced the old woman’s
order and slapped it on the scales. “Don’t
overdo it, love, you don’t want to kill
it all over again. Leave a bit of the
blood in it, be lovely with a nice bit
of mashed.”
He scooped it off the scales and wrap-
ped it up, first in the white paper and
then in brown “There you are, love,
eight-and-six.”
Without a quiver, love handed ovei
a ten shilling note. When she had the
change safely stowed in her old black
purse she turned to go.
“Don’t you let ’im put it over you,
love,” she said to Mrs. Henderson. “Y *u
just ’ave what you want.”
“Goodly, Mrs Langley.” The butcher
watched her go out of the shop. “Old
bastard,” he added.
“I’ve made up my mind, Mr Harp,’
Mrs Henderson announced brightly The
old woman had given her courage.
“Right, Mrs Henderson. I’ll just weigh
it for you.”
“No, Mr Harp, don’t cut it,” she
said quickly.
“What d’you mean?” His eyes were
like those of a dead fish.
“I’m going to give them spaghetti.”
“Spaghetti?” Mr Harp put a hand on
his hip, unconsciously underlining the
characteristics of spaghetti: sissy, fancy,
foreign, insubstantial. “You’re never
going to give them spaghetti, Mrs Hen-
derson? You’re pulling my leg.”
Just the mere thought of Mr Harp’s
leg made Mrs Henderson feel quite ill,
let alone pulling it.
“It’s easy,” she said feebly, “you
just prepare the sauce earlier, then all
you’ve got to do is cook the spaghetti.”
“Well! If all you wanted was some-
thing easy! I don’t know why you bother-
ed to come in ’ere at all. That’s a fact.”
“And I’ll tell you another fact, Mr
Harp. I want that piece of meat and
I want it boned.” She didn’t understand
what had got into her. She felt that her
fangs were bared, standing there in her
linen dress.
There was a short, sizzling silence
while the two of them stood and chal-
lenged each other, the bench between
them. Then the butcher smiled and made
a deprecating gesture, which at the same
time was full of menace, with the cleav-
er, which he seemed to have picked up
again.
“Certainly, Mrs Henderson, I’m just
here to serve. You know my motto,
it’s on the window. ‘lt’s a Pleasure to
Serve the Best.’ An’ I only ’ave the
best here, you know that, ’ow long is it
now?”
Dear Heaven, he was going to re-
minisce. “I really must be getting along,
Mr Harp. If you’ll just cut the piece
off . . .” she stopped. There were actu-
ally tears in the man’s eyes. Of sorrow?
Or was it rage? He tested the edge of
the cleaver gently with a little finger.
“It must be ten, twelve years, Mrs
Henderson. A long time. And we’ve
’ad the best of relationships. I always
look forward to seeing you or Mr Hen-
derson. It’s a bright Saturday when Mr
Henderson comes in, always with ’is little
joke. How is your good man, Mrs Hen-
derson?”
“He’s very well, thank you,” she said
faintly.
He sank the knife into the beautiful
flesh, slicing with ease down to the
bone. “And how’s the family, well?”
“Yes, thank you.”
“Let’s see now, the girl’s about four-
teen, isn’t she?”
“Fifteen.”
“Well, fancy that.” He put down the
knife and picked up the cleaver. His
hand, which she now noticed with horror
had big brown spots on the putty-color-
ed skin, was held flat on the meat, the
fingers pressing into the firm but yielding
flesh.
“Time flies, doesn’t it? I was onlv
saying that to the wife the other night
As a matter of fact, I was talking about
your little lot.”
Mrs Henderson managed to contain
herself, at a cost she was to count later
The cleaver rose and Mrs Henderson
moved back a pace, watching rapt as
it came down smartly and exactly through
the knife cut, severing the bone at one
blow. There was no doubt, absolutely
no doubt, that Mr Harp was a wizard
at his job. If he’d only stick to it and
leave the cooking to others. And the
philosophising.
Slapping a piece of greaseproof paper
over the piece of beef he turned it over
adeptly in one hand and slid it on to
the scales.
“That’s just right, Mr Harp. Now if
you’ll just...”
“Yes, yes, I know. Bone it. All right,
you asked for it. But don’t come run-
ning back ’ere asking me to put the
bone back in when the recipe goes all
wrong, will you?” He laughed briefly.
Skilfully he began to remove the bone.
He tossed the bone over his shoulder
so that it landed neatly on another bench
that ran along the wall behind. Then
he slapped another piece of greaseproof
paper on the meat, wrapped it in white
paper, then in brown. He secured the
corner tidily with a strip of sticky tape.
“That’s another thing. All this new-
fangled way of doing up parcels. What’s
wrong with string?” He glared belligerent-
ly across the bench at Mrs Henderson,
as though indeed she were responsible
for the virtual disappearance of string
and . its substitution by adhesives.
“Thank you, Mr Harp. How much?”
“That’s let me see, now what
did I say, or didn’t I say? Four and
three-quarters, that’s thirty-five and
eleven.”


MC 45.65
> '• , r * %
*
t«\< p
I If
Uk
'-vl
fee?
is
I
l~«r
iilUH'MWiluWiL-'Mi
the harmony
of an age old
Scottish blend
the
perfection of
a product of Scotland ... of her soil;
her rivers, her very atmosphere.
Mrs Henderson laughed with a note
of hysteria. “It sounds like a petticoat.”
“Eh?”
“Oh, never mind I’m just being silly.”
She'd had- two pounds ready tor some
time and now thrust it towards him.
With a very suspicious look at her
he went to the till and rooted about
for the change. He came back, still
suspicious.
“I don’t overcharge, Mrs. Henderson.
You get good meat and pay a fair price.”
“I know that, Mr Harp. I’ve never
suggested otherwise.”
I thought you said just now . . .”
“Certainly not. Thank you.” She put
the change in her purse and picked up
her basket. “Goodbye, Mr. Harp.” She
turned and with an effort didn’t run to
the doorway.
“Let me know how the recipe goes,”
he called cheerily, for him. “I’ll save
you something nice for Thursday or
Friday, eh?”
“Thank you. Anything.” Downtrodden,
worm-like, she slithered out into the
street.
She walked the few paces to the next
doorway and w'ent into the coffee shop.
The pleasant smiling Italian woman (who
to °k drugs) called out cheerfully, “Cap-
puccino?”
“Yes, please, very strong.”
It was hot, delicious, frothy and re-
vitalising. There was no sawdust on the
floor, no blood, just clean wholesome
tiles in a pattern of chocolate and cream.
I’ll telephone in future, she thought.
Her hands were shaking so much that
the cup wobbled. She had to choke back
hysteria. She knew she was on the verge
of tears. Ridiculous, just because she’d
been defeated by the butcher. And not
even defeated; she’d got her wing rib
boned. She tried to take the long view,
the objective view, the view that put
Mr Harp and his silly little notions in
their proper little place. She paid for the
coffee, smiled at the drug-taker, and
went to where her car was parked.
She opened the door and paused. Then
with remarkable decision, considering
her earlier dithering, she took out the
other parcels from the basket, left them
in the car and returned to Harp, The
Better Butcher, with the parcel of meat
in the basket.
Mr Harp had his back to her. He
seemed to be salvaging scraps from all
over: benches, scales, even the floor.
Sausages? No, she mustn’t think about
it. She crept over the sawdust and wait-
ed, watching those nasty hands with
the big brown spots. She knew she’d
have the advantage when he should be-
come aware of her. She did
There must have been some blood
under the skin of his face, after all,
because he went even paler when he saw
her. He also looked horribly shifty.
“You’re back, then? Forgotten some-
thing?”
“No. I’m returning this.” She took
the parcel from the basket and put it
on the bench.
He stared at it, then at her and his
mouth went tight and small. “Why’s
that?”
“I don’t want it after all.”
“Why not?”
“I just don’t want it.” Her voice was
rising. “I’ve changed my mind.”
“What’s this, now? A little bit of the
neurotics, are we?”
She took a deep breath “We are not
neurotic. We’re simply teaching you a
lesson. If you’d just given me what I
asked for in the first place . . .”
“But I did. His wide-open eyes were
as innocent as a crocodile’s. “I gave
you what you asked for
“Eventually.”
“ . . . even if it was a damn-fool
thing . . .”
“Mr Harp!”
“. . . from someone I thought knew
a bit about meat . . .”
“Oh, meat, meat, meat, that’s all . . .”
“. . . I don’t ’old. w ith all this fooling
around an’ I’m sure your good man . . .”
“Stop calling him my good man.”
“. . . don’t ’old with it neither. A
man likes a good bit o plain honest
meat with veges . . .”
“What do you know about . . .”
“. . . and that’s something you won’t
get from that fancy butcher's up the
street.
“At least, they’re civil.”
“All right, all right, Mrs H., don’t
carry on, but you just think it over
quiet, think over what I said and . .
“Give me a leg of lamb.”
“So it’s lamb now. And how you
going to do it, Mrs Henderson? Just
roast it, I advise. None o’ this fancy
pumped stuffj boiled and braised till
all the goodness goes. A nice drop of
mint sauce and some peas and mashed
the guests’ll go for that, my oath they
will.”
Mrs Henderson remained commend-
ably silent throughout the rest of the
transaction, but later that day several
neighbors said they heard screams.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON gTT?
O’SULLIVAN
= v PTYL7D *.rr
& VfRS yP'
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Frinters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL”. BRISBANE
OVERSEAS
Viet Nam’s
Religious War
Why a Buddhist
Monk Suicides
By a Special Correspondent
The serious religious crisis in Viet
Nam has deep historical roots. In
Viet Nam the majority religion is
Mahayana (Chinese) Buddhism with a
good deal of Tao-ist and Confucian influ-
ence. Much of this has simply developed
on to the original animistic cults of the
area. A further factor is the considerable
number of people of Cambodian stock
in the southern provinces of Cochin
China who practise Theravada Budd-
hism originating in Ceylon. Against this
diversity of religious belief and prac-
tice Roman Catholic Missionaries made
a considerable number of converts,
many of them in North and Central
Viet Nam.
When the Indo-China War ended in
the partition of Viet Nam with the
Communist Viet Minh in control in
the north, many non-Communists in-
cluding many Christians went south.
The present break-up of population of
South Viet Nam is estimated approxi-
mately as follows Buddhist, 8.5 mil-
lion; Catholics, 1.5 million; Cao-Daists
(a composite religion containing ele-
ments of Christianity, Buddhism and
Islam), 1 million; and Hao-Hao (a
breakaway Buddhist sect), 1 million.
In the immediate post-partition period
President Diem, himself a Catholic from
Hue, had to deal with a great deal
of civil unrest in which the Cao-Dai
and the Hao-Hao were active opponents
with private armies of their own. It
was only after he had established his
authority in South Viet Nam that he
had to meet a strongly renewed threat
from the Viet Cong who in the early
post-partition years had probably as-
sumed South Viet Nam would fall into
their hands without much effort on their
part.
This did not happen because of
Diem’s courageous opposition to the
Communists, because of the fact that he
had established his own Government
in South Viet Nam, and because of
American assistance.
Nevertheless, while President Diem
has done much to preserve the free-
dom of South Viet Nam, his Govern-
ment has never particularly sought popu-
larity. Although the need for war-time
security pressures in Viet Nam made it
impossible to introduce too many civil
liberties, the fact that the President,
his family, and many leaders in the
political administrative fields and in the
armed services are from old fashioned
Mandarin families, and Roman Catho-
lics, tended to emphasise the authori-
tarian aspects of the Government. Al-
though the Vietnamese Constitution pro-
vides for religious equality, there has
grown up a feeling that the Govern-
ment gives preference to Roman Catho-
lics over Buddhists.
Much Buddhist discontent focused
on an ordinance of the former Emperor
Bao Dai who in 1950 placed legal re-
strictions on the status and property
rights of religious organisations. Roman
Catholics were specifically exempted
from this ordinance. The present dis-
turbances began in Hue on Bth May.
In addition to being an important Budd-
hist centre, Hue is the see of the
Roman Catholic Archbishop Ngo dinh
Thuc, a brother of President Diem.
On Bth May following the cancella-
tion by a minor Government official
of a celebration of Buddha’s birthday
the Buddhists demonstrated. Govern-
ment forces took anti-riot action and
in the subsequent skirmish seven people
were killed. The Government’s version
of the deaths is that they were caused
by a Viet Cong plastic explosion, but
this has not been widely accepted.
The incident on Bth May was fol-
lowed by hunger strikes and demonstra-
tions in Hue and Saigon. The lack of
any effective reaction from the Govern-
ment did nothing to ease the situation,
and dissatisfaction mounted. An inter-
ministerial committee led by the Vice-
President was set up by the Government
to negotiate with the Buddhist leaders
for a settlement of the dispute, but
the concessions.. at first. offered by the
Government were not satisfactory to the
Buddhists. On 4th June, there was an-
other large-scale demonstration in Hue
and Government troops used tear-gas
to disperse the crowd. More than 60
people were injured by the gas, which
appears to have caused skin-blisters.
Martial law was declared.
After a period of comparative calm,
the disturbance again flared up when a
Buddhist monk committed suicide by
incinerating himself in one of the main
streets of Saigon on 11th June. At this
point the domestic situation was explo-
sive and, in addition, other Buddhist
countries began to express concern.
On 16th June, after two days of nego-
tiations, the inter-ministerial commit-
tee and the Buddhist leaders reached
an agreement on the Buddhists’ five de-
mands. The main points of the agree-
ment were that:
• The Buddhist flag may be flown
by itself inside pagodas and
houses but outside it must be
accompanied by the national
flag which is to have pre-
cedence.
• Purely religious associations are
to be governed by a new statute
to be enacted by the National
Assembly by the beginning of


v:-y.
ICfCGplp
n
our co 3
cards by 10.30
ONLY XEROGRAPHY*
MAKES THIS POSSIBLE
Push-button copying on bond paper . . .
that’s xerography, which works by static
electricity.
Xerography—in the form of the f Xerox 914
Office Copier gives you the world’s
newest, most efficient copying process.
The Xerox 914 Office Copier copies any-
thing . . . from any colour. Even pages from
thick books. Sharp, clear, black on white
copies exact in every detail. Dry copies.
Xerography fuses the image right into the
paper. Just dial the number of copies you
want and out they come 7 perfect copies
a minute.
There’s nothing to buy you borrow our
machine and pay only for the copies you
make. Call your Rank Xerox office now, or
post this coupon and arrange a demon-
stration.
* (you pronounce it zer-ography)
t Regd. Trade Mark
RANK
XEROX
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
49 Market Street, Sydney 2 0663
316 Queen Street, Melbourne 67 6185
163-7 Halifax Street, Adelaide 8 6963
Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place,
Canberra City 4 7575
164 Melbourne Street, Sth. Brisbane 4 3836
83 King Street, Newcastle B 1994
1095 Hay Street, Perth .......,....<..<.,.21 2662
Get to know more about the amazing Xerox 914 Office
Copier by posting this coupon now.
Could I please: (Tick which applies):—
HI Have more details of the Xerox 914 Office Copier.
0 Have a demonstration at the nearest Rank Xerox
sales office.
Name
Company
Address
B 246/63
1964. In the meantime the old
laws will not be strictly enforc-
ed against Buddhist associa-
tions.
• The Government will set up a
commission of enquiry into
Buddhist complaints about arbi-
trary arrests, will pardon those
who took part in the campaign
for the “Five Demands” and
will implement fully the policy
of religious equality.
• Regular Buddhist services held
in pagodas will require no prior
permission, unlike those out-
side. All facilities will be given
for the approval and printing of
Buddhist publications and for
the construction of Buddhist
buildings.
• Officials implicated in incidents
since Bth May will be severely
punished if responsibility is
clearly established by the en-
quiry. The families of the vic-
tims at Hue are receiving public
assistance. The inter-ministerial
committee is to be responsible
for supervising the execution of
the agreement.
Although it seemed that a satisfactory
agreement had been reached, many ob-
servers remained sceptical. They felt
that the Government would not im-
plement the agreement fully and in par-
ticular they wondered whether some of
the President’s most intimate advisers
were trying to get him to renege on the
agreement.
One reason for this suspicion may
have been the publication on 7th June
by Mme Nhu’s (the President’s sister-
in-law) Women’s Solidarity Movement
of a resolution in effect condemning the
Buddhist monks who had taken part in
the demonstrations and suggesting that
the Buddhists were being used by people
whose motives were political rather than
religious.
Suspicion of the Government’s
motives did not die down and the
Bonze Superior initiated further cor-
respondence with the President alleging
bad faith on the part of the Government
and calling on the Government to imple-
ment the agreements fully.
On 14th July the Bonze Superior
charged the Government with sabotag-
ing the agreements and warned that there
would be renewed public demonstrations
demanding enforcement of the agree-
ments. On 17th July there were further
large-scale demonstrations and arrests
in Saigon. On 18th July the President
made a radio speech in order to extend
flag-flying privileges to all Buddhist
groups, to provide closer co-operation in
the investigation of alleged breaches of
the 16th June agreements and to in-
struct civil and military officials to con-


■cpifßvoistf ß -
»■>■«ss>.
COURVOISIER V.5.0.P.,
COURVOISIER NAPOLEON,
COURVOISIER EXTRA VIEILLE.
Agents: FESQ & COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
FREE! 2 Booklets. Atomic motor-
ing age, historical facts, motor
repairs, hints on economy.
NU-METAL (Pat)
SAVES REBORE • SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONER WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES WORN upper cylds,
main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed,
zip. SAVES. Adds £.s.d. to re-
sale value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Metal
to oil, petrol or plug holes, 4,6,
8 cyls, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testi-
monials engineers' reports, free
advice available. Open Sat. Morn.
Distributors required.
ORDER FORM
Sold only by
RE NU CO. (Esfab. 1932),
58 Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
VICTORIA. 42 1755.
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address
"Bui."
or send free particulars describ-
ing action of Nu-Metal.
tribute to the implementation of the
agreements. The Buddhists, however, re-
plied making a number of conditions
referring to the imprisonment of Budd-
hists after the demonstrations, the ques-
tion of compensation to the Hue victims’
families and the question of barricades
around the pagodas before they could
discuss the implementation of the agree-
ment. The Buddhists complained again
that the President’s instructions were not
being obeyed at lower levels, particularly
in central Viet Nam.
A religious dispute in a country en-
gaged at war with a ruthless and deter-
mined enemy presents a number of
problems. To name only a few, there is
a risk that:
• Disaffection may grow in the
Army, many of whom are
Buddhists;
• Failure to resolve a primarily
religious dispute may provide
an opportunity for discontented
persons to use the dispute to in-
crease divisions or dissatisfaction
in the country;
• The Viet Cong will be able to
exploit the situation.
Apart from these dangers to the
country’s unity, the Diem Government’s
handling of this dispute is causing con-
cern in other Buddhist countries. It is
also hurting Viet Nam’s reputation
abroad in countries which wish to help
Viet Nam resist Communist aggression
and it could go so far as to alienate
public opinion in these countries.
Humanitarian and religious reasons
together with a number of sound do-
mestic and external political reasons
provide good grounds for the Govern-
ment to reach an early settlement of this
religious dispute before it develops into
something wider.
Formosa and
The Split
A ivorking arrangement
between Chiang and K?
From STANLEY KURNOW
in Hong Kong
Tf the magnitude and bitterness of the
dispute between China and the
Soviet Union has surprised many inter-
national observers, it has confused the
Chinese Nationalists in Formosa.
For years, Generalissimo Chiang Kai-
shek and his theorists denied that there
could be any validity to growing reports
of friction between Peking and Moscow.
They held that Mao-Tse-tung was simply
a puppet of the Russians and that his
rivalry with Mr Khrushchev was merely
a “hoax” to confound the non-Com-
munist world.
Under the enormous weight of evid-
ence, however, Chiang has now been
forced to concede that the Soviet and
Chinese Communists do not see eye to
eye. Yet the Nationalist chief’s analysis
of the Sino-Soviet dispute is peculiarly
at variance with the interpretations put
forth by other experts.
Chiang holds that the problem is
“basically a personal conflict” between
Mao and Khrushchev. He says the two
Communist leaders are engaged in a
“power struggle” that does not portend
a schism. “The Communist partners are
still like Siamese twins”, he says. Any
notion that international Communism
might be weakened would be “danger-
ous, wishful thinking”.
But even as he issues these pronounce-
ments, the Nationalist leader is begin-
ning to consider the utility of the dif-
ferences between Moscow and Peking
for his own hopes of launching an attack
against mainland China. On occasion he
has claimed that Russia would not aid
the Chinese Communists if his armies
invaded the Chinese coast. Now he
contends that in the event of such an
attack, the Soviets would penetrate the
northern border regions of China such
as Manchuria, Mongolia and Sinkiang
Province. Chiang believes that Moscow
would create “Chinese puppet regimes”
in these areas long coveted by Russia.
Therefore, Chiang concedes, his own
assault against the Chinese Communists
would effectively be helped by action
which he believes the Russians would
take. He also agrees that joint moves,
though unco-ordinated, could be consider-
ed a kind of “working arrangement” be-
tween himself and the Soviets. More-
over, Chiang says that he will work with
“any group” that opposes Mao “even
if it does not swear allegiance to my
Government and even if it continues to
call itself Communist.”


FORUM
What Sort of New Guinea?
Or where is the Great Debate?
By PETER HASTINGS
The pictures on the right and in the
centrespread were taken at the Mt
Hagen Show in New Guinea’s West-
ern Highlands—one of the Territory’s
most colorful and eagerly anticipated
social events. Most of the people shown
on these pages are from the Wahgi Valley,
from the Hagen and Wabag areas. Many
of them made four and five day walks
to attend. Colorful, sturdy and indepen-
dent, living at high altitudes free of the
diseases and enervating climate of the
coast, the Highlands peoples—the last
and largest single group of New Guinea
peoples to come into contact with Euro-
peans form nearly a third of New
Guinea’s indigenous population. Within
a measurable period of time, somewhere
within five to ten years in all probability,
they will be the citizens of an indepen-
dent or nearly independent East New
Guinea.
Despite the fact that Australia is
now setting the conditions leading
to independence in New Guinea, there
is still nothing in the way of a sustained
debate on any level in this country on the
future of New Guinea. There has never
been greater need for one, for Austra-
lians should not only now be facing up
to the real responsibilities of preparing
New Guinea for independence but to the
consequences of independence which
will almost certainly be other than we
generally expect. A great deal of our
unwillingness to debate the problems and
implications of preparing New Guinea
for independence springs from more than
mere intellectual laziness or from the
indifference that derives from the fact
that we have never been in any classic
sense a colonialist people. New Guinea
has really become important only in the
last 15 years when we have been over-
whelmingly preoccupied with internal
problems of expansion, recession and
development.
In the latter part of that period the
possibilities of public debate being spark-
ed off by a continuing, sharp division of
political opinions on New Guinea have
been removed by the accident of history
which has confronted a hard working,
dedicated Minister (of a strong sense of
private preserve and purpose) with a
Leader of the Opposition who on the
subject of New Guinea regards Mr. Has-
luck as a radical. Even so, the extent
of large-scale public indifference to New
Guinea and its problems cannot be
underestimated. It was commonly and
persistently predicted by some sections
of the Press only a year ago that if West
New Guinea should become Indonesian
by a combination of military force and
threats there would be a violent public
reaction. In the event there was very
little public reaction at all; certainly not
enough to ring any political changes. It
is symptomatic of that same indifference
that in the last 12 years only two positive
ideas of any significance about the
future of New Guinea have been floated,
neither of which provoked the sort of
debate that one might have expected.
One was the suggestion that—subject to
the freely expressed will of its inhabitants
at some future date —East New Guinea
should be incorporated as Australia’s
seventh State. The notion died on the
point of painful realisation that the
peoples of New Guinea could be offered
nothing less than citizenship with all the
privileges of social services, old age
pensions, freedom of travel and choice
of jobs. This unattractive proposition is
made even less attractive today when
half the island is occupied by an
ambivalent Indonesia.
HThe second idea as to the ultimate
A political future of New Guinea—an
adventure in the high diplomacy of self-
determination which gained rather
more currency than the first was the
ill-fated conception of a Melanesian Fed-
eration w'hich was to comprise the whole
island of New Guinea together with the
Solomons and the Hebrides —if possible
—underwritten by Australia, the US and
Britain while the Dutch quietly vacated
the scene. It foundered on the rocks of
Indonesian implacability and diplomatic
skill in rallying Afro-Asian support to
its claims to West Irian.
Nevertheless while both ideas scarcely
raised a ripple on the pond of public
apathy they represented the only two
serious attempts to think publicly about
the future of New Guinea, and its rela-
tions with Australia and its neighbors, in
a decade. And so the question remains:
What sort of a New Guinea are we aim-
ing at?
While it would be silly to ignore the
fact that it will be the New Guineans
themselves who will finally choose their
own future the conditions of that future
will largely be set by us. In an emerg-
ing, dependent state New Guineans are
in no position to make those choices
unless the alternatives and possibilities
are indicated to them by Australians who
themselves are scarely aware yet of the
magnitude and complexity of the task
of helping to launch a nation into in-
dependence let alone the costs which are
far beyond our means.
For example, capital works expendi-
ture in the Territory in the post-war
period has exceeded £30,000,000 and
yet it is estimated that it will take
£300,000,000 to meet the Territory’s
basic demands in public buildings, engin-
eering works, communications, roads,
public utilities, etc., as a viable in-
dependent state.
Territories Minister Hasluck has inti-
mated that it would require £50,000,000
to settle 10,000 New Guineans in a fairly
modest land settlement scheme and yet
the long term requirements, as he him-
self has said, is to settle something like
250,000 native farmer settlers. Money
of this order simply cannot be found in
Australia and must be found elsewhere
which implies that the days when Aus-
tralia could preserve a close and un-
questioned influence over the nature and
direction of development are drawing to
a close. Even in the immediate future
the problems of financing are going to
become difficult. Currently Territory
expenditure is about £24,000,000 a
year, of which more than two-
thirds is found from Australia. A
glance at the figures above shows that
the costs of administration and develop-
ment are going to spiral fairly rapidly


THE MT. HAGEN SHOW
A BULLETIN PORTFOLIO, AUGUST 3, 1963
On the airstrip at Mt. Hagen. Curious mountain people come to gaze at assembled private and commercial aircraft
A Wabag man from near Wapenamanda wearing parrof feathers and
circlet of tree-climbing kangaroo fur.
The Governor-General (Lord De L'lsle, V.C.) with Mt.
Hagen hotel manager John Bastow. Behind Mr. Bastow
is Kup, who runs his own trade store and coffee
plantation near Hagen and is a member of the Highland
Planters' Association.


A girl from Min
Mt. Hagen man and woman. Bamboo pieces around his neck signify the number of pigs he has
killed at ceremonies. In the background a Luluai from Kompiam-Wabag area.
Mt. Hagen men in "sing-sing" wearing Emperor Bird of Paradise feathers.


A girl from Mt. Hagen.
Visitors carrying Minj area arrows.


Good Food Deserves
CAWARRA
ssssiii
'..;V : , . ..-M
Urn
V
• -
i
m. mm
. :
. : -V ; :
V(N CTYARDS
m, :
m
f sp£ % V
SELECTED '
BOTTUNC
CAWARRA
CLARET
SR
unoeman tr?
SYDNEY.
& nut contcnt-*
»l tn
88§Sr , ■» .. ■•?:„ * '•
«*“<>'■' , M M * * Jk
*%*.** W)l
.. A>. -.J* '** -. w>,T
A \ x >ll
a. • /fBAW' / £ t§tii
m
N»*« 0? «MWU*
IRKA; _
ect hocic
f'iodv<e c» Auitot.fl $lJ35®S^
S LTD.
"contents Tpr, bfl Qli
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
/tryle
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS


in the future and that outside financing
is going to become a matter of real
urgency not merely for industrial and
primary development but for maintain-
ing the wavering morale of the Terri-
tory’s Europeans who annually remit
back to Australia something estimated
between £5,000,000 and £7,000,000.
The recent visit to the Territory by a
group of Australian businessmen while
putting into perspective the very real
possibilities for capital investment in the
Territory also inadvertently highlighted
something more important political
development in New Guinea will rapidly
outstrip economic development as it has
in almost all the colonial areas at all
comparable with New Guinea. Far too
much thinking in Australia on political
and lower levels seems to be obsessed
with the notion that political independ-
ence must coincide with economic
viability.
And yet it is probably a dangerous
error to imagine that a number of pre-
determined social, economic and politi-
cal conditions must obtain before in-
dependence.
While certain optimum conditions may
be desirable before the point of self-
determination it by no means follows
that the New Guineans as they become
more politically sophisticated will adopt
the same view as the administering power.
For one thing, Australia simply cannot
provide from her resources or in the time
allowable the sort of economic pre-condi-
tions which may seem desirable before
independence. For another there are in-
creasing numbers of New Guineans who
realise, even now, that economic and
other aid —including technical assistance
and advice —can be had from various
sources after independence apart from
Australia which is already committed
to handing out large sums of money
and aid to New Guinea after the day of
self-determination. Much of the current
thinking in political and other circles
about the sort of conditions Australia
would want to see obtaining be-
fore the demands for independ-
ence are met is based on the false
impression given at the moment by a
largely dependent and acquiescent native
peoples. To put it another way—because
the peoples of New Guinea are at this
stage openly and uncritically dependent
on Australia it creates the illusion that
we have more time than we think and
that New Guineans will remain content
with the pace and the judgment that we
choose to exercise as administering
power. This illusion is helped by the
geographical fragmentation of New
Guinea, the continued absence of any
sense of national or even regional unity,
the poverty of communications, the
linguistic divisions, the absence of real
political organisation and the economic
backwardness of the country —factors
which have faced the Administration of
the Territory with such burdensome prob-
lems while giving it an almost unparallel-
ed immunity from criticism.
These features repeated ad nauseam
by the Administration and the Govern-
ment and by some sections of the Press
have led to the dangerous and widespread
belief in Australia that New Guinea is
uniquely different from any other
colonial area in the world and has in
turn generated the notion that develop-
ment of the Territory towards independ-
ence will and should take longer than has
been the case elsewhere. This attitude
ignores two things—the probable pace of
New Guinea’s internal demand in the
future and the extent and intensity of
outside pressure. Australia has done
much for the Territory of New Guinea
and the pace of material and other de-
velopment in the last decade has been
in some respects remarkable. But even
though response is still ahead of demand
this is not enough in itself as demand in
a colonial situation has an uncomfortable
way of suddenly snowballing and leaving
the administration flat-footed and unpre-
pared.
The biggest single step on the road to
A New Guinea’s independence will be
taken next year with the inauguration of
a House of Assembly of 64 members—-
of whom 44 will be New Guineans elect-
ed on a common roll. Although the Ad-
ministration will contain rigid control of
the House, it means that, even if imper-
ceptibly at first, the balance of power in
New Guinea will swing to the New
Guineans themselves who in the repre-
sentative phase will be able to make their
wants known by the simple means of co-
operating or dissenting. Experience will
eventually bring them the political skills
needed to form parties and alliances and
act as an articulate political body. But the
mere establishment of a representative
political institution scarcely seems enough
in itself. There remains the vexed ques-
tions of an elite which is needed in a
hurry through whatever systems of crash
education and conditioning we can pro-
vide. Despite Mr Hasluck's known
antipathy to the word elite and all it
signifies and his known preference for
the development of good sound, native
politicians, it is hard to see how New
Guinea can start to function in a reason-
able way without the development of an
educated, politically sophisticated native
leadership of the sort —however imper-
fect—which has emerged in Africa.
The dangers of producing an elite which
in the final event simply takes charge
of a country and runs it as a private
preserve are obvious. The dangers of
not providing one at all are worse if it
is realised that at a given time, never of
the administering power’s choosing, a
colonial country is going to demand and
sooner or later get independence whether
it has experts to help run the country
or not. Leadership is, therefore, of
prime importance in New Guinea be-
cause at this stage no one can foretell
what sort of political parties, organisa-
tions and institutions are going to develop
in the Territory.
Last but not least of the shocks in
store for a largely uninformed Aus-
tralian public is the probable relation-
ship an independent New Guinea will
seek not only with Australia but with
its neighbors, the closest and most in-
teresting of whom is West New Guinea.
While Indonesia cannot match Aus-
tralia’s efforts in East New Guinea, its
efforts to bring its own form of political
order into West New Guinea, its deter-
mination to end illiteracy, to civilise the
inhabitants, and to make them conscious
of their political role and responsibilities
within the Republic should not be under-
estimated. It was not so long ago that
leading West Papuans struck a responsive
note in not a few East Papuans by refer-
ring to one Papua, one people, one
destiny. On any contemporary view of
New Guinea it was a pathetic statement
but it may not always prove so. As the
noted Indonesian economist, Professor
Sadli, recently pointed out, one of the
ironies of Australia speeding up self-
determination in East New Guinea
could be the emergence of an anti-Aus-
tralian political party which would find
ready sympathisers among anti-colonial
Indonesians across the border.
The considerations touched on above
are a few, a very few, of the problems
facing this country in relation to New
Guinea. In the next two or three years
many of them will become live political
issues not only in this country but in
New Guinea and elsewhere. Now, there-
fore, is the time when they should be
fully and publicly discussed. The need
for an informed and continuing debate
is inarguable. The absence of it is start-
ling.


LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
MORRIS WEST
Sir,
I have for some time been reading with
a feeling of distaste the obviously green-
eyed acerbity appearing in the Press
when it writes about our more successful
writers, viz., Patrick White and Morris
West.
I was more than sorry to find your
magazine lowering its standards and
printing the latest outburst of bad taste
of this kind by Peter Hastings (The
Bulletin, July 20).
Surely it’s time someone exposed the
fiction spread abroad by the unsuccessful
that popular success as a writer is some-
thing to be sneered at?
One can only assume from the atti-
tude taken by our “gentlemen” of the
Press that at least in Australia any
novelist who writes with the intention of
being read has committed an unforgiv-
able breach of literary etiquette. The
author, one assumes, should show better
taste than to write about a subject that
interests so many.
(MRS) M. RADULOVIC
Kogarah {NSW).
AID FOR SOUTH AFRICANS
Sir,
It seems only fair to those who went
out on a winter's night to point out that
the meeting to establish the South
African Defence and Aid Fund in Aus-
tralia was attended by something like
350 people, not 35, as appeared in a
story under my name in last week’s The
Bulletin.
PATRICIA ROLFE
Sydney {NSW).
AUSTRALIAN WINES IN UK
Sir,
If, as Mr F. D. Daniel (20/7/63)
suggests, there have been “recent efforts
made by the Australian wine industry to
fly its flag” in Britain, I, for one, would
be interested to know the extent of those
efforts, in view of my own experiences in
1959-61.
At the Australian Wine Centre, which
has enjoyed handsome free publicity
from the wine-conscious London Press,
I named several well-known brands of
Australian wine before the assistant show-
ed a glimmer of recognition and produc-
ed a medium sherry which retails at
6/6 here but which cost me 16/3
there. This might be a reason why Mr.
Daniel’s “vocal visiting Australians buy
the cheapest product and then condemn
it.” I hate to think what an “expensive”
wine would cost over there.
At an important exhibition arranged for
hoteliers and caterers at Brighton in 1960,
the wine stand of Cyprus, tastefully
decorated and manned by immaculately
dressed staff, occupied a dominating posi-
tion. In a remote corner, the Australian
stand, consisting of two untidy heaps of
badly labelled bottles and canned fruits,
was unattended for the whole 15 minutes
I waited by it.
J. S. PAYNE
Hawthorn {Vic.).
CHIROPRACTORS
Sir,
Your Melbourne correspondent
(29/7/63) sounds very annoyed about
the recent decision of the Victorian ALP
Conference not to adopt the registration
or recognition of chiropractors as part
of its policy. In particular he seems to
find it very odd that a committee ap-
pointed by the Central Executive of the
Party should recommend that recogni-
tion be not granted. I was a member
of this committee, and, like others, spent
a considerable amount of time in an
attempt to find out if the registration of
chiropractors would be in the best inter-
ests of the health and welfare of the
community.
If we accept your correspondent’s
definition of chiropractic as “a method
of curing disease by manipulating the
spinal column” we see the basic reason
for rejection of the claim for registra-
tion. In the light of what is known scien-
tifically about the human body, its
diseases, and how cures can be effected,
we must reject the proposition that
spinal manipulation is the answer.
He might tell me what value he sees
in chiropractors treating children in an
attempt to cure stammering; in treating
adults for varicose veins; in treating de-
fects in hearing and vision; in treating
the common cold, and practically every
other ailment of mankind by spinal
manipulation.
V. J. DOURE
Melbourne (Vic.).
FLOUR
Sir,
Your item “Self Raising Flour”
(6/7/63) does grave injustice to the
Australian flour industry at a time when
it is battling for survival. When field
officer for the Murray Valley Develop-
ment League I had occasion to review
the economics of this industry when
alarm was felt at the continued closing
of country mills. The record of the Aus-
tralian flour millers in seeking out,
developing and servicing overseas mar-
kets for their flour is second to none
for an Australian exporting industry. In
the matter of being “self raising” your
correspondent will find, if he cares to
delve for the plain flour facts, that in-
dividual country mills have for a long
period found their own markets and ex-
ported direct. A recent break into the
Ghana market shows that the industry is
still pursuing overseas outlets with con-
siderable vigour.
Country mills can be paying proposi-
tions if allowed entry to export markets,
and not crippled by price disadvantages
imposed on them by foreign subsidies.
What your correspondent is advocat-
ing is that the Australian milling indus-
try should rationalise itself out of exis-
tence by closing its Australia-based mills
and setting up others in Asia where
it can have the advantage of cheap
labor. Rationalising this proposal, it
would be cheaper to make all our cars
in Asia, all our steel and all our tex-
tiles!
Australia produces wheat more cheap-
ly than any other country. Australian
millers are as efficient as their overseas
competitors and have efficient, modern
plants. Allowed to buy wheat in their
own country on terms as advantageous
as their overseas competitors, Australian
millers can re-establish themselves firmly
in the world market.
CLIFF CALDER
Albury {NSW).
CHILDREN’S BOOKS
Sir,
Congratulations to The Bulletin on
its intentions in devoting its literary
pages to children’s books in Children’s
Book Week, but scarcely on the result.
Surely it is time the vaunted New Look
was applied to the reviewing of children’s
books!
In a curious hotch-potch of an article,
Maria Wolkowsky reviewed three of the
books entered for the current Book of the
Year award, erroneously mentioning that
two of the least significant had been
“Highly Commended” by the judges
surely unnecessary carelessness when the
commended books had been widely listed
in the Press! Ruth Park brought forth
that weary evergreen that the classics are
outmoded and foisted on children by
their elders. Children have the wit to
skip what they don't understand or what
bores them, and still be imaginatively
stimulated by many nineteenth-century
books.
This is an age of marvellous children’s
books, but guidance is necessary, for the
output is so immense. In this bewilder-
ing but wonderful world of children’s
books, let us, please, have more reviews,
but, above all, authoritative ones.
MARCIE MUIR
Kensington Gardens (SA).
“BULLETIN” POETRY
Sir,
Yet again (Bulletin, July 20) you
have published a poetry page without
including it in the Index. People like
myself who only buy The Bulletin for
its poetry find this practice exasperating.
For the careful reader there is more
genuine concern with the problems of
society and morality, more honesty about
politics and human behaviour to be found
in the poetry page than in all the other
61 pages put together.
E. BUCKLAND
Brisbane ( Qld ).


Around Melbourne
TWO MILLION BABIES
HHhese times if you cannot win fame
by writing a book, climbing
Everest or by appearing in Mandy’s
memoirs, you can always be the mil-
lionth something or other. It is a
game not without skill. It takes care-
ful timing, and a good knowledge of
statistics, and there are awards avail-
able practically all the time. The
airways regularly give away prizes
to the one millionth, two millionth,
ten millionth passenger and so on.
A local store recently gave away a
marvellous prize to the millionth
customer to pass through its turn-
stiles.
Then do you remember the day
when Mr Harold Holt personally
received our millionth migrant? It
just so happened that our millionth
migrant was young, blonde, pretty, a
lady who looked jolly good in the
publicity photographs. And that’s
the thing about being millionth some-
thing or other, it helps tremendously
if you are young and pretty.
Last week we had the most aston-
ishing millionth award of all. The
Melbourne City Council decided to
celebrate the arrival of Melbourne’s
two-millionth citizen with an award of
£l,OOO. This was to be done in a
most delicate fashion. According to
the statistician, the two-millionth baby
would arrive some time between
June 24 and July 8. So the name of
1300 babies would go into a barrel
and he or she would be chosen by the
Governor, Sir Rohan Delacombe.
Some of the 1,999,999 of us who had
arrived earlier thought this a most
.. urious idea.
After all, Melbourne is already twice
[he size that it ought to be. Accord-
ing to the last census it is still grow-
ing at the expense of the country and
two out of three actually live in the
big smoke. Mr “Farmer” Bolte him-
self has pleaded most movingly on
behalf of decentralisation. Some
suggested that the £l,OOO should be
given to the Children’s Hospital,
others put forward the awful sugges-
tion: “What would happen if the
£lOOO went to a millionaire’s baby?”
However our Lord Mayor was un-
worried. Sir Maurice Nathan said:
“In a world which thinks only in terms
of millions, whether they be pounds
or people, it will add immeasurably
to Melbourne’s status to have
2,000,000.” And he had himself
photographed holding two babies at
the Queen Victoria Hospital. He
was dressed in mask, cap and gown
and easily he could have been mis-
taken for Ben Casey.
Well, Sir Rohan picked the marble
out of the barrel on July 22. She
was Loretta Margaret Johnston, 19
days, 71b. 30z., of Fifth St, Parkdale.
As it turned out, her father, Mr Tom
Johnston, was not a millionaire. He
had two small men's wear stores in
Chelsea and Hampton, a Holden in
his drive and half a dozen bottles
of beer for the reporters when they
arrived.
So that’s another millionth award
gone by. If you want to keep pace
with this sort of thing there will be
the three-millionth-baby award by
1980 and the five-millionth by 1990.
By that time our Loretta, a rather
sweet little brunette, will be 27 and
if she has nothing else to put against
her entry in Who's Who, heaven's
above she’ll be able to say she was
Melbourne’s two-millionth baby!
As reported earlier, the tired 458
silver poplars in St Kilda Road,
the trees that were supposed to make
it the grandest thoroughfare in the
world, have to come down. Over
the next 12 months we will replace
them with plane trees.
Even when we chop the trees
down we do it in style. Our Lord
Mayor, Sir Maurice Nathan, turned
up to make the first chop. He took
off his jacket, unbuttoned his waist-
coat, hopped into a hole that had
been dug around the tree, and for
several chops swung his axe most
convincingly for the photographers.
But here’s the interesting point.
Bill Onus, the aboriginal craftsman,
has received permission to make use
of the timber from these poplars. He
expects to get 50,000 boomerangs
out of them.
Maybe silver poplar isn't wattle
or blackwood, but this idea should
bring great joy to all tourists who
visit Melbourne. Not only will the
50,000 boomerangs symbolically in-
vite them to return here, but there'll
be the thrill of knowing that they
were hacked out of the world’s
grandest thoroughfare.
A ctually it has been a most
difficult week for sorting out
one's values. Once upon a time the
old country lorded it over all the
black people and there was no
trouble. Now they are chasing each
other in a tight circle. Last week
some white people arrived in Mel-
bourne to get away from the coloreds
and some colored arrived to get away
from the whites.
The whites: Mr Clarence Ashley,
38, a clerk from Bradford, arrived
with his wife and sons aboard the
Strathmore. He said that the color
problem was forcing many British
families to migrate. He was quoted
as saying: “Many sections of Brad-
ford have been taken over almost
completely by colored people from
Pakistan and the West Indies. When
I left there were 6000 of them and
many people felt their town was
being taken over. I had trouble sell-
ing my house because it was in an
area which was completely inhabited
by white people.”
Then we had the visit of the
Ghana boxers, Kimpo Amarfio and
Peter Cobblah. They said they
couldn't get fights in England because
promoters and managers had set up
a color line. Any colored boxer who
looked like becoming a threat to a
professional fight title was faced
with a “No Work” sign. The Mel-
bourne “Herald” comments: “The
big increase in colored residents in
England and a fear of further racial
troubles could be reasons for the
stand against colored boxers there.”
Much more of this sort of thing
and Melbourne should have no
trouble in reaching its third million.
BATMAN


TELEVISION
Cleaning Up History
or, Rex Rienits as Gwen Meredith
By FRANK ROBERTS
The Hungry Ones. A Piece of Ribbon.
Channel 2, Sydney.
“11/’e’re looking for a replacement for
” Blue Hills,” an ABC Drama and
Features man said more than 10 years
ago. And now I wouldn’t be surprised
if television writers are being told: “We
must get away from Outcasts, Patriots,
Hungry Ones and all the unwritten
dramas about Bold Ben Boyd, Simeon
Lord, Batman’s Blunder, and The Young
Ned Kelly. Go out and write us a stir-
ring drama of the streets.”
If that is so, no one can blame them
for dreaming, but the hard fact seems
to be that successful formulas are self-
perpetuating and the historical vista is
just too enchanting. In its big days radio
had a psychotic set against Australian
history as a basis for drama of any kind,
so television finds it waiting, unexploited
and littered with colorful characters and
surefire plots.
There are other appeals. Historical
writers need to do a certain amount of
research, but that supplies the plot, which
is useful. The writer does not need an
accurate ear for dialogue. Who knows
how people spoke 100 years ago, or
cares? Actors enjoy similar freedom,
with the further inducement of dressing
up and using fine poses and gestures to
suit the clothes. With so much latitude
the wonder is that Opus Four, “The
Hungry Ones”, is as good as it is.
That goodness has to be qualified. The
sets and lighting are good, the acting is
good enough, and the characters are all
too good to be true. This is the factor
which makes the ABC serials valueless
when they should be valuable, and on
another plane it reduces the worth of
technical advances in “Outcasts” and
“Stormy Petrel”, retreats in “Patriots”,
and new advances in “Hungry Ones”. If
these serials were in color the main hue
would be a rosy glow. Early Australia,
we are to be convinced, was peopled by
kindly folk of British Liberal persua-
sion, and our history shall have no vil-
lains without a liberal coat of whitewash.
In the third episode of “The Hungry
Ones”, viewed in Sydney two Sundays
ago and due in Melbourne this Sunday,
Mary Bryant, miraculously pregnant,
ambles in to Surgeon White’s quarters
on the Charlotte and is told, “You’d
better sit down, my dear young lady.
We’re going to have to look after you,
from now on.”
After the birth, Will Bryant is ushered
in to the same quarters, to see Mary and
chat with her and White about a name
for the child. After they’ve run out of
small talk, someone says, “Sorry, Bryant,
but your time is up.”
And at Capetown the officers have
Mary wait on table, discuss her and Will
and whether they should be married, and
can only manage, “A girl of spirit, in-
deed!” when she butts in with a solilo-
quy that goes, “Permit me to say that
whether we wed or not baint your
business.”
In Sydney the pair of them do get
married, by a clergyman who merely ex-
presses a mild degree of hauteur when
the baby cries during the ceremony. Then
Captain Phillip sends for them. “Oh,
come in, please,” one of his cohorts
burbles, and the Gov. explains the
colony's problems to them and offers Will
command of the fishing fleet.
I guess that during the seven episodes
to follow, Will and Mary naturally de-
cide they can’t stand such harsh treat-
ment, and set off in an open boat for
Timor. Any resemblance between the
action in “The Hungry Ones” and the
realities of the time in which the Bryants
lived would be clearly a slip by the
writer. As Mr Rienits now seems set
for as lengthy an innings as Miss Gwen
Meredith, it must be time for the ABC
to decide whether it is right to turn
anyone's history into soap opera, without
even the excuses that sponsors demand
it, or that there’s a million to be made
from such nonsense.
If an example of what might be better
is needed, look at some of the serialised
works of Charles Dickens, from the
BBC. No one believed in the power of
rosy glow more than Dickens, but he
was never fool enough to suggest that his
world lacked a good measure of creeps,
criminals, pompous asses and greedy
hypocrites. Nor did the BBC eliminate
or reduce the seamier characters for tele-
vision.
The trouble with the ABC’s formula
for television serials is an insistence on
exploiting the appeal of real live por-
traits of the Founding Fathers of our
infant colony. These are as accurate
as the average wedding photograph, for
much the same reason. If Mr Rienits
had skipped the transportation bit and
opened with that pair of lags, Will and
Mary, trying to make a crust among
their own kind, and if he had then de-
veloped their characters and reasons for
departure, his viewers could have been
much better served.
Australian history abounds with good
plots, few of them involved Governors
or guv’ners, and it’s a pity that Mr
Rienits feels impelled to give us most of
the few.
In stark contrast to the phoniness of
its serials division, the ABC is producing
more and more reasonably good dramas.
Not classics, but plays with imported
scripts, and local actors capable of mak-
ing them at least acceptable and some-
times better than that. I except “Ballad
For One Gun”, the worst in a long time
and, naturally, the ABC’s entry for the
Italia Prize (which it may easily win on
the basis that the judges will have no
hope on earth of understanding what it’s
supposed to be about.)
During the same week as episode 3
of Opus Four, the ABC’s Sydney viewers
saw “A Piece of Ribbon”, by Leslie
Thomas, produced by Christopher Muir,
and played by a dozen or so Melbourne
little theatre actors who succeeded, with
one mild exception, in making me be-
lieve they could be British soldiers in
Malaya; right down to the boy with
trench feet who cleaned them very
thoroughly in front of the camera.
Now Mr Rienits is in England. If he
would care to call on Mr Thomas and
borrow the script, he might be convinced
that you can have good drama without
famous names to lrop, and without dia-
logue of the “Oh, come in, please,”
variety. In other words he might be able
to give us a stirring drama of the cart
tracks.
THEATRE
Losers Win
Altona. Jean-Paul Sartre. Repertory
Society. Canberra.
11/hoever first translated “Les Se-
” questres d’Altona” as “Altona" had
the right idea: he cut. The pity is that
he or the producer did not apply the
same policy to the play itself. “Altona”
runs for three and a half hours and it
is too long for our unheroic age. It is
also too long for a play which, except
for a couple of flash-backs, derives its
action entirely from discussion.
Rep’s production was intelligent and
moving, with Alan Harvey producing
and playing the part of Franz von Ger-
lach, the main sequestre. The situation
of the play concentrates time and place
in almost classical perfection: the draw-
ing-room of a rich German ship-building
family brought to the point of spiritual
audit by the approaching death of the
old man. Upstairs, his ex-Nazi son, self-
imprisoned for fourteen years, broods on
his war-time actions in a no-man’s land


between madness and sanity. As the
hours creep by, he discloses a talent
for mechanical lechery, and for shaping
his past deeds, cruel or merciful alike,
as instruments of self-torture. His audi-
ence and his interrogators are his sister,
who is also his mistress, and his
brother’s wife, who is also considering
becoming so too. This unlovely material
combines with a Frenchman’s vision
of the German mentality to produce an
atmosphere of stiflingly-morbid hysteria
• it is a remarkable feat. It is the
wife who succeeds in bringing Franz
out of his prison to face his father,
the fact of Germany resurgent and the
ironic truth about war that “loser wins.”
This is the one clear statement about
war in the play, and the moment when
Franz meets his father is the climax
of the one clear dramatic line towards
which all the talk has been leading.
Alan Harvey plays brilliantly as the
madman, and Harry Schmidt as his
father gives the part an immobility
which is at once ruthless, efficient and
utterly Teutonic.
HOPE HEWITT
Puffin’s Nest
Goodnight, Mrs Puffin. Arthur Love-
grove. Comedy Theatre, Melbourne.
The Keen. Gwyn Thomas. St Mar-
tin’s. Enduring as the Camphor
Tree. Russell Oakes. Newman Col-
lege Dramatic Club. Union Theatre.
VlThat is so heartbreaking for an Aus-
tralian drama critic is constantly
to be seeing talented actors and produ-
cers, some of them imported, wasting
their energies on thoroughly mediocre
plays. The three plays I am reviewing this
week are an illustration.
In “Goodnight, Mrs Puffin” the
comedy is provided by the presence in
a Hampstead drawing-room of a middle-
aged, lower-class mother of seven from
Clapham Junction. Mrs Puffin has the
ability to dream prophetic dreams about
the lives of complete strangers (name
and address included) which is how she
comes to be drinking tea in the drawing-
room of the Fordvce family.
Irene Handl plays Mrs. Puffin with
loving delight. From the moment she
appears, plump and smiling, dressed in
an extraordinary assortment of garments,
of which the loosely-knitted pink silk
jumper stretching almost to her knees
is the crowning achievement, clutching her
bulging shopping bag from which pro-
trudes some very tired-looking celery,
Mrs Puffin rivets the attention of the
audience. She is independent and out-
spoken, she points and giggles, makes
personal remarks and rocks to and fro
in paroxysms of silent mirth as she ob-
serves the constrictions of polite society.
It is a remaikable piece of virtuosity,
since “Goodnight, Mrs Puffin” is a
tedious play, and even the part of Mrs.
Puffin, with its bloomer humor, is not
very funny. But Irene Handl’s Mrs
Puffin is a fine comic creation.
Apart from Lyndell Rowe, who plays
Jacqueline, the bride-to-be, with the
right mixture of sweetness and youthful
straightforwardness, the supporting cast
seems ill-at-ease. This is not surprising
since they exist in a different dimension
from Irene Handl 2D instead of 3D
and they have to be on stage for long
periods with about as much to do as
the furniture.
“The Keep” is a parlor comedy a
lower-class relation of the drawing-room
comedy set in South Wales. It con-
cerns a family of six grown-up children
and their old father. Kept together by
the will and ambition of the eldest son
and the sanctified memory of their
mother who died young, none of the
children has ever left home or married.
This contrived play provided character
parts for Sydney Conabere as the ambi-
tious brother and Edward Howell as the
father. Gwyn Thomas’ dialogue rolls
off the tongues of the characters with a
fine Celtic fluency but, since it expresses
neither genuine wit nor ideas, it is
simply exhausting.
“Enduring as the Camphor Tree” is
an imitation Chinese fairy-tale written
v/ith gentle, playful humor. It has a
Brechtian-type narrator and the whole
thing is rather like Brecht done in water-
colors on a paper lantern. Ronald
Quinn’s production has a remarkable
delicacy and discipline, the sets and
costumes are charming, and the acting
of a high standard. But it v/as disap-
pointing to see so much talent’ wasted
on a trifle.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
ART
Lymburner’s
Britain
Francis Lymburner. Johnstone Gal-
lery. Brisbane.
TVrawings of Francis Lymburner
dating from 1960-1963 are currently
on view at Brisbane's Johnstone Gallery.
While Lymburner has forsaken Aus-
tralia with its Taronga Park animals for
London with its Soho and theatrical
world, his drawing has not essentially
changed, only altered to suit its new
subject matter. For instance, the thin
pen line has largely been replaced by a
brusque, thick, and less enervated brush
line and his frequent use of color wash
is bold and quite evocative. He also
still employs this stroke to denote or
outline shape, and happily has not for-
saken his dislike for both Three-D and
backgrounds. Lymburner’s subjects or
scenes seem picked out of time,
arranged in front of a backdrop (“In
Holland Park”), and presented with per-
haps an understated sense of humor
(“Fallen Jockey”) but never with a view
to “social comment”. For example the
trio in “Park Bench” somehow seems to
be waiting its cue in a musical like “Irma
la Douce”.
For this particular exhibition, Lym-
burner has put emphasis on a group of
rather Matisse-like nudes: a subject mat-
ter well suited to display his deft drafts-
manship. Set among the essentially
outline drawings are a few all-too-rare
landscapes. For these, Lymburner has
reverted to the dark narrow pen line
and achieves an effect close to that of
an etching. “Railway Viaduct, Wales”
catches all the stark, sooty feeling one
unfortunately associates with that coun-
try. This drawing shows the extent to
which the artist rejects receding vistas
because although he places the viewer
some distance from the subject matter,
the entire scene is parallel with the pic-
ture plane.
A surprisingly large number of these
Lymburner drawings are frankly disap-
pointing: especially for the viewer who
comes expecting the consistently high
level of performance seen in the Ure
Smith book of Lymburner's Taronga Park
animals. Lymburner seems to achieve
that marvellous economy and sureness
of line less frequently. Because of his
special style and technique, any weak-
nesses are proportionately blatant. The
most glaring weakness of this exhibition
is over-facility. The excess of line in
“The Potter”, the looseness and sketchi-
ness in quite a few nudes and “Sonia and
Daughter”, as well as the over-crowded
effect one feels in “Figure from ‘School
for Scandal’,” stem from this weakness.
Lymburner also seems to let his enthusi-
asm (or his brush) run away with him,
particularly in his color washes that
surround the central figures. Instead
of setting off the nude, “Kate”, the pink-
ish wash is so obviously placed as to
lessen the figure’s impact as well as the
composition. One may also find the
watercolor “dribbles”, used mainly in the
nude series, rather affected.
In the light of these weaknesses, one
can only assume that Mr Lymburner
was too hasty in his selection. Certainly
when one contrasts such fine drawings as
“Park Bench” and “Railway Viaduct,
Wales” with more mediocre work, it is
the only logical conclusion.
MSRY UNDERHILL


Feiffer
50 i bjtfcme
m mma
kW evSMBOW
MAS ATTAO(C|M6
HIM UCM%
no com Hf
gjas vtmvm
a mi amp
A COMMUKIIST.
rue-
mi
m gam Berner f
MfK Pl|7 W KW
mr in this counrw
THf FIFTH AM6WPM&JT
. sams that emoue
WO MATTER WHO
rm has
THe RIGHT TO
. A FAIR TpiAF/
Ho
KIDW&!
THefJ t m WATCHW6
THS DtmDERc,
amp evtMßow was
ATTACK W 6 THCM
&FCAUSC ffJ -
COURT TH£<f
» P£FCMT'
IM6 AM
hMW,
M
Fmf
Mil, Mot exactly did
W Km THAT /AJ T His
covmn m cvmne
COVET m CAW THAT
ITS WtfT ACIUAUT
A6AIMST TH£ MW
t<9 wot me a-
REL&ICU!
CO\AC
OHt
/
THM M UMDCIIY
A CO[]?ie OF PAPS LAWK
m hap this cm
tome twb mice
TA Ppzo MOB
reumx caub
PUT TUB
GOT TMM
OUT OF COURT.'
you we,At)
m wm
14 illcgal?
you me to
im if
<JOU UJAIJT to fiup
#>MFTHIU6 OUT
ABOUT THIO v
comm.
mu meee
ELSE Tm
60WA TEACH
/ HOU? id
Y SCHOOL f
FILMS
Behan Soup
The Quare Fellow. Director, Arthur
Dreifuss.
point has been well and truly
made by now that the film of “The
Quare Fellow” (recently at the Embassy,
Sydney, and due for Melbourne soon)
is not much more than a free variation
on Brendan Behan’s play of the same
name. The play, a plotless stream of
dialogue, was probably unfilmable any-
way.
The setting for most of the film, as
for all of the play, is an Irish prison
where a hanging is to take place. But
in the film the time is expanded from
a day and a night to several days,
while the action is expanded to bring
in a love affair between the condemned
man’s wife and a young warden, and a
last-minute attempt at a reprieve.
The important thing to determine
should be whether or not it makes a
good film in itself, as many free adapta-
tions have done. In fact it is an indif-
ferent success, only occasionally achiev-
ing the poignancy and vitality it seems
to promise. And the blame for this
does lie mainly with the conflict be-
tween Behan’s grim, idiosyncratic humor
and the more standardised material ad-
ded to it by adaptor and director Arthur
Dreifuss.
Inevitably, the prison scenes that
come from the play are the most tel-
ling, and the well-picked cast of warders
and lags bring beguiling Irish tongues
to the dialogue. But scattered as they are
through a screenplay that is dogyedly
trying to tell a consecutive story many
of these episodes tend to seem a little
stagey and static. At the same time their
pungency shows up the faintly soap-
operatic quality of the extramural epi-
sodes added by Dreifuss.
In the wife who is the guilty cause
of the murder for which the “quare
fellow” is to be hanged Dreifuss has in-
troduced a character too complicated
to be developed in the time available,
and unsuited to the cool English talent
of Sylvia Syms. The green young war-
der from the country, padded out from
a few hints by Behan, is a more con-
vincing invention, believably played by
Patrick McGoohan.
As a tract against capital punishment
the film is perhaps more effective than
the play (which admittedly I’ve not
seen), if only because it shows the
hideous ritual more realistically.
MARTIN LONG


RED PAGE
SPRING
FICTION
Minister of Fear
Graham Greene’s nightmares
By JAMES McAULEY
A Burnt-Out Case, Confidential Agent,
A Gun for Sale, Ministry of Fear,
Stamboul Train. Graham Greene.
Penguin. ss. 6d. each.
Thirst there were grandfather James
and grand-uncle Conrad, who de-
veloped the structural and symbolic
potentialities of the novel to a new inten-
sity and fineness. Their deeply personal
struggle with method gave the work of
these writers a special authority and
originality.
Later came youngsters like Graham
Greene (whose new book of short stories,
“A Sense of Reality”, is just out); Greene
not only read James and Conrad but also
received a formal initiation by studying
Percy Lubbock’s “The Craft of Fiction”,
which, as Greene has remarked, had an
enormous influence on English writers of
his generation. With Graham Greene, one
can still sense the excitement of discover-
ing the advanced methods. Read, for
example, the last paragraphs of “A Gun
for Sale”, and see how a Jamesian tech-
nique and rhythm can give a new kind of
life to the conclusion of a thriller.
Then afterwards came novelists who
had studied fiction in academic courses of
literature, or of “creative writing”. To-
day there is a still later generation of
novelists who have in turn been taught
by these technologists. Does the road
lead downhill all the way? Yes, to the
very end. What, will the line stretch out
to the crack of doom? It seems so: and
some I see who two-fold balls (English
and American publication) and treble
sceptres (European reputations) carry . ..
Greene, standing relatively early in this
succession, has virtues which others could
later reproduce only by mechanical
mimesis. But since he does stand in this
succession of the technologised novel, his
work shares in the danger of critical mis-
handling that is common to the whole
line.
What I mean is, that criticism can
be so carried away by the exploration of
technical contrivance and manipulated
meaningfulness that the critic and his
reader both lose their primitive sense
of the true level of imaginative life which
the work has attained. We can be conned
into a falsification of our responses, talk-
ed into valuing a technically sophisticated
work beyond its true worth. It is a point
of the greatest importance, therefore, not
to lose contact with our primitive and
immediate feeling about what we read.
First impressions are not infallible or
complete, but they do serve as a check
upon critical distortion and inflation.
my primitive response to Gra-
ham Greene has steadily told me is
that his sophisticated “entertainments”
are more genuine and valuable achieve-
ments than his later “serious” novels.
Growing out of the “entertainment”
group, still sharing in its thriller re-
sources and protected by its conven-
tions, are “Brighton Rock” and “The
Power and the Glory”, and “England
Made Me”. After these peaks comes the
decline into full seriousness.
The authentic Greene performance has
elicited a wide and ready response, and its
elements have frequently been analysed. It
creates a sleazy, corrupted world, through
which the alienated obsessed hero moves,
often with a physical disfigurement, or
at least shabbiness, corresponding to an
inner taint or hurt. Defeat in this world
is the rule, depravity is normal; the young
and innocent are marked down for de-
struction. Sexuality is without joy and
seems to have no erotic content: spon-
taneous desire is replaced by other feel-
ings, such as pity or disgust.
The Greene world has much in com-
mon with what the modern cinema can
create. Like the cinema (in which he has
worked) Greene does best at the level
of intelligent melodrama, compelling our
responses by the obsessed and sinister
images he finds in an urban world. Like
the cinema, he generally begins to fail
when he tries to reach beyond these
limits.
Intelligent melodrama gives us things
like the brilliant scene with which “The
Ministry of Fear” opens: the fete, whose
tawdry sights and sounds are mingled with
memories of childhood innocehce, the
perfect scene for a chance encounter with
the powers of organised treachery. Al-
most as superb an invention is that of
the Entrenationo Language Centre in
“The Confidential Agent”, in which cari-
cature and pathos are marvellously com-
bined.
The characters and their motives in
Greene’s best books are well adapted to
the needs of the melodramatic thriller,
even though the form is raised to an un-
usually high level. The motivations may
be simplified, they may be improbable or
unreal, but they work satisfactorily in
their context. Thus, in “The Confidential
Agent”, we are told that D has gone
through so much in his country’s civil war
that he can no longer feel physical desire
when he takes the pretty heroine in his
arms. The equation attempted between
fear and hopelessness and the failure of
erotic response would be unconvincing
if realistically considered; but it has a cer-
tain effectiveness within its world of
pseudo-realistic romanticism. The sense
of erosion and loss and failure is intensi-
fied.
You can say that we overlook unreali-
ties of this kind because we have drop-
ped our critical demands in order to ac-
cept the emotional excitements offered
by the thriller. One can perhaps put it
more favourably by saying that Green's
“entertainments” present images of dis-
order and dread, a poetry of nausea and
obsession, in terms which are privileged
by the thriller conventions.
The one thing that I balk at among
these thriller-unrealities is the use in
several places of an idea of Jewishness, as
an element in Greene’s tapestries of cos-
mopolitan falsity. Myatt in “Stamboul
Train” is sympathetically presented, but


FROM MACMILLAN
DAVID MARTIN: THE YOUNG WIFE
A story of human insight and artistic integrity. A bold
and simple account of love and conflict among Cypriot
Australians.
NANCY PHELAN: THE RIVER AND THE BROOK
Set against the background of Manly, N.S.W., this novel
deals with the fate of children whose parents are insensi-
tive or preoccupied.
JESSICA ANDERSON: AN ORDINARY LUNACY
An outstanding first novel by a new Australian novelist,
An Ordinary Lunacy tells the story of David Byfield, a
young Sydney barrister, his battle-axe of a mother, and
his obsession for the woman he defends against a
murder charge.
22/6
21/-
22/6
in terms of stereotyped “racial” character-
istics and unconscious memories (“Forty
years in the wilderness, away from the
fleshpots of Egypt ...”). Similarly in
“The Confidential Agent”, Furtwein,
although he has changed his name to
Forbes, is “racially” recognisable by the
shape of his skull and even the shape of
his paunch; and he reverts to the ges-
tures of an “Oriental potentate”. He, too,
behaves well in the outcome. Does this
good behaviour mean that there is no
anti-Semitic prejudice being unthinkingly
indulged? Unfortunately, it probably does
not mean this. Greene specialises in show-
ing how much good he can find in un-
promising types; just as he makes a point
of showing how repulsive the socially-
acceptable kinds of people are. It is a
dubious compliment to be treated
sympathetically by Greene: the odds are
you must be pretty awful.
But setting this particular complaint
aside, my main point is that the unreality
of character and motivation which
operates effectively, and even justifiably,
within the thriller conventions, becomes
fatally objectionable in the later “serious”
novels, which try to present an action
within a much more realistic frame. For
example, it is one thing to have a thriller-
world from which erotic desire has been
eroded. It is another to have Querry in
“A Burnt-Out Case” unable to feel erotic
desire because he has lost his religious
faith and his architect’s vocation. It is
one thing to have grains of sanctity dis-
cerned in human degradation by the X-ray
eye of a thriller-diller novelist. It is
another to be asked to put up with the
tedious Scobie in “The Heart of the Mat-
ter”, who becomes a criminal and adult-
erer out of “pity”, and finally gets so
sorry for God that he commits suicide.
(Greene has recently admitted that this
novel is not a success.)
The overworking of a pretentious and
uncriticised motive called “pity” in the
later books culminates in “A Burnt-Out
Case”, where Querry is supposed to have
got beyond pity, indeed beyond any feel-
ing or desire. Querry is in fact a too
barely disguised essay in self-pity by the
author who consoles himself further with
a hint that Querry's “burnt-out” condi-
tion may be really a special well-conceal-
ed road to sanctity through “aridity”. Oh
yes, he does hint this, even though he
booby-traps the suggestion with dis-
avowals and ambiguities.
In general, the later novels, in spite
of remarkable passages, are seriously
vitiated by their failure to achieve genuine
handling of serious themes. Psychological
reality is deformed in order to produce
impossible cases as theological conun-
drums. Can a sane instructed Catholic
deliberately commit suicide without
damning himself? Can a man who has
lost his faith and lives in unrepented
mortal sin be in a state of grace? In
real life, such pseudo-problems give way
to agonizing and insoluble (but not hope-
less) questions concerning individual
lives. Greene fails to remain true to the
human situation. He prefers paradoxes
that are mere confusions; in place of real
insights he offers soiled sentimentalities.
The melodramatic distortion of reality
is offered as the way things really are.
Witness “The Quiet American”, in
which opium-smoking and cynicism are
shown as at least preferable to well-
intentioned political action (especially
anti-Communist action). This is no doubt
very modern-British, though it is presum-
ably meant to be very Catholic: Catholics,
of course, have a world-weary knowing-
ness about the futility of virtue, which
Protestants can never attain. Greene’s
thesis (it is a thesis) is supported by the
identification of good intentions with
stupid ignorant meddling. He can claim
that he is attacking only blundering
naivete; but the claim is invalid, because
the possibility of an informed and realis-
tic commitment to human good is kept
right out of sight. The issues are faked.
American do-gooding at its most naive
is cleverly caricatured, but at the cost of
revealing that there is something rather
sick and nasty in Mr Greene’s potting-
shed.
But let's not end on the sourest note.
In the worst of Greene's books there are
brilliant things. For instance, in “The
Burnt-Out Case” there is at least one
piercing moment when one succumbs to
the sad enchantment of Greene’s
romanticism. Querry’s mutilated leper
servant, Deo Gratias, wants to go back
to Pendele, land of his childhood, land
of the big waterfall. What happened in
those days? asks Querry.
“Nous etions heureux”, Deo Gratias
said.
You have to have great talent and pro-
fessional skill to bring off a thing like
that.
Cliffhanger
The Unicorn. Iris Murdoch. Chatto
and Windus. 21s.
scene is one of desolation and
destruction. We are in an ancient
land worn down to its skeleton, where
only a few megaliths are upright still;
the earth is barren, treeless; far below
us the sea breaks on black jagged rocks.
Two houses, Gaze Castle and Riders,
frown at each other across a ravine.
The Castle is a gloomy Victorian man-
sion, whose mistress is a fairy-like
creature Mrs Crean-Smith. She has been
a prisoner in her own house for seven
years; her husband, having discovered
her infidelity, left, and on his orders
she is confined to the house and its
garden. One of her jailers is a tall
angular sinister spinster who enjoys the
name of Violet Evercreech. The house
is musty and faded; black-clad, silent
maids pad its winding passages. To it
as a governess comes Marian Cooper.
On arrival she looks through her bino-
culars at the scenery, and across at
Riders, to find a pair of eyes behind a
pair of binoculars looking straight into
her own.
To read thus far in “The Unicorn”
a little past the first chapter is
to be haunted by echoes of the past.
Here is “Jane Eyre” and its modern
restatement “Rebecca”, here too is
“Wuthering Heights” and a dash of
Dickensian grotesquerie; even a season-
ing of Mrs Radcliffe’s Gothic marvels.
By the end of the novel there is an im-
pressive pile of corpses at one stage
no less than three are laid out in the
dining-room at Gaze Castle. They rep-
resent two murders and two suicides. In
addition there are three seductions, a
case of homosexuality, another of Les-
bianism, and a near-drowning in a bog.
I list these incidents not to make fun
of the novel but to emphasise the ex-


tremely melodramatic and violent nature
of its plot. Not that violence and
melodrama are new manifestations in
Iris Murdoch’s work; they are present
to a degree in both “The Severed Head”
and “The Bell,” but in “The Unicorn”
they are much more starkly presented.
Miss Murdoch is a skilful craftsman,
but here her workmanship is both less
solid and less subtle than in the earlier
novels.
There are, however, some passages
of brilliant writing in “The Unicorn,”
many of them descriptive. A long scene
describing one Effingham Cooper’s wan-
derings on the moor at night is breath-
takingly tense. The landscape of, pre-
sumably, the far north of Scotland, is
presented with tremendous power. In-
dividual scenes, odd encounters between
characters, stand out sharply in the
memory and are not likely to be easily
forgotten. Even my sketchy summary of
the opening chapter should indicate the
intense anticipation aroused in the
reader. The tricks by which Miss Mur-
doch fixes and holds attention are, I
suppose, obvious; but they should work
for any reader fortunate enough to be
susceptible to excitement and the ap-
prehension of danger.
What then goes wrong? For in the
end I find “The Unicorn” a good deal
less successful than “The Bell.” Firstly,
there is a very great disparity between
the elements of the plot and the the-
matic ingredients of the novel. With
more boldness than judgment Miss Mur-
doch plunges the reader from highly-
colored incident, mystery and intrigue,
into philosophical speculation. As a re-
sult I found myself made suspicious on
intellectual grounds of situations to
which, thanks to her persuasive writing,
I had already given emotional assent.
Our Victorian literary ancestors used
to be castigated for preaching sermons
in the guise of fiction. Modern sermons
have a different flavor, but can be just
as spell-breaking. The longest one in
“The Unicorn” is preached by a retired
classics don, and concerns Ate, Platon-
ism and the vulgarity of existentialists and
linguistic philosophers. It has the un-
fortunate air of having wandered in
from one of Miss Murdoch’s own philo-
sophy tutorials. A further sermon eman-
ates from Cooper as he faces death by
drowning; this takes the form of a vision
in which he discovers that “with the
death of the self the world becomes
quite automatically the object of a per-
fect love.”
Neither of these pronouncements, nor
any of the others in the novel, is trivial
or meaningless. But I have the strong
impression that, with the exception of
Cooper’s very convincing vision, they
have only an accidental connection with
the story. The violent twists of the plot
seem designed to force us to read the
intellectual debates; the debates do not
compel our attention through their
necessary connection with the incidents.
Secondly, there is a problem of char-
acter. Briefly, “The Unicorn” is con-
cerned with the nature of moral free-
dom, the limits of human responsibility,
and with faith matters which occu-
pied Miss Murdoch in “The Bell.” But
these are abstractions; to be made real
and significant in human terms they
must be removed from the rarefied air
of moral philosophy and planted in
the solid ground of human behavior.
Miss Murdoch, who before has created
convincing and moving characters
through whom her theme is eloquently
enunciated, has here it seems allowed
the melodrama to engulf her players.
The air of unreality which belongs to
the plot, and the atmosphere of be-
witched dedication surrounding her im-
prisoned heroine is unhealthy for human
beings.
So, in the end, after all the excite-
ment of the story, one is left with a
sense of dissatisfaction. There is much
to admire, and much to remember. The
Lady of Shallott is a fascinating vision,
but when the spell is broken, one is
left not w'ith a sense of mysteries re-
vealed or tantalisingly preserved, but
of hopes unsatisfied.
LEONIE KRAMER
Nin’s Chorus
“'HThe eyes of men called them by the
A name the world had for them,”
writes Anais Nin in “Ladders to Fire”
(Peter Owen) as Lillian and Sabina dance
cheek to “chalice white” cheek in a
smoky dive in Montmartre. For all the
author’s coy avoidance of the word, this
is the study of a Lesbian rushing through
a turbulent desert, or No Man’s Land,
in search of an eternal flame but brush-
ing only against a pale mirage.
Lillian’s shadowy one-dimensional
husband and her dim snapshot children
have no reality and fade away without
trace. Lillian’s courtship of Djuna and
Helen (while she is living with Jay, an
artist for whom she has a Jocasta com-
plex) and finally Lillian’s wooing of
Sabina emerge from under much smoke
and some fire.
Anais Nin seems to feel some special
contiguity to Miro (the Spanish blood,
perhaps). She even mentions him by
name and splashes her w'ords about in
deliberate imitation as if they were
daubs of paint on a surrealist canvas.
At best she rarely gets further than
Signac and at worst than a glossy maga-
zine picture sliced up into a jigsaw.
Hardest to take are the infernal shop-
ping-lists: “She became mother, father,
cousin, brother, friend, confidant, guide,
companion to all”; and “a boundless
passion to surround, envelop, sustain,
strengthen, uphold”; and “his shelter
and refuge, his secret hiding-place, his
tent, his sky, his blanket”; and “she
had lost her boat, her sails, her cape,
her horse, her seven-league boots.”
“Ladders to Fire” is the last written
but meant as the first book of a tetra-
logy? “Cities of the Interior.” This reader
at least was forced to revolt, to repel,
renounce, repeal, repulse, reject, but
reluctantly.
Conversely, “Smith and Jones”, by
Nicholas Monsarrat (Cassell), deals al-
most exclusively with male society. The
story is perhaps more in the news now
than when it was being written, and
calling the two defecting diplomats Smith
and Jones is not going to fool anyone.
There is no prize for guessing their
identity but there should be one for
guessing where they actually defect to.
The surprise ending is no confidence
trick, even though it is kept till the last
word; there are clues for the careful
reader; although Yevtuschenko and Pas-
ternak are deftly combined into another
figure.
There is a Simenon-like flavor in the
manner in which the Security man who
tells the story and his opposite number,
the Security man from the other side
of the Curtain, gradually tune into the
same sympathetic wave-length, so that
in the end they are the only ones who
have any real communication. The
others just talk. Interesting, too, psycho-
logically, is the deadly soul-erosion of
diplomatic life, and the way the country
which gives the “asylum” first embraces,
then gradually discards the defectants
when they have outlived their propa-
ganda usefulness. And that does not
take long with Smith and Jones: you can
leave your loyalties behind but your
character goes with you.
Splendidly written in a tone of flat
understatement and with the tension of
a who-dunnit, “Smith and Jones” is the
second of the Monsarrat series, “Signs
of the Times.” Typically enough, the
man with least blame gets blamed for
everything. In trying to prevent the
suicide of a confessed murderer, he is
accused of committing a murder himself.
The blurb states these novels will perhaps
form an exemplar of the modern world.
They even may.
“The First Day of Friday,” by Honor
Tracy (Methuen), bursts with crazy peo-
ple and crazier situations, culminating in
the most farcical legal action outside
Gilbert and Sullivan. The only two sane
people in the book, Michael Duff the
young Irish landlord and his fiancee
Dulcie, are persecuted for their very
sanity by all the people who surround
them (psychopaths, without exception) so
that in the end they are likely to become
applicants for the bin themselves.


In the centre of it all, revolving like
something out of the lower depths of
a Jerome Bosch “Hell”, is the terrible
sub-human horror of a servant, Atracta
Smith. She simply refuses to be dis-
missed and when Michael Duff takes
firm steps to get rid of her, she threat-
ens him with a law suit which cannot fail.
Already submerging into poverty under
his mouldy house and parasitic estates,
Michael is first sad, then jubilant, be-
cause the complete ruin Atracta's action
would bring him would also bring with
it a sort of release. But stupidity is trium-
phant. Even this way out is denied
Michael. Atracta remains, clinging like
a victorious leech.
For the first three-quarters, “The
First Day of Friday” appears to be
a well-spun story about a slice of life
in Ireland. It comes as a bit of a shock
to find, towards the end, that it is ap-
parently meant as a political allegory of
the world: “A multitude of Atractas was
emergent in every part of Africa, in
every corner of the world and, invin-
cible in their stupidity, would sweep all
before them. A global saturnalia (sic!)
was in train and would never slacken or
falter until it had annihilated him and
his kind forever.” Then would not “The
LAST Day of Friday” be more apt as a
title?
And judging by the final page, the
only defence Miss Tracy offers is to
stand under a tattered flag and sing “God
Save the Queen” every Sunday. The
actual story is well told, the political
conclusions are clumsy non-sequiturs.
“No Stranger to the Flame”, by Aus-
tralian John Cantwell (Putnam), at times
reads as if he wants to be the poor man’s
Morris West. The scene is not Italy but
Northern Queensland. A familiar cast
is present: the old priest, the young
priest, the muiderer, the promiscuous
young woman, the promiscuous older
woman, the perverts, the narrow village,
the heat and the glands.
Beneath the surface story there is a
redeeming but too lightly sketched
psychological undertow, such as the
young priest’s confession to himself of
the real reason he gave away his brother
Max, who is wanted for murder, and
the debt Gus the Jew feels he is paying
the Catholics when he shelters the hunted
man, as he himself was once sheltered
by Catholics in Holland; and the parallel
between the town’s hotelkeeper who gets
away with killing Max’s mother, while
Max himself does not get away, nor does
Gus who must go to prison for hiding
Max out of the noblest of motives.
Yet somehow it does not come off;
the architecture is top-heavy, as if the
author had not yet decided in what style
he is going to build ultimately. It seems
very likely that John Cantwell is
capable of writing an outstanding popu-
lar novel one day, but “No Strangers
to the Flame” does not seem to be it.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Pops
story of Eugene Burdick’s and
Harvey Wheeler’s “Fail Safe” (Hut-
chinson), published here during the win-
ter, is fiction hung expertly on a frame-
work of fact. Most of the people are
imaginary, but the American President,
with his youthful figure and distinctive
regional nasal accent, is nobody’s figment.
And the Kremlin’s master is specifically
named.
The year is 1967. In the war-room of
Strategic Air Command, Omaha, the com-
manding general, a visiting congressman
and an electronics engineer are watch-
ing a huge screen on to which is pro-
jected the current air situation There
are similar rooms and similar screens in
Washington. All seems normal until an
unidentified blip appears on the screen.
US defence planes go to investigate.
When proven harmless a commercial
airliner off course the planes disperse,
except for six bombers.
They keep moving across the screen,
past “Fail-Safe,” a fixed point where
planes orbit until given orders to “go”
or return. Horrified, politicians, scien-
tists, and defence people watch helpless.
There has been a terrible failure of the
system. Nothing can stop the planes.
Their crews are so highly trained they
have become automatons. They continue,
each loaded with two 20-megaton bombs
to Moscow. By direct telephone to
Khrushchev (foreseeing the new “hot
line”) Kennedy pleads a ghastly error. The
bombers roar on. Kennedy must make a
decision to convince the Russians of
his sincerity, and save the world from
full-scale retaliation. This is a prophetic
parable, written with knowledge and
zest, in the jargon of modern air de-
fence. Scientific and technical data have
been based on officially released infor-
mation. The action builds to a high
pitch of drama and excitement. Dread
and horror, as well as a compelling fas-
cination, are provoked by a timely and
singular book.
Brazil, the heroine of the title story
in South African Stuart Cloete’s “The
Looking Glass and other Stories” (Col-
lins), is a large, handsome widow, who
runs a pub in the Transvaal. It is a
respectable house, clean and orderly,
with a big mirror behind the bar to
give it style. Many customers (rough
diamond diggers) respect Brazil, but
none admire her more than quiet little
Fred Barker who comes in every even-
ing and just sits around. He has tried
courting Brazil unsuccessfully. Fred
isn’t educated, but he knows men. He
knows, for instance, what makes his
rival Black John tick, and through in-
nate shrewdness how to get the better
of him, and reveal his own latent
qualities.
Cloete’s knowledge and feeling for
Africa, for its mystery and size, its ani-
mals, its people, underlie most of these
well-spun yarns.
In Evelyn Ames’s “Daughter of the
House” (Hutchinson) a woman remem-
bers a chidhood dominated by a large
house in Connecticut. By allusion, in-
nuendo, and through a poetic haze, one
sees the child catching half meanings,
vaguely disturbed by a suspected discord
between her parents.
J. B. Priestley, in his introduction to
the book, praises it as filled with color
and warmth and tenderness. But to my
mind the long prologue is like the
overture to a light opera—pretty music
without much depth.
Out of the jumble of emotions emerges
Olga, the Mother, independent, Danish,
a stranger, never accepted by the paro-
chial community. She has been success-
ful on the stage before marriage to
Father, a gay and handsome physicist.
“He’s a boy, not a full-grown man; how
could he be, the way he was brought up
that sickly Victorian mother”, Mother
complains to the now adult daughter.
So here is the dissatisfaction, the secret
of her childhood feeling of insecurity.
There's no sign of delinquency or pre-
cocity in this American girl growing up.
But that great anchoring house with
its attics filled with treasured junk! One
can't help feeling a little relieved it is
to be pulled down to make way for a
school.
Niven Busch’s “The San Franciscans”
(Cape) is a saga of a San Franciscan
banking family. Charles Yarnum, ruth-
less tycoon, and most dominating mem-
ber of the family who control the Rail-
road Bank of San Francisco, has died
suddenly in harness leaving most of his
money to his young widow Laura (and
consequently his power). Laura, shrewd in
business, is resolved to fulfil Charles’
verbal guarantee to settle an enormous
claim and save the bank from ruin The
intricacies of banking business, and the
complications of the law suit brought by
the claimant, provide most of the book's
drama. Laura, elegant and rich, has many
admirers her father, her priest, the
bank’s lawyer. But most attracted is the
fiery Irish attorney John Galvin, conduct-
ing the case against the bank. All he has
aroused in Laura is intense hatred.
Dozens of characters are introduced;
luxury homes and lush parties embroider
a lengthy, intricately woven story.
JOYCE BURNARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
America Defends The Dollar
Australian Stock Exchanges, thank goodness, felt con-
fident enough not to display the slightest nervousness
of President Kennedy’s stringent proposals to defend
the dollar and to strengthen the American balance of pay-
ments. The suggested “interest equalisation tax” in particular
had sent a bevy of overseas bourses into a proper flurry.
In like manner the Federal Treasurer took the tax cheer-
fully in his pre-Budget stride. Mr Holt merely mentioned
that Cabinet had been impelled to scale down a little its
estimates of 1963-64 loan raisings from New York.
With local sharemarkets soundly generating their own
advance at the moment and with probable continued buoyancy
for local borrowings, both these reactions were justified. They
should not, however, be allowed to detract one whit from
the urgency and importance of the President’s moves.
Even the feeling that some of the devices may not pass
Congress does not for a moment mean Mr Kennedy will with-
draw his effort to put the US house in order and bring a new
look to world trade. The present proposals embrace each
of those aims.
Just before the President’s more comprehensive announce-
ment, the Federal Reserve Board had lifted interest rates on
short-term borrowing by increasing its discount rate from 3
to 3i p.c. This had been expected for quite awhile.
Then came Mr Kennedy’s three further specifics:
• An interest equalisation tax of up to 15 p.c. on the value
of foreign securities bought by US residents abroad.
• The arrangement of a 500 million dollar stand-by credit
with the International Monetary Fund.
• A number of plans to reduce official spending of foreign
exchange.
America still strenuously sets its heart against changing the
price of gold. “This nation will maintain the dollar as good
as gold, freely interchangeable with gold at 35 dollars an
ounce, the foundation of the free world’s trade and payments
position,” the President said forcefully.
But in pressing the defensive weapons, he spared deep
consideration too for “the strengthening of the international
monetary system over the long run.”
Such an attitude hopefully reverses scarce-concealed
American resistance to British and European proposals for
improving world liquidity. Given the success of the defence,
perhaps here is the profoundest importance of America’s
efforts to solve its foreign deficit without a domestic deflation.
By unprecedently using the IMF and at last by expressing
real concern, the US gives a genuine chance that “adequate
provision be made for the growth of international liquidity to
finance expanding world trade over the years ahead.”
Any brakes put upon American portfolio investment
throughout the world pale before the overall significance of
that ambition.
From the start and rather naturally the Americans are more
likely to be worrying about narrowing their own payments gap
than tackling the world monetary system. Bound up with the
Presidential programme, however, there is also a stern resolve
to gain additional dollar incomings by expanding exports.
That kind of attitude, necessary as it may be, appears un-
comfortably close to the policy pursued by many another
country with trade-balance difficulties. To heighten the similar-
ity, the US must be concerned, too, in encouraging foreign
investment.
So it does seem that the general problems of international
trade and its financing can never stay very far from any special
American solutions. Defence of a key currency in a hitherto
intractable payments situation can never really succeed along
purely national lines.
President Kennedy was right in wishing to avoid any re-
medies involving a danger of domestic deflation. Long before
the expiry of the emergency tax, August 16, 1965, he will
probably be forced to see that America’s difficulties and the
free world’s are one. A country dominating politics and trade
no longer performs any major adjustment in isolation.
Popular Idea of
Directors Exploded
\ bout half of the 500 or so Melbourne members of the
Australian division of the Institute of Directors were
present to hear Sir Rohan Delacombe, Governor of Victoria,
explode the popular idea of a director and also point some
useful paths for Institute members at a lunch last week.
According to Sir Rohan “a popular idea of a director is
of an elderly, rotund and balding man who gets to his office
at 11 a.m., smokes large cigars, wears a pearl tie-pin and
entertains lavishly, while the office work is done by his ad-
mirable secretary.” He disabused himself of this idea when in
Germany where he saw directors getting to work at 7.30 a.m.
and holding board meetings at 8 a.m.
Sir Rohan liked the notion of the Institute being a sort of
directors’ trade union. He said: “We have vertical organisa-
tions, such as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of
Manufactures, the Employers’ Federation, each working for
and representing their own particular views, and at the bottom
we have the horizontal tie-up in the trades union which looks
after the interests of the workers.
“It is not, therefore, unreasonable to have a similar hori-
zontal organisation at the top, in the form of an association
of the heads. “Whilst the Institute does not replace or dis-
place any trade body, it gives directors in every trade and
industry a chance of getting together and working for the
rommon good.
“These business heads are in a position to give considered,
balanced views to the Government, be it State or Federal, on
what they consider to be best for the community. If this is
not done, the Government has to rely on the views put to it
by the various Government departments.
“Also, this is not a one-way process. The Institute of
Directors, having no party ends to serve and no political
allegiances, provides an avenue through which the Govern-
ment can get its own views back to industry. If the Govern-


ment is to be prevented from getting out of touch, then more
consultation is required; with increased consultation the Gov-
ernment gets advice and industry gains confidence in the Gov-
ernment of the day.”
Wise Words From An
Old Master
Mu lan Jacoby is plainly not resting content with the
excitements that have attended the launching of his
new finance house, Ready Credit Ltd. From his Perth pulpit
and “in response to many requests” he has unburdened him-
self on the vexed affairs of debenture and note borrowings.
Arguing from experience
in a published statement, Mr
Jacoby observes “no need
for any legislation to control
this type of financing any
more than there would be
the need for legislation to
control the Sto c k Ex-
changes.” Two birds with
one stone!
It sounds easy: “The laws
as they now stand appear
sufficient protection so long
as stockbrokers and the
banks who raise and recom-
mend most of these deben-
tures comply with the simple
formula of assuring the ap-
pointment of a competent
trustee and the continuity of
liquid assets in support of
every future issue.”
In the light of past mis-
adventures, most reliable
trustee bodies are now prob-
ably very willing to seek
audited figures “at no less
than quarterly intervals.” To
inspect them in terms of the
trust deed and the particular
company’s internal financial
structure must be the veriest
minimum duty.
Adherence to this mini-
mum might have saved a
deal of bother in some
notorious recent failures.
Mr Jacoby does stress that
“the vital ingredient in sup-
port of any issm is the
liquidity of the assets offered as security.” So far as finance
companies are concerned such assets should be truly liquid.
“Book debts should balance out with debenture commitments
falling due for redemption monthly throughout the year, plus
long-terms maturities falling due for repayment in future years.”
The line between genuine liquids and what may become
fixed assets (in term loans and leasing, for instance) should be
carefully drawn. Likewise long and short term borrowings
should be separated, the same with outstandings.
Perhaps impeccable standards will soon be seen to have
been thoroughly restored. Mr Jacoby rightly sees it is in the
hands of underwriters, brokers, chartered accountants, trustees
and bankers to re-establish this investment market. There’s
still, however, considerable clamor for the law to attempt a
tighter order.
Issuing House Starts
In Sydney
financial circles especially will b-i keenly watching
the first steps of the issuing house to be built around Delfin
Industrial Finance Ltd. Melbourne has for so long given an
impression of major underwriting dominance that the names
of lan Potter and J. B. Were in this activity are bywords.
Not only interstate rivalry is at stake, though. Throughout
Australia up till quite recently the raising and underwriting of
new company capital, both equity and fixed interest, has largely
become the preserve of stockbrokers. More in accord with
London and New York methods, there is emerging a tendency
for the function to be per-
formed by specialist organisa-
tions.
Potters have already recog-
nised this as one of the dis-
tinct activities of their off-
shoot, Australian United
Corporation. The Sydney in-
vestment banker J. Darling
and Co. also looks likely to
cultivate the field.
Stockbrokers themselves
are not completely bypassed
in the process. They can take
part as “broker to the issue”
yet avoid the main underwrit-
ing responsibility.
One most desirable result
of the separation could be a
lessening of brokers having
to push their own flotation
wares too heavily among
clients and after listing.
DIF has previously operat-
ed privately under the joint
ownership of the Commercial
Banking Co. of Sydney and
Development Finance Cor-
poration. A bevy of partners
now enters and paid capital
moves up to about £350,000.
New shareholders in the
public enterprise include the
MLC, the Colonial Mutual
Life, Australian Investment
Development, Queensland
Insurance, Manufacturers’
Mutual, Mercantile Mutual,
APA and National Mutual.
The W ages of Sin and
Tax Liability
has been quite a spate of reminiscences in the Sunday
A Press by women who parted with their last favors on
bed and couch,” says the July 19 issue of the “Investors’
Chronicle”, London. It continues, “Lord Francis Williams
asked in the House of Lords whether these earnings were
to be taxed by the Revenue. Lord Dundee replied:
“It seems likely that the women in question will be properly
advised professionally on ways of minimising their tax
liabilities. ... It is no argument to say that this would be the
collection of tainted money. Most people in this Puritanical
country would object to the wages of sin being tax-free.”
How The Money Rolls In
Dome readers of The Bulletin article “The Perils of Foreign
lnvestment?” (July 27) have questioned its assertion that
overseas capital investment in Australia “has not been exces-
sive in total.” To support this statement the following table
sets out details for the years 1957-1962:
Year ended June
3957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
£ni. £m. £m. £m. £m. £m.
Direct investment:
Aust. branches:
Unremitted profits 9.4 4.6 11.6 9.5 3.2 4.0
Other investment 7.7 5.8 9.8 22.0 26.0 17.5
Aust. subsidiaries:
Undistributed profits 38.3 38.8 51.7 59.7 56.9 29.6
Other investment 40.5 47.4 32.4 63.9 98.3 44.2
Portfolio investment 9.0 7.9 19.7 34.8 47.9 36.4
Total 104.9 104.5 125.2 189.9 232.3 131.7
(Source: Commonwealth Statistician.)
These totals still represent a moderate proportion only of
all Australian private investment, which for the years covered
was: 1957, £989m.; 1958, £ 1066 m.; 1959, £ 1218 m.;
1960, £1381m.; 1961, £1589m.; 1962, £llllm.
The Commonwealth Statistician has just announced net
private capital inflow during 1962-63 at £24m., from which
an undisclosed balancing item will have to be subtracted. Total
private investment will be published with the Budget papers.
It should perhaps be explained that portfolio investment
covers company shares, debentures and so on, other than direct
investment.


Case Against The
Restrictive Trade Bill
No, 1 - Departure From Liberal Principles?
By ROGER RANDERSOIS
Few businessmen, and even fewer
members of the general public, un-
derstand as yet the full significance of
the proposals made by the Federal At-
torney-General for prohibiting and regu-
lating what are loosely described as
“restrictive trade practices” and “mono-
polisation.” This is due not only to the
extremely complicated
nature of Sir Garfield
Barwick’s scheme but
also to the disarming
manner in which he has
been presenting it.
Such a scheme, if it
were introduced, would
seriously curtail the free-
dom of businessmen to
make their own decisions
as to how they compete
with each other in their
dealings with the public.
It would create the
foundations for the most
comprehensive and de-
tailed network of official controls, or
restrictions, on private enterprise ever
seen here —or in any democratic country
during times of peace.
The fact that the intended legislation
essentially has the purpose of restricting
private enterprise and initiative is not
sufficiently appreciated by the public,
because its attention is diverted to the
emotive words used to describe the prac-
tices which would be prohibited or
placed under official control.
Businesses (and necessarily their public
officers) would become liable to
prosecution in, and conviction by, the
ordinary criminal courts for a host of
offences hitherto unknown in this coun-
try. Similarly, they would be exposed to
a far greater extent to actions for
damages and suits for injunctions in the
civil courts.
Attention is diverted from this vital
aspect by the proposal to set up a
tribunal, operating in separate divisions
in each of the States. Its purpose would
be to determine whether registered prac-
tices should be de-registered.
Much has been made of the 14 “gate-
ways” of justification in the proposed
legislation. These are available, how-
ever, only for the strictly limited pur-
pose of entering a plea in proceedings
for de-registration before the tribunal,
None of these defences could be pleaded
in the criminal prosecutions and civil
proceedings referred to.
Even if a trade practice fell inside
the so-called gateways of justification
the tribunal could de-register it, on the
ROGER RANDERSON,
author of this the first of
a series of articles on the
proposed Federal legisla-
tion on Restrictive Trade
Practices and Monopolies,
has been for many years
a leading financial journa-
list and economist. Mr
Randerson recently resign-
ed as editorial adviser on
economic affairs to the
“Sydney Morning Herald’
to enter legal practice.
ground that there was a
“preponderating public
detriment.”
Severe penalties can be
expected, although they
have not been made
known as yet.
Businesses and their
executives would face
conviction, having no
right to plead justifica-
tion, when a criminal
court found they had
done no more than en-
gage, or agree to engage,
in a practice:
(a) falling within the
four classes in section “1” of the
Attorney-General’s outline, because
they are prohibited in all circum-
stances as “inexcusably unlawful”;
(b) falling within the 10 classes
in section “A” of the Attorney-Gen-
eral’s outline, which are similarly
prohibited if documents fully dis-
closing them have not been
registered;
(c) prohibited because documents
disclosing it have been de-registered
by the tribunal.
A permanent inquisition into business
operations would be set up. Businesses
would be compelled to register docu-
ments fully disclosing any practice fal-
ling under the heads of the 10 classes
listed in section “A” of the Attorney-
General’s outline, and any acts done in
pursuance of such an arrangement. It
would be a punishable offence not to
do so.
The registrar (and sub-registrars in
other States), together with their staffs
would probe these registered documents,
seeking reasons to institute proceedings
for their de-registration. They would
have wide powers to demand further
information from businesses. The legis-
lation would empower them to investi-
gate practices which are not registered,
or which they regard as inadequately
registered. Such official investigations
would extend to complaints made against
businesses which a commission of lay-
men referred to the registrar.
The eventual scope for intrusions into
businesses by an increasing body of
public officials can readily be seen.
A mong the precautions which Sir Gar-
field Barwick claims would be taken
to protect businessmen is the setting
up of a commission of laymen. This
body would consider complaints made
by the public against businesses, grant
or withhold leave for persons other than
officials to inspect the register of docu-
ments, and decide whether the registrar
or other persons (apparently including
the Attorney-General) has a prima facie
case to institute proceedings for de-
registration.
The “tribunal” would take over when
the commission had given leave to in-
stitute de-registration proceedings. One
judge with two or four laymen would
constitute each division of this body.
Verdicts would be given by a majority.
Public hearings would be held. Busi-
nesses might plead any of the 14 “gate-
ways” of justification. The tribunal’s
findings on the facts would be final,
and there would be no right to appeal
against them.
It is highly significant that certificates
as to “any fact” established before it
will be issued by the tribunal and they
will be binding in any court where
criminal or civil proceedings are taken
in relation to a prescribed trade practice.
This is a tremendous power to give
to an administrative agency which is
not a properly-constituted court of law'
and is not bound to follow legal pro-
cedures. And it curtails the ability of
businesses to defend themselves when
the teeth of the scheme close on them
namely, the criminal prosecutions,


civil actions and suits already referred
to.
Businesses may have temporary im-
munity until de-registration of their
documents, as the Attorney-General
points out. But they can have none of
the “certainty” about their operations
which he claims. Indeed, they are being
driven to provide the very information,
which officialdom has inadequate re-
sources of personnel to collect, needed
to start proceedings against them. They
will always feel uncertainty, with the
threat of de-registration always hanging
over them.
This is sufficient to show the wide
discretionary powers that public officials
would be given to interfere with private
businesses. They would demand in-
formation and investigate their af-
fairs. They would involve businesses
in long and costly litigious pro-
cesses in the full glare of publicity.
They would strike down many trading
arrangements, whether contractual or
not, and even though they may be long-
established. And they would assist the
Government to pre-determine the lia-
bility of businesses to severe penalties
for entirely new criminal offences.
Nor can one overlook the incidental
increase in governmental power to in-
timidate business men, by merely threat-
ening to institute investigations or
prosecutions.
Yet Sir Garfield Barwick claims that
his proposed legislation is intended to
“safeguard our system of free enter-
prise.” Surely it is idle to claim that
enterprise would be “free” if the effect
in the inevitable political circumstances
would be that a Minister and public offi-
cials wielded such extraordinary execu-
tive powers to dictate what businesses
might not do.
T cannot believe that the Attorney-Gen-
eral is guilty of deliberate deception,
although it is not easy to exclude the
possibility of self-deception. Either Sir
Garfield Barwick is using words with a
change in their ordinarily accepted
meaning, or else he fails to understand
the true nature of the free enterprise
system.
It is almost impossible to reconcile
what apparently will be the facts in
practice with his sixth prerequisite for
such a scheme “Any scheme must
take account of two particular circum-
stances. One of these is our limited
resources of personnel for the investi-
gation at large of business practices;
the other is the undesirability of business
being deflected from its task by the
need u accommodate itself to, or to
avoid, constant suspicion, investigation
and inquiry.”
“Safeguards” certainly are necessary
for the stability and expansion of each
and all businesses but surely business
must know better than the Attorney-
General or public officials what ar-
rangements are necessary for these pur-
poses.
Concern for the “public interest” is
expressed by the Attorney-General. It
cannot be denied that he knows a great
deal of the public’s aspirations, because
he is dependent on votes for his office,
although he cannot assume that aspira-
tions necessarily correspond to the best
interests of the public.
It is, however, an unwarrantable as-
sumption if he believes that business
men are not equally concerned with
the “public interest.” They depend, as he
does, on the public’s patronage, but to
an even greater extent. Their success
or otherwise depends on studying, an-
ticipating and correctly judging the
public’s wants and supplying goods and
services at prices the public can afford
to pay. This is true even though some
disgruntled persons do not like the prices
they pay, and use fallacious arguments
about prices and profits to bolster their
complaints.
The intended legislation is unmistak-
ably anti-business legislation. The Men-
zies Government, whether intentionally
or not, has shown that it no longer has
confidence in the system of free enter-
prise as it operates in Australia. This
is implicit in one of Sir Garfield’s state-
ments that “the main threat to the tree
enterprise system comes from within.”
Such proposed legislation would not
be surprising if it came from the Labor
Party, which mistrusts private enter-
prise and prefers Government control
of business undertakings. Indeed,
the Leader of the Labor Opposi-
tion, Mr Calwell, has recently re-
affirmed his intention, if he gains
office, to hold a referendum seeking
an extension of the Commonwealth’s
power to introduce legislation against
so-called restrictive trade practices and
monopolies.
The Menzies Government, however,
is morally bound to adhere to the ob-
jectives set out in the Liberal Party's
constitution. As one of its important
provisions declares, the Party looks “pri-
marily to the encouragement of indi-
vidual initiative and enterprise as the
dynamic force of reconstruction and
progress.”
Can the Government deny that it is
yielding to pressure from the Left on this
vital matter of principle, without even
risking a political scrap on the issue?
This blurs still further the line of
demarcation between Liberal and Labor
economic policies under the Menzies
Government, a line which has become
increasingly indistinct.
Does it not also tend to confirm
the Labor Party in its hostility to free
enterprise, thus giving positive encour-
agement to even more extreme measures
of this kind in the future?
The Labor Party is prepared to take
the orthodox course of seeking the sup-
port, by referendum, of two-thirds of
the people in two-thirds of the States
to amend the Constitution, as a pre-
liminary to the introduction of such
legislation. It may be recalled that Aus-
tralians on five occasions (1911, 1913,
1919, 1926 and 1944) have rejected
referenda to transfer power over so-
called monopolies to the Common-
wealth.
then, was it necessary for Sir Gar-
*’ field Barwick to propound a scheme
which involves the by-passing of the
many safeguards in the Constitution, if
he genuinely believes in “safeguarding
the system of free enterprise”? For this
purpose he relies on getting the Com-
monwealth and at least some of the
States to introduce complementary legis-
lation. In addition he relies on the
present High Court making a clear
departure from precedents, long-estab-
lished, as to the proper interpretation
of the Commonwealth’s constitutional
powers.
His choosing of this tortuous route
round the Constitution is difficult to re-
concile with public statements to busi-
ness leaders that he is merely intro-
ducing his proposals in order to fore-
stall worse legislation in the future. Such
worse legislation, if that is possible,
is a long way off. On the worst possible
reckoning years must elapse before the
Labor Party, if it regains office, puts
through a successful referendum, pre-
pare legislation and instals the neces-
sary administrative machinery.
When first making public his pro-
posals last December, the Attorney-
General stated that “a clear majority”
of the States were in favor of them and
would enact complementary legislation
to put them into operation. Whatever
the position may have been then, it
must have changed, since the Premier
of Victoria (Mr Bolte) recently declared
his firm opposition to the proposals.
Western Australia will not have them,
having suffered and rejected this kind
of legislation locally. Nor will South
Australia have them.
It is unthinkable in this political situa-
tion that the Menzies Government
would allow Sir Garfield Barwick to
proceed with his announced intention
to table a Bill, with or without amend-
ments. The Government might have the
support of two State Labor Govern-
ments New South Wales and Tas-
mania. But the Federal Government
would fail to have the support of three,
and possibly four State Governments,
whose avowed principles more or less
correspond to its own.
[A second article in this series will
appear next week].


FINANCE & INVESTMENT
COMPANY LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £775,000
INTEREST RATES FOR DEPOSITS
(NOW CALLED UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES)
WITH RIGHT OF RECALL
ON 30 DAYS’ NOTICE
years and over 8% p.a.
APPLICATIONS must be made
on the form enclosed with the
prospectus, which is obtainable
from
• Members of the Stock Exchange
• ANY BRANCH OF A.N.Z,
BANK
• The Registered Office of the
Company, William & Crown
Sts., Sydney. Telephone 31-0322
Financing the
distribution by
The Hastings
Deering Group
of Companies of
world-famous
products
FORD
Cars and Trucks
FORDSON
Tractors
A.E.C.
Trucks & Buses
CATERPILLAR
Diesel Tractors
in Queensland
HYSTER
Fork Lift Trucks
in Queensland
JOHN DEERE
Agricultural
Machinery
in Queensland
MAIL THIS COUPON
HASTINGS DEERING FINANCE &
INVESTMENT CO. LTD.
G.P.O. Box 4333, Sydney.
Please send me without any obligation on my part, pros-
pectus dated 27/3/63, giving full details of your terms
deposits.
NAME
ADDRESS
«/
HD63
“CROESUS”
Stock Exchange Radical Reforms?
Break-Throughs on Two Important Fronts
the best of authority it is learned
that the Australian stock exchanges
are moving rapidly towards break-
throughs on two important reform
fronts, transfers and trust deeds, and
that considerable progress has been
made in devising a substitute for stamp
duties. The Melbourne Exchange is the
nerve centre of the iatest moves.
It is understood that by mid-August
the Melbourne Exchange will be ready
to implement a new system of transfers,
the most important feature of which
will be that only sellers will be re-
quired to sign, a reform which will go
a long way in speeding up transfers
and delivery of scrip to buyers. Accord-
ing to the secretary, the main opposition
to this has come from diehard com-
panies and some accountants, but there
is a good prospect of legislation being
passed to give legal recognition to the
new system to fortify its place in the
listing requirements of the exchange.
A draft bill, incorporating the new
system, the joint work of Melbourne
and Sydney SE officers, was finalised
in time for consideration by the recent
meeting of State Attorneys-General in
Adelaide.
Again, the exchanges have finalised
their new requirements for trust deeds
which will stop up all the loopholes
through which so much debenture
money has gone down the drain in
the last two years.
The secretary of the Melbourne Ex-
change is confident not only that the
changes will make trust deed require-
ments foolproof even on the score
of policing the on-lending of funds
but that they will receive legislative
approval. (Some, such as concerning
the status of trustees, have already been
enacted in Victoria.)
A point of interest is that eventually
and after much thought, research and
debate, the Exchange gave up the idea
of introducing borrowing formulas in
the revised trust deed requirements.
The new trust deed requirements are
soon to be incorporated in listing re-
quirements, and although they will not
apply to present debenture listings, they
will apply to all future debenture issues
by listed companies. Until legislation is
passed, the sanction for investors’ pro-
tection will thus be vested in the brok-
ers handling new debenture issues.
It is also learned that the stock ex-
changes are endeavoring to get inter-
state agreement on a scheme to replace
the present system of stamp duties with
a transactions tax, which would not
only be uniform within Australia but
also cheaper and less restrictive on stock
exchange business. It would do away
with stamps on contract notes in favor
of lump sum payments based on the
money value of transactions.
It Is hoped eventually to get uniform
Commonwealth-wide legislation to ef-
fect this, but since the scheme would
possibly mean higher charges than at
present in some of the States, this could
be an obstacle.
At any rate all are agreed that a
reduction in stamp duties, particularly
in Victoria where the rate is 2 p.c.,
is sorely required in the interest of de-
veloping more business on the exchanges
and therefore better markets.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Budget Now; Pay Later
The Need for Borrowing for Public Works
and Easing Taxation
TREASURER HOLT
Hoist with own
petard
arious economists lately have been
’ expounding the case for transfer-
ring more of the nation’s expenditure
on public works from taxation to bor-
rowing, seeing in this one of the main
keys to tax reductions in the forth-
coming Budget.
Comparing the increase of £906 mil-
lion in .he National Debt with the total
of £4930 million of expenditure on
capital works in the public sector over
the last ten years, one gets a figure of
18 p.c. of public works financed from
borrowing. The rest, 82 p.c., comes from
taxation in its various Federal and State
guises, municipal rates and so forth.
Thanks to the buoyancy of public au-
thority loan raisings, for last year, the
proportion looks to have been of the
order of one-quarter from borrowing
and three-quarters from taxation and
rates.
As a preface to a discussion on this,
it may be remembered that some years
ago Sir Douglas Copland extolled both
the national and economic virtues of
meeting such a high proportion of the
cost of public sector capital works from
revenue and was in favor of increasing
rather than reducing the proportion.
Even though Sir Douglas is rather ex-
ceptional in his addiction to the use of
taxation as an instrument of economic
direction, both as a means of dampening
or stimulating economic activity on the
one hand and as a principal means of
financing development on the other, his
views on this must not be neglected.
"Out apart from the general argument
that more of the charge for building
public works for posterity should be
borne by posterity, a case can be made
out on two main counts for even further
reducing the proportion financed from
taxation. One is that substantial bene-
fits would flow from the reduction of
taxation itself. The other is that a de-
liberate policy of deficit financing is
required to promote development at the
required rate.
It has been said that the ideal of
every Treasurer should be to raise a
large amount of revenue from a very
active, low-taxed community. Certainly
in current circumstances cuts in both per-
sonal and company taxation need not
necessarily mean reduced revenue for
the Treasurer, and, paradoxically
enough, it could be that mere token
cuts of, say, 5 p.c. in personal and
6d. in the £ in company rate (coupled
with an increase of 5 p.c. in private
company retention allowances) and a
reduction from 2i to 2 p.c. in
payroll tax would be more likely to
depress revenue than reductions of
double these proportions.
The reason for this is simply that
at this stage to get the necessary activa-
tion of the economy the Treasurer needs
to do something fairly dramatic to lift
business and personal spending out of
the rut of the last 2i years, and he
will not achieve this by mere token
reductions.
Moreover, even if it is conceded that
revenue could be temporarily affected
by sweeping tax cuts, unless they are
made the economy seems unlikely to
progress rapidly enough to the higher
plane required as a platform for a
vigorous new round of growth.
HTrue, this might seem risky to a con-
A servative Treasurer, but in his two
previous Budgets Mr Holt failed to deal
a hand strong enough to lift the econ-
omy to the degree required to promote
the full use of available resources.
Nor is the current need for a stimu-
lus from big tax cuts the only considera-
tion. The side and long-term effects
would also be beneficial. For instance,
the present high rate of company taxa-
tion weighs heavily on the ability of
companies to accumulate capital and
this in turn militates against maximising
employment and the effectiveness of the
export drive. It is also having the effect
of turning more and more Australian
companies to overseas sources of capital,
even making them increasingly vulner-
able to takeovers by overseas interests.
This is not saying, of course, that
the Treasurer should go the whole hog
this time in taxation reductions, but
rather that he should do something
shocking, at least shocking to Sir Doug-
las Copland, in order to shake both
personal spenders and private invest-
ment out of their slumber so that the
private sector can get itself ready for
labor absorption on the grand scale.
Doubtless the Treasurer may find it
difficult to see himself in this role,
because, adding up all the sums and run-
ning over the history of the loan market,
the prospect of an interminable series
of deficits will become apparent. Never
mind, the protagonists for reducing the
burden of public works expenditure on
revenue say he should not be afraid,
but rather take comfort in the argument
that this is just what is required for
a country whose development ambitions
must be translated from words into
deeds.
And, in any case, they point, de-
risively sometimes, to the curious form
in which the Treasury frames the final
out-turn of the Budget, one saying that
in budgeting for a £llBl million de-
ficit last year Mr Holt was budgeting
in effect for a surplus of £lOO million.
Another called the out-turn for the
year a “true” surplus of £lOB million
and gave a revenue surplus of £217
million. The public’s image is simply
of a £l6 million “surplus.”
Treasurer will know well enough
where he failed last year. He aimed to
put a bigger share of the public sector’s
capital works expenditure on credit
borrowing, and made a virtue out of
this assumed necessity by saying in his
Budget speech a year ago that £llBi
million of pump priming was needed to
restore full employment. His advisors
were not to know that their caution was
both to keep the economy in a strait-
jacket and to confront the Government
with the “embarrassment” of a £l6
million “cash” surplus, a revenue surplus
of £217 million (after adding back net
capital expenditure from revenue) and
a net reduction of credit borrowing,
which nobody in Canberra has yet said
he was sorry about and, politics being
what they are, the Government thinks
is just fine.
This may seem to beg the question
whether deliberate and even sustained
deficit financing is required to increase
the proportion of public works expen-
diture financed by borrowing, because
last year was an exceptional one for
Government loans and Mr Holt was
hoist with his own petards of high
interest rates and “captive” devices.
However, if this year he takes the
right course and cuts taxation sharply,
he will also be doing the right thing in
going for a big deficit with the idea of
not depending on fortuity in the loan
market to shift more of capital ex-
penditure from revenue. If the loan mar-
ket turns up trumps again, well and
good, but, keeping in mind the state of
the economy and the needs of develop-
ment alike, the Treasurer will do well
not to tap it too hard.


INVEST
M
NOW
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE !
DEBENTURE STOCK!
«
10-20 years
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
mi HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated in The Australian Capital
Territory.
CAS 2318 b .
INVESTMENT SECTION
Stir In Sharemarkets
Warning to Boom-dosed Temptations
VTobody can possibly complain of any
lack of excitement surrounding
financial matters just now. The air is
full of noises. An investor’s principal
problem remains, as always, to tune in
on the right wave-length.
He should not necessarily allow him-
self to be distracted by the clamor which
has entered the Plessey-Ducon Industries
takeover bid. Here, though, he might
decide to take The Bulletin’s advice
set out in this week’s “One To Buy.”
Again but this still feels hard to
say any returning investor need not
repine too much over the tragic dis-
closures from Reid Murray. It is not
being superficial to regard the impor-
tance of the questionable and belated
figures now revealed as largely historical.
Let’s hope they may represent a pre-
historic phase of company finance and
behavior, a perpetual warning to boom-
dosed temptations. Such remarks must
not be construed as minimising the
public necessity of learning every detail
of how auditors qualified the accounts.
The ridiculous impasse which results
in hiding shareholders from one of their
legal sources of information at least
looks likely to be quickly resolved.
While dealing with the crash side, it
also looks likely that debenture holders
in Factors will get back principal and
interest in full, as suggested earlier by
The Bulletin.
All these happenings should be held
in due proportion with the healthier
facets of company operation, now be-
coming thoroughly evident through a
procession of first-rate 1962-63 reports.
BHP, CSR and ACI, referred to last
week, have been strikingly joined by
G. J. Coles, Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, Associated Securities and Ed-
wards Dunlap. Many segments of in-
dustry are visibly on the move.
Readers of this section do not need
to be reminded of the performance test
for corporate investment. They will be
given many profitable chances to apply
the guide in the coming weeks. But they
have to remember the sharemarkets also
are resolutely trekking ahead.
Tyree Expansion
/Current excitement over Ducon In-
dustries Ltd may bring more
attention to Tyree Industries Ltd, elec-
trical transformer maker.
Recommended as “One to Buy” last
December at 18s., the ss. shares are now
priced at 21s. 6d., where the yield is
a tiny 2.9 p.c., if last year’s 12i p.c.
dividend is repeated.
Last information from the company
was of a private placement of about
66,000 ss. ordinary shares at 13s.
premium, in February. Directors then
said they proposed that the rate of 12}
p.c. would be continued. The funds so
raised were to finance the manufacture
of transformers in New Zealand.
The February interim report an-
nounced very satisfactory trading
results, and a 10 p.c. increase in turn-
over.
Although it is too much to expect
improvement in earnings at the same
rate as last year—a jump from 20.3 p.c.
to 33 p.c. on capital healthy results
should be announced sometime late in
August for 1962-63.
An early call on shareholders for
additional working capital would not
surprise.
Safeways’ Spearhead
HThe third largest merchandising firm
in the United States, Safeways
Stores Inc., has increased its foothold
in Australia. The local operating com-
pany, Pratts Supermarket Pty, which
already had four stores, has bought
two more and rented another from
Mutual Stores Holdings Ltd.
The stores sold are Mutual’s Toorak
supermarket, described by a shareholder
at the 1960 annual meeting as a “colos-
sal white elephant,” and the Seedsmans’
supermarket at Mentone. Seedsmans’
Burwood supermarket has been leased
for a long term to Pratts.
Consideration is cash, but the final
price depends on costing of stock, which
together with fittings is part of the deal.
Mutual vacated last Saturday, with
obvious relief. (It is disbanding all ac-
tivities except real estate investment.)
Safeways, headquartered in Oakland
(California), has been interested in Aus-
tralian expansion for some time, but
shuddered at property costs here. After
taking over the Springvale grocery store
of F. T. Bullock Pty a month or so
ago, Pratts declared the group was
mainly interested in building its own
supermarket.
In terms of sales Safeways ranks third,
next to Sears Roebuck, in the US, al-
though its 1962 profit of $36.6m. was
way behind Sears’ $220. lm. Safeways
earned 13.3 p.c. on shareholders’ funds.


PRESTIGE LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
The following is an abridgement of the Address delivered by the Chairman,
Mr. George G. Foletta, to the Annual Meeting of Prestige Limited held on
22nd July, 1963.
“It is a privilege and my pleasure, as
Chairman, to move the adoption of your
Board's Annual Report and Balance Sheet,
which discloses a consolidated net profit
from trading of £312,786, after providing
£260,845 for depreciation and £249,499 for
taxation. This represents an increase of
approximately 88% on the net profit for
the previous year, but as that earlier
year’s profit was unduly depressed as a
result of excess importing and the reces-
sion, this increase is not in itself the best
indicator of either progress or future
profits.
A better picture of the growth of earn-
ings of the Prestige group is obtained if
comparisons are made of the profits
available from trading and investments
before meeting various charges and pro-
visions (some discretionary), and after
deducting the profits attributable to out-
side shareholders. Figures extracted in
this way show ah increase of more than
100% over the period 1956-1963.
Your company has benefited greatly
from its policy of heavy “write-downs” of
ffiant and equipment out of the'increasing
profits over this period, and is now well
equipped to meet the anticipated further
improvements in demand. In this regard,
although in the months of April, May and
June demand is seldom buoyant, turnover
for the Prestige group as a whole shows
an increase of 3.2% over last year, and
this helps to strengthen our optimism
relative to a worthwhile improvement
during the Spring and Summer season.
The improvement in profit could not
have been registered without the pro-
gressively increasing level of demand and
the resultant increases in turnover, par-
ticularly in those divisions which supply
semi-raw materials and services to the
textile and clothing industries. These
increases in turnover, which were con-
siderable for the year under review, were
but an extension of the improvement
registered during the last six months of
the previous year, and it was because
trading indicators pointed to a relatively
steady level of demand for most sub-
sidiaries and divisions, and some upward
movement in others, that your Board
decided that both profits and future
prospects were sufficiently sound to war-
rant their recommending the bonus issue
and the increase of 21% in dividends.
Our confidence in the future stems
largely from the fact that it is now ac-
cepted by all Federal parties that the
continued expansion of secondary industry
is basic to development, and that the
maintenance of a sufficient proportion of
lighter industry is essential in the in-
terests of sustained employment, partic-
ularly in country areas. The textile in-
dustry, although relatively capital inten-
sive, fits this category.
DIVERSIFICATION:
Within the field in which group manage-
ment has considerable experience, i.e. the
textile industry, your company has
achieved a valuable measure of diversifica.-
tion, which continues to make its contribu-
tion to stability.
TARIFFS:
I retain my faith in protection by tariff.
Tariffs safeguard the individual’s freedom
in trade, i.e. under an efficient tariff
system citizens can indulge their taste,
and purchase any imported merchandise
they choose, provided they are happy to
pay a relatively small levy for using short-
supplied overseas currency. Under licens-
ing, this freedom becomes subject largely
to the controls of bureaucracy; therefore,
I was pleased to hear Sir Robert Menzies,
when delivering the Sir John Storey
Memorial Lecture, make his lucid state-
ment relative to the important responsibil-
ities carried by the Tariff Board.
The efficiency and business of your yarn
processing division should be well main-
tained by the receipt, a. few weeks ago,
of a temporary tariff on processed man-
made fibre yarns. However, due to what
we term the “time lag” in tariff matters,
while the reference to the Special Advisory
Authority on woven man-made fibre
piecegoods is encouraging, your Board
does not anticipate any improvement until
the end of the present year; consequently,
we have budgeted against a reduction of
profit in this division.
This assistance from our authorities
supports your company’s confidence; and
what is important to the economy, is that
the assistance, both granted and anticipat-
ed, helps your company in making more
efficient use of installed capacity and
reducing costs and selling prices. In this
regard, we have completed another year
in which we have reduced a number of
prices and increased none.
EXPORTS:
As mentioned recently in the press,
Prestige Ltd., which is already exporting
considerable quantities of higher-priced
fabrics to New Zealand and opening up
markets for yarns in the East, has been
successful in placing its furnishing prints
on the markets of Great Britain, the
mecca of quality prints. Australia’s good-
will is enhanced by every yard of fabric
your company exports.
DEVELOPMENT:
It is the Government’s responsibility to
provide the framework of the economy
industry’s to develop it. Unless we men
of industry and commerce face up to our
responsibilities and play our part in
restoring confidence, we will soon see the
nation’s freedoms whittled away by
bureaucracy. For a government to retain
office, it must legislate in accordance with
the needs of full employment. However,
the public sector should not be encouraged
to accept so much responsibility in finding
work for people who should be employed
in industry.
Prestige Ltd. has faced this responsibility
squarely and, for the last recorded week
in June, Prestige Ltd. and its Australian
subsidiaries registered 1,629 employees, as
against a low level of 1,246 recorded during
the 1961 recession. The earlier peak in
Australia was 1,577 in November 1960.
The present record levels of employment,
which average approximately 8% higher
than during 1960, have been achieved
simultaneously with what amounts to
approximately a 25% increase in produc-
tivity.
These figures indicate how the use of
efficient capacity at more economic levels
of production has enabled your company
to trade profitably at lower prices. They
also prove my earlier statement that the
Prestige group has never lost its faith in
the future. Even during the recession, when
we were facing losses in a number of
divisions, we were planning for expansion.
For the Australian divisions alone we
progressively installed plant and equipment
to the value of £685,044 between 1960 and
1963. In addition, we are just completing
new buildings in Australia, the expenditure
on which will finally amount to close on
£lOO,OOO and our forward commitments
on plant and machinery amount to ap-
proximately £275,000.
NEW ZEALAND:
Financed by retained profits and extra
funds supplied by Australia in the form
of plant and equipment. Prestige (N.Z.)
Ltd. is progressively broadening its field
of operations. As in Australia, diversifica.-
tion is assisting stability and offsetting
the somewhat lower profits which result
from the highly competitive conditions
under which the consumer goods divisions
operate. New Zealand’s profits for the
year under review exceeded those of the
previous year, and indicators point to
satisfactory results for the present year
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:
I have already made mention of the
value to your company of the sustained
enthusiasm of management and the co-
operation of staff and employees through-
out all subsidiaries and divisions. The
Board’s thanks are sincere, and we trus f
that staff and employees will continue
to enjoy the rewards and opportunities
inherent in a prosperous and expanding
organisation.
Finally, I know that shareholders would
wish to join me in expressing appreciation
of the excellent service rendered by my
co-Directors.”


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
an
;PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7\ % P.A. 3 YEARS
7i % P.A. 2 YEARS
6i% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B}% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CCI66/AB
CLIP AND POST COUPON
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy ot
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDh'SS
Pratts Supermarket Pty hopes even-
tually to invite public subscription to
secure Stock Exchange listing in Aus-
tralia.
Safeways’ spearhead attack will un-
doubtedly reshape the policy of both
Woolworths and Coles.
Mini-TV
A ssociated with Hayakawa Electric
Co. Ltd of Japan, has enlarged
Olims Consolidated Ltd’s horizon be-
yond photographic chemicals and equip-
ment.
A joint company Olims-Hayakawa
Electronics Pty, with nominal capital
of £ 1 million, will produce miniature
TV sets at St Peters (NSW), and pro-
duction of other Hayakawa products at
Caringbah will follow.
The Japanese company claims to be
one of the world leaders in electronics,
and its “Sharp” products include thermo-
electric power units and industrial elec-
tronic equipment.
Last January Olims issued ss. shares
at a ss. premium which were deferred
as to dividend until 1966. These “de-
velopment” shares ranked with existing
ordinaries for a bonus issue (one-for-
four) made in March.
Directors announced that “finances
for the new company will be obtained,
as and when required, at the various
stages of the developments to be un-
dertaken.”
The 12i p.c. ordinary dividend can
be depended on as firm company policy.
Whatever financial arrangements are
made, this looks sacrosanct.
The betting on this stock, with all
the earmarks of growth, is already heavy
as the present yield of 3.3 p.c. (on price
of 19s. for the ordinaries) shows.
The deferreds, which should be Is.
10id. cheaper until this year’s final divi-
dend is out of the way. are overpriced
at 17s. 9d. in relation to the ordinaries.
Sales for the December half-year rose
to 21.5 p.c., with steady growth in
profit. The report of trading for the
first full year will create much interest.
Contractor Trades Lower
HThe news of McDonald Industries
A Ltd’s venture into Malaya earlier
this month rescued the ss. shares from
under 95., and a preliminary statement
(without figures) of lower profits for
the year to June should not weaken
the shares below 10s. now.
The lower profit is not unexpected,
for profits were lower in the first half
than in the previous year, and weather
conditions have been unfavorable in the
second half of 1962-63.
The regular 10 p.c. dividend will be
covered by profits, directors said, after
tax and normal depreciation. The final
quarter showed more favorable trading.
Cost reductions have been effected by
reorganisation.
Two large contracts have been ob-
tained on Queensland beef roads.
Ira Berk Options
A three-month call option taken out
on Ira L. and A. C. Berk recently
showed that someone has hopes for
this out-of-the-way stock.
Now valued at around 2s lid. the ss.
shares could recover closer to par if the
interim dividend of 2 p.c. is followed
by even a token final of the same
amount.
The company is a dealer in Rambler
vehicles in Sydney, and has the Queens-
land franchise for the Japanese vehicles,
Datsun and Nisson.
The substantial improvement in re-
sults of the Queensland branch justified
the interim dividend paid in March,
which was the first gesture to share-
holders since the 5 p.c. final paid for
1959-60.
Nylon For NZ
T'Mbremakers’ final resolve to manufac-
ture nylon in New Zealand is made
in an atmosphere of heated international
competition among man-made fibre pro-
ducers. At present the competitive pres-
sure appears also to be accompanied by
an equally feverish desire to find cap-
tive or handy markets.
The company must be thoroughly
aware of the world position, since its
joint owners are ICIANZ and British
Nylon Spinners, of UK. Initial examina-
tion of the NZ market was made last
year and talks were held with the Gov-
ernment.
Government approval eventuated but
was extended as well to a rival Von
Kohorn of NZ Ltd, an offshoot of Von
Kohorn-Universal Corporation of New
York. This group plans to build a fac-
tory near Wellington with capacity to
supply one-third of NZ’s nylon filament
yarn needs. A 60 p.c. holding in the
£750,000 capital will be offered lo-
cally.
So Fibremakers reconsidered and in
chairman Mr N. G. Wilson’s words,
“decided to take a bit of a gamble.”
Mr Wilson did add that “we had to
face the fact that there will be two
plants, but we have 90 p.c. of the market
now and intend to hold on to it.”
Neither company is to be afforded
any protection by tariffs or import con-
trol.
Fibremakers (NZ) proposes to estab-
lish a factory near Auckland which will
make “Terylene” too when the market
warrants. The parent company holds the
rights to manufacture this polyester fibre
from ICI, England.


C.S.R. Co’s Annual Report
POINTS FROM CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS TO SHAREHOLDERS
In his annual address to shareholders, the chairman of The
Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd., Mr. J. W. Dunlop,
referred to:
• record total production at the company’s sugar mills
in Australia and Fiji
© gradual improvement in C.S.R. building material
activities
• possible effects of the proposed legislation on restrictive
trade practices and monopolies.
Mr. Dunlop, at the annual meeting held on 17th July,
reported on the company’s activities in Australia, New Zealand
and Fiji. Some of the points from his speech are:
Mr. J. W. Dunlop, Chairman of the
Board of The Colonial Sugar
Refining Company.
RAW SUGAR MILLING
Total C.S.R. production of raw
sugar: Production of raw sugar
during the 1962 season by C.S.R.’s
seven mills in Australia and by the
four Fiji mills of our subsidiary,
South Pacific Sugar Mills Ltd. was
598,000 tons, compared with 444,000
tons during the previous season.
This was a record total production.
C.S.R.'s Australian Mills
Record tonnages of sugar were
produced in 1962 by the company’s
mills in both Queensland and New
South Wales.
Fiji Mills
Our subsidiary company in Fiji,
South Pacific Sugar Mills Ltd., had
a successful initial year, production
being 248,000 tons of raw sugar,
105,000 tons more than in the
previous season.
Raw Sugar Production by C.S.R. Group
Tons Actual Sugar (nearest ’000 tons)
Season N.S.W. Queensland Fiji Total
1958 ...... 56,000 246,000 198.000 500.000
1959 68,000 221,000 283,000 572,000
1960 ...... 60,000 241,000 147.000 448 000
1961 ...... 65,000 236,000 143.000 444.000
1962 ...... 76,000 274,000 248,000 598 000
Three local residents of Fiji
were recently appointed as addi-
tional members of the board of
directors of South Pacific Sugar
Mills Ltd.: Mr. R. G. Q. Kermode,
Mr. K. P. Mishra and Ratu A. W.
Vosailagi.
Progress continues to be made
by South Pacific Sugar Mills in
recruiting local people of all races
for the salaried staff and in train-
ing and developing them.
Australia: C.S.R. 1A white refined
sugar in 21b and 41b packets is
being marketed in large volume in
all Australian states and demand
is still increasing.
New Zealand: Marketing of
"Chelsea” brand refined sugar in
retail packets by our subsidiary,
New Zealand Sugar Company Ltd.,
commenced last year, and there
also, the packets have been very
well received by the grocers and
housewives.
B3HB1
Australian Raw Sugar
Production
Australia produced a record
1,802,000 tons of raw sugar in the
1962 season and for the first time
exported over 1 million tons.
The Queensland Government has
appointed a committee to advise
on the planning, on a sound- and
economic basis, of long term sugar
production targets beyond 1964.
The Changing World
Sugar Situation
There has been a shift in the
direction of tighter supply and
disappearance of surplus stocks.
The export limitations under the
International Sugar Agreement
have been suspended.
Stocks in many countries were
reduced earlier this year and are
now at a level where market prices
are very sensitive to short term
changes in production or expected
production. Rising prices . and un-
certainty about suplies have caused
some importing countries to in-
crease their imports, thus adding
to the upward pressure on prices.
Looking to the future, it may be
said that, in comparison with
recent years, prices are likely to
fluctuate in a fairly high range
during 1963. It can also be said,
but with rather less confidence,
that this is likely to be the position
during most of 1964. The future
course of the market towards the
end of 1964 and beyond depends
on so many factors that predictions
are hazardous.
British Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement
The changed situation on the
world free market should not
obscure the importance of the
British Commonwealth Sugar Agree-
ment. It is the backbone of our
export trade and continues usefully
and fairly to serve the interests of
both producing and consuming
parties.
United States Market
The United States Sugar Act
provides basic statutory quotas of
about 34,000 long tons for Australia
and about 8,500 long tons for Fiji.
Additionally, Australia and Fiji
may compete to supply sugar to
the United States at world free
market prices in what are called
“global quota” allocations. Ad-
vantage has been taken of this.
Three Year Sugar
Agreement with Japan
At the end of May an agreement
was made for the supply of Aus-
tralian raw sugar to Japan.
The three year agreement was
negotiated by our company’s Sugar
Marketing Division on behalf of
the sugar pool.
•■■■■ : ■ ' .
Our sales of building materials
for the last financial year were
about 10% higher than for the
previous year and improvement of
this order applies to most products.
Floor Tiles Group: A Tariff
Board enquiry was held to deter-
mine the extent of protection to
apply to plastic floor and wall
tiles and to linoleum, but no
report had been issued at the time
of going to print.
Fibreboard Group: Continued
representations regarding the
dumping in Australia of hard-
board from overseas producers
have resulted in the matter being
referred to the Tariff Board for
enquiry.
Gypsum Products Group:
Improvement in sales of this
group’s products has been slow as
they are related closely to the
home building industry in which
recovery has lagged.
Pyneboard Group: Sales of Pyne-
board made by Pyneboard Pty.
Ltd. (60% C.S.R.) have continued
to make good progress.
Mineral Fibres Group: Bradford
companies in which we have a
controlling interest (85% C.S.R.)
are now manufacturing and selling
high quality mineral wool insula-
tion in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (60%
C.S.R.): A year ago some recovery
had taken place in the demand for
the chemicals and plastic materials
manufactured by C.S.R. Chemicals
and its associated companies.
Improvements continued for a
time, but the rate of increase in
the demand levelled off.
RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES
AND MONOPOLIES
The legislation on restrictive
trade practices and monopolies
which is proposed by the Attorney-
General, the Hon. Sir Garfield
Barwick, is causing anxiety.
The published details, though
quite lengthy, still leave import-
ant matters obscure.
If the scheme as proposed comes
into force it is likely to have a
significant effect on national
growth and development, on the
balance between the activities of
private enterprise and those of
government; and indeed, as time
goes by, on the work and policies,
in relation to economic growth, of
several Ministers and Departments.
It sets out to change significantly
methods of business which, with
minor have worked to
the great benefit of Australia.
The exception from this scheme
of practices already regulated by
law indicates that there will be
exempted from it a large area of
the nation’s economic activity, that
area which is covered by the
economic activities of govern-
mental and public authorities,
agreements and awards relating to
labour and salaried employment,
and the existing statutory schemes
which cover much primary produc-
tion (other than, importantly, wool
and meat). In this area, which em-
braces the majority of the eco-
nomic activities of the community,
legislation, passed in the public
interest, already supports much in
the way of restrictive —indeed of
highly restrictive—practices. We
are aware of the usual justifica-
tions put forward for this state of
affairs, and some of them have
substance. Yet it remains difficult
to reconcile, as a matter of general
principle and of logic, an economic
and social framework in which
restrictive practices are held to be
beneficial and in the public
interest when occurring in the
very large area of the economy
mentioned, but are judged to be
contrary to public interest when
they occur in the private sector
of business and industry.
It is also questionable whether
the policies and practices of such
large economic communities as the
United States of America, the
European Economic Commun’ty
and the United Kingdom can
properly be applied to the much
smaller economy of Australia with-
out deliberate and careful con-
sideration of their likely economic
effects, and without considerable
adjustment of their principles to
local conditions.
The handling of this matter dis-
closes what seems to be a
deficiency in the structure of our
governmental system. If this were
legislation affecting, for instance,
the large and important fields of
labour and primary industry, it
is certain that the relevant Com-
monwealth Ministers and Depart-
ments would have taken the
deepest possible interest.
By contrast, private business and
industry, which are vitally
affected by the proposed restric-
tive practices legislation, are with-
out the benefit of the attention
and consideration of any particular
Minister or Department.
We feel that this is a deficiency
which, even at this stage, should
be remedied. We regard this as
essential; and so far as we can
ascertain, the degree of consul-
tation that the Attorney-General’s
Department has carried out to
date is not an adequate answer
to the point we make.
CSR262B


PRESTIGE HOME . . . WAHROONGA
LUXURY ON THE MARKET IN THE GARDEN SUBURB OF SYDNEY
COST £30,000 . . . SELL £25,000 OR OFFER
Sydney business man, planning world trip, has placed one of Sydney's most lavish
custom built two-storey estates on the market. This superlative brick residence has been
designed for those who demand the ultimate in luxury and good taste.
Standing on a level site with sunny northern aspect and surrounded by high quality
homes, this property has 3 glorious bedrooms, 2 ultra modern bathrooms, huge entertaining
area, sun room and magnificent kitchen finished in Italian imported marble.
FORCED SALE—OWNER COMMENCING WORLD TOUR
The extras include Thai silk drapes, Simpson washer and dryer, wall to wall carpets
throughout and thermostatically controlled central heating. Cedar is splendidly featured.
Outside accommodation provided for as staff quarters adjoining a large double garage
and gymnasium.
Inspection by appointment only: Ring 48-4020, or write to P.O. Box 78, Broadway,
Sydney, N.S.W
ONE TO BUY
Via Ducon to Plessey
Speedy “Kill” or Long-Term
fractious appearance of the Ducon
A Industries market need not deter
any investor from acquiring some ordin-
ary shares. They should preferably be
obtained to permit acceptance of the
share side in the Plessey takeover offer.
Whether for that longer-term purpose
or for the quicker 335. cash from Plessey,
there are assured possibilities of gain and
no chances of loss.
Normally, of course, it would seem
most peculiar to recommend a purchase
where prices had whizzed from around.
16s. to 31s. amid an atmosphere charged
with obvious leaks and Stock Exchange
and official investigations.
The newcomer may safely ignore these
tantrums. He can fix his gaze on the
market’s technical situation. Better still,
he might call to mind the Plessey group’s
outstanding status and its probable de-
velopment in Australia.
If a speedy “kill" on a cash acceptance
is planned, Ducon's prices must be viewed
also in the light of the 6d. brokerage pay-
able. Prevailing levels close to 31s. could
perhaps last only while furious option
writers attempt to cover their commit-
ments. A conceivable drift will be arrest-
ed when this pressure is removed.
In any case the newcomer has simply
to calculate the profit margin he’s after.
However, the attractions of buying even-
tually to hold Plessey shares begin to
seem more and more convincing, even
for a smaller operator.
The UK Plessey Co. is among the
world's biggest and most virile makers
of electronic and telecommunication
equipment. Its massively mounted assault
to secure Ducon confirms a clear inten-
tion to complement, expand and integrate
already existing Australian interests.
Those now embrace the fairly recently
effected mergers with Automatic Tele-
phone and Electric, Ericsson Telephones
and Garrard Engineering. Ducon would
bring in about 80 p.c. of local condenser
production as well as a broad extent of
electronic components and high-voltage
power equipment.
Plessey directors speak plainly of their
industrial plans: “A (Ducon) merger
will provide the group with a substantial
and well-rounded capability in Australia
covering virtually the whole range of
Plessey activities which could be par-
ticularly important as the telephone in-
dustry moves into the electronic era,”
They make it equally clear that these
moves are eventually to involve Aus-
tralian equity partnership. Indeed some
element of such participation was to form
part of the present bid. “But this has not
proved feasible, largely because existing
Australian interests are still in the process
of integration and reorganisation.”
Then comes a straight assurance of
direct participation “as soon as practic-
able.” So Ducon shares don’t only lead
to 335. cash and an end to the business.
“In the meantime, Plessey is making
available some of its own equity as part
of the present operation so that Ducon
ordinary holders will be able to retain
an indirect interest in the Australian
operations,” directors add.
The awkwardness of holding English
scrip may also be overcome since Plessey
is considering an Australian register and
application for local quotation.
However, there’s not merely the im-
mediate acquisition of an estimable stock
to be considered. When further Aus-
tralian flotation occurs, it would seem
highly probable that existing shareholders
could be rewarded with some kind of
priority.
The distant Plessey fields look very
green.
To gild the Ducon offer, the company
disclosed that pre-tax profits for the
year ended June 30 “will not be less
than d£stglom.” against <£5tg6,532,000
for the previous year. The 1961-62
period took in only eight months of Auto-
matic Telephone and Electric and Erics-
son Telephones.
On the strength of the profit state-
ment, London put Plessey shares up
4s. 6d. stg to 625. stg, or about 775.
Australian.
The first attractions of the whole share
exercise naturally rest upon Plessey’s
terms. A wide expectation is one Plessey
for two Ducon, or something very close
to that basis.
It is, of course, better for the bidding
party to lessen the cost of the offer by
presenting an advantage on the share
side.
At one-for-two, Ducon shares are
given a value of about 38s. 6d. on pre-
vailing Plessey quotes. As the above
reasoning might suggest, there is even
more to it than just a good ruling market.
Off the Record
IyfARKET strategists have plotted the
capture of Music Houses of Aus-
tralia Ltd, and by well laid propaganda
have pressured the ss. shares, usually
worth about 7s. 6d., up to a temporary
level of 9s. sd. buyer, 10s. seller.
Directors of Music Houses said they
had no idea why the shares were in
such demand last week, and refuted the
suggestion that a bid was in the offing.
The theoreticians believe that a lead-
ing local record-maker would find Music
Houses a useful retail outlet.
Nice Profit on Tip
2os. shares have con-
tinued their long trek back towards
par, and recent sales at 19s. 4d. show
nice profit for those who took The
Bulletin’s advice to buy back in March
when the shares were 14s. 9d.
Trading results should be published
about the second week in August, and
a good follow-up to the interim I>\ p.c.
dividend is expected.


ASHBY'S NOW SEE OVER 6,100 FAMILIES EVERY M3NTH ... 18,300 MEN, WOMEN AND CHILDREN!
f
n
Miss Sylvia Ashby,
Director.
18,000 AUSTRALIANS
give Ashby , s advance information day-by-day on the develop-
ment of buying trends plus all these vital facts . . .
1. SHARE OF MARKET yours and that of each of your competitors.
2. The effect of Special Advertising or Promotion on customers.
3. Why some customers are changing from your brand.
4. customers buy your product and how, when and where.
5. The total POTENTIAL MARKET for your product.
6. What customers think of your product are they really satisfied
with it?
7. Other exclusive and valuable facts to help you in your merchandising.
Not at any time in the history of Australian
merchandising has such realistic information
been so readily available. Never before has it
been so vitally necessary. This year, ASHBY
RESEARCH SERVICE (the oldest established
Market Research organisation in the Southern
Hemisphere! celebrates the eighteenth year of
continuous operation of the ASHBY CONSUMER
PANEL A MONTHLY AUDIT OF CONSUMER
PURCHASES, conducted by the most experienced
field investigators in Australia.
Here is a continuous, moving study of your
market, at the consumer level, available from no
other source! . . . and it is factual information
on which you may rely; because the ASHBY
CONSUMER PANEL, incorporating the best
features of Overseas Panel Procedure, has been
adapted to Australian conditions and proved by
the continued support of many of Australia’s
most successful companies.
Here are facts precise and accurate analysed
by: type of family, by age and income groups
and broken down by product size and classifica-
tion authentic, timely and continuous in-
formation, each month giving you a tremendous
advantage in the development of your plans,
based on this crystal-picture of where your goods
or services stand in relation to your customers
and your competitors.
ASHBY CONSUMER PANEL
Daily records kept by the Ashby Consumer Panel’s respondent members are inspected personally once
every four weeks by some 237 regularly employed Ashby representatives whose activities are in turn
checked by Ashby Supervisors located permanently at strategic points. (This is the largest survey
group permanently employed in Australia.)
The Ashby Consumer Panel records at Consumer level the movement of products through every type
of retail outlet privately-owned grocers, Chain Stores, department stores, variety stores, chemists,
and other shops as well as milk bars, clubs, school and business canteens, house-to-house salesmen,
itinerant pedlars—even vending machines!
The mutual confidence established between Ashby’s interviewers and respondent housewives by regular
monthly visits breaks down the normal diffidence usually encountered in “casual" research. Thus Ashby
Reports are more meaningful, and very informative.
Since the Ashby Consumer Panel deals with the same families over a continuous time period, it provides
the only means of studying brand loyalty and repeat purchases.
ASHBY RESEARCH SERVICE
Scottish House, Bridge Street, Sydney, and at Melbourne Adelaide Brisbane Perth.
Telephones: 27 3161, 27 3162, 27 3199, 27 1851.
Just back from shopping, Mrs. McCaffrey
enters purchase details immediately in Ashby
Consumer Purchase Record.
mm
®W! «
mm
/L
. -f** ;
An Ashby investigator makes a spot check on
a consumer’s medicine cabinet.
■ .
Why did this housewife switch to your
competitor’s brand? Why not have her
tell you?
ARI 29


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Healing Shares Good Buying
Scope for capital appreciation
Tnvestors certainly seem to have
A priced the shares of A. G. Healing
Ltd rather harshly, considering its past
good record of both earnings and divi-
dend payments. Thus at around 9s. Bd.
to yield 7.8 p.c. from the 15 p.c. divi-
dend (paid annually since 1950) they
are midway between the year’s high
point of 10s. lOd. and the low of Bs. 6d.,
as against the 1962 price range of
11s. 6d. and Bs. lOd.
Quite apart from Healing’s previous
good financial record, the company will
gain from the merger with A. E. Good-
win Ltd late in 1960 on the basis of
nine ordinary shares of Healing for 10
of Goodwin. This can be seen by a
consideration of the range of activities
undertaken by the two companies.
A. G. Healing is a leading manu-
facturer and distributor of a wide variety
of merchandise in the electrical appli-
ance field, including radio sets, tele-
vision receivers (commencing produc-
tion in 1956), domestic air conditioners
and washing machines.
On the basis, then, of the earnings
patterns displayed by the companies re-
viewed recently in the electrical field,
this part of the Healing group would be
liable to fairly marked profit fluc-
tuations.
Likewise, Healing is actively engaged
in the automotive field, manufacturing
and distributing automotive parts under
franchises from GMH, Ford, Rootes
(Aust.) Ltd, Standard Motors and Inter-
national Harvester. In fact, this interest
in the automotive components field,
which appeared to be the largest di-
vision of Healing prior to its merger
with Goodwin, will be strengthened by
the offer Healing is making for the
Sydney engineering company, Westcott
Hazell and Co. Ltd, which holds the
franchise for Ford spare parts in NSW.
Once again, this side of Healing’s acti-
vities is subject to substantial earnings
fluctuations.
then, it is not surprising that
A. G. Healing’s profit record before
the merger reveals marked fluctuations in
earnings, varying from the 32.5 p.c.
earned on year-end ordinary capital in
the 1957-58 financial year to the 15.2
p.c. the following financial year on 50
p.c. higher ordinary capital as a result
of a one-for-two par cash issue. However,
the 15 p.c. dividend rate has never been
threatened.
After 60 years of virtual control of
the company, the Healing family sold
its interests to A. E. Goodwin Ltd,
following which the two companies
merged their interests. This added heavy
engineering to the activities of the
group, and, besides diversification,
ensured greater stability in earnings.
Thus in the three sets of accounts Good-
win’s released before the merger, the
earning rate on ordinary capital fluctu-
ated only in the narrow limits of 14 p.c.
to 16 p.c., with a slight tendency for
the earnings rate to improve.
A. E. Goodwin has production units
at Sydney, St Marys and Port Kembla
in NSW, and sales divisions in all States.
The company has a wide range of
activities in the heavy engineering and
other fields as a result of the various
products it manufactures under licences
held from several US companies. Thus,
the Goodwin-Alco diesel electric loco-
motives made for the State Railways of
NSW and SA together with McNally
coal improvement plants and a complete
range of Jeffrey underground coal-
mining machinery are notable examples
of products made under licence from
American companies.
TTowf.vf.r. it is of interest to note that
in March, 1960 (before the merger),
A. E. Goodwin, under a new licensing
arrangement with Temperature Ltd, of
Britain, decided to enter the domestic
and industrial air-conditioning field as
a further step in its own diversification
programme.
The position for the future, as far as
the group of companies is concerned,
appears sound. A. E. Goodwin is
engaging in the export field and hopes to
increase its already substantial orders so
as to reap full advantage of the Govern-
ment export concessions.
As far as the heavy industry is con-
cerned, recent contracts obtained for
locomotives will keep its order book
filled for some time, so that the profit-
able operation of the engineering plant
for a long period will be ensured.
In this respect, Goodwin will prove
beneficial to the group’s results as it
has supplied a continuously increasing
volume of engineering products to every
important government authority in Aus-
tralia, as well as leading Australian
enterprises.
Similarly, the Healing group should
currently be experiencing favorable
trading conditions in the manufacturing
and distributing of household appliances
if the results of some companies wholly
engaged in this field are any guide. So,
also, the automotive section especially
and the light engineering side should now
be operating more profitably than in the
previous two financial years, judging by
the impressive profits recently recorded
by the manufacturers as well as com-
panies dependent for their fortunes on
the level of activity experienced in the
motor vehicle industry.
In an interim report to shareholders
in March of this year, directors an-
nounced that turnover and profit for the
six months to December 31, 1962,
showed an appreciable improvement
over the corresponding period of the
previous year. Indications then were
that the results for the rest of the
financial year would be satisfactory.
it would seem that the group
” could produce a profit figure higher
than that recorded in the 1960-61
financial year when 17.6 p.c. was earned
on year-end ordinary capital (though it
almost certainly will be an improvement
over last year’s results). On the basis
of this, and in view of the many longer
term favorable factors now taking place
in the economy the 5s. shares in A. G.
Healing Ltd at around 9s. 8d. appear
good buying as there could be some
scope for capital appreciation when the
1962-63 financial year’s results are
known. In addition the present immedi-
ate dividend yield of 7.8 p.c. is very
attractive in view of the directors’ desire
to maintain the present 15 p.c. dividend
even when earnings give little cover for
the dividend.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
After merger
1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ord. capital 650 975 975 2978 2978
Capital reserves 170 170 170 1525 1525
Revenue surplus 1251 1339 1420 1485 1491
Ord. SHF. 2071 2434 2565 5988 5994
Pref. capital 612 612 612 612 612
Loan capital 1510 2488 4261 6140 6734
Total capital 4193 5584 7438 12,740 13,340
Represented by:
Working
capital 2225 3427 5020 7752 8155
Land and
buildings 1362 1449 1497 2761 2859
Other fixed
assets 599 701 719 1867 1970
Investments — — 200 269 272
Intangibles 7 7 2 91 84
4193 5584 7438 12,740 13,340
"Operating"
income 634 655 846 1477 1483
Op. Inc. p.c. total
capital 16.4 15.6 15.2 13.7 11.6
Earnings 211 148 209 523 415
Ord. dividend 98 122 146 447 447
Surplus 113 26 63 76 (32)
Earnings p.c.
ord. capital 32.5 15.2 21.4 17.6 14.0
Div. yield (a) 5.7 4.7 6.3 7.6 7.0
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 12.2 21.1 11.2 11.9 15.4
(a) Based on last sale, month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Merger Dims Prospects
rpo judge from figures, original share-
holders of Wenzel, Batty and Mc-
Grath Ltd have gained little by the ac-
quisition of the woollen and worsted
sections of Wenzel Pty Ltd in Victoria.
Certainly the merger took place just
before the start of the credit squeeze, but
for the past three years results of the
combined group have shown little im-
provement on the returns from the
operations of the Batty and McGrath
group prior to the merger. And now the
group is operating at a loss with little
prospect of a recovery before the end
of the current financial year.
The company operates as a woollen
merchant and distributor of suiting mat-
erials, etc. It began in 1938 and made a
share issue at par to the public in 1954
to qualify for Stock Exchange listing.
Profitability was irregular over the
next five years, with a loss in 1956,
a record profit the following year, a
setback in 1958 and a partial recovery
the following year.
Then in 1960 the group acquired the
men’s woollen and worsted section of
Wenzel Pty Ltd of Melbourne and
formed it into a new subsidiary. This
was financed by an issue of ordinary
shares (lifting paid capital to £200,000)
and an issue of 120,000 ss. notes carry-
ing 7 p.c. interest.
Following this takeover the name was
changed to the present Wenzel, Batty
and McGrath Ltd, under which name
it has since operated.
First result after the merger was a
group profit of £15,801, equal to 15 p.c.
on average capital, compared with
£17,092 by the parent company alone
in the previous 16 months. But in
the following year, the first full year of
combined operations (and the first 12
months of the credit squeeze), profit
fell to £8720, equal to 4.4 p.c. on
capital, and dividend was cut from 8 p.c.
to 4 p.c.
During 1961, the company expanded
its operations with the cash purchase of
several companies to give it a coverage
of all classes of tailoring.
The 1961-62 year showed a substantial
improvement despite a slow beginning,
with profit almost doubling to £17,105,
equal to 8.6 p.c. on capital. Dividend
was raised to 5 p.c. in two equal
amounts. But, despite reorganisation, the
Victorian subsidiary failed to make a
profit in the first half of the current
year, and dragged the rest of the group
into the red to the tune of £5572.
Trading conditions throughout the in-
dustry were extremely difficult and com-
bined with higher expenses made the
outlook for the remainder of the year
gloomy. No interim dividend was paid
and a final is also unlikely.
The last accounts, for the year to
October 31 last, showed current assets
with a fair margin over liabilities. But
stocks, at £472,625 (down £26,638)
looked rather heavy while a fall in
trade debtors to £297,331 indicated the
falling off in business.
Bank overdraft was virtually un-
changed at £164,121 while the repay-
ment of £27,219 in unsecured loans
falling due during the year may have
caused the company some temporary
liquidity embarrassment.
Total reserves at October 31 last
stood at £51,117 subject to intangibles
of £2433, giving the 5s. ordinary shares
a net assets backing of 6s. 3d.
Following announcement of the loss
for the half-year, the shares fell below
2s. 6d. They appear fully priced at this
level for the short term, but for the
longer term of two or three years
there is a prospect of capital improve-
ment, particularly if the reorganisa-
tion in the Victorian subsidiary brings
the group rapidly back to profitability.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
October 31 1959(a) 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 359 639 828 777
Less current
liabilities 231 383 586 554
Working capital 128 256 242 223
Fixed assets 14 17 30 31
Intangibles — — 2 2
Investments — — — 25
142 273 274 231
Represented by
Ordinary capital 106 200 200 200
Reserves 36 43 44 51
Loan funds — 30 30 30
142 273 274 281
Depreciation 1(b) 1 2 3
Taxation 10(b) 11 3 IQ
Net profit 17(b) 16 9 17
Dividend lj 9 8 10
Surplus 6 7 17
Dividend p.c. 10§(b) 8 4 5
Earning rate p.c. 12.1 15.0 4.4 8 6
Dividend yield (c) 8.4 7.6 4.7 6.2
High Price (d) 5/1 6/2 5/3 4/6
Low Price (d) 3/9 4/6 3/9 3/6
(a) Parent figures only.
(b) For 16 months.
(c) End of December, month accounts presented.
(d) Calendar year.
EDWARDS DUNLOP and CO. LTD
Conservatism a Tradition
Dunlop and Co. Ltd has
taken over eight companies in the
last three years, but on examining the
accounts, there is the impression of great
expansion. The feeling is that the com-
pany prefers to hasten slowly and quietly.
Some of the takeovers have been for
cash, others for a share consideration.
Through these, and as a result of the
1960 issue to shareholders of 20s. shares
at 12s. 6d. premium, capital has enlarged
from £1,185,000 at 1960 balance date
to £1,949,454 today.
The group's three spheres of activity
are in wholesale merchanting, paper pro-
cessing and converting, and service.
The year 1961-62 was one of keen
competition and sales were lower than in
the previous year. In the latest term to
April 30, total sales rose but gross profit
rates suffered, so that the trading profit
increase was not proportionate to the
sales increase.
Net profit increased, for the seventh
consecutive year, to £221,740 (from
the 1962’s £197,573), after allowing
£131,519 (1962 £100,076) for tax, and
£99,560 (£81,759) for depreciation.
Investment income contributed £19,172
to group profit. Investments now total
£370,212 including £220,448 for securi-
ties listed on the stock exchange, which
had a market value of £269,820 at April
30, 1963. These include a minority inter-
est in Reed Paper Products (Holdings)
Ltd, Australian subsidiary of the British
Albert E. Reed and Co. Ltd.
Stocks and debtors were considerably
higher, reflecting higher turnovers, and,
presumably, additional subsidiaries. Bad
debts were rather higher than usual in
1962-63.
In the wholesale merchanting business,
conducted by the parent company
through six branches, and through W.
H. Wassail and Son Pty, sales and profits
were appreciably higher. Increased rates
of duty were confirmed by recent Tariff


TAXATION MANAGER
required by
A leading Australian Company
with a number of subsidiaries
DUTIES: To advise upon and implement Company policy on all
Taxation matters and to represent the Company at a high
level, as necessary. To accept overall responsibility for a
small specialised team handling all aspects of taxation work
for the group. Resident Melbourne with occasional inter-
state trips.
QUALIFICATIONS: Professionally qualified in Commerce or Law
or Accountancy or equivalent, with a sound knowledge of
taxation law and practical experience in all aspects of
taxation work particularly as affecting Industrial Companies.
Capable of accepting responsibility for advanced thinking
and planning.
SALARY: Our cl ient does not expect to attract the right man for
less than £4,000 per annum and is prepared to negotiate
beyond that figure. The position offers wide scope, status
and an opportunity for advancement.
APPLICATIONS: Confidential. Please detail qualifications, experi-
ence, age, training, 'phone numbers and other relevant
information.
Apply in writing to Executive Selection Division
JOHN P. YOUNG & ASSOCIATES (VIC.) PTY. LTD.
Management Consultants
2 GLEN STREET, HAWTHORN, E. 2, VICTORIA
or to our offices in Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth
Board decisions, which should assist the
paper making industry and this company
in particular.
Paper processing and converting is
handled in Sydney by W. Nevill and Co.
Ltd (acquired in 1961) and Galwey and
Co. Pty. Galwey bought for cash Maxima
Manufacturing Co. Pty (maker of trans-
parent film bags) and its two associates
during 1962-63.
Gross profit margins in paper process-
ing and converting brought a sharp reduc-
tion in net profit, although sales were
maintained.
Within two years this section hopes to
produce cost savings by concentrating
manufacturing activities at a large, new
property at Alexandria (NSW).
The New Zealand manufacturing sta-
tioner, Olympic Stationery Ltd, produc-
ed record sales and profits. Olympic
bought a major interest in Bookbinding
Specialists Ltd of Wellington during the
year. A new company, Edwards Dunlop
and Co. (NZ) Ltd, was established to
distribute printing machinery.
The service companies are Super
Transport Service (NSW) Pty, Parsons
and Hayes Pty, both bought in 1960,
and Edwards Dunlop and Co. (London)
Ltd. Super Transport provides delivery
service and storage for the group and out-
side customers. Parsons and Hayes are
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
Parent Consolidated
April 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 4379 4545 5279
Less current liabilities 1907 2132 3211
Working capital 2472 2413 2063
Investments 739 349 370
Fixed assets 1094 1643 1987
4305 4405 4425
Loan capital 1130 1028 1034
Minority interests 10 44 35
Ordinary capital 1870 1949 1949
Reserves 1295 1383 1407
4305 4404 4425
Depreciation 29 32 57 82 100
Taxation n/a 101 118 100 132
Net profit 121 135 170 198 222
Dividend 115 117 139 190 195
Surplus 6 18 31 8 27
Earning rate 10.5 11.6 11.6 10.4 11.4
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield 4.8 3.5 4.7 4.5
Price/earnings
ratio 20.0 23.8 18.2 21.3
High price 44/6 45/- 58/- 47/6 48/6
Low price 36/8 37/9 36/6 37/- 42/-
printers’ engineers, and the London com-
pany services NZ and Australian activi-
ties.
So far in the current year, sales are
fractionally higher than last year, and
forward orders are satisfactory. But, as
directors put it, there is “an absence of
dynamic in general activity”.
Taking the accounts at face value, the
company is not particularly attractive foi
investment, but it is generally conceded
that conservatism rules within the organ-
isation. The chairman (Mr J. W. Dunlop)
is also chairman of CSR, and, incidental-
ly, a director of Reed Paper Products
and several other companies.
Since the war four premium issues
preceded the generous three-for-five bonus
of 1955. The business dates back to 1869,
and in 1965 it will celebrate its 50th
year on Sydney lists. Whether this will
be the occasion for another handout pre-
sumably depends on trading performance
in the next couple of years.
e os. shares responded to the news
of 1962-63 results with an immediate 9d.
adjustment upwards to 435. 6d. At this
price they are still short of this year’s
peak of 455. 3d., and judging by previous
peaks, afford likely price appreciation
within the year.
SOUTHERN MOTORS HOLDINGS
Capital Gains
From a
Motor Stock
pronounced recovery in the motor
vehicle industry during 1962-63 is
directly reflected in the greatly improved
trading result registered by Southern
Motors Holdings Ltd.
In 1961-62, year ended April, South-
ern Motors, like all motor distributors,
suffered a severe setback as a result
of Government measures, especially
sales tax increases and credit restric-
tions. Profit dipped to less than half
its usual level, but the 17i p.c. divi-
dend was held without recourse to re-
serves.
Profit for the latest term recovered
most of the previous year’s lost ground.
It rose from £49,242 to £92,785 after
providing £61,945 (previously
£32,346) for taxation. Earning rate
was 40.3 p.c. on capital.
In 1948 the company was appointed
as one of four Melbourne metropolitan
Holden dealers. It acquired public
status in 1955 with a paid capital in
ordinary shares of £230,000, which
is still unchanged. Southern Motors also
is sole distributor for Pontiac cars.
The company carries a large spare


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5343
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVIITCO”
P.o. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street Phone: 6h81)
parts and body repairs division. Its used
car division is expanding, and more
outlets are being developed. There is
a hire purchase subsidiary, Blackwood
Investments, to handle new and used
vehicle sales on terms.
In the 12 months to April 1963,
official figures for new motor vehicle
registrations, cars, station waggons, and
all other vehicles except cycles, showed
Holden had 39.4 p.c. of the market.
Southern Motors’ chairman (Mr R. G.
Williams) told shareholders that intense
competition prevailed, especially in the
closing months of the financial year.
As an income stock the 5s. shares at
17s. 6d. to return 5 p.c., are about
fully valued. There are numerous al-
ternative investments for those content
to accept a slightly lower immediate
income for the sake of future capital
benefits.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
April 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 485 650 575 455 606
Less current liabilities 213 297 227 232 333
Working capital 272 353 348 223 273
Fixed assets 317 333 417 551 552
Intangibles 150 150 150 150 150
739 836 915 924 975
Ordinary capital 230 230 230 230 230
Reserves 509 606 685 694 745
739 836 915 924 975
Depreciation 4 3 3 6 7
Taxation 63 84 72 32 62
Net profit 101 137 108 49 93
Dividends 40 40 40 40 40
Surplus 61 97 68 9 53
Earning rate 43.7 59.7 46.8 21.4 40.3
Dividend rate 1 7\ \7\ \7\ 17J
Dividend yield (a) 6.7 4.3 5.7 5.4 4.9
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 6.4 7.0 6.7 15.1 8.9
High Price (b) 14/6 15/3 21/6 16/- 17/-
Low Price (b) 11/8 11/8 12/- 13/6 13/—
(a) Previous calendar year.
(b) End of June, month accounts presented.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Ducon Steals Limelight
From Reid Murray
UUho ever thought some months ago
" that Ducon could push Reid Murray
into the background? And while on
these philosophical questions, what
happens to the “Buy Australian Made”
slogan now that Ducon is becoming a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the English
Plessey group?
The takeover bid of 335. cash for
each Ducon share or the expected two-
for-one share offer has had its side
effects.
Ducon has made more appearances
in this daily option list in the last month
than any other company. Without
knowing anything else, such persistence
should have been the signal to take a
small interest in the company.
Now at double the price, I have made
up my mind. At 31s. 6d. it still leaves
a small profit after brokerage, if I accept
the cash offer. But such an action
would be purely defensive. I am expect-
ing thi sshare offer to be worth more
than 335. The high premium on
Plessey shares makes it much cheaper
for Plessey to exchange shares rather
than cash. With Plessey shares at about
78s.(A) and rising, a two-for-one offer
would go down very well. Profit just
announced by Plessey jumped 50 p.c.
from £stg.6f million to £stg.lo million.
The only listed Australian company
that could match this profit figure is
BHP. Profit reached a new high of
£Al6j million. Everyone seemed to get
quite excited about the 13 p.c. increase
in net profit.
With the full advantage of the in-
vestment allowance on plant, a straight
comparison with last year’s profit does
not seem to be a fair thing. Taking the
amount of the profit before depreciation
and tax as a more realistic measure,
there is only a 6 p.c. rise. Despite what
the chartists were saying, I won’t be
coming back into that market.
Whatever way you look at this year’s
profit of another company, Plastic Coat-
ings, it should be a lot higher than in
1962. Everyone likes to be proud of
their company and the chairman in his
a3dress at the annual meeting last year
showed he was no different. To quote,
“The company has proved itself, not only
in good times but in difficult times as
w’ell, having successfully weathered the
last two years and maintained a 10 p.c.
dividend rate.” But after reading this
if you expect a steady earning rate in
recent years, brace yourself: 1958 earn-
ing rate, 24.4 p.c.; 1959 earning rate,
29.6 p.c.; 1960 earning rate, 54.3 p.c.;
1961 earning rate, 7.9 p.c.; 1962 earning
rate, 8.5 p.c.
However, 1963 should more than
make up for the last two years. Sales
by Plastic Coatings itself rose 50 p.c.
in the first six months. Plastic Sheet-
ings, taken over early this year, is also
believed to have done very well. Direc-
tors must be anxious to recover the faith
of shareholders and one very good way
of doing that is by raising the dividend.
I added 1000 new shares to the port-
folio.
Coming out of the portfolio were the
400 Waugh and Josephson at 17s. The
way they have gone up, it could be
another “Ducon.” I am happy with the
profit of £B7.
Another reasonable profit of £lO4
was the result of the sale of the remain-
ing 2000 Ampol rights as 2s. Id.
Formfit did not seem to be doing any-
thing so they were sold at an average
price of 11s. 2d. or just £5 over the
break-even point.
Details of the week’s transactions are:
SOLD
400 Waugh and Josephson, 17/- £333
2000 Ampol rights, 2/1 £2OO
800 Formfit, 11/2 £436
BOUGHT
400 Ducon, 31/6 £642
1000 Plastic Coatings, new, 7/- £362
This week’s business has pushed the
debit in my account up to £95.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Nome of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/5
1000 Courtaulds 14/1/63 16/1 19/3
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 3/9
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 35/6
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 14/9
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 10/
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/3
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 7/9
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 24/-
500 Aust. Motel Ind. 10/6/63 5/4 5/3
1000 Gen. Ind. 17/6/63 9/8 9/10
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/9
1000 Waltons rts 3/7/63 10/9 11/3
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 14/-
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/
200 Assoc. Minerals 8/7/63 35/6 36/-
200 Mt Isa 16/7/63 84/- 85/-
200 W. J. Manu. 17/7/63 17/6 13/6
400 Ducon 24/7/63 31/6 31/6
1000 Plastic Coatings, new 24/7/63 7/- 7/-


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Life—and Death—of a
Sugar Town
BY JOHN ELLISON
FFime is running out for the tropical,
A somnolent sugar city of Cairns in far
North Queensland.
The whole economy of Cairns is
centred on sugar export. Here lies the
city’s dilemma. Two factors which will
adversely affect the future economy of
Cairns are:
• The construction of a bulk sugar
loading terminal at Smith’s Creek,
expected to be completed at the end
of next year; and
• The Sugar Board’s decision to trans-
fer to Townsville the bagged sugar
crushed by the northern mills.
In round figures, this means a loss to
Cairns of a sum estimated variously be-
tween £.500,000 and £2,000,000. Ulti-
mately, the reduction in the number of
watersiders, combined with loss of cargo,
will mean that Cairns will be reduced
from an “A” grade port to a “B” grade
port.
Further, the general economy of the
district is anything but sound. The rail-
way workshops, according to Railway
Union Secretary Ray Jones, are faced
with ultimate closure. The exodus has
already started.
Despite these omens, Cairns Chamber
of Commerce President, Bill Moloney,
strongly defends the security of the city,
accusing people like the local Labor
MLA, “Watty” Wallace, of being “cala-
mity howlers” and “knockers.”
It is obvious that the city, like many
of the ghost towns of the “back country”,
is facing a dilemma unless an injection in
the form of Federal aid is forthcoming.
rpoußiSM, a major industry in Queens-
"*• land, helps the local cash registers
to ring merrily once the “wet” is over
and the southern registration plates ap-
pear like magic. But much remains to
be done to recapture some of the lost
tourist trade. The vast natural beauty
of the area is not sufficient in itself to
gratify the desires of our modern tripper.
At low tide a mile of mud and stunted
mangrove trees extending the full length
of the Cairns foreshore presents a revolt-
ing sight to those accustomed to the white
sands of the Gold Coast. Neither the city
fathers nor Horatio Nelson Whittaker,
chairman of the Cairns Harbour Board,
is prepared to come to terms to do
something about the eyesore.
As well as on the wharves, automation
in cane harvesting is whittling the number
of cane cutters in the fields. Even the
skilled worker here has great difficulty in
getting a place, and the sudden loading
on the labour market will add to the al-
ready mounting unemployment figures.
who have the acumen to foresee
A this are, like the Arabs, quietly fold-
ing their tents and moving on to the
south, seeking a more stable future.
At Queerah, where the Cairns Meat
Export Co. kills the bulk of the Gulf and
Peninsula cattle in this area for the Ame-
rican market, conditions are far from
satisfactory. Last year the company was
bedevilled by industrial strife at one
stage northern cattlemen flew in from
their properties as “strike breakers” to
defeat the militant meatworkers. Sneak-
ing in at night, the graziers rolled up their
sleeves, slaughtering, skinning and boning
alongside non-Union labor.
The meat, like other industries in the
north, has had more than a fair share of
industrial strife, mainly arising from age-
old feuds. As a result, valuable overseas
markets have been lost.
Let’s face facts, the cattle industry in
parts of Queensland has changed little
from Biblical days! The pastoral com-
panies which lease vast tracts of the
north, as well as the graziers, must
modernise or be prepared to go down
against competitive marketing.
Mining and timber have complexities
uncommon to more normal operations.
Intensive study of both industries is re-
quired to assess accurately their indivi-
dual problems. Mining stays alive largely
from subsidisation by the Queensland
Government.
The timber industry is somewhat a
different kettle of fish. Millers who
handle up to 176 of the finest species to
be found in Australia are constantly
fighting with the State Government.
Many anomalies exist. Royalties on tim-
ber in the rain forests, freight charges and
imports from overseas cripple what
should be a flourishing industry.
On the Tableland the rich, red vol-
canic soil will grow every conceivable
type of crop suitable in the tropics; but
maize farmers, who in the past have
harvested up to three tons to the acre,
are now producing as little as half a ton,
and many are not prepared to concede
that fertilizer is vital.
HThe overall story of the north is one of
tragedy booming towns turned
to dust, playmates Apathy and Inertia
running happily all over the place!
For the northerner, the feeling of being
the “poor cousin” for so long has sapped
any “get up and go” which they originally
had.
This was clearly indicated recently
when the Mayor, Darcy Chataway (ex-
railwayman) called a public outdoor
meeting to discuss the crisis and the des-
patching of bagged sugar to Townsville.
Apart from the regular turn-up of
staunch unionists, a handful of commu-
nists and a scattering of local business-
men, the meeting was poorly attended
and the Mayor, in no uncertain terms,
told his absent fellow citizens what he
thought of them.
The only ray of hope may well rest
with the “People of the North” commit-
tee, based at Townsville. Last year a
group of more enlightened citizens
formed the committee and appointed
Sydney journalist Larry Foley as pub-
licity officer. Their cry is being heard in
Canberra. Formation of a Federal body
along the lines of the Tennessee Valley
Authority should not be too far distant.
On the credit side of the picture, the
two chain stores, Coles-Penneys and
Woolworths, have just completed a large
rebuilding programme, with fully air-
conditioned stores. Many new shops
have been built (rentals prohibitive in
some cases) and a few small factories
have gone up in the latter years on re-
claimed land near Smith’s Creek.
When something IS done to develop
the north, Cairns will benefit, but local
capital will remain for the time being in
the tightly held purses of the local
hierarchy.
One city alderman when questioned
regarding the apathy shown by towns-
people as to their fate, said: “It is not so
much apathy, but simply that the people
are not properly informed of the real
facts which go on in the town.”
For citizens in the north the cry
“Populate or Perish” has a grim ring of
truth about it and the sooner something
is done the better time is running out.


BARKER COLLEGE
Hornsby, N.S.W.
Vacancies exist for the following appoint-
ments from January, 1964.
Senior School LANGUAGE MASTER to
teach primarily Latin, offering also French
or German.
Senior School ART MASTER.
Junior School MASTER to teach in upper
classes of Junior School.
Salaries comparable with those of N.S.W.
Education Department. Superannuation
Benefits.
Applications, stating academic and pro-
fessional record, together with two refer-
ences, in writing, to ACTING HEAD-
MASTER by WEDNESDAY, August 7.
LIBRARIAN
Applications are invited for the post of
Librarian at St. Joseph's College, Hunter's
Hill. Application forms are available from
the Headmaster.
The Social Life
of Chickens
/Chickens spend their whole life being
henpecked. So say UK Ministry of
Agriculture experts who, after years of
study, believe that knowledge of the social
life in the chicken run can help to im-
prove egg production.
The battery system is best, it is con-
tended; trouble starts when the hens are
allowed to mix together. Within any
flock there is a social structure. The
boss bird walks where she likes and
every bird will make way for her.
It seems that a pullet can only recog-
nise up to about 30 of her companions,
and this is one reason why small flocks
lay better than large ones. Within a
small flock the social pattern is stable,
each individual knowing its superior,
which it avoids, and its inferiors, which
avoid it.
Fights occur when a hen must move
outside its own circle to get food, water
or nest boxes and when fights occur,
egg production suffers.
Australian Shoes For
SE Asia
reports of opportunities
opened up for Australian exporters
by the recent Australian Industries Ex-
hibition at Kuala Lumpur, Clark’s Shoes
Australia Ltd expects to expand its bus-
iness there.
Adelaide-based Clarks Shoes is an
Australian subsidiary of Clarks Over-
seas Shoes Ltd, which operates in 59
countries, marketing shoes for C. & J.
Clark Ltd, of the UK.
Mr L. Meyer, marketing manager of
the Australian company, who visited
Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Penang
with newly appointed representatives
there, says that fashions from Aus-
tralia in children’s, youths’, maids’, and
women’s footwear will sell extremely
well in SE Asia. Until Australian shoes
entered the market the main suppliers
were from Hong Kong and the UK.
Britain drank a record total of 124 mil-
lion gallons of milk in May, 1962
one million gallons more than in May,
1961, and five million more than in
May, 1960.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 756
ACROSS
I—Paiem Americanised private land in the process of
sequentially numbering the sheets of paper. (10)
B—Out of bed as seen in a poisonous Javanese tree.
(4)
10—Inimical he-burrower admitted by the Northern
Territory. (10)
12— Transfix a Japanese back. (3)
13— Have dinner with a style of serving steak. (5)
15— Utility reversed by one French needle-case. (4)
16— An outsize goes crook with lady’s maids. (8)
18—Pudding for Roland and Napoleon. (4-4)
20—Republican rocking Sinbad’s air-pilot. (3)
22—8i1l associated with this republican cooking. (3)
23—Father to a woolgrower and
our lover. (8)
27—Always making Rome veer.
(8)
29 Prussian blue? (4)
30— Hectically coloured. (5)
33 Dry little executive. (3)
34 Sly-grog merchant who walks
behind to kick. (10)
35 He is carelessly put to bed
by the author of the Old
English Chronicle. (4)
36 Strata may be seen to form
such caper units of poetry.
(10)
DOWN
1— Baker’s product who causes
inflation with a little money.
(12)
2 Character in many a poll gets
vexation up. (6)
3 Welsh boy upset in part of
church. (4)
4 Longfellow dresser? (7)
5 Hard fruit. (3)
6 The Italian put on a little
dog, being the client of an
instructor. (5)
7 Merchant Navy accommo-
dating an American who
initiated legislation against
“white slaving.” (4)
9—A priest muddled Turkish
money. (7)
11—Black heart of a canegrower.
(5)
13— Twin performed my wrong
pronoun for you and me.
(7)
14— 16, 25 and 36 unsociable
characters formerly resident
in Canberra. (5, 7)
17—Mated masterstroke by a
politician or a punter was in
the van. (7)
19—Vegetable ammunition. (3)
21—A bloke blushing under
canopies. (7)
24 He’s renowned for loving
Moore in this version. (5)
25 Missouri nonsense on the
first-class scene of A.I.F.
activity in World War 11. (7)
26 Wildly swing the bat over
an advertisable watchword.
(6)
28—Five chills bad habits. (5)
31— Employer is sure in a bad
way. (4)
32 Wicked skin dropped. (4)
34—Constriction caused by this
one under the box-office. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 755


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • ABOUT TANNER. BOADICEA. DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• • • • ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES. LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
• ttt ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription form
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? Q or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Limited,
Limited,
months


BY APPOINTMENT TO
HER MAJESTY THE QUEEN
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
JOHN WALKER & SONS. LTD
ÜBB
RY
OyC
V
is
•P
2 Al/G 1963
The choice is yours -ask for Johnnie Walker
(and enjoy your Scotch more)
A rare treat when you take out this
famous cork and enjoy a nip of Johnnie
Walker the Scotch of Scotch. Always
delightfully smooth and mellow.
Available in miniatures, 5 oz. flasks, 13
oz. flasks and square bottles, and the
popular 26 oz. square bottle.
JOHNNIE WALKER the Scotch of Scotch.
BORN 1820 STILL GOING STRONG
JW2963
