

unumjjftr AAAiir \ia i r
an
The Bulletin
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF FACT AND OPINION - EST.IBSO
Japan's
Prime
Minister
Ikeda


«s
mum.
Mjmsm twite
*
f
1
**• iturn
The packet's g01d...
the pleasure’s priceless
...and isn’t that all the time?
100’s CARTON: 17/6 20’s: 3/6
BH 19-2-63


National Notebook
LOW
by Tanner
T ow was a prodigy who sprang to pro-
fessional life at the age of 12 and re-
mained a prodigy for the next 60 years.
He owns to two influences - comic
papers like “Comic Cuts” for their
cheerful vulgarity and Phil May for his
simple black-and-white approach. They
stayed with him for life. He grasped the
idea behind Phil May’s approach and
made it his own. Of the black-and-white
artists he was the most black and white.
He produced his share of fine
line drawings, so much beloved by edit-
ors, but regarded by artists as chewing-
gum jobs (i.e. you do the hard bits,
placing and drawing the figures, then
you fill up with lines as monotonously
as a cud-chewing receptionist and every-
one is dazzled by your industry).
He worked extremely hard and not
altogether happily for The Bulletin
from 1911 until 1919 (he joined the
staff in 1913). He didn’t like the Bully’s
White Australia with its steaming, sen-
sual Chinks, nor did he have the current
amiable scorn for foreigners and other
niggers. He was too interested in indi-
viduals, leaving the Chinks to others
more armor-plated.
Except to say that between 1911 and
1919 he mostly used a pen and that
later he used a brush it is often impos-
sible accurately to date a Low cartoon
just by the look of it.
TTe distrusted symbols (although he gave
John Bull and Britannia a bashing),
preferring Gillray’s method of using ac-
tual people as symbols of their policies.
To Low, Billy Hughes symbolised the
brash, tub-thumbing nationalism he de-
tested in Australia and was a better
national symbol than the Little Boy at
Manly who uneasily stood around Bul-
letin cartoons, representing “Sanity and
the decent point of view.” Low’s self-
caricature began to take over that role
as early as 1914. The LB at M was used
by Low as an ad for Meggitt’s Linseed
Oil, probably a fair estimate of Low’s
regard for him.
This sane, decent point of view, which
is the central hallmark of Low, was im-
plicit in him from the beginning. What
must have struck others as precocious
radicalism was no more than a reflec-
tion of the simple fact that he was born
in the world’s first welfare state, New
Zealand.
This “sane and decent point of view”
made a wicked man of him in the
thirties, actively urging policies of his
own, opposing privilege and appease-
ment. He was a real storm centre, his
cartoon occupying half a page with the
other page and a half taken up with
furiously partisan letters to the Editor.
(This, I think, is part of the reason
Beaverbrook gave him his head think
of the circulation!)
With the war the controversy died
down, though his stature rose. He was
now Mr Britain and the sane and decent
point of view was the only point of
view. His cartoons could not be touched
by his competitors, his guns were too
big fantastic caricature ability, for-
midable drawing powers and a nimble
brain made him the Grand Chronicler.
He remained the Grand Chronicler until
his death. No longer was his work scan-
dalous or controversial, although he was
quick to show Churchill that the war
was indeed over. He retained an affec-
tion for the wartime mob he was
noticeably kinder to Eisenhower than
Vicky was. When the colonies got the
independence he had always urged, he
commented on the ungrateful way they
kicked poor old Britannia in the behind.
When the welfare state arrived in
Britain, Low’s big campaign days ended.
Vicky was the banner-waver that the
post-war generation followed. Gloomy
and cynical, he attacked where Low
deplored.
T ow influenced a whole generation of
cartoonists, politically and artistic-
ally: Laxman of the “Times of India,”
Franklin of the “Standard” and ex-
“ Daily Worker,” Mahoney, Wep, Tac,
lan Gall, Tanner, Vicky and God knows
how many others.
Much has been made of Low’s good
relations with his cartoon subjects. Well,
it’s always good politics to join in a
hearty laugh on yourself (Oh, the pri-
vate agonies!) and at least people re-
member your name, but it doesn’t mean
your supporters have to stand around
cackling.
Low was feeling the weight of the
Hughes camp when he wrote this fare-
well to Australia in The Bulletin in
November, 1919 . . .
“Australia is a great country —great in
extent and possibilities, but it cannot be
sanely maintained that its people have
made or are making the best of it.
Apart from the acknowledged greatness
of their military valor, their achieve-
ments are minute when contrasted with
the opportunities they have had and
wasted
“I freely admit that some few Aus-
tralians have made a sordid progress
under a strenuous individualism, but no
thinking man will characterise this as
true progress.”
And this is “Smith’s Weekly’s” fare-
well to Low in 1919 when he went to
London and the “News Chronicle”: “Mr
Low is out of place in White and Anglo-
Saxon Australia. He will be thoroughly
suited to the Quaker paper to which he is
going. It hates Mr Hughes and loves
the colored races. It stands for pacifism,
brotherhood of man, no army, if pos-
sible, no navy, in fact, for defeatism
generally. It is welcome to Mr Low and
his works!”
With a few changes it could stand as
his valedictory.
INDEX:
Low Cartoons, 4 • Plain English, 5 © Malaysia and the New Bomber, 6 • Why the Mutilator is
“Sane”, 7 © Japan’s Ikeda 11 • Around Melbourne: Ships that Knock the Rock, 15 • Collectors’ Items: Treasures
on the Shelves 18 • “New” Works by Old Composers, 20 • Turning People into Folks, 22 © India’s Military Defeats,
23 © Britain a Nation in Doubt? 26 • Alick Downer: an Interview, 28 • Motor Supplement (with 4 pages of
color), 31 © Abortion: The Facts, 51 © Letters, 53 • Tributes to Low, 55 9 The Tragic Muse in the Cinema, 56 •
The Boswell Saga, 58 • Stiffer Competition for Apples, 62 9 Lower Demand for Electricals, 63 O Soekarno’s Rude
Trade Rupture. 65 • Crossword, 78.


The fat tjerees •* the weighing*
machine give* It aa his opinion that
Britain ought to have »vlpe<l out. the
German fleet years ago.
the-f unniest Animal. X
~~ ~
First Prize Drawing by David Low (aged 12) entered for
competition in NZ magazine.
“The New Idea” (prize 2/6)
Considine, MHR,
Bulletin, 7th June, 1918. Low’s
style remained fundamentally
unchanged.
Bulletin, August 27, 1914. The forerunner of Col.
Blimp? Fat men in steam rooms running the war made
up a whole page cartoon. Note Low’s self portrait, centre.
THE CIRCUS LEAVES FOR HOME. Bulletin, July 10, 1919, records Hughes’s return from the Peace Conference.


FLAIN ENGLISH
Mr Ikeda’s Japan
IN Australia’s dealings with major
foreign powers, we are used
at least outside the British Com-
monwealth to our voice carry-
ing little if any weight. We are a
small power and our complete fail-
ure on the West New Guinea issue
showed clearly just how small a
small power is when it opposes the
policies of its great and powerful
friends.
One major exception however is
in our dealings with Japan. Here,
despite our small numbers, we are
Japan’s major Pacific partner. We
are her biggest market outside North
America and Europe, and she looks
like replacing Britain as our biggest
overall market in the world: she
is already our best wool customer
and seems likely soon to be our
best sugar customer. This intimate
trading relationship is sometimes
dramatised by describing Japan as
Australia’s new Britain a slogan
which, at least in economic terms,
has more truth in it than most
slogans.
But our links are also close poli-
tically. Australia and Japan are the
only two prosperous advanced
democracies in the Pacific area.
We share common policies the
American alliance, the containment
of Communism, the preservation
and extension of the free world. No
other Asian country is so completely
committed to the policies of peace
and freedom that we ourselves
endorse.
Japanese militarism appears to
be well and truly buried. Disillu-
sionment with it is the one char-
acteristic shared by all generations
of Japanese, and Japan is now
one of the few important countries
in the world that spends less of
its gross national product on
defence than even Australia does.
Nowhere else is pacifism so wide-
spread as in the only country yet
to have suffered horribly, twice,
from atomic war weapons; and
at the same time Japan is still the
only major Asian power not in-
volved in a war, confrontation, or
armed truce with any of its neigh-
bors.
Japan’s pacifism, however, goes
beyond mere opportunistic
“neutralism”. Tokyo is rapidly
becoming the major centre in the
Pacific for attempts at the peaceful
settling of international disputes—
under initiatives taken by Japan.
The recent conference there be-
tween Dr Soekarno and Premier
Tunku Abdul Rahman was sym-
bolic of Japan’s new policies, and
even if that has temporarily failed,
Mr Ikeda’s latest offer to mediate
in the Malaysian dispute is simply
in the new tradition.
Nevertheless all is not plain sail-
ing in Japan. However secure demo-
cracy may seem there, most Japan-
ese and foreign observers believe
that it is dependent on continued
prosperity. Japanese democracy
has worked not only because of
popular hostility to pre-war militar-
ist dictatorship but also because
the energies that were formally
channelled into nationalism are
now being spent on the country’s
fantastic commercial and industrial
progress a great leap forward,
indeed, that makes mainland China’s
efforts seem puny. But if some-
thing went wrong with the economy,
the fanatics of the Right and the
Left, who now only occasionally
come to the surface, may seize the
opportunity and destroy Japanese
democracy.
While this is not a likely
development, there is one obvious
danger point. Mr Ikeda’s Liberal
Democrats are faction-torn and there
is a strong Leftist opposition com-
mitted to neutralism and the can-
cellation of the American alliance.
Since Japan is still up to a point
dependent on American support,
and since an anti-American govern-
ment is unlikely to get American
support, a Leftist government would
probably produce just the sort
of conditions favourable to the
fanatics.
In other words our own interests
in the peace and security of the
Pacific dictate that we support
Mr Ikeda and his government in
all possible ways ranging from such
obvious matters as welcoming him
here on to trade negotiations and
even, if necessary, to agreeing to the
opening of a branch of the Bank of
Tokyo in Australia. The sort of
criticisms of Mr Ikeda advanced
in some quarters could be dismis-
sed as trivial and ignorant—as they
are—if they were not also mis-
chievous.
Between Two Stools
fFHE Government’s performance
A last week over Malaysia was
both skilful and convincing. The
Prime Minister’s statement came
down neatly between two extreme
views which have gained currency
in this country and are in themselves
dangerous. One view is that Indo-
nesia is a Hitlerite, expansionist
power bent on acquiring neigh-
boring territory by threats of force
and international blackmail, which
must be “confronted” in the tough-
est and most uncompromising
terms. The other (deriving from
the natural anxiety of those
who ponder Australian-Indonesian
relations in terms of years rather
than months), in attempting to
“understand” the complex internal
political situation which has pro-
duced Indonesia’s present self-
destructive mood, loses sight of the
fact that Indonesia, no less than
this country, must learn to live in
peace with its neighbors, even if it
objects to them because of complex
nationalistic and other motives.
The PM’s statement was cool and
restrained. While clearly stating the
extent and nature of Australian
support for Malaysia, it did not
vilify Indonesia and went a long
way towards assuring it that there
is no fundamental hostility in this
country towards our nearest neigh-
bor. Nor is there. What Sir
Robert’s statement says, in effect,
is that Malaysia has a right to exist
and Indonesia must realise, despite
its objections, that we respect and
support that right.


THIS AUSTRALIA
DEFENCE
Malaysia and
The New Bomber
Helping the Tunku - but what with?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
PAT GALVIN
“Brutal”
fpwo Labor men last week put their
fingers on the weak spot in the Men-
aces Government stand on Malaysia. They
were Right-wingers Pat Galvin (SA) and
Kim Beazley (WA)
Galvin was the more brutal. In effect,
he asked how the Government could ex-
press itself as satisfied with its handling
of the Malaysian situation when it had
failed to make and implement a decision
to replace the now obsolete Canberra
bomber.
Beazley spoke with less anger but with
equal apprehension . . . “If the Govern-
ment is serious in believing that this
country is committed to the defence of
Malaysia, what it should be telling the
Australian people is what forces it has
to implement these promises to Malaysia.
“We have spoken about being practi-
cal; and every member of the House
knows that, if the forces available are
those that are now in Malaysia, then
they are very small in comparison with
the forces of Indonesia”.
The interesting part of these criticisms
and what has given them a validity
that would otherwise be lacking is
that both men would certainly not have
been hostile to the momentous declara-
tion of the Prime Minister, Sir Robert
Menzies, that if there occurs in relation
to Malaysia (now “confronted” by Indo-
nesia), or any of Malaysia’s constituent
States, armed invasion or externally in-
spired subversive activity, Australia
would add its military assistance to
Malaysia and the UK in defence of Mala-
sia’s territorial integrity and political in-
dependence.
The attitude of both Galvin and Beaz-
ley could be expressed as, “You, the
Menzies Government, has taken us to the
point at which we could become involved,
possibly with tragic swiftness, in armed
conflict. From this flows the inevitable
question with what?”
As I see it, the Menzies Government
has hitherto had a plausible argument for
hastening slowly over the question of the
replacement of the Canberras, although
it has known for some years that the In-
donesian Air Force has been equipped
with Russian bombers superior to the
outmoded Canberras.
The argument for deferment has run
something like this
• Replacement of the Canberras is
an immensely expensive operation for a
country of limited financial resources like
Australia, consequently Australia cannot
afford to make a mistake.
© It will have only one chance to buy,
as it cannot afford to scrap a mistake and
start anew.
• The international situation is such
that there is no hurry. It might even be
worthwhile to wait for planes like the
British TSR2 or the US TFX to get off
the drawing boards and into the air be-
fore making a decision, even if this means
deferring the decision for several years.
But events have now overtaken the
Government. Australia on Wednesday,
September 25, under the leadership of
the Government, put itself, with the
Prime Minister’s unequivocal statement
on Malaysia, in a situation where it
could be involved in armed conflict by
the decision of a power that is outside
its control. Ignoring the military aspect
altogether, this leaves the Government
in an almost impossible spot politically.
Under present circumstances it would
seem that the decision to defer consider-
ation of a replacement for the Canberra
bomber is politically now almost unten-
able. Galvin put his finger very neatly
on the Government's weak spot when he
asked: “Has this Government the auda-
city to consider in this time of crisis
facing the electors without first making
and implementing a decision to replace
the now obsolete Canberra bomber?”
SHIPPING
An Australian Overseas Line?
Chinese Crews
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
Tf the policy adopted at the recent
ALP conference and ACTU con-
gress to establish an Australian national
overseas shipping line were to be imple-
mented, presumably a first requirement
would be that the Labor policy of using
only Australian seamen in Australian
ships would be carried out to the letter.
Last week Captain J. P. Williams,
chairman of the Australian National
Line, the operating company of the Aus-
tralian Shipping Commission whose
declared policy is to “constantly con-
sider the desirability of providing the
maximum amount of employment for
Australian seamen in its ships,” again
put up the warning sign that the opera-
tion of a national overseas line under
such conditions would be a highly costly
business.
Although the Australian National
Line made another profit (£1,340,736 or
£21,873 less than the previous year) and
paid its usual 6 per cent dividend to the
Government with some £357,102 to spare
for reserves, this was in no way con-
nected with the overseas operations of
the Line. Nor, for that matter, was the
profit a true one because the bulk of its
shipping assets were handed to the ANL
on a plate by the former Australian Ship-
ping Board, and it is thought (at least
by private shipping operators) to get its
working capital on extremely favorable
terms.
This is not to deny that the Australian
National Line is an extremely well
managed business for all the quasi-
monopoly elements in its bulk ore and
coal carrying coastal trade and ferrying
business.
The plain fact is, as a leading Mel-
bourne shipping firm which operates a
couple of ships in the overseas trade, told
me on Friday, that if these ships had to be
manned by Australian seamen they would
have to be withdrawn from overseas


trade in which even now only a handful
of Australian-operated vessels are en-
gaged, all manned predominantly by
overseas nationals.
A straight comparison of wage costs
without bringing in time off and leave
differences makes this obvious at once.
An Australian seaman gets from £lB to
£l9 a week whereas Chinese seamen are
paid £37 10s. a month or less than half
Australian. Shipowners also tell me that
the difference is magnified not only by
the additional days off obligatory in the
employment of Australian seamen but
also because Chinese seamen work
harder and mould into better crews than
our men do.
Clearly if a national overseas shipping
line were to be established it would have
to be very heavily subsidised all along the
line. This would have to come either
from taxpayers through the Government
or by exporters in higher freights. The
question is whether such considerations
as defence, national pride and the wider
employment and encouragement of Aus-
tralian seamen outweigh the heavy econ-
omic price to be paid. One can’t gainsay
the fact that economically it is far
cheaper to get our overseas carrying
trade done by other countries and that
this is a vital factor in the development
of overseas markets on which our future
is uniquely dependent.
LAW
Why the Mutilator
is “Sane”
The ghost of a mad Scotsman
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
“William MacDonald”
“ Impassive”
rPHE ghost of a mad Scotsman, Daniel
McNaghten, who 120 years ago
shot and killed Sir Robert Peel’s secre-
tary haunted the drab Central Criminal
Court at Sydney last week. The contro-
versy that followed McNaghten’s ac-
quittal by a jury in 1843 led to the
judges of England devising a set of
rules to define legal insanity and it is
these same rules today that are the law.
Before the court last week was “Wil-
liam MacDonald” (who later revealed his
real name as Allan Edward Ginsberg), on
trial for the murder last year of Patrick
Joseph Hackett. He had pleaded not
guilty and his counsel, Mr R. J. -(“Jack”)
Birney, well known for his criminal
practice, had based his plea on insanity.
The Hackett death was one of the
Sydney mutilator murders, in which
four men, all from the semi-derelict
fringe of Sydney’s life had died by the
knife and been subjected to horrible
mutilations. The plea of insanity was
backed by evidence from three psychia-
trists and was not disputed by the
Crown. Indeed the Senior Crown Prose-
cutor, Mr Knight, QC, in his closing
address told the jury that he did not
see how they could “possibly find any
other verdict than not guilty on the
grounds of mental illness.”
MacDonald, a 39-year-old Liverpud-
lian migrant, sat impassive as the three
psychiatrists outlined the story of his
life. He was, they said, a paranoid schi-
zophrenic. The middle son of three sons
of a furniture dealer, he had from an
early age suffered from headaches. He
hadn’t liked sport and had been a bad
mixer. (His father had accused him of
malingering.) Wanting to be a concert
pianist, he was by 17 alienated and with-
drawn from his family.
At that age he went to his first
psychiatrist. The report on the inter-
views with that doctor were made avail-
able to the three Sydney psychiatrists. His
concert career (if there ever could have
been one) was cut short by the Army
and it was while a private in the Fusi-
liers that he was sexually assaulted by a
corporal an incident to which he had
referred continually during police in-
terrogations as the source of his hatred
for the man of the “laboring class”
whom he killed.
Discharged in 1947 he was soon in
a mental hospital being treated with
shock and deep coma insulin for four
months until discharged with a pessi-
mistic report. He then migrated to Can-
ada, but returned to England joined the
RAF and spent several more months
in an RAF mental hospital before being
discharged again. After more arguments
with his family he came to Australia in
1955 and drifted from job to job staying
at Mackay, Adelaide, Ballarat, Perth,
Hobart, then moving to Auckland and
back to Brisbane and finally to Sydney,
where he worked for several years as a
PMG mail-sorter.
Even among that group of non-con-
formists he gained a reputation for
being odd. For years he had been hear-
ing voices telling him to kill those who
laughed at him and those who reminded
him of the corporal. He did.
It was this man that a jury of eleven
men and one woman found sane and
therefore guilty.
The trial which only lasted a day and
a half had, until the final decision, an
air of inevitability about it. The Crown
had not called any medical evidence of
its own and had indicated early support
for the insanity plea. The defence coun-
sel Mr Birney had, during the committal
proceedings, tested the confession evi-
dence, but during the trial did not
cross-examine extensively or attack the
validity of the confession.
The trial had proceeded without any-
thing like the newspaper publicity that
accompanied the murders themselves.
Although the gallery contained a quota
of smartly dressed women, it was for
"the most part filled with a passive,
weary group of men who might easily
have been among MacDonald’s victims.
But the decision of the jury had
wider implications because once again
it highlighted the ridiculous anomaly
whereby a jury is expected to reach a
decision in conformity with legal rules
which were framed while the under-
standing of mental illness was still at
a primitive level. The McNaghten rules
demand proof that the accused suffered
from “a disease of the mind, so as not
to know the nature and quality of the
acts he was doing; or if he did know
these things, that he did not know what
he was doing was wrong.”
There were critics in Sydney last
week (a Liberal MLA solicitor, Mr
Ken McCaw, was one of them) who
saw the solution in amending the law
to provide for a decision “guilty but
insane” which would allow a life sen-
tence, not merely the “detention at Gov-
ernor’s pleasure” of the not guilty but
insane verdicts.
This was based on the argument that
at present juries were reluctant to find
people insane for fear that they should
be freed and commit more crimes
For MacDonald the indications wera
that despite the verdict he would be
removed to a criminal asylum. He had
told doctors that the other prisoners at
Long Bay Gaol were persecuting him.
All that would be required for a transfer
would be the opinion of two doctors.
For his future life there was little
hope. One psychiatrist, when asked for
the chances of a cure answered, “there
is no way of treatment.”


IN THE RED
Patrick White and
the Sino-Soviet Split
A symbol of loyalty to Moscow
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
PATRICK WHITE
“The workers’ friend?”
T>atrick White has become the latest
symbol in Australia of the Sino-
Soviet split. In fact Mr. White has made
the whole situation even more complica-
ted since the debate goes on inside the
pro-Moscow party.
The position is that although Moscow’s
man in Sydney, Mr. Laurie Aarons, has
striven mightily to confine the Com-
munist split to Victoria, Mr. Ted Hill’s
pro-Peking apparatus has successfully
spread to Sydney, where there are many
Communists formally following Aarons’
line of loyalty to Moscow but secretly be-
lieving in Hill’s Peking line.
It is here that Patrick White comes in.
The secret pro-Pekinese in the Sydney
Moscow party use White as a symbol of
all that is bad in literature while the fer-
vent pro-Moscow liners see him as a
symbol of promise. Behind the literary
struggle, of course is, as always, a politi-
cal fight in deadly earnest.
The struggle in the Moscow camp be-
gan when “soft” liner, J. D. Blake, wrote
an article in last December’s “Overland”
where he claimed Patrick White was “cer-
tainly of the realist school, his sympathies
lie with the working people”. As a re-
joinder, the Australasian Book Society
secretary, “hard” liner Jack Beasley,
maintained in “Realist Writer” that White
was obscurantist, decadent and reaction-
ary. In a later issue of the same maga-
zine playwright Mona Brand attacked
Beasley for his “hard” line and recom-
mended the soundness of Blake’s “soft”
views. Judah Waten in the same issue
sided with the “hard” line, whereupon
the Editorial Board, which includes nove-
list Frank Hardy and poet Denis Kevans,
issued a statement also aligning them-
selves with Beasley. The fear is that
these hard-liners are secretly showing
their sympathy with the Peking line and
may go over to Hill’s faction.
Other evidence of Peking influence in
Sydney was the fiasco of the much bally-
hooed National Conference of the Union
of Australian Women which Mrs Freda
Brown intended as a great rally of all pro-
Moscow women. But the meetings broke
up as pro-Peking Mrs Hilda Smith and
Mrs Meg Arrowsmith walked out in pro-
test. On the industrial front even E. V.
Elliott is in trouble as pro-Peking mili-
tants attack him for his lack of “mili-
tancy”.
But just to show he means business
when he declares Peking black, take the
case of Sydney Communist waterside
worker Syd Clare. When Aarons read
in The Bulletin (Sept. 7) that Clare had
been in Melbourne conferring with Hill,
he called him in to demand an explana-
tion. Clare admitted all, described Hill
as Australia’s leading Marxist, and was
forthwith expelled.
There looks like being another good
old-fashioned purge in NSW before the
Party’s 1964 National Conference.
THE EIGHT-HOUR DAY
80 Years Ago: October 6, 1883
The Eight-Hours’ Demonstration
was as successful as heart could
wish. The excursionists had splendid
weather, ample enjoyment, and en-
couraging addresses. But in the last-
mentioned respect there was a flaw.
The speakers dealt out too much jam.
Listening to them, their hearers must
have been hardened in the false belief
that the whole secret of happy and
prosperous existence is centred in
eight hours’ labour, eight hours’
recreation, and eight hours’ sleep.
Now, a world in which human life is
conducted on such a principle would
be a pleasant enough place to live in.
But it is not at the present stage
of human affairs a possible world.
Competition is yet too keen. The indi-
vidual who works twelve or sixteen
hours daily seldom fails to outstrip
those who work but eight. And the
nation or the race who habitually
drudge for the maximum will inevi-
tably when working with equal
ap pii ance s produce more cheaply
.■ . ,
'^ an <he "at.on or race among whom
shorter hours of labour prevail. And
*° produce cheaply is the way to
dominate the markets of the world
and to build up national wealth. A
blind adherence to the eight-hours’
idea . s s a sure way for a nation to
bring About its own enslavement. No
great thing was ever yet in the world's
history accomplished by a man who
worked only eight hours daily.
ACTU
Red Front
Back to 1938
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
npHERE is still an air of stunned bewilder-
ment in some moderate ALP Trade
Union circles as to why the President of
the NSW Labor Council, Mr Norm
Thom, did not win the Metal Group seat
on the Interstate Executive of the ACTU
now held by Mr Tom Wright of the
Communist Party’s Central Committee.
But there is no bewilderment in extreme
Left-wing ALP circles; they know be-
cause they put him there.
As President of the NSW Labor
Council, with a long, successful
record as a moderate secretary of the
Electrical Trades Union, recognised as a
tradesman and not a bureaucrat, Thom
enjoys a reputation that made success
inevitable before nominations closed at
12.30 p.m. on Tuesday, September 17.
But on Tuesday morning delegates of
the Electrical Trades Union held a
caucus meeting. Because Congress was
held in Melbourne, there was a majority
of Victorian delegates present. All of
them were members of the ALP. Yet
they instructed Thom, as a member both
of the ETU and ALP, not to oppose the
Communist Wright.
The Communists were jubilant. But
why had the ALP members of the ETU
caucus done their bidding? Did Mr
“Cup'’ Southwell of the Amalgamated
Engineering Union make a deal with the
Victorian ETU group? Or did the Vic-
torian ALP Executive and Mr J. P. Breb-
ner arrange it?
Whatever exactly happened it is obvi-
ous that a large section of the Victorian
ALP leaders are prepared to still sup
from the same bowl as the Communist
Party. Indeed the position in Victoria
is now being likened to that in NSW
in 1938-9 when Communists under the
leadership of J. Hughes captured the
NSW State Executive.


the greatest hotel event since 1854
MENZIES
<©/
SYDNEY
i/cl e/ecf i
new' cm ;
anew
Opens OCTOBER 17
Over a century ago, Archibald Menzies,
Australia’s first major hotel operator,
opened his Melbourne hotel, tradi-
tionally to become the nation’s finest.
And now, 109 years later, history re-
peats itself.
GRACIOUSNESS WELCOMES YOU
in the foyer, deeply carpeted and
tastefully furnished. The feeling is
one of rich spaciousness yet, some-
how, intimately private.
ELEGANCE SURROUNDS YOU in any
of the restaurants, lounges or public
rooms. The Emperor Room is
Sydney’s largest Theatre Restaurant
where, midst Roman splendor, floor
shows are presented on ice.
COMFORT BECKONS YOU in rooms
or suites with the emphasis on dignity
and you. You dial your own indi-
vidually controlled air-conditioning . ..
dial piped music or news.
DRIVE RIGHT IN to Australia’s larg-
est underground car park, for 450
cars.
SERVICE HOSTS YOU, everywhere.
Try the Red Lion Bar, the Lounge
on the first floor, the MENZIES
Keller (with beers from all over the
world), the Jungle Bar, and more.
NOWHERE ELSE IN AUSTRALIA
WILL YOU FIND ALL OF THESE
EXCLUSIVES UNDER ONE ROOF
INDIVIDUALLY CONTROLLED AIR-
CONDITIONING in every room . . .
i si
§H i
: x. *»*,,
! « ! \ x .1. •
X ■
; ;
;X iff| \j
BIN y )M
u
i r x
Vli X
I:; N.
Ni ill xl S s
u
iIR\J v «
v.i ! s ij vvj * §
§. Iff ! IX J: I V -
I if !IX;J | '
f )•
"v §
1 I
fil;
s
>J
r w
V.
.. '
%
m
I • ! - ? ■i :
k «i/£SM
II
pp
H fe !U!!.S
•••*
s*:. '
Xl ?i X - ■ ’
* X - H
-V, "•'%* •
-<
jttHlMi
DOUBLE-HUNG WINDOWS to shu*
out outside temperatures, noises . . .
MESSAGE INDICATOR LIGHTS on
your phone and key box . . . DIRECT
DIALLING to any local number, any
hotel department . , . EXECUTIVE
PAGING so all MANAGERS may ba
located immediately . . . ARCADES
with over 200 shops . . . PLUS
Menzies 24-hour room service.
A MUST in Sydney
MENZIES SYDNEY
14 Carrington Street, 2 0232
FOR INSTANT TELETYPE RESER-
VATIONS just ring the FEDERAL
HOTEL nearest you: Brisbane, Len-
nons, 32 0131; Toowoomba, Lennona,
2 2433. Melbourne, Menzies, 60 1581;
Savoy Plaza, 62 4141; Hotel Federal,
62 3721. Sydney, Hampton Court,
31 7081; new Menzies, 2 0232.
Hobart, Wrest Point Riviera, 5 1021.
Or book through any travel agent.
Cable Address: MENZOTEL, Sydney.
Newest addition to
FEDERAL HOTELS
Across the Nation


EDUCATION
State Aid in NSW
Catholics not Satisfied
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
J. B. RENSHAW
£21
npHE NSW State Budget brought down
last week provided yet another
move in the elaborate and deadly serious
political game of “State Aid for Catholic
Schools”.
Like almost everything the NSW Gov-
ernment does, the revised scheme was
six of one and half a dozen of the
other. The Treasurer and Deputy-Prem-
ier, Mr Renshaw, stood up in the Legis-
lative Assembly to announce that the
Government would in future provide al-
lowances of £2l a year to the parents
of children attending private schools,
subject to a stringent means test and
conditional on presentation of fee re-
ceipts for tuition. Furthermore it would
only be paid to students in third and
subsequent years.
In doing this the NSW Government
was following, but on a more meagre
scale, the non-Labor Governments of
Queensland and Victoria and the Labor
Government of Tasmania. But Queens-
land is substantially different in that
the payments are made direct to the
schools and made, from the first year
of the secondary course. Furthermore
the bursaries are paid for every child
and means tests are only used for ad-
ditional allowances to the parents. Vic-
toria since September 11 has a bursary
scheme which will cover an estimated
4000 private school children. Tasmania
has allowances for all children but sub-
ject to a stringent means test.
Just how many children the NSW
scheme will cover is very difficult to
determine. Obviously few of the non-
Catholic private school parents would
qualify (but many people might be sur-
prised at just how many the few are.)
The Government, according to Mr
Renshaw, is to allow £400,000, but
the application of the means test with
a range from three dependants (£l4OO in-
come) to eight dependants (£2100), must
mean that final figure is anyone’s guess.
One thing, however, is certain. The
Catholics’ real need for State aid is in
capital expenditure for school extensions
and facilities, and this is as far from
being a subject for assistance as ever.
So the NSW Government move will do
nothing to stem the continual pressure
of Catholics for aid for the educational
system which educates roughly one-fifth
to one-quarter of the State’s children.
REAL ESTATE
The Office Glut
“We have run out of tenants ”
FROM S. STEPHENS IN SYDNEY
PlPhe nearest thing the city of Sydney
-*■ is ever likely to get to a minaret
is the circular, 450 feet high tower
which is to be the focal point of the
Australia Square project in the heart
of Sydney’s prestige business centre but,
judging by the number of office build-
ings due to be completed within the
next 18 months, many a real estate
muezzin will be crying to Allah for
tenants long before that tower is com-
pleted.
There are about 36 new buildings
under construction 90 per cent of
them between Martin Place and the
Quay and the cost to their owners
Ss an estimated £6O million. The com-
modity for trade in this case is the
office space, almost three million square
feet of it.
On the face of it, this will be paradise
for owners, real estate agencies and even
for the tenants.
But a spokesman for one of Aus-
tralia’s largest real estate companies said
last week: “It is painfully clear that
we have suddenly run out of tenants.”
Part of the trouble is rental prices.
In the glamor offices, like the AMP
building, up to 58s. a square foot is
being charged for space, although the
average charge around the prestige part
of town is from 50s. to 535. These
charges have climbed steadily since 1957
when the average for a new building
was 425. a square foot. In 1958-59,
charges rose Is.; by 1960 they had
reached 455.; by 1961, 50s. was the
price and last year, owners were asking
and getting 525. 6d. Tenants of build-
ings long established in the prestige part
of town were asked from 30s. to 40s.
Even today, owners can get up to 40s. a
square foot for space in an old, renovated
building providing it is presentable and
has a “good address.”
That being so, why would the pres-
tige seeker with an office in a reno-
vated building in O'Connell Street move
into a shiny glass and concrete edifice
next door when the move would cost
him, for 10,000 square feet, about
<£sooo a year extra? How much is
prestige worth?
PRESS
The Victim
No love in the morning
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
T ast week National Consolidated, the
country’s biggest and also a wholly
Australian-owned manufacturer of auto-
motive components, became a casualty
of the current efforts of the Financial
Editors of Melbourne’s morning papers
in their efforts to get after-stock-ex-
change-hours releases of company news.
Presumably because National Consoli-
dated published its annual profits state-
ment during stock exchange trading hours
last Tuesday and got pride of place in the
Melbourne “Herald” that evening, both
the “Age” and the “Sun” disappointingly
gave it only the most summary treatment
next morning. The only mention of the
results in the 2 i pages of the expanded
Wednesday financial section of the “Age”
was in the “News in Brief” and dividend
columns total coverage about 1&
inches of type. The “Sun” gave the
company precisely one line in a table
and didn’t mention the result in its
news column at all.
Sydney morning papers were more
generous. Both the “Daily Telegraph”
and the “Sydney Morning Herald”
gave the result headlines and a modicum
of news coverage.
It was not as if there was any more
important company news or anything
approaching the record profit of National
Consolidated, which topped £1 million
for the first time, though possibly the
53 p.c. drop to £389,108 in David Syme’s
profit was more intriguing in the light
of the big increases registered by prac-
tically all other newspaper companies
last year.


Japan’s Ikeda
The master-mind
From MASAO ISHI KAWARA in Tokyo
By Western standards, most Japanese
look younger than they are. Their
Western opposite numbers are
often surprised by the boyish appear-
ance of senior diplomats and of tough
negotiators in the trade treaties with
which Japan is busily girdling the earth.
They seem to be half their age. Ikeda
doesn’t surprise people quite that much.
You would put him down in the iron-grey
late forties if you didn’t know from the
record that in just two months he’ll be
64. He certainly doesn’t look it.
That isn’t the only deceptive impression
you get. There is an austere aloofness
about him that many Japanese who don’t
know him and it is for this very
reason that there are many who don’t—
regard him as having too much of the
cold arrogance of the Samurai clans
around Hiroshima from which he sprang.
Even having a jolly brewer father, whose
beer delighted many Australians (they
found it almost as good as the brews of
their homeland) didn’t imbue him with
gregarious inclinations. And while a
number of top echelon Japanese public
servants make the grade eventually as
Ministers, even as Prime Ministers, it
could scarcely have been an overt politi-
cal asset to Ikeda when he started out
in his new field that he had spent most of
his life in the Public Service, however
brilliantly, as one of the master-minds—
finally the master-mind of taxation.
For all that, he has won successive
elections in circumstances which meant
that he must have projected an accep-
table personality, since even in Japanese
politics his intellectual repute would not
have been enough. It is a tremendous
tribute to whatever of his varied quali-
ties counted most that his most signal
victory as Prime Minister should have
been his first in November, 1960,
which was not only a matter of months
after first taking office, but right on top
of the riotous demonstrations against the
renewed Treaty with the United States
which compelled cancellation of the pro-
jected visit to Japan of the then Presi-
dent, Mr Eisenhower.
They incidentally revived some of the
unpleasant extremisms that twisted a
budding democracy of the thirties into
a war-mad oligarchy. Ikeda’s forerunner
in office, Nobusuke Kishi who three
years before had been the first Japanese
Prime Minister to visit Australia was
wounded in one of the demonstrations.
The mood of violence carried on, per-
haps not unexpectedly, in view of some
of its inspirations, right into the elec-
tion campaign, but here it infected the
Right as well as the Left. At the height
of a campaign which both leaders were
hoping might be carried on with little
more than the acerbity of a contest be-
tween Mr Menzies and Mr Calwell, the
Socialist Leader, Inejuro Asanuma, was
assassinated by a youthful reactionary
while he was addressing an election
meeting at Hibiya Hall, right in the
centre of Tokyo.
Mr Ikeda’s condemnation of this out-
rage was prompt, emphatic and in terms
which left no doubt that, for all his
seeming aloofness and long exposure to
the corrosions of bureaucracy, Ikeda had
developed as a democrat. It was a situa-
tion which inevitably submitted his per-
sonality to a crucial test, for the emo-
tional effects of the incident called for
more than mere reputation, even reputa-
tion for statesmanship. Ikeda’s triumph-
ant emergence from this test astonished
the West perhaps more than the East,
and seems to have suggested to the out-
side world that perhaps it was his repu-
tation more than his personality which
counted in the end. The “London
Times” said:
“The victory endorsed Ikeda’s policies,
which have given Japan her closest
association in trade and diplomacy with
the United States and the western world.”
It added that Ikeda himself was “a far
cry from the people’s politician type,”
going on to say that “his character is a
mixture of aloofness, genuine shyness,
sincerity and self-deprecation.” How-
ever, while there are differences, or
nuances of differences, that accord with
nationalities and temperament, voters
everywhere are never disposed to go to
the ballot-box imbued with nothing more
than a detached appreciation of issues.
But in Japan, as everywhere else, if the
real leader hasn’t some personal appeal
then there would be a call for an attrac-
tive stooge who could front for him. It is
evident from the fact that he both won
that critical election of three years ago
and has been Prime Minister ever since
that Ikeda has personality as well as
administrative brilliance. Although the
nature of the one may be as defiant of
analysis as the other is palpable.
He doubtless owes his later survival
mostly to his well-furnished and resource-
ful mind, but although it is only now
that he is approaching the tests of another
general election the “iceberg” personality
ascribed to him by so many people would
have been a dead loss in the factional
atmosphere of the Liberal-Democratic
Party if he really were afflicted with it.
As in a British country, the Prime
Minister is Prime Minister because he is
leader of the majority party, and although
in Japan there is in addition a formal vote
by the Diet before he can assume the
national office, Ikeda knows that once
he loses his grip of the Liberal-Demo-
cratic machine he must also relinquish
the Prime Ministership.
More so than elsewhere, keeping con-
trol of the kaleidoscopic, delicately-
poised factions within the Liberal-Demo-
cratic Party is the game of “keeping on
top of a greasy pole,” as Disraeli once
described a parallel situation. Among the


DECISIONS! DECISIONS! DECISIONS!
When top-level decisions have to be made, it’s important
to be filled in on background basics to have the vital
statistics of the job in hand. (That being so, the Sultan’s
decision should be relatively simple). Without specific
information, the best man in the company can be utterly
at sea when making a decision on thj best kind of paper
for his firm’s various needs. Is there any help, anywhere,
for this frustrated good guy? Faced with selecting papers
for advertising and colour printing, for instance? But of
course . . . Shoalhaven Advisory Centres throughout
Australia are at his service. And yours! Staffed by friendly
people who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
picture about paper. If you’ve a paper problem, large or
small, call your nearest Shoalhaven Advisory Centre,
now! We’ll gladly advise . . . and send you samples of
Shoalhaven papers and boards. Because demand is con-
stantly increasing, Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven is under-
taking a £7 million expansion programme this year. In
addition to existing papers, new machines will manu-
facture special grades not previously produced in Aus-
tralia. Name your need and Shoalhaven will almost
certainly meet it. When you’re choosing paper for adver-
tising and colour printing, specify Shoalhaven for constant
quality, constant supply.
Cl*
SHOALHAVEN PAPE
The extensive Shoalhaven range includes various
grades of papers for advertising and colour printing
- Show Offset, Poster Papers, Satin Finish Ivory
Boards, Economy Pulpboards (white and tinted)
and all are available in various embossed finishes.
All Shoallwven Papers and Boards are available from
Printers and Paper Merchants throughout Australia..
WTS.4*
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any paper
problem Just ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
*


factions Ikeda has to keep in line is a
Japanese cousin of the Country Party—
not so powerful as in Australia, but a
conspicuous element of a coalition far
more intricate than the coalitions with
which Australians are familiar. It is this
party within a party (for Liberal-Demo-
cratic factions are of party magnitude)
which blocked the vital clauses on
liberalisation of the import of Australian
meat which Australia’s negotiators
wanted inserted into the recently revised
Australia-Japan Trade Agreement. It
thus ironically rebuffed its political kins-
folk in Australia while simultaneously
proving its affinity with them.
Before taking a closer look at Mr
Ikeda himself a word should be said about
the Ikeda party. In Australia with him
are Mrs Ikeda and Sachiko (20), the
third of their three daughters. Mrs Ikeda,
now 50, was the former Miss Mitsue
Ohnuki, daughter of a doctor, and born
at Hiroshima. Ikeda himself was born, on
December 3, 1899, at Takehara, a town
cciiy 20 miles south-east of Hiroshima.
They grew up more or less as neighbours
fn this region of once haughty Samurai
cfans in the days when, long before it
acquired the dread immortality which
August 1945 thrust upon it, the Hiro-
shima prefecture had a happier reputa-
tion for its location along the strands
of “the Mediterranean of Japan”, at the
head of the exquisitely lovely Inland Sea.
and noted as much for its amiable cli-
mate as for the inexhaustible beauty of
its surroundings.
Sophisticated traveller
"[Mrs Ikeda is a distant relative of her
*** husband, and their most fateful
meeting came about in tragic circum-
stances. At the age of 27, well launched
on a successful Public Service career,
Ikeda was suddenly afflicted by a chronic
skin disease, one for which there was no
known cure and was generally mortal
This left him virtually bedridden for five
years. His first wife, Naoko, died, ac-
cording to Ikeda because in her cease-
less care of him she had neglected her-
self. Miss Ohnuke came to nurse him in
his deceased wife's place, and while he
was still ill they married, in 1932. With
the consent of his second wife, he named
the first of their three daughters Naoko.
Mrs Ikeda is her husband's constant
companion, at home and abroad and
even while travelling usually wears
kimono rather than western dress. She
works unsparingly with him on election
tours and her tact and friendliness are
undoubtedly a political asset.
Miss Ikeda. though abroad with her
parents for the first time, has studied
abroad mainly in America.
Since he first entered politics in 1949
Mr Ikeda has travelled abroad more than
any previous Prime Minister, the pre-
sent trip being his ninth. One trip was to
San Francisco in 1951 as a signatory
to the Peace Treaty. His most important
trips have been those he has made as
Prime Minister in 1961 to the USA
and Canada, then to Pakistan, India,
Burma and Thailand; and last year to
Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Belgium
and Holland.
A sophisticated traveller himself, he has
a well-seasoned team. Most of the 14
officials with him have been with him
on his three previous trips, which means
that by the time this tour is finished they
will have been to most parts of the world
outside the South American countries.
They include Mr Takio Oda, Deputy
Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs, which
means he is number one after the Vice-
Minister. Rather in the genesis of under-
secretary, that is the term used for the
permanent head of the major department
lkeda’s last job in the Public Service
was as Vice-Minister of Finance, the cor-
responding functionary in the Treasury
being Sir Roland Wilson, Secretary of
the Treasury.
Mr Toshio Shimanouchi, who comes
under the designation of Counsellor,
Public Information and Cultural Bureau
(part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs),
is a linguist who has a completely col-
loquial grip of English with a some-
what American slant. Mr Ikeda does not
talk English with sufficient fluency to
employ it in his speeches to English-
speaking audiences, and he is liable to
find the different sorts of English con-
fusing. Mr Shimanouchi goes everywhere
with him when he is abroad. He has had
a long and fascinating experience which
included the protracted trials in 1948 of
the major war criminals, headed by ex-
Premier Tojo, when he was responsible
for the accuracy of English translations.
Another gifted member of the party is
Atsushi Uyama, the man at the Foreign
Office who is responsible for the tricky
questions involved in the reparations
payments Japan is still engaged in mak-
ing. This has broadened to equally in-
volved issues of the direct assistance,
financial and technical, which Japan is
extending to a number of South-East
Asian nations including Pakistan and
Indonesia. Mr Uyama is no stranger to
Australia. He was for some time Chan-
cellor at the Japanese Embassy in Can-
berra, meaning that he was second to the
Ambassador. In that capacity he had a
major association with the visit which
Mr Kishi, the first Japanese Prime Min-
ister to do so, made to Australia in 1957.
The composition of the team shows
the importance which the Government
attaches to the development of better
relationships with South-East Asian
neighbors.
The party is coming to Australia
with the aim oE getting more sales
in Australia, particularly of capital
goods. This Mr Ikeda made quite clear in
his address to the luncheon the Australia-
Japan Business Co-operation Committee
gave him at Sydney’s Hotel Australia on
Tuesday. But while the ambitious ten-
year plan for doubling Japan’s national
income by 1970 has gone well since its
inauguration in 1960 (adding further
laurels to the brow of its principal archi-
tect, the Prime Minister himself) it de-
pends utterly on continued peace, and
Ikeda sees continued peace as being very
much a matter of ensuring that the so-
called developing nations are given the
industrial build-up which alone can
stabilize them.
On this occasion, therefore, the prefix
“goodwill” in the title of the mission is
no empty gesture. The wheel has so
turned in a generation that no country is
so preoccupied with the necessity for
permanent peace as Japan is now.
It was in law that Ikeda graduated from
Kyoto Imperial University in 1925, and
like most Japanese students who gradu-
ate in law he proceeded immediately not
to follow it as a career. He joined the
Department of Finance, and very soon
was chief Taxation Officer at Hakodate,
a city in the northern island of Hokkaido,
with its almost perpetual snow.
In 1927 he contracted his fearful skin
affliction, involving him in an experience
that was to influence him for life.
He tells of it in his own words
“My only support was the hope that,
sometime, somehow, 1 should be cured.
A year passed, then two, then more, and
hope imperceptibly withered. My family
also had abandoned hope. I seethed with
impotent anger.
“I am a rationalist”
“VTo one knows such despair as the
invalid sick of a disease for which
ao cure is known, and for which there is
no proper means of treatment. Never
have I felt the pain and the preciousness
of being alive as 1 did at that time.
“Then, unexpectedly, the illness went
away. I had taken a bath after complet-
ing a pilgrimage with my mother to
Shikoku, with its eighty-eight holy places,
and suddenly I began to get well.
“Some say it was my mother’s faith
that saved me. For me, at least, it may
well have been this illness that prompted
in me, brought face to face as I was with
the frailties of man, the stirrings of a
religious spirit.
“By nature I am a rationalist Even
now, I still believe that the real is the
rational. Yet I cannot help helieving that


beyond the rational there is something
more.”
It was only because friends he had there
were sufficiently senior by then, and
could recall some of his uncanny aptitude
for tax procedure that he contrived a
recovery to get back to the Finance
Department. His new start was well be-
hind scratch. It was almost a decade
before he could make any real progress.
Once it came it was rapid.
The man who inspired him to go
into politics was a former Prime Minis-
ter, Tanzan Ishibashi, with whom he was
travelling as an important official adviser.
Says Mr Ikeda:
“My mother, who was then still alive,
was so alarmed at the idea that I had
to put it aside. She felt that the expense
involved would be awful. “The Ikeda
family would be thrown out on the
streets!” she exclaimed.
“However, in 1949, two years after
my mother had died, I conferred with
my elder brother and, eventually obtain-
ing his approval, I stood as Liberal can-
didate for Hiroshima in the House of
Representatives.”
In the then Liberal Party, now the
Liberal-Democratic Party, he was
promptly chosen as Chairman of the
Policy Board.
With his intimate knowledge of the
top echelons of the Public Service it
was not surprising that he should
have reached Cabinet rank early
in his first term in the Diet. His first
appointment was the dual one of Minis-
ter of Finance and Minister of Interna-
tional Trade and Industry. Although there
were many interruptions, Ikeda’s total
period as Finance Minister in various
Governments exceeded that of any
previous occupant of this office.
He held this key post through some
critical periods, and was given a free
hand by his leaders in measures to deal
with them. While there was some re-
covery in the economy after the Korean
War had broken out in 1950 this led to
new inflationary trends. It is widely
claimed for Ikeda that he succeeded in
bringing this to a halt, one of his reme-
dies being to bring the Budget by 1958
within a strict framework within the yen
equivalent to £1,250 million.
Inevitably Ikeda’s conspicuous per-
formances in the Finance portfolio
marked him out as Prime Minister
material, and when Kishi bowed out in
1960 the choice of Ikeda as President of
the Liberal-Democratic Party was a fore-
gone conclusion. In Japan there has to
be a formal election of the Prime Minis-
ter by the Diet, and the Government
party having the numbers, this followed.
Here again Ikeda had an appointment
with destiny, as he assumed the Prime
Ministership at a time when the mount-
ing prosperity confronted him with prob-
lems even more challenging and intri-
cate than those of inflation.
Doubling the Income
in the post-war recovery period,
Japanese economists believed that the
nation’s economic growth rate would tail
off to from six to seven per cent a year.
Hence the Five-Year-Plan of 1957, which
was drawn up on that assumption. But
the economy far outran the prognoses of
the economists, for the goals of the Plan
were found to have been attained for the
most part two years after its launching.
Hence, a year after he had first be-
come Prime Minister, Ikeda launched in
1961 the National Income Doubling
Plan, one of the boldest undertakings
in economic history.
Although the Government has labelled
its economic programme a plan, essen-
tially it is a forecast, a projection of
economic trends, a guide to public policy,
not a mandatory directive. Business in
Japan is substantially free of controls.
Nevertheless the word used is plan, and
it forecasts for 1970 (figures in Aus-
tralian currency) a GNP of £32,500
million, which is considered higher than
the current GNP of Britain or France
or West Germany. To accomplish this
the economy must expand at a rate
averaging 7.8 per cent a year. The plan
envisions continuation of the processes
of fundamental change in the Japanese
economic structure that have been
occurring since 1956.
It is also estimated that by 1970 the
volume of Japanese trade will have risen
to an annual figure of approximately
£4,142 million in exports and £4,352
million in imports and it is recognised
that the task of expanding exports and
imports while maintaining a stable
balance will be difficult.
The vital initial stages of the plan
have been under the direction of the
Ikeda Government, with of course very
intimate attention from the Prime
Minister himself. Naturally opinions
vary, as much among the economists as
among the politicians. However, the
Prime Minister is the chief architect of
the plan, and one highly responsible
authority who seems to have unbounded
confidence in him is the Governor of the
Bank of Japan, Mr Masamichi Yama-
giwa who incidentally started out in
the Finance Ministry at the same time
as Mr Ikeda.
“It is not too much to say that no
Prime Minister of Japan, either pre-war
or post-war, has been more versed than
Ikeda is in the principles of national
economy and national finance,” declares
Mr Yamagiwa. “Pre-war Prime Ministers,
like Takahashi, Wakatsuki and Hama-
guchi, who had also been trained in the
Finance Ministry and who were also
Ministers of Finance before they became
Prime Ministers, were renowned in their
day as experts in these fields. I would
say that Ikeda excels them.”
Both Mr and Mrs Ikeda have stood up
to their almost constant travel remark-
ably well. They both enjoy good health,
and their resilience is a good recom-
mendation for their mutual hobbies of
art collection and gardening. They are
proud of the garden they have built up
in the grounds of their Tokyo home. It
features of course the skilfully-placed
rock formations which make Japanese
gardens unique, and is a haven in the
midst of the world’s largest city. Golf
is a secondary hobby of the Prime
Minister's, although one which he en-
joyed when he could spare the time for
it, which is no longer possible. He is
also fond of “go” (a Japanese combina-
tion of chess and checkers, rather more
complicated than either). But gardening
is his favorite recreation.
“It was through the vexations of
politics that I really developed my fond-
ness for gardening,” Ikeda writes in a
delightful monograph. “One raises hills,
forms streams, plants trees; and one’s
garden, with the changes of the ever-
changing seasons, is all nature in
miniature.”
It must be indeed a charming refuge
from the cares of a man whose destiny
is to lead his country at the peak of an
expansion that has brought problems and
challenges of a kind never encountered
before. It also doubtless explains why,
although perforce he has his share of
critics, Ikeda is given credit for having
lived up very well to the promise he
made in his first public statement as a
Prime Minister back in 1960 that he
would treat opposition and criticism
“with respect, tolerance and patience”.


Around Melbourne
SHIPS THAT KNOCK THE ROCK
/"kvER the years we have had some
fascinating political battles in our
State, but this one is definitely dif-
ferent. On the one side we have Mr
Bolte’s Liberals who say: “Don’t
knock the rock.” On the other we
have Labor and the Country Party
which says: “Dig that crazy rock.”
They are referring, of course, to the
Corsair Rock, a real nasty piece of
rock, the outer extremity of Point
Nepean at the Heads of Port Phillip
Bay, and only eight feet below the
surface. On September 8 the coastal
freighter “Karoon” was entering The
Rip. Some of the crew were looking
at “Hennesey” on TV. Others were
playing cards. One disappointed crew
member reported later he had a truly
historic hand in a game of five
hundred. He was about to let loose
his coup when “Karoon” hit Corsair.
There was an appalling crash and the
ship was holed in three places.
It took “Karoon” 12 hours to limp
into port with Number 1 hold com-
pletely flooded.
Eight days later another coastal
freighter, “Beltana”, 3043 tons, with
a cargo of steel, hit Corsair Rock at
exactly the same spot. At first we
thought “Beltana”, too, would make
it to port, but she was sinking fast.
The skipper had to beach her at
Dromana. She was pulled off later
by four tugs.
Now, the 725 square miles of our
beloved Port Phillip are not as lovely
as Sydney Harbor. They’re not even
as lovely as the Brisbane River, but
we can turn on some much more
exciting “mosts”.
For example, last year the director
of the University of Southampton
Navigation School, Captain George
Wakeford, described The Rip as the
most dangerous harbor entrance in
the Southern Hemisphere. “A slight
miscalculation is enough to drive a
ship aground,” he said. It can empty
any ship’s dining-room with almost
brilliant speed. It is half a mile wide
and 48 feet at its deepest point. Great
water forces build up inside and out-
side, and the tide can start rushing at
12 knots.
The Leader of the Opposition in the
State House, Mr Stoneham, launched
an attack. He said the grounding of
two vessels on Corsair Rock within a
week must have been wonderful pub-
licity for the port and Melbourne,
overseas and throughout Australia.
The community was demanding to
know, he said, what action the Gov-
ernment was going to take. Sir
Herbert Hyland, leader of the
Country Party, backed him up. He
called for the knocking of the Rock,
to have it blasted away.
The reply from the Minister for
Public Works, Mr Petty, was interest-
ing. Corsair Rock clearly served its
purpose. If it were destroyed the bay
would be exposed to increased storm
menace. Tide levels would be
altered, low-lying areas around Port
Melbourne, St Kilda, Carrum and
Rosebud would be flooded. Naviga-
tion channels would suffer and there
would be no end of erosion.
Oome of the old-time skippers rallied
to Mr Petty’s cause. There was
cne charming letter which suggested
'that not even the power of Her
Majesty’s Government, no matter
what its political color, could alter
the speed of ebb tides through the
Heads.
Ah, but Mr Stoneham wasn’t
finished. He put a series of questions
to Mr Petty in the House: “How
many ships have grounded on Corsair
Rock since 1835 and what are the
names of these vessels? How many
lives have been lost? Will the Govern-
ment approach the Commonwealth
Government with a request that the
Armed Services undertake the making
safe of the reef as a service exercise?”
Mr Petty didn’t provide a list of
the sunken vessels, but since 1835
more than 50 vessels have been
wrecked at the Heads.
Mr Stoneham discovered that the
last time a report on wrecks was
tabled in the House was on February
22, 1859. The report’s a beauty. For
example, there’s a dear old legend,
constantly being reprinted, that the
Rock was named after the pilot
schooner “Corsair” which was
wrecked on the reef in 1874.
The ancient 1859 report is full of
talk of Corsair Rock. It mentions,
for example, the “Isabella Watson”,
434 tons, which was wrecked on Cor-
sair on April 21, 1852, with the loss
of nine lives. More likely the pilot
schooner, most impetuously, was
named after Corsair Rock itself, and
it served the pilot right when he was
wrecked there.
The report says there were 149
wrecks on the Victorian coast and in
the Bay between 1835 and 1858.
Some of the reports are downright
intriguing, like the vessel “Nut Brown
Maiden” which “proceeded down
Port Phillip Bay in September, 1853,
and was never heard of again.”
The score for the past 14 years is
now five wrecks. Mr Petty thinks this
is not too bad. He says ships make
more than 7000 successful passages
every year and since the freighter
“Time” was wrecked in 1949 there
would have been between 70,000 and
80,000 passages.
Actually, Corsair Rock is not the
only complaint about Port Phillip Bay.
It has become a frightfully dull place.
It provides no entertainment what-
ever for the man who doesn’t possess
his own yacht or a pair of water skis.
In the good old days there were
paddle steamers: the “Edina” (an old
Crimean troopship), the “Weeroona”,
the “Ozone”, the “Hygeia”, and there
w'as nothing like them for a picnic on
the water.
Alas, when the motor-car became
the transport of the people in the
’thirties, when it was the done thing
to motor to Portsea, the steamers lost
popularity. No longer were they
economical.
Yet, we haven’t given up hope. You
might say the paddle wheel has turned.
In the Edwardian era it was difficult
to motor to Portsea. In the second
Elizabethan era it is damned difficult.
The Point Nepean Highway at holiday
time is a thing of horror, so packed
with motor cars, boats on trailers,
Sprites, TR2s and MGs, that traffic
is reduced to 15 mph. So surely now
is the time, once again, for the return
of the paddle steamers, to the peace
and comfort of a sea cruise to Portsea.
BATMAN


the
I
j#
i
NISSAN
Trade figures prove if—the man on the land knows it.
Japan is Australia's best customer. That's why he pur-
chases quality cars and trucks manufactured by the
mighty Nissan Motor Company, Tokyo—the largest motor
vehicle exporters in Japan.
This is the Nissan Cedric. Big—powerful—beautiful. A luxury
high performance saloon with seating for six in deep comfort
—95 H.P. engine—90 M.P.H.—3O M.P.G. Features include full
fibre glass insulation throughout the roof—roomy boot—
windscreen washers reversing lights anti-glare glass all
round —fog lamps—heater/demister—heavy floor carpets, and a
host of other exclusives. Priced from only £1270 tax paid.
Nissan Cedric Station Wagon. A truly magnificent and highly
versatile vehicle with seating for eight people—6ft. 3in. load
space remote control back window tinted glass—powerful
95 H.P. engine—wonderful petrol economy—four forward gears
with synchromesh on the top three—beautiful finish—huge tool
kit, and most of the other luxury features of the Cedric De Luxe
Sedan. Priced from only £1450, tax paid.
J
s
%
<0
MM
llijf§P f
milm
mm
Australian Concessionaires: Nissan Motor Distributors (Australia), 63 Kingsway, South Melbourne, Victoria.


DATSUN
Every vehicle in the famous Nissan Dafsun range is
renowned for outstanding workmanship, dependability
and finish. Every time you buy a Nissan Datsun product
you are helping Australia's financial stability. The Nissan
Motor Company is Japan's largest exporter of quality
cars and trucks.
li £
W ( l
HU
(Vg-I
r
i
DATSUN BLUEBIRD SEDAN: £B9B (tax paid)
An attractive 4-door family Saloon with a
60 H.P. engine to give 80 miles per hour and
40 miles per gallon, with maximum comfort
for five or six passengers.
4%
-in'
(»Ha
DATSUN
SERVICE UTILITY: £9BB (tax paid)
Most unique utility, ideally suited as a second
vehicle on country properties. Has a seating
capacity for five, and a carrying capacity of
8 cwt., built on a heavy-duty commercial
chassis.
DATSUN BLUEBIRD
STATION WAGON: £1036 (tax paid)
The ideal, all-purpose 4-door family Station
Wagon with the same sparkling performance
as the Bluebird Saloon, but convertible to
62 cubic feet of storage space for carriage
of goods and camping holidays.
V
#*&8888 8888??
DATSUN HALF-TON COUPE UTILITY: £899
(tax paid)
Not a converted passenger car but factory-
designed truck for hard work under the most
rugged conditions. With a separate chassis
to prevent body distortion and to ensure
long life.
DATSUN
HEAVY DUTY STATION WAGON: £1023
(tax paid)
At last, a Station Wagon built on a half-
ton commercial chassis with all the ruggad-
ness of a truck, the comfort of a saloon and
factory-approved carrying capacity of half-ton.
DATSUN
ONE-TON TRUCK: £895 (tax paid)
The outstanding top - seller in the range.
Already proved throughout Australia as more
than competitive and as one of the toughest
trucks available.
NISSAN
TWO-TON TRUCK: £1374 (tax paid)
A heavy-duty, 95 H.P., comfortable three-
seater truck to stand up to the roughest and
toughest working conditions.
: •
NISSAN "CABALL": £1465 (tax paid)
The forward-control truck, fitted with three-
seater cabin and a 10ft. load capacity in
the pick-up body. For the carrying of tho:e
awkward and bulky materials and equipment
often so hard to transport.
NISSAN "PATROL": £1328
(plus tax if applicable)
135 H.P. of dynamic 4-wheel drive efficiency,
developed at a low, 3400 R.P.M. to ensure
minimum engine wear and long life. Already
proven extensively throughout the Northern
Territory.
State Distributors
BRIS3ANE:
ADELAIDE:
SYDNEY:
MELBOURNE:
PERTH:
TASMANIA:
DARWIN:
Ira L. and A. C. Berk Pty. Ltd., Sanders House, 116 Wickham Street, Valley. Phone: 5-3561.
Carcycles Pty. Ltd., 122 Pirie Street. Phor.e: 80-363.
Capitol Motors (Holdings) Pty. Ltd., 65 William Street (Cnr. Riley Street). Phones: FA 9051-2-3.
City Motors Pty. Ltd., 20-28 Latrobe Street. Phone: 34-9251.
Duncan Motor Co. Pty. Ltd., 701 Wellington Street. Phones: 21-8761, 21-6434.
Northern Motors, 106 George Street, Launceston. Phone: 2-1651.
Cavenagh Car Sales Pty. Ltd., 57 Stuart Highway. Phone: 3284.


COLLECTORS’ ITEMS
1—Treasure on the Shelves
“Almost a public obsession"
By M. H. ELLIS
OUT AND ABOUT
A marked sign of the growing in-
terest in early Australian history,
wTich has become almost a pub-
lic obsession, has been the enormous
growth in value of Australiana over the
past few years.
After the First World War, at Christ-
mastime I used to hie to Tyrrell’s Ar-
cade, then in Castlereagh Street, and
come away loaded with three or four
Phillip's Voyages (1789) and a few Col-
linses which I used to give away as
Christmas boxes to friends and rela-
tions who eyed them sceptically and
were even more sceptical when I en-
joined them to treasure them since in
a few years they would be valuable.
The only real gratitude came from
the booksellers who were glad to be rid
of them, and who, themselves, seemed
to know little about rareties. I even
bought one of the rarest editions of
Gabriel de Foigney's “Les Adventures
de Jaques Sadeur” the bootleg edi-
tion of 1676 printed at Vannes without
Royal licence, beating George Robert-
son in person dowm from a -guinea to
18s. It is said that only 300 copies of
it were issued. It is a sort of “Gulliver's
Travels,” notable in that it was the first
book in French in which the word “Aus-
tralia” appears to have been used. Since
the Mitchell Library had no copy
the only other one in the Common-
wealth I know of is in the York Gate
Library in Adelaide I gave it to
them. The other day a copy of the
second edition, printed in Amsterdam in
1732, was catalogued by Angus & Rob-
ertson at £3O.
The value of Australiana did rise
gradually. It rose; but there were still
plenty of classic items to be picked up
for almost a song until the beginning
of World War II and in England
even afterwards. I bought a mint copy
in original wrappers of Wentworth’s
“The Colony of New South Wales”
(1819), the first book published by an
Australian born, in Liverpool for five
guineas in 1949; and with proof cor-
rections in Wentworth's own hand at
that; but it would by that time have
brought more in Australia, where the
Americans had put a new complexion
on the Australiana market.
There must have been some very
knowledgeable souls among the GTs. No
sooner were they here than it was no
longer often possible to pick up the
classic items such as “Phillip’s Voy-
ages" (1789), the first account of the
settlement at Port Jackson, or Tench's
“Voyage'’ (1789) or “Narrative"’ (1793),
or White's beautifully illustrated “Jour-
nal of a Voyage to New South Wales”
(1790), or a Collins’s “An Account of
the English Colony of New South
Wales'’ (1798), or Captain Hunter's
“Historical Journal of the Transactions
at Port Jackson” (1793), much less
buy them for a song and in abundance.
The astute Americans acquired them in
large lumps and spirited them away. I
well remember one small, pink-faced
and innocent-looking character who
asked me to show him some second-
hand bookshops and who looked like
a man-mountain under his parcels after
every sortie.
What the Americans began, local col-
lectors completed when the age of pros-
perity arrived and with it book collec-
tors with a little bit of expertise and
deep pockets. Anybody who accumu-
lated early Australian books before the
war for reference and who has not fol-
lowed the commercial market is apt to
wake up one fine morning and find
himself in a bemused state of wealth
represented bv his bookshelves.
Volumes which were bought because
they were handsome quartos of interest
to the historian and antiquarian only,
are scrambled for by buyers who
scarcely know Phillip from Collins or
Bligh from Tench except as a first
edition.
The most unobtrusive and an unim-
posing looking pamphlet may rate a
jaunt to Noumea for the unsuspecting
owner, and even old almanacs and di-
rectories are worth attention. At the
most recent offering of Australiana by
Angus & Robertson, the collection of
Dr Eric McDonald, the “Australian Al-
manac” for 1835, with Greenway’s
article on public buildings was cata-
logued at £5O, the little “New South
Wales Pocket Almanac” of 1814 £75,
and even much later ones are worth
real money.
A large dealer in Australiana offers
a Waugh and Cox’s Directory of 1855,
of which I have had a much thumbed
copy lying round for years having
bought it for 4s. before the war, at
£42. A Collins two-volume (1798 and
1802) first edition is worth anything up
to £100; so is Bligh's “Narrative of the
Mutiny of the Bounty.” Rarer Cook
items, such as his four Canadian Charts,
would be worth up to twice that amount.
The little pamphlet letter by Mac-
quarie to Viscount Sidmouth (1819-20)
was catalogued in the McDonald col-
lection at £75. D. D. Mann's “Present
Picture of New South Wales,” with its
large colored views (1811) is at present
catalogued at 105 guineas and fair to
good copies of Phillip (1789) and Hun-
ter’s “Narrative” (1793), both fairly
common by collector’s standards, retail
up to 40 guineas.
Generally speaking, however, the
really valuable items are small, unob-
trusive publications and early journals
and newspapers.
A copy of the report of the General
Meeting of the Australian Subscription
Library of March 16, 1826, with the
Rules of 1826 and Rules and Regula-
tions and Bye-laws (1829) are cata-
logued at £250. Vickers Jacobs’ “Let-
ter Addressed to Lord Bathu:st” in
1825, which contains only 32 pages, is
valued at £2OO.
Anybody who has a single issue of a
“Sydney Gazette - ’ of the years 1803-
1806, of four yellowed pages, has £lO
or so in his pocket and a complete
first volume 1803-4 could be expected
to make £250 at auction.
The rare single Volume I, August-'
December 1833, of Ralph Mansfield’s
“New South Wales Magazine” (Dr
William Bland's copy) has been on offer
for £250.
One trembles to think what some
key original manuscripts of pristine Aus-
tralian publications would bring if they
went to auction; say, the manuscript
of young Charles Tompson's “Wild
Notes from the Lyre of an Australian
Minstrel,” the first slim volume of verse
by Australia’s first native singer printed
in Sydney by the Howes in 1826.
Or even the volume with. his own
holograph revisions which exists.


You don't NEED pencil and paper
for complicated calculations
"CONTROLLER"
. . . the modern, calculating device,
CHOSEN AS THE MOST outstanding pro-
duct of GERMAN industry at the Brussels
World Exposition. "Controller" Calculator
will do all your calculations, whether
simple or complicated, with slide rule
precision, in seconds. It has 3 deep
anodised colour scales with easy-to-read
hairline divisions 4iin. in diameter
(equivalent to 13fin. slide rule)
PRECISION MADE FROM HEAVY-DUTY
ALUMINIUM—LASTS A LIFETIME—SOLD
WITH DETAILED INSTRUCTION BOOK.
Save time save money with complete
accuracy with "Controller" Calculator.
Calculates anything in a few seconds—
including
Australian Registered Design No. 41567.
PERCENTAGES
INTEREST RATES
PRICE FACTORS
TECHNICAL DATA
QUANTITIES
COMPOUND INTEREST
DISCOUNTS
AREA
VOLUMES
YIELDS
SALES TAX
PROFIT MARGINS
COMMISSIONS
EXCHANGE RATES
LANDED COSTS
METRIC CONVERSIONS FREIGHT RATES
FUEL CONSUMPTION
PRICED AT ONLY £4/19/6 POST FREE
COMPLETE MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
WITH ADDED USES FOR DECIMAL CURRENCY
" ONLY" AVAILABLE ’ FROM
CONTAX PTY. LTD., BOX 1162, G.P.0., SYDNEY. 8W2217
Please send us "CONTROLLER" Calculators at £4/19/6, for which we enclose our cheque/
money order for £ / /
NAME ...
ADDRESS
2—The Moving Finger Stops
The market in autographs
By JOHN STEEYENS
Autographs are big business in
Britain, Europe and the US. In
addition to the old hands at collect-
ing who are always hunting round for
historical autographed material, every
year thousands of new collectors are
bidding eagerly for framed autographs—
letters or documents of famous men and
women mounted with contemporary
photographs or prints and sumptuously
framed.
The value of autographs is determined
by four factors —contents, rarity, demand
and condition. An important letter of
Dickens will sell for 20 times the price
of a short note accepting a dinner
invitation, and 50 times that of a
signature. A signature by itself (referred
to in the catalogues as S) is least desir-
able for collectors or dealers unless
nothing else is available. “Unfortunately
many signatures have been clipped from
fine letters by ruthless but ignorant col-
lectors. This is the unforgivable sin,”
says television personality Barry Jones,
one of Australia’s most enthusiastic
collectors.
An ALS (autograph letter signed),
sometimes called a “holograph”, is com-
pletely handwritten and signed by the
subject, and an LS is a letter written or
typed by a secretary and signed by the
subject. The initials ADS or DS refer
to documents and AMS or MS to manu-
scripts. AL, AM or AD indicate that
the specimen is handwritten but un-
signed.
Richard Cromwell is much less famous
than his father, Oliver, but his letters are
much rarer so they are very dear. Some-
times collectors have nightmares about
the desirable lost letters that they will
never have—Alfred the Great or William
the Conqueror. Pliny says that letters of
Julius Caesar were eagerly sought in his
day—but none survives. Some authorities
claim that the Vatican has a letter of
Jesus sealed in a golden casket, and
according to an old tradition Jesus is
supposed to have written a letter to King
Abgar V of Edessa. In medieval times
this letter was offered many times to the
credulous rich.
Autographic material (other than
monks’ manuscripts) is very rare before
1500 but in the 16th century students
began collecting autographs in books
called “Alba Amicorum”. These are
sought after by collectors. Renaissance
autographs raise enormous sums. There
are no Cervantes letters and only six
Shakespeare signatures (on documents)
survive, all in museums. One New York
dealer could sell a Shakespeare document
in excess of $1,000,000.
The highest-priced American auto-
graphs are those of two signers of the
Declaration of Independence, Button
Gwinnett of Georgia and Thomas Lynch,
Jr, of South Carolina. Both were obscure
men who wrote few letters and died soon
after the signing (1776). They are much
sought by institutions and rich collectors
who want complete collections of all 56
signers. In 1927 an LS of Gwinnett sold
at auction for $51,000 and would com-
mand five times as much today.
The most valuable 19th-century auto-
graphs are letters from Edgar Allan Poe,
Stephen Foster, Arthur Rimbaud and
Herman Melville. These are rare because
they had short or unhappy lives and few
of their correspondents kept their letters.
Most of their surviving ALSs are appeals
for money! On the other hand popular
and successful authors of that period
such as Longfellow, Emerson, Dumas
and Lord Lytton are very common—and
worth very little unless the letter is of
unusual literary interest.
The use of the typewriter has re-
stricted the number of ALS from modem
politicians and writers. Fully handwritten
letters of Franklin D. Roosevelt or John
F. Kennedy are rare and dearer than
ALS of Jefferson or Washington, but
they are common in LS. Letters of
William Faulkner are excessively rare
and his autographs are the most highly-
priced recent Americana. Like Dr
H. V. Evatt, Sir Winston Churchill dis-
liked signing letters and even corres-
pondence with his ministers is often
signed by secretaries or by a steel stamp.
Thus he is rare and desirable, especially
in ALS form.
President Kennedy represents dif-


Acuities to collectors. The form of his
signature varies a good deal—there are
at least four major variants and in
addition he has secretaries who sign
thousands of letters and photographs
annually for him. The ersatz-Kennedy
signatures are much heavier and bolder
than originals.
As a group Communist leaders are
rare and sought after. Lenin, Stalin and
Mao are virtually impossibles. However,
Hitler and Mussolini, once very rare, be-
came fairly common after the war when
Allied soldiers rifled official dossiers and
sold the documents. Curiously enough
many Nazi documents are collected by
Jews in the US, perhaps because they dis-
like the idea that anyone who admired
Hitler and his gang should buy them.
“Believe it or not, at every London
auction when Marx documents are put
up bearded figures bid huge sums,” Barry
Jones said, “and the documents are pre-
sumably spirited east”.
Royal autographs are common for the
18th and 19th centuries, but very scarce
earlier or later. George 111 and Victoria
are plentiful but George VI is very
rare and desirable. An ALS of Elizabeth
II would generally outstrip Elizabeth I
in value, although the contents of the
latter might restore the balance.
Demand is largely a matter of fashion.
Scientists, musicians and modern writers
are IN currently; politicians, Victorian
authors, theatrical and religious figures
are OUT. The most desirable of all
reasonably - common autographs are
Abraham Lincoln and Napoleon. How-
ever, it is rare for a Lincoln document
to be sold outside the US—and American
prices are very high ($5OO-$ 1000 for an
ALS, $lOO up for a DS). Napoleon I
signed more than 400,000 documents—
but ALS is very rare. Of his adversaries
Nelson is scarce but Wellington is very
common.
Since 1960 Barry Jones has impressed
and irritated Australian televiewers as
an apparently immovable object and
human encyclopaedia on Bob Dyer’s
“Pick-a-Box”.
Barry Jones began collecting auto-
graphs at the age of 14 by writing to
the living Prime Ministers of Australia,
some of the generals, and cultural
figures. His first sight of a major col-
lection was when Professor W. A.
Osborne, the former Melbourne physi-
ology professor, now living (at the age
of 90) in Northern Queensland showed
him documents written by Galileo,
Melanchthon, Napoleon, Cromwell and
Erasmus. “Professor Osborne gave me
my first important letter—a document of
Warren Hastings, Governor-General of
Bengal and India. Unfortunately most
of his collection was destroyed by floods
some years ago.”
Barry Jones claims that there are no
Australian dealers specialising in auto-
graphs, and apart from himself there are
few locals who can certify the authen-
ticity of documents by examination of
writing styles, inks, watermarks and
provenance. Provenance is evidence as to
origin—such as certification by reputable
antiquarians, date stamps, consistency in
spelling or the use of abbreviations. J. R.
Tyrrell’s in Sydney and N. H. Seward’s
in Melbourne used to sell autographs
but their stocks are exhausted.
The great public autograph collections
are in the Vatican Museum, New York
Public Library, British Museum and
Somerset House in London, and the
Bibliotheque Nationale in Paris. Private
collectors have included J. P. Morgan,
Franklin D. Roosevelt, Sir Henry Parkes
and J. M. Keynes. President Kennedy
began a collection of framed autographs
with a letter of Thomas Jefferson, attack-
ing the Press.
“The fascination of collecting lies in
remembering that the hands and minds
which directed the battle of Austerlitz or
wrote Rosenkavalier or painted Guer-
nica were at one point in history devoted
to writing the letter or manuscript or
signing the print on your walls,” Jones
said. “This gives an enormous life-en-
hancing pleasure that few things can sur-
pass. This pleasure is proportional to the
amount of knowledge the collector has,
of course”.
Jones hopes that Australians, who are
notorious as the world’s greatest throw-
ers-out, will start hunting for historical
papers about pioneering days, or
aborigines, or Federation and re-
cognise their lasting interest and value.
In the US much has been learnt about
the Civil War, Indians, and early settle-
ments because of the activities of col-
lectors who are eager to share their
knowledge with historians and archivists.
“New” Works
by Old Composers
A musical revolution
By MARGARET CLARKE
According to visiting pianist Alfred
Brendel there has been a complete
revolution in the attitude to
musical interpretation in the past few
years. This, he says, is partly due to the
great wealth of musical scholarship which
has unfolded the original intention of
many composers, brought to light for-
gotten or hitherto unknown works and
inspired the publication of new editions.
“People have begun to care what the
composer really intended,” Brendel said.
“For instance, my friend Paul Badura-
Skoda—he has made two concert tours
of Australia —and his wife, who is a
musicologist, have recently published a
book on Mozart which will be a great
help to those who care. They have be-
come authorities on Mozart autographs.”
Brendel, here for the ABC, described
how museums and private collections are
being combed for hand-written manu-
scripts upon which a note in the margin
might illuminate a phrase or passage, or
the markings prove to be different from
those in published editions.
Sometimes part of a manuscript would
be found in one museum or private col-
lection and another page somewhere else,
perhaps in another city; it would be the
task of the musicologist to piece them
together.
In one of his Australian programmes
Brendel played a work by Liszt, “Baga-
telle Without Tonality,” that had been
compiled from fragments found on
scattered pages in the Liszt Museum in
Weimar. Liszt in his later, lonely years,
Brendel said, had not cared what became
of his compositions and sometimes gave
them away to friends or to pupils; con-
sequently, now that scholars have got to
work on them “new” works by Liszt are
published from time to time.
Brendel believes that Liszt, partly
because of the show-off opportunities he
provides for the pyrotechnical pianist,
has been undeservedly under a cloud in
recent years, considered an empty
rhetorician.
“He must be interpreted in his
totality,” he said. “You must take his
music seriously and look for the almost
moral quality it contains. I believe Liszt
was a man of great nobility of character
and that this nobility is expressed in his
music.”
He also pointed out that Liszt’s con-
stant experimenting with technical
features and harmonic devices made
some of his music sound very “modern”
and that his style had been a great
influence. And when I remarked that
one of the “new” Liszt works he had
played reminded me of Bartok he said
that Bartok had been a pupil of a pupil
of Liszt.
Asked whether many more “new”


HON 6 KONG... INTERCONTINENTAL STYLE
The brand-new Mandarin, newest of 25 Intercontinental Hotels around the globe,
treats you to ancient delights and modern comforts. Below, a brief sample:
NEWEST HONG KONG SMUGGLER. Once used for smug-
gling gold and opium, the plush Chinese junk of our Mandarin
sets sail each evening at sunset for a tour of the harbor
drinks and dinner served on board.
UNUSUAL GREETING. A century ago, clipper captains told
of an extraordinary Oriental potion. Enter our Mandarin and
the drink shall be yours, free, original recipe.
7
o
HAPPINESS. The pleasures of our new Mandarin, such as
perfect service, rooftop swimming, or private Chinese dining,
often induce the Mandarin smile . . . soft, a little distant,
and enormously satisfied.
ON VIEW, if pirates needed a lookout over the harbor, they’d
choose a room at our luxurious Mandarin. Sampans, junks,
ferryboats and liners glide beneath your window.
Reservations: Cali your Travel Agent or Pan Am
MEMBER OF INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS-T. A. P. Ross, Mgr.


works by old composers might be ex-
pected in the near future, Brendel said
he was eagerly awaiting a new edition
of Haydn’s sonatas, the result of patient
scholarship and “a very important contri-
bution to piano literature.”
I gathered that the war, like the
Turkish sack of Constantinople in the
15th century, had played its accidental
part in this musical renaissance. As in
Constantinople, invading armies had ran-
sacked libraries and private collections
and thus brought to light items that had
long been forgotten.
Brendel, who was born in Moravia,
Czechoslovakia, graduated from the
Vienna Academy of Music at the age of
16. During the next two or three years
he was admitted to Edwin Fischer’s
master classes and at 18 he won the
Busoni International Competition, an
achievement that launched him as a con-
cert artist. Now he is so constantly
engaged that he has little time to spend
at his home in Vienna’s third district
a few doors from the house in which
Beethoven wrote part of the Ninth
Symphony. Mentioning this, Brendel
gave a laugh. “There are about 30 houses
in Vienna in which Beethoven lived,” he
said. “He was always being turned out.”
In his hobbies Brendel betrays some
of the puckishness of Mozart, the com-
poser he finds most congenial; he loves
jokes and collects cartoons cut from
newspapers, amusing printers’ errors and
incongruities. He also collects paintings
and visits galleries and museums, par-
ticularly where there are early Renais-
sance collections —he mentioned Lon-
don's National Gallery.
But time is his problem; he likes to
practise five or six hours a day, he sleeps
in the afternoon before giving a concert,
and he is always on the move. Last year
in London he performed the complete
cycle of Beethoven’s 32 sonatas, he made
his New York debut, he played Mozart at
the Salzburg Festival; this year he has
toured Germany and South America and
played at the Vienna Festival. He has
made many recordings, from Mozart to
Schoenberg.
Turning People Into Folks
Music begins at home
By JAN SMITH
Folksinger Peter Seeger spent a
Saturday morning in Australia
having a lesson in boomerang
throwing, which, at ten in the morning in
a motel room, had to be strictly
theoretical. His family were wandering
about drinking coffee; a young American
anthropologist was talking about kuru
disease, and Seeger’s Sydney tour co-
ordinator John Baker was offering a
guided tour of some aboriginal remains
near Sydney.
It was all very homey, probably much
the same as any Saturday morning back
in Dutchess Junction, New York, where
the Seegers, with the help of week-ending
friends, have built a log cabin over-
looking the Hudson River. A tall, quiet
man with thinning, sandy hair, Seeger will
go to Indonesia from Australia. There
he’ll sing in universities, and then tour
parts of Africa and Europe before going
home.
Mr Seeger is no mere singer of songs.
With his wife Toshi he makes short
educational films, edits songbooks and
a magazine called “Sing Out,” and is
adviser to a topical song publication
called “Broadside.” He composes and
arranges soundtracks for films, one of
which, “Horizontal Lines,” won a Venice
Film Festival Prize in 1960.
Not concerned only with songs of
different countries, Pete Seeger studies
their daily life and cultures, too.
Australian composers hadn’t stirred
him, although their mastery of the 12-
note scale was prodigious. We’d never
have good composers, he suggested, until
we became a genuinely musical nation.
Most of us heard Seeger unawares in
the early ’fifties when he founded a group
called The Weavers. The programme
says the Weavers triggered the folk
music revival of the last decade, but
Seeger is touchy about words like
revival and boom. Thousands of young
people in America were making new folk
music every day, he said.
His instruments include a five-string
banjo, a 12-string guitar, a home-made
banjo and a mouth organ.
Seeger’s father, a musicologist, intro-
duced him to folk music and long-
necked banjos on a trip to North Caro-
lina for a square-dance and folk-ballad
festival in 1935. With Roosevelt’s New
Deal focusing attention on Southern
farming communities, music experts
suddenly raced to collect as much as
possible of local folk song, pushed into
a not-quite-nice back seat by the jazz era.
Once out of Harvard, where the
presence of Jack Kennedy in the class of
’4O made little impression on him,
Seeger tried journalism, and spent a
summer painting farmers’ barns (in
watercolors) to earn money. But the
memories of childhood visits to grass-
roots festivals sent him more and more
frequently to the Library of Congress,
to browse over recordings from the
archives of American folk song. Why
was the richest vein of folk music in
the South? Well, said Seeger, you
couldn’t discount the Negroes, but some-
how folk music was always strongest in
agricultural communities, where people
worked hard and close to nature and
relied on their own inventiveness for
entertainment.
The age of the factory and automation
had given all this a belting. “You ride
in an automobile instead of walking.
Your kids want a story and you press
the TV switch. Music, you put on a
record. Your own resources never get
a chance.”
But automatic entertainment in the
home was not the worst threat to folk-
song. “If there’s one thing I feel really
violent about,” said Mr Seeger, “really
ashamed of, it’s canned music. If I had a
gun I’d shoot every loudspeaker in every
elevator and every factory. I don’t know
how bad it’s got out here but, believe me,
it’ll kill any chance your country has of
producing good music folk or other-
wise.”
It would need an organised campaign,
he said, to wipe out music, which has
an estimated captive audience of 60-
million Americans in hospitals, mortu-
aries, space capsules, prisons and jute
mills.
Pete Seeger’s other violence is reserved
for problems of racial equality, and
although he is not here as an official
proselytizer, his repertoire is heavily
larded with songs about segregation, the
bomb and what’s wrong with America.
After Mr Seeger’s obvious sincerity on
the subject of canned music, it was not
a little sad to hear him that night, from
the stage of Sydney’s Union Theatre,
exhorting a packed audience (not all
folkniks or beatniks either) to make with
the harmony, improvise bass and treble,
and generally be all folks together.
His yen for turning audiences into
folks grew out of his three years in the
Army, spent mainly entertaining troops,
and today the community angle had
become a regular feature of his concerts.
Adaptable we might be, but until some-
one puts folksingers where they really
belong, say in the bar of the Newcastle
pub, audiences may find it hard to be-
come folks at the twang of a string
any more than they can become phil-
anthropists by watching Tommy Hanlon.


For every transport requirement
Mercedes-Benz, the world’s oldest automotive
manufacturers, now offer a complete range of
passenger cars, commercial vehicles and engines
for marine and industrial purposes. They are
available from dealers throughout Australia.
MERCEDES-
ENZ
UUlfill
r
U 2
38
J
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE.
479/545
OVERSEAS
India’s
Military
Defeats
Restoring Indian Army morale
[Reprinted below is part of the text
of Indian Defence Minister Y. B.
Chavan’s statement to the Indian Lower
House recently on the results of the
enquiry into the reverses inflicted on
the Indian Army by Chinese Forces in
the North-East Frontier Agency.]
The first question in the terms of
reference was whether our training
was found wanting.
The inquiry has revealed that our
basic training was sound and the soldiers
had adapted themselves to the mountains
adequately. It is admitted that the train-
ing of our troops did not have orientation
towards operations vis-a-vis the particular
terrain in which the troops had to
operate. Our training of the troops did
not have a slant for a war being launched
by China. Thus our troops had no
requisite knowledge of the Chinese
tactics and ways of war, their weapons,
equipment and capabilities. Knowledge
of the enemy helps to build up con-
fidence and morale, so essential for the
jawan on the front.
The inquiry has revealed that there is
certainly need for toughening and battle
inoculation. It is, therefore, essential
that battle schools are opened at training
centres and formations, so that gradual
toughening and battle inoculation can be
carried out.
It has also revealed that the main
aspect of training as well as the higher
commanders’ concept of mountain war-
fare requires to be put right.
Training alone, however, without
correct leadership will pay little divi-
dends. Thus the need of the moment,
above all else, is training in leadership.
The second question was about our
equipment. The inquiry has confirmed
that there was indeed an overall short-
age of equipment both for training and
during operations. But it was not always
the case that a particular item of equip-
ment was not available at all with the
armed forces anywhere in the country.
The crucial difficulty in many cases was
that while the equipment could be
reached to the last point in the plains or
even beyond it, it was another matter to
reach it in time, mostly by air or by
animal or human transport, to the for-
ward formations, which took the brunt of
the fighting. This position of logistics
was aggravated by two factors:
(i) The fast rate at which troops had
to be inducted, mostly from the
plains to high mountain areas; and
(ii) Lack of properly-built roads and
other means of communication.
This situation was aggravated and
made worse because of overall shortage
as far as vehicles were concerned, as our
fleet was too old and its efficiency not
adequate to operate on steep gradients
and mountain terrain.
Thus, in brief, the inquiry revealed
that our weapons were adequate to fight
the Chinese and compared favorably
with theirs. The automatic rifle would
have helped in the cold climate and is
being introduced. The inquiry has pin-


T f ■
Pink
for
girls
If she says ‘‘gorgeous”, “delightful”, "heavenly'',
chances are it's Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times ... for parties,
weddings and ever-so-special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagne. Australia’s finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd,
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
pointed the need to make up the
deficiency in equipment particularly
suited for mountain warfare but more
so to provide means and modes of com-
munication to make it available to the
troops at the right place at the right
time. Work on these lines has already
been taken in hand and is progressing
vigorously.
The third question is regarding our
system of command within the armed
forces. The inquiry has revealed that
there is basically nothing wrong with
the system and chain of command, pro-
vided it is exercised in accepted manner
at various levels.
There is, however, need for realisation
of responsibilities at various levels, which
must work with trust and confidence in
one another. It is also revealed that,
during the operations, difficulties arose
only when there was departure from the
accepted chain of command. There
again, such departures occurred mainly
due to haste and lack of adequate prior
planning.
The inquiry has also revealed the
practice that crept in the higher Army
formations of interfering in tactical
details even to the extent of detailing
troops for specified tasks. It is the duty
of commanders in the field to make on-
the-spot decisions and details of opera-
tions ought to have been left to them.
Failures of higher command
fourth question is of physical fit-
ness of our troops. The inquiry has
revealed that, despite this, our troops,
both officers and men, stood the rigors
of the climate, although most of them
were rushed at short notice from plains.
Thus, in brief, troops were physically fit
in every way for their normal tasks, but
they were not acclimatised to fight at the
heights at which some of them were
asked to make a stand. The height factor
presented no difficulty where acclimatisa-
tion had taken place, such as in Ladakh.
Among some middle-aged group officers,
there had been deterioration in standards
of physical fitness. This is a matter
which is being rectified. The physical
fitness among junior officers was good
and is now even better.
The fifth point in the terms erf reference
was about the capacity erf commanders
at all levels during these operations to
influence the men under their command.
By and large, it has been found that
general standard amongst junior officers
was fair. At unit level there were good
and mediocre commanding officers. The
proportion of good commanding officers
and not-so-good was perhaps the same
as obtained in any army in World War 11.
At brigade level, but for the odd excep-
tion, commanders were able to adequately
exercise their command. It was at higher
levels that shortcomings became more
apparent. It was also revealed that some
of the higher commanders did not depend
enough on the initiative of the lower
commanders, who alone could have the
requisite knowledge of the terrain and
local conditions of troops under them.
The inquiry has brought out that the
collection of intelligence in general was
not satisfactory. The acquisition of intel-
ligence was slow and its reporting was
vague.
Second important aspect of intelli-
gence is its collection and evaluation.
Admittedly, because of the vague nature
of intelligence, evaluation may not have
been accurate. Thus a clear picture of
the Chinese build-up was not made avail-
able. No attempt was made to link the
new enemy build-up with the old deploy-
ment. Thus field formations had little
guidance whether there were fresh troops
or old ones moving to new locations.
The third aspect is dissemination of
intelligence. It has come out that much
faster means must be employed to send
out processed and important information
to field formations, if it is to be of any
use.
There is no doubt that a major over-
hauling of the intelligence system is re-
quired. A great deal has been done
during the last six months. The over-
hauling of the intelligence system is a
complex and lengthy task and, in view
of its vital importance, I am paying
personal attention to this.
Now about our staff work and pro-
cedures, there are clear procedures of
staff work laid down at all levels. The
inquiry has, however, revealed that
much more attention will have to be
given, than was done in the past, to the
work and procedures of the General Staff
at Services Headquarters, as well as in
Command Headquarters and below, to
long-term operational planning, includ-
ing logistics as well as to the problems
of co-ordination between various Services
Headquarters. So, one major lesson
learnt is that the quality of General Staff
Work, and the depth of its prior planning
in time, is going to be one of the most
crucial factors in our future prepared-
ness.
That brings me to the next point which
is called the higher direction of opera-
tions. Even the largest and the best-
equipped armies need to be given proper
policy guidance and major directives by
the Government. These must bear a
reasonable relation to the size of the
Army and state of its equipment from
time to time.
Who wins the last battle?
T'he reverses that our Armed Forces ad-
mittedly suffered were due to a variety
of causes and weaknesses. While this
inquiry has gone deeply into these causes
it has also confirmed that the attack was
so sudden and in such remote and
isolated sectors that the Indian Army as
a whole was really not tested. In that
period of less than two months last year,
only about 24,000 of our troops were
actually involved in fighting. Of these,
those in Ladakh did an excellent job even
when overwhelmed and outnumbered.
In the eastern-most sector, though the
troops had to withdraw in the face of
vastly superior enemy strength from
Walong, they withdrew in an orderly
manner and took their toll. It was only
in the Kameng sector that the Army
suffered a series of reverses. These
battles were fought on our remotest
borders and were at heights not known to
the Army and at places which geographi-
cally had all the disadvantage for our
troops and many advantages for the
enemy. But such initial reverses are a
part of the tides of war and what matters
most is who wins the last battle.


%
I:
for people with strong ideas about coffee
(and its price)
Nescafe Espresso is a stronger, richer coffee. Specially
prepared for the one person in three who prefers more
strength, more full-bodied flavour than you find in regular
instant coffees. It is a strong, high roast instant coffee
for strong-minded people who appreciate only the best.
And now Nescafe Espresso is at a new popular price.
Nescafe esprCSSO
INSTANT
COFFEE
co
NE3O6


m
as
m
: ■
m
r *
. ■ 1 %
fcl
■>:■
•• ;>: v
lllllilllllllllllllHlP
lllllllli 11 il! i!!l
npvßH
: , . ;
111 II ill Hill I
Millions OFPOUNDSofresearchmoney
has been spent perfecting thumb-
sized electric motors which move satellite
aerials. They are powered by even
smaller energy cells, charged and dis-
charged by the sun’s rays. Light in
weight, but packing a punch that lasts
for years, this system is ideal for
powering the “space age” electric shaver.
The Sperry Division of the Sperry
Rand Corporation plays a leading role in
space research. This know-how is passed
on to the Remington Shaver Division.
The Remington “Lektronic” is the first
and only shaver that uses space satellite
principles in order to double a shaver’s
power, while retaining a built-in re-
chargeable power supply.
Men on the move can now shave when
ever they like. Only a little.bigger than a
packet of cigarettes in bag or briefcase,
the “Lektronic” draws up to two weeks*
power from the mains in a few hours.
Start shaving with “Lektronic” now.
“Lektronic” adjusts to suit every beard,
every skin.
Sare facel Write for your free copy of the
informative booklet, “The Pleasant Art of
Electric Shaving” to: Remington, P.O.
Box 91, Lidcombe, N.S.W.
22 GUINEAS complete
Also available, the Remington 25: £14.17.6
mmm
:i\ m
Shaver by Remington Rand
>RR9OBLR2
A Nation
in Doubt?
Saints and Sinners
After the Profumo revelations there
was a great deal of speculation that
Britain had lost its way, morally and
politically. The Denning Report suggests
otherwise as does British historian Alan
Taylor in this article published in Eng-
land recently.
Our morals are supposed to be in a
sad state. A Minister of the
Crown deceives the House of
Commons. A frequenter of high society
confesses his sexual promiscuity. The
police are accused of extracting testi-
mony in curious ways. Even the judi-
ciary is suspected of covering up for
the sake of the Government. The cry
goes up on every side: ‘‘What’s wrong
with Britain?” The answer is: “Nothing,
except that it is inhabited by human
beings who are, as always, a mixture of
saints and sinners.”
There was nothing new in the be-
havior recently described in the Law
Courts.
The poet Swinburne patronised an es-
tablishment where only the finest birches
were used for whipping. Charles Dickens
was as promiscuous as Dr Ward. When
his appetite could not be sated here,
he went to Paris with Wilkie Collins
for a week in the brothels. Politicians
probably are more moral sexually than
they used to be. The Press has become
more inquisitive, the public more sanc-
timonious. Gladstone said that he had
known eleven Prime Ministers and that
seven of them were adulterers. I can
name five!
The Duke of Wellington was a regular
client of Harriet Wilson, a famous pros-
titute. Earl Grey, of the Reform Bill,
had a child by the Duchess of Devon-
shire. Lord Melbourne was twice cited
as a co-respondent. Palmerston had four
children by Lady Cowper, whom he
married after her husband’s death, and
left his estates to one of them. Disraeli
shared a mistress with the ex-Lord
Chancellor Lyndhurst for the sake of
his political advancement. There has
been nothing recently to equal the case
of Sir Charles Dilke, in 1886. Dilke
fenced every morning from 10.30 to 11,
entertained a mistress at a love nest
from 11 to 11.30, and then read official
papers.
The Pall Mall Gazette published a
cartoon called “Sir Charles Dilke’s Bed-
room.” It showed a double bed with
three pillows. Yet, six years later, Dilke


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
RRT
CHF
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
* 1
m
Ikulca'
Vodka
m
VODKA.
was returned to the House of Commons
and sat there until his death. Politicians
often have deceived the House of Com-
mons on subjects graver than their re-
lations with a Miss Christine Keeler.
Joseph Chamberlain knew all about the
preparations for Jameson’s raid into the
Transvaal in 1895.
He denied this in the House of Corn-
mens and himself sat on the Select
Committee of Enquiry to ensure that
any dangerous evidence should be sup-
pressed. Lloyd George and Sir Rufus
Isaacs, Attorney-General, bought shares
in American Marconi. They referred in
the house to British Marconi and de-
clared: “We bought no shares in that
company.” A Liberal member of the
Select Committee knew the truth and
steered the committee away from it.
Sir Edward Grey held naval talks with
the Russians. He told the House: “No
binding agreement has been made.”
He writes in his memoirs:. “The an-
swer was technically correct. The ob-
jection is that it did not answer the
question.”
In 1956, the British Government pre-
pared an invasion of Egypt in collabora-
tion with France and Israel. Yet it was
repeatedly denied that there had been
either preparations or collaboration.
Sexually, too, men were formerly made
of sterner stuff. Lloyd George when
Chancellor of the Exchequer, had an
affiliation case brought against him. He
went to Bow Street and swore that he
had had no sexual relations w'ith the
woman concerned. He was accompanied
by his wife, who knew that he was going
to perjure himself.
Moral censors might also consider
the behavior of Edward VII, when
Prince of Wales. He sought to borrow
Lord Rosebery’s house so that he and
his brother could entertain their actress
friends. Rosebery refused. Others were
less strict. Gladstone had one of these
actresses, Lily Langtry, to dinner and
advised his colleagues to attend the
theatre when she was acting, so as to
strengthen the ties between the Liberal
Party and the heir to the throne. The
police, in my opinion, are both more
efficient and more careful to observe the
law than they have ever been, though
some of them are bound to slip.
The demonstrations for nuclear dis-
armament, in which I have often taken
part, are treated by the police with an
embarrassed courtesy, very different
from the brutality shown to suffragettes
before the First World War. No striker
has been killed by the military since
1893. In 1928, Miss Savidge was ques-
tioned at Scotland Yard for five hours
without any charge being made against
her. Fortunately, she complained and
there was an enquiry which brought a
rebuke for the police.
But it is foolish to suppose that the
police can build up a case if they always
observe the Judges’ Rules meticulously.
At any rate, they rely more on per-
suasion and less on rough treatment
than they used to, certainly more than
any Continental police force does. I
daresay some of the judges are a bit soft
on the Government. They are elderly
men, mostly from the upper classes, and
remote from the way ordinary people
live. It is no doubt deplorable. when
the judges set up to be censors of
morals, instead of simply enforcing the
law, but the public seems to agree with
them and I doubt whether a bench of
judges composed of trade union officials
would be more broadminded.
The supposed decline in our morals
has, in fact, little substance. The aris-
tocracy always have been promiscuous
and the working class casual. No one
minded in the past when an aristocratic
lady had an illegitimate child, or whether
the son of the house seduced the servant
maid. Morality was confined to the
middle classes. Nowadays, young people
are laxer even in the middle classes
and a boy has a love affair with the
sister of one of his friends, instead of
with the local tobacconist’s daughter.
There is far more real feeling in
these affairs than in the old ones and
they ripen far more often into stable,
happy marriages. In my opinion, today’s
younger generation is the sanest and
most truly moral ever known. There is
a real wickedness in the world, how-
ever, and the wickedness, I believe, is
the way in which governments are pre-
paring the destruction of all mankind
with nuclear weapons.
Contemplating this terrible crime, I
lose no sleep over the sexual morality
of the young.


Alick Downer
From Geelong, Oxford and Changi to the
Department of Immigration
An Interview with PETER COLEMAN
P.C. Minister, most people who, like
you, defend Australia’s discrimination
against Asian migrants, seem to refer to
some turning-point in their lives when
they finally made up their minds on this
matter. Is this true in your case?
A.R.D. Yes. In my case it was my
experience as a POW in Changi. When
I was younger 1 had no strong feelings,
either way, on what was then called the
“White Australia Policy”. At school,
for example, at Geelong Grammar, we
used to debate it from time to time, and
I could see good arguments against it.
At Changi, I saw the cardinal virtues of
the Chinese, Malays, Indians and other
Asians, and also of the Australians, the
English and other Europeans. But the
one people I felt really sorry for, people
whose morale completely cracked, were
the Eurasians. Betwixt-and-between,
they didn’t fit in anywhere; they lacked
the virtues of either the Asians or the
Europeans. I realised then our forbears’
wisdom in insisting on building a homo-
geneous Australia.
P.C. But your administration of the
Immigration Department is associated
with liberalisation of policy at least
in some aspects Do you mean you op-
pose any increase at all in Asian migra-
tion to Australia?
A.R.D. Not at all. It’s increasing
through various exceptions to the general
policy which, I repeat, I strongly be-
lieve in—and probably will continue to do
so as Australia’s European population
grows, and the Australian people become
more tolerant of alien ideas.
P.C. You do not think they are suffi-
ciently tolerant now?
A.R.D. No. I would go further, I
think Australians are much less tolerant
of different ways of living than many
other European peoples. It may be not
so noticeable now in prosperous times,
but we can’t assume good times will last
forever. But, contingent on the favor-
able conditions I mentioned, it is likely
that in the long run we shall have more
Asian migrants capable of taking their
place readily in the Australian commun-
ity.
P.C. Are you satisfied with the suc-
cess of the scheme for having Asian stu-
dents here?
A.R.D. Yes, I think they will return
home with friendly feelings towards us,
similar to the sort of feelings Asian stu-
dents in Britain have taken home for
many years.
P.C. But there’s a difference, isn’t
there? People like Mr Nehru and Tunku
Abdul Rahman spent many years freely
wandering around Britain after they had
finished their studies. They were never
forced to leave the country. It was prob-
ably then that they developed their at-
tachment to British institutions. Do you
think that Asian students who are ex-
pected to leave Australia as soon as their
studies are over will maintain similar
attachment to Australian institutions?
A.R.D. Well, it may be misleading to
compare cultivated Asians like Mr Nehru,
who naturally feels sympathy for Eng-
land’s spiritual qualities and its ancient
civilisation, with the ordinary person.
Many ordinary Indians were offended by
English haughtiness and aloofness, par-
ticularly before the war. It’s here that we
have an advantage. Australians simply
get on well with Asians. This impressed
me in the Army. The Australian soldier
worked alongside Malays, Indians, and
Chinese without any feeling of inbred
superiority. Asian students who come
here recognise this and in many cases
will return to their homelands with even
warmer feelings for Australia than Asian
or African students in pre-war England
had for England.
Incidentally, do not forget that their
own countries don’t want them to stay
here. Asian representatives say to me
that it is the very people who want to
settle here that they want back home as
urgently as possible.
P.C. You referred earlier to the
“spiritual” quality of England. What
did you mean by this?
A.R.D. Well, it’s hard to define pre-
cisely. One can point to England’s being
littered with small churches, many of
them beautiful. It’s something you
breathe in the air, a deep inner feeling.
I think it’s the most spiritual country in
the world just as it's the most politi-
cal.
P.C. What do you think about the
“State -of - England” question, of the
charge that contemporary England is de-
cadent?
A.R.D. I think it’s a very easy mis-
take to exaggerate English decadence, to
believe the whole country is suffering
from a moral rot because a few people in
high places are promiscuous. It is prob-
ably true that England has not yet found
her feet after the loss of her Empire, and
that she has suffered from some of her
leaders who tend to lay everything at the
altar of narrow self-interest. There has
been a change of tone in England, but in
many ways it has been for the better.
The old haughtiness and aloofness we re-
ferred to are going; the country is less
class-conscious, less codified.


SMITH CORONA
New 400 DE LUXE ELECTRIC
Lw
m
•W-#
mmMr
World's most automatic office typewriter
Introducing Push-Button Typing
The New De Luxe Model 400 Smith-Corona Electric
Typewriter that permits the operator to control the
machine through the use of push buttons. Push buttons
that increase speed, ease of operation and produce the
finest print.
Sole Australian Agents:
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
SYDNEY. 29 1151
MELBOURNE 32 4161 • ADELAIDE 8 6361 • BRISBANE 2 9498
A.C.T. 4 8160 • NEWCASTLE 75 2136 • WOLLONGONG 2 2495
9021 N
AT *ANSETT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCKETsERmE
LEAVES FOR
ADELAIDE • MELBOURNE
SYDNEY • BRISBANE
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will be
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone:
MELBOURNE 68 0541 SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337 BRISBANE 47 1481
MODERNISE YOUR
GARAGE WITH
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere T .isa/»
P.C. Do you see Anglo-Australian re-
lations weakening?
A.R.D. I feel a bit disturbed about
this. As I said in my Roy Milne Lecture,
one of the effects of post-war migration
has been to dilute the old pro-British
sentiment here. But more important, I
think, has been the effect of the deter-
mination of the British Government to
enter the Common Market, to place its
interests paramount despite all the fine
words about safeguarding the interests of
Commonwealth countries. This has had
a corrosive effect. But the concept of the
British Commonwealth of Nations is one
of the foundations of my political
thought, and as long as I live I shall
always work, and work hard, for the pre-
servation of close Anglo-Australian re-
lations.
Mind you, on this matter of my “anelo-
philia”, a terrible lot of nonsense has
been written. Someone once wrote that
I was such an admirer of England that I
had cleared all the Australian trees off my
land at my home, Arbury Park. In fact,
from the house you look out over a
rather Italianate garden towards a range
of hills crowned by a forest of stringy
bark, and in the middle distance several
beautiful white gums!
P.C. By the way, how is your dispute
with the South Australian Government
going? I mean over the proposal to run
a freeway through Arbury Park.
A.R.D. The Government seems de-
termined to put the freeway through, but
the exact route hasn’t been decided yet.
Some of the possibilities are appalling.
They would shatter the whole concept of
the property, bisect it, and convert a quiet
valley into an elevated freeway. I can’t
say much about it now as it’s still under
discussion, but I feel that houses like
mine belong not so much to me as to the
nation.
P.C. On this question of “anglophilia”
I’ve read a story somewhere that
you had the ambition, when you retired
from politics, of going to live in an Eng-
lish village.
A.R.D. Ridiculous. My ancestors
came here from the south of England
125 years ago and my family has long
been associated with the development of
this country. In any case, in 100 years’
time who knows? Australia may
be the predominant partner in the British
Commonwealth. I have unlimited faith
in what this country can do. Much as I
like the other side of the world, I could
never sever myself from Australia.
P.C. Getting back to politics, had you
always assumed you would go into poli-
tics or was it the result of some major
personal decision?


A.R.D. No, I was brought up to go
Into politics. My father died when I
was a child but I have always admired
him as a statesman. An uncle was also
Attorney-General of South Australia.
On my mother’s side my great-grand-
father was a Legislative Councillor in
NSW over a century ago. I’d always
assumed I would follow in their foot-
steps. After four years at Oxford I went
down to London to study law, but that
was for the experience and because I’ve
never cared for the idea of professional
politicians.
P.C. Did you like Oxford?
A.R.D. I loved it. No other place has
had such an influence on me. There are
many reasons why. There’s something
indefinable about it, in the beauty of the
place, the elegance of the architecture,
the soft stillness at evening—despite the
traffic.
P.C. Did any of the teachers have a
particular influence on you?
A.R.D. Not really; I studied Politics,
Philosophy, Economics, from 1928 to
1932, but it was not a period of great
dons. I enjoyed G. D. H. Cole’s lectures
—and Harold Laski’s books. But the
conservative dons were not very in-
spiring. I was more influenced by Arch-
bishop Willie Temple, one of the great
men of the Anglican Church of this or
any century. He held an eight-day
mission when I was there.
P.C. Are you a very religious man?
A.R.D. I’m not a very good church-
man. I go to church from time to time.
I built a chapel at Arbury Park in
memory of my mother, who was a
beautiful, spiritual, and good woman,
because I believe memorials to people
should be living ones. Her ashes are
there, and we use the chapel for family
services.
P.C. Did any one else influence your
religious ideas?
A.R.D. I was at Geelong when Dr
Brown was headmaster. He was a stern,
ascetic ecclesiastic of very lofty prin-
ciples. In England Dr Barnes, the Bishop
of Birmingham, always appealed to me
because he tried to give a rational
interpretation of basic truths. I don’t
really accept all the 39 articles. Religious
truths have to be constantly re-interpreted
by succeeding generations, and I think
books like the Bishop of Woolwich’s
“Honest to God” show that some of the
old virility is returning to Anglicanism.
P.C. When you went into politics
after the war, you chose Commonwealth
rather than South Australian State
politics. Do you, in fact, believe the
States should retain their powers they
have under the Federal system?
A.R.D. No. I’m not so much a Con-
servative as a Tory, and Tories are often
radical. The lesson of history in every
federation is the gradual transfer of
more and more power to the central
government. In my view the efficiency
of the Australian Government, especially
in an emergency, has been handicapped
by the limitations on its power which
make quick decisive action impossible.
The segment of the population which
ultimately will bring this transfer of
power about is the migrants: they come
from countries with unitary governments
and they don’t have State loyalties here.
In Australia the real conservatives are
the State Premiers of all parties.
P.C. As Minister for Immigration
"I understand the Russians will demand China's entry as usual. But
not too loudly."
you have to do a lot of travelling. Do
you get sick of it?
A.R.D. I love travelling. It’s always
been part of my life. I spent a year in
Europe as a baby, six months in Egypt
when I was a small boy, and six months
in Japan and Hong Kong when I was
nearly 11. As a student I spent most of
my spare time travelling, especially in
Germany, France and Italy. Germany
was somewhat disillusioning. I have
always liked the Germans but at that
time—in the 1930 s—you could see the
flabbiness and immorality on which
Nazism built. Generally, I feel as much
at home in Paris or Rome or London as
in Adelaide, Melbourne or Sydney.
P.C. Is there a particular city you
feel you must see again?
A.R.D. Venice. I think it's the most
wonderful place on earth.
P.C. Are you very interested in the
theatre or cinema?
A.R.D. Not in cinema. I like Shake-
speare and Shaw.
P.C. Contemporaries?
A.R.D. Noel Coward. But I really
haven’t time to keep in touch with the
theatre.
P.C. What sports do you follow?
A.R.D. Golf mainly. Some of my
family were and are keen on polo and
hunting, but I am not at all horsey.
P.C. You have a reputation as an
art-collector. What type of painting do
you prefer?
A.R.D. My tastes are rather con-
servative. I like the Renaissance masters
like Leonardo, Raphael, and the Italian
schools. I am fond of the Dutch schools
of the 17th century and the English of
the I Bth. Also the French impressionists.
At Arbury Park I have paintings by
Romney, Kneller, Richard Wilson,
Monamy, Loutherbourg and Backhuysen.
P.C. Australian painters?
A.R.D. I think Ivor Hele is the best
portrait painter in Australia. I have two
of his of my wife, one of me, and three
drawings of my children. Some of my
treasures are landscapes by Heysen,
Streeton, Will Ashton. But I don’t care
for Nolan or Drysdale (whom I went to
school with).
P.C. Why?
A.R.D. They spread abroad the false
image of Australia as a land of dust, heat
and flies. That does not make it any
easier to attract migrants here. . . .


MOTOR SHOW SUPPLEMENT
A Great Industry’s
Decade of Growth
“Probably unequalled in the world ”
By DAVID McKAY
The growth of the Australian motor
industry over the last decade in
relation to our population has
probably been unequalled anywhere in
the world. Today we have a market
offering a selection of motor cars as di-
verse as any; and prices are low when
one considers our high standard of living.
It is Australia's glamor industry the
one which interests the individual most;
for, apart from his bid to own his own
home, the Australian’s greatest single
outlay in money is the purchase of his
car.
The industry's first tentative steps
began back in 1900, when the Tarrant
Motor Company produced a petrol-
driven car as a commercial venture. But
it wasn’t until the ’twenties that the
industry became firmly established, with
the big guns from America getting in on
the ground floor. Chrysler (1922), Ford
(1925), and General Motors (1926) were
all firmly entrenched by the end of World
War 11, and the great advance in the
industry began in 1948 with the local
manufacture of the Holden, “Australia’s
own car”, which today commands over
40 per cent of new car sales.
Although less than 4 per cent of the
country’s new car sales are held by fully
imported cars from England, Europe, and
America, the local industry and the buy-
ing public owe these cars a great deal;
they have provided a yardstick in quality
and performance for the local designers.
Continental influence
lITe have had a lot of very bad cars
foisted upon us in days gone by
cars with bad engine designs calling for
expensive servicing, bodywork unsuitable
for Australia, weak suspensions, poor
steerers and brakers. They have gradually
fallen by the roadside, but not before the
public lost its money and, because of
them, became more choosy.
Motoring writers have played a part
in exposing weaknesses in design and, by
advising the public, have improved the
standard of the present-day car. The
Continental influences, particularly as to
economical horsepower and rugged sus-
pensions, have helped enormously to lift
the public’s appreciation of good hand-
ling and lively performance.
Overseas travellers have reported that
our industry runs parallel with America's,
which is fiercely competitive and ruthless.
I personally feel that, for all their old
world charm and finesse, the auto indus-
tries of England and Europe are equally
tough and ruthless, and that America and
ourselves are only beginners in the art
of car trading compared with the Euro-
peans, who have had centuries of horse
trading to call on. However, our stand-
ard of engineering and finish loses nothing
in comparison, and the public gets a bet-
ter deal in Australia than anywhere else.
The industry is more profitable for the
individual in Australia and our retailer
“fatality” rate is less than in America.
The quality of our workmen is gener-
ally considered better than in many other
countries, and certainly our everyday
mechanics are superior because of their
initiative and their ability to improvise
rather than to sit down and wait for
spare parts, or to improve upon a design
already accepted as good enough.
Those front-line assault troops of the
industry, the salesmen, may lose some-
thing to their wheeling and dealing
American counterparts, but this may be
because of our ever-expanding sales and
the smaller margins our salesmen have
to play with.
Some distributors are recognising how
important the relationship between sales
force and public is, and invest large sums
in having their salesmen taught their
profession rather than relying on the
ready flush of young men leaving school
who seek quick money and the use of
a car.
GM-H salesmen have “the system”
which governs GM salesmen the world
over and has made millionaires of men
who began as small dealers on borrowed
money. As a Chevrolet dealership is
regarded as a passport to riches in Amer-
ica, so the Holden franchise is the way to
the top in Australia’s motor industry.
Provided “the system’’ is followed, and
GM-H’s big brothers are close at hand
to see that it is, the Holden dealer has
only himself to blame if he doesn’t make
it.
Estimates of the capital required to
start in the motor industry range from ££
million for a city distributorship to
£25,000 for a dealership in near-city or
large country town areas.
Fortunes can be made in many
branches of the industry, as can be read-
ily seen by the incredible expansion
throughout the world of Australia’s large
replacement parts organisation, Repco,
which has recently announced a 25 per
cent profit increase.
After-sales weakness
Tf the Australian industry is lacking in
anything, it is in after-sales service.
This problem will get worse before it
gets better like our shocking roads
for with the volume of sales rising the
problem becomes more acute every day.
The most frequent complaint I get is not
of the product, but of the service, and
the big firms are trying to put their ser-
vice departments on a more streamlined
footing before they become hopelessly
bogged down.
Many large firms today, looking to di-
versify their activities, consider entering
the automobile industry; but a moment’s
thought about the forces ranged against
them is so awesome that they seldom go
further. A frontal attack on the industry
would be tantamount to financial suicide,
but there are other ways of getting a toe
hold which could develop into very lucra-
tive investments.
An American enthusiast and one-time
European racing driver, Texan, Carroll
Shelby, has given the clue with his Cobra
cars venture. Shelby has taken an Eng-
lish chassis of sound design, proven in
competition, and married it to an Ameri-
can V-8 engine of immense power. The
result has been rather terrifying; for
performances at present, is ahead of
-handling. But it is selling.
Shelby has 'undertaken a full racing
programme he is a firm believer in
this method of sales promotion. His cars
hit world prominence when a Cobra,
sponsored by London’s “Sunday Times”
and managed by Sterling Moss, finished
seventh outright in the 24-hours race at
Le Mans.
Success in this race means sales
aplenty, as Ferrari and Jaguar have found
in the past. A simijar venture could be
undertaken in Australia by anyone wish-
(Continued on Page 35)


PRODUCTS OF ROOTES
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
SUPER HILLMAN
HILLMAN STATION WAGON
AUSTRALIAN HILLMAN DE LUXE
m
V
HUMBER VOGUE
m
HUMBER
HILLMAN
RANGE OF CARS
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE
SALES AND SERVICE BY OVER
P266L


COMMER 17\ CWT. VAN
I
COMMER I WALK-THRU ’ y/W
COMMER
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
*&*»>&&&mmeam
COMMER B MODEL 6 TONNEH
SEE THE RANGE OF
ROOTES CARS AND
TRUCKS ON DISPLAY
AT THE
SYDNEY MOTOR SHOW
ftOOTES
>*****££
COMMER VA SERIES 4,5 & 7 TONNERS
iiioooio^''
mmnm
COMMBR 8-12 TONNER3
400 AUTHORISED ROOTES GROUP DEALERS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
9266 R


INTERNATIONAL TRUCKS
ONE NAME COVERS THE ENTIRE TRUCK FIELD WITH OVER 100 SPECIALISED MODELS! IN FOUR-WHEEL DRIVE RUNABOUTS, IT'S INTERNATIONAL
SCOUT! ★ INTERNATIONAL ABIIO IS THE LEADING’ TRUCK-BUILT LIGHT COMMERCIAL UNIT ON THE MARKET! ★ INTERNATIONAL
RANGE IN THE WORLD
ABI2O, ABI3O, ABI4B ARE 'WAY OUT FRONT’ IN THE LIGHT MEDIUMS! ★ LEADERS IN THE MEDIUM-HEAVIES HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
T
TIONAL
INTERNATIONAL ABISO/151 AND AB160! ★ THE HEAVIES STAND ASIDE FOR INTERNATIONAL ABIBO AND MIGHTY, MUSCULAR INTERNATIONAL AACO!
EXACTLY SUITED
* THE LION'S SHARE IN EXTRA HEAVY-DUTY WORK GOES TO
TO YOUR NEEDS
INTERNATIONAL Rl9O AND F 1800! ★ GOT A JOB FOR A TRUCK?
in
II
INTERNATIONAL
HARVESTER
SEE YOUR INTERNATIONAL OEALER TODAY! INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY LTD.
DISTRICT SALES OFFICES: CAPITAL CITIES. WORKS: DANDENONG. GEELONG AND PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA
F^T/5a0iH985 1 'Fpe


ing to enter our industry. We have many
engines available, we have excellent chas-
sis designers, as Jack Brabham realised
when he took Sydney engineer Ron Tau-
ranac with him to make the Repco Brab-
ham racers in England, and we have the
manufacturing know-how and resources,
With the accent on speed and perform-
ance as it is today, and likely to remain
so, such a venture, given sufficient back-
ing, could not fail to be a success,
Australia has its “own” passenger car,
and the whisper that a high-performance
four-speed sports saloon version may be
out before 1965 suggests that GM-H are
well aware of the ready-made market such
a car would have.
The 500-mile Ally of
the Car Buyer
Bathurst race should sort out claims and counter-claims
About this time every year the buying
public has an opportunity of strol-
ing among all the industry’s latest
cars at the Sydney Motor Show, which
this year is from October 4 to October 12.
The ad-men and the public relations ex-
perts unleash the full flow of their imagin-
ative minds upon the buyer, who usually
feels submerged in a sea of claims and
counter-claims as he walks from one
stand to another. Some of the claims are
fair, some outrageously optimistic
these latter often refer to “advertised”
horsepower figures.
This year the buyer has an ally which,
even if he can’t rely on it implicitly, will
at least give him some definite facts,
figures and comparisons; these will give
the lie to the more extravagant claims
Which too many people tend to take as
gospel. The ally is the 500-mile race to
be run at Bathurst, in central NSW, over
the world famous Mount Panorama road
circuit. Promoted by the Armstrong
shock absorber people and organised on
their behalf by the Australian Racing
Drivers’ Club, the race will be run over
the long weekend at the start of the
Sydney Motor Show.
Claimed to be the one race of the year
where the public can see the relative
performances and merits of locally built
or assembled cars “as sold to the public”,
the race has attracted a tremendous
amount of interest.
Previously held on an out of the way
“goat track” at Phillip Island, some 80
miles south of Melbourne, the race began
in 1960 with a real flourish. Petty
bickering and protests affected the race
over the last two years until a change
of site and better organisation became
necessary to keep the good idea alive.
Whether the ARDC can manage the
tough assignment remains to be seen. I
personally hope they can, for I see the
annual race as a public test of the cars
offered to the Australian buyer over roads
similar to our everyday roads and with
no chance of disguising a car’s weak-
nesses. This must eventually make for
an improvement in steering, braking, sus-
pension and engine performance in our
local cars, for no manufacturer can allow
his products to appear outclassed in any
of these departments by his opponents.
Obviously, because shock-absorber
manufacturers partly sponsor the race,
their products have to be fitted as a con-
dition of entry. But the permission to
fit special brake linings, because the or-
ganisers feel the normal brakes as sup-
plied with some cars to the public are
not safe, is in my opinion a grave error.
Here is the very thing the race aims to
expose being covered up. If a car can-
not last the 500 miles when driven hard
because of its poor brakes it either has
to be driven more slowly or not at all.
However, the main offenders in poor
braking are naturally the faster cars,
which many drivers have chosen, know-
ing they could then doctor the brakes to
their satisfaction. Consequently, the
public should remember when studying
the results that the successful cars’ brakes
were more than likely unlike the brakes
on the cars offered for general sale.
Apart from brakes, there is a special
dispensation on tyres; for here again
some of the tyres supplied on the faster
cars are not guaranteed for constant
speeds in excess of 80 mph! As even
the slowest of the cars will reach this
speed on the downhill Conrod straight
better tyres are required for safety’s sake.
Only Dunlop racing tyres are expressly
barred, for some reason best known to
the organisers, but Goodyear’s “sports
car special”, sold as racing tyres to the
less affluent of the racing fraternity, are
accepted, along with such high speed
tyres as Pirelli, Michelin and Dunlop
“Road Speeds”.
Otherwise the cars have to be exactly
as sold to the public no tinkering with
the engines, gear boxes, or final drive
ratio; not even a “sports” exhaust muffler
is allowed.
Cars are put into four classes, based on
price rather than engine capacity as an
easier guide to the public. The most ex-
pensive group is the £l2OO to £2OOO, the
top limit excluding such high-powered
locally assembled cars as the Dodge,
Mercedes-Benz, Pontiac, Chevrolet, Am-
bassador and Fairlane. Next is the £l2OO
to £lOOO, then £lOOO to £9OO and finally
under £9OO.
Under the fierce spotlight of racing
these four groups of cars and their dri-
vers will fight for honors over the almost
four-mile-long circuit, which includes a
1 2-mile downhill straight, a 600-foot
climb, a series of fast S-bends, all over
a bitumen surface which, part good and
mostly average fair, will not only test
Mr Armstrong's shock absorbers but
every part of a car with the exception of
the lighting equipment, for the eight-hour
run will be all in daylight.
The runners’ chances
T shall attempt to be wise before the
event and assess the runners’ chances
in the light of what our industry builds
for the Australian public and its roads.
In the £l2OO to £2OOO class there are
19 possible starters, though many are
duplicated with an automatic version of
the model. Most powerful car in the
field is Studebaker's Lark (£1665) which
comes in standard and automatic ver-
sions. The only V-8 engine in the field,
the Lark has a great power (180 bhp)
advantage and large tank capacity to
match its thirst. Provided the car can be
sensibly driven and the brakes improved
to arrest its 115 mph downhill flight,
the Lark must go to the line as favorite.
Most likely to upset the Lark is the
four-speed front-disc-braked 98 bhp Ford
Zephyr (£1374), a good performing and
handling car and for long my favorite
Ford model. Its genuine horse-power,
four speeds and good brakes are the rea-
sons it carries the Ford Company’s hopes
for outright victory.
With 145 bhp the Valiant Standard
transmission model at £1220 is the
second most powerful contender, for
Chrysler’s 220 bhp V-8 automatic is a
fairly unlikely starter in such a race,
despite the £l9lO tag. The Valiant has
a strong following, and this is the car’s


•V ..
- v • / * •’****WJZ
Zkrs" * \
sa
HH
■SSteS,*
<& =f
aim&F
i rar
#* *
-•-
«<K
« *./**& **
5iC
/»_ -s
V*
,
*SK
V
■
»s
«r
'-■ -' .
£R
, V*-
;
'?4*'
w&
■Ms
£
**
_7 ( ,
-W:
K
>**- &
I
M
*m : ~* str
m
M:
,r ■
\
f *
:
i
i
m
/#BZ*S&
The day GMH lost track v of Engine Number M 14014
These young engineering apprentices are
not looking for any flaws or making any last
minute inspections. All that has gone
before. They are merely checking Holden
engine numbers against the production
inventory. It’s a routine job and most times
everything is as it should be. Except one
day recently when Engine M 14014 just
wasn’t there. Actually there was no cause
for alarm for the missing engine had been
shunted off the main assembly line on to
what is known as an emergency loop
circuit. Here, any engine requiring adjust-
ment can be quickly diverted, attended to,
and then electronically directed to a vacant
test stand for a final checkup. It’s all part
of the system at what is probably the most
modern engine plant in the world Plant
10 at General Motors-Holden’s, Fisher-
men’s Bend, Melbourne recently com-
pleted and equipped at a cost of £ 11,000,000.
From here come the two new engines
that have given the new EH Holdens such
a boost in power and a lift in performance.
The precision with which engine com-
ponents are machined, assembled, tested
means that a new Holden engine is
brought into being every 90 seconds.
For Plant 10 uses manufacturing tech-
niques and equipment never before seen
in this country indeed some of them
new to the automotive industry anywhere
in the world. GMH engineers designed
the entire plant layout and supervised the
construction work carried out, in turn,
by Australian contractors. The end product
is an engine, or more precisely, two engines
that represent worthy successors to the
famous engine that has carried more than
a million Australian Holden owners with
such reliability and economy in the last
15 years.
Plant 10 is part of the expansion program
undertaken by GMH in the post-war
years at a total cost of £90,000,000.
Plant 10 is an industrial showpiece for
it demonstrates the capacity of Australian
industry to not only keep abreast of auto-
motive technology but, in some manu-
facturing processes, to take the lead from
the rest of the world. GMH are mighty
proud of Plant 10, even though they
might occasionally misplace an engine
temporarily.
GMH ...the look of leadership
JlB4


chance to prove their claims. The brakes
require extensive modifications, as early
tests at Bathurst with a Valiant verified.
Rootes’ series 4 Humber Snipe just
gets in at £1998, and has plenty of power
with 132 bhp. Other Rootes cars in this
price group are the 78 bhp Hawk cost-
ing £1762 with automatic transmission
and the automatic Vogue with 62 bhp at
£1322.
The Hawk and the Vogue are middle-
sized luxury type cars with a weight
penalty, and the Rootes’ banner is more
likely to be carried by the big Snipe
which, while luxurious, is also fast and
a good stopper.
Four automatics, the Holden Premier,
the Holden Special, Ford's Falcon and
BMC’s Austin are not designed for the
performance market and have their
standard transmission counterparts in the
lower price bracket.
General Motors have their six cylinder
Vauxhalls, Cresta, automatic, and Velox
manual, with 113 bhp and costing £1571
and £1356 respectively, and the small
sports sedan, the VX 4/90, at £1330 and
81 bhp. The VX 4/90 with its II litre
engine is obviously out of its depth, and
the Velox can be looked upon as the
company’s banner carrier. How it com-
pares with Ford’s Zephyr will be in-
tensely interesting, with three speeds
against Ford’s four, and both disc-braked
at the front.
BMC’s 80 bhp £1225 Wolseley 24/80
is similar to the Freeway in all but in-
terior comfort and is the luxury car of
BMC’s middle-priced range, and so an
unlikely starter.
Rambler's Classic, costing £1675 with
standard transmission, has 127 bhp and
costs £1799 as an automatic with 138
bhp. Built primarily for carrying many
people and their luggage in spacious
comfort, allied with above-average per-
formance and good economy, the Ram-
bler could be rather lost in a race.
But Australian Motor Industries, who
assemble Ramblers, have their faithful
Vanguard in this group. Six cylinders,
80 bhp, costing £l2BB, the Vanguard has
a reputation for slogging it out over long
distances, won for it by the old four-
cylinder engine. Economical and robust,
the Vanguard has the advantage of four
speeds, but could find the pace rather
too fast in this class.
Dark horse
A very dark horse is the French-bred
irl ‘ locally - assembled Peugeot 404,
giving 72 bhp and costing £1450. Rather
short on power in this price classing, the
404 has fine handling and would be the
car to watch if the race were ten times
longer. Another threat from the French
stable is the Citroen ID-19, or the “flying
wedge” as it is affectionately dubbed.
Interesting, well equipped, effortless on
the highway, the Citroen costs £1698 and
gives a bare 69 bhp. But it is a very real
69 bhp, and its 14-gallon tank means
only a couple of brief stops for fuel.
An outstanding stopper with large front
discs, the Citroen would be an odds-on
favorite with the optional high-perform-
ance engine offered in France, and, alas,
disallowed under the race regulations.
My choices for a winner in the £l2OO
to £2OOO class are Lark, Zephyr and
Velox.
The most important class is the £lOOO
to £l2OO bracket, for it is here that the
Holden-Ford battle will take place. Last
year the Pursuit-engined Falcons ran
away with the class, and also won out-
right, although there is no specific award
for first over the line. Now, for Bathurst
GM-H has released a limited series of
the new big-engined EH Holdens with
standard transmissions, in response to
appeals by the Victorian dealers, who
considered they had lost sales to the more
powerful Falcons. With 115 bhp en-
gines and special brakes, the new Hol-
dens have an advantage over the 100 bhp
Pursuit-engined Falcons, and the result
should be overwhelmingly in favour of
Holden.
To make sure of giving their cars
every chance, the Victorian dealers have
lined up a most powerful array of drivers
to hustle their cars. All are well-known
Grand Prix car drivers, and no strangers
to Bathurst’s hazards.
How these top-flight “open wheel”
drivers will fare against the lone NSW
dealer’s entry, piloted by two of Austra-
lia’s best Holden drivers, will make an
interesting side issue. As I chose the
Sydney saloon drivers, in preference to
open wheel drivers, I shall be doubly
interested. Other eligible cars in this
battle of the big guns are three Rootes’
cars, the two Minxes and the standard
transmission Vogue, the Vauxhall Victor
and BMC’s standard transmission Free-
way.
Outgunned
HThe Victor with 56 horses, the Vogue
with 62 and the Minxes with 66 are
outgunned, and it would be a brave dealer
who would enter an 80 bhp Freeway
against the far more powerful Holdens
and Falcons. It is in cases of this kind
that the arbitrary price grouping is unfair
to the smaller engined, better equipped
English-type cars. My choice for this
£lOOO to £l2OO group is Holden all the
way with. 1 hope, the Sydney Scuderia
Veloce-manned car in front. If I were
asked to pick an outright winner I would
back this red car.
Perhaps the best racing will come from
the £9OO to £lOOO class, where Ford’s
1500 cc Cortina has a large power ad-
vantage over its adversaries. The two-
door version costs £973 and has 61 bhp,
which should propel it happily up the
mountain climb. There are other less
powerful Cortinas, but the II litre car
is Ford’s big hope for success along with
the Zephyr.
Ranged against the Cortinas are
several Cooper-Minis and Renault RS’s,
which should be locked together all the
"No petrol, thanks. Just three plastic tumblers, a set of swap cards and
a map of New South Wales."


The
largest selling light
car in Australia
EVERY MONTH IN AUSTRALIA, NEARLY 2,000 NEW BUYERS
OF MOTOR CARS MAKE THE DECISION FOR MORRIS 850
m
BMC
850
WHY!?!
Economy: Morris 850 costs less to buy. At £763, includ-
ing sales tax, it represents today’s outstanding value in
motor vehicle purchasing.
Low deposit: BMC dealers everywhere will arrange
terms to suit your pocket.
Low running costs: Morris 850 travelled 6,500 miles
around Australia over rocks and corrugations averaging
50 m.p.h. at less than one penny per mile.
Parts: Wherever you drive in Australia, there are factory
trained BMC dealers with a full range of low priced
factory approved parts with factory trained skill to install
them.
Smooth ride: Because Morris 850 features a revolu-
tionary new system of suspension that floats it along
entirely on rubber, with separate telescopic dampers
that cushion each road shock for the sweetest,
smoothest, safest ride ever.
Performance: The Morris 850, with front wheel drive,
handles like a sports car, corners as though they're not
there. The big output 850 c.c. engine, based on the
world-famous Morris Minor motor, has proved itself
unbeatable over millions of miles of hard driving.
Durability: Today there are hundreds of 850’s on the
road with mileages close to six figures. Mr. Russell
Hayes, a school teacher at Braidwood, writes: “Of the
76,000 miles I have driven, about 25,000 would have been
over badly corrugated roads or paddocks. I used only
one pint of oil every 3,000 miles after the first 53,000
miles—The engine and gearbox never gave any trouble
at all.”
Resale value: Morris 850’s resale laughs at deprecia-
tion. A used “850” has a higher resale value today than
any car in its class.
Warranty: Morris 850 is backed by the famous BMC
Warranty of 12,000 miles or 12 months. No wonder
Morris 850 is increasing its lead as Australia’s most
wanted car.
MORRIS 850#
BMC - MANUFACTURERS IN AUSTRALIA OF AUSTIN FREEWAY SIX, WOLSELEY 24/80, MORRIS MAJOR ELITE, MORRIS 850, AUSTIN HEALEY SPRITE AND MGB 850 FPB


way, their performances are so equal.
The Renaults cost £998 and have a full
48 bhp, whereas the Cooper-Minis have
52 bhp and cost £950. Neither car is
better streamlined than a house brick,
but the Renault has the undoubted ad-
vantage of four disc brakes against the
BMC car’s two somewhat small front
discs.
BMC may offset this handicap by
giving the Cooper-Minis the full English
specifications which, on a higher com-
pression, claim 55 bhp instead of our
local 53 bhp. The Cooper-Mini could
be faster and more thirsty, the R 8 lighter
on tyres and gas. With the BMC car’s
vast following of enthusiasts, this fight
could well be the best of the day.
Rootes again have a couple of con-
tenders in this class, as well as in the
upper two groups. Their Hillman Special
at £959, with 56.5 bhp, is obviously a
better bet than the deluxe version at
£999, which carries more equipment and
consequently more weight, but has no
additional power.
The deluxe VW 1200 falls into this
group but, like the 1500 VW, which
would be lost in the Holden-Falcon
battle, the 1200 may prefer to let its
cheaper version carry the marque’s
honor in the tiddler’s class. Similarly,
the MI car, the Triumph-Herald 1200
deluxe, has a cheaper version which can
do the vulgar scrapping for it.
Chrysler’s Simca at £999 and with
52 bhp is always a threat, for its engine
has an enviable reputation. However,
the Simca’s power-weight ratio is not as
good as the lighter Cooper-Minis and
RBs, and this is a vital requirement on
the hilly circuit.
Renault’s Gordini (£970 and 40 bhp)
is already outclassed by the later and
more powerful RB, but it has great stay-
ing power and good brakes and should
be there at the end of the 500 miles.
Improved performance
TJardest hit by the local assembly and/
or manufacture rule is the Fiat group,
which has such high performance cars
as the 1500 and 2300; the latter I would
pick to win outright if it were eligible.
The £989 Fiat 1100, or “Riviera” as it
is known here, has a new 1220 cc engine
giving 55 bhp. A very much improved
performer, the car has the usual weight
disadvantage associated with the more
fully equipped cars and because of this
is unsuited to Bathurst.
A newcomer from Japan’s car in-
dustry, locally assembled by AMI in
Melbourne, is the 65 bhp Toyota Tiara
priced at £915. Enthusiasts will recall
the fully-imported Japanese Datsun’s
surprising turn of speed in last year’s
Six Hour race at Bathurst and their
wheel failures, which put them out of the
running. The Tiara could easily surprise
with its power advantage, but its weight
and lack of a fourth gear are obvious
disadvantages.
Most likely to upset preconceived
ideas are BMC’s Elites, selling at £940
and coupling a useful 58 bhp with a
four-speed transmission. Good handlers,
robust and adequate stoppers, their short
range could be embarrassing. Many cars
are lucky the organisers didn’t enforce
the usual rule that no stops for refuelling
in the first 100 miles are allowed. MPG
figures at Bathurst will shock the admen
who claim fancy mileage; racing at full
throttle will halve their claims.
Favorites for the £9OO-£lOOO group
must be Cortina, Renault R 8 and
Cooper-Mini.
That brings us to the tiddlers’ class—
for cars costing up to £9OO. The obvious
contenders are Ford’s Anglia, £872 and
39 bhp; BMC’s 850, £753 and 34 bhp;
AMl’s Herald 1200, £BB5 and 43 bhp;
NSU’s Prinz, £625 and 36 bhp; VW’s
1200, £849 and 40 bhp; and Fiat’s 770,
£750 and 32 bhp. The 850 s performed
very well in the Six Hour race and will
have an advantage in numbers.
Only Fiat’s 770 is rather outgunned by
the power-weight ratios of the others,
notably the NSUs, which had run-away
wins in the 1960 Armstrong. The
Herald and Anglia should be evenly
matched, with the Ford’s higher gearing
a help down the straight.
My pick would be the VW team,
which should fill the places, barring
accidents. These cars have the stamina,
the range and the torque for climbing,
and with good crews should prove too
strong for the popular 850 s.
While there are some members of the
industry who are anti-motor sport, the
official view, given to me by NSW’s
Chamber president, Douglas Donaldson,
is that properly organised and controlled
motor sport should be encouraged as a
good thing for the industry. It is a proving
ground and many manufacturers have
profited by race and rally results.
Such firms as Rootes and BMC have
well-staffed and financed competition de-
partments in their English factories, and
it is indeed unlucky for Rootes that their
new ‘lmp’ is not available for the 500-
mile race, where it could easily steal the
show in the tiddlers’ class.
The race would have lost much inter-
est had the ban imposed on the new
179 M Holdens as GM-H has named
their big-engined manual transmission
cars by the organisers, the ARDC, and
the promoters, the Armstrong shock ab-
sorber people, remained.
Because of protests by some dis-
gruntled drivers that the cars were not
freely available to the public the ques-
tion of their eligibility was discussed by
the organisers, who asked the promoters
to extract a “stat dec” from GM-H that
the 179 M model would continue in
production. As surely anyone so closely
allied with the motor industry as Arm-
strong’s managing director, Mr Norman
Creek, must know, no factory ever dis-
closes its future plans and GM-H, above
all others, has excellent security on plan-
ned production, for it affects the coun-
try’s economy considerably.
Last-minute decision
QJo when GM-H refused to sign such an
assurance the organisers banned the
cars immediately, losing to the event
the glamor cars and drivers and the in-
terest of 50 per cent of the population
who buy Holden. The disgruntled drivers,
had they stopped to think, must have
realised that with only some 120 built
at present not every dealer could pos-
sibly have a 179 M for general sale.
A last-minute decision, doubtless in-
fluenced by commonsense and probable
loss of spectator revenue, to allow the
Holdens to start has been widely ap-
plauded. Unfortunately in the interim
the Victorian Holdens, with their six big
name drivers, have been withdrawn and
the cars given to the Victorian and S.A.
police forces for testing as pursuit/prowl
cars.
Actually, many 179 M Holdens were
sold to the lucky public, and very fine
cars they are too.
Hard on the heels of the Holden con-
troversy came a new model by Ford
the Cortina GT a more powerful ver-
sion of the 1500 four-door Cortina,
sporting a 78.5 bhp engine with a double
choke carburettor, special exhaust sys-
tem, and a higher compression ratio.
The car should be capable of close on
100 mph and, more important, it has
front disc brakes for better stopping and
a lowered suspension and wide base
wheel rims for better handling.
The price is £llB2, and it falls right
into the £lOOO-£l2OO group, which,
with the 179 M now reinstated, makes it
a Holden v. Ford battle.
Whatever the results of this year’s race,
one thing is certain —the public will be
reading the results more closely than ever
before for they, like the manufacturers,
are becoming more and more motor-sport
conscious, and setting higher standards
for what they require in their everyday
car. This can only mean better cars.
DAVID McKAY


A Cornerstone of the
National Economy
The motor industry’s £350 million investment
By J. C. HORSFALL
It is only 15 years since the first mass-
produced Australian-made car came
off the production lines. But in that
comparatively short period, as a result
of sturdy, sustained and permanently-
based growth, both in size and per-
vasiveness, the industry has grown to
a dominant position in the industrial
hierarchy as well as to be a major in-
fluence on the state of employment and
prosperity of the whole country.
When the motor industry is put down,
as in November, 1960, by a swinging
increase in sales tax and other measures
to cut down spending on cars, the whole
area of internal economic activity
shrinks. When it is buoyant this is both
a reflection of general economic health
and its own big part in conditioning it.
In terms of employment, the motor
industry taking in distribution and
servicing as well as manufacturing but
not counting outworkings as in a num-
ber of industries such as plastics, rubber,
woodworking, steel and so on, which
make considerable contributions to mat-
erials used in the industry was esti-
mated in 1960 to have a labor force of
197,000 or about seven per cent of total
employment in Australia in that year. It
is certainly much higher now.
Today, because the industry has been
in the forefront of national economic
recovery and by far the best labor ab-
sorber during the last two years, its
numbers probably reach near 230,000.
A survey of employment in larger pri-
vate factories conducted by the Ministry
of Labor indicates an increase of 5000
in employment in such factories in the
year to June 30, 1963.
Reeord registrations
HPhjs can be multiplied at least by four
to get the increase for the motor in-
dustry as a whole over the year in which
new records have been set in new motor
vehicle registrations.
In the six months to June 167,312
new motor vehicles were registered. This
was 14.9 per cent more than in the
same six months in 1962, when a pre-
vious record number of 145,575 were
registered (143,316 were registered in
the June six months 1960). Since June
new registrations have gone to a new
peak of 35,894 for the month of July.
Of the present estimated 230,000 era-
ployed in the industry some 20,000 are
directly engaged in construction and as-
sembly of chassis and 30,000 in motor
body construction.
In addition to this 50,000, an esti-
mated 17,000 are making motor acces-
sories, bringing the total labor com-
ponent up to 67,000 on the manu-
facturing side in 2500 separate fac-
tories, of which 49 are on construction
and assembly, 2151 on motor bodies and
300 on accessories.
The numbers are even greater in ser-
vicing and distribution. At the latest
count there were 10,635 repair estab-
lishments alone with a work force now
in the region of 75,000, of whom about
5000 were women. It is estimated that
roughly 90,000 are engaged in distribu-
tion through the length and breadth of
the Commonwealth, though this figure
looks rather on the high side.
Leaving out distribution, 142,000 is
a realistic total for employment in the
rest of the industry today, compared
with an average of 126,000 in 1960-61
and 120,815 average employment in
1961-62. The average wage of these
employees is around £22 a week, though
there are wide differences between the
skilled and unskilled earnings from
which this average is struck.
Backing this employment and a wage
bill of some £l5O million a year, the in-
dustry (excluding the distribution side)
has investment in plant, equipment and
buildings estimated at £220 million, to-
gether with working capital of £l3O
million, making up an estimated £350
million funds employed. Counting dis-
tribution, Mr George Maxcy estimated
that in 1960 total funds employed in
the industry amounted to approximately
£4OO million, split into £230 million for
manufacturing and £l7O million for re-
pairs, servicing and distribution.
No other Australian secondary in-
dustry can approach the massive sum of
funds employed in the motor industry,
though there is very little difference be-
tween the fixed investment involved in
the steel and motor industries, the latter
being about £lO million higher on the
latest available figures. The only other
secondary industries within reach of
these two are non-electrical engineering
and petroleum.
Equally, though the latest statistics
are rather out of date on this, the value
of the motor industry’s output (£392.4
million in 1960-61) is matched pretty
closely with non-electrical engineering
(£383.6 million) with iron and steel in
this case a long way behind (£308.8
million). The motor industry’s boom in
the last year must have put it even
further ahead on this score.
28 per cent rise in buying
T>robably the best clue to the industry’s
significance in the economic
recovery in 1962-63 is that personal ex-
penditure on motor vehicles rose by
28 per cent or from £226 to £289 mil-
lion over the full year (this excludes
business expenditure on motor vehicles,
an item which has been dropped from
the national expenditure accounts). This
increase was bigger both in percentage
and value than any of the ten cate-
gories of expenditure on personal con-
sumption.
The nexus between the industry’s state
of activity and the country’s most vul-
nerable economic front, the balance of
payments, is perhaps closer than in any
other Australian industry.
This derives from the industry’s mas-
sive charge on the country’s overseas
earnings, to which it itself makes but
a modest direct contribution. It is prob-
ably not wide of the mark to say that
when all imports to feed the übiquitous
needs of the industry are counted, more
than a quarter (about £320 million) of
last year's bill of £1,286 million for im-
ports of goods and services resulted from
the requirements of motor transport in
this country, and that around an eighth
(about £l6O million) was directly re-
lated to the industry’s manufacturing
and servicing activities.
The difference in the two propor-
tions is explained largely by the import
costs, including freight and insurance, of
petroleum and its products required to
keep the country on its wheels.
The cost of its imports makes up
most of the industry’s charge on over-
seas earnings; but that isn’t the end
of it. Remittances of profits by the
overseas companies who run most of the
industry’s manufacturing activities here
are also a considerable item, at present
probably of the order of £2O million
a year (of which General Motors-Hol-
den would account for three-quarters),
though no precise figures are available.
All five of the biggest manufacturers


mm mmsm
3:
mam
wB/KKKBm
o.
$
k
*
»Hn,
»
<S
r
.
• •
' :
f:
'
#
'
■
.
I
j
I
ini*
PP Pi
flfeV &§§ W i,' - >- . , „ ;
Jr ilfV C *
» Ip 'XJ&lit
MM -y < ' J
*£>&££:'-•••*,"•.•■• V;'-.- • ■:
fisi |
£s 3H
>r<i y •■ r/
■f 4? W
ill
iSilfi®
•P P I
■ .-■ . .?.
•* p <*<» s« i, > ■ - - -
. - *.■ '■ ■;.: J . ' f ' '
....
Ampol Super Boron unlocks horsepower as no ordinary petrol can! You can feel
the difference when you switch to Super Boron . . . new power, new smoothness,
new pick-up . . . plus better mileage! Fill up on Super Boron and feel the
difference Boron makes in your car.
Try a tankful today!
BUY AUSTRALIAN — BUY AMPOL
ampul
OWNED


of complete motor vehicles are wholly
owned by overseas interests Gen-
eral Motors-Holden and International
Harvester by parent companies in the
United States, Ford (Canada), British
Motor Corporation (Britain) and Volks-
wagen (Germany). Chrysler is 85 per
cent overseas - owned (United States),
Rootes 54 per cent (Britain) and Aus-
tralian Motor Industries 19 per cent
(Britain).
The degree of foreign ownership in
the manufacture of parts and compon-
ents is also high, though in this case a
considerable part is owned by Austra-
lian capital. Most of the more important
component suppliers are subsidiaries of
overseas groups.
A figure of even £2O million a year
for overseas remittances by the motor
industry appals some people, but it can-
not be considered outrageous in the light
of what we would be spending overseas
on motor vehicles in the absence of a
manufacturing industry here, nor even
as a reward for the enterprise of the
overseas companies in establishing their
plants here, encouraged as they have
been by Governments irrespective of
political color.
Taking the industry as a whole, how-
ever, it is doubtful whether its annual
remittances of profits yet exceeds its net
import of capital, taking into account,
of course, the balance of international
accounting for the import of compon-
ents as well as plant and equipment re-
quired for manufacturing and assembly.
It could well be, though there are no
figures available to prove this, that we
are actually still net beneficiaries on
this combined score. The Common-
wealth Statistician credited Australia
with a net apparent capital inflow of
£2BB million last year, so it would be
surprising if a not inconsiderable part
of this was related to the country’s big-
gest single manufacturing industry.
The danger lies more in the future
than in the present because, after having
been content to plough back profits lib-
erally to finance expansion here up to
this point, clearly there are limits to
what the overseas interests are prepared
to do in this direction. Who can blame
them for expecting ultimately to get a
big payoff from their investments here!
But the trend of overseas remittances
from the industry could pose problems
for the balance of payments, perhaps
in the not so distant future, and should
be watched closely.
This can probably be left well enough
to the authorities, who have also to see
fhat the import bill for components is
kept within bounds. It is disturbing, to
say the least, that the industry is costing
the balance of payments so much for the
importation of components.
In this connection it is impossible to
reconcile the huge imports bill for com-
ponents with the majority of manufac-
turers’ claims that practically all the
content of their vehicles is made in
Australia. The official figures simply do
not support such claims.
Take, first, the position with motor
chassis in respect to the imported com-
ponents over the last three years to
June, 1963. In the first of these, the
up-to-then record year, 1960-61, for
motor production, 292,677 chassis were
assembled here and of these 231,209
were passenger cars, 42,945 were light
(under one ton) and 18,523 heavy com-
mercial vehicles.
Of the £132 million cost of these
chassis the Commonwealth Statistician
gives £80.5 million or 61.4 per cent as
being Australian: components and £52.2
million (38.6 per cent) imported. In the
following (recession) year 1961-62 a
total of only 256,056 chassis were as-
sembled, of which the percentage value
THE SPREADING TREE OF THE MOTOR TRADE
This diagram illustrates the multiplicity of jobs and activities created by the industry,
and its wide financial spread in taxes, insurance, tolls and fees.


I*
9
MW®!
:
wmmmmm
liiill
%
<?
■Y:-
a
■
g.
*
*
SS
•• • ■
' -
: :
»
■
S
S®
gv/~:
M ■■
It’s now over 12 months since Ford introduced the classic
T-bird roofline to Australia now 7 others are following suit.
As the saying has it, “Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery”.
It was Ford foresight, too, when Falcon brought you, 18 months
ago , a choice of 2 engines to let you enjoy exactly the type of
power and performance that suits your kind of driving.
It was also Falcon which first brought you a choice of six
passenger models 3 sedans including the Futura ... 3 station
wagons including the beautiful Squire.
But Falcon’s “firsts” are not restricted to style, or engine
choices, or model range.
Falcon was the first Australian car to bring you the advantages
of a 12,000-mile/12-months warranty, and the driving-ease
of fully automatic transmission.
Falcon, today, is first for total performance it’s Number X
Trials Car in its class it delivers top economy these are
some of the reasons why it’s Australia’s No. 1 Road Car.
Before you buy any new car, drive Falcon, and compare
Falcon. It’s then you’ll know all the reasons why Falcon sets
the trends.
WHEN THE “ FIRSTS ” COME YOUR WAY ITS
FALCON THAT BRINGS THEM.
FORD SALES COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED FX64I


of imported components was 38.3. Last
year (to June, 1963) the number of chas-
sis assembled increased by 109,294 to
365,352, easily a new record for the
industry, but, again, the proportion of
the cost borne by imported components
increased 39.9 per cent or £166 million.
No wonder Mr G. C. McGrath, the
chairman of Repco Ltd, one of the two
biggest locally-owned manufacturers of
automotive components (National Con-
solidated is the other), recently expres-
sed concern at the failure of the motor
manufacturers to use a higher propor-
tion of locally made components.
Against this local component manu-
facturers have been enjoying a bonanza
from the steep rise in vehicle output
over the last year or more, and if the
proportion of local components has
dropped, this is compensated by their
having stepped up their sales by 50 per
cent or more and produced record
profits as a result.
The position regarding motor bodies
is rather more favorable to local pro-
ducers, but the imported content is
still surprisingly high, even if decreasing.
No equivalent figures are published
for the cost of motor bodies either in
total or sources of panels, but statistics
for numbers and the two sources of
bodies built or assembled here are avail-
able.
In the latest year the proportion
built or assembled wholly or mainly
from imported panels were: cars, 26.6
per cent of the 297,914 produced, utili-
ties 8.3 per cent (27,822 produced) and
vans 37.7 per cent (12,494 produced).
While these proportions would bring
down the overall imported content of
complete cars built in Australia, it is
obvious that over the whole field of
assembly and manufacture the average
import content would be more like 30
per cent than the 5 per cent or less
claimed by some of the biggest (includ-
ing GMH) manufacturers.
Import figures strongly support this
inference. In the year to June 30, 1963,
imports of components for use as
original equipment in assembly or
manufacture of motor vehicles in Aus-
tralia doubled from £46.8 million to
£93.1 million, or to an average monthly
rate of nearly £8 million (in the same
period imports of complete cars rose
from £3.0 to £B.B million and of com-
plete commercial vehicles from £0.7 to
£2.2 million).
An all-time record
TJowever, and this is of some moment
as a reflection of the cost to imports
of a boom in the motor industry, the
monthly total of components imports in
July, with 35,000 vehicles, was an all-
time record. Mr McGrath stated at the
annual meeting of Repco in September
that the annual rate of imports was
currently around £127 million.
More than half of last year’s total
imports of components came from
Britain (£48.3 out of £93.1 million)
compared with only about a quarter
from the United States (£23.5 million).
These proportions lend support to the
claim that the big US manufacturers
here GMH, Ford and International
Harvester —include a much higher Aus-
tralian-made content in their vehicles
"I just can't seem to get the hang of these diamond turns!"
than the UK firms. Other sources of
supply last year were Canada, up from
£2.7 to £5.8 million (mainly Ford),
Germany up from £5.5 to £9.2 million
(Volkswagen) and France from £l.O to
£3.2 million.
Last year Britain was replaced by
Japan as supplier of the biggest number
of complete cars. Although the number
coming from Britain doubled from 1020
to 2051 (representing £2.7 million in
value) Japan sent 3596 (value £1.6
million) last year compared with only
667 valued at only £0.3 million the year
before.
Germany with 2483 (up from 320)
was second, Italy third with 2203, then
Britain, the US (645), Czechoslovakia
(476) and Canada (361). Japan domi-
nated imports of complete commercial
vehicles, sending 2668 out of the total.
Britain was the only other important
supplier contributing 261 (70 in the
previous year).
For an industry with such a domi-
nating role in our economic scheme of
things it is frustrating, to say the least,
that its direction lies largely in overseas
boardrooms and that only a small
fraction of the capital employed in it is
Australian owned.
The most Australian Governments
can do is to exercise some control on
the industry’s rate of activity, using
fiscal devices such as sales tax, excise
and customs duties, and to be vigilant
about its overseas remittances of profits.
Local investors are virtually totally
locked out from participation in the
equity capital of the manufacturers of
vehicles and have to confine their
interest to the industry’s outworkings,
such as parts and component firms,
servicing and distribution. This is not a
good situation.
As the Federal Government’s policy
(recently outlined by the Treasurer, Mr
H. E. Holt, in a letter to the Sydney
Stock Exchange) is to bar the local list-
ing of shares of overseas companies,
even those with subsidiaries operating
here, it seems that the only path open
to get Australian capital participation is
through the listing of shares of the sub-
sidiaries themselves. This will only
come if we insist on it through legisla-
tion.
It is all very well for the companies
to claim, as they rightly can, that their
operations here make very substantial
contributions to the strength of the
economy by the creation of a vast area
of employment, paying heavily in taxes
and so on.
But until we can share in the profits
of their operations, and more of us get
seats on their local boards, the status
of the industry will leave something to
be desired.


9983 MA
.
A
v
■
mm
■ '■
rm
'V *
. t
% ■ -r
siK*' >w-
-4* 3*sQsfSB
-< : --<
>
: -p
- v " ;
'i'>,; ♦««
.y.
-• »y
. •' *■>! ? *-
■is*' * 2fc£hfc*
; V- ' *
s'
r*r
•» >-■** ; V
* 3
& » *« £J;
:* ?,«■■'.•
- f£
-»■* . i
*#*s#'•*■*&*■
•xsc. ..
What do you miss in a Volkswagen?
The bumps.
They don’t worry you in a VW, any more
than they worry the Volkswagen’s inde-
pendently sprung wheels.
It works like this. Instead of having two
front wheels or two back wheels sharing a
bump, so the whole car shudders, all four
wheels on a Volkswagen work separately.
One wheel takes a bump. The other three
don’t. So the car rides evenly.
You don’t get the bump, bump, bump,
bump that shakes up you and the car
as well.
The outsize wheels help, too. VW's big
wheels roll over holes tlTat trap the wheels
of baby cars.
How about swaying? We correct this with
an anti-sway bar. If the car starts to lean
one way, the anti-sway bar sets up an
equal, but opposite, pressure.
Big wheels.
Anti-sway bar.
Independent torsion bar suspension.
These are a few reasons why VW wins
trials, and there are many others as well.
Let’s just say it’s a wonderfully reliable
and durable car. You don’t have your hand
in your pocket every
second day, paying
for parts and repairs.
That’s another thing you
miss, as well as the bumps.
Aren’t you broken hearted?
VWI2OO Sedans from £799 tax paid. VWISOO from £1199 tax paid. (Prices for State capital cities.)


Speed is the Main Killer
And straight roads are the most dangerous
By FRANK DIXON
T „b Aus.ra.ian Road Safety Council
A £m, t n r 6 °
boldly against speed as the mam
cause of road deaths, and in order not
to embarrass the Council’s pre-holiday
campaign the NSW Government has de-
cice o pos pone einro uc ion o t e
35-mile-an-hour speed limit until early
in e new \car. .
The fact that the Christmas and New
Year holiday period is always a bad one
for road accidents probably helped to in-
fluence the Government s decision. The
higher speed limit was introduced in most
other States some time ago.
An analysis of road accident statistics
issued by the Commonwealth Statistician
has shown that although speed rates only
third as an accident cause it was respon-
sible for 60 more deaths throughout Aus-
tralia in 1962 than the other two main
causes combined.
The report showed that failure to give
way to the right at intersections was easily
the greatest single cause of accidents
during the year a total of 6632, with
171 deaths. Inattentive driving was next,
with 5275 accidents and 285 deaths.
Excessive speed according to condi-
t.ons , as the Statistician cautiously puts
it, accounted for 4213 accidents and the
relatively high proportion of 516 deaths.
A disturbing feature of some earlier
road sa fety campaigns has been the at-
tempt of some authorities to excuse the
higher toll by comparing it with the higher
registration total, thereby creating the im-
pression that every new registration
means an additional car on the road.
The comparison is unreal. Tens of
thousands of vehicles are cluttering
used-car salerooms throughout Australia
today and tens of thousands more are
lying in smash-repair shops awaiting at-
tention. Practically all these cars are
registered, but they are not ‘'on the
road , and their total, if it could be
ascertained, would have to be deducted
from the current registration Agure to
put the position in *its true perspective.
The tendency to excessive speed is per-
haps nowhere more apparent than in the
heavy accident rate on straight roads
compared with roads having bends and
curves. The Statistician’s report shows
that during the year 18,706 accidents
occurred on straight roads, resulting in
1209 deaths. On roads with bends and
curves, but having an open view, the re-
spective totals were 4895 and 381; where
the view was obscured the totals were
reduced to 1325 and 118.
Admittedly there are many more miles
of straight road than there are bends and
curves, but the trend towards high speeds
on straight roads, with its attendant risks
due to recklessness or carelessness, is
obvious.
Contrary to what might have been ex-
pected, drunkenness, with 983 accidents
and 115 deaths, was well down on the
list. A similar low figure in an official
report issued in England some time back
was challenged by the British Medical
Association as “grossly under-estimating
the number of accidents due to drinking”.
Could it be that the number of accidents
due to “driving under the influence” has
been similarly under-estimated in Aus-
tralia?
Apart from road improvement, the
extension of traffic lights, heavier penal-
ties for serious breaches (in some cases
goal sentences), stricter driving tests,
road-safety lectures and demonstrations,
new regulations, and intensive propa-
ganda, what has been done to find a solu-
tion to the road-safety problem? Perhaps
a fairer way to put it would be: what
more could have been done? Could it be
REGISTRATIONS OF NEW MOTOR VEHICLES: AUSTRALIA


m
. ; w . ~.., ■
- -% - »"
' ' : r ' , ...
\ ' ,
&3H
-v;::
ISM
. V: -
WMHi
A
'
.
■#*
1
1
P
■
:-r
I
• M;
ENGINE POWER
n
ft
ill
EXPORT
ACTION
depends on the smooth and sure functioning of a multitude of parts.
These rings and bearings are only two of the many Repco engine parts
recognised on world markets as superior examples of precision automotive
engineering. Supplied as original equipment to automotive vehicle manufac-
turers in Australia, Repco engine, brake and transmission parts and service
equipment are merchandised throughout Australia and are now exported to 63
overseas countries as part of Repco's Export Action.
REPCO: where the standard
is perfection
REPCO LIMITED, MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA; MANUFACTURERS, MERCHANDISERS
AND EXPORTERS OF AUTOMOTIVE PARTS, SERVICE EQUIPMENT AND MACHINE
TOOLS FOR TRANSPORT, INDUSTRY AND AGRICULTURE.


P, 3P'
/
1
l
4#.
1
WMt£
pPw# m
v-' '
10,000 STARTS IN ONE WEEK
Would be sheer cruelty to your hand,
doing the starts for 60,000 miles driving
in a week ... but it’s just one of the
tests for our Starter Motors.
And when they come out of the
mechanical torture chamber, these
motors must still start a cold engine
without a hitch. No ifs!
We believe in tests . . . many tests.
They’re the best quality control you
could wish for.
And it pays:—Makers of good cars
use Bosch Auto-Electricals!
So when you buy a car—look under the bonnet for your cue:
GOOD CARS run on
BOSCH
that we have attempted too much, result-
ing in drivers being cluttered up with a
mass of regulations which confuse rather
than assist them?
When a United States road-safety ex-
pert was asked recently how his country
was attempting to deal with the problem,
he replied, “enforcement people think
all you need is more enforcement, edu-
cation people think all you need is more
education, alcohol people talk about no-
thing but alcohol. Me, I just tell every-
body to drive safely”.
Churches in Australia have joined in
the campaign by emphasing the moral re-
sponsibility of drivers to do everything
possible to avoid becoming involved in
accidents. This is an individual respon-
sibility; and to the extent that we allow
selfishness, carelessness, ignorance, or
impatience to influence our behavior
behind the wheel, we are guilty of moral
wrong-doing. We cannot evade respon-
sibility by always blaming the “other
fellow”. In perhaps 50 per cent of cases
we are equally at fault.
True, we had a decrease of 51 in the
number of people killed on Australian
roads during 1962 the first for 10 years
but the total at 4,291, was still far
too high. If the same proportion of
workers in industry or travellers by air,
train or sea was killed annually, what
an outcry there would be!
Public opinion unfortunately seems
to be drifting towards a dangerous state
of complacency in which road accidents
on a big scale are regarded as inevitable.
If we have accidents we will also have
deaths, and the combination produces a
tremendous amount of mental and physi-
cal suffering Which should shock our
conscience. No amount of money can
recall lives cut off prematurely nor com-
pensate those condemned to spend the
rest of their lives in wheelchairs.
Many drivers have taken enthusiastic-
ally to safety belts, but belts alone are
not the answer to the problem. At best
they minimise the consequences of acci-
dents and to that extent their installation
could be a good thing. But how much
better if we could eliminate all the
“avoidable” accidents instead of merely
trying to render them less tragic?
A former Superintendent of Traffic in
NSW (Mr W. R. Lawrence) said a long
time ago that he refused to recognise as
“accidents” the great majority of road
happenings which produce death and in-
jury. The number of true accidents, he
asserted, is comparatively small.
High-level research
npHERE is still hope that research into
A road safety, some of it at university
level, may one day produce an easily
applied answer. In the meantime are there
any other expedients we can try? At the
June meeting of the Transport Advisory
Council in Adelaide the chairman of the
Australian Road Safety Council (Dr J.
R. Darling) astonishingly urged periodi-
cal eyesight tests as a possible means of
reducing road accidents. The same sug-
gestion has been made a number of times
in recent years; but it is significant that
defective eyesight is not mentioned
among the principal 20 or so accident
causes listed by the Commonwealth Sta-
tistician.
Since speed is the greatest killer, why
not try enforcing speed limits on those
who now flagrantly disregard them, by
fitting “governors” to their motors limit-
ing the speed to say 50 miles an hour for
the second offence, with further limita-
tions for additional offences? The sug-
gestion is not new; it has proved highly
unpopular, but it could be extremely
effective.
We could also test the theory that
driving on the right-hand side of the road
in our present right-hand-steered cars
would eliminate head-on collisions, sim-
plify kerbside parking, and provide other
safeguards. For years now the Initiating
Committee for Right-hand Driving, with
headquarters in Sweden, has been cam-
paigning for the change and has pro-
duced many strong arguments to support
it. The West German Ministry of
Traffic, after a year's trial, reported
favorably on the right-hand drive pro-
posal and urged other countries to test it,
to determine its suitability for general
adoption.


Luxury American Cars . . . specially imported
RIGHT HAND DRIVE
MARSHALLS MOTORS SI:
ADDRESS: CHURCH STREET, PARRAMATTA TELEPHONE: 637-1025
ALL BRAND NEW
1963 MODELS
Pontiac "Bonneville"
300 h.p. Luxury.
Ford "Galaxie"
Convertible
Ford's finest car.
Ford "Galaxie" hard top
quite a car!
*7
©
sr
s*
©
s
The Car of the Future
“No radical changes in the next 10 years"
By IAN FRASER, Associate Editor of “Modern Motor”
You don't need a crystal ball to
see how motor transport is likely
to develop in the next 10 years
or so. Even by motor show time in 1973
it is unlikely that our cars will be
vastly different from the ones we now
drive.
Forget all about wheel-less cars run-
ning on cushions of air, automatic guid-
ance systems to take all the driver's
worries aw'ay, and nuclear power. We
won’t be seeing these things in mass
production cars for maybe 20 or 30
years, maybe never. The changes we are
most likely to see will be more subtle
than that.
Although know-alls have been pre-
dicting the demise of the reciprocating
internal combustion engine for at least
30 years, the end is nowhere in sight.
At the Frankfurt Motor Show earlier
this month the NSU company displayed
the much-heralded sports car pow'ered
by the Wankel rotary engine, w'hich
turned out to be very ordinary in gen-
eral appearance, and not available for
demonstration runs. On the same stand
NSU exhibited their new small family
saloon with a 1000 cc, four-cylinder
engine fresh off the design boards. So
not even the people w'ho hold the manu-
facturing rights of the Wankel are al-
together easy in their minds about it.
Daimler-Benz are deeply involved
financially w'ith the Wankel engine, and
it is said that large power units of this
design will go into the next Mercedes
220. But the just-released Mercedes 600
limousine has a new VB, which indi-
cates that there are not going to be
any sweeping moves away from pistons
at this factory.
Rover, who have done more develop-
ment work on gas turbines than anyone
else in the W'orld (they started in the
early days of the last w'ar with Sir
Frank Whittle's prototypes) have not
attempted to market anything but piston-
engined cars. And their next model, due
in a few weeks, is powered by a con-
ventional, but interesting, six-cylinder
motor.
Chrysler, of course, have been making
loud noises about their gas-turbine
cars, but so far people have not been
able to see them. Australians will get a
look at one of the experimental cars
late this year fitted with a dream-
car body w'hich divorces it from the
realities of the everyday man.
Better engines
I>ut even if we don’t have gas-turbines
or rotaries W'ithin the next 10 years,
we certainly will have improved piston
engines which will give better perform-
ance for less fuel, and will have a
longer life. And there is sure to be
greater use of automatic transmission in
cars of all sizes. Several 1 i-litre cars
have them now, and even the tiny Jap-
anese Mazda can be bought as an auto-
matic.
Such leaps and bounds are being
made with automatic transmission de-
velopment that it seems likely that a
completely practical, infinitely variable
ratio unit could be ready within three
or four years. Then we will move to
the realm of constant speed engines,
with the transmissions altering the road
speeds.
Because of the steady progress in en-
gine design brakes and handling have
been left far behind. Many manufac-
turers who have realised this are trying
to do something about it. with varying
degrees of success. The trend of develop-
ment for the rest of '6os and the early
’7os will be towards better handling and
stopping.
Today brakes are marginal in the
majority of cars, almost dangerous in
a few. Too few have disc brakes, which
are the best way of stopping a car so
far devised. A car that can do 90 mph
is dangerous if the brakes will not bring
it to a crash stop from that speed when it
is fully laden. Some cars being sold
today have such inferior brakes that
it is only possible to get rid of the
upper 60 mph before the brakes fade
into uselessness.
Independent suspension on all w'heels
can no longer be regarded as a novelty.
On small cars, where power and weight
do not cause problems, fully independ-
ent suspension is the accepted thing. Its
use on large cars will be restricted to
the costly ones.
The present popularity of small cars
is likely to continue as our cities be-
come more crowded, and parking an
even greater problem. They will become
better looking and their internal dimen-
sions will be expanded more and more
as designers find new ways of saving
valuable inches.
The future does not lie in dream-
car ideas, but in the steady growth
of a multitude of designs.


Famous Companies —ROLLS ROYCE
• MARCONI • VICKERS • DUNLOP
• PYE * JAGUAR • GENERAL
ELECTRIC • PERKINS • LEYLAND
• DE HAVILLAND, to name a few—
officially recommend Rocol products
—and the same research and technical
efficiency has gone into producing
col
/
BSal
FOR ENG
GEAR & !
AXLE O
tocol
focol
—.'2? :
That's why
MILLIONS
OF WISE MOTORISTS
throughout the world insist on Rocol Moly-
SPEED—because ROCOL is the original and
best Moly suspension—and still costs less.
18'6
is all it costs to keep your car in “just
run-in” condition with ROCOL Moly-
SPEED—the scientific oil reinforcement
that has revolutionised motoring.
ONE grade only. The 10 oz. Can does engine, gearbox and differential.
Remember ROCOL MoIySPEED is the
only brand to contain 15,000,000,000,000
filter-passing particles of Molybdenum Di-
sulphide in every 10 oz. Can perfectly
suspended in premium oil designed for
addition to engine, gearbox and differential.
r
ADDS C/Fg TO YOUR ENGINE
When Noise is a
Danger Signal
Causes and effects in motoring
ABrittish committee enquiring into
the effects of noise has been told
that many of us may suffer im-
paired hearing if the level associated with
daily life is not reduced. An interim re-
port has already urged controls for cars
and motorcycles, and suggested prosecu-
ting drivers who do not co-operate.
At 160 decibels, noise will permanently
damage the human ear, and at 150 deci-
bels it can cause acute pain; and sus-
tained exposure to 75-80 decibels can be
wearing enough to reduce efficiency.
The exhaust of a motor-car is the main
source of noise for the public. On some
cars it may reach more than 95 decibels.
Motorists not only cause noise, how-
ever, but also suffer from it. Indeed, one
expert has found that the sound level
inside a car often exceeds the noise from
it 23 ft. away. The result is irritation
and fatigue for driver and passengers,
less concentration, headaches, and even
sickness.
The interior sound level is caused by
more than just the exhaust system. It
is a complex of noises, from the engine
itself, the induction system, tyres and
road surfaces, and wind. Then there are
noises generated by the gearbox, propel-
ler shaft, and final drive assembly, and by
accessory units, such as windscreen
wipers and heater booster-fans. It can
all add up to quite a din, and tackling it
at its source is largely a problem for the
designers.
The clatter from the engine depends on
such factors as the materials used in the
unit, whether it is a two- or four-stroke
petrol unit, or a diesel, and whether it is
cooled by air or water.
Induction noise depends on the speed
and load, as well as many of the factors
connected with engine noise. It is re-
duced considerably by air-intake filters,
but performance can be affected if the
job is done unscientifically.
Exhaust noise is also affected by many
of the factors already mentioned. The
type of silencer and even the length of
pipe can be critical.
Wind noise is a problem on many cars
and a major one on the majority if a win-
dow is opened. Cars of basically good
shape aerodynamically, with low wind
noise in development form, are often
spoilt by the haphazard addition of rain-
water guttering or the use of a different
surround for the windscreen, (ofns.)


FORUM
Abortion: The Facts
Extracts from a Report by the NSW Humanist Society
1. Estimates of Illegal Abortion.
By its very nature, estimates of the
extent of illegal abortion are very
difficult to make. They can have
some basis in hospital and police records,
but are still very largely guesswork.
Estimates in the United States range from
750,000 to 2,000,000 a year (there are
over 4,000,000 live births a year in the
USA).
English estimates vary. The Inter-
Departmental Committee on Abortion
accepted the suggestion that there were
between 110,000 and 150,000 induced
abortions every year, and that two-fifths
of these were performed by unqualified
persons. This is thought to be a very
conservative figure, and authorities like
Professor Flass, Dr Keith Simpson and
Dr Eustace Chesser consider that the
figure for illegal abortions in the United
Kingdom is no less than 250,000 every
year.
Assuming that the proportion of
abortions performed in Australia is
similar to that in the USA and the UK,
Australia would have between 50,000
and 100,000 illegal abortions performed
each year. The following figures from the
Kinsey Report, in the United States, if
applicable to Australia, would give a
similar finding.
Figures from the Kinsey Report 1959
are:
(a) Abortion rate amongst unmarried
women becoming pregnant three
abortions to every one live birth,
(b) Abortion rate amongst married
women becoming pregnant one
abortion to every three live births
If we consider these figures to be
relevant for Australia, then with 200,000
legitimate births a year in Australia, the
abortion figures would be around 65,000
a year. If w'e then consider that there are
8,000 illegitimate babies born each year,
we have to add another 24,000 abortions
which gives a grand total of close to
90,000 abortions performed each year.
Another interesting figure from the
above Report is that 20% to 25% of all
married women have one or more crim-
inal abortions performed.
2. The manner in which illegal abortions
are performed.
Once a woman has made up her mind
to have an illegal abortion, she has to
consider whether she should have it per-
formed by:
(a) A qualified medical practitioner, or
(b) an unqualified person.
The latter is usually called a nurse or
midwife although this title may be purely
self-adopted.
The choice between (a) and (b) will
be influenced mainly by two factors,
namely availability and finance. It would
appear obvious that where a woman can
find a doctor and can afford to pay his
fee, she would prefer the abortion to be
performed by him rather than by an
unqualified person. In Australia, where
there is a reasonably high living stan-
dard, it is believed that the majority
of abortions are performed by doctors.
The same appears to hold in the United
States.
3. The Dangers of Abortion.
(a) If performed by Doctors.
It is said that in Russia between 1920
and 1936 when abortion was legal and
performed in special hospitals, the death
rate was only one in 10,000 cases.
Today, with modern drugs and tech-
niques, that death rate would be reduced
even further if abortions were carried
out under first-class conditions by spec-
ialised personnel. Even more interesting
are the figures from Sweden, which are
published in a book specifically dealing
with the after-effects of legal abortions.
Dr J. Lendahl (1959), in “Complica-
tions of Legal Abortions,” found out
of 420 cases of abortions performed and
followed up over years:
(1) Abortions done in the first 12
weeks of pregnancy No after
effect.
(2) Abortions done in the 13th-16th
weeks of pregnancy One case
of endometriosis, four cases of
tube infection.
Of course even these complications
may have occurred independently of the
operation. Another interesting finding
was the fact that in a follow up of 626
cases of women who had legal abortions
performed, only one was found to have
impaired fertility. This is less than 0.2
per cent, and statistically insignificant.
Thus it appears that the measure of
safety achieved in abortions performed
under favorable conditions in the first
three months of pregnancy is very great,
certainly much greater than in normal
childbirth.
(b) If performed by an unqualified
person.
Deaths. The number of deaths from
illegal abortions is not fully known.
The UK Interdepartmental Committee
of 1939 (3) quoted figures of between
400 and 600 deaths per annum asso-
ciated with abortions, but stated that
this probably under-estimates the posi-
tion. Some estimates in the United States
figured on one death for each 90 illegal
abortions. These figures were taken be-
fore the general use of antibiotics.
In NSW the figures for deaths as a
result of criminal abortion are:
1956 10; 1957 —8; 1958 3.
This fall in figures may be due to
various causes, including more effective
antibiotic treatment and increasing num-
bers of abortions being performed by
doctors.
Infections. There are no figures avail-
able for the number of infections in
women caused by abortions performed
by unqualified persons. However, from
opinions expressed by gynaecologists it
appears that the following complications
olten follow a septic or infected abor-
tion:
(1) Infection of one or both tubes
this being one of the main causes of
sterility.
(2) Infection of ovary and tubes,
which, if allowed to become chronic,
leads to sterility, pain and menstrual
disturbances. This may necessitate a
complete operational removal of ovaries,
tubes and uterus.
(3) Uterine infection, leading to men-
strual irregularities including severe
period pains and haemorrhage. This too,
may finally necessitate major surgery.
(4) Infection of blood stream leading
to chronic kidney, liver or heart disease.
These are some of the frequent after-
effects of incompetently performed abor-
tions. Added to the above are less
chronic illnesses which can be corrected
by medical treatment. These include loss
of blood resulting in anaemia, urinary
infections and mild uterine infections.
The Doctor and the Law
Australian abortion law follows
A the English pattern. The law ap-
pears to accept that there is a lawful
reason for the termination of a preg-
nancy. The key to the interpretation of
the (English) law is the meaning of the
word “unlawfully.”. The leading case
on this subject is an often cited pre-


cedent of Rex v. Bourne (1938). This
was a case where a famous English
surgeon, Bourne, had openly procured
a miscarriage upon a young girl not
quite 15 years of age, who had become
pregnant as a result of a particularly
vicious rape. The surgeon deliberately
invited prosecution for the purpose of
testing the law.
The evidence was that the birth of
the child to the girl would not have
brought about her death, but it could
have affected her mental health. Bourne
was acquitted and the judgment held
as follows: “In cases where the miscar-
riage was procured by a qualified mem-
ber of the medical profession the prose-
cution must prove beyond reasonable
doubt that the act was not done in good
faith for the purpose only of preserving
the life of the mother or saving her from
becoming a physical or mental wreck.”
However the meaning of the words
“physical or mental wreck” as con-
tained in the above decision is suffici-
ently vague to frighten most doctors
from procuring a miscarriage unless
there is the plainest evidence of danger
to life in the ordinary sense. The Aus-
tralian law also appears to accept the
above English interpretation, but this
has never been tested in court.
It appears that the police, here as
well as in the USA and the UK, will
not act decisively against those doctors
who illegally perform operations, un-
less forced by outside pressures or
through investigation into the death of
a patient. They will more often, how-
ever, take action against the back-room
unprofessional abortionist. The follow-
ing figures show how few convictions
are procured.
1953 6 persons were convicted in
Australia for attempting to procure
abortion.
1960 11 persons convicted.
These figures appear very small for
the estimated 60,000 to 100,000 abor-
tions per annum in Australia. Similarly
figures in the USA in 1944 show 116
persons convicted in 24 States of
America with, say, 1,000,000 probable
abortions performed in those States in
one year.
In 1959 in England 49 convictions
occurred with a probable yearly figure
of 200,000. Moreover it must be re-
membered that the large majority of
the above convicted persons were not
doctors. It appears safe to say that on
the whole, police will not interfere with
doctors, except on specific complaints
or during investigations into death.
These conditions bring about the state
of affairs where in every city there
are found some doctors who are willing,
mainly for financial gain, to bring about
termination of pregnancies illegally. The
whole operation thus becomes secret and
sordid, and makes a criminal both of
doctor and the patient.
Effect of the Present Law
on the Individual
1. Negation of Any Right to Free
Choice.
In 1931, the late Mr Justice McCardie
said at an English trial, “I cannot think
that it is right that a woman should be
forced to bear a child against her will.”
These words must form the basis for
a humanist outlook. Yet under the
present law a woman has no choice, once
pregnant, but to bear the child, unless
she is willing to break the law. The lack
of freedom of choice must be repug-
nant to any person whp respects basic
individual rights.
2. The Criminal Transaction.
The present law, then, forces any wo-
man who feels strongly about not bear-
ing a child into a criminal method of
having her pregnancy terminated. Pro-
vided she has the money, she can pay
a doctor to perform the abortion with
relative safety. In bold figures this
means that the law makes criminals out
of 20 per cent to 25 per cent of all
married women in Australia.
3. Economics and Abortion.
As the doctor who performs an il-
legal termination of pregnancy takes the
risk of being sent to jail, as well as of
being disbarred from practising again,
he will charge a far higher fee than
if the operation were performed with
legal sanction. This fee appears to be
comparable in Australia, the UK, and
the USA. In Australia it lies in the
range between £5O and £lOO. This is
of course demanded by the doctor in
advance. Whereas in Australia most wo-
men will be able to raise such a sum,
yet there are many, particularly married
women who already have large families,
who cannot afford it. It is these women
whom our laws force to bear another
child, with the increased economic bur-
den which this entails. Surely these wo-
men are most in need of having the
pregnancy terminated.
4. “Shotgun” Marriages.
One of the greatest problems facing
our society is the unhappiness and
misery caused by unsuitable and un-
stable marriages. Whereas this paper
does not set out to deal with the prob-
lem, it is certain that a number of these
marriages are the result of a wedding
forced on a couple because of the girl’s
pregnancy. There are 17,000 women in
Australia every year, who are already
pregnant when getting married. It is
realised that a certain proportion of
these women would sooner or later
marry the father of their child in any
case, but it is equally obvious that a
large number of them are forced into
marriage to avoid disgrace attaching
to the girl or her family. More import-
ant still, in a case v/here the girl is
under age of consent when becoming
pregnant, a court action against the
father of the unborn child is usually
avoided by a marriage.
The “shotgun” marriages would not
be necessary if the possibility of ter-
minating the pregnancy was freely avail-
able. This in turn would allow a mar-
riage to be based on a firmer foundation
than momentary passion.
5. Illegitimacy.
The problems associated with illegiti-
macy are still of major importance in
Australia, when one considers that out
of the total of 200,000 children born
each year, 8000 are illegitimate. Most of
these children are adopted at birth by ap-
proved couples, and are probably
brought up as well as any other child.
However the ordeal of a pregnancy,
labor, and immediate separation from
her baby must have an effect on the
young mother, which would often ad-
versely affect her outlook on sex, mar-
riage and society as a whole. This would
be even worse had the girl become preg-
nant as a result of a criminal assault,
often followed by interviews and court
action and finishing with the trauma
of pregnancy, and separation from the
baby at birth. Surely the termination of
such a pregnancy would be by far the
more humane and sensible course.
6. Suicide.
It is unknown how frequently suicide
occurs as a result of pregnancy and the
inability to secure an abortion. Scan-
dinavian autopsy figures for female sui-
cides showed 8 per cent of these women
pregnant, and the pregnancy was prob-
ably a releasing factor in the suicide.
The risk of suicide is greatest with the
deserted pregnant woman.
The Humanist Attitude
The report has so far tried to show
that the problem of abortion is a social
problem of great magnitude, and one
which, largely on theological grounds,
governments have simply not tackled.
It is clear that human suffering, illness
and disability reach huge proportions
where the problem is not faced, and
that the common attitude of just shut-
ting one's eyes to the problem will not
do in any society which is interested
in human values.
We believe, therefore, that “it should
be possible for an expectant mother,
under the guidance of her medical ad-
visers, to obtain a legal termination of
her pregnancy in its early stages by an
operation performed in hospitals” as
stated by Glanville Williams in his in-
troduction to Alice Jenkins’ book “Law
for the Rich.”


“CHILDHOOD AT BRINDABELLA”
Sir,
In M. H. Ellis’s review of Miles
Franklin’s book, “Childhood at Brinda-
bella” (21/9/63), there appears to be
some confusion about my part in its
production. The facts are these: Miles
and I had discussed her writing a book
about her own childhood, which she
was, at first, loath to do, as it had
been “too happy” for the taste of most
readers.
She was kind enough later to say that
it was my “gentle persistence” that
caused the book to be finally completed.
She was very much in favor of this
book being published w'ith photographs.
In his review Mr Ellis suggests dif-
ferently.
PIXIE O'HARRIS
Vaucluse (NSW).
letters
to the
editor
CASE OF THE BURNED FACTORY
Sir,
We would like Mr Roger Randerson
(14/9/63) to know some of the facts
concerning the Dutch migrant who
burned his factory and the history of
the case of his application to the Whole-
sale Furniture Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion of SA as that body has made it
known to us.
From a full knowledge of the facts
given to us, it is obvious the association
went out of its way to assist this migrant
get a start. Firstly, by deleting a rule
against unnaturalised aliens being mem-
bers, which was incorporated to accord
with Government policy during the war
years. Immediate steps were taken by
the Wholesale Association to delete this
rule as soon as this migrant applied.
The way was then clear to admit him
to provisional membership, which was
done. However, after many months of
provisional membership he was asked to
bring his factory up to the minimum
conditions laid down by the SA Factories
Act. He finally went to another location
and did not bother to tell the associa-
tion about this. The whole pattern of
this matter showed a complete lack of
co-operation and an unwillingness to
comply with proper factory conditions
as required by law.
From the wording of your article it
would seem that this case has come to
your knowledge as one of the “reasons”
or “instances” being cited for the need
for such sweeping controls as proposed
by the Federal Attorney-General. It
thus gives the impression that it is
being used as a “stalking horse,” when
in fact the real position was something
very different from what has apparently
been given to you.
We believe that the Manufacturers’
Association saw the Premier, Sir
Thomas Playford, on this subject and
placed the facts before him and that
he was satisfied with the details of the
whole matter. The disturbing part is the
implication inherent in your comment
that this matter obviously is being used
(and used wrongly and completely un-
justly) to bolster a case for laws on re-
strictive trade practices.
E. J. BLAKE
Secretary,
Retail Furniture Association of SA.
Adelaide (SA).
“EMIGRANTS MISLED”
Sir,
The tale of “Emigrants Misled”
(31/8/63) has been told too often, and
usually by those looking for excuses for
personal failures. Your correspondent,
Frank James, gives a bad impression of
the majority of emigrants. Most of those
who go back either just don’t like work
or have compassionate reasons. Every-
one I have spoken to has agreed they
are far better off than in their native
land. Anyone who is prepared to try
can save for that piece of land and have
a house built.
Families with six children leaving
holidays in Europe behind! Who are you
kidding, Mr James?
As for concentration camps on arrival
—what rubbish. Life at a hostel is what
you make it; and where else in the world
are hostels provided for emigrants with
the opportunities to live cheaply (for up
to two years if they wish) while saving
for land or a car.
I recommend all my friends back
home to come and enjoy the fresh air
and the opportunities which are not
handed on a plate, but are there never-
theless; all it needs is an effort.
I wish I’d listened years earlier to the
officials at Australia House.
D. A. MESSINGHAM
Blackburn (Vic.).
CHIROPRACTORS
Sir,
My association is agreeably surprised
by Mr Doube’s acceptance (14/9/63) of
our offer to show him that chiropractic
is something bigger and better than he
thinks. If his ALP investigating com-
mittee had had the courage to undertake
such a project three years ago and
report the results honestly thousands
of Victorian chiropractic supporters
might not have been so cynical about the
committee’s findings. We will arrange
for Mr Doube and his associates to study
any number of relevant case histories and
to meet a cross-section of patients whose
opinions will need no scientific interpre-
tation.
Allow me to tidy up two points which
Mr Doube misconstrued from my earlier
letter: My objection to Dr Jenkins as
committee chairman was based on his
obligation to the AMA, not to his medi-
cal qualifications; I neither wrote nor
implied that chiropractic should be used
for specific cases of varicose veins,
eczema, or any other single ailment.
Chiropractic treats causes, not individual
symptoms. In the correction of causes
the conditions which Mr Doube named
have, in many cases, been relieved.
G. F. KINNEY
Secretary, Victorian Branch,
Australian Chiropractors’ Ass’n
Camberwell {Vic.).
MICHAEL OAKESHOTT
Sir,
May I indicate some reasons why I
reject rationally Peter Coleman’s ad-
miration for Michael Oakeshott
(21/9/63) which I instinctively share?.
The cookery book of modern politics
is no longer a mere summary of tradi-
tion-bound civic know-how. It requires
scientific know-how of sociology, psy-
chology and economics. The kind of
set-up which Oakeshott admires and
recommends civilised hedonists form-
ing a community of intelligent and toler-
ant sceptics may be a good descrip-
tion of pre-Profumo upper-class Eng-
land. It cannot exist anywhere else at
the present time and in the foreseeable
future. To view it as a serious political
goal is to indulge in wishful phantasy,
the favorite national game of contem-
porary England. Oakeshott’s book is a
good illustration of the Englishman’s
belief that reality can be exorcised by
being ignored.
The LSE was and still is a major
centre for educating intellectuals from
underdeveloped countries. Some of them
still carry totemic signs branded in their
skins from tribal initiation ceremonies
. . . their homelands are faced with the
alternative of a developmental crash-
programme or totalitarianism, against a
background of neglect, near-civil war
and stagnation. What will they make of
the proposition that ‘'this is a New Age,
requiring a New Morality, etc. New
Idiocy in some shape or other. Hence
we live in a period of intense idealism,
servility and horror saved only by
what is left of our unselfconscious moral
habits . . .?”
Am I wrong in suggesting that
Coleman, Oakeshott and most of us
deplore the passing of the traditional
society with its custom-bound political
and social skills which required no
“cookery-books,” and that we loathe
the new rational, planned, bureaucrati-
cally administered social system in which
we must live and from which there is
no escape? Nostalgia cannot be a sub-
stitute for rational analysis of what is
the case. Oakeshott, despite his immense
sophistication, is really a kind of Eng-
lish Narodnik, an English upper-class


sp
, \
i
:
■ ■ ■
ASAHI PENIAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PEIS TAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. ft.
Another triumph for Asahi PENT AX!
I'm I 1
I NTAK I
SUPERB NEW
ASAHI PENTAX MODELS
Asahi PENTAX SV with built in self timer
and automatic resetting film counter. Auto-
matic Super Takumar FI.B lens and E.R.
case £9O.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with automatic re-
setting film counter. Automatic Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case £75.
Full range of Auto-Takumar Lenses
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo deafer
C334/1
GIFTS TO BRITAIN
SAVE MONEY, POST AND TAX
Food, wines and hundreds of fine gifts.
Swift delivery. Send stamp now.
FREE CATALOGUE
Box 32, Elizabeth, South Australia
HELP
LEGACY
all the year
variant of the Australian bushwhackery
romantic or of an African propounder of
“negritude.”
FRANK KNOPFELMACHER
Melbourne (Vic.).
“MANYUNG”
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to an
article in The Bulletin entitled “An-
sett and His Transport Empire”
(7/9/63). A statement in this article
reads: “ . . . Copland once ran a
School of Business Administration at
‘Manyung,’ Mt Eliza. This is now an
Ansett hotel.”
This statement is incorrect. “Man-
yung,” which was an Ansett hotel, was
purchased in 1957 by a group of Aus-
tralia’s major industries and there they
established the Australian Administra-
tive Staff College for the training of
senior executives from private enter-
prise, Government and semi-Government
organisations and the trade unions. Sir
Douglas Copland was the first principal
of the college, retiring in 1960. The
college is now firmly established, and to
date over 800 men from Australia and
overseas have attended its courses.
A. R. GARRETT
Mt Eliza (Vic.).
DEFENCE
Sir,
I would like to express my concern
at the attitude of the Federal Govern-
ment to defence. The necessity for ade-
quate measures is the most pressing and
important question facing the nation to-
day. Hardly a month goes by without
some new evidence of the dire straits in
which we find ourselves. The more hostile
of our South-East Asian neighbors go
from strength to strength in terms of
territorial acquisition and resulting
political influence. It is safe to say, in my
opinion, that inside the next decade we
will be fighting for our lives.
What has the Federal Government
done to ensure that we at least have a
chance of survival as a nation? The
Prime Minister, on the face of things,
seems completely unaware that we are
even threatened by the rising might of
Red China. National survival will re-
quire a radical new approach to defence,
not only by the Government but by the
electorate. We must realise that we will
have to make sacrifices. Money which
could and should in normal circum-
stances be spent on the general welfare
of the community will have to be
diverted to defence. The main reason, I
think, for the Government’s failure in
this matter is its fear of committing poli-
tical suicide. This reasoning, however,
would appear to be invalid. History
shows that a people who are fully aware
of their danger will make almost any
sacrifice when called upon by their lead-
ers. The trouble in Australia is that the
people have not been fully educated to
their peril.
M. W. GERKENS
Daylesford (Vic.).
FISHING BOAT SKIPPERS
Sir,
Jamieson Brown’s article on the court
of marine enquiry that deprived trawler
skipper John Drinan of his ticket for 12
months (31/8/63) has the merit of draw-
ing attention to a state of affairs which is
recognised by too few; but the emphasis
would appear to be in the wrong place.
He suggests that because fishing boat
skippers haven’t what he calls a sound
grounding in navigation they will be per-
turbed as a result of Drinan’s loss of
licence, and that the master mariners who
judged the case are not the men to do so,
since navigating a large vessel with a
full staff and sailing a small fishing boat
with an inexperienced crew are two
different matters.
I suggest that the size of the vessel is
immaterial, and that sufficient coastal
navigation can be absorbed by a man of
average intelligence to navigate Austra-
lia’s coastline in a very short time; the
missing ingredient which results in a high
proportion of ship and boat losses is a
sense of responsibility. You can have
the most highly qualified navigator on
earth and all the navigational aids avail-
able, yet all this is of no avail if the
necessary human quality and standards
are absent.
A. N. BLUNOELL
Woodbridge ( Tas.).
FEDERAL ROAD FUNDS
Sir,
May I correct a statement in your
article, ‘The Carve-up of Federal Road
Money” (31/8/63). The writer, Mr
Florsfall, intimated that capital cities
were seeking “at least 40 per cent” of
available Federal road funds in next
year’s new Commonwealth Aid Roads
Act. I can state authoritatively as spokes-
man for the capital city municipalities
that this is not so.
In their current quest for Federal
aid for arterial roads the metropolitan
municipalities are not seeking any speci-
fic percentage of funds. Rather, they are
simply demonstrating that there is a
need for Commonwealth aid for capital
cities because of the huge gap between
municipal finances and the costly but
vital road developments needed to cope
with present and future traffic require-
ments. They believe that present funds
for roads generally are quite inadequate
and have asked that the Commonwealth
Government should carefully consider
increasing them to help provide the ad-
ditional finance that is so essential, if
both country and city roads are to be
adequately catered for. They consider,
however, that the question of allocation
is one which the Commonwealth Govern-
ment alone reserves the right to answer.
I might point out that the metro-
politan municipalities are emphasising
they have no wish to deny other parties
their share of Federal road moneys.
R. W. ARLAND
Secretary,
Australian Capital Cities Secretariat.
Melbourne (Vic.).


REVIEWS
FILMS
The Tragic Muse
Euripides in the cinema
By BEVERLEY TIVEY
Electra. Director, Michael Cacoyan-
nis. Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Phaedra. Director, Jules Dassin. May-
fair Theatre, Sydney.
Tn adapting tragedies of Euripides for
the screen, neither Michael Cacoyan-
nis nor Jules Dassin has allowed himself
to be confined by the theatrical con-
ventions of the classical Greek drama.
Both use a cinematic fluidity of move-
ment, and both depart from the original
dialogue of Euripides.
But Cacoyannis’ innate fidelity to the
spirit, if not the letter, of the original
makes his “Electra” stunningly impres-
sive; whereas Dassin’s “Phaedra” reduces
high tragedy to the level of a trivial melo-
drama.
Cacoyannis’ film is set in its own
period, though its dialogue (so I am
informed I am in no position to tell)
is in modern Greek. But Cacoyannis uses
a minimum of dialogue, preferring to tell
his terrible story through the camera.
As children, Electra and her brother
Orestes see their father, King Agamem-
non, murdered on his return from the
Trojan wars by his wife, Clytemnestra,
and her lover. Orestes is taken into exile,
and when Electra is old enough her
mother gets rid of her by marrying her
to a peasant. But Orestes returns and he
and his sister seek vengeance.
First Orestes kills the usurping king.
Then he and Electra together murder
their mother, only to realise that they
have incurred the unforgiving wrath of
the gods for the act of matricide. The
laws of the gods admit of only one in-
terpretation, and a crime against one’s
own kin is unpardonable, no matter what
the motive or the provocation.
Walter Lassally’s camera brilliantly
records the penetrating Greek sunlight
and hard black shadows, with human
figures placed like a frieze in the fore-
ground. But Cacoyannis’ deeply emotional
interpretation of the tragedy ensures that
it never becomes merely an empty
exercise in camerawork. The characters,
although beautifully posed, are never
mere figures in a Composition, but living,
violent human beings. Even the black-
clad village women who act as the con-
ventional chorus are never static, but
form a vital part of the drama.
The murder of Agamemnon and Cly-
temnestra are among the most startling
death scenes ever filmed, though in
neither case is much actual violence
shown. By mirroring the killing in the
shock and horror of spectators, Cacoy-
annis gives a dreadful picture of the
genuine outrage of the taking of life.
The director has been wonderfully
well served by a cast (headed by Irene
Papas as Electra) which is at the same
time physically impressive and remark-
ably talented.
It’s probably impossible to bring the
classical Greek tragedy up to date, for
it’s based on a set of moral values foreign
to contemporary thought, though com-
pletely valid in their own framework.
Cacoyannis has understood this, and his
characters live by a set of rules as harsh
and uncompromising as the stony land-
scape.
Tules Dassin’s adaptation of “Phaedra”
** is set in the present day, so that the
characters performing the same actions
as those in the original legend behave
incongruously and incomprehensibly.
The modern Phaedra is the wife of a
Greek shipping magnate, sent by her hus-
band to make peace with an estranged
son by his former marriage. On meeting
her stepson for the first time, Phaedra
falls desperately in love, and at last
destroys him, her husband and herself.
Dassin’s modern version of the tragedy
is a professional enough piece of film-
making, with at least one memorable
segment the montage sequence of the
first love-making of Phaedra and her
stepson, an ecstatic, lyrical evocation of
physical passion. Apart from this, the
photography is capable but unimagina-
tive, though the acting (Melina Mercouri,
Raf Vallone, Anthony Perkins) is rather
more than adequate.
But the basic weakness of the film
is that while the characters look and
talk like recognisable present-day people,
they are behaving by an alien set of
standards. So they do not register as
victims of an inescapable doom; they
merely seem a little scatty. Phaedra is
not a woman destroyed by an illicit,
overpowering love, but a muddler who
can’t even manage a love affair despite
the advantages of unlimited money, a
devoted and close-mouthed maidservant
and a husband constantly popping off to
New York or Brussels to clinch busi-
ness deals.
Dassin dissipates the impact of his
film even further by lavish but extraneous
decoration. While Cacoyannis concen-
trates on the inevitable progress of the
tragedy (details of Electra’s daily life
are submerged in her obsession with
vengeance) Dassin has tarted his film
up with wild parties, sports cars and
visits to the Dior salon, all serving no
purpose but to blunt the edges of the
drama.
All Stops Out
Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?
Director, Richard Aldrich. Regent
Theatre, Sydney.
nr\HE most important facts about “What-
ever Happened to Baby Jane?”
must by now be known to nearly every-
body: that it stars two veteran queens
of the screen, Bette Davis and Joan
Crawford, in the incongruous roles of
a demented old maid and her crippled
and persecuted sister.
Without the curiosity of seeing these
two ex-idols in such unflattering guise
and the all-stops-out performance of
Miss Davis the film would be a fairly
efficient but rather long-drawn tongue-
in-cheek thriller a Charles Addams
joke extended to two and a quarter
hours.
The film has one other distinction in
that it possesses what must be one of the
longest pre-title sequences on record.
This introduction gives the early history
of Baby Jane, a child star of World
War I, and sister Blanche, who eclipses
her as an adult film star until an acci-
dent (for which Jane appears to be
responsible) leaves her crippled.
In the main part of the film Jane,
now a dotty and alcoholic harridan,
conducts a persecution campaign against
the crippled Blanche. She cuts off her
telephone, throws her mail in the gar-
bage can, fires her maid, kills her pet
bird and serves it to her for dinner.
When Jane conceives a lunatic am-
bition to make a comeback singing her
little-girl songs she binds and gags her
sister and leaves her in a locked room
while she hires a gross and avaricious
pianist (splendidly played by Victor


THE RUSH
THAT NEVER
ENDED
by GEOFFREY BLAINEY
A History of
Australian Mining
Australia’s map is criss-
crossed with the tracks of the
metal seekers, and this excit-
ing first history of mining in
Australia is the story of their
successes and failures. 425.
MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY PRESS
Buono) to rehearse with her. The re-
hearsal scene, with a raddled Baby Jane
squawking and mincing in beribboned
ringlets and the pianist smirking over
the keyboard, is grislier than many of
the film’s more conventional horrors.
Like it or not, “Baby Jane” is Miss
Davis’s picture. Slatternly, rasp-voiced,
ranging at times to sly menace and a
sort of befuddled coquetry, she is often
outrageously hammy, and then suddenly
and unnervingly believable. Director
Richard Aldrich seems to have given
her her head a risky policy with
Miss Davis, but one that has paid off
here; the role, after all, requires gusto
rather than subtlety. Miss Crawford,
registering bewildered hurt deepening
into helpless terror, has a relatively re-
strictive task.
When Davis and the excellent Mr
Buono are off the screen and some-
times when they are on it the film
tends to drag. Aldrich’s direction is, as
usual, efficient, but it loses much of its
effect through uneconomical scripting
and slow cutting. Possibly the film would
have been tighter and more tense if the
producers had taken it less seriously;
from the pace and length of it it looks
as though they lost sight of the fact
that they were handling a macabre piece
of entertainment instead of a serious
psychological drama.
MARTIN LONG
ART
Painting
with Light
Lloyd Rees. Recently at the John-
stone Gallery, Brisbane.
T loyd Rees seems free of that com-
mon condition our painters often
have “The Australian Complex.” He
makes no attempt to seize or unravel
the essence of either city life (Mr Rees
lives in Sydney) or the outback, nor
does he reject Australia as a source of
inspiration, but instead finds material at
random. This is noteworthy, for Mr
Rees is a landscapist and a member of
the older generation.
Although perhaps the most arresting
oil, “The City,” is of Sydney, this large
show is really the fruit of recent years
in Europe. Providing the uninitiated
viewer rids himself of the idea that the
South of France must necessarily look
like a Van Gogh picture or Greece like
a Durrell description, much will be
found to appreciate both in Mr Rees’
technique and in his impressions of
Europe.
The artist’s concern is with nature,
the unusual results it often achieves in
form, color, and light as well as the
manner in which man’s buildings relate
to their surroundings. Mr Rees favors
Southern Europe on account of its
unique, nodulous, swollen hillocks, bar-
ren papier-mache-like mountains, flower-
ing, puffy trees and the contrast offered
by its monolithic ruins or humble stucco
peasants’ dwellings. Nevertheless it is
the extraordinary colors he handles with
such finesse that give his work its un-
worldly, vision-like quality. The canvas
can become a sun-parched surface swept
by ochres, terracottas, a pink unknown
to nurseries, burnt sienna, a blue-green
so faded as to be nearly an off-white
haze, or when a storm is brewing a
swirl of vivid yet fathomless blue, dark
ominous greys, and red mathers. These
colors are all intensified and united by
a diffused luminosity sometimes strong
enough to suggest spot-lighting but some-
times suggesting that eerie light which
heralds a summer's electrical storm.
Mr Rees also employs a most striking
technique. As he was first noted as a
draftsman, it is not surprising that this
specialised skill is very much in evi-
dence both in the oils and the water-
colors. The numerous buildings and clas-
sical motifs are naturally treated with
preciseness. Some of the rocks, especially
in “Grecian Image,” are worked as paint
drawings and in many of the general
shapes of the hills and foliage one de-
tects a draftsman's wrists at work. Mr
Rees suggests intricate detail such as
the jointings of masonry or column
flutings by a few painted lines. This is
very pronounced and successful in “The
Settlement, South Coast” focus
vitality and surface texture all being
achieved by this one means. To endow
a scene with grandness, the viewer is
placed visually above and away from
the picture plane, humans are rarely in-
cluded and then only in a secondary
status, and the large canvases are made
to seem even bigger by the broad vistas.
The watercolors, mainly from his
sketchbook, are understandably less am-
bitious. Some, such as the San Gimig-
nano group, are in no way extraordinary,
while a few like “Omega Pastures” and
“Werri Beach” contain the embryo of
his very individual oils.
NANCY UNDERHILL
MUSIC
Entremont
Philippe Entremont. Solo piano
recital, Melbourne Town Hall.
Eighth Orchestral Subscription Con-
cert. Melbourne Town Hall.
recital was to my ear an
affair of fine moments, not some-
thing to be enjoyed from start to finish.
The programme, first of all, was in itself
thoroughly attractive: all Chopin, all
familiar, music to be heard without strain,
yet with confidence in its quality. But
the pianist projected an image of Chopin
which was at once quite virtuosic and
quite within the frame of a fairly narrow
Romantic viewpoint. The notes and
their phrases were well articulated, and
he did make sense of the musical struc-
tures, to show himself in fact a performer
of marked intelligence. Further, there
was barely a moment in which his me-
chanical fluency was at all impaired: the
technical parts of his playing remained at
a higher level than has happened with
other pianists 1 have enjoyed more. The
fault seemed to be that he unmasked his
big guns too soon, and too often.
Certainly there were times, as in the
superb second melody of the Funeral
March in the B Flat Minor Sonata, when
the faery casements were swinging wide
indeed; but on the whole Entremont
seemed anxious to play up the climaxes
and the fortes. These were too often
marred, I thought, by a thunderous
reverberation which muffled the tone
and confused the melodic outline, the
one golden line which should be clear
above the emphases.
At this concert Rita Streich made her
first appearance, and enchanted her audi-
ence with the artful use of her fine voice
in arias from Strauss and Mozart. She
sings her role as well as her music, a kind
of pyrrhic talent, which raises the mo-
mentary illusion of the opera-house while
being unable to offer its reality.
KENNETH HINCE


Tributes
to Low
1. Birth of the Blimp
Low was probably one of the greatest
portrayers of humanity, as it is,
who ever lived. Even after 50 years
the faces leap at you and you see them
exactly as they were, though paradoxi-
cally enough the drawings seem to bring
out the best even in the worst of men.
And that was true even when he set out
to lampoon his subject, as he was all too
ready to do.
Among those whom Low immortalised
were the great figures of The Bulletin.
They all live in his book of
“Caricatures”.
He came to the paper in November,
1911, 20 years old, fresh from Christ-
church, New Zealand. As Hop said, “We
put him through the mangle and he came
out clean and starched and a finished
Bulletin man.”
All the masters of the paper set out
to teach him, and a glimpse through the
early drawings that used to hang round
the office showed specimens of Low with
a patch of Lindsay pasted on, or perhaps
a patch of Low himself. His drawing
quickly took on a firmer touch and a new
.character.
His first drawings as a staff artist gave
him access to the kind of subject he most
loved: large men with well-fed counten-
ances and wayward moustaches “like
Niagara Falls.”'
John Murray was being pushed to the
end of his Victorian Premiership, tired
from his wrestle with a recalcitrant
Legislative Council. Low drew him
exhausted in his corpulence on a sofa
plagued by Granny “Age” and Great
Aunt “Argus”.
He continued to draw fat men and
large-moustached men with special
gusto, frequenting Turkish baths as a
sort of hobby to get them naked and
Parliament to get them in their public
habitats.
It was in the Turkish baths of Mel-
bourne that the prototype of Colonel
Blimp was born in 1913-14. His
moustache evolved out of the impressive
appendage of Patrick McMahon Glynn,
which was almost as elegant as that
silver-tongued orator’s speech; out of
the walrus adornment of George Pearce,
the magnificent buffalo - horn - shaped
frontispiece of Senator Harry Turley, but
particularly from that of Lord Dicky
Neville who reigned at Government
House as “Chamberlain” during Lord
Dudley’s period of Governor-General-
ship. This drooping but ingrowing
appendage now attached to the famous
face of the immortal Blimp in his English
days a face which undoubtedly was
derived from that of one of his earliest
subjects, Prime Minister W. P. Massey
of New Zealand.
Billy Hughes, of course, made Low’s
fame. The latter was able to exhibit
through him all the permutations and
combinations of picturesque man.
Possibly his masterpiece as a caricaturist
was his cartoon for The Bulletin
called “The Circus Leaves for Home”,
published after Billy’s triumphant visit
to Europe in 1918. It exhibits no less
than 23 Billies ranging from Umbrella-
mending Billy to Admiral of the Fleet
Billy. And there are only three figures
in it which are not Billy—two dogs of
war, one of which seems to be Low, and
Joe Cook (who did most of the work in
Europe while Billy talked) sitting tiny
and forgotten on his swag in the back-
ground.
T ow was not so much a cartoonist as
a caricaturist in his early days. The
effectiveness of his cartoons depended on
his lifelike presentation of his subjects
rather than his views on the subjects. In
London, his drawing became different in
method to suit the hurried timetables of
afternoon papers. And most of the best
of his work seems to have been done
while he was in Australia, including a
magnificent colored series in the manner
of Spy, of Vanity Fair.
When I saw him in London in the
mid-’twenties he was not the same Low
I had first met in Brisbane during his
Australian tour of his Bulletin days.
He had filled out sleekly. He was
bearded. Names dropped from him —
Lloyd George, Birkenhead, Churchill,
H. G. Wells. He seemed to regard his
eight years as a Bulletin staffer as
something which had been a mere youth-
ful incident. It was actually a period in
his work which for quality has never
been surpassed. None of his long list of
books of drawing and caricature ever
came up in quality to his book of
“Caricatures By Low” published in a
limited edition by James Tyrrell in 1915,
or to his Billy Book of Bulletin war-
time cartoons and caricatures.
M. H. Ellis
2. Low—and Behold!
VTo discerning editor or publisher can
be said to have discovered David
Low the cartoonist, because Low was
never “lost” —until, that is, last week in
London, when he became lost to the
world for good.
From personal observation as a New
Zealander and a fellow “townie” of
some half-dozen years Low’s junior, I
can give my affidavit that the boy David
knew exactly who he was, what he was,
and where he was going from that day
in 1903, in Christchurch, when his ex-
cited father, a member of the sales staff
of the chemical firm of Kemptherne
Prosser, proudly rushed home with a
dozen copies of an Australian maga-
zine, “The New Idea,” displaying “The
First Prize Drawing, by David A. C.
Low, aged 12.”
With a sense of fitness that never left
him, the young genius had depicted an
armor-plated mammal cracking a pachy-
dermatous smile over a copy of the prize-
giving publication.
Locally, the boy’s work attracted the
attention of a bespectacled, red-haired
freelance cartoonist, Fred Rayner, who
sporadically produced a periodical called
“The Sketcher”. Rayner sent the much
more capable Low into the town to cari-
cature notabilities and sketch potential
advertisers in flattering profile. The
Hon. G. W. Russell (known as “Rickety”
for his Riccarton electorate) very soon
gave him a job on his Christchurch
weekly, “The Spectator”.
At the ripe age of 13, David Low
had discovered himself. He moved over
to the “War Cry”, where he crusaded
pictorially against juvenile smoking while
he simultaneously pilloried politicians for
John Norton’s somewhat flamboyant
“New Zealand Truth”. His transference
from the important “Canterbury Times”,
in which weekly publication of the
“Lyttelton Times” he had caught the eye
of William McLeod, managing director
of the Sydney Bulletin, to the staff
of the “Australian Bible” is well known.
But the famous Bulletin editor
Jules Francois Archibald, William Mc-
Leod, Arnold Bennett, the Cadburys
of the London “Star”, Lord Beaverbrook
and the rest certainly pointed the way for
him.
As he testified in his own “Auto-
Obituary”, he was “no lover of human-
ity”. He added that “He preferred
Crusoe’s Island to a public meeting: no
philosopher, he liked to sit by a lake
and think of nothing; no sybarite, he
found a ninepenny seat at the cinema
more entertaining than the feasts of
princes. A simple, kindly man.” Well,
anyway, that’s what the man said.
Brodie Mack


RED PAGE
The Boswell Saga
Why did Johnson tolerate him?
By GEOFFREY SCOTT
Boswell: The Ominous Years 1774-
76. Edited by Charles Ryskamp
and Frederick A. Pottle. Heine-
mann. 525.
TPhe time has arrived when it is possible
A to attempt an evaluation of the enor-
mous outpouring of Boswelliana that be-
gan with the publication of the “London
Journal” 13 years ago. The latest volume
is the seventh in the present series. We
have not been informed whether Boswell
went on keeping journals until his last
years. If he did, we can expect at least
another half-dozen volumes to follow.
And this is only what the editors describe
as the trade edition. It is Boswell inter-
polated and tidied-up for the benefit of
that amorphous creature, the general
reader. A whole shelf of books can
hardly be described as Instant Boswell;
it is, however, predigested Boswell.
Meanwhile, “a large group of editors and
a permanent office staff” at Yale Univer-
sity are preparing a research edition con-
taining the full text of Boswell’s journals,
the disjecta membra of his other jottings
and the Life of Johnson from the origi-
nal manuscript, with “extensive scholarly
annotation”. We are promised that this
edition will run to at least 30 volumes,
of which the first may appear this year.
This is still not all. The scholar and
general reader having been catered for,
it remained to satisfy the fondler of fine
bindings, the bibliophile. Sure enough,
“the publishers may also issue limited de
luxe printings of the trade volumes with
extra illustrations and special editorial
matter”.
When all tribute has been paid to the
industry and erudition of the Boswell
editors, the question remains: What value
was the result of their labors? We can
of course, speak only of the volumes in-
tended for the general reader. The
complete edition has not yet begun pub-
lication and, in any case, will be of in-
terest only to the 18th-century specialist.
Those specialists should certainly be
grateful that the material is to be made
available in print and no doubt one of
the objects, if not the main object, of
the present series is to help finance the
issue of the full text. For that reason it
may seem ungenerous to claim that James
Boswell has all but exhausted his interest
for the general reader. That, however.
I believe to be true. The fact must be
faced that Boswell is becoming a bore.
“A man of the meanest and feeblest
intellect . . . Servile and impertinent,
shallow and pedantic, a bigot and a
sot . . .” Macaulay’s summing-up of
Boswell’s character in his famous review
of Croker’s edition of the Life of John-
son established an image of the man that
remained virtually unchallenged until
the “London Journal” appeared in 1950.
Boswell’s diaries have, to some extent,
compelled us to modify this ferocious
judgment. We have come to know Bos-
well better than almost any other figure
in literary history. Not even Pepys re-
vealed himself with such remorseless and
disarming candor. We closed the “Lon-
don Journal” regarding Boswell with a
mixture of affection, amusement and con-
tempt. It cannot be said that subsequent
volumes have made much difference to
this impression.
T>oswell is 34 years old at the opening
of “The Ominous Years”. He is
married with a young family and a busy
legal practice in Edinburgh, but he has
not grown up much since we first met
him. He still occasionally hunts whores
through the wynds of Edinburgh or along
the Strand in London. He reels home
from drunken debauches, alternately
threatening his wife with physical
assault and begging her forgive-
ness with maudlin promises of re-
form. He debates whether he would
achieve “Asiatic tranquillity” by pro-
viding himself with a permanent con-
cubine and characteristically pesters his
friends for advice. “The patriarchs, and
even the Old Testament men who went to
harlots, were devout”, he decides. “Even
Luther did not think it an indispensable
duty to cohabit with only one woman”.
He consults his long-suffering wife on
the subject and is a little taken aback by
her tart reply. “I told her I must have
a concubine. She said I might go with
whom I pleased”. Unhappy Boswell!
“What misery does a man of sensibility
suffer”, he reflects gloomily.
Only when he sets out on one of his
periodic jaunts to London does he shake
off the clouds of depression and self-pity.
He is quitting dull, provincial Edin-
burgh for the great, bustling world of
literature and fashion to which he feels he
really belongs. Ahead lie inspiring com-
bats at the Club with the Great Lexico-
grapher himself pontificating from the
chair, breakfasts in the salons of pretty,
witty women, and always the hope that
Boswell’s aristocratic friend, Lord
Mountstuart, will find him a lucrative
sinecure so that he can throw away his
Scottish lawbooks forever. As the coach
rolls nearer to London, Boswell’s spirits
rise proportionately. He sings Gee Ho
Dobbin and The Roast Beef of Old Eng-
land and makes “a prodigious jovial noise
going through Welwyn and other vil-
lages.”
Two-fifths, and by far the more in-
teresting part, of this book are taken up
with Boswell’s visits to London and his
travels in England with Johnson. He
meets Captain Cook (‘‘a plain sensible
man”) and seriously considers seeking a
passage on his next voyage. He arranges
the historic meeting between Wilkes and
Johnson. He is snubbed by Fox “I met
Charles Fox, who was indifferently civil.
I cannot expect that all men are to like
me”. He has a brief, uncomprehending
glimpse of a new age when he visits the
factory where Boulton and Watt have
just begun the commercial manufacture
of steam engines. “I sell, sir, what all
the world desires to have Power”,
Matthew Boulton tells him gravely.
Boswell’s association with Johnson is,
however, the pivot of this volume as it
was of most of its predecessors. It is
fascinating to compare the Life with the
journals and see how many of the most
celebrated passages are lifted almost ver-
batim from Boswell’s private scribblings.
Naivety or artistic cunning it is im-
possible to say; but the result was the
most astonishing biography in any lan-
guage. The journals leave the mystery
of the friendship between Boswell and
Johnson as tantalising as ever. Cer-
tainly Johnson was susceptible to flattery,
he was well aware that Boswell was to
be his biographer and did not want to
drive away the man who was recording
his pronouncements with such tireless
fidelity. The Life makes it clear that
his patience was often sorely strained.
The journals reveal that the Doctor
sometimes treated Boswell with even
more barbaric roughness. “The rattling
of the chaise today prevented me from
hearing Dr Johnson talk. I told him so.
‘Then’, said he, ‘you may go hang
yourself’.” But Boswell does not cringe
under the lash; he exults under it. He is
constantly astonished that the Great Man
should have chosen him for a confidant
and his devotion is absolutely unshake-
able.
Boswell, of course, finds in Johnson a
substitute father. His relations with his
own parent, always cold and uneasy, are
now embittered by a tedious dispute about
the entail of the Boswell estates. Lord
Auchinleck patently despises his son, and


James Boswell, the perpetual adolescent,
continually hungers for affection, advice
and encouragement. He gets them all
from Dr Johnson. It is doubtful whether
the Life adequately portrays the softer
side of Johnson’s character. The instinct
of pity that moved him to support the
pathetic little band of dependants in his
own meagre lodgings also discerned the
feebleness and insecurity behind Bos-
well’s assertive garrulity.
It must be repeated, however, that this
latest volume of Boswelliana — highly
entertaining though it is in many places
— adds little to what we already know of
the man, his famous friends and the age
in which he lived. The complete jour-
nals will undoubtedly provide a reward-
ing banquet for specialist historians. The
general reader may be forgiven if his
appetite is beginning to flag.
Man with a Lens
The Innocent Eye. The Life of Robert
J. Flaherty. Arthur Calder-Mar-
shall, based on research material
by Paul Rotha and Basil Wright.
W. H. Allen. 60s. 9d.
Long known in film circles as the
“father of documentary,” Robert
Flaherty created a personal style which
many regard as poetic, romantic or
dramatic, rather than documentary in
the usual meaning of the term. Ex-
plorer by inclination, cinematographer
almost by chance, he could, in the
words of his new biographer, perceive
“things that others had failed to see,”
yet “his eye was innocent in the sense
that it saw no evil.” This, as the title
suggests, is Arthur Calder-Marshall’s
leading motif.
From the wealth of material at his
disposal, he has made a judicious selec-
tion, which amplifies what has already
been published, notably “The World Of
Robert Flaherty” by Richard Griffith,
but he does not substantially alter it.
Of the biographical data, the earliest
is still the most revealing. Contained in
Part One, “Flaherty The Explorer,” it
takes Flaherty’s story up to the shooting
of his first picture “Nanook Of The
North” in 1920, when he was 36. Those
were the formative years.
Part Two, “Flaherty The Artist,”
though not repetitive, is like a set of
variations on a theme. Flaherty, more
interested in primitive life than in mod-
ern civilisation, did not change with the
times. He adapted different subjects to
his own concept of art, not his art to
his subjects. And Mr Calder-Marshall
shows how consistently Flaherty’s pic-
tures reflect a manner of seeing already
acquired in youth, during his early ex-
plorations of North Canada, when he
learnt to “reconstruct imaginatively”
what life there would have been like,
undisturbed by his arrival.
It was then, too, during his first en-
counters with Eskimos, that he discov-
ered “people who in the midst of life
were so close to death that they lived
in the moment nobly.” This epic virtue,
Mr Calder-Marshall believes, is the one
Flaherty prized above all others. In
his films he sought to reconstruct the
lives of people possessing it, however
much “manipulation” of reality this
might involve. Among the scenes re-
constructed for the camera in “Nanook
Of The North” was the dramatic wal-
rus hunt.
In “Moana” he went further, putting
the hero through the ordeal of a tattoo-
ing ceremony, though it was obsolescent.
In “Man Of Aran” he staged an im-
pressive shark hunt, knowing that the
islanders no longer hunted basking-
sharks for their oil, having used paraffin
for fifty years. And in “Louisiana Story”
he turned the hazards and excitements
of oil-drilling into a fantasy about man
and the machine, seen through a boy’s
eyes.
To present his idealised vision of
mankind, he departed even further from
documentary by his omissions. He was
not concerned with evil in people or in
society. “There is no villain in his
world,” Mr Calder-Marshall observes,
“except the natural elements.” Despite
his collaboration in 1931 with the Brit-
ish documentary pioneers on “Industrial
Britain,” it was not till 1939, when he
was 54, that he learnt through work-
ing all over the United States on “The
Land” about such things as unemploy-
ment and industrial strife. And he dealt
with them brilliantly only in this
picture, which was like “a series of
cries of pain.”
In his other films he was concerned
with different aspects of truth, and dis-
cussing each production in turn, Mr
Calder-Marshall builds up a very clear
exposition of the stuff, much of it con-
trary stuff, Flaherty’s genius was made
of. He describes how Flaherty strove
to show things the way they were meant
to be by nature, and to show people the
way they saw themselves; how he liked
involving them in the process of film-
making; how patiently he tried to gain
the confidence of the many shy charac-
ters, specially the children, who were his
film heroes; how intuitively he handled
the camera, and how masterly his photo-
graphy was from the outset.
Mr Calder-Marshall’s book is better
than most biographies of film people
it is a portrait of a personality. But,
like most portraits, it does not reveal
everything. The book refers to Flaherty’s
“love” of animals, without noting, how-
ever, that they appear in his films mostly
as beasts of burden or children’s pets,
and that their suffering was one of the
evils on which Flaherty, unlike Arne
Sucksdorff, with whom.he is compared,
turned a blind eye. Mr Calder-Marshall
mentions also Flaherty’s conviviality and
sociability, affectionately remembered by
numerous friends, but I like best his
description from personal memory of
this “over-life-size man . . . with an
outflow of human love which was al-
most insensitive, because it gave so much
that it took very little in.” That explains
also the qualities and limitations of his
art. I met Mr Flaherty at Denham
Studios during the filming of “Elephant
Boy,” and noticed then that he cared
only for the world of his vision and
those who reflected it.
The book contains excellent illustra-
tions from eight of Flaherty’s films
(three uncompleted) and photographs of
him from youth to the age of 67 in
1951, when he . died, but they are not
well arranged. Some might regret Mr
Calder-Marshall’s fondness for collo-
quialisms, like “re-vamp,” “off-beat,”
“what to do?”, “film-wise,” specially in
reference to the past, when they were
not yet in use. I regret the absence of
maps. These are the only criticisms I
have of an authoritative and fascinating
book.
CATHERINE DE LA ROCHE
Ducks & Hounds
Gold Fleet for California. Charles
Bateson. Ure Smith. 59s. 6d.
"Everything about this new volume of
Charles Bateson’s is golden except
for one thing. The wrapper is gold, the
illustrations are mounted in gold, the fold-
ing end-paper photograph of the Golden
Gate and its shipping is lavishly produced.
The Georgian-type paper in the deckle-
edged pages looks as if the publisher is
rolling in gold. About the only feature
that isn’t called attention to in gold of
some sort is the genus “Sydney duck”
which formed a notorious portion of the
Californian population during the years
in which the Forty-Niners established
themselves in song and story.
The book records Australia’s first and
most profitable investment abroad. Ac-
cording to Mr Bateson’s calculations, we
sent to California in 1849-50 perhaps
seven or eight thousand adventurers,
many of them from areas within sight
of spots where the biggest nuggets in
modern history lay as little as a foot or
two underground. Some of these men
we well could afford to spare. Cali-
fornia paid for them in know-how.
The first instalment was Edward Ham-
mond Hargraves, who sailed for the
banks of the Sacramento in July 1849 and
came back in the Emma on January 7,
1851, with his “washbowl on his knee”.


His terrain-conscious eye was on the
Lewis Ponds region into which the first
white men had propelled themselves at
Christmastide, 1814, without realising the
riches that lay under their feet.
In the next decade, as field after field
yielded its treasure, Australia’s popula-
tion rose from 400,000 to 1,200,000 and
its transformation into a self-governing
continent had begun. By 1852 with Port
Phillip what Mr Bateson calls “a leafless
forest” of masts, the great influx here had
begun from all quarters of the globe and
the features of California’s first year of
gold rush were locally repeated coastal
towns deserted, roads packed, new towns
rising, gold as common as dirt.
Mr Bateson is mainly concerned with
the preliminary exodus and with the ships
that carried it across the Pacific. The
news of the discovery of gold by James
Marshall at Sutter’s Hill on the Sacra-
mento was published in the “Sydney
Morning Herald” under a single column,
seven point Roman headline, on the day
before Christmas Eve, 1848. It ap-
parently was brought by the master of
the Plymouth, an adventurous schooner
of 85 tons burden, manned by South Sea
Islanders, which had sailed from Hono-
lulu, but two other vessels from New
Zealand seem also to have come in neck
and neck with the news.
However, it was the Plymouth that led
the race from Sydney to California on
January 8, 1849, laden with a cheaply
bought cargo from Montefiore and
Graham. It was followed by the Des-
patch (139 tons) and the new brig
William Hill (119 tons), which was Aus-
tralian built on the Clarence River.
The Despatch carried the first lone
passenger and landed him in San Fran-
cisco Bay on March 28, 99 days out from
Sydney. The Clarence River vessel, with
three passengers, cut the time down to
88 days. During the first year neither
steamer only five made the voyage in
1849 nor sailing vessel reached the
golden goal in under 80 days till another
Australian-built vessel, the Ebenezer , 90
tons, built on Lake Macquarie, crossed the
Pacific in 75 days, sailing at the end of
September.
Only very rarely did the hopeful voy-
agers endure any period less than 80 days
at sea or enjoy the luxury of travelling
in a ship of 200 tons or more the re-
cord was 68 days by the 307-ton Louisa
in 1850.
Some of the shallops that faced the
7000 mile voyage would scarcely be re-
garded as safe for a venture from Circu-
lar Quay to Manly on a stormy day.
Bligh’s 3000 mile voyage, rarely out of
sight of land, is held up as an epic of all
time, but what must it have been like to
spend 100 days in the Phantom cutter, 13
tons —34ft 6ins long, lift 6ins beam and
sft draft —or 124 days in a 17-year-old
34-ton cutter, Sydney built, or in the 15-
ton schooner Flinders (Captain Cam-
eron). This ocean liner in May, 1850,
sailed from Sydney on May 15, a day
after the 638 ton John Munn the lar-
gest vessel out of Port Jackson for Cali-
fornia in 1849-50 and beat the big
ship to her destination by 16 days. She
had called at the Gambier Islands near
Pitcairn and from there made a record
run to San Francisco in 37 days.
Sometimes, certainly, these pristine
Pacific vessels must have been a bit
crowded, as when the 101-ton Star of
China contained 68 aspiring gold-diggers
for 135 days.
These conditions naturally made the
voyage one of adventure at any time, even
when it was merely a voyage. But see-
ing that a small but noticeable minority
of the Australian fortune hunters were
“Sydney ducks”, given to “nefarious
activities” and generally “shunned and
held in contempt”, it is no wonder that
a spice of adventure flavors the whole
of Mr Bateson’s volume and that Austra-
lians were scarcely popular in San Fran-
cisco. The Australian Hounds, the
elite of the ducks, terrorised San Fran-
cisco until they made the cardinal mistake
of murdering a newspaper man, thus
provoking the first mass action against
lawlessness in the golden city. The doubt-
ful honor of being the first wretch hanged
by the Vigilantes at two a.m., two
hours after the verdict on a gallows
in the plaza was accorded to John Jen-
kins, a “duck” who hailed from Tasmania,
via Sydney.
Mr Bateson has done a notable piece of
research, and one hopes that his enthusi-
asm to lay the foundations of a complete
history of Australian pioneer shipping
has not been exhausted. The story of the
deep-sea coal ships still has to be written
and it is worthy of the same careful
examination, tabulation of vessels and
annotation which are features of his
latest effort. In devoting himself to the
Australian side of the sea, he has cer-
tainly struck pay dirt.
M. H. ELLIS
Golden Boy
Shake the Golden Bough. T. A. G.
Hungerford. Angus & Robertson.
225. 6d.
The Thin Red Line. James Jones.
Collins. 31s.
*T*he salient feature of a book by
T. A. G. Hungerford up to date
has been its solid core of realistic ob-
servation. “Riverslake,” which was set
in a migrant hostel in Canberra, was in-
deed too documentary in flavor to be a
satisfactory work of fiction. Tom Hun-
gerford’s latest novel, though it is no
doubt based on the observations he made
of New York life when he was Press
Officer at the New York office of the
Australian News and Information Bur-
eau, is as unreal as the nightmareland
of its setting.
“Shake the Golden Bough” is the
story of a young drifter from Bondi who
is taken up by Clay Ward, a rich New
Yorker, to be made into a champion
boxer. Clay Ward looks on Charlie Dan-
gerfield, the young Australian, partly as
a son, partly as a fulfilment of a vague
ambition to make a mark in the world
without the help of his wife’s money,
and principally as an amusing hobby.
What he does not foresee, despite his
wife’s warnings, is the damaging effects
Charlie Dangerfield will have on the
lives of those in his social circle. For
one thing, just about all the women, and
one man, fall in love with Charlie: the
charming, beautiful Venetia Ward;
the charming, beautiful Helen Grant; the
charming, beautiful Jo Dio; Deborah
Clune, a Hollywood star on the Gloria
Swanson - Sunset Boulevard model;
Caroline, Deborah Clune’s colored maid;
and Art Quintus, a sensitive young doc-
tor who is also a queer. We are not
given much idea of Charlie’s prowess
in the ring; but we are left in no doubt
that he is a champion in another field.
His easy conquests are described against
a background of glittering apartments
and restaurants in New York and the
summer terraces and lawns of a seaside
mansion in Long Island.
James Jones knows war as he
demonstrated in his popular first novel
“From Here To Eternity”. In “The Thin
Red Line” (recently off the banned
list) he gives an overwhelmingly
vivid and graphic account of the life in
action of the members of a rifle com-
pany, C-for-Charlie, during their
struggle for possession of a section of
hill country in Guadalcanal. Some indi-
viduals emerge from the company roster
at the beginning of the book: Captain
Stein, who shows more compassion to
his men and more understanding of the
aimlessness of the campaign than is
good for his peace of mind; Corporal
Fife, the Forward Clerk, who is bullied
by Sergeant Welsh and in turn bullies
his offsider (and bunkmate) Private
Bead; Private Witt, the ex-boxer, who
cuts a friend forever for correcting his
pronunciation of “travesty” (he had said
“traversty”); and the mad, cruel Ser-
geant Welsh, grinning slyly as he turns
over his obsessions in his mind and
thinks out new ways to torment those
under him. Welsh’s principal obsession
is with property. He believes property is
at the root of everything: “Property.
Property. All for property.” Because that


was what it was; what it was all about.
One man’s property, or another man’s.
One nation's, or another nation’s. It had
all been done, and was being done,
for property.”
There is a memorable scene in
which Sergeant Welsh attacks some
pinewood grenade cases with a bay-
onet, and then passes out the hand-
grenades like a football halfback, his
enormous command voice booming over
the din and tumult, “Eggs! Eggs! Foot-
balls! Footballs! Sammy Baugh! Sid
Luckman! Rah rah rah! Who wants
footballs! Bronco Nagurski!” Welsh is
real enough certainly, for all his crazi-
ness,- and so are all the other ones just
mentioned; but too often Jones tends
to be describing stock types and attribut-
ing standard emotions to them.
As in his earlier novels, “From Here
To Eternity,” “The Pistol” and “Some
Came Running,” James Jones shows
in his novel a better grasp of the de-
tails of combat and terrain than of
personal emotions and the complexities
of human relationships. It could perhaps
be argued in his defence here that the
hero is not any individual but the com-
pany itself C-for-Charlie. No doubt,
too, one of Jones’ main points in “The
Thin Red Line” is that individuals dis-
solve in the crises of battle into a group,
and are swallowed up in the onrush of
war.
PETER ELKIN
Russians &
Redskins
Catherine the Great. E. M. Almedin-
gen. Hutchinson. 445. 9d.
The Kremlin. Victor Alexandrov.
Allen & Unwin. 495. 9d.
The Patriot Chiefs. Alvin M. Josephy
Jnr. Eyre and Spottiswoode.
375. 3d.
rpHE life of Catherine II of Russia pro-
vides a gargantuan feast for bio-
graphers. One of the most extraordinary
women in history, she overflows all cate-
gories and defies all definitions. She was
the Messalina of the North who allowed
her husband to be murdered and counted
her lovers by the dozen. She was the
adroit politician who steered her adopted
country through more than 30 years of
diplomatic triumph and territorial ag-
grandisement. She was the philosophe
who corresponded with Voltaire and Did-
erot, who said “if I were Pope I would
canonise Montesquieu”, and who once
ennobled a Moscow corn-merchant be-
cause of his devotion to his library.
Faced with this banquet Miss Almedin-
gen has chosen to concentrate on Cath-
erine the ruler and has indulged with
moderation in the heady wine of Cath-
erine the grand amoureuse that so intoxi-
cates novelettists and film writers. The
result is a sober, straightforward book
that sets its subject firmly in the frame-
work of 18th century European history.
But something is missing from the
picture. At the core of Catherine’s per-
sonality is mystery, some deep well-
spring of motivation that cannot be
simply explained away in terms of her
personal ambitions or her delight in the
intricacies of European power politics.
Parallels with Elizabeth I of England have
been suggested, but they are mislead-
ing. Elizabeth was an English princess
born to the great Tudor inheritance of
power and prestige. How did it happen
that Catherine, the daughter of one of
the most obscure of all the obscure
tribe of German princelings, “born in the
West and nurtured on the milk of the
Aufklarung,” made herself autocrat of
alien Russia and then dominated her
adopted country in a despotism as
Oriental as that of any Czar of Muscovy?
Lovers, statesmen and generals alike
were little more than the puppets of her
will. None of her shamelessly-paraded
and richly-rewarded messieurs en litre,
not even the brilliant Potemkin, wielded
anything like the influence of a Pom-
padour or a Dubarry. Peter the Great
broke the spirit of the old boyar aris-
tocracy and Catherine completed the
work of Westernisation. Though she out-
wardly adopted the Orthodox faith, on
the rationalist principle that the Russian
throne was worth a Mass, the pan-Slav
mysticism of Russian religion was ab-
solutely meaningless to her. Her dreams
of throwing the Turk out of Constan-
tinople had nothing to do with restoring
the Christian Cross to Santa Sophia. She
was simply determined to push the Rus-
sian frontier to the Mediterranean, just
as the cold-blooded dismemberment of
Poland was designed to consolidate
Peter’s drive to the Baltic.
On all that concerns Catherine’s do-
mestic rule and her influence in inter-
national affairs, Miss Almedingen writes
with clarity and authority. It is only
when she deals with Catherine as a
human being that her grip seems to
slacken.
Readers who buy “The Kremlin” in
the hope of learning about the construc-
tion and architecture of that vast com-
plex of ancient buildings flanking Mos-
cow’s Red Square will be disappointed.
First, published in French three years
ago, the book is a rapid canter through
Russian history from the foundations of
Muscovy to the death of Stalin, with
emphasis on its more infamous figures
and more sensational events.
Alvin Josephy’s book tells the stories
of nine of the patriot chiefs who tried
to stem the irresistible tide of white ex-
pansion across the United States. It is
a sombre and often tragic narrative of
the Redskins’ struggle for survival in the
face of hopeless odds, a struggle stained
by white brutality and broken faith and
by fearful atrocities by both sides along
the frontiers of settlement. And always
that frontier was pushed steadily west-
ward. When King Philip launched his
war in the 17th century, the New Eng-
land colonists were still clinging to a
precarious foothold on the Atlantic
coast. Two centuries later the last centre
of Indian resistance was in the moun-
tains of Idaho. In those 200 years the
Indians had been harried out of the
forests of the Great Lakes, out of the
buffalo plains of the Middle West and
finally out of the valleys of the Rocky
Mountains. Nation after nation had
turned desperately at bay, only to be
defeated, scattered and eventually turned
into pathetic suppliants for the white
man’s charity.
Alvin losephy’s book is far removed
from the usual gory and highly-colored
chronicles of the Indian wars. It is a
soberly-written and well-documented
piece of American history, and is all the
more moving and convincing for its
restraint.
G.S.
Stoning The
Artist
I, Michelangelo, Sculptor. Irving
Stone. Collins. 375. 3d.
THhere have been more than two
A thousand publications on Michel-
angelo, yet until Mr Stone and his wife
went to work there was no edition in
English of his letters. Mr Stone clearly
believes his volume to be a scoop, which
it may well be among assiduous collec-
tors. There are other larger and more
informative collections of writings by the
artist and his contemporaries, but none
which gives Michelangelo’s letters
chronologically. If that is a worthy task,
then the editors must be congratulated
for doing it thoroughly.
Completeness for its own sake seems
pointless to me. Michelangelo’s letters
in chronological order are quite soporific,
and they do not make “An Autobio-
graphy in Letters’’, as the sub-title would
have it. Few men’s letters do, especially
if they are terse and undistinguished
writers. Mr Stone’s claims for his collec-
tion are optimistic and prepare the reader
for far more than he gets. In his intro-
duction he warns that many of the
letters are dull, but promises that they
work up “to a tremendous and shatter-
ing climax.” In fact they stick strictly to
business throughout, and show Michel-
angelo largely as a shrewd and tight-
fisted litigant.
BILL HANNAN


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Stiffer Competition for Apples
Complaints From Overseas As Well
Australian apple growers went
home from their annual con-
ference in Melbourne recently
with faces much longer than those with
which they had arrived. Their gloom
was inspired by a barrage of warnings
from industry leaders on the seriousness
of hazards threatening Australia’s apple
exports. Some made it sound as though
the industry would need little short of
magic to survive.
In the export season just ended, Aus-
tralian apples have received more
criticism from overseas buyers than ever
before, new giants are emerging as com-
petitors in the field of Southern Hemi-
sphere exporters and the European
Economic Commission has just issued
regulations imposing stern new quality
standards that could involve Australia in
rejection of shipments that are now
acceptable.
Most of the complaints from over-
seas this year have concerned a dis-
order called bitter pit, to which certain
varieties, notably Granny Smith which
forms Australia’s largest export, are
susceptible.
A fortnight ago the Australian Apple
and Pear Board decided that for 1963 it
would help Australian exporters meet
claims against them for losses incurred
by overseas importers through bitter pit,
provided the claims were authenticated
to the Board’s satisfaction.
Most of them have come from
Sweden, which prefers the two varieties
(Granny Smith and Cleopatra) that are
most susceptible to bitter pit. With
purchases of some 646,000 cases,
Sweden last year was Australia’s third
best customer.
At this stage the Board’s decision is
one of principle only, for it does not
know the extent of the claims, what pro-
portion of apple exports are involved,
how many exporters are being asked for
compensation or what the call on its
funds will be. The Board’s handouts will
be limited by its income of about
£lOO,OOO a year, drawn from a levy of
3d. a case on all apple and pear ex-
porters. About half the income is spent
on publicity, mainly in the United King-
dom and the Continent, and out of the
rest comes its regular administrative
costs.
Next to Sweden, the biggest source of
complaints this year is Germany, where
importers claim to have lost heavily
through over - ripeness of Australian
apples. In putting all the blame on Aus-
tralia, however, the Germans overlook
themselves.
Importers there bought record quanti-
ties of apples from Australia in 1962
and made a lot out of them. Eager to
repeat their success, they ordered even
more this year slightly more than
1,500,000 boxes. At the same time, other
importers drew extra supplies from The
Argentine, whose deliveries to Germany
jumped from 942,000 cases in 1962 to
1,700,000 this year.
The Australian Apple and Pear Board
is prepared to concede that many Aus-
tralian apples ended up in “advanced
condition” but says this must be con-
sidered in conjunction with Germany’s
over-buying.
Statistically, the amount of fruit that
has prompted the European complaints
is slight compared with the seven million
boxes exported, but the world apple
trade is becoming so competitive that the
slightest blemish in a country’s export
standards could make buyers look else-
where.
Thirty years ago Australia was virtually
the only country in the Southern Hemi-
sphere exporting apples to Europe, and
the market was all hers when apples
were out of season in the northern half
of the world. But South Africa has
become one of the fastest-growing apple-
producing countries, and now exports 3J
million cases a year. By 1975 she is
expected to be sending 9i million boxes
of apples to markets on which Aus-
tralia now depends.
The Argentine’s apple exports have
swollen almost as rapidly, and each year
sees her penetrate deeper into Europe,
particularly in Sweden, where this year
her reputation for excellence in the
Granny Smith variety must have gained
further lustre from the Australian defects.
Production in Australia has been in-
creasing, not explosively as in South
Africa and The Argentine through vast
new plantings but more steadily through
a raising of the yield per acre. Whereas
South Africa will almost treble its present
output by 1975, Australia’s production
might rise by, say, a third. But even this
could be a burden, for Europe is the
Southern Hemisphere’s only big apple
outlet and the designs on it are becoming
intense.
Pre-cooling, valuable as an aid to
maintaining quality in export fruit, is
carried out with every box of apples that
leaves South Africa. Australia pre-cools
only apples in fibre-board cartons, and
pears, amounting to about 50 per cent of
its shipments. Thousands of conventional
wooden boxes of apples still go into ships
at orchard temperature.
The reason why South Africa can pre-
cool all its export apples and Australia
cannot is that the range of fruits that
country handles is wide enough to
warrant capital investment in enough
stores to take ample care of the apple
crop. For the same reason, Victoria has
enough facilities to store and pre-cool
most of its export fruit, but Tasmania,
which supplies the bulk of Australia’s
apple exports, has not.
South African competition ]s already
starting to make inroads on Australia’s
markets, although the per capita con-
sumption in some countries such as
Germany has so far risen at a rate that
enables the additional pressure on the
market to be absorbed. The future is
clouded by the prospect of a growing
armada of South African shipments
flowing northwards in the next decade.
In Sweden, Australian apples are making
no headway against those of The
Argentine.
To aggravate the position, the Euro-
pean Economic Commission recently
issued regulations setting stringent new
quality standards for fruit entering the
Common Market from outside. They
say, in effect, that third countries like
Australia can elect to change their
standards to conform with those of the
EEC or pack according to existing Aus-
tralian standards and be subject to in-
spection on arrival in Common Market
countries.
If the fruit were not up to Category
One, equal to Australia’s “Fancy” grade,
it would be down-graded to Category
Two, and the boxes would be marked
accordingly. If the fruit were not up to
Category Two, it would be rejected and
would have to be disposed of outside
the Market or destroyed.
In a year when complaints were so
profuse as this one the implications for
Australia’s export apples would be clear
vivid, indeed were Britain finally to
enter the Market.


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Less Bubbles for Electricals
Don’t try to do a little better the same things you are
doing now. Try doing things differently by really chang-
ing your operations and your methods. This was the
advice given to manufacturers by Sir Alan Westerman,
Secretary of Australia’s Department of Trade, when he warned
them last week (at the Sixth National Electrical Industry
Conference in Canberra) that
things are going to be tough and
rough in the ’sixties.
Far too many people were
obsessed with the importance of
increasing efficiency and spent
vast amounts of time and money
crouching over workers with
stopwatches, juggling assembly
teams and making time-and-
motion studies, he claimed. All
these were designed to make a
modest improvement in pro-
duction per man - hour, but
usually were doomed to make
only decimal point improve-
ments in overall productivity.
Having ruffled a few feathers
with this description, “Doc”
Westerman stressed the point
that the real measure of pro-
ductivity was the measurement
of efficiency in the utilisation
of all resources of materials,
men, plant, buildings, money,
power, management skills and
the like. And he got it down
to one final measure, which
really motivates all industry
the profit return on each of
these factors.
Everyone agrees with the
profit motive. Yet those who
have labored for years to build
up a business (often by experi-
menting and profiting by their
own or competitors' mistakes)
would hesitate to change radically their operations and methods.
But there is no doubt that delegates walked away from Sir Alan
Westerman’s lecture with worried frowns as they pondered
his warning that the demand for durable consumer goods
which bubbled furiously in the ’fifties had now been reduced
to a simmer.
If Australian manufacturers of electrical goods, domestic
appliances, etc., were unaware of it, Sir Alan summed up future
prospects this way: Decreasing growth rates in established
products, increasing prevalence of unused capacity, production
geared to replacement cycles rather than on expanding secular
demand, increased import competition, price declines, and
shut downs for some firms in the manufacturing, wholesaling
and retailing spheres.
These warnings do not preclude success in the ’sixties. But
victory will go to those with highly-trained management brains,
to firms which can meet the challenge and produce the right
product in the right places at the right time, in the right
quantity and at the right price. That’s why he believes the
successful firm will be the one which can improve its methods.
Sir Alan’s words carry more weight than most, because he
spent many years with the Tariff
Board sifting evidence and in-
vestigating company operations
in Australia and analysing their
efficiency compared with over-
seas producers. Many an ap-
plicant for tariff protection dis-
covered it was pretty difficult
to “put it over” the Doc.
He said that prices, which on
the surface appeared satisfac-
tory, in fact had declined. There
is no dispute with this. Tele-
vision sets, for example, which
once retailed at 220 guineas can
be purchased today for half that
price. A refrigerator which
once cost £2OO can be pur-
chased at less than half that
price. Discounts and fantastic
trade-ins suggest that the above
figures are conservative, yet
these drastic price cuts do not
show up in the consumer price
index. Confirmation can be
given, however, by many sup-
pliers (manufacturers and re-
tailers) who have gone bankrupt.
The electrical trade, of course,
always had a reputation for
violent fluctuations. It relies
heavily on the introduction of
new gadgets, gimmicks and new
models. The old hands know
how rough and tough it is. No
doubt they are hopeful that Sir
Alan may have scared off some
newcomers to an already crowded field, despite the recent
thinning of ranks.
Promoting Hotels,
Not Buying
A ustralia was hit last month with a sales promotion visit
by five sales representatives of the Hilton hotel group.
With the fate of the Chevron Hilton, Sydney, still undecided,
there has been more than passing curiosity at the sudden
onslaught by Hilton representatives.
But Mr W. F. Prigge assured The Bulletin last week
that the purchase of hotels was not his line. In fact, he
winces when Hilton announces yet another addition to its


fast-growing chain because he then has an extra sales promotion
job on his hands.
He puts it this way: “My boss is responsible for negotiating
contracts of Hilton International and every time he goes out
of town 1 shudder because I feel he will have another contract
before we are ready to sell it.”
The reason why Mr Prigge sounds a bit apprehensive is
because he joined the Hilton sales promotion team when the
Amsterdam Hilton opened for business a couple of years ago.
The Amsterdam was number 14 in the Hilton chain. This
chain has grown to 25 since then, with another three to come
into operation by next April.
In the past year Hilton has opened up at Teheran, London,
Athens, Rotterdam and Rome. In June the Hong Kong and
Tokyo Hiltons opened. In September a new Hilton went into
operation at Montreal airport, followed by a second Hilton
at Honolulu (which already boasts the Hawaiian Village Hotel).
That’s really moving and suggests a vast expansion in the
tourist business to justify such rapid investment.
Mr Prigge’s group of salesmen are not only trying to
promote Hilton hotels. They are spreading the “Visit USA”
programme which President JFK is pushing hard to combat
the heavy drain of dollar-spending American tourists.
Although the Chevron in Sydney bears the “Hilton” tag,
the Hilton group (which came in as managers in the early stage)
severed their connection a few
years ago. The Hilton chain
continued to keep the Chevron
on its booking list but that was
as far as it went.
When the Hilton boys visited
Sydney on a sales promotion
kick (because Tokyo and Hong
Kong are in the Pacific travel
area) the severance with Chev-
ron, Sydney, evidently was
taken as complete. So the venue
picked for a cocktail party (to
promote Hilton goodwill) was
the neutral ground of the Aus-
tralia Hotel.
A bit of newspaper publicity
apparently caused a switch of arrangements to the Chevron
Hilton, Sydney, where the word “Hilton” is still proclaimed
by a neon-lit sign on the face of the hotel and also on the
hotel’s match-box covers.
All this was a bit of a let-down to anyone seeking informa-
tion on the likely bidders for the hotel. Pan American, which
operates a chain of intercontinental hotels, is said to be one
bidder with a reputed offer of £2 million.
And, with Hilton so keen on an expanding hotel chain,
it seems logical they should look at Sydney, provided they can
achieve proper cost control and are convinced the volume of
high-class tourist traffic would justify an investment in
competition with other big operators like Qantas and Pan
American.
A check with the office of B. O. Smith and Son (the
Receivers who are handling the tenders for the Chevron)
indicates that no date has been set for opening the tenders.
Mr B. O. Smith earlier this year went overseas on a trip
to attract attention to the Chevron and a very extensive
brochure was sent to agents in various world centres.
From the delay which has occurred in the sale of the
Chevron, it might be suggested that offers received for the
hotel were below expectations. But who would be prepared
to commit themselves hastily to a large financial outlay when
it is obvious that, to run the hotel economically, the additional
building programme must be completed?
Doubtless the hotel would suit Pan American. It already
operates the Southern Cross in Melbourne but, with Qantas
pushing ahead on its new international hotel in Sydney, Pan
American could feel it may be worth paying something for
goodwill if it took over the Chevron. The delays and cost of
building a new hotel could mean something in terms of
passenger loss, because air travellers often want the convenience
of booking their hotel accommodation through the airline
company, particularly if they know that the chain of hotels
provides the same high standard of accommodation in various
parts of the world. At least this seems to be the attitude of
American tourists, who want to bring as much of America
with them as possible when they travel overseas.
Purging the Sharemarkets
of Ignorance
T>rofessor R. J. Chambers, Professor of Accounting at the
University of Sydney, tossed an academic cat squarely
among the practising pigeons in his lecture on “Financial
Information and the Securities Market”.
Slpeaking to the Australian Society of Accountants, Pro-
fessor Chambers boldly came out with a proposal for a
searching and independent inquiry into the entire question
of financial publicity. Lots of investors, injured and otherwise,
could doubtless applaud any plan “for removing the ignorance
and many of the uncertainties
which now bedevil the securities
markets, for changing the
character of the securities mar-
kets from that of a casino with
loaded dice to that of an instru-
ment of rational and informed
economic development.”
A counsel of lofty perfec-
tionism that may sound where
the affairs of risk capital are
often at the base of sharemarket
transactions. Yet it must be
agreed that “as the quality of
financial information is very
much a matter of the account-
ing principles employed, the
inquiry should be directed towards the discovery of principles
that will give a true and fair view; that is to say, principles
which conform with the requirements of general com-
prehensibility and correspondence.”
The rather philosophical term “correspondence” simply
means accounts more exactly fitting company facts.
The bulk of Professor Chambers’ talk was devoted to a
scholarly and historical examination of the vagaries of
financial reporting by accountants and other parties. He dealt
thoroughly with the vexed concerns of stock pricing, takeovers
and assets revaluations.
No claim is made that any possible inquiry may do away
with company losses. “But we do believe that an adequate
system of financial publicity, reflecting the realities of changing
market conditions, would reveal the consequences of such
mistakes much earlier than the present system, and would thus
materially reduce the severity of losses. We are more concerned
with efficiency than with avoiding losses.”
The plea rests with a higher quality of information; too
much attention has been paid to increasing the quantity of
financial information available. Above all the need is for
“specific statements which correspond with contemporary
market conditions” at any specified date.
Professor Chambers throws down a challenge when he
declares that “a profession which has been able to discover
a million ways of representing the financial positions of firms
has obviously sufficient ingenuity to devise the relatively small
number of supplementary rules which would be required”.
Trade Between Australia and Indonesia
(£’000 f.o.b. port of shipment)
Imports Exports Invisibles Deficit
1958- 31.5 2.1 -4.7 34.1
1959- 29.4 3.2 -6.1 32.3
1960- 28.1 5.1 -5.7 28.7
1961- 26.5 2.7 -3.6 27.4
1962- 28.9 2.0 -4.4 31.3
By far the greatest item in Australia’s imports from
Indonesia is, of course, oil. Exports now mainly
comprise machinery and metals, the once active flour
business having declined since 1960-61.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Soekarno’s Rude Trade Rupture
Political Stability Before Copybook Trade Schemes
T\r Soekarno’s rude rupture of regional
trade in South-East Asia last week
will put many people in the mood for the
studied cynicism on the question of trade
blocs and common markets to be found
in Sidney Dell’s recently published
“Trade Blocs and Common Markets”
from Constable, London.
One recalls that a couple of years ago
when Britain was knocking desperately
on the door of EEC and at one stage
appeared to have one foot inside it,
people were also talking enthusiastically
about possibilities of a common market
of Colombo Plan countries being formed
when what they really meant was a trade
bloc or free trade area arrangement of
some sort without political strings.
The assumption that conditions were
ripe for common markets to be formed
all around the globe really derived from
ignorance of what the Treaty of Rome
entailed. If anyone is still in doubt about
the political and social as well as the
economic intentions of that document
Mr Dell’s book will be helpful, and they
will learn from it much else besides about
what the Common Market is and what
it is not.
Nor is it all plain sailing, either
economics or politics-wise, in Western
Europe’s common market. According to
Dell, as well as the political shadow of
de Gaulle there are some dubious
economic assumptions.
“Thus the question whether integration
will benefit Western Europe from an
economic standpoint cannot be answered
in the abstract, but only in relation to
the specific situation in which it occurs.
Given the particular circumstances in
which the integration movement has in
fact developed in recent years it cannot
be taken for granted that that movement
is really as forward-looking as it appears
at first sight. The laissez-faire anti-
government features of that movement
necessitate a cautious appraisal of
whether it will really increase the
responsiveness of the economic system to
the sort of new ideas and new techniques
that call for massive organisation and
investment beyond the reach of a single
country.
“It is commonly assumed that by the
mere act of creating a Common Market,
Western Europe will ensure a more
dynamic economy and a more vigorous
rate of growth. There is no foundation
for this view. There is no economic law
to the effect that large countries must
grow more quickly than small ones
it depends on circumstances and the
policies pursued. What seems to have
led to this confusion is the fact that the
countries comprising the European
Economic Community experienced rela-
tively high rates of growth during the
19505. But the point is that their rates
of growth were high before the Treaty
of Rome, when their economies were
independent. Since then, their rates of
growth have, if anything, slowed down.
“Whether the rate of economic ex-
pansion continues to be high during the
1960 s depends on a number of factors,
but one considerable obstacle that the
Community will have to overcome is the
inevitable difficulty of trying to elaborate
a single concerted policy out of the
diverging views and interests of a
number of independent governments. It
is not at all clear how successfully this
can be done in the Western Europe of
today.” _
If President de Gaulle has been an
unruly bedfellow for the rest of the Six
in Europe, who, on the recent showing
of the Indonesian President in his
relationships with his Colombo Plan
neighbors, is still optimistic that Indo-
nesia is ready for even the broadest
trade tie-up with them?
VTo, in South-East Asia it is necessary
to get political stability before pro-
ceeding with copybook schemes to
advance trade, though the way events are
unrolling at present even an attempt to
integrate three countries in the area into
a political unit with closer trade implica-
tions may mean having to take two steps
back as the price of taking one forward.
But even though the objectives of such
integration are clear cut, the means of
motivation towards them are not. This is
the reverse of the case in Western
Europe.
“While in Western Europe Common
Market objectives are confused at best,
in the underdeveloped areas the case for
integration is much simpler and much
more impressive. And whereas political
factors play the major role in Western
Europe, among the underdeveloped
countries this is not so; indeed, political
and economic motivations frequently
point in opposite directions.”
Political intractables notwithstanding,
underlying economic pressures both inside
and outside the underdeveloped countries
are forcing the recognition that close
trade integration with their neighbors is
essential not only to raise their standards
of living but also for their survival. A
corollary of the political fragmentation
of formerly economically integrated,
underdeveloped areas in recent years is
that trade-wise there should be a coming
together again.
Without going into the question of
internal pressures, which in any case are
obvious enough even if not very
articulate in the minds of masses inured
to sub-standard living, Dell sees “the
need for common markets in the under-
developed areas is first and foremost a
direct result of the unwillingness of the
developed countries to allow them their
proper place in world trade. The odd
combination of rising economic aid with
restrictive import practices has been
observable in a number of the industrial
countries of North America and Western
Europe in recent years. At the same time
the underdeveloped countries have found
that the purchasing power of their export
products in terms of imports from the
great manufacturing centres has been
deteriorating seriously ever since 1951.
Thus what the developed countries have
been giving with one hand they have
been taking away with the other.”
TTe thinks “there is no valid reason why
the industrial countries should not
announce forthwith that they will dis-
mantle all restrictions on imports from
underdeveloped countries in stages, com-
pleting the process by 1970. If the
Western European countries can afford
to lift all restrictions on trade with one
another by 1970, why not on imports
from underdeveloped countries? Western
Europe and North America should begin
to create for the underdeveloped coun-
tries a fairer and more secure- position
in the framework of world trade.”
Similarly in view of the marked short-
age of primary products in the Com-
munist countries, side by side with
mounting surpluses of these same com-
modities in other areas of the world, the
former countries would do well to re-
examine their production and import
policies with a view to enlarging their
purchases from underdeveloped coun-
tries. By this means they could achieve
the twin purposes of strengthening their
own economies and of enlarging the
market opportunities open to the under-
developed countries.
Proposals for the formation of
common markets among groups of
underdeveloped countries have un-
doubtedly received tremendous impetus
from the restrictionist policies of the
developed countries, both east and west,
w'ith respect to imports of both primary
products and finished manufactures from
the less developed areas. Protectionism
of this kind has had the effect of appear-
ing to force the underdeveloped coun-
tries back upon their own resources, and
compelling them to substitute trade with
one another for trade with the economic-
ally more advanced areas.


Australian Paper
Manufacturers Limited
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
HEAD OFFICE: South Gate, South Melbourne, Victoria.
Mills at: Melbourne, Broadford, Fairfield and Maryvale, Victoria; Botany, N.S.W.;
Petrie, Queensland; Port Huon, Fas.; Bayswater, W.A.;
Sales Offices in all State Capitals
Highlights from the 1963 Annual Report
For the 12 months Ended 30th June, 1963


“CROESUS”
New Slants on Entertainment
A Fascinating Economic Hotch-potch
economics of entertainment in
Australia were thrown into con-
fusion by the advent of television here
seven years ago and have never been
quite the same since, despite a more
rational approach to viewing and even
much indifference to the sights and
sounds of this medium.
Whatever the precise position of TV
in the new pattern of entertainment
many old diversions have returned to
favor and new ones come in. The re-
sulting economic hotch-potch is fas-
cinating.
An intriguing article in the latest
Monthly Survey of the National Bank
of Australasia attracts attention even
though it confines its observations to
the arena of home entertainment.
The bank says that only in the last
year or two has it been possible to study
the emerging pattern of home enter-
tainment free from distortions evident
in the early stages of TV here. It thinks
that even now only in the well-estab-
lished television areas are people be-
coming more selective in their viewing
and “putting other forms of entertain-
ment into a more normal perspective.”
This is rubbing off on retailers of
the requisites for the alternative enter-
tainments and the effects are reverbera-
ting round the factory world. The econ-
omic impact varies considerably accord-
ing to the instruments and devices con-
cerned but most of those examined by
the bank involve music in some way or
other “people become aware of the
limits of television in providing music.”
HPape recorders and gramophone
A records are singled out as prolific sel-
lers these days. Tape recorder sales have
multiplied ten-fold in the last four years
as a result of a change in sales pro-
motion and technical improvement. “It
is now possible to reproduce music on
inexpensive tape recorders (mainly im-
ported from Japan and the UK) and
obtain reasonable quality while using
less tape. The result is that recorders
are now being sold to the general public
instead of mainly to the specialist and
hobbyist.”
The position with gramophone records
is more complicated. Although increas-
ing specialisation among city record
shops makes a detailed analysis uncer-
tain, it is obvious that significant changes
have occurred in the sale of gramophone
records, most of which are pressed lo-
cally. Whereas production of 12-inch
microgrooves has more than doubled
since 1958, the shorter types of record-
ings have lost favor. Production of
“single play 455,” the medium of the
“pops”, was only two-thirds of the 1958
level early last year, although a recent
revival has now brought production up
to three-quarters of this level.
Price cutting on 12-inch records,
initiated through record clubs and fol-
lowed by the introduction of “cheap
labels” by major companies, has been
prevalent from 1959, and is probably
the main cause of the altered demand.
However, reports emphasise a trend to-
ward more selective purchasing by the
public to a point w'here price is be-
coming a secondary consideration.
Stereo records now account for about
30 p.c. of 12-inch sales and the lower
prices have strengthened the increasing
demand in recent years for the more
serious type of recording.
T ike the tape recorder, the movie pro-
jector is now entering many homes
which would not have considered such
a purchase several years ago. Substantial
improvements in the quality of the
lower priced 8 mm film have brought
about the replacement of 16 mm for
home use, as the quality of the two is
similar at short throws. Also, it is
claimed that television has aided rather
than retarded the sale of projectors by
increasing the public aw'areness of
photography, and by indirectly high-
lighting the attractiveness of color. The
introduction of magnetic sound on 8 mm
film may boost future sales. But sound
movies do not yet play as important a
part in home movies as they appear to
do abroad.
Sales of slide projectors are also gain-
ing, particularly over the past 12 to
18 months. Here the trend has been
toward the more expensive semi-auto-
matic projectors. Although there is a
large Australian industry now supply-
ing projectors, the higher priced pro-
jectors are mainly imported.
Alongside the boom in gramophone
records has been a big revival in sales
of gramophone and radio units, aided to
a significant degree by the introduction
of stereo. Nevertheless, present sales of
all gramophone and/or radio units,
apart from portables, are at only two-
thirds of the level prevailing immediately
prior to the introduction of television.
Stereo has also created a problem in
cabinet design, as more and more homes
are becoming space conscious. Mantel
sets are being “transistorised"’ and there-
by reduced in size, while radiogram
cabinets are becoming functional and as
compact as possible.
The demand for musical instruments
has also had a fillip, but if this is a
comparatively minor item there are
plenty of variations on the theme.
While mass production has gradually
reduced the prices of many instruments
over a number of years, the demonstra-
tive effects of radio, gramophone, and
TV have helped to diffuse the playing
of music throughout a much wider sec-
tion of the community. The growing
number of children learning music in
recent years suggests that this trend
will continue.
A piano in the house is not the prestige
symbol that it was many years
ago and they are now' sold for . their
musical worth. Consequently the im-
port and local production of pianos has
declined considerably, but there has
been a number of second-hand instru-
ments coming on to the market which
were rarely used previously. The ac-
cordion, mouth organ and similar reed
instruments have been largely replaced
by the guitar.
More recently, an upsurge in the
popularity of folk singing has increased
the demand for the banjo and classical
guitar. There is a strong and fas', grow-
ing demand for wood-wind instruments,
mainly comprising clarinets and saxo-
phones, as many young people “gradu-
ate” from the fife and recorder w'hich
are being used more and more within
the schools. Members of the violin
family do not appear, however, to be
sharing the success of the other instru-
ments. The numbers of candidates for
violin exams seems to have declined
over the last decade, although some
dealers express optimistic opinions as to
the future of the violin.
Beyond the music field sales of in-
door games suffered a severe set-back
immediately after the introduction of
television. Paradoxically, the industry’s
later recovery and further growth have
been largely through the influence of
television. New games, mainly manu-
factured here under American licence,
have been based to a large extent on
television programmes.
As well as strongly reflecting the in-
fluence of television itself, the general
pattern of home entertainment in recent
years has been influenced to a marked
degree by the diffusion of higher edu-
cation and its greater emphasis on cul-
tural activities. Technical changes within
the industries concerned have speeded
the emergence of a new pattern of tastes
with important economic implications.


HASTINGS DEEPING
FINANCE & INVESTMENT COMPANY LIMITED
Report of the Chairman, Mr. H. Hastings Deering, to Shareholders
at the 13th Annual General Meeting on 26th September , 1963 .
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is with the deepest regret that I have
to tell you that, on the fifth of this month,
Mr. Roy Harry Morris died. Mr. Morris was
a foundation director of this Company. By his
death, the directors and shareholders have
suffered the loss of a wise counsellor and
trusted friend, who brought a wealth of busi-
ness experience to the service of this Company.
He was greatly respected also as Managing
Director of Richard Stanton & Sons Pty. Ltd.,
and the sadness we have today is widely shared
in the City of Sydney by all who knew his
worth and work.
Turning from this note of sadness to the
formal business now before us, it is always
pleasing to report to shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting an increase in profit, as is the
case today. Net profit this year is £89,594, or
13}% better than last year.
This permits payment of a 10% dividend
for the year and enables General Reserve
Account to be strengthened by £lO,OOO bring-
ing it to £llO,OOO. The balance of profits then
carried forward is £21,829, or £2,094 more
than last year. (It may be of interest in pass-
ing to say that the Company has never missed
a dividend in its 13 years trading. Original
shareholders have received 114% of their
investment in dividends. Total dividends paid
amount to £831,117. or £56,117 more than the
present paid-up capital.)
The Company’s results for the year com-
pare favourably with general experience in the
hire purchase industry. On average funds
employed net profit earned was 2.65% which
compares with 2.07% reported by the Aus-
tralian Hire Purchase and Finance Conference
of which our Company is a member.
Our Company is soundly based. We have
a margin of 33]% approximately between
liabilities and assets, a margin which your
Board wishes to maintain. And we have a
source of business flowing from associated
companies, the volume of which considerably
exceeds the Company’s present resources.
As you know, the Company provides finan-
cial service principally for the distribution of
the products marketed by the Hastings Deering
Group of Companies—Ford, Caterpillar, John
Deere, Hyster, A.E.C., to mention only the
principal franchises. The Hastings Deering
Group sales of these products for the year
ended 30th June, 1963, amounted to over
sixteen million pounds—actually £16,140,700.
Approximately one-third of these sales required
some degree of financial service. The quality of
the retail business we accepted during the year
may be indicated by the facts that average
down-payment over-all was 34.2% and the
average contract period was 34 months.
Almost the whole of our acceptances are
in the form of hire purchase contracts and in
respect of new merchandise.
This is considered first class business. Its
profitability is conditioned by keenest competi-
tion and the fact that the lowest charges in
the industry apply to it. Furthermore, in
N.S.W. and Queensland from which most of
our business comes, we have to absorb a fiat
£l% stamp duty on the full amount of each
advance—a tax which cannot be recovered in
our charges and no part of which is rebatable,
even when contracts are paid out in advance.
Nevertheless, we have not diversified, and
in keeping to the busines in which our loyal
and competent staff is experienced, we have an
economy in our administration which otherwise
would not be possible. We have earned a
modest profit for an acceptable service and
should continue to do so. But, of course, we
have had to employ more funds and do more
business to service our capital and strengthen
our reserves.
We have been very well supported in our
public borrowing by way of Unsecured Deposit
Notes. Our prospectus of 27th March, 1963,
for £500,000 was fully subscribed. Although
we must use the word “unsecured” for these
Notes to comply with the Companies Act, it is
well-known that this is because of an equitable
charge in favour of our bankers, the Australia
and New Zealand Bank Limited, giving first
security for any overdraft the bank may, in its
discretion, grant us. Our average use of bank
funds during the year under review was a shade
less than 3% of our tangible assets; at balance
date, it was temporarily higher. But at all times,
there has been at least 26/6 of tangible assets
protecting each 20/- of “unsecured” notes.
The Trust Deed provides that no further
security ranking in priority to the “unsecured”
notes will be issued.
A futher prospectus will be issued on 30th
September, 1963, for a similar amount of
£500,000 to replace deposits maturing in the
next 6 months. Interest rates will be i% p.a.
lower in keeping with the trend of borrowing
rates in the industry. We have every confidence
that our rates will merit the continued support
of investors.
The indications are that economic condi-
tions in the ensuing year throughout Australia
will be buoyant, affording the opportunity of
further steady progress for our Company.
—"• $ S'
CHAIRMAN


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act Ot
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950*
registered
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
BiZ
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7}% P.A. 3 YEARS
7|% P.A. 2 YEARS
6|% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B}% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CCI66/I/AB
CUP AND POST COUPON
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME 5 / 10
ADDRESS.
INVESTMENT SECTION
Putting More Body Into Beer
A weakly brewery almost sounds &
contradiction in terms by Australian,
or indeed world-wide, standards. Brew-
ing companies the world over appear
historically solid, conservative, possessed
of copious though frequently concealed
assets, and remunerative.
It is therefore pleasing to be able to
report that Tooheys Ltd has begun to
place a foot upon the traditional ladder
once more.
The last couple of years furnished real
enough grounds for anxiety, both on
managerial and profit-earning capacity.
Each of these decisive elements now
seems completely in process of being
resolved for the better. The 1962-63 year
plainly displays a much brighter atmo-
sphere on most counts.
Not that it can yet be time to adopt
the complacency and comfortable stance
of other Australian brewing groups.
Thankfully, management remains well
aware of that.
After all the latest profit, though up by
57 p.c. to a record £686,785, still only
brings earning rate from 7.3 to 10.4 p.c.
on the hefty £6.6 million capital. And
shareholders, perhaps even willing to
respect the careful motives behind it,
still had to accept a dividend cut back
from 9 to 8 p.c.
Directors make their case for the re-
tention of funds, but it can’t be forgotten
that they were convincingly assured of
the 9 p.c. rate at the end of 1961-62.
The amount concerned is relatively small,
so the nettle of reduction should most
likely have been grasped last year.
In all events, however, the group
has definitely succeeded in improving
liquidity and in gaining a larger pro-
portion of the market, particularly with
bulk beer. A new hotel has been opened,
another is rebuilding, while two more are
on the drawing boards. Surplus and un-
economic assets are gradually going.
The twin defences of high capital and
brewery politics at this moment seem
sufficient to protect Tooheys from take-
over, allowing the group to complete its
own recovery.
Investors continue to treat the ss.
shares cautiously, holding them around
9s. 2d. to yield 4.3 p.c. The top price
has only reached 9s. 6d. during the past
two years.
The Troubled Air
/Carrier Air Conditioning’s wail of
ills in anrouncing its 1962-63 loss
repeats all the woes of earlier March
and June statements, only more so.
Shareholders might dare to recall that
even in June directors still expected a
profit
Between March and June a final divid-
end fell by the wayside, leaving no pay-
ment at all for the past year after four
successive 12i per cents. The actual
£132,168 loss represented a turn-round
from the previous £172,356 profit, though
earning rates have drooped since 1960.
The whole Australian industry, to-
gether with other company glosses by
Kelvinator, Aeron and Frigrite, would
suggest that scant comfort may be taken
from Carrier's declaration of a sub-
stantially better forward order position.
If it can be carried through in the
face of continuing over-capacity, direc-
tors’ proclaimed implementation of
“changes in the company’s organisation
and operating methods, aimed at im-
proving overall efficiency and trading”
gives more genuine hope to shareholders.
The necessity for such reform has seem-
ed clear for some while.
With the possible exception of strikes
and bad weather, all Carrier’s attributions
of loss will scarcely respond to speedy
reversal. They include “intense compe-
tition leading to reduced margins”; the
cost of wages, long-service and leave
increases; bad debts; and the “revalua-
tion of stock and increased provision
for stock obsolescence.”
The old whizzing growth prospects
especially visible in the late ’fifties must
need considerable struggle to return.
Investors despondently hold the ss.
shares around 6s. well away from a best
14s. this year and 18s. 3d. in 1962.
An Ungildecl Lily
/Considering the scant treatment af-
forded the results of National Con-
solidated, Australia’s biggest automotive
components maker, in the Melbourne
morning Press it is salutary for share-
holders that they speak for themselves
and are well up to expectations.
You don’t have to gild this lily with
headlines or editorial interpretation for
it stands out in bold black letters that
the company registered its eleventh suc-
cessive profit increase, this particular
year’s being 21 p.c. measuring a rise
from £853,384 to £1,032,671 after pro-
viding £691,178 (£518,274) for income
tax and £201,184 (£177,836) for de-
preciation.
One might have hoped that the in-
crease in earning rate from 31.5 p.c.
to 38.1 p.c. following a 15.7 p.c. increase
to £12.4 million in turnover might have
enthused the board into making some


ELDER SMITH GOLDSBROUGH MORT LTD
Address by the Chairman
The Rt. Hon. Sir PHILIP McBRIDE, K.C.M.G.
Ladies Gentlemen,
This is the first Annual General Meeting of our new
Company which was formed last year to take over
and merge the long-established pastoral businesses
of Elder, Smith & Co., Limited and Goldsbrough,
Mort and Company Limited.
In terms of our trading and its financial result, it
has been a reasonably successful year. In other
respects, it has certainly been an eventful one.
It was only on 13th November last that we com-
pleted the processes which effected the legal amal-
gamation of the two Companies. Yet, by 30th June
seven months later we had progressed to the
point at which our new Company had become the
operating unit for the Group in all States, with the
exception of South Australia; and in that State, at
30fh June, integration had reached an advanced
stage.
Little did Sir Colin Syme (as Chairman of Golds-
broughs) or I (as Chairman of Elders) realise, when
we addressed our respective Shareholders last year,
that this satisfactory state of affairs could be brought
about before our first Annual General Meeting.
I would be failing if I did not render tribute to
all those members of Management, their Senior
Officers and the members of their Staff, to whose
enthusiasm and effort the credit for this immense
achievement is due.
To integrate two companies of such size, age and
tradition, and which have been in such vigorous
competition with one another, is a complex task.
It has been necessary to deal with many delicate
reconciliations of policies, systems and attitudes of
mind, in order to achieve integration without serious
loss of Clients and experienced Staff.
Plans have had to be expressed in detail, com-
municated and accepted, before we could act in
each State, and action itself has had to be timed
so that there would be as little disturbance as
possible to normal service and operations.
However, most of this and certainly the worst
of it is now behind us, and we all look forward
to being able to apply our full energy and increased
resources to consolidation, service to our clients and
consequent progress.
It is a much more inviting prospect, now, to be
able to plan to increase our business, rather than
planning to put ourselves in a position to be able
to do so, which was our unavoidable role in the
year now past.
The Company has a great responsibility in the
rural life of Australia today. During the period to
30th June, we had a turnover of £238,000,000, and
we have the great bulk of the £36,000,000 in
"Advances and Trade Debtors", invested in assisting
them to produce that which has made this vast
volume of business possible.
We are sure that, when we complete the stream-
lining of our amalgamated organisation, we will be
able to render an even better, wider, mere varied
and more efficient service to those who entrust us
with their business, than was the case when we
operated in separation.
DIRECTORS' REPORT
The year's operations and events have been covered
In a comprehensive manner in the Directors' Report.
We have endeavoured 'to give you a frank and
quite detailed idea of your Company's ramifications,
the results achieved in the different Departments, and
the general financial strength and liquidity which
backs our efforts.
In reviewing the results, we must do so against
the background of the tremendous toll of effort
demanded by the merger itself, and it was fortunate
that some of our normal problems were lessened by
the good season which prevailed for most of the
year, and the higher prices ruling for both Wool and
Livestock.
Our income for the year, from all Group sources,
was some £-19,000,000. However, our costs under all
headings, including Depreciation, were also high,
at over £15,000,000.
Of the resultant profit of £3,500,000, some
£1,700,000 had to be provided for income tax.
Altogether, we have paid in excess of £2,200,000 in
income tax, rotes, land, payroll and other taxes
during the year, apart from other Governmental
levies such as stamp duty, etc.
RURAL PROBLEMS
As mentioned in the Directors' Report, o good
season and higher prices brought relief to the man-
on-the-land during the past year. Sheep numbers
stepped uo to about 159,000,000 and cattle to more
than 18,500,000.
Higher prices for wool and sheep, a recovery in
the beef market, and other favourable factors, stimu-
lated a greater demand and improved prices for land.
The liquid position of the Trading Banks, further
aided by the Reserve Bank's decision to release a
major volume of money from "frozen'' reserve de-
posits for "term lending", eased the too tight rein
which had been held on the availability of rural
credit. This, in turn, eased the pressures which had
previously weighed unfairly on the limited resources
of pastoral houses like our own.
The need for the official action was quickly made
obvious in the ready response in primary production
and increased export income. Large though the
available sum was for "term lending", it was quickly
committed, and the need for an additional release
in the current year has already had to be recognised
and met.
This, with the provision of additional funds for
the Development Bank, will assist materially in meet-
ing the demand for rural credit, while the additional
"Depreciation" concessions provided in the Budget
to encourage the acquisition of modern machinery
and the effecting of developmental improvement
work, and the £3 per ton superphosphate bounty,
should give impetus to increased rural production,
including continued development of new and as yet
unproductive, or only partly productive, areas in all
States.
The year, having opened with lower prices, and a
general air of doubt engendered by the widely-
publicised queries and forebodings as to the effect
of Britain's anticipated entry into the Common Mar-
ket, has closed on a buoyant note and in an atmos-
phere of restrained optimism, but with the Common
Market position unresolved, even though it may be
temporarily out of the news.
WOOL ITS MARKET AND MARKETING
When it is realised that increased wheat-growing,
resulting from successful annual export clearances,
has resulted in an increase of sown acreage from
less than 8,000,000 acres in 1956 to more than
16,000,000 acres last year, while the rapid build-up
of our beef exports has meant that, from the
14,600,000 cattle depastured in 1950, the total has
increased by some 4,000,000 head.to the 31st March
total of 18,500,000 this year, it can be understood
why sheep numbers and wool production have not
maintained the rapid growth of earlier post-war
years.
In the light of these and other relevant circum-
stances, Australia has done well to maintain its sheep
numbers at the present population approaching the
160,000,000 mark, which, after this year's good
season, could be topped when the figures at 31st
March next are known.
The erratic and fluctuating trends in the wool
market in recent years have been a matter of some
concern nationally, but, in the case of so many
wool-growers, it has been a matter of far greater
concern, as, gripped in a cost-price squeeze, they
have, watched the dark clouds gathering on their
financial horizon. They certainly cannot be blamed
if they have developed a cynicism, as they have
watched the improvement of urban living standards
to a level which would be quite impossible of attain-
ment if it were not for the massive contribution of
the wool cheque to the export income which finances
the necessary imports.
It will not do us any harm to look back over the
past few years since the 1957-58 season, which
returned wool-growers an average price of 62.60
pence per lb The 1958-59 season brought wool
prices down to a low level, with the season's aver-
age at 48.68 pence per lb. An improvement during
1959-60 rescued many wool-growers from a really
serious situation, and the increased average of
57.92 pence was timely and urgently necessary, but
they were still unsettled and worried.
Season 1960-61 was to unsettle them still further,
however, for the average price showed a loss of
half the previous season's recovery, with a decline in
the year's average to 52.20 pence. The erratic
course of prices brought an unsatisfactory season in
1961-62, for, although the year's average showed
a slight improvement at 54.24 pence, the season
actually closed at a lower level than that ruling
twelve months earlier.
The price improvement of 1962-63, to an average
return of 59.02 pence, was both necessary and over-
due. and represents a level little better than that
of 1959-60, and still well below that of 1957-58.
Furthermore, these figures, being averages, ignore
the price fluctuations within each season's result.
On the other hand, the country's cost structure
has been moving steadily and remorselessly against
the grower to such a degree that, finally, it has
created widespread resentment against the circum-
stances that enable national welfare to advance
with the aid of his product and what it will buy,
while his position worsens and his financial future
becomes increasingly uncertain.
Can he be expected to sit idly by while margins
awards, increased wages and social services, shorter
working hours and increased annual leave assist the
urban population to keep pace with the degree of
inflation that is, perhaps, inevitable in a rapidly
expanding economy, and then work longer hours
under worsening living standards, in order to re-
spond to the appeal for greater exports to enable
the lot of others to improve at his expense?
Without doubt, the winds of change in wool-
marketing blow strongly. While no national statutory
power exists to regulate supply and the rate of dis-
posal, nor to prevent undermining factors like private
selling, it is difficult to see, with confidence, just
what should be done to improve the present method
of wool-marketing in the broad sense. It is to
be hoped that refinements can be built into the
present system which will bring about a more stable
level of prices.
It will be our intention to co-operate fully with
the newly-constituted Wool Industry Conference, its
Wool Board and it newly-appointed Marketing Com-
mittee, in the difficult task which lies ahead.
FUTURE DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
The ramifications of the Company have, of course,
greatly increased the amount of accounting work
involved in preparing our final accounts. In the
light of our experience this year, the Board has
decided in future that the interim and final dividends
will be paid towards the end of April and October
respectively and that the Annual General Meeting
will be held in October.
Director:
W.A.: Mr. G. Gordon Gooch.
Staff:
S.A.: Messrs. W. D. Auld, A. R. Bartholomaeus,
L. A. Gray and W. Harris.
APPRECIATION
I have already expressed my appreciation of the
outstanding efforts contributed by our Management
and Staff during the past year. We have over 5,000
employees a Staff of more than 3,700 and some
1,450 other employees in various areas of our
organisation.
On their loyalty, enthusiasm and co-operation
as one team, in one united and progressive com-
pany depends the success of our new "Elders-
GM" organisation, and of each officer's own personal
aspirations, prospects and well-being, in the years
ahead. I have no doubts, and am sure that their
combined efforts will take us from strength to
strength.
CLIENTS
I will close by expressing the appreciation of the
Board, Management and Staff to all our clients who
have entrusted us with their business during the
year, and who have remained loyal to their past
associations and friends within the Company.
We owe much to their patience and tolerance in
the inevitable problems and consequent strains and
irritations which are inescapable during the merging
period of two such businesses as Elders and
Goldsbroughs.
I wish to thank them for their support and, in
so many cases, for their active and spontaneous
assistance, and we look forward, with pleasure, to
being able to render even better service to them and,
maybe to their relatives and friends as well, during
the current year.


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
O/
/o
m&mMwm tsyeass
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus. Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth
BROKERS
ian Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra
Cutten & Harvey, Adelaide, Melbourne and Mt. Gambier
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Executor Trustee and Agency Company
of South Australia Limited, 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
Executor Nominees (N.S.W.) Pty. Limited
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney
increase in dividend. But that was not
to be. The payment remains unchanged
for the year at 20 p.c. The handsome
increase in cover, however, has not gone
unnoticed despite the market’s reluc-
tance to move the shares higher.
It would have been nice for share-
holders to get a current benefit from
the obvious prosperity the company has
enjoyed in the best year the motor in-
dustry has ever experienced here. How-
ever experienced directors know as well
as anybody that one has to average out
good years with the not so good in this
industry and in any case the strengthen-
ing of reserves will benefit shareholders
in the long run.
Style anti Grace
THhat new-old Sydney retailer Grace
Bros Holdings Ltd produced a sty-
lish result for trading to June 30.
Since listing, the company’s proces-
sion of profits has been £385,453,
£418,758 and now £503,406, equal to
19.0 p.c. on capital.
A lift in dividend from 10 p.c. to
1U p.c. was made in 1962-63, and
shareholders are given to understand
that the rate for the current year will
be \2i p.c.
Grace Bros has department stores at
Broadway, Bondi Junction, Chatswood,
Parramatta and Brookvale, and is be-
lieved to be considering another at
Wiley Park.
Other lesser retailers have found sub-
urban expansion disappointing and often
disastrous: the key to success is in the
sitings. So far Grace Bros has made no
mistakes.
Furniture stores in Newcastle and
Cessnock and a valuable removal and
storage business throughout NSW and
Queensland round out the group’s ac-
tivities.
Athletic Boiul’s
T>ond’s Industries Ltd has preceded its
** preliminary trading report with im-
portant announcements on the finan-
cing of £2 million capital expenditure.
A placement of £lOO.OOO in prefer-
ence shares was made last month.
Now the company proposes to split
the £1 ordinary shares to ss. units, make
a bonus of one-for-four, and a cash
issue, one-for-twelve, of ss. shares at
Is. 3d. premium.
The 121- p.c. dividend rate, traditional
since 1957, will be cut back to 10 p.c.
The last cash issue was a one-for-five
at 50 p.c. premium in May, 1962, the
last bonus a one-for-four in October,
1957.
This ordinary cash issue will raise
a mere £156,250, so it will be interest-
ing to see if Bond’s resorts to any fixed
interest capital (some of which fell due
for redemption on balance date, June
30).
Very considerable expenditure for
new plant on existing and additional
sites has been financed in past periods
largely from internal resources.
In the hazardous textile industry,
Bond’s has an exemplary record through-
out all phases of the trade cycle.
Tom Piper’s Son
Around this time last year everybody
was looking askance at exporters
of tinned food to Britain because it was
on the cards that their markets might
disappear in the wake of the UK’s
likely entry into the European Common
Market.
Today these fears have vanished, at
least for the foreseeable future. So Tom
Piper, among others, is in favor again,
the more so in its case because last
week not only was a profit increase
from £122,728 to £140,063 announced
for 1962-63 but the company gave
notice of the impending birth of a one-


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
£500,000 NEW ISSUE
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock
SHORT-TERM INCOME
Interest is payable every 3 months
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS: The M.L.C. Nominees
Limited.
DIRECTORS OF MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.: D. C. Cameron
(Chairman), M. D. Thompson (Managing), D. F. P.
Roth, J. T. Reid, H. W. Hattersley.
Applications accepted only on application form attached
to and referred to in a printed copy of the prospectus.
Obtain prospectus from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia, any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES: Vic 118 Queen Street, Melbourne
Oid ' * 301 Ann Street, Brisbane
s A 329 King William Street, Adelaide
W.A U 5 st George’s Terrace, Perth
A.C.T. """ " 33 Ainslie Avenue, Canberra City
m
3aaa
aaa„
ffi a™ a a
IBiHB j
Head Office, Sydney.
Company activities
throughout the
Commonwealth
include hire n
(0
purchase, leasing,
general Finance.
for-four issue of new 10s. shares at a
premium of 10s. underwritten by high
priest lan Potter and Co.
Mind you, the 100 p.c. premium
takes a lot of the gilt off the ginger-
bread but as the price of the shares was
375. at the time of the announcement
of the issue, the fruits for shareholders
are not to be sneezed at. The company
seems confident of holding the steady
12i p.c. dividend on the capital as in-
creased by the new issue. There was
certainly a lot to spare over the divi-
dend last year with earnings up from
20.9 to 23.9 p.c.
Bellambi Revives
"VTot a very well-kept secret was the
strong rise in profits to record
heights of Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd.
This company works some of the
very best hard coking coal deposits in
Australia, on the Bulli field.
A fair number of call options were
written in the weeks preceding the pub-
lication of results. The 3s. rise in the
shares from 9s. (there has been some
reaction since) was so marked as to
set investors wondering if a take-over
was in the offing.
The profit of £71.179, compared with
the previous year's £39,039, was boosted
by the inclusion of a full year’s result
from The Mount Pleasant Coke Co.
Pty.
Mount Pleasant had been using Bel-
lambi coal for 50 years. By the take-
over in 1962 Bellambi secured this out-
let permanently.
Proof that it was a judicious acquisi-
tion can be found jn the recovery in
earning rate from 11.2 p.c. to 14.5 p.c.
on the higher capital employed.
John Fairfax Results
Qydney newspaper publisher John Fair-
fax Ltd made another addition to
the dividend rate in 1962-63.
From an earning rate of 21.1 p.c. the
company now distributes 17 p.c.
Group turnover in the year to June
30 moved up from £19.1 million to
£20.4 million.
Revenue for the first quarter of 1963-
64 continues the upward trend experi-
enced in 1962-63.
Letting Problems
rpHE tone of the interim report did
-*• not prepare shareholders of Wyn-
yard Holdings Ltd for a trading loss of
£11,065 in the year to June.
Last year the company recorded a
profit of £33,566, and by April 29,
1963, directors reported that the car
park was operating profitably, the major


part of the Wynyard House office block
had been let at satisfactory rentals, ar-
cade shops were showing satisfactory
returns, and capital costs were closely
approximating budget.
Directors said the revenue and profits
for the first half of the year exceeded
those of the previous corresponding
period.
Now it is revealed that slow lettings
in the Wynyard office block (80 p.c.
let) have accounted for the operating
loss.
Fixed assets were scrapped at a cost
of £11,202 during 1962-63, and-£98,060
of certain outgoings on property de-
velopments were transferred to defer-
red leasehold expenditure. These charges
were made before arriving at the net
loss.
A Dividend Bogy
HPhere are so many unknown factors
in Borg-Warner’s investment status
it would have been helpful for share-
holders to learn the amount of profit for
the half-year to June.
An interim report said that results
were “in line with budget,” but since
June 30 sales and profits have declined
and are below budget.
After a long spell in the wilderness,
the company resumed profitable opera-
tions in 1959. The 1962 profit of
£791,216 more than doubled the 1961
result.
The keystone to this year’s results is
the tax figure—last year only £105,916
was payable.
Assuming 1963 pre-tax results are
as good as in 1962, and full tax rates
apply, earning rate after preference
charges would be about 26 p.c.
A 3 p.c. final dividend last year has
been followed by a 3 p.c. interim, which
suggests nothing more than a total of
6 p.c. for 1963.
The brake on the dividend rate is that
the £961,450 in first participating cumu-
lative shares, held by Borg-Warner Cor-
poration of USA, rank equally with
ordinaries in any dividend paid in excess
of 6 p.c.
The Restoration
Industries Ltd has restored the
10 p.c. dividend after one year’s
lapse to 91 p.c.
Production of zinc, lead and copper
were all higher in 1962-63 than 1961-62.
The £3 a ton bounty recently granted
on superphosphate brightens the out-
look for EZ, one of the major producers.
Results are usually published late in
October. A profit increase can be con-
fidently anticipated.
SPECULATORS DIARY
The Veteran Comes Good
all those sceptics, the rebuff came
A last Tuesday when the veteran of the
portfolio, Hanimex, announced its result.
Profits jumped up 22 p.c. and the divi-
dend was raised from 10 to 12i p.c.
While the sharemarket was taking a
little time to digest this result, I bought
a further 1000 shares at 12s. Irrespective
of what sort of investor you are, these
shares are still a worthwhile proposition.
The company has shown sustained
growth over the last three years, a period
when most industry was at a standstill.
With increased protection for projectors
and slide viewers, additional revenue
from the new Perutz film processing
laboratory at the Brookvale factory and
the better tone of business generally,
profits should be well up again in the
current year. Throw in the fact that the
shares are still cum a 7id. dividend
and I hope you will agree that the shares
are still very good buying on the Sydney
Exchange.
On the London Exchange, where they
are due to be listed shortly, they will
probably be rushed at anything around
12s. 6d. Hanimex is a well-known and
well-regarded name in England.
Dixon’s (the English photographic
retail chain with which Hanimex recently
signed a £600,000 contract to supply
photographic equipment) sell on an 8 p.c.
earnings yield and 2.8 p.c. dividend yield.
On such a basis this would put Hanimex
shares over 20s. This comparison may
be extreme, but it does indicate that
Hanimex shares are worth 15s. or 16s.
Hanimex was not the only result of
note for the week. Carrier Air, which
has been in and out of the portfolio this
year, brought out quite an imposing loss.
The old saying, “buy on bad news”,
would have worked well here. After the
announcement the shares promptly
moved up Is.
Determined not to be shy again about
bad news, I watched with glee the market
knock 4s. off Borg-Warner. In I stepped
with a small order for 200 at 265. 6d.
After all, in April, the chairman did warn
shareholders of the effect of paying
normal tax on profits in the current year.
Last year the company used what re-
mained of a taxable loss to match up
against the profits.
Whilst this is strictly a lightning
operation, the last purchase of the week
falls into the “holding” class.
ISAS (NSW) has been one of those
neglected shares. Although the share
has not managed to get above the par
value of 20s. for some two years, this
situation does not do the company
justice. Admittedly profit was halved for
the year ended March 30, 1962, and
dividend was cut from 10 to 5 p.c., but
it was more a fault of the industry than
the company. Profits in 1963 almost
bounced back to the 1961 level and
dividend made half the distance by being
raised to 7? p.c. This profit was after
the write-off of substantial bad debts, an
item which fortunately should not be of
much consequence in the current year.
The company is basically a distribu-
tor of earthmoving, construction and
materials handling equipment. Whilst the
largest and most valuable franchise is
with the International Harvester Com-
pany, perhaps the most notable will be
the Gabon Grader franchise acquired in
1960.
An interim report for the six months
just finished could give the shares the
vital push over the 20s. mark. In the
meantime, in went my order for 400 at
18s.
The second week in a row where pur-
chases are above the £lOOO mark! To
balance up the account, Courtaulds and
Pye Industries moved out. With the final
dividend thrown in, profit on the
Courtaulds was £9l. The profit of £35
on Pye was lower but equally satisfying.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
500 Courtaulds, 19/9 £5OB
100 Pye, 83/- £419
BOUGHT
1000 Hanimex, 12/- £614
400 ISAS (NSW), 18/- £367
200 Borg Warner, 26/6 £270
I shall have to cover those Australian
Factors shortly. The share price has
been lurching between 7s. and Bs., but
now looks as though it could topple over.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/5 12/9
1000 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 10/9 13/6
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 26/-
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 3/-
1000 Waltons new 3/7/63 15/9 .17/9
400 Pioneer Concrete 3/7/63 13/9 16/-
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-
1000 Plastic - Coatings,
new 24/7/63 7/- 8/6
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 21/-
200 Hunter Douglas 7/8/63 33/- 32/6
1000 Vesta 8/8/63 3/3 3/-
1000 Aeron 14/8/63' 7/9 8/-
400 Keith Harris 15/8/63 30/- 31/-
600 Clyde Industries 22/8/63 11/- 11/-
200 AOG 29/8/63 44/- 49/-
1000 Pacific Island opt. 5/9/63 1/11 5/-
400 Aust. Factors (short) 11/9/63 7/7 7/3
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 22/3
400 Cahills 18/9/63 11/- 12/-
200 James Hardie 19/9/63 117/6 129/-
400 ISAS 24/9/63 18/- 18/-
200 Borg. Warner 26/9/63 26/6 26/6


PELACO
CHOOSE TELEVISION’S
m
DAYTIME PROGRAMMES
m
-
mm
Market surveys indicate that women are a major influence in brand
selection so Pelaco decided to sell with the National television
programmes that sell to the most women.
Makes sense doesn’t it.
TOMMY HANLON JNR’S “It Could Be
You”—Australia’s top-rating National
daytime programme sells Pelaco
each week day to 400,000 viewers.
TERRY DEAR is host for Pelaco in
“Concentration”, seen regularly by
200,000 TV viewers.
FRANK WILSON sells Pelaco on “Take
the Hint”, seen in Brisbane, Sydney,
Melbourne and Adelaide by a y* of
a million viewers.
JIMMY HANNAN is National compere
of “Say When” and presents Pelaco
to more than a V* of a million
viewers each day.
These four National shows reach more than
one million viewers each day on the
NATIONAL NINE NETWORK
•738


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Improvement for Lend Lease
A pproximately two years ago, I sug-
gested that the shares in Lend Lease
Corporation Ltd. seemed well priced
and that any increase in the earning rate
would require substantial borrowing. At
that time, the shares were selling around
17s. 6d. to 18s. and after adjustment for
the rights issue made in August, 1962,
that price would be equivalent to about
16s. 3d. in terms of today’s shares. At
the time of writing the shares are down
to 11s. 3d. the low point for 1963
and have not sold above 14s. lOd. this
year. In view of the quite remarkable
success which the company has had, it
could be that the shares are attractive at
these low levels.
The quality of Lend Lease Corpora-
tion’s reporting has already been noted
by the Australian Institute of Manage-
ment’s panel and there can be no doubt
that the annual reports contain a wealth
of information. It is quite easy to pick
out all relevant information and it is
interesting to note that there are no less
than 28 “Explanatory Notes on Consolid-
ated Accounts” in the 1963 annual re-
port. Nevertheless, the complex nature
of the various financing arrangements
and the admixture of assets held for re-
sale with assets held as investments make
it very difficult to select an appropriate
base from which to .attempt a forecast of
future earnings. The treatment of the
interest charge alone is a case in point.
The figures only appear in the last two
years’ reports but the prospectus of
March, 1962, enables the following three-
year series to be prepared.
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963
£ £ £
Total Interest Incurred 354,890 491,604 699,344
Less "regarded as
capital cost" 211,598 116,203 204,322
Interest charged
against Profit 143,292 375,401 495,022
Percentage
"capitalised" (approx.) 60 24 29
Presumably full tax relief has been
obtained on the interest paid rather than
on the interest charged, so if the whole
amount had been charged against profits
net operating profit after taxation for
these three years would have been reduc-
ed by the amount of interest “capitalised”.
The effect would apparently have been as
follows:
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963
£ £ £
Net Operating Profit 266,845 580,693 564,694
Interest "Capitalised" 211,598 116,203 204,322
Net Operating Profit
after all Int. 55,247 464,490 360,372
This exercise is merely to indicate the
difficulty in assessing earnings trends and
is not intended to suggest that the com-
pany’s treatment of this item is other than
perfectly correct.
Another point well worth noting is that
the company does not take in any profit
until projects are completed even if the
project is sold prior to completion. With
longer durations in projects this could
mean longer deferment of profit.
Despite these difficulties it is necessary
to try and make some appraisal of future
trends if only to indicate the apparent
size of the problem of maintaining earn-
ings at, say, 21 p.c. on issued ordinary
capital. The figures which could be
material are as under:
£'ooo
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963
Total Revenue (A) 4,585 13,537 18,063
Average Total Assets (B) 7,988 13,919 18,663
Net Operating Profit before
Tax Depreciation and
Interest (C) 859 1,618 1,822
% (A) 18.7 12.0 10.1
% (B) 10.7 11.6 9.7
If we treated the group the same way
as a normal trading group we would ex-
amine the ratio of net operating profit
before tax, interest and depreciation to
“capital” at the beginning of the year.
This would produce rather different
figures as follows:
£'ooo
Year to 30th June 1961 1962 1963
Net Operating
Profit before (C) 859 1618 1822
Tax Depreciation and Interest
Capital at beginning of
year (D) 3642 9772 12,281
% (C) to (D) 23.6 16.5 14.8
In almost all these ratios a downward
trend is evident, yet until this latest year
of 1962/63, earnings as a percentage of
average capital had been steady around
2H p.c. and earnings as a percentage
of average stockholders’ funds actually
increased by I7i p.c. from 1960/61 to
1961/62. Clearly these two last mention-
ed ratios are little use for projecting the
future in companies such as Lend Lease
and of course there is no guarantee at all
that the first ratio is likely to be any
better. Nevertheless, if we assume that
the percentage will now level out and
net operating income before tax deprecia-
tion and interest will be about 15 p.c.
of “capital” at the beginning of the year
we can build up next year’s profit state-
ment roughly as follows:
£ million
Total Revenue 24.7
Net operating profit before Tax,
Depreciation and Interest 2.5
Depreciation .3
Interest 1.0
Tax .5
Earnings .7
In other words, all things being equal,
it is possible to foresee an improvement
in earnings next year. General conditions
would tend to substantiate this as an
all-round increase in building activity
seems likely. The company has come
through a difficult period very well and
today, while selling at about 11s. 3d. t®
show a dividend yield from the 10 p.c.
dividend of 4.4 p.c. still covered nearly
I. times (i.e. with an earnings yield of
7.4 p.c.), the shares seem relatively at-
tractive.
Generally the company’s problem
seems to be how to state profits on an
annual basis when some projects in
fact the major projects take more
than twelve months to complete. From
the chairman’s address, policy in relation
to work in progress seems ultra conser-
vative but this may be offset at least
to some extent by the practice of capital-
ising substantial sums paid out as interest
on borrowings.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to 30th June 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Cash Debtors 258 2013 2385 2270 3277
Trading Assets 457 1726 6877 8581 10997
Investments 196 357 2980 3882
Fixed Assets 1 651 1620 2480 2684
Intangibles 37 115 174
Total Assets 716 4623 11354 16485 20840
Current Liabilities 48 982 1582 4204 4379
Borrowings due
12 months 30 843 2144 1300 2506
Other Borrowings 323 1411 4118 5771 7459
Minority Interests 3 153
Convertible Notes 50 25 —-
Ordinary Capital 250 783 1970 3001 3757
Reserves 15 576 1387 2209 2739
Total Liabilities 716 4623 11354 16485 20840
Total Revenue 461 2170 4585 13536 13063
Expenses 409 1866 3736 11974 16412
Depreciation 3 31 117 219
Interest charged 2 91 302 375 495
Tax provided 18 74 193 429 340
Earnings 24 127 267 580 565
Dividends 11 60 125 27] 338
Surplus 13 67 142 309 227
Earnings %
Ord. Capital (a) 6.8 14.5 18.8 20.1 16.7
Dividend %
Ord. Capital (a) 3.1 6.9 8.8 9.2 10.0
Dividend Yield % (b) 2.0 2.2 2.8 3.3 4.4
Earnings Yield % (b) 2.9 3.4 3.9 5.1 7.4
(a) adjusted for cash issues etc.
(b based on last sale in month accounts presented.
Crestknit’s New Issue
YI/Ith an excellent profit lift from
** £38,696 to £65,082, which provides
just over double cover for the main-
tained 10 p.c. dividend, up their sleeve
from last year’s trading, Crestknit Indus-
tries, the Melbourne knitwear and under-
wear group, is in a confident mood for
the success of its new one-for-four at par
issue of ss. ordinaries announced with
the results last week. The company is
also proceeding with plans to issue more
preference shares and debentures.
Crestknit got through the recession
with its dividend record of paying 10 p.c.
each year since listing in 1954-55 untar-
nished, though it got pretty close to the
bone with-earnings of only 11 p.c. and
11. p.c. in 1961 and 1962 respectively,
after being up as high as 26.6 p.c. in
1957 and no lower than 17.8 p.c. in any
other of its years on ’Change.
The group’s last capital raising was in
1961, when £56,333 was culled in with
a similar one-for-four at par issue of
ordinaries as the present one. But since
then the need for more permanent capi-
tal has grown with increasing business.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Cementing Relations
two affianced cement companies,
A Kandos Cement Co. Ltd and Aus-
tralian Cement Ltd, will shortly be
legally wedded in probably a new hold-
ing company.
These two companies have been
managing agents in NSW and Victoria
respectively for Australian Portland
Cement Ltd, which owns and operates
the cement works and collieries at
Kandos and the cement works at
Geelong.
To facilitate administration, and no
doubt to consolidate defences against
new competition from the plant being
erected near Geelong by Victorian
Portland Cement of the UK Blue Circle
group, a formal union of the two agent
companies will take place.
Australian Portland Cement was
formed as a proprietary company in
1929, and became a public company in
1962. Its capital was equally held by
the two listed companies, Kandos (in
Sydney) and Australian Cement (in Mel-
bourne).
In Victoria, APC had relatively minor
competition over the years from Gipps-
land Industries and the Tasmanian pro-
ducer, Goliath Cement.
In NSW, APC has had much stronger
competition from Commonwealth Port-
land Cement at Portland, and Metro-
politan Portland Cement at Waldon, both
members of the Blue Circle group.
Since the war, APC’s old kilns at both
locations have been remodelled, and
additional ones installed, so that their
combined capacity is approximately
1,200,000 tons a year, of which two-
thirds is at Geelong.
APC’s Geelong plant therefore seems
to have been the main source of income,
by a big margin over Kandos.
In the 1962-63 chairman’s address to
Kandos shareholders, it was revealed
that most of the first stage of the Gee-
long plant expansion, involving the instal-
lation of a new No. 7 kiln, has been
completed, and the second stage of re-
placing the three mile private railway by
a conveyor belt from limestone quarry to
cement works will start soon.
Total capital expenditure is estimated
at over £5 million, of which £1.5 million
has been raised by an issue of registered
unsecured notes, £1.5 million from share
issues by both listed companies, and the
balance is to come from internal re-
sources.
The proposed merger will require some
adjustment between the relative holdings
of Kandos and Australian Cement share-
holders. Although each has equal share-
holdings in APC, Kandos has a two-
thirds holding in a subsidiary, Pipe Lin-
ings (Australia) Pty, and total paid capital
of £2,246,208 against Australian
Cement’s £2,274,638, after receipt of the
final call on July 1, 1963, for their re-
spective share issues.
Kandos shareholders have in recent
years had a one-for-two bonus (June
1955), a one-for-five par issue (March
1960) and a one-for-three issue of ss.
shares at Is. 6d. premium in February
1962. These have been paralleled by
issues of Australian Cement.
As the two listed companies were
purely investment companies, the sum-
marised accounts of the operating com-
pany, APC, are presented in the accom-
panying table. They do not include
APC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, Kandos
Collieries Pty, which made a net loss in
1962-63 of £3BOB, and has shareholders’
funds of £230,495.
Extensive modernisation of both
cement works prompted a complete re-
view of APC’s basis of depreciation. In
1962-63, the amount provided for was
£500,633, compared with £544,473 the
year before.
Directors of APC reported for the year
to May 31 that intense competition and
a prolonged spell of abnormally wet
weather did not help sales in NSW, and
profits were also affected by delays in
the full operation of new plant at Kandos.
The Kandos chairman (Mr A. L. Bell)
stated that overall consumption of cement
in Australia is just short of 3 million tons,
and shows a 64 p.c. increase over the
last 12 months.
Consumption in NSW rose 3 p.c. from
1,035,000 to 1,076,000 tons. Apart
from the construction of multi-storied
commercial buildings, it appeared that
NSW’s rate of recovery in the building
industry was slower than in SA, WA, or
Queensland, where the increases this year
were between 9 and 12 p.c.
Viewing the market over the next de-
cade, Mr Bell predicted “considerable in-
crease” in demand for cement for public
works, schools, hospitals, roads and
housing.
Record tonnages were sold in Victoria
by APC during 1962-63, and the com-
pany won contracts to supply 100,000
tons of cement to the Snowy Mountains
Hydro-Electric Authority’s project on the
Victorian side of the mountains.
It seems obvious that if Victoria is
already well-supplied with cement, erec-
tion of a 300,000 ton plant by new oppo-
sition is going to have an early adverse
effect on APC’s sales and profits.
Discussions with Victorian Portland
executives led the chairman of Austra-
lian Cement Ltd (Sir Clifden Eager) to
believe there will be no price war, and Mr
Bell believes that APC will be in a posi-
tion to meet its share of the expected
increase in consumption.
It would be foolish for shareholders
to expect any great material benefits from
the coming merger, and non-sharehold-
ers should refrain from moving in until
the Victorian position is clarified.
The ss. shares of Kandos and Austra-
lian Cement are currently selling at 14s.
(to yield 4.4 p.c.), or about their low
point for this year to date. They have
been ss. higher since the New Year.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
May 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1869 1845 1889 3395 2264
Less current
liabilities 1201 1338 2067 1946 2128
Working capital 668 507 -178 1449 136
Investments 592 724 1076 1000 705
Fixed assets 4793 5096 6273 8476 10513
6053 6327 7171 10925 11354
Loan capital 303 280 55 1555 1615
Ord. capital 4000 4000 4700 5150 5150
Reserves 1750 2047 2416 4220 4589
6053 6327 7171 10925 11354
Depreciation 539 605 496 544 500
Taxation 370 440 62,1 570 406
Net profit 431 586 804 762 761
Dividend 300 300 435 445 476
Surplus 131 286 369 317 285
Earning rate 10.8 14.6 17.1 16.2 14.8
Dividend rate 7\ 7\ 94 9| 94
KANDOS CEMENT CO. LTD—June 30
Earning rate 11.3 11.4 13.5 13.3 13.6
Dividend rate 10 10 l2£ 12J
Div. yield (a) 2.9 3.2 3.1 3.6
High price (b) 13/6 17/6 20/3 22/2 29/6
Low price (b) 11/6 12/4J 12/6 14/- 17/-
AUSTRALIAN CEMENT LTD—June 30
Earning rate 11.1 11.1 12.9 13.1 13.1
Dividend rate 10 10 12J 12J 12J
Div. yield (a) 2.9 3.4 3.3 3.8
High price (b) 14/41, 19/6 20 /7\ 27/9 27/9
Low price (b) 11/6 13/9 11/9 13/9 16/-
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
441
579
557
397
472
liabilities
235
391
418
224
306
—
—
—
.
—
Working capital 206
188
139
173
166
Investments
61
38
13
1
1
Fixed assets
402
448
530
525
557
—
—
—
—
.
669
674
682
699
724
—
,
Loan capital
100
100
100
100
100
Ord. capital
174
174
174
174
176
Reserves
395
400
408
425
448
—
—
—
■
—
669
674
682
699
724
Depreciation
23
23
23
28
33
Taxation
22
14
6
20
Net profit
41
26
-4
37
45
Dividend
22
22
10
22
22
Surplus
19
4
-14
15
23
Earning rate
23.6
15.0
—
21.2
25.5
Dividend rate
121
121
6
121
121
Dividend yield
Price/earnings
(a) 5.2
5.3
9.6
8.1
ratio (a)
10.3
15.9
—
13.7
High price (b;
10/2
12/71
13/6 .
8/9
8/6
Low price (b)
8/11
8/3
11/3
6/-
5/3
(a) End of September,
month
accounts
presented.
(b) Previous ca
lendar year.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
{Members o 1 Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
207 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J A iVlinnett. M. A. Gleeson
White. lan McFarlane, G X. Kryger.
J. D Woli'ensohn.
Members oi the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscrott, R. V
Betts, D. A Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STRKET. SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011 Telex 5243, 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderlev Sydney. Melbourne and
Brisbane
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
19 12 19 6 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
ALLRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D G PETTIGREW (Managing Director)
E G CONEN T K MAGNEY,
A. G PARKER DOUGLAS WADLEY.
B J LANE (Manaaer)
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
WALKERS LTD
Engineer Makes Good
aryborough engineer Walkers Ltd
performed admirably to earn a
record profit in the latest term to June
30, after trading at a loss in 1960-61.
The company has a record of con-
tinuous dividends since 1920, although
profits were minimal during the Depres-
sion years of the ’3os.
After 12 years of dividends at 12J-
p.c., the loss in 1960-61 dictated a cut
to 6 p.c., but the old rate was restored
in 1961-62 when trading resulted in a
profit of £36,857.
The latest profit, of £44,850, was after
providing a round £20,000 for taxation
and £32,500 for depreciation.
Directors in the previous year
attributed the recovery to favorable con-
tract results from types of work relatively
new to the company, the competency of
the design engineers, and greater
efficiency of the engineering shops after
consistent modernisation.
At the Maryborough (Queensland)
works there is a steel foundry, an iron
foundry and non-ferrous foundry, fitting
and erection shops, boiler and fabrication
shops, machine shops, and a forge plant.
The shipyards have two building berths,
capable of handling ships 350 feet over-
all, 52 feet breadth and with 15 feet
trimmed draft.
The company is approved by Lloyd’s
register of shipping as a manufacturer
of forgings and castings.
During 1962-63 Walkers completed a
contract for 1800 forged and machined
axles for the Queensland Railways and
is now making another 1200. Three
diesel hydraulic locomotives were shipped
to Emu Bay Railway Co. in Tasmania
in July, 1963.
The sugar industry provides the com-
pany with a great deal of work and its
current prosperity is promising for
Walkers. The branch works at Mackay
are operating near maximum capacity,
doing work for CSR, Millaquin, and the
Townsville Bulk Sugar Terminal.
Directors said in their 1963 report
that the sugar industry’s requirements
for new equipment had reached consider-
able proportions. Much of the equip-
ment ordered from Walkers would be
erected on site during 1964 and 1965.
A wholly - owned subsidiary, Associ-
ated Engineering Manufacturers of Aus-
tralia Pty, does not trade in its own right,
but acts as representative for Walkers
in South Africa, Mauritius, the
Philippines, Peru, Pakistan and India.
The Bulletin, October 5, 1963
Most exports are connected with the
sugar industry, but some replacement
parts are made for the mining industry.
The shipyards were idle from Novem-
ber, 1962, after completion of a survey
vessel “Arinya” for the Philippines
Government, until June, 1962, when a
sister ship was ordered. The Department
of Public Works in Victoria has ordered
a large hopper dredge, which Walkers is
building in close collaboration with IHC,
marine dredging experts of Holland.
These orders provide a reasonable build-
ing programme for the next 30 months.
Other contracts in hand are for 700
tons, of heavy structural steelwork for
the power station at Calcap, 90 cast steel
dredge buckets for the SA Harbour
Board, and a turbine-driven crusher
feeder for a South African company.
A sum of £62,577 was spent on
additional plant and equipment during
the year, while plant was continuously
modernised.
Contracts in progress (£71,525 com-
pared with £63,436 at 1962 balance
date) have been valued at cost reduced
to estimated net realisable value, if
appropriate. Progress payments have
been deducted in arriving at the net
value.
In asking 15s. 6d. for the ss. shares,
the share market is placing Walkers in a
much higher category than ever before,
but the orders situation is undoubtedly
very attractive. There is evidence that
the 1960-61 recession tightened the
organisation, to the benefit of efficiency.
Immediate income return is 4.0 p.c.,
and earnings yield 8.2 p.c.
Present prospects confirm the validity
of this assessment, but investors should
be cautious about chasing the shares
much above this level.


SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL
3 Masters wanted in January, 1964, to
teach in the following departments:—
English, Economics, History and Social
Studies, Classics.
1 Master required for General Science.
Ability to coach in football or cricket
is required, if possible. Salary Scale and
conditions of service will be sent to
applicants: masters ' participate in the
State Superannuation scheme. Apply in
writing, stating full qualifications and ex-
perience, to the
HEADMASTER,
SYDNEY GRAMMAR SCHOOL,
College Street,
SYDNEY.
CRAMBROOK SCHOOL
JUNIOR SCHOOL, FIRST TERM, 1964.
Resident Master, teaching and sporting
experience essential.
Apply, giving full particulars and quali-
fications, to the
HEADMASTER,
Victoria Road,
BELLEVUE HILL, SYDNEY.
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
North Sydney
Vacancies exist for MASTERS to teach Science
(any branch) and Mathematics from begin-
ning of Term 1, 1964. Apply in writing to
Headmaster, B. H. TRAVERS.
Tudor House School, Moss Vole
An entrance scholarship, tenable either by
a day-boy or a boarder for three years at
Tudor House, will be awarded on the. results
of an examination in English and Arithmetic
to be held at the School on 16th October.
The examination will be set at Fourth Grade
level. Applicants must be under the age of
eleven on Ist February, 1964.
The value of the scholarship will be £lBO
per annum. The successful candidate will
enter Fifth Class. Application must be made
to the Headmaster by 7th October on forms
available from the Headmaster.
Tudor House is an Anglican preparatory
school controlled by the Council of The King's
School.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: GOTTRARD GERHARD EWALD HOF-
MANN. TAKE NOTICE that ELISABETH
HOFMANN of 116 Mitchell Road, Alexandria, in
the State of New South Wales, has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1174 of 1958 on the
grounds of desertion. AND the Petitioner is
asking the Court’s discretion pursuant to
Section 19 (2) (a) of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899-1960. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 25th day of
October, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from PETER G.
KEARNEY & CO., Solicitors, 254 George
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: CECIL CHARLES GREENTREE, late of
19 Grose Street, Leura. TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH MARGARET GREENTREE has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1583 of 1963
on the ground of separation. If you wish
to defend you may file an answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Macquarie
Street Sydney, within 28 days from the date
of this publication and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from LIGHTOLLER,
TALTY & BROOKE, Solicitors, 231 Macquarie
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
Caesarian Pigs
F ong a symbol of filth, the pig has now
become the most germ-free creature
on the farm.
For the first time in Australia, scien-
tists are delivering pigs by caesarian
operation and rearing them artificially in
conditions that guarantee their freedom
from the disease known as virus
pneumonia.
The full name of the system is “Hys-
terectomy Produced Artificially Reared,”
but officers of the Victorian Department
-of Agriculture, which has adopted the
technique at its Werribee animal re-
search centre, have shortened it to
“Hypar”
Hypar has proved a success in pro-
ducing disease-free pigs at Werribee, and
sensational growth rates are reported for
artificially reared litters. At 10 weeks,
one lot was almost twice the weight of
pigs born and reared in the ordinary
way at the same age.
The department is saying nothing yet
because it doesn’t want a flood of in-
quiries before it has proved the system
beyond question, but officers close to the
work find it hard to conceal their excite-
ment.
If all goes well, excitement may also
be in store for commercial pig breeders
dreaming of a short cut to improving
their stock.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 765
ACROSS
I—Mother talked madly against one Spanish copper.
(8)
s—One item of kangaroo progress is to be very
abundant. (6)
9—North Australian river lassoist. (5)
10—A member of the police branch is an Australian
entertainer. (5, 4)
12—Spoil the head of the corn sprinter with wine. (12)
15—Scottish johnny supporting beef is a varsity man.
(7)
16—A small woolgrower having a
short way to thrash. (7)
18—Give verbal form to a fancy
description of retired news-
papermen. (7)
20— Game enough for South to
take no approval to the
Queen. (7)
21— Yes they are as backward to
a good round crook and a
place for White’s season fla-
vour for drink. (12)
24—Scatter wide members of the
play company. (9)
26 French version of 23-down
has gone badly against you.
(5)
27 Colour tribes are affected.
(6)
28— They’re catty enough to re-
port her in trousers. (8)
DOWN
1— Do 1 walk on one steamship
aristocrat. (11)
2 Very entranced in part. (4)
3 Raves dreadfully on roofing,
being capable of many varied
activities. (9)
4 Yours Truly does an offshoot
language of Esperanto. (3)
6 Graduate stands over you in
a Mississippi backwater. (5)
7 Industrial knave’s flags. (5, 5)
8— Expert tap at a bad reversal.
(3)
10— Rasher essayist. (5)
11— Hubbub caused by some
infant over 50. (5)
13—Cards of a suit which circu-
late in businessmen’s socie-
ties. (6, 5)
14—Name for the ginger-headed
police chiefs. (10)
17—Small moustache on the un-
derweight Sonata in C-sharp
Minor (Beethoven). (9)
19— Ladder from the Italian opera-
house. (5)
20— Jonathan gets the bird. (5)
22 It is capable of poisoning a
mathematician. (5)
23 Keen to change a joint. (4)
24 A little silver haircut. (3)
25 Namby-pamby pops up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 764


PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
THE AUSTRALIAN MAGAZINE OF COMMENT AND OPINION
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT TANNER, BOADICEA. DISCUS AND CELLARMASTER
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS LIVELY FEATURES, LOCAL AND OVERSEAS NEWS
S'k 'oA fli - : : :
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
ABOUT ITS INTERVIEWS AND PERSONALITY PROFILES
PEOPLE EVERYWHERE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE NEW LOOK BULLETIN
AND MORE AND MORE PEOPLE ARE BUYING IT
MAKE SURE
OF RECEIVING
YOUR BULLETIN
REGULARLY
Just fill in and forward
this subscription formf
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick J whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Limited,
Limited,
months


- ■
* -i
VINEYARDS
■
si• ;
sp *% (
SELECTED
BOTTLING
ac ■
UNCMEMANG? //;
SYDNEY. >:Jf i
N«T
*•»». •FU.OTXS
u
‘:r». 1
:': *
m
MM2OOCK «F MO?*****
tIECT A D o C r TAC 'fcra^
jAN ltd.
CONTENTS iPTfcFI fl
Good Food Deserves
L RRy\.
A loble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
I
marts
AUSTRALIA’S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
