

The Bulletin
i* DISC JOCKEYS
• CHEAPWOU5ING
SEPTEMBER 28, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURMj
H|PN - EST. 1880
MALAYSIA’S
PRIME
MINISTER i
TUNKU ABDUL RAHMAN


- i
xam
;
torn
f
I &m
*
h
V
Mi I
•**
There’s no more exacting master than Tradition
Creating fine wines is a matter of family pride with the Smiths of Yalumba . . . has been since
1849. This is one reason why Yalumba Moselle endears itself as a dinner companion. For
Yalumba makes Moselle from selected Rhine Riesling grapes into a light, bright, slightly sweet
wine bottled young and matured in the bottle for truly authentic character. Try Yalumba
Moselle just once; you’ll ask for it always.
YALUMBA Moselle
S, Smith and Son Limited, Yalumba Vineyards, Angaston, South Australia
FREE Yalumba Wine Selector tells
all about the serving of wines
with meals . . . like one? . . .
write direct to Yalumba, Angas-
ton. N.S.W. readers may enquire
direct to state distributors,
O’Malley and Morris Pty. Ltd.,
40 Ennis Road, Milson’s Point,
Sydney. Phone 92 7076.
4
*nuMwtttuaim


National Notebook
Timely
Tn Sydney last Friday three young men
were convicted of raping a girl in an
air-raid shelter near Regents Park sta-
tion. We don’t know what should be
done about young criminals, but surely
it’s about time we did something about
our air-raid shelters.
Half-Nelson
VLThat to ask Nelson Eddy, again in
*’ Sydney for what looks like
another successful season at Chequers?
Even if he hadn’t looked a little pale
after his recent illness, it still seemed too
obvious to drag up Jeanette MacDonald
and the many long years ago when every-
one’s mother loved him in “Naughty
Marietta”.
At his side Miss Gail Sherwood
doodled busily. It was her tenth anni-
versary with Mr Eddy,
from the day he'd audi-
tioned her for an engage-
ment in Las Vegas. She’d
begun simply as a replace-
ment for Jeanette Mac-
Donald, but now she’s
developed as a come-
dienne, helping Mr Eddy send up (quite
kindly) musical comedies and operettas
in between straight songs.
Mr Eddy stressed his normalcy. When
the curtain went down he did just what
any ordinary guy did, pottered around
his nice home in Los Angeles with his
wife, visited friends, drove around. “I
don't go to nightclubs and hit people. I
haven't got any message or cause or
moral advice”.
Had anyone expected his partnership
w ; th Miss Sherwood to last this long?
“I didn’t hear you,” said Mr Eddy. “And
I think something’s gone wrong with the
air-conditioning”. “Shall I turn it up?”
said the publicity girl. “Turn it on”,
snapped Miss Sherwood.
We got back to the question. “I
couldn’t imagine how anyone could have
thought such a thing”, said Mr Eddy.
Wasn't Hollywood always ready to be
sceptical? “It’s not as though it were
a romantic thing”, he said. “It’s just a
working partnership”.
When he gets back to Los Angeles he
might paint some landscapes from pic-
tures they'd taken at Mosman Bay. But
he was just a Sunday painter.
A smell of burning was traced to a
cigar butt stubbed out in a potplant.
“That's Andrea for you”, muttered Miss
Sherwood, breaking off her doodling. It
might have been a good time to ask if
she too were a Sunday painter, but Miss
Sherwood's bent is obviously comedy.
Non-Sell
Tn the last three months Canberra has
sustained the simultaneous assault of
the three most vigorous exponents of the
subtle technique of “non-sell” Col-
liers, Encyclopaedia Britannica and the
Grolier Society which handles the Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia.
All three encyclopaedias are very fine
publications, extensively researched by
world experts in every field, lavishly illu-
strated and produced with the very best
printing processes. Every library should
have one. The question these companies
have faced is how can every home have
one. Their answer is that their sales-
men should look, think and talk as little
like salesmen as possible.
The three companies have made quite
an impact in Canberra, but
there are strong pockets of
resistance. A prominent
Canberra identity told us
“I do think this is a
racket”.
Dr J. F. Cairns, MP, is
one person who has had
far more experience of encyclopaedias
than the average. He contributed
the Australian history section to the
Encyclopaedia Britannica for 10 years
from 1950 to 1960 plus revisions for each
year book and about 50 potted biogra-
phies of historical characters from Ned
Kelly to Henry Parkes.
Dr Cairns said: “I regret very much
that the Encyclopaedia Britannica has
gone in for high-pressure salesmanship
in recent years and I am very disap-
pointed about it. I think this will lower
the reputation of a very fine encyclo-
paedia in future years because it will
persuade people to buy something they
really do not want, and will not use.
“1 know the Encyclopaedia Britannica
is expensive. I could not afford one. I
bought my set second-hand.
“This door-to-door high-pressure sell-
ing has not caused me any personal em-
barrassment because very few people
know I have been writing for the Ency-
clopaedia Britannica or associate me with
it in any way. But I doubt very much
whether I will be writing any more
material for the Encyclopaedia in any
case”.
Five Miles from Gundagai
A T last something is happening to that
windswept waste of red gravel “five
miles from Gundagai” where a mongrel
Page
W ONG-WONG'S SHELLS . . 11l
Dating the aborigines’ arrival
Indonesia: Patience Without Ap-
peasement 6
The Tunku 11
Disc Jockeys: Public Ear, Private
Man 17
W. S. Robinson —of the Inner
Circle 22
Alf Conlon: The Man v. The
Legend 23
What is a Tourist? 27
Preparing for Earthquakes 30
A Break - through on Cheap
Housing 32
Television: The Panel Game .... 39
Black Verdict: The Judgment of
James Baldwin 41
Pressure on Costs 45
Malaysia’s Economic Problems ... 47
Better Use of Tariff Board 51
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA G
80 YEARS AGO 8
OUT AND AROUT 17
OVERSEAS 24
AROUND MELROURNE ... 23
SCIENCE 30
FORUM 32
LETTERS 35
REVIEWS 39
RED PAGE 41
RUSINESS AND FINANCE . 45
MAN ON THE LAND 65
CROSSWORD GG
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
.Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4363


dog has been sitting on a tuckerless box
bending ghost howls off an old, bullocky’s
moon for the best part of half a century.
Backed by the Australia-wide Society
for Growing Australian Plants, the
Gundagai Shire Council plans to turn 6i
acres into the most comprehensive park-
land of Australian flora in the world.
A 100-feet-diameter glasshouse will
hold rare orchids and Australian ferns.
The ferns and orchids, incidentally, will
drip with moisture from electronically
controlled mists.
The society has 1500 members in NSW
and about 700 in Victoria. The rest of
the membership is scattered throughout
the other States.
Price on its Head
in their attempt to bring back
A the (very dead) West Coast Monster,
eager Tasmanians are about to organise a
safari to bring back (alive) a Tasmanian
tiger. That seemed to be the general
plan of the Government when it secured
a vote of £2OOO to finance the hunt, but
Dr E. R. Guiler, chairman of the Animals
and Birds Protection Board, is less
specific. He certainly seems disinclined to
produce a tiger for a zoo.
Dr Guiler is the one man likely to pro-
duce a Tasmanian tiger. He believes that
the marsupial is not extinct, but he has
kept his own counsel on its whereabouts.
He doesn’t want “amateurs going in and
messing the whole thing up.” An expedi-
tion, he agrees, “would be quite spec-
tacular, but it’s not the way. We’ll just
continue sniffing around and steadily
plodding along.”
More than 20 years have passed since
a tiger was caught. One lived in a zoo in
Hobart as late as 1933. Launceston’s
Mayor, Aid. Fry, MLC, last year asked
the Government to offer £5OOO reward
to anyone who could produce a tiger as
a publicity stunt for the State; but the
Government believes that equal publicity
could be obtained were tigers positively
sighted and filmed in their habitat.
American film and magazine interests
have already indicated that they will
handsomely repay the £2OOO expenses of
the search if they can get pictures of
this mysterious flesh-eating marsupial.
Takeover
rFHE other day, the wreckers moved into
A one of Adelaide’s oldest hotels, and
uncovered an historical controversy. The
Old Miners’ Arms, in the foothills at Glen
Osmond, had not welcomed a customer
for many years, but it did a roaring
trade last century after it opened in 1841.
Glen Osmond was a silver-mining village
then, separated from Adelaide by scrub
and paddocks. The Old Miners’ Arms
was the first pub on the road into
Adelaide —a haven for the miners and
weary travellers.
The old pub was demolished to make
way for a £250,000 motel and, in the
report of its demise, it was mentioned
that Cobb & Co. used the hotel regularly.
The original owner’s grandson, who lived
in the hotel until the end, said he had
found, among the copper-bottomed sauce-
pans and bed warmers, some relics of
Cobb & Co. coaches.
This evoked a loud protest from an
elderly citizen who said that Cobb & Co.
had never operated in SA; a local firm,
Hill & Co., had provided the coach
services.
A lively discussion was cut short by
documentary evidence that Cobb & Co.
moved in SA in October, 1866, with
services to Port Elliot and Clare. Within
four months, the company had extended
as far north as isolated Blinman in the
Flinders Ranges, and south to Mount
Gambier. In April, 1870, the local firm
of Hill & Co. bought out Cobb & Co. in
SA, for what is probably the State’s only
takeover of a US-based firm.
Tanner
"It's ghastly, Cynthia we're safe, but they think we're Australians!"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Living with Indonesia
THE storm in Indonesia seems
to be subsiding, leaving —in
the wake of riots, insults, a burnt
British Embassy and the rupture of
relations between Kuala Lumpur,
and Djakarta and Manila—a num-
ber of unsettled and festering prob-
lems. Malaysia is now undoubtedly
launched (and all the more securely
through United Nations’ approval
than if it had gone through on the
original schedule of August 31)
and one unintended result of Indo-
nesian intransigence has been to
unite however temporarily—the
disparate racial elements of
Malaysia. Yet another has been
the gradual isolation of Indonesia
and its ally, the Philippines, from
the sympathies of the rest of the
world. Indonesia has, at least
temporarily, destroyed Maphilindo,
while in New York the Indonesian
Ambassador to the UN is finding
it heavy weather trying to drum
up any Afro-Asian approval of
Indonesia’s stand. (Even a
neutralist Burma sent congratu-
latory messages to the Tunku on
Malaysia Day.)
Indonesia indeed shows signs of
retreating from an untenable situa-
tion. Rioting has ceased, apologies
have been offered, and British
holdings in Indonesia will probably
be shortly returned. Equally sig-
nificant is the fact that, on Presi-
dent Soekarno’s orders, there have
been no Indonesian border raids in
Sarawak for the last three weeks.
Nevertheless, although this seems
as reasonable a finish to an un-
happy chapter as could be ex-
pected, the question of future Aus-
tralian-Indonesian relations remains
vexed. It has been, a relatively easy
matter for the British, with their
power, their prestige and their
desire to quit South-East Asia, to
maintain a tough, uncompromising
stand. But their problems in the
area, their ultimate aims, are not
ours.
While we have committed our-
selves to Malaysia’s defence—but
not beyond the terms stated by Sir
Garfield Barwick —we shall have
to think hard about our long-term
relations with Indonesia, not only
now but for decades ahead. Indo-
nesia is, and wants to be regarded
us a power in South-East Asia
whose views concerning the area
in which we live it wants taken into
account. We failed to do this over
Indonesian opposition to Malaysia,
miscalculating both its strength
and its implacability which was
shared by all Indonesian parties
and pressure groups. (It can not
be conveniently dismissed by
merely laying it at the door of the
PKI.)
We must not assume that there
will be no further eruptions from
Indonesia which will naturally in-
volve Australia. It may be wise
to push up our defence vote, but
it will also be wise to remember
that mere defensive power is not
the only answer. World opinion and
Asian attitudes also count, and
Australia is only a small power.
Even more than the Americans
we face a complicated problem in
Indonesia, where there is a battle
between Communist and anti-
Communist forces complicated by
all the attendant Indonesian evils
of galloping inflation, a fierce
nationalism and an uncompromis-
ing philosophy of anti-colonialism.
Our nearest neighbors number
100,000,000, and it is imperative
that, without surrendering any of
our national interests, we do
not allow ourselves to become the
victims of a thoughtless, home-
grown scare propaganda and ideas
of inevitable war. The future
demands steady nerves and un-
prejudiced minds.
The Big Sleep
THE Australian Council of Trade
Unions had an excellent op-
portunity last week to make reason-
ed and much-needed criticisms of
the Federal Government’s economic
policies, but, in fact, what a ridi-
culous spectacle it made of itself!
Consider first the plain ignorance
in its 18-point economic programme.
It attacks the Federal Government’s
alienation of Australia’s oil and
bauxite deposits to foreign interests,
despite the obvious fact that the
granting of oil permits is a matter
for the States not the Common-
wealth, and that, apart from the
Moonie field, most of the best
potential oil tenements and half in-
terests in both the aluminium smelt-
ing companies are held by Austra-
lian companies.
Consider next its confusion of
thought: it demands control of
prices and profits, but at the same
time attacks the Government for
trying to control wage levels. (Only
the ACTU economists could ima-
gine that this is Government policy
or that it is even within the Govern-
ment’s power to pursue such a
policy, but that is another matter).
Consider also its plain errors of
fact: it attacks the Federal Treasurer
for being “biased” against the
lower income groups, when in fact
in his last Budget he gave all his
tax concessions to the lower income
groups and nothing to the higher
income groups.
Worse still, underlying all this
economic balderdash is the old dog-
matic faith in controls, nationalisa-
tion, and central planning by Big
Brother. No opportunity was lost,
it seems, to make it clear to union
leaders that they need do nothing
to bring their ideas closer to reality,
or to Labor politicians that, if they
ever hope to win an election, they
need to master some of the com-
monsense of the ordinary voter.
To bring the sorry affair into
sharper relief one has only to look
at the 10,000 word document on
economic policy adopted by the
British Trade Union Congress at
its annual conference earlier this
month. There a deliberate attempt
was successfully made to mark the
end of an era in trade union dog-
matism and old class war sloganis-
ing. From now on British trade
union wage and economic policy
will be aimed at the expansion of
the economy and the maintenance
of a free society.
If the ACTU’s ideas are a guide
to Labor thinking, Sir Robert Men-
zies has nothing to fear at the next
election.


THIS AUSTRALIA
FOREIGN POLICY
Patience Without
Appeasement
Why Australians have been unmolested in Djakarta
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
DR SOEKARNO
“ British, not Australians”
rFHROUGHOUT most of the Indonesian-
Malaysian dispute Australia has
preserved a special relationship with
Indonesia. Australia supported the con-
cept of Malaysia as a force for peace
and stability in South-East Asia from
the outset. It was quite frank with In-
donesia’s leaders, such as President
Soekarno and his Foreign Affairs Min-
ister, Dr Subandrio. It told them, with
External Affairs Minister Sir Garfield
Barwick as its mouthpiece, that it in-
flexibly backed Britain in its determina-
tion to bring Malaysia into being.
Yet, while Britain and the States that
were to become the future Malaysia
became the target of Indonesian hate
and attack, Australia and Australians
continued to have what seemed to be
a charmed immunity from Indonesian
hostility. As late as Thursday of last
week the Australian Ambassador in In-
donesia, Mr K. (“Mick”) Shann was able
to report that, despite the attack on
and firing of the British Embassy and
the Djakarta mob violence against ex-
pressions of approval for the new Mal-
aysian federation, Australians were able
to continue about their business in In-
donesia unmolested.
The difference in attitude by Indo-
nesia towards Australia as compared
with Britain is a direct consequence of
the policy of the Menzies Govern-
ment, described as a policy of patience
and understanding without appeasement.
But one section of Cabinet has also
believed from the outset that Aus-
tralia was differently placed from Brit-
ain. It agreed with the proposition once
stated by Defence Minister Athol Town-
ley. Townley said that Australians must
regard themselves, and persuade Asians
to regard Australians, as fundamentally
different from British, French, Dutch or
American sojourners in this part of the
world. These others could and ultimately
would return to their homelands. But
Australians had no homeland outside
Australia.
Since Indonesian leaders know that
Australia has genuinely tried to under-
stand the Indonesian viewpoint, relation-
ships between Australia and Indonesia
have as yet not degenerated to the point
where they must inevitably leave behind
a legacy of hate and suspicion to dis-
tort future issues.
Even Mr McEwen would not have
made a public statement but for Labor’s
Mr Pat Galvin raising the matter in
Parliament and making the quite
legitimate point that the Australian
public was entitled to know the Govern-
ment’s attitude and its assessment of
the position in Indonesia following the
attacks on the British Embassy.
Faced with this the Government,
whatever its preference for restricting
the communication of its views to
Indonesia to diplomatic channels, had
little alternative but to come out and
say publicly what it had already said
privately to the Indonesian authorities.
This was that it was behind Britain
(and Malaysia) “all the way.”
The policy of patience and under-
standing without appeasement might
seem at first glance an unexciting one
to follow. It does not produce head-
lines, and leaves Australia open to the
charge from its allies and internal
critics that it is seeking to evade public
commitment to an inflexible line which,
say the critics, is the only kind of line
that the Indonesians understand.
But on the course of events so far it
would seem that the policy has some
justification, for it has produced a
situation in which it is still possible that
the Indonesian-Malaysia issue can be
resolved without the permanent poison-
ing of Australian-Indonesian relation-
ships.
POLITICS
The Revolt of the Young Liberals?
Years of frustration
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
"Oeaders of the Sydney papers last
week found themselves confronted
with reports of “widespread revolt” in
the Liberal Party. After the smoke
had cleared it was obvious that this was
not the case, but lingering doubts re-
mained as to whether there was a
“conspiracy” by Young Liberals in the
NSW party against the leadership of the
Parliamentary State Party.
The Young Liberals in NSW are
organised in about 35-40 branches
covering the under-25 membership of
the party. Over the years these branches
have been subjected to tension and
pressure from three groups: the social
set; the ex-school debaters; and those
striving towards political reality. The
financial membership of these Young
Liberals is about 2000, with an un-
financial but semi-active membership of
another 2000.
The source of the revolt rumor arose
out of a motion approved by a narrow
majority in the Mosman State Electoral
Council (a blue-blue ribbon North-side
Liberal seat) expressing “grave con-
cern” at the state of the NSW Parlia-
mentary Liberal Party. This motion
came from the Beauty Point branch,
but was also backed by the Mosman
Young Liberals.
The motion from Beauty Point, a
suburb with startling views on the edge
of Middle Harbour, was echoed, so it
was reported, by four Young Liberal
branches Mosman, Pennant Hills,
Roseville and Lindfield. But later it was
alleged that two of these branches knew
nothing of the motion.
On examination it was clear that
the so-called “revolt” did not exist
beyond a few Young Liberal branches.
Even though there were reliable reports
that local pressures ambitiously aimed
towards the overthrow of one Federal
Member, Mr J. Cockle (Warringah), it
was still only a sounding-off by a few
Young Liberals.
While the reaction to the reports was
strong (Parliamentary Party leader, Mr
R. Askin, spoke of “gross exaggeration”
and the State President of the Party,
Brigadier J. Pagan, defended re-


appraisal and spoke of increasing mem-
bership), the Mosman State Electorate
Council and the Young Liberals had
certainly expressed some of the dis-
satisfaction that must obsess a party so
long out of office.
It was also probably true that the
local Member for Mosman, Mr Pat
Morton, who sat through the Council
meeting without committing himself,
was not altogether displeased to hear
Mr Askin indirectly criticised; after all,
Mr Askin had replaced him as leader
five years ago.
The affair was accompanied by the
usual stream of letters to the papers,
echoing the theme of frustration arising
from years in opposition. But the
position of the Young Liberals was as
much a product of frustration over
not being taken into account in the
making of decisions within the party.
For years the question of whether
Young Liberal branches should be
maintained as a separate entity for the
under 25s has been argued about and
the latest flurry meant another re-
examination of the arguments for and
against putting young members back
into ordinary party branches.
ACTU CONGRESS
“We Want Big Brother”
Dogmatism and shibboleths
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
ALBERT MONK.
Unconcerned
Tt was only to be expected that the
ACTU Congress would “uncompro-
misingly” oppose the Federal Govern-
ment’s economic policy at its meetings in
Melbourne last week. But a lot of the
sting was taken out of its own 18-point
economic programme by the consider-
able turn for the better in the unemploy-
ment situation announced during the
week by the Minister for Labor, Mr W.
McMahon, and indeed by the startling
defeat (albeit by a narrow majority and
in the absence of about 50 delegates) of
the ACTU’s own executive to prevent
strikes being launched without prior re-
ference to it as the controlling body of
the unions.
Still, after the Treasurer’s concentra-
tion of tax concessions on lower incomes
and indirect taxes and his complete
neglect of higher income ranges and
business in his latest Budget, Congress
must have been feeling in a very con-
trary mood indeed to point the bone so
sharply at him on the score of being
“clearly biased” against the lower income
groups. It is simply not true that the
Federal Treasurer is relying increasingly
on indirect taxation with its heavier im-
pact upon those with lower ability to pay.
As the ACTU has some economic
expertise around it these days it is a pity
the recitation of dogma was preferred to
more enlightened discussion, say, of the
role of indirect taxation as a preferable
economic adjuster to direct taxation. As
a trade unionist one wduld have relished
a nod from Congress to the Treasurer
that he missed an opportunity to stimu-
late spending power a little more by cut-
ting indirect taxes even further in the
recent- Budget, with the idea of taking
some of his concessions back later in the
year, should economic buoyancy be get-
ting out of hand.
The more one examines the ACTU’s
economic policy the more deeply it looks
diced with dogma, not just the old shibbo-
leths like the nationalisation of monopo-
lies and measures to curb profit inflation
by control of profits, rents and rates, but
also in its overall assumption that the
Australian economy will perform better
and grow faster under rigid State regula-
tion, that, by some magic, private enter-
prise on which the bulk of employment
and wages depends will improve its per-
formance with Big Brother looking more
sternly over its shoulder.
One of the main contradictions within
the programme is that while on the one
hand the ACTU wants control of prices
and profits, on the other it charges the
Federal Government with intervening in
cases before the Arbitration Commission
and the establishment of the Industrial
Court in an attempt to control wage
levels.
This is a blatant misconstruction of the
purpose of the Government’s interven-
tions in Arbitration Court wage cases.
For however much the Federal Govern-
ment might welcome a big say in wage
determinations to add to its other econo-
mic powers, this is one it has not got in
any shape or form.
In the same vein Congress strongly
criticises what it calls the Government’s
“consistent alienation” to foreign inter-
ests of Australia’s oil and bauxite
deposits. But with a high degree of
Australian interest in both these fields
(Australian companies have about a half
interest in both the aluminium smelting
companies and outside the Union-Kern-
AOG group developing the Moonie field,
Australian companies hold most of the
best potential oil tenements), there is not
much point in such a criticism. More-
over has the ACTU forgotten that grant-
ing of oil permits is a matter for the
States, not the Commonwealth Govern-
ment?
Athough this 18-point programme has
some sensible features (like the idea of
getting the Commonwealth Bank to com-
pete at low interest rates in the general
field of hire purchase financing) I believe
that put to the test it would not achieve
its main avowed object, that is to maxi-
mise economic development in Australia.
On the contrary it would stifle develop-
ment. While it would certainly achieve
a fairer distribution of the economic
cake, it would cut the size of the cake and
mean smaller slices for everybody.
Moreover if what Mr Albert Monk’s
lack of concern, expressed on television
last week, over the possibility of inflation
raising its head again in this country is
to be taken at its full value, the unions
are not going to enter next February’s
basic wage case with any inhibitions.
Coupled with the go-ahead given by Con-
gress to individual unions to strike at
will, this could mean a worrying time
looming for employers.
QUEENSLAND
Nationalisation
The end of a bad dream
FROMM A QUEENSLAND CORRESPONDENT
TTorty years or so ago, particularly
under the Ryan and -Theodore Gov-
ernments, the State of Queensland was
in small business in a big way. It
owned 75 butcher shops, 21 cattle sta-
tions, a State Fish Supply (with seven
retail fish shops and a trawler), a pro-
duce agency, a hotel, cannery, and
smelters. By June 30, 1930, the total
loss was <£1,863,339. The stations
lost £ 1,669,803; butcher shops,
£28,014; fish supply, £36,012; cannery,
£112,695; produce agency, £18,685;
cold stores, £65,344. The hotel, at
Babinda (North Queensland) made pro-
fits totalling £62,217. Shortage of ore
supplies and falling metal prices caused


the closure ol the Chillagoe (North
Queensland) smelters Now, at long last,
the Country-Liberal Government is to
sell the Ogmore, last of the State-owned
coalmines, 100 miles north of Rock-
hampton (Central Queensland). They
lost £13,000 last year and losses since
1936 have amounted to £314,000. In
only three years since then has the mine
made a profit.
EDUCATION
Chasing the Science
Book Market
“May the best book win ”
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
H. MESSEL
Scrapbooks
rpHE fight for control, or at least a cut
of the massive science text-book
market continues unabated, and last
week several new weapons were tested.
Professor H. Messel called a Press con-
ference in Sydney to announce that the
Nuclear Research Foundation had “gone
almost all the way” in meeting criticism
of its pilot edition of “Science for High
School Students,” and from here on it
was full steam ahead. The chapters on
Astronomy, Geology and a section of
Biology had been rewritten; 270 dia-
grams had been changed, and the num-
ber of color plates had been doubled.
The Teachers’ Federation, the Professor
said, was now “completely and totally
satisfied.” (Four of its representatives
had been brought into future planning.)
To meet criticisms of the weight of the
text (4ilb.), it would be split into two
volumes as an option. (They would
cost, he warned, 375. 6d. each, com-
pared with the price of 655. for the
single volume.)
Unlike his previous conference on
the book this time Professor Messel
evaded buying into the dispute over the
Government Printing Office contract for
the book, but he did say that he was
“absolutely certain,” despite publishing
world scepticism, that the book would
be out in time for next year’s classes.
The numbers of orders already in from
350-odd schools which had responded
was also kept secret. It was a “stagger-
ing number . . . but I’m not going to
give that to the printing trade.”
But that, and a few digs when he
talked of overseas amazement at the
“low price,” were the only fighting
words from the conference in contrast to
the gamey flavor of the previous one,
where the publishing and printing trade
of Australia had been verbally be-
labored. (He did give one hint that he
might yet foil the publishers on a larger
scale. While cautious and mysterious
about overseas negotiations Professor
Messel went out of his way to lay stress
on the interest that Unesco had taken
in the book.)
No sooner had he pasted the Press
reports in his bound nine volumes of
press cuttings in his office library than
two other publishers announced a joint
publication of a science text-book —
“Science Through Experiment” at a
cheaper price than Professor Messel’s.
Four leading NSW science masters will
write this new book; it will be published
jointly by F. W. Cheshire of Melbourne
and Jacaranda Press of Queensland; it
will be printed by Wilke & Co. of Mel-
bourne (who had offered to print Pro-
fessor Messel’s book), and the first of
the three volumes will sell at 15s. in
the bookshops.
On top of that came the news that
Mr A. Boden, of Roseville, Sydney, and
several school and university teachers
were producing a third text-book, “An
Introduction to Science”, to be published
by Science Press, Marrickville. Details
of its price are not yet available.
Professor Messel’s rejoinder to the
Cheshire-Jacaranda book was a lesson
in arithmetic: three volumes of 250
pages at 15s. each volume means 750
pages for 455. His book with 950 pages,
covering four years’ work not three, will
be only 655. “May the best book win,”
he said.
But he will certainly need more vol-
umes for his Press cuttings.
THE FUTURE OF THE EMPIRE
bulletin
80 Years Ago: September 29, 1883
A t a Colonial congress, held in
Amsterdam a week ago, Mr
F. YOUNG delivered an address,
urging upon England “the federation
of the mother country and the
colonies, with a common Parliament
for the consideration of matters of
mutual interest”. Is it not probable
that Englishmen would say: “We
cannot shift our Island from its
present moorings. Through no fault
of our own, we belong to the
European system, and must fight, if
need be, to retain a prominent place
in that system. Therefore, as our
roads, our interests, and our neces-
sities point in different directions; as
we cannot play second fiddle to you,
and you will not to us, let us in
GOD’s name separate, and endeavor
—as the preachers say—to do our
duty in the sphere of life to w'hich
Heaven has called us”? From what-
ever standpoint we examine this
question of Imperial federation, its
hollowness becomes apparent. It is a
dream fascinating, it is true, but
still a dream.
STUDENTS
£400 a Lawyer
A petition to Sir Robert
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
HThere were no student stunts when the
W.A. University’s Guild of Under-
graduates held a lunch-hour meeting
last week to protest against the 40 per
cent fee increase imposed last month by
the University Senate.
Though the increase still leaves W.A.
undergraduates paying only about 75 per
cent of the average fees imposed at
Sydney and Melbourne universities, the
students were in deadly earnest: it will
now cost £7OO to qualify as a doctor,
£5OO to qualify as an engineer and
£4OO to become a lawyer. These may
seem small sums, but WA was once one
of the few universities in the world to
be completely free.
The meeting blamed the Common-
wealth Government for inadequate aid
to education and decided to organise a
student petition to be presented to the
Prime Minister, Sir Robert Menzies.
To support their argument, student
leaders made some telling points about
the effect of fee increases on student


St
JR £8
mm
A
m
; "
the
staff of
life
Our daily bread is something we take for granted. Yet from waving wheatfield
to the homely table a host of complex mechanised tasks are part of the process.
In the wheat industry, as in all the food industries, Dunlop is ever-
present. Seed drills sow the grain in orderly rows. Grain is hurried
to ships and wharfside from bulk terminals along the extended conveyor gal-
leries. Crisp, warm loaves are carried to the familiar baker’s cart untouched on
hygienic belting. In these and a thousand other ways Dunlop Industrial Pro-
ducts supply sustenance the very Staff of Life —not merely for our own
people but for millions of other human beings. Dunlop products always do the
job —any-job they’re fashioned for.
the more you use rubber, the more you need DUNLOP
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS DIVISION
4126


enrolment and composition. Guild Pre-
sident, Alan Fels, quoted student enrol-
ment figures at the WA University. In
1960, enrolments were a record 991. In
1961, when student fee increases were
imposed, they fell by almost 20 per cent
and have still not returned to the 1960
level. He believed the figures slightly
understated the true position because
there was a rising percentage of matricul-
ants who came to the university in the
normal course of events.
Commonwealth scholarships had not
even kept up with the number of new
admissions to Australian universities. In
1953, 29 per cent of university matricul-
ants held Commonwealth scholarships.
By last year it had dropped to 22 per
cent. The ratio of Commonwealth
scholarships to the number of students
sitting for the matriculation had also
fallen. Mr Fels contrasted this situation
with that in the United Kingdom, where
government financial assistance to stu-
dents had risen over the last six years
from 70 to 90 per cent of those attend-
ing universities.
After detailing the overall graduation
costs arising from the latest fee increases,
Mr Fels saw fit to conclude: “Such costs
will make this university a club for the
rich instead of a place for those with
academic merit.” Despite such drolleries,
however, students still hope for a sensible
answer from the Commonwealth on its
attitude to tertiary education.
UNIONS
The United Front
The Victorian ALP Executive runs true to form
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
E. V. ELLIOTT
The boss
TI/hen the Victorian Branch of the ALP
" expelled Mr W. H. O'Brien (a mem-
ber of the ALP Executive and Assistant
Secretary of the ARU) for standing on a
unity ticket with Communist Central
Committee member J. J. Brown, there
was a sigh of relief throughout Victoria.
But it soon ended as one of despair. The
Victorian Executive smartly replaced the
errant Mr O’Brien on its Executive with
Mr Bernard Nolan, Victorian Secretary
of the Seamen's Union.
It would be futile to speculate which
of the two men is the most gullible
concerning Communist policies. One
thing is certain: Mr Nolan would win
hands down in a race to do the bidding
of Mr E. V. Elliott, Communist Federal
Secretary of the Seamen’s TJnion.
Mr Nolan owes his position to Elliott
and has no intention of jeopardising it.
In 1956 Mr Nolan was just another AB
on the Australian coast when the Com-
munist Party decided that the Seamen’s
Union was overstocked with Communist
officials (10 out of 11) and that in the
interests of a Communist-controlled
United Front three Communist officials
(lower echelon) would resign to allow
their places to be filled uncontested by
ALP men.
Mr Nolan won a vacant position by
some 800 votes. He proved most adept
at nodding his head when Mr Elliott
and the then Victorian Secretary, Mr Bill
Bird, spoke, and he lent an air of ALP
respectability to the ideas of these
gentlemen at the Melbourne Trades
and Labour Council. It was no sur-
prise when he was returned unopposed
in the 1958 elections.
When enmity between Elliott and
Bird meant that one had to go, Nolan
hitched his waggon to Elliott’s star. Bird
resigned as Victorian Secretary in 1959,
making a new election necessary, and
Nolan supported the Communist candi-
date for Vigilance Officer. Roger Wilson,
in return for CP support for his nomina-
tion as Secretary. Both Nolan and Wil-
son won, the latter by the proverbial
whisker, and their performances were
such that they were unopposed in the
1960 elections.
In July of that year Mr Nolan attended
a trade union gathering in East Germany,
for which country, along with Czechoslo-
vakia, he was full of praise on his return.
The infamous Berlin Wall, he says, is
“necessary” and “all right”. “Freedom
of faith and conscience was guaranteed
and religion unfettered.” Mr Nolan was
not opposed in the 1962 elections.
At the Victorian Annual Convention
of the ALP this year he put forward
resolutions dear to the heart of the CP.
And now he sits with that august body,
the Victorian Executive of the ALP.
It is only fitting that his assistant, Mr
Wilson, was recently elected to the Vic-
torian Executive of the Communist
Party.
TASMANIA
Gangsters in the
Fishing Industry
The pirates of Flinders Island
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
"Cylinders Island still retains some of
the air of lawlessness that its re-
moteness gave it a century ago, when
it was Australia’s wildest community,
made up of escaped convicts, polyglot
sealers and their aboriginal and Pacific
Island women.
Wrecking was then an established local
industry. Now it is poaching. But the
possibility of bloodshed and the cer-
tainty ot economic loss have stirred the
Tasmanian Government to investigate
organised radio-controlled poaching of
crayfish from beds around Flinders Is-
land. It is doubtful whether the probe
will be effective.
Flinders Island fishermen claim that
the continued taking of undersized fish
will exhaust the beds. They say that some
Tasmanians as well as Victorian and
NSW fishermen are engaged in the
traffic, and that stand-over tactics pre-
vent effective control.
The Minister for Fisheries, Mr At-
kins, has admitted that “there is trouble
at Flinders Island,” but he has dis-
played no inclination to do anything
about it. The published claims of the
fishermen are dismissed as newspaper
sensationalism, and Opposition ques-
tions have been ignored.
A spokesman for the fishermen wrote
a letter to “The Examiner” (Launceston):
“The Minister fails to recognise that
he is working against a well-organised
and equipped team of fishermen and
buyers operating with big money,” the
letter said. “Threats of violence are
commonplace over the fishing-boat
radio. Some weeks ago two policemen
were told to get off a boat they were
about to inspect. They got off.”
Mr Atkins accused “The Examiner”
of taking up the allegations for the pur-
poses of sensationalism, but the Oppo-
sition Leader, Mr Bethune, said that
two fishermen who had spoken to him
were in obvious fear of their lives.
Police Minister McLoughlin agreed that
the claims should be investigated in fair-
ness to the policemen. “If there is a gang
up there we will have to meet them with
a gang,” he said. The Deputy Premier,
Mr Fagan, thereupon promised a full
investigation.


The Tunku
" We are not clever but at least we are honest ”
From ALEX JOSEY in Singapore
Tall for a Malay, medium weight,
thin hair combed straight back
from his broad forehead, the
Tunku smiled at the cameras, puffed at
his cigar, fingered his clipped greying
moustache, glanced at the British Prime
Minister, and resumed his speech
As if to emphasise the point he was
about to make, he pressed the palm of
his hand gently upon the copy of the
Malaysia agreement he had just signed.
“Here in Malaya,” he continued, “it is
our blessings that the people of our
country live in harmony and peace. If
you should ask me, this great day, what
is my dearest wish, 1 would say 1 want
to be happy, and 1 want all the people
of Malaya and Malaysia to be as 1 am,
happy, and to make this short span of
life worthwhile every moment of
existence.”
That is the philosophy of Tunku Abdul
Rahman, 60-year-old Prime Minister of
Malaysia. He wants to be happy. He
wants to live a full and trouble-free life,
and he wants everyone else to be happy.
He is kind, humane, tolerant, generous,
and quite incapable of being disloyal or
harsh to a friend or a supporter. He even
manages to like most of his enemies.
“I’m a fool. Really I am. Why do I
get talked into these things?” This is
sometimes his reaction when his mistakes
are exposed. He laughs when he makes
this sort of comment: he does not worry
much, is seldom depressed. Critics say
he was completely out-manoeuvred by
President Soekarno at Manila. They say
the simple, genial, sincere Malay was
outclassed by the wily Javanese. They
say he was talked into endangering the
existence of Malaysia on the eve of its
birth. They say that while the Tunku is a
shrewd politician among Malays, that
he thoroughly understands the mind of
the Malays, he is no match for experi-
enced tough politicians in world affairs.
When friends defend the Tunku, and
point to him as the man responsible for
ousting South Africa from the Common-
wealth, his critics reply that this was
not the work of a thoughtful statesman,
but the action of an obstinate man of
emotion. Hidden in the truth is the fact
that the Tunku took his uncompromising
stand on South Africa because of his
contempt (not hatred, because nobody
knowing the Tunku could believe he
is capable of hatred, which needs sus-
tained effort) of racialism, and
racialists.
And that, briefly, is the real strength
of the Tunku, and that is why the Tunku
is loved and respected in Malaysia, even
by those often exasperated and infuri-
ated by him. Because, in the words of
Mr Lee Kuan Yew, Prime Minister of
Singapore: “The Tunku is the leader of
the Malays. But he is no racialist. As
long as the Tunku is there he will be the
leader of Malaysia, and to everybody’s
advantage. Because, whatever one can
say of him, he is not a communalist,
which is a great thing in this country.
If he were, and if he tried to stymie or
obstruct the activities of four million
Chinese in Malaysia, out of a population
of ten million, then I say we will go
down the drain, like a few other coun-
tries have . ... ”
This the Tunku understands better
than most Malays. But that is not the
reason why Tunku Abdul Rahman is not
a racialist. He is not a racialist because
he has a tremendous affection for human
beings, no matter what their race. And,
as a component in the make-up of a
leader in a multi-race nation, this genu-
ine feeling is probably more important
even than efficiency or intelligence. Here
is no rabid nationalist. Here is a kindly,
smiling person anxious to believe in the
goodness of man all men and
constantly surprised at their capacity for
evil.
History, if accurately written, will
record that while the Tunku neither con-
ceived nor created Malaysia, he alone
made Malaysia possible now. If he had
opposed Malaysia, history for a brief
while may have taken a different course
in Asia. We shall never know. What is
a fact is that the Tunku listened while
Lee Kuan Yew argued, and the Malay
prince was convinced, and Malaysia was
planned.
“Merge with Singapore?” the Tunku
scoffed in 1960. “Swamp Malaya with
another million and a half Chinese,
most of them Communists looking to-
wards Peking? Over my dead body. If
Singapore joined Malaya the Malays
would become a minority in their own
country. This I will never permit during
my lifetime.”
Yet, within a year, the Tunku was
working for Malaysia, a new State in
which the Malays, and the indigenous
people, grouped together, would num-
ber less than the Chinese and the In-
dians and Eurasians. Forty-four per cent
of the population of Malaysia are Mal-
ays and indigenous people. About 40
per cent are Chinese. About ten per cent
are Indians: the rest are Pakistanis. Cey-
lonese and Eurasians.
What made him change his mind
about Singapore? Many explanations
have been offered. Truth is, that the
Tunku believed Lee Kuan Yew when the
Chinese leader told the Tunku that if
the British gave Singapore independence
at the end of 1963, which was when Brit-
ain promised to review Singapore’s fut-
ure, nothing could prevent the Com-
munists taking over the island, and turn-
ing it into an Asian Cuba, sustained and
supported by the People’s Republic of
China. Malaya, a mile across the Cause-
way, would then become a prime targei
for Communist subversion and aggres-
sion. Lee argued that this left the Tunku
two courses. He could wait until that
happens, and then send his troops down
to occupy Singapore physically, and rule
nearly two million Chinese by force.
Or he could absorb Singapore politically


We'll fabricate aluminium at Geelong,
Victoria, for buildings, cars, binoculars
Situated adjacent to their aluminium smelter
at Point Henry; Geelong, is Alcoa’s huge fabri-
cating plant. Here aluminium ingot will be
processed into a multitude of basic shapes for
Australian industry. From these semi-fabri-
cated shapes will come tomorrow’s industrial,
commercial and domestic products. The trains,
the window frames, the power mains the
everything for tomorrow is made possible by
Alcoa’s all-Australian operation. Alcoa is now
at work in the mining, refining and smelting of
aluminium. Later this year the new fabricating
plant will commence production of extruded
products, tube, rod and bar, to be followed by
sheet, plate and foil in the second half of
1964. This £45 million enterprise, through its
49% Australian ownership, is an important
factor in Australia’s economic framework.
ALUMINIUM IS PROGRESS...ALUMINIUM IS
m
6<JCV>
1/5
Mining;
DARLING RANGES
Refining:
PM# KWINANA
’l
V?
Smelting and
fabricating: $8
ALCOA
0
AUSTRALIA
ALCOA OF AUSTRALIA
HEADQUARTERS AND SALES OFFICE: ISS QUEEN STREET. MELBOURNE. 67 6585
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
ft
*
$
*s*
M
-‘is
mm
>1
TT-jT-.wvTT.
:~7
.
ill
TO
8
m
m
IS
m
m
m
■ | :
mmm
.VV,-, ... . .
‘Fabricating Aluminium.” A graphic interpretation by leading designer D. Leonard, commissioned by Alcoa of Australia Pty/'lltd."


before it was too late, and rule by con-
sent to everyone’s mutual benefit. A
realist, as well as a poker player and a
punter, the Tunku quickly reached a
decision. He would accept merger, frus-
trate the Communists and survive. He
still remembered when Chinese guerrillas
came out of the jungle at the end of
the war to take over his State of Kedah.
This gave him a healthy dislike of Com-
munism he has never forgotten.
A student for 25 years
child of the sixth wife of Ab-
dul Hamid, Sultan of Kedah, Tunku
Abdul Rahman Putra Al-haj ibni Al-mar-
hum Sultan Abdul Hamid Halim Shah
was born in Alor Star on February 8,
1903. His mother, Menjelara, was Siam-
ese. Her ancestors were Burmese. The
Sultan died at the age of 79. He had mar-
ried eight women and produced 45 sons
and daughters. The Kedah Royal Family
is believed to be the oldest in Malaya,
going back unbroken for more than a
thousand years, and is traceable through
nine Hindu rulers and 16 Muslim sul-
tans. The Tunku went to school in
Bangkok, and later to the Penang Free
School free in the sense that it was
open to pupils of all races and religions.
Here he received early practical lessons
in racial tolerance and understanding.
The Tunku became a Boy Scout, he
played football, and he scraped through
his examinations.
In 1920, when he was 17, he went to
England to study at Cambridge. He ar-
rived the day after the Derby. On board
ship he had been told about the import-
ance of Derby Day, and he had been
told about the fascination of horse rac-
ing. He lost his first bet, but this was
the beginning of a subsequent intense in-
terest in horse-racing. He was already
a keen footballer, and while reading
law without enthusiasm he tried with
much more energy to get a Blue for
football. He was unsuccessful in law and
football. He did, however, manage to
get 28 convictions for speeding in his
Riley sports car.
After six enjoyable years in England,
the Tunku returned to Kedah with a
Bachelor of Arts degree which he earned
with the lowest possible marks for a
pass. He failed his Bar examinations
and attributed this to horse-racing, the
dogs, and dancing. His brother, Tunku
Ibrahim, the Regent, was displeased, and
four months later the Tunku was back
again in England with orders to com-
plete his law studies. In 1931, when he
was 28. he failed again and went back to
Kedah, joined the State’s civil service,
and, in 1933. married Meriam, a Siam-
ese-Chinese. They had two children, a
daughter, Kathijah, and a boy, Tunku
Nerang, now an officer in the Malayan
Army. After little more than two years
of marriage, Meriam died, and within
a short while the Tunku secretly mar-
ried an English girl, Violet Coulson,
whom he had met in London years be-
fore. This was a marriage according to
Muslim rites. They separated in 1937,
and Violet returned to London. The
Tunku saw her again when he went to
London in 1938 to try once more to
pass his law examinations. He came
back to Malaya just before World War
II broke out, and married his present
wife Sharifah Rodziah. Being a Muslim
there was no need first to divorce Violet.
This he did in 1946 when he went back
to London yet again to face the law
examiners.
During the Japanese occupation the
Tunku-had worked for a time as a clerk
in the Audit Department until the Japan-
ese handed over Kedah (and the States
of Perlis, Kelantan and Trengganu) to
Thailand. The Thais made him Super-
intendent of Education. After the war,
in June, 1948, while the Tunku was
deep in his law studies in England, the
Malayan Communist Party began their
guerrilla war which was to last for more
than twelve years. It was in December
of 1948 that Tunku Abdul Rahman,
now middle-aged, finally acquired his
law degree. “Tonight,” the Tunku is
reported to have said during a speech
at the Inner Temple to mark the oc-
casion, “is a unique occasion for the
Inn because it is the first time a student
has been called after staying with it for
25 years. Tonight I not only celebrate
my being called to the Bar, but also my
silver jubilee as a student at this Inn.”
Early in 1949, he returned to Malaya
politically awakened and politically am-
bitious, but totally unaware that within
a few years he would be Prime Min-
ister of independent Malaya. Back in
Malaya he first became a Deputy Public
Prosecutor, and then, for a brief while,
a Sessions judge. He resigned govern-
ment service when his friends persuaded
him to become president of the United
Malays National Organisation, in 1951.
He made a wobbly start as a politician,
but his feet were on the path which
quickly led him to high office. In 1953,
some mild interest was aroused when
the Tunku was cited as co-respondent
in a divorce suit in London brought by
Mr Patrick Johnson, an old friend with
whom the Tunku stayed as a guest in
1947. In Malaya, where Islam permits
a man four wives, and where divorce is
commonplace among Malays, this did
not affect the Tunku’s political or social
reputation. Neither Barbara Johnson nor
the Tunku contested the suit, but the
Judge made some severe comments
about the Tunku’s behavior and or-
dered him to pay £7OO damages. Know-
ing the Tunku to be not a rich man,
curiosity was aroused as to how this
would be paid, but the obligation was
met the following year when, as leader
of the Malayan nationalist movement,
the Tunku journeyed to London to
negotiate the peaceful acquisition of
independence.
Much of the Tunku’s life story seems
to concern his quest for a law degree,
and what is interesting to recount is
that never did the runku seriously read
law. He listened. His friends, including
the Deputy Prime Minister, Tun Abdul
Razak, read law to him. The Tunku
has always had difficulty in concentra-
ting upon the written word. He absorbs
the spoken word much quicker. He
hates reading files and official docu-
ments. His Critics say that he gets most
of his political information from the
front page of the newspaper before
turning to the back page for the racing
results and the sports news.
Oddly enough, having taken 25 years
to become a lawyer, he turned away
from it quickly to concentrate upon poli-
tics. In 1952, the Tunku, as head of
UMNO, formed the Alliance with the
Malayan Chinese Association and, later,
the Malayan Indian Congress. In this
way he persuaded Malay nationalists to
work closely with Chinese and Indians,
although he had to threaten to resign
from politics to get UMNO to drop
their demand that 90 per cent of Al-
liance candidates in the 1954 general
elections must be Malays. They argued
that this was reasonable in view of the
fact that less than 12 per cent of the
electorate were Chinese.
Merdeka!
T was with the Tunku in the Southern
Hotel, in Kuala Lumpur, when the re-
sults of that election were being tele-
phoned through to him. He was not a
bit surprised that the Alliance won 51
of the 52 seats. This, he fold me, was
precisely what he predicted. He cam-
paigned tirelessly, but visited his own
constituency once. The Tunku is not a
good orator either in Malay or English.
But he exudes charm, sincerity, friendly
feeling and good humor. His attractive
personality and his simple message were
sufficient: he had no need to make
speeches. He went into the villages and
shouted Merdeka, and everyone raised
their clenched fists and joined his cry.
He won in his own constituency by
22,226 votes to 1239.
At 52, the Tunku became the Chief
Minister of a Malaya which was heading
rapidly towards independence, and al-
most at once he set about trying to end
the guerrilla war with the Malayan Com-
munist Party. He offered an amnesty.
Surrender and you will not be prose-
cuted for any offence connected with the
Emergency, he promised them. He said
they could rejoin their families after


KEEP DOG-EARS
OUTOF YOUR FILES
Who really wants a dismal canine on the payroll?
Dog-eared files, ledgers, tickets and cards tell a
sad, sad story of apathy and inefficiency to the
man on the other side of the desk. So—DOWN,
Cleo! Call in Shoalhaven, manufacturers of the
finest boards and papers that ever kept dog-ears
out of the office. Paper is one of the prestige items
in business budgets. Yet, unfortunately, few busi-
nessmen know the basics of paper selection. But
now Shoalhaven Advisory Centres throughout
Australia are at their service. And yours! Staffed
by friendly people who are ready, willing and
able to put anyone in the picture about paper.
If you’ve a paper problem, large or small, call
your Shoalhaven Advisory Centre now. We’ll
gladly advise . . . and supply samples of Shoal-
haven papers and boards. To help meet Australia’s
growing paper needs, production is being trebled
at the Shoalhaven Mill this year. New buildings,
new machines, new papers not previously manu-
factured in Australia! Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven
Mill is on the move with a £7 million mill
expansion programme. When choosing paper
and boards for office systems, be sure to specify
Shoalhaven for constant quality, constant supply.
y /C
o
CJ
o
The extensive Shoalhaven range includes various
grades of papers and boards for office systems
Glory Index Boards, Tablex Systems Boards, Conqueror
Ledger, Stronghold Ledger, Manchester Ledger,
Sortaspeed Cheque, Circle Security Cheque. Leader
Azure Laid Ledger. Leader Machine Posting Ledger.
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advice on any paper
problem just ring . . .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
*
SYDNEY 51-6651
MELBOURNE 67-8428
ADELAIDE 51-4531
BRISBANE 4-4471
PERTH 21-9418
AH Shoalhaven Papers and Boards are available from Printers
and Paper Merchants throughout Australia.
WTS.2X


investigation by security authorities.
While this campaign was going on, the
Tunku accepted an invitation to go
over to Indonesia as the guest of Presi-
dent Soekarno. He returned to Malaya
profoundly impressed with the strength
and potential of the Communist Party in
Indonesian politics. This was to make
him even more determined that the
Communists would never become an in-
fluential factor in Malayan politics.
But the Malayan Communist leaders
were making overtures to the Tunku,
and shortly before he was due in London
for talks about independence, he agreed
to give a safe-conduct to Chin Peng to
come out of the jungle for talks. Of
course the Tunku desperately wanted
an end to the Emergency. He knew he
would achieve international fame if he
could stop the war. He knew this would
help him in his arguments with White-
hall. But, tempted though he might have
been, he was not prepared to bargain
with Chin Peng. He offered him uncon-
ditional surrender, nothing more. He
refused to legally recognise the Malayan
Communist Party. He refused to revise
the amnesty terms. Chin Peng went back
to the jungle. The Tunku. more firmly
convinced that Communism and Malaya
could never co-exist, went off to London
to seek self-government and the promise
of independence. His stock was never
higher. He never looked back. On Aug-
ust 31, 1957, over 170 years after the
Tunku's great - great - great - grandfather
ceded the trading port of Penang to
Britain, Tunku Abdul Rahman an-
nounced Merdeka, thus bringing back
Penang to the Malays and establishing,
for the first time, a Malayan nation of
all the Malay States.
Tired of high office?
An English friend has written of the
Tunku that he has the courteous dig-
nity of Malay royalty, and is a convivial
companion of commoners. Truly the
Tunku is at ease with peasants as he is
with world figures, but his serious weak-
ness as an administrator and a politician
is that he likes to hold court, to have
pleasant, easy-going, friendly people
around him. He prefers them to humor-
less, coldly intellectual people. He has
never really learned to respect people
whom he finds difficult to like.
As Premier, he relies a great deal
upon commonsense and advice from
permanent officials. He dislikes reading
Cabinet papers. He seldom pays much
attention to detail of any sort. He loves
ceremo.iy and, on occasions, wearing
uniforms and national costume. Under
his guidance, a most colorful Royal
Household plays a vigorous part in Mal-
ayan affairs.
Almost the first decision the Tunku
took when he became Prime Minister
was to build a large football stadium.
He is still the president of the Malayan
Football Association, as well as presi-
dent of the Asian Football Association.
His interest in sport continues, but, after
six years in office, the peasants, in spite
of rural development schemes, still re-
main poor. The capital has an expensive
mosque, a magnificent multi-storey Par-
liament building, and a modern museum.
There are fine fly-over roads, and tall
hotels. But one in six of the nearly
300,000 people living in central Kuala
Lumpur are housed in squatter-type
dwellings without proper sewerage.
There are signs that the Tunku is
getting tired of high office and is not
looking forward to the added responsi-
bility and tasks which Malaysia is bound
to bring. Nobody expects him to con-
tinue actively in politics much longer,
four or five years at the most, and he
may become an elder statesman, wield-
ing influence as the leader of UMNO
instead of Prime Minister, even before
then. Physically he is in good shape,
although he rather likes his food. He
is a moderate drinker, and a fairly
heavy smoker of cigarettes. But he regu-
larly does physical exercises, and, sen-
sibly, gets out on the course for nine
holes of golf, seldom more, most morn-
ings. He takes a nap after lunch.
“I’m a lazy man,” the Tunku will say,
but this is not strictly true. He may not
always be punctual, but he moves about
a great deal, seldom refuses to see a
reporter, loves attending Malay wed-
dings, official receptions and cocktail
parties, is frequently available to grand-
children and adopted daughters for a
romp, and still checks the racing calen-
dar before making political engagements.
Fun-loving, relaxed, easy-going, friend
of everybody, Chinese, Indian, Malay,
European, Australian, American (people
say that an Australian friend is among
his closest political advisers), the Tunku
in ten years became the beloved father
image of the Malayans. Though ac-
countable, as any other leader in a
democracy, to his party, parliament, and
voters, this status has made him all-
powerful. At home, in Malaya, he could
make foolish statements, political blun-
ders, and be rescued by admirers and
friends. Shortcomings of his Government
in planning and in economic and social
matters could be concealed and ignored.
But journeys abroad are beginning to
cause uneasiness. In Pakistan he embar-
rassed hosts and friends by talking en-
thusiastically about a Muslim bloc. In-
donesians were displeased with what he
said when he went to Holland. At Man-
ila clearly he was out of his depth, al-
though he denies this. He told Parlia-
ment when he came back that he could
have been firm if he wanted. He had
not been frightened by threats. “I
know,” he said, “if the worst comes to the
worst it will not only be me who will
suffer the agony of war, but millions
of others will be involved. And for the
sake of these people I consider it worth-
while to sacrifice my interests and dig-
nity for the sake of peace.”
“You can trust the Tunku”
"EWen then the imp in the genial Tunku
could not resist an opportunity
to chuckle. For months Soekarno had
been ranting at him, openly calling him
a liar and worse, as well as confronting
Malaysia. The Tunku told Parliament
that at Manila they parted good friends.
“Don’t you go back and confront me
again,” he smilingly warned the Presi-
dent. “He was quite friendly,” he added.
“Anyway Soekarno is not well now, and
I hope he will have a speedy recovery.
But,” added the Tunku swiftly, “his
illness is not due to me or to members
of my side, but is entirely the act of
God.” The House roared with laughter.
In Singapore, deadly serious politi-
cians, aghast at the Tunku’s concessions
to Soekarno at Manila, wondered how
long a complicated conception like
Malaysia, led by such a friendly, tolerant
soul, blithely seeking happiness for
everyone, could possibly survive in this
turbulent, troubled region of emergent
neighbors all of whom have rejected
parliamentary democracy. They asked
themselves whether the future did not
demand a much tougher, more practical
and hard-working leader. Others, on the
contrary, believe that much more will
be achieved, domestically and inter-
nationally, by the pleasant, affable
Tunku than could be achieved by a
more powerful driving force. You can
trust the Tunku, they say.
“We know we are not clever,” the
Tunku confessed to Parliament. “But
at least we are honest.”
This is the man, happy, humble and
friendly, whose hands are destined to
mould the shape of Malaysia, a new
Asian State of many races, ranging from
leisure-loving Malays to highly sophis-
ticated Chinese and Indians, to primitive
peasants and fisherfolk living as their
ancestors did. They are prepared to ex-
periment with parliamentary govern-
ment, a foreign system of government
already rejected by most Asians.
Whether this system will become part
of the enduring fabric of Malaysia will
depend largely upon sustained harmony
between the races.
In a developing situation certain to
produce suspicions, strains and con-
flicts of interest, this may prove an ideal
impossible to achieve success is by
no means inevitable but no man has
been better equipped by nature, environ-
ment and experience than the Tunku to
help bring this about.


X
m
’
for people with strong ideas about coffee
(and its price)
Nescafe Espresso is a stronger, richer coffee. Specially
prepared for the one person in three who prefers more
strength, more full-bodied flavour than you find in regular
instant coffees. It is a strong, high roast instant coffee
for strong-minded people who appreciate only the best.
And now Nescafe Espresso is at a new popular price.
Nescafe eSpreSSO
INSTANT
COFFEE
NE3O6


OUT AND ABOUT
Public Ear, Private Man
Rogers and Laws , away from the turntable
By JAN SMITH
Both are disc jockeys, both earn up-
wards of £2OO a week. They have
both been criticised, sacked, kid-
napped by students, and held responsible
for most of the hit-parade content of the
last five years. They have both tried tele-
vision; both have made a recording. Laws
owns a Rolls Royce and a Jaguar sports,
Rogers drives a Karmann Ghia.
Most significantly, they dislike being
lumped together. “I have a very high
regard for John,” said Rogers, smiling in
the nick of time, “but we approach the
business in different ways. I’ve no axe
to grind. I’m just a salesman.”
Rogers insists on this. “I feel my suc-
cess as a disc jockey a moulder of
public taste if you like is due mainly
to the fact that I don’t play a musical
instrument. I have no prejudices, no
secret ambitions which could influence
my judgment.” Once in Melbourne he
ran a classics programme but his interests
are firmly in the light to popular field.
“People who listen to the radio gene-
rally want to relax, not analyse,” Rogers
said, “I think it’s something a disc jockey
should remember.” After a hard day in
the green-cheese mine no one wants a
mental wrestling match, and even Rogers,
in a very different mine, likes nothing
better than a couple of Scotches and a
round of Anthony Newley before bed.
Still, he has vague suspicions that he’s
missing something, and criticism worries
him more than he cares to admit. “There
was one chap who really whaled into
me when I was on TV,” Rogers confessed.
“You know he even had .a go at my
cufflinks.”
Rogers made his television debut earlier
this year compering an interview-cum-
variety show “In Town Tonight with Bob
Rogers”. The idea, says Rogers, was a
Jack Paar type show and he is the first
to admit that he is no substitute. Still,
he had wanted to try television. Laws at
this stage was compering “Startime”.
Cufflinks were the least of his problems:
after six years the television studio was
still paved with gold.
For Rogers, it didn’t work out. He
had a pleasant face, and a modesty which
kept him from singing, reciting poems,
or generally spreading sunshine. It was
possibly the absence of a personality gim-
mick, real or acquired, that spelt disaster.
Back in the cosy anonymity of radio at
2SM, Rogers has fallen neatly enough on
his feet to look back on his television
stint as just one of those things. The
staff and management of 2SM, Sydney's
Catholic station, are lovely people, he
says, and who knows but one of these
days he may actually try Catholicism
himself.
As financially secure as a disc jockey
can ever be, Rogers at 36 is beginning
to ponder the whys and wherefores of his
22 years in radio, and the jokes about
religion, like the cufflinks, seem sympto-
matic of some deeper dissatisfaction.
Rogers’ early life left little room for
widening his mental horizons. His father,
an English migrant, struggled as a soldier
settler in Victoria, and at 15 Rogers left
school to become a 3XY panel operator
for 19/ 6 a week. Working his way as
a general announcer through Mildura,
Tamworth, Melbourne again, and
Orange, he came to Sydney’s 2UW in
1948 as a general and sporting announcer.
Sydney was tough for young radio
announcers on <£B 10s. a week. ‘To save
cab fares I used to go straight to the
studio after a late date, and sleep there
until my morning shift,” Rogers recalls.
When the management found out about
his dossing down in the studio, Rogers
fired a few choice remarks and left for
Hobart. On 7HO he applied the edge of
a popular wedge to an afternoon religious
programme, inserting records like “Duel
In The Sun” and "All Of a Sudden My
Heart Sings”.
Tying up with a local record retailer
Rogers boosted the Sunday afternoon
programme to a family favorite. But he
was still dissatisfied with conditions and
after working as a clerk in Hobart’s Com-
monwealth Statistician’s Office and the
Melbourne Taxation Department, he
went to Brisbane to work in a record
warehouse and freelance as a disc jockey
on 4BH. Rogers went there, newly mar-
ried, with a few pounds. Eight years
later he was on top. His programmes went
on network, growing more and more
popular, and in 1958 he joined 2UE.
He has his favorites among enter-
tainers but again denies any public in-
dication of preference. “I just couldn’t
do it,” he protested. “If I pushed one, the
others'd be on to me 24 hours a day.”
He will admit to a professional admira-
tion for Andy Stewart, whose career he
may have helped, Col Joye and Johnny
O’Keefe.
Rogers doesn’t watch much television,
and describes his three weeks in the
United States, four years back, as a
sobering experience. “Entertainment
there has reached such enormous pro-
portions that the individual must devote
his whole life to it—there’s no time for
anything else.”
At 2GB, John Laws takes a sterner
view of criticism, seeming almost piqued
that no one’s labelled him a youthful
corruptor. If they did, Laws says, he’d
invite them up to the microphone for a
heart-to-heart debate. For paid critics, he
has a worse fate in mind. “They simply
don’t know what they’re talking about,
half of them,” Laws insisted, “and the
other half are just plain biased.” Follow
a critic to see where he drinks, Laws
implied, and it’s usually with your worst
enemy.
Laws’ approach to life as a disc jockey


is complicated both by his stars and his
own natural endowment. “I’m a double
Leo,” he confided proudly, “both birth-
sign and ascendant. I think Napoleon
was one too.” He gets a kick out of
driving his Rolls Royce into the city,
disembarking in beat clothes with a
guitar over one shoulder. His office is
hung with a 10-foot high blue banner—
John Laws Is On 2GB and small
movable objects like pens, inkwells and
briefcases are lavishly monogrammed.
In his two crowded years in 2GB,
Laws has assumed directorship of a chain
of menswear stores marketing jeans under
a Long John label. Plans for a chain of
Long John service stations fell through,
but his wife, Sonia, is a country girl and
Laws is turning his attention to grazing
property investment with a view to mov-
ing into the landed class on his retire-
ment from radio.
The interview with Laws started as a
hasty affair sandwiched between breaks
in a radio interview by Charles Mc-
Lauchlin for a series called “The Star
Presents”. “Lucky for you,” said Laws
happily to me, “getting all the hard work
done for you.” Unlike Rogers, who refers
to journalists rather sadly as “you
people”, Laws is never backward in
coming forward, at times treating an
interview almost as a group therapy
exercise.
Laws wore jeans and sweater, smoked
a country-and-western cigarette, annotat-
ing the tracks on his latest record, as
yet unnamed, in between giving personal
details. “The lyric in this one is very
significant,” he said. “It's about a poor
old caretaker in a cemetery who's come
to see through people's grief into the
hate and jealousy beneath.”
The title of the song, which Laws said
was more than 100 years old, was “Who’s
Going To Cry When Long John Dies?”
“All these songs have a special message,”
Laws confided, and in this case both title
and refrain suggested he needed an im-
mediate answer.
The track finished, Laws answered
questions about his yen for fast cars. “I
like to drive at night with the windows
down and hear the wind rushing past.
At 147 miles an hour it’s exhilarating.”
The interviewer asked did it worry
him? “No,” said Laws. “I only wish it
v did.”
Laws doesn't drink, but he took kindly
to a later suggestion that he was obsessed
with death. “A couple of people have
said that lately,” he said modestly, ap-
parently glad the question had been
asked. “I suppose, it could have some-
thing to do with being so bashed up
when I was young (he was nine months
in bed from a teenage car accident) and
when you’re paralysed down one side
with polio it does make you think about
death. But I don't think there’s anything
afterwards. You just die.”
Laws contracted polio in 1962, and
spent several weeks in Sydney’s Prince
Henry Hospital. “It’s all aged me ter-
ribly,” he said. “You wouldn’t think I
was only 27, would you? I mean to look
at. A lot of people think I look like
Abraham Lincoln. Not that it worries
me, of course. He was a great man, very
good and sincere. I think sincerity is ter-
ribly important today. Don’t you?”
Laws’ stress on sincerity, and his
‘weekly sign-off “Be Kind To Each
Other” on Channel 7’s Startime, enrages
some people almost as much as his sing-
ing. “Why shouldn’t I say it?” he de-
manded. “I meant it. Sincerity and love
are the most important things in the
world, and they're two things I’m going
to impress on my children. But in
this business someone's always ready to
knock you.”
Laws was born into a comfortable
North Shore family, went unwillingly to
Knox Grammar and had plans of being
an automotive engineer. The death of
his father, when Laws was 15, triggered
a period of sportscar racing, near brushes
with death, and jackerooing on a sheep
property. He likes to recall the week he
spent sleeping nights on a Bendigo park
bench, wearing newspapers inside his
clothes to keep out the cold.
After breaking himself in on country
radio stations he found himself at 2UE
with Rogers holding the whip hand.
“Look here,” said Laws, uncoiling his
six spare feet across the desk with sud-
den urgency. “You're not writing about
him too? 1 mean we’re good friends and
everything but I'd rather you didn't
put us together.”
Laws’ antagonism to Rogers stems
from the days at 2UE, when, says Laws,
Rogers literally had him banished to
Newcastle. “I was younger, you see,”
Laws explained generously, “I guess he
saw me as some kind of threat.” Reiterat-
ing their present friendly relations, he
was nevertheless sure he made more
money than Rogers in the long run,
thanks to his literary and vocal commit-
ments.
“I know Rogers says he doesn’t sing,”
he added, “but what about the Teen
Commandments?”
(The Teen Commandments, a recita-
tive of teenage advice, is strictly from
Rogers’ sobering experiences department.
“It was an awful mistake, but five years
ago, when I recorded it, it was going well
in the States and Sydney was right in the
middle of Lee Gordon era. It looked like
a good teenage hit, but then everybody
makes mistakes,” he said.)
Laws says he hates snobbery and
jealousy, and admits having few close
friends. Work at 2GB and voice-over
commercials for Nescafe, cigarettes and
Johnson's Wax (a specialised talent pay-
ing 15 guineas per commercial) leaves
him little time to enjoy his cars and his
ocean-front home at Whale Beach. Liv-
ing close to rival TV compere Digby
Wolfe, he was forced by weekend trip-
pers’ gawking to build a 12-foot high
fence around the property.
No longer on television “it was a
mutual discontinuance. Everyone gets
tired of it, including me” Laws still
feels he’s a public whipping boy, unap-
preciated by rivals and reviewers alike.
Disc jockeying brings its advantages, but
for Laws the private man still enjoys
considerably more heart’s ease.
Wong-Wong’s Cockle Shells
Dating the aborigines ' arrival
By DAVID MOORE
I have just returned from an archaeo-
logical expedition to Cape York
Peninsula, in northernmost Queens-
land. The expedition, led by Mr R. V. S.
Wright, Lecturer in Prehistory at the
University of Sydney, was undertaken
on behalf of the Australian Institute of
Aboriginal Studies, the primary task of
which is to initiate and support urgent
research into all aspects of aboriginal
culture and prehistory before it is too
late. Though the object of this particular
expedition was to survey the Cape York
area for future archaeological work,
some excavation was carried out.
North Queensland is obviously the
key area for elucidating the problem of
when and from where the aborigines
first arrived in Australia, because Torres
Strait is the only bridge across which
they might have reached Australia on
foot. From carbon dates obtained in
western Queensland it is known that
the aborigines were already in occupa-
tion of the Australian continent during
the final stages of the last glaciation,
when there was definitely a land-bridge
between Australia and New Guinea. In
any case it would always have been an
easy canoe crossing.
A particular objective of the recent
expedition was to investigate the vast
shell-middens which occur around the
estuaries of the Weipa area, on the
gulf side of the peninsula. These shell-
heaps are breathtaking. Some are as big


How to make 579,000 sales calls simultaneously
Everyone's heard about the high cost of TV advertising—over £2OO a minute they say. But that £2OO delivers
a lot of prospects at a very low cost per impact —as low as 1/10th of a penny per person per minute when
you've got a couple of sales girls like "Fair Exchange's" Judy Carne and Lynn Loring working for you . . .
PEOPLE ARE SOLD ON
Studio & Transmitter: Artarmon Rd„ Willoughby. 43-0444.
Sales: Sydney— Ist Floor, Cricket House, George St. 27-2881. Melbourne— 247 Collins St. 63-8338
TCN


as a two-storeyed house, some stretch
for many hundreds of yards minia-
ture mountain ranges while others
stand alone in the form of perfect trun-
cated cones, like volcano craters. All
are apparently composed of solid masses
of shells, chiefly large cockles.
These middens have puzzled obser-
vers since the area was first explored in
the 1880 s. Though most observers be-
lieve they must have been made by
human agency, some have maintained
that the aborigines could not possibly
have piled up such gargantuan masses of
shells, even over a period of many hun-
dreds of years; others have asserted
that they were formed by storm or tidal
action in a distant geological period
when the shoreline was considerably in-
land from its present position. The work
carried out by our expedition has proved
conclusively that these middens were
made by the aborigines, since in the ex-
ploratory pits dug from top to bottom
of several middens, aboriginal artefacts
and remains of cooking were found at
all levels.
The expedition also obtained sam-
ples of very pure charcoal from various
levels in the middens. These will be
subjected to Carbon-14 testing to
establish the period during which these
colossal shell-heaps were accumulated.
Just why they were piled up is another
question, but the remnants of the local
tribes have never been in the slightest
doubt that their forefathers (“the Old
People,” they call them) did make the
middens and even think they know why
they did. “To have a dry place to camp
in the Wet and for defence against
enemies,” one of them told me. This
is probably a rationalisation by the more
or less sophisticated aborigine of today,
because the shell-heaps are most un-
comfortable to camp on, as we found,
and people sitting on the summit of one
would be easy prey for a hostile party
throwing spears from behind the trees
down below. One very old woman at
Weipa also remembered a legend con-
cerning some of the middens. Here it is,
more or less as she told it:
A very lazy fellow
T ong ago Wong-wong, the waterhen,
was married to Nuanda, the white
ibis. Now Nuanda was a very lazy fel-
low —he never helped his wife with any
of the jobs around the camp. One day
Nuanda and Wong-wong were camped
by the mangroves at the entrance to the
Embley River with their son Golben-
dum, the emu. Wong-wong said to her
husband, “Look here, I have gathered
lots of cockles for our meal. Wake
yourself up and get a good fire going,
so we can cook them.” But Nuanda
took no notice at all; he just went on
dozing by the edge of the water. Then
Wong-wong called to her son, Golben-
dum, and both of them tried every
way they knew to make lazy Nuanda
do some work, but still he ignored them.
At last Wong-wong got really furious
and shouted: “All right, you good-for-
nothing, if you won’t help, Golbendum
and I will leave you!” Straight away she
snatched up her dilly-bag full of cockles
and ran off with her son. This did at
last rouse Nuanda and he shouted after
them, but they pretended not to hear
and ran along just inside the mangroves
which line the banks of the Embley.
They were in such a hurry that they did
not notice some of the cockles spilling
out of the dilly-bag and falling in heaps
behind them. And so you can go along
dating is a remarkable
new tool for elucidating the pre-
history of the human race. It was
developed in the US by physicist Dr
W. F. Libby as a result of the great
advances in knowledge of radio-acti-
vity and the composition of matter
made during World War 11.
It is now possible to gain an
approximate dating, up to an age of
about 50,000 years, for organic
material, such as wood and bone,
found in prehistoric sites. Unfortun-
ately the process, which calls for ex-
tremely accurate measurement of
minute differences in radio-activity, is
complex and expensive. Only a few
laboratories can undertake it and these
have long waiting-lists of samples from
all parts of the world.
Carbon dating is of particular im-
portance to Australian and Pacific pre-
historians, since generally they have
no other means of estimating the age
of their finds.
the Embley to this day and still find
the great piles of cockles that fell from
Wong-wong’s dilly-bag.
The expedition also discovered a num-
ber of outstandingly interesting painted
rock-shelters in areas where the sur-
viving aborigines know nothing of the
legends or ceremonies connected with
the paintings. As is usual in aboriginal
rock art, the paintings in the Cape York
area are superimposed one on top of the
other in a bewildering complexity. How-
ever, the interesting thing is that they
are executed in an astonishing variety of
styles, including human and animal
figures somewhat resembling the Arn-
hem Land type of “X-ray” paintings,
stick-men and women, beautiful realistic
animals, birds, and fish, grotesque
mythical “heroes” and “heroines,”
strange unidentified symbolic shapes
which recurred frequently, and even
some huge recumbent figures in cere-
monial headdresses, very like the Wand-
jinas of the Kimberleys. And hands
everywhere are hand-prints outlined,
silhouetted, or pecked out, and tinted
with every color the bountiful ochres
of the Cape could produce.
The question about these extraordin-
arily varied paintings is: Do they repre-
sent the different styles of successive
waves of aborigines entering Australia
from the north, or are they due to
influences percolating back from every
corner of the continent long after the
aborigines were fully established in
Australia?
Human Occupation
11/e may get a partial answer to this
question as a result of the explora-
tory excavation carried out by the expedi-
tion in some of these painted rock-
shelters. In one, the deposits proved to
contain a series of artefacts and other
remains of human occupation down
through more than 10 feet of sandy de-
posit.
Yet another exciting find was an ex-
tensive series of carvings along the flat
rocks fringing one of the rivers of cen-
tral Cape York. We were led to these
by the local policeman and his black-
tracker. The interesting fact about these
carvings is that they are remarkably like
the incised outlines found in such profu-
sion in the Hawkesbury sandstone of the
Port Jackson-Broken Bay District. Yet
there has been no report of similar rock
art from any other part of the coast.
Once again we are confronted with
two suggestions: were the Cape York
carvings executed by a particular group of
aborigines on their way through into
eastern Australia, or are they the result
of a tenuous subsequent culture-contact
between the tribes of southern New South
Wales and far North Queensland? It is
hard to see how this puzzle can ever be
solved, unless similar carvings are found
in a number of other areas, to provide a
link along the whole of the east coast.
The work of this Cape York Peninsula
expedition and of others now operating
in various parts of the continent are the
beginning of a co-ordinated plan of the
Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies
to chart the movements of the aborigines,
both within Australia and into Australia,
during the prehistoric period. We already
know that they have been here at least
14,000 years, which means that they were
roaming the continent at a time when our
own ancestors were painting the walls of
caves and piling up kitchen middens on
the shores of other islands and continents.
It may well turn out that the occupation
of Australia dates back to the very be-
ginnings of the human race.


g&a&g&ggjp
M 0
- 1 '
—|. h
**ssst'
.' <.■■.■ : >
W- Wm PPINIt l ~
• ;
■-■■ ; \ ' ' ;
'
i
■
• .; : ■ .: v .i; ;
.
mSm S'
\ 1111
&M. m
X -* V®
S*»:W-: : “? '~i; 1?*
!i ...
•: -.
:*mWm '~ mm%s
■A <
srw
m i
; ■: ■ ■
mmmrnmmm
W-
WM9mM
w.
,'■ •
H
*&•,,.• .jfiL-r.' 1
• iSi • a mP" *
■J!&v 'dsfei. #3iF j
Eight hours’ continuous recording
at the push of a button
(only one of the ways Philips tape recorders aid modern business)
A long, tough convention—easy to cover
for the first time, with Philips. The two top
tape recorders in the Philips Continental
range give you eight hours continuous
recording at a time—for four days on end
—all on a single seven inch reel! Four speed
Multiplay at 239 gns., four speed Duoplay
at 149 gns.
Stereo mike. Two directional cardioid
inserts in the microphone
guarantee long-reach coverage
for round-table conferences.
All-transistor for lightness,
immediacy. Easy to carry, swift
to set up. No risk of missing
unexpected statements—because
with the all-transistor amplifier
there’s no tedious warm-up
« LI I ►
to to \m i grm/
to to
time. Transistors ensure your tape recorder
is cool and economical on current, too.
Field work made simple. At the low-price
end of the Philips Continental range, the 59
gns. portable recorder operates on torch
batteries, records and plays back up to two
hours on one reel. It goes anywhere the
businessman goes, weighs only eight pounds,
and is tropicalised. It’s ideal for market
research, field operations. And in
between, the Continental range
offers a single speed, four track
model with eight hours’ playing
time for 79 gns., and an elegant
wood and vynex table model for
89 gns. Save time and money with
one of the six Philips Continental
tape recorders.
PHILIPS
widest range of tape recorders
PHF2443
ADVERTISEMENT
Business
goes modern
There’s probably been as startling a
change in the last twenty years in
business organisation and methods as
there has in the field of space research.
Twenty years ago it was still acceptable
to think of a clerk as a fusty little man
on a high stool. A salesman was some-
body who called on you. A secretary sat
taking dictation. Personnel selection was
called job interviewing in those far-off
days, and involved a committee or a
succession of interviews with an applicant.
And important discussions, conversations
with legal consequences, had to be fol-
lowed up by a letter to make sure the
points were duly registered.
The recent rapid and sweeping changes
in business methods are a result of the
immense amount of electronic work
developed during World War 11. It’s
taken some while for the techniques of
tele-communication to percolate down
from Government agencies into the big
international firms and thence to smaller,
more individually run companies—but
automated, electronic business methods
are now with us —and to judge from
recent spectacular increases in equipment
sales, they’re here to stay.
Because of major advances in transistor
equipment typists now work from taped
dictation—releasing the boss for other
work, saving his secretary waiting through
his phone calls and appointments.
Speeches to conferences need no longer
be made in person —they can be pre-
recorded. Market research, production
reports, appraisements, interviews with
applicants for jobs, salesmen’s briefings,
all can be kept on tape, and used over
and over again.
A thriving new tertiary industry is the
distribution on rental of information film-
strips, to which firms can put their own
recorded commentary relating what is
seen to their own operations. And many
an executive has got into the habit of
switching on a microphone as he makes
an important phone call, so he has his
own permanent record of what he said.
With the latest battery operated tape
recorders, the executive finds himself
taking his recorder home with him as
well as his brief case.
In all the multifarious daily output of
words in meetings, conferences, surveys,
reports and discussions, the tape recorder
is proving to be the biggest time-saver
since the invention of the typewriter and
the telephone. It is, in point of fact, a
new medium of communication.
And, on the factory floor, in time and
motion study, operatives’ training
schemes, automatic alarm instructions,
noise measurements and music in work
time, the tape recorder is also proving tc
be the Works Manager’s best friend.


Legendary Australians
1 - W. S. Robinson
Of the Inner Circle
By GEORGE FARWELL
(Author of “Down Argent Street")
1t was typical of the late W. S. Robin-
son’s personality that, when news-
papers throughout Australia last
week gave columns to his obituary
notices, the name should have been un-
known to most of their readers. Yet, to
those in the inner circle of politics and
world finance, he had been a legendary
figure for the best part of 60 years. W. S.
as they always knew him was a
man who did not so much dislike per-
sonal publicity as feel no need for it.
He was too busy, even in his 86th year,
too involved in industrial affairs, too close
to the fulcrum of international influences
to regard the small talk of Press notices
as anything but a distraction.
When I first met him, soon after World
War 11, I thought him a little intimida-
ting. He was then nearly 70. He was
an austere figure, very tall, upright and
lean, dressing always in dark, conserva-
tive suits, with an occasional concession
to impeccable shirtsleeves in warm
weather. His firmly-brushed steel gray
hair, large glasses, long upper lip and
very wide mouth implied certain
characteristics borne out by his manner,
which was at once mellow, kindly and
shrewd. But woe to anyone misjudging
that hearing aid whose battery was prom-
inently slipped dirk-like into his
trouser belt.
His consciousness of Australia was
with him wherever he went. I have many
letters that reflect it. He seemed always
on the point of going overseas or plan-
ning his return from Europe or North
America. He needed four permanent
hotel suites to keep himself efficiently on
the move; in Melbourne, Sydney, London
and New York. His notepaper was
characteristic. Printed in the left-
hand top corner was simply: “Wm. S.
Robinson: Australia.” In the right corner
were two lines, with blanks to be filled
in as required: “En route at . . and
“Reply to ... ”
I was fortunate enough to know him
in more relaxed moments, uninfluenced
by business protocol. Our discussions
were on literature, sociology and the out-
back rather than executive affairs.
My first meeting was in connection
with the mainspring of his life, Broken
Hill. He had then just commissioned Roy
Delgarno to do a series of paintings
there. Roy felt there was also a good
book to be done combining sketches of
personalities and the region with a his-
torical study. There was only one man
with whom such a project could be dis-
cussed. His interest was immediate.
The early discussions took place in his
Sydney hotel suite. In the relaxed atmos-
phere of chintz settees, period furniture
and fresh flowers we reached a much
quicker agreement than in any formal
office setting. W. S. disliked this routine
of offices and seldom went near them,
even as managing director of the Zinc
and other companies.
It was characteristic of him, too, that
he gave me a completely free hand with
this book. There was only one taboo.
He insisted that no reference be made to
himself, apart from a small acknow-
ledgment alongside executives from
other mines on the back page. The story,
as he wished to see it, was of a com-
munity enterprise. Men like himself,
who had striven hard ir. the tough, early
days, devoted their careers to producing
high living standards as well as divi-
dends; such men, he suggested, had
gained their own reward without the need
of thumping drums.
his life he never sought
any public recognition for what he
had done to transform a dustblown, strike-
happy mining centre haunted by uncertain
employment, miners’ phthisis and TB into
a prospecting city with the best wage
structure in Australia, its fabled lead
bonus, easy terms for co-operative house
building and the buying of amenities, not
to mention the exemplary green belt that
no longer required people to build hide-
ous tin fences to keep sand drift and dust
storms out of their sub-standard homes.
The Hill is very much a personal
monument to the foresight and humanity
of W. S. Robinson.
As for other honors, he did not want
them. It is known that he refused a title
on at least two occasions. On the other
hand, he was jubilant when the Aus-
tralian Institute of Mining and Metal-
lurgy awarded him its gold medal in
1950.
I think that W. S. Robinson’s earthy
approach to national problems stemmed
from his early feeling for the land. It
was an ambivalent feeling. He told me
of it in a letter that questioned my
enthusiasm for the future of the Murray
River Valley.
“In 1893,” he wrote, “fresh from the
Longerenong Agricultural College, load-
ed with diploma, gold medal, much tech-
nical knowledge and fair practical experi-
ence, I ‘settled’ in the Goulburn Valley
(at Ardmona) on 20 acres of irrigable
land, partly paid for by my dear mother’s
savings. Living in a galvanised shed with-
out conveniences of any kind, I set out
on the fruit-growing game. Best Gordo
Blains or White Alexandra muscatels
netted less than id. per lb. on the ground
Moorpark apricots, when one could
get them picked, even less Briggs Red
May and Alexanders Early Peaches 2s.
6d. to ss. a 601 b. case. To earn a living I
took a £1 a week job digging up vines
subject to phylloxera and replanting with
vines on phylloxera-resistant stocks. I
took Bs. from Darveniza, the Italian,
10s. from George Pagan, the Irishman,
and 12s. a week and my keep from Carl
Lenne, the German all wine growers
for cutting grapes in the wine season.
I had to live somehow. The fencing posts
around my plot took on the form of
prison bars, and I determined to escape.
Hired a typewriter from Stott & Hoare
at ss. a week; taught myself to typewrite.
I escaped! I took a job on the “Age”,
then all hand typesetters, at £ 1 a week
and was the first journalist to send type-
written copy to the printer. Was I popu-
lar!
“If I were asked what occupations
satisfied most the deep thirst in us all
for freedom, I'd say mining, fishing,
farming, lumbering. Except for a man
with a big family, fruit-growing is slavery
just as dairying was until the era
of the milking machine. Fruit-growing
has improved, particularly for the citrus
grower. It will be better still when the
Californian system of large corporations
or co-operative societies comes into
being. I looked in at Ardmona 50 years
later and found that the orchards still
left were now three times the size
through growers dropping out and sell-
ing to neighbors. But how my mouth
watered at the prices being realised . . .”
It was an immense distance from this
Bs. a week farm laborer to the presi-
dent of a huge mining corporation. This
is a story never yet told, though it prob-
ably will be when his promised autobio-
graphy appears; a book that he insisted
was better left unpublished until after
his death.
It should give us new insight into the
extraordinary career of a Victorian
known so far only in brief anecdotes,
many of them no doubt apocryphal. How
much truth, for instance, was there in
the story of the young financial reporter
ordered to investigate a corner in onions?
When no story was forthcoming 24 hours
later, and an explanation asked for, he
was alleged to have said: “The cornerer
was me.” And was it true that he and
a brother evolved a system that netted
them all the major prizes in Tatts, obliging
the organisers to revise their ticket-selling
methods? Was it this, or his later obvious


WHATEVER
THE GOODS
DELIVER
THEM!
Mayne Nickless can deliver
anything in the world within
Australia, or forward ‘Aus-
tralian Made’ anywhere in
the world.
As Australia’s completely
co-ordinated transport sys-
tem, Mayne Nickless offer an
entirely comprehensive ser-
vice. With one phone call to
MN you can send anything,
fcnywhere land, sea or a*r.
With 3000 trained personnel
and 1500 vehicles at your
service you can absolutely
rely on MN for every trans-
port need.
• GENERAL CARTAGE
• PARCEL DELIVERY
• HEAVY EQUIPMENT HAULAGE
• BULK LIQUID TRANSPORT
• COMPLETE EXPORT/IMPORT CUSTOMS
AND SHIPPING SERVICE
• SPEEDEX MAYNTAINER RAIL DELIVERY
• BOND AND FREE STORES THROUGH-
OUT AUSTRALIA
• INTRA AND INTERSTATE HAULAGE
• FASHION EXPRESS/GARMENT DELIVERY
• TAXI TRUCKS
• ARMOURED CAR SERVICE
• AIRCARGO DESPATCH
AND DELIVERY
MAYNE
NKKLESS
LIMITED
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
650/I/6J
financial brain that persuaded the Bail-
lieus to employ him, thus giving him the
first opportunity to enter high finance?
Whatever it was, his ten years with the
“Age”, finally as financial editor, gained
him the insights he needed for a wider
life that made him the legendary, behind-
the-scenes figure dominating half a cen-
tury of Australia’s industrial life, gaining
the friendship of such global figures as
Herbert Hoover, Bernard Baruch, Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt and Winston Churchill.
Finally, there was the remarkable
vigor that kept him travelling to an age
when most men are nodding in wheel-
chairs. During World War II he was con-
stantly commuting between Britain, the
US and Australia as an advisor extra-
ordinary to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. Without his personal plea to Presi-
dent Roosevelt, we might have had no
American air force in Australia when
the Japanese struck south. It was surely
worth that for W.S. to shock official-
dom by touching down on Australian
soil in a private Skymaster, with only
three other men aboard.
Even when his death was hourly ex-
pected, his hold on life was so tenacious
he took three weeks to die. Among his
last statements was one to a friend who
assured him that, whether he wanted it
or not, his colleagues would arrange a
memorial service.
“For God’s sake tell them to make it
a cheerful one,” he said.
2-Alf Conlon
The man v. the legend
By PETER COLEMAN
It is probably too soon after his death
in September, 1961, for anyone to
write much about Alfred Conlon, es-
pecially for an outsider who did not know
him in the early 1940 s when he sprang
out of the comparative pointlessness of a
permanent undergraduate life to become
almost overnight the back-room con-
fidant of Prime Minister Curtin and
Commander-in-Chief Blarney, to help
shape post-war policy in New Guinea,
to handle military government policy
in British Borneo after its liberation,
and to help found the National Uni-
versity and the Australian School of
Pacific Administration.
These were the years when James Mc-
Auley dedicated poetry to him, Julius
Stone dedicated his major work on juris-
prudence to him, and all sort of men like
Sir Marcus Oliphant depended on him
for their morale (“when one felt like
dropping one’s bundle”). It was then
that the idea of Conlon, the Great
Manipulator, the Master Puppeteer,
the Grey Eminence, emerged. According
to the legend, he then retired from the
centre of things to private medical
practice With occasional sorties out
again, as, for example, when he is reputed
to have master-minded the Orr campaign.
Today, years after the events, the
legend flourishes, more than ever: last
month, for example, a fascinating book.
Alfred Conlon, A Memorial by Some of
His Friends, was published (for private
circulation!) by the Benevolent Society of
NSW, and next month Conlon will be
the subject of an ABC programme pro-
duced by John Thompson.
So it may still be timely for one of the
outsiders to ask whether some of Conlon’s
followers are not doing him a disservice
by burying the man in the legend of
the Grey Eminence and concealing the
aspect of conflict, disappointment and
suffering that form the back-drop of
his achievements. Instead of a real
and fascinating man (which he un-
doubtedly was) the legend gives us a
sort of mixture of Machiavelli and
Buddha; and one of the results of all
this may be that most people, fed-up
with all the hugger-mugger, will dismiss
the whole thing as myth, particularly
since Conlon left little behind except
memories —no major manuscripts, no
memoirs, nothing much to help a
biographer.
What were the facts of this extraordin-
ary man’s life? Judging from the recent
book (which, until the much needed
biography is written, is the main thing
an outsider has to go on; there is hardly
a reference to him in the war histories
or the biographies of Blarney) one real
theme of his life was Power studying
other people’s use of it, needing it him-
self to put his ideas into practice, getting
it, using it, misusing it, losing it,
struggling to get it again. But this has
to be read mainly between the lines since
so many of the writers feel they have to
apologise for Conlon’s obvious interest
in power. He used his power, they re-
peat, never for personal ends, always for
the national good, in the service of the
community, for reform, etc. etc. Intel-
lectuals themselves, they seem unable to
reconcile Conlon’s being an intellectual
with his wanting the power he had as
the Army’s Director of Research and
Civil Affairs in order to get things done.
There are, it is true, a few dissident
voices. John Ryan, while criticising the


idea, implies there are some people who
thought he used power “as a club”; Dr
H. C. Coombs says: “I don’t think he
was really very good with people”; John
Kerr says: “He left behind him a trail of
oppositionists”; Sir James Plimsoll says
he was not at his best when exercising
power directly. These dissidents, while in
no way devaluing his talents, at least
gave some clue to later failures.
One element in this power theme is
seen most strikingly and most attractively
in the testimony of his creative influence
on people he clicked with. He obviously
had a vast, almost hypnotic capacity to
inspire people to acts in a variety of
fields which they did not think they were
capable of. Professor Stone refers to
“some power that Alf had, but it wasn’t
a sinister power”. Dr Christian McCaff-
rey, superintendent of Newcastle Hos-
pital, refers to his “ability to infiltrate
your personality”. Miss Ida Leeson, for-
mer Mitchell Librarian, says: “Oh, what
a life-changer he was”. John Kerr says:
“One could positively feel that Alf was
entering one’s mind and occupying it
and taking it over. One came to be
dependent upon him and to need, before
one acted in any field at all, to talk it
over with him”.
Then there were his philosophical
theories about power. Lord Lindsay of
Birker, for example, refers to one of his
“great themes” —that we were living in
a period when traditional power had be-
come decadent and the new power elite
had not yet established itself. During the
war one of his jobs was to try to solve
the problem how to control Australians
if they were cut off from the people who
usually give them orders, as happened
in a minor way for a time in Darwin
and might have happened more generally
if the Japanese occupied and isolated
parts of the country. Always concerned
with New Men he saw himself as the
man to step into such crisis situations,
and he also channelled other intel-
lectuals, often the brainy, ambitious,
confident, contemptuous State School
elite of his own type, into positions of
authority which the “old guard” could
not cope with. One got from Conlon,
says James McAuley, a sense that great
enterprises were still possible.
But the great basis of the Conlon
legend is in his public career. Himself of
working-class origin, he grew up in New-
town, Sydney, a long way from the
centres of power, and went to Fort St.
High School under A. J. Kilgour (school
motto: Faber est suae quisque fortunae:
man is the maker of his own fortune).
Although details are missing in this book,
others have referred to his power com-
plex in school days as well as to his
Leonardo complex his drive to master
the whole range of knowledge.
But it was at the University that the
real Conlon began to emerge. He spent
most of the 1930 s there in Arts, Law and
Medicine and he became a prominent
student politician, a Union director, a
Student Senator and so on. At the age of
33, when his earlier colleagues were out
in the world, Conlon was still strolling
in the corridors of student power, looking
for opportunities for some people, at
least, a rather pathetic spectacle, a peren-
nial student politician.
Then, dramatically, he was catapulted
from this obscure arena into the national
field at the highest level. For him, as for
so many others, the war, the period of
crisis, was his great opportunity. First
as University Manpower Officer, then
chairman of the Prime Minister’s Com-
mittee on National Morale, then as the
Army’s Director of Research and Civil
Affairs the absurd names seem typical
he became almost overnight a con-
fidant of Blarney, Ward and Curtin.
Strategically placed, he used his in-
fluence to lay the basis of post-war policy
in New Guinea, to establish what became
the School of Pacific Administration, to
gain effective control of the policy side
of military government of British Borneo,
to help launch the ANU. In the process
he collected, in or on the fringe of one
unit or another, his famous group of
Conlonites —often converting them over-
night from privates to lieutenants or
majors Professors Julius Stone, R. M.
Crawford, “Panzee” Wright, A. K. Stout,
K. Isles, John Passmore, James McAuley,
Judges Gamble and Perrignon. Drs I.
Hogbin, W. E. Stanner, Sir James
Plimsoll, Sir lan Clunies-Ross, and the
poet Harold Stewart one of the strang-
est collection of brafns-trusters ever
assembled in Australia. (It is hard
to know what some of them actually did:
James McAuley says he was the court
poet.) According to Sir James Plimsoll,
now Ambassador in New Delhi, it was
like what the New Deal must have been
like in the US.
Looking back through the mists of the
legend it is sometimes difficult to assess
these achievements accurately. The
National Morale Committee was estab-
lished to help counter the Japanese threat,
but almost immediately it became
obsolete and achieved nothing. The
School of Pacific Administration was
established, but what was intended to be
a great centre of New Guinea studies
became a mundane, if useful, training
school. The ANU was established, but
Conlon was not appointed to its Council
(Was, one wonders, someone using Conlon
rather than the other way around?).
There is no doubt he did launch many
bold, imaginative ideas, some of then)
successfully, but they did not always
work out as he wanted.
But in any case he was certainly in the
centre of things, a go-between for intel-
lectuals, generals, politicians, one pivot
of a crisis government and a reform
movement.
The Tragic Years
HPhen, just as suddenly as it had all
started, it all ended. General Blarney,
on whom Conlon depended for his power
and who in turn depended largely on
Conlon’s advice in his dealings with
Canberra, resigned as Commander-in-
Chief. In power terms Conlon was sud-
denly a nobody again. He had no base
to work from, no qualifications, only the
prospect of returning to the University
as a medicine undergraduate.
Worse, his chickens came home to
roost. The enemies he made in the war
years (“the trail of oppositionists”) were
determined to see that he remained down
and out and Dr Coombs points out,
while Conlon hadn’t suffered fools gladly,
he also hadn't tolerated some others who
were anything but fools. So, according
to the legend, with his undoubted passion
for anonymity, he returned quietly and
philosophically to his medical studies.
But curiously the “Brief Chronology” in
the recent book is silent about the years
1945-1949.
In fact, despite the legend, these must
have been for a man like Conlon the
miserable years the tragic years when
the techniques which had brought him
to power kept him down and when
he must have been aware that many of
his ideas and plans had failed. One knows
that he was still trying to get back into
the centre of things and still failing. He
wanted to be Secretary-General of the
South Pacific Commission but the
British (with memories of Borneo?), the
Dutch and the French (with reports from
Canberra?) would not have him. He
became Principal of the School of Pacific
Administration but was soon faced
by what amounted to a staff strike and
was forced to resign. (As John Thompson
remarks in the only reference to this
“unfortunate period”: “The summariness
which he had exercised in war time was
not acceptable in peace”). In any case
(Continued on page 27)


-xw ’■ w -' ~ —>■—- '-- ~■ T - - - - m
g»
lawi 5
Til
ruf HiTIOHIMUmL
TAM
One of the new Boeing 727
Jetliners which will shortly
introduce pure jet flight to
Australian domestic airlines.
m
Interior view of Electra air-
craft stripped for overhaul
shows Fibreglass insulation
which completely lines the
aircraft.
NEW JETS ARE
FIBREGLASS
INSULATED
Exciting new jet the Boeing 727 (on order to Ansett-ANA and
TAA) is insulated against heat, cold, noise with FIBREGLASS.
Both Australian airlines now fly aircraft that are FlBREGLASS-
insulated because FIBREGLASS has been proven the world’s best
thermal and acoustic insulation.
The choice of Boeing and other renowned aircraft manufacturers,
FIBREGLASS has special qualities that make it ideal for your
factory, office or home installation. FIBREGLASS is clean, easy to
install, fire-resistant, lightweight, everlasting. Supplied in conveni-
ent rolls, batts or loose form. For further information, complete and
mail coupon below.
To: AUSTRALIAN FIBREGLASS PTY. LTD.
Please send me literature on Fibreglass Insula-
tion for factory/office/home* and address of my
local suppliers.
‘Cross out whichever is not applicable.
NAME
ADDRESS
FGIB/63
SYDNEY Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters 51 7351
MELBOURNE 420 Spencer Street 30 2611
BRISBANE Montague Road 4 1471
ADELAIDE Aroona Road, Kilkenny 45 4771
PERTH 91-99 Kensington Street 23 3051
HOBART Gormanston Road, Moonah 7 6796
LAUNCESTON 52 Patterson Street 2 5819
CANBERRA Cnr. Eyre & Jardine Streets, Kingston 9 3879
NEW ZEALAND Aranui Road, Penrose, Auckland 594-140
There is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation
Fibregiass
GLASS WOOL INSULATION
By Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Ltd.
and in New Zealand by New Zealand Fibre Glass Limited Group members of
AC I


MORE BUSINESSES
DO MORE BUSINESS
WITH
“I specified Chrysler
Airtemp equipment for my
building for many good
reasons. Dependability
assured by Chrysler's 26
years of leadership in the
packaged field. Economy
from their power-saving
compressor. Flexibility
Chrysler range gave me
a choice of alternate
installations to apply to
each location.”
sfe ‘‘Working’s a pleasure
since they threw out the
fans and installed Chrysler
Airtemp Air Conditioning.
Whether it’s 110° in the
shade or near freezing
outside, we’ve got spring-
time freshness all day
long ! That’s real all
weather operation for
you . . .”
3jc Makes the office feel
comfortably cool when it’s
sizzling outside.
‘‘Nothing adds to my office
employees efficiency like
Climate by Chrysler. We're
not just cooler now —we’re
really comfortable. Our
Airtemp wrings out sticky
humidity in a hurry, and
it’s so much quieter.”
C/tymL
AIRTEMP
YEAR ROUND AIR CONDITIONING
There are Profits in the Comfort Zone when you own Chrysler
Airtemp year round Air Conditioning. Your Airtemp Distributor
will be pleased to show you how.
Q'LD: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 620 Stanley St., Woolloongabba. Ph. 4 2941
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Parramatta Rd. & Barr St., Camperdown.
Ph. 51 6645
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering Co. Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn St., Fyshwick. Ph. 9 0081
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St., S. Melbourne. Ph. 69 7114
S.A.: Chrysler (Australia) Limited Airtemp Division, Finsbury Ph. 45 3661
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd., 657 Murray St., Perth Ph. 23 2214
A FORWARD LOOK PRODUCT OF CHRYSLER AUSTRALIA LIMITED AIRTEMP DIVISION, S.A.
Special leasing facilities
are now available. Please
phone or write for
details.


the whole temper of the country changed,
and a Menzies Australia —more con-
fident in itself, less easily mesmerised by
intellectuals was less susceptible to
the Conlon touch than the Curtin-Chifley
Australia.
At last he graduated in medicine in
1951 (he’d begun medicine in 1932) and
the new period began. Apparently recon-
ciled to life in North Sydney, he became
a successful and unconventional psychi-
atrist. At the same time he began, it
would seem, to prepare for a comeback.
Were perhaps his choice of the Royal
Newcastle Hospital for his residency his
membership of the Benevolent Society,
and his position as Honorary in the Royal
Hospital for Women steps to building a
base from which to reform the national
health service? Anyone who knows how
much behind the rest of the world the
Australian national health service is
would see there is a really vast field for
a reformer there—if he could only get
the power to act.
There is an intriguing reference in Sir
Marcus Oliphant’s remarks. He quotes
Conlon as saying, “We’ll have to put on
our hoods and ride again”. He died
before he could ride again, but the re-
mark is surely the key to the struggle
and often misery of the later years, rather
than the legend of the eternal, unruffled,
philosophic Grey Eminence.
No one, certainly not an outsider,
would be sure of any such interpretations.
He was obviously an amazing man
how else explain all the famous men who
have contributed to the book on him? —■
but he must have been far more com-
plex than the legend admits. His life
cries out for a full biography, instead of
confusing hagiographies. The real man
is more fascinating than the myth.
What is a Tourist?
First UN travel conference
By PATRICIA ROLFE
After three days of strenuous but
unavailing efforts by African
countries to have South Africa and
Portugal excluded, the first United
Nations conference on travel in Rome
recently got down to considering such
questions as what is a tourist, how can
passports be standardised and what are
the prospects for uniform Customs and
immigration procedures.
The conference was the first of its
kind. Australia's delegation was headed
by the president of the Australian
National Travel Association, Mr John
Bates, and the general manager of the
association, Mr Basil Atkinson. The con-
ference sent a series of resolutions to
UN headquarters. There is no reason
why most of these should not be adopted
by member-countries before the next
conference, planned for not less than
five years hence.
Mr Bates said on his return that the
conference accepted that international
travel was now the largest single factor
in world trade. “It is worth 7.4 billion
American dollars a year and involves the
movement of 50,000,000 people a year,”
he said.
One resolution which may help to
safeguard Australia’s young tourist in-
dustry seeks to prevent governments
applying a tax on money its citizens
spend on foreign travel. “Japan has said
that early next year it will relax its
restrictions on currency for foreign
travel,” Mr Bates said, “but it has fol-
lowed this up with an announcement that
funds spent on foreign travel may be
subject to a special tax. The United
States, too, is very close to taxing
foreign travel in an effort to correct the
vast difference between what Americans
spend abroad and what visitors spend in
the United States. America and Japan
are two of our most hopeful sources of
tourists, so if this resolution is put into
effect we’ll be very happy.”
Resolutions which affect Australia as a
country looking for tourists and with a
relatively large percentage of its popula-
tion on the move, include:
• That for statistical purposes a
visitor is a person who doesn’t take on a
regular job in the country he is visiting.
No mention is made of length of visit.
Time in Australia is a vastly different
factor from in, say, Europe. Visitors are
then divided into certain classifications,
which, Mr Bates said, are very close to
the Commonwealth Statistician’s current
ones.
• Passports should be standardised so
far as the information they contain and
the order in which it is presented. An
Australian resolution on passports was
that they should not have to be surren-
dered to hotelkeepers for presentation to
police, as is obligatory in some European
countries at present.
• For Customs purposes “personal
effects” should come to mean the same
thing everywhere. It was recommended
that these should include two cameras,
one movie-camera, binoculars, transistor-
radio, typewriter and perambulator.
• That the value of souvenirs in
transit allowed duty free should be 100
dollars and that countries should give
adequate publicity to their Customs
regulations.
Mr Bates said that the conference also
dealt with tourism in developing coun-
tries. In some cases technical aid may be
given eventually to build hotels or other
tourist facilities in these countries. The
conference also dealt with the tourist
value of antiquities in countries, such as
some of the North African ones, which
at present place little emphasis on their
past.
Mr Bates said that on the way home
via the United States he was impressed
with the success of the ANTA’s cam-
paign there. “The New York advertising
agency which handles our account said
that they felt that the earlier campaigns
had made Americans aware of the
existence of Australia, and we could now
get down to something more specific.”
"Quick, have you got Whitten's 'Care and Maintenance of Bees'?"


VISITING U.S.A.? WHY NOT TAKE THE INTERESTING WAY HOME?
You gain so much —for so little extra
air fare—when you travel home from
U.S.A. via Europe with reliable KLM
The difference can be as little as twelve guineas (Economy Class)
your gain in experience and pleasure will be enormous
KLM offers you a choice of 32 trans-Atlantic jet flights every
week from America to Europe—and you can make connections
with them easily from any part of the American Continent. If
you are visiting America, for business or pleasure, why not take
the opportunity to see some of the fabulous sights of Europe on
the way back? KLM’s gateway to Europe is Amsterdam Airport,
famous for its Tax-Free Shopping Centre. From here, it is no
more than a short hop to Paris, London, Rome, Vienna, Copen-
hagen, Madrid—-or most of the fabled cities of historic Europe.
KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan lets you break your journey at many
cities at no extra air fare. Elere are more facts about the exciting
opportunities reliable KLM can offer you.
1. The Tax-Free Shopping
Centre at Amsterdam Airport is
the largest on the European Con-
tinent. Here you can buy German
cameras, Dutch cigars, Swiss
watches, French perfumes, and
the world’s finest wines and
spirits, all at bargain prices.
2. Diamonds are cheaper in
Amsterdam. Amsterdam artisans
have cut and polished diamonds
for centuries. Their work is
famous. Other bargains to look
for are: Dutch fabrics, pewter,
silver, copper, brass. And, of
course, Dutch liqueurs, cheese
and chocolate.
3. Amsterdam’s central location
makes it the natural hub for your
European tour. It offers excel-
lent opportunities for travel by
boat, road, rail or air to all of
Europe. You can arrange for an
Avis Rent-a-car to be ready for
you on arrival at Amsterdam
Airport, where the hiring rates
are the lowest in Europe. Drive
wherever you wish and leave the
car at the point where you rejoin
your KLM flight. On the other
band, your Travel Agent can
arrange for KLM to meet you
with a car at any of the airports
it serves in Europe.
4. If you can spare only a few
hours in Amsterdam, take a
Holland Minitour . . . delightfully
fills 200 short minutes, taking in
an Amsterdam canal boat tour,
visits to the Rijksmuseum, a
diamond cutting factory, and
Aalsmeer’s flower auction. The
price is a bargain, £2.
KLM helps the traveller
5. KLM has 77 offices in
Europe, 196 throughout the
world. English is the official
language in all of them. Wher-
ever you go in Europe, a KLM
office is close by with assistance
in language problems. It’s part
of KLM’s tradition of fine per-
sonal service to help people—
whether they are KLM pas-
sengers or not.
6. In the United States, KLM
has 31 offices in 28 cities. All
offer helping hands to foreigners
in the U.S.A. KLM’s big New
York office, at 609 Fifth Avenue,
is a goldmine of helpful infor-
mation for visitors to New York.
There you will find a large staff
of friendly KLMers who devote
their careers to helping travellers.
KLM—famous for service,
hospitality and reliability
7. KLM has had longer than
any other airline to perfect its
service and its reliability—44
years. KLM has carried over
twelve million passengers a total
of fourteen and a half billion
passenger miles.
\
8. KLM carries an average of
3,830 passengers every day —
about twice the capacity of a big
ocean liner.
9. Travelling First Class on a
KLM DC-8 jet, you sit in
glorious comfort. Your seat is
as wide as an armchair, has
built-in table lamp, pre-focussed
reading lamp, air blower and
finger-tip control panel.
10. KLM Economy Class pas-
sengers enjoy exactly the same
friendly personal service as First
Class passengers. The food
comes from the same chefs and
the same kitchens. Wines and
other drinks are available at
nominal charges. A quarter bottle
of top quality champagne, for
example, costs an Economy Class
passenger on the North Atlantic
run just 70 U.S. cents.
11. KLM stewardesses are
taught to anticipate your wishes.
They are always charming, even
when they walk eight miles on
a trans-Atlantic flight. KLM has
trained stewardesses for five
other airlines.
r:
*
Ask your Travel Agent
12. Ask your Travel Agent
to plan your tour. He is a
specialist. He knows fares, rates,
hotels, tours, documents, curren-
cies better than anyone. His
experience in the little odd details
can make a world of difference
to your trip. Two of every three
KLM passengers are recom-
mended to fly KLM by ex-
perienced travel agents—a nice
vote of confidence from people
who know all about travel.
13. When you make your flight
reservations for KLM you get
much more than your ticket . . .
you get one hundred per cent,
reliability.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free
travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. Building, 47 York Street, Sydney. 29-3966
80 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63-6949
Please send more detailed information on the advantages
of returning from U.S.A. via Europe and the Middle East
with KLM.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
My Travel Agent is.
4
KLM
* V 259


amazing proof of
ASAHI PENTAX
perfection
A contact print from an original
Asahi PENTAX 35 mm. negative
compared with a section of a huge
35 sq. ft. one-piece enlargement.
,v..
SUPERB NEW ASAHI
PENTAX MODELS
Asahi PENTAX SV with built in self
timer and automatic resetting film
counter. Automatic Super Takumar
FI.B lens and E.R. case £9O.
Asahi PENTx\X S.I.A with automatic
resetting film counter. Automatic Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case —£7s.
/»\
Full range of Auto-Takumar Lenses —»
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo dealer
K/C663
WRITERS,
AUTHORS
WRITERS & PHOTOGRAPHERS'
MARKETING GUIDE
1962-63 EDITION
Aust., NZ and Overseas Markets for all
types of MSS. Also publishers, literary
agents, etc.
Complete, up-to-date information
15/- (post lid.). Most booksellers or
direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Box 28. PO, Collins St Melbourne
Around Melbourne
The Australian Republican Army
The target year is 1974
T>erhaps in the full flush of excite-
A ment over the news of yet an-
other Royal baby it is discourteous to
mention the Australian Republican
Party. Even the Party’s initials, ARP,
reminiscent of war-time air raid pre-
cautions, have an ominous ring.
For more than five years now I
have watched their truly devoted
enthusiasm as they have contested seat
after seat after seat. The Republican
record is unblemished. On every
single occasion the ARP man has lost
his deposit. Perhaps the best example
of their superb optimism came in the
1960 Latrobe by-election. On the first
count Mr Pritchard, ALP, polled
23,387 votes, Mr Jess, Lib., 22,880,
Mr Martyr, DLP, 6834, and Mr
Murray, ARP, 406. However, Mr
Gerald P. Fitzgerald, then the public
relations officer for the ARP, said
they were “more than satisfied”. They
didn't have much organisation, but
look, they were up 400 per cent on
last time. The DLP and the ALP
couldn't boast of anything like that.
Ah, but this was nothing compared
with the by-election last month for
the ultra-blue-chip Labor seat of Mel-
bourne West in the Legislative Coun-
cil The regrettable truth is that the
very mention of Victoria’s Upper
House is likely to cause a prolonged
yawn around Melbourne. So when
there was only one nomination for
the seat, Mr Alexander Knight, the
ALP candidate, this caused great
satisfaction. The State of Victoria
would be saved £4OOO in electoral
expenses. But wait, 10 minutes before
closing time at noon on July 24, in
came a nomination from Robert
Harvey Grainger, car factory auto
inspector, the ARP candidate. The
4000 quid were irretrievably gone.
But here's the interesting bit. Mr
Knight polled 60,504 votes, Mr
Grainger 11,955, informal 3173. This
was an ARP record. Mr Grainger lost
his £5O deposit, but he needed only
another 549 votes to keep it.
Admittedly 20,000 people didn’t vote
at all, and the Chief Secretary, Mr
Rylah, made a statement that caused
absolute fury in the ARP camp. He
said that no “please explain” demands
would be sent to the 20,000 electors.
After all, this was a most unusual by-
election. It had been “virtually no
contest”.
The best ARP by-election, NO
CONTEST! Even so it was a fascin-
ating thought were there really
12,000 burning Republicans around
Footscray, Yarraville, Sunshine and
Williamstown? After all, the Republi-
cans do advocate such points as
abolition of the offices of Governor-
General and Governor; a referendum
to get public approval to establish a
republic; a complete review of
Imperial Treaty obligations.
So I sent a telegram to Mr Richard
Mullins, BA, LLB, a high school
teacher at Sunshine and Federal
President of the ARP. Mr Mullins
replied that he would call in after the
matinee session of “55 Days at
Peking”. The thought did cross one’s
mind that he might be picking up
some revolutionary ideas, but Mr
Mullins turned out to be a most sur-
prisingly gentle character with a very
pleasant Irish accent. The ARP target
year, he said, was 1974 or 1976,
when the republicans would really
break through or take over.
Mr Mullins, of course, was de-
lighted at the 12,000 votes scored in
the Melbourne West by-election. “We
had a party of the organising com-
mittee afterwards, a few drinks, a
dance, and we presented Mr Grainger
with a cartoon showing him breaking
through the ice. Yes, we look upon
this as a break-through.”
The unkind suggestion had to be
put: “But don’t you feel that with only
two candidates a lot of those
votes were just fun votes, or protest
votes because there was nobody else
to vote for?”
“I’ll concede that,” said Mr Mullins,
“but nobody ever looks at it from the
other point of view. It works both
ways. How many odd votes did the
Labor candidate pick up which just as
easily could have gone to us?”
Mr Mullins said he and his party
get bitterly disappointed when people
accuse them of being anti-Royal.
“Nor,” he said, “are we anti-
British. We just think it time Aus-
tralia stopped being a parasite.”
BATMAN


m
m
m.
*h
lu
'jm
it,
!<8
&9
.
m^m
s -t?
'Jta
ill
3"
■
Us
W)
<J*t
: S : : ®®fe;y : :;7:7 : ; ;:;:>K:
7«i
. :
ii?
•.
.K-f* *i
. <r .« ip
-?SJp
IL/ I <. 1
lilPlifT iii ssBB® „ 'is
' i3 h
I6e
\t /
•3/ ,_ '-
•Vy
; ,-,.v : ' : ;
’7r
'Mi
Wm
M,
r>
; ; : ■
>-:•■-
7 •' • 7s>
S
~ 0 ' 7JI
y ; :-'-: :
7<
i?a
b Ji,
.. .•" .:•••:
>Bi,
S (i
<u
fi s
8? a
1
ss* r.
•>/
%T
. . '»««
'fij
‘ '*» / 7-.
'y 7\/i
/V c ,'
4 **
‘ Me ’
Me
/ ■ ■ i ■ y
>'t ,i' . '
%■
#s:£:£:;
iggs§gft#&
10
of this on
our control
cards Ifl&M
ONLY XEROGRAPHY*
MAKES THIS POSSIBLE
Push-button copying on bond paper . . .
that's xerography, which works by static
electricity.
Xerography—in the form of the fXerox 914
Office Copier gives you the world's
newest, most efficient copying process.
The Xerox 914 Office Copier copies any-
thing . . . from any colour. Even pages from
thick books. Sharp, clear, black on white
copies exact in every detail. Dry copies.
Xerography fuses the image right into the
paper. Just dial the number of copies you
want and out they come 7 perfect copies
a minute.
There’s nothing to buy you borrow our
machine and pay only for the copies you
make. Call your Rank Xerox office now, or
post this coupon and arrange a demon-
stration.
* (you pronounce it zer-ography)
t Regd. Trade Mark
rank 131512!
(AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED
49 Market Street, Sydney 2 0663
316 Queen Street, Melbourne 67 6185
163-7 Halifax Street, Adelaide 8 6963
Suite 5, Garema Arcade, Garema Place,
Canberra City 4 7575
164 Melbourne Street, Sth. Brisbane 4 3836
83 King Street, Newcastle B 1994
1095 Hay Street, Perth 21 2662
Get to know more about the amazing Xerox 914 Office
Copier by posting this coupon now.
Could l please: (Tick which applies):—
n Have more details of the Xerox 914 Office Copier.
Q Have a demonstration at the nearest Rank Xerox
sales office.
Name
Company
Address
246/63
SCIENCE
Preparing for
Earthquakes
After Shop je
FROM OUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
A major earthquake in a populous
region is so quick-striking a disas-
ter that we are apt to forget that
the number of tremors in the earth’s
crust is some millions a year. It is a
matter of words whether all should be
described as earthquakes.
Earthquakes which cause, or might
cause, significant damage number a little
less than a thousand a year. The quali-
fication is “intensity” of disturbance at
any point on the land area of the earth,
not necessarily populous. For about 400
earthquakes a year there is enough infor-
mation about their origin—i.e., they are
recorded at enough stations to make
data about them worth placing on record.
This is still more than an earthquake a
day.
A few a year on the average nearer
three than two release an amount of
energy within a factor of six of the
greatest recorded in modern times. This
is a different criterion from “intensify”,
and is expressed approximately in the
“magnitude” scale of earthquake. In the
biggest, the energy release is of the same
order as that in the bigger thermonuclear
explosions. The few biggest in a year
account for most of the energy released
by all earth movements in all parts of
the earth's crust; they are the pinnacle
or end-point of a series not events of
a special kind and this, obviously,
makes their prediction much more diffi-
cult.
Most originate at depths not greater
than about 20 miles. They are caused,
in general, by the relief of stresses which
are a legacy from the last great period
of mountain-building. The main lines of
their distribution are widely known
the circum-Pacific arc extending from
Antarctica through New Zealand, sweep-
ing to the north of Australia and east of
Borneo, northwards off the China coast
through Japan, then crossing to Alaska,
appreciably to the south of the Behring
Strait, and running down the whole Paci-
fic coastline of North and South America;
and, secondly, a “branch” through the
West Indies, north through the various
mountain ridges of Assam and China
and west through the Himalayas and
Caucasus to Western Europe.
What is not brought out by such a
statement is the enormous preponderance
of earthquakes that originate in the part
of the Pacific arc from New Caledonia


maximum
cu
m
%
\2K
. . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
WITH
t X&p/uiKWcC
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
’ <£, 1
f»K- S
fnK-t
3 © P ® 3} <3 ,© ®:'-#
Al. A 2. A 3. 81. 82.
A 3.
83. Cl.
j/*S
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
no other group.
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key which opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be Ihduded
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today —a Lockwood MK System'is an essential
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation.
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation.
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code”, and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty,
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
IPC* UP
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
lB/6 at 11
your Service'
Station.
FOR
GEAR &
AXLE
through Japan to the northern Pacific.
Most progress has been in using the
waves from major earthquakes as a
means by which the interior structure of
the earth can be deduced; much less in
detailed understanding of the processes
involved in the build-up of stresses and
their eventual, sudden relief. Evidence
that the earth has a core which is effec-
tively fluid comes primarily from earth-
quakes.
The Chile earthquake of 1960 was
notable, not only for destruction but as
providing the best proof of the existence
of a layer with its centre at a depth of
90 miles, in which earthquake waves
travel more slowly than either above or
below it. This had been suggested by the
American seismologist, Dr. N. Guten-
berg, from an analysis of many records.
Studies of waves from nuclear ex-
plosions supported him. The final evid-
ence came from the Chile earthquake
whose violence set the earth as a whole
into vibration, making it “ring” like a
bell vibrating at frequencies from
which the elastic structure of the earth
could be worked out. This was a heavy
job in computing. The results, when
completed, could be explained only if
Gutenberg’s layer existed.
Ideas have been advanced for a more
complete analysis of earthquake records
based on a network of high-precision
stations, so designed that the information
that they provided could be passed readily
to electronic computers. Emphasis on
analysis has continued, and in July of
this year it was announced that the
University of Edinburgh had received a
£lOO,OOO grant from the United States’
National Science Foundation towards the
establishing of a computing centre that
would make Edinburgh one of the focal
points of world seismology.
In this way it may be hoped to build
up, over a period, a greater understanding
of what happens in earthquakes. Yet
ability to predict earthquakes if attain-
able will require observations of other
kinds than records of earthquake waves.
There are far too many earth tremors
for “warning tremors” to be hopeful. In
a few cases notably the famous San
Andreas fault in California, whose move-
ment has been under continuous obser-
vation for many years, it may be possible
to say that a stage of danger has been
reached. The same may also be true in
New Zealand. To set a date, or even a
year, for the moment of release is another
question. The Japanese, however, are
hopeful that by a careful study of fore-
running movements, such as local tilting,
and the relation of these to subsequent
events, it may be feasible in time to
arrive at a warning service though
not, it should be said, quickly. (“The
Times,” London.)


FORUM
A Break-through
on Cheap Housing
A lead from South Australia?
By J. C. HORSFALL
Australia-wide interest in South
Australia’s rental-purchase housing
scheme as a possible solution to
the problem of cheap housing is a re-
flection of the limited success all States
have had in this field. It also reflects
general concern to achieve a major
break-through in time to cope with the
additional demand for cheap housing as
a result of the post-war baby boom and
the increase in immigration targets.
However, before jumping to hasty
conclusions that an Australia - wide
adoption of the rental-purchase idea is
the answer to the nation’s housing prob-
lem, it is well to recognise that South
Australia is relying entirely on cheap
money provided by the Commonwealth
Government under its housing agree-
ments with the States to finance the
scheme, and that other States are using
their allocations under the agreement to
provide the maximum numbers of cheap
houses possible both for rental and for
sale.
Funds are provided by the Common-
wealth at one per cent under the current
bond rate; that is, with bond rate at 4\
per cent, the States get the money at 31
per cent under present circumstances.
The total of this cheap money to be pro-
vided in the current finance year for all
States is £4Bl million, of which South
Australia will get something over £4
million.
Doubtless, if the Commonwealth
Government could provide greatly in-
creased amounts of this cheap finance to
the States, the various State housing
authorities could finance a proportion-
ately larger number of low-cost houses.
But funds available to the Common-
wealth Government for housing loans to
the States are circumscribed by the
availability of loan finance and the limits
of deficit financing. On top of this the
Federal authorities are clearly determined
not to undermine the present structure
for the provision of housing funds which
relies heavily on the savings banks and
financial institutions.
The cost of these cheap rental-purchase
houses, which are of brick and brick
veneer and cover from 1(H to 11
squares (in 17 designs), at present ranges
from £3400 to £3BOO. They are offered
to rental-purchasers for £5O deposit and
weekly payments ranging from £3 14s.
to £3 18s. a week spread over 40 years.
However, the SA Housing Trust’s chair-
man, Mr J. P. Cartledge, emphasised
that these cheap terms depended on the
money used in the scheme being avail-
able at the current rate of 3i per cent,
under which finance is available under
the Commonwealth - States’ Housing
Agreement.
Moreover, Mr Cartledge stressed that
weekly payments are an essential part of
the scheme. The Trust has a good follow-
up system and a team of collectors
among its 600 staff to ensure that all pay-
ments are kept up to date. (Actually over
its 27 years the Trust says it has been
remarkably free from defaulters and is
always willing to defer or adjust pay-
ments when tenants or house purchasers
run into difficulties.)
Understandably the Trust has been
swamped with applications for these
rental - purchase houses and is even
getting a considerable number of house-
seekers from other States. The chair-
man said they had about 3500 applica-
tions to date but these could only be
satisfied at the rate of from 60 to 70 a
month. He thought that a waiting period
of about two years for the houses would
be more or less chronic.
While by its adoption of this rental-
purchase scheme the South Australian
Housing Trust has been hailed as the
golden boy among Australia’s housing
authorities it is only fair to recognise
that until it did so the Trust was behind
most of the other States in its terms for
the provision of homes for sale.
Again, apart from its rental-purchase
scheme under which it finances virtually
the whole of the cost of houses at what
amounts to loans of from £3350 to
£3750 at 4f per cent calculated on re-
ducing balances and repayable over 40
years, its terms for other houses for sale
compare unfavorably with most other
States. Further, as we shall see, the
terms of some other States’ housing
authorities for financing houses for sale
are not so very different from those
under the SA rental-purchase scheme.
For instance, the Housing Commission
of NSW offers 80 per cent of its dwell-
ings for sale financed under the 1956
and 1961 housing agreements on equally
easy terms. In fact in some respects they
are better than SA has to offer. There is
no prescribed limit to the NSW Housing
Commission’s loans on house purchases
and a deposit of only £5O is required (the
same as in the SA rental - purchase
scheme). Loans carry an interest rate of
4% per. cent on reducing balances and are
repayable over a maximum period of 45
years.
Again, the Housing Commission of
Victoria will in some circumstances lend
up to £5OOO at as low as 4i per cent
calculated on reducing balances and re-
payable over 45 years maximum, though
its minimum deposit is double that of
NSW and SA (rental-purchase), that is
£lOO.
Compared with NSW and Victoria,
the South Australian Housing Trust’s
terms for house sales under the 1956
and 1961 housing agreements are much
stiffer. The maximum loan in its case
is £3250, minimum deposit £2OO, the
interest rate 5f per cent on reducing
balances and the maximum repayment
term 40 years. Purchasers usually take
a first mortgage with one of the in-
stitutions and the Trust lelps out with
second mortgages only.
South Australia’s terms (outside the
rental-purchase scheme) are more in line
with those of the other less-populated
States. The Queensland Housing Com-
mission’s minimum deposit for house
finance under the 1956 and 1961 Housing
Agreements is £250; no limit is pre-
scribed for loans available, while loans
are repayable over 45 years and carry
an interest rate of 5£ per cent on re-
ducing balances. Under the 1945-61
State Housing Acts the Queensland
Housing Commission will lend up to
£3500 for as much as 90 per cent of
valuation at 5£ per cent calculated on
monthly balances with a maximum re-
payment period of 45 years.
Under the 1945, 1956 and 1961
housing agreements the State Housing
Commission of Western Australia will
make maximum loans of £2,750 or,
counting in land, up to 90 per cent of
valuation, on a minimum deposit of
£lOO, repayable over 45 years and
carrying 5| per cent interest on reducing
balances.
The Housing Department, Tasmania,
allocates its houses for sale on the basis
of need with or without a deposit and
stipulating no prescribed limit to its


NEWS from
MODEL 33
ELECTROSTATIC COPIER
JUST FLICK IT ON
FEED ORIGINAL ...
COPIES STACK...
• Dry copies.
• No cleaning.
• 100% dust-free.
• Continuous operation.
• Easy to operate just flick a switch.
• No paper to handle just feed original.
• Document activated synchro feed.
'BBS
• Originals and copies returned separately sequentially stacked.
• Low cost copying.
• Copies anything the eye can see 8 copies per minute.
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
SYDNEY 29-1151 • MELBOURNE 32-4161 • ADELAIDE 8-6361
BRISBANE 2-9498 • A.C.T. 4-8160
ft
VSOP
COURVOISIER
COGNAC
COURVOISIER V.5.0.P.,
COURVOISIER NAPOLEON,
COURVOISIER EXTRA VIEILLE.
Agents: FESQ & COMPANY PTY. LIMITED
ANY HANDYMAN
CAN INSTAL
‘FLOATING ACTION’ garage door fittings
From Hardware stores everywhere t. 157/a
loans. Counting in i per cent admini-
strative charge on the purchase price of
the house, the rate of interest comes to
4} per cent calculated on annual balances
but the Department also adds a further
2\ per cent to annual payments as a
provision for vacancies and defaults extra
to interest, repayments of principal, rates,
taxes and insurance.
On an overall view and allowing for
interstate differences in building costs,
it is probably true that the various State
housing authorities are putting to the
most effective use the limited amount of
cheap money provided by the Common-
wealth under the 1945-1961 housing
agreements.
The real trouble is that there is not
nearly enough such money available to
cater for the demand for cheap housing.
To make a real impression on the back-
log of some 70,000 applicants for cheap
housing, the Federal Government would
have to increase allocations to the States
far beyond the current year’s £48.6
million. The allocation has shown little
change over the last few years and this
year’s is actually £1 million lower than
that for 1961-62.
Of course the Federal Government’s
contribution of cheap money for housing
is much in excess of its allocations direct
to the States because it also puts up a
huge sum, actually £351 million this
year, for War Service homes. This money
gets into cheap housing on extremely
favorable terms. In addition to this £351
million the Federal Government also
spends a few millions each year on cheap
housing loans for the Department of the
Interior (ACT) and the Department of
Territories (Northern Territory). In total
the Commonwealth therefore will pro-
vide about £9O million cheap money for
housing this year.
Coming in strongly behind the State
and Commonwealth housing authorities
in the provision of funds for housing
are a variety of banks, both Govern-
ment and private, and also a range of
institutions such as building societies and
life companies. By increasing from 30 to
35 per cent the proportion of savings
bank funds that can be lent on housing
loans the Federal Government has great-
ly increased the availability of such funds
for housing.
Thanks to the reduction in savings
banks deposit rates in April this year,
savings bank money is now being made
available on more generous terms, but
there is still a pretty wide gulf between
savings bank and State Housing authority
terms, not so much on the score of
interest rates as in the percentage of
valuation of houses that can be borrowed
from these two sources.
Following the cut on savings bank
deposit rates in April, the interest rate
on housing loans from the Common-


“IF ONLY I HAD PROOF!”
\ o
AO
e
c»^,
, a
3f
MiCj'
THERE IS PROOF OF POSTING & DELIVERY
if you use CERTIFIED MAIL.
IDEAL FOR MAILING CONTRACTS, DEEDS, TITLES,
SHARE SCRIP AND TRANSFERS BECAUSE
IT IS SIGNED FOR BY THE ADDRESSEE, A
RESPONSIBLE MEMBER OF HIS HOUSEHOLD OR
HIS AUTHORISED AGENT. DURING TRANSIT
CERTIFIED MAIL IS HANDLED WITH ORDINARY
LETTERS AND PACKETS. COMPENSATION
IS PAID ON REGISTERED MAIL ONLY.
COSTS ONLY 6d. PLUS POSTAGE
COPY OF DELIVERY RECEIPT-AN ADDITIONAL 9d.
FULL INFORMATION FROM ANY POST OFFICE
lAN
C E
wealth Savings Bank (the biggest bank
lender on housing) was cut from 51 to 4|
per cent calculated on monthly balances.
At the same time the amount that can be
borrowed was increased from £3,000 to
4i 3500. However, the percentage of
valuation that can be borrowed was not
changed, that is 75 per cent of valuation
for Credit Foncier Loans and 60 per
cent for CFL loans (Strata titles).
Again, the maximum periods for re-
payments were not changed, that is 32
years for brick houses, 26 for brick
veneer, and 22 for timber and asbestos-
cement (CFL loans) and 15 years for
CFL Strata titles brick or similar types of
construction. Such terms militate against
the usability of savings bank money to
the maximum extent of availability in
providing cheap housing as almost in-
variably borrowers are thrown back on
other sources to provide second mortgages
on considerably worse terms.
So, in effect, as soon as one leaves the
restricted area of housing finance con-
trolled by the various Federal and State
housing authorities, one is dealing with
commercial rates of finance. These are
not so severe in the savings bank field
of course but even there, unless you have
considerable capital to buy land and
something over that to put up a sub-
stantial deposit, you are likely to have
to finance a segment of your investment
at high rates of interest, so that you are
out of the field of cheap housing.
Thus the additional funds now avail-
able through the banks for housing
finance hardly represent a decisive con-
tribution to the provision of funds for
cheap housing. The point is that, as a
matter of national policy, more should be
done for those at the bottom end of the
economic scale; that is, young married
couples, migrants and so forth with only
limited capital means.
One cannot envy the job of the Federal
authorities in estimating the genuine de-
mand for cheap housing on which any
decision to increase the funds available
for financing more of it must depend.
For one thing, housing in some States
has not yet been put into its right per-
spective in terms of genuine demand
owing to the retention of rent control
and blatant subsidisation of tenants in
rent-controlled houses, as in NSW.
Until rents Australia-wide are put on
to an economic basis the Federal
authorities can only guess at the total
genuine demand for cheap housing.
Again, the matter is complicated by
the fact that many claimants for cheap
housing are won’t to satisfy a whole
series of other “demands” for luxury
items of equipment and services seem-
ingly in preference to saving to finance
housing. The implication here is that
they consider they have a right to have
their housing subsidised irrespective of
how they dispose of their current
incomes.
However, with the war over some 17
years ago, it does seem that £351 million
is a massive sum to be spending each
year on War Service homes. Without
wishing to rub the RSL up the wrong
way, one might suggest (as an ex-ser-
viceman) that some of this money should
now go into the pool of cheap housing
money and made available to the State
authorities for use on a more realistic
scale of priorities in which migrants and
young married couples should have a
high place.
Similarly it is hard to see any good
reason why the encumbents of the
Department of the Interior and other civil
servants should get preference over
everybody else in the provision of cheap
money for housing. Until some of these
incongruities are ironed out and the
Federal Government steps up its overall
contribution of cheap money, one can-
not be confident of a break-through on
the cheap housing front.


WORLD-WIDE
Rtoa.
H^H»246
100% British Made
the light
that never
fails...
The Tilley Storm Lantern
is proof against wind
and weather. . . giving
12 hours of brilliant
light on one filling
(I 5 pints of ordinary
kerosene).
For economical everyday
use, for unfailing service
in an emergency, you
can put your trust in
TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hard-
ware Stores. In case of difficulty
write to:
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVE:
T. H. BENTLEY FTY. LIMITED
12 Sullivan Street, MOORABBIN, 5.20, Victoria, Australia.
FREE: 2 Booklets: Atomic Motor-
ing Age, Historical Facts, Motor
Repairs, Economy Hints.
NU-MOTO-LIFE NU-METAL (Pat.)
OVERHAULS WHILE-U-DRIVE
REPLATES worn engines, upper
cylds. main bearings, diffs, gears.
SAVES rebore. ENDS piston slap,
rattles, oil/petrol waste. Also
decarbonises. RESTORES new
compression power, top speed
zip. SAVES. Adds £sd to resale
value. GUARANTEED 25,000
miles. No results—no pay. Harm-
less finest engine. SIMPLE. Add
Re-Nu expanding liquid Nu-Moto-
Life Nu-Metal to oil, petrol or
plug holes. Testimonials, en-
gineers' reports, free advice
available. Open Sat. morn. Dis-
tributors required. Sold only by
RE-NU CO. (Estab. 1932). 58
Swan St., opp. Richmond Stn.,
Vic 42-1755. 4,6, 8 cyls.:
60/-, 70/-, 80/-.
Call, Post, Phone Now.
(ORDER FORM)
I enclose £ for Nu-Metal.
Name
Address "BUL."
or send for free particulars
describing action NU-MOTO-LIFE
NU-METAL.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
DISCRIMINATION IN PAPUA-NG
Sir,
Although the racial situation in Papua-
New Guinea is improving, there is no
ground for Australians to be complacent.
On a recent visit to New Guinea a stu-
dent delegation was appalled at the con-
tinuing acts of discrimination against
Papuans and New Guineans.
Attitudes of Australians living in the
Territory are ambivalent. “Color bars
do not exist, or if they do, then Papuans
and New Guineans do not resent them”.
After talking with hundreds of students
in New Guinea, it is clear that both these
views are false. For example, New
Guineans are still excluded from the
lounges of many hotels and from most
clubs. I have personally observed humi-
liating acts of discrimination against
Papuans and New Guineans when flying
with the major private airline. The firms
operating coastal shipping have a repu-
tation amongst New Guineans for dis-
crimination. In these and many other
ways the people of Papua-New Guinea
who are colored are being penalised be-
cause they are colored.
Some leaders deny that they harbor
resentment against the discrimination
they and their people suffer. However,
the manner in which they describe the
various color bars indicates that they
were very resentful of the insults implied.
This resentment generally was more
vocal among student groups.
Two types of action seems to be re-
quired. First, the administration should
actively police the recent legislation out-
lawing discrimination. Second, the vari-
ous forms of discrimination should be
widely condemned, both in Australia and
Papua-New Guinea, by as many different
groups as possible. An aroused public
opinion should make it clear to expatri-
ates in New Guinea that racial discri-
mination will not be tolerated.
NORMAN FISHER
National Union of Australian
University Students,
Parkville (Vic.).
FAIRIES
Sir,
Living in the concrete at Kings Cross
I rarely see the kind of fairies which
Mr Rowan John Cahill (14/9/63) wants
me to poison before I review any more
children’s TV shows. Perhaps he could
send me a few, so that I too can learn
to appreciate “The Happy Show”.
FRANK ROBERTS
Kings Cross (NSW).
“HOLIDAY IN NOUMEA”
Sir,
I would like to put into better per-
spective a reference to the shipping com-
pany, Messageries Maritimes, in my
article, “Holiday in Noumea” (31/8/63).
It is true that this line advertises its ser-
vices to Noumea very little, but the rea-
son may well be that it has to make sure
that ample passages remain available to
France from New Caledonia and other
Pacific ports, since the MM provides the
only regular sea link to Europe for these.
The “Polynesien”, a well-regarded boat,
is usually booked out for so long in
advance that to extensively advertise this,
the sole there-and-back sea connection
between Sydney and Noumea, could be
claimed to serve no purpose. Confirma-
tion of bookings by certain MM liners to
New Caledonia is very slow, but the


N
/
CUa
f| *UmiA IST 4ft
p I'lAlET-
!* l *ti ( t I* » *
THE
COONAWARRA ESTATE
The vineyard and the old stone
cellars are in the care of dedicated
men who have retained many of
the traditional hand-methods in
carefully producing Australia’s
finest table wines.
Each bottle is marked with its
vintage year and carries a back
label clearly showing where the
Estate is located.
COONAWARRA ESTATE* CLARET is
made from the original Shiraz
(Hermitage) vineyard.
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNET
is vintaged from 70 acres of the
rare Cabernet Sauvignon.
COONAWARRA ESTATE RIESLING
comes from a new vineyard of
Rhine Riesling.
*" Estate" (as the word "'Chateau" in France) is used to
distinguish the wine as being the genuine product of the
winegrowers' own vineyard.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors: S. WYNN & CO.PTY.LTD,
above reasons would at least partly ex-
plain this also.
I would only add that intending pas-
sengers may have no fear that they will
be properly looked after.
DAVID MARTIN
East Coburg (Vic.).
GREGG SHORTHAND
Sir,
I have read with interest the article
on “Low-Down on Shorthand” by Massey
Stanley (7/9/63), but I was so surprised
at the statement made about New Zea-
land that I should like to correct it. The
article said, “Pitman has the edge on
most systems in British Commonwealth
countries (except, surprisingly, in New
Zealand, where Gregg is widespread) . .
How the writer could have formed this
opinion about shorthand systems in New
Zealand I am at a loss to understand.
The fact is that in all the public examina-
tions in this country Gregg candidates
constitute only a very small proportion
of those sitting between 1 and 2 per
cent. Pitman writers constitute the great
bulk, 98 to 99 per cent of the total. The
two commercial teachers’ training courses
teach Pitman only, so that all the official
training is in this system.
T. L. JAMES
President,
NZ Commercial Teachers’ Ass’n
Wellington (NZ).
“MASTER OF SNOBCULT”
Sir,
As secretary of the Dwight Macdonald
Society in Australia I must protest against
Charles Higham’s polemic about “Against
the American Grain” (7/9/63), and in
case readers think that I am being unfair
in my comments perhaps they should
read the article, “Master of Snobcult”,
again. In a full-page article there are
less than 50 lines relevant to the book,
and the first column is.devoted to com-
paring Macdonald to Maugham’s arch-
snob Elliott Templeton —an exercise
which only suggests that Mr Higham’s
gifts do not lie in the direction of satire.
The remainder confirms the impression
that Mr Higham has not read the book
or is confusing it with some other work.
We are treated to half a page of the
things that Macdonald would (according
to Mr Higham) banish or suppress. Mr
Higham becomes very angry indeed over
this long list but why? Macdonald's
main argument is that mass culture is
not on the level of Periclean Greece, the
Italian Renaissance and Elizabethan Eng-
land. (Is he wrong?) He stresses that
citizens will derive more benefit from
high-level, than from adulterated, cul-
ture but his criticism of shortcomings
in mass media does not mean that he is
a literary Carry Nation, bursting to des-
troy record shops and magazine stands.
BARRY O. JONES
Dandenong (Vic.)
[Charles Higham writes: Mr Jones is,
of course, simply expressing his opinion
on masscult. But he might have taken
care with his facts. Only half of the
first column is devoted to a comparison
with Elliott Templeton; only 23 lines (not
half a page) are devoted to a discussion
of things Macdonald would suppress. The
review contains no attempt at satire, and
the statement that I haven’t read the book
is insulting.]
“SEGREGATION”
Sir,
My attention has been drawn to an
article entitled “Segregation” in The
Bulletin of August 10. In order to
put the record straight I must inform
you that there are 25 country towns in
Western Australia where over 90 Type
V houses (somewhat similar to the type
proposed at Merredin) have been, or
are being, erected.
At Merredin, although two town
blocks were approved for the purpose
by the Shire Council, it was only pro-
posed to erect one house for the present
and this was to house the family which
had been so favorably reported on by
the Shire Council’s own health inspector.
I did not at any time “somersault” on
this, and, in fact, gave instructions to my
department to proceed with the acquisi-
tion of the land. This must necessarily
take some time, during which I hope to
seek a change of heart by the Shire
Council and the people of Merredin.
Contrary to the views of Councillor
Davies, as reported in your issue, many
thousands of pounds have been spent on
the town reserve in erecting transitional-
type houses, with septic installation,
ablution blocks, etc.
E. H. M. Lewis
Minister for Native Welfare
Perth (WA).
AUSTRALIAN RULES
Sir,
I would like to add a little to “Bat-
man’s” reference to Australian Rules
football (14/9/63). One evening 1 de-
cided to relax to some pleasant music on
the radio. The time was 8 o’clock, and
with each successive switch of the dial
I heard the same announcement (I must
add that this applied only to the com-
mercial stations), "We regret the can-
cellation of our usual programme”. I
wondered why the programme had to be
cancelled; surely something of the
utmost, world-wide importance had oc-
curred? I listened as a hushed voice an-
nounced, “We are now crossing to Har-
rison House for the count”. Well, we
crossed and more hushed voices told me
that so and so had one vote, so and so
two, and so on. For the benefit of all
non-Victorians, the count was to decide
the Brownlow Medallist for 1963. This
is awarded each year to the footballer
whom the umpires decide is the best of
the season
Surely this has gone too far? If a
person dares to criticise the game in a
Melbourne paper the response is instan-
taneous. Letters are printed informing
the poor, misguided writer that it would
be much better for all concerned if he or
she left Victoria. The game is beyond
criticism; it is a State religion and its fol-
lowers must purge the State of all non-
believers.
As far as I am concerned a game
should be played on the arena set aside
for it, and should not be allowed to
monopolise Press, television and radio.
(Mrs) MARGOT TURBULL
Toorak {Vic.).
NEED FOR AN OMSBUDSMAN
Sir,
To Mr Tom Truman’s list of question-
able practices (7/9/63) used by Local
Government bodies, from personal ex-
perience as a landowner in NSW the
following refinements of the techniques
may be added:— Misrepresentation of
the legal position to deceive, if possible,
the more innocent ratepayers; transfer-
ence of the legal liabilities of developers;
threats of economic ruin for non-compli-
ance; misuse of town planning schemes
for questionable purposes; and evasion
of compensation.
The need for an Omsbudsman is
urgent, as these practices are apparently
widespread.
T. A. MULLENS
Heidelberg (Vic.).


'
/
DOES NOT RESPECT PERSONS
OR PROPERTY
DOES NOT STOP TO ASSESS LOSSES
CAN BE CONTROLLED SURELY—
AUTOMATICALLY
{ite
is indiscriminate, unpredictable and
relentless in its rampage against the
unprepared. It can strike anywhere
at anytime with devastating property
losses—and human lives.
Precaution is the only complete insurance
against the ravages of fire . . . automatic
precaution in the form of the Grinnell
Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm
System.
The Grinnell System guards day and night—
never rests —automatically extinguishes fire at its
source, before any damage can be done.
The Grinnell System is engineered by
Wormald Brothers, since 1889, Aus-
tralia’s leading fire protection engineers.
Contact Wormald Brothers without obli-
gation, as your first move towards
complete fire safety.
KVIM j 1 1 j I-B
SEVENTY-FIFTH TRADING YEAR
WORMALD BROTHERS
GRINNELL AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
A WORMALD BROTHERS INDUSTRY
WB


CONSOLIDATED PRESS HOLDINGS LIMITED
DIRECTORS' REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS
The year just concluded has been
a satisfactory one, resulting in a
record profit 'of £534,934 for the
group and closing with Members’
funds at their highest level of
£5,786,508.
Profit:
The combined net profit of
£534,934 was derived after providing
£287,203 for income tax and
£213,973 for depreciation. This
represents an increase of £64,302 over
the profit of £470,632 for 1961-62
when £253,608 was provided for in-
come tax and <£218,161 for deprecia-
tion.
After making allowance for divi-
dends payable on preference capital,
the profit for the year under review
represents an earnings yield on
ordinary capital of 33.84%.
Overall the profit derived from
the company’s present main publica-
tions was slightly lower than for the
previous year. Profits arising from
commercial printing, book and maga-
zine sales were higher.
Circulation revenue derived from
the main publications was higher than
the record figures obtained in the
previous year.
Advertising revenue also increased.
At this stage in the current year
the group profit is slightly higher than
for the corresponding period of the
previous year and indications are that
a satisfactory result for 1963-64
should be achieved.
Results of the group’s operations
for the year have not been materially
affected by items of an abnormal
character.
Long Service and Annual Leave:
Amendment of the Long Service
Leave Act as from Ist April, 1963,
awarded employees entitlement (sub-
ject to certain reservations) to long
service leave after 5 years service
and, in addition, increased the leave
rate for service after that date. Ap-
propriations totalling £190,000 have
been made from accumulated profits
to cover the additional liability and to
otherwise augment the provisions for
long service and annual leave.
Reserves:
General and other reserves were
increased by £41,252 to £2,136,721.
This resulted mainly from the trans-
fer of £15,000 from unappropriated
profits, the net surplus arising from
the sale of two properties and pro-
ceeds of the sale of the “record club”
business of a subsidiary. On the other
hand £5,000 was transferred from
special reserve for income tax in a
subsidiary company.
Dividends:
The company paid ordinary divi-
dends on Ist January, 1963, and 30th
June, 1963, absorbing £166,422.
Preference dividends totalling
£70,000 were paid on 7% cumulative
preference shares.
It is proposed and provision has
been made in the accounts now pre-
sented for an ordinary dividend of
6}% to be declared payable on Ist
January, 1964. Provision has also
been made for the dividend of
£35,000 paid to preference share-
holders on Ist July, 1963.
Capital:
In May, 1963, the company issued
66,660 ordinary stock units at a
premium of 19/-. This has increased
the ordinary paid capital to
£1,345,500 and the share premium
account to £750,984.
Debenture Stock Issue:
Subsequent to the close of the year
Australian Consolidated Press Limited
issued £1,700,000 7% mortgage de-
benture stock maturing in 1970, 1975
and 1978. This issue was made in
order to offer conversion of the
£956,500 of 63% registered mortgage
debenture stock falling due for repay-
ment on 30th September, 1964, and
the £700,000 of 7-9% registered un-
secured notes falling due for repay-
ment on 31st March, 1964
£1,057,300 of the debentures and
notes were converted, the balance of
£642,700 being subscribed in cash.
Buildings:
As indicated to you in our previous
report major extensions to the com-
pany’s head office premises have con-
tinued throughout the year the
addition of the six floors has been
completed. The company’s new build-
ing in Park Street is nearing comple-
tion. Work has commenced on the
demolition of Adams and Pulsford
Chambers which will be replaced by
a 12-storey building linking up with
the head office and Park Street build-
ings.
The Bulletin building in George
Street was sold during the year,
realising a surplus over the 1961 re-
valuation figure.
Surplus of current assets over
current liabilities:
The surplus has decreased by ap-
proximately £500,000. On the other
hand there were substantial capital
expenditures and provisions as fol-
lows: —
Spent on head office building ex-
tensions and other
properties £462,000
Additional plant acquired
at a cost of £154,000
Additional provision for
long service and annual
leave £190,000
and further outside investments.
The investments total increased by
approximately £500,000. A sub-
stantial amount of the increase in
investments is represented by a
mortgage resulting from the sale
of the Bulletin building.
Despite the additional leave pro-
vision and maintenance of the divi-
dend, Members’ funds have shown an
increase of approximately £152,000.
For and on behalf of the Board,
FRANK PACKER,
Chairman.


REVIEWS
TELEVISION
The Panel Game
How to be learned without really trying
By FRANK ROBERTS
'C'very now and then, like most view-
ers, I have a bout of wild optimism
and w'atch a TV panel show. Regret
follows, as surely as it does indulgence
in any other flat draught. But the urge
to try again is a natural one. Meet
enough people and you know that there
are sensible, intelligent, sparkling,
thoughtful, witty, wise and humorous
citizens in numbers, if not abundance.
It seems impossible that their kind will
never be seen on the television screen.
Reflection suggests several reasons for
their failure to appear. One is the ap-
parent theory that panel members must
be public figures of some kind, any
kind. Unfortunately VIPs and even IPs
tend to be immodest, petty, dogmatic,
childishly argumentative, irrational, or so
stuffed with platitudes that they fail to
communicate. Another reason is the
complete failure of panel selectors to
blend the members so that each brings
out the best in the others. No sensible
person would serve castor oil, sugar,
cheese and gravy as a meal, but elements
as incapable of mixing as these are
regularly served up on panel shows.
To their groups of ill-chosen people
the organisers nearly always manage to
add discussion subjects which reduce
the panel members to various shades of
asininity and their audience to tears.
And while that prevails many first rate
people will continue to decline invita-
tions to appear on television. This is a
bad thing for the medium and its public,
because the times abound with questions
that cry out for sensible discussion, and
a touch of humor to make some of them
less frightening.
There could be remedies. Panels of
two or three men and women from
many callings actors, lawyers, fire-
men, garbage collectors, distance haul-
iers, doctors, sportsmen could dis-
cuss, reminisce, debate, and above all
tell us about their lives and work,
thoughts and theories. And I would not
care whether they spoke with beautiful
disdain or free-wheeled as Bill Harney
used to, if they would say something.
It would be such a change.
Debate has lost its popularity, but
if there have to be panels of IPs, chosen
at random, adherence to the rules of
debate under a silent chairman would
improve these shows. It would bring
in people who might be impossible un-
der other conditions, limiting their lo-
quacity but enabling them to speak
without the snips and snaps which limit
most who appear in “The Critics,” on
ABC television.
Why the ABC persists with this and its
numerous other local and national panel
show's must puzzle most of its viewers,
with the notable exception of those who
just like to see and hear public figures
from time to time. That's a natural
enough inclination but there must be
a better way of serving it than the
continued presentation of such disguised
guff as “Any Questions?” Its apparent
aim is to give important public questions
a good airing. Its method, too often,
is to offer these questions to people
who, however charming and interesting,
are incapable of making any sense of
the subject.
"Decently, Sydney viewers were able
to meet Myra Roper, Francis James,
Alex Ramsay and Margaret Valadian,
all charming, all interesting, and all at
sea when asked to discuss seven ques-
tions on aboriginal welfare in 30 min-
utes. Miss Roper, an alarming theorist
at the best of times, went up in flames.
Mr James, of Sydney’s Anglican Press,
gave a fine droll performance. Mr Ram-
say personified Scottish caution at work.
And Miss Valadian, a Queensland Uni-
versity student and an aboriginal, made
some sense but was limited by the
format.
The questions were asked by mem-
bers of the Aborigines’ Advancement
League, a majority of them white
people, one of them a Negro. Pastor
Doug Nicholls asked what the panel
thought about white families adopting
aboriginal children and Miss Roper
thought it a great idea because “each
has so much to contribute to the other.”
Miss Valadian said otherwise, because
in white society the black child was
unconsciously spurned, however good
everyone’s intentions. Mr James agreed.
Mr Ramsay said the greatest care should
be taken.
There were further questions about
the right to visit aboriginal reserves,
ownership of reserves (Miss Valadian
did not think her people were ready
for that), wages for aborigines in the
pastoral industry (she felt they should
have equal wages only if they accepted
equal responsibility, whatever that
meant), and the pros and cons of a
chairlift at Ayers Rock.
Then an aboriginal girl asked whether
it made sense that she could go through
eight changes of legal status if she went
around Australia. James advised her to
live in Canberra, Ramsay suggested that
several different state policies gave us
an opportunity to choose a good one
from them, and Miss Roper was amazed
and aghast to learn that aborigines
gained and lost various rights by moving
through several States.
So ended that episode of “Any Ques-
tions?” and if anyone but Miss Roper
had learned anything from it, if it had
advanced the aborigines, or if it had
served any useful purpose at all beyond
making the panel members visible, I
would be a surprised viewer.
Who was Hedda?
— That is for the Salvationists, said
Stephen.
— Do you mean . . .
— / mean that Ibsen’s account of
modern society is as genuinely
ironical as Newman’s account of
English Protestant morality and
belief.
— That may be, said the President
appeased by the conjunction.
— And as free from missionary in-
tention.
— The President was silent.
— Ibsen has the temper of an arch-
angel.
Stephen Hero
Well that may be, but for one like
"" myself who has only once seen Ibsen
staged (and that badly, by amateurs)
and has therefore only read him, the
BBC-CBS production of Hedda Gabler
on ABC Television last Sunday week
night was a shock. Beautifully acted by
Ingrid Bergman, Ralph Richardson,
Michael Redgrave and Trevor Howard
and skilfully directed by David Susskind
it proved exciting, harrowing and ex-
hilarating. But it was also puzzling.


EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT (Male) required for
community organisation engaged in recruiting
Australians for professional and voluntary ser-
vice overseas. Interest in international affairs
essential. Overseas experience desirable.
Enquiries to
THE DIRECTOR,
Overseas Service Bureau,
260 Flinders Lane, Melbourne, Vic.
Telephone: 63 5857.
Exactly what was Hedda Gabler all
about? On the face of it the action and
plot of the play seemed as gloomily im-
probable as one of Freud’s early female
case histories. An hysterical, beautiful and
intelligent woman, the daughter of a
general, married to a kindly, dull and
conventional scholar is so bored with her
life that she deliberately lures to drunken-
ness and destruction a former lover,
destroys the woman who had helped
redeem him, destroys the manuscript
(widely hailed as the work of genius) he
had labored on, destroys her husband and
in a final, sickly gesture of fin de siecle
romanticism destroys herself and her un-
born child by shooting herself through
the heart with one of her father's pistols.
What is one to make of all this? “Good
God,” exclaims her would-be lover, the
calculating and cynical Judge Brack, as
he surveys Hedda’s fallen body, “but
people don't do these things.” But Hedda
did and why remains ultimately a
mystery.
We are told how dull she finds her
husband, how unpleasant the thought of
a child, how wretched and restraining a
woman's life in the society of Christiania.
We are given some hint of what she
wants when Lovborg says that he has told
her every “indecent and defiling thing”
he has ever done and she admits that
she wanted to know about “a man's
world” although she could never enter it.
She is a beautiful voyeuse, her mind
fed by fantasy and feverish imagination
but still chained by the restrictions im-
posed by a closed and oppressive bour-
geois morality. Incapable of liberating
herself, an anti-feminine but unemanci-
pated forebear of E. M. Forster’s new
woman, Margaret Schlegel (to be created
less than two decades later) she runs riot
in a Nordic twilight of destruction. And
yet is this woman who eccentrically shoots
off pistols at the Judge and enjoins her
lover to “die beautifully” by shooting
himself through the heart (he disobliges
by accidentally shooting himself through
the bowel in a brothel) to be taken seri-
ously as a great tragic figure? “But Hedda
is also a minx, and a ridiculous minx, and
not a nice minx. Her revolt from the
circumstances of her life is untinged with
nobility. She imagines herself to be stri-
ving for finer things, but her taste is in
fact not good enough for what she gets.
One can see that Ibsen hates her, and
means us to laugh at her. For that rea-
son she ‘wears’ much better than those
sister-rebels whom Ibsen glorified. She
remains as a lively satire on a phase that
for serious purposes is out of date”. So
Max Beerbohm wrote in a review of
Hedda Gabler in 1903 and I think he
has a point which explains why, after the
TV play ended, and the effects of some
stunning acting, expert direction and the
unageing beauty of Ingrid Bergman had
worn off a bit, doubts began to arise.
Either Hedda is a satirical creation, in
which case the play took entirely the
wrong turning, or she is to be taken seri-
ously in which case she is stark, staring
mad and the play is about something else
altogether, about a mad woman who did
nothing for mankind except, perhaps,
judged by Lovborg’s readings from his
great, unpublished work, burn that manu-
script.
PETER HASTINGS
ART
Eagle’s Flight
Dawn Same. South Yarra Gallery.
Melbourne.
Robert Grieve. JUNE STEPHEN-
SON. Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
Prints ’63. National Gallery. Mel-
bourne.
TPo date, Dawn Sime has been best
known as an abstractionist of the non-
objective kind. In her latest paintings she
has turned to an abstraction based on
a common, recognisable motif an
eagle. I intend no paradox by this. Quite
clearly, her main interest is in line, mass
and color, all of which she deploys
with the utmost skill and strength. The
single motif does not become tedious
because it is not the main point anyway.
If there is a noticeable weakness it
is that some of the canvasses are too
big for the ideas. But there is much
more positive virtue. In using images
to express formal ideas she has turned
to one of the most fruitful possible
approaches to painting, an approach
which imposes discipline and gives rise
to multi-levelled associations.
Robert Grieve, at the Argus Gallery,
is on much the same track, with land-
scapes in watercolor. The subject, of
course, is much more varied and de-
mands a correspondingly broader con-
trol, but the clear autumnal colors and
elegant compositions rarely fall into
simple decoration. The medium here is
especially attractive. Like Dawn Sime,
he preserves the essential character of
his subject, but concentrates primarily
on the formal values of the painting.
Figurative or abstract? In his introduc-
tion to Dawn Sime’s catalogue, Robert
Hughes suggests “metamorphic.” The
painters least of all care. Robert Grieve,
by the way, when the next stocktaking
of influences comes up, is probably
going to be put under Fred Williams’s
star. The similarity is there, but to my
knowledge it’s independent.
Also at the Argus Gallery, June Ste-
phenson is holding her first solo ex-
hibition. She paints with the surfaces of
Matisse, Modigliani, Gauguin and
others, gaily but with no depth. There
are some firm yellow nudes and some
charming domestic bottoms in a kaleido-
scope of carpets and cut-out vases, most
of which is simple decoration.
There is something terrifyingly avcint
garde, even apocalyptic, about having a
number for a name. I am always enor-
mously impressed by titles like Gal-
lery 104, Theatre 60, Painting Nine, and
can easily believe I’m in Century 21.
At the National Gallery there is an
impressive show of Prints 63 by Studio
One printmakers. Prints should be the
poor man’s dream they are original
and cheap. Unfortunately the poor men
don’t seem to have started dreaming in
that direction yet, but a show like this
one must help a lot, so long as people
know the way to the National Gallery
Print Room. It is a genuinely profes-
sional show, highly skilled, well-mounted
and in impeccable taste.
BILL HANNAN
FILMS
Lighter than Air
Stowaway in the Sky. Director, Albert
Lamorisse. General release. New
South Wales.
A lbert Lamorisse’s new film has all
the visual beauty and some of the en-
chantment of his “The Red Balloon”;
but whereas that film was a work of art,
“Stowaway in the Sky” is basically trivial.
The earlier film had at its core a uni-
versal idea which it expressed subtly but
clearly: the poet-dreamer (personified by
the child with the balloon) may seem
defenceless, but is in fact invulnerable
to the attacks of the world because his
dream, flimsy as it may appear, is his
impenetrable armor
No such concept informs “Stowaway
in the Sky”, the story of a small boy
(Pascal Lamorisse) who joins his amiable
crank of a grandfather on a balloon flight
from Paris and sees much of France in
his travels. Certainly Lamorisse has
tried, at the end, to incorporate a “mess-
age” of sorts something to the effect
that the journey has taught the boy there
are no strangers in the world. His con-
tact with people has generally been limi-
ted to waving to them from mid-air,
which is a rather slim basis for the
conclusion that all men are brothers.
The commentary is capably spoken by
Jack Lemmon; the English commentary
written by S. N. Behrman.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


RED PAGE
Black Verdict
The judgment of James Baldwin
By CHARLES HIGHAM
The Fire Next Time. James Baldwin.
Michael Joseph. 17s.
Tames Baldwin is now at the zenith of
" his fame: he appears on television
programmes, he has been the subject of
a London “Observer” profile, his new
book “The Fire Next Time” is now on
the American best-seller lists. No doubt
this flurry of interest is due more to
contemporary events than to a sudden
sharpening of public taste; Baldwin's
admirable early novel, “Go Tell It On
The Mountain”, continues to be little
known. His reputation may have become
slightly inflated because of his sudden
news value (here, too, because of the
notorious banning of “Another Country”)
but one welcomes the fact that this often
admirable writer is now achieving the
success he deserves.
“The Fire Next Time” begins with a
letter addressed to the author’s namesake,
a 15-year-old Negro boy. Baldwin re-
calls young James’s grandfather, a holy
man who was tormented by whites; out
of his memory of the old man’s suffering
the author develops a detailed accusation
of his countrymen's actions towards his
race, denouncing them for things “which
neither I nor time nor history will for-
give”. He explicitly tells the boy that
he has been set down in a ghetto to die,
that he has been born to life imprison-
ment.
Remembering his own adolescence,
seeing life again through his namesake’s
eyes Baldwin recalls the awakening to
puberty, the discovery of girls, the erotic
feelings so much closer to the surface in
the Negro, less hampered as he is by
the “dirty” humors and nervous repres-
sions of the white man. He shows how
he felt when he first realised the meaning
of being black; how policemen attacked
him; how his friends early turned to drugs
and drink, while he in his desperation
flung himself on the bosom of the Church.
Knowing that black people were being
driven mad with misery and bitterness,
unable to escape into the white world by
virtue of an entertainer’s talents, he un-
derwent a violent religious experience.
Baldwin’s father was a minister, and
the young boy tried hard to break free
from his influence, from the overpower-
ing emotional force of the church service
and the knowledge that behind the fierce,
taut ritual corruption lurked: ministers
acquired houses and Cadillacs while the
faithful suffered in poverty. And he
found that the sermons he and his father
preached were not Christian, since they
taught hatred for the whites.
Free from the Church, Baldwin could
not wholly escape an attraction to the
dogmatically fake. He visited the famous
Honorable Elijah Muhammad, head of
the Nation of Islam movement which is
the cause of so much embarrassment to
the more liberal-minded Negro leaders.
Elijah promised that the white man’s rule
would be ended in 10 or 15 years (and
Baldwin adds, though doubtful of it
elsewhere, “it must be conceded that all
present signs would seem to bear witness
to the accuracy of the prophet’s state-
ment”). Elijah claims that “God is black;
all black men belong to Islam”. The white
man is the devil; his time was up in 1913
but it is Allah’s will that the black men
of this country be redeemed from their
white masters and returned to the true
faith, which is Islam. Until this is done
and it will be accomplished very soon
the total destruction of the white man
is being delayed”.
rPHE Muslim cause has numbered among
its supporters George Lincoln
Rockwell, chief of the American Nazi
Party, and its leader was pro-Japanese in
World War II; perhaps aided by it, Bald-
win sees the Negro emerging finally as
the white man’s doom, claiming that what
he and his fellows want is not the white
man’s possessions and his power, but
simply freedom from being oppressed.
In his rather saddening, idealistic way,
Baldwin says that he feels if Negroes had
had white people’s advantages, they
would never have become as bewildered
and joyless and as thoughtlessly cruel as
we are. Unfortunately, he gives little
evidence to support this theory.
In the last part of the book, Baldwin’s
fanatical idealism does indeed take him
very far from commonsense and even
from literature. He says that black peo-
ple are very beautiful and of course
some of them are, but, as in the white
world, ugliness is also everywhere to be
found. He makes the great error of
suggesting that in some way Negroes are
superior to whites or rather that they
could be superior, spiritually and mor-
ally, given the same conditions for ad-
vancement. History, unhappily, does
not bear him out. The history of slavery
and of native states is tragically marked
by the cruelty of Negro to Negro; many
slaves whom Baldwin so bitterly remem-
bers were traded by non-whites to their
white masters; today as he reveals in
his passages describing the Negro church
and as he somewhat grudgingly infers in
his portrait of Elijah Muhammad —•
viciousness and stupidity and destructive-
ness are not the prerogatives of those
with skins different from his own. It is
still an open question whether given a
Negro President and an appropriate pro-
portion of Negro senators, America
would be any better (or worse) a country
than it is in this year of disgrace.
To his very great credit, Baldwin does
have doubts about the Black Muslim
movement. But he has probably erred in
making a discussion of the movement and
its beliefs the centrepiece of this book,
and the point of departure for some high-
powered diatribes against white influ-
ences. It would have been more seemly,
and valuable, if Baldwin had come
straight out and shown that the kind of
nonsense Elijah is spreading is destined
to do the Negro no good at all; no-one
today is going to stomach the theory that
the white man is a creation of the devil.
And I think Baldwin makes a mistake in
being so dismissive of white liberals who
have worked hard (if sometimes rather
wanly) for the cause he is supporting:
the attacks here on Christianity (repre-
sented at its most characteristic in his
eyes by Dr Voerwoerd!) are unfortunately
mere bombast.
Anti-Christian, Anti-Liberal, over-
hopeful of the militant power of the
Muslims (and himself militant), pathetic-
ally idealistic about his fellows, Baldwin
at times can be downright embarrassing.
Yet one respects his devotion, forceful-
ness, and passionate subjection to a cause
(which, however muddled, still demands
the support of all civilised men). The
publication of this book, certainly, should
draw the attention of hitherto neglectful
readers to ‘‘Go Tell It On The Mountain”,
in which the religious experiences re-
corded in “The Fire Next Time” are
memorably transmuted into a work of
art. “Giovanni’s Room” should also be
read, because of its sensitive and frank
discussion of homosexuality. And “An-
other Country,” too; but then, we are
all here forbidden to read that beautiful
and deeply moving novel of life in New
York.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
MS
JACKSON' £
osoluvam
LX PTYLTD
MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
operators
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•MACKSUL”. BRISBANE
LITERARY
COMPETITION
• NOVEL
• SHORT STORY
• POEM
Entries close December 3 7
Particulars and Entry Forms from
PROMOTIONS DEPT.,
Box 392, G.P.O.
ADELAIDE
BOOKHUNTER
Dept D'. Box 2671, G.P.0., Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
In Exile
A Private Correspondence. Lawrence
Durrell and Henry Miller. Edited by
George Wickes. Faber & Faber.
575. 9d.
HThe letters in this volume, spanning a
quarter of a century from 1935 to
1959, provide a fascinating gloss on a
good deal of recent cultural history. When
the correspondence starts, Miller is al-
ready a man in his forties, legendary
among the writers of the European avant-
garde. Durrell is the literary novice, send-
ing off his first fan letters to the master in
a spirit of downright hero-worship.
“Tropic of Cancer” is “the copy-book for
my generation,” Miller the liberator of
modern man from the tyrannical Ego. As
the exchange of letters continues and
Miller comes to learn something of Dur-
rell's early “Black Book,” the admiration
ceases to be one-sided. Indeed, it would
be easy to dismiss some of the early
letters as the minutes of a mutual con-
gratulation society.
But there is more to them than that.
They are the expression of that self-
confidence which is probably necessary
to sustain any serious writer, and which
is often most generously accorded to
those who most deserve it. By the time
the correspondence breaks off in 1959,
Miller has become the Sage of Big Sur,
Durrell the successful author of the
Alexandria Quartet. With the change in
status has come a change in relationship.
Durrell now speaks to Miller as an
equal; it is the older writer who is now
more prone to send off the fan letters.
Both men retain a large central area of
common belief, but on points of practice
and detail their attitudes have sufficiently
diverged for Durrell to write a bitterly
critical attack on Miller’s “Sexus”.
The divergence of opinion is mainly
over the role of literature as a vehicle
for the writer’s ideas and beliefs.
Throughout the correspondence. Miller
is faithful to his concept of the writer
as a kind of oracle who simply spills
out from the depth of his experience
and ignorance all that he has absorbed
of life and wisdom. He sees himself al-
most as a passive receptacle into which
are poured forces over which he has no
control: “I haven’t the slightest idea
what that book I announced for 1942
(“Draco and the Ecliptic”) will be about,
but I am absolutely certain it will create
itself in the interim, and that it will be
vastly significant, not just for me but
for the world to come.” Durrell, on the
other hand, is from the very beginning
endowed with a greater sense of literary
history and aesthetic conventions than
Miller. His letters reveal the steady for-
mulation of that belief in a highly con-
trolled art which was to give rise to the
Alexandria novels.
Durrell’s attitude is more immediately
concerned with making contact with the
world; and, in most senses of the word,
his letters show him to be a more worldly
man than Miller in his work with
Intelligence during the war; in his later
service in South America, Yugoslavia,
and Cyprus; in his sometimes direct con-
cern with politics; and, it must be said,
in his willingness to compromise his
talent in bouts of purely commercial
writing.
H. P. HESELTINE
Joy-Rides
The Joy Ride and After. A. L. Barker.
The Hogarth Press. 225. 6d.
The Drip Dry Man. Eric Lambert.
Frederick Muller. 20s.
The Cape Cod Lighter. John O’Hara.
The Cresset Press. 265.
From Heaven with a Shout. Patricia
Blondal. Barrie & Rockliff. 18s. 9d.
As Far as You Can Go. Julian Mit-
chell. Constable. 31s. 6d.
Legends from Benson’s Valley. Frank
Hardy. Werner Laurie. 21s.
That Men Should Fear. John Nash.
Hutchinson. 225. 6d.
HThe characters in “The Joy Ride and
After” are mostly on the fringe of
psychosis. Rumbold in "The Joy Ride”
is obsessed by the idea that his partner,
Brind, has seduced the waitress whom
he loves himself. Joe Munn, the boy who
works for them in their garage, believes
he has run down and killed a woman
during a joy ride in Brind’s car
Rumbold in fact saw him in the car
with his cousin Esther, but is convinced
it was Brind with the waitress. He con-
fronts Brind but. dominated by his ob-
session, merely finds confirmation in his
denials. Brind then talks with Joe, gues-
sing who was in the car. Joe thinks he
suspects about the accident but Brind
himself sees nothing beyond the fact that
Joe was with a girl, for he has been at-
tracted to the boy. The three men sep-
arate, having failed utterly to make any
contact.
The other stories are linked by Joe’s
joy ride which has a more or less de-
cisive effect on the principals of each one.
Perhaps the theme of loneliness and with-
drawal might better have been served by
a less substantial link between the stories,
if, for example, a character from one
made only a tangential contact with
those in the others.
“The Drip Dry Man” is a sort of his-
toire dune vocation. The hero has a
number of shattering experiences which
are supposed to result in his maturity as
a novelist and produce the book we
have been reading. Overwhelmed with re-
morse and self-disgust as a result of the
shocks, he spends a night or two with


GIFTS TO BRITAIN
SAVE MONEY, POST AND TAX
Food, wines and hundreds of fine gifts.
Swift delivery. Send stamp now.
FREE CATALOGUE
Box 32, Elizabeth, South Australia
IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time in-
come There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 45 Gilles Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAIL THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (81963)
STOTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
an ageing prostitute, to awake one morn-
ing a wiser man.
The novel’s ambitious structure is
merely the pretence for cramming as
many sensational elements between the
covers as possible. It is the excuse for
starting with a hero who spends his day
crawling from one bed to the next —•
five different ones in the few days span-
ned by the book. It allows the author
to follow up with racial discriminations
ending in murder; adultery; an unwan-
ted pregnancy with talk of abortion, end-
ing in suicide. Further, he is at liberty
to populate the book with queers,
nymphos and the rest. And the book
ends, squeezing the last drop of sensa-
tionalism from its sordid pages, by re-
vealing that the hero’s most regular mis-
tress was 15 years old.
John O'Hara’s stories are polished and
interesting but. desnite what is suggested
in the rather peevish foreword, they are
not “fun." Often funny (in a sick way)
there is implied in many of them a rather
chilling misanthropy. Most have domes-
tic settings but there is a wide range in
time and place from the speakeasies and
brothels of the prohibition era to the
Faculty Club of a contemporary Uni-
versity, and a small town newspaper of-
fice somewhere in between.
“From Heaven with a Shout” seems
to have been inspired by “Rebecca”: a
rich, mysterious man brings his second
wife home to the family mansion where
she finds the occupants strangely para-
lysed by repercussions from his previous
marriage. The heroine bravely sets out
to destroy the evil influence of Monica-
Rebecca and win her husband’s love;
None of this is very well done.
In “As Far as You Can Go” Harold
Barlow, from whose point of view the
book is written, is a young Englishman
who, hoping to escape from the Establish-
ment, goes to America to buy back some
family portraits for an English gentleman.
There are some interim adventures
with Harold's homosexual friend Eddie
who writes a poem on the Watts Towers,
a monument in Los Angeles’ slums that
is clearly meant as an important symbol.
Eddie, who has practised many perver-
sions, which include the “goosing” of
statues, comes to a sordid end.
It’s often quite funny and entertain-
ing and the last pages contain some real
pathos, but one’s final impression is of
superficiality.
Benson’s Valley is an isolated little
community somewhere between Mel-
bourne and Ballarat and Frank Hardy
in thirteen stories introduces us to the
locals. The overall picture which
emerges of the township during the De-
pression is impressive, even if the stories
individually are not good. Finally, John
Nash’s “That Men Should Fear” is an
engagingly modest novel about the
dilemma raised by a rare hereditary
disease. The setting is the canefields of
Queensland.
R. G. HOWARD
Landtakers
Summer Fires and Winter Country.
Maurice Shadbolt. Eyre & Spottis-
woode. 21s.
Big Fat Tuesday. Vivian Cunnington.
F. W. Cheshire. 255.
Night and Silence Who is Here?
Pamela Hansford Johnson. Mac-
millan. 225. 6d.
Tn the stories that make up “Summer
A Fires and Winter Country” by Maurice
Shadbolt, the people are caught at a
moment of awareness when they are
forced to come to grips with themselves
and with reality, or else go under (like
Janet who escapes into insanity in “There
Was a Mountain”). Almost all retreat in
one way or another to the land, slough-
ing off the armor of artificiality and
self-delusion. Ben in “Ben’s Land” is
destroyed by his well-meaning relations
who shame him back to the city and to
conformity. Some, like Sue the unsuc-
cessful actress of “The Wind and the
Spray”, wait about for the party to start
and feel personally cheated when the
fun seems to have passed them by. While
Eve in “Homecoming”, a journalist who
had a one-sided love-affair in London,
unknowingly fools both herself and her
friend Sarah till the last.
“Big Fat Tuesday” by Australian
Vivian Cunnington is a gaudy Danse
Macabre performed by sad clowns in
cheerfully leering masks, tottering down
Martin Place in a clumsy procession. The
title is well chosen, being a literal trans-
lation of Mardi Gras, the traditional day
of last mad rollicking Carnival before
the gloom of a repentant Lent.
Vivian Cunnington can create an effort-
lessly dinkum atmosphere without bene-
fit of props: no gumtrees, abos, two-up,
Anzac Day or even much Australian
accent. He has some quite original ideas
in an age when everything seems to have
been said already anyway. But unhappily
with these stories, the more persuasive
the subject matter the less successful, pro-
portionately, the writing itself, either be-
cause the author has a secret fear that
he won’t be understood and tries too
hard, or because he feels impelled to
spend more care clothing his flimsier
exhibits in better-cut garments.
In “Night and Silence Who is Here?”
Pamela Hansford Johnson concocts an
airy, Puckish revel at Cobb, a college set
twenty miles from anywhere in the
maple forests of New Hampshire, USA.
She pokes delicious fun at the absurdi-
ties of a frolic of Visiting Fellows includ-
;ing Matthew Pryar (of her earlier
“Unspeakable Skipton”), who has travel-
led the Atlantic to write a slim thesis
about a slimmer, not to say emaciated
volume of verse by a truly ghastly
poetess.
Dorothy Merlin, it turns out, was born
in Australia and published in “Meanjin”
which, no doubt, is considered sufficient
explanation for all her assorted peculiari-
ties, including such masterpieces as:
Mother and Mother seven times again,
Grief-given, ruth-riven, O joy O pain!
In the antithesis
My joy it is,
Seed-breeding, need-feeding, O sun
O rain!
O Ern Malley!
Roasting in a Midwinter’s Nightmare
of 80 degrees central-heating (“Ameri-
cans like luxury but not comfort”) and
near starvation owing to arbitrary curfews
on the cafeteria, inadvertently taking part
in the students’ mock “rape” at, naturally,
Lake Sabine, and being wrongfully sus-
pected of kicking dear old Dr. Parke, the


Director, down his own steps, Matthew
has fortunately little time to dedicate to
his work.
On the other hand, Fellow Ruddock is
almost too zealous in his devotions to
rival poetess Emily Dickinson which gives
Miss Hansford Johnson every chance to
make jolly digs at those scholars (and
critics) who discover all kinds of pro-
found meanings in the most innocent of
phrases. Thus, such lines as “Logarithm
had I for Drink ’Twas a dry
wine —” are considered positive proof
that the poetess was a secret wardrobe-
tippler, while a later reference to “The
banquet of Abstemiousness” is inter-
preted as meaning that she had since
joined Alcoholics Anonymous.
Finally, after months of good and bad
Fellowship at Cobb, Matthew flits off to
marry a wealthy socialite, having suc-
ceeded in writing nothing but the title:
“Dorothy Merlin: Tentative Steps
Towards a Synthesis of Imagery” For
which ve should offer grateful thanks.
MARIA WOLKOWSKY
Travellers’ Tales
Minerva Reef. Olaf Ruhen. Angus &
Robertson. 255.
Sir. Geoff Taylor. Peter Davies.
15s. 6d.
Zigzag to Timbuktu. Nicholas Bennett.
John Murray. 265. 6d.
Lesbos, The Pagan Island. Betty
Roland. Cheshire. 365.
Australia ’63. Alan Ross. Eyre &
Spottiswoode. 375. 3d.
Northern Gateway. Frank Flynn,
MSC, with Keith Willey. F. P.
Leonard. 30s.
Introducing America. Barbara Kreutz
and Ellen Fleming. Methuen.
41s. 6d.
Reef” is based on a true
Ti story which, when first published last
October, made world headlines. Two
Tongan seamen, close to exhaustion, had
arrived reportedly by raft at an
outlying Fijian island. They brought
news that men were stranded on Min-
erva Reef, 220 miles to the south. These
were survivors of the cutter Tuaikaepau,
which, with 17 men aboard, had gone
missing in July on a voyage from Tonga
'to Auckland. Now it was learnt that the
boat had been wrecked on the reef.
When rescued by flying boat the men
had been on the reef for 102 days.
The full account of the survivors’ ex-
periences has given Olaf Ruhen the plot
and theme for a remarkable story. Much
research has gone into describing the
nature of the reef and the background of
the Tongans. With an accomplished and
sympathetic pen he has written a deeply
moving record of an amazing adventure.
“Sir” is also concerned in its way with
the sea, but much more mildly. The au-
thor looks back to his school days and
the teacher whom even after 20 or 30
years he can still think of only as “Sir”.
Sir is a fondly - remembered “Mr
Chips” of awesome discipline. He di-
rected passions rather than controlled
them. The boy the author calls him-
self Timothy Garth-Gates had a pas-
sion for the sea, at least for the vessels
of the Gulf, overlooked from the school
windows. So intense was the interest that
he formed a Ship Watchers’ Club, looked
on benevolently by the all-pervading Sir.
Members, of whom Timothy was the
most dedicated, identified the tramps and
ocean liners, tugs and grain ships making
their way to and from the port of Ade-
laide long before the last war, and tak-
ing their signals from the Semaphore
station next door.
This boy’s eye view is presented with
style and verve, and makes an entertain-
ing book.
In a straightforward, angry-young-man
way “Zigzag to Timbuktu” goes with a
bang from the start.
Between leaving school and going up
to university the author had nine months
to spare. He decided to go to Timbuktu
because it had always seemed to him the
most remote place on earth. With scarcely
any money he was the first white man
in the living memory of the stewards to
travel third class on the ship to Ghana
—and a rucksack, he travelled a couple
of thousand miles through Africa by pub-
lic transport and on foot.
Without humbug, and as yet uncor-
rupted by the need to win friends in high
places, he fearlessly and unsparingly at-
tacks colonial administration, Western
materialistic society, the effect of Christ-
ianity on Africans, African leaders.
His approach is fresh, intelligent and
shrewd.
Mrs Roland went to “Lesbos, The
Pagan Island” because a friend was al-
ready there. During her stay she did more
than bask in Greek sunshine, splash in
the Aegean, and drink ouzo at harbor-
side taverns. She prodded beneath the
surface of a deep and complex civilisa-
tion and has written a sensitive book
about it.
A lan Ross’s “Australia ’63” is mainly
about cricket the England-
Australian test series of last summer
by an expert (cricket correspondent of
the London “Observer”) who is also a
poet.
From Brisbane (“has a gimcrack,
peeling forlornness”) to Sydney (“seems
marvellously to have grown in promise
and excitement” since his last visit) to
Melbourne (where he remembers the
pleasure of walking across the gardens to
the Cricket Ground), to Adelaide, and its
unexpected culture. Back, via Tasmania,
and the coast road to Sydney, he deplores
the ugliness of caravan parks and old
car dumps which spoil the general pret-
tiness of seaside towns “What Aus-
tralia needs is a dictator of aesthetics”
he says.
Father Flynn, author of “Northern
Gateway,” has worked in the Northern
Territory for more than 20 years. Parish
priest, missionary, qualified doctor, and
anthropologist, he is based on Darwin.
But his work has taken him widely
inland, to the remote mission islands, and
round the West Coast. To Easterners, the
Territory seems vast and empty. In this
book Father Flynn has painted in many
settlements, European and Native,
development schemes such as those of the
Daly and Ord Rivers, the cattle stations,
mining towns; and peopled it with char-
acters like Pundak, native artist, old
Charlie, an Aboriginal who could count
in French learnt from the last of the
Jesuit missionaries of last century, Jack
White who discovered uranium at Rum
Jungle, Wak and Wagon, both famous
crocodile hunters, and heroes and hero-
ines of the outback, like the Nuns who
run the Leprosarium near Darwin.
His practical and long experience in
the Territory, and his passionate interest
in its people, make his story a vital one.
Drawings by Elizabeth Durack head the
chapters, and there are many photographs
and maps.
To write a travel guide for the whole
of the United States seems an ambitious
project which could have resulted in a
tedious book. The joint authors of “Intro-
ducing America” one American, one
English, have managed to be entertaining
throughout.
They work snakelike from New York,
to New England one gets the picture
of Georgian grace and stiff-necked
respectability down again to the Deep
South with its exotic Franco-Spanish in-
fluence, decayed grandeur, past and pre-
sent turbulence, back to the Middle West
where, they suggest, the visitor should see
a Detroit automobile assembly line in
operation, sweep across to the magnifi-
cent Rockies scenery, on to the coast,
thence to California, and the South West
the Indian country of New Mexico
and Nevada.
There’s a great deal of local history
and knowledge which could only be
acquired by much research or long resi-
dence. I wish I’d had the book last year
in New York. It took me 10 precious
days to realise what I really wanted to
see. Here it is all in one chapter.
JOYCE BURNARD


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Pressure on Costs
The round of wage increases touched off by the Court
decision to grant a 10 p.c. increase in margins for the
Metal Trades Union last April must put pressure on
Australia’s cost of living structure, despite evidence of greater
production efficiency by industry. This factor, combined with
the proposed deficit financing by the Federal Government this
financial year, helped to send buyers into the equity share
market recently and push prices to an all-time high.
The question now is whether company results can live up
to the market’s technical (plenty
of money about) strength, keep-
ing in mind the National Bank’s
warning that, after a year of
strong recovery, Australian in-
dustry cannot be expected to
maintain such a rate.
Judged by the cost of living
graph reproduced on this page,
Australia can afford some slight
rise in the cost of living, if only
on the specious argument that
living costs have been bounding
upwards in other countries.
Unfortunately, the nation’s in-
ternal stability is not the only
deciding factor. External influ-
ences, notably export markets
and overseas investment, will
play a vital role this year.
It may seem remote, but
items like France’s action to
tighten credit and check inflation
could have long-term effects on
Australia. The boom in Western
Europe is slowing down and is
likely to be affected further try
the US Administration’s decision
to cut back on military spending
in Europe. France’s tiff with the
USA and her decision to press
on independently with a nuclear
testing programme will hurt
France’s pocket-book in more
ways than one.
By restricting bank credit,
tightening hire purchase terms,
raising income tax, and putting
a capital gains tax on real estate
profits, France is making things tougher for its people. But
it also has imposed price control as at August 1963, cut
import duties and announced that it will curb wage increases.
These measures will be watched with interest in Europe
because the French Government has been unable to control
wage increases in the past and there is a loophole in the
freezing of prices. Trade associations can gain increases in
prices if they can prove to the Government that such increases
are justified.
France, by its example, may hope to encourage Italy to
impose some curbs on inflation, because Italy’s balance of
payments is worsening. Italy’s cost of living rose by 8 p.c.
last year and wages jumped by 11 p.c.
France is selling nearly half her exports to the Common
Market and is more heavily reliant on her Common Market
partners since the dislocation of trade in the colonies (notably
Algeria). So naturally she wants to see an orderly growth
within the Big Six.
Already France has had the
bitter experience of inflation in
the ’sos and achieved some
respite when she devalued the
franc at the end of 1958. But,
at best, devaluation is only a
temporary respite if the basic
causes of inflation remain un-
checked.
With less dollar backing to
de Gaulle’s words, rising infla-
tion in Italy, and the imposition
of an expensive nuclear pro-
gramme, a soft underbelly could
be exposed.
Uncle Sam has curtailed the
French network of supply bases.
US supply lines are being shifted
out of France entirely and the
busy Channel ports of La Pallice
and Bordeaux will lose out to
the Belgian and Dutch ports of
Antwerp and Rotterdam. Fewer
US troops are being kept in
France since the clash with
General de Gaulle, which started
18 months ago over the storing
of nuclear weapons at US bases
in France.
A saving of dollars by the US
in France will mean less spend-
ing money for France, which
previously had a healthy balance
of payments. Less money to
spend means fewer imports. The
US economy campaign also
extends to other countries and,
while the US tries to close its
balance of payments gap, there must be repercussions in
Europe and elsewhere.
In a roundabout way, therefore, Australia has a tough task
ahead to sell to nations which are experiencing a slow-down
of a recent boom and which are receiving fewer windfall dollars
from the US.
Wage pressures now can do nothing else but weaken Aus-
tralia’s competitive position.


Moderate Pace of Bank’s
Personal Loans
A relatively sedate initial rush for the Commonwealth
Savings Bank’s new personal loans (see The Bulletin,
August 24) illustrates that the idea will most likely achieve
its designed purpose of providing a valuable back-stop service
for customers.
Misunderstandings on the first few days after the scheme
was announced in mid-August led to a rather hectic stream of
enquiries, but this quickly died down to a steadier trickle of
genuine applicants.
So over four weeks, throughout the whole of Australia, the
CSB has granted nearly £500,000 of these loans to some
2500 applicants. Two out of every three reaching the stage
of formal application, verbal or written, received approval.
The individual loans average about £lBO, with repayments
spread to 12 or 24 months. They have mostly been required
for building repairs and additions, and hospital or medical
expenses.
When the CSB launched its service other savings banks
expressed their willingness to examine parallel schemes. Little
has since been publicly heard of them, but the moderate
demands now disclosed may bring the rival bankers to life
again.
Fears of any possible inroad into housing loans by such a
service are dispelled in the Commonwealth Banking Corpora-
tion’s latest report. During 1962-63 the savings branch
approved £43 million for housing, £21.5 million more than
in 1961-62.
The loans are generally for purchase or erection of new
homes, though approvals for older houses continue to increase.
More than £283 million has been lent for housing by the
CSB since 1946.
Economic Forecasts
for 1964
A ustralia should enter 1964 with very favorable prospects
for further growth, but the rise in business income in
1963-64 will be lower than the recovery rate (8 p.c.) of
1962-63. The building industry is well placed to have a
record year and manufacturers of consumer durable goods
should recover some of the ground they lost to motor vehicles
this year. These are some of the conclusions reached by Mr
P. Shrapnel, chief economist for W. D. Scott & Co. Pty Ltd,
in his forecast of “Economic Prospects for 1964”.
The confident tone which pervades Mr Shrapnel's forecast
should give heart to most businessmen, because he tells them
to expect a good rise in sales and profits. But there are qualify-
ing points, not the least of which is the warning to watch
wage rates. The Arbitration Commission’s approval last April
of increased margins and longer annual leave in itself would
not give rise to undue price increases, Mr Shrapnel believes.
But there is a real danger that the Commission could upset
price stability if, in its triennial basic wage review early in
1964, it gives an unduly large basic wage increase. The threat
can be averted if the Commission grants moderate rises to
apply in each of the next three years, Mr Shrapnel claims.
The inability of industry to absorb a hefty increase in wages
in 1964 must be related to other forecasts. Mr Shrapnel expects
retail sales to rise by 3.9 p.c. in 1963-64 (3 p.c. last year)
and personal consumption expenditure by about 5 p.c. (5.2
pic. last year). In line with other forecasters, he does not
expect spending on vehicle sales to maintain the spectacular
rise of 28 p.c. achieved last year. But he does expect improved
sales for other consumer durables.
Unemployment is expected to be down to 60,000 or less
by October, with a further reduction in 1964, despite another
big rush of school leavers. This is virtually a state of full
employment, says Mr Shrapnel, but those who would prefer
to see employment so full that it invites inflation will have
to wait beyond 1964, by which time private expenditure on
fixed capital goods will be placing even heavier pressure on
available resources of men and materials.
Pressures of wages and demand for labor accelerated invest-
ment in plant and machinery ... all this seems to paint 1964
in hues of rosy inflation, particularly in view of the Com-
monwealth Government’s heavy expenditure programme. How-
ever, Mr Shrapnel sees long-term problems for Australia in
reducing her dependence on rural exports. He also infers that
the Treasurer may not be so fortunate in raising further large
slices of loan money from the public.
If anyone is looking for finance in 1964, Mr Shrapnel
evidently believes it will be readily available. He expects an
increase in bank advances of about £9om. and points out that
the hire-purchase companies will be receiving substantial
repayments on the surge of finance made available for motor
vehicles in 1962 and early 1963. These companies also will
be liquid and they will be seeking profitable outlets for these
funds at a time when savings banks will be expanding personal
loans. “Hence the business community can count on a ready
supply of both producer and consumer finance during the
next 12 months at least.”
Apprenticeship Needs Call
For Quick Action
Tt cannot be beyond the wit of Australian Governments,
employers and trade unions to tackle the urgent problems
of apprenticeship and skilled manpower. A great volume of
talk is banking up which must be directed into action lest
outmoded attitudes hold the field much longer.
Dr Coombs, in his latest Reserve Bank report, suggested
the need to lift the quality of Australia’s work force at all levels.
That view has just been reinforced by the Commonwealth
Banking Corporation. With its savings member’s special
interest in housing, the Corporation has been impelled to ask
that the building industry’s productive forces, including skilled
labor, move more in line with community requirements.
A forceful example from yet another industry came last
week from Mr S. C. James in a presidential address to the
Printing and Allied Trades Employers’ Federation of Aus-
tralia.
“It cannot be denied that we are short of skilled men,” said
Mr James. The shortage could not be overtaken at the present
rate of training “in fact to the contrary.”
For it appears that the number of printing companies has
increased by some 50 p.c. during the past 10 years, with the
labor requirements of existing companies also advancing con-
siderably. The number of tradesmen in all categories has
grown by between 25 and 33J p.c.
Mr James admits that the industry’s ways of producing
skilled men have failed. He regards explanations of the failure
“simply as excuses for our antiquated training methods.”
Employers themselves are asked to assume the initiative.
“If a proper programme of technical training demands
additional capital expenditure, this industry should at least give
consideration to the thought that industry itself find some of
the monies which undoubtedly wifi be necessary if proper
technical training be given to our young people and retraining
to people with redundant skills for our factories.”
The whole situation is not made any the less acute by
improving employment figures marked by a rise in registered
job vacancies. A scarcity of skills becomes the more
apparent.


Malaysia Has Pressing
Economic Problems
By PETER POLOMKA
F ooking back on six years of inde-
pendence, the Federation of Mal-
aya may well feel proud of its achieve-
ments so far. The new nation was born
bearing the scars of a costly, protracted
struggle against Communist terrorist ac-
tivities, and immediately faced a world-
wide recession. For two years, little pro-
gress was possible. New projects were
delayed; others slowed down, and even
brought to a halt. Then the financial
climate changed, and the fledgling nation
began to find its wings.
Recently, progress has been so good
that a comparatively ambitious five-year
plan looks almost conservative at the
half-way mark. Growth may not be of
the spectacular krnd, but there is little
doubt that real output has expanded sub-
stantially, and average incomes are
higher than in the mid-fifties.
Looking forward gives less cause for
comfortable feelings. Expansion of the
national economy is now barely keeping
pace with population growth; external
trade has reached the point where im-
ports are rising more rapidly than ex-
ports; industrial development is lagging
behind targets set by planners; and the
gap between the “haves” and the “have-
nots” not only remains, but probably
grows wider.
In the Malaysian context, these prob-
lems take on a more pressing form. The
population of the territories now
about 104 million is growing at over
3 p.c. a year. In Singapore, the increase
is 4.4 p.c., including 0.9 p.c. due to im-
migration, while in the Borneo terri-
tories, the natural growth rate has prob-
ably just begun to exceed 3 p.c.
Tn Singapore and Malaya, the rising
population has meant a 50 p.c. increase
in new job seekers each year, com-
pared with several years ago. In both
territories, and particularly Singapore,
there are signs of growing unemploy-
ment. A similar pattern is developing
in some urban areas of Sarawak. Only
North Borneo faces a serious labor
shortage if the country’s present boom
continues.
An equally important problem is the
sharp increase in the number of young
people needing education. At present,
one-third of the total population of the
four territories is under 10 years of age.
Further, among the over-10’s, only
25 p.c. are literate in both Borneo
States, compared with more than 50 p.c.
in Malaya and Singapore.
These problems must be met in the
face of uncertain income prospects. The
Malaysian economy depends on rubber
for 18 p.c. of the combined national
product, 20 p.c. of total employment,
and 35 p.c. of total exports. But rubber
prices have fallen from 106 cents a
pound (about 3s. Id.) to 68 cents last
month (August), and may fall further
through competition from synthetics.
Tin and Singapore’s entrepot trade are
the two other main sources of foreign
income for Malaysia, each accounting
for about 13 p.c. of the total. Neither
can be relied on as sources of new in-
come or job opportunities. Tin at best is
likely to remain stable, and Singapore’s
entrepot trade is faced with the prospect
of slow growth, or even a decline.
Successful efforts have been made to
increase total investment, particularly in
Singapore and Malaya, and to expand
social services, especially during recent
years. Progress has also been made to-
wards economic diversification. But so
far, the shift in structure of the econo-
mies of the territories has been inevitably
slight, and traditional sources of income
are likely to remain the main ones for
some years to come.
Jn these circumstances, merely keep-
ing unemployment from rising and
maintaining existing standards of living
promise to be increasingly difficult tasks.
In addition, however, there are wide-
spread areas of poverty and economic
backwardness that demand urgent at-
tention.
Although average income levels in
Malaysia are by far the highest in South-
East Asia, contrasts are significant. In
Sarawak, the average per capita income
is Mssso (£IA = about Ms 7); North
Borneo, about $700; Malaya, about $800;
and Singapore, $1,300. But these figures
conceal the fact that many families in
the rural areas of the territories have
incomes less than the average per capita
income in Sarawak.
Taking account of the additional
defence expenditure needed under
Malaysia, the financing problem assumes
major proportions. Much of this burden
falls on Malaya already deeply com-
mitted to heavy expenditure in rural
areas that cannot be curtailed, even if
only for political reasons.
The Government is in the third year
of a five-year development plan costing
$2,150 million in the public sector.
About one-third of this was spent in
the first two years, but the momentum
now generated could . absorb a much
greater sum than is available for the
remainder of the five-year period.
Consequently, planners are gently
applying the brakes, so as not to exceed
the allocated expenditure. But even be-
fore the extra commitments under
Malaysia, they were concerned at the
prospects of finding this sum.
For one thing, finance for the plan
was based on an estimated average price
of 80 cents for rubber, while, in fact,
the average during the first two years
was 76 cents, and by the end of this
year will be much lower.
Foreign loans have also fallen far
short of the estimated level to date. In
addition, the rising level of imports is
beginning to cut into the country’s
favorable trade balance.
"TJespite all this, Federation Treasury
officials are remaining remarkably
unflappable, at least as far as the more
immediate future is concerned. Under
the Malaysian agreement, about $5OO
million must be found for development
expenditure in the Borneo territories
during the next five years. Treasury
officials can already account for all but
an odd million or two dollars in the case
of North Borneo where the sum of $2OO
million was mentioned as necessary “to
obtain a satisfactory rate of economic
growth”.
Sarawak presents a more difficult
problem, since the Malayan Govern-
ment undertook to “use its best endea-
vours” to see that $3OO million was
spent on planning in the first five years.
The wording of this may prove import-
ant because, as the position stands now,
the Malayan Government will have to
find anything from about $9O million
to $l3O million to meet these require-
ments. On the other hand, this need may
never arise as Sarawak may not have
the capacity to spend this sum so quickly.
Federal Treasury officials and no
doubt the Government as well are
most concerned about defence expen-
diture. In the next three years, they are
committed to finding $442 million for
defence. Of this sum, Britain will pro-
vide $144 million and Singapore $lO5
million. The remaining $173 million must
be found by the Federal Government,
either from revenue or from other sour-
ces. Government circles have already
indicated they hope “friendly countries”
will be among the “other sources”, and
feelers have gone out in the direction of
Australia.
Malaysia still has a trump card other
so-called “undeveloped” countries must
surely envy. Despite the expansion in
investment over the past several years,
total foreign exchange reserves of the
four territories rose to about $3,800
million last year, or the equivalent of
nearly one year’s imports of goods and
(Continued on page 51)


IBM
CUSTOAIEjR SJEHVIC&
START
a ■
WITHOUT FAIL
mm
f "-' V X
mt
■
m
L_
... the man who makes this possible
... who protects you from unscheduled maintenance
is the IBM Customer Engineer. He is a thoroughly
trained specialist. He is a trouble shooter and
business man combined. His training enables him to spot trouble
before it starts ... to understand the special nature
of your business and to see to it, through a program of protective
maintenance, that you get more data processing per pound.
The Customer Engineer is your guarantee when you invest in IBM
Data Processing Equipment.
IBM
IBM In all principal cities of Australia and New Zealand,


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Industry Gets More Competitive
The Tariff Board Discerns Lift in Productivity
Tn its annual report for 1962-63 the
Tariff Board gives an excellent run
down of the details of the all-round
economic improvement in Australia
during the year and explains the fact
that it had to work overtime by a change
in emphasis in the problems of industry
from those stemming from insufficiency
of internal demand for industrial pro-
ducts to those arising from import com-
petition.
Last year the Board not only com-
pleted a record number of investigations
on references to it (76 compared with
63, 56, 31, 50 and 35 in the five pre-
vious years) but also received a record
number of new references (75 compared
with 53, 59, 43, 38 and 51). So under
its new chairman, Mr G. A. Rattigan,
who took over from Sir Leslie Melville
on May 16th this year, and with a streng-
thened staff the problems associated
with filling vacancies in the project sec-
tion at the time of the previous report
have been overcome the Board has
obviously been at full stretch.
It now takes on an average about
10| months for the Board to report
on references. This time lag has been
the same in each of the last two years,
having been brought down from 15
months in 1959-60. Clearly, though, the
record number of references last year
had its effect on the completion of in-
vestigations, as only 54 reports w'ere
signed last year compared with 61 in the
previous year.
With the change in emphasis in in-
dustry’s problems to those associated
with competition from imports and the
consequent taxing of the Tariff Board’s
time in dealing with references arising
from such problems, it is curious but
nonetheless satisfactory that the report
should have found “some indications
that the competitive status of Australian
industry as a whole improved during
1962-63.”
/\ne of the major factors helping the
competitive position of local industry
was the steadiness of wholesale prices
here compared with increases in both
the United Kingdom and Japan (but
not the US where prices have fallen)
during 1962-63.
Again, the rate of increase in wages
(per week and per hours worked) has for
some time been lower in this country
than in important competitive countries,
such as Britain, Germany and Japan.
“In a number of countries,” the re-
port states, “increases in wages costs ap-
pear to have exceeded increases in pro-
ductivity.” But this is not the case in
the United States, where for the past two
years increases in output per man-hour
have outweighed increases in hourly
earnings.
The Board says that no precise meas-
urement is available for changes in pro-
ductivity in Australian manufacturing
industry, but there are indications that
productivity has increased. In addition,
evidence presented at a number of in-
quiries held by the Board during 1962-
63 suggests that increases in productivity
have exceeded increases in weekly earn-
ings in some industries.
While this information could imply
that labor costs per unit of output in
Australia may have been reduced in the
period, it does not, however, include the
effect of the increase in wage margins
for skill and the extension of paid leave
provisions granted by the Common-
wealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Commission in April, 1963. Moreover
the Board thinks it may not provide an
adequate indication of the situation in
particular industries meeting import
competition.
to the effect of surplus cap-
acity on the competitive position of
local industry the report says “In at
least some basic products, overseas
prices have become increasingly com-
petitive due in part to the development
of excess capacity in some countries.
Although overseas price reductions of
such products are of considerable im-
portance to a number of Australian
industries, the significance of the pro-
duct in terms of total exports of the
countries concerned is apparently small.
For example, the price reductions have
not generally been reflected in export
price indexes. In Britain, the United
States of America, France, Italy and
Japan, export price indexes have tended
either to remain stable or recently to
increase. The indexes for the Federal
Republic of Germany and Sweden have
tended to decline.”
Summing up on all this the Board
believes that the apparent increases in
labor productivity in Australia during
1962-63 taken in conjunction with such
factors as falls in wholesale prices of
some basic materials and the stability
of import prices taken as a whole, sug-
gest in general terms an improvement in
Australia’s competitive situation, though
for some industries this conclusion is
qualified. “However, the general situa-
tion could be affected by possible up-
ward movements in labor costs per unit
of output stemming from recent wage
decisions. This possibility once again
calls attention to the necessity for posi-
tive action by both management and
labor within industry to achieve the in-
creased productivity implicit in the ac-
cepted objective of continued growth in
real income per head of population.”
report follows up its general con-
spectus of factors contributing to the
general improvement in the competitive
position of industry by making it quite
clear that the competitive position of
many of the industries examined during
1962-63 leaves much to be desired. It
states bluntly “While many manufac-
turers are efficient, others have scope
for cost reductions and the competitive
position of some of the industries exam-
ined during 1962-63 could have been
improved by greater attention by man-
agement to the promotion and selling
of their products.”
However, the report goes on to ex-
plain that the cost disabilities of many
firms are not solely attributable to the
failure of management to promote and
sell their products. “In many industries,
the limited size of the domestic market,
together with the higher costs of some
factors of production was responsible
for the cost disabilities of these in-
dustries.
“Even in those industries where there
was little cost disability in respect of
labor and materials, the effects on costs
of the relatively small size of the manu-
facturer, reflecting in part the size of the
market, still often imposed substantial
total cost disadvantages. Nevertheless, it
is possible to overstress the effects of the
size of the market.
“The Board realizes that the relation-
ship between the unit cost of the in-
dividual firm and market size is a com-
plex one. It is affected by such factors
as the most economic size of the plant,
the length of production runs, the pro-
ductivity of labor, the number and size of
firms producing for the market, the
range of products and the specialisation
of production.”


“CROESUS”
The Matter of Company News
Disseminate Facts as Quickly as Possible
T)ondering on the current contretemps
over the dissemination of company
news by the Melbourne Stock Exchange,
be the present system inadequate or
otherwise, one wonders whether the
pigeon arriving with the victory news
from Waterloo would have perched at
St Paul’s or Trafalgar Square while
waiting for the London Stock Exchange
to close for the day before delivering
its message.
If they can get a sight of them
quicker, most Melbourne investors pre-
fer to see pigeons from companies
perching in the pages of the “Herald”
rather than waking from a night’s sleep
in the “Age” or the “Sun”.
Of course the dailies say they are not
indulging their natural desire to get
scoops by supporting the idea that com-
pany news should not be reported to
the Stock Exchange until after official
trading has ceased.
Indeed they hold firm on the point of
principle that for investors to get time
fully to evaluate company news there
is no harm in it getting in the late
editions of the evening papers after the
Stock Exchange closes!
But this doesn’t dispose of the point
that company news should be an-
nounced to the stock exchanges immedi-
ately after board meetings or as soon
as otherwise determined in company
counsels. One would have thought that
this was something W'hich companies
should be encouraged to do and indeed
forced to do under sanctions in either
the Companies Acts or by the stock
exchanges.
"Dottom dollars could safely bet that
the longer it is left in the air around
company offices and oil wells, for in-
stance, the greater the likelihood of its
leaking to somebody’s advantage. This
applies to some of the giant concerns as
well as some of the smaller and more
spurious ones. It happened in the holy
of company holies, Collins House itself,
in one notorious instance within the last
two years as was pointed out strongly
at the time without any comeback at all
from the company concerned.
In far too many instances in the
history of Australian companies has
inside information been abused to the
monetary advantage of principals and
subordinate officers alike. Fortunately
abuses are now rare, thanks to the
vigilance of stock exchange committees
and permanent officers.
What protagonists of releases of all
industrial company news after stock
exchange hours are really saying is that
all board meetings prior to news re-
leases should be held in the afternoon.
They admit this.
But though they say that board meet-
ings are usually arranged for the con-
venience of members, it is quite unlikely
that many would bow to outside dictates
that they be held in the afternoon.
Actually such a requirement seems
quite unnecessary, even though there
may be something in the point that
ideally everybody ought to be fully in-
formed in order to make a perfect
market.
How'ever desirable that may be, it is
quite impracticable to achieve this ideal.
Shareholders in Australian companies
are scattered over all States and in
many countries overseas. No company
can be expected to get its news to all
of them or even a small fraction of them
without a considerable delay.
"jY/foREOVER it has to be recognised
whether Australian stock exchanges
are open for trading or not while news is
being evaluated, it is still possible to
deal in Australian shares on, for instance,
the London Stock Exchange for a good
many hours after Australian exchanges
have closed.
Again it is the essence of making a
continuous market that a stream of
company news flows into it during trad-
ing hours. Otherwise we might as w'ell
revert to the call system, for which after-
hours releases of news would seem to be
more appropriate.
At any rate it is important for com-
panies whenever they hold their board
meetings not to waste a moment before
putting the information in the hands of
the stock exchanges on which its shares
are traded. This, of course, means in
effect putting it in the knowledge of the
traders on those exchanges and support-
ers of after-hours releases hold that
brokers should be denied the first use of
such information for trading purposes.
It may be said that in the case of
news released during trading hours
brokers acting on their own account
sometimes take first advantage of it,
but this is a risk that has to be taken.
If there is abuse of this it is up to the
exchanges to stop brokers trading as
principals and it is beside the general
point.
The first duty of the exchange is to
post the news on its boards without
delay and to carry out its arrangements
for dissemination to other interested ex-
changes. It is then up to brokers to fol-
low any instructions they have from
their clients on the receipt of information
from particular companies, though that
is a matter between them and their
clients and is beyond any obligations
they may feel towards the public in
general.
One doesn’t need to make too much
of the recent slip-up by the Melbourne
SE on the receiver’s report from Reid
Murray. The human element sometimes
upsets the best laid procedures. The im-
portant thing is that news should be
disseminated in its factual form, and
even without interpretation by financial
writers, as quickly as possible.
T’he stock exchanges in Australia are
A fully aware of the needs and their
obligations in this matter and it is satis-
factory that the Melbourne SE has at
last introduced a Telex system to speed
up inter-communication between the ex-
changes in the eastern States and is now
studying the results of a survey by tw'O
overseas experts on the scope for in-
stalling a computer and other electronic
devices to streamline the process further.
But they would be going a lot too
far if they pressed their innovations
to the point of issuing an injunction
to listed firms to hold their board meet-
ing at three o’clock in the afternoon
and only pass on information to the
Stock Exchange after it shuts up for
the day.
Time, Gentlemen, Please!
IY/Telbourne broker McKinley Wilson
& Co. has come up with another
first with its brochure for clients setting
out in alphabetical precedence the dates
on which the whole gamut of Australian
companies balance their books, report
financial results and pay (providing they
do of course!) dividends.
One intriguing sidelight which will
have a special message for those who
think brokers should not necessarily have
first access to these matters as they are
reported by companies is that “the dates
shown in our tables are those on which
the information is first issued to the
Press.”


services. (Malaya ended the year with a
favorable trade balance of $173 million,
compared with $394 million the pre-
vious year.)
Of this less than half was held by
the Currency Board and banks, the
remainder being held directly by the
governments of the territories and public
agencies.
At the end of 1962, government hold-
ings amounted to about $l,lOO million
in Malaya, $7OO million in Singapore,
and about $l2O million in the Borneo
States. At the same time, the public
external debt of the territories was about
$7OO million, most of which was owed
by Malaya.
Part of the foreign exchange reserves
can be used to help finance government
needs. However, economists warn that
this must be kept to reasonable limits
if the economy of the new nation is not
to be exposed to a weakening of con-
fidence in the currency and the risks
that this implies.
Economists see the present free ex-
change system, based on a sound cur-
rency, as one of Malaysia’s greatest
assets. It has a favorable influence on
foreign investment and entrepot trade.
It has also, no doubt, played a large
part in one of the unique features of
recent development near freedom
from inflation despite the greatly in-
creased economic activity and improved
standards of living.
Better Use Could be Made
of Tariff Board
An Alternative To Trade Controls
By ROGER RANDERSON
HThe Tariff Board during 1962-63
“again noted that certain trading
practices have weakened the competitive
position of some manufacturers on the
domestic market by encouraging im-
ports.”
This cryptic observation, in paragraph
58 of its Annual Report, issued on Aug-
ust 29, is a reminder of the publicity
this body has given to so-called “re-
strictive practices.”
The Attorney-General magnified the
case for his sweeping controls, in his
booklet listing trade practices, by re-
ference to 10 specific instances drawn
from Tariff Board reports since 1958,
while he listed three other kinds of
trade practice partly because he con-
sidered they amounted to a “self-asses-
sed customs duty.”
On several occasions, too, he has
condemned trade practices on the
ground that manufacturers were giving
to themselves “what is in effect a cus-
toms duty, self-assessed and infinite in
amount, thus distorting the tariff pat-
tern and policy of the country . . . .”
Yet it would seem that the “com-
petitive position” of a manufacturer
should be determined by objective stan-
dards, which are not related to the level
of imports.
Furthermore, it would seem that any
increase in imports resulting directly
from local restrictions (always a difficult
matter to isolate and prove) would pro-
vide the natural corrective, without
raising the necessity for legislative in-
terference.
When the general system of import
licensing was abandoned in February,
1960, it was officially (and correctly)
claimed that this would increase com-
petitiveness in Australian industries, and
help to subdue inflation.
Since the expected results have been
realised, should, not earlier ideas about
the effects of restrictive practices have to
be revised?
In any case, ample remedies already
lie within the Government’s hands to
neutralise any excessive protective ef-
fect from practices on which the Tariff
Board reports adversely.
The Minister for Trade has the power
to refer to the Tariff Board for inquiry
and report “any question whether a
manufacturer is taking undue advan-
tage of protection afforded him by the
Tariff.”
In particular, he may refer cases
where a manufacturer is “acting in re-
straint of trade to the detriment of the
public.”
If the Tariff Board found on in-
quiry that a manufacturer had thus se-
cured for himself an undue advantage,
it could recommend that tariff protection
for his goods should be reduced or
abolished.
The Board could go further and re-
commend other kinds of action, so long
as it had previously considered care-
fully the conditions which existed in
the industry as a whole.
The Government has never, so far as
I am aware, referred any such matter
to the Tariff Board for inquiry and re-
port, although it has the power to do so
under Section 15 (i) (h) and (3) of
the Tariff Board Act 1921-1960, which
I have paraphrased above.
This may be partly explained by. the
fact that the Tariff Board in making
its recommendations as to the scale of
protection, has, in fact, been influenced
by restrictive practices which it has dis-
covered and found to be undesirable or
excessive.
Nevertheless, it is remarkable that
a Government desiring to discover
the facts about restrictive practices, as the
preliminary for action to limit those
which appear to be undesirable, should
have failed to make use of existing com-
petent machinery available for the pur-
pose.
It is obvious that the Attorney-Gen-
eral’s case is greatly deflated when all
instances brought to his notice by Tariff
Board reports are excluded.
There is good sense in the demand
from some quarters for a Royal Com-
mission to investigate the scope and
effects of restrictive trade practices, be-
fore potentially dangerous legislation is
enacted.
The Attorney-General, however, is op-
posed to this suggestion, partly because a
Royal Commission would have limited
compulsive powers to obtain informa-
tion. Another reason for his opposing
a Royal Commission is that the question
whether a practice is harmful or not
cannot be answered generically or uni-
versally, but only in the particular.
No such difficulties face the Tariff
Board within the wide field of its com-
petence.
Personally, I should like to see the
Tariff Board given authority and re-
sources to report on the increasing scale
of protection for primary industries in
Australia, as well as the protection af-
forded to manufacturing industries. This
would help to resolve much of the pres-
ent confusion in policies, the inconsis-
tency of which is summed up in the
phrase “all-round protection.”
In any case, a better use of the Tariff
Board in the manner suggested should
go a long way to satisfy primary pro-
ducer organisations and cause them to
withdraw their present support for the
Attorney-General’s plan of total control.
RANDOM HARVEST
A N ill wind usually blows somebody
some good and that is the case with
the rotten barley harvest in Japan, which
Melbourne maltster Smith Mitchell and
Co. says is going to help their sales of
malt to Japan this year.
The company needs a pick-me-up be-
cause, as the report shows, its sales last
year were its highest ever, but, alas, be-
cause of higher production costs and
lower profit margins on export trade in
the second half of the year (to June 30)
profit from trading slumped from
£183,143 to £151,622.


THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY LIMITED
ANNUAL MUTING
Address by the Chairman, Sir Colin
Syme, given at the Annual Meeting of
shareholders held on 13th September,
1963, at Essington Lewis House, 500
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
The Reports and Statements before you
set out the operating and financial results
of the Company and its subsidiaries for the
year under review.
The consolidated net profit, including
that attributable to minority interests, was
£16.4 million, which represents an increase
of 13.1% on the previous year’s results.
This profit was arrived at after providing
£26.9 million for depreciation and £13.7
million for income tax.
The profit of the parent conmany itself
amounted to £10.6 million, which repre-
sents an increase of £1.4 million or 15.5%
over the previous year.
Shareholders will remember that last
year the balancing date of Australian Iron
& Steel Pty. Ltd. was brought into line
with that of the parent company and ac-
counts for both companies closed as
at 31st May. This year a further step
was taken in the direction of presenting
more up- to-date consolidated accounts,
the books of a number of subsidiary com-
panies previously balancing 30th June
being closed as at 31st March, 1963.
The consolidated profit as shown for the
current year ha.s not been materially af-
fected by these changes.
It will be recalled that in April, 1962, the
Commonwealth Government introduced
legislation to provide for a deduction from
assessable income of 20% of the capital
expenditure incurred in the provision of
certain categories of new manufacturing
plant. In the year now under review this
allowance has resulted in a reduction of
£l.B million in the aggregate amount which
the various companies have found neces-
sary to provide for income tax. This
£l.B million represents approximately £22.5
million of qualifying expenditure which
of course is a great deal less than the
amount of capital expenditure actually in-
curred during the year. In the main this
is due to four causes. Firstly, our ex-
penditure of some £4 to £5 million per
annum on Mining Plant and Develop-
ment, which is a deduction from assessable
income, does not also qualify for invest-
ment allowance. Secondly, expenditure on
assets which are not depreciable for
income tax purposes is excluded as is also
expenditure on certain types of depreci-
able assets specified in the legislation
Thirdly, a considerable part of the ex-
penditure in the year under review relates
to plant which was under construction or
which was on hand but still to be instal-
led, as at 7th February, 1962, concerning
which the allowance is partly or wholly
denied depending on the circumstances.
And, fourthly, the investment allowance
does not apply in respect of a particular
plant until it is ready for service.
Depreciation has been charged on a
similar basis to the previous year and the
increased charge against profits is a result
of the new facilities brought into operation
during the year. The depreciation charged
in the accounts is based on a careful as-
sessment of the value of the assets con-
cerned and on the best estimate our
officers can make as to the likely life
of each type of asset. In the result it
amounts to a good deal more than
income tax depreciation which is
calculated according to the technical
rules laid down by the Income Tax
Assessment Acts.
We are strongly of the opinion
that our method of calculation is
correct and realistic and that if we
limited our depreciation charge to
what is allowed for tax purposes
we would be seriously overstating
our profits.
Capital expenditure, whilst total-
ling almost £44 million, was lower
than we had anticipated. Partly
this was due to some major projects
costing less than estimated. During
the year technological developments
rendered it desirable to make some
changes in the design of other new
projects. These changes caused some
delay in the placing of orders, and
consequently a reduction in expen-
diture in the latter part of the
period. This delay is not expected
to have any material effect on com-
pletion dates.
Shareholders will note that liquid assets
of the Group increased substantially.
During the year take-up of moneys under
the Australian and sterling debenture
issues was completed, as w'as also the
private borrowing programme entered into
some years ago by Australian Iron &
Steel Pty. Ltd. The liquid position was also
assisted by the lower level of capital spend-
ing and a modest reduction in stocks on
hand.
The additional funds so available during
the year are reflected in the increased
income earned on investments.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND CON-
STRUCTION: The heavy programme of
capital expenditure continues. During the
current year much of this will be spent
at Whyalla. where the structural mill is
scheduled for completion by mid-1964,
and it will be followed towards the end
of that year by the basic oxygen steel-
making plant, soaking pits, bloom mill
and tonnage oxygen plant. Work is also
proceeding for the second blast furnace
and a new ore loading jetty. At Port
Kembla a number of major projects are
in hand, including the 140” plate mill, the
120” plate finishing line, a continuous
pickling line and continuous annealing
facilities at the tinplate plant.
In our collieries further mechanisation
is in progress and at the Whyalla shipyard
design wmrk is proceeding on 41,500 d.w.t.
bulk carriers.
In Western Australia, substantial ex-
penditure continues to be incurred in the
development of Koolan Island as an ad-
ditional source of iron ore. The rolling
mill at Kwunana is being extended, and
planning and design work is well in hand
in connection with the installation of
the blast furnace, ore-handling and ship-
ping facilities.
Exploration and proving activities on the
Koolyanobbing ore deposits are being
actively pursued and design work as-
sociated with the quarry development is
proceeding.
As announced by the Premier of Queens-
land, the Honorable G. F. R. Nicklin, ar-
rangements are being made for the estab-
Molten pig-iron being charged into one of the
t wo basic oxygen steelmaking furnaces at the
Newcastle steelworks.
lishment of plants for the manufacture
of steel fence posts and the production
of reinforcing steel bars. These will be
located on an area to be reclaimed by
the Company from the swamp-land at the
rear of the steel wharf on the Brisbane
River at Hamilton.
The Geelong plant of Rylands Brothers
is doing very well, and plans for the ex-
tension of activities at that centre are
being investigated.
Other items in our development pro-
gramme are referred to in the Managing
Director’s Report and our plans are such
that a high rate of capital expenditure
is likely to be maintained. Our develop-
ments are designed to enable the Com-
pany to continue to service the needs of
the domestic market with an increasing
availability and a wider range of products
for export. Of course not all of our ex-
penditure is directed towards increasing
output. Much of it is required to renew
equipment which has become worn out
or obsolete. The Company has also spent
large sums of money in recent years on
extensive laboratory and research facilities
and on other facilities for maintaining
high standards of quality. Such expendi-
ture is continuing.
As mentioned in the Directors’ Report,
the road surfacing interests of B.H.P. By
Products Pty. Ltd. were sold to Bitumen
& Oil Refineries (Aust.) Ltd. The profit
of approximately £1.5 million resulting
from the sale has been carried to General
Reserve. B.H.P. By Products continues as
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company
to hold certain trade investments for
the Group including the shares in Boral,
acquired from the sale proceeds.
SALES AND EXPORT: In contrast to the
preceding year, the domestic demand for
our products was at a high level through-
out the period, reflecting the improved
activity throughout the economy and this
situation was responsible for the mainten-
ance of satisfactory programme for all
rolling units throughout the year.
Units producing plates and structural
sections have in particular been heavily
taxed to meet local requirements. Al-
though the domestic demand for tinplate


fell in the latter part of the financial year
in response to normal seasonal move-
ments, production was maintained at
capacity levels with the aid of some ex-
port business. Mills engaged in the pro-
duction of merchant bars have been fully
occupied in satisfying local and export
orders. It is also pleasing to note that
favourable selling conditions were experi-
enced by our wire-making subsidiaries, and
that the prospects for the current twelve
months appear to be good. Commonwealth
Steel Company Ltd. also had a better year,
but sharp competition was encountered
from imported stainless steel products.
Maintenance of our operations at capa-
city levels is in contrast to the position in
most of the major steel-producing coun-
tries of the world w-here orders have been
insufficient to fully occupy productive
facilities.
Reference w 7 as made in the last Supple-
mentary Report to Shareholders, and in
my last Annual Address, to the substan-
tial increase in world steelmaking capa-
city which has occurred in recent years
and to the fact that this capacity is in
excess of current requirements. This
situation continued to exert strong pres-
sure on prices in overseas markets and
intense competition and consequent low 7
prices have been characteristic of world
steel trade throughout the year.
Under these circumstances the proceeds
arising from export sales, although w 7 ell
below the level of the preceding year, did
well to reach a figure of £l6 million. They
included deliveries to the United King-
dom, United States of America, Canada,
Japan, Taiw r an, Hong Kong, India, Singa-
pore, Malaya, Spain, Italy, Pakistan,
Greece, the Philippines, the Peoples Re-
public of China and South America.
The establishment of our Overseas Di-
vision some four years ago has enabled
us to give specialised attention to this
important field. The officers of that Divi-
sion are carrying out their functions with
vigour and enthusiasm, despite the diffi-
culties inherent in the present situation.
This year the Company and its subsi-
diaries again qualified for tax rebates
under the Commonwealth Government’s
Export Incentive Scheme which helps to
offset the additional costs associated with
overseas marketing.
The factors I have referred to meant
that w 7 e had satisfactory outlets for the
increase in production that w'as achieved
during the year. The record output of
steel ingots, at 4.3 million tons, w 7 as 4.6%
higher than in the previous year. Pro-
duction increased substantially at Port
Kembla works and for the first time ex-
ceeded over 3 million tons in one year.
OPERATIONS: On the operating side,
three major units were commissioned at
Newcastle during the year, viz. the bloom
mill in October, 1962, the rod mill in
December, 1962, and the two basic oxygen
steelmaking furnaces in December, 1962,
and January, 1963, respectively. The
commissioning of these large installations
over such a short period considerably in-
terfered with production. Having regard
to the complexity of the changeover,
which involved establishing a method of
steelmaking completely new to Australia,
the adverse effect on production could
well have been greater than it has turned
out to be. The major difficulties associ-
ated w'ith the bringing into operation of
these plants have now 7 been overcome and
we can expect steady further improve-
ment. Since the close of the year, No. 4
Blast Furnace at Newcastle w 7 as put into
commission and is already performing
very well indeed.
RAW MATERIALS AND EXPLORA-
TION : Production rates appropriate to our
raw material requirements were main-
tained in our mining and quarrying oper-
ations. In this connection, output of coal
was 4.3% higher than last year, and this
increase is in a large measure attributable
to the reorganisation and technological
improvements that have been made in our
mines. We are continuing with the instal-
lation of conveyor-belt haulage for coal
in both the northern and southern fields.
Our Raw Materials and Exploration
Department has been active and success-
ful during the year. Following the change
in 1961 in the Government of Western
Australia’s policy regarding the search
for iron ore, our exploration activities for
this raw material were extended in that
State. This resulted in the discovery by
Company officers of large reserves of
iron ore in the Deepdale, Duck Creek and
Roy Hill areas of the Pilbara and Ash-
burton regions. These iron ore deposits
are held under temporary reserves.
The testing of the deposits, mainly by
drilling, is practically completed and there
is no doubt that the areas contain very
substantial tonnages of iron ore of reason-
able grade.
Important factors in the economic po-
tential of these reserves are possible port
site-s and railway access, for which pre-
liminary surveys are nearing completion.
Bulk samples of ore from Deepdale are
the subject of metallurgical investigations
to enable a complete study of the econo-
mics of production and use of this ore to
be carried out.
The discoveries in recent years of these
and other large deposits have consider-
ably changed the picture of Australian
iron ore resources. Before these discover-
ies were made it appeared that on a long-
term basis Australian iron ore resources
were barely adequate for its own needs;
There now seems to be no ground for
uneasiness on this score. However, the
change in the Australian iron ore posi-
tion has more or less coincided with a
similar change in the w ? orld position. Ex-
tensive deposits, some of high grade, have
been discovered and are being developed
in overseas countries and a situation of
possible scarcity has become one in which
iron ore importing countries can choose
between competing sources of supply.
These circumstances, coupled with the
current weakness in the world steel mar-
ket, present obvious short-term problems
in the exploitation of the Western Aus-
tralian discoveries.
Haematite Explorations Pty. Ltd., our
subsidiary company engaged in explora-
tion for petroleum, completed a compre-
hensive airborne magnetometer survey
and a reconnaissance marine seismic pro-
gramme over the areas off the south-east
coast held under exploration titles. These
activities qualified for subsidy under the
Commonwealth Petroleum Search Subsidy
Act.
Investigations undertaken by our Cen-
tral Research Laboratories led to the
establishment of a pattern for more eco-
nomical development of our coal leases
in the Newcastle area. Other work relat-
ing to fully fluxed sinter has been of
material importance in lifting blast fur-
nace productivity. The Laboratories
have also conducted a wude range of other
research projects which have been of
value to the industry.
Close attention has again been given
to personnel and training functions, and
during the year recruitment was at a
satisfactory rate. At the present time
more than 3,200 persons are studying
under the Company’s training scheme for
professional, technical and trade posi-
tions. The number of persons employed
by the Group increased during the year
by 800 to almost 44.000.
The number of shareholders shown in
the Company’s Share Register as at 31st
May, 1963, totalled 94,407. Over 88% of
the shares involved were registered in the
names of Australian and New Zealand
holders.
I feel I should make a reference to the
Report of the Royal Commission appoint-
ed to enquire into the failure of Kings
Bridge. We are very disappointed that
the Report ascribes some degree of blame
to our Company and perhaps we may be
permitted to say that we cannot agree
that we were at fault in any material
respect. At the same time the fact re-
mains that a reputable and conscientious
tribunal has reached a, different conclu-
sion and however strong our views may
be we accept it as our duty to consider
our position in the light of the findings of
the Commission. The Premier of Victoria
has initiated discussions between the vari-
ous parties concerned in the Report and
we are taking part in these discussions.
Since I last addressed you, the
Attorney-General, Sir Garfield Barwick,
has promulgated proposals for legislation
to deal with restrictive trade practices
and monopolies. As the Attorney-General
has invited public discussion on these
proposals, I think it is appropriate that
shareholders should be informed of the
Board's views.
The great and important range of re-
strictive practices which are embodied in
industrial agreements and contracts of
employment and in schemes for the mar-
keting of primary produce are exempted
from the proposals.
Since we are all inclined to feel that
restrictive practices to which we are a
party are proper and necessary and that
all other restrictive practices are bad and
should be prohibited, the proposals have
atracted support from those sections of
the community which are exempt from
them. The proposals have also attracted
well-publicised support from academic
economists and lawyers. The criticisms
have in the main come from manufactur-
ing and commercial interests.
It is easy to say that these critics have
a vested interest to protect but it is
equally valid to point out that they are
the people who understand the reason
for the existence of restrictive practices
and are familiar with their practical
operation.
Whatever may be the theoretical sup-
port for legislation of this type it seems
clear to us that it will cause disruption
of a manner of doing business which is
commonplace in Australia and which,
until now at least, has for the most part
been regarded as reasonable and sensible.
The extent of the disruption will no
doubt depend on the attitude of the civil
servants who will administer the legisla-
tion and of the tribunals who will adjudi-
cate on it. This prospect is one that
alarms the ordinary businessman upon
whom the community is so dependent to
initiate new enterprises and to expand
existing ones. The Attorney-General has
expressly referred to the need for avoid-
ing uncertainty and the discouragement
of initiative, but despite his recognition
of these dangers we feel that they are in-
herent in his proposals. We as a Com-
pany are staking a great deal on the
expansion of Australia and we are con-
cerned at any action which might have
the effect of checking that expansion.
We think that the proposals should be
substantially modified to make them
much less comprehensive and punitive.
If it turns out in practice that they do
not go far enough then further legisla-
tion can be enacted in the light of the
experience that has been gained. Prom
the point of view of the economy little is
lost by going too slowly whilst a great
deal will be lost by going too far and too
quickly.
We were honoured in March by Her
Majesty The Queen and His Royal High-
ness The Duke of Edinburgh paying a
visit to Koolan Island where they were
able to see something of our developments
in that area.
It is with deep regret that I refer to
the deaths this year of our former col-
leagues, Mr. Leonard Darling and Sir
Walter Duncan, both of whom served this
Company with distinction as Directors
over a period of many years until their
retirement from the Board in 1961 and
1962 respectively.


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(Registered 19th December, 1929)
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
o
PER
ANNUM
FOR 6
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 3
YEARS
PER
ANNUM
FOR 12
MONTHS,
HOW TO APPLY
Applications will be accepted only
on the printed forms attached to the
Prospectus. Your copy available
from all Members of Stock Exchanges,
over 750 branches of the A.N.Z,
Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches,
Branches at
SYDNEY - MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
HOBART-CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne , Canberra, Sydney,
Adelaide and Brisbane.
8388 N
INVESTMENT SECTION
Drug Houses Explains Profit Droop
T\rug Houses of Australia has now
provided shareholders with a reas-
onably understandable explanation of
the 1962-63 profit decline. It will be
recalled that a preliminary statement,
having to announce the first retreat in
earnings for seven years, set out the bare
financial details only.
Relatively unimpressed by a steady
lli p.c. dividend the markets then re-
acted rather heavily. An added compli-
cation was a fairly cheery interim report.
In his annual review accompanying
full accounts the chairman, Mr J. H.
Mcßoberts, explains that “aggregate
sales increased at a slower rate than in
previous years due to a falling off in
turnover during the last few months of
the year.” Gross earnings suffered also
from lower official prices for National
Health antibiotics and loss of the ex-
clusive Lederle distribution and manu-
facturing rights.
The pricing trends in particular, which
are expected to continue, suggest that
dividends from the joint Cyanamid DHA
venture cannot “altogether replace” in-
come from the Lederle agency. A fur-
ther partnership effort, Baxter-DHA
Laboratories, proposes to retain the first
three years’ profits and “consequently
we will receive no return from this in-
vestment during that period.”
Mr Mcßoberts rebutted charges of
excessively high earnings by Australian
pharmaceutical drug makers. DHA’s
latest group profit represents 7.4 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds and 3.5 p.c. on
aggregate turnover.
Together with their prevailing tech-
nical nervousness, the markets continue
to express some uncertainty on the
company’s 20s. ordinaries. Levels are
at the year’s low around 615., after one
particularly heavy daily drop of 4s. 6d.,
and well under 1963’s best at 78s.
June 30 assets backing stood at 435.,
so it’s evident there’s still a large, and
quite justifiable, measure of market es-
teem. Current prices offer a 3.7 p.c.
yield.
Nothing; Like Leather
T. Bayley and Sons did not disturb
** the I2i p.c. dividend paid since
1953 even though profit dropped from
£112,646 to £90,483 in the year to June
30. Neither the policy nor the profit
decline were unexpected.
For as recently as June 20 directors
indicated very firmly, in speedy response
to a newspaper inference that dividend
could go up, their definite intention not
to alter the final rate. The same state-
ment drew a rather chancy picture of
the leather and tanning trade.
Investors may perhaps have believed
most fears allayed by Associated Lea-
thers’ earlier announced and striking
1962-63 result. But trade experience
looks far from uniform.
Bayley’s board sounded forthright in
w’arning “if the raw material market is
low as at June 30, 1963, this company
will, as has always been the practice,
carry out any necessary writing down of
stocks even if such action results in re-
duced earnings.”
In the event £83,723 came off stocks
before the profit was struck, but “with-
out having to draw on the tax-paid
stock reserve of £50,000 available for
such purpose.”
The mixed 1962-63 experience can
hardly arrest the company’s solid and
conservative history. Coming benefits
are certain to eventuate from the new
interstate and intrastate stores opened in
May.
Sharemarkets probably expressed too


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act ot
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Qil
PER ANNUM
5 TO 10 YEARS
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7£% P.A. 3 YEARS
7}% P.A. 2 YEARS
6i% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B}% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company's Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE o ADELAIDE
CCI66/I/AB
CUP AND POST COUPON j
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street. Sydney. I
Please send me without obligation a copy of I
the Prospectus with application form. j
Tu _a/9
NAME
ADDRESS.
I
dim a view by dragging the ss. shares
back to 125., to equal their lowest price
over two years. Here yield stands at
5.2 p.c. The shares reached a top 13s.
Bd. earlier in 1963 and 15s. 3d. in 1962.
Consolidated Press Progress
roup profit of Consolidated Press
Holdings Ltd advanced to the
record level of £534,934 in the year to
June 30, giving an earning rate of
33.8 p.c. on higher capital.
Shareholders’ funds have grown from
£3,691,290 in 1958-59 to £6,052,256 in
1962-63, including minority interests.
Circulation revenue from the main
publications created a new record, and
advertising revenue also increased.
Average daily net sale of the Daily
Telegraph rose from 327,000 to 330,000
between April 1962 and March 1963,
keeping it far in front of any other
NSW daily paper.
In the same period the circulation
of the Sunday Telegraph rose from
583,000 to 602,000.
Over the last three years to March
1963 the weekly circulation of The
Bulletin has increased from about
22,000 to 40,000.
The Australian Women’s Weekly sells
over 800,000 copies a week, or 300,000
more than any other Australian maga-
zine.
During the year under review
£462,000 was spent on head office ex-
tensions and other properties and
£154,000 on extra plant. Commitments
at balance date for capital expenditure
amounted to £1,468,963.
The 75th Year
"VTow in its 75th trading year Wor-
mald Bros Industries’ prime aim
throughout 1963 is to restore profits to
their 1961-62 height, £368,154. “Every
effort is being made to bring this about,”
the chairman, Mr G. Gordon Russell,
assures shareholders in his review of
1962-63.
The group has to overcome a £181,923
decline, since the latest earnings dropped
to £209,697 and gave only a 6.2 p.c.
earning rate.
By the end of the current year share-
holders will also be longing for resump-
tion of the 10 p.c. dividend applying
between 1954 and 1962. At present
they have to be satisfied with a 5 p.c.
rate.
Mr Russell blames the 1962-63 hap-
penings mainly on building trade hesi-
tations. The group’s New Zealand ven-
ture and its non-building interests are
prospering.
“Reading the reports of other com-
panies you will have appreciated that
those offering what I might call second-
ary supplies to the building trade have
had mixed results,” Mr Russell tells
shareholders.
He discerns “reasonable” prospects
now and expects “a resumption of more
satisfactory earnings.”
The ss. ordinary shares have dropped
to around 6s. lid., after a 1963 top of
11s. Id. It’s going to be a struggle to
regain their lost regard. The next interim
report must be crucial.
Internal Financing
"Deady Mixed Concrete Ltd’s
* accounts reveal wise channelling of
surplus funds to finance expansion.
For instance freeholds and plant in-
creased by a net £1 million after de-
preciating and amortising to the tune
of £1.4 million.
At 1962 balance date the group had
£l.B million in cash and short term
loans. These were drawn on during the
last 12 months, so that they now ac-
count for £0.3 million in 1963 accounts.
Lower tin recoveries in Malaya were
reported earlier as the cause of a loss
there. Serious inflation in Brazil brought
an 80 p.c. currency depreciation within
the year, so RMC wrote off these paper
losses to reserves. Tangible assets and
reserves of the Brazilian subsidiaries
only represent 1 p.c. in the group any-
way.
The ss. shares of RMC now look to
be stabilised round 12s. 3d. where the
yield is 5.1 p.c.
Shifting The Issue
A little unorthodox perhaps by Aus-
tralian standards, Ready Mixed
Concrete (United Kingdom) Ltd places
itself well within the English climate
by re-pitching the terms of its latest
cash issue.
There the market tends to call a very
precise tune. Needing to raise about
£stg. 1 million, RMC (UK) originally em-
barked upon a one-for-five issue of ss.
sterling shares at 275. 6d. premium.
That premium margin stands. But
“there has been a substantial rise in the
market valuation of the company’s
shares and directors have now been
advised that the amount required should
be raised by the smaller 3-for-20 issue.”
The Australian parent, with a
52.79 p.c. holding, exercises its full en-
titlement to 369,000 new shares (with-
out any fresh call on shareholders). The
remaining 300,000 shares are underwrit-
ten, cannily as it turns out, by merchant
banker J. Henry Schroder Wagg and
Co. Ltd.
Fine Bowling
"Dowling Centres Holdings Ltd came
good with a full 10 p.c. dividend,
paid in equal quarterly instalments


COMPETITION
■ ■■■■ • *•: ■■ HI
SILENCED
# *s*
this speaker
0
»
'■SB
r, r-
iflO
EDIS
MB
CO
B*
You know what made the gramophone of 1905 just a squeaky noise today?
One thing, competition!
The manufacturer who does not improve his product or service to the public
to keep ahead of his competitors, fails. Competition is the driving force that is
the spur to progress.
In Australia there are many banks, each in competition for your business, with the
result that Australia has a banking service equal to the best in the world.
Every Australian benefits from Competition between Banks
m mmmh m'
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
r rdfMGgtMn # 11 m * m i
THE NATIONAL . THE WALES . THE C.B.A. . THE C.B.C. . THE ADELAIDE . THE E.S. &A. . THE A.N.Z.
U3O3D
from a profit of £244,445 earned in the
year to June 30
Centres were opened during the year
at the Southern Cross Hotel in Mel-
bourne, in Hobart and in Tweed Heads
(NSW). Since balance date others at
Frankston and Ballarat (Vic) were
opened, bringing the chain to 16 centres,
with two more under construction in
the Melbourne suburbs of Chadstone
and Northcote.
The Auto Coin Dry Cleaning sub-
sidiary, which opened at Hurstville
(NSW) in March (and in which Borg-
Warner has a 25 p.c. interest), is now
profitable. Establishment costs of £9871
were written off in the appropriation
account.
BCH shares at a penny or two above
par yield 9.9 p.c., and show an earnings
yield of 10 p.c.
“Academic Significance”?
A part from arousing one’s curiosity
about the true import of any small
findings of oil and gas that Santos may
have encountered in its drilling over the
last few years, Mr John L. Bonython’s
remarks in the company’s annual report
might be taken to heart by some of the
more propaganda-minded among the oil
search companies.
“We desire to point out”, says the re-
port, “that it has always been our policy
to avoid over-enthusiastic public ex-
pression of any encouraging results which
we may encounter, but we may say here
that we have derived very much encour-
agement from several instances of oil
showings in our drilling activities this
year.
“Although having more academic sig-
nificance than economic value, such dis-
coveries do, nevertheless, provide proof
that our areas have petroleum potential.
We would, however, be failing in our
responsibility if we were to permit such
information to become the basis for pro-
paganda which might easily spark off
excessive speculation”.
R. W. Steamers Dividend Deferred
A fter the high hopes entertained last
year that R. W Steane, Victorian
radio and TV component maker, would
do very well from the spread of tele-
vision to country areas the drop from
£23,744 to £18,802 in profit for the
year to June 30 last is frankly disappoint-
ing and in fact would only barely cover a
repeat of the 10 p.c. dividend paid for
1961-62 if indeed that had happened.
In fact the company is deferring any
decision on the dividend until its liquidity
situation is restored to respectability by
the sale of surplus property which the
directors say is worth £40,000. The in-
ference is that the company’s bankers are


FINANCE
CORPORATION
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in South Australia)
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
I
I
8
Applications for debenture stock can be accepted only
on the printed form referred to in and attached to the
prospectus, Prospectuses and forms of application
should be obtained from:
The Bank of Adelaide
The Commercial Banking Company of Sydney Limited
Members of the Stock Exchanges
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Finance Corporation of Australia Limited
Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Perth
BROKERS
lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Adelaide, Sydney,
Brisbane, Canberra
Cutten & Harvey, Adelaide, Melbourne and Ml. Gambier
TRUSTEES FOR THE DEBENTURE HOLDERS
Executor Trustee and Agency Company
of South Australia Limited, 22 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
Executor Nominees (N.S.W.) Piy. Limited
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney
not keen on advancing money for the
dividend in advance of the sale.
Nonetheless on the face of it things are
looking up a bit according to the pre-
liminary statement calling attention to
the company’s £lOO,OOO worth of
Government contracts with repeat orders
up its sleeve.
The move to a new factory in Glen
Waverley cannot have helped profits
much last year but now this has been
completed and administrative offices are
soon to follow to the new site economies
should ensue.
Furthermore the company is replacing
£56,800 of 9 p.c. registered unsecured
debentures falling due at the end of this
month with a new issue of £lOO,OOO
registered unsecured convertible notes
with an 8+ p.c. coupon and five year cur-
rency.
Convertible notes are rather old
fashioned these days but this lot should
bring in £47,200 more than required
for redemption of the old issue. This
should come in very handy in repairing
the liquidity situation.
Concrete Cracks
YlThat dividend Concrete Industries
" (Monier) Ltd will finally pay in
respect of the last year to June is what
exercises the minds of shareholders and
market observers.
The pattern of dividend payments in
the years from 1957-58 to 1961-62 was
10 p.c., 12} p.c., 12} p.c., lli p.c,
and 10 p.c.
So far this year Concrete has paid
an interim of 2} p.c., but when the
year's results were announced, showing
a profit of £797,226 (a further and
heavier fall than in 1961-62), directors
made no reference to a final dividend
The earning rate on capital was 9.4
p.c., so a full 5 p.c. or even 1} p.c.
might be within the company’s capacity
if current trading trends justify this
demonstration of confidence.
Directors did refer to trading in the
first two months as showing a “con-
siderable improvement” over the
previous year’s opening months.
After the trading result became
public, the ss. shares reacted to 7s. Bd.
The option market gives no clear signal
as to which way Concrete’s price will
go from here. A Sydney dealer did
accept a three-months’ call on Sep-
tember 11 for a mere 100. The cost of
the option was IOVd. and the exercise
price was Bs. sd.
How The Wind Blows
HThe Sydney stock option dealings pub-
lished in the daily Press continue
to be an interesting and useful weather-
vane.
Operators only feel chill draughts
for Carrier Air Conditioning, which
features most consistently amongst the
few puts transacted. Two deals involv-
ing 2500 shares on September 12 suggest-
ed the shares would go very close to par
within the next three months. Exercise
price was 6s. 3d. and the cost Bd. and
9id.
Other noteworthy deals were:
• A three-months call on 3500 Mt
Lyells to be exercised at 3s. 3d. (cost
7id.), made on September 9.
• Several calls on Bellambi Coal
involving over 3000 shares, to be
exercised within six months at prices
between 9s. 9d. and 12s. (cost Is. Id. to
Is. 61d.), written between September 4
and September 12.
• A number of three-month calls on
5400 John Fairfax shares, written on
September 12, costing between 2s. 4d.
and 2s. 6d., to be exercised between
355. 6d. and 365. 1 Id.
• Three calls involving 1800 James
Hardie shares, written on September 13
and to be exercised within three months


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A L. NEVITT, A C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE.
G II STEPHENS
(Members ot Brisbane Stock Exchange )
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO’ 1
Phone: 31-27(11 P.O BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Old. J A iVlinnett. M A. Gleeson
White. lan McFarlane, G T Kryger.
J D Wolfensohn.
Members o) the Sydney Stock Exchano>
L. L. de Green, S. R Ra venscroft. R. V
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 OTONNKI.L STREET. SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243, 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley Sydney. Melbourne and
Brisbane
at prices from £6 10s. to £6 12s. 6d.,
and costing from Bs. 2d. to Bs. 4d.
• Hanimex features consistently on
the call list, while odd puts have been
taken out on H. Pettitord, New Zealand
Forests, W. R. Carpenter and Aus-
tralian Chemicals.
Publishers’ Record
A one-for-three bonus, new scrip
ranking for half the year’s dividend,
failed to knock Publishers’ earning rate
very hard in the year to June.
The usual 20 p.c. dividend rate was
maintained, and was more than twice
covered by earnings of 41.9 p.c. (last
year 48.0 p.c.).
Higher gross profit, tax benefits from
losses accrued in companies acquired
from Greens, and an allowance for a
sinking fund on the Perisher Valley
leaseholds contrived to raise net profit
convincingly from £179,948 to
£251,320.
The 2.9 p.c. yield imposed by the
market’s pricing the 5s shares at 345. 6d.
is not discounting future benefits too
heavily.
Mount Morgan’s Burden
■JI/Tount Morgan has battled the last
year or so with relatively low cop-
per and gold grades. Shareholders must
hope that directors’ decision to attack
profitability by attempting to raise
throughput will, literally, pay dividends.
The latest year’s profit dropped
£83,436 to £182,613, its fourth succes-
sive decline. No final dividend is to be
paid. The interim at 6d. a 10s. share
needs £101,837, contrasting with pre-
vious full payments of Is. in 1962,
Is. 6d. in 1961, and 2s. in both 1959
and 1960.
Earnings hit a peak £763,955 for
1955, while the best in more recent
years has been 1959’s £448,419.
The new policy calls for some
£400,000 spending on capital engineer-
ing works. Advance overburden removal
has already involved £lOO,OOO. Funds
from the last preference issue, £500,000,
were directed towards plant to allow an
increase in ore mined and treated.
Planned higher throughput should be
completely attained by January next.
The markets now keep the ordinary
shares close to the 1963 low at 9s. Bd.
Best sales this year reached 12s.
Petrochemical Struggle
/Greater liability for taxation pro-
duced a lower net profit result for
Petrochemical Holdings Ltd, but the
earning rate of 7.2 p.c. enabled pay-
ments of a steady 6 p.c. dividend.
After-tax profit dropped from
£234,896 to £183,674 for the year to
June 30.
Paccal has had a long hard struggle
since 1953, when it set out to establish
a petrochemical industry in Australia.
Even its close relationship with the
currently booming Boral fails to bring
it any great success.
Australian Petrochemicals Pty, which
is 55 p.c. owned by Monsanto of the
US and 45 p.c. by Paccal, producing
styrene monomer from raw materials
supplied by Paccal and largely used by
Monsanto, has now got on a profitable
footing.
In its financial year ended December
last, a profit of some £89,000 was won,
compared with a previous loss of
£268,000. Technical problems are now
overcome, but sales are still restricted
by imports of plastics raw materials.
Bitumen and Oil’s ss. shares at 28s.
to yield 3.6 p.c. look infinitely better
value with few'er hazards, than Petro-
chemical’s 20s. shares at 295. to yield
4.1 p.c.
Patience Required
Shareholders of Cyclone Co of Aus-
tralia Ltd cannot say they were not
warned of the difficult climate for the
steel trade.
The final results for the year to June
another profit fall to £331,642, and
a cut in dividend from 10 to 8 p.c.
though regretted were not greeted with
pained surprise.
The heart of the trouble is KM Steel
Products Pty, which incurred a substan-
tial loss in the first half, and apparently
was unable to retrieve the position by
the end of the year.
Mechanical difficulties delayed the full
commissioning of the continuous casting
plant at Brooklyn (Vic.). (This is a £1
million project, and the plant is the first
in the Southern Hemisphere.)
A world surplus of steel, BHP’s excess
capacity and price competition from
Japanese imports all affected the steel-
works adversely.
Capital of £2.9 million in ordinary
shares (not forgetting £.650,000 in pre-
ference shares) will be increased on
June 30, 1966, by conversion of £l.l
million in notes.
Recuperation will demand patience
from shareholders, but at least Cyclone
should have no immediate liquidity prob-
lems.
The Price of Übiquity
A fter two years of 1 2? p.c. dividends
shareholders in The Leviathan Limi-
ted, whose stores are in Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Chadstone shopping centre, got
a nice surprise from the lift to 13J p.c.,
for the year to July 31 last, which takes
them half way back to the 15 p.c. rate
which was paid for many years before
1961.
Admittedly the Myer Emporium’s pre-
liminary which told of merely a satis-
factory increase in profit but no rise in
dividend from the established 16y p.c.
rate w'asn’t enthusiastic enough to excite
shareholders in Melbourne stores’ shares.
But The Leviathan’s was The report
show's trading profit increased from
£67,479 to £92,477 and profit after tax
up from £49,121 to £65,814.
Maybe the far-flung store empires like
Myers and Cox Bros suffer something
from their übiquity whereas The Levia-
than with only a couple of offshoots
from its Swanston Street store and a hard
core of faithful customers gains econo-
mies from its concentration in Melbourne
where, incidentally, July retail sales im-
proved more than anywhere in the Com-
monwealth w'ith a rise of 11.4 p.c. over
the previous July compared with an in-
crease of only 6.4 p.c. for the country as
a w'hole.
Subsidiary Reorganisation
T>risbane-basfd engineer and ship-
builder, Evans Deakin Industries
Ltd, increased profit by £13,421, or
7.4 p.c., to £193,966 for the year to
June 30.
Earning rate, however, was slimmer,
at 15.3 p.c., than at any time since for-
mation of the holding company in 1960.
Takeover of two Sydney engineers,
Thirlwell and McKenzie Ltd and W. A.


LONG-TERM INCOME
0 p a
10 years
7i% 7i% »■• 63%
7 years
5 years
2 years
SHORT-TERM INCOME
5t%
12 months
41%
p.a.
41% »
3 months
Interest is payable every 3 months
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS: The M.L.C. Nominees
Limited.
DIRECTORS OF MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.: D. C. Cameron
(Chairman), M. D. Thompson (Managing), D. F. P.
Roth, J. T. Reid, H. W. Hattersley.
Applications accepted only on application form attached
to and referred to in a printed copy of the prospectus.
Obtain prospectus from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia, any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES: Vic. 118 Queen Street, Melbourne
Qld 301 Ann Street, Brisbane
S.A. 329 King William Street, Adelaide
W.A 115 St. George’s Terrace, Perth
A.C.T 33 Ainslie Avenue, Canberra City
MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
..." ■* ■ .• , •
£500,000 NEW ISSUE
o ‘•"•.•I
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock
fill ,3 q n
ii 3 a
Head Office, Sydney
Company activities
throughout the
Commonwealth
include hire m
ID
purchase, leasing,
general finance. £{
Hodkinson and Co., increased capital
by almost £250,000 during the year.
As Thirlwell was last reported losing
money and Hodkinson was very close
to that position when Evans Deakin
came to their rescue, it should appear
from the full accounts that credit is
due to Evans Deakin for its effective
reorganisation.
Evans Deakin shares are currently
priced at 15s. or thereabouts, compared
with a high of 17s. Bd., and a low of
13s. earlier this year.
The Queensland State Government is
resuming home sites for the extension of
Evans Deakin shipyards. General eco-
nomic prospects, at least in the home
State, must look more hopeful than they
have done lately.
Chemical Change
heydays of yesteryear are banished
fairly permanently for Australian
Chemical Holdings Ltd, the maker of
synthetic resins, chemical colors and
plasticisers.
Economic recession, which depressed
the company’s markets in the paint,
plastics, building and automotive in-
dustries, is largely out of the way now.
The company still has to face continued
imports competition, however.
Not that ACH is acting defeatist:
much of the ground lost in absolute pro-
fit has been recovered in 1962-63, but
capital has been enlarged by various
takeovers in the light engineering field,
and by note conversions.
Present earning rate of 13.5 p.c., and
a 10 p.c. dividend, do not seem to jus-
tify pressure of the 10s. shares beyond
235. 6d., pending reports perhaps in
the annual accounts of more buoyant
markets and successful cost control.
Steel Mills Hammered
result from Steel Mills Ltd for
the year ended June 30 was a
severe disappointment. Profit retreated
47 p.c. from <£70,375 to £36,930.
The 10 p.c. dividend, which had been
very well covered in 1961-62 by an
earning rate of 26.4 p.c., was lopped to
8 p.c. New earning rate is 11.1 p.c., so
present price of the shares at 6s. 9d.
provides an income return of 5.9 p.c.
and earnings yield of 8.2 p.c.
In 1958-59 Steel Mills had an even
leaner year (no dividend was paid), due
to keen competition. So management
set out to widen the scope of operations.
The rolling mill output was substan-
tially lower in the year just completed,
but directors seemed satisfied with the
fact that income w'as now being derived
more from steel mesh and reinforce-
ments.


AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Reg Office: 500 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Victoria
Address of the Chairman of Directors (Mr. J. A. Forrest) at Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, held in Melbourne on 18th September, 1963.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is now my pleasure to address you on the
state of the Company's affairs and the results of
the financial year which ended on 30th June last.
REVIEW OF ACCOUNTS
The Group Reports, Accounts and Balance Sheet
circulated recently show that the Net Group Profit
for the year was £2,867,000. This result was after
providing for Taxation and various other items
which are set out on page 18 of the Report and
compares favourably with the previous year's profit
of £2,327,000 The improvement is consistent with
the upward trend to which reference was made
when addressmg you at this time last year.
The proportion of profit due to outside shareholders
is higher this year as a result of the completion of
arrangements for public participation in Malayan
Containers Limited and arising from a change in the
disposition of shareholdings in A.W.G. Holdings
Proprietary Limited. Both matters are referred to in
the Directors' Report and in the Explanatory Notes
on the Accounts for 1963.
Various companies in the Group made transfers to
Reserves amounting in all to £637,000 and there
remains £1,125,000 in unappropriated profits. General
Reserves of the Group now stand at £11,792,000.
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS
At the close of the year. Shareholders' Funds were
£46,184,000 having increased by £5,425,000 from
the previous year's total of £40,759,000. The in-
crease includes the second and final instalment of
£2,854,000 subscribed by shareholders to the
November, 1961, premium cash issue of ordinary
shares,- £1,363,000 of increases in certain other
Capital Reserves arid £529,000 of increased revenue
reserves and unappropriated profits.
The Shareholders' Funds at £46,184,000 in the
total funds of £62,446,000 employed in the Group's
business reflects the continued strength of the Share-
holders' financial interest in total Group Assets.
WORKING CAPITAL
Total Current Liabilities and Provisions at the
end of the year were £11,603,000 which were
covered by Current Assets of £20,992,000. During the
year, the latter item increased by £1,100,000 of
operating stocks of all kinds necessary to serve
expanded production and sales throughout the Group.
In some of our industries where products are sold
through merchant channels, there is a growing
tendency to rely more on the manufacturer as the
bulk stockist In those of our companies affected in
this way if is necessary to carry more finished
products in stock, and this not only calls for more
working capital but causes an increase in costs.
INVESTMENTS
Group Investments reported at total cost of
£5,216,000 show an increase on last year's total of
£3,906,000. The greater part of this increase
occurred in the item "Shares in other Companies"
made up principally of increased holdings in
Harbison A.C.I Pty Ltd (£426,000) and Pilkington
Brothers (Australia) Ltd. (£783,000).
Shareholders will have noted that the market
value of listed securities exceeds their cost by a
considerable margin.
FIXED ASSETS
During the year there was an aggregate gross
investment of £7,525.000 in fixed assets, most of
which was applied to plant and equipment for new
projects and in improving existing facilities. After
accounting for depreciation at usual rates, net
Group Fixed Assets at the end of the year were
£36,237,000 Funds to finance the year's invest-
ment in these items came from internal sources and
from the second and final instalment received from
shareholders in respect of the November, 1961,
issue of ordinary shares. In the past, references
have been made to the tendency which the high
level of capital expenditure has to reduce earning
rates on total funds employed. This condition persists
generally although expenditure on some of our
new projects is complete and profitable production
has started. Much of the expenditure devoted to
replacing operating facilities involved costs higher
than originally; which means that in proportion,
more capita l is needed nowadays to return the
same income as formerly. This experience, referred
to in some quarters as the "profit squeeze", has
been noted in many industries both in Australia
and overseas.
TAXATION AND DEPRECIATION
Income Taxes payable in Australia and overseas
on the Group income for this year have been
estimated at £2,672,000 and provision made
accordingly. This sum is included in the total of
£4,609.000 shown in the Consolidated Statement of
Assets and Liabilities which, as in past years,
includes amounts already set aside to meet taxes for
the previous year not assessed and paid when the
books closed for the year. In the notes to the
accounts at page 20 of the Report reference is
made to the way this year's provision was affected
by plant investment allowances and the recovery
of certain past fax losses.
Depreciation provided this year was £2,959,000
and a further amount of £635,000 was set aside for
replacement of fixed assets, the total accumulated
provision for which now stands at £4,595,000. In
the past, reference has been made to the non-
allowance for income tax purposes of depreciation
provided in respect of buildings. It is disappointing
that this unrealistic situation still exists in our
income tax laws in spite of all the sound evidence
there is to warrant rectifying it.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The Joint General Managers have reported on the
activities of the Subsidiary Companies during the
year. Their comments are included in the Published
Report which has been circulated and I do not
propose to add to what they have said.
However, I would like to comment on the ab-
sorption of activities of a number of subsidiaries into
other companies in the Group as mentioned in the
Directors' Report For some years, it had been growing
more apparent that the existence or many wholly
owned subsidiaries as separate entities was no
longer warranted especially in the light of the
administrative cost and complication they were
causing To some extent, the Uniform Companies
Act added to these disabilities through the necessity
of having to maintain many more records and
compile numerous returns, all of a repetitious nature.
After much careful consideration, the absorption of
activities mentioned was put into effect during the
year, and in the near future, a number of the
companies not now operating will be liquidated.
NEW DEVELOPMENTS
Although the Sheet Glass factory at Dandenong,
Victoria, has been operating now for about a year,
it is sufficient of a "new development" for me to
take the opportunity of reporting that it has settled
in well and is working efficiently Our pride in this
modern factory is shored by our associates, Pilkington
Brothers Limited of St. Helens, England, who con-
tributed much valuable aid in its establishment. At
our other sheet glass factory in Alexandria, New
South Wales, major works have commenced on the
installation of a new process to increase production
end efficiency still further It is hoped you found
interest in the feature presentation of the sheet glass
industry in this year's Published Report.
The factory of Harbison A.C.I. Pty. Limited at
Unanderra. near Port Kembla in New South Wales,
is practically ready to go into production. Relations
with the pa r ent Harbison-Walker Refractory Com-
pany of Pittsburg. U.S.A., are working smoothly and
effectively.
By the end of the calendar year, production of
the well-known "Gerflex" resilient vinyl flooring
will have commenced. This venture, you will recall,
is in accordance with an agreement between the
Company and Societe Chimique de Gerland of
Lyon, France.
For some time, the Directors have been investigating
permanent city headquarters for the Company and
I am pleased to announce that after examining many
possibilities, we have purchased a site at 546 to
560 Bourke Street, Melbourne. Plans are under
way to construct a building on the area suitable
for our present and future requirements. It should
be ready for occupation in 1966.
Other smaller but not unimportant developments
associated with our existing enterprises have taken
place and others are being negotiated.
OVERSEAS INTERESTS
During the year economic conditions in New
Zealand improved and our companies in the
Dominion showed better returns than for the previous
year. Conditions in the New Zealand primary in-
dustries have become more stable, particularly in
the important export sector and consequently the
outlook, in the short term at least, is much better
than it was a year ago.
As you know, the Company (through one of its
New Zealand subsidiaries), jointly with Pilkington
Brothers (New Zealand) Limited purchased the assets
of McKendrick Glass Manufacturing Company Limited
which had been formed to manufacture sheet glass
at Whangarei, New Zealand. The assets purchased
require considerable rectification and improvement
and it will be some time before the enterprise
becomes an economic operation. For the present,
the two purchasing companies will conduct the
venture as a partnership under the name of New
Zealand Window Glass Company.
Our Company in Bangkok had another successful
year with sales and returns showing steady improve-
ment.
In Malaya our subsidiary Malayan Containers
Limited, in which the public has a substantial
interest, has successfully completed its first year of
operations through its two companies, Singapore
Glass Manufacturers Company Limited and Malayan
Fibre Containers Limited. Results were substantially
as forecast and the current year has commenced
with the promise of another good result.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
In the earlier months of the present financial year
of the subsidiary companies, trading was buoyant
and results showed improvement on the correspond-
ing period of last year. However, in July some
signs of slackness developed consistent with ex-
perience in industry generally as revealed in the
national indicators of manufacturing activity. While
it is early to judge, we believe this is a temporary
phase and look forward to the present year turning
in a better -esult than 1963.
There is still a degree of hesitation in some aspects
of business and a tendency to wait and see. This
finds expression in a growing awareness that profits
are harder to make and that it takes more capital
and greater efficiency to achieve the same incomes
as were made in the boom times of several years
ago. Consistent with this cautious outlook are the
high levels of savings held by the community and
the marked success of rerent Government loans.
Short term these factors exert a dampening effect
on business but in the long view they are building
a more solid and wider base for economic progress.
Your Company's heavy investment in fixed assets
shows its faith in the future
A good deal of interest has been aroused by the
proposal of the Federal Government to introduce
legislation in respect of Restrictive Trade Practices.
Apparently it was considered that the interests of
the public would be served best by having all trade
practices made subject to the surveillance of a
Government Department and in some cases banned
altogether. It could be that some practices are not
in the public interest —but it is fair to say that the
vast majority would not fall into that category, and
it would indeed be unfortunate if the legislation
should involve business in vexatious administrative
problems and costs out of all proportion tc the
benefit it may bring It is gratifying to know that
representations made by Industry will be given
careful consideration by the Government before the
legislation is introduced.
There is a growing awareness in business circles
of the opportunities to build up exoort trade and
the Government is to be commended for its en-
couragement through taxation rebates and the
active assistance available from its Trade Com-
missioner Service. As shareholders are aware, most
of the Group's products sell in markets close to the
scene of manufacture and our contribution to
export benefits comes through our well-established
overseas manufacturing centres. At the same time,
certain of our Australian-made goods are being
exported in a small but growing volume.
VOTE OF THANKS TO STAFF
Again this year all Australian and overseas
members of the Organisation, under the capable
leadership of the Joint General Managers, have
done commendable work and and on your behalf.
Ladies and Gentlemen, and on behalf of the Board,
l wish to express our thanks to them.


BALANCE SHEET
AND
PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES
(£'000)
Year to 30th June
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
443
464
466
652
618
Current liabilities
182
256
152
221
230
»-■
•
—
,
Net working capital
261
208
314
431
388
Fixed ossets
513
46S
506
866
879
Investments
120
229
112
26
Intangibles
—
—
—
2
2
— ■
—
—
Total copilal
694
905
932
1299
1295
Represented by:
- -
—
—
Loan capital
145
137
128
248
236
Preference capital
50
50
50
50
50
Ordi capital
420
420
420
630
630
Reserves
279
298
334
371
379
Depreciation
37
30
29
45
46
Taxation
4)
53
73
71
68
Earnings
62
72
102
97
87
Ord. dividend
42
53
53
66
79
Surplus
Earnings p.c. civ,
20
19
49
31
8
ord. cap. (a)
11.6
13.7
19.4
18.4
13.8
Dividend p.c. (a)
8.0
10.Q
10.0
12.5
12.5
Div. yield p.c. (b)
5.3
4.8
5.0
4.8
4.3
Earn, yield p.c. (b)
* Consolidated.
(a) Adiusted for new
7.6
issues.
6.5
9.6
7.1
4.8
(b) Based on last
se«ted.
sale in month accounts
prs*
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Second Thoughts on W. E. Smith
One cannot be right all the time. In
fact, a well-known English invest-
ment manager, J. B. H. Pegler, con-
cluded an address to the Insurance In-
stitute of London on November 7, 1956,
with these words: “And finally I would
record my personal conviction that if
an investor can feel over a period of
years that 60 p.c. of his decisions have
been right and not more than 40 p.c.
of his decisions wrong, judged by later
events, he need not feel that he has done
too badly.”
When I wrote about printer and
stationer W. E. Smith two years ago,
the company was in course of making
its record cash issue in ten years and
the ss. shares had fallen to 9s. At this
price the prospective yield from the
predicted 10 p.c. dividend was 5.6 p.c.,
but on the basis of the 1960-61 results
profits were sufficient to cover a 10 p.c.
dividend on the increased capital 1.6
times without the new capital earning
a penny. Even the 124 p.c. rate would
have been covered nearly 1.3 times and
if this rate of dividend was maintained
in the future the yield would have been
6.9 p.c.
This certainly looked like an oppor-
tunity in a company whose per share
earnings had been increasing over a
seven-year period at the average annual
compound rate of 184 p.c. per annum
and whose dividends per share had been
increasing over the same period at the
average annual compound rate of 12 p.c.
per annum.
/Certainly the price of W. E. Smith’s
shares did appreciate and reach a
high point of 14s. 6d. during 1962 and of
16s. during the first half of 1963. The
purchaser of shares in November, 1961,
at the last sale price of 10s. 9d., would
have received a return over the next
twelve months of 36 p.c. if he sold at
the last sale price of 14s. in November,
1962. While this may not seem very
remarkable in the light of what has
happened this year, it is a good per-
formance during a 12-month period
when the Sydney Stock Exchange all
ordinary index actually declined by
1 p.c.
The previous assessment of the com-
pany was made prior to presentation of
consolidated accounts made obligatory
by the new Companies Act, and, for the
moment, it may be instructive to follow
the performance on the basis of parent
company accounts only. The investment
pattern is quite interesting:
('£000) 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Freehold property 308 308 315 605 609
Plant etc. at cost 500 490 544 531 581
Investment in subsid. 31 37 37 69 90
Investment in freehold 92 92 —•—
Other investments 100 75
The precise situation regarding the
investment in “Plant, Machinery and
Type Fixtures and Fittings etc. at cost”
is a little difficult to follow. In the
balance sheet as at June 30, 1962, this
figure was given as <£649,461. In the
balance sheet as at June 30, 1963, com-
parable figures for the previous year,
i.e., as at June 30, 1962, were quoted
and the figure for plant, etc., appears as
£531,368. The net figure after deducting
the “Provision for Depreciation” is, of
course, identical at £255,486 in both
balance sheets.
The reasons for the discrepancy are
not given and a possible answer is that
plant which had been written down to
a nil value but which cost £118,093 has
been excluded from the balance sheet in
1963, although it was included in the
1962 balance sheet.
It appears that in 1960-61, the free-
hold property at Newcastle and in
Sydney was sold for about £102,000.
This amount is very similar to the invest-
ment made in W. E. Smith-Gadsden
(QTd) Pty Ltd which seems to have been
disposed of at a loss of £25,000. It then
seems that the investment in Wingrove
& Co. Pty Ltd increased by £53,000
approximately over the two years fol-
lowing the disposal of the interest in the
Queensland venture.
So far as can be judged from the
examination of the published accounts,
Wingrove’s results in the last two years
could only be said to be discouraging. It
seems that the net profit after tax was
£1129 in 1961-62 and only £2460 be-
fore tax and depreciation. In 1962-63
the same figures were £13,481 loss and
£12,076 loss apparently after paying
£l5OO in rent to the parent company.
Having made this review of W. E.
Smith’s activities outside the parent com-
pany, it is now worthwhile examining
the parent company’s results over the
last five years. Over the first three years
of the period less than £140,000 was in-
vested in net working capital and fixed
assets but in the last two years the in-
vestment has amounted to nearly
£490,000. As part of the new factory
building at Croydon is tenanted perhaps
part of this expenditure should also be
regarded as an “Investment” outside the
main business but it is difficult to segre-
gate it.
At the end of 1961 it did not seem
unreasonable that the earning rate
should rise to 25 p.c. by 1965-66 and
funds on hand, including the raising
from the share issue, seemed sufficient to
meet half of the projected investment
in new plant and buildings. If profits had
continued their upward trend, retained
income (depreciation and surplus profits)
should have been sufficient to provide
the balance of the necessary funds.
As it now appears, the investment in
buildings alone exceeded expectations by
over £33,000 and a further £53,000 was
invested in Wingrove & Co. Pty Ltd. A
sum of the order of £120,000 was bor-
rowed from the AMP Society during
1961-62 and as at June 30, 1963, the
company had £70,000 in the bank and
at short call.
T'he following figures show the trends
in profitability based on the parent
company’s accounts only, after making
the very rough adjustment of eliminating
investments in the subsidiary and other
“outside” investments:
Year to June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Operating income,
p.c. of
total capital 19.3 21.4 27.4 27.8 19.2
Earnings p.c. of
adjusted
ord. capital 14.7 17.1 24.1 18.4 16.0
To me, these figures suggest that the
basic business of W. E. Smith has con-
tinued to do quite well although no
benefit has been received as yet from
the investment in new buildings and
plant. The investment in associated and
subsidiary companies, however, has not
done well at all and has probably cost
the company quite a substantial sum
since 1959.
At 14s. 6d. the shares show an im-
mediate dividend yield of 4.3 p.c. from
the 121 p.c. dividend. This dividend was
covered 1.1 times by the consolidated
earnings and nearly 1.3 times by the
parent company earnings. Unfortunately
one can only have reservations now re-
garding future growth prospects and the
shares seem fully priced at these levels.


Extracts from
The Chairman's Address for the Twenty-Sixth Annual General Meeting
REPCO LIMITED
The 1962/63 Year and
the Current Outlook
In my address last year I ex-
pressed confidence that 1962/63
would be a year of progress
and I am pleased to report that
the year fulfilled its early
promise and enabled the achieve-
ment of a satisfactory profit by
all our groups of companies.
Our company, and the auto-
motive industry generally, had a
successful and prosperous year.
We need to remain vigilant,
however, and alert to changes
in the pattern of trading if our
future and the future of our
industry is to be guarded. There
is a trend away from local manu-
facture of vehicles and com-
ponents which, if unchecked,
will constitute a serious threat
to our industry, to Australian
industry generally, and to our
whole economy. This condition
was inherent in the relaxation
of import controls in 1960 and
provided the natural opportunity
for some vehicle builders in
Australia to return to sourcing a
substantial portion of their re-
quirements from overseas.
A submission has been made by
the Federation of Automotive
Products Manufacturers to the
Minister for Trade requesting a
Tariff Board inquiry into the
motor trade in Australia. The
matter is currently under exam-
ination and we hope will result
in a reference to the Tariff
Board.
A decision to impose a reason-
able duty on "Knocked down"
chassis for both motor cars and
trucks would provide a stimulus
to the development of the in-
dustry and in addition to creat-
ing increased investment and
employment opportunities in
Australia, would effect a pro-
nounced saving in the national
import commitment.
We expect stable trading con-
ditions to operate throughout
1963/64 enabling steady expan-
sion of our activities and we
will again be concentrating on
the task of increasing our over-
seas business. We are confident
that in this area great opportu-
nities exist for expanding our
operations, and we believe
application of the proven prin-
ciples that we apply in the home
market, of providing first-class
products backed with first-class
service will bring us success.
Subsidiary Companies
(1) Engine Parts Group
This group of companies again
produced a record result and
the engine component manu-
facturing companies further in-
creased their percentage of
vehicle manufacturers' original
equipment contracts and spares
business.
During the year the company
introduced its new SSSS stain-
less steel piston ring. This piston
ring for brand line requirements
is similar in design to the very
successful Barflex ring developed
and marketed by Ramsay Cor-
poration, U.S.A., a subsidiary of
Thompson Ramo Wooldridge Inc.,
U.S.A.
The majority of vehicle engines
manufactured or assembled in
Australia are equipped with
stainless steel rings produced
by Russell Manufacturing Co.
Pty. Ltd. These rings for original
equipment are patented Sealed
Power rings which we manu-
facture under licence from Sealed
Power Corporation, U.S.A.
(2) Brake Group
This group has shown a very
sound rate of growth over the
past year, and I am pleased to
report that sales and profits in
all outlets were at record levels.
Export sales over a wide range
of products have been steadily
increasing and were further
stimulated by the visits of the
Group's Sales Manager to Africa
and the Philippines.
The technical assistance received
from our licensors, American
Chain & Cables Inc. of U.S.A.
has been of great value in our
manufacture of brake and con-
trol cables, and the production
of push pull control cables has
been introduced to the range.
These new type cables incor-
porating a nylon centred conduit
are quite revolutionary and are
new to the Australian market.
A new control valve has been
developed and should provide
excellent opportunities in both
domestic and export markets.
This valve, which is the only one
of its type in existence, is being
covered by world-wide patents.
The demand for our industrial
products including compressed
air equipment, Aeroquip hose
and re-usable fittings, has con-
tinued to expand.
(3) Transmission Group
This group operated profitably
through the year.
Since my address last year a
number of major items of
machinery have been installed
in order to maintain our factory
facilities abreast of world de-
velopments and to continue our
policy of equipping plant for
the most economical mass pro-
duction.
The export programme of this
group has been prosecuted
vigorously and particularly suc-
cessfully during the year.
We now have over 100 contract
clutch rebuilders operating in
Australia and New Zealand and
will shortly extend the scheme
to Malaysia.
(4) Garage Equipment and
Precision Tool Group
This group of companies had a
satisfactory year and recorded
increased sales and profits. I am
pleased to report that the special
effort in our overseas markets
has resulted in some substantial
orders being received.
We are confident that this group
will continue to make sound
progress in 1963/64.
(5) Merchandising and
Automotive Engineering
Group
THE SOUTHERN GROUP of com-
panies comprising Replacement
Parts Pty. Ltd., Victoria, Replace-
ment Parts (Tas.) Pty. Ltd., Tas-
mania, and Reed & Walker Ltd.,
South Australia, again recorded
increased sales and profits this
year.
In Victoria a branch was opened
at Ringwood in November last.
Premises are in course of con-
struction on the company's site
in Ballarat and this new branch,
which will provide full ware-
house and workshop facilities, is
expected to open in October this
year.
THE NORTHERN GROUP of com-
panies, Replacement Parts
(N.S.W. Div.) Pty. Ltd., Motor
Traders Pty. Ltd., Motor Traders
(Qld.) Pty. Ltd. and Motor
Supplies Pty. Ltd., produced im-
proved sales and profit figures
for the year but to a large ex-
tent it was a year devoted to
improving administrative controls
and internal efficiencies and to
the movement and training of
staff in preparation for the
planned programme of expansion
for 1963/64 and 1964/65.
A new branch was opened at
Liverpool in November and has
proved very successful. New
premises at Wollongong will be
ready for occupation by the
branch in October next and will
provide full merchandising and
automotive engineering services.
New branches will be opened
at Brookvale in November and
at Parramatta in February, 1964.
New branch premises are planned
for Tamworth, Dubbo and
Wagga to replace existing in-
adequate premises and a branch
site has been purchased at
Hornsby.
With these improved facilities
the company moves into a posi-
tion to provide first-class and, I
believe, unequalled merchandis-
ing and automotive engineering
services to the trade in New
South Wales.
Management attention has been
concentrated during the year on
the development of the com-
pany's automotive engineering
services in Brisbane and at
most other branches, with very
gratifying results. These services
were not provided by the com-
pany prior to 1960/61 and a
very commendable effort has
been made by management in
the training and instruction of
the personnel concerned. The
main automotive engineering
division in James 5t., Brisbane,
opened in 1961, is one of the
best equipped establishments of
its kind in Australia.
(6) Industrial Service and
Machine Tool Group
The Industrial Engineering Group
substantially improved its over-
all results for the year.
Unfortunately, the result of the
Tariff Board inquiry, to which I
referred in my report last year,
was most disappointing, and did
not give the necessary measure
of protection against imports
that this vital industry requires
for its full development.
(7) Engineering and
Research
During the year Repco Research
Pty. Ltd. completed several pro-
jects on products for our manu-
facturing divisions. This type of
research work does not, of
course, unless perhaps fortui-
tously, yield early results but
we feel that our company's
future and our national interest
demand that we devote some
portion of our research appro-
priation to this purpose.
Research activity in Australian
industry is growing each year
but the size and scope of Aus-
tralian industry imposes much
greater limitations on research
appropriations than in the
larger industrial operations over-
seas. The special depreciation
allowances available to research
establishments under the Com-
monwealth Taxation Acts are a
valuable aid but much greater
stimulus to Australian industrial
research is needed and it is
hoped that industry's representa-
tions in this regard will be acted
upon by the Federal Govern-
ment.
Export
Sales divisions of our manu-
facturing companies co-operated
effectively with our export group
of companies overseas during
the year in the further develop-
ment of our export trade
throughout the world, with ex-
cellent results. Sales executives
from the manufacturing groups
continued to make visits to over-
seas markets, consolidating re-
lationships with existing cus-
tomers and seeking out opportu-
nities for new business.
Our production for export has
now reached substantial volume
in our manufacturing companies,
permitting a higher level of
employment to be maintained,
and making a satisfactory con-
tribution to the companies'
profits.
Shareholders are aware we have
investments in India and in New
Zealand in the manufacture of
automotive engine parts, and
plans for the establishment in
New Zealand of manufacturing
facilities for other automotive
and industrial products are also
well advanced.
Consolidated Accounts
Profit and Loss
The Consolidated Nett Profit for
1962/63, after income tax pro-
vision was £1,828,933. This
profit was earned after provid-
ing £1,114,597 for income tax
and £594,967 for depreciation.
Associated Companies
Payen, Byrne & Blackford
Pty. Ltd.
Associated Power Seals
Pty Ltd.
We and our partners, Engineer-
ing Components Ltd., Slough,
England, decided during the
year that administrative and
capital changes in our two
gasket manufacturing companies,
Payen, Byrne & Blackford Pty.
Ltd., Brisbane, and Associated
Power Seals Pty. Ltd., Heidel-
berg, Victoria, which we have
had under consideration for
some time, should be imple-
mented. Coopers Mechanical
Joints (Australia) Pty. Ltd., pre-
viously a non-operating com-
pany, has now become a Hold-
ing Company in which Repco
Ltd. and Engineering Compo-
nents Ltd. are equal partners and
has acquired full ownership of
the two operating companies as
wholly owned subsidiaries.
The results from the two com-
panies for the year were ex-
cellent.
I am pleased to be able to
report that our associated com-
pany, Associated Engineering
(N.Z.) Limited, again improved
its results for the year.
In India, Bimetal Bearings Ltd.,
Madras, India, commenced
regular production in March last
and in the first months of its
operations has made excellent
progress. Production has in-
creased steadily each month and
the company is already operat-
ing profitably a very credit-
able achievement.
Indiapistons-Repco Ltd., Madras.
India, has now been incorporated
and the factory building is near-
ing completion. Some of the
specialised plant for the factory
has been designed and built by
our companies in Australia. All
plant and machinery is expected
to be delivered and installed
before the end of November.
In conclusion, I would like *o
thank my fellow Directors, our
Executives, Staff and all
Employees for their loyal co-
operation and for the excellent
year's work, and also our Dis-
tributors and Customers for
their continued support.
c. g. McGrath,
Chairman of Directors.
15th August, 1963.


ACCOUNTS
SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30
1959
1960
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
Less current
3496
6610
11,460
14,673
13,979
liabilities
2841
5619
9331
6958
12:006
Working capital
655
991
2129
7715
1973
Investments
—
—
93
125
125
Fixed assets
1755
2955
4661
5205
5809
Deferred assets
—
—
66
79
Intangibles
588
588
589
126
126
2998
4534
7472
13,237
3112
Loan capital
587
423
2703
7102
1321
Deferred capital
125
—
—
Orel, capital
1562
2531
2531
3797
3797
Reserves
724
1580
2238
2338
2994
2998
4534
7472
13,237
8112
Depreciation
122
187
324
454
522
Taxation
319
729
809
911
854
Net profit
684
i 178
1226
1257
1473
Dividend
169
316
506
664
759
Surplus
515
862
720
593
714
Earning rate
40.5
55.8
48.6
33.1
33.8
Dividend rote
10
15
20
17|
20
Div yield (a)
Price/'earnings
3.7
3.1
3.6
5.1
ratio (a)
8.8
8.6
8.5
10.3
H.gh prire (b)
15/-
50/-
75.6
57/6
47/3
Low price (b)
10/-
14/6
36/6
39/U
31/3
(a) End of September,
month
accounts presented.
(b) Previous co
throughout.
lendar
year;
reduced
to 10s.
units
BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Uncommonly Good Value
HHhe 5.6 p.c. dividend yield and 10.8
A p.c. earnings yield now offering
from the 10s. shares of Rothmans of
Pall Mall (Australia) Ltd. while priced at
about 365. is unaccountably generous for
a company which has just increased pro-
fit by 18 p.c. to a new record, and step-
ped up dividend from 17k p.c. to 20 p.c.
The current dividend is in no danger,
and shareholders must be closer to the
long-awaited bonus. Why then the cur-
rent market diffidence when almost
every other major stock is regarded with
the greatest optimism?
The chairman’s recognition that
competition will “undoubtedly intensify”
in the coming year was apparently
enough to frighten off the faithless fol-
lowers of the cigarette market. Rothmans
shares lost about 2s. 9d. from 365. within
ten days of Gallaher’s announcement
in June that it would enter the Australian
cigarette market.
In eight years Rothmans with six
brands has secured over half the Aus-
tralian cigarette market, leaving 94
other brands to compete for the rest.
Total market increased by about 3 p.c.
in 1962-63.
Rothmans claims that its King Size
Filter has the largest sale of any brand,
and sales are strong; Peter Stuyvesant
is the second largest seller of any brand,
has the largest sale in its price class, and
sales are increasing rapidly; and that
the King Size Plain is the largest selling
plain cigarette, with sales firm.
These three brands cater for the
biggest sectors of the trade. Their
volume sales allow mass production and
minimum selling costs per unit.
Rothmans has factories in Granville
(NSW) .md Tottenham (Vic.), tobacco
processing plants, leaf warehouses and
bond stores at Bundama and Mareeba
(Q’ld) and Tottenham. The two cigarette
factories worked two full shifts through-
out the year to achieve record output.
Australian cigarette manufacturers
have to use 43 p.c. of Australian leaf
in their products to qualify for a duty
rebate on imported leaf of 14 pence per
lb. Once the usage of Australian leaf
was 7k p.c., to allow rebate on 92k p.c.
of tobacco used, but now the rebate is
on only 57 p.c. of usage.
Rothmans places great emphasis on
quality, and preferred to limit output
in 1962-63 rather than use the local
leaf which was of unsatisfactory
quality.
Actual profit result for the year to
June 30 was an advance from
£1,257,112 to £1,473,026, after pro-
viding £853,886 (formerly £911,491)
for tax and £521,916 (£453,796) for
depreciation and amortisation.
Benefits from investment and export
development allowances, and costs con-
servatively written off in the previous
year’s accounts, all contributed to
alleviate the liability for tax in 1962-63.
Tax benefits are also expected in the
coming year.
Directors point to increased sales
volume, improvements in manufacturing
methods, careful cost control, and
benefits from past expenditure in de-
veloping new brands, as the factors
producing the higher profit.
Stocks are £2.2 million higher at
£13.1 million to meet increased “per-
centage usage” requirements and higher
sales volume. Balance date falls in the
middle of the tobacco buying season,
when short-term funds are raised to
finance leaf stocks.
Included in loan capital are un-
secured deposits maturing beyond a year
from balance date, although the de-
positors had the right to redeem before
maturity on giving notice to the com-
pany. In 1961-62 a greater proportion
of long-term deposits than usual was
accepted, but the pattern of borrowing
has now returned to normal.
Since 1955 the company has spent
£2.5 million on new buildings and £4.5
million on plant and equipment. A new
leaf threshing machine was installed at
Bundama during 1962-63.
Management is very conscious of the
need for the most modern machinery.
As new machines become available,
existing ones are written off and the
latest installed. The company is com-
mitted for capital expenditure of
£460,000 in the current year.
Original shareholders have enjoyed
unrivalled growth in their investment
through a five-for-four issue in 1958, a
one-for-two in 1960, and a one-for-two
in 1961, all at par.
The need for high profit retention
must ease off now the company is estab-
lished, and a higher pay-out ratio would
be justified. However, the high earning
and dividend rates may attract un-
favorable attention. For political reasons
it may be expedient to reduce these by
a bonus.
For those seeking worthwhile return
on their money, and better than average
prospects of capital gain, Rothmans
shares in today’s market look un-
commonly good value.
WESTFIELD DEV. CORE. LTD
Gets a Cut Both Ways
Tnvestor-builder Westfield Develop-
ment Corporation Ltd increased gross
profit from investment properties from
£71,784 to £105,263 during the 1963
fiscal year, while gross profit from de-
velopment projects declined from
£125,725 to £120,155.
Directors say development projects
can be expected to add. to profits for
some time to come, but the investment
aspect is playing a greater role in the
company’s affairs.
A chief object is to create equities in
real estate through the development
of income-producing properties, which
when completed are managed by the
company for recurring income.
In their 1963 report directors drew
the analogy between Westfield’s invest-
ment properties and an investment com-


ACCOUNTS SUMMARY
— (E'OOO)
iune 30
1961
1962
1963
Current assets
250
386
611
Less current liabilities
60
140
161
Working capital
190
246
450
Investments
—
21
14
Fixed Assets
437
681
762
Intangibles
26
25
22
653
973
1248
Loan capital
272
463
616
Ordinary capital
261
362
453
Reserves
120
148
179
653
973
1248
Depreciation
3
5
Taxation
15
38
48
Net profit
27
59
74
Dividends
18
30
43
Surplus
9
29
31
Earning rcte
14.7
19.5
17.0
Dividend rate
10
10
10
Dividend yield (a}
6.3
price/earnings ratio (a)
8.2
High price (b)
7/6
12/-
Low price (b)
47-
6/6
(a) End of September,
month
accounts
presented.
lb) Previous calendar year.
Cost
Cur-
No. of
Name of
Date
Per
rent
Shares
Company
Bought
Share
Price
1000
Hanimex
23/5/62
6/9
11/6
500
Courtaulds
14/1/63
16/1
20/-
1000
A. V. Jennings
28/2/63
10/9
12/6
200
Carpet Manu.
23/5/63
23/-
26/-
3000
Salamander
26/6/63
2/3
3/-
1000
Waltons new
3/7/63
15/9
16/9
400
Pioneer Concrete
3/7/63
13/9
16/3
400
United Telecasters
3/7/63
5/-
—
1000
Plastic Coatings,
new
24/7/63
7/-
8/6
400
Paynter & Dixon
31/7/63
18/6
21/-
200
Hunter Douglas
7/8/63
33/-
33/-
1000
Vesta
8/8/63
3/3
3/4
1000
Aeron
14/8/63
7/9
8/-
400
Keith Harris
15/8/63
30/-
30/6
100
Pye Industries
21/8/63
74/-
80/-
600
Clyde Industries
22/8/63
11/-
11/-
200
AOG
29/8/63
44/-
46/6
1000
Pacific Island opt
5/9/63
1/11
5/6
400
Aust. Factors (short)
11/9/63
7/7
8/2
500
Elders GM
12/9/63
22/-
21/3
400
Cahills
18/9/63
11/-
11/-
200
James Hardie
19/9/63
117/6
117/6
pany’s portfolio of shares and securities.
Through Westfield’s specialised re-
sources, however, the company (in
directors’ own words) “achieves a cost
well below market value, whereas an in-
vestment company purchases its port-
folio at current market prices.”
Shopping centres constructed at Dee
Why and Eastwood will shortly be in-
come-producing. The one at Dee Why
will meet strong competition from the
Warringah Mall at Brookvale.
The Eastwood centre has been sold to
and leased back from a leading Austra-
lian financial institution.
Other development projects finished
during the year were groups of stores
for G. J. Coles and others at Black-
town and Yagoona, and a Legacy
branch at Dee Why.
Work has just started on site prepara-
tion for the new centre at Toombal, six
miles from Brisbane.
The chairman (Mr Paul Kent) told the
annual meeting that the liquid position
was “very good,” so that call-up on the
724,272 ss. shares now paid to 2s. 6d.
was not anticipated before the end of
the current financial year.
This type of operation construc-
tion and leasing of properties is in
its infancy in Australia. Similar property
companies on London Exchange are gen-
erally highly regarded, and it is reason-
able to deduce that they will become
more popular here as investments in time
to come.
The investor-builder gets a cut both
ways the leases on the properties have
escalator clauses which bring in higher
rents if the occupants do well, and the
value of the properties rises accordingly,
giving scope for revaluation.
The shares have been as high as 12s.
last year and 10s. this year to date so
that the present price of 9s. (to yield
5.6 p.c.) is not excessive. There’s no
need to rush into this one, but a modest
parcel could prove an interesting hold-
ing for someone prepared to accept the
attendant risks.
SPECULATORS DIARY
A Revival of Confidence
Tt had to happen. After an 11 p.c. rise
since July 1, the market shuddered
early this month and slid down 3 p.c.
But what of it? There had to be some
reaction.
It is difficult to picture a more
promising future rising employment,
rising bank advances and a steady
balance of trade to name but a few
trends.
Mr Shrapnel was back in Sydney last
week giving his views on the economy.
In recent years he has built up a very
consistent record of accurate prediction.
And this time he was a bundle of
optimism. In particular he stressed the
potential growth in the building industry.
Already with A. V. Jennings, Paynter
and Dixon, Salamander Salt, Pioneer
Concrete, Hunter Douglas and Aeron in
the portfolio, those investors who like a
balance over industry in a portfolio
would be shocked to know that I was con-
sidering buying another building stock.
Yet there sat James Hardie crestfallen
at 117 s. 6d., after having topped the
140 s. mark last month. I have extolled
the virtues of this stock before. Just
allow me to repeat that its earnings in-
creased at the annual rate of 15 p.c.
during the recession years. If a company
can do that in a recession what can it
do in a boom?
Literally rolling in the green stuff, I
bought 200 shares. Such confidence in
the building industry was not to stop
here. Another 400 A. V. Jennings were
purchased, increasing the holding to
1000.
The final purchase for the week was
400 Cahills. This Sydney restaurateur
made a quiet debut onto the Exchange a
couple of years ago.
If you simply compare the profit
figures for this year and last, there is a
fall of £5500. But the 1963 figure is
after a deduction of £12,900 for estab-
lishment costs of the “Brass Rail Buffet”
in King St and the “Terrace Restaurant”
in Double Bay. Each is now showing a
profit.
Unlike a lot of annual reports which
give no clue whatsoever as to the physical
operations of the company, the managing
director, Mr Max Sturzen, shows just
what should be done. His review is both
informative and impressive.
Provided this solid little stock catches
the public’s imagination, it should move
up a couple of shillings.
Perhaps this addition seems rather
tame to those Pacific Island options I
bought only a couple of weeks ago.
What a jump! The price shot through the
target of 5s. I had set for 1000. Selling
at an average price of 5s. 3d. gave me a
cool £150 profit.
Whilst some people may have been
very bewildered about this spectacular
rise, I have been in the same state about
a smaller but also significant rise. I refer
to Mayfair Hams.
Here is a company which has sported
a proud record, including two bonus
issues in the last four years. But finer
profit margins have crept in. In effect,
the company faces a greatly different
future. It cannot and should not be re-
garded now as a growth company. This
is no reflection on the management —
just a case of changing times.
Profits fell from £214,700 in 1962. to
£76,100 in 1963. Even a bigger relative
fall was the tax provision, from £135,300
to £14,400. The earning rate of 12 p.c.
barely covers the 10 p.c. dividend.
So what happens to the share price on
this result? After touching 27s., it
rallies up to 32s. What’s more it looks
like staying there!
The whole thing is beyond me.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
1000 Pacific Island options, 5/3 .. £251
BOUGHT
200 James Hardie, 117/6 £1195
400 A. V. Jennings, 12/6 £256
400 Cahills, 11/- £226
My revival of confidence has put the
account back into debit again. This time
it stands at £234.
The portfolio now is:


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
The Country Comes to Melbourne
“A Fantasy Beneath the Physical ”
Tn Melbourne, the country has come
to town for 10 days—and an annual
splash of color to the drab suburb of
Ascot Vale.
It is Show time, when myriads of
town-dwellers flock to the ground to
gratify a yearning for rural things. If
the weather behaves until the end of
the event on Saturday, attendances could
for the first time exceed three-quarters
of a million.
All the flavors of the country are
evident at the Showground. There are
enough spanking new tractors —bigger,
surely, than any you have seen before
—to pull the whole Showground side-
ways. Giant new machines, which have
many wheels, and seats for small boys
to be pebbles on, dwarf the white-
coated salesmen who tend them like
circus trainers. Windmill blades flash
silver above the crowds and the chug
of pumps spewing blue or orange water
brings back memories of childhood
visits to an uncle’s farm.
Walk through the narrow streets of
Melbourne’s showtown, its gutters flap-
ping with litter, sinewy blondes brand-
ishing kewpie dolls and screaming as
though you were to blame for them, and
you must take care to step between
the casual dollops of a passing bull. The
shout of an attendant takes the place
of traffic lights as you halt for six sleek
cows to cross on their way to the ring,
not a speck marring their shine.
The arena intimidates with its swirl
of horses, riders and leather. Eques-
triennes in tight black coats and backs
straight as masts sweep waxenly by as
Boadicea must have done, looking as
though they had spent the rest of the
year being groomed along with their
horses. And there, smiling admiringly
at them, able, apparently, to understand
and communicate with these remote
goddesses of the saddle, are the well-
costumed matrons with highly-polished
brown shoes that you have been seeing
every year.
In the produce section, young people
reared on supermarket packages stare
at wedges of cheese, naked and un-
labelled, that have escaped from another
age. Profusions of hay, apples, honey
and dried fruits arranged in giant
mosaics remind the buyer of groceries
that these things come further than
from the shop.
For all its farminess, however, the
Show is not a perfect image of the
agriculture it is meant to reflect. It is
not simply that to attract its visitors
and collect its takings the Royal Agri-
cultural Society must add sideshows,
piestalls and commercial stands to it?
own attractions, or that the animals
which create the most interest are not
beef cattle, dairy cattle or pigs, but the
dogs, which produce only barks and
fleas. Nor is it just that the wide-
girthed axemen in long, white trousers,
making butter of logs, bear little
resemblance to the mechanical saws that
are these days used for hewing trees,
or their logs to the butane gas that has
taken the place of firewood in many
farm-houses.
that wool, Australia’s most import-
ant primary product, seems to have
moved —sulkily, sexily, moodily and all
—from the shearing shed to the dining-
room.
Or that farm machines gleaming on
the tanbark seem somehow phoney
against the memories of battered imple-
ments you have discerned beneath rust
and dust on farms. Or that the Clydes-
dales tramping the turf with such pride
and power have shrivelled to a curio in
today’s farming scene —an anomaly
that gains interest, incidentally, from
the fact that there has been a sharp
increase in Clydesdale entries this year.
Taken together, all these things might
hint at a fantasy beneath the physical,
yet it is not until you pass seriously
from display to competition that the
basis for the criticism becomes clear.
The young science of genetics has
shown that an animal that is perfect in
its conformation may not be capable
of imparting its excellence to offspring.
Indeed, at one Sydney Royal Show it
was discovered only after ribbons had
been placed around necks that the
champion Shorthorn bull possessed only
one testicle. Had the animal entered the
ring with only one horn —a far less
serious defect —it would instantly have
been banished from the judge’s con-
sideration.
Nor can looks be relied on to know
how an animal will itself perform com-
mercially. Without actually trying it
out, no one can tell how the most
beautiful dairy cow will milk. With-
out cutting up the carcass and measuring
it, no one can tell what sort of bacon
the finest-looking pig will produce.
In short, one of the most serious
criticisms of shows is that they and the
stud breeders who support them have
not kept up with the modern scientific
and commercial realities.
Commercial breeders who don’t have
much to do with shows are also being
made aware these days of the import-
ance of buying breeding stock that do
not give a false impression of quality
because of environmental factors, such
as extravagantly costly feeding and ex-
pensive indoor housing that have
nothing to do with their intrinsic
hereditary value.
HThe gulf between the judge’s verdict
A that can dismiss a cow from the
championship line-up because of a spot
on its tail and the ordinary farmer’s
need for more production for each unit
of capital and operating expenditure
tends to widen as more is learned of
commercial needs and the most prac-
tical ways of meeting them.
Some progress has been made by
show authorities towards closing the gap.
Fat cattle classes in which beasts are
judged first on the hoof and then on
the hook are an example of this,
although the divergence in results
obtained by the two forms of appraisal
show how much remains to be done in
applying the lessons of this kind of
contest.
In the reconciling of facts and fancies
where livestock are concerned, New
Zealand has given Australia many a
lesson. An Australian who returned
from that country recently after judging
at a national Hereford show said:
“Generally the cattle were not as highly
fitted as in the Australian shows and it
was a pleasure to judge them in more
natural condition.”
According to Mr Roy Gallagher,
technical officer at Ruakura Animal
Research Station, New Zealand, pedi-
gree fads in all classes of livestock in
that country are on the way out.
“Breeders,” he says, “are prepared to
use unregistered stock as sires if they
have demonstrated superior production
qualifications.”
Thoughts like this are no doubt in the
minds of some who watch the color and
majesty of the grand parade of the
country’s prize-winning stock at Mel-
bourne Show this week.


SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
North Sydney
Vacancies exist for MASTERS to teach Science
(any branch) and Mathematics from begin-
ning of Term 1, 1964. Apply in writing to
Headmaster, B. H. TRAVERS.
WOLAROI COLLEGE, ORANGE
SCHOLARSHIPS available for boys entering
Ist Form and 4th Year in 1964.
For details apply to the Headmaster,
D. H. PREST, M.Sc., C.Ed., M.A.C.E.
Legal Notices
TO Relatives of JAMES MAHER, deceased,
late of 160 Egan Street, Kalgoorlie, W.A.,
some of whom may bear the name Meagher
or O’Meagher.
On the 29th August, 1963, His Honour Mr.
Justice Negus in the Supreme Court of
Western Australia gave leave to the Public
Trustee the administrator of the above estate
to distribute the estate upon the footing,
inter alia, that all the nephews and nieces of
the deceased save and except Sarah Ann
McGrath predeceased him, and further
directed that the Order should not be acted
on for a period of 90 days and that advertise-
ments be published for James Michael
McVeigh (or McVay) and Thomas Richard
McVeigh (or McVay) two nephews of the
deceased. Any claim by the above named
James Michael McVeigh and Thomas Richard
McVeigh or any other relative should be
directed to the Public Trustee, 555 Hay Street,
Perth, W.A., forthwith. W. J. ROBINSON,
Public Trustee.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: JOHN MacLAREN MEDLAND, formerly
of 4 Bishop Lefroy Road, Calcutta, India.
TAKE NOTICE that JEAN MARIE MEDLAND
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2892 of
1963 on the ground of separation. If you
wish to defend you may enter an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
28th day of October, 1963, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
McDONELL & MOFFITT, Solicitors, of 6
Wynyard Street, Sydney. If you do not wish
to file an answer but wish to receive a
copy of each document filed in the pro-
ceedings you should file a notice of address
for service on or before such date.— C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Beef Cattle Respond to Vitamin A
need for vitamin A by cattle on
A grain rations in feedlots was re-
vealed by recent experiments at Pur-
due University in Indiana, USA.
Dr T. W. Perry, of the Department of
Animal Science at Purdue, says that both
oral and injected vitamin A give con-
tinued response in beef cattle. Steer
calves being fed the ration of ground
ear corn, soybean meal and minerals and
which have been fed for 180 days show
typical symptoms of vitamin A deficiency
stiffness in the legs, dull, watery eyes,
and lack of bloom in the haircoat. On
the other hand, cattle which receive
20,000 i.u. of vitamin A daily, or those
injected initially with either a million
units or 6 million units, gain faster than
those on the control lot, and do not
indicate typical vitamin A deficiency
symptoms.
Dr Perry said that cattle which were
injected initially with 1,000,000 units
six months previously showed indications
that their reserves of vitamin A were
seriously diminished. But cattle which
were injected initially with 6,000,000
units were holding the level of vitamin
A in their blood.
“It would appear,” said Dr Perry,
“that the use of vitamin A must be
followed rather universally under beef
cattle feeding conditions typical of the
corn belt if maximum gain and feed
efficiency are to be realised.
“Several years’ research at Purdue on
the effect of vitamin A has shown that,
in addition to its effect on growth rate,
secondary effects such as better feed
efficiency and better carcass quality
naturally result from animals which are
doing better as the result of receiving
vitamin A.
“This year’s research has indicated
that we have now a new method of ad-
ministering vitamin A, which is probably
as successful as feeding it. The injection
of vitamin A is quite effective.”
"The Bulletin” Crossword No. 764
ACROSS
I—Girls are in the middle of the topmost grade. (9)
6—Split hundred went away. (5)
9—Constellation seen in an airfield by some American
prosecutor. (9)
10— The dorsal aspect of the insect thorax is lacking
stomach and so the mount runs wildly. (5)
11— Keynote what gives pep? (5)
12— A film cut a somewhat edited appreciation of and
acceptance of secret Sicilian terrorism. (5, 4)
14—Food appears nipped back by the French. (10)
16—Hedge in ditch mirth. (4)
18— Queen Elizabeth taking some
direction for the eagle. (4)
19 — Not filthy on arrival and
tells the truth. (5, 5)
21— They’re very sorry cloth
comes in. (9)
22 The wrath of Roy Rene
fabric. (5)
24 Nag would not be insulted to
hear this famous meeting
place of Stanley and Living-
stone. (5)
25 Who says this is a machine
for making espresso? (9)
27 Girl going to a mass. (5)
28— A Passover arrangement for a
washing-up aid. (4-5)
DOWN
1— Rooster as taken from the
cash caper with some nasty
grin. (11)
2 First-class hide-out for a
saint. (5)
3 Drinking money? (4, 4)
4 Never heartened by this
ancestress. (3)
5 Flute Snares, (anagram) (11)
6 Diana can’t be seen in the
Canadian section of the Holy
lands. (6)
7 Ten obscured our years in
the suite of an important
traveller. (9)
8 — Dictum upset Kitty’s father.
(3)
12 —Poles remain affected by those
who contend with posts. (4, 7)
13—Whoever puts up with an
express attendant of a bride?
(5-6)
15—The ruminant’s third stomach
is mother to Japanese un-
truthfulness. (9)
17—Rascal with the Queen’s
scuttles. (8)
20—One Gilbertian feminist is a
redskin. (6)
23 Pronoun waits statelessly.
(3)
24 Smithy offsider? (3)
26—Vegetable ammunition. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 763


>
i-r
0
\\\
A
m
m
I
■HI
Urn
u
m
.
h,\?
Make sure of receiving
your new, brighter
Bulletin regularly
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? J~j or
A renewal subscription? I ]
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
subscription to THE BULLETIN.
months


i
sar^%
BP 1963 ’)&
JBPE
• ■
ms *o+*.
.
.
mm
«>"*4mmm
NEW HOLDEN
New Power-Swept styling! Great new engines!
More miles per gallon! Same low prices!
Everywhere you go these days, people are talking about
the great new Holden. Take a good look at Holden’s new
Power-Swept styling, its gleaming Magic-Mirror colours, its
rich new interiors and you’ll see some reasons why!
Take a drive and you’ll find even more! The eager thrust
of Holden’s great new power combines with its luxurious
Red Carpet Ride to give you great new driving pleasure!
Add Holden’s new practical features . . . the bigger luggage
compartment, the new “modified zone" windshield for
greater safety, the new two-speed wipers with bigger blades
. . . the fact that, with all its power, Holden gives you more
miles per gallon . . . and you’ll agree Holden is unmatched
value for your money. If you ever wondered why it is so
many more people choose Holden* than all other 6-cylinder
cars combined, a drive in this new one should answer all
your questions. See your Dealer today!
149 cubic inch 100 h.p.
179 cubic inch 115 h.p
TWO COMPLETELY NEW 6-CYLINDER ENGINES!
The lively 100 H.P. "149” has 33% more power
. . . the mighty 115 H.P. “179” has 53% more!
More miles to the gallon, too, with new and
highly efficient combustion chamber design,
higher 8.8:1 compression ratio and new design
rear axles with higher ratios. New smoothness
and quietness with new 7-bearing crankshaft
and hydraulic valve lifters. New service
economy with 6,000-mile oil changes!
AUSTRALIA'S OWN CAR FROM £BB5 PLUS TAX.
GENERAL
MOTORS-HOLDEN'S. *rego. h.iss
