

-A I ° J I cl 2
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.IBBQ
Colwell
i. j|
fl 11 9 % /
I 1 91 | 1 m/
wf@ @ ®
The Bulletin


a pleasure to change to
CRAVEN FILTER
THE CLEAN
CIGARETTE
that’s kind
to your throat
in packets
of TEN!


National Notebook
;§latinee idol
Not since Max Qldaker hung up his
“Pinafore” suit and retired to Tas-
mania has J. C. Williamson’s had a home-
town matinee-idol on their hands. That
j s , until they found Kevin Colson, of
Hurstville, Sydney. Or, rather he found
them.
Mr Colson was then working as a
television announcer, a job he had ap-
plied for and got on the strength of
having appeared six times on a religious
programme and announced, “And now
we present Dr Malcolm Mackay.”
Then with the full weight of a couple
tof amateur productions for his local
i church behind him he auditioned for the
juvenile lead in Cyril Ritchard’s produc-
tion of “The Pleasure of His Company.”
After a week of rehearsal, Mr Ritchard
wanted to send for an American actor,
hut Williamson’s persuaded him to per-
severe. “There were so many things I
didn’t know,” Mr Colson
said, “that I held every-
thing up by asking ques-
tions.”
Mr Colson then took
over the lead in “Irma la
Douce” during its run and
now is starring in “Carni-
ival” at Sydney’s Theatre Royal. After
that, Mr Colson hopes there may be a
straight play with something in it for him
and later in the year there is “Camelot.”
A whole round table of knights should
have room for a 24-years-old, handsome
juvenile lead.
The main thing, Mr Colson believes, is
to keep working, even if all the shows
are not hits nor all the parts ideal. He
believes in hard work. When he was
getting started he used to work six nights
a week as a cook at a drive-in theatre to
make extra money.
Now to make extra money he flies
down to Melbourne once a week to do
television commercials (when “Carnival”
"'as on in Melbourne, he used to fly to
Sydney). His voice is used for Peter
Stuyvesant cigarette advertisements (he
does not smoke) and for Ford cars (he
does drive). “I can make a couple of
hundred pounds a day, and they pay my
a ' r fares, so it is well worthwhile,” he
said.
Chamber Music
| After the full-house performance re-
| cently for the Sydney Camerata,
Pianist Miss Tessa Birnie’s new chamber-
music group, we talked to her about
future plans. Her own plans include
a three-month tour of New Zealand to
■ immediately.
: What does she hope to achieve with
the Camerata? “The aim is simply tc
present programmes of rare and beauti-
ful music,” she said. “Most musicians
here have no access to great libraries of
music. There are hundreds of great
works, even by famous composers, which
have not yet been performed here.”
Miss Birnie said that big audiences,
no matter how enthusiastic, were not an
adequate solution to the problem of
presenting a concert by a professional
chamber orchestra. “The cheapest way
to put on chamber music is to engage
players for three rehearsals and a con-
cert at about £3BO for a conductor and,
say, 23 musicians,” she said. “But this
is hardly to be recommended. Maxi-
mum receipts, using a hall suitable for
chamber music, would be about £200.”
Miss Birnie said the answer was fin-
ancial grants to chember orchestras by
various sections of the community, as
is done overseas.
“And I would like to see not just one
symphony orchestra in
Sydney but at least two;
and not just one chamber
orchestra, but at least six,”
she said. “Among several
reasons for this is the fact
that no soloist can get a
concerto engagement of
consequence in this country unless the
ABC offers it to him. I know of no
parallel to this anywhere in the world.
We must build up many music organisa-
tions so that the finest resident artists
can eventually make a living here as
concert artists. As it stands now, the
men carting the piano to the hall often
get more money than the pianist.”
Utopia Limited
■jl/fR and Mrs Jeffrey Forse, the ad-
vance guard of the projected Utopia
to be founded off the Queensland coast,
has just returned to the mainland after
a two weeks’ survey of Middle Percy
island, about 60 miles south east of
Mackay. When the Forses got back to
Mackay they found a flood of applica-
tions from Australians, mainly in NSW,
Victoria 'and Queensland.
The would -be Utopians know that
similar schemes have failed in the past.
According to Mr Forse the stumbling
blocks were religious differences and
proximity to a city. Flence the choice
of an island location and the prerequisite
that all members must have tolerant
views on religion.
Plans are that an advance party of
about 20 will go to the chosen island
about June, to be followed in batches by
the 100 other people waiting in England.
Australians who have applied are receiv-
AUSTRALIA FELIX Page 29
Happy but guiltless . ..
•
Royal Tour: All the Queen’s Men 11
The Modern Calwell 12
Film-making in a Pymble Paddock 15
Dean Dixon: the Man for the Job 18
A Semblance of Permanence 19
How to Earn £l5O a Day, and
Spend It 23
Stalin: Face to Face 24
The Edge of Genius 36
Poetry 39
The New Wool Board Ballot 40
BHP Boosts Domestic Picture .... 41
Tidal Wave for the Treasury .... 44
•
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND ABOUT 18
OVERSEAS 24
FORUM 29
LETTERS 31
REVIEWS 33
RED PAGE 36
POETRY 39
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS ... 41
FEIFFER 58
THE BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO. r
PTY LTD
Head Office: 252 George St., Sydney.
Editorial & Advertising: Box 2521.
Phone 27-5971. Melbourne: Phone
MF 3341. Brisbane: Phone B 2691.
Adelaide: Phone W 4121-3.
Vol. 85
No. 4334


ing official application forms. These re-
quire answers to such questions as: Do
you think money would be used? What
are your views on religion? Do you see
the role of women as workers or inclivi-
l U ,t„ h r„T' Ve en W^ a,arey ? rV !t eW ? 0n
and ma.eSlism
-
r,- |
lra<le
A N Australian woman, recently in
A „ ’ *
S ° uth America, discovered that the
Australian trade mission there had stirred
up some interest. In Quito, Ecuador, the
owner of a small plastics factory made
her the gift of a handbag, a sample of
those he expects to export to Australia.
Visa rot’ll
viha ie.aiseu
"11/f rs Renata Irena Gronowski, wife of
the editor of the Melbourne “Tygod-
nik Katolicki,” Polish Catholic weekly,
and also a writer and theatre critic for
that paper, has been refused a visa to
Poland during her current European tour.
No official reason has been given,
but “7 Dm”, a Warsaw weekly specialis-
ing in overseas propaganda and mailed
free to any likely Polish address abroad,
obligingly came up with the explana-
tion that Mrs Gronowski was knocked
back because, after her earlier visit to
Poland in 1961, she had written a num-
ber of stories “which were amazingly
untrue . . . and painted everything in
black colors.”
It is this inept explanation, rather than
the refusal itself, that has infuriated Aus-
tralia’s Poles, because most Poles here
believe that what Mrs Gronowski wrote
on her previous trip was remarkably ob-
jective and devoid of political content.
Commercial Success
“This Australian tour has given me
1 confidence. I mean we appear to
have been a success even from a com-
mercial point of view” said Ceylonese
dancer Chitrasena. “it isn’t that he has
GA , . , „ , . ~
no confidence ,n h,s work, hts w, e,
Vajira, spoke from the chair opposite,
“ but when we toured Eastern Europe and
Moscow it was part of a cultural ex-
change. All kinds of people were in
Moscow you never saw such different
types and everyone was applauding
everything. We never really thought it
was a test »
Chitrasena and his Ceylonese dance
group have just completed their second
programme in Sydney and surprised
everyone including their sponsors it
appears by attracting an audience
averaged at more than 600 a night to
the vast and inaccessible Elizabethan
Theatre in New Town. On the basis of
their Sydney season, they have been
booked for a Melbourne season at Her
Majesty's Theatre, a venture that was
by no means certain when their tour
was planned.
We met Chitrasena, who created the
group, did the dance arrangements and
is so obviously the mainstay of the show,
in the very Australian lounge-room of
Abeyagunawardena, PRO for the Ceylon
Tea Bureau which, with the Elizabethan
Trust, has been sponsoring the dance ’
visit.
In Ceylon he has, singlehanded
duced a new school of dance- based °
the traditional Kandyan da’ncins h|]
adapted more freely 'with naturalist*
~aki. ,akin S ,he , of the large,,
tradtt.onal movements. “I,
a ! j een C ’ ISV nancially,” |, t
!?' d ', W ? , a t 0 need ™«J.
e , rOL! e ‘ s a ! c most P r °mising
students are frequently the ones with t™
mo So nO , exac „ a
success 3 Clal
'
But the reactlon 1S § ood - Ceylon has
no . theatre tradition. This dance drama
—lt S a better word than ballet—takes
lts P' ace - take a simple popular
theme and work on it. One of our dances
was described as the original‘Swan Lake’,!
that s not true really. It s a similiar
theme, but there must be many similar
themes.
But f° r me the interesting thing is
|° bee P developing. In India the dance
j s declining for the very reason that it
* s so stylised that if you see it once or
twice it s enough even for an Indian,
Ours is changing all the time.”
He seemed tired. “We spent since
nine o'clock this morning at the TV
studios,” he explained. “It was exhaust-
ing. We didn't get away until late after-
noon. I'm a little worried about the
camera angles. I suppose it will be all
right, but they didn't seem right to me,
And when we all got there prepared to
dance the first half of the piece, called
Karadiya, the producer told us they
"'Mow there's no color bar in the
pubs
It's time we sought better drinking
conditions


an ted to film the second part. They
L| n ’t consult me before and I under-
stand the producer hadn’t even seen the
L Wi I was much happier with the
, eo ple in Perth. They did a very good
j O 5 on their TV version.”
He was very flattered at the mainly
enthusiastic reviews the Australian press
| aS given his company. He was also not
i little gratified to get some of the praise
[or himself. A friend of Chitrasena’s
leils us, “You know in Ceylon the men
jre all very slight and they are jealous of
fliitrasena's physique. So the papers write
more about Vajira and the drummers and
[lie company.”
The Chitrasenas have three children.
Will they be dancers? “I hope not,” Chit-
rasena said fervently, “it’s a hard life.”
Glowing
Members of the Australian Institute
of International Affairs are glowing
over the Ford Foundation’s outright
gift of £40,000. And if that isn’t enough
they can look forward to the unlikely
lombination of Sir Garfield Barwick and
labor's Left - leaning Dr J. Cairns
addressing them on “Living With Asia”
-a series of talks arranged by the
Institute for the end of March.
This week’s cover
When we approached the Leader of
" the Federal Opposition, Mr Arthur
Calwell, and asked him to pose for a
portrait, he firmly refused. He was at
first reluctant to pose even for a photo-
graph but eventually said yes. The result
seems eminently successful.
Tanner
left the boongs to these ones."
PLAIN ENGLISH
DRINKING OR DISCRIMINATION?
JpAPUA-NEW GUINEA’S new Liquor Licensing Bill now before the
Legislative Council in Port Moresby does not altogether surprise.
The bill provides for two new types of licence, one for canteens and one
for taverns. A tavern licence will allow liquor sales on premises not
providing hotel accommodation. A canteen licence will allow an employer
to establish a wet canteen provided he employs not less than 25 people
living not less than 10 miles from the nearest licensed premises. On the
face of it the new bill seems a thoughtful extension of the new liquor
franchise to primitive, unsophisticated or remote Papuans unable to
enjoy a bottle of beer like their more fortunate brothers in urban areas.
But is that all there is to the bill?
Those with any experience of the Territory will be forgiven for
uncharitably suspecting that while the tavern licence may be aimed at
giving remoter Papuans a chance of a drink it may also be aimed at
segregating them from the town hotels while forcing them to think under
second-class conditions. The new drinking laws have not been in force
very long and they have not proved an outstanding success. It is important
to understand that they were not introduced to assuage a massive Papuan
thirst but to eradicate what Papuans in the towns and semi-rural areas
rightly regarded as a particularly offensive form of enforced racial dis-
crimination. The old drinking laws simply had to go.
The fact that far too many Papuans are now spending money they can
ill-afford on beer, that their wives and families are suffering, that in Port
Moresby bread consumption is down 1,000 21b. loaves a week is regret-
table and perhaps dangerous. But it has little to do with the real point
at issue, that the new drinking laws have not achieved what they set out
to do-remove the sense and practice of racial discrimination. It is perhaps
too much to expect in a short time that they should, just as it would be
foolish and unreasonable to expect a European to sit in an hotel lounge
and drink next to an unwashed primitive bush native. But nobody asks
him to.
What he is asked to do is to drink with good grace, if not in friend-
ship, in the company of the town Papuans who, for the most pait, turn
up at hotel bars no less neatly dressed than white customers and only too
often a great deal better behaved. In the event most Europeans have
taken refuge in their clubs or moved into the highei-piiced hotel lounges
or even prevailed upon hotel owners to consider building slum bais
where natives can drink by themselves. Only a fool would deny the
difficult economic and social problems connected with native di inking.
In terms of racial discrimination in one of the last colonial areas in the
world it is dynamite.
The Dutch when they occupied West New Guinea found it no less
so but they at least had the sophistication and sense to discriminate
against native drinkers only on social grounds. Provided a West Papuan
was suitably dressed and reasonably capable of mixing in an advanced
society he was made welcome in any West New Guinea home, hotel or
club. And there were many who were made welcome. In East New Guinea
those territorians and Administration officers who so noisily congratulate
themselves on the excellence of race relations in the Territory should
have a very careful look at any bills or proposals aimed at making it
even harder for native drinkers to move into white preserves on a basis
of equality. > ■ y


THIS AUSTRALIA
FOREIGN POLICY
THE A.L.P. AND THE US.
Will Labor defend Australia?
“JOE” CHAMBERLAIN
He started it
As I see it j
HThe United
A States’ mili-
tary strength
has a nuclear base. The Australian
Labor Party (or the Party’s left-wing
groups which are currently dominant)
believes Australia should renounce any
association that links the Australian
homeland directly or indirectly with
nuclear weapons.
These propositions are implicit in the
present left-wing agitation within the
ALP for Labor’s Parliamentary wing to
implement what the left-wing believes to
be Labor’s agreed nuclear policy and
to announce that, if a Labor Govern-
ment is returned to power at the next
Federal elections, it will instruct the
United States to withdraw from its £4om.
radio station at Exmouth Gulf in
Western Australia or to refrain from
putting the station to the use for which
it was built namely, the control of
US nuclear-armed submarines in waters
contiguous to Australia.
Once these propositions are projected
logically, you can see the reason for the
Parliamentary Leader’s alarm. As Cal-
well was reported to have told the ALP
Federal Executive meeting in Sydney
last week, Labor Parliamentarians would
be called upon to defend the indefens-
ible. With public interest being attracted
increasingly to the problem of defence,
by the uneasy march of events to Austra-
lia’s north where a largely Soviet-armed
Indonesia is “confronting” Malaya with
which Australia has military links, this
policy could mean political annihilation
for Labor’s Parliamentary wing or a
disastrous division of opinion within the
Party that would enfeeble Labor elector-
ally. For if Labor turns “thumbs down”
on the Exmouth Gulf project and tells
the United States to get out, the logic
of the situation then would demand that:
• Australia serve notice upon the
United States that it would accept direct
aid, protection, or succor from the
United States on one condition only.
• Such United States forces as the
United States made available for such
aid, protection or succor should divorce
themselves from their nuclear base and
operate on purely conventional lines
and what may, in a future war or even
limited hostilities, be an outmoded
fashion.
The United States might accept such
a condition if it regarded Australia’s
safety of paramount US interest.
But the attitude taken by the United
States as recently as last year when
West New Guinea was an issue demon-
strated then there could be occasions
when US self-interest in this case
manifesting itself in the desire to placate
Indonesia in the hope of thereby “con-
taining” Soviet influence in that country
differed from what Australia con-
ceived to be Australia’s self-interest.
Once Australia laid down the condi-
tions on which the United States could
come to Australia’s aid and the with-
drawal of the Exmouth Gulf facilities
would amount to such a condition
the United States would be freed from
any moral or treaty obligation to come
to Australia’s aid if Australia ran into
difficulties unless it wanted to.
Labor would then have successfully
broken the links that war-time Labor
Prime Minister John Curtin in a bold
and successful experiment forged be-
tween Australia and the United States
during the darkest days of World War 11.
The ALP leftists are not impressed by
these arguments which Labor's Parlia-
mentary Leaders have been using to
them. Some of the leftists want to dis-
sociate Australia from any connection
with nuclear weapons for idealistic
reasons. Whatever the consequences for
Australia they are prepared to risk them
because they believe that the conse-
quences for mankind will be even worse
if all countries do not similarly disso-
ciate themselves from nuclear weapons.
Some of the leftists are committed ideol-
ogically and intellectually to the Com-
munist viewpoint. Fellow travellers
shrug off the arguments because they
find attractive the Marxist sponsored
line that if everyone but Communist-
governed countries disarm man will find
Paradise on earth (with plenty of jobs
available for would be Commissars who
proved their loyalty by getting on the
fellow - travelling band - waggon early).
Similarly the argument that the aver-
age Australian voter who wants his
homeland as well as his home to have a
reasonable guarantee of protection might
turn on the Labor Party if Labor clearly
reveals the intention of removing Aus-
tralia from a defence association wit
the United States while the United States
maintains (as it must) the nuclear align-
ment of its military forces is not
pressing the leftists.
They believe that there is considerable
THE HANGINGS
March 10, 1883
total executions in NSW from
1788 to 1878 was about 622.
The greatest number executed at one
time was nineteen, who were passed
off in Sydney one day in August,
1821. Throughout the year 1832 the
average hangings were a little over
three a fortnight.
npHE late furore regarding the play-
ing of “The Ticket-of-Leave” at
Perth is easily explained by the fact
that class distinctions are drawn to
their tightest limit there. The press
fosters this harsh system to a large
extent. Of the three leading journals
in the colony, one is ultra - aristo-
cratic; the second is most respectably
commercial; and the third out-and-
out Radical. Between the first and
last, and their parties, there is eternal
war; the middle one taking a sort of
obsequious middle course, according
to the side on which its bread is
buttered. West Australia sadly wants
an independent Liberal, broad-prin-
cipled paper, intelligently conducted,
Such a journal would give a wonder-
ful impetus to her prosperity at the
present epoch.


anti-Americanism in Australia which
coll ld be exploited.
There is anti-Americanism in Austra-
lia of course, just as considerable anti-
'gntish feeling has manifested itself at
pes. But this anti-British feeling only
manifested itself when there was no
jee ci for a pro-British attitude. When-
ever the need arose, Australia demon-
S ! ra ted that the anti-British feeling was
something that vanished quickly. My
feeling is that the anti-Americanism now
existing is of the same superficial kind
in d the Labor leftists would be kidding
ihemselves if they counted upon it for
votes at an election in which the issue
seas Australian relationships with the
United States.
[n the ultimate, however, this fear of
' electoral consequences could be the
[actor which will keep the Federal ALP
Conference (March 18 in Canberra)
from instructing Calwell and his Labor
Parliamentary colleagues to order United
Slates’ withdrawal from Exmouth Gulf
if a Labor Government is returned to
power.
On paper, the leftists have the num-
bers to force such an instruction upon
ihe Parliamentarians if they so desire.
They control Victoria, where ALP
members have been “brain-washed” on
the nuclear issue at ALP approved
Peace” Conferences organised by the
(Communist Party.
Queensland is similarly left - wing.
The six ALP Federal Conference dele-
gates from Queensland were elected by
the Brisbane Trades’ Hall bloc. The Bris-
bane Trades Hall is under Communist
Party dominance, and as the recent ALP
Convention in Bundaberg showed very
dearly, Queensland Labor Parliamenta-
rians must be the docile mouthpieces
lor these forces “or else.”
Western Australia, leftist and still
under the major influence of Mr F. E.
(“Joe”) Chamberlain, sponsored the
original resolution seeking the expulsion
°f the United States from its Exmouth
Gulf station for proposing to “control”
its atomic submarines from that base.
A section of the Tasmanians are de-
feated leftist. As each State sends six
delegates to a Federal Conference
(which is Labor’s supreme policy-making
authority), the leftists have a clearcut
Majority.
The thing that may save Labor and
Calwell is if the leftists can be per-
vaded to the viewpoint that the electors
"'ill not stand for ordering the Americans
Mrt of Exmouth Gulf while the situa-
,lOn to Australia’s north is such that at
% time Australia could be looking for
distance to the United States.
The leftists will not be anxious for an
Sectoral setback ith the issue so clear.
Calwell’s tactics in taking his electoral
worry about the attitude of Tom Uren
(NSW) and the other Caucus leftists,
first to the ALP Federal Executive and
now on to the Federal Conference, must
further undermine the influence of the
Parliamentary wing. Once the Labor
concept was that the Federal Executive
and the Federal Conference decided
broad policy and the Parliamentary
wing (which had the expertise ) decided
detail, tactics, and timing. The Execu-
tive made an interpretation of broad
policy last year. It said that Labor was
against nuclear arms and was prepared
to renounce them if countries within its
geographical area (it named these
countries) were similarly prepared to
~ J u • j , x
renounce them. But it emphasised that
T i , . , , , r •!.,
Labor did not stand for a unilateral,
, . ~ , , ’
unconditional rejection of the use of
, c 1 . . , , ,
nuclear arms for Australia s defence.
t, .. , . . ,
Then the Executive made its mistake.
~ , .. „ , .—. ~ ..
On a detail Exmouth Gulf it
, ,
endorsed the Western Australian resolu-
t,°n calling for aefon against bases in
Australia which were to be used tor
the control of nuclear submarines.
Th.s while not directly in conflict with
its previous decision was not in harmony
with it as it had said Australia should
renounce nuclear arms only if other
countries renounced them and this
proviso had not been met.
As I see it, it was the type of thing
that should have been fought out in
Caucus. Instead Calwell went running
to the Executive. “Tell us what to do,”
was in effect what he said,
Even if on this occasion, the leftists
arrive at the conclusion that public
opinion is likely to be against them at
the polls and do not tell Labor’s Parlia-
mentary wing to do something that the
electorate will not accept, they may still
rub their hands together gleefully. They
have had a “famous victory.”
... , ~ ,
If, however, the extreme leftists the
<4 . . , . . „ , ,
principles at any price advocates
. , f
take over the Conference (as they have
~ , . , , , * / ,
the numbers to do) and force a declara-
,. . T / . •„
tion that a Labor government will
. , . T t •*. a e* * ,
instruct the United States to withdraw
f c r- i# „,ai
from Exmouth Gulf the situation will
be even more jnteresti Such a dedara .
(ion made a inst the backgroU nd of
loomi troub , e to AustraUa - s north has
, he ten(ial , 0 u , the Labor Party
from , t 0 bottonl
ALAN REID
UNIVERSITIES
A TART EDITORIAL
Students v. Authority
PROFESSOR BAXTER
A memorial oration
THhat conglomeration of prosaic build-
ings on the old Kensington race-
course, the University of New South
Wales, contrives by a handy margin
over the turbulent University of Tas-
mania to top the bad publicity rating
for Australia’s nine universities. Last
week the University of New South
Wales was once again the centre of a
cause celebre —the affair of the Orien-
tation Week Handbook.
Censorship, threatened solicitor’s in-
junctions, resignations galore, alleged
defamation of the dead, a midnight
phone-call, heated exchanges, casting
votes and the son of the Vice-Chan-
cellor of the University were some of
the ingredients of a hot week behind the
high wire fences that close in the campus
at Kensington.
Orientation Week Handbooks, for new
students can be pretty much what an
editor wants to make of them. Some-
times they are dull, dreary catalogues,
with the traditional descriptions of the
University societies’ activities merely
pasted up from the previous year’s issue.
This year the editor of the Handbook,
Michael McDermott, saw it as serving
a more serious function. He wrote an
editorial deploring the manner in which
the University of NSW had developed.
As student controversy went it was
pretty mild—a tart reference to the Uni-
versity being a “wet-nurse and prosti-
tute” to industry’s needs was the most
harsh phrase.
Then he entered into debate with the
Vice-Chancellor of the University, Pro-
fessor Baxter, choosing the device of
printing, in full, the Vice-Chancellor’s
memorial oration to the first Chancellor
of the University, the late Mr Wallace
Wurth. This oration remains the nearest
thing to an official statement of the aims
of the University as seen by the present
administration. Mr McDermott added
19 footnotes to Mr Wurth s speech, indie-


ating his differences with the Professor
and the late Mr Wurth on just what role
a university should play.
In one footnote he went so far as to
suggest that Mr Wurth did not know
what a university was.
By last Friday week the Handbook,
approved as usual by the director of
student publications, was printed ready
for last week—Orientation Week. On
that day the first copies circulated to
Students’ Union officers.
That night the president, Mr R. Miller
said he received a phone call from the
Students’ Union Secretary, Mr R. Bax-
ter, the Vice-Chancellor’s son. Pre-
viously there had been no suggestion that
there was any conflict of interest in-
volved in Mr Baxter’s position as a
student leader and representative and his
position as his father’s .son.
After the midnight phone call there
were swift developments over the week-
end. The President, Mr Miller, sus-
pended by telephone the director of
student publications, Mr Bob Walker.
There were haggles with Mr McDermott
and his editorial staff, with hints of libel
and defamation and statements that the
whole issue of 3000 would have to be
burnt.
When the Students’ Union council
met on Monday night the edition
was still at the printers executive
members put forward an expurgated
make-up which would have left out the
editorial and Professor Baxter’s
memorial oration with the foot-notes.
The 5a verbal battle raged for hours
before the council tied 11 all on a
motion upholding the Executive’s action
in holding up distribution of the issue
and preparing the censored version. The
11 votes for the executive included two
members of the University administra-
tion, the Registrar, Mr McCauley, and
his deputy, Mr Rowe, who are ex-officio
members of the Students' Union.
The Council had before it a vague
Queen’s Counsel opinion which hinted at
defamation and possible libel.
The President, in the light of the vote,
then decided to make his casting vote
against himself on principle and re-
signed. The rest of the Executive follow-
ed and a caretaker executive found it-
self in office with the uncensored 3000
copies still at the printers.
The next few days saw legal rumbles
with threats of writs and the possibility
of counter-injunctions.
Last Wednesday night, the Council
assembled to face a challenge from the
resigned executive members who
claimed the meeting was not properly
called. Ultimately they walked out but
the meeting, legal or otherwise, went on
to elect a treasurer and authorised him
to pay for the books, which were
promptly handed over by the printers.
The book was distributed n;xt morn-
ing with a duplicated slip inserted stating
solemnly that the views expressed were
not necessarily those of the council, etc.
Even then the affair was not over
because the University of New South
Wales undergraduates were left with a
Students’ Council bitterly split facing
a certain dispute over the acceptance of
the books for delivery.
RICHARD HALL
SPORT
THE FLOREAT CLUB
Trouble among the “Mighty Magpies“
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
4 state or Federal election would be
a mere anti-climax to Collingwood
Football fans after last week’s clash be-
tween Mr Tom Sherrin and Mr John
Galbally for the presidency of the Col-
lingwood football social club. After weeks
of canvassing by the rival factions, a
record poll returned 5/4 on favorite
Sherrin by 1794 votes to 834.
There was all the paraphernalia of
a full-scale election—cars to bring vot-
ers to the polling booth, how-to-vote
cards and banners Hundreds of Magpie
fans were outside the clubrooms to hear
the declaration ot the poll.
Tom Sherrin, 46, is a sporting goods
manufacturer who, among other lines,
produces the footballs used in League
competition. John Galbally, 52, is ALP
leader in Victoria’s Legislative Council,
a former State Minister and a barrister,
who played for Collingwood back in
1933-34.
Collingwood is one ot the biggest and
wealthiest of the league clubs and its
esprit de corps is a by-word wherever
Australian Rules is talked. Somewhere
around 7,000 fans take out membership
tickets each year. The tickets entitle
them to see all the Magpie matches but
they have no say in the running of
the club.
The Club is run by the committee of
the Collingwood Football Social club, a
separate organisation, which has be-
tween 3,000 and 4,000 members. The
club is licensed and its premises at the
Collingwood Football ground cost
£200,000. Its two bars made a profit
of £29,500 last year, while another
£lO,OOO was cleared from the 300.
capacity dining room.
Membership of the club costs £4 a
year and its affairs are conducted by
a president, two vice-presidents, and
eight committee men, each elected for
three years.
This, however, does not complete the
organisational structure of the “Mighty
Magpies.” Within the club is an inner
junta known as the Floreats, the name
coming from the club’s motto “Floreat
Pica” (May the Magpie flourish). Th e
Floreats total about 20 and membership
is by invitation. Most are well-to-do
business or professional men and they
pay a joining fee of £5O. The Floreats
have their own separate room at the
ground and their avowed aim is to recruit
promising players, line up jobs for
players and generally smooth out any
financial or personal problems which
may stand in the way of a player doing
his best for Collingwood. Two members
of the Floreats are John and Joseph
Wren, sons of the famous John Wren
who died in 1953. However, the Floreats
are not part of the John Wren Senior
Machine since they only came into being
in 1961. Neither Galbally nor Sherrin
is a member of the Floreats.
¥>rior to last week’s show-down each
1 was a Vice-President of the social
club. When Syd Coventry announced his
retirement as President, the committee
endorsed Galbally as sole candidate for
the presidency.
At this stage Sherrin also supported
Galbally as the next President, but he
changed his attitude after he received a
petition from 300 members asking him
to run for the job. Spirited canvassing
ensued.
The two coaches, “Phonse” Kyne and
Neil Mann, both of whom are former
star players, issued a statement in sup-
port of Galbally. Kyne said: “Except for
Mr Sherrin, who on his own admission
broke his undertaking, 1 have the whole-
hearted support of a united committee
. . . Neil Mann and 1 are 100 per cent
behind Jack Galbally as w-e believe that
only if he is elected President can Col-
lingwood achieve unity and success.”
On the day of the poll seven players,
including Captain Murray \Veideman and
Vice-Captain Ray Gabelich, gave out
how-to-vote cards for Sherrin at the
booth. A surprised Galbally said he had
done his best to keep players out of
the election, and had declined offers ot
support from them.
When the poll closed at 8 p m. there
were several hundred latecomers milhng
around trying to lodge their votes. After
90 minutes the result was announced.
It meant that Galbally had lost his pl ace
on the committee after 30 years con-
tinuous service.


THE TERRITORY
OUR UNEASY NORTH
Fear of Indonesian expansion underlies
demand for self-government
TIGER” BRENNAN
Roaring and pounding
The Northern Territory Legislative
Council last week tried yet another
approach in its continuing fight for con-
stitutional reform by appointing a Select
Committee to go into the question.
Following the failure of last year’s
Great Remonstrance (now gathering
dust in the Parliamentary Library at
Canberra) elected members showed a
bitterness which in the past has usually
been disguised by after-hours tippling
and hobnobbing with the Government
side.
There were no calls for “a Boston Tea
Party in Darwin Harbor” an old
favorite among the more fiery members.
But a serious air of disillusion was evi-
dent over the Territory’s role as “one of
the last colonies left on earth.” The
Member for Elsey (Mr Tiger Brennan)
declared: “The people would be worms
if they were not prepared to fight for
representative government and full poli-
tical rights.”
Roaring and pounding the table, Mr
Brennan compared the Legislative Coun-
cil’s limited powers with those enjoyed
by a similar body in British Honduras.
There England had given “people who
were half-savages” more rights than Ter-
ritorians. The same had happened in
Ghana.
The Member for Port Darwin (Mr
Dick Ward) described the withholding of
completely responsible and representa-
tive government from the Northern Ter-
ritory as “a source of shame to the
people of Australia.”
Mr Ward said world opinion had
forced the Federal Government to pay
lip-service to the ideal of self-govern-
ment for colonial territories. But it would
n ot recognise this principle in the last
colonial remnant in Australia. Several
speakers referred to the peculiar com-
position of the Legislative Council.
It includes six Government members
" all senior Public Servants, eight
dected members and three nominated
non-official members. The balance of
power rests with the latter trio of private
Wizens but appointed to their posts by
foe Government. In the past they have
often voted with the Opposition. But
fois time they had sided earlier with the
t> i c • ~ , ~ ,
Public Service bloc to throw out a
, . . * T-, , i
motion aimed at censuring the Federal
Government.
Speaking to the Select Committee
motion, Mr Ward described the nomin-
ated non-official members as umpires. ’
He referred to the incident four years
ago when the six elected members
walked out on the seven Government
men and then resigned en masse.
Mr Ward said he had no doubt that
if the nominated non-official members
had been in the Council then they would
have tried to persuade the elected mem-
bers against the walkout. They would
have considered it “too drastic.” “I hope
that will not be their attitude on this
occasion,” Mr Ward said, “because it
was that walkout which brought about
the present constitution of the Council.”
When the proposal for a Select Com-
rnittee on Constitutional Reform went to
a vote, the “umpires” backed the Oppo-
sition and pushed it through.
....
The committee will investigate con-
stitutional reform needs and report back
to the Council probably at its next
meeting, about May. Yet though it took
most of the week and generated such
unusual bitterness, reform, for once, was
not the dominant issue before the
Council.
For underlying almost every speech
was the fear of Indonesian expansion
and the need for accelerated Territory
development.
The House was treated to the un-
usual and heartening spectacle of a
Chinese-Australian member, Harry Chan,
warning that actions to the north threat-
ened Australia’s right to hold the Terri-
tory, and that if the Territory was lost
the whole of Australia must inevitably
go-
The newly-elected Member for Arn-
hem (Mr Ken Waters) plugged the same
line in his maiden speech. He said
Asians might one day accuse Australians
of “herding into compounds the rightful
indigenous owners, while the vast ex-
panses of the North remained unoccu-
pied.”
Even the massive £45 million bauxite
development project on Gove peninsula,
he said, had come about more in spite
of the Government's attitude than be-
cause of it. The “red tide of Asia” had
reached Australia’s doorstep and there
was no reason why it should stop now.
Mr Ward warned that the time might
come when United Nations would act
on the Territory’s aboriginal question.
“We are not all Europeans here now,”
he said. “We now have quite a large
number of non-European electors who
have already swung the result of one
election quite substantially.”
KEITH WILLEY
SERVICES
NEVER ON HOLIDAY?
An open and shut case
The suspension of postal services at
hundreds of small centres through-
out Australia during the Christmas and
New Year holidays came as a shock.
Assuming there is no ministerial inter-
vention the break at Easter could he
even longer if the Federal authorities fol-
low the lead of the NSW Government in
observing Easter Saturday as a public
holiday.
A number of the centres affected are
within 50 miles of the capital cities.
They had no inwards or outwards mails
for two days at Christmas and three at
New Year The eleventh-hour decision
of the authorities to proclaim December
31 a Commonwealth holiday involved a
break in services between Saturday and
Wednesday.
Until last year all post cflices through-
out Australia opened for an hour on
public holidays except C hristmas Day
and Good Friday, to enable people to
collect their mail over the counter and
transact other postal bus,ness. Letter-
rccetvers were also cleared at 9 a.m. and
an outward mail despatched to e
dchvery 0 n the follow,ng day.
The only indication given that this
time-honored facility was to be with-
drawn was the display, about a week
before Christmas, of vaguely-worded
notices saying that “most of the more
important offices would be open for an
hour on Boxing Day and New Year s
Day.” People were left to work out tor
themselves which offices would be m-
eluded in the “more important” category,


Lucky traveller returns with the
secret of hair virility.
It used to take a trip abroad
to get Pantene. Now Europe’s
leading hair conditioner—Pantene
—is here in Australia! The discovery
of a great Swiss Laboratory, Pantene
penetrates deeply to the hair roots,
supplying the pro-vitamin essential
for hair vitality. It acts directly on
the scalp, making the hair healthy,
supple and strong.
M
mfi
Hi
Pantene, with or without
oil, at leading chemists
and the more exclusive
department stores. 19/6.
Amazing new
PANTENE*
Vitamin Hair Tonic
and the phrasing of the notice left the
department free to close any of these if
it wished.
When the Postmaster-General (Mr
Davidson) was asked by a ministerial
colleague the reason for the shut-down he
indicated it would take some time to
furnish a reply, suggesting that the deci-
sion was departmental rather than mini-
sterial.
The postal unions are preparing to
launch another campaign for Saturday
closing, and the Government will find it
even harder to resist their demand next
time if it again allows the residents of
small centres to be deprived of their
holiday services for no better reason
than that they are small and, therefore,
presumably, unimportant.
HOUSING
A TENDER METHOD
OF SALE
Cheap houses but no buyers
FROM A WEST AUSTRALIAN CORRESPONDENT
PREMIER BRAND
Fired back
17'eteran Labor Parliamentarian, Herbie
’ Graham, is determined to get down
to village politics this year. He is setting
his sights on the West Australian Govern-
ment’s Commonwealth Games housing
project, and he believes he has a political
bull’s-eye coming up.
The object of his attack is the 150
houses built by the State Government for
the games athletes at City Beach at a
cost of £870,000 and now under offer
of sale. They are clustered in a planned,
American-style housing estate where the
residents will have little option but to be
neighborly provided they can find some
neighbors.
Mr Graham’s sighting shots on the
project have been accurate so far. To-
wards the end of last year’s Parlia-
mentary session he began lobbing a
series of detailed questions at Housing
Minister Logan, obviously designed to
uncover the true cost of the homes. Mr
Graham, former Housing Minister him-
self, wasn’t put off by the standard mini-
sterial answer designed to confuse the
issue by quoting masses of figures. He
kept asking questions until he got the
answers he wanted, and then came up
with a cost figure of about £6OOO per
house. He then launched his second
salVo by describing the houses as un-
imaginative and badly designed and say-
ing that the project would have been
better carried out by the State Housing
Commission rather than the system of
competing designs by private architects
adopted by the Government.
The issue died down while the Games
were on, and Mr Graham remained silent
while the Government announced that
it would sell the homes by tender on the
basis of one-sixth deposit. It only re-
vived last week, when the tenders closed
and it was revealed that only 28 people
had applied for homes.
This was Mr Graham’s opportunity,
and he did not miss it. He issued a
statement announcing his intention of
seeking a full inquiry into the Govern-
ment’s “colossal bungle” on the erection
of the houses. He said public reluctance to
buy the houses, despite a most intensive
sales drive, confirmed his opinion that
the area had been blighted by an un-
inspiring sameness of design and a drab
color pattern. An investigation was also
necessary to find out why so many com-
plaints had been received from village
building contractors and why some had
gone bankrupt. He also claimed they
were being sold for £5OO to £lOOO
below their proper price, which was only
possible because the land was a gift
from the Perth City Council. He also
alleged that the handling of the sales
had had an adverse affect on the activi-
ties of the Rural and Industrial Bank,
the Government-owned institution which
handled the sale.
Premier Brand fired back, saying the
Government would not agree to an
inquiry because it was unnecessary. The
houses had only been difficult to sell
because the public did not like the tender
method of sale. More houses had been
sold since the tenders had closed, and
several private agents had offered to sell
the rest for the Government. The Rural
and Industrial Bank had not been ad-
versely affected by its association with
the sale. It had brought it new business.
Indications are that the public agrees
with Mr Graham. The village houses
were deluged with visitors while they
were up for inspection before the tenders
closed. Many came away shaking their
heads at the workmanship in the houses
and tut-tutting about the togetherness of
the planning. They found that the
houses lacked elementary things like
gutters and that the bore system of
garden reticulation which had been avail-
able during the Games would not be
turned on for home-owners.
One man who did not share the gen-
eral pessimism about the houses was Mr
William Wright, a recent migrant from
California who moved his family into
the village last week He said the house
he bought for £6850 one of the dear-
est in the project, represented the best
value he had seen since he had started
looking for a home in Perth. Most of
them would do credit to any US city-


Around The Tour
ALL THE QUEEN'S MEN
Ah, at last I have caught you away
** from your TV set, ready at last
to read a printed word about the
Royal Tour. Do have a little sym-
pathy. Imagine the problems of cover-
ing such an assignment—magically
always there on the wharf waving
when the Queen arrives, always there
when she departs. I grow accustomed
to your face.
But here’s the rub. How do you
keep up the brilliance of your prose?
How can you bring forth lovely
phrases about the Queen to equal
the beauty of those that you used the
day before. It's hell.
Back in 1954 two words “obvious-
ly” and “radiant” took an awful
mauling. Almost by unanimous
journalists’ agreement we decided
never to use them again. Actually,
obviously was jolly handy. Seeing
that Her Majesty was never right at
your elbow to give personal quotes
on this, that, and the other thing, you
could slip in a smart “obviously.” For
example, “Her Majesty accepted the
bouquet from 4-year-old Barbara
Binks and was obviously pleased.” Or
“The Queen looked at the breath-
taking beauty of Sydney Harbor and
obviously came to the conclusion that
this was the highlight of her tour.”
(A very good “obviously” for any
Sydney publication.)
Even on the current visit the temp-
tation to use “obviously” has been
almost unbearable. Take the occasion
of Melbourne’s Moomba float parade.
Most of the floats were in exceeding
good taste, nothing over-fleshy like
previous parades. Well, the motor in-
dustries had a float which depicted the
evolution of transport. Up front there
were girls in long costumes, as Ed-
wardian as all hell. Down at the
stern there were girls in 1963 attire,
as modern as instant mash. One girl
was wearing a hipster complete with
sun-tanned tummy and sun-tanned
navel. We looked at Her Majesty.
She was obviously not amused.
The ban on “radiant” came parti-
cularly hard. In 1954 it was so easy
to talk of her radiant beauty, her
radiant smile. This time, dammit, we
have been unable to find a sub-
stitute. We have tried “her, warm,
mature smile.” No. We have tried
“her relaxed, happy smile.” No. We
studied Mr Roget’s Thesaurus,
checked on radiant only to find that
we were writing of “her irridescent
smile” or “her luminous smile”. Def-
initely no. Finally I think the London
Daily Express came close to it by
describing her smile as “shimmer-
ing” and an Adelaide newspaper cal-
led her “a vision of regal beauty”.
However, it must be admitted that
at the very moment of going to press
no satisfactory substitute had been
found tor radiant. We will keep you
informed.
So you see, we have to search for
other things to write about and the
popular theme has been to compare
it all with 1954. Mr Vincent Mulch-
rone of London’s Daily Mail report-
ed that a “widespread and complete-
ly healthy cynicism about the Royal
Tour existed in Australia.” He
remembered how the Prime Minis-
ter had praised the Queen in poetry
and when this happened “a slight
national shudder might have been
detected on the seismographs at
Woomera.”
Oh, but it has been different. One
Melbourne newspaper still believing
it was the same as ever sent a report-
er to spend the night on the wharf,
just to get those human interest stori-
es on how the crowds spend the long
hours waiting for Britannia. This was
a perfectly reasonable assignment.
After all, the crowds sleep for
three days outside the MCG before a
football final. The sad truth was
this. The reporter had a hideously
lonely night. He saw not another
soul until 7 a.m.
In Melbourne churches, too, the
evidence was clear. At the Pleasant
Sunday Afternoon in the Wesley
Church Mr Harold Holt from the
pulpit said the crowds were not ex-
uberant enough and the Rev. Irving
Benson urged everyone to get out
and see the Queen.
The real shock was Flemington.
Here everything was perfect. The
day was gorgeous, utterly made for
fair ladies and bookmakers’ pockets.
Perhaps Flemington had never look-
ed so lovely, the roses, petunias, salvia
and what not blooming exactly as
instructed. The best horses in Aus-
tralia were on show, Wenona Girl,
Aquanita, Sky High, Kilshery, just
to mention a few of them. To top
it off there was the Queen’s visit, and
the VRC had banned the TV cameras.
Yet only 37,500 people turned up,
7,000 less than for the Queen Mother
and that meeting was telecast.
The VRC was terribly rocked.
The Committee had gone to so much
trouble to make it a good day. One
feature was the special boudoir they
arranged for the Queen. It was the
committee’s private room. There
was carpet on the floor, a telephone,
everything laid on. But the nice touch
was the way they hid the men’s
urinal. It was panelled off as if in
a cupboard. You really had to know
the joint to realise it was there.
It would be unfair to say that the
crowds did not turn out in Mel-
bourne. They did but not with the
same passion as before. The eager-
est of beavers I found were the
matrons of fiftyish and over. Their
Queen-watching propensities were un-
diminished. It was the young people
who were more blase.
In Hobart the crowds turned out,
but not until 10 minutes before
the Queen was due to arrive. Practic-
ally the whole town was barricaded
off. It is agony to think of what the
City of Hobart must have lost in
parking meter revenue on those Royal
days.
A great deal has been written and
much soul-searching is taking place
over this. The truth is simply this:
including the visit of the King and
Queen of Thailand we have seen six
Royal Tours since the war. It's not
new any more. Heavens above, we still
are the Queen’s men but there’s no
compulsion to sleep all night on pave-
ments in order to see her.
BATMAN


THE MODERN CALWELL
A passion for Australia...
By ALAN REID
The years and events have
changed Arthur August Calwell.
The strident, high-pitched voice is
the same. So is the rich, ripe, extra-
ordinarily precise vocabulary and the
gift for a telling phrase.
Physically, the passing of time and a
recent illness have left few marks. As
Federal Labor Leader in 1962, he has
not altered greatly in appearance from
the rather lanky, bespectacled and beak-
nosed man, with a thatch in which there
was a glint of red, who entered Parlia-
ment in 1940 under the merciless goads
of a reformer’s zeal and impatient and
limitless ambition.
But the man beneath these externals
is different.
Once he could not control his exuber-
ance. He courted trouble and disputation
(his word, which he used to roll reverently
off his tongue like a prayer) with unin-
hibited relish. He spoke first and thought
later often ruefully.
You always knew where he stood. He
was as clearcut as a gum tree against
a cloudless, summer skyline. He had
hates, strong hates, and enjoyed indulg-
ing them, with healthy candor. He was
headstrong. He might be right. He might
be wrong. But he was never neutral.
To some extent this was due to an
authoritarian streak that was part of
his makeup. He was supremely confident
that he knew what was good for Mr
Average Australian, and he was deter-
mined that Mr Average Australian was
going to get what was good for him,
even if in the process he had to force
what was good for him down Mr Aver-
age Australian’s protesting throat. He
knew where he was going and where
he wanted himself (and the Labor Party)
to go, and, by the Lord Harry, that was
the way he was going to head.
Nowadays Calwell gives the impres-
sion of a man who is driving himself.
The old exuberance has gone. He thinks
long and deeply before committing him-
self so long and deeply that when he
takes up an attitude, particularly on an
issue within the Labor Party, it is often
blurred and imprecise.
He is, for example, against unity tick-
ets to give the Communist Party control
of Australian unions. He says so repeat-
edly and publicly. But he has condoned
the Victorian ALP Executive’s tolerance
of them because the position is “compli-
cated by the strength of the Democratic
Labor Party in that State.”
His hates are no longer directed com-
fortably against ancient enemies, but
against men who were his friends. He
once admired almost reverenced
the 98-year-old Archbishop Mannix, of
Melbourne. Now he can see in the aged
prelate’s death hope for the solution of
his and Labor’s political difficul-
ties in Victoria.
What has changed Calwell from a
man forthright to the point of reckless-
ness, and comparatively uncomplicated
politically, into a man for whom life
has been in recent years a series of diffi-
cult complications? Did his elevation to
the Federal Labor leadership thrust upon
him responsibilities which he had not
previously had to carry, and for which
the only solutions he could find were
compromises with forces with which
with his religious and strongly national-
istic background he could not pos-
sibly have been in sympathy? Or was it
the working out of what Toynbee com-
passionately describes as a “struggle
within the soul” arising, in Calwell’s case,
from issues in the Labor schism of 1954?
It would seem that the 1954 split and
what led up to and flowed from it did
much to produce the modern Calwell.
He was in a heartbreaking position at
that time. He had no sympathy with Mr
Bartholomew Augustine Santamaria, who
through “The Movement,” an organisa-
tion largely Roman Catholic in its in-
spiration and character, was moving to-
wards the establishment of indirect con-
trol over the ALP. In Calwell’s eyes
Santamaria was an “outsider.” He did
not even hold a ticket in the Party. He
was not except for tactical reasons
and to strengthen the influence of his
ALP followers concerned with Labor’s
social reform aspect, for which Calwell
had a zealot’s devotion. Santamaria was
concerned primarily with developing
within the ALP a more militant, aggres-
sive approach to Communism and Com-
munists, both internationally and in the
Australian trade union movement.
Yet, ideologically and because of bis
own background, Calwell was closer to
the Santamarian viewpoint on Commun


istn than to the pro-Communist element
Within the ALP, which saw, in the hostile
rea ction of a large section of the ALP
to the revelation of the extent of Santa-
®aria’s influence, an opportunity to sub-
stitute their own influence for his.
Calwell is a strict Roman Catholic.
Though I did not know this until I
heard about it during a court case in
which I was involved, it appears that his
home is decorated extensively with re-
ligious symbols. He was a lifetime friend
of Archbishop Mannix, whose views on
Communism and the methods necessary
to contain it both internationally and
domestically conform closely with those
of Mr Santamaria.
Nobody’s fool
Tt was not only the bonds of friendship
* and religious association which im-
pelled him towards the strongly anti-
Communist element, still a force in the
Labor Party and which, despite the em-
barrassment presented by Mr Santamaria
was still capable of winning out in the
Party struggle right up to the moment
Calwell addressed the historic Hobart
Conference in 1954 at which the rival
Labor forces fought their first formal
battle.
Calwell was and is nobody’s
fool. Even before the Hobart Conference
got under way, he knew what was hap-
pening. He was aware of the tactics that
the pro-Communist section within the
Labor Party had pursued from the
moment that the extent of Santamaria’s
influence within the Party had become
public knowledge.
The ALP-sponsored Industrial Groups
were slowly but inexorably breaking
Communist control of the trade unions,
some of which the Communists had gov-
erned for years. The pro-Communist sec-
tion had to destroy the Industrial Groups.
Otherwise the power of the Communist
Party in the Australian industrial move-
ment would be reduced to a shadow.
To get anywhere, the pro-Communist
section had to widen the attack so that,
instead of being exclusively directed
against Santamaria and his adherents, it
would include all anti-Communist ele-
ments. To do this successfully they had
b label anyone who persisted in a strong
anti-Communist line “pro-Santamaria,”
even if those labelled had no connection
°r sympathy with Santamaria and were
Protestants or Masons.
Only organisations like the Australian
Workers’ Union, non-Communist, but
temporarily opposed to the Industrial
Groups for their own non-ideological
re asons, were spared at that stage. Their
torn to be labelled “pro-Santamaria” was
to come later when their usefulness to
'he pro-Communist section had ended.
As the opposed groups mustered for
toe Hobart Conference Calwell was well
there existed all the material
(ironically much of it provided by Mr
Santamaria himself) for the effective
fostering of a sectarian war nominally
with the Roman Catholics, but in practice
with all strongly anti-Communist ALP
elements.
Not only his religious affiliations in-
clined Calwell towards the anti-Com-
munist side at this period of crisis in
Labor affairs. He was and is a fer-
vent Australian nationalist, and national-
ism and Marxism in the Australian con-
text are like oil and water. They do not
mix.
Calwell sometimes carries his nation-
alism to extreme lengths. It has on oc-
casions got him into trouble, particularly
with Asians as when, despite his Christ-
ian reverence for the sanctity of mar-
riage, he decided to keep asunder the
Philippine Sergeant Gamboa and his
Australian-domiciled family by refusing
Gamboa permission to enter Australia
as a migrant.
But Calwell, whatever the occasional
faults in the way he manifests it, loves
this country deeply. It was this passion
for Australia and the desire to make it
a great and developed country that sus-
tained the giant immigration programme
fostered in the postwar period under his
dedicated Ministerial direction. He can
see the “vision splendid” for the country
of his birth. If you wish to get a bit
of a lift, read the speech he made re-
cently in Wagga to a group discussing a
programme of development for Australia.
It is an expression of hope for the Aus-
tralia of the future uttered by a man who
has a burning devotion to his native land.
-With religious feeling intermixing with
a passionate patriotism, here, in late 1953,
with the hour of decision fast approach-
ing, were present the materials to pro-
vide a classical case of “struggle within
the soul.”
Calwell over this period manifested
all the symptoms of this struggle. He
was obviously deeply troubled. Federally,
he was probably Labor’s most prominent
Roman Catholic certainly its most
outspoken; he was a key figure and knew
it. If he sided with the strongly anti-
Communist element which wanted to
purge the ALP of the Santamarian influ-
ence but not disturb its anti-Communist
orientation, many of his co-religionists,
opposed to Santamaria but equally
strongly anti-Communist, would un-
doubtedly follow his lead.
With his backing, this element might
win. But if it did not win, the resulting
split might be of catastrophic propor-
tions, bringing about the purging of all
the effective anti-Communist forces oper-
ating in the Party.
On the other hand if he accepted what
was happening, an anti-Communist ele-
ment would be kept intact within the
Party. There might be a temporary
strengthening of the pro-Communist
forces within the Party. But this need
only be temporary. And the irreconcil-
ables would be reduced to a small group,
impotent politically because almost ex-
clusively Roman Catholic in content, and
so not representative of the Australian
community and vulnerable to successful
political attack; because, lacking any
other power base, they would have to
depend increasingly upon Mr Santa-
maria’s personal organisation (now re-
styled the National Civic Council) and
his brilliant organising ability.
Which way should he turn to do the
least damage to the Party which he ser-
ved and the anti-Communist cause which
he espoused?
There is some obscurity about the
circumstances in which Calwell made his
decision at the Hobart Conference which
was the starting point for the chain of
events which led to the hiving off of a
relatively small section of the Labor
Party to form an organisation that sub-
sequently stabilised into the Democratic
Labor Party, and was to thwart Labor’s
attempt to capture control of the Federal
Government for the next eight years.
One story is that Calwell proposed to
denounce the Santamarian influence, to
pledge himself to its eradication from
the Party, but simultaneously to range
himself with the non-Communist forces
within the Party.
The “Cameron version”
Tf such were Calwell’s intentions, the
true facts are known only to a few.
When Calwell stepped into the ALP Con-
ference meeting in Hobart one Sydney
newspaper published a version of his
speech which differed significantly from
the speech he actually did make. The
newspaperman who wrote the report was
reputed to be close to Calwell at the time.
Rumour credits him with having obtained
access to the speech that Calwell intended
to make but for some reason never made.
There is a version of what happened
at the conference known to those
interested in Labor history as the “Cam-
eron version” which has some plaus-
ibility. This gives much of the credit
for switching Calwell from what he
intended to say to what he actually said
to Mr Clyde Cameron, Labor MHR for
Hindmarsh (SA).
Cameron was a delegate at the Con-
ference. According to this version, Cam-
eron was forewarned of the speech CaL


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
1961
VJNTA.<>t
m
?H K »|N|, </■ ft OW f. ftS ». »’.' v * <;i
■
j'
jpDBURY ESTATE
BU ROUND’ 5
N«*» , .... .
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
well intended to make. Himself an
opponent of the Industrial Groups, Cam-
eron knew that if Calwell made this
speech it could sway the outcome of the
Conference, so evenly were the opposed
forces balanced at that time. Santamaria
and his immediate supporters would lose
their influence on the Labor movement
that was a foregone conclusion from
the day public attention had been di-
rected to Santamaria’s activities within
the Labor Party. But the strongly anti-
Communist group anxious to maintain
the Industrial Groups in existence would
continue in control.
In some way Calwell, Roman Catho-
lic but respected by all and with a long
history of staunch Party loyalty, had to
be prevented or persuaded from
giving this group his valuable backing.
This version credits Cameron ac-
curately with being a shrewd student
of the weaknesses of his political fel-
lows. Cameron knew Calwell’s Celtic
capacity for emotionalism. He played
on it. As Calwell entered the Conference
room, Cameron rose to his feet, applaud-
ing. “You and you alone can save the
Party, Arthur,” he told him, passionately.
Cameron’s lead was followed spon-
taneously by the other delegates, who
intuitively realised that this was the de-
cisive moment in the battle. As Calwell
moved towards the platform they stood
up, cheering and encouraging him all
the way to the rostrum and calling upon
him to save the Party from an inevitable
split of calamitous proportions.
It was like a Royal Progress. Calwell
was visibly affected, according to those
who were present. In a surcharged at-
mosphere, he announced his intention.
His words made it clear that he would
not support those who intended to des-
troy the Industrial Groups.
But much more important, because
to them it was the thing that mattered,
his words also made it clear that he
would not oppose them. He proposed to
be neutral to stay aloof from the
struggle.
When Calwell finished his speech, it
was apparent that the anti-industrial
Group section had won the Conference.
The fighting was over. All that was left
to be done was to slaughter the captives.
From then on heads started to roll, and
as they dropped into the basket it could
be seen that many of them had stood,
until they met the executioner’s axe of
expulsion from the ALP, on the shoul-
ders of men who had once been Calwell’s
friends.
Even more bitter for Calwell, with his
strong devotion to his religion, than the
rise to power in the ALP of a pro-Com-
munist section must have been the way
in which his co-religionists who followed
the DLP turned on him after the Hobart
Conference. They were more unforgiving
towards Calwell, their own, than they
were towards their enemies who did not
share their religious beliefs.
They had counted on Calwell siding
with them. In their eyes he had betrayed
them. They demonstrated that there is
no enmity so intense as that between one-
time friends, and that it is possible to
move from friendship to hate overnight.
They were merciless in their pursuit of
him and his reputation. They whispered
against him to his religious friends. They
shrieked against him to his political
friends. They denounced him from poli-
tical platforms and in their publications.
They derided his sincerity and questioned
his moral courage.
The final, terrible blow for Calwell
must have been when Dr Mannix, the
man he once protested should be given
the cardinal’s red hat ahead of Arch-
bishop Gilroy, of Sydney, criticised him
and gave comfort and public support to
those among his co-religionists who as-
sailed him.
The battering he took and it still
continues has left inevitable scars.
He is almost as extreme on the subject
of the DLP as the DLP is on Com-
munism (and Calwell). Just as the DLP
can trace most of the ills of the modern
world back to the Communists and their
machinations, so Calwell can see the
Machiavellian hand of Mr Santamaria
and his devotees in the public raising of
any subject that is, or might be, embar-
rassing for him.
Unity ticket issue
TTe blames Santamaria for the import-
ance of the unity ticket issue in Vic-
toria, seeming to forget that it was the
tolerance of the Victorian Executive to-
wards those same unity tickets that en-
abled Santamaria to help turn it into an
important issue.
Even on issues which seem superfici-
ally to have remarkably little ideological
content he can detect the fine Italian hand
of Mr Santamaria. Thus, in his mind,
the move to get Commonwealth assist;
ance for Japanese waifs fathered by
Australian soldiers became a Santa-
marian plot to embarrass him, because
Santamaria’s “News-Weekly” advocated
Commonwealth aid for the waifs.
When Liberal William Howarth raised
in the Federal Parliament the question
of discrimination against Jews in Russia,
Calwell saw the starting point of the
move not in the Soviet treatment of
Jewry, but in Santamaria drawing atten-
tion in the columns of his “News-
Weekly” to the documented allegations
that Russia’s Jews were being discrimi-
nated against.
It seems almost as though Calwell
were under an inner compulsion to be
against anything Santamaria is for, ir-
respective of the basic merits in the issue.
His attitude is about as logical as a non-
Communist opposing more money for
education because the Communist Party
advocates more money for education.
The years after the Hobart Conference
must have been bitter ones for Calwell
politically as well as in his relationships
with those of his co-religionists who fol-
lowed Santamaria. At that Conference
he had assured victory for the Left. But
the Left had no gratitude. Calwell had
dedicated himself irrevocably to neut-
rality, and determined neutralists have
no importance in a war in which both
sides are determined to fight to the
finish.
Additionally, the Left did not trust
him. It knew that basically on the issue


0 { Labor’s attitude towards Communism
he belonged ideologically and spiritually
in the other camp. Though Deputy fed-
eral Leader he became almost a cypher
iin the Parliamentary Labor Party,
dwarfed by the gigantic, blanketing
shadow cast by Dr H V Evatt, then Labor
Leader.
In the Labor machine, including the
Victorian section which he had as a
younger man controlled and manipulated
in partnership with Pat Kennelly (then
Victorian ALP Secretary but now merely
another Labor Parliamentarian posses-
sed of the memory but not the substance
of power) he was an uninfluential
nonentity.
When Evatt resigned as Federal Labor
Leader Calwell must have had a sour
taste in his mouth. The forces for which
he had assured victory at the Hobart
Conference made it clear that they had
applauded him at the time for tactical
reasons. They felt no sense of obliga-
tion to him. They did not want him as
Federal Leader. They preferred to
support Victorian Reg Pollard, a like-
able, old-guard Socialist, who has the
merit of not constantly shifting his
ground and his viewpoint. Calwell was
elected, defeating Pollard, but it was
despite the Left wing and because the
anti-Communist right wing had no one
else to vote for, and so had to support
him.
Experiences like these change a man,
inwardly if not outwardly. Calwell to-
day is a neutralist where once he was
an activist. He showed this when his
three top colleagues Whitlam, his
deputy in the House of Representatives,
Senator McKenna, Senate Labor Leader,
and Senator Kennelly, Deputy Senate
Labor Leader sought ALP Federal in-
tervention in Victoria to enforce observ-
ance of Federal policy outlawing unity
tickets between ALP members and
Communists in trade union elections.
The disappointment of 1961
J believe that if Calwell had supported
A that move he would be Frime Minister
of Australia today instead of missing out
by one seat as he did at the 1961
elections held shortly afterwards; for,
significantly, it was the fact that Labor
failed to win a seat in Victoria that cost
Calwell the elections.
But, while he has lost his exuberance,
Calwell has lost none of his energy.
Handicapped as he was by his own
neutralism within the Labor Party, he
nevertheless fought a prodigious cam-
paign at the elections. He toured Aus-
tria with the unflagging vigor of
a holidaying tripper, exploiting the
Menzies Government’s weaknesses and
advancing his own enthusiastic and un-
doubtedly sincere concept of a develop-
lng Australia, moving towards greatness
in the resource with which it tackles the
problems and enriches the soil of a vast
continent. He was everywhere, fighting
Labor’s formal foes, the Liberals and the
Country Party, tirelessly, while main-
taining his uncharacteristic diffidence
about dealing with the unresolved prob-
lems within his own Party.
Now 66, Calwell, still vigorous and
tireless in his political campaigning, still
has the chance of becoming Prime
Minister of Australia. In a Parliament
where the present Menzies Government
has. a floor majority of only one any
accident of sickness or death could send
the nation to the polls or produce a by-
election which could over a longer
period lead to the same end result.
Another ideological struggle
"Out Calwell is also now back in an
ideological struggle (with, in his
case, emotional racial overtones) remark-
ably similar to the one which he endured
in 1954 and for some years thereafter.
Again the passionate patriotism that is
part of the man is confronting the anti-
Americanism of the Left wing, which is
saying in effect that Australia should
reject assistance for its defence if that
assistance is nuclear-aligned, as the
assistance of the US must inevitably be
if it is to be effective in this modern
atomic world.
I find it significant that Calwell, who
has a genuine love for Americans and
the liberal aspects of American life (his
grandfather was an American who mig-
rated to Australia during the gold era)
does not seem to have gone as far at the
Federal Executive meeting last week as
to declare that Labor’s policy should be
acceptance of the American radio station
being constructed at Exmouth Gulf,
Western Australia, as part of its world
chain of communications maintaining
control over US nuclear submarines.
The furthest he went was to say that
the Exmouth Gulf station was not banned
by Labor policy in that policy’s present
form.
Where the old-time Calwell would have
taken a positive, assured attitude again,
the modern Calwell took the passive
attitude, grasping comfort from the fact
that ALP policy was at least not against
what he wanted, instead of regretting
that it was not what he wanted and ex-
pressing reasons why it should be what
he wanted.
It will be interesting to see whether
at the Federal ALP Conference in March,
when Labor’s supreme policy-making
body decides this issue, the man in
attendance will be the modern Calwell
or the aggressive, self-confident man who
prior to 1954 knew what he wanted
and who, whatever his other faults, had
the merit of fighting for the things he
wanted and that he believed in with
fierce passion.
ASSEMBLY LINE ADS
Reading the deathless message...
By ROGER WELCH
HPhe importance of copywriters in
advertising agencies seems to be
declining.
Time was when a copywriter was a
head man. But nowadays agencies tend
to be conclaves of consultants, accoun-
tants, economists, producers, technicians,
and tribes of assorted tradesmen. The
copywriter’s cubicle is crowded behind
the conference room, the statistical
bureau, the test kitchen, and the
theatrette.
All the copywriter is called upon to
do is write a few words. Then a host
of other departments take over and brew
and stew and pummel and pound his
words into the advertisement we finally
see. So far as the copywriter is con-
cerned, his job is over early and he can
hibernate till payday.
For instance, let us see what happens
when an agency prepares advertising for
a product such as, say, Dibble’s Potato
Jam.
Showered with sheaves of facts and
figures from the Survey and Research
departments, the copywriter clears his
mind for action. On a clean sheet of
paper he writes, “Dibble’s Potato Jam.”
Then, with one of those bursts of brilli-
ance that are vouchsafed the inspired
thinker, he adds the words, “Oh, Mummy,
it’s yummy!”
He reads the deathless message, savor-
ing each syllable in turn. Then, his
task well done, he sinks into exhausted
sleep.
The client approves the phrase, merely
adding “The best in the world” and
“Can’t B Beat” to prove he’s no slouch
at slogans.
The Art Department now comes into
the picture. The obvious illustration
for the advertisement is a child eating the
product. A homely, buck-toothed boy is
depicted masticating a mass of bread
and Dibble’s jam. His face is plastered
with the stuff. The agency feels that
every mother will just love that little
boy with the jammy face. Actually,


: X-;;; ._.. .
v.m
SSgx
:fi
mm
wrnm^m
"Revolutionary”is the word for UNICHROME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
unichrome


Unichrome 865
has sales appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Bty. Ltd. at Mandemar Avenue,
Homebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide. 71-7240
Western Australia
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
NEW ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland. 594-221
UC3
■
*1
BSSS
V : ',
g£&&%sggg<
■
Wms
:*:’ -i:
HH
*>*&
w»
OA$
:;••••••'
SS&8&
!
MULTI-COLOUR MOTTLE
""miM
m
mi : M,
Ml
.
>s®
' :
SsiSS
\J Wmm
•-•:
ass
i^&rSSSSS
?' ■•
»i
it makes him look like a scabby child
with yaws.
Then the Production Department and
the typographical experts settle down to
select a suitable typeface for the text.
After long debate they settle for Old
English script. (“The old-fashioned type
will suggest old-fashioned jam like
Granny made,” they say, shuddering at
the recollection.) Set in Old English,
the caption looks like, “By gummy, it’s
crummy!” which is not what the copy-
writer intended.
Meantime, the Media Department is
meeting behind closed doors. Circula-
tions, penetrations, cost per inch per ten
thousand, and how many lunches can be
prised from the media representatives,
are matters to be weighed and balanced.
In the Television Department, pro-
ducers and assistants are knee-deep in
stopwatches and glossaries of TV terms.
Regardless of relevancy, they decide that
the commercial should feature a girl
sitting in a bubble bath. Everyone drools
as a model is selected, and half the
agency attends the filming, hoping to get
a glimpse of naughty nudity. However,
as a last-minute concession to commer-
cialism, it is agreed not to use bubbles
in the bath but to use Dibble’s jam
instead. The production gives the pro-
ducers a rewarding experience, and gives
the girl a rash that defies the doctors.
Specialists are brought in to write a
jolly jingle, the words of which are
mercifully drowned by the orchestra.
1 hroughout the successive stages of
development of the advertisements, the
opinions of process engravers, process
servers, actors, factors, etchers, lechers,
and other characters who lurk about the
front lobby of the agency, are solemnly
sought and gravely noted. This is called
“copy testing” and is an approved
method of creating confusion.
At last—at long last —the campaign is
ready to be launched. There is much
back-slapping and back-biting as the
final proofs are checked and the tele-
vision prints are screened before a
packed audience of agency executives
from all walks of life. This is the
triumphal hour that warrants the weeks
of dedicated work.
But while all this production has been
shaping, the client has been busy, too.
He has managed a merger. Dibble’s
Potato Jam Company has been taken
over by a tobacco firm eager to extend
its liabilities.
The jam is off the market. The gilt
is off the gingerbread.
By the way, where is that copywriter?
He is working under an assumed
name in the Accounts Department. He
figures he can fulfil a more fruitful
function and find a steadier future there.


OUT AND ABOUT
DEAN DIXON: THE MAN
FOR THE JOB
From Harlem to Sydney, a long, hard road
By ANNE CATTARNES
In New York in the year 1915 a
young Negro mother used to take
her baby to Carnegie Hall and sit
in the gallery with him in her arms.
The baby’s name was Dean Dixon.
The young woman whose passion for
music compelled her to take her baby to
orchestral concerts was a native of the
West Indian Island of Barbados. Her
husband was a Jamaican who had studied
law in England, but did not manage to
find a legal position in the United States.
He worked instead in a hotel. When
Dean was born the family lived in
Harlem.
Now Dean Dixon is conductor of the
Symphony Orchestra at Frankfurt-am-
Main, in Germany; next year he will take
over the Sydney Symphony Orchestra as
resident conductor, dividing his time be-
tween the two assignments.
He is the first Negro to win an inter-
national reputation as a conductor.
Dixon tells why he “fled from the
United States and took refuge in Ger-
many.” The culminating incident, follow-
ing slights and back-turnings and simply
not getting the recognition he knew he
deserved, occurred in New York.
It was just a question of hailing a taxi.
He and a white friend had been dining
together and wanted a cab to go to
Carnegie Hall. They went out into the
street and hailed one. Cab after cab
ignored them and drove on. Ultimately
Dixon stepped out of view, and the white
friend successfully hired the next cab
that came down the street. He then beck-
oned to Dixon who jumped in beside him.
But before that crowning insult there
had been many incidents; and the vital
question of conducting posts.
Dixon tells how he used to receive
many invitations to conduct American
orchestras but, as he expressed it: “They
were no more than one-night stands. The
invitations enabled an orchestra to say
‘We are not color conscious we have a
negro conductor’. But I was never in-
vited a second time.”
He said he had never been back to
America, except to collect his belongings,
and that he had never been invited back;
but he still travels on an American pass-
port.
He admitted that he had encountered
racial prejudice even in Europe and tells
wryly of a Swedish impresario who once
suggested to him, half-jokingly, that he
should conduct wearing a white mask
and white gloves, ‘ft was a joke,” he
said ruefully, “but a pretty serious one.”
He was also told sometimes that a Negro
conductor was impossible: the concert
would look like a circus.
Dixon formed his first orchestra in
Harlem at the age of 17. It was at the
YMCA; it consisted of one violin and
one piano. His baton was a pencil. But
within five years he had 70 members in
his orchestra, all gathered from the
neighborhood.
During those years he had been using
his own money to buy instruments and
to rent halls for rehearsals, but then, in
1937, a group of women got together and
subsidised his venture.
The result was the Dean Dixon Sym-
phony Orchestra and the attention it at-
tracted went far beyond Harlem. Mrs
Eleanor Roosevelt heard about him; and
so did the musical director of the NBC,
Samuel Chotzinoff, who invited Dixon to
direct the NBC orchestra.
Dean Dixon has been offered a num-
ber of posts which he has not been able
to accept. One was in Finland where he
was invited to become permanent con-
ductor of the Helsinki City Orchestra;
instead he went to Sweden where he spent
seven years as chief conductor of the
Gotenburg Symphony Orchestra.
Others he had to turn down are the
Mozarteum Orchestra in Salzburg (Dixon
is a particularly fine interpreter of
Mozart), the Brussels Philharmonic, The
Cologne Radio Symphony and the com-
munity theatre orchestras in Bologna,
Italy, and Catania, Sicily.
In 1960 no fewer than three orchestras
in Germany sought to engage him. The
Bavarian Radio Orchestra in Munich,
the City of Hanover and the Frankfurt
Orchestra. He chose the last, a splendid
101-instrument group
Dean Dixon does not merely play
music; he likes to talk about it, and he
is interested in methods of teaching
children to appreciate it He likes the
children to come close and to see and
even touch the instruments He tells how
effective this is with children at the
“touch” age between three and five.
He does not believe that the great
composers have written toi any special
age level. “It has something to say to
everyone and it’s up to the musicians
to interprets it,” he declared. He also
believes that music should be taken deep
and wide into all levels of society, and
not simply be available to those who can
afford to buy themselves seats at con-
certs. On this point he said: “A musician
is only fulfilling his total function if h e
reaches all sections of the people.”
During his visit to Finland in 1951
the time when he was offered the con-
ductorship of the Helsinki Orchestra
Dean Dixon met his wife, Mary. Now a


maximum
HUM
- . RIGHT
AT YOUR
FINGERTIPS
''M
SPECIAL KEYING SYSTEMS
GMK
jj MK-C
MK-B
MK-A
m
m
m
a
C 3
CZ,
83. Cf.
A 2.
A 3,
Bi.
Al.
A3.;J
I':
GRAND MASTER-KEYED SYSTEM
Each lock has its own individual key which operates that lock only and
no other, but the locks are divided into two or more groups. Each group
is subject to its own Master-Key which opens all locks in that group, but
However, all locks are also subject to a Grand Master-Key wh.c.h opens
all locks in all groups.
As with Master-Keyed Systems, Keyed-Alike groups may also be included
in G.M.K. Systems.
WITH THE LOCKWOOD
MASTER-KEY SYSTEM
YOU NEED CARRY ONLY
ONE KEY INSTEAD OF
HUNDREDS!
REPLACING INSECURITY
AND CONFUSION WITH
MAXIMUM SECURITY ,
MAXIMUM
CONVENIENCE!
In industry and commerce today a Lockwood MK System is an essentia!
pre-requisite to controlled security throughout your organisation. _
Each system, large or small, is designed specifically to individual requirements,
enabling smooth functioning of access by authority, including Fire Brigade
and Police, and guaranteeing rapid accessibility, in emergencies, to any part
of the building, plant, or organisation. ~ ~ . „ .
Specifications and code details of all established Special Keying Systems are
held on permanent record under strict security by Ogden Industries
enabling quick replacement of lost keys or damaged locks "true to code , and
allowing absolute control of additions or extensions to the system.
Experienced special representatives are immediately available to discuss
Master-Keyed or Grand Master-Keyed Systems in detail.
Please contact your leading hardware merchant, or Ogden Industries Pty.
Limited at any Branch, listed below, for prompt attention.
Qi&Awo&cl
Manufactured in Australia by
OGDEN INDUSTRIES PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane 7-3047 • Sydney LM 3191, LM 3186 • Canberra 4-4098
Adelaide W 2153 • Perth 23-2214 • Hobart 3-3141 • Melbourne 569-0611
.| a ywright, she was then working as a
journalist, and she was sent to interview
iio- . , , ,
jdrs Dixon, technically Finnish, had
(lie Polish grandmother and one Russian
, ra ndmother; her native tongue is
Swedish, but she was brought up in
prance. She has travelled a great deal
jiid now speaks eight languages. She
iandles all her husband’s travelling ar-
[angements when they are in Europe and
las saved him the trouble of acquiring
j number of languages.
She writes under the name of Mary
Kandelin in Swedish. Two of her
seven plays have been translated into
English, but none has been performed in
in English-speaking country. They are
jell-known in Europe and said to be
somewhat along the lines of those of
lonesco.
She and Dixon were married in 1954
and have one daughter, Nina, who is
line. Her two daughters by a former
marriage, Marina, 20, and Daniele, 18,
ive in Frankfurt with them. They live in
i modern-style house on the outskirts of
Frankfurt.
Dixon has a wide variety of outside
interests varying from cooking and ping
pong to reading Greek and Russian clas-
sics. He is also fond of dancing and can
settle down to an evening of listening
lo jazz.
A SEMBLANCE
OF PERMANENCE
Tzipine talks of Melbourne's
orchestra - and audiences
By KENNETH HINCE
Visiting Sydney for the first time in
four years, I was wryly amused to
find that the collapse of the
Goossens regime has left Sydney with
a problem which has troubled Mel-
bourne ever since 1945. It is so long
that the Victorian Symphony Orchestra
has been a permanent band without a
permanent conductor.
Now, it seems, the situation is re-
versed. Sydney, after casting round for a
conductor for some time, now has one,
who won’t, however, be working effec-
tively before 1965; we in Melbourne have
found one in the person of Georges
Tzipine not only the best among many
transients since the war, but the first
to look like justifying the ambiguous
claim to permanence which all the others
have held before him.
After his contract was renewed late
1® year I went to see Tzipine. In part
1 was interested to hear from him what
Problems the ABC had to meet in
finding a good man for a job in Aus-
fialia; in part, to form a closer impression
of a man whose versatile energy I had
come to admire in the Town Hall.
To the opening questions Tzipine gave
a firm and immediate response. What
most concerns any international con-
ductor is the extreme remoteness of
Australia. Tzipine was too tactful to put
this in its worst light, and did not suggest
that a conductor had to keep his name
constantly before a European audience,
because the European audience was the
one which made and sustained reputa-
tions. He quoted instead, as a leading
example, the position he happened to
find himself in during the three weeks
before my call, when he was scheduled
for neither a rehearsal nor a concert.
Working in France, he would have been
able to take a concert or two with other
orchestras —if not within France itself,
then in Germany or perhaps in England.
But in Australia, where orchestras and
concerts are relatively fewer, a con-
ductor is either working or resting.


I am inclined to think that it is the
energy of Tzipine’s temperament which
is irked by this local accident, and that
he is not rationalising any fear of being
forgotten overseas. Since 1950, when
he made his first guest appearances with
the Conservatoire Orchestra at Paris, his
concert routine has brought him regularly
before audiences at the Halle concerts
in Manchester, and before those of the
three major Parisian orchestras. Besides
occasional tours (Yugoslavia, Portugal)
he has continued to range through the
French provinces, and to give live and
broadcast performances with the two
orchestras of the French National Radio.
Since 1952-53 there have been some
30 sessions of recording with Pathe-
Marconi. (The Record Society distributes
in Australia a beautifully-recorded album
of works by the Group of Six, one of the
few Tzipine recordings available here.)
All in all, he may well feel secure
enough to weather a full season in Aus-
tralia without loss of prestige abroad.
But the problem he mentions remains
a critical one, and must have played a
great part in the trouble the Commission
has had in finding a resident conductor.
Perhaps it has solved this question by
bending its own regulations, for I
gather that Tzipine is the first conductor
for whom the Commission has agreed to
curtail the resident season. In his case
a period of six months’ residence has
been fixed, an enlightened move which
may end the put-and-take appointments
to the Melbourne orchestra.
Need for long term
r£o a tentative suggestion that a long
term under one man was a necessary
stage in the progress of any orchestra,
Tzipine agreed immediately. He feels
that the evolution of a basic integrity of
group playing, and the development of a
corporate style, are both dependent on
this stage, which most of the world’s
great orchestras seem to have gone
through. But Tzipine feels too, that he
is not holding the commission to ransom
in settling for a six-month season. The
orchestra is in recess for a good part of
the other six months, and will still have
enough direction under his hand to main-
tain its individual quality from year to
year.
Of the orchestra itself Tzipine speaks
very highly. He does not regard it as
a perfect virtuoso instrument, any more
than he regards himself as a finished
virtuoso, but he is warm in praise of
its overall discipline, its willingness to
work and to take instruction, and of the
quality of certain of its instrumental
sections. In fact, he named two quite
eminent European orchestras, familiar
to him, as being at the moment well
below the normal standard of the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra, and he kept
insisting that we would be far too modest
if we looked on our orchestra as being in
any sense provincial. This insistence was
a welcome confirmation of my own
impressions of concerts given in the last
five years by orchestras from America,
Czechoslovakia and London, and it might
stand as a rebuke to those who expect
(and perhaps receive) too little from local
performances.
Apparently there are not enough of
the supercilious to affect a conductors
estimate of the local audience, for
Tzipine finds this warm and evenly
responsive much the same as an
audience anywhere. His one reservation
is on the score of its inexperience. He
regards a work like the “Rite of Spring”
as being close to the limit of tolerance
of Melbourne concert-goers, and is not
keen to offer them music of much greater
complexity or modernity. Here his use
of “modernity” would have to be taken
in terms of musical style rather than
years on the calendar, since he has
played more recent music than the
“Rite,” and intends this year to bring
out a couple of new French symphonies
in:luding one of Henri Dutilleux, at
present an office-bearer of the French
section of the ISCM. Tzipine’s reserva-
tion, a reasonable but not, I think, a
correct one, may reflect his awareness
that our audience has not had the long
and continuous experience of music
which is expected in a European
audience.
This fact is, of course, not arguable.
We have only a very short experience
of regular seasonal concerts, pretty well
coinciding with the life of our subsidised
orchestra. Much of this time has neces-
sarily been given to learning the standard
repertory, and to establishing some kind
of uniform response to the routine and
atmosphere of the concert hall. Though
the learning process has been remark-
ably accelerated by the arrival of the
LP record, one can sympathise with the
caution of a conductor who does not
want to alienate his listeners by being
too avant-garde. Having seen people
leaving the Town Hall in platoons, if
not brigades, during the playing of music
as interesting and impressive as the First
Symphony of Walton, I feel sympathetic
myself. But I still think that Tzipine is
wrong. The amount of comment that is
aroused by over-familiar programmes
must indicate the existence of a power-
ful minority of concert-goers whose
awareness is quite sophisticated.
In any case, Tzipine qualified his
point by stressing that he was always
prepared to programme a work when
asked, in spite of his own reservations
of temperament or conviction. His per-
sonal leanings are towards the romantic
■ — the intrinsically romantic which is not
a matter of schools and dates. What he
asks of music is that it should
“expressive” (Berlioz’s word).
A corresponding ideal informs hj s
attitude to conducting. The men h e
mentioned as the big conductors of his
time, conductors under whom he toot
care to play as often as possible during
his years as a violinist, were Walter
Toscanini and Monteux. They were ex-
pressive, they found it possible to gi Ve
interpretative performances without re-
touching the scores. Interference of this
kind he rejects entirely, holding that way-
wardness in tempo, and failure to respect
a composer’s dynamics, are sins mortal
to his craft.
Relations with composers
Questioned about a conductor's rela-
tions with Australian composers,
Tzipine acknowledged that local condi-
tions obliged a conductor to make him-
self available to creative musicians, al-
though he pointed out that programming
was more a committee job than a matter
of personal taste. The commission, as the
orchestra’s patron, exercises its right to
adjust concert programmes. Local com-
posers, he thought, were unfortunate
because they had too few chances to hear
their own music, and because most of
them could not spend their time writing
and w'riting.
The questions I had regarded as most
contentious were introduced with some
diffidence. What were his comments on
the delicate balance of power between a
conductor, the Musicians’ Union, and
the Broadcasting Commission? There
was reason enough for being diffident.
The union has tangled with other con-
ductors (e.g., Susskind), and there is a
basic area in which the union and the
conductor must have conflicting interests.
One of these is a special case of the old
antagonism between merit and seniority:
the union is committed to protect mem-
bers’ interests, the conductor to get the
best men into the best positions. As far
as I could see, no Melbourne conductor
had ever approached the degree of
authority which Goossens enjoyed —one
of the reasons for his success with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra.
Tzipine listened to what I had to say.
with polite interest. Yes, he would agree
that it was to the long-term advantage
of everyone, Commission, audience, even
union, to give the conductor power of
life and death over his orchestra. Pf°‘
vided that a working musician’s livelt'
hood was protected, Tzipine felt that a
player of many years’ service should be
retired in favor of a better man—was
this not, he enquired, also serving the
interests of the union, which had younget
as well as older members? As far as he
was concerned, he had had no direct
contact with the union as such, but he
gathered from informal talk with union


:;;;:..| ;V:'. • p|||
IBM
, .
m
" - --''v \' w "';tW4
* %
CUSTOMER SERVICE
iri" J
V,
"' • •' : : x
;
mm
1
■>> '" -:
- :i > /' %
'
"
if
i":
■ ■
Data Processing Education for Customer Executives
■" -^
- . »
W* ' ' :
mam
j
M
& '
■
VHHfli
ijMga
i
-x.*,.
?■: ;<
' ilM 1
Ilii©
T;
«s- ~
So that management can keep abreast of the
latest developments of data processing, IBM
conducts customer executive training programs.
The Seminar-type courses are a means of effect-
ive interchange of data processing information
at executive level and cover general sessions for
the punched card user and the user of intermed-
iate and large scale systems. Some courses deal
with specific systems while others cover the
application of data processing to industries such
as banking, manufacturing, Government and
Public Utilities.
The executive training program is another facet of IBM’s
Customer Service that protects your investment in IBM
equipment.
IBM
JBM Australia Pty. Limited.
In all principal cities,. J


“Do you think there could be more to life than this?"


mgii in the orchestra that their attitude
fas quite reasonable, that maybe they
(cre prepared to make concessions now
( l,ich they may have resisted under
conductors. I mentioned one or
i,(O danger areas in the orchestra used
,ot players’ desks round here to be
iludded with young and immature
players? Tzipine smiled with imperturb-
jl,le charm and politeness, and said
nothing.
Of the ABC, though, he said a great
jeal, and once more I found myself
silently applauding. The Commission, he
happy to say, was an admirably co-
operative body to work for. He was
deeply impressed by the way in which
its officers went to great lengths to make
his own work easy. As a body, it was
more understanding, less monolithic and
institutionalised, than either the BBC or
the Radiodiffusion Francaise, under
both of which he had worked a good
. ,
Could this, I asked, be quoted? And,
st ßl confident that he would not blot his
record overseas, he was emphatic: Yes,
yes, this was true absolutely, and he
would be pleased to be quoted.
HOW TO EARN £150 A
DAY, AND SPEND IT
“When the chips are down, it's personality that counts"
By JAN SMITH
itmurally enough, she is extremely
Y pretty. Dark, slinky and neat-nosed,
"with beautiful, deep, hazel eyes.
But to earn £l5O a day for a full day's
modelling in the hard cold world of
few York, you need something more?
Whatever that is, Jean Newington has it.
Could it be just self-awareness? She
tarns money fast, spends it faster on
clothes, trips and general self-indulgence,
with no overt signs of guilt. Back in her
few York apartment are cupboards full
if model dresses and accessories. Her
miniature Schnauzer Lippe der Rocfort
lacked for nothing in the way of knitted
waters anji snowboots. She takes her
Elder sister, who lives in Montreal, for
Continental jaunts, bought her father a
television set for the Test matches.
"I never save a penny,” she said,
although she said there were some models
»ho quietly accumulated fortunes. The
ta man was always waiting at the
tnd of the year, so why not a few weeks
holiday in Sydney, with her parents at
Hondi Junction?
Most of the time she’d been wandering
about town feeling slightly bewildered
7 the changes in the seven years she’d
fen away. There were girls she’d tried
lo look up, like Dawn and Michelle and
fena, but they’d either married, gone
lf orseas, or somehow dropped out of
Sl “ht. She'd done a bit of shopping, look-
id for something distinctively Australian,
ioc h as a kangaroo-fur jacket, to take
fek to New York, and toyed with the
ta of setting up a dress shop in Sydney.
Years of modelling to the point of
%sical exhaustion has given her a lik-
fe" for sheer hard work, whether it is
surf board riding, or pushing a
lt has a kind of cathartic
‘^ ect > and keeps her from being worried
introspective.
Her most immediate ambition is to
take a course in veterinary science at
New York University, and eventually
practise here. If the qualifications weren't
recognised, she would be prepared to do
more exams here. If migrant doctors
could do it, so could she, and she would
still be young enough to take the study-
ing in her stride. It was just a question
of motivation, of wanting something
enough.
“Before I went overseas I decided to
take a course in French at a language
school in Sydney,” she said, “but I
never learnt a thing. Yet as soon as
I went to Paris, where I had to speak
French, I was fairly fluent after only a
few months.”
Finding a strong motivation was the
way to achieve pretty nearly anything.
“For instance, anyone who sits down to
a plate of lettuce and says they’re going
to diet is doomed to failure. So if I'm
getting heavy I go to parties, eat what I
like, meet people and get happy, and
next thing I find the weight has gone—
just like that.”
The clock had been set back so far, in
fact, that a few months ago in Los
Angeles a barman had refused fo serve
her until she produced a licence show-
ing her birthdate. “I thought he was
kidding, but he wasn't. I was with one
of my aunts who hadn't seen me for
years, so it caused quite a sensation.”
“Go on and guess how old I am,”
she urged, and was flattered when the
answer was generous by a year. You
think that’s old? It’s nothing. She
believed that no matter how good a
model looked in Australia, she in-
variably improved after a few years
overseas. She never considered her
own age as an indicator of how she should
feel, think, dress, or behave. Australian
women were too prone, she believed, to
think themselves old at 27, whereas their
real beauty was only beginning to blos-
som.
She was born in India “Oh, no, I’m
British. My father was a Cambridge
graduate”— went to school in England
and came to Australia with her family
when she was 13. She went to school
at Dover Heights, where she excelled in
maths and science, but decided to let
her sister be the one to have a univer-
sity education. To make ends meet when
she began her modelling career she
worked as a doctor’s receptionist, and
sold flowers at Double Bay on Saturdays.
She has never taken a modelling
course but has picked up the tricks as
she went along. “I learnt mostly from
the photographers,” she said. “They’re the
ones you have to please in the long
run.” Her approach was vindicated in
1955 when she was crowned Australia’s
Photographers’ Model of the Year, and
in 1956 she left for Europe, working
in Paris for most of the big fashion
houses but mainly for Carven, which
involved trips to Egypt, Berlin and
Istanbul.
When she arrived in Paris, she had
been used mainly for face shots
French and English “Vogue,” “Harper’s
Bazaar.” But after her illness “I
think it was some sort of food poison-
ing. All of a sudden I was partially para-
lysed” and the removal of her appen-
dix, she lost weight and got her first big
break when Dior designed his 1958-9
collection almost exclusively for his
models Victoire and Kouka, who had the
same shape as she did “enormous
shoulders and no hips.”
Her first venture in New York wasn’t
a success “I had my hair short
and they hated it. It was considered ter-
ribly chic in Paris, but Americans still
like you to look fresh and wholesome.”
She returned to Paris, grew her hair, and
went back to take New York by storm.
She believes that when the chips are
down it's personality that counts. A
pretty face and good connections, family
or professional or both, are no automatic
guarantee. “If you can open your mouth
and make people listen, you’re in,” she
said.
But developing your personality could
be taken too far, she felt. Once you
found your metier, stick to it. The
thought of a Hollywood career left her.
cold. “Are you kidding?” she said. “I
should sign a contract and sit around in
Hollywood doing maybe nothing for
maybe two years.” Serious acting doesn't
interest her either, although she has a
nodding acquaintance with most of the
current Broadway hits.
For the meantime, modelling is her
job, and its returns in money, travel and
personal enjoyment are enough.


8Y APPOINTMENT
VlfM. SANDERSON & SON LTO.
more
tfjan a
...
a trabttton
ASK FOR VAT 69
FINE OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
NZLI/9>/ 4 .a
OVERSEAS
STALIN: FACE TO FACE
A variety of masks, a monkish manner
Ten years ago Stalin died. Who was this man? Public figures build one another
up. Churchill, fascinated by the wartime leader of 200 million people, built
Stalin up into the great warrior chieftain. Roosevelt, enthralled by the
manoeuvres of the boss politician, built him up as the great realist with whom it was
possible for another great realist ( Roosevelt ) to do business. But sometimes the
onlooker really does see more of the game and can arrive at conclusions rather
different from those of the more deeply engaged. MR HUGH LUNGHI, who inter-
preted for Churchill and other distinguished figures while they wrestled with Stalin, saw
a good deal, and here tells something of what he saw.
Otalin has been dead 10 years and
buried twice once mummified
and on display in the mausoleum in Red
Square, and then out of sight at the foot
of the Kremlin wall.
In Russia 18 months ago three people
said to me, “Stalin has gone, but his
shadow is still with us.” But only one
of them, an older man, said it with a
shudder, as though the ghost might yet
materialise.
According to latter-day Communist
Party leaders who knew him led by
Khrushchev the man who created the
long-lasting shadow was clearly a
monster, guilty of unspeakable cruelties,
bestialities, mockeries, outrages; a mass
murderer. I observed Stalin closely over
a period of six years, and he could give
a totally different impression.
At the war-time conferences and
banquets I saw and heard Western
leaders praise and flatter Stalin in public
and private, and in turn be flattered by
him. I saw them shake him warmly by
the hand which (so Mr Khrushchev has
since told us) was responsible for the
deaths of “thousands of absolutely
innocent people.” I shook that hand
myself on many occasions, was patted
on the back by it, and received glasses
of tea from it.
Had I been in a position to add my
praise and flattery, no doubt I should
have done so with the rest —at least to
begin with. Only later, and perhaps be-
cause as an interpreter I could stand
back and observe the man and some of
his mental processes, did I wonder.
Part of the answer to the riddle lay
in his contrived inaccessibility. The
build-up of atmosphere before one even
approached the gates of the Kremlin had
its effect, if only subconsciously, on even
the most hardened statesmen.
We, and all foreign visitors, were
always instructed to report to the Boro-
vitsky Gate of the Kremlin, at the
farthest point diagonally from Stalins
quarters.
We drove to the Kremlin past clusters
of three or more police permanently
stationed at each road junction, who
telephoned the next cross-roads, and thus
passed us down the route.
A black saloon pilot-car led the way
up the 50-yard drive to the main porta.
As soon as we passed the outer gate a


|f S et off by photo-electric cell, started
.jugiog continuously. The arched portal
gained guard rooms on either side,
jmj a major of the MVD, the blue-
;J!,ped, uniformed secret police, in-
speCted our chauffeur’s documents and
(E ered inside the car, while three or four
(COs on guard duty stood around. All
,ore revolvers.
Only when we emerged from the gate-
py inspection did the warning bell stop
linging.
filing silence
[n the entrance hall of the Kazakov
1 Senate House we would be saluted by
mother pistol-carrying MVD guard of
icolonel and two or three captains and
(lieutenants. A lift took us, in the charge
of the colonel, slowly up two floors, and
down long and high corridors, at each
[urn of which stood one of the armed
praetorian guard to the remote place
where Stalin waited.
Apart from the armed guards, the
corridors were deserted. There was the
ame chilling silence inside the building
5 outside in the deserted grounds. An
odor of Makhorka. the coarse black
lussian tobacco, reminiscent of stale
cabbage, seemed faintly to pervade the
building.
Massive double doors were padded
with greenish - brown- quilted hide.
Through one pair we entered the ante-
chambers of Stalin’s suite. A small posse
of armed officers, the personal body-
guard, clustered at one side of the ante-
thamber, at their head a squat man in
lie uniform of a general. Without
Bouncing us, he quietly opened the
table doors, leading into a panelled
indy-conference room.
At the other end of it, a few paces
in front of a desk, stood a humble-look-
mg little old man. His withered left arm
»as somehow drawn up and bent at the
few so that his upturned hand rested
gainst his solar plexus. His right hand
*as cupped under the left one.
He wore a plain grey tunic buttoning
Itht up at the neck, and decorated only
tythe small gold star of a Hero of the
taiet Union. His trousers, with sharp
“cases, were very wide, so that they
% just revealed the tapering, square-
taed shoes with built-up heels. He
i°°ked like an old-fashioned uncle.
As we entered he took a step or two
wards us over the fine carpet, his
lte rpreter just behind and at his side,
doping, with his head slightly inclined,
that he looked nobody in the eye,
hlin shook hands with all our party.
, ls grip was firm but not heavy; his
tad was not large, but square and rather
The handshaking was repeated all
tand with the interpreter in grave and
orm al courtesy.
Stalin invited us to sit at the long
green-baize conference table, extending
along two-thirds of the side of the 30-
foot room, on the straight-backed, dust-
sheeted chairs, at the end nearest his
own flat-topped desk. On his desk stood
three round upright containers filled with
dozens of sharpened pencils, a couple of
pads, a heavy marble inkstand with cut-
glass wells of red and blue, and a marble-
based metal table-lamp.
Stalin sat, not at the head of the table,
but opposite us with his back to the wall,
on which hung portraits of Russia’s great
captains of the past, Suvorov, and
Napoleon’s opponent, Kutuzov. Our
backs were to the windows, which at
night were curtained with white - silk
blinds.
On the table were ashtrays and several
green-and-gold striped boxes of Dukat
and Luxe, the top-quality Russian ciga-
rettes with cardboard holders. Stalin
would help himself to these frequently.
Only once or twice in six years did I see
him smoking his pipe.
During the talks Stalin would pick up
a pencil and doodle, drawing sometimes
geometric figures which developed into
savage-looking animals, sometimes black,
thick, curved arrows like those used on
military charts.
After an hour or so, glasses of lemon
tea, in silver filigree holders, would be
brought in with petit-fours and choco-
lates. No alcohol on these occasions.
Stalin can hardly have been more than
5 ft. sin. in height; strongly and squarely
built, but not broad. At this time, during
the war, he was 64, but his movements
were smooth and cat-like. His hair was
iron grey and still fairly thick, and his
moustache bushy. But his sallow skin
was wrinkled and his pock-marks showed,
except when thickly covered with the
talcum powder he was treated with after
his evening shave.
His prominent nose with its elongated
nostrils appeared more hooked from the
habit of narrowing and wrinkling up
his rather muddy eyes.
But hardly did one recover from the
surprise of seeing the remote emperor
cut down before one’s eyes to almost less
than human size than the sound of his
voice produced a second shock. It, too,
was curiously colorless, his delivery flat
and monotonous, with a marked Geor-
gian accent.
Up to this time I had heard the
Georgian accent only as a joke. In the
music-hall, or in telling an anecdote, any
Caucasian accent is to the Russian
language what Wigan Pier Lancashire is
to English; For the first few seconds I
found it difficult to take Stalin’s words
seriously. It made him seem for a
moment faintly ridiculous.
Stalin, I soon noticed, was deliberate
in making the best of his disadvantages,
and often he liked to get his interlocutor
off on the wrong foot. Though he
habitually fostered the image of a modest
man, telling visitors with a self-depreca-
tory air of humility that be owed all to
“the people,” he played the gambit
hardest in my experience when he
received Lord Mountbatten at the Pots-
dam Conference of 1945.
In his opening greetings and compli-
ments, Lord Louis spoke of Stalin’s
achievements in peace and war. Stalin
replied that he had done his best, but
that really it was to the Russian people
he owed everything. He returned to this
theme several times during the conversa-
tion as if to play up the gulf that lay
between him and his princely guest.
At the Bolshoi Theatre gala per-
formance in honour of Churchill’s visit
in October, 1944, Stalin withdrew to the
rear of the imperial box to allow Chur-
chill to take the plaudits. It was only
after I had seen this kind of performance
on other occasions that I became con-
vinced it was part of a calculated act to
convey the picture of a modest leader in
the image of Lenin; but in Stalin’s case
a kind of inverted vainglory, along with
the apparent artless manner of his speech
and the ultra simplicity of his dress.
Ponderous jokes
T never saw Stalin behave in an over-
bearing or arrogant way to any
foreigners, but he behaved thus to his
own colleagues. Rarely in six years did
I hear him laugh a dry, repressed
sound. The loudest laugh I heard from
him was when Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery was ragging Molotov at a Krem-
lin banquet. Montgomery had chaffed
Molotov over the riotous and lazy life
which he pretended the sombre Soviet
Foreign Minister had led on visits to
New York. Stalin elaborated on the
joke, dragging it out until one got the
uneasy feeling that there was some
menace in it. Molotov would stolidly
submit to being the butt of Stalin’s
ponderous jokes, but I never saw any
sign of mutual irritation.
But I saw Maisky go pale when Stalin
toasted him at a banquet, referring to
him as the “poet-diplomat.” There was
an earlier poet-diplomat in the Russian
foreign service, Alexander Griboyedov,
Tsarist Ambassador to Persia. He was
assassinated in his embassy in Teheran
and the Tsar did not avenge his death.
One day Stalin’s own interpreter, Pavlov,


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
f true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
IP]ENFQ]LID)£
POT ST I LI.
BRANDY
I***"*
imm
\nHSfTrFKi6HT Express <9
•n
EVERYTHING GOES
ANSETT3FRCIGHT
■J {PRESS
GETS THERE ON TIME!
Daily scheduled services to all capital cities.
Co-ordinated road, rail, sea and air transportation.
★ Flexi-van system between Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney. ★ ‘Piggy-back 1
and container van services between Adelaide-Perth. ★ Container Van
service between Brisbane and Darwin via Mt. Isa. ★ Sea-road to Tasmania.
★ Operates the Australia-wide system of the Cargoclippers.
ANSETT FREIGHT EXPRESS HANDLES ALL TYPES OF COMMODITIES
For further particulars phone:
Melbourne 68 0541 • Sydney 610533 • Adelaide 45 5337 • Canberra 4 6005
Brisbane 471481 • Perth 24 4926 • Tasmania-Devonport 2 2659
was scared stiff by his master. Someone
had presented Pavlov with one or two
volumes of Burns or some other Scots
or English poet. Stalin had evidently
heard about it and in his presence ex-
claimed in seeming jest, “Pavlov j$
getting too friendly with the foreigners.”
After that it suddenly became hard to
have my usual friendly chat with Pavlov
before and after meetings. I tried to
invite him to meals, but he refused even
a semi-official party invitation.
At receptions a tomb-like silence
descended on the company and a chill
that seemed to cut off the Russians’ very
breath at the moment Stalin appeared.
As soon as he spoke the tension eased
a bit, but did not disappear.
Never do I recall having felt physically
sick at the relationship between two
human beings except when I saw Vyshin-
sky, the diplomat and ruthless public
prosecutor, in Stalin's presence. Vyshin-
sky behaved like a frightened dog, bend-
ing, nodding in assent, and backing
away from his master, and Stalin quite
clearly despised him. Before one of the
conference sessions at Yalta I overheard
Stalin say to a group of his lieutenants,
including Vyshinsky, “With Vyshinsky
all things are possible. He will jump
over anything we tell him.”
The gradations of fear of Stalin,
which ran from the trembling aged
waiters at the Kremlin banquets (with
plain-clothed MVD men standing behind
them—one to every two or three) up to
the most beribboned military chiefs,
were fascinating to observe.
He treated politicians the Maliks,
Zorins and Gromykos and the top-
rank soldiers—Bulganin, Vassilievsky,
Koniev, Voronov like messenger boys
and batmen, and they behaved like that
in his presence.
Among the diplomats, Litvinov seemed
to me to lose least dignity and self-
respect, but Litvinov always seemed
withdrawn into himself. Only Molotov,
more closely engaged, seemed to be free
of the nagging anxiety that haunted the
faces of the others. Stalin mocked him
openly, and Molotov took it all im-
passively.
The relationship reminded me of that
between a headmaster and a favorite
sixth former. When technical points
were under discussion, as with the
currency problem during the Kremlin
talks on Berlin in 1948, Molotov ha
done his homework and produced the
answers for Stalin, sometimes leaning
over to correct the master's figures,
never saw any other among Stalins
advisers dare to interrupt or correct him.
At Stalin’s funeral on March 9, 19 >
Molotov, Malenkov and Beria delivere
orations. Only Molotov is reported 0
have wept. I believe it.


social functions Stalin asked
admirals to get him glasses of tea,
(flera ls to fetch coffee. Bulganin, once
listing on the merits of Pertsovka, the
pery vodka served with cold sucking-
l in aspic, told me “all Soviet army
Lerals” drank this fire-water. Perhaps
j was to give them Dutch courage.
Bulganin himself, sitting next to me at
ilic h a meal, kept his eyes and ears fixed
0 j Stalin, straining to catch every word
gesture. Once, when Montgomery
after dinner was asked by Stalin if he
,iould like to see a film in the Kremlin’s
private cinema, and declined on the
sounds that he was bent on an early
jUrt for England next day, a look of
horrified disbelief seemed to pass over
the faces of the assembled Soviet brass,
ud from the murmur I caught the word
| mJo! (“That’s bold!”). But when
Stalin turned deliberately and eyed them
they were silent immediately.
The nearest I ever saw to affection in
Stalin was in his treatment of Voroshilov,
hut there was no warmth in it. Voro-
shilov stood in Stalin’s military menage
is a glorified old retainer. Stalin treated
him rather like a useless old dog kept
an as a reminder of more adventurous
Jays. In Soviet mythology, Voroshilov
m one of the great cavalry captains of
the civil war against the Whites. He
toned up everywhere in his marshal’s
uniform and was still a member of the
far Council, but Stalin would humiliate
him at will.
Attitude to foreigners
At the first plenary session of the
a Teheran conference Stalin said he
lad not expected military discussions and
therefore had brought no military
experts. But, he added, Voroshilov might
Jo and would try his best. Voroshilov,
who sat looking at Stalin with his beady
eyes, did not bat an eyelid.
Stalin’s manner towards foreigners
#as quite different. He was seemingly
Referential, never allowed himself to be
Ken disconcerted, but yet liked to dis-
concert others. In the Kremlin in 1948,
fee years after Potsdam, Stalin received
fee Western representatives who had
tome to try to get some solution to the
“erlin blockade. He scarcely waited for
0 greetings and preliminaries to be
finished before he shot out at the Western
legates: “Have you any delegated
authority to negotiate?” Stalin knew that
0 talks were meant to be only ex-
oratory at that stage; his gambit
fived to grab the advantage, put the
westerners on the defensive.
repeated the tactic at the next
feting with: “Do you want to settle the
o°le thing now? I’ve got a plan for
Oin. it is all written out ready for
,s all to agree to.”
He blew hot and cold as it served him.
He would send Churchill, and occasion-
ally Roosevelt, abusive telegrams about
the alleged failure of Allied convoys to
deliver war materials to Russia. But
when Churchill’s envoys, Eden or Ismay,
visited Stalin shortly afterwards, he
would be unexpectedly full of sweetness
and light. I have heard him turn from
menaces to bewildering reasonableness
in less than a minute; switch from
elaborate courtesy to vulgar vituperation
just as fast, all without raising his voice.
He practised many forms of “one-
upmanship.” When Montgomery once
visited him he took as gifts to Stalin a
couple of his own books, and a case of
whisky, which I carried into Stalin’s
study. Stalin scarcely gave a glance at
the case, and his first words to Mont-
gomery as he indicated the gifts, but
before Montgomery had got through his
formal greeting, were: “Yes? And what
do you want from me?”
He kept the “one-upmanship” going
all through that interview. Towards the
end, Montgomery produced an autograph
book and politely asked Stalin if he
would write in it. Stalin acted as though
he did not understand (though I re-
membered that at Potsdam Stalin himself
on one occasion walked round the
banquet table collecting autographs on
a menu). But now he continued to affect
non - comprehension, until Montgomery
had been forced into the situation of
seeming to be begging. Then he rose
slowly from the conference table, walked
over to his desk, picked up a pen and
without pause wrote in the book. Mont-
gomery passed it to me to translate.
Stalin had simply written his “regards
to the British soldiers,” and signed it
“Stalin.”
He had a flinty sneer for Churchill at
Potsdam when the Briton spoke of the
hardships that would face the British
people in the coming winter if they were
compelled by Stalin’s proposals for the
Ruhr to supply part of Europe with coal
out of their own depleted resources.
Stalin chipped in that Russia was in a
far worse plight. This was true enough,
but then Stalin added that he could tell
the conference just how things were in
Russia, but that if he did he was afraid
Churchill would burst into tears.
Churchill flushed slightly and looked
glum.
One of the Stalin myths that still
persist abroad is that he had a brilliantly
rapid mind and always spoke to the
point. It is true enough that he had a
clear head and a good memory and kept
his^objective constantly in view. But if
Stalin spoke briefly and to the point it
was largely because he was incapable of
oratory. The only times I ever heard
him speak at length was in reminiscence
(as when he was at pains to convince
Allied leaders that he, and not Zhukov,
was the victor of Berlin). On such
occasions he might speak for up to three
minutes.
Vanity and fear
4 lso, speaking through interpreters was
an ideal method for Stalin. It gave
him time to collect his thoughts.
Stalin on his feet had a monkish
manner of clasping his hands either over
his stomach or higher, keeping them
clasped even when making gestures, by
simply turning his palms slightly out-
ward but without taking them from his
chest, and this particular attitude symbol-
ised for me his locked-in nature. But I
saw innumerable manifestations of
cruelty, harshness, craft and meanness,
cold desire for vengeance, guile and sus-
picion, but all of them subservient to a
seemingly infinite capacity to bide his
time.
Stalin wore many masks. Two weak-
nesses impossible to hide permanently
were vanity and fear. Both seemed to
me compounded in an inferiority com-
plex. Most Western leaders who met
him have asserted that Stalin was a
brave man. In so far as ruthlessness and
fixity of purpose demand courage, Stalin
possessed some portion of that quality.
But if unnatural and intense preoccupa-
tion with personal safety and morbid
fear of death indicate cowardice, then
Stalin was also a coward at heart.
A marked symptom of Stalin’s fear
was his preoccupation with illhealth.
Allied leaders have reproached Stalin for
compelling older men such as Cordell
Hull, and sick men such as Roosevelt
and Churchill after one of his illnesses,
to travel thousands of miles to speak
with him instead of meeting them at least
half-way. Stalin gave the excuse that his
doctors forbade him to travel long dis-
tances or by air. He often spoke about
his poor health, but never joked about it.
Stalin made his people not only afraid
of him, but afraid of one another. When
the midnight knock of the secret police
was almost as familiar as the postman’s,
the sick joke in Moscow was of the
house concierge knocking at a door in
the night and crying. “Don’t be afraid,
citizens! It’s only a fire in the house!”


6
I
■
m
■y
K
.
1
tail
:§a
■
#*
: ■>-
m
:
■
I
Geon
/iizfoua&
-a
K
H
fa
. .
Geon vi'nyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured identification coding. In industry, Geon improves products or evolves new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2. Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (ANZ) Ltd.
MSS2SA


FORUM
AUSTRALIA FELIX
WITHOUT GUILT
Knocking the knockers
By MANNING CLARK
fHEN Bertrand Russell left Australia
in August of 1950 after a short
v j s ;t he said Australians were pioneers
not only in the development of Australia,
but in pointing the way to a happier
destiny for man throughout the cen-
turies to come. “I leave your shores,” he
concluded, “with more hope for man-
kind than I had when I came among
you.”
As in other advanced industrial capital-
ist nations we have our Jeremiahs about
those centuries to come. The demo-
graphers shake their heads gloomily about
a coming world population explosion
after which, they say, there will be stand-
ing room only on the earth. And how,
they ask, will the Aussies and the Kiwis
like that?
The anti-Communists here, as in other
Western countries, chant their own song
of doom, of a race of men so corrupted
by luxury and ease as to fall an easy
victim to the Communists from the
north. The Communists prophesy that
the age of affluence is but the Indian
summer of capitalist society; that the
preoccupation with evil and suffering by
our poets, painters and novelists symbol-
ises the moral sickness of our society.
The priests and parsons, as in the
Western world, preach about an age
of ruins in which men put their faith in
those “idols of corrupt hearts” such as
material well-being and worldly hap-
piness. Man by himself, they warn, can-
not achieve happiness on earth or over-
come those weaknesses which stem from
bis depravity.
Yet as in other Western countries
the masses seem oblivious of the ter-
nble fate which these secular and spirit-
ual Jeremiahs predict for them. Prophe-
ts of destruction or damnation seem
jnaint and queer to a people to whom
bfe is one long round of pleasure.
Each month more people are buying
M-boats, water-skis, electric barbe-
CUes > motor-cars, radiograms, television
Sets and deep-freeze equipment. Why
should a generation which no longer
Produces bread in the sweat of its brow
M questions to itself about the origin
°f human evil? Why should a generation
in which the new technological revolution
is rapidly effacing all outward and visible
differences between classes take any
notice of people who say that all history
is the history of class struggles?
Yet in one sense it is an age of ruins
in Australia and New Zealand, for amidst
the gaiety and the confidence of a people
who are creating material well-being and
happiness for all, there lie the ruins of
the ideologies which have fashioned
their civilisation. The three creative in-
fluences in that civilisation Protestant
Christianity, Irish Catholicism, and secu-
lar humanism have lost touch with
their original social function.
Historically, the Protestant parson was
a moral policeman. In a society whose
workers were drawn from the “offscour-
ings of British gaols” and the “sweepings
of Irish parishes” the colonial establish-
ment found the Protestant parson a use-
ful aid in their great task of achieving
social order: he preached obedience, he
warned them against the evils of strong
drink, against lifting the petticoats of
convict women for improper purposes,
and gambling. In this way the parsons
exposed themselves to the charges that
they were just “civil servants in cas-
socks,” and defenders of a philistine way
of life.
So Protestant Christianity became
identified with British interests in Aus-
tralia, and was held out as indispensable
to a high material civilisation and liberty.
The explosion of that myth probably
damaged Protestant Christianity as much
as the higher criticism of the Bible and
the publication of “The Descent of Man”.
Historically the social function of the
Catholic Church in Australia was to pro-
mote the worldly interests of the Irish
people, to comfort them in their days
of oppression, to clamor for their right
to an equal share of wealth and power
with their Protestant neighbors. Today
Ireland’s past weighs but lightly on the
brain of the living in the Antipodes, as
the ancient wounds of Danny Boy have
been gradually by the affluent
society.
At the same time the myths of the
secular humanists have vanished as snow
before the suns of affluence. They saw
themselves as noble vessels through whom
the old world evils of war, poverty, in-
equality, and class hatred would be
eliminated from the world. They urged
their new world followers to trust the
brotherhood of man —to be mates. They
saw themselves as pioneers of political
and social democracy, architects of social
welfare, the creators of a paradise for
the working man.
But two world wars, the Russian
revolution, the depression, the behavior
of the Nazis, the victory of the Com-
munists in China, the end of Australian
and New Zealand economic dependence
on the United Kingdom, and the revolu-
tions in transport and communication
have left the secular humanism of our
radicals and nationalists just as out of
date as some of the religious creeds. The
advocates for the ideals of the old bush
culture, for its mateship and its strident
—“l’m a bloody Australian, and I’ll
always bloody well stick up for Aus-
tralia”—have become the darling dodos
of our society.
This confrontation of the ideologies
of the past with the new material setting
lends an air of unreality and at times
tragic grandeur to the speeches and be-
havior of the politicians. Of no one is
this more true than of Mr Menzies, the
Prime Minister. Opinions may differ on
the motives for his behavior or on what
holds the world together for him in its
innermost parts. But the man has been
inspired by the idea that British political
institutions and that ideal of the upright
man exhorted in the Protestant religion
had created the highest material civilisa-
tion and the greatest degree of liberty
known in the history of mankind. He
has used his great talents, his wit, his
urbanity and his oratory for the promo-
tion of British civilisation.
For him the Royal Family always has
been the symbol of the way of life
to which he is so passionately dedicated.
When he announced the death of George
VI to Parliament in Canberra in Febru-
ary, 1952, he was so deeply moved that
his voice broke and he found it difficult
to continue. Just over 10 years later he
attended a conference of Commonwealth
Prime Ministers in London at which it


wmmm
mmm
h*il PW
& &T'T
W V a Sg? - s v
,. a
■*% *
! ■
*
m
r-mii
3®
Amsterdam's Rijksmuseum, set among canals
a treasure house of Rembrandt and other Old Masters.
How you can benefit by including Holland
on your next business trip with reliable KLM
( You can relax in Holland , yet still be within easy reach of any city in Europe)
KLIM has been flying longer than any
other airline. If your business takes you
to Europe, or anywhere else for that
matter, experienced KLM gets you there
punctually. Read how a Holland-based
European trip with reliable KLM can
offer you extra advantages.
1. Convenience: You take off from
Sydney, Friday at 10.35 a.m., (passengers
from Melbourne and Brisbane can make
same day connection) by KLM DC-8
intercontinental jet. You’re in Amster-
dam for lunch on Saturday. There you
can relax in comfort, or, if you wish,
dine the same night in London. Holland
is the hub of Europe. From Amsterdam
you can travel by road, rail, water, or
air to anywhere in Europe. KLM serves
43 cities in Europe alone.
2. Lower Costs : Amsterdam’s cost of
living is far lower than 17 other major
world cities. Hotels, restaurants, enter-
tainment, and shopping are all easily
within your means. Cars can be pur-
chased tax-free, and you’ll also find
exceptional bargains at Amsterdam air-
port’s Tax-Free Shopping Centre, the
largest in Europe.
3. Beauty and Interest: has
more than 4300 miles of romantic canals,
the most picturesque network of water-
ways in the world; miles and miles of
fabulous tulip fields; beautiful Dutch
windmills; 6000 Dutch-clean hotel
rooms; world-renowned food; famous
diamond-cutting industry; museum
treasures; gabled villages; modern cities
and much more.
4. Friendliness : In Holland most people
speak English, and the Dutch like visi-
tors. They make it a point to see that
you have a good time. Introductions are
often arranged between people of similar
interests, such as art, music, business
and travel. You’ll also like the excellent
courteous service, everywhere.
5. Reliability: KLM reliably carries
over 3830 passengers every day to 104
cities all over the world. KLM’s Multi-
Stopover Plan flies you to 30 cities —
all for the fare to London. Other airlines
frequently send their flying crews to
KLM’s training school, and, more than
30 per cent of KLM’s maintenance work
is done for other airlines, including a
U.S. airline — a remarkable vote of
confidence in KLM reliability.
6. Professional Service: Your travel
agent is a professional, and professionals
plan better trips. He knows all the details
of the KLM Budget Travel and Multi-
Stopover Plans. Wherever you want to
go, he can route your trip through
Amsterdam for tax-free shopping and
other special Dutch treats. Two of every
three KLM passengers are recommended
to fly KLM by experienced Travel
Agents. A nice vote of confidence by
people who know all about travel.
Note: You can buy a KLM ticket for one-
tenth of its price and take two years to
pay the rest. Mail coupon below.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. BUILDING, 47 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. BX 3966
Please send copy of KLM Budget Travel Plan and travel portfolio.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
My Travel Agent is.
B 9/3
/
KLM
N 243


ffa s quite plain that that world on which
j, e had lavished his vast talents was
crumbling to ruins. From that day. his
words have been tinged at times with the
sadness and, at other times, with the
bitterness of a man who sees it all slip-
ping away from him.
A similar estrangement from the march
of events has introduced a note of un-
certainty into the pronouncements of the
leaders of the Labor Parties. In both
countries the Labor aims of equality of
opportunity and material well-being for
all seem to have been achieved, or, if
they have not, Labor seems singularly
void of ideas on what to do about it.
In foreign affairs they do not offer any
serious alternative to the policy of their
Liberal opponents. True, they have
planks in their platform such as the
recognition of Communist China which
the Liberals would not be prepared to
support, at least in public. The more
radical wing of the party in both coun-
tries talks about rice rather than guns for
the countries of South-east Asia, or about
an atomic bomb-free zone in the south-
nest Pacific.
But so far neither the radicals, nor
the conservatives, nor the opportunists
within the party either here or in New
Zealand have suggested a serious alter-
native to the participation of both coun-
tries in the South-east Asia Treaty Or-
ganisation and the fAmerican alliance.
Third-force men are just as much darling
dodos as the advocates of the bush
culture.
This bankruptcy of the main political
parties may be a consequence of the new
dependence on Washington. It may be
that Australians sense that their own
future is being decided in Washington.
Moscow and Peking, rather than by their
own politicians. This may help to ex-
plain their indifference to their own poli-
ticians. It may be that the intellectuals,
the publicists, the priests, the parsons and
the politicians are still dealing in ideo-
logies which have ceased to touch the
life of the people. It may even be that
Bertrand Russell was right that the
people, unaware as ever of their past and
their culture, are not only responding
confidently to their new material setting
but are also pointing the way to a hap-
pier destiny for man throughout the cen-
turies to come.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
PARSONS AND POLITICS
The article, “Religion Parsons and
Clitics,” contributed by Mr Peter
festerway (The Bulletin, February
Jf), has inaccurate statements regarding
of curriculum revision com-
bes as well as personal references
at call for correction.
Curriculum making and/or revising
“fflmittees, widely representative of
during, teaching, research and ad-
’"hstrative divisions of the Education
wtment, prepare syllabus drafts ,
in sub-committees for infant and
'""ary grades respectively. These work-
's, parties are not attended by either the
,air man or the secretary of the com-
llttee - The full committee may amend
ese drafts, or refer them to the sub-
’simittee for further amendment, or
them. The final draft of the
j uabus is submitted to the Director as
Recommended syllabus.” Responsibil-
' 0r its. approval, publication and intro-
chon into the schools rests with the
Director, the Permanent Head, and the
Minister for Education.
Mr Westerway’s insinuations that the
chairman was responsible for the social
studies syllabuses of 1952 and 1959 has
no substance in fact, and is indeed an
insult to the men.and women who helped
to draft these syllabuses as well as an
implied criticism of officers actually
responsible for the approval and issue of
syllabuses. Moreover, his reference to
a “strategically placed Presbyterian” is a
superficial, dramatic “trimming” to his
“cast of characters.”
“The course of the battle” to which
Mr Westerway refers actually began
more than two years after the 1959
revision of the social studies was sub-
mitted to the Director and more than
three years after the Scripture portions
were drafted, recommended, and ap-
proved by the highest administrative
officers. I repudiate strongly any second-
hand information Mr Westerway may
have been given concerning my work
with the social studies committees (my
official duties have required me to take
the chairmanship of no less than seven
different curriculum revision committees
since my appointment as Deputy Direc-
tor of Primary Education in 1956 —-in
1952 I was Inspector of Schools!).
I can assure your readers that cur-
riculum revision committees in New
South Wales (and no doubt in many
other States!) do NOT come “to agree-
ment without much trouble,” as Mr
Westerway states.
Also I am able to tell all who are
interested that the men and women who
gave so freely of their own time and
talents for periods from two to three
years, without additional remuneration,
in the preparation of the recommended
syllabus drafts carried out a fine service
to teachers, their pupils, and the whole
Department. That 16 experienced,
thoughtful, and interested educationists
and educators were influenced unduly
by a “devout Presbyterian,” appointed as
chairman by the administration, is surely
too ludicrous for any responsible citizen
to accept —in Australia anyway!
It is a pity that Mr Westerway’s
survey of such a highly controversial
question is marred by inaccurate infor-
mation and the dramatic “trimmings” of
several personal references that cannot
be substantiated in time, status and
responsibility, or in intention.
T. H. RANSLEY
Arncliffe (NSW).
AUSTRALIA’S BUSY FASCISTS
[THE BULLETIN has received the fol-
lowing Statutory Declaration from the Rev.
Father Josip Kasic. Ed.]
Sir,
I, REV. JOSIP KASIC, of 69 Hodg-
kinson Street, Clifton Hill, in Victoria,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that
I never was politically active or that I
have taken part in any violence and
the whole article in The Bulletin of
the 26th of January, 1963, is not based
on the truth.
I am Croat by birth. I would like to
see a democratic Croatia by democratic
means. I am not against England or
British Commonwealth. I am loyal
citizen to Australia.
JOSIP KASIC
Clifton Hill (Victoria).
AN OPEN LETTER TO
MY FRIENDS IN AUSTRALIA
Dear People,
At the peril of boldness 1 asked
Patricia Rolfe if The Bulletin would
honor me by carrying “An Open Letter”
to my many friends in Australia. I was
sure that there must be a regulation
against it. After all, I have discovered
everywhere in the world lhat those things
which are not expressly forbidden are
prohibited! But she replied in the warm-
est vein, saying, pretty nearly, “Let’s have
it. If there were a regulation against it
you could certainly Veak L.” I love
that lady!
Now there are a thousand things I
have to talk about. The most important
bear on the deep feeling I have for the
stirring welcome I received at your hands.
I have been about the world a bit and
I have had some experiences, personal,
professional, intellectual, soul-warming,
all very emotional for me you all
know by now how my blood flows and
how I tick but nowhere have 1 felt it
all so deeply. And so I am forever in
your debt. You have all honored me more
than 1 deserve.
The mail that has come to me in
such abundance from your country also
invites my commentary. You will all
understand how much it troubles me not
to reply to each of you. It is impossible.
And so here in this weak refrain I ac-
knowledge your writing and thank you


warmly for your letters. Those from the
boys and girls are especially rewarding
and we ought one day to publish what
they say. I am "so delighted that the little
I did has uncovered for them so much
of the beauty of Nature.
And this leads me to speak of my
lays in Professor Messel’s Summer
School of Science for the boys and girls.
These were my finest hours. Here I am
sure sat a young Faraday and one day
he will emerge. And a Marie Curie, too.
I am so very much in debt to Professor
Messel for the privilege of lecturing
there. Indeed, I must as one duty-bound
say more about these events and about
Professor Messel. Apart from his master-
ful leadership and direction of this great
School of Physics I have this to say: in
all my professional career I have not
witnessed a nobler scheme of things, a
more stirring adventure for the young
people, or an intellectual ambition better
accomplished. This man Messel deserves
the highest accolade. This adventure of
his with the intellectual life of the young
people must rank with healing the sick,
assuaging pain, feeding the hungry.
To many many others in all quarters
I have a lasting debt for courtesies and
kindness legion in number and kind. You
will, I hope, identify yourselves and
accept my thanks. It would be folly to
try to name you all.
Now, finally, at the risk of greater
boldness still I can only say: I want to
return one day.
JULIUS SUMNER MILLER
California , USA.
THE CHANGING ABO
Sir,
It looks as if Martin Long’s article
“Who Calls the Tune?” (Bulletin,
February 2) had an influence on the
choice of the programme on 2BL on
February 16.
At 2 p.m. Mahler’s Ninth Symphony
was played on 2BL. As an introduction,
a talk was recorded, given by Wagner(?)
about the composer Mahler, who was to
become his friend. Mahler’s Ninth
Symphony can be considered as modern
music and is revolutionary.
We look forward to hearing some of
the other “new” composers listed by
Martin Long played on 2BL. I am
anxious to hear more “Stravinsky . . .
Britton . . . Shostakovich . . . Hindemith,”
particularly Hindemith.
C. BINNS
Neutral Bay (NSW).
SEX STARVED MIGRANTS?
Sir,
Charles Higham’s one-man crusade
against what he terms “grass-is-greener
snobbery” in films has gone beyond the
pale. To run down a list of his pre-
viously flip absurdities would take hours.
But, contrary to his comments on 1962’s
films (Bulletin, December 29), “West
Side Story,” charming as the show may
be, is certainly not “one of the great
works of art of our time”; it is impossible
for me to understand how a film could
be marred “by excessive directorial
fussiness” as he claimed “The Hustler”
was; and his arbitrary decision that “the
insolent lack of technique [sic] in so
many Italian films seems to stem from
a (perhaps correct) assumption that any-
thing badly made in a foreign language
will captivate English-speaking critics” is
insulting to both the Italians and many
far better critics than Mr Higham.
His weird comments are not, however,
as annoying as his total failure to back
them up in terms of the film medium
itself. They are either couched in
schoolmarm prejudices or, as in his
latest and most insidious propaganda,
directed against the audiences of his pet
hates (Bulletin, February 23). Using
a distributor, Mr Blake, as an excuse,
he conjures up a singularly categorical
vision of the foreign film audience as
two-fold: sex-starved migrants and wildly
arty students in league with the
“doughtiest highbrows”!
The provincialism here might be
funny if it did not reveal the continued
exploitation of space (supposedly for
films) by a critic who seems far more
interested in his animated-dish-rag view
of cultural morality than in medium or
craft.
S. DANGERFIELD
Hawthorn (Victoria).
THE GREEK ISLANDS
[Four poems by David McNicoll,
BULLETIN, January 19.]
Sir,
The mountains look on McNicoll,
McNicoll looks askance.
The sea is only a black-blue trickle,
The sky a white-blue tra: ce.
The harbors are clogged with floss and
brickie,
The mountains are cleft with ham and
sickle,
The olives of Delos are turned to pickle,
The Greeks hre wearing pants.
Homer’s milk is whey and curds
And his walls are covered in four-letter
words.
Sweet isles of Greece, sweet isles of
Greece,
Where burning Sappho chapless dwelt!
To some, oh isles, your words of peace
Are beautiful only if not misspelt,
And to some, I guess, the golden fleece
Means but a petrol or a pelt.
And, standing on the Persians’ grave,
What else to do but rhyme and rave?
For all is dross in Charing Cross
And Bellevue Hill’s a shame,
And we pass the time o’er gin and lime
By dropping Homer's name;
And this is bliss, the joy unreckoned,
The ecstasy of coming second.
R. ELLIS
Waverley (NSW).
MALAYA DEFENDED
Sir,
Miss Alice Tay (Bulletin, January
12) says that Malaya’s indigenous in-
habitants “are more interesting to the
anthropologist than they are to the
historian.” As an historian, albeit with
social anthropological leanings, who
finds Malaya’s indigenous inhabitants
and their past of absorbing interest, I’m
not sure where this leaves me. But I
should like to offer a mild defence of
Malayan historical studies.
It is unfair, or at any rate pointless
to compare the history of Malaya with
that of the great civilisations of India,
China and Europe, and then find it
wanting in manifestations of “the
grandeur of the human race.” One might
as well discuss the history of Bosnia-
Hercegovina in the same terms. The
point is, surely, that Peninsular Mayala
is a part only, and that a small one, of
a much larger Malaysian society em-
bracing both the Peninsula and the
whole Archipelago, from Sumatra and
Java to the Celebes and the Philippines.
Allowing that, for primarily geo-
graphical reasons, it is a history marked
by the successive permeation of Hindu-
Buddhist, Chinese, Islamic and Western
European cultural influences, the region
possesses also a rich autonomous life,
no less impressive for the way in which
it has used, adapted and combined new
institutions and systems of belief accord-
ing to its own genius. Much of this
life, and its meaning, is only now being
explored historically as an independent
phenomenon, after languishing for so
long in the shadow of its two vast neigh-
bors and the West. Peninsular Malaya
has a place, sometimes an important
place, in this process.
That Kennedy, in what purports to be
“A History of Malaya” (Bulletin,
January 12), has failed even to indicate
that an approach of this kind might be
possible I don’t for a moment deny, but
this is hardly a judgment upon the study
itself. I agree entirely with Miss Tay’s
strictures upon the book. They serve, I
would suggest, to make my point as
well as most, but not all, of hers.
WILLIAM R. ROFF
Toorak, Melbourne.
THE MONARCHY
Sir ’
As a newly recruited member of the
Australian Republican Party as well
as a foundation member of the Darwin
branch—l wish to assure you on certain
points.
Though your magazine supports the
monarchial system which is the anti-
thesis of Democracy unlike Mr E. R*
Cawthorn, B.Sc., and his National Social-
ist Movement the Republican Party
when it is democratically and constitu-
tionally established as the governing
party of Australia will allow your public-
ation to continue.
As well if it is the wish of the
Australian people the National Socia-
list Movement will still be allowed to
propagate its anti - Australian, anu-
Jewish, anti-Communist and anti-Asiatic
policy.
FRANK REAL
Secretary Darwin Branch ARP-
Darwin.


REVIEWS
THEATRE
ALL ABOUT US
By MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
“Who’ll come a-waltzing?” by Peggy
Caine. St Martin's Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
It is still a relatively new experience for
1 Australians to be able to go to the
theatre and see plays about themselves.
It-is also a peculiarly gratifying one, as
there is nobody quite so interesting as
yourself. Peggy Caine, a South African
who has lived in Australia for three years,
las written a comedy which has the
special interest that it is all about
Australia.
James and Marcia Eldred and their
children, Lester and Georgina, late of.
Berkeley Square, London, arrive in Syd-
ney to recoup their fortunes. They have
the very best connections, for James
Eldred's uncle is a Duke, but no money.
After pawning some of the family jewel-
lery to pay their exorbitant hotel bills,
they move into a large but crumbling
louse in Potts Point and set about making
the best of things.
They gaily exploit the very circum-
stances of Australian life which might be
expected to send them home on the next
ship. James Eldred becomes a porter at
their former hotel, modelling himself
“pon his erstwhile butler in Berkeley
We. Since every Australian thinks he
has good as the next man, be he com-
Pany manager or commissionaire, the
®ly question is which is more profitable,
'lames Eldred finds he does better at the
hotel than he used to in Berkeley Square.
Marcia Eldred exploits-the egalitarianism
the housing shortage at one stroke
hy taking in boarders.
The Eldreds are a little taken aback at
list by the constant advice which they
foceive, unasked, from everyone who
ltn s up, whether it be the baker, the
who keeps convng to test their new
set, or their neighbor Mr Joye,
Wye and Boy, Family Wreckers, who
h°°ks in for a chat” every couple of
ioUr s through the verandah window.
Bu t in no time the family not only
W to the Australian way of life, but
W it with enthusiasm, taking over the
an 8, the devotion to the. sun, the ritual
"the beach.
Finally the Duke arrives and adjusts
even faster. No sooner has Mr Joye
looked in than the Duke is splitting a
bottle of beer with him, and between
Saturday morning breakfast and the
family exodus to Bondi the two have
arranged to go into partnership in
minicabs.
This is a very kindly play, flattering
to the Australian ego. We are shown as
independent, colorful people, rather
graceless perhaps, but friendly; shrewd,
but generous. There is nothing more
pleasant Tor everyone than to be able to
sit back and laugh at themselves with
kindly approval, as the delighted roars
from the audience testified.
As is well known, we Australians suffer
both from a national inferiority complex
and from smug self-satisfaction. This
play is good for the inferiority. Fortun-
ately we have Barry Humphries as an
antidote to the self-satisfaction. Like Alice
with her mushroom, we can try to make
our egos the right size by judicious
nibbling: a morsel of flattery here and a
crumb of home truths there.
Peggy Caine has a sharp eye for local
color. She has caught the aggressive
friendliness, the compulsory egalitaria-
nism, the hatred of anything old. Some
of the jokes are rather hackneyed, and
the love scenes could do with a lot of
pruning; but there is no doubt that
“Who’ll come a-waltzing?” has a great
advantage over the average drawing-
room comedy: it is about us!
SMARTEN UP, THERE
Carnival. Stewart and Merrill. Theatre
Royal. Sydney.
tT'HERE must be a small world of diffe-
rence between the “Carnival” that
has been running big on Broadway for
the past two years and the show that the
Firm has given us here, and I’ll take a
bet that the main difference has been in
firmness of production. Even though the
programme says with pride that Miss
Lucia Victor from New York came out
especially to handle the Australian
production, there are too many raw spots
for one to be entirely happy with the
evening.
And this is a downright shame, be-
cause there are so many ingratiating
things about the show that one hates to
strike a sour drum about it. Perhaps the
not very successful run in Melbourne
has depressed the cast, perhaps the sticky
humid-aired night lowered vitality to the
danger point. Whatever, whoever the
cause, the company was highly nervous
and insecure on their stage, and one or
two principals seemed plain lazy.
Offsetting this, there was the childlike
charm of seeing a whole circus get itself
assembled and go into action; the misty,
shades - of - Carousel scenes of caravans
and tent-poles and solitary figures walk-
ing; the powerful tug of the story itself
(that fairytale we all share) of the orphan
child who joins a circus and becomes a
star.
Miss Patricia Moore, as Lili, the child
who becomes the star of the circus and
restores the group to its glory, gives a
show that is full of authentic wistfulness,
all right, but somehow is not round.
There’s an old acting saw that says when
you play something sweet you stress the
sour; in achieving light you play the dark
and it’s a sound enough notion. It is
also an idea that the Carnival cast might
consider, for if there is one big all-over
fault it is this: that the characters are not
“round”, they are all too much on the
one plane.
This is eminently the failing with Mr
Kevin Colson, for example. A bitter,
lamed dancer who can no longer dance
so turns with some contempt to running
a puppet booth, Mr Colson begins with
hard strength and twist. The trouble is he
stays with it all through the show.
At the end Lili tears aside the cover-
ing of the booth and sees that the man
uttering words of love is the bitter Mr
Paul and this is where Mr Colson
should drop the veil. He has been caught
in the act of kindness all hope of
pretence is gone. Apart from this wrong-
headed playing, Mr Colson reveals a deal
of talent.


Miss Jill Perryman gives a good Ethel
Merman romp to her brassy part, and
showed up on opening night as the only
player who was running at anything like
full throttle. Mr Kevan Johnston, as a
showy shabby magician, always delights
when he moves, but he must work on
his voice and at once give away his
terrifying habit of sweeping the floor
with his gaze. This refusal to meet the
audience’s eye is about the worst sin the
actor can commit.
As the circus proprietor, Gordon
Glenwright could have done with a flick
of the ringmaster’s whip. He seemed to
merely walk through his role. Dancing
and music were fine"; the lesser and
chorus parts seemed to me unusually
well filled Mr Hugh Stewart and Mr
Neil Curnow stood out boldly and
if only the Firm gets to it and has the
show directed with force, this “Carnival”
ought to find a way to Sydney’s heart.
KEVON KEMP
DISPARATE VALUES
They Don’t Sing Too Loud in Church.
Stage Club. Sydney.
YI/’ritten and directed by a young
"" American, Bobby Nelson, who also
played the leading part, this short play
has many of the best qualities of good
theatre: initial impact, speed, simplicity
of interplay, and generally rigorous
dialogue. And, indeed, it is probably be-
cause of the ease with which the play
rests on these qualities that what flaws
there are have been allowed to pass.
There are three characters —a preacher
(Peter Boyd) and two condemned priso-
ners, one of whom is a negro (Ronne
Arnold) and one of whom is white
(Bobby Nelson). The setting is in the
death block of a prison, shortly before
the white prisoner, “The Killer,” is to go
to the electric chair. The problem'is one
of values. The play tries to work out
some solution to the disparate values of
The Preacher, The Killer (who finds in-
finity in the physical elements of life
alone), and Buddy (who formulates a
rather silly, pleasure-seeking, nihilistic
view toward life).
Just how far it finally succeeds in this
endeavor is hard to say. The reason for
this uncertainty is simply that the excel-
lent theatre of the play tends to obscure
its framework or direction. You go away
feeling that you have witnessed the antics
of three very powerful characters, but
gained little idea of what they have meant
to one another.
Some of this failure is due to some
confusion of tempo in the Stage Club
production. Often, especially in the case
of The Preacher, one felt that the timing
of the various outbursts and the modula-
tions between the loud and the soft were
more a matter of chance than careful
plan. But this is also felt to be a flaw
in the script. The very insistence on ex-
citing, if somewhat heavy-handed, theatre,
has led the author away from the main-
tenance of a firmly controlled line of
action.
The play was put on recently at the
Stage Club for one night only.
JACK DAVIES
THE LONGUEURS OF McCULLERS
Member of the Wedding. Carson Me-
Cullers. The Playhouse, Perth.
M w _ , . . ,
iss McCullers, one of Americas
foremost novelists, has created two
memorable characters but if is question-
able whether she has written a play in
this adaptation of her best-selling novel
for the theatre. Rather it is an affair of
words. What little action there is takes
place offstage and is discussed or des-
cribed but not seen. There is no real con-
flict of persons or ideas, but instead an
exposition of the sensitivity and egocen-
tricity of a 12 year-old girl, Frankie Ad-
dams, who lives somewhere in America s
“Deep South” and is agonisingly poised
on the brink of puberty. For contrast
we have her negro mammy, Berenice
Sadie Brown, benignly accepting reality
with its joy and anguish.
Frankie is bored and rejected and sees
the glamor and excitement she yearns for
in the marriage of her brother to a pretty
blonde. She wants to belong to the
wedding and their life together and re-
jects Berenice - S attempts to show her the
impossibility of this. As the personalities
a nd attitudes of these two principals are
clearly stated in the first act _ perhaps
too clearly stated _ the second and third
a cts seem repetitious. In the first scene of
act t h ree the honeymooners reject her,
as we eX p ec t them to do. But there are
no dram atic fireworks in the climax,
Frankie runs away from home to return
early the next day somewhat chastened
but not much t he wiser. This sort of
damp squib may be true to life but is
scarce i y true to drama,
For producer the play presents
more than the usual challenges for with
its lack of action and thin story-line its
success ultimately depends on its chang-
ing moods. These must be firmly estab-
lished and convincingly sustained. As an
exercise in characterisation it offers broad
scope for creative interpretation. The
dialogue is perceptive but unsubtle and
the play is only potentially lyrical.
John Tasker’s production was a con-
ventional monotone, workmanlike but not
poetic. He approached it as a piece of
realistic theatrical journalism and I doubt
whether it can sustain this objectivity
without flagging. Certainly this produc-
tion flagged. The second act dragged
interminably, notwithstanding the bril-
liantly authoritative performance of Joan
Bruce as Berenice whose dramatic and
beautiful monologues dominate this act.
But by this time Carolle Boyce’s Frankie
had revealed as much about herself as
she intended to, and Miss Bruce could
hardly be expected to carry this long act
alone. Miss Boyce, in fact, seemed to be
concentrating so determinedly on convin-
cing us that she is a twelve-year-old that
this becomes the only impression we have
of her. Admittedly a woman of twenty-
two cannot play a girl of twelve easily,
but if Miss Boyce forced the pace a little
less we could understand and like her a
little more.
MARY LORD
ART
STRUCTURAL
STEELWORK
Max Lyle. Bonython Gallery. Adelaide.
As a primate, I would say that touch
and stereoscopic eyes and a sense of
horizon and balance are very important
things, they help you to keep from falling
out of trees or escalators, and by compa-
rison color vision is an optional extra,
biologically speaking. Mind you, colors
help in identifying fruit or other quarry
at a distance, and in communicating with
fellow creatures, but one can manage
fairly well without. Ask any dog. All of
which makes one wonder why sculpture,
with its three dimensions and touchable
qualities and the necessity to stand, hang,
or stretch, in accordance with gravity, is
not the fundamental art of our time.
Sculpture in welded steel and other
metals is now almost as widely practised
as carving in wood or stone and of the
art forms which make use of modern
technology it is the most effective. One
doesn’t have to be a very good welder,
because puddled sutures lend textura
interest to the surface even though they
would have the foreman in the welding
shop of any factory doing his block. Max
Lyle is showing some beautifully balance
and rhythmic pieces of steelwork i n
Adelaide. The black metal is the essence
of line, and the feel of its rigid elegant


LEASE
YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
CONSERVE
CAPITAL
INCREASE
PROFITS
KAYS AUTO-LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through their fully maintenanced vehicle leasing plans.
r AYS
LEASING CORP,
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
■ m ost satisfactory. The things are
beautiful; the titles unnecessary. He
complete understanding of both
11,2 standing piece and the hanging wall
[ or m.
The prices are about 20 per cent too
| j2 h if he expects to sell them in South
Australia within a reasonable time. This
jsad but true, and partly his own affair,
lint it applies to many young artists who
lave been exhibiting here at the Bonython
Gallery lately. Knock off ten or fifteen
quid and most of the works would go
much faster, with the artist carrying
I* correspondingly more boodle at
|e end, ,£ that is what he wants.
These sculptures of Max Lyle’s could
be enlarged three or four times and used
to embellish a public place. Apart from
him, we have in Adelaide two other
artists whose work takes readily to public
display in the open. Alex Leckie, whose
large ceramic plaques and figures are to
be seen mainly on walls and in gardens,
and Stan Ostoja Kotowski whose stage
sets at the Union Hall and other theatres
throughout the past couple of years have
consistently been in world class. Any
or all of this trio could do much for a
city and its parks.
EARLE HACKETT
RADIO
"THIS IS WILFRED THOMAS"
“As the plane touched down we could
see the earth, as tawny as a lion.”
And so to Africa with Wilfred Thomas,
the old smoothie of the radio travelogue,
unique in his time. The ABC is rerun-
ning some of his 1962 tapes and they
are well worth a second hearing. It will
ke a long pull before television can
deliver as much of the strangeness and
strange wonders of other places into
jour home, once a week, as Wilfred
Ihomas has been doing for ABC lis-
teners over the last decade or so. _
He is slick. He has to be to cover
so much ground in half an hour. He
usually avoids politics. But his curious
eye lights on trivia, an alert ear catches
undertones and overtones, and a literate
mind creates substance and words to
mirror it. Marvellously, he knows when
to talk, when to let the microphone do
toe work, and where to record the right
local music for his occasions. It’s quite
i trick and few others have ever man-
ned it in radio.
In contrast to a picture of fights in-
king tear gas, arrows, spears and
■Me fire, he notices that Africans can
tet a returning friend with a great
exhibition of “laughing and jigging and
■Mating, with a joy we seldom feel.”
Hen he lets the microphone catch some
to that, then asks, “Why do you laugh?”
1 j woman, hardly able to speak for
1 ™ghing, answers, “Because we're
! ,j ppy.”
i It’s Africa in transition. “The hitching
! Ms I remember from my last visit are
i '°w parking meters. Africa is being re-
-1 *quered, by the Africans.” And the
I Mer you once called Boy! now saves
l J s Hashing grin for those who call him
X v ana, a title formerly reserved for
1 M as Sanders of the River.
* Thomas notes that women are not
e living all of the freedoms in the new
r 'ca. But girls who speak English and
two to four African languages are being
employed as air hostesses, at £2O-40 a
month. And when a chief of 800,000
people married last year, for the first
time “they did not wash the bride’s feet,
they polished her shoes.” A guitar
twangs and a group sings, sounding like
the very young Mills Bros.
In Uganda he remarks that Indians,
who regard Africa as their home, run
50 per cent of the businesses, but many
are wisely taking Africans into partner-
ship. Other Asians are investors in the
ivory poaching and rhino horn trades,
paying Africans to slaughter their wild-
life tourist attractions by the thousand.
Without comment, Thomas switches
the scene to a city backyard where a
game warden’s family is caring for
Rupert, a black rhino, weight 300
pounds at five months, rescued with
some 4000 other wild animals from the
islands of the Kariba dam project.
“How do you get them off?” Thomas
asks, and a laconic British voice
answers, “Oh, with tranquillisers. We
shoot a kind of hypodermic syringe into
them with a special kind of gun.” I had
seen a film of the rescues on television,
with one of those commentaries they
dub in, by some actor who has never
known anything wilder than a Soho
striptease. It didn’t compare.
“This is Wilfred Thomas, thanking
you for having me at your place.” On
behalf of the listeners, Wilf, you are
welcome. We wish there were more like
you, especially just now, in the troubled
Pacific.
DALE MILLER


THE RED PAGE
THE EDGE OF GENIUS
In Australia and New Zealand
By NANCY KEE SING
The Edge of the Alphabet: Janet
Frame (W. H. Allen). 20s.
The Cupboard Under the Stairs:
George Turner (Cassell). 23s. 9d.
of these books stands above the
common run of serious English
language fiction being published the world
over — one does not need the Book
Society’s commendations (Special Re-
commend to Frame, Alternative Choice
to Turner) to persuade one of that. Yet
both authors have been over-praised: in
reviews preceding this (both books); by
word of mouth in the case of Turner who
is becoming — maybe has already be-
come —the latest Sydney-Melbourne cult-
author; by her publishers in Janet Frame’s
instance — “This is the third novel by a
woman who is recognised as New
Zealand’s leading author, and it is
becoming increasingly clear that she is
a writer of genius.” I shall return to
these claims.
Other main points for comparison are:
(1) Both novels are centrally concerned
with what may loosely be termed “in-
sanity,” if that term is understood to
cover actual psychosis, abnormal mental
states sometimes resulting from abnormal
physiological conditions; neurosis in
varying severities, not forgetting that al-
most everyone has a few neurotic ten-
dencies to a greater or lesser degree.
(2) Arising from (1) each author tries to
communicate ideas and “pictures” of
barely describable mental states without
resorting to the dubious prop of psychi-
atric jargon. However, the styles of these
books (painstaking in each ) could
scarcely be more different. (3) By co-
incidence in each novel a good deal of the
thought, action and plot turn around a
physically unattractive, middle-aged wo-
man who has an unhoped-for sexual
experience.
Janet Frame’s book, even in its basic
construction, is a strange, baffling spiral
or perhaps rather a box within a box
within a box. It purports to be narrated
by “. . . I, Thora Pattern (who lives at
the edge of the alphabet where words like
plants either grow poisonous tall and
hollow about the rusted knives and empty
drums of meaning, or like people exposed *
to a deathly weather, shed their fleshy
confusion and show luminous, knitted
with force and permanence) ...” Thora
Pattern never appears in the flesh, but has
a godlike knowledge of the characters’
thoughts and their past and future lives.
Her manuscript, says a note, was found
among her papers after her death by
Peter Heron, and Peter Heron does play
a brief, but exceedingly important part
in the tale itself. (Readers dazzled by this
sor t Q f device or who find it highly
original are referred to some of Muriel
Spark’s excellent novels it has been
done before and recentlv )
Miss Frame > s style is self con scious,
e i aborate and often lush. For all I know
she has not studied James Joyce or Edith
Sitwell> but her pro se often reads like
a wierd amalgam of both; _ “ T oby said
to his dead mothei% < You old witchj how
j joved you wjth the Latter Days waving
, ike maggots in your entrails and your
targeted breasts hitcbed ]ike moons in
the sky; you old witch with your nose
meeting your chjh> your Blaikie nos6j
your Dunwoody chin ;»
_ .
Toby ts an eptlep ,c of 35 who dreams
?f the book wdl wnte day. H.s
ldea Passable, but « is plain to the
reader ("«< to some of his acquaintances
m .* e S ‘°T ) ,ha ‘ althou 8 h h,s
be J ust ad^ u , ate t° authorship h,s
esioned brain wil a ways disqualify him.
_ „ . ,^
True to one current fictional fashion (c/f
_ ~ „ „ _ „ A \ .
Carson McCullers, Truman Capote, etc.)
... „ _ ’ _ I
Miss Frame-Thora Pattern seems to re-
, _ , , , . . ...
Toby s fragmentary vision and d,s-
°r?amsed as a s P lendld Blake ' a "
L h '"« “ “ ~s. ,s , of “ ur ? e / f “
T 0 ,7 and bls c f , am,l >'’ and 'f™
makes ltself felt m °> ,he au,hor '
O n board ship bound for Fondon Toby
meets Zoe, an unloved, dreamy-dotty
English ex-schoolteacher. Zoe, while des-
perately sea-sick and lying in the ship’s
hospital has been embraced for the first
tim e in her adult life by a man an
anonymous crew member who slunk in,
kissed her mouth, and slunk out again
as swiftly as he came. Very, very grad-
uall Y as she dwells and speculates with
uninformed pleasure and innocent dread
u P on this event ’ Zoe ’ s ill-balanced mind
tj ps downward. Her end is suicide. Pat,
the third main character is a supremely
commonplace bore of a London bus
driver travelling on the same ship who,
without understanding either of the odd
ones, tries to order their lives both as
the Y travel and > later > in London,
This bald outline cannot depict the
flavor of the book, or indicate its occa-
sional quiet and nearly-hidden humour,
It is good, it is imaginative, it has corn-
passion. But genius? Not proven. Among
New Zealand writers better than Sylvia
Ashton Warner at her best? Or Maurice
Shadbolt? Or Antony Alpers (in his
field)? No.
George Turner’s prose difficulties arise
from opposite causes. He discards vague,
symbolic terms and strives for the most
factual, clear and unequivocal language
possible. If many points in his book
remain unclear or doubtful it is because
he too labors in the territory of “the
bogyman in the cupboard under the
stairs” which “Jias been opened up, and
we know it contains only brooms and
buckets, but we know too that when the
door is shut it is dark inside, and the
monsters have been only hiding.”
The setting is the same town “Tree-
lake” as in Turner’s earlier “A Stranger
and Afraid.” Again Jimmy Carlyon, the
kindly, prickly, rather brash and honest
employment officer, is an important char-
acter but this time subsidiary to Harry
White, a recently discharged mental
patient.
This book is a tremendous advance
upon “A Stranger and Afraid” which
relied too heavily “upon melodrama,
coincidence and eccentricity in establish-
ing not plot but character traits*
as I wrote elsewhere. Props of this sort
exist in Turner’s new book also, but he
is nearly their master now and the theme
and plot make all but one of his exag-
gerations acceptable.
It is an exciting novel with a strong
plot and seems to me to offer far more
enlightenment about events “at the edge
of the alphabet” or “under the stairs”
than Miss Frame’s does. But it has one
pivotal defect: the plot the whole
development of both character and ac-
tion, stems from an incredible gaffe on
the part of an otherwise excellently
drawn psychiatrist called Maxon. Maxon
is competent in his profession, advanced
in thinking, kind and approachable
and capable of making (and admitting)
mistakes. Of course infallible psychia-
trists exist only in comic strips and all
but one of Maxon’s errors are credible
and well explained. But this one! In the
face of a collection of clues so plain they
amount to observable facts, Maxon sends
his ex-patient Harry White to visit a
woman with a pathological fear of in-
sanity and mental hospitals which is of
medieval intensity, and who has figured
(Maxon cannot know how) in Whites
past life. The book’s real action stems
from this confrontation.
In “A Stranger and Afraid” Turner
used coincidence too much. It is good
when an author corrects earlier faults,
but in this instance any coincidence
would have been a preferable device to
procure the necessary meeting of Harry
White and Julia Shaw. However, once
this hurdle is taken the book gathers
pace and a breathless, sympathetic m


PRESS CLIPPINGS
WILL TELL YOU
Keep fully informed by letting us
supply you, or your office, with
press clippings on any subject in
which you are interested.
We offer a complete coverage of
newspapers and magazines, all
States, city and country. This
press clipping service enables you
to keep a complete tab on any
matter-—your company, trade or
profession, financial news, com-
pany reports, publicity mentions,
new industries, political and
editorial mentions, publicity
checks, oress releases, sales
leads, competitors' news.
We will supply clippings on
any subject you may care
to specify
A.N.Z.PRESS CLIPPING SERVICE,
199 Liverpool St., SYDNEY. 61-4230.
terest. I cannot imagine any broad-
minded reader failing to respond to and
ponder about the dilemma of Guinevere
Marttn with all her physical plainness
one of the completest women in Aus-
tralian fiction. The Guinevere passages,
and those dealing with the retarded, de-
ranged and appalling Dicky Boy, are, I
am sure, those where Turner is most
confident, for in them his prose finds
overtones of delicacy and the happiest
phrases for its purpose. If Turner is
destined for greatness the indicators are
in these sections of “The Cupboard
Under the Stairs” particularly per-
haps in the dreadful climactic three
pages when Maxon arranges for White
to confront Dicky Boy at a classic and
revolting stage of his mental disease.
CATALOGUE OF CRIMINALS
An International Casebook of Crime.
H. Montgomery Hyde with John H.
Kisch. Barrie & Rockliff. 21s.
rpHE peculiar art of the journalism of
* law is now, happily, flourishing;
Bedford, Symons and Rolph are the
names of some only of those who are
fascinated by the strangest meeting
places of human impulses—the courts
and legal processes. Mr Montgomery
Hyde (who was once a British MP) is
a senior member of the modern school
of such journalism; his best works are
biographies of Carson and Hastings, and
the present book, although not up to
that standard, has much to recommend
it.
Mr Hyde’s intention has been to
assemble “ten of the most remarkable
criminal cases that have occurred since
the last war”; but the student of such
matters should note that this “Casebook*
does not compare well with Mr Rupert
Furneaux’s admirable series, “Famous
Criminal Cases,” which now runs to at
least six volumes. Mr Furneaux, as a
working journalist, has a knack for bald
presentation of the necessary detail,
which is absent from the “Casebook.”
Inevitably, also, one must say that the
famous cases of Messina and Jelke do
not display very remarkable features;
living on the earnings of a prostitute (as
in the former) and procuring for prostitu-
tion (as in the latter) are generally rather
dull matters unless you are actually in
the courtroom. Mr Hyde unfortunately
does not dwell on the single interesting
aspect of the Jelke case—the order of a
nw trial by the appellate court on the
pound that the accused was denied his
ri ght of public trial by the Judge’s ex-
clusion of the Press and public from the
Court; this decision was confirmed by
the State’s highest Appeal Court when
the District Attorney carried the appeal
there. The Messina case has entertain-
aient value, if nothing else; for example:
Suddenly Messina said (to the police
officers) ‘Let’s be friends. We are men
°f the world ... I am going to give
i®u a lovely lunch, with turkey and
champagne.’ ”
There is no point, however, in listing
one considers of greater interest or
lni Portance than those dealt with here:
each reader can do that for himself.
Sufficient to say that this book is well
worth adding to your crime library. The
following specific observations occur to
this reviewer, and they may be of inter-
est to the potential reader:
Dr Muller stated that he was driving
with his wife in the country when she
saw a hedgehog on the road; he stopped
the car, unscrewed a hubcap to use as
a container, and walked back to the
hedgehog. He turned around and saw
that the car, with his wife in it, was
ablaze. Muller was charged with
murder, so that the question of the truth
of this story is vital. Yet we are never
told by the author whether evidence was
brought to confirm—or deny—the
absence of the hubcap.
There are also omissions in the ac-
count of the murder of Sir Jack Drum-
mond and his wife and child when
camping in the south of France. Gaston
Dominici, the patriarch of an adjoining
farm, was convicted, but a proper eluci-
dation of the case depends upon an
examination of the extraordinary relation-
ships within the Dominici family, and
that is not done in this book.
In the Powers case Mr Flyde is unduly
puzzled by the extent of the airman
Powers’ co-operation with the Soviet
authorities. What must be realised is that
Powers was not a professional spy; he was
a flyer only, operating (and, apparently,
in a fairly automatic way) a camera “so
powerful that it could distinguish a nail
head at a height of six miles.” That
fact, coupled with what is known of
Soviet techniques of interrogation, ex-
plains a great deal about Powers’ evid-
ence.
Finally, Mr Hyde's article on Caryl
Chessman is excellent. He makes it
clear (although it ought not to need re-
petition) that Chessman’s crimes did not
include murder, that he escaped death
for so long not by taking advantage of
loopholes in the law but because in-
justice was clearly done to him, and that
a system which makes it possible for a
man’s death to depend upon the dialling
of a wrong telephone number disgraces
that system’s law and stigmatises the
community.
ALWYN KARPIN
NO BOOKINGS FOR UTOPIA
On the Prevention of War. John
Strachey. Macmillan. Cloth 405.,
paper 15s.
Treading Mr Strachey’s admirable new
book, and being acquainted with
some of the hostilities over it in England
(my own book having suffered “fraudu-
lent conversion,” as the police say, for
use as ammunition against it), has re-
inforced a conviction that the basic
spectrum of political temperaments is
neither the conventional left/right nor
Eysenck’s tough/tender, but what one
might call reality - oriented / Utopia-
oriented. I do not use the words realist/
Utopian because they have acquired a
sort of shapelessness from excessive wear
and, besides, what needs to be conveyed
is the notion of the individual facing
either towards the-world-as-it-is or to-
wards the hoped-for vision, the Delect-
able City.
This dichotomy probably shows up
more sharply in the contemplation of
foreign policy than of domestic politics.
In domestic politics, though not every-
one is reconciled to the notion of cutting
their coats according to their cloth, most
people have a fairish idea of what the
cloth is. In foreign policy this is by no
means the case; there is an almost
universal tendency to exaggerate the
limits of national choice, or implicitly to
assume that there are no such limits,
that foreign policy is a sort of exercise
of freewill, with none of the options fore-
closed by the irksome realities of the
world.
In this sense there are Utopias of the
Right—exaggerated visions of the joys


of nationalist self-assertion —as well as
of the Left, where the visions tend to be
of a dove-like harmony among the
nations. (One might add that the Utopias
of the Right are usually as far removed
from reality as those of the Left and
have the additional disadvantage of
moral squalor.)
And no foreign policy issues have ever
inspired a more resolute and wide-
spread determination to avert one’s eyes
from the real world than those arising
from the existence of nuclear weapons.
This is natural enough, no doubt: few
vistas have ever been more disagreeable
than the ones these weapons conjure up.
It is this area that Mr Strachey expertly
scrutinises: his book is an analysis of
the contemporary military balance and
its diplomatic results. He considers the
risks and the likely outcome of nuclear
war, the doctrines of deterrence (East
and West), the prospects for disarmament
and the intentions of the Powers, and
argues cogently the thesis that from the
present situation of accommodation-
through-nuclear-terror (as in the Cuba
settlement) there may emerge in due
course the prospect of world govern-
ment.
This book has, however, nothing in
common with those well-intentioned
volumes of advocacy of world govern-
ment which make the heart sink with the
weight of their incomprehension of the
real world. Mr Strachey offers, as he
neatly says, no travel-bookings to Utopia,
nor even the assurance that the kind of
world-state he sees as emerging is likely
to be a particularly agreeable one.
“Would a world peace so achieved prove
either stable or just? The answer is, of
course not. What planet do such
objectors suppose they inhabit?” (p. 294).
He is even prepared to let the cold wind
of actuality into the special hot-house of
worthy endeavor in which the hope of
disarmament has been kept alive (and
ineffective) these 30 years. “Must we
pursue, without reflection, the same road
which has proved time after time to be
a dead end, in case we incur the accusa-
tion of cynicism?” (p. 209).
Through history, as Mr Strachey points
out, those who have dealt bluntly with
power-relationships have been fiercely
resented; that is why Machiavelli and
Hobbes, Clausewitz and Marx have been
the “great scandalisers.” This kind of
reproach now falls chiefly on the
academic strategists, that is, on those
concerned to map the nuclear dilemma
so that we may avoid falling into its
crevasses. It is an odd turn of events.
One does not suppose that Mr Herman
Kahn finds himself much damaged by
being called the new Clausewitz even
when it is intended as an insult, but for
a man eminent in party politics, par-
ticularly the politics of a party so
bitterly divided on this issue as the Labor
movement in Britain, the determination
to set forth the situation honestly must
entail special costs and strains.
Certainly the implication that some
kind of moral obliquity is involved in
the ability to reason in this field is a
difficult one to read with patience. At
any rate it is the most baseless of charges
with respect to Mr Strachey’s book,
which is distinguished not only by
lucidity of thought but by a fastidious
moral sensibility that deals a careful
justice even to those whom he probably
thinks rather wrong-headed, and manages
a sympathetic respect even for the
adolescent nationalisms of the newly
sovereign states.
Aside from these major virtues, Mr
Strachey has an elegant turn of phrase
some diverting anecdotes, and much
more personal knowledge of how
political decisions are made than the
American sages in this field. One might
differ mildly from him on the poten-
tialities of the “managed” balance as an
instrument for the control of world
tensions, even over the comparatively
long term. But it is a notable intellectual
achievement to have constructed so solid
and subtle a theoretical basis for policy
as this in a field usually left to wild-eyed
dreamers. One may regard it as evidence
that those prepared to'work at an under-
standing of things-as-they-are also turn
out to be the least dangerous guides to-
wards the Delectable City.
CORAL BELL
THE MOST INESCAPABLE ART
Phoenix at Coventry. Basil Spence.
Geoffrey Bles Ltd. 435. 9d.
The Walls Around Us. Robin Boyd.
F. W. Cheshire Pty. Ltd. 19s. 6d.
German bombers destroyed Coventry
Cathedral in November, 1940. In
August, 1951, three judges chose Basil
Spence’s design from 219 submitted in
a competition for a replacement, and in
May, 1962, the new cathedral —the first
to be completed in Britain since medieval
times —was consecrated by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.
“Phoenix at Coventry” is a slab of
autobiography, describing Spence’s very
difficult but immensely satisfying task of
securing government, municipal and
ecclesiastical approval for his building,
winning over sections of the unenthusi-
astic Press and public by acting as his
own PR, commissioning artists'and crafts-
men, and overcoming technical difficul-
ties which developed in the course of
construction.
Sir Basil Spence emerges as an extra-
ordinarily attractive person. He had
built up a modest practice as a designer
of exhibitions and only planned the
cathedral for his own satisfaction. He
decided not to submit his plan, but his
wife knew better: “You have sweated all
these months. You hand it in and don’t
be such an ass.”
He loves to work late at night with
the gramophone playing Bach, is terri-
fied of the dentist, faints at moments of
crisis, becomes distressed by opposition—
but is tenacious, dedicated and intensely
devout.
His design was abused by the Press,
rival architects, and anonymous letter
writers who shared the extraordinary de-
lusion that the cathedral was to be built
of concrete (actually it was pink sand-
stone). His practice fell away, and for
two years he received no new commis-
sions—until the clergy began praying
for him, and by 1954 business was flood-
ing in. Since then he has been knighted,
made Professor of Architecture at the
Royal Academy, and given the Order of
Merit.
The book has 11 color plates—some
of them rather muddy—and 34 splendid
black and white plates. It would have
been improved by more sketch plans
illustrating the modifications to his
original design; these changes are not
very clearly described in the text. Two
of the most attractive chapters describe
the work of Graham Sutherland and
Jacob Epstein for the cathedral, and
Spence’s personal relations with them.
This is an inspiring book and does
much to account for the extraordinary
dedication and fervor shown by the
workmen and craftsmen who labored to
make the cathedral a triumph.
Robin Boyd, the antipodean Osbert
Lancaster, has written and illustrated a
short (90 pages) history of Australian
architecture. Although aimed at young
people, Boyd’s book avoids any sugges-
tion of condescension, and will give many
adults pleasure in identifying their neigh-
borhood styles from the 54 line and was
illustrations in the text.
In addition to a useful glossary of
architectural terms there are excellent
biographical notes about important archi
tects, including Greenway, Griffin, J-
Clark and William Warded, the designer
of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, the Collins
Street ES&A Bank and Government
House, Melbourne, and St Marys
lica in Sydney. “The Walls Around s
is strongly recommended for high sc oo
as a splendid introduction to the mos
inescapable of all the arts.
BARRY O. JONIS


POETRY
Zodiac
They were right, the ancients, in their headway
To the planets, in their songs and signs;
They knew their business and their art
Who placed on earth a doting mother
And wanton male majesty elsewhere.
It is no accident that each groundwork
In the summer sky was named so well;
That Venus shone the brightest, nor that Jove
Was later found inside the largest house.
Watch Mars watch us closely like a bloodshot eye.
Old age, too, had that ring of wisdom round his head,
The old men knew it well. And equivalent somehow
Are Neptune and Uranus in their private
Mysteries of sea and sorcery, well placed.
Then who should be surprised that Mercury
Jots down his message right by the sun.
And turns full circle faster than the rest,
Or that slow Pluto rules the outermost,
And freezes up the very bones of night.
RALPH MACKNIGHT SMITH
Remembrance Day, 7962
The bloodlipped poppies have returned again
sprung up from memory as the dead flower
annually on their deathday. Advancing summer
rolls on, driving them before it, ferrets out
from foxholes of suburban pubs the old
hardhearted diggers with their close fists full
of running memories.
Streetcorners
are their vantage now, and there they buttonhole
the young and unforgetful (who have nothing
to remember) and the old, within whose minds
fought battles are refought a thousand times
while corpses walk the dead round of their dreams
wearing dead clothes, speaking with dead voices
(Flowers of a lush mold, of a too lenient season)
Among this bar-talk, among the street noises
a dead sound in the air of power drills
winds down from the tall rooftops (a ragged ghost
thats lost its windingsheet among earths torments).
Some reconstruction of our minds top stories
some change of face—something is going on
for each year cruelly notches on their hearts
another old face dead, another life
supplanted by his sons, another place
empty beside the bar.
An age of great
and genuine bravery is dying
its last death this time: for what soils left to feed
the lies and dreams that kept its head erect?
Eroded by the summers fierce offensive
year after year, laugh after laugh is starved
from eager lips, and nothings left. Their seed
has nudged them out from their old places
and younger lips drink to more fashionable faces.
ANDREW TAYLOR
The Tide
The boats go out to meet the whiting tide,
And pelicans, returning, shell the wind
Across the sun in combers slow and wide.
The island rock by rock sinks lower, finned
With sandbanks where the nibbled seaweed crawls.
The moored one-master rolls its gull breast, pinned.
Behind the bay the terraced vineyard falls,
As changing green as channels over shelves,
And stilted huts break brine-light on their walls.
We, isthmus-wading, feel this in our selves.
The dinghies meet the tide the billed birds track;
The sloop and island shudder as it delves.
We put prow, wing and sinking at our back,
But see the brimming shore deep ocean still.
So we possess the tide, and always will.
DAVID ROEBOTHAM
Winter in Our City
West wind in the city streets
tackles every window pane
with grasping hands that have torn down
the ordered gardens we have grown.
But he cuts his fists upon
the razor edge of offices:
a puny jerk at skirts and hats
is all that he accomplishes.
And in the strong rooms we have built
we wait to see his certain death.
Tonight when we must leave for home
the frosty air will catch our breath.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Variations and Portraits
I
Beth understood each growth,
The manner of tenacity,
And though more than baroque
Children found her babble safe.
She was a principality
Able to rebuff a siege. One day she said,
‘My children are lost, and yet are free.
This year 1 had a letter and a gift
And these were more destructive than the years
Of nowhere and contempt.’
II
Joseph, more like a bird with every pose,
Talked when a boy without such bitterness.
He stays indifferent
To all the words that helped him magnify
With passion.
Now for him the world is flat
And voyagers will only find an edge.
But what appears too servile has a rage:
He cursed the weather and the mongrel sky,
Then told me that all violent men are fools.
And as that face confused I found myself
Involved and almost said
That life is either paucity or conflict,
But watched his smile and how it drained away.
R. A. SIMPSON


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
STRANGE FEATURES IN BALLOT
FOR NEW WOOL BOARD
Oir William Gunn, the big, tough
Queensland grazier, is once again
a hot favorite to become first chairman
of the new Australian Wool Board.
The board, due to be constituted in
the next two or three months, will take
over the functions of the present Aus-
tralian Wool Bureau, Wool Research
Committee and Australian Wool Testing
Authority.
Sir William, who already heads the
Wool Bureau and is chairman of the
three-nation International Wool Secre-
tariat, faded from calculations when it
was learnt he would contest one of the
six woolgrower positions on the new
board.
But at the election of the six growers
in Melbourne recently the chairman of
the Australian Wool Industry Confer-
ence (the electoral body), Sir John
Crawford, revealed that one of the six
grower members could become chair-
man.
The first chairman of the board will
be selected by the Minister for Primary
Industry, Mr Adermann, in consultation
with the executive committee of the 51-
man Wool Industry Conference. It is
hard to see either the Minister or the
conference executive going past “Big
Bill” Gunn.
The growers, for their part, more
than showed their confidence in him at
the board ballot. Although voting was
secret and the votes cast for each of the
12 candidates were not revealed, it is
believed that Sir William topped the poll
easily.
It is significant that exactly half of
the 50 voting members of the conference
were drawn from the Australian Wool
and Meat Producers’ Federation the
body which has long opposed the Aus-
tralian Woolgrowers and Graziers’
Council, to which Sir William belongs.
It is significant, too, that five of the
six woolgrowers elected to the new board
are present members of Sir William’s
seven-man Wool Bureau.
The sixth man, the Government no-
minee on the Bureau, South Australia’s
Mr Ewen Waterman, stood as an inde-
pendent and was defeated. The seventh
bureau member did not contest the
ballot.
This can be taken, therefore, as a
clear vote of woolgrower confidence in
the policies and actions of the Wool
Bureau which Sir William heads.
There were some strange features in
the ballot for the six posts, however, and
the result a three-all split between the
rival grower organisations is certainly
no indication of a new-found harmony
in the wool industry. When he an-
nounced the election results to the Press,
the Industry conference's independent
chairman, Sir John Crawford, was at
pains to stress the “excellent” tone of the
meeting.
There is reason to believe, however,
that there was some straight talking done
and Sir John, a man highly regarded
in Australian primary industry, is said
to have been the speaker. Whether or
not this is so the result of the ballot
is worthy of comment.
Before the vote both grower organi-
sations were careful to stress that neither
body was running a “ticket,” nor were
representatives being told to vote along
organisational lines.
This announcement was meant to
allay fears that the six grower members
on the new board would be tied to their
organisations, would be forced to vote
along policy lines and that the new body
would thus merely perpetuate the pre-
sent down-the-middle split in the Wool
Bureau. (The Bureau consists of three
men from each grower organisation and
a Government nominee.)
But in the two or three weeks imme-
diately before the ballot at least one of
the two organisations became greatly
worried in case its delegates slipped up
and, through an accidental informal
vote, gave the opposition a 4-2, or even
5-1, majority on the Board.
This fear is believed to have led to a
long and serious discussion at the half-
yearly meeting of the Wool and Meat
Federation in Melbourne on the two
days prior to the ballot. The day before
the ballot the Federation spent its entire
sitting in committee and the Wool Board
positions are known to have been de-
bated strenuously.
In view of the official denials, it j s
impossible to claim any collusion be-
tween the two grower bodies on voting
but this merely makes all the more in-
credible the outcome of the secret ballot
This was, briefly, that each organisa-
tion won three of the six positions on
the Wool Board and each won three of
the six posts on the Wool Industry Con-
ference executive committee.
And to pile miracle upon miracle the
secret ballot p/oduced two groups of
men with one delegate from each State.
It now remains for the Conference
executive and the Minister to get to-
gether, decide upon a chairman for the
new Board and confer upon the appoint-
ment of three non - grower Board
members.
With five out of six of the present
Wool Bureau Board members in the
growers’ seats, the new Wool Board will
have few administrative teething prob-
lems of any magnitude.
It should, at least in theory, be able to
get straight down to business and, high
up On the agenda will be the appoint-
ment of a committee to look into the
wool marketing system.
This could well be the rock on which
the new Board will build or crash.
Although rising wool prices have
taken quite a lot of the heat out of the
marketing issue, it is still a ticklish one
for anybody to tackle.
Whatever happens, it is safe to predict
that the committee's investigation will
not be brief its finding not hastily
reached.
Letter to the Editor
CLAIM DISPUTED
Sir, I was surprised to read the
claim, and supporting statement, in The
Bulletin (Feb. 16) that calves thrive
better on Denkavit, a “synthetic calf
milk,” than on their mothers’ milk.
It was stated that a calf fed on Den-
kavit weighed 300 lbs. at lli weeks of
age. We have a herd of Droughtmaster
cows at the Veterinary School Farm,
which is not considered good cattle
country. However, a considerable number
of the calves running with their mothers
at pastures, without any supplementary
feeding, weigh 300 lbs at 12 wee's.
Many stud calves on foster mothers, or
on their own mothers who have supp e
mentary feeding, would weigh consider
ably more than 300 lbs. at 12 weeks.
JOHN FRANCIS
Professor of Preventive Medicine,
Veterinary School,
University of Queenslan


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
BHP Boosts the Domestic Picture
BHP’s interim statement, or supplementary report as
directors are pleased to call it, should be greeted with
audible relief, and not only by shareholders. These
sentry have lately had to endure a breaching of the sacred
50s. price barrier, which, even after last year’s uncertain top
levels around 705., must have been particularly galling.
For by no means all of the shares’ reduced status can be
Warned on overseas selling, conditioned perhaps by steel’s
international difficulties as well as by the purely Australian
recession. Local investors have also learned to look askance
St this bluest of all blue chips.
Whether the markets in their now rather indecisive mood
will radically revise their evaluation of BHP remains to be
seen. Directors may have finally to arrest harsh criticism
by lifting the May final dividend, a course widely advocated
and just as widely expected.
The importance of their present survey, however, goes far
beyond an immediate investment situation. What we now
have for our comfort is one of the most basic confirmations
possible of strength renewed in the Australian economy.
Evidence of this improvement has, of course, been coming
from other activities, yet with BHP we get right down to
the grass roots of industrial effort. Much -to the point also,
directors are examining the period from the last annual
meeting in September almost to date.
In September they were able to declare that domestic
demand for the company’s products had moved to a high
level, commensurate with betterment “in the economy as a
*hole.” That trend has been sustained.
It is not hard, from the analysis of certain product situ-
Hions, to read a thoroughly hopeful interpretation into the
eeport. For example, “demand for plates and structural sec-
dons continues to be very strong, and maximum production is
®ng maintained to meet local requirements.”
The general summary, though, is more sedately expressed:
Most of our rolling mills are working at satisfactory levels,
are expected to do so for the remainder of the financial
l ®.’ Then, with one or two qualifications, comes a remark
‘‘local demand is fully taxing our productive capacity
lll( l is likely to do so in the near future.”
Erectors, under these circumstances, are able to sound
!r less uneasy about the still critical overseas position of
, That situation, and its considerable influence on the
Wicance of exports to BHP, ran as a continuous undertone
' r °ugh the last annual report.
'Mith brighter domestic demand, however, the cultivation of
! P°its does not appear so immediately vital so far as the
•fipany’s own prosperity is concerned. “Exports, while
1 stantial, represent a much smaller proportion of our turn-
er than do Australian sales, and, therefore, a modest per-
®tage increase in domestic demand can readily compensate
!t a fairly heavy fall in exports,” directors state.
ost recent comments from overseas indicate that the great
i,o nal steel industries in Britain and on the Continent are
* olV| ng more aware of the problems of over-capacity. They
are fairly close to reaching agreement not to sell in each
other’s markets at giveaway prices.
From our own exclusive viewpoint, it is interesting that the
vigorous Japanese steel exporters are also assuring the world
at large of good behaviour in this respect. Stability may be
not very far away.
At any rate BHP continues to examine a great range of
export possibilities and notes that significant sales of iron and
steel have been made in the UK, USA, Canada, Italy, Hong
Kong, Japan and the Philippines. Directors, though, do show
some concern over freight rates.
There remains, throughout the whole of the report, an
invigorating sense of excitement at BHP's steady technical
developments. No curtailment or slowing down has occurred
in expansion, but “some quite substantial savings have been
effected in both construction work and the purchase of equip-
ment.”
The company still looks forward to a formidable pro-
gramme of future expansion. Thus directors can repeat that
“the level of capital expenditure will continue at a substantial
rate.”
We may conclude by observing that signs are not wanting
in this report of directors’ concern with the company’s market
image, a feeling often charged as being beneath them.
With quiet approval they note how the UK and Australian
debenture issues continue to command a market premium.
Shareholders may see the happy glow of coming events.
SHIFTING THE POINT
OF BUSINESS
\ news item that Federal Cabinet intends to move towards
implementing decimal currency by 1965 passed with
almost no attention and certainly with no excitement from the
world of commerce. Business has heard these rumors since
just after Federation. The last official report (circa 1960)
could be just as stillborn as its predecessors.
Somewhere, perhaps, an ingenious soul is cogitating a
patriotic name for the new currency unit, in all probability
to be based upon 10s. which now assumes great decimal
significance. South Africa, it will be remembered, gave birth
to the Rand.
TIMBER INDUSTRY PLANS
FOR RESURGENCE
ailing timber industry could receive a much-needed
innoculation of vigor and modernity from the sth All
Australian Timber Congress, which is to take place in Adelaide
between April 1 and 5. Papers are to cover all phases of the
wood world from growing to marketing. But the conference
won’t be all pep talk, since a seminar method will be largely
used.
As one consequence of these thorough discussions, the
organisers feel that none of the industry’s current problems


should be baulked. Investors in the milling and distributing
companies have often thought some degree of rationalisation
necessary to cope with changing demand situations and the
rather depressed earnings which have ruled for some years.
Not even this thorny topic will be dodged. However no one
believes questions of reorganisation, for instance, are amen-
able to quick solution. The best sign is to see them being
met.
The congresses have been held at irregular intervals since
1937, the last at Sydney in 1956 having attracted 330 delegates
from all Australian States and nine overseas countries. Adelaide
is expected to bring together some 400 delegates, including
representatives of 10 foreign countries.
Various sections of the widely diffused and fragmented Aus-
tralian industry have their own trade bodies, yet it has proved
difficult to mould any kind of a common outlook on rapidly
changing times. Some distributors even believe that local costs
are not the main factor in dealing with increasing imports
and that the cost position still permits development of size-
able exports. These are the kind of purely economic topics
which the congress might attempt to resolve.
The whole industry has a factory door value of production
greater than £290 million a year. It is growing vitally aware
that it must especially cope with substitute materials, particu-
larly on the building side.
Many specialists therefore see a situation very similar to
wool’s struggle with new materials and substitutes. So a good
deal of Adelaide’s time is to be given to considering marketing
and promotion.
Technically the CSIRO makes notable contributions to
expanding the possible uses of wood by up-to-date processes
and production methods. These developments provide a fresh
basis for improved promotion.
Many timber men hold that they have to strive against
a too-ingrained conception of the “old-fashioned” virtues of
wood as a material; as with wool, woods qualities are being
extended all the time.
CHASING THE MYSTERIOUS
MR CLORE
nPriosE who tried to woo British financier Mr Charles Clore
last week had no obvious success.
No one reported any big deals. And certainly no one was
seen rushing away from Mr Clore’s suite at the Chevron Hotel,
Sydney, clutching bundles of crisp folding money.
Mr Clore is too shrewd a businessman to invest willy nilly
in inventions or other propositions.
His specialty is takeovers. He wants run-down companies
with valuable assets. And he bluntly indicated he was not
interested in the Chevron, Sydney.
If you ponder on the subject, it must be obvious Mr Clore’s
millions are very much committed. He certainly would not
leave £SO million lying around collecting dust.
Mr Clore and another British financier, Mr. John Cotton,
recently financed PAA’s 59-storey building in New York
which cost a reputed £SO million. The bulk of his funds
is committed to his real estate group (which in turn is able
to raise funds on the open market).
So it is unlikely he could produce several millions from
his pants pocket for on-the-spot investment. More speci-
fically, his reputation in London would make it easy for him
to raise public moneys in any company flotation, particularly
if one of his own companies contributed some of the equity
capital.
Doubtless Australian investors would rush to subscribe
money for one of Mr Clore’s propositions.
Mr Clore, naturally, is interested in making a profit. That
profit, or any interest on money lent, could go back overseas
... at the expense of Australia’s international reserves.
Stacks of money are lying idle in Australia. There are
£2l9m. in trading banks’ statutory reserve deposits held by
the Central Bank and a large lending capacity in the £ 1951 m
of trading bank current deposits.
There are £ 1863 m. of deposits with the savings banks.
The Commonwealth Treasurer is embarrassed by the flood of
loan money raised this financial year and does not need to
float another loan for 1962-63. The life assurance institutions
which provide large slabs of loan money, have continuing
funds available for specialised investment such as mortgages.
So, is Mr Clore’s golden touch so necessary to make real
estate pay in Australia?
FROM MAMMOTH GENERATORS
TO TINY LAMPS
/"|ne wondered on hearing that Mr Fumio Iwashita was in
Melbourne for a brief stay whether this industrial magnate!
who is making his first visit to Australia, would be going back
to Japan with his briefcase full of Australian orders for
Toshiba, Japan’s biggest electrical group, of which he is
president.
Running him down at the Southern Cross last week, The
Bulletin learned that this wasn’t the case at all. He was just
spying out the trade prospects, not that Toshiba hasn’t done
business in Australia before. It sold £2.7 million worth of
electrical goods here in 1961, a notable contribution to his
country’s £45 million sales to Australia in that year.
Asked what plans Japan had to redress its unfavorable
tradd balance with us, Mr Iwashita preferred inscrutability to
articulation, waiting perhaps for what comes out of the current
negotiations for a new trade treaty. For his firm’s part, it had
good hopes of getting further orders for heavy electrical
equipment, say from tenders for the Snowy project and from
its already established trade connections. It has already supplied
seven power transformers for the South Sydney sub-station,
among much else on the lighter side.
One couldn’t help feeling that we are going to see a great
deal more of Toshiba’s products, which make up about 20 pc.
of Japan’s output of light and heavy equipment, the 6,000
or so different items ranging from lamps one-fifth the size
of a grain of wheat to mammoth generators the company now
exports to some 40 countries. Its 24 factories employ 66,000
people and currently selling about £290 million worth of
stuff a year.
Mr Iwashita, who has been with the firm since 1917, ap-
parently spends most of his working hours planning the
development and marketing of space-age products
EXPORT ACTION
S-E ASIA
A ustralian metal trades companies are kept more energeti-
cally on their exporting toes than most other industries
here as a result of possessing an organised export gr° u P’
Members, and outsiders, should pay acute attention to a report
on South-East Asia featured in the group’s latest monthly
information service.
Compiled by Mr F. L. Kok, NSW manager of S. H. M
and Associates, who regularly tours the whole area, it exudes
a fair measure of optimism. Mr Kok particularly notes the


C.B. A
Travel with
confidence!
THE
COMMERCIAL BANK
Or AUSTRALIA
LIMITED
makes all
travel arrangements
for you!
Travelling for business or pleasure, you can
travel with complete confidence when your
travel reservations have been made by the
C.B.A.
Our experienced Travel Officers will gladly
arrange all details for you.
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
THE COMMERCIAL SAVINGS BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CBA/97/24R
ocreasing entry into Asian markets of
Australia’s engineering and electrical
products. These apparently meet a
Highly competitive situation quite suc-
cessfully) with most manufacturers ready
t 0 face a duel with world prices.
Quality is proving highly satisfactory
and quick delivery times present us with
an important advantage. Ex-stock supply
appears frequent. Thus supplies can
dften be furnished speedily on cable
orders.
All this makes the game sound much
eas j e r than it really is. Nevertheless, Mr
Kok sounds thoroughly convinced that
S-E Asia contains many more opportuni-
lies for numerous other products. He
does find it necessary, though, to repeat
those general admonitions so continu-
ously addressed to Australian exporters.
Once or twice yearly personal visits
are unavoidable —“to keep up the interest
and enthusiasm of the importers and to
solve any difficulties which may have
arisen in the meantime.” On-the-spot
investigation must be conducted accur-
ately to determine the fuli export possi-
bilities. Such examinations may suggest
just that slight element of product vari-
ation which furnishes a feasible export
opportunity.
While dealing with these basic con-
siderations, it is worthy of note that the
Department of Trade has just had to
warn exporters to Singapore to provide
better sales literature. “Presentation is
all important and manufacturers should
provide comprehensive brochures of their
company's activities and products to meet
world competition,” the Australian Trade
Commissioner in Singapore, Mr W. D.
Cairns, says.
Whatever political strains give evidence
of inflicting themselves throughout the
Malaysia conception, we need never
forget the economic and business poten-
tial of the countries aiming at federa-
tion. Malaya, Singapore, North Borneo,
Sarawak and Brunei are not territories
10 any way with complementary eco-
nomies. As things are now, Singapore
constitutes the trading centre linking four
Predominantly primary producers with
tbe outside world.
Some 33 p.c. of the five’s exports are
absorbed within Malaysia and, similarly,
about the same percentage of imports
c °me from the area. However, much
°fthis trade is Singapore’s entrepot con-
ation and experts do not believe
Malaysia (if it eventuates) will give it
®y significant lift.
Malaysia, though, might especially
Mcen the industrial development of
o[ b Malaya and Singapore by bringing
CjiWer industries to add to the prevailing
*er fabric. They may well be planned
0 Prevent dangerous competition be-
'eetl Singapore and Malaya, which
lol| ld threaten the growth pattern of the
E,ltlre federation.
All that background simply emphasises
the chances at hand for Australian manu-
facturers, who should be thoroughly
ready to examine them. We were, of
course, recently made aware of Singa-
pore’s demands and the newly designed
Jurong industrial estate by the visit of
Finance Minister Dr Goh and the direc-
tor of his Economic Development Board.
Mr Kok's article confirms the oppor-
tunities here and in centres like Bangkok,
Manila and Hong Kong. Perhaps Malaya
itself can illustrate what could happen
over the whole area, following federation
and a decent deal for commodities.
For in Malaya business is booming,
with active new industries, land develop-
ment and a big housing programme.
Foreign capital is being attracted towards
joint - venture enterprises. Naturally
trading companies expand. But Austra-
lian industry should be convinced that
it is becoming more worthwhile to open
branch factories, to which semi-finished
products can be sent.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
TIDAL WAVE FOR THE TREASURY
Talking about restrictive practices,
'Canberra would do well to look at
some of its own doorsteps, to wit the
Treasury, where surely its inflexible in-
terest rate and investment diversion
policies place untoward restraint on the
fulisome working of the economy.
In the rude commercial world, usually
when there is a glut of something in a
free market, the strain of surplus is taken
on the price, though the key word there
is “free,” which may seldom be applic-
able unless one is talking of ripe
tomatoes.
Not so when there is a glut of money.
With its gilt-edged touch, the Treasury
holds fast to the old price, sets rules to
ensure the diversion of institutional and
bank money (not to speak of taxes) in
its direction, and in the process pre-
vents the money glut having the desired
effect on interest rates in the rest of the
system.
The £66 million over-subscription to
the February £6O million loan has laid
the weary bones of the Treasury’s mone-
tary management in the last eight months
or so very bare indeed, and the question
is: Where do we go from here, now that
Mr Holt has closed his till for the rest
of the financial year?
on the alert for possible tax re-
ductions, the public is drawing some
heartening conclusions from the super-
fluity of loan money without much
thought of the traditional desire of Trea-
surers to balance their budgets, even while
pretending they are concerned to give
boosts to economic activity or of the
possibility that, given the right balance
between official and commercial interest
rates, the pendulum of money flows could
swing against the Treasurer, the more so
if the promised vista of full employment
loomed nearer on the horizon.
“The Federal Government will be
better off than it has been since the war
perhaps since Federation when it
begins to work on the Budget in the
middle of the year” opines the Canberra
correspondent of the Melbourne Herald.
Heartening indeed, even if not very rele-
vant when former “insider” Mr Leslie
Bury sees the economy as “still listless”
and when the authorities themselves may
have uneasy consciences about their latest
raid on the country’s investment funds.
One has to look closely at the tech-
nical aspects of the capital market before
jumping to hasty conclusions. Presum-
ably advance subscriptions for the next
loan, probably to be made in September
(though there is, of course, the big £240
million conversion hurdle to be jumped
in May), will keep rolling in.
However, one would think that by
September the weight of money seeking
to buy bonds in the market (now that
a May cash loan is off) will have
pressurised market yields to an extent
that the authorities would virtually be
forced to cut the 5 p.c. bond rate,
perhaps to as low as 4} p.c., and
clip further fractions off the mediums and
shorts. (The May 1966’s are going to be
in hot demand as they become eligible
for holding by the official Short Term
Money Market).
The pity is that even if market yields
on bonds are highly likely to be substanti-
ally more reduced in the coming months
as a result of the Treasury’s decision not
to issue more scrip for cash in May, the
psychological effect of a deliberate cut
in the 5 p.c. bond rate on commercial
rates and investment this financial year
has been lost.
However, all is not lost because at
some stage in the lowering of bond yields
in the next few months, commercial rates
and private investment will doubtless
benefit from contagion.
Indeed, the authorities must be con-
ceded the point that even if they have
missed the opportunity to ‘ get interest
rates down by a deliberate cut in the 5
p.c. rate, at least by not having a
cash loan in May they have left investors
in bonds no alternative, apart from
making advance subscriptions to the Sep-
tember loan, but to buy in the market
and so can now rely on such investors to
do the work of lowering bond yields
which would otherwise have had to be
done by open market purchases by the
Reserve Bank.
/Contagion with the bond market is the
harder of the two roads to travel
towards a general lowering of interest
rates in the economy, and one can only
hope that it will prove as effective as the
more preferred one of a deliberate cut in
the 5 p.c. bond rate which, as pointed
out by The Bulletin at the time, should
have been made last August.
One must acknowledge, however, the
complexity of the situation which the
authorities have had to face as a result of
the somewhat crazy pattern of asset
holding which has emerged since they
squashed the boom in November, 1960.
Some of the fundamental aspects of this
pattern have been discussed by a leading
Melbourne broker in a dissertation which
was nicely timed for the washing of the
February tidal wave of loan money into
the Treasury.
The big question, of course, is whether!
the pattern is temporary, or, as the
Treasurer obviously feared when framing
his budget last August in the light of
advice from Capel Court that a big swing
from -bonds into commercial assets (in.
eluding shares) would jeopardise his
chances of a good loan harvest this year
will there be a return to a more con-
ventional pattern and if so, when?
The broker appears still undecided
whether the main forces dictating present
predilections for holding funds in inte-
rest-bearing deposits with trading and
savings banks is going to be reversed.
(That predilection is as much responsible
as the relatively high liquidity of the
banking system as such for the present
highly liquid state of the economy).
It remains to be seen how long the in-
vestment public will remain security con-
scious rather than rate conscious, and
whether the re-establishment of bank
deposits as a most favored medium of
holding surplus cash is a temporary res-
ponse to the recent company failures and
to uncertain economic conditions, or
whether it is setting a new relationship
between interest-earning bank deposits
and alternative investment avenues.
HThe answer to these imponderables
A must await a significant change in the
economic outlook, that is, a return to full
employment, the working of industry at
full capacity, the prospect of an across
the board lift in share prices.
The authorities have long been wary
of a possible waning of the public’s ap-
petite for bonds vis-a-vis shares, and this
is starkly reflected in their clinging to 5
p.c. bond rate. Equally they are as
puzzled as anybody about whether tbs
investing public is establishing a new
relationship between its bank deposits as
an asset form and other investments.
Both these imponderables have great
significance for the share and new issues
markets. For, once the public is disabused
of its security consciousness and is pre-
pared to have a fuller go at risk invest-
ment again, Government loans will suffer
(as they did in 1959-60) and the banks
are less likely to be regarded as the
perfect haven for savings or surplus cash,
By the same token any analysis of the
share market must discount some P r0 ‘
portion of the high level of deposits an
liquidity in calculating the cash resources
waiting to enter the market. Indeed, a
spirited revival in the share market hinge*
as much as anything else on the answer
to whether the new pattern of aS3e
holding is temporary or permanent.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of New
South Wales on the Bth March, 1950.
1°
2*
PER
ANNUM
FOUR
YEARS
0 w
UJ z
0 C D
c*tjb
Funds may be with-
drawn in a personal
emergency as set
out in the pros-
pectus.
Applications for
these notes must be
made on the form
attached to the
prospectus, which is
now available from:
The Company's Registered Offices
SYDNEY: Cambridge House, 249 George Street.
MELBOURNE: Cambridge House, 411-413 Lonsdale Street.
BRISBANE: Ist Floor, Empire House, Corner Wharf and Queen Streets.
ADELAIDE: Ist Floor, Da Costa Building, 68 Grenfell Street.
PERTH: 7th Floor, 81 St. Georges Terrace.
NEWCASTLE WEST: Cambridge House, 767-773 Hunter Street.
WAGGA: 147 Baylis Street.
Any Member of the Stock Exchange
or from any of the following Brokers to The Issue:
RALPH W. KING & YUILL (Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange).
CORRIE & CO. (Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange).
LEONARD G. MAY & SON (Members of the Stock Exchange of Melb.).
Trustees for the Noteholders are the Bankers &
Traders Insurance Company Limited
Clip and Post Coupon
CCISB/AB
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited,
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of the Prospectus with
application forms.
NAME ...»
ADDRESS
PROMISING RISE IN GNP
By “CROESUS”
sE people who’ve been worrying
, r w hether gross national product is
e ,2 to show much of an increase this
g |( s c j a l year, after the very modest rise
,f |i pc. in 1961-62, had their answer
l> ,week with the publication of the
. jS S for the first half of the year,
s fbese showed an increase of 7.9 p.c.
f qhe like period last year, achieved,
' „ a y be said, in conditions of corn-
alive price stability. So we have only
1 make a further moderate advance in
1 is half of the year to ensure the sort
■ annual increases we made for most
1 g$ in the 19505.
' Maybe a rise of 7.9 p.c. on the rather
jial July-December period of 1961-62
nothing to write home about, since the
mparison is with a period when
onomic activity was well below the
ie period 1960-61, but again, the
jerwas the height of the boom. More
nificant, perhaps, is that in the latest
If-year GNP was 5.6 p.c. ahead of
it boom half-year.
Looking at the expenditure side of the
lional income accounts for the latest
11-year, the most surprising thing is
at gross private fixed investment came
iin an ace of reaching the boom total
ithe July to December half-year 1960-
I,that is £7OO million as against £722'
lion. There’s no doubt that, figurat-
tly speaking, at least we are well on
i way back on this front after half-
arly totals of only £607 and £622
lion for the two halves of 1961-62.
This would be all the more satisfactory
wit not for the fact that expenditure
motor vehicles, which are convention-
yregarded as fixed capital investment,
counted for the lion’s share of the
provement. This item was at the
[ ord level of £215 million in the last
ilf-year, compared with £155 million
r -J £212 million in the like periods of
W-62 and 1960-61 respectively.
Perhaps the most disappointing was
because, though this in-
®ed from £129 to £-145 million
£r the year, the latter total was well
hw ihe peak £ 165 million achieved
July-December, 1960-61. This repre-
l,s opportunity lost, maybe on the
1,11 °f high interest rates, for this is
£ industry which puts no strain to
of on the balance of payments,
H largely furnished from local re-
'rces. The recently announced boosts
housing expenditure have come a
e late in the day, welcome though
? are.
However, if new housing expenditure
ee P tardy this is not so with other
building, which last half-year was a
record £125 million compared with only
£lOB and £ll6 million in the two
previous July-December periods.
Most disappointing item in fixed capi-
tal expenditure continues to be indus-
trial plant and equipment, though this
showed signs of strong recovery in the
December quarter. For all the incen-
tives of the investment allowances, with
so much unused capacity still blighting
industry, interest rates still excessive and
no firm assurance that a new round of
national economic expansion is at hand,
it was not to be expected that this item
would have yet regained the boom level.
It was £205 million in the July-Decem-
ber 1960-61 half-year, dropped to £188
million in the same period last year and


fell further to £lB4 million in the
latest half-year.
However, it is something that there
was a distinct improvement to £97 mil-
lion in the December quarter following
the dip to £B7 million (the second lowest
for several years) in the September
quarter. '
The latest lift was largely due to good
rises in fixed investment in the chemicals
and petroleum industries and miscellan-
eous manufacturing.
Overall fixed capital expenditure by
businesses subject to payroll tax, which
is, of course, not wholly representative of
industry, was £88.3 million in the latest
half-year, an advance of about £8 mil-
lion over the September quarter and in
fact the highest ever recorded.
As for the narrow plus movement of
£5 million in non-farm stocks in the
December quarter following the increase
of £42 million in the previous quarter,
the main conclusion to be drawn is that
this other important element in gross
private investment is that stocks build-
ing could have lost some of its urgency
in that quarter.
This also looks to be the inference
to be drawn from the hesitancy of im-
ports to burst bounds in that quarter,
But it has to be remembered that the
December quarter is one of high retail
sales. The best guide to the current move-
ment will be the February import figures,
Although “burdened” with loan funds
the Treasurer will presently be watch-
ing this upward move in private invest-
ment before spilling out any additional
largesse to taxpayers, because if private
fixed investment catches fire additional
income generating by Canberra will have
to be done sparingly, not that this stage
appears to have been reached yet.
SAVING ON OIL IMPORTS BILL
Considering the mammoth proportions
of the country’s import bill for
petroleum (£lO3 million without freight
charges, or about one-ninth of the total
cost of all imports last year), and the
fact that we have had five big oil
refineries on stream for six years or
more, it is surprising that we have had
to wait until last week to get a major
lubricating oil refinery in production with
the opening of a 100,000 tons complex
bv BP Australia at Kwinana.
For the beauty of a lube oil plant is
that it does not require additional imports
of crude petroleum to feed it, but uses
heavy residual base stocks resulting from
the production of other refined products.
For a country which so far has been
largely dependent on imports to satisfy
its lube oil requirements, local lube oil
plants are imports-savers of considerable
va Me.
Just how valuable is obvious from the
million
ga ons o u rica mg 01 impor e in o
Australia last year, two-fifths of which
, J tt •* a c + * uffi,
came from the United States, one-fitth
c ,tt7 a \r , t a
apiece from the UK and Venezuela, and
the rest mainly from Iran and the
Netherlands Antilles. Small units at the
oil refineries here produced only a total
of 5 million gallons or the equivalent of
only about a tenth of the amount
supplied by imports.
Happily, this situation is well on the
way to being remedied because the
Kwinana plant, which is expected to
produce 43 p.c. of the nation’s lube oil
requirements, is only the first of three
similar plants which by next year will
put local lube oil production capacity
up to 260,000 tons a year, or about 12
p.c. above present needs here.
Though this will not altogether rule
out some imports of special grades of
lubricants, it will mean we will have
more than enough base stocks and pre-
sumably a surplus will be available for
exports, either as base stocks or finished
lubricants, thus helping to offset part of
the bill for crude imports.
The construction of the Caltex-Ampol-
Sleigh lube oil refinery at Kurnell (NSW)
is well advanced. The latest annual
Ampol report sets the date for com-
pletion as later on this year.
A lube oil refinery of like size (80,000
tons a year) is also being constructed
by Shell at Geelong, this one being timed
to come on stream sometime next year.
(It is only one of several extensions
recently made or in progress at the
Geelong refinery, including an expansion
of LPG capacity linked to a new storage
depot at nearby Lara, a hydrocarbon
solvents unit and a sulphur trioxide
sulphonation plant.)
The total capital cost to the oil
companies of these three refineries won’t
be far short of £.15 million, which gives
further evidence of the heavy ploughing
back of profits being effected by the
companies into expansion projects.
Yet this figure itself tells only part of
the saga of the petroleum industry’s con-
tinuing expansion, providing a solid core
to the country’s expenditure on fixed
investment, as indeed the latest quarterly
estimates of national income and ex-
penditure remind us.
The latter link the chemicals and oil
refining industries, making their com-
bined contribution to national fixed
capital expenditure £5l million last
year. It is well above the figure in the
1960 boom, and, in fact, it has risen
pretty consistently since then, advancing
to a peak of an annual rate of £53 6
million in the December quarter 1962 °
With plans well advanced now for two
new refineries (Amoco and Ampol) j n
Queensland and much other new con-
struction afoot, the tempo of capital
expenditure by the oil industry seems
likely to be maintained when one might
have thought with the not-so-breakneck
pace of petrol consumption increases -
(though there -could be a spurt here
following recent records in motor regis-
trations), the completion of the Altona
and Clyde petrochemical plants, the
latter’s new cat - cracker, Kurnell’s
capacity doubling and the construction
of the Halletts Cove refinery near
Adelaide, there could well have been
some easing up.
True enough the oil industry is always
looking some years ahead with a virtu-
ally built-in rising demand for its
products here, but it is satisfactory to
know that in the course of its expansion
a considerable segment of its capital out-
lay is designed to squeeze more products
out of a given barrel of oil, thus relieving
instead of straining the imports bill and
balance of payments, not that expansion
of demand can be catered for by this
means in any absolute sense while all our
crude supplies have to be imported.
Taking a broad sweep, probably the
biggest savers have been the Altona and
Clyde petrochemical plants, the former
in particular since the complex there
embraces a much wider range of petro-
chemicals than Clyde, which nonethe-
less has some unique import savers such
as epoxy resins. *
The process started at Altona some
four years ago with the erection of the
carbon black plant. This has succeeded
in supplanting virtually all imports of
carbon black, except for special grades,
and the gain in imports-saving has be-
come all the greater now that the plants
base stocks are being supplied by the
Mobil mother plant rather than by the
United States.
Since the carbon black plant was com-
missioned, a vast array .of sparkling
towers and, at night, twinkling hg s
has transformed the campus at Aton a
and the imports bill for petrochemical
and rubber in their various shapes an
forms as well, though the list of impors
saved as a result of these great deveop
ments doesn’t end there.
Nor is the imports-saving potential 0
the oil industry exhausted by any meaa ’
.if only because Australian refineries
look forward to refining Moome 01
due course, and (who can say.) P os
crude from other Australian oil f
yet undiscovered. That sort of 1
saving would put the benefit ron
new lube oil refineries and the r
the shade.


HELPING
BUSINESS
IN Ai
(WORLD
■mill
umim
V
Change creates growth and strength. This is
the experience of the C.B.C. since it opened for
business in 1834.
Men of enterprise, ready to meet the challenge
of the future, will find the C.B.C. provides construc-
tive services to help them and that it is ready to
share its knowledge and experience with them.
The manager of your nearest C.B.C. branch will
be glad to talk things over with you. Call and see him.
CIBIC
QUEENSLAND'S JEWELS FOR INVESTORS
t robin M. Corrie, one of Queens-
land's most eminent stockbrokers,
sesses two qualities not always openly
Lyed in his profession—an ebullient
Jcsiasm and an unflagging optimism.
|V w ill recall these gifts as they have
en lavished on both the developmental
j investment prospects of Queensland
K OW Mr Corrie’s broking firm has
ie widely distributed them over a
leant sample of industrial com-
jjes by publishing an analysis of lead-
. Queensland stocks. Investors through-
I Australia can be grateful for this
lenient opportunity of examining the
ale’s best market possibilities in one
dip.
For it is all too easy to bypass these
ningly distant and lively enterprises,
pally, it is easy to forget how many
od Queensland investments are avail-
le, Mount Isa, the sugar companies,
jpleton, Castlemaine Parkins, Evans
lin and Thiess are of course well-
in and rewarding names,
let the Corrie list reaches to 32
tries, stretching the point a little to
Me two not of local origin Aus-
iian Oil and Gas Corporation and
mzinc Riotinto. We may agree that
tis fair to say that this State has very
wily contributed to their present
Is. Their future is inextricably
id with ours.”
looking more closely though, many
estors might like to become acquainted
I the shares of Carrick Ltd, Inter-
nal Boring, Keith Morris Construc-
Mathers’ Enterprises, Queensland
*®it and Lime, and Queensland
*d Foods, to mention but a few.
fc survey is forced to brand Inter-
nal as a “recovery stock” since last
*rs profit gave only a 14 p.c. earning
do meet a steady 15 p.c. dividend.
® fell from 655. to 555. and “may
•back further yet.”
® another “first class recovery
is timber merchant Hancock and
,e > whose ss. shares are available
id par after a heavy profit fall and
® on of a final dividend. Obvious
% conditions have produced their
sf and could soon be reversed.
Complete character stands a radiant
Ruction to the collection—“ Queen-
s: Jh e Most Exciting State of the
Si This speeds over, in broad view,
'basic avenues for expansion:
:j, feti°n of natural mineral and
: litoral resources and the develop-
j | secondary industries related to
:
■tolishment of new secondary in-
"es to break the perilous deadlock
of high seasonal unemployment has for
long been one of Queensland’s most
pressing problems. Perhaps the fresh
awareness of the State’s abundant
primary products may succeed in draw-
ing more industry to the north.
Corrie's are in no doubt. “Truly, it
is a case of ‘Go North Young Man’.”
They even contemplate “the ideal system”
—joint ventures with overses interests
participating on an equal basis,
Well, we shall watch and hope. Mean-
while an old kite of substantial bonus
issues from Mount Isa is still being flown,
“with particular emphasis on the years
1964-1967.”


INDUSTRIAL ACCEPTANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
PAID UP CAPITAL £11,675,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
SI
mi
P.A
FOR
YEARS
mi
p.A
FOR
12
MONTHS
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
0
o
o
P.A.
'FOR
6
YEARS
0
□
o
OTHER RATES AND TERMS AVAILABLE
See Prospectus for full details of rates and terms available. Your
copy available from all Members of Stock Exchanges, over 750
branches of the A.N.Z. Bank Limited and I.A.C. Branches.
Applications will proceed only on one of the forms of application
referred to and attached to a printed copy of the Prospectus.
CORPORATION LIMITED
C Registered 19th December, 1929 )
Branches at
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
HOBART CANBERRA
Underwriters: lan Potter & Co., Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney, Adelaide and Brisbane.
8245 N
Oil hoax strains faith
Something is seriously wrong with
Stock Exchange machinery that can
give official currency to telegrams sent
from call boxes by hoaxers purporting
to transmit news of the type that practic-
ally doubled the price of Longreach Oil
shares on Sydney Stock Exchange last
week. This is much more than a question
of temporary flurry in the share con-
cerned. That damage can easily be re-
paired.
For once the hoax is exposed, the
clock of transactions in the shares can
be put back to where it was before the
whole thing started.
What is really at stake is the public’s
faith in the authenticity of announce-
ments which bear the official stamp of
the Stock Exchanges and this is very
relevant to the wider question of brokers’
objectivity in share dealings. In fact the
old conflict of agent and principal is
involved in some degree.
However one can have sympathy for
the secretary of the Sydney Stock Ex-
change. A hoax of this sort is a rare
event and it would strain his machinery
and staff problems beyond bounds if all
information reaching the exchange had
to be subject to exhaustive checks. (But
not routine ones.)
Chamberlain cheap at present
VTew listings of shares on Melbourne
’Change this year have been as rare
as successful oil wells, so the appearance
of Chamberlain Holdings on the scene
last week might have been greeted with
more cheer than proved to be the case,
at least on the first day or so. The ss,
shares (which were also listed in Perth)
started life at more than 6s. 6d., but
even this proved high enough for stags
to run for cover. So they dropped to
6s. at one time, before more solid sort
of money came for them and pushed the
price as high as 7s.
However it wouldn’t surprise if this
proved as cheap as they can be bought
in the coming months, for this company
has sound attributes and what looks h e
a promising future for its Western Aus-
tralian-based tractor and implement bust
ness, which has trade tentacles out all over
the country. It more than double is
sales last year to the formidable fig ur
of £4.9 million, from which it earned
18 per cent on capital. A useful so
of cover on which to base the prosper
forecast of 10 per cent dividends.
The proprietary from which t e
cently formed holding company en
started business just after the war
began to manufacture tractors in
It was fathered and mothered )
previous (Hawke) W.A. Government
the drive to establish more secon
industry in the State.


INCORPORATED
1926
DIRECT
ACCEPTANCE
CORPORATION
LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
J. W. DOUGLASS (CHAIRMAN)
F. E. JONES W. J. FARRAM
AN ISSUE AT PAR (£100) OF £500,000
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE
STOCK AND REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
TRUSTEES for the Debenture Stockholders and
Unsecured Noteholders:
Perpetual Custodians Pty. Limited, 33-39 Hunter St.,
Sydney. P.T. Pty. Limited, 33 39 Hunter St., Sydney.
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE DEBENTURE
STOCK
8% -5-10 years
73/4% —4 years
7V2%—3 years
7% —2 years
REGISTERED UNSECURED
NOTES
8% —4 years
73/4%—3 years
71/2%— 2 years
INTEREST PAID QUARTERLY
PROSPECTUS AND APPLICATION FORM
Applications can be accepted only on the form of
application referred to in and attached to a printed copy
of the Prospectus which may be obtained from:
1. Direct Acceptance Corporation Limited, Interocean
House, 261 George St., Sydney. ’Phone 27 8611.
2. Bank of New South Wales. Any branch in N.S.W.,
Vic., Qld., A.C.T. until 31st May, 1963.
3. Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange.
4. or the UNDERWRITING BROKERS—
RALPH W. KING & YUILL
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Kindersley House, 33 Bligh St., SYDNEY
84 William St., MELBOURNE
340 Queen St., BRISBANE
12705
Town Hall trade
Bebarfalds Ltd graduated last
I week to the clothing trade, the Town
[jll area has received more attention
: m shoppers and investors alike.
It is said that Lowes Ltd, the mens-
(ar specialist, has cast envious eyes at
i next-door neighbor F. J. Palmer
ioldings Ltd which fronts Park Street
ore or less opposite Bebarfalds. (Wai-
ns is adjacent to both.)
Lowes, whose year ends on January
I is reputed to have done well lately,
i had its troubles in 1960.)
F, J. Palmer was unsuccessful in its
iper-marketing adventure at Neutral
ay, but having disposed of that to
loolworths, it is apparently doing rather
dter.
■F. J. Palmer shares have been sought
iter lately between 3s. 2d. and 3s. Bd.
[greater quantities than usual, but the
assibility of Lowes buying Palmers out
ms pretty remote, for Palmers, in
ms of issued capital, is about three
mes as big.
What’s in a name?
Is relayed from the bush telegraph by
The Bulletin last November,
lotor Credits is to take a new name
porting to be more befitting the
»dern lines of general financing on
ich it has developed in recent years,
one must say that the one chosen —
khigh sounding Australian Equity Cor-
mtion Ltd is just about as different
title from the old one as could be
nagined.
Indeed, it is difficult to see where
pty” is more appropriate than
Wor”, for at least the company is still
®y deep in hire purchase motor
®ce, whereas none of its newer
Cities have much of an equity ring
dl. The latter include lease discount-
s' short-term first mortgage advances,
finance, discounting, home renova-
tofinance, bills of sale and collection
Srvic es, in fact anything money seems to
Useable for on the short-term.
Since we told something of the back-
ed and profit performance of the
llB P a ny in our issue of November 24
’foe company has come up with an
Standing interim report which showed
Profits in the half year to the end
Member were double those of the
'Period the previous year. In fact, at
1)583 at the half-way stage they
! a dead certainty to beat the record
£248,532 established in 1961-62
the full tale for the current year is
J December 31 outstandings were
j,' million, a spurt of nearly £5
lon during the half year.
onc eivably there could be a rise in


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-White,
lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
MEMBERS OF THE SYDNEY STOCK EXCHANGE
li. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, E. V. Betts
NON-MEMBER PARTNERS
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY. Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011
Telex 5243
BRANCHES AT:
150 Queen St., Melbourne • 359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams ‘Orderley’ Sydney, Melbourne & Brisbane
the final payment, though the interim
was maintained at the usual 5 p.c. Last
year the company paid 10 p.c., as it has
done for some years. The cover was
18.4 p.c. last time, the best since incep-
tion in 1954 under the auspices of the
Victorian Automobile Chamber of Com-
merce and the latter’s insurance affiliate.
A case of nerves
T>alph Symonds Ltd is erratic in the
-*-* 1 timing of its interim dividend. In
the last three years, books have closed
in Lebruary, June and April.
An early interim report would be ap-
preciated by shareholders this year as
the shares have languished below par
for long enough.
In common with others involved in
timber, the company suffered a profit
reverse in 1961-62. The death of the
founder, Ralph Symonds, the inventive
genius, also occasioned some offloading
of the shares.
, It is understood that the technical staff
has been added to, in an effort to com-
pensate for this personal loss.
A repetition of last year’s 8 p.c.
dividend does not seem unlikely, in
which case the ss. shares may give a
run for the punter at present price of
around 4s. 4d.
Letter to the Editor
CURB ON MONOPOLIES
Dear Sir—Legislation to curb mono-
polies serves the interest of the consumer.
In our days it seems to be forgotten that
the basic aim of the economy is to supply
the demands and to serve the interests
of consumers.
It is quite natural to expect that re-
presentatives of manufacturers as well as
suppliers of services and labor will object
to the proposed legislation because their
interests are different, often opposite to
the consumer.
Since the sectional interests of pro-
ducers are well represented by their
strong pressure groups, it is high time
that the consumer had effective protec-
tion for the benefit of the whole
economy.
GEORGE HARDY
Melbourne.
ONE TO BUY
ACTIVITY AT COURTAULDS
history of British investment in
-*■ this country includes several com-
panies which have been of no particular
credit to their parentage. This criticism
is now less applicable to Courtaulds
(Australia) Ltd.
Incorporated in Sydney in 1949,
Courtaulds has been producing rayon
tyre yarn and acetate yarn for ten years
at Raymond Terrace, outside Newcastle.
Production and marketing problems
have plagued the company so that, from
an investment angle, Courtaulds became a
problem child. The Bulletin ventures
to declare that it could now be emerging
to a less troublesome adolescence, al-
though it will continue to require parental
guidance and tariff protection.
Looking back, the birth of Courtaulds
(Australia) appears decidedly ill-timed.
It was actually spawned when the parent
company was moving away from rayon
to nylon, and this change in fashion and
industry was also evident in Australia.
(It was Courtaulds and ICI in England
that formed British Nylon Spinners in
1940, which 15 years later created an
Australian offshoot to spin nylon yarn at
Bayswater (Vic.). Since January 1, 1963,
ICIANZ has acquired half of BNS Aus-
tralia’s capital, so that Courtaulds (Aus-
tralia) has any number of fascinating
family connections.)
Apart from manufacturing activities,
Courtaulds has a share interest in Aus-
tralian Cellophane Pty Ltd which dis-
tributes for British Cellophane. It also
is sole Australian agent for Lustre
Libres Ltd, a subsidiary of the UK
Courtaulds.
The company has always relied on
tariff protection, and when imports were
freed from restrictions in early 1960,
these tariffs were found to be inade-
quate. The cumbersome machinery for
tariff reviews has left Courtaulds in a
very vulnerable position for considerable
periods.
The company’s argument to the
Tariff Board has always been that opera-
tion at capacity or near-capacity levels
is the key to efficient low-cost produc-
tion, and reasonable access to the home
market is the best weapon for reducing
costs.
Results for the year to June 30, 1962,
showed Courtaulds was pulling out of
the economic slump. It earned £286,887
(1959-60 £110,883) after tax 0 f
£200,104, trading in the first six months
had resulted in a small loss, so one could
view the profit making of the second
half as being at the annual rate of, sav
£600,000 a giddy height compared with
earlier performances.
A long-standing overdraft (1961
£567,244) was eliminated, leaving the
company with minimal financial depen-
dence on outsiders.
The chairman said in his latest address
the improved liquidity, buoyant trading
and greater productive efficiency gave
Courtaulds prospects of a much brighter
entry to 1962-63 than the year before.
This optimism, we imagine, has been
well borne out by events. At least the
official Australian statistics show that
production of tyres and rayon woven
cloth, for which Courtaulds supplies raw
materials, has been consistently higher
each month in the current financial year
than its counterpart of the year before.
Emergency duty was granted to the
weaving industry on rayon piece-goods
early in 1962, so that from July to
January 1963 (inclusive) Australian pro-
duction of rayon woven cloth rose 22 p.c.,
from 11,146,000 to 13,569,000 square
yards.
With the recovery in the motor
vehicle industry*- motor-tyre production
rose 11 p.c. in July-November 1962 com-
pared with the same five months of the
previous year. As higher duties were
granted last year to tyre cord and fabric
production, undoubtedly Courtaulds has
been participating in this greater activity.
Apparently the rubber industry selects
nylon or rayon cord on the basis of
relative cost, rather than the physical
properties, After a struggle some years
ago, the market has settled down, and
a rayon producer could now expect to
at least hold his own with the nylon
cord suppliers.
An interim report is due from Court-
aulds within the next couple of weeks,
and it would not surprise if directors
saw fit to pay an interim dividend.
Last year, for the third time in suc-
cession, Courtaulds omitted an interim
dividend, but the earning rate of 4.2
p.c. did allow payment of a final 3 p c -
The company is saddled with a big
capital of £6,169,000 in ordinary shares
and £675,000 in deferred shares, but it
could conceivably earn 10 p.c. this year
and pay up to 8 p.c. to long-suffering
shareholders.
At 14s. 9d. the 20s. shares offer pros-
pects of appreciation towards par witun
the short term, but an investment i n
them should never be considered as per
manent.


MAYNE NICKLESS PICKS UP ON TRANSPORT
By “SECURITY”
rtyg recent interim report by F. H.
I Stephens (Consolidated) Limited
turnover and net profit showed an
'appreciable improvement” over the
previous corresponding period could well
san indication of improving conditions
[ ([ the motor transporting industry in
soeral. If this is so, then Mayne Nick-
's Limited could benefit to a consider-
|e degree as it has concentrated over
|e last couple of years in expanding in
is traditional fields of being general
utriers and shipping and customs agents.
During the year ended June 30, 1962,
paid up ordinary capital increased from
£717,000 to £1,202,000 as a result of
takeovers which included the public
tompany, Antill Ranger (Holdings)
limited, as well as a number of private
ompanies each engaged in the provision
| transporting and customs 'facilities,
[lie most recent acquisition is the old
stablished NSW carrier Chambers and
i, which was bought for cash in
Member of last. year.
In September, 1962, the company
pounced a simultaneous cash and
taus issue which raised ordinary paid
up capital by 50 p.c. to £1,803,000.
Hie £450,988 raised from the cash
portion of the issue was to be used in
iiying assets needed for the increasing
osiness it was experiencing and for
oilding a chain of interstate terminal
tpots, which when completed should
suit in greater financial benefits.
Because of the extreme competitive-
-8 within the transporting industry,
layne Nickless has been acquiring
ftions and leases on land located in
■pidly developing industrial areas in
; Wal States. This will enable the
totalisation of operations on the one
lte in areas very suitable for storage and
Importing operations. At Perth, for
sample, a 75 year crown lease of 5
:res of land at Subiaco was obtained,
a modern terminal and store have
tfady been erected.
■ C,
; 'n addition, following the acquisition
j Armoured Escort Limited of Perth,
‘yne Nickless now has a chain of
car businesses in each of the
Mai cities of Australia. Apart from
well known by the public, the
loured car service is growing in
Mlarity with clients.
Ue to the close similarity in the
tlv dies undertaken by both Mayne
:4le ss and Brambles, a comparison of
| ke y profitability ratios is shown for
’ 1 Point vividly to the markedly
different fortunes experienced by the two
companies.
EARNINGS P.C. YEAR-END ORDINARY
CAPITAL
Year ending
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Mayne Nickless 28.4 25.4 26.2 28.7 21.3
Brambles 29.0 42.2 31.1 28.9 22.8
OPERATING INCOME P.C. TOTAL
CAPITAL
Year ending
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Mayne Nickless 28.8 24.2 30.3 29.2 30.0
Brambles 29.0 46.5 36.2 31.9 18.0
Thus, Mayne Nickless did not produce
the dramatic results obtained by
Brambles in the 1959 and 1960 financial
years (results which earned for Brambles
the title of “one of the most dynamic
growth stocks of the ’sos”), but then
neither has it made the costly mistake
of diversifying into unprofitable activities
as was experienced by Brambles when
it moved into the engineering field.
Mayne Nickless, as a consequence,
has shown a far greater degree of
stability in its results as is especially
indicated by its operating income (net
profit after tax plus interest payments
plus depreciation and taxation provisons)
to total capital ratio.
Only dampener in Mayne Nickless’
performance is that in the year ending
June 30, 1962, the earning rate on year-
end ordinary capital fell to 21.3 p.c., the
lowest rate for many years. Although
paid up capital did increase sharply that
year as a result of numerous takeovers,
the company made a careful note of
pointing out in its annual report that the
full year’s net profit of all subsidiaries
acquired during that year had been
brought into the accounts. However, as
Antill Ranger was acquired only a few
months before the end of the 1962
financial year, and at a time when its
own profitability was declining, it is
likely that Antill’s operations did not con-
tribute very much to the 1962 earnings
of Mayne Nickless, though now that
they have been wholly absorbed within
the group they should start producing
better results.
Furthermore the company will have
to rely on good results from subsidiaries
acquired during the current financial
year, as well as benefits which will accrue
from improved trading conditions in the
road transport industry (which has re-
covered to near 1960 proportions ac-
cording to the managing director of
Mayne Nickless) so that it can maintain
its earning rate on capital increased by
50 p.c. in the September ’62 capital
issues. However, because of the good
past performances of Mayne Nickless,
their 10s. shares selling at around 30s.
(or 15s. on a ss. par value basis as
against 17s. for Brambles), to yield 4.2
p.c. from the proposed 12| p.c. dividend
appear worth buying.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES (£ 000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Ordinary capital 527 527 685 717 1202
Capital reserves 73 70 105 94 606
Revenue surplus 463 534 616 742 808
Ord. SHF 1063 1131 1406 1553 2616
Pref. capital 180 180 180 180 180
Outside shareholders 10 10 28 27 26
Loan capital 972 1035 1086 866 948
Total capital 2225 2356 2700 2626 3770
Represented by:
Working capital .... (56) (62) (17) (20) 89
Land and buildings 789 839 928 869 1243
Other fixed assets 1444 1519 1766 1724 2209
Investments 12 23 23 29 35
Intangibles .... 36 37 — 24 194
2225 2356 2700 2626 3770
Earnings 150 134 189 206 256
Ordinary dividends 103 79 101 108 157
Surplus 47 55 88 98 99
Ordinary dividends 20.0 15.0 15.0 15.0 15.0
Dividend yield p.c. (a) 5.3 4.7 4.6 5.0 5,5
Price/earnings ratio (a) 21.2 20.2 17.7 15.3 19.3
(a) Based on last sale month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
BUCKINGHAMS LTD
CONSTANT SCRUTINY NEEDED
Sydney’s sprawl creates special pro-
blems for residents of the fringe
areas. Mostly young, and hampered by
growing families and lack of transport,
they find personal shopping extremely
difficult. So much so that Parramatta,
15 miles from the GPO, is “the city” to
many western suburbs dwellers.
Retailers who go to the customer
therefore provide a very real service.
Waltons Ltd, which recently announ-
ced significant profit improvement and a
new issue to finance its expansion, has a
team of 230 salesmen-coilectors working
in selected Sydney (and Brisbane) sub-
urbs. This sales technique, as used by
Waltons, is obviously a success.
Buckinghams Ltd also aims to bring
the “Store to the Door.” But a glance
at the accompanying table shows that
this company has had indifferent
success.
It fields a team of 193 outdoor repre-
sentatives in the home sales and finance
divisions, attending to the customers’ ac-
counts and supplying clothing, furniture
and other domestic needs.
The type of customer for whom Buck-
inghams primarily caters suffered more
than any others during the depression,
when overtime and second jobs disap-
peared, and unemployment was of signi-
ficant proportions.
In the latest year, for instance, bad
debts written off were far in excess of
previous years, and £50,000 was trans-
ferred from accumulated profits to cover
probable future bad debts. Total debts
also increased by £345,748 to
£1,818,014, which probably denotes
slower collections more than better sales.
Buckinghams had felt the pinch of
competition from chain stores moving
into the women’s clothing field, and in
September last, several months after
closing the accounts for 1961-62, it sold
the Ashleys chain of clothing stores to
Woolworths.
Disposed of were stores at Parramatta,
Hurstville, Campsie, Ashfield, Katoomba
and Wollongong. Consideration was
about £750,000 cash, which has been
partly applied to outstanding commit-
ments, and discharging mortgages on
freeholds. The balance over £500,000
has been temporarily used to buy readily
marketable securities.
So the chain was narrowed down to
Buckinghams stores in Oxford St, Sydney;
Church Street, Parramatta; Graf Avenue,
West Ryde; Ware Street, Fairfield; Crown
Street, Wollongong; Hunter Street, New-
castle; Kingsway, Caringbah; and South
Terrace, Bankstown. The House of
Curzons in Pitt Street, Sydney, concen-
trates on fashion goods for women.
The Hub store on the lower ground
floor of the Imperial Arcade, Sydney, had
been vacated in December 1961 after
trading losses were incurred.
A home sales division operates in the
Sydney metropolitan area, Wollongong
and Newcastle.
Oxford Street store has been reorgan-
ised and modernised, and a modern three
storey building adjacent to the main
building has been acquired to give Buck-
inghams a block occupying H acres.
Directors consider it particularly suitable
for redevelopment with provision for
cars.
The Newcastle store may be extended
to provide a wider range of merchandise,
as the freehold property has considerable
vacant land.
Benefits from sale of the Ashleys chain
would have altered Buckinghams’ finan-
cial position so materially that discussion
of the balance sheet as at July 31 is
rather pointless. Suffice it to say that the
proceeds should be used tc reduce the
substantial external liabilities rather than
invest outside.
Thus the current year is the critical
one for Buckinghams to prove its worth
to the investing public. No interim divi-
dend was paid last year, but the company
came good with a final 4 p.c. which ex-
ceeded the year’s earnings.
Directors may decide to refrain from
paying an interim again this year until
trading results for the full year are
known, although liquidity will be m
problem.
At the annual meeting in November
directors reported a 10 p.c. improvement
in sales in the first quarter (on a com-
parable store basis) when compared with
the corresponding period of the previous
year.
Unless the interim report is very en-
couraging, there’s no need to hurry into
this one at the present price of 3s 7d for
the 5s shares. The stock is never one
for the bottom drawer. It needs constant
scrutiny.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
July 31 1958 1 959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 3105 2717 2791 2714 2883
Less current
liabilities 2271 1864 1697 1999 1319
Working capital 834 853 1094 715 1564
Investments 28 38 44 3 3
Fixed assets 1687 1570 1600 1668 1634
Intangibles 81 80 62 60 53
2630 2541 2800 2446 3259
Loan capital 620 588 488 328 1215
Preference capital 119 119 119 119 119
Ordinary capital 93 1 931 1253 1253 1253
Reserves 960 903 940 746 672
2630 2541 2800 2446 3259
Depreciation 56 47 51 45 47
Taxation 39 13 41 10 3
Net profit 119 15 79 60 32
Net profit for
ords. 113 9 73 52 22
Dividend 94 52 56 75 50
Surplus 19 —43 17 —23 —28
Earning rate 12.7 1.0 7.9 4.2 1.8
Dividend rate 10 5 6 6 4
Dividend yield (a) 7.7 4.3 6.0 7.7 6.2
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 10.2 115.0 1 2.7 1 9.0 35.7
High price (b) 6/11 7/9 7/4 5/3 5/3
Low price (b) 5/9 5/1 4/7 3/7 3/1
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
JORDAN CHEMICALS LTD
EMERGING FROM THE SQUEEZE
Tordan Chemicals Ltd has had dif-
ficulty in maintaining profit since
flotation three years ago but the com-
pany may at last have turned the corner.
Main trouble has been to put into
effect expansion plans arising from
overseas links as well as expansion to
New Zealand.
This was brought about partly by
the advent of the credit squeeze which
came only six months after flotation.
The company makes synthetic resins
for the paint, varnish, lacquer, printing
ink and allied industries.
In several of these fields it came up
against fairly well entrenched com-
petition, though the possession of valu-
able patents furnished it with the re-
quired strength to face competitors.
More strength came from the link with
Archer - Daniels Midland Co. of US,
which provided rights to certain synthetic
resins essential for the paint, plastic and
foundry industries in exchange for equity
participation in Jordan.
But probably the most valuable link
was with the large US National Starch
and Chemical Corp. of New York and
its know-how for the manufacture of
synthetic resins and adhesives.
The original placement was made with
the public in April, 1960, at ss. 2i -
and stags made a quick profit. Within
three months of flotation, the company
made a one-for-four share issue at par,
lifting paid up capital to £150,000.
Most of these funds went into t e
venture with National Starch, beginning
six months after the start of the ere i
squeeze. The venture with Arc e
Daniels required additional funds an
the company made a one-for-five issue ,


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor.
The National Mutual Life Building 1 ,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2701
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089.
100 p.c. premium in mid-1961. In
addition, Archer-Daniels took up 21,000
shares, also at a ss, premium. These
lifted paid up capital to £185,250.
Application of these funds was delayed
and the plant will not come into opera-
tion until August of this year.
Early last year Jordan negotiated
certain marketing arrangements with a
competitor, John Beith Holdings Ltd,
and followed this up with discussions to
merge the two. Despite protracted
negotiations, difficulties arose with both
companies’ overseas affiliates and the
merger was postponed, although the
marketing arrangements were continued
and expanded.
Profit in the past three years has been
virtually unchanged—£3o,l49 in 1960,
£30,221 in 1961 and £30,277 last year.
With steadily rising capital this has meant
a decline in earning rate from 25.1 p.c.
in 1960, 20.2 p.c. in 1961 and 17.2 p.c.
last year. Despite this fall, dividend has
been held at I2i p.c. .
Depreciation has moved up each
year, from £4947 in 1960 to £8347 last
year, reflecting the growth in fixed assets
which have more than doubled from
£40,953 to £82,660 last year.
Last year’s accounts show quite a
healthy position with only a small rise
in stocks to £153,144, but a strong rise
in debtors from £57,988 to £73,101.
Liquidity was better than in the previous
year, with bank overdraft down from
£48,141 to a negligible £316, although
creditors rose from £90,252 to
£124,241.
Reserves, principally surplus profits,
have risen well, and were augmented by
£35,250 in share premiums from the
issues in 1961-62. These reserves, subject
to intangibles of £33,795 — including
goodwill on consolidation of £24,754 —
give an assets backing to each 5s. share
of 5s. 9d.
Since last balance date production has
shown a substantial increase due largely
to the commissioning of additional plant
late in 1961-62.
The jointly-owned (with National
Starch) Jordan National Co. Pty Ltd
also showed a good increase in sales.
The shares are currently selling at
about 14s. 9d., to show a dividend yield
of 4.2 p.c. and an earnings yield of 5.8
p.c. With any substantial rise in profit
in the current year the shares look fairly
cheap, provided the earning rate matches
the higher capital.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£ 000)
June 30 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 139 205 226
Less current liabilities 106 177 157
Working capital 33 28 69
Fixed assets 65 102 120
Investments — 10 26
Intangibles 26 26 34
124 166 249
Represented by
Capital 120 150 183
Reserves 4 16 61
124 166 249
Depreciation 5 6 8
Taxation 19 19 17
N’et profit 30 30 30
Dividend 8 19 22
Surplus 22 11 8
Earnings p.c 25.1 20.2 17.2
Dividend p.c 12i (a) 12^
Div. yield (b) 4.5 4.3 4.5
High price (c) 16/6 19/- 17/6
Low price (c) 12/- 14/6 13/9
(a) For half year.
(b) End of December.
(c) Calendar year
PROBLEMS ON THE FOOD FRONT
GEORGE FIELDER & CO. LTD.
Incorporated: March 27, 1909.
Directors: J B. Regan (Chairman)
(Director of East West Airlines Ltd);
F. L Farrali. T. J. Purcell (Director
of Bintang Ltd), J. H. Tucker, L. W.
Rawson (Director of S. Hoffnting &
Co Ltd, Aust. Board), A. V Riley.
Capital Authorised: £3500 in £1
$ p.c. pref. shares; £31,500 in £1 5
P-c. pref shares; £65,000 in £1 7 p.c.
Prof- shares; £1,900,000 in 5s. ords.
Subsidiaries: B. G. Holdings Pty
Ltd; Brunions (Holdings) Pty Ltd .
Fielders Stock Feeds Pty Ltd. Lothian
Investments Pty Ltd; Oil Distributors
Fty Ltd, Procera Aust. (Pty) Ltd;
Shand Selected Seed Co Pty Ltd,
Sydney Flour Pty Ltd, Great Western
Milling Co Pty Ltd; Mill ford Manu-
facturing Co Pty Ltd; Wheat In-
dustries (Aust.) Pty Ltd; Betty Sydney
Met.) Pty Ltd; T. Brunton & Co Pty
Stratton & Co Pty Ltd; Wheat
Industries (O'land) Pty Ltd.
| l though primarily flour millers,
George Fielder and Co. Ltd in recent
fars has diversified its interests, chiefly
by takeovers in the food industry. The
main such-acquired company was Aunt
Mary’s Pty Ltd. which necessitated the
issue of 20,000 20s. shares and cash.
Other issues for take-overs were—so,ooo
20s. shares for Millford Manufacturing
Co. Pty Ltd, 84,988 20s. shares for West
Tamworth Milling Co. Pty Ltd plus
£1224 cash.
Bruntons (Holdings) Ltd was acquired
in June 1960 by the issue of 280,000 20s
8 p.c. notes at 10s. premium, the notes
being convertible on May 31, 1965. In
1961 Stratton and Co. was acquired by
the issue of 149,000 20s. shares at a
premium; while Sydney Flour Pty Ltd
was satisfied with 280,000 ss. shares at
2s. 6d. premium, plus cash. The 20s.
ord. shares were split into ss. units in
January 1961.
The 1961-62 year proved one of con-
solidation, and profit rose by £llO,OOO
resulting in increased dividend. It is of
interest to note that between 1951 and
1958 a steady 12J p.c. dividend was
paid, since when 8 p.c., 10 p.c., 3J p.c.
and 8 p.c. have been declared, both of
the 8 p.c. partly or wholly from tax-
free profits.
During the past year current liabilities
dropped £53,000, but in the same period
current assets only fell £27,000 — a step
in the right direction. In fact, the entire
balance sheet shows better returns and
if 1962-63 continues this progress the
shares at under 6s. appear an attrac-
tive proposition. Current levels around
5s. lOd. furnish a dividend return of
7 p.c., quite high for the food industry
A good deal still remains to be done
to reinforce investors’ confidence, since,
after all, last year’s healthy profit lift
only gave an 11.1 p.c. earning rate. But
the group seems to be solving many of
its problems. The recent sale for
£400,000 cash of a subsidiary, T. Brunton
and Co. Pty Ltd of Melbourne, would
certainly alleviate any liquidity problem.
Earnings this year have to overcome
another capital lift — 225,000 shares
were issued to acquire the outside in-
terests in Starch Sugars Refining Co. Pty
Ltd and there is the partial share con-
version of a note issue, effected in De-
cember.
GEO. FIELDER & CO. LTD
Analysts Summary (£'000)
1960 1961 1962
Capital pref £100 100 100
ord. £663 1005 1005
Surplus Profit £56 56 152
Reserves £813 855 816
Shareholders Funds £1632 2016 2073
Index 100 123.4 127.0
Total Investment £3092 3670 3576
Index 100 U8.9 116.3
Working Capital £212 300 389
Index 100 141.6 183.8
N'otes £490 491 491
Mortgage £385 368 341
Investments £166 166 160
Land and Buildings £1062 1127 1158
Plant £1062 1288 1251
Depreciation £105 139 153
Taxation £56 31 41
Directors' Fees £3 6 2
Net Profit £84 40 150
Index 100 47.7 178.9
Pref. Dividend %5.7 5.7 5.7
£6 6 6
Ord. Dividend %10 3
£65 33 87
Surplus Profit % 15.45 2.5 38
Percentage Profit to —
Ord. Capital 13.5 3.99 14.9
Shareholders Funds 5.15 1.98 7.25
Total Investments 2,72 1.09 4.2
N.T.A. 5.59 2.22 7.9
Leverage 2.2 1.91 1.81
N.T A per 5s. Od.
share 10/* 9/5 9N0
Share Prices — High 10/1 2 8/3 7/*
Share Prices — Low 7/3 5/- 5/-


SUPPLEMENTARY REPORT
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD. AUSTRALIA
DEMAND
Shareholders were informed at the last
Annual General Meeting that improving
activity in the economy as a whole had
lifted domestic demand for our products
to a high level. This trend was sustained
during the period under review.
The state of the domestic steel market
is reflected in the sales position for indi-
vidual products. Most of our rolling mills
are working at satisfactory levels, and are
expected to continue to do so for the re-
mainder of the financial year.
Demand for plates and structural sec-
tions continues to be very strong, and
maximum production is being maintained
to meet local requirements. Australian
requirements for tinplate sustained a high
level of output for both the hot dipped
and electrolytic varieties during the third
and fourth quarters of 1962, and outstand-
ing orders ensure a similar situation for
the first quarter of 1963. However, tin-
plate is a commodity for which there is a
marked seasonal fluctuation in demand
and we must expect from time to time
a slackening in the order position. This
could well occur in the second quarter of
this year.
The Australian and New Zealand re-
quirements of merchant bars are keeping
our mills fully occupied but there is a
fairly fine balance between supply and de-
mand, and surplus capacity may arise
over and above likely Australian and New
Zealand sales. Improved technology in
steelmaking has lifted the output of ingot
steel, and worthwhile tonnages of semi-
finished products are available for sale
overseas. Except as mentioned above
local demand is fully taxing our produc-
tive capacity and is likely to continue
to do so in the near future.
The present generally buoyant domes-
tic demand is in striking contrast with
overseas market conditions in steel. As
mentioned in previous reports to share-
holders, recent increases in steelmaking
capacity in countries outside Australia
have outstripped demand and, in spite of
the postponement of further expansion
programmes in some countries, the view
has been expressed in several quarters
that excess capacity is likely to exist for
some time. The resulting low utilisation
of plant in some of the major steel pro-
ducing nations of the world has acted as
a strong incentive to seek oversea markets
more actively. In conditions of intense
competition for export orders, a down-
ward pressure on prices emerged during
last year, and this trend shows no sign
of reversing. It has been one factor in
reducing the value of steel exports from
Australia to the present annual rate of
about £24 million from over £4O million
in the year ended June, 1962. Exports,
while substantial, represent a much smal-
ler proportion of our turnover than do
Australian sales, and therefore a modest
percentage increase in domestic demand
can readily compensate for a fairly heavy
fall in exports.
Since September, 1962, several officers
from the Overseas Division and Works
have, for the purpose of furthering export
sales, visited the United Kingdom, West
Germany, Belgium, France, Holland,
Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey, the United
States and Canada, Singapore and Thai-
land. Significant sales of iron and steel
products have continued to be made in
the United Kingdom, United States of
America and Canada, Italy, Hong Kong,
Japan and the Philippines. Useful po-
tential outlets have also been confirmed
in other countries.
Demand for steel has always been sen-
sitive to changes of activity in the eco-
nomy generally. Recent fluctuations in
Australian demand were aggravated by
excessive increases in stocks built up
by heavy imports of steel. Towards the
end of 1960 steel imports were running at
the high annual rate of over £7O million.
However, it is noteworthy that imports
over the last year and a half have been
steady at an annual rate of about £lB
million, and a welcome degree of stability
in steel stockholdings now appears to have
been achieved.
In any consideration of the possibilities
for Australian exports, the question of
freight rates is of great significance. This
is particularly so during times of intense
competition such as the present, when the
winning of export business might easily
depend on the freight rates which can be
obtained. While this is true for any ex-
porting country Australian exporters are
not in general able to obtain as low freight
rates as those available to exporters in
many other world trading nations. Des-
pite this and intense world competition
the Company continues to conclude use-
ful export business.
PRODUCTION
Ingot steel production during the six
months ended 30th November, 1962, was
an improvement on the previous half-year
and on the corresponding period last year.
This is a notable achievement in view of
the effects at Newcastle of major con-
struction work, and of interference with
operations resulting from industrial dis-
turbances. At Port Kembla, No. 4 blast
furnace produced 470,000 tons of iron
during the half-year, which exceeded its
previous record by 64,000 tons. Output of
ingot steel at that centre amounted to
1.522 million tons, also a record, this being
made possible by the commissioning of No.
35 open hearth furnace. No. 3 slab reheat-
ing furnace, which was brought into use
early in 1962, contributed to the record
production of sheared blooms and slabs.
The adoption of improved techniques in
the operation of existing plant has also
been a factor in the very satisfactory per-
formance during the half-year.
DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION
We have continued to press ahead with
our programme of development. Con-
struction work at Port Kembla is still
extensive, but has eased somewhat from
the very heavy programme undertaken at
that centre in recent years. The current
period has, however, been a particularly
busy one at Newcastle and the tempo at
Whyalla is steadily increasing.
The half-year was marked particularly
by the addition of three major items of
plant at Newcastle namely, the new
bloom mill and associated improvements
to the 28" and 18" mills; the basic oxygen
steelmaking plant; and the new rod mill.
The re-organisation of the bloom, 28"
and 18" continuous mills is almost com-
plete, the new bloom mill having been
commissioned in October. Although the
preparatory construction work for this
mill had been in progress for some time,
the actual installation of the new mill
stand, housing, control pulpit, manipula-
tors, roller tables and No. 1 shear was
accomplished in the short period of four-
teen days. The new four-strand rod mill
commenced production over the Christmas
period on a one-shift basis. The basic
oxygen steelmaking plant commenced
operations early in December, and it will
eventually replace all but four of the
existing open hearth furnaces. Both
furnaces of this new plant have now been
commissioned, the first early in December
and the second late in January. They
are supplied with oxygen from our own
plant, which has a daily capacity of 420
tons of high purity gaseous oxyg'en.
The new rod mill and the basic oxygen
steelmaking plant are complex installa-
tions, and are not expected to achieve
maximum production rates until the
operating personnel become thoroughly
conversant with the modern and un-
familiar features incorporated in their
design and operation.
Additional construction work at New-
castle includes the rebuilding of No. 2
battery of coke ovens and associated by-
product plant, which is proceeding satis-
factorily. Progress is also being made on
additional by-product plant designed to
permit simultaneous operation of all four
batteries of coke ovens. These projects
are scheduled for completion in Ammo*
The building of No. 4 blast furnace is
well advanced, and a good deal of tha
auxiliary equipment is almost comnletp
This furnace, due to be commissioned in
May of this year, will be an important
part of what is virtually a new steelworks
now emerging at Newcastle, and for
which it will supply the increased ream™
ments of hot metal. 4 e
At Port Kembla major construction
work completed during the period under
review included the tonnage oxygen plant
and two 550-ton capacity cranes at No 2
open hearth steelmaking plant Good
progress is being made with tlie work
associated with the 140" plate mill, which
is now expected to be commissioned by
September. Site work and ordering of
equipment has begun in connection with
the installation of the 120" plate finishing
line and also for the continuous anneal-
ing facilities at the tinplate plant, both of
which are scheduled for completion to-
wards the end of 1964.
Work on the site of the new steelworks
at Whyalla is increasing as plant and
equipment comes to hand. The structural
mill is taking shape, and much of the
foundation work is completed. It is ex-
pected that this plant will be commis-
sioned about June, 1964, when it will
operate on feed from the East Coast
plants pending completion of the basic
oxygen steelmaking plant and the bloom
mill, which are expected to be ready a
few months later. Delivery of the ton-
nage oxygen plant is due early in 1964 and
design work on the building and services
is proceeding. Contracts have been let
for the basic oxygen steelmaking plant
which will form the central component of
the new works. The driving of founda-
tion piles has commenced for the bloom
mill and the soaking pits. In addition,
arrangements are in hand for the design
of No. 2 blast furnace, which will have a
26 ft. diameter hearth.
At Iron Knob, the scree ore treatment
plant is now operating, and the recovery
and grade of the concentrate is matching
pilot plant results.
At Koolan Island, the obstruction pro-
gramme is proceeding satisfactorily. The
township facilities have been completed,
the cargo wharf is in full operation and
good progress is being made with tne
ship loading plant, storage bin, crusher
foundations and power station mstaiia-
In the Chairman’s Address to share-
holders on 14th September, 1962, it was
indicated that expenditure of a capital
nature was being incurred at a rate o
£5l million per annum. Recently it nas
been running at a slightly lesser rate.
There has been no curtailment or s* o ”.* l ?
down of the expansion programme, wmcn
is proceeding according to and in some
cases ahead of schedule, but as conapare
with estimates some quite substantial sa-
ings have been effected in both co . n ®”
tion work and the purchase of equipmem.
The programme of future ex P, al ?? lol Vp
our organisation is still a formidable ° >
covering developments throughout au'
tralia, and your Directors anticipate tn
the level of capital expenditure will con
tinue at a substantial rate. . .. _
Exploration for minerals is y, s
actively continued and in the past 1 {
year has taken the form principally “
the extensive exploration of known
ore deposits. At Koolyanobbmg, tunne
are being driven to determine cnaia ,
istics of the ore as a preliminary to
planning of quarrying operations
designing of plant. In the Pilbara reg
testing has indicated that the Temp ta {n
Reserves held by the Company c t
very large tonnages of iron ore. cm q{
assessment of the economic potcm ‘
these deposits is being conducted wit
aid of topographic and
surveys for the location of possible
way and port facilities. , wh j C h
Haematite Explorations Pty. in
holds petroleum exploration hcenc


m Strait and off-shore South Austra-
m areas, is following its recently report-
V aeromagnetic survey of these areas
an extensive marine seismic pro-
gramme. This work qualifies for subsidy
jnder the Commonwealth Government’s
petroleum Search Subsidy Act.
(HIPBUILDING
The shipyard at Whyalla has had an-
Aer active half-year. The 32,500 ton
tanker, ss. “P. J. Adams,” was completed
during the period, and successfully under-
tent sea trials before being handed over
n 29th October, 1962. M.V. “Mittagong,”
tire second of two 16,400 ton ore carriers
ior Bulkships Ltd. was launched on 3rd
Kovember, and is at present fitting out.
che is due for completion in about two
months time. The keel of the first of
Kfo 3,000 ton container vessels, for the
Union Steamship Co. of N.Z. Ltd., was laid
in December, 1962, and the keel of the
<econd vessel will be laid shortly. Anti-
cipated launching dates are August and
November, 1963, respectively. The first of
tfo 21,400 ton bulk carriers, to be built
at Whyalla, is now under construction for
the Australian National Line, and is
scheduled for launching in May, 1964.
In addition to the shipbuilding pro-
gramme, the shipyard has been able to
undertake some steel fabrication work for
the Whyalla works.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
The operations of our subsidiary com-
panies are proceeding satisfactorily. At
the Geelong wiremill of Rylands Bros.
lAust.) Pty. Ltd. a new galvanising plant,
capable of an output of 22,500 tons a
rear, is being commissioned. This new
plant will provide improved supplies in
Victoria of a range of galvanised wires,
mainly for use in agriculture and the
manufacture of various galvanised wire
products.
EMPLOYMENT
After the substantial increase in Group
employment during the year ended May,
1962, the past six months has been one of
' relative stability and the work force for
the Group has remained at slightly over
<3,000. Employment at Port Kembla and
Whyalla have" shown some increase, the
latter being accounted for by the gather-
ing momentum of construction at the new
steelworks site. At the Newcastle works
some planned reduction in the work force
has taken place as the major construction
programme reaches an advanced stage.
Little change has taken place at other
centres.
At Port Kembla and Whyalla some
difficulty is being experienced in obtaining
Ml labour requirements, particularly of
shilled tradesmen.
shares and debentures
Since the establishment of branch
share registers in Hobart and Canberra
welve months ago, 271 and 1,335 share-
holders respectively have availed them-
Mves of these facilities. Tasmanian
shareholders who have not transferred
their shares to the Hobart register may
ho so simply by sending to the Head Office
>0 Melbourne" a written request accom-
panied by the relative scrip certificates.
Similar action may be taken by those
shareholders who desire to have their
holdings recorded on the Canberra
Agister.
The second and final instalment of the
underwritten public issue of £7,500,000
Wing 6 : i per cent. Debenture Stock
977/87 was due on 31st January, 1963,
®d all monies have now been received.
“°® the United Kingdom and Australian
“sues are continuing to command a
frket premium, and the numbers of
Venture holders in these issues are 900
8,394 respectively.
Se neral
.[ n the Chairman’s address at the An-
-51 Meeting last September, it was stated
W the first three months of this finan-
-11 year had shown substantially better
s>lts than the same period a year earlier.
kgSe improved results have been main-
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
A s sending telegrams, whether it be
to the Queen or the Stock Exchange,
seems to be the current vogue, I thought
I would use this form of communication
to ask Professor Lozinsky to restore life
to our stock market. After all, it had been
put about that he was able to restore
prehistoric animals to life. But the pro-
fessor quickly denied this gift, so the
markets can get no benefits from his
alleged elixir.
What is wrong with this stock market?
A company like EMI reports that profits
are up for the first six months. The
report ends on a small note of caution,
so the market immediately knocks 2s.
off the share price!
Conversely, Carrier Air recovers 2s.
to 11s.—still without explanation. The
interim report should be out by the time
this article is published. Yet in view of
the abrupt price movements, the market
would have appreciated a little more
effort on the part of the directors to give
it an earlier statement.
Concrete Industries has just pushed
itself to the foreground by the shocks
from its interim report. For the month
up till last Wednesday, the market
managed to stay up over 10s. Then, in
the next three days, the price was beaten
down to Bs. 6d. on a greatly increased
turnover. Any big turnover on a falling
market frightens the most stalwart of us.
Sure enough, near the close of trading
on Friday, it was announced that the
interim dividend had been reduced to 2i
p.c.
One possible conclusion to be drawn
could be that sellers were in a con-
fidentially informed position. It does
seem unfortunate that, if the decision
to reduce the dividend was made on the
Wednesday, it was not immediately an-
nounced to the public. Irrespective of
the background to the decision, Concrete
Industries has lost much of the favorable
image it built up patiently over the years.
As a speculator, I was disappointed
the market refused to recognise the
potential of chemical giant ICI. To-
gether with the dividend and the slight
increase in the share price of Is., I was
able to get myself out without loss and
madly ignored the sanity of “One To
Buy”.
The other good share that went was
Nightingale, a neat performer that netted
me £73 profit when the dividend is
taken into consideration. The company
looks as though it has a big future, but
not for the next few months.
One share in my portfolio that had
risen a couple of shillings, but has now
slipped back to the original cost, is
Fairymead. Provided the weather in the
next few months is kind, the 1963 crop
should be a record. With the world
sugar price now up to £-51 per ton, it
was with unbounded faith that I added
100 more at 40s.
I jumped from Queensland to Victoria
to find another share that looked interest-
ing. It was A. V. Jennings. A general
builder, operations spread from school
buildings and estate development to the
more refined art of cathedral construc-
tion.
As with profits, the share price has
gone through cycles. The strong recovery
from that oft-mentioned ’6l recession
pushed the earning rate up from 6.6 p.c.
to 17.6 p.c. A fair assumption from the
interim report just published is that
profits are now running at a rate 30 p.c.
higher than last year. Furthermore,
profits will be helped along in 1963 by
the Government’s more positive action
on home building. After paying an
increased interim dividend of 5 p.c.,
perhaps the company will resume at 12
p.c. for the year.
In this coward’s market, it is one of
the few shares that has held its price.
I plunged in, buying 600 at 9s. lOd.
Transactions for this week are:
SOLD
200 ICIANZ, 44/- £433
400 Nightingale, 18/6 £370
BOUGHT
100 Fairymead, 40/- £204
600 A. V. Jennings, 9/10 £303
In a moment of vanity I checked on
the value of the portfolio and found it
had risen by £250 in the last month.
LNC played a dominant part in the
realised profits of £330 on my original
costs.
As for improvements within the port-
folio, my thanks to the tune of £lOO
go to Hanimex. Pity those investors who
flinched at the fine for avoidance of duty
ten years ago! The present company has
my sincere trust.
All my vigorous action this week has
put me back into a more relaxed state
of credit — £l6 to be exact.
My portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
400 Mai leys 3/5/62 20/9 24/6
1000 Hanimex 23/5/62 5/11 10/-
1000 Peter Lloyd 24/8/62 5/9 5/4
400 Jacoby Mitchell 12/11/62 15/- 16/-
100 Holyman Woods 26/11/62 1/3 —-
800 Harden & Johnston 3/12/62 13/9 16/6
100 J. Lysaght 7/1/63 59/6 59/6
1000 Tasman New 7/1/63 1/2 1/2
400 CRA 7/1/63 16/- 17/6
1000 Plastyne ctg. 14/1/63 1/3 1/5
1000- Courtaulds options 14/1/63 2/1
300 Fairymead 21/1/63 40/- 40/-
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 18/3
2000 Hooker 64 options 28/1/63 \/~ 1/2
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 1.2
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 5/-
100 G. E. Crane 8/2/63 77/6 79/-
200 Philip Morris 14/2/62 34/6 34/ -
800 Bennett & Wood 20/2/62 14/3 15/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/62 9/10 9/10


On time ...
every time
m
178
L
o
• .
w
■
m
With a highly trained staff, pantechnicions and equipment
especially designed for fast safe transportation, Mayne Wen®
operate Australia's most reliable interstate freightways.
facilitate the fast handling of all goods, Mayne Nichless mam-
tain a large fleet of Radio Pick up trucks.
MAYNE NICKLESS W
INCORPORATING ANTILL RANGER
Australia's most reliable Interstate Freight* o !
SYDNEY* MELBOURNE'BRISBANE* P E"
Fast daily schedules
to all main centres.
FOR EVERY TRANSPORT
need
THE BULLETIN ADVISORY
SERVICE
From a large number of readers' letters seeking "The
Bulletin's'' advice on investment matters, these have been selected
tor publication. The balance have been answered personally.
My portfolio is 1000 Australian
Factors shares bought at Bs. (now 10s.
3d.), 400 Plastic Holdings at ss. 6d.
(65.), 200 Schweppes at 13s. (now 12s.
lOd.) and 100 Gibson Kelite at 9s. 3d.
(10s. 6d.). My aim is short to medium-
term capital growth. I am considering
spreading a further £6OO between Dis-
count Facilities, Functional Holdings and
Jedda. Although these are distinctly
speculative, what is your opinion of
these and my present holdings? — D.S.H.,
Elizabeth Bay (NSW).
Factoring is a very expensive means
of finance and although Australian
Factors Ltd is enjoying a boom now,
they have reached a good price rise and
perhaps you could consider taking a
profit on these shares.
Gibson Kelite is quite a nice little
chemical company and the shares should
be worth holding for a time.
Schweppes is very well regarded.
Earnings may not be spectacular when
considered in relation to capital, but as
the English parent holds about 80 p.c.
of issued capital the market for these
shares is well supported. These are
definitely good holding.
Plastic Holdings may soon require new
capital—either long-term loan or share
capital. The reports of trading for 3
months to September 30 were very
bright, but the company should be
watched closely. It is small, in an industry
which must be very competitive. For
instance the company was interested in
blow moulding plastic bottles, but the
progress of other financially stronger
companies prevented Plastic Holdings
from going ahead with the project.
Discount Facilities Ltd has £500,000
in notes convertible to shares on June
31, 1965, which will increase capital by
50 p.c. We would be inclined to leave
this stock alone until it has a longer
record behind it. So far it has only pro-
duced accounts of trading for 4i months
to June 30 last.
Functional Holdings Ltd is active in
furniture making (which must be closely
tied to the variable building industry), in
subdivision of land at Terrigal and
mortgages on real estate on Queensland’s
Gold Coast, and drive-in restaurants.
For a new company this all sounds of a
high-risk nature.
Jedda is one of the smallest public
companies on the Sydney lists. It now
retails women’s clothing, and although
last year it earned a high rate of 30 p.c.
profit on a relatively small capital, it does
not impress for secure holding.
You have not fared badly to date,
with your policy of buying new com-
panies, but do not push your luck too
far. We are not impressed by any of
the three companies you are now con-
templating for investment, and suggest
that you would secure short to medium-
term capital growth at less risk, from
better class stocks recovering from the
recession, and other selections from our
“One to Buy” feature.
★ ★ ★
7 am going to New Zealand to live
and have £6OO which l want to invest in
Australia. I have £650 in H. G. Palmer
debentures and £llOO in bonds, but find
these rather uninteresting. Being out of
Australia 1 cannot watch ordinary share
prices closely. What do you suggest?
1.G.5., Queanbeyan (NSW).
As you find Commonwealth Bonds
rather uninteresting, there’s no reason
why you could not reinvest in Australian
shares which are listed on the New
Zealand Exchange, and therefore will
be easy to follow there.
Some leaders listed in New Zealand
are Bank of NSW, British Tobacco
BHP, CSR, Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia Ltd, EZ Industries, Felt & Textiles
G. J. Coles, ICIANZ, Toppa, Waltons',
and Woolworths. You could discuss
these with a broker in Sydney before
your departure.
★ ★ ★
I have £5OO to invest for short-term
appreciation. Can you recommend three
or four suitable companies? 1 would also
like to have a small speculation in oil.
M.G., Mentone (Vic.).
With £5OO you cannot spread your
investment beyond perhaps three stocks,
which for preference should be of ss.
or 10s. denomination, rather than £l.
We would suggest 200 Amalgamated
Chemicals through the fights, 300 Felt
and Textiles cum rights and 300 H. C.
Sleighs.
Amalgamated Chemicals is currently
making a one-for-four issue of ss. shares
at 2s. 6d. premium. The cheapest way
in is through the rights. The applica-
tion money of 7s. 6d. is payable on
March 5. This company is considering
a cash takeover by an American group,
but if this is not successfully concluded,
the company should still do well as an
independent.
Felt and Textiles will make a one-
for-five par issue shortly, the details of
which have not yet been announced. If
you buy 300 now, you can sell the 60
rights to which you would be entitled,
and these will probably bring about
3s. 6d. As the wool market is so firm
we expect this largest of all Australian
woollen manufacturers to enjoy higher
profits this year. We recommended the
company’s shares as the “One to Buy” in
our February 9 issue.
H. C. Sleigh, one of two Australian
distributors of petroleum products, also
has interests in oil prospecting. A merger
was discussed with Bitumen and Oil
Refineries Ltd last year, but no satis-
factory terms could be worked out. The
shares offer a fair income, and as top
price in the last two years was over 145.,
they should show some improvement on
the present price.


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
ANTHONY HARRISON. TAKE NOTICE
" ETHEL ELISABETH HARRISON has
a petition for divorce No. 3553 of
'on the ground of desertion. If you
,to defend you may file an Answer in
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Iding, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
April, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
ion without charge from MCDONALD
I, MCDONALD, Solicitors, 17 Bolton
“ e t, Newcastle, or JOHN CORCORAN AND
Solicitors, 2 York Street, Sydney.
A H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
ttTRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
JOHN McNANEY. TAKE NOTICE that
IINE McNANEY has filed a petition for
irce No. 2648 of 1961, on the ground of
■trtion. If you wish to defend you may
an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
feme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie
tet, Sydney, on or before the 26th day
April, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
jtion without charge from Messrs. T. A.
AYE & GOCZOL, Solicitors, of 10 Church
(et, Newcastle. C. A. H. HARMS,
ristrar.
ItLYELL MAXWELL JOSEPHS formerly of
:oa but whose present address is not known
KE NOTICE that your wife IVY MARY
SEPHS has instituted proceedings agaihst
lin the Supreme Court of Victoria in suit
1027 of 1962 for a dissolution of her
iriage to you on the ground of separation.
IND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
j file an Answer in the Office of the Regis-
i Supreme Court Melbourne on or before
! 16th day of April 1963 the case may
*eed in your absence ABRNETHY &
IWERS. Shepparton, Victoria, Solicitors for
! Petitioner.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
To: VICTOR MORGAN EDWARDS, late of
Brisbane. TAKE NOTICE that VALMA
DOROTHY EDWARDS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3254 of 1961 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for two
years and upwards. If you wish to defend
you may enter an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the 26th day of April, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from GEOFFREY SEE GILLIS & CO.,
Solicitors, 28 Martin Place, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
To WALTER STANLEY LeGOOD, formerly
of 19 Wakefield Street, Hawthorn, but whose
present address is not known. TAKE NOTE
that your wife MARGARET ROSALIND
LeGOOD has instituted proceedings against
you in the Supreme Court of Victoria in Suit
No. 1922 of 1962 for a dissolution of her mar-
riage to you on the grounds of desertion
and separation.
AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that unless
you file an Answer in the office of the
Registrar Supreme Court, Melbourne, on or
before the nineteenth day of April, 1963, the
case may proceed in your absence. E. H.
GOGHILL, Registrar.
R. WADHAM AND DOIG, Solicitors for
the Petitioner.
all the year round. Donations: 169
Elizabeth Street, Sydney. BM2OOI.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OP NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
To: JOHN DONALD, address unknown.
TAKE NOTICE that CARRIE ALICE DONALD
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2173 of
1962 on the ground that the parties to the
marriage have lived separately and apart for
a continuous period of not less than five
(5) years immediately preceding the date
set out in the Petition and there is no
reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being
resumed. If you wish to defend you may
enter an Answer in the Divorce Registry,
Supreme Coui't, Mint Building, Macquarie
Street, Sydney, on or before the 19th April,
1963, and obtain a copy of the petition
Without charge from PETER R. MURPHY,
Solicitor, 10 Bronte Road, Bondi Junction.
C. A, H. HARMS, Registrar.
Positions Vacant
SYDNEY CHURCH OF ENGLAND
GRAMMAR SCHOOL
Vacancy Term 11, 1963, for
MASTER TO TEACH ACCOUNTANCY AND
COMMERCE, with some ECONOMICS, to
Matriculation standard.
Also vacancy in Term 111 for
MASTER TO TEACH ENGLISH AND
HISTORY to Matriculation.
Apply in writing to:
B. H. TRAVERS, Headmaster.
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 735
ACROSS
-One who has to fire a pack. (9)
-Acts of aggression, but they go on foot. (5)
-The haze keeps nothing clean but a reference to
an ancient Greek. (13)
-A sex-appeal island in a stream. (3)
-Perhaps sometimes the more? (12)
-Boy turning it against X-cubed. (3)
-She who dad keeps silent. (3)
-Stock pilots. (6)
-Little Virginia is not without sex-appeal, according
to Gustavus. (4)
20—A state emblem heartened by
the relevant state. (4)
23 Muscular trouble appearing
with precipitation by the way.
(6)
24 Beard of the corn needs a
couple of directions. (3)
25 Sailor screenings bound by it
in road-making (3)
27 Poor little devil bowling to
one cast off. (12)
28— Spanish for a girl. (3)
29 Ridge’s redness affected this
fashion stylist. (5, 8)
31 — Spring in the wasteland ring
with a sister. (5)
32 — Even Coles participates in
this romantic acting. (4, 5)
DOWN
1— The nearest greeting a
vacuum flask with tea. (10)
2 Land in Asia with the dis-
orderly native leading one
thousand. (7)
3 Whatever controls a horse
with a waistcoat, put the
money out again to earn
interest and dividends. (8)
4 —Bill associated with this
business circle. (3)
5 Aunt Sally is about 45 inches
with many conches. (6)
6 Game tin as thanks. (7)
7 The stomach’s upset by dirty
talk. (4)
9—She harasses rocky mountain
fellows with a lock of hair.
(ID
10—A band of warriors ate about
four, all of which makes a
Hebrew tense. (11)
12—One relative goddess. (4)
15—“ Piece de resistance” in our
cinemas. (4, 6)
19—Fettered measure as holding
in batting measures. (2, 6)
21— State in a wagon. (4)
22- —Give weapons to a girl’s battle
fleets. (7)
24 —Movement suggested by an
Italian poet of the 14th
century and before. (7)
26 —Neil Harvey often fields in
these bedclothes. (6)
28—International business in rum?
(4)
30—French of the love twosome.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 734


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
'l'he Bulletin Newspaper,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
Please arrange for my
be delivered to me each week by
MY NEWSAGENT
DIRECT SUBSCRIPTION —....
Please tick (whichever method of
delivery you prefer.
For those desiring direct sub-
scription:
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscription to
THE BULLETIN.
RATES (Australia and New Guinea) 1 year
£2 125.; y 2 year £1 6s. Post free British
Dominions £3 6s. Other countries
£3 16s.
N.Z. SUBSCRIPTIONS Remit to Box 965
Wellington, N.Z. 1 year £2 12s. N.Z.
currency, \<2 year—£l 6s. (N.Z. currency).
Please add exchange to cheques.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? There are
two ways of doing it either through your newsagent
or by direct subscription. The form at left offers you
your choice of method of delivery. You may send us
your name and address and we will arrange for the
newsagent nearest you to deliver your copy of
THE BULLETIN each week and charge it to your account.
Or, if you prefer it, we will mail each week's copy
to your address by direct subscription.
The
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1880.
Feiffer
i useip to
mu 6\m ov
rue 616 IF
THF4
WPItIM6 W A
MT6BOOK.
JV FI6V& TH£^
I0m& AfOC? IV
mf to 6o o\ie&
AW SWT a
cnNe&fmi about
HOtt) l USW TQ WBTg’
A LOT ItJ SCHOOL-
AMP I (MAS SOIfJg TO VO IT
A6AIN OOHEVM. MV T\mV
&e m 10 Tea from
m m i Talks? amp
MM P6RSOVM CHARM
AMP THAT
if r em wanted to
1 COMFO 0F A I/8W
6oop iAßiree.
AUP TOST TO OAflt)
W THAT I OJASNT
A LOT OF HOT AIR
IP AM UMtt To
7H£ti- Ufc'UPPIKBI
AMP'SA UH6BR" AW
"A KM,
$O JUMP TO
trust he aw tex we
LOOK ATAJHAf Wi
hap mneu.
AUO !T (OOULP
Mmtfi
Memww i
I MOT QUITE AS
I iUffataa
[ i WHAT I OOOU7
/WRITE if I
Fl/6R 60T ARXJfS
7i9 IT. 15K
6r.ekt msm
nevertheless.
Aft; TO HA & k
RW C«TICISMS'
0(0U KM. k&OUT
semm moc-
THAT IMP
sm i Kueio
WHAT i .m
•TALKIE A BOOT.
AklO iOHfli] WW &5t
OFF- TH6 OUS TftW'P
gg surprised
&ECAOS6 iMStEAP CF
66« OF WfTH
"THEM IP SAK;
"6000dHC'
AMP WO TfW WJocO
THAT I WASUT
A PHONEY mU6 FO6
A PiCMUP A*JP IHEW
ge i/BRfcf impress
WITH ME.
AUP Th
ALL IV
Mwr
I to r
lu'Mir
wemi
10 ge
imw
WITH M&


girls
p haven’t
ling
to wear ...
■ "M n
vftV
I
AUSTRALIA
CAN
MAKE IT
£156,000,000 worth of fashion
garments a year! The Aus-
tralian Clothing Industry caters
for the changing whims and fancies
of fashion at least twice a year.
It is a major challenge to the
skill and ingenuity of Australian
designers. Every season they meet
the challenge with colourful and
spectacular ranges. So much so,
that, today, Australian fashion is
in demand in many different coun-
tries of the world. The Australian
Clothing Industry employs more
than 70,000 people and pays a wages
bill of more than £46 million.
Indirectly it employs many more in
primary and tertiary industries.
Next time you go shopping—look
for quality and fashion in the Aus-
tralian-made garment. When you
buy Australian you
make jobs for other
Australians. What
they buy benefits you.
The wise Australian buys Australian
Inserted by:— B
The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia


1
fc
■l
mm
xmsttf .:a
'
- ■ - *drif&g33&i
k 1 *.. *
MHMftij
i
issi
g - ’
%
m
If
fi»
i?
•SIP
«s
HHi *
M
i\
PS«iW%VTT
: \SIIS
is
\
*: ■'■"'■
I
IT wS fe
rxistJSy^ :
- s ' v :
v .
*■
, jfflKfc? *?**•
%&" ISlf '
»•*- ." : 'j'J
!*" ,V':1 ! : .
"l
v- •■
SMS
MHr%
«p 1
ISP
.
«r ..JEW®
"H
I
i'
%= T‘
Hr *-■;■
f-.>“ /' :
■■ ■■
Treat yourself to the smooth, quiet luxury of
HOLDEN’S “Red Carpet” Ride
Only Holden gives you the" Red Carpef’Ride. Whatever the road ahead,
it guarantees you’ll travel in armchair comfort. Smoothness and quiet
go right down to the last engineering detail. What’s more, Holden’s
"Red Carpet” Ride is just one of the many reasons why this is Australia’s
best-liked, best-selling car. Holden is proved by over a million owners
. . . its resale value is the highest and operating costs are lower. It’s
the lowest-priced six-cylinder car, and gives you unmatched value for
your money. Discover the difference! See your Holden* Dealer and try
Holden’s "Red Carpet” Ride today!
HOLDEN AUSTRALIA’S OWN CAR
LOWEST-PRICED
SIX-CYLINDER CAR
FROM
£BB5
PLUS TAX
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S
PTY. LIMITED * fegd
