

The Bulletin
‘L;: .. : I! $ ti
Australia',2/-, Hew Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
?* - ifiSSSSSa - .&&g£3BßSra&i@aHHBS£j£ • carafe % -
' R&t-UJfe t t AND aflPoN' - E*T 1880
Indonesia "Today


§11111111
MM
■m
stass
msm
■jam : 4
Sw
v '
i ■
.....
'
tr&* *»; ps®
\ $Mm i iMH
mm
:
■
VfNEYARDS
1
V
f&§§mi
#<«* vi
SELECTED Vi
bottling VI
IBS^
mm I
.-■
H
cawarra
CLARET
UNDiMAN C? /ft j
SYDNEY. /
Si
II
Wit 1
tm* ©jams
a
»f* **
•{mm
>**
■
W&&&& ft$ BWW#
LECTED VI
HOCIC
#<&*« of Austria M*
f i vTD.
tONUNts' (Pt. 6FL.CffS
Good Food Deserves
CAWARRA
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
marts
AUSTRALLV^GREATES^PRIZEWINNERS


National Notebook
Authentic
Tn spite of the Elizabethan Theatre
A Trust’s roll of drums about their
Aboriginal Theatre being aimed at pre-
senting aboriginal culture to the Aus-
tralian people, it seems that the idea
began with the Northern Territory
Welfare Branch and not with the Trust
at all. The Welfare Branch began to
push the idea after aboriginal sections
were introduced into the Darwin
Eisteddfod successfully in 1961. The
Trust’s director, Stefan Haag, went to
Darwin to select performers and arrange
the stage presentation in Melbourne and
Sydney. There are 20 dancers from
Bathurst Island, 20 from Yirrkhala and
five from the Daly River.
The dances are as “authentic” as we
are likely to see. Ted Evans, of the NT
Welfare Branch, who is travelling with
the dancers, said there may be groups
in more remote parts of Arnhem Land
whose dances would be
closer to tradition, but
these probably could not
be prevailed upon to per-
form in public, and cer-
tainly not to come south.
The pukamuni, or burial
ceremonial of the
Bathurst and Melville islanders, is danced
by the predominantly Catholic Bathurst
Islanders. Mr Evans said that the pagan
Melville Islanders certainly would not do
this dance for outsiders. However, bap-
tism was not a condition for getting a
trip south. Three of the Bathurst Islanders
are still pagan.
In spite of the somewhat ponderous ap-
proach of the Trust, the aborigines seem
to wear their culture lightly. They seem
to have every theatrical’s love of putting
on a show. They have brought their
ochres and other powders for make-up
with them. It takes 2i hours to put on.
Each has been paid Equity minimum
rates of about £25 a week. They have
been busy shopping but each has sent
money home for his savings account.
They have bought transistors, toys for
their children for Christmas, black um-
brellas which they think will be useful in
the wet.
Ulstermen
/An Thursdays in Sydney a band and
” an honor guard march down the
broad slope of Martin Place to the
Cenotaph, where the soldiers mount a
guard. After the ceremony the military
band turns about and marches up the
hill to Macquarie St. It has become a
simple part of the city’s week, watched
from the GPO steps and photographed
from the other side of the Place where
the tourist buses rendezvous.
Last week there was a difference.
Down Martin Place came a band and
honor guard in white tunics and black
trousers, the band playing a smart march
version of “Waltzing Matilda” that made
the old tune sound wonderfully bright
and new. Two rows of buglers inter-
spersed their notes with drill movements
in unison, while the drums thudded and
rolled, and the pipers made Matilda skirl.
Down Martin Place came the band of
the Royal Ulster Rifles, a British regi-
ment which has been visiting Australia
for a combined military exercise called
Skyhigh.
The difference was marked. There
was Bugle Major Sean Brannigan look-
ing every inch a British professional,
with a magnificent bushy moustache,
ginger-gold in the bright sunlight. The
men were smaller than ours, but livelier.
They marched as if hurrying to destiny.
And never has the Cenotaph had a
guard mounted on it with such parade-
ground precision, or at
such a pace.
This week, watching
the old familiar band and
guard come down the
hill at a more familiar
clip, we expect to look
back and feel that last
week was the time a meteor struck. And
as for the Ulsters, they were not here
long enough for Australia to slow them
down, but the Antipodean blush on
their fiery skins indicated that it may
be a few weeks before they forget the
Australian sun which makes us take
things in a slower, longer stride.
Seasonal
/Christmas is coming and . . .
• Last week in Sydney, for one
day only, a large sign was strung across
Pitt Street between Market and Park
Streets proclaiming it as Quality Quarter.
Council authorities ordered it down, to
the chagrin of Nigerian Olabisi Ajala,
whose brainchild it was. Mr Ajala is
now running something called Publicity
Enterprises. We’d lost touch with him
lately but knew he’d turn up somewhere.
• Angus and Robertson’s bookshop
has a notice proclaiming that Brian
Henderson of the teenage TV pro-
gramme “Bandstand” will autograph
any book you buy in the shop. So if
you’re planning to give the complete
works of Shakespeare, the Revised
Standard Version, or a Gregory’s guide
to anyone for Christmas, Mr Hender-
son’ll autograph ’em all for you.
• We heard about three young
children who came home and an-
nounced their plans for break-up con-
Page
THE ECONOMY NOW 56
Effects of the elections
• ■
AROUND MELBOURNE ... 13
BUSINESS AND FINANCE
(32 pages) 50
CROSSWORD 82
EIGHTY YEARS AGO 8
LETTERS 39
MAN ON THE LAND 79
OUT AND ABOUT 35
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
POETRY 46
RED PAGE 47
REVIEWS 44
SHORT STORY 41
TANNER 4
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
•
INDONESIA TODAY and
COLOR INSERT (opp. P. 42.)
1. How We Met Soekarno 15
2. How to be Friends Though
Neighbors 19
3. Indonesia and the Confrontation 23
4. New Guinea, Indonesia and Us 28
5. The Writers of Indonesia 32
6. As Indonesians See Us: A Short
Story «
7. The Costs of Confrontation ... 54
ALP-DLP Merger? 6
100,000 Colored Balls Aren’t Enough 13
Hal Porter: The Middle Age of
Innocence 35
Review: The Case Against Ger-
many 47
Textiles and the Tariff 50
Solid Foundation for Cement
Makers 57
CSR’s Improved Growth Prospects 70
No More Wheat to Sell! 79
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone: 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone: 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
NO. 4374


certs at school. The big child said his
class were doing the Nativity play, the
middle-sized child said his were doing
“Red Riding Hood” and the tiny child
said her kindergarten was doing “Okla-
homa!” And, in almost recognisable
form, they did.
“’The Australians”
• c \ i
project or a p o ograp ic oo on
ustra la w ic s ou ec ipse every
other will get under way this month. It
is t e wor o an merican, o ert .
Goodman, whose Auslral.an number of
ber, the'flm sinTms! caused?™
on the few available copies of that sub-
scribers-only magazine. Goodman spent
five months last "year on the “National
Geographic" assignment, got the idea
of doing a book, and resigned his hand-
some staff appointment to organise it.
After 18 months’ planning he'is ready
to take the first picture.
Twelve comnanies inclndino RHP
twelve companies, including BHI ,
Qantas and the Commonwealth Banking
Corporation, are sponsoring the photo-
graphic side. Following the sun, Goodman
will travel Australia for 20 months, using
light planes and scout cars in places not
reached by the airlines. His “take” will
amount, he says, to 100,000 pictures,
two-thirds of them in color. These will
be edited to a library of 5000 pictures,
to which the sponsors will have access
for their own advertising purposes. The
book itself, called “The Australians,”
will use only about 200 pictures, but
the photographic library will be the
source of other later books, and of ex-
hibitions and magazine picture-essays to
s^own printed in countries where
“The Australians” appears. Goodman has
talked with publishers round the world,
an d bas na ||y decided his book should
originate in Australia. The question now
j s which of the hotly competing local
Brms wi|| the contract .
'*"**>. *» a »vely per-
suasl . ve ta !f er w ! th clear '^ eas on f,ho, °;
ou ave t t 0 blvest yourself
° f your own sense of involvement and let
**. s,Ulat,on “ me *. ha
15 ? . of *««!>* whal he ca]ls
meaningful insights into a subject. To
J utl " c b V lhe superlative work he has al-
ready done in Australia, his book should
sweep the field when it comes out in
K
•
Siren Of The Nile
„
Q NE of oLlr colleagues attended the
special Press showing of “Cleopatra”
the other morning. He returned to the
office rather jaded but still gamely swing-
ing between feverish fingers one of the
special medallions struck for the occasion
and given to all those who attended.
“Cleopatra”, he reported, was a gigantic,
Todd-AO bore, but viewed as comedy it
could prove one of the funniest films of
the century. He gave as an example a
remark of Cleopatra’s to Antony when
she entertained him with a sumptuous
feast on board her barge. “One is so
limited,” she said, “when one travels by
ship.” But what really enchanted our
colleague was the reverent remark of a
stunned and awed member of the audi-
ence at intcrmission: makes you
”
y, Cover
T cover “ ke > nol '"8 °“r specal I™'°'
nestan issue - shows President Soe-
kar"° m customary dark glasses but
without his usual smile together with
>V ! et §uest Ana stas Mikoyan at a
Djakarta rally. Mr Mikoyan seems
rather serious too. Such were the un-
certainties of postal transmission be-
tween Indonesia and Malaya in the
early days of confrontation that Our
Man jn D j akarta senf the negative by
special courier to Singapore whence it
was airmailed to us. We call that ser-
vice.
"Who was that subject of a Royal Commission I saw you with last night?"


PLAIN ENGLISH
Living with Indonesia
TF the pace of Indonesia’s con-
frontation against Malaysia ac-
celerates, there is a possibility that
Australia may have its own con-
frontation with Indonesia and that
an Australian Government in ful-
filment of its obligations may have
to make the momentous and possibly
tragic decision to post Australian
troops in military operations against
Indonesian forces in Borneo.
Whether this will happen or not de-
pends very greatly on Indonesia it-
self whose actions in this matter are
being largely determined by the
rapid deterioration of her economy
and the delicate and difficult balance
of power preserved between Pre-
sident Soekarno and the Army on
the one hand, and the political par-
ties, particularly the Communist
Party, on the other. However, the
possibility, not merely of growing
friction between Australia and Indo-
nesia, but of an actual, if limited,
military confrontation between the
two countries, is now one of the
hard facts of our existence.
That is why this special issue of
THE BULLETIN on Indonesia
Today is timely and useful for any
Australian desirous of knowing
more about our difficult and un-
predictable neighbor. Living with
Indonesia is not only going to be
difficult; it is going to require dif-
ficult decisions. As Professor Legge
remarks in his article on the future
of Australian-Indonesian relations
it has become almost commonplace
over the last 20 years for publicists
and others to exhort us to seek
closer ties with Asia the area in
which we live. Except in a very
few instances we have, however,
never been called upon to choose
carefully between alternative and
conflicting courses of action. Even
less, he might have added, have we
been called upon to weigh and live
with the consequences of choosing
one course of action in preference to
another. Indonesia’s confrontation
of Malaysia, like its confrontation
of the Dutch in West New Guinea,
has landed us in that particular
situation and the future of Aus-
tralian-Indonesian relations is liter-
ally on a knife edge.
This makes it extremely im-
portant that we should resist the
temptation to resort to easy over-
simplifications of the sort that casts
Indonesia in the role of a greedy,
powerful, acquisitive Asian power
and President Soekarno as an Asian
Hitler bent on imperial conquest.
Indonesia cannot and should not be
explained away in these comfort-
able and simplistic terms for there
are no fundamental problems be-
tween Australia and Indonesia. We
wish her people well. We wish to live
in amity and understanding. And
understanding requires that even if
we oppose Indonesia’s confronta-
tion of Malaysia it is important that
we comprehend Indonesian objec-
tions to the new state, objections
which are in themselves complicated
and intractable, and that we under-
stand the difficult Indonesian inter-
nal situation which has led to con-
frontation. Indonesia stands very
much at the cross-roads over Malay-
sia. If its internal economic and poli-
tical situation deteriorates very much
more it may be forced to the desper-
ate measures of open war with
Malaysia with all that that may
mean for Malaysia, Indonesia and
for Australia. It is therefore in an
attempt to explain some of these
internal problems as well as other
aspects of Indonesia that we have
produced this special issue.


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE ELECTION
A Labor Merger
With the DLP?
The only hope?
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
FRANK McMANUS
Decides tactics?
Tn a memorandum it has circulated on
the recent Federal elections the DLP
claims that its votes were decisive in 11
seats —the number of seats needed to
provide the Menzies Government with
its majority of 22 in the new House of
Representatives. These seats were Parkes,
Phillip and Hume in NSW, Bowman,
Lilley and Petrie in Queensland, Bruce,
Corio and Maribyrnong in Victoria,
Swan in Western Australia and Franklin
in Tasmania. The memorandum says
baldly that a united Labor Party (with
the general suggestion that the DLP
should be part of that united Labor
Party) would have won these 11 seats.
Would this have happened? Who are
the people who make up the DLP? Is
the DLP controlled by the Roman
Catholic Church? Has the DLP, now
nearly 10 years old, achieved the status
of a semi-permanent and effective force
in Australian political life?
So far the DLP has been considered
as an emotion rather than a force. As
I see it its continuing existence and the
effect it has had upon the outcome of
numerous elections between 1955 and
now merit a closer examination.
How permanent a force is the DLP?
Labor leader Arthur Calwell and others
have emotionally declaimed its approach-
ing demise now for almost a decade.
Its vote at this election was down on its
1961 vote. Its overall vote declined from
8.45 per cent in 1961 to 7.24 per cent
in 1963, but the DLP claims that this
was due partly to the fact that it only
ran 100 candidates in 1963 compared
with 113 in 1961, and partly to the
return to their natural Liberal allegiance
of Liberals who in 1961 were hostile to
the Menzies Government over the credit
squeeze but not prepared to vote for
Labor as an alternative Government. If
this thesis is accepted as it probably
must be it would seem that the DLP,
if not increasing its strength, is at least
maintaining it.
Electorally the DLP is even more im-
portant than its vote. Whoever makes
up its rank and file (in travelling ex-
tensively round Australia during the
recent campaign 1 met only one person,
a taxi-driver, who said he was going to
vote DLP), the DLP’s leaders are
mostly ex-ALP men. Though the Presi-
dent of the National Civic Council, Mr
B. A. Santamaria, might provide some
of the ideas, a semi-official organ in the
shape of his lively anti - Communist
“Newsweekly” published in Melbourne
and a machine geared to anti-Com-
munism in the trade union movement,
it is these ex-ALP men who decide the
tactics.
Frank McManus, DLP organiser in
Victoria, was an ALP assistant secretary,
Jack Kane in NSW used to be ALP
assistant secretary, Vince Gair in Queens-
land led a State Labor Government and
there are others. They do not bother
attacking Labor on points on which
Labor is strong, as the Liberals are
prone to do. They hit at Labor’s weak
spots and they have spent so much of
their lives in the Labor movement that
they know the weak spots. It is not with-
out significance that Labor scarcely lifted
its voice in criticism of the Liberals’
TV efforts during the recent campaign
but they howled their heads off against
the DLP’s TV offerings.
/"Vne of the things that undoubtedly
” helped to swing the election result
against Labor was a personal memo put
out by DLP Parliamentary leader
Senator George Cole and sent to all
Roman Catholic clerics in Australia and
to the heads of all Roman Catholic
houses and organisations. The memo
states: “The Prime Minister’s policy
speech (the £5,000,000 offer for science
blocks at all schools) marks a radical
advance in the fight for equality in
education for children in independent
schools. It is very important that its
significance should be understood. The
new proposals . . . lay a firm foundation
for the ultimate solution of the central
problem of the independent schools.”
In effect Cole, also an ex-ALP man, saw
in the Government’s education proposals
an election winner. He struck at the
potential vote through the persons most
likely to influence it in the anti-ALP
direction.
But as well as the leaders there must
be a rank and file even though as far
as the DLP is concerned they are awfully
hard to find. Yet they must exist and
the DLP vote shows they exist. But they
seem to emerge only to mark their ballot
papers in the secrecy of the polling
booth. They are apparently a very
faithful rank and file. They have shown
this not only by consistently adhering
to the DLP cause despite the DLP's
inability to enlarge its Parliamentary
representation but by the solidness with
which they have kept to the order of
anti-ALP preference recommended by
the DLP leadership.
I should imagine—but here I admit
that I am guessing as I think even the
DLP leaders themselves have to guess—•
that the bulk of the DLP’s rank and file
is Roman Catholic in religion, though
there must also be an element that is
drawn towards the DLP not by the
ideological viewpoints expressed by the
leaders which are mostly the product of
a Roman Catholic type' of philosophy
but by the inflexibility of the DLP’s
anti-Communism. Most of the rank and
filers are also probably pro-Labor as far
as economic doctrines are concerned as
they were moulded in an ALP environ-
ment. It is on the ideological side and
through seeing Labor’s role in the world
struggle in a different light from that in
which it is seen by Labor’s current crop
of Federal leaders, particularly within
the ALP machines, that the differences
come.
From here on it is going to be very
difficult to say that the DLP is con-
trolled by the Roman Catholic Church.
Its supporters may be largely Roman
Catholic in religion. But the DLP has
been persona non grata with the Hier-
archy in the Sydney diocese for years
and Archbishop Simonds, who succeeded
the late Dr Mannix as Archbishop of
Melbourne while the election campaign
was under way, made it abundantly clear
that the DLP did not have his blessing
as it had had in former campaigns Dr
Mannix’s blessing and public support.
Would the DLP and the ALP in
alliance have won the 11 seats in which
DLP votes could, if used against the
Government candidates, have turned the
scales at this election? This is a hard
one to answer. It is difficult enough to
identify the DLP’s rank and file with-
out trying to assess how they would
react in any given situation. I have


heard all kinds of guesses from both
Labor and Liberal and DLP sources on
how politically the DLP would split up
between the major groups if the DLP did
disappear and Labor was presenting a
steady uncompromising front of opposi-
tion to Communist influences. The most
popular view is that out of every 10
DLP supporters seven would go ALP
and the balance Liberal or Country
Party. My feeling is that this is a fairly
reasonable assessment. If you accept
that in the part the DLP gets its
following from the pro-Labor economic
doctrines its leaders tend to follow, this
does suggest that the bulk of DLP
supporters incline rather towards the
Labor than the non-Labor side of
politics.
But the DLP, now almost 10 years
old, can no longer be emotionally
brushed aside as a temporary aberration
on the part of a section of the Australian
electorate. It has continued to demon-
strate for almost a decade that it is a
factor in Australian politics and on recent
election results it could continue to be a
power for quite a few years to come.
BUSINESS
The Reid Murray
Investigation
Whitewashing and Witch-hunting
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
B. J. SHAW, QC
A mixed reception
Hr he interim report of the Victorian
A Government’s investigators into the
affairs of the Reid Murray Group had a
mixed reception in Melbourne last week.
While it was generally agreed that the
two lawyers, Mr B. L. Murray QC and
Mr B. J. Shaw, QC, had done a remark-
able job considering their admission that
“neither of us is skilled in accounting
and we are aware that much of what we
have said will not be accepted by the
accounting profession generally”, most
people could not believe their tepid
conclusions were their last word. Pro-
posed reforms of the Companies Act
and writs from the liquidators on former
directors and a former employee kept
the pot boiling.
In the State Parliament, the Deputy
Leader of the Opposition, Mr D. Love-
grove, immediately labelled the report as
throwing “a bucket of whitewash” over
the Group’s failure and called for a
“searching inquiry into the personal
financial affairs” of various people named
in the report. “Their personal financial
fortunes appear to have emerged un-
scathed in four cases,” he stated, and “I
want to see an inquiry into the clique
of scoundrels infesting the Australian
public”. Whereas the report said Reid
Murray had borrowed without thought
and invested without wisdom, in Mr
Lovegrove’s view, it borrowed with a
great deal of thought and invested with
“a calculated intent to deceive and de-
fraud”.
Mr Lovegrove was particularly per-
plexed about Payne’s Properties, a Reid
Murray subsidiary, whose operations
were a “deliberate, calculated fraud prac-
tised by these people who could get into
a Commonwealth hostel to defraud
people who had been in the country only
a few months. Migrants have been made
a deliberate target for the company’s
fraudulent operations and the company’s
activities in that direction were no less
than commercial immorality practised by
a group of predatory financiers who, if
there were any justice in the community,
would be in gaol.”
11/fR Christie, the LCP member for
Ivanhoe agreed that “such activities
called for strong deterrents and punish-
ment”. He described the Report as
“frightening” in several ways. For in-
stance there was a limit to blocking loop-
holes in the Companies Act and some
things disclosed in the Report called for
an immediate investigation by the Insti-
tute of Chartered Accountants which
had not been jealous enough of the
reputation of its members. He thought
the mere fact they would not control
themselves meant that some time, some
Government would legislate “to register
stockbrokers, accountants and all”.
Chief victim of witch-hunting in the
Report itself was the trustee for the de-
benture holders of Reid Murray Accept-
ance, the main chute for drawing public
money into the group. The Reid Murray
directors get admonished for their bad
management, but for the trustee, the
Equity Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. Ltd, it is rather worse.
While it seems from the Report that
the National Bank was worthily inquisi-
tive of the course of events in the Group
while it was running down, the trustees
are said to have made only “desultory
and unsystematic inquiries” about the
likely fate of the debenture-holders’
money. When in June, 1962, the com-
pany was in default of an interest pay-
ment of £584,000 for six days, says the
Report, the trustee was readily satisfied
with an equivocal explanation.
1%/lore diligence should also have been
shown, says the Report, about the
operative effect of the first trust deed
(1958) which did not make proper provi-
sion for surveillance over the destination
of funds borrowed from the public by
Reid Murray Acceptance. This loophole
in the deed, says the investigators, opened
the way for unlimited borrowing by Reid
Murray Acceptance for the whole group,
in spite of a clause in the deed restrict-
ing borrowing to five times the paid capi-
tal of that company.
The trust deed did not regulate what
Reid Murray Acceptance did with the
money it raised from the public, and
some of it could be used to increase
its own capital and thus lift its own
borrowing ceiling. So when after 1959
the holding company had insufficient
funds of its own to subscribe for more
capital in Reid Murray Acceptance
and thus raise that company’s borrowing
ceiling, it borrowed funds from Reid
Murray Acceptance and used them in
turn to subscribe for more capital in that
company, thus achieving the same object.
The fact is, as the Report says, that
the board of Reid Murray Acceptance
did not really function as a board at all
and that this company was regarded both
by its own board and that of Reid Mur-
ray Holdings as merely a department of
Reid Murray Holdings. From that situ-
ation comes the most useful conclusion
of the investigators’ Report which says
that steps should be taken to ensure that
in future no company should be allowed
to borrow from the public without having
an independent board. The corollary
of that is that trust deeds should stipu-
late the precise uses that can be made of
public borrowings by any company. At
least amendments to the Victorian Com-
panies Act are currently being made to
that effect, which will do something to
stop such a situation occurring again.
But the legislation comes after the public
have lost millions. It may be years be-
fore the final balance sheet for the little
man is finished.


UNIONS
No Room in the ALP
One clue to Labor’s defeats
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
BILL COLBOURNE
asking questions
npHE NSW State executive of the ALP
-*• has already begun its agonising
re-appraisal of the election. Last Friday
night Bill Colbourne, as secretary, spon-
sored a motion for a full investigation.
The investigators listing the causes of
Labor’s humiliation the other Saturday
could do worse than look at recent events
in the Caringbah (NSW) branch of the
ALP. At its November meeting this
branch actually refused ALP membership
to a man who is a member of the Inter-
state Executive of the ACTU and is the
Federal Secretary of the Clerks Union —
Mr J. M. Riordan.
A centre-of-the-road man disinclined
to trust Communists, he is recognised as
a most capable trade union leader, who
won his position on the ACTU executive
in May by virtue of this ability. But he
won it against strong Leftist opposition.
The Left’s candidate was Mr Arthur
Gietzelt, brother of Ray Gietzelt, who is
also the President of the Caringbah ALP
branch which Riordan recently tried to
join. The Leftist main line of attack on
him at the ACTU was that he was not a
member of the ALP.
So in October Riordan applied for
ALP membership in Caringbah, where
he lives. He was interviewed by the
branch Credentials Committee, Messrs
Dykes, Lambert and Ricketts, all Left
wingers. Mr Dykes was the main
questioner. Riordan denied that he had
opposed adoption of the nuclear free-
zone at the ACTU Congress.
The Credentials Committee finally re-
commended the branch not to admit
Riordan. When a branch member asked
why, Ricketts replied: “Because we asked
him some questions and he could not
answer them”. The member persisted:
“What questions?” The reply was that
when Riordan was asked whether he
was prepared to advocate the policy of
a Nuclear Free Zone in the Southern
Hemisphere Riordan answered that he
was prepared to abide by the policy of
the ALP but that he reserved the right
to disagree within the confines of the
rules. Mr lan Swords, Left-wing Youth
Council delegate, then moved that the
recommendation against Riordan be
accepted, adding that it was most pre-
sumptuous for Riordan to come along
to join the ALP and not accept unre-
servedly ALP policy. This recommenda-
tion was carried 21/5.
THE ELECTIONS
Beyond the Fringe
Donations for the Government
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
Federal Government is about
£3OOO the richer as a result of the
elections —the spoils from the forfeited
deposits of frustrated candidates, who
failed to reach the necessary one-fifth
of the winning candidates' primary vote.
The Democratic Labor Party had
seventy of the 120-odd would-be mem-
bers who will not get their £25 back.
Twenty-two independents also lost
their money. Probably the most
colorful independent still running is
Arthur Bergman who stood toi the
Sydney metropolitan seat of Wentworth.
But Arthur fought a quiet can.paign this
time unlike the by-election years ago
when he opened his campaign with hired
dancing girls. This time Arthur, on the
top of the ticket, polled about a thousand.
In the Melbourne seat ot Henty. H.
Viney. one of the two Oakleigh council-
lors recently expelled from the ALP,
polled well with about 2500 votes.
The Social Credit Party put two can-
didates up in the Queensland rural seats
of Ryan and Wide Bay but they polled
derisory figures. This time the Aus-
tralian Republican Party had only one
candidate, J. Murray, in Maribyrnong.
Only one ALP man lost his deposit,
stationmaster Mr L. J. McCulloch, in
the true-blue North Shore seat of Brad-
field in Sydney.
A new entry in the fringe-party stakes
was the New Guinea Party, which put
up four candidates in NSW seats. The
party, headed by a Port Moresby
barrister, C. Kilduff, wants to obtain
representation for New Guinea in the
Federal Parliament. None of them polled
over a thousand.
The most significant fringe party, the
Communist Party, this time showed a
substantial increase in its vote, if you can
call an increase from .42 per cent to
.54 per cent substantial, that is. The
irony is that the increase appears to
come from Liberal voters in one South
Australian seat, without a Liberal candi-
date, where the party polled 4000.
ANNEXING RIVERINA
ffiJ&ulletCn
80 Years Ago: December 15, 1883
SPHERE is a prevailing impression
-*■ among Victorians to the effect
that their colony is too small. Con-
sequently, some talk of annexing Tas-
mania, and others of annexing River-
ina or a bit of South Australia, while
others look wistfully towards the Heb-
rides and New Guinea, with the hope
of grabbing soil. But it is questioned
whether, of those who thus yearn, one
out of every thousand knows really
how much land the colony of Vic-
toria comprises. The feeling of tight-
ness appears to be a disease brought
on by oratorical bellowing and the
application of some poultices of statis-
tics, with a fomentation of common
sense, might allay the spasms, and
enable them to see that their great
and wise heads have nearly enough of
this universe at their disposal. Neither
Tasmania nor South Australia is likely
to covet to have things done “in the
Victorian way.” Its civil government,
its newspaper press, and its Presby-
terianism, are fatally distructive of
confidence among partially-civilised
peoples. It is only bits of New Guinea
and the New Hebrides that can be
gulled. But we maintain that Vic-
torians who don’t know how much
land they a£ present hold, should not
have a voice in claiming additional
territory; and, if that be admitted, then
the whole agitation for annexation is
the work of only half a dozen.


HIGHLIGHTS FROM NATIONAL BANK
CHAIRMAN’S 1963 ADDRESS
Mr. J. A. Forrest, Melbourne, 27/11/1963.
SPECIAL FEATURES IN BUSINESS SCENE. The general public’s attitude to business affairs is
rather more conservative than at comparable stages of previous business upswings. Per-
sonal saving is relatively high, and in investment security and liquidity have high priority.
Retail spending has increased, but total expenditure for consumption and capital purposes
so far does not seem to be outstripping supplies. These valuable features have helped
general stability without impeding a great decrease in unemployment.
OVERSEAS SIMILARITIES. Some of these features are also evident in the overseas business
scene where, in general, buyers’ markets predominate, and business is operating in a
strongly competitive atmosphere, as it is in this country. Recent reports in Britain and the
United States of America are optimistic as to the business outlook, and rising turnovers
and production are expected to continue into next year without, it is thought, the develop-
ment of undue pressure upon resources.
RETURNS TO BUSINESS ENTERPRISE AFFECTED. Comment that profits have become harder to
earn has been heard here and in other countries in recent years, and returns to business
enterprise appear to have tended downwards. In Australia, company income relative to
total turnover declined sharply in 1960/61, which is also confirmed by a fall in the ratio
of profits to shareholders’ funds. A decline also appears in the case of personal business
and the professions. In 1962/63, the ratio for farm income registered its first rise for five
years; previously, the trend had generally been downward since the early 19505. Similar
ratios of business returns in Britain and the United States of America also display a
downward drift, but in both countries the farm income ratio has been more stable than
here.
GOOD PROSPECTS FOR STABILITY IN AUSTRALIA. Restraint in the public’s approach to
spending and investment, our increased productive capacity, and imports being freely
available, have provided a sound foundation for recovery and increased employment.
World commodity prices have generally turned upward again and export receipts are at
a high level. With a very good export year in prospect, concern about the 1963/64 bal-
ance of overseas payments is not justified, even if imports should rise further. The out-
look is promising for a continuance next year of general stability, with a satisfactory rate
of business growth.
STABILITY COULD BE EASILY UPSET. However, past experience teaches that stability can
be readily upset, and we do not want this to happen. For example, a major rise in ex-
penditure from either public or private sources, which increased demand without a
balancing addition to the output of goods and services, could easily turn the economy in
an inflationary direction.
ADEQUATE BUSINESS RETURNS VITAL TO PROGRESS. Figures which have been published
show a considerable improvement in profits during the last year, and prospects seem
favourable for this to continue. In any free economy, adequate returns from business
enterprise are vital for successful long-term growth, and to set aside funds for research
on lowering cost and improving the range and quality of products. Easy, high profits
resulting from inflationary pressure are bad for any community; for stability, business
must seek its income from greater mass sales and improved operating efficiency.
ACCOUNTS. Consolidated balance sheet assets, at over £450m., are a new record and almost
£som. higher than last year. Figures of the parent company increased by £2l m. and
those of the savings bank by £2Bm. Consolidated gross earnings, at £13,814,000, were
£1,233,000 higher, and expenses increased by £934,000. After providing £117,000
more for taxation, net profit, at £1,247,621, was £182,135 above that of 1962.
STAFF THANKED. The staff of the bank in Australia and London were thanked for the high
standard of service rendered over the last 12 months.
THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
and its wholly owned subsidiary
THE NATIONAL BANK SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
Head Office: 271-285 Collins Street, Melbourne.


NEW ZEALAND
Over the Tasman
Status Quo
Labor’s need for a cause
FROM RON TAYLOR IN AUCKLAND
KEITH HOLYOAKE
visually unscathed
analysts’ post-mortem on the New
Zealand elections has brought a
verdict which confirms an old political
diagnosis—in New Zealand, governments
are voted out rather than in.
The National Government of Prime
Minister Keith Holyoake was returned to
power virtually unscathed.
The Nationalists did drop two seats—
it may yet be only one when special vote
counting has been finished—but there was
no significant swing against the Govern-
ment.
On the provisional result the Holyoake
regime now has 44 seats, the Labor
Party 35, and the “funny money” Social
Creditors their first seat—that of leader
Vivian F. Cracknell. At the dissolution the
state of the parties was 46 National, 34
Labor in the 80-seat, one chamber
system Parliament.
Lack of an issue between the main
parties made electors look more critically
than usual at candidates regardless of
political affiliations. This produced the
curious result of 28 Nationalists getting
increased majorities with a decline for
14 others. In Labor’s case majorities rose
in 24 seats and dropped in seven. Social
Credit lost ground in all but 27 seats
while the new Liberal Party could only
muster 9501 votes for its 23 candidates.
The result was a good endorsement of
the Government’s so-called “steady-does-
it” policy followed for the last three
years.
Various things can be read into the
rejection of the Labor Party, fired as it
was with enthusiasm for a hastily shaped
“new look” policy and new leader in ex-
Finance Minister Arnold Nordmeyer.
But basically Labor has itself to blame
for the result. It grossly over-estimated
its “new look” appeal to coax back
46,000-odd voters who deserted it in
Labor’s 1960 defeat. And it under-esti-
mated the distrust left by broken promises
of the 1957 election campaign and the
sharp taxation increases Nordmeyer im-
posed in 1958 to get the then Labor
Government out of trouble.
Arnold Nordmeyer is probably the
most able man ever offered the country
as a Prime Minister. Had he won he
would have been the first university
graduate head of state in New Zealand’s
123-year history.
Nordmeyer’s defeat also has a parallel
with that of Holyoake in 1957. Then
Holyoake was a comparative unknown.
Three months before the general election
he was made Prime Minister to succeed
ailing Sidney Holland. He did not have
nearly enough time to establish himself
and went down to Labor led by Walter
Nash.
This year Nash did to Nordmeyer
exactly what Holland did to Holyoake.
Nash stepped down too late to enable
Nordmeyer to impose his will, his policies
and his image other than that of a tax
reaper on the public.
But what Labor really needs is a
cause. New looks and new leaders apart,
the party cannot get away from the fact
that in times of prosperity—and in an
already established Welfare State—it is
without a purpose in New Zealand.
TASMANIA
The Legendary Aylett Brothers
“The meat in the sandwich ”
FROM A HOBART CORRESPONDENT
T'asmania’s legendary Aylett brothers,
survivors of setbacks, which would
have extinguished a dozen ordinary
politicians, are not indestructible after
all. Big brother Bill, the Tasmanian
senator for the Gold Coast, will bow
out on June 30, 1965, and young brother
Charley Bischoff Aylett, Speaker of the
House of Assembly, faces political
oblivion after the State election, to be
held before May. Spurned by the ALP,
he may run as a “Labor” candidate
though he has quit the party, but electors
seem certain to finish the job the party
machine has begun.
Bill, better (and less favorably) known
nationally, last year survived an expulsion
move by Bass Divisional Council, which
deprecated his rare visits to Canberra,
and rarer visits to Tasmania. He had
been dropped from the Labor Senate
ticket in 1953, but ran unendorsed and
was re-elected. The party obligingly over-
looked the circumstances of his election
in order to gather him into its voting
strength, but at the succeeding election
it dropped him to the bottom of the
how-to-vote card. Aylett shrugged that
off. He had his own cards printed, with
Aylett at the top, and was re-elected —
and forgiven.
To the State Executive, Aylett pleaded
chronic ill-health which demanded per-
manent residence in a warm climate. His
wife, too, toas ill. (Regrettably, she died
early this year.) The party accepted the
senator’s assurance that he would attend
Parliament to the limit his health allowed.
However, the belief was that the party
would not again endorse him. Aylett
stoutly defied “anyone in Australia” to
prove that there was any move within
the ALP to oust him, but a few weeks
before the special State conference on
December 1, called to select candidates
for forthcoming elections, he withdrew his
application for endorsement.
Charley’s record is little less for-
midable, though not so widely known.
Elected for Darwin (now Braddon) in
1946, he became Minister for Housing
in 1947, but he had to resign in 1949
when a parliamentary select committee
found that he had given incorrect in-
formation in reply to a question in
Parliament. His action was reproved as
“unwise and not in accordance with
parliamentary tradition.”
While sweating that out, he was Chair-
man of Committees and later Whip and
he returned to grace as Minister for
Housing in 1956, relinquishing the port-
folio to become Speaker in 1959.
Two years later he was the target of
a motion described by Professor W. A.
Townsley, Professor of Political Science
at the Tasmanian University, as without
precedent in British parliaments. Leader
of the Opposition Angus Bethune,
having thrice failed to reach a settle-
ment in private, moved that the House
should agree that it had lost confidence
in the Speaker.
Mr Speaker, he claimed, had enter-
tained visiting Sydney yachtsmen at “an
alcoholic party” at Parliament House,
had worn his robes of office while pull-


ing beer in the bar of his pub, had
frequently had prolonged absences from
the chair, and had occupied it when it
was “clear that his condition to do so
was questionable.” Mr Bethune added
that he did not quarrel with the
Speaker’s rulings and that he would be
no more specific in his charges because
he wished to minimise the damage to
the dignity of Parliament.
Mr Speaker assailed his critics in
forthright terms. Their attack, he said,
was political. “I’m just the meat in the
sandwich.” Certainly, he had gone to
sleep in the chair, “but every other
member has fallen asleep in the House
at one stage or another.” He denied
that he had conducted a mock parlia-
ment in the House —he had merely ex-
plained the working of Parliament to
some visitors. The debate ultimately
lapsed.
In March last year, police raiders
found men drinking in the bar of his
hotel, the Cornish Mount, in prohibited
hours, and he was fined £3O.
Reports persisted that Caucus had
called on him to resign, but he was under
no compulsion to obey. He strongly in-
sisted that he was carrying on.
Nevertheless, long before the State
conference convened in Launceston on
December 1 it was tipped that he would
not be endorsed for Denison, to which he
transferred when he took the Hobart
hotel, though some said that his enemies
in the party would prefer to see him
endorsed “so that the electors can chop
him to bits”.
He was the only sitting member not
endorsed by the conference, though it
put eight stalwarts on the Denison
ticket. (Each of the five Federal divi-
sions in Tasmania returns seven members
by proportional representation to the
House of Assembly.) Not surprisingly,
this affronted Mr Aylett, and he resigned
from the party. Late last week he was
still considering his future. The confer-
ence, he said, was a “rabble”. “I am
a free agent,” he said. “If I stand, I’ll
stand as a Labor candidate. There is
nothing to stop me using that name”. His
decision will be made later this week.
LAW REFORM
Juries in Confusion
Abolition of manslaughter suggested
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
MR VIZZARD, QC
dissent or intent
\ meeting of the Medico-Legal Society
of NSW last week heard a strong
argument for the abolition of the dis-
tinction between murder and man-
slaughter in law and the substitution of
one category, that of unlawful homicide.
This reform was advocated by Mr
Gordon Hawkins, Lecturer in Crimin-
ology in the University of Sydney. The
Senior Crown Prosecutor for NSW, Mr
W. Knight, QC, and the Public De-
fender, Mr Vizzard, QC, disagreed,
stressing the question of the intent of the
accused.
Their arguments brought the remark
from the Professor of Psychiatry at the
University of Sydney, Professor David
Maddison, that he found their position
“Sanskrit” to him.
What Mr Hawkins had argued was
the present distinction was vague and
confusing to juries. He told the meeting
that the function of the rules which
claimed to distinguish homicides was by
no means easy to ascertain. Furthermore,
in the present situation the jury was
using its choice to determine sentences
rather than make any real distinction.
According to Mr Hawkins a reform of
the law to establish a category of un-
lawful homicide would leave “sentencing,
where it belongs, in the hands of the
judge”.
Mr Hawkins skated away from con-
troversy when he did not name “a recent
case” which he said proved that juries
were quite capable of ignoring evidence
to the effect that an offender is legally
insane or not criminally responsible even
under the clumsy McNaghten rules and
even when that evidence is accepted by
the Crown.
(In the recent mutilator murder trial
of William MacDonald, Mr Knight, QC,
prosecuting, had conceded the insanity
of the defendant but the jury ignored its
chance to bring in a “not guilty on
grounds of insanity” verdict.)
HOUSING
The New Slums
Federal Aid?
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
tempo of Victoria’s slum clearance
-*■ programme has increased in recent
years, but so apparently has the growth
of slums. A slum conference held in
the South Melbourne Town Hall in 1957
learned that there were about 600 acres
of housing in the Inner Melbourne areas
which needed to be demolished. A
survey carried out three years later by
Mr J. H. Davey, slum research officer,
and Mr Grahame Shaw of the housing
commission, assessed the area as 1000
acres. Meanwhile the estimated cost
had risen from £25,000 per acre in
1957 to £40,000-£50,000 per acre by
1960.
Its latest report, tabled in Victoria’s
parliament last week, is much less opti-
mistic. It described as “inadequate”
the annual £500,000 contribution of
the Government towards slum clearance
and predicted that at the present rate it
would take 60-70 years to rid Melbourne
of slums.
As an alternative to direct Federal
finance, Victoria will propose tax conces-
sions on income derived from private
investment in approved slum reclamation
areas.
In 1958 the Housing Minister, Mr
Petty, convened a conference with the
Master Builders’ Association, the Hous-
ing Commission and other interested
groups. As a result, Master Builders*
Redevelopments Ltd was formed, with
Mr A. V. Jennings as chairman.
The new company not only brought
together the Housing Commission and
the building firms, but also obtained the
co-operation of the Royal Victorian
Institute of Architects, the Real Estate
Institute and the Associated Banks.
Its first project was the Hotham
Gardens project which changed the face
of an unsightly area of North Melbourne.
The first flats completed were sold at
prices ranging from £3,750 (one bed-
room) to £4,650 (three bedrooms).
The scheme worked well, but remains
unique in Australia, and if there was
any weakness in it it was the lack of
finance to enable it to be extended to
larger areas.
At the Premiers’ Conference Mr Bolte
will as usual fight tooth and nail for
his Government’s request for Federal
aid for slum clearance. With increased
Federal money going to child endow-
ment, ordinary housing, to say nothing
of education, the odds will be against
him. At that stage, he will be able to
retreat to the prepared position of his
alternative proposal for tax concessions.


<sMf>
... when you need an inventive approach to concrete or steel engineering.
"illud cur non ecogitavimus"
which, in our language, means “ WHY DIDN’T WE THINK OF THA 77” a
The Romans had some very advanced ideas
about water supply and sewerage the Cloaca
Maxima sewerage pipeline was built some
2000 years ago and has stood for centuries.
But it was not until 1910 that Walter and
Ernest Hume invented the modern process for mass
producing pipes, faster, cheaper and stronger.
This was the world-famous Humes patent for
centrifugally spun concrete pipes a
revolutionary new process which, by 1920, gained
acceptance throughout the world. It was fortunate
indeed that the Humes process was an
Australian invention. In this dry country of ours,
Humes pipes have played, and continue to
play, a vital role in national development . . .
bringing water where it is needed and making our
land a better and more prosperous place to live in.
MASTERS IN CONCRETE sc STEEL
Head Office: Hume House, 185 William St., Melbourne. 67 8101.
Offices and factories in all states.
HX4489
mm
. ,
*
Today Humes Limited is a
group of companies with vast
resources of skill and know-
ledge in many fields of
engineering and fabrication:
concrete pipes, steel pipes
and fabricated steel products,
all types of prestressed or
precast concrete products.
mm
JH
mm*
M
y **
m
mm
■ *
.... ■' ■ ...
M*


Around Melbourne
100,000 COLORED BALLS AREN'T ENOUGH
HThe Society Against Santa Claus,
which is said to exist in America,
could find a footing in Melbourne.
Christmas seems to have been going
since Easter. It’s red-hot, crowded and
expensive. Why does no modern
child ask for anything costing less
than a fiver? Is it anything but poor
consolation to know that a Bourke
Street store has in its decorations
100,000 brightly-colored balls? It’s
enough to give one self-destructive
notions while riding, in vertigo, on
one of the roof-top ferris wheels.
Somehow, the whole atmosphere
of the town is a little crotchety. And if
anyone makes a Christmas gesture,
some alec is sure to smack it down.
Barristers Murray and Shaw, in the
Reid Murray report, for example, are
ready to find O’Grady and Co. stupid
but straight. What does Dinney Love-
grove do in the Assembly but cry
out “calculated deceit”. Most un-
Christmas.
The Prahran Council is all set to
sell 23 acres of Romanis reserve to
the Education Department. Shameful
to relate, there are un-Yulish council-
lors who, even in the interests of
education, do not wish to see Mel-
bourne move more quickly towards
the time when it will be unbroken
concrete, brick and macadam from
one border to another. I quote from
the “Age”: “Abuse was hurled across
the Council Chamber, some council-
lors roared at their opponents . . .”
What would good King W. have said?
From the Dandenongs to Spring
Street we have had other bouts of
testiness. Ferntree Gully Council
offers its devotees the little gift of a
rate increase of up to 25 per cent.
Rowdy scenes have followed. In
Parliament the Committee of Public
Accounts has tetchily criticised free
trips abroad for the wives of State
officials; can you get meaner than
that?
Even train passengers have taken
to bashing each other. So far the
attacks have all been by young men
on hapless females, but, in the
present atmosphere of Melbourne, the
cult is sure to develop reciprocity.
There are other examples of our
climate, but that is enough, perhaps,
to explain why any eye must have
been caught this week by the remark
of a Mrs M. Lynch of Melrose Street,
Mount Albert, who said in the news-
papers: “Christmas is a horror strip
to me.” Thinking, perhaps, that Mrs
Lynch might mean Bourke Street and
be allergic to 100,000 colored balls,
or to the perspiring, nylon-whiskered
gents in red-flannel two-piece sweat-
suits, I telephoned her sympathetically.
I must say her story made Christmas
and the human race, or at least some
of it, look nicer.
11/fRS Lynch is president of a small
outfit called the Blue Cross, which
stems from the Blue Cross formed in
Britain to lessen the suffering of
ponies in the coal mines. It has only
about 60 members, and ranks low
against officially prestigious bodies
like the RSPCA. Throughout Christ-
mas and the New Year Mrs Lynch
and a roster of helpers will be spend-
ing hours each day and evening in
the streets and alleys, yards and
sidings of Melbourne and its suburbs,
as far out as Dandenong and the
Basalt Plain Housing Commission
deserts of the north. They will be
feeding stray cats and dogs.
The helpers include men, women,
students and even two teachers who
ride down from Sydney each year by
motorcycle to join in. With five or
six cars, one lent by a motor com-
pany, they set out at 5.30 a.m. with
supplies of cooked meat, canned or
dried milk, and water. Equipment in-
cludes a cane or rake for pushing
food under factory gates and through
fences, and for recovering the emptied
dishes.
The first round takes about five
hours. In the late afternoon another
rostered lot sets off, and works into the
night. Cats found to be with kittens
get two visits, two feeds. Sick and
injured animals are brought in for
veterinary treatment. Mrs Lynch says
that the Spencer Street railway yards,
beside the St Kilda platform at
Flinders Street, the docks, and along
Gardiner’s Creek are thick with
strays. Here and elsewhere, she says,
it is necessary only to stop the car
and call “puss puss” to get down to
work.
Cats are abandoned foodless and
drinkless in factory yards. Dogs, in-
cluding Alsatians, are left locked for
days in car yards and other places
without any attention from their
owners. Animals are turned into the
street by people going on holidays.
Some pet shops lock up for the holi-
days and leave only scraps behind;
pet-shop puppies are sometimes left
shut in bird cages.
Mrs Lynch has been doing this
work for 13 Christmases. Her husband,
who works for a motor manufacturer,
is “kind” about it all, she says. It
was no surprise to learn, after talking
this far, that she and her friends
throw what meagre power they can
muster against zoos, animals in
circuses, the trucking of cattle and
calves, and brumby slaughter. She
visits the saleyards, sometimes at
night, to remonstrate with truckies
and others. They’re rarely rude to
her.
And with what success in general?
Not much. What does she feel about
the hearts of her fellow citizens?
Thoughtless and selfish rather than
cruel, she feels. Many factory
managers just aren’t aware of the
cats on the fringe of their businesses.
She’ll keep going as long as she
can. There are successes. Com-
mercial radio station 3KZ gives the
society free time for a weekly session.
Through it, homes have been found
for nearly 300 strays and dumped
kittens this year, and 110 lost animals
have been returned to their owners.
So I guess, as a second thought,
that all the other good-work people
of Melbourne, like Mrs Lynch, are
self-sacrificingly at it this year again,
each in his and her way. Forgive me
for a little sentimentality.
HIGINBOTHAM


VISITING U.S.A.? WHY NOT TAKE THE INTERESTING WAY HOME?
You gain so much —for so little extra
air fare—when you travel home from
U.S.A. via Europe with reliable KLM
The difference can be as little as twelve guineas (Economy Class)
your gain in experience and pleasure will be enormous
KLM offers you a choice of 32 trans-Atlantic jet flights every
week from America to Europe—and you can make connections
with them easily from any part of the American Continent. If
you are visiting America, for business or pleasure, why not take
the opportunity to see some of the fabulous sights of Europe on
the way back? KLM’s gateway to Europe is Amsterdam Airport,
famous for its Tax-Free Shopping Centre. From here, it is no
more than a short hop to Paris, London, Rome, Vienna, Copen-
hagen, Madrid —or most of the fabled cities of historic Europe.
KLM’s Multi-Stopover Plan lets you break your journey at many
cities at no extra air fare. Here are more facts about the exciting
opportunities reliable KLM can offer you.
1. The Tax-Free Shopping
Centre at Amsterdam Airport is
the largest on the European Con-
tinent. Here you can buy German
cameras, Dutch cigars, Swiss
watches, French perfumes, and
the world’s finest wines and
spirits, all at bargain prices.
2. Diamonds are cheaper in
Amsterdam. Amsterdam artisans
have cut and polished diamonds
for centuries. Their work is
famous. Other bargains to look
for are: Dutch fabrics, pewter,
silver, copper, brass. And, of
course, Dutch liqueurs, cheese
and chocolate.
3. Amsterdam’s central location
makes it the natural hub for your
European tour. It offers excel-
lent opportunities for travel by
boat, road, rail or air to all of
Europe. You can arrange for an
Avis Rent-a-car to be ready for
you on arrival at Amsterdam
Airport, where the hiring rates
are the lowest in Europe. Drive
wherever you wish and leave the
car at the point where you rejoin
your KLM flight. On the other
hand, your Travel Agent can
arrange for KLM to meet you
with a car at any of the airports
it serves in Europe.
4. If you can spare only a few
hours in Amsterdam, take a
Holland Minitour . . . delightfully
fills 200 short minutes, taking in
an Amsterdam canal boat tour,
visits to the Rijksmuseum, a
diamond cutting factory, and
Aalsmeer's flower auction. The
price is a bargain, £2.
KLM helps the traveller
5. KLM has 77 offices in
Europe, 196 throughout the
world. English is the official
language in all of them. Wher-
ever you go in Europe, a KLM
office is close by with assistance
in language problems. It’s part
of KLM’s tradition of fine per-
sonal service to help people—
whether they are KLM pas-
sengers or not.
6. In the United States, KLM
has 31 offices in 28 cities. All
offer helping hands to foreigners
in the U.S.A. KLM’s big New
York office, at 609 Fifth Avenue,
is a goldmine of helpful infor-
mation for visitors to New York.
There you will find a large staff
of friendly KLMers who devote
their careers to helping travellers.
KLM—famous for service,
hospitality and reliability
7. KLM has had longer than
any other airline to perfect its
service and its reliability—44
years. KLM has carried over
twelve million passengers a total
of fourteen and a half billion
passenger miles.
8. KLM carries an average of
3,830 passengers every day —
about twice the capacity of a big
ocean liner.
9. Travelling First Class on a
KLM DC-8 jet, you sit in
glorious comfort. Your seat is
as wide as an armchair, has
built-in table lamp, pre-focussed
reading lamp, air blower and
finger-tip control panel.
10. KLM Economy Class pas-
sengers enjoy exactly the same
friendly personal service as First
Class passengers. The food
comes from the same chefs and
the same kitchens. Wines and
other drinks are available at
nominal charges. A quarter bottle
of top quality champagne, for
example, costs an Economy Class
passenger on the North Atlantic
run just 70 U.S. cents.
11. KLM stewardesses are
taught to anticipate your wishes.
They are always charming, even
when they walk eight miles on
a trans-Atlantic flight. KLM has
trained stewardesses for five
other airlines.
Ask your Travel Agent
12. Ask your Travel Agent
to plan your tour. He is a
specialist. He knows fares, rates,
hotels, tours, documents, curren-
cies better than anyone. His
experience in the little odd details
can make a world of difference
to your trip. Two of every three
KLM passengers are recom-
mended to fly KLM by ex-
perienced travel agents—a nice
vote of confidence from people
who know all about travel.
13. When you make your flight
reservations for KLM you get
much more than your ticket . . .
you get one hundred per cent,
reliability.
See your Travel Agent, call KLM or mail coupon for free
travel information.
KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
A.W.A. Building, 47 York Street, Sydney. 29-3966
80 Collins Street, Melbourne. 63-6949
Please send more detailed information on the advantages
of returning from U.S.A. via Europe and the Middle East
with KLM.
Mr./Mrs./Miss
Address
My Travel Agent is *
KLM
V 259


INDONESIA TODAY 1
How we met
President
Soekarno
“Next time ... use the front entrance!"
By ROBERT RAYMOND
[Bob Raymond and Michael Ramsden recently took
a TCN Channel 9 TV team to Indonesia to report the
Malaysia crisis. How they met Soekarno and ran out of
film at the vital moment is one of those stories . . . ]
There is something about a tele-
vision reporting team that arouses
alarm and suspicion in many parts
of the world. This is particularly frus-
trating to such teams, for their technical
requirements put them at a tremendous
disadvantage by comparison with all
other methods of obtaining information
about a strange country. Not for them
the chance conversation which becomes,
recollected in tranquillity in the hotel
room, an exclusive interview, full of
significant quotes and overheard minis-
terial indiscretions, sharpened and
deepened by the impressions of the day.
In the television field there is no such
thing as the “snap interview”. The un-
packing and assembly of cameras, lights,
amplifiers, and microphones; the un-
tangling and joining up of cables; the
adjustment and measurement of lights;
the focusing and setting of lenses; the
testing of voice levels —all these things
take so long that only the most naive or
the most practised dissembler does not
get around to demanding what he is
going to be asked.
In view of all this, I was particularly
interested in the reaction in Indonesia
to a white, West-aligned television team,
less than a week after the burning of
the British Embassy.
A setback developed very quickly the
first day we were in Djakarta. While our
applications for Press credentials were
being slowly dealt with by the Depart-
ment of Information, we tried to shoot,
in front of the main airport entrance, a
small piece about the closing down of all
flights to Malaysia. Just as we were
packing up, watched by a small, curious
crowd, a couple of armed policemen
who had been looking on came over and
took possession of our camera. After
waiting around the airport police-station
for three hours while they found an in-
spector who spoke English, we got our
camera back. But we never saw the
film again. (The inspector pointed but
to us a small notice prohibiting the
taking of photographs near the airport
without permission; it seems that the
Indonesian Air Force has to use the long
civil airport runway for its new Soviet
4-jet bombers, and is sensitive about
cameras.)
This incident filled us with fore-
boding—but after that, for two weeks,
we shot film at will, without supervision,
“guidance”, or hindrance. With our
cameras we walked the streets by day
and night, bought train and air tickets to
anywhere we wanted to go, talked to
everyone we met, and sent our film back
without a query. The Indonesians were
apparently prepared to let their image
stand for itself, for there were television
teams from all parts of the world run-
ning wild while we were there.
And not everyone in Djakarta is an
unqualified admirer of Soekarno. A
taxi-driver, in a high-pitched monologue,
poured out a tale of bitterness.
“I hate him, sir. We are becoming
poorer and poorer, while he is becoming
rich . . . All Indonesia is hungry, but he
is not hungry ... He has a big body-
guard because he has many enemies . . .
One day the people will kill him, the
way they killed that French king on
the guillotine . . .”
He told us of rising food prices that
left him with barely enough to feed his
family, and corruption in high places
(by which, he said, Ministers were
making their fortunes) as well as in
everyday life.
And in fact we sat in his cab while
he argued with a traffic policeman who
caught him making a wrong turn at a
roundabout; after fifteen minutes bar-
gaining, under threat of losing his
licence, he paid the policeman the
equivalent of £l, and we drove on. The
relentless squeeze imposed by rising food
prices was mentioned by almost every-
one we talked to, even in Bali, with its
rich farms. These complaints, like
those of the taxi-driver, were not un-
expected.
What I did not expect was the remark-
able and widespread support for
Soekarno himself. Kwame Nkrumah has
always talked about seeking and estab-


epic
clears the way
for exporters
cr
£
S 3
n cl
POLfcy
XL
epic
SAFE I
epic removes the hazards on the
route to profits via overseas credit sales.
epic advises payment term patterns, provides
risk assessments, credit intelligence,
and low-cost policies which pay you if your
customers can’t . Ask for the booklet
which tells how epic makes exporting safe.
EXPORT PAYMENTS INSURANCE CORPORATION
\ Commonwealth Government Guaranteed
Head Office:
2 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 28 2321.
And in all other Capitals.
lishing the “African personality” but
Soekarno has gone a long way towards
actually creating an Indonesian person-
ality for the diverse and scattered peoples
of his archipelago. Everywhere, from
the villages of Bali to the back streets of
Djakarta, you hear people talking about
Indonesia, and of themselves as Indo-
nesians, and giving the credit for this
to Soekarno. No doubt many islanders
hate Soekarno, but it would be a mis-
take to underestimate the part that this
Soekarno-inspired sense of Indonesian
character has played in holding the
whole, strained nation together for so
long.
To meet and talk to Soekarno had
always been our main objective: now it
became an obsession with us, particularly
as he had, since the trouble with
Malaysia, refused to see foreign Press-
men. We made approaches every way
we could think of, and then waited.
In the meanwhile, we interviewed
Soekarno’s three most powerful Minis-
ters: General Nasution, Foreign Minis-
ter Subandrio, and Dr Abdulgani,
Minister of Information and Soekarno’s
official spokesman. And although we
had to supply a list of questions we
wanted to ask Subandrio and Nasution
before their Press officers would ap-
proach them for the interviews, when
the time came neither Minister expected
us to stick to the prepared list, but
answered every question that was put
to them.
Dr Subandrio went further. He in-
vited us, together with Douglas Brass of
the Mirror newspapers, and an Indian
journalist, to have lunch with him at
his house. He talked without stopping
for three hours, and answered every
question with the combination of frank-
ness and unguardedness on the one hand,
and deviousness and cynicism on the
other, that I had come to know so well
in Ghana, and which one must expect
when dealing, as a representative of the
forces of colonialism, with people of
power in ex-colonial countries.
Some of his remarks, thrown off
between courses of an excellent Indo-
nesian lunch:
“We are not afraid of economic dis-
tress. There has always been hardship
here. We may have to cut off our
fingers . . . our hand even our arm.
But we will not cut our throat. I told
the Americans: if you want to cut off
our aid, do it. We’ll manage somehow.
But somehow I don’t think they will.
“This closing of trade with Malaysia
may be a blessing in disguise. We have
always looked upon Singapore as a
cancer in our side, because of the grip
it had on our trade. But we couldn’t
cut it out because of the vested interests
here, which controlled our export trade.
Now we will have a period of hardship.
But we will survive. Eventually we may
go back to using Singapore but on our
terms, not theirs, or the British com-
panies!”
(At one point I remarked that although
most British companies had been closed
down, the British banks, according to
the morning paper, were still open. Dr
Subandrio banged the table, and dropped
his spoon. “I’m glad you reminded me,”
he said, and told an aide to arrange to
close the banks on Monday. We never
did find out whether he was serious.)
“I’m taking over the economic side of
things,” he said eagerly. “I’m going to
set up a special purchasing agency to
buy all the farmers’ products rubber,
food, vegetables—that they used to sell
to Malaysia. The Government will buy
them and try to sell them. If they can’t
sell them I’ll throw them in the sea. But
I will buy them from the people.”
During lunch, and after, Dr Subandrio
returned again and again to the Chinese
question.
“The Chinese are very hard people.
I found this out in 1959. They smile,
and bow, and so on —but they also tell
you: DO THIS —DO THAT.” (He
jabbed his finger savagely at us.)
“We don't want a Chinese-dominated
Malaysia—and that's what will happen.
We have only two million Chinese here,
among a hundred million Indonesians,
and WE have trouble keeping them


NASUTION
under control. What hope have they got,
with only four and a half million
Malays and Dyaks to four million
Chinese?”
General Nasution expressed the same
idea when he was asked, without notice,
whether he thought China represented a
common military problem to Indonesia
and Australia.
“If you study the map,” he said with
a smile, “you will see that this is indeed
a possibility. You must look into the
map according to geopolitical and geo-
strategical possibilities. We don’t like to
mention one particular country, but a
study of the map gives many possibilities
where we will have,, the same common
interest in security.”
The circumstances of our two meet-
ings with President Soekarno the
second, lasting two hours, on the morn-
ing of our departure were rather
bizarre. In view of his notorious lack of
interest in the Press (as distinct from his
manifest delight in personal appear-
ances), it is tempting to speculate as to
whether he had motives for singling us
out from the world’s Press corps gathered
in Djakarta—but I can think of none.
Australia does not bulk very large in
Indonesia’s thinking.
Our first meeting took place on Satur-
day night, the day before we were due
to fly out of Indonesia. We had, in
desperation, gate-crashed Soekarno’s re-
ception at the Palace in honor of Armed
Forces Day. The Press was not invited
to join the two or three hundred officers
and diplomats, all wearing their decora-
tions. We had with us, as a kind of
decoy, a rather striking blonde American
correspondent, who had, she claimed,
seen Soekarno looking at her appreci-
atively while she was taking photographs
at the Armed Forces Day parade that
afternoon.
We found the guests seated in large
circles in the Palace gardens, with
colored lamps swinging in the pepper
trees, and a band playing Western night-
club music. Soekarno was moving from
group to group, laughing and making
jokes with the diplomats, and smiling
winningly at their wives. We joined one
circle of people, and waited.
When Soekarno reached us he stopped
and shook hands with each of us a
firm handclasp. Beneath his brown cap,
his bright, brown eyes in his smooth,
unlined face took in the tape recorder
slung from my shoulder and the cine-
camera under Keith Ballard’s arm.
“Making pictures?” he said, smiling. We
realised that he knew we were not
supposed to be there, but did not intend
to do anything about it. We took our
chance, and told him we wanted to
interview him on film. He refused in
such an amiable way that we followed
him around the garden, buttonholing
him at every opportunity, while Colonel
Sabur, the young and watchful head of
the Palace guard, hovered close by.
After telling us that we were “very
cunning”, Soekarno agreed to let us
come to the Palace on Tuesday morn-
SUBANDRIO
ing provided our blonde American
came with us.
He then sat at a table near ours and
conducted the rather extraordinary kind
of entertainment for which he is known
among the diplomatic corps. He calls
on volunteers to sing with the band to
entertain the crowd; if there are none,
he simply nominates people to sing —•
and they apparently do not refuse. (The
dean of the diplomatic corps in Djakarta,
US Ambassador Jones, performs “Home
on the Range”, while the Australian
Ambassador, Keith Shann, is regularly
called on for “Waltzing Matilda”.) On
this night the wife of an American
attache (she had apparently been a night-
club singer) belted out a couple of
Broadway hits, and a few Indonesian
officers performed loyally but without
much talent.
Suddenly Soekarno beckoned me over
to the table where he was sitting with
his new (third) wife. Handing me a
plate of sandwiches for our group, he
said he would increase the promised five-
minute interview to fifteen if we would
sing an Australian song. I remembered
hearing him invite Dr Subandrio to per-
form, without success, and quickly
promised a performance after the debut
of the Foreign Minister. “You are being
cunning again,” said Soekarno. But as
he got up some time later to leave, he
stopped and wagged his swagger stick
at us. “Tuesday morning,” he said.
“ And next time come in the front
entrance.”
The visit to the Palace on Tuesday
morning was quite remarkable. Soekarno
made us all sit round a table with him
in one of the Palace salons, while he
received a group of women from West
Irian who had come to ask him for a club
for their village. They listened respectfully
while Soekarno talked to us for nearly an
hour, about his early days, his imprison-
ments, and his life, while we drank Coca
Cola, and our American blonde wrote
steadily in her notebook. He did not raise
the current crisis, and neither did we;
we did not want to spoil our welcome.
The only time it came up was when
Soekarno was leading us across the lawn
to attend a meeting of the Supreme Ad-
visory Council, a kind of extra-large
consultative committee, or outer Cabinet,
to which he submits his proposals for
approval.
“What will you be discussing today?”
asked Mike Ramsden. Soekarno gave
him a push which nearly put him among
the flowers beside the pathway. “Today,”
he said, “a very, very, very serious inter-
national affair. You know what it is.”
And he laughed loudly.
The Council consisted of about 40
men and women from all parts of Indo-
nesia, occupying various positions, of all
religions and nationalities. Soekarno in-
vited us to stay and listen, and then read
a lengthy address in Indonesian. We had
to leave, because by one of those natural
calamities we had used the very last
frame of film that we had with us in
Indonesia. Had we film, we could have
shot hours of it that morning.
But by the time we left, I had received
ABDULGANI
a very strong impression of the complex
character that is Soekarno: immensely
vital, extremely friendly when he wants
to be; emotional and impulsive; prob-
ably completely ruthless when called
upon; certainly egotistical and personally
ambitious. He reminded me over-
whelmingly not of his contemporary,
Nehru, but of the Nkrumah of five or


A
The scene is set...
i
I
#
%
I*
\
m
1
r
m
.... r
M
Hi
ip
■' 7:
m
*>»*■*
A
A
Candles flicker, the last place card is arranged. It’s
during these few moments before your guests arrive that
you’ll appreciate Chevron Hilton’s meticulous care and
attention to detail ... an impression that will remain
with you and your guests long after. No other hotel is
quite as experienced as Chevron Hilton.
If you are arranging a banquet, intimate supper, sales
•meeting, grand ball, wedding breakfast, convention or
cocktail party, Chevron Hilton’s specially trained
banquet department is always at your service. It costs
less to plan with Chevron Hilton, Sydney’s fecal point
for all important occasions.
Before arranging your next business or social function
contact the banquet manager at
CHEVRON HILTON
MACLEAY STREET, POTT’S POINT, SYDNEY
Telephone 35-0433
V8691/A3 HO


six years ago, at the time of Ghana’s
independence.
When I mentioned to Soekarno I had
worked as Nkrumah’s Press officer, he
looked intrigued. “Why do they try to
kill Nkrumah?” he asked.
“He has enemies,” I said.
“They tried to kill me, too, five or six
times,” Soekarno said, almost reminis-
cently. “Some people don’t like me.”
And he laughed, rather hollowly.
“Are you afraid of being killed?” I
asked him, as we walked through the
gardens. He stopped, and spoke quietly
and, as far as I could tell, with feeling:
“You know, I am a very religious
man. I rely on Him” (pointing upwards).
“If He wants me to die, I shall die. If
He protects me and wants me to live, I
shall live.”
We must have looked slightly sceptical.
“You may laugh,” Soekarno said, look-
ing sharply at me. I noticed the ever-
present armed guards in the middle dis-
tance, sitting under trees in the garden.
“I notice you also take a few practical
precautions,” I said, perhaps in-
cautiously.
“Ah, yes,” Soekarno said mildly, turn-
ing away to go to his Council meeting.
“A few little worldly precautions . . .”
It is impossible to talk to President
Soekarno or hear him make a speech
without feeling that here is one of the
most powerful, determined, wilful, and
yet controlled intellects in our part of
the world. Question his motives one
may; resent his ambitions one perhaps
should; criticise his excesses one must;
but underrate him as a political force
and a leader, or portray him as a
monkey swinging by his tail from a
branch never.
Much of the outside world’s resent-
ment against Soekarno probably stems as
much from a basic Western intellectual
weakness as it does from his basic
Eastern disregard for individual values.
Our Western weakness is the almost total
inability, the result of a century or two
of material comfort, to understand the
mentality, outlook, resentments, or as-
pirations of non-white peoples, and par-
ticularly those recently de-colonised.
Among the European community in
Djakarta it is fashionable to make
wearied complaints about the inefficiency
of the telephones, the hopelessness of
the civil service machinery, the wide-
spread existence of graft and corruption,
the cynicism of Ministers and high
officials towards their people’s material
problems; the iniquity of the restrictions
on the remittance of profits; and finally
to predict, for people clearly unable to
govern themselves, imminent anarchy,
chaos, and a return to tribal warfare.
All this had for me a fearfully
familiar ring—and not only with Ghana
in mind. One remembers the dire pre-
dictions that the Suez Canal would silt
up within six months of Egypt taking
over. Air India, with what the manu-
facturers testify is the most efficiently
operated and maintained fleet of Boeing
707 s in use today, is still used only as
a last resort by many travellers because
Indians can’t fly. Nearer home, you
will be assured in Port Moresby that
“nobody” in New Guinea or Papua is
interested in politics. In the Northern
Territory, they will tell you up there,
the aborigine couldn’t care less about the
vote.
If one tries to look at the situation in
Indonesia from the Indonesian point of
view, an entirely different pattern
emerges. All Western criticisms become
irrelevant; what is relevant is that when
the Dutch left there were no Indonesian
civil servants or administrators, while
today there is a government, no matter
how inefficient; that 18 years ago there
was a handful of primary and secondary
students, while today there are 180,000
students at scores of universities; that in
1945 the Indonesians were “natives”, and
had been for centuries, while today they
feel they are people.
Once this is appreciated (and many
may argue that it still does not excuse
everything), it is not hard to understand
why, in a world where power and
prestige and possessions mean so much#
the achievement of these objectives be-
comes, for the Indonesians, an obsession.
When Subandrio says he will dump
his country’s produce in the sea if the
world won’t take it on his terms; when
the Government buys three expensive
new Convair 990 jet-liners that they
can’t fill, for air routes that they haven’t
yet got; when Soekarno has his athletes
excluded from the Olympic arena be-
cause he insists on running his own
Games; when a nation of 100 million
wrecks its painfully-growing trade pat-
tern rather than appear to be dependent
upon a few million nearby middlemen;
when all this happens, it can to a large
extent be put down to the hunger for
recognition.
In the long-term context, the course
of Indonesian development is unlikely to
be affected by political eddies, such as
“guided democracy” or an Army govern-
ment, or even Indonesian-style Com-
munism. It is difficult for the outsider
to grasp the latent physical and intel-
lectual energy that one hundred million
people together present to the world. All
this fleeting visitor there can report is
that, never mind the still smoking craters
of Agung and Batur on Bali, the whole
archipelago of three thousand islands is
trembling gently underfoot.
INDONESIA TODAY 2
How to be Friends
Though Neighbors?
The prospect is far from hopeless ...
By JOHN LEGGE
(Professor of History, Monash University)
For nearly twenty years it has been
part of the stock in trade of our
foreign policy publicists to stress
the “realities of our geographical
position” and to insist on the need for
closer ties with Asian neighbors. For
the most part such recommendations
have been couched in general, and there-
fore fairly innocuous, terms. They have
not required us, except on a few
occasions, to weigh carefully the nature
of our interests and to choose between
alternative and conflicting courses of
action. Indonesia’s confrontation with
Malaysia has now forced us to do just
that, and in the process it seems to have
left in ruins the best efforts of our
diplomacy over the last decade.
Australia has regarded Indonesia with
mixed feelings ever since the Republic
proclaimed its own existence in 1945.
The wharflaborers’ refusal to load
Dutch ships in 1947 may have been a
brilliant stroke of unofficial foreign
policy but the intention as well as the
method of the strike divided the Aus-
tralian community sharply. At the
official level our subsequent support of
the Republic against the Dutch through
the United Nations Good Offices Com-
mittee reflected a recognition that the
tide of nationalism could not be
stemmed and that we had to live with the
result, but it evoked the Opposition
criticism that we were helping to turn
out our friends from their rightful
possession. In the ’fifties we unneces-
sarily antagonized moderate Indonesian


£799, gift wrapped.
No extra charge for the gift wrapping.
It’s on Santa Claus.
So are the heater/demisters, four speed
synchromesh gear shift, baked enamel
finish and automatic choke.
They’re all built into the car, and in-
to the price you pay for it.
£799, tax paid.
so are lots of other VW extras!
The extra tyre life (most owners re-
port around 40,000 miles from a single
set, without recapping).
The extra thousands of miles you get
out of a VW, and the lower maintenance
and repair costs you put into it.
But there's one extra that makes seven
million VW owners feel like it’s Christ-
mas all the year: the way you feel when
you drive one.
To get to be a Volkswagen a car needs
more than unmatched reliability, econ-
omy and durability.
It needs a special kind of liveliness
and “kick-it-around” stamina that only
one car can give you.
Just one.
A Volkswagen.
And at £799 tax paid,
it’s a gift (even
without the wrapping).
©


f
i j
ft
1
LK ■
mm
_ t>l-VK ;
p HAw T* A.O W ®
Pink
for
girls
If she says "gorgeous", "delightful”, "heavenly",
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay,
scintillating wine for joyous times... for parties,
weddings and ever-so special dinners for two.
All over the world sophisticates celebrate with Pink
Champagng. Australia's finest is Romalo.
Trade Enquiries: S’. Wynn & Co. Pty. Ltd.
348 St. Hilda Road, Melbourne
governments by our stand over West
New Guinea and we carelessly placed
ourselves in a false position on the
issue—false in the sense that we were
never prepared to commit ourselves to
use Australian troops in resistance to
an Indonesian attack on the territory.
But at the same time we were con-
cerned, through our diplomatic rep-
resentatives in Djakarta, to develop a
basis of mutual goodwill with Indonesia.
In a way the Malaysia situation may
seem to have cleared the air. It has con-
firmed the worst fears of those who see
Indonesia as a permanent menace. It
has given us a more clear-cut commit-
ment in the area than we have ever had
before. (On this there is bipartisan
agreement in principle, though there are
differences as to the degree of formality
by which the commitment should be
expressed.) It has cut down the alter-
natives open to us. And it appears to
have resolved, for the time being, the
debate on whether our policy towards
Indonesia should be tough or tender.
In fact, however, the issues are not
resolved as neatly as that. Indonesia is
still our nearest neighbor and a powerful
one; and our commitment to Malaysia
does not mean that we can ignore her or
regard her simply as an enemy. Some
kind of accommodation still has to be
sought.
For the exponents of the “menace”
theory there is no problem Indonesia
has simply reverted to type. Her insist-
ence during the West Irian dispute that
her interests stopped at the 141st
meridian—that this was her last terri-
torial claim in the area —had an ominous
ring and was almost itself considered to
be a proof of an innate imperialism.
Though she has not asserted any terri-
torial claim to the northern Borneo
territories, her opposition to their in-
clusion within the new Federation is seen
as a disguised imperialism.
At its face value, much of the Indo-
nesian case against Malaysia may appear
so absurd to Australians as to support
that view. But it is too simple an
explanation, for it ignores obvious shifts
of policy within Indonesia. The
Malaysian story itself reveals a puzzling
hesitation and uncertainty.
Indonesian hostility to Malaysia was
a comparatively late development. The
Tunku’s first proposal of a Federation
in 1961 did not evoke any opposition
in Djakarta other than from the Com-
munist Party. In late 1962, when mount-
ing hostility began to show itself more
clearly after the Brunei revolt, it seemed
possible still to explain it in diplomatic
terms. Indonesia’s complaint was partly
that she had not been adequately con-
sulted, and that she had a right to be
consulted, on a matter of such great
moment affecting the region. This
appeared to be the Foreign Office view
as expressed on a number of occasions
by Dr Subandrio. It was only early in
1963 that Indonesia began to insist that
there was a fundamental conflict of
interests at stake that Malaysia, by
making possible the continued British
presence in the area, was a neo-
imperialist threat to Indonesian security.
Even then the clash of interests was
apparently not so basic that a consistent
and unyielding posture had to be main-
tained by Indonesia. The slight softening
of her position which began at the
ECAFE conference at Manila in March
was followed by renewed hostility. Then
the Tokyo meeting between Soekarno
and the Tunku brought a new thaw,
which was continued when the Foreign
Ministers of Malaya, the Philippines and
Indonesia met at Manila in early June
and came up with the idea of Maphi-
lindo. After the signing in London of
the agreement for the actual formation
of Malaysia, Indonesia returned to her
confrontation policy. The Manila sum-
mit meeting once more eased the situa-
tion though at the price of considerable
concessions on the part of the Tunku.
Finally, during the actual UN enquiry,
Indonesia moved to her final confronta-
tion position from which, at the moment,
there seems no retreat.
A victim of his own policy
HPhe off-again-on-again way in which In-
-*• donesia played her hand up to the
Manila summit, then, hardly suggests
that her hostility was the inevitable
consequence of clearly perceived in-
terests. Rather it would seem that the
fluctuations themselves were a matter of
deliberate policy.
Indeed, such a conclusion does fit in
with the whole character of Indonesia’s
domestic politics. The last few years
have seen the establishment of a delicate
balance of forces the President and
the Army forming the principal axis of
power but the parties, particularly the
Communist Party, able still to make their
presence felt. As part of that potentially
unstable situation, there was the growth
of a highly emotional approach to
domestic as well as to internal affairs. An
official ideology has reduced the language
of political debate to a few set formulae
Manipol-USDEK, the idea of the un-
finished revolution, the distinction be-
tween new emerging forces and the old
established ones and so forth. Within
this framework external policy has ful-
filled a familiar role. It has provided at
once a rallying point for national senti-
ment and the means of diverting atten-
tion from possible points of criticism of
the regime. Domestic expediency as well
as any real conception of national interest
has prompted the President to blow hot
and then cold on the Malaysian question.
Such a policy has its limits. If
Malaysia was to be held up as a major
threat on one day it could scarcely be-
come the subject of peaceful negotiation
on the next. By the time of the dispute
over the entry of observers to accom-
pany the UN mission, Indonesia had
reached the point where her opposition
to the new Federation was irrevocable.
If it is true that Soekarno had used
Malaysia as a diversionary tactic to be
applied intermittently, he had become,
by September, 1963, a victim of the
policy’s own momentum.
To advance this sort of explanation is
not to say that Indonesia’s foreign
policies have been artificially created
devices and no more —whipped-up for
the occasion—bread and circuses on a
grand scale to serve as an alternative to
Ganefo. There have been conceptions


&
ANSELM
■ ■■Hi
■ i ■■■
v\
■ ■■■
mm
i
r v
99
-V-
-)
■
One of the new Boeing 727
jetliners which will shortly
introduce pure jet flight to
Australian domestic airlines.
<sfK/ *-
...i «■**** ytrmi.
m
m
iw
Interior view of Electra air-
craft stripped for overhaul
shows Fibreglass insulation
which completely lines the
aircraft.
NEW JETS ARE
FIBREGLASS
INSULATED
Exciting new jet the Boeing 727 (on order to Ansett-ANA and
TAA) is insulated against heat, cold, noise with FIBREGLASS.
Both Australian airlines now fly aircraft that are FlBREGLASS-
insulated because FIBREGLASS has been proven the world’s best
thermal and acoustic insulation.
The choice of Boeing and other renowned aircraft manufacturers,
FIBREGLASS has special qualities that make it ideal for your
factory, office or home installation. FIBREGLASS is clean, easy to
install, fire-resistant, lightweight, everlasting. Supplied in conveni-
ent rolls, batts or loose form. For further information, complete and
mail coupon below.
To: AUSTRALIAN FIBRE GLASS PTY. LTD.
Please send me literature on Fibreglass Insula-
tion for factory/office/home* and address of my
local suppliers.
‘Cross out whichever is not applicable.
NAME
ADDRESS
FG 32
SYDNEY Cnr. Canal & Burrows Rds., St. Peters 51 7351
MELBOURNE 420 Spencer Street 30 2611
BRISBANE Montague Road 41471
ADELAIDE Aroona Road, Kilkenny 45 4771
PERTH 91-99 Kensington Street 23 3051
HOBART Gormanston Street, Moonah 7 6796
LAUNCESTON 52 Patterson Street 2 5819
CANBERRA -Cnr. Eyre & Jardine Streets, Kingston 9 3879
NEW ZEALAND ftranui Road, Penrose, Auckland 594-140
There is only one FIBREGLASS Insulation
GLASS WOOL INSULATION
By Australian Fibre Glass Pty. Ltd.
and in New Zealand by New Zealand Fibre Glass Limited —Group members of
ACI


of national interest at stake also, barely
credible conceptions it may appear to
the outside observer, but reflecting a
consistent enough view of the world
nonetheless. If the world is to be divided
into new emerging forces and old-estab-
lished forces, there are some grounds for
aligning Malaysia with the latter. The
formation of the Federation has been
as orderly an example of de-colonization
as one could wish to see, but it has
been accompanied by British guarantees
of military support, and for the time
being by the continued British military
presence in the Singapore base. It is,
perhaps, not surprising that this should
provide grounds for suspicion to a
country which obtained its independence
painfully through revolution. The pro-
tection of British economic interests in
the Peninsula and Borneo again may
appear a matter of mutual interest to
the outside observer, but it is viewed in
a different light by a people who felt
their own independence to be curbed
by Dutch economic power, until they
finally seized Dutch holdings in 1957.
It is this sort of criticism which is
embodied in the charges of neo-
imperialism, neo-colonialism, encircle-
ment, and the rest. The events of 1963
would suggest, however, that these con-
ceptions represented merely a general
framework of ideas within which it was
easy for the President to choose an in-
creasingly belligerent course of action.
They were not in themselves a sufficient
cause of that course of action.
In the meantime it is important that
Australia, while making her firm commit-
ment to Malaysia, should continue to
preserve, diplomatically, as conciliatory
an approach to Indonesia as we have
followed in the past.
In doing so it is obvious that the
going will not be easy. Indonesia is
likely to be a difficult neighbor in the
foreseeable future and the source of a
continuing crisis in the Malacca Straits
or on the Sarawak border. These are
things with which we may have to live.
They do not call for panic, but for
moderation on our part.
No other policy, indeed, seems pos-
sible. Even the advocates of a tough line
find it difficult to translate toughness
into terms of a viable policy. Australia
is not in a position, as America is, to
withhold huge economic support. And
presumably even the tough line ad-
vocates do not want to buy into military
action. Our toughness, of necessity,
must be limited to a clear definition of
our interests and a clearly expressed
willingness to defend them. And beyond
this, business as usual—Colombo plan,
aid to tertiary educational institutions
and diplomatic attempts to make our
position clear in Djakarta.
INDONESIA TODAY 3
Indonesia and the
Confrontation
Compelling reasons for the anti-Malaysia campaign
By Dr. JUSTUS VAN DER KROEF
( Visiting Professor, South East Asian Studies, Nanyang University, Singapore)
It has become commonplace to remark
that government in Indonesia today is
an intricate balancing act between the
Indonesian Communist Party (PKI), the
Army and President Soekarno, but it is
not always sufficiently understood that
the first two are by no means monolithic
entities and that the third is subject to a
variety of pressures from subsidiary
power centres that cannot be ignored. A
realisation of this helps also with an
understanding of Indonesia’s current anti-
Malaysia campaign. For, as in the case of
Indonesia’s anti-Dutch “confrontation” to
acquire West Irian, it is less a matter of
Malaysia as such, but rather the Malaysia
issue in the context of Indonesia’s domes-
tic policy needs that is the key to a proper
insight into her present position.
When in May, 1961, Tunku Abdul
Rahman first mooted the general idea of
a Malaysian unity official Indonesian
reaction could best be described as one of
benevolent indifference. Lord Selkirk,
former British Commissioner General in
Southeast Asia, has recently recalled how
two years ago he informed Indonesian
foreign Minister Subandrio of the im-
pending formation of Malaysia and that
Subandrio declared that this was “entirely
a matter for the people concerned and
did not concern Indonesia.” Preoccupied
with the final stages of the Irian campaign
the Indonesian Government’s indifference
seems understandable. Yet even then PKI
opposition was already being mobilised.
As early as October, 1961, PKI publi-
cations took alarm at the Tunku’s idea,
and the plenary meeting of the PKl’s
Central Committee in December, 1961,
condemned the idea of Malaysia as “but a
form of neo-colonialism”, “an unaccept-
able colonial intrigue”, and an “attempt
to suppress the democratic and patriotic
movements of the peoples in these five
countries” (i.e., Malaya, Singapore, Sara-
wak, Brunei and Sabah), and so on.
There were several reasons for this
mounting PKI opposition. For one thing
the Tunku, whose anti-Communist views
are well known, frankly conceived Malay-
sia to be a bulwark against the Red tide,
a proposition increasingly viewed with
sympathy in Singapore by Premier Lee
Kuan Yew, who shortly after having
come to power in 1959 had fallen out
with his Communist and far Left sup-
porters. A small, but united, economic-
ally viable and determinedly anti-Com-
munist state, assured of British military
support, right on Indonesia’s doorstep
was hardly something which the PKI
could view with complacency.
Soon, moreover, anti-Malaysia Left-
wing groups in Malaya itself, like the
Socialist Front, were approaching the PKI
for support. On March 12, 1963,
Malaya’s Minister for Internal Security,
Dato Ismail, revealed that delegates of
the Party Rakyat, a constituent element
of the Socialist Front, had gone to Indo-
nesia for PKI cadre training, and that,
earlier, PKI chairman Aidit had instruct-
ed the 1962 Malayan Socialist Conference
to pass resolutions denouncing Malaysia,
Also through the leaders of the


Socialist Front, and later of the anti-
Malaysia and Communist - infiltrated
Barisan Sosialis Party in Singapore, the
PKI maintained close liaison with A. M.
Azahari’s anti-Malaysia rebel movement
in Brunei and PKI organs quickly
bestowed on Azahari’s band (and its
Indonesian volunteers) the telling Com-
munist accolade of being the “national
liberation movement of North Borneo.”
Well before Azahari’s abortive rebellion
in Brunei and Sarawak in December,
1962, the PKI had become “the safely
protected rear base” (in the sense of
Mao’s Yenan strategy) for the Com-
munist-directed opposition to the idea
of Malaysia being generated in Sarawak,
Singapore and Malaya.
The PKI
But there were other and perhaps more
compelling reasons for the PKl’s
anti-Malaysia campaign. Throughout
much of 1961 the party had been in a
bind. Its increasingly vociferous criticism
of the Government the year before had
led to the sometime arrest and detention
of its principal leaders, including, briefly,
Aidit, to the banning by local military
commanders of all PKI activities in
South Sumatra, South Celebes and South
Borneo, to the renewed suspension of the
party daily “Harian Rakjat” and the ban-
ning of other party publications, and to
popular and obviously Government ap-
proved anti-PKI demonstrations.
The PKI rode out the storm by lean-
ing heavily on Soekarno, whose own posi-
tion greatly depends on a power balance
between the Army and the PKI, and
who obliged by lashing out against those
suffering from what he terms “Com-
munist phobia.” But the crisis was symp-
tomatic of a deeper organisational
malaise in the party. With two million
members and additional thousands in
labor, women, youth and peasant fronts,
PKI leaders were increasingly having
trouble keeping control and advancing the
party’s indoctrination programme.
Early in 1961 a serious rift in party
leadership appeared, not so much over
the Moscow-Peking dispute, although that
too influenced the dissension, but primar-
ily over domestic policy, especially over
policy toward Indonesia’s growing
economic crisis and over the party’s po-
sition towards the Army. PKI economic
experts like Sakirman and Asmu, along
with Njono, who leads the Communist-
dominated labor front SOBSI, favored a
more militant confrontation of the weak-
nesses of Government economic policy
and of Army incompetence and corrup-
tion in the hope of capitalising on mass
misery.
Others, notably PKI vice-chairman M.
H. Lukman and Politburo member Jusuf
Adjitorop (probably the fastest-rising
party leader today), favored a gentler
policy, counting on slow but steady drift
toward a Communist coalition govern-
ment with the acquiescence of the more
radical commanders in the armed forces.
Aidit, though leaning toward the mili-
tants, seems to have been primarily con-
cerned with preventing an explosion. The
anti-Malaysia campaign under these cir-
cumstances meant a badly needed
dynamic of unity and the recapturing of
an organisational fervor; already by the
end of 1962 the Malaysia issue had
given the party a noteworthy new
momentum.
This the PKI could not have acquired
without Soekarno’s support, however, and
after it became clear in June, 1962, that
Indonesia, thanks largely to US pressure
on the Dutch, would acquire West Irian
through negotiation, the PKI rather
abruptly discovered that its hitherto
largely isolated stand on Malaysia had
become official Indonesian policy.
Soekarno’s espousal of the Malaysia issue
has been seen as stemming from his
own particular political strategy of per-
petual crisis in a romantic aura of an
“unfinished revolution”. And, to be sure,
Indonesia’s President is forever discover-
ing calamitous ills which can only be
overcome by the nostrums he offers: the
adoption of “Pantjasila” as the national
ideology, the creation of the National
Council, the establishment of “guided
democracy”, the “return” to the Constitu-
tion of 1945, the nation’s acceptance of
Manipol/Usdek as official guidelines of
the State, the “People’s Threefold Com-
mand” to liberate West Irian, and so on.
But this explanation really skirts the more
important reason which can be gleaned
from a look at the Government’s
economic policy.
In the beginning of 1962, as Indo-
nesian military infiltration of and attacks
on West Irian accelerated, and rice short-
ages in Indonesia as well as the problem
of the depletion of foreign exchange
reserves became particularly acute, Gov-
ernment statements urged readiness to
make sacrifices on the Indonesian masses.
By the middle of the year, with acquisi-
tion of West Irian assured, new economic
policy statements promised that with the
end of the confrontation campaign prior-
ity consideration would be given to
economic improvement, especially to pro-
viding clothing and food. But already in
September yet another note was to be
heard - Government statements now
cautioned against expectations of rapid
improvement and outlined new economic
and financial problems.
The simple fact was that as early as
June, 1962, the spectre of economic re-
form, involving a whole host of un-
popular decisions such as retrenchment /
of the inordinately swollen bureaucracy
and Government services, rationalisation
and technical improvement of production,
imposition of labor discipline and wage
control and, above all, fiscal reform, was
looming ominously large on the domestic
political horizon.
Yet, it had been American expectations
that such economic reform would finally
and systematically be taken in hand in
Indonesia that had caused the US to put
great pressure on the Dutch to relinquish
their hold on West New Guinea. For the
Irian campaign had shown that Indo-
nesian leaders seemed quite prepared
wholly to wreck their nation’s economy in
order to gain their objective: “Indonesia
threatens with its weakness, not its
strength,” as one Indonesian publishing
executive put it to me at the time. Indo-
nesian acquisition of West Irian, accom-
panied by a new US assistance pro-
gramme based on the recommendations
of the so-called Humphrey report (draft-
ed by a team of six American economic
experts) published in June, 1962, would,
it was believed, finally enable the country
to channel its efforts realistically toward
mature growth.
The Humphrey report
HThis expectation was, of course, quite
unrealistic, for neither US policy-
makers nor indeed the writers of the eu-
phemism-laden Humphrey report seem to
have sufficiently understood that incisive
structural changes or a sustained and dis-
ciplined development effort in the Indo-
nesian economy are not now possible
because of the inevitable and possibly
calamitous consequences they would have
for the present internal balance of power.
Pressure on Soekariio not only from
organised labor but also from the ranks
of the swollen bureaucracy, strongly
represented in the National Indonesian
Party (PNI) of which the President is
the titular leader, from conservative
Muslim quarters with sizeable landed in-
terests (which have already all but nulli-
fied recent land reform measures), from
the national businessmen, propped up in
the export and distributing trade by a
host of preferments and protective
measures and fearful of losing their pre-
carious position in a supposedly Socialist


52
1889
For mercy’s sake!
TODAY
fijaal
LUCAS
6 and 12 volt
ignition coil*
LUCAS
6 and 12 volt
starter motors
ca;
LUCAS
6 and 12 volt
“POWERSTREAM”
Batteries
It stretches the imagination a bit, but these two carriers really do have something in
common. Quite a lot, in fact. One is Victoria’s first ambulance —the Ashford Litter of
1889. The other, its modern counterpart. A bone-shaking stretcher on wheels, the
Ashford Litter relied on the muscles of man. Today, on its errands of mercy, the
Victorian Ambulance Service relies materially on Lucas Electrical Equipment, because It
has the utmost confidence in Lucas performance. That's why Lucas is original equipment
on more vehicles than any other make. Distributed throughout Australia by Lucas Agents.
s
“If it’s automotive electrics it's Lucas"
JOSEPH LUCAS (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
Victoria • New South Wales • Queensland
South Australia • Western Australia • Tasmania
LAI6-63


economy—to name but a few groups—all
rendered an overhaul of the tax system,
curtailment of the oversized bureaucracy,
creation of a more favorable climate for
investment, rationalisation of the external
trade machinery, formulation of a more
realistic development policy, and a host
of other needed measures, politically im-
possible. To Soekarno, and to those seg-
ments of the socio-economy which par-
ticularly look toward him for protection
and leadership, the Malaysia issue offered
itself as the most immediately available
means to. perpetuate the status quo and
justify once again the postponement of
hard and unsettling economic decisions.
The Army
11/hat, finally, of the Army in this poli-
tical pattern of the Malaysia issue?
Neither Defence Minister Nasution nor
Army Staff Chief Jani are reckless mili-
tary adventurers and their apparently
sanguine participation and their various
bellicose pronouncements in the anti-
Malaysia campaign have been surprising
to some. Yet there are important reasons
for the Army's involvement. For one
thing after Soekarno had openly joined
the anti-Malaysia campaign and mobilized
the mass organisations under his control,
the Army had little choice left in the
matter, unless it was prepared to risk a
new civil war-like breach between its
commanders and Soekarno and the PKI.
Such a break, so soon after the quelling
of the uprising of disaffected Army
colonels ever since 1956 —an uprising
which so gravely undermined the Army’s
prestige and which provided the PKI
with so much ammunition against the
Army leadership—could hardly be a
welcome prospect for Nasution and his
associates. Moreover, while Western
observers have been inclined to ridicule
official Indonesian pronouncements
including ones by Army leaders that
Malaysia is a threat to Indonesia, such
a threat is nonetheless felt to exist.
For Army commanders who fought the
prolonged campaign against the “Revo-
lutionary Government of the Indonesian
Republic,” proclaimed in West Sumatra
in 1958, cannot forget that Malaya and
Singapore, notwithstanding Indonesian
protests, provided important sources of
supply as well as sanctuary to the rebel
leaders and that from this protected base
new insurrectionary movements might
well be launched.
But the fundamental reason for the
Army’s apparently enthusiastic involve-
ment in the Malaysia issue arises from the
unresolved problem of its internal organi-
sation. Ever since Indonesia attained its
independence efforts have periodically
been made to streamline and modernise
the Army and upgrade its officer corps
by ridding it of ill-disciplined units of
revolutionary irregulars and by elimina-
ting older officers with few qualifications
other than their political connections or
supposed political zeal displayed during
the struggle against the Dutch. In 1952
an attempt at such modernisation had
led to a major political crisis and the fall
of Nasution, then Army Chief of Staff,
and since that time any solution to the
explosive issue of Army reorganisation
has tended to be postponed.
Even the Navy High Command, early
in 1962, stated that it required but 40
per cent of its total complement of about
40,000 men to carry out its obligations
of maintaining marine security. The
Navy’s proposal seemed but a reflection
of an Army reorganisation scheme
formulated several years earlier, which
was predicated upon rapid mechanisation
and training of highly skilled younger
personnel, and envisaged as adequate a
compact force of at the most 175,000
officers and men, or less than half the
Army’s present size. It soon became clear
to Army leaders, however, that the poli-
tical consequences of a sizeable demobili-
sation and modernisation process would
be unthinkable, and with the outbreak
of civil war in Sumatra in 1958 the
desirability of a large infantry army
appropriate to manpower absorbing anti-
guerrilla combat became particularly
evident, justifying postponement again
of any reorganisation. Then the Indo-
nesian paratroop landings in West New
Guinea and the prospect there of a new
field for extensive guerrilla war further
strengthened the opponents of retrench-
ments and reform.
But by the middle of 1962, with West
New Guinea about to come into the
Indonesian fold, with rebel resistance in
Sumatra and Celebes wiped out, and
with the end also of the resistance of
Darul Islam rebels in West Java, the
Army modernisation question became
pressing once more. It now assumed, in
a sense, the appearance of a conflict
between generations: older officers, many
of them building primarily on their
reputations in the revolution and unwill-
ing to accost a squalid retirement or to
adjust to the new role of the techno-
cratic military specialist demanded by a
modern Army, confronted growing num-
bers of younger subalterns, many of
them trained in Western war colleges or
staff schools and ambitious for advance-
ment in their service specialties. Under
the circumstances some senior Army
officers, fearful of their proposition, have
increasingly sought to maintain them-
selves through political connections, and
a few are now known to be sympathetic
to the PKI.
In its confrontation of Malaysia the
Indonesian Army appears to be following
the same tactics it used in West Irian:
small groups of armed Indonesians, some
of them reportedly in uniform, have in-
creasingly begun to infiltrate into Sarawak
as well as at several points along the
Malayan coast, e.g. in Johore. And as in
the case of the West Irian issue it is not
full-scale war itself that is desired (Nasu-
tion, while loosening a barrage of anti-
Malaysia pronouncements, has also been
careful not to suggest the Army is about
to attack in force) but rather the threat
of it in the context of the Indonesian
balance of power.
Against the grain
I>eyond these considerations, finally,
there is a factor a good deal less tan-
gible, but of considerable importance just
the same in the Indonesian anti-Malaysian
campaign, and that is that there is a qual-
ity about the new Malaysian federation
which not only goes wholly against the
Indonesian political grain today, but also
arouses the bitterest memories of par-
tisan struggle in Indonesia in the past few
years. Staunchly anti-Communist, hospi-
table to private foreign capital and free
enterprise generally and willing to create
the conditions to attract both, federal in
structure with considerable autonomy
for its component States, maintaining
excellent relations with its former
colonial overlord —Malaysia, in all of
these things, is not just a complete anti-
pode to Indonesian policies today, but
also the entire history of Indonesia since
it acquired independence consists of the
repudiation or violent suppression within
its own borders of these very principles
that now characterise Malaysia.
To find all these features given a new
and viable framework right on her door-
step cannot but evoke in Djakarta the
imagery of all the bitter divisiveness in
the country in the past decade. Malaysian
leaders themselves seem to be alluding
to this from time to time, as when the
chief Minister of Malacca recently refer-
red to the probability of the outbreak of
a new secessionist movement in Sumatra,
because of the adverse effects of the Indo-
nesian trade boycott of Malaysia, and to
the possibility of Sumatra joining the
Malaysian federation. Malaysia, in short,
by its very existence, holds up a mirror
to Indonesia’s own domestic ills and to
the grave policy conflicts they continue
to generate.


m
s' V
• x
(r
I i
aps
«*- v
!$
<fe
CONFIDENCE!
f? I ... Tv.
.. ■ S. iii
“Why does Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service
carry more tons of cargo than the total
carried by all other airlines in Australia?”
“It’s the largest, because it’s backed by the
confidence of companies like yours . . .
confidence in a fast, efficient, punctual,
round-the-clock service that has progressed
since 1936.”
For general freighting, complete freight distribution or Air
Express, consult Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service. It has the
largest network of freighter routes, from Cairns to Hobart,
from Perth right through to New Guinea. Cargo is also
carried on all passenger flights.
Ansett-ANA Air Cargo Service is the most extensive in
Australia. A good indication of the wide services available
throughout Ansett-ANA is the Consultant service. Ansett-
ANA have consultants that work with your marketing team
to solve freight distribution problems, research possible
markets, develop special packaging for Air Cargo all
without charge.
Your confidence is well based when you deal with the
company that always comes up with a cost-cutting solution
to your freight problems.
GOODS IN GOOD HANDS ALL THE WAY
WHEN YOU SHIP
ANSETT-ANA
AIR CARGO SERVICE
9471


INDONESIA TODAY 4
The Indonesians in
West New Guinea
Problems for us in East New Guinea
By PAUL VAN DER VEUR
(Senior Research Fellow, Pacific History Department, Australian National University)
The Dutch were good neighbors in
New Guinea for a long time. It
is true that at first we had to tell
them to take better care of their territory
so that their headhunters wouldn’t chop
off the heads of our headhunters. But
after they established their post at
Merauke in 1902, things settled down
and we were very happy with each other.
One reason we got along so well was
that we rarely saw each other. There is
a good deal of wild country in the central
part of the island most of it still
unexplored. A nice geometrical boundary
line has been drawn on the map with the
Fly River forming a “natural” boundary
for a shorQdistance. All of this, however,
was still pretty unnatural. In fact, none
of the people who lived near these lines
knew of their existence or location. To
be frank, we did not know their exact
location either.
In the 19305, for example, the Dutch
had moved north-east from Merauke and
persuaded the nomadic Boazi tribe to
settle down. They found them a nice spot
at the shore of Lake Warn which they
called Bosset. They did the same thing up
north, when they moved from what was
then called Hollandia into the wild Waris
and Jaffi country. Quite a few young
people in the area of Waris, Jaffi, and
Bosset subsequently went to Dutch
schools and acquired a knowledge of the
Malay lingua franca. We discovered
later that some of these Dutch activities
had taken place on our side of the
boundary line. We didn’t oother to do
much about it until mid-1962 when a
joint patrol went into the Waris area and
the Australian flag was raised in most of
the villages on our side of the line.
Looking back, we probably should
have tended to that little border issue
earlier because it might have looked a
bit suspicious to the Indonesians, who
were about to become our new neigh-
bors, to see us racing along the border
transferring people from Dutch to Aus-
tralian administration, taking astro-fixes,
and even engaging in aerial photography.
But it is hard to have foresight all of the
time. Our External Affairs Department
expressed concern (off and on) at straight-
ening things out but Territories didn’t
appear really interested. By the time the
two departments got together the Dutch
were going home.
We did have differences with the
Dutch. For one thing, they were just too
considerate in their treatment of the
Papuans And then there was their crash-
programme in the educational and poli-
tical field whereby they stimulated the
development of a political elite. They
even suggested setting up a university to
serve both parts of New Guinea. We
didn't see eye to eye with them on these
matters. Nevertheless, then departure
came as a shock.
Our new neighbors in New Guinea
are the Indonesians. They are nice, too.
But we have to admit that we did not
like the way they muscled their way into
the place. We hadn’t expected it because
they had told us they wouldn't do that.
We all tell white lies once in a while,
however, and if it guarantees results it
may be cricket. What worries us is that
it may give some of their people the
idea that they can get away with any-
thing. A few things our new neighbor
does irritate us a bit. They have a habit,
for instance, of turning their radios on
very loudly. But this is quite harmless
so long as nobody listens. Up to now,
however, we have no real complaints.
We have been a bit embarrassed by
another thing. When the Dutch were
forced out of their lease we told them
and the Papuans in West Irian that if any
of them wanted to come to our side they


« m
m
li
o
v.
"xSr*
1
lii
■
y-:»-
|§|si|i
afr
sp
V******
I
ls3l
w.
m
m
m
mm
r A
m
iii
««6t
All
fuel oils
are not alike!
c
o
o
A
There can be vast differences in the characteristics and
hence the handling and burning qualities of particular fuels.
A low pour point makes for.easier pumpability at low tem-
peratures and reduced cost of equipment, whereas low
viscosity oils promote lower, heating costs.
Factors such as these should be correctly evaluated when
considering the prices of available fuel oils.
Amoco sells fuel oils at competitive prices and, further, our
laboratory and technical staff see that the right fuel is
used in any application. Let us help you to ensure that
you get “a better deal in fuel oils.” You need only contact
one of the Amoco Branch Offices listed below for prompt
attention to your requirements.
AMOCO AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Brisbane: 119 Leichhardt Street Phone 2-2781. Sydney: 201 Botany Road, Waterloo. Phone 69-7651
Melbourne: 34 Queen’s Road. Phone 26-4043. Adelaide: 38-40 Currie Street. Phone 51-2692
AI.FP.2.


m
m
K>
WBBBBBm by appointment ,
mBBBBSBSm TO her majesty the queen
GIN DISTILLERS
BOOTH'S DISTILLERIES' LIMITED. LONDON
famous in London since 1740
BOOTHS ■
HIGH & DRY ■
GIN ■
New distilled in AustraliaHH
and sold at Australian priced
HIGH & DRY
US
n
“THAT’S BETTER-THAT’S BOOTHS!
f »
820.65
BUD ELEVEN
A new aromatic tobacco...
with an unusually distinctive and
pleasant flavour for the
experienced
smoker.
FROM THE HOUSE OF
m
\V v
It"
t*’
r
In flavour-
sealed
polythene
wallet.
6/6
2 ozs.
NOW AVAILABLE
FROM YOUR TOBACCONIST
FRESH FROM THE HOUSE OF EDGEWORTH
...j RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, U.S.A.
would be welcome. We didn’t really
expect that anybody would take us up on
this neighborly gesture. But quite a few
did. We have not publicised this fact
because it would be just the sort of thing
that could create friction with our new
neighbor. Some interpret this ready
acceptance of our invitation as an indi-
cation that Papuans over there do not
like their new Indonesian landlord, but
this could be merely local gossip.
In the lease which Indonesia signed to
take over the western part of New Guinea
there is a stipulation to the effect that
the Papuans who are living there are
granted “freedom of choice” before the
end of 1969. This is one of those new
fads by which people may decide matters
for themselves. We feel that a contract
once signed should be carried out. But
our new neighbor tells us that no one
over there wants this “freedom of choice”
and that everyone wants the newcomers
to stay. If this is the case, they have a
point it seems silly to waste time and
money on arguing about a foregone con-
clusion.
The way in which our relations with
our Indonesian neighbor in New Guinea
develops depends a lot on now our men
in Canberra get along with their counter-
parts in Djakarta. Nobody ready know's
how and especially where things are going
in Indonesia. There have been prophets
of doom and of bliss and both have
been equally wrong over the past years.
Things in Indonesia move somewhat like
the traditional Javanese shadow' play,
waycing. This style of play lasts for-
ever and nothing seems to happen until
there is a sudden climax and it is all
over. There are over 75 different pup-
pets in the play: beautiful, noble, self-
denying and generous characters but also
ugly, mean, ambitious and selfish ones.
It is said by some that President Soekarno
is the incarnation of them all which is
perhaps to say that he is only human
and what w'e should look oul for are
the bad shadow-play puppets
How we get along with our new
neighbor, then, will depend a great deal
on our over-all Indonesian-Australian
relations. A big issue can be made out
of nothing and no issue can emerge out
of quite a lot. A geography specialist
once said that there are no intrinsically
good or bad boundaries but all border-
lands are potentially critical A bound-
ary may be stable for a long period and
then become unstable, not because of
a change in position but because of a
change in the general situation. It
depends on the animus of the men in
the big house.
We haven’t said anything yet about the
people, the Papuans, who live in New
Guinea. Beyond what we have said
earlier, what is happening in New Guinea
and to the Papuans will, in a more subtle


when long mileage and low overheads are really crucial . . .
WHO
CARRIES
MOST
WEIGHT
IN THE
TRUCKING
BUSINESS?
ill'
■■■■■Mir"
Tough's the word for Olympic truck and bus tyres; they go a much longer way to cut operating
costs. More money-making miles pile up as replacement costs come tumbling down. Every
Olympic tyre contains POLYBUTADIENE; that’s part of the secret of extra mileage. Deep,
rugged treads, too, give longer life, improved braking and the traction to go when you need
it most. From ‘all-round’ highway tyres to heavy-duty tyres for mine and quarry jobs, tha
name for toughness is Olympic. Successful operators are proving it every day. So can you.
Why not right away?* Check for Olympic Truck and Bus Tyres.
OT 134/40
VVV.V.W
m
m
m
r.v.w.vv.vvv.v.w
Olympic!!!!!
.■.VV.VV.V.'.V.V.V.V.V.W.W.V.VAV.V.V.VVVAW.V.
and indirect way, be important in the
total picture. It is clear that in their half
of the island the Indonesians are paying
major attention to education, including
political and cultural indoctrination. The
Papuans in West Irian are forced to turn
their eyes and thoughts westward to
Djakarta. It is unlikely that this effort
will pay immediate dividends in the town
centres where memories of previous edu-
cation (and indoctrination) by the Dutch
turned the thoughts of Papuans' to stand-
ing on their own feet and “the brother”
across the eastern border. There is more
likelihood for quicker, albeit more super-
ficial, results among the people of the
interior. Education and even indoctrina-
tion by themselves, however vital, will
hardly suffice.
Men cannot live by dope alone. It may
well be that the only opportunity for
Papuans to make use of their new educa-
tion will be in other parts of Indonesia.
This will drain West Irian of its intellect
and could turn it into a stagnant pool
unless there are economic and political
opportunities on the spot. It is exactly
on this count that serious doubts have to
be expressed about any short-term Indo-
nesian advances and successes. In spite of
the great inpour of capital and know-how,
the economic picture in this part of New
Guinea was dismal under the Dutch.
Given present economic conditions in
Indonesia, neither the capital nor know-
how will match the previous intake and
potential results will have been diluted by
mismanagement and corruption. Econ-
omic conditions in general and the
frustrated political ambitions of a relative
few may cause Papuans to cast furtive
glances over their shoulders to see what
is going on in the Australian half of the
island.
What is happening in the Australian
half is, therefore, important not only to
the people there and to Australia but also
to Papuans across the border and to
Indonesian policymakers. The foundation
of the economy is more solid in the Aus-
tralian part. Not only is there an economy
of a kind in which native inhabitants
participate but this economy is heavily
subsidised by the Commonwealth and
the subsidy is likely to increase as the
years go by.
Politically, we in the Australian part
are where the Dutch were in the western
half of the island in 1960. True, we have
on the local level a rapidly increasing
number of local councils, but the inter-
mediate and upper political structure has
been consciously neglected because of the
antipathy of our political elite to the con-
cept of a political elite in New Guinea.
The question is whether the effort, which
by necessity now takes the form of that
crash-programme so loudly decried a few
years back, will succeed. Past experience
in the western half of the island indicates
that the results are often more impressive
than anticipated by the most optimistic
predictors.
This does not mean that the Australian
part will not remain a political problem
child. Let’s admit, in all honesty, that any
talk of establishing a political democracy
on the Anglo-Saxon model is unmitigated
nonsense.
A self-governing State of “Papanga”
(Papua and New Guinea) will be politi-
cally unstable, economically unsound. But
it will be there sooner than we think. If
such a State is to arrive on the world
scene by—conservatively—l97o, then we
had better face up to the political reality.
If no “one people” exists as yet then
every effort has to be made toward
broadening and strengthening those
minimal interlocking relationships which
do exist.
At the same time there is need for
a blueprint which clearly outlines the
steps and their implications which
will be taken in the years ahead. Such
a blueprint will give direction to and
(Continued on Page 37)


INDONESIA TODAY 5
The Writers of Indonesia
Despite oppression, a tradition of integrity
By A. H. JOHNS
(Professor of Oriental Studies, Australian National University)
The Indonesian national language,
Bahasa Indonesia, is a remarkable
thing, and an expression of some-
thing equally remarkable: the develop-
ment of a sense of common identity and
purpose among the widely diversified
peoples of the former Dutch East Indies.
The concept of Bahasa Indonesia was
born in October, 1928, when an all-In-
donesian Youth Conference at Djakarta
proclaimed themselves to be one people,
the Indonesian people, and pledged their
loyalty to one fatherland, Indonesia, and
accepted as a common language Bahasa
Indonesia. This Bahasa Indonesia, both
historically and culturally, is a specific
modern projection of Malay, just as
American English is a projection of
English. On the other hand, it is clearly
demarcated from the form of the
language spoken in the Malay Peninsula,
differing in pronunciation and rhythm,
in lexical content and in function
although both language forms are
mutually intelligible.
This acceptance of a common language
was both a symbol and an instrument of
national unity. The islands of Indo-
nesia are at least as variegated linguis-
tically as the continent of Europe, so
that the free acceptance of a common
(and for many a foreign) language is a
compelling illustration of the readiness
of the regions of Indonesia to sacrifice
at least part of their own identity and
traditions for the sake of the national
ideal. And the use of a common
language of itself served to cement and
extend a sense of nationhood.
Yet, although modern Indonesian
literature was born of an upsurge of
political nationalism, its most valid and
important expressions are not tenden-
tiously political or nationalistic. The
Indonesia intelligentsia, of the 19305, for
the most part, served their new language
and through it their country not by
using it as a medium to excite the
fervor of political nationalism but to
express in a literary form their own
doubts and uncertainties, their discontent
and bewilderment at the fragmented
world in which they lived.
This consciousness of a broken world,
one in which traditional sanctions were
weakening and those of the West were
unable to establish themselves, lies
behind much of Indonesian pre-war
writing. In fiction, this is often expressed
by the predicaments of lovers spiritually
afire with the ideals of Europe, but
physically still at the mercy of the older
generation. And the resulting impasse is
reflected by the prominence of suicide
as a favored plot solution. The young
people, equally incapable of establishing
their own way of life, or living as their
parents, symbolically at least, see death
as the only escape route open to them.
Poetry during the ’thirties, by and large,
expressed the same general ideas.
The Japanese invasion marked a
major turning point in the development
of Indonesian literature. It was not
merely that the occupation brought down
a whole social edifice, and shocked
writers and artists into a new attitude to
life, but with the ransacking of Dutch
homes and the dissemination of books
from their private libraries, which were
avidly read, the younger Indonesian
writers discovered new intellectual
horizons, and* new concepts of poetry
and art. And as they endured the
traumatic experience of war and destitu-
tion, they simultaneously discovered new
techniques of artistic expression. And
this combination of circumstances at one
stroke put them in direct line of affilia-
tion with the great movement in poetry
inaugurated by the French symbolists at
the close of the 19th century, a move-
ment which has dominated Indonesian
poetry ever since.
The first Indonesian poet to achieve
success in this new mode of writing was
Chairil Anwar (1922-49), a man who
repudiated from the depths of his soul
the whole of a discredited social system,
and refused to compromise with humbug
and insincerity. Despite his Bohemian-
style of living, and apparent anarchism,
he was a fundamentally moral writer,
and it is this urgent and profound moral
sense that characterises too much of
Indonesian post-war writing, and also
serves to distinguish it from much pre-
war writing. This moral sense is not
something to be defined narrowly. It is
not to be understood as a sense of
ethical precepts. Rather, it is a restless
and intense search for genuine values
amid the quicksands of the post-war
chaos, of greed, corruption and the
idolatrous worship of crude nationalist
emotion.
These twin threads of moral purpose
and symbolism are not limited to poetry.
Trisno Sumardjo (1916- ) in 1948
published a deceptively simple story
entitled “Mouse and Men”. A tiny mouse
enters for a short while the lives of a
writer and his wife who live on the
borderline of poverty. They befriend the
little creature and feed him, until, while
the author is confined to bed for a week
by sickness, it devours the whole of a
newly-completed manuscript. It requires
a little reflection to realise that ex-
quisitely written story with such apparent
charm is a bitter commentary on the
social scene: that the little folk for whom
the revolution was fought are no better
off than mice; that the masses striving
for equality and dignity are no better off
than a mouse running off with pathetic
little scraps of fried potato, and that
in the last resort blind self-interest
knows no gratitude, and destroys the
hand that fed it.
Several important poets and prose
writers exploit these themes. A most
important prose writer is Pramudya
Ananta Tur (1925- ). In a sense he
is, par excellence, the writer of the
revolutionary struggle. His stories are
filled with the horror of war, yet his
primary concern is with human values,
a concern which transcends both race
and political commitment. Among the
poets Sitor Situmarong and, more
recently, Rendra are notable. But it is
striking that, wide as the range of these
and other poets is, there is always some
hidden horror, and even an obsession
with death lurking within their creative
imaginations.


S'
■*“**>» .
f-
LMJ
■s
X* 6
13
P
■**-
%*»■
©>■
V
*
a*
a
■v
Food: Plant, harvest, and process it mechanically that’s the way
to keep abreast of the needs of an exploding population. The ways and the
means are available. For example, one man and a John Deere
Combine can harvest as much as 3,800 bushels of wheat in just 11 hours.
That equals 247,000 loaves of bread. As a major producer of
agricultural and industrial equipment, John Deere is a good company
to sell to, work for, or buy from anywhere in the world.
y
JOHN DEERE AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
(INC. IN N.S.W.) BOX 4284, G.P.O. SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA
Distributors N.S.W.: W. & J. Farm Equipment Pty. Ltd., Mitchell Rd. & Coulson St., Alexandria. (P.O. Box 83 Alexandria) Phone*
516631. Vic.: John Deere Australia Pty. Ltd., 300 Ballarat Road, Braybrook. Phone: 311-0449, 311-0440. Q’ld: Deering Machinery Pty.
Ltd., Hastings Park, Kerry Road, Archerfield. Phone: 47 1701-2-3. S.A.: Tractors (S.A.) Ltd., 696 Port Road, Beverley. Phone: 45 1732.
W.A.: Wigmores Machinery Pty. Ltd., Cnr. Great Eastern Highway & Koojan Ave., South Guildford. (Box 8.83 G.P.0.) Phone: 65 1721.
Tas.: Cameron & Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd. 6 Collins Street, Hobart. Phone: 2 3041 (Box 867 J, G.P.0.) Branch at Cameron &
Sutherland (Sales) Pty. Ltd., 330-336 Invermay Road, Launceston. Phone: 6 0251. N.T.: Hastings Deering (N.T.) Pty. Ltd., Stuart Highway,
Darwin. Phone: 2301. N.G.: Hastings Deering (New Guinea) Pty. Ltd. Port Moresby, Papua. Phone: 4328. N.G.: Hastings Deering (New
Guinea) Pty. Ltd., Lae. (P.O. Box 61) Phone: 2487. N.Z.: Gough, Gough & Hamer Ltd., 145 Cashel Street, Christchurch. (P.O. Box 634)
Phone: 60 989.


IF
ONLY
I’D
PHONED
IN
THE
FIRST
PLAGE
It would have been so much simpler.
No letters to write ...
no answers to wait for ...
no points in doubt.
Just a few minutes on the phone
and the whole thing was settled.
vvA'f*: • •' :
TRUNK CALLS CAN CERTAINLY MAKE THINGS SIMPLER
c
*
THE AUSTRALIAN POST OFFICE
The Indonesian political scene o\ei
the past few years has not been pleasant.
Almost daily, the literary columns of the
daily Press carry tirades against the artist
whose principal concern is with problems
of individual morality.
Yet this does not mean that the small,
still voice of the creative writer is stifled,
or even that he is doomed to despair. In
a short story published in 1961, Achdiat
Karta Mihardja delineates all that is
oppressive in the Indonesian situation
and offers his own answer. The story,
told by a Dutch exile from Indonesia,
van Buren, faces without equivocation
the evil and cruelty resulting from the
revolution and the lack of integrity in
political life. Yet van Buren still longs
for the country of his former domicile:
not because of the beauty of the moun-
tain ranges of West Java, but for his love
f° r the people, and in particular for a
Sundanese village girl killed by the anti-
Dutch mob. For love can invest every-
thm § with meaning and beauty, even the
dreary monotony of the desert.
There can be little doubt that by
desert here Achdiat is referring to all
that is stagnant and depressing in Indo-
nesian political life. But so far from
turning aside in despair, he sees in the
fundamental virtues of love for God and
man a guarantee for the preservation of
human values, despite the stresses
through which Indonesia is passing,
The courage of men such as Achdiat
is still making its way underground and
may, in the long run, be a decisive factor
in the making of a new Indonesia.
How We Look
to Them
Foreigners sometimes
misunderstand...
(An extract from “Demikianlah
Australia” - “This Is Australia”
by a one-time Indonesian student here,
Auf Effendi. The translation is by
H. W. Emmanuels, Lecturer in Indo-
nesian Language and Literature, Syd-
ney University.)
Oocial discrimination, the curse of
many Eastern countries, does not
exist here. “Who you are and who I
am is one’s own business,” they say.
And the result of such an attitude is
that it has made the workers self-
conscious. He may be a sweeper on the
market-place, a porter or your taxi-
driver, whatever he may be, he will
never think of humbling himself. He
will talk to you as if you were his
colleague. A worker will call his boss
usually by his Christian name: Jim,
Jack and so on. I seldom heard them
addressing each other as Mr this is
only customary in England.
One day I told them that in Indo-
nesia we use the word SAUDARA
(brother, friend) when addressing col-
leagues. And they thought this very
nice, fit to be followed in Australia.
But when I said that we also use the
word BAPAK (father) in offices they
laughed heartily and found it enough
to be called father by their own child-
ren.
Foreigners sometimes misunder-
stand the spirit of equality in the
Aussie’s heart.
A Lady of high nobility from Lon-
don, Lady Buckingham, could not
conceal her amazement at the ab-
sence of a class of “babu and djongos”
(domestic servants) in Australia. And
the Lady said: “My friends in Ade-
laide and Melbourne amazed me by
telling that it is terribly difficult to
get domestic help in this country.
How strange! I really can’t understand
how an Australian housewife can be
so devoted to her home that it is
always in perfect order, and this with-
out the help of domestic servants. The
housewife must even prepare meals
for the guests herself. Just imagine
me doing my own cooking isn't
that a ridiculous idea? Why don’t
they create a class of servants in their
society? Couldn't millions of starving
Europeans very well be made do-
mestic servants?”
I am convinced that the comments
of Australians would not sound pleas-
ant in the ears of our high Lady.


OUT AND ABOUT
The Middle Age
of Innocence
“The past is so permanent "
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Mr Hal Porter was recently in
Sydney on the last stages of a
two-year break from library work
during which time he has devoted him-
self entirely to writing. This was not
the romantic, egotistical decision of a
20-years-old but the deliberate risk of
a man of 50-odd. But it has worked out
very well, at least in terms of production.
Mr Porter has had published “The
Watcher on the Cast-Iron Balcony”, the
first part of what will probably be a
three-volume autobiography. He has
written two plays. The first, “The
Tower,” has been published and is to
be produced in London next year. The
second is hanging fire for the moment.
He has also written a book on the Aus-
tralian theatre, several short stories and
part of a novella. He has lectured for
the Commonwealth Literary Fund and
made a fairly spectacular appearance at
the Edinburgh Festival writers’ con-
ference.
Although it might seem from his
writing that Mr Porter sits up half the
night knitting his prose on size 12
needles he says he does not have great
difficulty in getting things on paper.
Apparently he thinks long and writes
fast.
Where full-time writing seems to
have failed him is that it has already, he
feels, removed him too far from every-
day life, the source of his material. For
this reason he intends to take a job in
a city next year. The third question
whether it is a financial proposition
he cannot quite tell yet. He knows he is
no best-seller writer. “I write for the
people who read Hal Porter. There seem
to be more of them about these days,”
he said.
The major production of the two
years’ activity is, of course, “The
Watcher on the Cast-Iron Balcony”. In
this Mr Porter’s clotted cream prose
has thinned out into something fine,
pure and sparkling. It is an account of
what he calls his period of non-
innocence, that is from his birth in the
year in which Edward VII died until
his own mother’s death when he was a
schoolboy. It is sub-titled an Australian
autobiography. Almost every critic has
begun his review by demanding what
is an autobiography, and then, in the
manner of critics, answering the question
himself. “The Watcher” is a highly
imaginative work, a world away from
the silly, skittering reminiscences of
“personalities” or the ponderous lies of
what seem now to be known as “world
figures”.
Still, one would have thought it much
easier to have coated the whole thing in
fiction. But Mr Porter says that auto-
biography was inevitable. “I had
written several stories based on my child-
hood,” he said. “Then I knew I would
have to write the whole of it out of my
system or I would never get on with any-
thing else.”
“The Watcher,” he says, is not self-
exposure. There had been some difficult
decisions to make on how incidents and
characters could be handled, but the
main problem was what to do with him-
self as central character. “I can’t let
myself get away with anything,” he said.
“But it is all past and the past is so
bloody permanent.”
Mr Porter said that the second volume
would probably take him to about the
age of 35, “when I began to grow up.”
This past is not so bloody permanent,
and Mr Porter admitted that his
difficulties in dealing with character
would increase. “After all, many of
them are living, kicking people,” he
said.
If the trilogy had a theme it would
be the getting of innocence. “I am sure
I was born non-innocent,” he said, “and
that I will die innocent. I have no faith
in the innocence of children.”
On his voyage towards innocence Mr
Porter has kept much of the fitful gaiety
and high spirits which the adolescent of
“The Watcher” seems to have had. He
has also kept a fair bit of the reddish
hair, which in those days he wished
passionately were black, and the mous-
tache which he probably grew in emula-
tion of film heroes of the thirties.
His life at Hedley, Victoria, is almost
that of a recluse with occasional splendid
forays on Melbourne or Sydney. At
these times, well, as he says, “If every-
one ate cucumber sandwiches I would
eat cucumber sandwiches, but everybody
drinks, so I drink.” But then he cuts
himself loose quite easily and goes back
to solid, extended work.
Mr Porter said that his English pub-
lishers, Faber and Faber, were set on
publishing the book without alteration.
Finally, about 100 words, describing
someone still living, were sacrificed. A
chapter chosen from the book and pub-
lished in the “Fondon Magazine”
suggested that Mr Porter and his pub-
lishers might run into trouble with Aus-
tralian censorship before they came up
against libel laws. This did not happen.
“The Watcher” had a smooth passage
through the Customs. Nor were copies
of the “Fondon Magazine” delayed, so
far as Mr Porter knows. This, he regards,
as a “breakthrough” for Australian
writers and as proof that when Senator
Henty says that serious writers have
little to fear from his department he
means it.
“The Watcher on the Cast-Iron Bal-
cony” has been well received here, but
Mr Porter professes himself “bewildered”


F
U
m
■ ; :■
It,
m
mm
*i J
-&!
tf
i 'msm
WmW®
It's fun to fly
(when you fly with Qantas)
Fun all the way. For example: liqueurs and after dinner coffee at 40,000 feet—
only a taste of the enjoyment you get when you fly Qantas. For we think flying
should be fun for everyone. That’s why we take it so seriously. Every little
detail perfectly arranged. More than 6,500 Qantas people thinking of your needs
before you’ve thought of them yourself. Pleasant people booking your luggage,
preparing your food, serving your drinks, giving you pleasant service. Pleasant
people at the Qantas Australian centres in the places you visit. Whether you fly
near or far, First or Economy, you enjoy much more
when you fly with Qantas, Australia’s big round-
world airline. See your Travel Agent or Qantas.
43 YEARS OF DEPENDABLE SERVICE
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED, in STsociaiion with Air India, 8.0.A.C., S.A.A. and TEAL,
Q 35.107.14


Gracious Living
for the Young Executive
mM
'r%
■
: ■: : 'V * ’ j
*
; :: ' : : . ' :
**,.**,..***£;„ . .. ~ :
' V ''' ' ' S ' ''
i=** "<j
I £ J
1/
Kiiburn Towers, Manly ... a prestige-building location just 7 miles from
Town, built on the water's edge, where you can relax—and entertain —in
an atmosphere of spaciousness . . . free from the City's tensions . . .
with a Harbour view from every unit.
® 2 to 4 bedroom units ® 2 lifts • Resident Caretak®r
• Prices from £7,165 to £17,500. Garage space inclusive.
Your address could be Kiiburn Towers for a low deposit.
Excellent reducible finance available.
For illustrated brochure, contact
DAVIS ESTATES PTY. LTD., 82a Oxford Street, Sydney.
You can inspect the units through any
Manly Estate Agent, or call at the units,
1 Addison Road, 9 a.m. 4 p.m. Week-
days, 2 sp.m. Saturdays and Sundays.
KILBURN
TOWERS
MANLY, N.S.W.
'Designed for gracious living'
rmwm
m
tern
05
m
by the critics. He finds the evenness of
the criticism baffling the fact that
“serious” critics and those who give a
book a couple of pars in the afternoon
papers have addressed themselves to it
in much the same way. However, Mr
Porter says that generally he does not
see criticism. He does not read little
magazines, nor does he write for them,
although he could be trapped into
“Southerly” when his friend, Kenneth
Slessor, was editing it. His family takes
“The Age” but his own mirror to the
world is the “Weekly Times”.
Mr Porter claims that he wrote “The
Watcher on the Cast-Iron Balcony” to
get his childhood out of his system, but
it was obviously planned as more than
therapy. It should serve to place him
more accurately in what he refers to
lightly as “Aust. Lit.”
Although he is currently engaged on
what must be one of the largest single
projects an Australian writer has under-
taken, Mr Porter does not regard him-
self as belonging to the monolithic school
of Australian writing. He does not
believe that Australian writing gains dis-
tinction or breadth by throwing up a
few massive talents, but by the work of
many, smaller talents. “There is so much
that hasn't been said here, so much that
has never been put on paper,” he said.
Nor is he a great admirer of the mono-
lithic works themselves, those monu-
mental. serious works, the characters for
which might have been picked up in an
Oslo park.
Mr Porter thinks of Australia and
his readers among them—as “the most
sophisticated people in the world”. “You
cannot waste their time,” he said. “If
you talk on television in London they
are quite happy for you just to make
some sounds. The English merely need
to recognise you, or your type, or your
social position. But here you have to
say something, and before Australians
will read you you have to say something,
too.”
Although Mr Porter does not think
of himself as belonging to any school
or group, he feels there is value for
Australian writers, who work in isola-
tion rather than in cliques, in meeting
together, “even if it’s only to get drunk.”
He felt that the writers’ conference at
Edinburgh was wasted time for himself
and other writers there, but the meeting
of Australian writers in Adelaide during
the 1962 Festival of the Arts he found
immensely interesting and useful.
He plans to leave shortly for London,
where his play “The Tower” will be
produced at the Hampstead Theatre
Club. But it will be only a short visit.
“I am a failed expatriate,” he said
ruefully. “1 got that phrase from Max
Harris.”
confidence in Australian stewardship and
will be an effective answer to the un-
certainties of the present. Such a political
programme is a gamble; without such
a programme the stewardship is lost.
The short-term problem of what is to
be done within the next few years is
minor compared with foreseeing what
will happen after these years have passed.
Obviously, the basis of what is to come
has been and is being laid now and much
depends on how Australia handles the
job during the next few years. Failure
during this stage may be an invitation
for political trouble-shooters inside
and outside the territory. Even if self-
government is achieved, Australian wor-
ries will merely be transferred from one
department to another. Before that hap-
pens there will be invitations to “Papan-
gan” leaders to visit their big brother
next door and to send their students to
Indonesian colleges and universities. Such
invitations could be an expression of a
“Good Neighbor” policy or have Machia-
vellian overtones or a combination
of both.


C.S.R. Co's half-yearly report
Points from General Manager s
report to shareholders
In his recently released report to shareholders, Dr. James
Vernon, General Manager of The Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Limited, mentioned:
• record production of raw sugar by the Company's mills
• proposed expansion of Australian raw sugar industry
• expansion occurring in Fiji raw sugar industry
• some factors which can cause fluctuations in the world raw
sugar price
• some improvement in sales of the Company s building
materials.
Dr. James Vernon
RAW SUGAR MILLING
C.S.R.'s Australian mills: It is expected that for
the 1963 season the total raw sugar output from
the Company’s seven mills in Queensland and
New South Wales will be about 356,000 tons, an
increase of 6,000 tons over the record output of
the 1962 season.
Fiji mills: From the four mills of South Pacific
Sugar Mills Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
C.S.R., production during the current season is
now expected to be about 300,000 tons of raw
sugar, a record tonnage for a season in Fiji.
REFINED SUGAR
Australia: Sales of sugar products from C.S.R.
refineries during the half year ended 30th Sep-
tember were 249,000 tons, an increase of about
I}% over the same period for 1962.
New Zealand: Sales of sugar products by our
wholly-owned subsidiary. New Zealand Sugar Co.
Ltd., during the half year were 52,700 tons. This
decline of about H% compared with the same
period of 1962 was apparently due to reduction
of stocks by customers.
AUSTRALIAN SUGAR
INDUSTRY MATTERS
Australian raw sugar production: Austra-
lia’s 34 sugar mills are expected to produce about
1,703,000 tons of raw sugar in the 1963 season,
99,000 tons less than the record crop in the 1962
season. (Thus C.S.R.’s seven mills are expected
to make 21% of the season’s raw sugar.)
In 1963, for the second year in succession,
Australia will export over one million tons of
sugar and will be the second largest sugar ex-
porter in the world.
Expansion of raw sugar production in
Australia: The committee under the chairman-
ship of the Honourable H. T. Gibbs, appointed
by the Queensland Government to study the ex-
pansion of the sugar industry, completed its
report in October.
The committee has recommended the adoption
of an Australian sugar production target of 2.2
million tons for the three seasons 1965/67, and
higher quantities in subsequent years, working up
to 2.5 million tons for the 1970 season.
The committee concluded that this expansion of
the sugar industry would require the assignment
for cane growing of 150,407 acres of additional
land; of which about 64,000 acres should be
assigned to new growers. Thus, about 1,000 new
growers are expected to enter the industry.
The Queensland Government has adopted the
committee’s report in principle and it has been
left to the Central Sugar Cane Prices Board to
implement in detail the broad recommendations.
EXPANSION OF RAW SUGAR
PRODUCTION IN FIJI
Substantial development of the Fiii sugar in-
dustry has been under way since the end of
1962. Capital expenditure on expansion and on
replacement of plant, machinery and buildings
at the mills in 1963 and 1964 will be about
£F2,100,000.
THE WORLD SUGAR SITUATION
In 1962 world sugar producion fell short of
consumption, and it seems that world stocks,
already low, have been further depleted. During
1963 the world free market sugar prices (spot
basis) have fluctuated from as low as £stg.4o to
as high as £stg.los; however, the great bulk of
world free market trade in sugar this year took
place at prices much lower than the maximum
of £stg.los.
The world price of sugar has become more
important to the sugar industries of Australia
and Fiji because, with expansion, a higher pro-
portion of each country’s crop has to be sold at
prices linked to that price. For the 1963 season
45% of the Australian crop and 49% of the
Fiji crop have been or will be priced by reference
to it.
Historically, there have been very great fluctua-
tions in the world price, but the general state
of the market has been a depressed one. Price
rises have been spectacular at times but invari-
ably, in the past, periods of high prices have
been of short duration.
Taking a view of the present situation of high
world prices and of supply and demand, it seems
that the high prices may not collapse as quickly
as they have in the past.
Many unpredictable things can influence prices.
Hurricanes, as in Cuba recently, and other
weather conditions can affect production; so
could political developments such as changes in
Cuba’s internal situation or in its relations with
the U.S.A.; so could such alterations in social or
economic policies as the Russian decision to allow
millions in the Soviet and satellite countries to
eat more sugar. Nor is it possible to predict the
extent to which the high world price will depress
consumption; or the extent to which countries
may reduce imports to save foreign exchange; or
the extent to which countries may decide to pro-
duce at home for their own consumers. We can
only say that there is some confidence that,
though prices may well become much lower
than they are now, low prices—such as used to
be known —are not expected to prevail in 1964.
Lest the foregoing should be taken to indicate
that the Company disagrees with the measure of
optimism underlying the recommendations in the
Gibbs report, it should be stated that the Com-
pany does not so disagree. But it is proper that it
should be made clear that the very welcome ex-
pansion of the Australian sugar industry will be
attended by all the risks inherent in the market-
ing for export of a product with such a volatile
history as to price and a* to the physical extent
of market outlets.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Recovery of activity in the building trade in
Australia is continuing, but at a slower rate than
had generally been expected. Sales of C.S.R.
building materials in general this year are better
than a year ago, but with only a few products
has the improvement been substantial.
Fibreboard Group: Sales of Masonite and
Timbrock in Australia are a little above those of
last year. Production has increased mainly because
exports to several countries have been increased.
C.S.R. Floor Tiles: Considerable price reductions
have been made by Australian manufacturers, but
competition from imports continues to be severe,
imports holding a large share of the Australian
market. Our own range of Vinylflex and Hi-
Vinyl tiles has been expanded and sales have in-
creased considerably compared with a year ago.
The report by the Tariff Hoard on floor tiles
has been released and accepted by the Govern-
ment. The Board recommended an increase in the
British Preferential Tariff only, from 17i% to
25%, and no change in the M.F.N. duty of 35%.
Additional modest indirect assistance has been
given the industry, however, as a result of the
Tariff Board’s recommendation that a bounty of
4d per lb should be paid to manufacturers of
vinyl chloride resins. This has reduced the cost
of the main raw material used in vinyl floor tiles.
Gypsum Products Group: The market for gyp-
sum products is making fair progress and further
growth is anticipated.
Pyneboard Group: The former high rate of
growth of the particle board market appears to be
dropping back to a more normal level and, with
new factories being commissioned and planned
by several companies, there is likely to be surplus
production capacity for some time.
Mineral Fibres Group: Sales of 8.1. Fibertex
mineral wool products are increasing, with strong
competition from other insulation materials.
INDUSTRIAL CHEMICALS
C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (60% C.S.R.): Sales
have been maintained in satisfactory volume
during 1963 although pressure on prices continues
to be severe. Dumping of some chemicals from
overseas has had an effect on selling prices dis-
proportionate to the quantities of chemicals ac-
tually landed, and representations to Government
Departments are continuing.
C.S.R.C.-Dow Pty. Ltd. (50% C.S.R. Chemi-
cals): Production from the factories in Sydney
and at Altona, near Melbourne, is generally at a
satisfactory level, although sales of styrene for
synthetic rubber manufacture are still below
expectations.
E. F. Goodrlch-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd. (40%
C.S.R. Chemicals): Production and sales of poly-
vinyl chloride are high.


Smith-Corona
CORSAIR
l2
NO OTHER PORTABLE
HAS TABULATOR AND 2 COLOUR RIBBON
FOR
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
56-58 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. 29-1151
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE, CANBERRA
and ALL LEADING STORES AND STATIONERS
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
THE NORTH
Sir,
It is childish and futile to keep harping
on the fact that most of the North is
unsuitable for intensive settlement (“De-
velopment Ballyhoo” (23/11/63). Most
of the area south of Capricorn could be
so described. As in the South, so in the
North: it is the good parts that count
coastal fringes, river basins, mineral
deposits.
The Rockhampton - Cooktown strip
could be another Newcastle - Melbourne
axis. The Burdekin Basin alone could
support one million people. The Japan-
ese would happily colonise it. Perhaps the
Red Chinese will, one day, if the Japan-
ese don’t beat them to it.
It would be wise for Australia to beat
them both to it. We who urge action to
develop the North are not so naive as to
envisage a flood of Asians filling every
square yard of it. An invader would pick
his spots. The danger to Australia surely
is not that an invader would send hordes
into the North, but that he would make
its emptiness and lack of development a
pretext for taking the lot.
Australia’s choice is simple: we either
: go on lying on our backs, waiting for
- something to happen, or we get to work
and colonise our own undeveloped land
and in so doing make this nation so valu-
able to the world at large, and to our
potential Asian invaders in particular, in
terms of food and industrial products,
that we are worth more to them alive
than dead.
LARRY FOLEY
News Officer, People
the North Committee.
Townsville ( Q’ld ).
SIR JOHN GIELGUD
Sir,
In your review section under the
heading “Golden Cuckoo” (16/11/63),
I was amazed, and indignant, at the
very bad taste shown by Katherine
Randerson in her criticism of Sir John
Gielgud’s “Ages of Man” recital in Perth.
Her personal remarks on Sir John were
in the worst possible taste.
And no one of any theatrical percep-
tion thought that he was consulting his
programme for any other reason than
to see “what came next”. Certainly it
was not a “bit of business”.
L. DONEGAN
Perth ( WA ).
THE NEW HOLDEN
Sir,
Though I have often been amazed by
Boadicea’s comments on cars, I feel that
her article “The New Holden —A Last
Word” (23/11/63) has reached a new
low, even for her. To get down to par-
ticulars:
(1) According to data in “Modern
Motor” and other journals, the Holden
EHI79 does not lead the' Chrysler
Valiant in either acceleration or top
speed, as Boadicea implies.
(2) “That GM-H can make its Holdens
brake with the best of them was con-
vincingly shown” (in the Armstrong 500)
by a model (the S 4) unavailable to the
general public, fitted with imported brake
linings unavailable to the general public,
as well as power booster.
(3) Comparative (though not absolute)
fuel consumptions of cars can be judged
from the Mobilgas Economy Run. In the
Mobilgas advertisement we find: Fuel
consumption, manual Holden EH 149 =
33.95 m.p.g.; manual Valiant APS =
31.97 m.p.g. Thus, the Holden, Using
about llOOc.c. less than the Valiant (i.e.,
about 70 per cent of the Valiant’s
capacity), achieves 6 per cent better
fuel consumption. However, Boadicea
achieves “an astonishing 30 m.p.g.”
from both the S 4 and the 179; she was
rightly astonished. By this criterion, one
should get 28 m.p.g. from a Valiant over
150 miles of open highway, averaging
50 m.p.h. I can only assume that
Boadicea was using a specially prepared
car, in which case her comments are
worthless. The EH may have better fuel
economy than the EJ, but only because
that model was so abysmally bad.
(4) Boadicea “was amazed at the S4’s
top-gear pulling up the long mountain
straight where they had the legs of other
cars with claimed greater horsepower.”
First, has she never heard of wind
resistance, weight, or gearing as con-
tributory factors in top-gear perform-
ance? Secondly, what were these other
cars, that those of us who did not see
the race may judge for ourselves
whether to be amazed also? Thirdly,
what is the claimed horsepower of the
S 4?
(5) In any article about the EH
Holden, it is absolutely pointless to talk
about the S 4 anyway, since the factory
appears to have no intention of letting
people buy any more than the minimum
necessary to compete in the Armstrong
500. All that talk of the S 4 does is to
cloud the issue of the true nature of the
EH.
(6) “The meccano - like simplicity
makes for easy and therefore cheap
service.” Has Boadicea ever worked on
an engine with the meccano-like simpli-
fication of hydraulic valve lifters? Has
she tried to get MS oil at Kulgera, or
clean, dust-free oil anywhere in the out-
back? Does she not know that Rolls-
Royce, whose products are renowned for
reliability and longevity, tried and


The growth of ASL has been synonymous with the develop-
ment of the motor industry. Since 1926, ASL has been
financing people on wheels.
Now in addition to hire purchase the finance services of ASL
are available Australia-wide for almost every purpose: leasing,
real estate, industrial expansion, commercial development
and many others.
You are welcome to expert advice at any ASL Branch. Fast,
fair, friendly! That’s ASL finance.
Sydney, 25 5281; Brisbane, 21991; Melbourne, 67 6551;
Adelaide, 8 7183; Hobart, 2 2426.
Associated
Securities
Limited
KEEP ON
HE MOVE
WITH ASL
FINANCE
iH
■
x?
< .
a**®
a*"
y
*#***
*&*
s* ■ ■«#>
.,/,&' »*>
.-y . ..
H*""
M*
m
■»•■■■
■
.<•..-, >
mi
i&A
%
FINANCING INDUSTRY AND TRANSPORTATION SINCE 1926.
ASL16.10-
abandoned hydraulic valve lifters be-
cause irregular maintenance and failure
to keep the oil free from dust led to
unreliability?
I have dealt with these matters at
some length because, though the
Holden is very good value for" money
(even I. drive one), it is ridiculous for
the motoring correspondent of a repu-
table journal to produce the miasma of
half truths and untruths which GM-H's
publicity department is quite capable of
supplying if it wants to.
H. R. MACFARLAND
Adelaide (ST).
Sir,
As a “brakes” man, may I make a
small comment on Boadicea’s article on
the latest Holden. I am sure the writer
must know better, but the wording of the
article suggests that the fitting of power
brakes will in some way increase the
efficiency of the brakes themselves. This
is definitely not the case. Fitting power
brakes merely enables the same brakes
to be applied with less foot pedal
pressure. In all Holdens the pedal pres-
sure required is very light. The smallest
lady driver can stop all four wheels
without undue effort. The fitting of
power brakes is unnecessary.
A. J. CARTER
Sydney (NSW).
THE FINANCE PAGES
Sir,
While appreciating the viewpoint of
your correspondent from Kalamunda
(WA) (30/11/63), I cannot agree that
because it now carries 32 pages of busi-
ness and finance The Bulletin is
“quickly becoming a capitalist’s paper”.
I find much to enjoy in The Bulletin
• and (not being a capitalist, either)
that observation very much includes the
informative finance pages.
In my view the extended section deal-
ing with the nation’s commercial and
industrial life is a worthwhile contribu-
tion to this highly important subject.
G. H. HAWKES
Sydney (NSW).
Sir,
I read the comments from D. J. Gra-
ham, of Kalamunda, that your magazine
features too much about business and
finance and was becoming a “capitalists’
weekly.”
I have The Bulletin on order each
week, and must say that the number of
subjects viewed and discussed are spread
very evenly. My son, an industrial chem-
ist, on his last visit to us picked up The
Bulletin and remarked that he was
agreeably surprised at the amount of
business and finance it contained. I said
that in my opinion it was a “must” for
any person connected with business, and
also for the average person. He sa : a
that he would place an order with ou
newsagent immediately; so, perhap y
you lose one reader you certainly
another.
G. B. AU
Footscray ( Vic.)


INDONESIA TODAY 6
THE
HOP
SHORT STORY BY S. ISMAR
Abit of onion, a bit of garlic, a
taste of curry and some ginger.
A slice of tomato and of course
some lemon. Ah, but curry is not curry
for Adi without a handful of chillie. Adi
likes it hot.
Soon Adi’s neighbor around his flat
will be drowned by the biting and invit-
ing smell of his curried steak. The smell
is not all. At the background a loud
Beethoven violin concerto fills the air
just as merrily as Adi’s curry. Adi put a
ready fried omelette into the oven.
Washes the pans, the cutting board and
turn the gas of the rice down all in a
masterly touch. Quick, efficient and
thorough.
“Oh what a beautiful smell. We are
going to mf£s your curry.” Mrs Holcomb
appears at Adi’s flat’s door.
“I am going to miss you too, Mrs Hol-
comb. One thing I regret now is that I
have not learnt how to iron my shirt.”
“I bet you will have three or four wives
to do them all for you. Look, you have
stained your nice shirt. Come on take
it off I will wash it for you.”
“It is my washing day tomorrow. Be-
sides a woman of your age needs a lot
of rest. Tomorrow I am going to wash
everything so that they will be all clean
to pack.”
“Adi ... I have something to confess.
Will you forgive me?”
“Mrs Holcomb, in the last five years I
have known you, you can do no wrong.
I forgive you whatever it is. I know. . .
you washed my dishes this morning. No?
You mended my shirt . . . No? Perhaps
you came in and borrowed a couple of
eggs! I give up. What is it, Mrs Hol-
comb?”
“I washed all your clothes!”
At that instant Adi rushes to his ward-
robe and there he finds all his shirts
underwears and handkerchiefs neatly
arranged and ironed.
“Oh my God, you shouldn’t have done
it. Didn’t your doctor tell you to have a
lot of rest? What have you done? It was
my three weeks washing.”
\“I wanted to give you a surprise. I like
you*., Adi, and soon you will leave. At my
age.' I do not have much chance to see
you again. I don’t have much ... so I
thought I’d do that for you.”
Tears begin to run down her cheek.
The smell of the curry is getting stronger
and the blend is getting perfect. David
Oistrakh has just finished the first move-
ment. Adi is standing there touched to
the ground. He wants to cry too.
“I’ll fix you a glass of beer.”
Adi turns away as quickly as possible
toward to fridge to hide his burning face.
He flings the door open. The cold lump
of air hit his face. It is cool on that hot
summer day. He grabs a bottle of Bitter
Beer, pushes to top off and pours it into
two glasses.
“Cheer up Mrs Holcomb this will do
you some good.” They both say:
“Cheers”.
“You write me won’t you Adi? Tell
me everything you do. I have watched
you grow up in this country. You are a
good boy ... a very good boy.”
HOP” was written by an Indo-
A nesian student who left Australia
this year. We publish it mainly because
we feel that it shows more plainly
than a dozen surveys how an Indo-
nesian student may react to Australian
life, what he may learn from us and
what we may learn from him. Mr
Ismar’s grip on English is not very
secure, but he has story-telling gifts
which may make him a distinguished
writer in his own country in time. We
hope so.
“Of course, Mrs Holcomb I am going
to tell you everything. How can I forget
you? I am bound to wear my shirt you
know! Ah, the beer is good isn’t it Mrs
Holcomb?”
“Yeah.”
“I’d better go now. George will be
home soon from his footy. Is there any-
thing I can do for you? You only have
three days to pack.”
“I’ll be all right. Everything is under
control.”
“See you later.”
“See you later.”
Adi gives the curry a stir, switch the
rice off and set the table for two. He
never forgets to buy a bottle of good
claret. Lis likes the hot curry with claret.
Lis’s taste is Adi’s. Lis was the one who
introduced him to claret. He remembers
the first time Lis came to dinner to his
flat.
It started five years ago at the Refec-
tory of the Adelaide University. Adi was
sitting alone sipping a cup of hot black
tea. He was very lonely and very home-
sick. Winter was at its. peak with the
rain pouring heavily. For Adi it was a
miserable and cold day. Both his hands
enveloped the steamy hot cup. It was
warm. The refectory was packed with
students who were trapped by the rain,
Adi watched them laugh and joke, push
and pull, tease and being teased. His
thought was switched to home here ha
had friends who laughed and joked, who
kicked and punched. The friends who
make him belong to them. They were far
away. The environment was strange, the
food was not tasty and the weather was
rather cruel. Oh for that hot chillie and
the hot sun. And, of course, Ani his
sweetheart.
“May I sit here?” It was a girl wearing
a red plastic raincoat. Water was drip-
ping from all over her. She had just
braved the rain for a cup of coffee.
Snatched off his far away thought Adi
said:
“Of course, by all means” and began to
shift his bag and newspapers from the
table to make more room. Adi felt a
brush of pleasure inside him just being
aware that somebody was sharing a table
with him. Moreover she is pretty. Adi
found this out when he glanced up to say
“by all means”. From then on Adi buried
his eyes into the papers. But his head
urged him to steal another look. It was
a struggle between his Oriental shyness
and his immediate need. When he gradu-
ally lifted his head ready to throw a quick
glance a pair of big green eyes were al-
ready waiting for him. To his surprise
she was smiling.
“May I borrow the middle part of your
paper please?” Adi was again caught and
said: “Of course by all means.”
Adi was grateful at the directness of
this creature. He was thrilled. The last
time he saw and heard Ani was three
months ago. It felt so long. Longer then
he could bear. That girl’s voice was music
to his craving loneliness. He gained con-
fidence and more courage to try to make
her speak some more.
“Excuse me would you like to
have these papers too?”


ORE
TREATMENT
The Curvilinear Patented Ore Con-
centrator has proved over many years
to be remarkably efficient, simple and
inexpensive to operate. Send for
illustrated Bulletin to the sole
manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LTD.
78 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown
Agents for
"Everlasting’’ Boiler Blow off Valves, Rapid
Magnetising Machines, George Ellison
Switch Gear. Blasting Mats, Explosives,
Log Splitting Guns, etc. Makers of Classi-
fiers, Water Filters, Steam Valves, etc.
“I am allright thanks.”
Adi noticed he still had the morning
papers.
“Perhaps this one.”
“No, thank you I read them this
morning.”
Adi felt completely lost. His attempt
to attract her attention was in vain. Adi
then unaware was looking at her with
such reminishing stare that he forgot. He
forgot that she was not Ani. He forgot
that she was looking at him curiously as
well. _
“Is there anything wrong?” she sud-
denly broke the silence.
“Oh ... oh nothing. I thought you
were .... I am sorry. Forgive me!
Please.”
“That is all right. I hope 1 am not dis-
turbing you. If you wish me to go I will
find some other table.”
“Please don’t. Really I was just for-
getting that I am here in Australia.”
“Where do you come from?”
“Indonesia.”
Adi remembers that it was the begin-
ning. From then onward there have been
parties, dinners, picnics and holidays at
her homestead. Adi was gradually absorb-
ed into his environment. He conformed
well and understood the culture he is in.
His taste and interests received all pos-
sible guides from Lis. He became very
bread minded and rewarded fully. Adi
and Lis often went to theatres and to
see plays especially those of typically
Australian. They were drawn nearer and
nearer to each other until the force was
so great that they could not resist any
longer. The bliss was on. They swore not
to depart. But unfortunately these thing
are still new to the old establishment.
Lis’s family is firmly against their serious
association. To them background is a
vital variable. The pioneering spirit and
all those social traditions are dominating
in all their decisions. The same applies to
Adi’s family but with different accent in
their reasoning. The loss of an educated
Indonesian into the arm of a foreigner is
a sin against the revolution.
They seem to be fighting the imposible.
But they have managed to float on their
beautiful relationship with the complete
understanding. To see and to wait while
in the meantime not to let embraces pass
without all its devine blesses.
This evening Lis is coming to dinner
to Adi’s flat. The table for two is ready
and the flat is unusually tidy. Two black
candles repalaces the electric bulb. Sego-
via is striking his guitar softly at the
background. Ommelette and curry with
rice accompanied by the imposing long
bottle of claret are all ready waiting for
the grand guest.
Everything is to the best of Lis’s liking
as it has always been on occasion like
this. Adi looks around as a final check.
He has forgotten nothing. He suddenly
feels something break in him. A sadness
and a sensation with which he is falling
into a dark cliff against his will. He is
tired after days of packings any saying
farewells to all his friends. Today’s pre-
paration for the last evening with Lis is
nearly the last of his resources. He lays
down on his back on the convertible bed
and stretches his legs to relax until he falls
completely asleep. Segovia has stopped
for some while. The whole flat is quite.
Adi is still and the record is still. Only
the candle flame sways to and fro blown
by the sneaking wind.
red dust, the gum trees and the
waltzing matilda are the harmony
which is the blend of something rooted.
Will it ever be seen, be heard, and be
touched again by the passerby who has
drunk from its dams and swim in its
rivers and sheltered under its shadows?
Is it a cry from the coocoobarra or just
the silence from the koala bear which I
hear? This cannot be just a past time.
The ripple of the wave along the sunny
beaches is the melody of my memory.
Not to mention the generosity of the
people from the down under. I swetted
in summer and shiver in winter just
as the blood in your vein flow under
the pep of the eggs and steaks, cabbage
and carots. Adi twitches as the time
is running out. Must I leave everything?
But not Lis. Let all her root loose I
promise a good land for her to tune
to eternity. Please . . . please . . .
And then a gentle kiss which satifies
the craving desire. Adi opens his eyes.
A pair of sparkling green eyes shine in
front of his. They are big and deep in
which Adi has had his emotional security
found to the bottom of his soul. They
are the pair of openings, through which
Adi has carved this beautiful affair.
“Darling it is only me. You fell asleep.
You look so exhausted.”
“I am sorry, honey. I was just waiting
for you. Have you been long?”
“I have just arrived, darling.”
“Darling I love you, I love you. I know
we have talked this over and decided
what we are going to do. But . . . but
can’t you just . . . Ah, never mind,
honey, let us eat. I’ll fix you a drink.”
“Adi I am frightened that I will never
see you again. Why am I so young and
cowardice? I know I love you Adi. I am
just frightened . . . Have you ascertained
the departure of your ship yet?”
“January 26th for sure at five p.m.”
“It is only three days!”
“Here is your beer I hope it is cold
enough.”
“Mmm it is cool. Let me see what you
have prepared for tonight. Ommelette,
curry and rice and claret. I also brought
a bottle of claret exactly of the same
brand. Do you remember, darling, when
you first ventured the claret? You were
a strong Moslim and you refused to
touch it. You did not even like the pork.
I am glad I have educated you.”
“Yes, I am glad I have educated you
too. The chillie, the curry and rice you
are so fond of now. I am still a good
Moslim but I am broadened in my belief
and view. Not all the porks are bad and
claret in moderation is good. Do you
remember the first time you had hot
curry? You could not get rid of the burn
from your tongue. Poor you. You are
addicted to it now and dinner here with-
out hot curry and ommelette is not dinner
for you. Darling, I have one question for
you to answer.”
“Yes, darling, what is it?”
“Would you allow your children to
marry an Asian or any other colored
race?”
“Yes, Adi, I certainly would. You have
loved me wonderfully. Darling I love you
only I need more time and everything
else. I do not care whether your country
is underdeveloped. Promise to wait for
me, honey?”
“Yes darling I promise. Here is your
curry and rice. Tell me if I am up to my
usual reputation!”
“Delicious, ’m the omelette, is good
too.”
“Lis, I want to drink to this. Here is
your claret and let us drink to us and
the world. Do you remember when you
took me to the kanguroo hunting that
evening at your homestead? I aimed at
that hopping old man with the twenty
two. He kept hopping away for his sur-
vival. I think I wounded him. It was
symbolic, darling. The old man represent-
ing us and the rifle is our environment.
One hop gave the kanguroo a distance
further from the danger. I think our
meeting and our association if nothing
comes out of it directly is a hop to a
solution. You taught me a lot and -you
learnt from me just as much.”
“I agree with you darling.”
“Let us drink to it.”
“Cheers.”


the right, bright whisky
of Loch Lomond
'The more you know about Scotch,’say knowledgeable
drinkers,'the more you like Ballantine’s.’ This Christmas
give and enjoy Ballantine’s-the Superb Scotch.
The secret of Ballantine’s
42 fine Scotch whiskies are harmonised
to make Ballantine’s. Why 42? Because
each one has its own distinctive personality
subtle differences of colour, flavour,
body. When all 42 are wed in their precise
proportions the result is Ballantine’s
pleasing sunny-light flavour and gentle
disposition.
The soft, soft waters of Loch Lomond
Dumbarton, where Ballantine’s is blended
and aged, lies very close to the shores of
Loch Lomond, and Lomond water is used
when the matured whiskies are brought to
the proper proof. Being uncommonly
soft, this water lends some of the Loch’s
celebrated serenity to this Superb Scotch.
This Christmas —choose Ballantine’s -
Giving Ballantine’s is a particularly
tasteful way of expressing your esteem
and sincerity at Christmas. You will find
all good hotels have Ballantine’s —and for
Christmas the familiar amber bottle comes
in a regal red-and-gold gift box. When
you give it —when you receive and enjoy
it —please remember the years of patient
labour, the 42 fine Highland whiskies, the
generations of Scottish skill that have
gone to the making of every drop.
A rare Highland whisky—just one of the 42 that makes
up Ballantine’s —is made at this Ballantine’s distillery at
Elgin, Scotland.
42 different Highland whiskies—and a wee drappie of
Loch Lomond —give Ballantine’s its serene, gentle dis-
position—its characteristic sunny-light flavour.


REVIEWS
FILMS
Imperial Mistress
No corn in Egypt?
By MARTIN LONG
Cleopatra. Director, Joseph L. Man-
kiewicz. Mayfair Theatre. Sydney.
11/hen it comes to writing about the
most costly and publicised film of
all time it is rather hard to be aloof
and objective. Everything surrounding
the making of “Cleopatra” has been so
much larger than life that it is inevitable
that the film itself, finally emerging,
should seem smaller than expectation.
Hence what seem to me to be the rather
excessively choleric attacks on the film
by the critics who saw the first screen-
ings. It may be that the trimming and
re-recording that has been done since
the New York and London premieres
have in fact improved “Cleopatra”. In
the version screened here it is not really
as bad as they said.
But to get things into some sort of
proportion, let us establish that “Cleo-
patra” is in the main a rather ordinary
film except for its size and cost and
the blockbuster has become such stand-
ard Hollywood armament these days
that even in these aspects it is not so
exceptional. It breaks no ground
artistically. It does a few things well,
but not so well that they will not stand
comparison with other similar films; in
general its style and technique, though
as competent as you would expect from
Mankiewicz, are standard Hollywood
Historical.
Seeing it simply as a film among other
films one can find a good deal to com-
mend. Its best asset is an intelligent and
even witty script, written by Mankiewicz
with two collaborators. (Lawrence Dur-
rell was called in at one stage in the
complicated history of the film’s pro-
duction, but he gets no credit, and there
is no detecting how much of his contri-
bution is left.) When you recall that
Mankiewicz wrote (as well as directed)
‘V£ll About Eve” and “Letter to Three
Wives” it is no surprise that the dialogue
has some toughness and acridity and
no surprise, perhaps, that it proves
deficient when it has to nse mto more
heroic levels of emotion.
And the film has a basic asset in a tale
that has all the sweep of action, conflict
of ambition and complexity of character
that a playwright could ask, as Shake-
speare and Dryden found long before
20th Century-Fox. (Mankiewicz, apart
from some necessary simplification, has
kept fairly close to the story as told by
Plutarch.)
As it turns out the first part of the
film, telling of Caesar’s alliance with
Cleopatra, is more successful than the
more obviously filmworthy second part
the Mark Antony part. This is
mainly due to the wonderfully skilful,
controlled and urbane performance of
Rex Harrison as Caesar, but it also
reflects the fact that the players and the
screenplay are least impressive when
they venture on high passions.
Elizabeth Taylor’s portrayal of the
petulant young Cleopatra who jousts
with and captivates Caesar is just
acceptable; as the character matures
into the imperious mistress of Antony
she becomes less and less capable of
filling the role. She looks well, no doubt
of it; but her voice has a distressingly
harsh edge that robs the characterisa-
tion of dignity and sympathy. Her
range is small; there is no infinite variety
in this Cleopatra.
I doubt that there is an available
actor who would have had the manliness
and the sense of the heroic style to play
Antony better than Richard Burton. But
there is little doubt that Burton himself
could have given a more intense and vital
performance than he has. Like Miss
Taylor, he looks well; he seems always
to be just about to break into the sort of
performance that would raise the blood
pressure of the film, but he never quite
reaches it.
The end result is that the final scenes,
in which all depends on feeling, fail to
achieve the poignancy they should have.
One other player rises above com-
petence. This is Roddy McDowall, in
a chilling portrayal of the future
Emperor Augustus as a ruthless young
power seeker.
Visually, the film occasionally breaks
away from the merely grandiose. The
sea battle of Actium has a Turneresque
quality and a sense of excitement to
match. Antony’s desperate, lone attack
on Octavian’s legions, after the desertion
of his own, has the epic quality that is
missing from so much of the film.
Out of Tune
I Could Go On Singing. Director,
Ronald Neame. Regent. Sydney.
I Giorni Contati. Director, Elio Petri.
popular American singer played by
Judy Garland, has won international
fame but does not feel fulfilled as a
woman. Beginning an English tour, she
visits a Harley Street specialist (Dirk
Bogarde) once her lover. She begs him
to let her see their illegitimate son,
abandoned by her in infancy, whom
Bogarde has adopted. Reluctantly the
doctor agrees. Visiting her offspring at
a “Mr Chips” type school, the star
whisks him off on a conducted tour of
the more picturesque parts of London
and becomes so besotted by the child
that she decides she can’t do without
him.
Since Bogarde is not about to give the
child up, the mother goes on a bender
and almost misses a performance at the
Palladium. Fortunately the doctor ral-
lies round, reminds her of her respon-
sibility to the audience and surprisingly
confesses that he has always loved her.
Heartened, the star goes on stage and
sings a song to tremendous applause.
Miss Garland also gets through three
other numbers. Ronald Neame directs.
Elio Petri’s “I Giorni Contati” (“The
Days Are Numbered”) got a best-film
award at an Argentinian festival and re-
cently flitted through Sydney. It is an
annoying but interesting film, made by a
director who has an obvious flair for
cinema but lacks discipline in construc-
tion. Almost every individual sequence
has style and finesse, but the film fails
to cohere. ,
Salvo Randone gives an understated
but telling performance as an elderly
workman who sees a stranger die sud-
denly. Shocked, he gives up work and
uses his small savings to find out what
life is about. After a series of disillu-
sionments he finds that his work was the
only thing that gave his life meaning.
There is some engaging, rueful humor
in the film, and the camerawork is always
distinguished. But the overall effect is
diffuse and muddled.
BEVERLEY TIVEY


SCULPTURE
Shock Tactics
Robert Klippel. Australian Galleries.
Melbourne.
T>obert Klippel is the first and only
sculptor of real merit to show junk
sculpture here. Apparently he is working
more and more exclusively with junk,
and in his present exhibition at the Aus-
tralian Galleries the comparatively small
junk pieces outnumber (and outweigh
artistically) the few larger bronze and
steel constructions. He is therefore the
local equivalent of Britain’s Paolozzi and
America’s Stankiewicz, and although I
have not of course seen their work to
anything like the same extent, I’d not be
surprised to find Klippel at least their
equal. His use of junk is much lighter
and even purer than either of theirs, but
it does have an austere clarity and beauty
which readily matches their more massive
and imposing brutishness.
Probably he is attracted to junk as a
medium because, like most assemblage,
it offers fairly immediate possibilities of
arrangement and has the power to
shock. A sculptor working with a
solid unformed material must attack with
some very clear project in mind, having
previously made studies and drawings. It
is not easy to approach the spontaneity
which recent painters have exploited so
much. The assemblage sculptor can ach-
ieve some of this freedom, and benefit
from the chance effects which arise from
his art and from the complexity of his
material.
It is an especial pleasure to have such
a distinguished show in Melbourne.
Sculpture here is beginning to make up
the enormous lead which painting took,
but it still needs every ounce of prestige
it can get. Klippel’s exhibition, and
Norma Redpath’s not long ago (and the
Recent British Sculpture) are at least
three major events which I hope will not
pass unnoticed.
BILL HANNAN
THEATRE
Daydreams
Billy Liar. Keith Waterhouse and Wil-
lis Hall. Emerald Hill Theatre. Mel-
bourne.
Breakfast With Julia. Burton Graham.
St Martin’s Theatre. Melbourne.
“T>illy Liar,” set in a lower-middle-
class home in an industrial town in
the north of England, is a mixture of real-
ism and farce. Billy Fisher, a 19-year-old
undertaker’s clerk, finds the respectable,
hard-working world of his parents too
dull and enlivens it with his own imagina-
tion. He spends his time telling pic-
turesque lies and indulging in Walter
Mitty fantasies. But the world keeps tug-
ging him down from his cloud-land with
demands that he should tidy up the
chaos resulting from his childlike un-
concern about the difference between fact
and fiction. Difficulties arise because he
has three girl-friends, two of them his
fiancees, and only one engagement ring.
While Billy stands by, vaguely trying to
explain, the women scream and rave at
each other.
But even the farce depends upon the
accuracy of the realism and, like so many
realist plays, this one has not travelled
well. “Billy Liar” is a window on another
world. But, if we are to understand that
world, it is important that every detail
should be right.
Terry Donovan makes a good attempt
in his portrait of Billy as a disaffected
young man, but his inability to place
Billy exactly in his social context leaves
the characterisation incomplete.
Short of sending the cast to live in the
North of England for a few months, it is
difficult to know how the problem can
be dealt with.
“Breakfast with Julia” is set in a flat
in King’s Cross. The characters are:
Julia, a bright young wife, Buzzie, an
American serviceman, who gets drunk
and goes to sleep in the spare room, and
Bren, Julia’s husband, who arrives home
unexpectedly in the middle of the night
from foreign parts. In spite of appear-
ances there is no immorality.
It is a comedy of opening and shutting
doors. The whole flat is on the stage -
living-room, two bedrooms and a dressing
room, with a passage between and a bath-
room at the end. Will Buzzie be out of
the bathroom and back in the spare room
before Bren comes out of his dressing
room to go to the bathroom?
I found two acts of this sort of thing
tedious, but the enthusiasm of the first-
night audience indicated popular ap-
proval for Burton Graham’s combination
of simple comic machinery, a slightly
exotic setting and ordinary domestic life.
In the course of the play, whisky and ice
is served once, breakfast twice, and pots
of tea and coffee several times. The
gentleman behind me was so deeply ab-
sorbed in these domesticities that he was
audibly disturbed when Bren started eat-
ing a plate of cornflakes that Buzzie had
already tasted.
Irene Mitchell’s production works with
the necessary clockwork precision. Marie
Redshaw is a very trim Julia, lan Boyce
is convincingly American as Buzzie, and
Terry Norris plays the abused husband
with the necessary touch of farce.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
TELEVISION
Men v.
Computers
Election Telecast. Sydney.
'C'lection nights have always been frus-
trating because the result was of
burning interest but the trip to it was
tiresome, hours of listening to or watch-
ing figures being posted and analysts
pouncing on them like teacup readers.
But that ended on election night 1963.
The Channel 9 stations in Sydney and
Melbourne, with their coaxial linking,
were able to switch the scene on the
screen from city to city, from Brian
Henderson's desk at TCN to Eric
Pearce’s at GTV, to Kevin Sanders’ in
the central tally room in Canberra, to
Michael Ramsden on the editorial floor
of the “Sunday Telegraph” in Sydney.
All of these people and places were
shown and identified soon after 8 p.m.
when the Lord Mayors had declared the
coaxial link open, and counting had
started. We were also introduced to two
political commentators, journalist Alan
Reid at the “Sunday Telegraph”, who
would use his knowledge from many
past elections to detect trends or swings,
and Professor Burns in the Canberra
tally room, with four assistants to help
him interpret figures offered by a com-
puter already programmed with informa-
tion based on the results of the previous
Federal election.
There w'as also a large, easily visible
“swing” indicator, a “seat won” in-
dicator, and a normal tally room back-
ground of electorates and voting figures.
The set-up promised a more than usually
interesting election night. At the least
there would be frequent changes of
scene and voices. And there was also
something to watch in the trial of wise
old head versus computer team. As a
bonus, most viewers had their first real
inside look at a newspaper’s editorial
staff getting out an edition, with none
of the dramatics associated with fictional
representations of the process, in old
movies and television series.
Soon after 8 o’clock, while we were
still being shown around, there was an
announcement that we were going to the
“Sunday Telegraph” for a news flash.
And there was Alan Reid. “The Govern-
ment’s going back in, and we’re saying
so in the edition that’s going out now.”
Around 9 p.m., at the “Telegraph” again,
Alan Reid was interviewed in front of
a couple of posters which declared,
“Menzies Wins,” and Reid was certain
of it by then.
Altogether it was a wonderful cover
of an election night.
FRANK ROBERTS


POETRY
The Astrologers
We read these happenings clearly in the stars
and told the King what we had seen
when he held audience with his astrologers.
We had agreed among ourselves beforehand
to keep the truth concealed from him, say true,
but say a flood would overwhelm his land.
He never questioned that it was not water
we warned him of, but a human flood,
a tidal wave from the east, land of the Tartar.
The flood has passed me by. I am alive.
Apparently the Khan has use for me.
I stand in new clean robes, but am his slave.
I heard the roar of its approach
ten days before the flood swept over us.
It was the ocean drumming on a beach
half the horizon round. Their horses’ hooves
made the plain tremble like a frightened girl
and shook a tile or two from city roofs.
The rest is all confusion. Now the flood
has swept on westward. I alone am left.
I say again I saw that it was blood
would drown this city. And which is fact or
dreaming I can no longer tell. I close my eyes
and see ten thousand Tartar horse-tails streaming
as if a gale whipped off the crests of waves,
and wave on wave of yelling horsemen washing
against the city walls. Now no one lives
save me. And now I read the stars for him,
the hawk-nosed, black-eyed ruler of the Horde,
tamper with truth until my eyes grow dim.
W. HART-SMITH
Jigsaw Puzzle
My father always let me do the sky.
All blue and blue-white pieces
fell to my lot
and so were carried to my corner.
Mother liked leaf and landscape,
but my father
chose scattered body pieces,
head and figure:
the poor dismembered fragments of Osiris.
I see my father’s long and bony finger,
my mother’s jet-black hair, while I
above their labours potter with my sky.
W. HART-SMITH
Warning to Idealists
Only a vain and stubborn fool
heaps good into the garden of a soul
that has destructive fungi in the soil;
brings compost and good seed, good will
and all benevolent and holy things, and fruitful:
fruit and flower and vegetable
will host the fungi somewhere in their cycle.
The unripe fruit will fall and young leaf curl.
Only a fool thinks evil will recoil
if he heaps good on good into such soil.
W. HART-SMITH
Camped in the Nullarbor
I
The wastes of the Nullarbor echo
With the jive of a New York Jew
The soul of the wide-mouthed gecko
Looks out from a tin of stew
Decay and advance everlasting
The far-flung pause of the stones
An empty silence receiving
Music, years and bones.
Turn the volume up louder
Fill the world to the rim!
The night that took America
Now makes the heights grow dim
A virgin streamer of fire
Appoints the blood-red site
Of pyramid, mosque or spire
The sextant’s solemn rite.
II
The dome of a crimson reactor
Sets down through the western skies
The shafts of its rage grow shorter
The sun in the west now dies
The oil of our cooking is vicious
Exploding, it pricks the hand.
Is this the water-less region
Where the waves once had command?
No desert hallowed by pilgrims
Yet each salt-bush turns to gold
Like a twelve-branched candelabra
Like Sinai’s bush but cold.
Now are the plates put ready
A knife and fork each side
Fomalhaut swims on the heavens
The mouth of the whale gapes wide.
111
We rise through the heavens grandly
Borne on a plane of stones
Mingling among the systems
Of burning spheres and bones
We dine at the end of an era
As broke upon Thebes and Tyre
The heirs of countless cycles
Brought down to a modest fire.
Composing, we score the heavens
The panoply is spread
The Serpent and the Fish are gleaming
The Waterman lifts his head.
Just over the dead horizon
The floods renew their beat
O brothers camped in the desert—■
Here is the food.
Now eat!
NOEL MACAINSH
Carnations
From the green cartridge an explosion of
Substantial pink;
and energies made clear
That drive our crinkled flesh into this world,
Unfurl the layers of a life
And thrust with ragged edges to the light.
CHRIS WALLACE-CRABBE


LIQUEURS
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST PRIZEWINNERS
KftatiOsiß)
cherry
The
perfect pair
for
perfect
entertaining
M
KULOV
VodkA
m
vodka
RED PAGE
The Case Against Germany
Hatred and doubt in Adenauer’s make
By OWEN HARRIES
Speaking Frankly About the Ger-
mans. Gudrun Tempel. Seeker &
Warburg. 265. 6d.
The Struggle for Germany. Lionel
Kocher. Edinburgh. 345. 9d.
■T|wight Macdonald once summed up
a whole set of attitudes towards
Germany in a couple of sentences: “The
German people have let Max Lerner
down. There is no other way of putting
it they have failed him and damn
near busted his big progressive heart.”
This was in 1945. Eighteen years later
a remarkable number of progressives
still seem to harbor a peculiarly personal
resentment against Germans. In strength
it ranges from passionate hatred to a
peevish annoyance that the Germans
should still present them with moral and
political dilemmas. It finds its expression
in utter callousness towards the pre-
dicament of the German people they
are just getting what they deserve, we
must lose no sleep about the division of
Germany and the Wall —and in a willing-
ness to indulge in breathtaking general-
isations, such as R. H. S. Crossman’s
recent assertion that “Germany can
never become a true democracy”. To
support such views any failure on the
part of the Germans to live up to the
highest standards of democratic rectitude
is immediately seized on and given
maximum publicity.
For those who see things in this way
“Speaking Frankly About the Germans”
will be a very welcome book. Written
by a woman who grew up in Nazi
Germany, who was throughout anti-
Nazi, and who later suffered personally
through the division of her country, it
is a short but forceful indictment of her
people. Most of what it says has been
said before: the Germans refuse to
accept political responsibility, they are
a people who are always waiting to be
told what to do next, politically they
are either dreaming of the impossible
or being disgusted by the actual. They
are not especially cruel or vicious but
they are eternal evaders and dodgers.
They worship efficiency as an end in
itself, which means that when they are
told to do something their only concern
is to do it well. And so on. All this
is not new, but it has a considerable
impact partly because Miss Tempel
writes well and partly because she her-
self is a German, and a German who
has suffered a great deal.
Tt is difficult to argue against suffering,
but, faced with a book of this kind
which mixes generalisation with personal
experience and allows one to borrow
authority from the other, it may be
necessary to remind oneself that suffer-
ing does not establish a case. And if her
suffering does not, it is difficult to see
what does, for the book contains her
argument, no evidence. It simply moves
relentlessly from assertion to assertion.
While each single assertion is admirably
clear (if nothing else), taken together
they often seem to contradict each other.
For much of the book, for instance, Miss
Tempel is concerned to contrast her
parents’ generation with her own: they
sold out, we did not. “This generation,”
she writes of her own, “unlike their
fathers, made no compromise of any
kind.” This in itself obviously claims
too much. But what are we to conclude
when, two chapters later, she writes:
“Where are all the young Germans, so
deeply thoughtful and perplexed, who
attended the university with me in 1947?
Still baffled and uncertain, they are
swimming along between the ropes with
the new D-mark. Each wears an invisible
sign around his neck: ‘Do not disturb’.”
Sometimes, especially as she has a
tendency towards self-dramatisation, one
feels that her bitterness is such that she
regards herself as the only good German,
the only one outside the scope of her
own damning generalisations.
Again after asserting that the Germans
have all kinds of political faults which
make them incapable of democratic
behavior, it seems contradictory to
berate Adenauer for his alleged failure
to reshape German political life and
inspire Germans with democratic values.
He could have succeeded only if her
analysis was totally wrong.
Just how incomplete and unbalanced
an account Miss Tempel gives of the
German experience is made clear by
“The Struggle for Germany”. This, too,
is a short book, but while the other is
impressionistic and assertive this one is
meticulous and detailed. It is concerned
with placing the present partition of
Germany in the context of the contest
that has been waged by other powers to
secure the allegiance of Germany since
1917. It is useful to be reminded that
while Germany has periodically domi-
nated Europe, in between times it has
usually been prostrate, much more
acted upon and fought over than active
and fighting. Much that happened in
Germany is to be explained not in terms
of national character but in terms of
what others did or did not do to Ger-
many during these periods. In particular
the failure of the Western countries to
support the democratic elements in the
’twenties, their insistence on treating the
Kaiser’s Germany and the Weimar Re-
public as essentially the same, is perhaps
particularly relevant today, for if the


HELP
LEGACY
all the year
round
Crossmans of the West had their way
this is precisely the mistake we would
be doomed to repeat.
The temptation for German politicians,
wooed by East and West, has always
been to play off one against the other,
to face both ways at once. It is
Adenauer’s great achievement, an
achievement which outweighs his not
inconsiderable failing, that he resisted
this temptation and opted firmly for the
West. Once he did this his loyalty was
absolute. The wavering, unfortunately,
has been on the part of his allies and
the danger of their present policies is
that they may so discourage Adenauer’s
successors as to cause a reversion to the
traditional middle-man policies.
LETTER FROM BRITAIN
Albion’s Muse
New Lines 2. Edited by Robert
Conquest. Macmillan. 345. 9d.
A Group Anthology. Edited by
Edward Lucie-Smith and Philip
Hobsbaum. OUP. 345. 9d.
T»wo recent anthologies provide a fairly
good idea of the current state of
English poetry —a commodity which, if
not in an exactly robust condition, does
offer some interesting and discussable
characteristics. The first of these books,
“New Lines 2”, is edited by Robert Con-
quest, a picturesquely unclassifiable
figure in an age of rigid specialisation.
Mr Conquest is not only a poet himself,
an anthologist and a combative and
opinionated literary critic; a former
diplomat, he is also an authority on Soviet
and East European affairs and has
written several books on these subjects.
He is also the author of a science fiction
novel and is an expert in the SF field.
In literary matters Mr Conquest sees
himself as a commonsensical bull, gaily
charging about in a china shop of literary
orthodoxy and academic pretension. He
is an upholder of what I think of as the
“radical right” in recent English criticism
Graham Hough is another critic of
similar inclinations which regards the
“modern movement” with intense sus-
picion, considering that Eliot and Pound
have little to do with the central tradition
of English poetry, a tradition exempli-
fied in our own time by such poets as
Hardy, Robert Graves, John Betjeman
and Philip Larkin. Mr Hough, in his
book “Image and Experience”, has
suggested that “The Waste Land” was
really a big fraud; Mr Conquest has only
a lukewarm regard for Eliot, and in a
recent fierce article in the “London
Magazine” he attacked Pound as little
better than a charlatan, who was inferior
as a poet to Chesterton. This view of
literary history is certainly not one I
accept myself, but I can see it has its
attractions, as offering a myth of en-
gaging simplicity: true English tradition-
alists versus effete, highbrow Franco-
Americans.
Seven years ago Conquest brought out
the anthology “New Lines”, which in-
troduced to quite a large public the
poets of the so-called “Movement”: Con-
quest himself, Davie, Holloway, Larkin,
Gunn, Enright, Amis, Wain, and Eliza-
beth Jennings. They wrote a poetry that
was, for the most part, formal (though
Mr Enright, something of an odd man
out in this group, was rather an ex-
ception here), intelligent, aloof and
slightly pedantic. A. Alvarez has des-
cribed it as “academic-administrative
verse, polite, knowledgeable, efficient,
polished, and, in its quiet way, even in-
telligent”. Mr Alvarez, to illustrate the
unity of tone and diction of the poems
in “New Lines”, made up a composite
poem of which the lines were taken from
each of the contributors to the collection
(again, excepting Enright); it began:
Picture of lover or friend that is
not either
Like you or me who, to sustain our
pose,
Need wine and conversation, color
and light;
In short, a past that no one now
can share . . .
In “New Lines 2” Conquest prints
work by the contributors to the original
anthology, with the exception of John
Holloway, who has opted out, together
with a number of new poems. Mr Con-
quest's introduction contrives at once to
be hard-hitting and very woolly; the
blows are vigorous, but very few of
them find a target. But one gathers he
admires the poets in this collection be-
cause they are on the side of decency,
coherence, rationality, moderation, as
against experimentalism, extreme
modernity, obscurity, subjectivity, and
other evils of one imagines Con-
tinental or American origin.
Turning from Mr Conquest’s energetic
but not very relevant introduction to the
poems, I must record a certain sense of
muted dissatisfaction. There is a good
deal of accomplishment but not much
sense of language being employed at its
fullest resources. Certainly there are
good poems here —by, among others, Ted
Hughes, Thom Gunn, Philip Larkin,
Donald Davie, Anthony Thwaite, and
Edward Lucie-Smith. But the character-
istic “New Lines” poem tends to be a
wry ironic comment, made in formal
verse, which operates at a level of
epigrammatic detachment from its sub-
ject. Experience is described rather than
re-enacted. At all events, I don’t find in
“New Lines 2” anything like the fas-
cination offered by an anthology of re-
cent American verse, Donald Hall’s
Penguin collection, “Contemporary
American Poetry”. Though Mr Con-
quest would disagree violently, I am be-
coming convinced that English poets
still have a great deal to learn from the
Americans. None of Mr Conquest’s
poets, it seems to me, could achieve
the passion and skill of, say, Robert
Lowell’s “Ode to the Union Dead”.
Compared to the level of accomplishment
that that represents, our smug “native
tradition” seems a rather feeble affair.
Ctill, one can't deny that the contents
of “New Lines 2” are at least pleasing
to read. One can hardly say the same of
“A Group Apthology”, edited by Edward
Lucie-Smith and Philip Hobsbaum. This
uniquely grim collection is the work of
a kind of practical criticism workshop
for poets, which has been functioning for
some years, first in Cambridge, then in
London, called, simply, “The Group”.
The Groupers believe, quite reasonably,
that poetry should reflect the real world.
But they appear to assume that since the
real world contains war, atrocities, pain,
and disease, then these are the only true
subjects for poetry. One has always
applauded the determination of Eliot and
others, round about 1910, to show that
there are no inherently unpoetic subjects;
but reading Philip Hobsbaum’s clever but
nauseating poem about having a decayed
tooth removed I am inclined to have
second thoughts. This is poetry of un-
controlled violence and sensationalism,
both in language and imagery; a typical
Group poem is likely to be an agonised
dramatic monologue uttered by someone
in extremis a concentration camp
victim under torture, for instance, or,
more subtly, by whoever is doing the
torturing. A funny and exact parody of
a Group poem has appeared in a small,
high-standard poetry magazine, “The
Review”; it’s called “Expectorant
Father”. This is the first stanza:
/ walked out in a spitting rage,
savagely swiping
The tops of all the grasses, imagining
What it would be like to have been
in the Gestapo.
Gob-globes flew from my blubber
lips,
Each bubble wombed vacuity, then
split apart.
He lay upstairs, thinking 1 was
getting fat.
That captures the spirit of “A Group
Anthology” so well that I am tempted


IF YOU HAVE A
FLAIR
FOR WRITING...
Turn your talent into a spare time in-
come There is a constant demand for well-
written stories, articles, pars, radio and TV
scripts, etc., and you can learn to write
successfully for Australian and overseas
magazines and papers.
Stott's will provide you with interesting,
practical Home-Study instruction of the
highest quality. All Stott Literary Instructors
are fully qualified in their respective fields.
Stotts Correspondence College
159 Flinders Lane, Melbourne; 149 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney; 292 Adelaide Street,
Brisbane; 45 Gilles Street, Adelaide; 22
Howard Street, Perth.
CUT AND MAI l THIS COUPON
To STOTT'S: Please send me, without any
obligation, your Prospectus, and full par-
ticulars of your Literary Courses.
NAME
ADDRESS
Age (B 2363)
S T OTT'S COLLEGES undertake that no rep-
resentative will call following your inquiry.
j&Pr. v
NO LIMIT
to the pleasure 1
you’ll get from this
distinguished tobacco
cool-rich taste f
pleasing aroma
i
ii§*
TABAK
PIPE OR CIGARETTE
IN 3 DISTINCT BLENDS
MILD • NUT SWEET • RUM
CA VENDISH
From Your Tobacconist
5/9°
2 oz.
IN EXCLUSIVE "LIMP-TIN" POUCH
T2B
to leave it as the last word, even though
to do so would perhaps be unjust. Fair-
ness presses me to add that some of the
contributors deserve rather better than
such a summary dismissal Mr Lucie-
Smith himself, Peter Porter and Alan
Brownjohn among them. But the total
effect of the anthology is disagreeably
emetic: life, one is inclined to protest,
may be real but it isn’t necessarily like
this; not all the time, anyway.
Asked to choose between the gentility
of “New Lines 2” and the nastiness of
“A Group Anthology” I would opt, on
the grounds of normal civilised taste, for
the former, though it isn’t really much
of a choice. But three of Conquest’s
men, Gunn, Hughes, and Davie, all of
them open to American influences, seem
to me to offer a chance of exciting
development: and so, perhaps, does John
Wain, at least on the evidence of a new
long poem, “Wildtrack”, part of which
was published in a recent number of the
“Critical Quarterly”. Poets do. no doubt,
reflect their times; and if someone wants
to assert that the choice between gentility
and violence tells us something about
the prevailing attitudes of Affluent
England, then I wouldn’t be very in-
clined to contradict him.
BERNARD BERGONZI
Nightmare
The Nun of Monza. Mario Mazzuc-
chelli. Hamish Hamilton. 31s.
Tn 1957 the present Pope, then Cardinal
A Archbishop of Milan, allowed an
Italian historian unrestricted access to
the enormous hoard of church archives
relating to Sister Virginia Maria de
Leyva, the notorious Nun of Monza.
As a result the historian, Dr Mario Maz-
zucchelli, has been able to write the first
accurate account of a horrific drama that
had remained locked in the bosom of
the church for 350 years. It is indeed
a fantastic story. The Gothic nightmares
of “Monk” Lewis are bloodless stuff com-
pared with this real-life chronicle of
seduction, sacrilege and murder.
Virginia de Leyva was the daughter
of a noble Spanish family that for several
generations had provided hereditary lords
for the town of Monza in the Spanish-
occupied Duchy of Milan. In 1589, at
the age of 14, she suffered the customary
fate of superfluous daughters of the no-
bility and was immured in the convent
of Santa Margherita in Monza. It chanced
that, in the house adjoining the convent,
lived the town’s greatest rake, a hand-
some youth named Gian Paolo Osio,
who was in the habit of flirting with the
younger nuns over his garden wall.
Sister Virginia having caught him in the
act and rebuked him sternly, Osio began
laying siege to her with all his headlong
charm. He succeeded in meeting her
secretly at night. Eventually, with the
complicity of several other nuns and a
rascally priest, he was repeatedly
smuggled into the convent and into
Virginia’s bed. What began, at least on
his part, as an amorous escapade deep-
ened into a passion that could ultimately
end only in their destruction.
Almost incredibly, the liaison con-
tinued for seven years, while Virginia
bore her lover two children and more
and more townsfolk and inmates of
Santa Margherita became involved in a
web of blackmail, assassination and in-
trigue. Monza reeked with the scandal
but no one dared speak openly to either
church or civil authorities for fear of
Osio’s bravoes and the resentment of
Virginia’s powerful family. It was not
until Osio himself decided to silence
the gossips by a series of atrocious mur-
ders that the whole affair was dragged
into-the light.
Osio fled to escape trial and was
killed by the men with whom he sought
refuge. In 1608 Virginia was brought
before an ecclesiastical court set up in
Milan by Cardinal Federigo Borromeo
and, under torture, confirmed her pre-
vious full confession. Sentenced to per- •
petual imprisonment she was walled up
in a cell in a shelter for reclaimed pros-
titutes, there to spend 14 years in a dark,
noisome hole where she never saw a
human face. She was freed by Cardinal
Borromeo's order in September, 1622,
and “when the wall was torn down she
emerged trembling, groping in the un-
accustomed light, white-haired and aged
beyond her 46 years: a living skeleton
still dressed in the habit of a nun of
Santa Margherita, now reduced to a filthy
rag.”
Regarded by the church as a model of
penitence and piety, Sister Virginia died
at the age of 75 in 1650. Church and
lay authorities did their best to bury
the scandal with her, but, even before
her death, distorted legends of the wan-
ton Nun of Monza were already spread-
ing far and wide throughout Europe.
Dr Mazzucchelli deserves gratitude for
the way in which he has tackled this
book. It would have been fatally easy to
have turned the story into a conventional
historical novel, decked out with invented
dialogue and background color. As fic-
tion, the theme could be handled in
several ways. Peyrefitte, for instance,
would no doubt have treated it as a
grotesque sort of comedy. Dr Mazzuc-
chelli has fortunately resisted any catch-
penny temptations. Whole sections of the
book are verbatim transcripts of evidence
given at the Nun’s trial, and the narra-
tive, with its deepening atmosphere of
terror and corruption, gains immeasur-
ably from this sober approach.
GEOFFREY SCOTT


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Textiles and the Tariff
HThe Australian textile industry is again under fire for its
alleged disproportionate reliance upon heavy tariff pro-
tection in facing competition from imports. Some manu-
facturing sections are also being attacked on the grounds of
technical obsolescence and inefficiency.
While there may be little difficulty in citing more than a
few examples fitting the latter charges, many textile makers
can be named who are equally renowned for their economical
operations and drive. The main disease afflicting the industry
as a whole might well be overcapacity when measured against
a relatively small domestic market.
In that situation a case undoubtedly rests for a thorough
discussion of cost structures, indeed of wholesale rationalisation
as well.
But the very nature of the
market and the need to foster
the thriving portions of native
manufacture justify traditional
protective devices too. Not all
the competition of those over-
seas rivals looks pure, either.
On these and most other con-
nected matters the words of the
particularly well-informed chair-
man of Bradford Cotton Mills,
Sir Robert Webster, carry great
weight. He, of course, has a
special axe to grind, yet manages
to preserve a valuable detach-
ment and width.
Bradford’s 1962-63 report
could begin by ascribing a de-
cline in profit rates partly “to
the ingenuity of importers in
finding ways and means of
circumventing the protective duties imposed by the Com-
monwealth Government.”
“Our inability to compete with overseas competitors,” Sir
Robert told his annual meeting, “is, in a large measure, due
to the fact that the duties do not give the protection which
both the Tariff Board and the Government intended we should
have owing to the loopholes which permit the importation
of goods which can be used as substitutes for the same end
use as the fabrics which we are making.”
Examples are easy—“such things as making a cloth £oz.
heavier or £oz. lighter than the protected fabrics has reduced
very seriously the protection on sheetings, with an adverse
effect on production and profits.” Apparently it’s not hard to
change cloth construction to alter both cost and weight, thus
putting it outside specific duty classifications.
Lest Sir Robert be thought to possess an undue fondness
for rushing to the tariff, it should be made clear that he has
repeatedly complained about the marked frequency of such
inquiries concerning the textile industry. Bradford’s own pro-
ducts have suffered 37 investigations since 1946.
Thirteen Tariff Board inquiries in 12 years were chalked
The healthy future for Australian cement makers is surveyed
in an article beginning on page 57.
up by man-made fibres, with 15 in the same period for cotton
textiles. Reasonably satisfactory conditions emerge only for
low price fabrics after all this investigational activity, much
of it not even instigated by Australian industries.
Since 1961 Sir Robert has delivered striking judgments on
the tariff process (as it affects textiles) in each of three
memorable chairman’s addresses. These remarks may probably
be taken to speak for the generality of efficient companies.
Almost as a sign of his bona fides, in 1961 Sir Robert was
not put off by the removal of imports licensing. He did not
feel that in the long run it would exercise any benefit for
protective purposes. “The proper way to protect industry is
by tariff duties, but they must protect to an extent which will
allow of economic production.”
They should also bear some
relation to factors really push-
ing up those productive costs
over which industry has no con-
trol.
In his latest effort Sir Robert
asserts Bradford’s claim to a
“larger share of the market than
15 p.c.” in the styles and ranges
of goods produced. Outside
countries should scarcely be
offended, since Australia imports
nearly 75 p.c. of its wool and
worsted requirements and about
85 p.c. of cotton fabric needs.
To the charge that Australia
must import to gain a place
in export trade, also helping
under-developed' and cheaper
producing countries, the reply
comes that “all countries protect
their industries to ensure that they will not be destroyed by
excessive imports and to ensure that their nationals will not
become unemployed.”
Informed opinion suggests that a large area of the Aus-
tralian textile industry, under comparable conditions, could
meet foreign competition over work loads, equipment and skill.
Nevertheless while there exists any reason for believing
that some sections are unduly sheltering behind the tariff,
a further general examination and subsequent more national
planning are called for. A cursory inspection discloses that
extensive benefit would follow vertical integrations where the
line from raw material to eventual consumer might be made
clearer.
Some such process has been initiated among the Lancashire
textile makers, under the watchful prodding of ICI and
Courtaulds. The tariff, therefore, does not constitute the only
weapon to help industry put its house in order.
Some overall plan may possibly emerge when the Federal
Government’s economic inquiry tackles the exact place of the
tariff in overall industrial policy.


A Grim Picture of
Steel Competition
A ustralia is not such a cheap or competitive steel producer
after all, according to a recent Tariff Board inquiry on
Most Favored Nation terms of duty. BHP’s representative at
the inquiry, Mr W. R. Brook, said the lowering of steel tariffs
(under the Kennedy round of proposed tariff revisions) could
easily inhibit the Australian industry’s progress and its contribu-
tion to national development.
In fact, he said that one of the more important steel pro-
ducing nations would only have to export to Australia a small
proportion of its surplus to have a disastrous impact on the
Australian steel industry.
Sobering statistics trotted out at the tariff inquiry indicated
that the world’s steel industry, because of its tremendous ex-
pansion in productive capacity, was expected to be working at
only 73 p.c. of its capacity in 1965, compared with 81 p.c. in
1962 and 92 p.c. in 1957.
Because of surplus production in various steel making coun-
tries, export competition is keen and further price cutting is
expected. Any reduction in Australian tariffs would only be
an invitation to overseas steel companies which are desperate
for orders, claims BHP’s representative.
Coinciding with this report are the October production fig-
ures of BHP, showing output of steel ingots down 12,081 tons
to 379,069 tons compared with October 1962.
Investors hope an extension of the current industrial building
boom will help to offset any local surplus capacity. After all,
BHP shares have been pretty droopy this year. >
Returns on Britain’s
Overseas Investment
Board of Trade Journal, UK, has made a survey of
British direct private overseas investment (excluding oil
and insurance) and. based on estimated net assets of
£stg.3soom., British companies in 1962 obtained an average
return of 7.9 p.c.
The return by British companies in Australia was 7.1 p.c.
on net assets.
Naturally, the figures should be treated with some caution.
British investment in Australia, for example, is shown as
£stg.4o4m., including £stg.2.7m. invested by foreign com-
panies in Britain. This net assets figure (fixed assets plus current
assets less current liabilities) does not include investments by
oil or insurance companies, nor the very important UK-regis-
tered banks. However, the earnings of the banks are included.
Accepting the fact that UK investment in Australia is sub-
stantially higher than the £stg.4o4m. of net assets used in the
survey, it is interesting to make comparisons within the Board
of Trade's figures.
Emphasising again that the net assets of oil, insurance and
banks are not included and that the answers to the survey to-
talled only £stg.2Bs3m. of net assets compared with the final
total of £stg.3soom. quoted by the Board after allowing for
non-replies, it is revealed that 30 p.c. of British overseas in-
vestment is in North America. The return on net assets is a
niggardly 3 p.c., from Canada and 7.3 p.c. from the USA.
Highest return shown is from West Germany, where a
23.4 p.c. annual return was achieved in 1962 on direct private
investment of £stg.ss.6m. in net assets.
The really low earnings were Nigeria 1.2 p.c., Brazil 1.4 p.c.
and France 1.8 p.c.
Outside of West Germany, the most lucrative percentage
returns were Malaya 14.0, South Africa 13.1, Portugal 11.1,
Latin America 10.0, India 9.4, Australia 7.1.
More than half the British overseas investment goes into
sterling area countries where the average return is 9.6 p.c. Aus-
tralia, with about 27 p.c. of the net assets investment shown in
the overseas sterling area, did not pay off as handsomely as
South Africa, Malaya or India, but was well ahead of Pakistan
and Nigeria.
Foreign companies in Britain with their £stg.2.7m. of net
assets in Australia did much better than the British companies
because their return on net assets is shown as 11.1 p.c.
What About Capital
Profits?
An independent analysis of earnings on net assets by two
UK-registered banks, ANZ and ES&A, showed a return
of 5.36 p.c. and 2.68 p.c. respectively for 1962.
Obviously, some allowance must be made for the build up
of assets over a long period, much of which is financed by the
plough back of profits.
The true measure of an overseas investment, it would seem,
would be the amount of money outlaid and the return achieved
by way of dividends, bonus issues and the accumulation of
assets.
Insurance companies may not show a tremendous return on
net assets but the records of overseas insurance companies with
interests in Australia frequently are spiced with bonus issues
so that today’s profits on capital (or assets) bears no relation
to the profit achieved on the original outlay.
Further Expansion by
The Rover Co.
A lthough experiencing difficult trading conditions in the
early part of the year the Rover Company Ltd, UK, is
confident of demand for its new Rover 2000 and now proposes
to raise further capital for expansion by way of a <£stg2m. new
share issue. Consistent demand for Land-Rovers also is prompt-
ing the directors to consider expansion of production facilities.
Cans Go Better
With Coke?
With Schweppes and other soft drink manufacturers going
** into cans, it is not so surprising to note that Coca-Cola,
claimed to be the largest selling soft drink in Australia, also
proposes to market 13 oz. cans next year.
But the company is not committing itself too heavily until
it is satisfied of unqualified acceptance of its product in cans.
Approval also must be obtained from Coca-Cola’s quality con-
trol chemists in Australia and the USA because the company
insists on conducting tests to establish that canning does not
affect the quality of the product.
In fact, the company wasn’t satisfied with initial tests and
imported some special components to change the canning
methods. After developing a special taste from Coke bottles,
the company naturally does not want to run any risk of antag-
onising a public which has been promoted to the tune of many
millions of pounds (and dollars).
So the initial canning will be confined to Perth, WA.
An interesting retail sidelight on canning is that the super-
markets like compact, easier to handle crates; most dealers have
space and storage problems in coping with refunds (money-
back-on-bottle) and bottle breakages are eliminated.


Extracts from Directors’ Report and Accounts 1963
A*N*Z BANK
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND BANK LIMITED
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Reviewing the year in Australian banking, the Hon.
Sir Geoffrey C. Gibbs, Chairman of Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited, states in the Bank’s An-
nual Report that the ‘‘Recovery continued slowly but
steadily during 1963”.
Increased Production- Sir Geoffrey states that this
general recovery “was particularly apparent in rising
levels of industrial production, increased building ac-
tivity and record motor vehicle registrations. Although
there was some lag in reducing the number of un-
employed, a steady improvement became apparent
particularly in the latter half of 1963”.
Balance of Payments- After reviewing the satisfactory
oversea trade situation and the improvement in over-
sea currency resources, Sir Geoffrey continues, “While
doubts have been voiced as to the desirability of im-
portant sectors of Australian industry coming largely
under overseas control, there can be no doubt that the
advantages to Australian development and to the
Australian balance of payments from a substantial and
sustained high rate of capital inflow, together with the
know-how which so often accompanies it, have been
considerable and have done much to bring Australian
production, particularly in the manufacturing indus-
tries, to its present high level of attainment”.
Banking and Finance- After commenting upon the
further reductions in term deposit, overdraft and sav-
ings bank deposit rates, Sir Geoffrey continues, “The
maintenance of the long-term bond rate at unchanged
levels during 1962-63, when bank interest rates and
money market interest rates were reduced, had the
effect of attracting funds into government loans”.
“It is a measure of the caution and hesitancy which
has prevailed in business circles that the substantial
rise (of £A9O million) in overdraft limits during 1962-
63 was accompanied by only a moderate rise in actual
overdrafts, resulting in a substantial volume of unused
limits outstanding at the end of the period”.
Oversea Trade- Sir Geoffrey also states: One of the
most gratifying features of the past two or three years
in Australia has been the relative price and wage
stability of this period. During this time, there have
been fairly substantial rises in prices and costs in some
of the more important industrial countries of the
world, notably in Western Europe. Australia has thus
improved her competitive capacity in export markets
as well as having provided a healthy local environ-
ment for further economic growth”.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
as at 30th September, 1563
(ABRIDGED, EXCLUDING INTER-BANK BALANCES)
ASSETS £A
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash
at Bankers 29,519,497
Balances with and Cheques in course
of Collection on Other Banks .... 42,825,946
Money at Call and Short Notice,
Treasury Notes and Treasury Bills 20,496,992
Statutory Deposits with Central Banks 44,008,453
Investments 142,694,286
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit 110,907,931
Loans and advances to Customers
and other Accounts 258,576,947
Liabilities of Customers for
Acceptances and other Engagements 49,626,132
Bank Premises 12,339,826
£A 710,996,010
LIABILITIES
£A
Paid up Capital of Australia and
New Zealand Bank Limited .... .... 17,570,000
Reserve Fund and Profit and Loss
Account Balances 17,767,368
Current, Deposit and other Accounts 626,032,510
Acceptances and other
Engagements for Customers 49,626,132
£A 710,996,010
GENERAL MANAGER’S OFFICE FOR AUSTRALIA, NEW ZEALAND, FIJI, PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA:
394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne C. R. Darvall, General Manager
PRINCIPAL OFFICE IN NEW ZEALAND: 196 Featherston Street, Wellington
HEAD OFFICE: 71 Cornhill, London, E.C.3
Operating through 992 Branches, Sub-Branches and Agencies
AN2803.48


HELP
LEGACY
all the year round
ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Rot Stopped in Rural Sector
“Farmers Having Their Best Income Season"
Perhaps without such a übiquitous
farm price support network as in
the United States, the “farm” vote is
not as fickle in this country as it is there.
At any rate steps such as the investment
allowance on agricultural machinery in
the last Budget and the promise of
narrowing the differential between metro-
politan and country petrol prices played
a part in the galvanising of more support
for the Country Party in the Federal
elections last month as well as the fact
that farmers are enjoying their best in-
come season ever.
A few years ago rural industries were
complaining bitterly that their terms of
trade with secondary industries were
adverse and continuing the erosion which
followed the peaks of primary industry
prices during the Korean war. But the
rot has been stopped. Not only have
prices for primary products moved up
strongly, but prices of manufactured
goods used by farmers have been stable
for the last two years or more.
For once in a while, the farmer has
little cause for complaint about the trend
in profit margins, but from bitter experi-
ence of fluctuating prices farmers see
their long-term interest as wrapped up
in cost trends which are determined not
only by their own productivity but in the
productivity of manufacturing industry as
reflected in their own costs.
Primary industry would expect to bene-
-*• fit from increases in productivity in
manufacturing industries, but only so long
as these result in lower prices for manu-
factured goods. It is no use at all to
primary industry when productivity
increases in manufacturing industry are
negatived by inflation, because a large
segment of their incomes is derived from
exports whose prices are determined on
world markets. Only that segment of their
incomes derived from domestic markets
has any chance of keeping in step with
inflation.
As Mr. F. H. Gruen pointed out in his
presidential address to the sixth annual
conference of the Australian Agricultural
Economics Society last year, the decline
in the purchasing power of Australian
farm products since the Korean war has
mainly been due to increases in the prices
farmers have to pay.
“Over the last ten years,” he said,
“the index of prices which Australian
farmers receive has remained fairly
stable, while costs have increased around
30 p.c., or at an average compound rate
of more than 2i p.c. per annum. As a
result, the purchasing power of a rep-
resentative bundle of Australian farm
products in 1960-61 was only three-
quarters of its purchasing power ten
years earlier.”
Unfortunately, there are no conclusive
studies of the relative trends in produc-
tivity in primary and manufacturing in-
dustries in this country, nor indeed for
productivity in either of these sectors to
show, for example, the effect of mechan-
isation, which one could compare with
studies made along these lines in the
United States, a country whose experience
in labor-saving on the land is roughly
equivalent to ours.
Oince just before World War I, farm-
land in the US has remained relative-
ly constant at around 1000 million acres.
Apart from this land base, it appears
nothing else has remained unchanged.
The number of farms has dropped 40
p.c. from 6.5 million, and farm tenancy
has decreased from 37 p.c. to 20 p.c.
Farm population has decreased 37 p.c.
from 32 million, and the proportion of
farm people to the total population has
declined from 32.4 p.c. to 11.4 p.c. (or
8.7 p.c. as now statistically defined).
Horses and mules have disappeared to
the extent of 23 million —a reduction of
nearly 90 p.c.
On the other hand, tractors have in-
creased from fewer than 250,000 to 4.8
million —19 times; trucks have been in-
creased 22 times to a total of 3.1 million.
Since 1910, output per man-hour on
the farm has been increasing about 3 p.c.
a year, but the greater part of this in-
crease has come since World War II
through increased production per acre as
total man-hours declined. Since 1950,
labor efficiency has improved at an
annual rate of 6.5 p.c.
In the United States productivity per
man-hour in agriculture has been in-
creasing much more rapidly than in
manufacturing. According to papers read
at the World Food Congress in Washing-
ton this year, since 1947 there has been
an increase of 112 p.c. in productivity in
agricultural industries compared with a
rise of only 47 p.c. in manufacturing.
Farm equipment companies, together
with other farm supplying industries, of
course, are providing non-farm labor
which, in turn, is helping to reduce labor
in agriculture. The improvements in
labor efficiency on farms thus must be
adjusted for changes in non-farm labor
being provided. It is estimated, however,
after allowing for all factors of farm and
non-farm labor, that labor efficiency in
agriculture has improved by nearly 80
p.c. in the last 40 years.
instance, as the president of Mas-
A sey-Ferguson told the Congress, pro-
duction almost invariably rises with an
increase in tractor population. ‘This
highlights the need for mechanisation,
and it is fully explained when you con-
sider that man has only about one-eighth
horsepower to exert; on the assumption
that wages are 35 US cents an hour,
hired labor costs approximately $2.80
per horsepower-hour,” he said. “The
modern tractor will supply power at 2\
cents to 31 cents per horsepower-hour.
Thus, by operating a tractor of 30 to 40
h.p., man’s output and potential earning
power are increased markedly.
“The higher standard of living for
which all peoples seek, together with
the prospect of plentiful food, becomes
possible on a true economic basis. The
same principle, that man with his bare
hands is a poor source of power, applies
even though wages may be as low as
1 i cents an hour.
“The true role of mechanisation is to
enable highly-paid workers to produce
the maximum amount of high quality
food at the lowest cost and yet build
up soil fertility. The main factors which
should go towards achieving that ideal
are: Larger output per man, often, also,
per acre; better timing of work to ‘use’
good weather and reduce harmful effects
of bad weather; widened scope of
cropping, deeper ploughing, cultivation
of unworked hillsides, and so forth; less
toil and better conditions for workers;
overcoming of difficult labor peaks. In
other words, mechanisation is paid for
by savings in cost per unit of production,
and/or increased output.
“Both of the above are inter-dependent
and they may be achieved by more work
in a given time while conditions are
favorable, such as faster work with less
time occupied in maintenance and ad-
justment; increasing the acreage under
cultivation, for example, marginal land
or land freed from feeding horses and
draught animals growing more pro-
ductive types of crops; larger avoidance
of waste or loss through bad weather.”


INDONESIA TODAY 7
The Costs of Confrontation
Can Indonesia take in its belt yet another notch?
By Dr. J. A. R. MACKIE
(Modern Indonesia Project, Cornell University)
the Indonesian economy, in its
seriously debilitated condition, with-
stand the strains that have been created
by the attempt to break trade relations
with Singapore and Malaysia?
President Soekarno and his ministers
have been assuring their people that the
disruptions and hardships created by
this exercise in trade diversion (a sub-
ject on which our own Government has
a fine old cautionary tale it might tell)
are only temporary; that “in the long
run we shall emerge stronger for it.”
They recall the experiences of 1958-9
when Indonesia’s trade did gradually re-
cover from the chaos caused by sudden
expropriation of the Dutch, thus con-
founding the critics who were predicting
imminent collapse for the entire economy.
This time the critics have again been
prophesying disaster perhaps with
stronger reasons since the economy is less
well cushioned than it was then. Yet
Indonesia’s capacity for belt-fastening has
always been remarkable. We should not
underestimate it nor her determination
in the matter of wresting her export
trade out of the hands of the Singapore
merchants.
The sense of grievance against Singa-
pore is not merely a fit of pique on
Soekarno’s part. It arises from a wide-
spread and long-standing belief that her
“middlemen” (Chinese, for the most part
with tentacles into the Indonesian
economy) are fattening parasitically on
the hard-won produce of Indonesian
peasants. The bitterness was acute in
1957 when Singapore importers were
making lucrative profits from “barter
trade” with the dissident provinces. (But
it should be remembered that many
Dutchmen used to be just as vehement
about the profits they thought they were
being deprived of by the British.)
nnHESE feelings were mixed up with the
belief that if direct trade with the final
consumers could only be established un-
der a more perfect trading system, In-
donesia would enjoy the surplus and
at this point anti-capitalist ideology re-
inforces sentiment. Most thinking Indo-
nesians realise, of course, when forced
to take cognisance of the unpalatable
fact, that direct trade ties with other
countries will be built up only when'ln-
donesian merchants and markets are ef-
ficient enough to compete with those of
Singapore. But this does not prevent them
from jumping to the conclusion that
“It’s them or us unless we can break
Singapore’s grip of our trade, she will
go on draining us of our lifeblood.” The
notion of a mutually beneficial relation-
ship is hardly likely to go over while
Singapore remains a potential threat to
her economic stability, as an outlet for
smugglers and barter trading whenever
the exporting regions become discon-
tented with the centre.
Whether Indonesia can deflect her
trade away from Singapore to other
markets without excessive loss remains
to be seen. The late Dr Djuanda made
one interesting reference in October to
the possibility that trade, as well as dip-
lomatic relations, will eventually be re-
opened with Malaysia but on a “nor-
mal” trade footing, not an imperialist or
parasitical one, presumably. (Whatever
this may be held to mean in practice it
is the kind of question to which Lee
Kuan Yew is evidently giving some at-
tentive thought, fortunately.)
Jndonesia for several years has been
urging Singapore, in effect, to police
the smuggling trade for her—in return
for the promise of some export con-
cessions. It is very doubtful if Singapore
can or would go all the way, but she
may be willing to go part of it for the
sake of compromise all round.
Indonesians frequently exaggerate the
extent to which Singapore’s prosperity
depends on her trade with Indonesia
about 20 per cent of her total imports
if we exclude the rather special case of
petroleum products and less than 4 per
cent of her exports.
Singapore is less likely to be shaken
than Indonesia by a complete and sus-
tained trade break under present circum-
stances, with industrialisation now begin-
ning to replace her old reliance on the
entrepot trade and the Malaysian markets
at last assured.
But quite obviously Lee Kuan Yew is
not keen to lose that lucrative 20 per cent
if a satisfactory deal can be arranged.
The question is: Will the Indonesians
insist on trying to break clear from the
Singapore market, or will dire necessity
compel them to abandon that ambition
and come to terms?
The facts of the matter are not easy
to assess. About half of Indonesia’s ex-
ports have been going to Singapore in
the last few years, exclusive of oil which
has to be considered separately. Some
of these exports can probably be chan-
nelled to other markets eventually (at
some cost) if the Indonesian Government
succeeds in shutting off trade with Singa-
pore and can handle the collection and
transport problems in the outer islands.
Some of them undoubtedly will not.
Philippines is eagerly offering to
step into Singapore’s shoes, with
glowing accounts of an alternative entre-
pot centre in Mindanao and the vast
capacity of her rubber remilling industry.
(Indonesia has plenty of that already if
she could only utilise it more efficiently.)
She may get some pickings from this
upset, but not the bargains she hopes for.
Foreign entrepots are just what Indonesia
wants to eliminate.
Out of a total Indonesia-Malaya trade
(mostly to Singapore) worth about
U 55320,000,000 recently, I would guess
that between about US$ 100-150,000,000
might not immediately prove easily dis-
posable, with Singapore cut off. I assume
here that alternative outlets could be
found for the petroleum (about 25 per
cent of the total), copra (5 per cent),
tin (10 per cent to Penang), and
most of the tea, coffee, spices and cocoa
(roughly 6-8 per cent), but that she will
lose most of the market for minor agri-
cultural products (vegetables from North
Sumatra, dried fish, some cattle, etc.) —
perhaps 12-15 per cent for which Singa-
pore’s accessibility is crucial.
The remainder is rubber, about half
the totai export to Singapore, of which
the largest category is ribbed smoke
sheets (presumably including some estate
rubber, despite the prohibition on its


consignment to Singapore) and rather
less than half in lower quality blankets
and slabs for remilling there. Here I can
merely assume upper and lower proba-
bilities of loss (33 per cent and 66 per
cent respectively) which lead to the ap-
proximate limits of US$ 100-150,000,000
given above for the total export loss.
Some increase of import prices and other
costs should also be taken into account,
but I must neglect it here.
A loss of foreign exchange in this
range would not, by itself, entail greater
import reductions than occurred in
1958-9 after the dispossession of the
Dutch, although it may be felt more
heavily, since import levels are now
lower.
Tmports can always be cut back (at a
price, in terms of efficiency)—perhaps
right back into the range of US$400-450
million per annum, excluding oil, as in
the austerity years of 1958-59. Domestic
industries would suffer from the disrup-
tion of raw material supplies and capital
goods, of which they have been starved
since 1958 with only brief moments of
relief, and prices would spiral up when
shortages became acute. But it is not so
much the disruption and the suffering as
the intensification of inflationary pres-
sures which seems most likely to have
immediate consequences in the political
field.
In 1962-3, the acceleration of infla-
tionary pressures became alarming, as
the volume of money in circulation
jumped. Last year it doubled from
Rp. 68 to 135 billion and the same rate
of expansion seems to have continued
in the early months of this year until
the “stabilisation programme” of May
brought about a tightening of the budget
deficits for the second half of the year.
By comparison, it is worth noting that
the rate of increase was only about 30
per cent per annum between 1957-61,
although even that represented a sharp
increase over the earlier years of the
decade. Prices have roughly followed
the volume of money upwards since
1950, although on a somewhat jerkier
trend.
Early this year it looked as if the
inflation was getting out of hand. Budget
deficits, the prime cause, could only be
reduced by slashing government expendi-
tures (to which there are tight political
limits) or raising more tax revenues,
which depend largely on import duties
— all this at a time when imports were
shrinking because of foreign exchange
stringency.
Repayment obligations on foreign
loans were cutting into the country’s
capacity to import and the balance of
payments problem already seemed criti-
cal. Exports were beginning to sag
alarmingly.
Then somehow, rather surprisingly, a
dramatic improvement seems to have
taken place in the middle of this year.
Exports picked up in June after a quasi-
devaluation. The foreign-exchange re-
serves turned out to be a little healthier
than had been estimated and import
curbs were relaxed slightly.
Some accommodation with the Rus-
sians was achieved on the loan repay-
ments and an IMF loan negotiated to
tide over immediate difficulties until
stabilisation could be achieved on
condition that budget expenditures be
checked. Prices began to level out a
little after the unpopular May reforms
and devaluation. A Development Aid
Consortium (USA and Japan, the main
European countries and Britain) began to
discuss a substantial loan programme in
July. By August many observers were
coming away with a new optimism that
some sort of precarious balance might
be held.
Then came the clash with Britain and
the intensified confrontation with Malay-
sia in September. It is too early for any
clear indication of its effects on either
the budget or the foreign payments situa-
tion. But it seems inevitable that the
delicate balancing act required to main-
tain the stabilisation programme will
have been upset. The IMF and DAC
loans are in cold storage, at the very
least.
A merica’s attitude seems to be hard-
ening, although she is still providing
substantial aid under the SAC pro-
gramme, mostly in badly-needed rice.
A serious loss of export earnings on
top of this can only mean that radical
import cuts will be necessary, with com-
pounded inflationary effects through price
increases, speculation and reduced gov-
ernment revenues at a time of increasing
costs to accommodate the disruption of
trade channels.
Where renewed inflation will lead this
time is harder than ever to guess. Soe-
karno’s governments have made similar
leaps into the dark before, without know-
ing the political or economic outcomes,
and landed more or less safely. The econ-
omy seems to be able to survive inflation
more or less indefinitely (although it has
become dangerously more dependent on
outside aid than it was) and many people
have learned how to live with it.
Neither the Americans nor the Rus-
sians can entirely afford to wash their
hands of Indonesia, out of fear that this
leaves the field clear to the other. Yet
the imponderables are greater than they
have been before.
The temptation for regional com-
manders to engage in barter trade with
Singapore is now greater than it has
been since 1957. If the central govern-
ment cannot prevent it, the political con-
sequences could lead towards dangerous
disintegration. But before we conclude
that this is inevitable, we should remem-
ber that the government can wield much
more powerful sanctions of ideology and
armed force against barter trade now than
then, for it will now be tantamount to
dealing with the national enemy.
Only time can tell us whether political
weapons and loyalties will prove stronger
than the economic interests of the ex-
porting provinces if the central govern-
ment's ability to keep the regional author-
ities satisfied is seriously weakened by
foreign exchange shortage and further
inflation. The answer to the question
may well determine whether a negoti-
ated settlement with Malaysia will be
sought or economic confrontation indefin-
itely maintained.
The tragedy of all this is that even
if a settlement regarding the Singapore
trade can be worked out reasonably
soon (as I personally think will have to
happen), the political damage has al-
ready been disastrous. Any new attempt
at stabilisation will have to be made under
even less favorable circumstances than
those of May, 1963 and those were
already about as precarious politically
as any I can imagine.
Land Co. Gives Promi«p
nPiMBER and paint merchants report a
strong revival of building activity
in NZ and with the economy highly
liquid and good land scarce, prices of
home blocks can be expected to rise
again.
Many New Zealanders prefer specula-
ting in land to investing in shares. Maybe
this is the principal reason for the low
price of a young Auckland real estate
developer, United Subdivisions Ltd.


“CROESUS”
The Bird in Hand
The Elections and the Economy
VI/'ith political pollsters still puzzled
" why their predictions on the elec-
tion result were so wide of the mark,
one cannot be too sure that the Govern-
ment’s economic policy, as distinct from
the present highly satisfactory state of the
economy, was a decisive factor in the
result.
It confirms the feeling that the import-
ant consideration for electors, or at least
swinging voters, is the state of employ-
ment. People don’t split hairs about
methods of achieving full employment
so long as it arrives. Fifteen months ago
Ministers with the same economic poli-
cies as they have today and with unem-
ployment uncomfortably high were very
pessimistic of their electoral chances.
But a year later with a good employ-
ment score in the book they could be
confident of going into bat again. The
Opposition evidently didn’t see this in
choosing economic issues for its battle
themes, and in the end found audiences
more interested in security and defence
questions.
The full employment bird in the hand
proved more attractive than a high
growth late and ambitious social invest-
ment in the bush, and it makes good
political sense that a party bent on load-
ing the economy with the burden of
sharply increased Government expendi-
ture when the private sector is getting
near to being at full stretch has been
required to re-think its economic ap-
proaches in the obscurity of the Opposi-
tion benches.
Asa matter of fact, it can consider it-
self lucky that it is not obliged to
honor its election programme in the eco-
nomic field at this particular juncture.
Even with a much less ambitious pro-
gramme the Government is going to be
hard put to maintain stability in present
economic circumstances. Nothing short of
cutting back on the Budget estimate for
an increase of £197 million in Govern-
ment expenditure this year seems to be re-
quired to make way for the rising utilisa-
tion of resources by the private sector
and for what looks virtually certain now,
an acceleration of spending by the public.
Since the election the share market,
if not the shops, have pointed the shape
of things to come in the latter two direc-
tions. It would seem that the Govern-
ment and monetary authorities together
are in a situation in some respects like
December, 1959, when the warning signs
were up for a possible boom. The main
differences would seem to be that,
whereas the current build-up of income
then was coming most strongly from in-
ternal sources, this time it is coming,
more from exports.
But this is not to say that internal
sources, including Government expendi-
ture, are neutral in the equation now.
Indeed, they are running possibly a little
too strongly on their own account and
everything, particularly on the invest-
ment side, points to an acceleration, quite
apart from the strong possibility of a
change in spending habits backed by a
very much bigger volume of accumulated
savings than four years ago.
It is a matter of history that when, in
Cabinet, Mr Holt in February 1960
pressed the Treasury case for containing
the incipient inflation, he had to bow to
a decision to let the tide run on. This
despite the fact that in the December
quarter, 1959, the consumer price index
had increased .7 of a point to 118.0
and that in the March quarter, 1960, it
was in process of increasing by a full
point. (It continued to rise in some quar-
ters ahead of this rate until it reached
125 in the June quarter 1961.)
As it happens, 125 was the highest
point of the consumer price index for
the next two years, but after falling to
124 in the June quarter, 1962, it has been
edging up. Over the year to June 1963,
it put on .9 of a point to 124.9 and in
September quarter this year it added
.2 of a point to 125.1. This is not a big
increase by any means, but it was a rise
for the fifth successive quarter. This
might suggest that against a background
of rising economic activity and the ap-
proach of full employment, but still of
restrained consumer spending, it would
not take much of a rise in spending to
push the index up more feverishly.
In any case with such a head of steam
in the economy and a more stable politi-
cal setting to induce greater confidence
in spending, doubtless the Treasury will
be fully conscious of the possibilities for
an acceleration of price increases on
those of the last five quarters. The task,
therefore, is to implement policies of
containment without delay.
The most enigmatical element in the
position is in the state of private invest-
ment which until the last few months
has been lying somewhat doggo while the
public sector pushed up its own invest-
ment. It would take only a marginal in-
crease in private investment to oblige
the Government to cut back its own in-
vestment programme and one might as-
sume that with three years of political
stability ahead and a sound basis of busi-
ness expectations being established, there
could be a big lift on this front even
despite what is still obviously widespread
surplus capacity.
However, up to the September quarter
this year there were only faint signs of
a genuine revival in fixed private invest-
ment in industry and it is early yet to
see what industrialists have in mind for
the future.
After a promising rise to £142 mil-
lion in the June quarter this year, which
compared with £122.2 million in the
March quarter and £132.8 million and
£127.9 million in the two previous June
quarters, new capital expenditure in in-
dustry fell back to £130.4 million in
the September quarter this year largely
because of a fall in spending on plant
and equipment.
Although this was slightly higher than
in the two previous September quarters,
the drop from June was disappointing,
especially as it occurred in plant and
equipment. (Spending on new industrial
buildings held at about its June level in
September quarter but this was slightly
below the September quarter last year.)
It seems a reasonable assumption that
private fixed investment by industry —•
at any rate on plant and equipment if
not on buildings could rise substan-
tially next year. But on top of that an
even bigger lift in home building may be
expected as a result of cheaper money
and the Federal Government’s proposed
free increments to money saved for de-
posits on houses (the three-for-one
scheme).
Together, fixed investment by industry
A and on home building could easily
boost income generation by 20 p.c. from
these sources next year, even allowing for
some disinvestment in stocks which
could be expected as a result of increased
spending by the public.
But the Federal Government, having
been working overtime to induce a
greater amount of fixed private invest-
ment these last two years (the latest
measure was the last Budget’s extension
of investment allowances to primary in-
dustry), hoping it would take up the
running from public investment, and now
going one stage further with the pro-
posed gifts to home builders, it would
be ironical if the Government had not
calculated that some reduction in its own
fixed investment would be required to
make the necessary resources available
once its efforts to stimulate private fixed
investment proved successful.
While from the figures at present there
look to be plenty of resources available
for both, some time next year the situa-
tion could become strained, just as it was
in 1951 and again in 1960 when the
Government failed to prepare for it and
investment was riding high on both fronts
and inflating the economy in the process.


if it’s urgent
send it IPE C
EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICE
THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Solid Foundation for Cement Makers
Future Developments Promise Healthy Growth
The cement industry is now pro-
ducing at a record level, and, despite
a 10-day strike last month, it looks
as though manufacturers could pro-
duce more than 3 million tons this
year. Large consumers of cement, such
as office blocks and public works and,
to a smaller degree, new homes have
all contributed to the increase, and
future expansion in this field, say
the makers, will maintain growth and
improve it within the industry. The
manufacturers told “The Bulletin”
last week that they were growing at
about 7 p.c. a year.
T\espite a setback last month when a
strike at three Sydney cement works
cut production, cement manufacturers re-
port excellent sales and expect a bright
future.
Workers at Commonwealth Portland
Cement, Kandos Cement and Standard
Portland Cement struck over a refused
demand for a £5 a week increase on
the award rate. Production ceased en-
tirely until the men resumed work uncon-
ditionally on November 29.
Until the strike, cement production in
Australia looked like breaking all records.
Production in August and October of
291,000 and 296,500 tons respectively
was the highest ever. If it continues at
the same level, even taking into account
the strike and the annual sag in pro-
duction in January, the industry could,
this financial year, produce more than
3 million tons of cement and break more
records.
Cement production for 1960-61 total-
led 2,860,000 tons, in 1961-62, 2,783,000
tons and last year 2,944,000 tons. The
large number of new office buildings be-
ing erected in Australian capital cities,
increased public works, and, to a lesser
extent, the increase in new homes being
built is giving cement producers large
orders and most of them are working
at full or near-full capacity. Scheduled
public works and buildings give them an
optimistic view of the future.
An executive of Standard Portland
Cement Co. describes the cement industry
as “very buoyant.” And for the future
it looks as though there will be a con-
tinued demand. “On our own figures,” he
said, “it looks like a 5 or 6 p.c. annual
increase in consumption. And our sales
for this time of the year are about 7 p.c.
higher than the same time last year.”
Although the strike completely shut
down production at Standard Portland,
the company was able to satisfy clients’
orders from stock.
“The future is one of growth,” said
a spokesman for Southern Portland
Cement. “It's the same as it has been
over the last few years. We’ve found
that if population increases by, say,
200,000 then the cement production will
increase by about 200,000 tons.
“The Liberal Party’s housing pro-
gramme will help to keep consumption
up, but the increase in governmental
projects has a bigger effect on us than
housing. The amount used in housing
is not substantial. But if more houses are
being built you must have more facili-
ties like sewerage and roads, guttering
arid footpaths.”
A high demand has placed Common-
wealth Portland Cement Co. on full
working capacity, said an executive of
the company. He said that at the moment
there was a shortage of cement. “For
the next six months or a year we’ll be
working at full capacity but we don’t
anticipate another shortage,” he said.
“The strike in Commonwealth’s works
had halted production completely for
10 days last month.”
There were two reasons for the heavy
fall in production in January this year
when only 158,000 tons of cement were
produced in Australia. “That’s the time
of year when the building industry goes
on holidays. And this year January was
very wet which slowed up many con-
struction works. You can always depend
on a drop in production in January, al-
though, perhaps, not as heavy as was
the case this year.”
The managing director of Pioneer Con-
crete Ltd (Mr T. V. Antico) said ready-
mixed concrete had great growth poten-
tial in Australia. He said there was great
potential in many country centres. “We
already have plants in Bathurst, Lithgow,
Tamworth, Wagga and Goulburn and
we’re looking at country centres in Vic-
toria, NSW and Queensland with a view
to opening plants there,” he said.
Mr Antico said he did not believe
there would be any slackening in the
pace of office building in the near future.
Many insurance companies were rebuild-
ing and projects like the Rocks scheme,
which will cost about £35 million over
the next 10 years, were to come. And


tough problems
Dogged research work by Australian scientists in the face
of much discouragement and many obstacles cleared the
way for the development of papermaking in Australia to its
present status as a leading Commonwealth industry.
Working in the 1920's and 1930’s these scientists proved
that this continent’s tough native eucalypt hardwoods
could be pulped successfully an outstanding techno-
logical achievement of the between-war decades.
s
.v
"3
m
Electron micrograph of kraft paper made from Australian eucalypts
taken on A.P.M.’s electron microscope magnified to 300 times actual size.
With this background of science it is not surprising
that A.P.M., Australian Paper Manufacturers Ltd.,
regards scientific research as a form of insurance for
future profits and progress and accords research an
important place in its organization and activities. In
well-equipped, modern research laboratories A.P.M.
researchers grapple each day with a range of chal-
lenging problems extending all the way from forestry
through pulp and paper manufacturing to the qualities
of the company's finished products. There are grad-
uates of many scientific disciplines such as chemistry,
engineering, physics, paper technology, forestry, and
metallurgy. Among these researchers are some who
have gained an international reputation in their
particular fields as a result of their work at A.P.M.
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LTD.
OWNED BY AUSTRALIANS
Head Office: South Gate, South Melbourne, Victoria. Sales Offices in all Australian Capital Cities.
|PR63*7O3


LIMITED
The main business of Esanda Limited is to conduct
hire purchase, leasing and other finance operations
as a wholly owned subsidiary of the
E.S.&A. BANK
through the Australia-wide branch system of the Bank
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE-DEBENTURE STOCK'
CURRENCY ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST
8 years • . 6/0
6 years 5 3 A /o
5 years . . • 5*4%
4 years ....•.••••••., 5V4 /o
3 years 5 /o
REGISTERED UNSECURED NOTES
CURRENCY ISSUED AT PAR INTEREST
8 years 6V4%
6 years 6%
5 years . . . . . 5 3 /4%
4 years 5 V 2 °/o
3 years 5V4%
interest per annum payable half-yearly
Applications can be accepted only on one of the forms of application
attached to a printed copy of the prospectus which are available from
Members of Stock Exchanges and at any office of The English Scottish
and Australian Bank Limited.
ESANDA LIMITED
(incorporated in victoria)
Registered Office: 287 Collins Street, Melbourne
EI6
when people rebuilt they usually allowed
for future expansion and growth.
“Over the last five years development
in this field has been tremendous,” he
said. “Ready-mixed concrete has be-
come more and more popular and there
is less concrete mixing on site.”
The following figures from the Com-
monwealth Statistician give some indica-
tion of the industry’s growth rate: —
AUSTRALIAN READY-MIXED
CONCRETE PRODUCTION
Year to Cubic Value
June 30 Yards £
1955 775,030 3,940,907
1956 980,172 5,162,344
1957 1,242,239 6,504,783
1958 1,462,337 7,971,271
1959 1,910,615 10,630,202
1960 2,579,381 13,967,440
1961 3,535,314 19,085,629
1962 3,717,665 19,820,863
A spokesman for the Cement and
Concrete Association of Australia said
cement consumption was definitely higher
at present than for the same period 12
months ago. The increase had been quite
marked during the past 12 months. “In
Queensland, for instance, consumption
has risen to a record level,” he said.
“Last year it was the highest since 1960-
61. Present consumption in that State
is up about 17 p.c. on the previous year
and the industry expects the current im-
provements to be maintained.
“In 1960-61 most of the cement com-
panies were in the process of expansion.
Consumption had doubled from the fig-
ure of ten years earlier. Capacities of
production have been generally improved.
They are geared to meet any demand
that might crop up in the next few years.
“The industry is not one that can ex-
pand quickly because of the capital cost
so expansion must be carefully planned.
Demand was growing at about 5 p.c. in
1959-60 and rose to 6 to 7 p.c. in 1960-
61. The manufacturers anticipate a
growth rate of about 9 p.c. in the future.
“I don’t think they would be embar-
rassed by the pouring in of about <£loo
million on developments. Any increase
in the rate of home building must bring
more sales of cement but it is hard to
speculate when any increase in home
building might take place. It was only
in February this year that we started
to see any worthwhile increase and im-
provement in home building.
“The planned roadworks like the nor-
thern distributor and the Newcastle ex-
pressway will improve consumption. But
we don’t anticipate any substantial in-
crease. You can’t really foreshadow any
substantial increase in cement or concrete
consumption.
“The picture generally is that the rate
of cement consumption is higher and that
it will be maintained,” the spokesman
added.


■ ■
as a
long
drink
CINZANO
mwmsimt
•:*
mmmm&
•^ : ;
X
;X-::x^ : ::-:v-
-■" j «-*••• -- ; "
+*«"**:
founded
or
straight
on-the-rocks
More and more people \
have discovered a touch :
of the chic and Continen-
tal in drinking straight
vermouth. Let’s have a
CINZANO PARTY with the
four “Cinzano” vermouths
—it’s fashionable, utterly
enjoyable . . . and not too
expensive. Here are some suggestions—
Serve Straight or on-the-rocks —Cinzano Sweet, add
a lemon peel; Cinzano Dry, add an olive; Cinzano Bianco,
add a cherry; Cinzano Amaro, add a slice of orange.
Or as a long drink in a tall glass with ice cubes and
lemon peel half CINZANO Sweet, Bianco or Amaro
and half soda water or half CINZANO Dry and half
ginger ale.
ONLY CINZANO gives the choice of 4 vermouths
-SWEET, DRY, BIANCO and AMARO.
C1N144/72
OIL CORNER
Prices More Stable
HPhe oil market, which received plenty
A of speculators’ attention while the
industrial market lacked interest, could
suffer from the recent sudden switch to
industrials.
After all, the rush of industrial buying
at high prices requires some financing
and those who previously were dabbling
in oil shares may be looking around for
some scrip to sell so they can pay their
broker.
Against this, there are plenty of people
with money who, having decided the
industrial market skipped away from
them too quickly, may be prepared for
a spill-over of surplus funds into the
oil market.
They may argue, quite reasonably,
that the oil market is at a relatively sub-
dued level and certainly offers cheaper
opportunities than some of the giddy
heights achieved during the oil boom.
Also, you can’t get set so readily with
stock options these days, because the
writer of the option is expected to hold
the shares and, in some cases, pass them
across to his broker as security.
Before some of the option writers got
their fingers burned, it was not unusual
for the writer to underwrite a stock op-
tion without holding the shares. In such
a situation, he might even underwrite a
dozen call options without owning a
share.
To this extent, the market was at
times more volatile when the stock op-
tion writer was forced to cover his com-
mitment.
Today it is different and there is less
frantic buying.
For that reason, some of the dep-
ressed oil shares are being picked up as
a relatively cheap hedge against an oil
strike, and the usual expected rise in
prices all round.
Buyers who are specking a few oil
stocks also find they are in a position to
write a few options if they want to, thus
defraying part of the cost.
★ * *
'VTow that EXOIL NL has commenced
drilling at Mereenie No. 1, 140
miles west of Alice Springs, stock op-
tion buyers became more active and
several Jiree months and six months call
options were posted.
Those who bought the shares recently
when suggested here at lower prices,
and were able to write options on them,
could offset expenses considerably. And,
if drilling is unsuccessful, the price fall
is not so alarming.
The pattern of oil drilling also shows
that oil shares tend to rise again when
the next hole is spudded in.
The more conservative speculator can
sell again on one of these rises (if the
option has expired) or underwrite another
option after the first option has expired.
But, as the experts always say . . .
never put money into oil stocks that you
can’t afford to lose.
★ ★ ★
keeps popping up in the
A call options list and the obvious
reason is the very cheap outlay for the
oil speculator. Only 4d. is paid for a
three month call option on a share sel-
ling at around Is. 2d., so it doesn’t have
to move much before the option buyer
achieves a profit margin. And brokerage
at prices between Is. and 3s. is only Id.
per share.
Still, a cheap price is not everything.
The company must come up with some
favorable news to justify a price rise.
One thing in Farmout’s favor, how-
ever, is that it has a foot in several
camps.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act ot
Ne* South Wales on Bth March, 1950
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
* * PER ANNUM * *
6, 8 or lO YEARS
6. 8 or 10
years
8% p.,
5
years
7iVx
ALSO AVAILABLE-REGISTERED REDEEMABLE
* * UNSECURED DEPOSIT NOTES * *
Rates from 7% P.A. for 12 months to 8%%
P.A. for 6,8, or 10 years.
SHORT TERM
RATES
Applications can only be accepted on the form attached
to, and referred to in the prospectus.
HOW TO INVEST: Application forms and prospectus may
be obtained from any Branch of the Bank of New South
Wales; any member of the Stock Exchange; or any office
of Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited in Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane. Adelaide. Perth. Canberra, Hobart.
Newcastle or Wagga.
POST COUPON BELOW lODAY
Sfi
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney.
'Phone: 27-8621.
Please send me, without obligation, a copy ot your
Prospectus.
B 162
NAME
ADDRESS
8085/101
MARKET POINTERS
Promises, Promises!
While some of Australia’s leading re-
tailers report happily on rising retail
turnovers, profit figures may not enjoy
a similar rise, particularly if prospects
of wage increases in 1964 are considered.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
LTD, of Sydney, continues to report
hopefully on improved sales. But the
profit record is sour.
Mr Ron Irish, chairman of Anthony
Hordern, said recently that sales of the
main Brickfield Hill Store were 6 p.c.
higher than last year and the store was
likely to produce a trading profit "at
last.”
There have been previous predictions
and previous convictions. Shareholders
in Anthony Hordern indeed have shown
extreme patience and forbearance. But
something new has been added. Talk of
clean stocks, conservative stocks, ade-
quate provisions for doubtful debts,
rising sales, etc., now receives the added
sweetener of hinted benefits from a pos-
sible re-development of the Brickfield
Hill site.
No, not a Santaland re-development
for the kids but the birth of a new pro-
ject which is going to take an appropriate
nine months before it can be announced.
Mr Irish, if not the father of this pro-
ject, at least hopes to be the happy god-
father because he says that if everything
goes right, the next annual meeting will
be a happy one . . . presumably with
champagne for shareholders to celebrate
the “happy event.” Bring your own
rattle.
All very intriguing. But with the mas-
sive floor space at Anthony Hordern's
city store, it is quite feasible to imagine
at least portion of the building could be
converted to office space, an hotel and
an extra parking area, with still sufficient
room left over to build playing fields,
swimming pools, squash courts, etc., on
the roof.
Anyone who is convinced about the
happiness content of the next annual
meeting should not go far wrong with
the 20s. shares at around 14s. as a re-
covery prospect. This has been said be-
fore and Anthony Hordern shares still
wilt.
But if some of the freehold could be
sold, there’s no doubt that the 51s. assets
backing for the 20s. ordinaries gives
plenty of scope for a return of capital.
★ ★ ★
"Recommending shares when the ordin-
ary share price index is posting all
time highs seems like asking for trouble.
When economic conditions are buoyant
and further expansion is in prospect,
there is always a temporary setback.
Even on a strong bull market, there
are invariably a series of adjustments as
the market climbs higher. Like the time
when the brokers can’t explain it but say
merely that the market experienced a
technical adjustment.
This merely means that someone got
cold feet and sold out, or a shrewd
profit-taker adopted the maxim of leaving
something for the other fellow.
★ ★ ★
WYNYARD HOLDINGS, Sydney, is
" now operating profitably and the 5s.
shares at around 4s. could be worth a
“spec.”
The company (an offshoot of Project
Development) derives income from shops,
offices and the Menzies Hotel at Wyn-
yard and, if Project Development wants
to put further business its way, it could
gain further strength.
Like most companies associated with
a developer, its success could fluctuate.
On past experience, the investing public
becomes cautious in case a flagging prop-
erty is sold to the associate as a matter
of convenience.
With Project Development showing
such vigor at the moment, it would ap-
pear that immediate prospects are at-
tractive. So the shares could move higher.
★ ★ ★
ITARDEN & JOHNSTON LTD, Syd-
ney distributor of Chrysler, Dodge
Phoenix, Simca, etc., must be enjoying
the fruits of the successful Valiant sedan
and station wagon. The share market
was aware of this many months ago, but
prices have not moved up sharply along
with the rest of the market in its recent
burst.
Most people expect the car war to
become extremely fierce next year, but
Harden & Johnston should have suffici-
ent in kitty to provide adequate dividend
cover.
Dividend yield is around 5.5 p.c., and
this is not to be sneezed at when share
price rises are lowering yields all round.
★ ★ ★
T>ONDS INDUSTRIES has an enviable
record and some shrewd operators
have been buying the rights to the new
share issue to put them into the new
shares at around 14s.
Yield is about 4.4 p.c. and although
textile stocks are not very popular with
investors, this is one which has given a
consistently sound performance.


|ip arill o
\ tjßoLt.Burns
m
505
'* » f v
New from tip to tip
now America’s most
favoured Cigar.
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD.
INVESTMENT SECTION
“Amateurs’” Verdict on
Reid Murray
Otrange, isn’t it, that the Victorian
Government chose two amateurs in
accountancy to investigate the affairs of
the Reid Murray group? By general
consent this was about the trickiest com-
bination of companies in the whole of
the Australian company world. “Neither
of us is skilled in accountancy,” admitted
Mr B. L. Murray, QC (coincidence
there!) and Mr B. J. Shaw, the legal
gentlemen who were appointed as the
investigators.
This is admitted in an obiter dicta,
which runs on “and we are aware that
much of what we have said will not be
accepted by the accountancy profession
generally”. So what degree of confidence
can the public feel about the conclusions
of the report, which do not confirm the
suspicions aroused by the auditors to the
1961-62 accounts in their statement ear-
lier this year?
It can be said, however, that this is
only the first instalment of their report.
The commonsense which the investiga-
tors seem to have relied on seems to have
led them to the truth of the main matter,
that is, how the group came unstuck,
even if it compelled them “to reject a
number of accounting practices used in
the group and apparently regarded as
acceptable by accountants”.
In at least one instance in which they
were critical of the accounting methods
of Reid Murray they will have the support
of accountants. They state that the cre-
dit retailers (referred to as the backbone
of the business of the group) often had
a ratio of cash to credit sales of as low
as one-to-nine and the practice was
adopted of taking the whole of the trading
profit at the time of sale.
This would not be objectionable, they
state, if the sale were finalised through a
hire purchase company, because the re-
tailer would have received his profit or,
at any rate, the profit would have been
receivable. But, they go on, the Reid
Murray credit retailers were financing
their own credit to a major extent and
the profit was not received or receivable,
and many of the credit transactions
entered into by the retailers would never
have been accepted by a finance com-
pany!
As they say, the trading profit should
be spread over the period of the terms by
some formula, and so should the interest
charge. Most accountants would agree.
This raises the interesting point whether,
in fact, the bulk of the instalment credit
outstanding in retail businesses (that is
not financed by non-retail companies)
which stands at about £215 million for
Australia, is subject to the Reid Murray
accounting method. One’s impression is
that it is not.
But in cases where it is, one would
have similar suspicions of unsoundness
which the investigators say would have
been obvious to those “blessed with a
cynical suspicion” who were suspicious of
the Reid Murray accounts over a period
of three years from 1959 to 1961. In
that time huge sums invested in debtors
on credit instalment account were shown
as current assets by 1961 “the major
asset of the group was its term debts
and these had commenced to rot away
a rot that had progressed a startling
distance”.
But as the investigators show with
great clarity for a couple of amateurs,
that wasn’t Reid Murray’s only trouble.
While shareholders were reading the
1960-61 accounts with their sober board
optimism, there were several other hasty
imponderables. The group was “desper-
ately” short of liquid funds and had
been short for a year despite the almost
continuous public invitations to put up
more money. Also, it “was seriously
overdue in payment of trade creditors”
and under strong pressure from its bank-
ers to reduce its overdraft, yet having to
arrange for and use an additional standby
overdraft with the Commonwealth Bank.
To make matters much worse, the real
value of the group’s investment in land,
says the report, had declined sharply and
much of the land was unsaleable except
at sacrifice prices, while “enormous
amounts of interest had been capitalised
and included in the value of the items


suu
■
0
iJUL
An Issue of
REGISTERED FIRST MORTGAGE DEBENTURE STOCK
o
PER ANNUM
5 or 10 YRS.
LONG TERM
8%, 5 or 10 years
7% 4 years
6y 2 % 3 years
6% 2 years
SHORT TERM
5Y 2 % • • 12 months
5% 9 months
4 Yz% ... 6 months
4% 3 months
Interest payable quarterly.
Trustees for the Debenture Holders:
BURNS PHILP TRUST COMPANY LIMITED
HOW TO INVEST
Applications for Debenture Stock will proceed only on one
of the forms of application referred to in and attached to
a printed copy of the Prospectus. The full Prospectus and
forms of application may be obtained from:
• Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia, or any of
its branches;
• Any member of a recognised Stock Exchange;
• The Underwriting Brokers: Ralph W. King & Yuill
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange), 20
O'Connell Street, Sydney, or at any of their branches
• Any office of L. J. Hooker Limited;
• or direct from Hooker Finance Company Limited
Hooker House, Angel Place, Sydney, and interstate
l. offices. J
relating to the group’s investment in
land”.
Further, in 1963, 1964 and 1965 de-
bentures totalling £l9 million were due
to mature and the only hope of meeting
these maturities was from further bor-
rowing. None of these weaknesses could
have been gleaned from the accounts, or
at least they did not make the position
clear.
The investigators could discover no
plan having been made for the repay-
ment of debentures save by borrowing
fresh funds from the public. Eventually
the sum borrowed became so large that
the weekly interest bill exceeded
£500,000. In the result, a cost structure
so vast and complicated was built up
that, with some subsidiaries suffering
losses and control over debtors loosen-
ing, the liquidity position became tighter
and tighter.
Then came the credit squeeze of late
1960 and from then on the difficulties
multiplied. “The flow of money began to
dry up, investments did not produce
cash at the rate expected, and bad debts
were revealed as having been incurred
on a vast scale”, the report said. But, the
investigators believe that even without
the credit squeeze the group would have
experienced an increasing shortage of
liquid funds and its survival would have
depended on its ability to recognise its
shortcomings and remedy them effec-
tively.
“As these shortcomings arose from the
basic concepts of the principal execu-
tives of the group such a realisation
would not have come easily, unless it
was imposed by force of circumstances,”
they add.
Good For Prestige
Tractors’ £907,371 debt to Holeproof
in effect reduces the £3,510,000
Prestige is paying to a net £2,602,629 to
be received by Factors towards the
liquidation of its debts, which takes much
of the gilt off the gingerbread in futher-
ance of Mr Korman’s plan to get con-
trol of Factors again. But the feeling
still persists in Melbourne that this will
not stop him in his bid for assuming
control again.
Mr Korman’s play will doubtless be
more feverish than ever now this deal
has been made by Prestige with the
Receiver. For the moment, however,
interest has switched to the effect of the
acquisition on Prestige itself.
Mr G. G. Foletta, chairman of Pres-
tige, quickly ended speculation on how
his company intends to finance the deal,
at least in part by announcing on the
morrow of the purchase a new three-for-
five issue of ss. shares at 9s. which is
calculated to bring in £1,091,716. This
will increase the company’s paid capital
by £606,506 to £2,095,407.
The company says it is confident that
the 12i p.c. dividend, which was
increased from 10 p.c. in the latest
year, will be maintained after the issue.
Indeed this should be easily achieved if
profits continue as buoyant as last year
when the 12i p.c. rate was covered by
earnings of 34.1 p.c.
Indeed Holeproof, which earned about
£277,000 last year after deduction of
£23,000 preference dividends, should
make a good enough contribution on its
own to service the increase in capital
at a rate of 12i p.c. though at this
stage the amount of interest Prestige will
have to pay on the remainder of finance
required to buy Holeproof cannot be
calculated.
The extra money needed to pay for
Holeproof shouldn’t be difficult to find
and it is odds on that lan Potter & Co
and AUC which are underwriting the
Prestige share issue have some concrete
thoughts on that. The additional money
will doubtless easily be found in a mix-
ture of bank and debenture capital and
should not involve Prestige in more than
an additional £lOO,OOO in interest pay-
ments, which of course would be tax
deductible.
Holeproof shareholders who sunk their
fortunes in Factors on the share exchange
of four years ago might have wished that
Prestige had come along with a bid then,
but that is hind thinking and all they
can hope for now is that Mr Korman
is left with sufficient assets after the
Factors Receiver has carved up the com-
pany to make a profitable go of it. On
the other hand preference shareholders
and prior charge - holders in Holeproof
would seem to come out of the sorry
affair much better than they had reason
to expect even a year ago.
Ralph Symonds’ Troubles
Ralph Symonds Ltd, plywood maker,
reported to shareholders last week
that net loss on trading for the year to
June 30, 1963 was £.195,957 compared
with profit of £101,820 in 1962.
Contributing factors were higher costs
and lower turnover because of fire and


MEET MY FINANCE!
★
★
Lots of people have a happy arrangement with
Esanda. Nice people. Contented people. They
have been provided with Esanda Hire Purchase
Finance or Lease Plan. Some, to obtain a
car or truck. A major household appliance.
What else? We finance dental and medical
equipment. Farm machinery. Home improve-
ment. Purchase of shares. Overseas travel. All
sorts of things. Developmental Finance. Work-
ing Capital. Office and industrial equipment,
caravans, air-conditioning. Even aircraft.
Yes, whatever you want extra finance for
talk to us at Esanda. Chances are we’ll be
able to make an arrangement profitable to
you. Quickly. Reasonably. Confidentially.
Repayments may be made at any branch of
the E. S. & A. Bank.
ESANDA
ESANDA LIMITED (Incorporated in Victoria)
for finance in every field
32 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
313 Queen Street, Brisbane.
1 Criterion Street, Hobart.
140 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
316 Murray Street, Perth.
Wynyard House, 291 George Street, Sydney.
Enquiries may be made at any branch of the
E. S. & A. Bank.
windstorm damage, continuous rain in
the second half of the year, the cost of
holding property not needed for manu-
facturing purposes, and non-receipt of
full claims for loss of profits insurance.
The trading loss was actually mini-
mised by special discounts of <£35,000
allowed on overseas purchases because
of faulty materials supplied to the com-
pany the year before.
The fire in the glue factory in Novem-
ber, 1962, occasioned loss of profits for
which the company received £65,000
compensation. Further substantial sums
may be obtained this year on claims.
In addition to the trading loss,
£91,161 was charged against profit and
loss account in respect of a change in
the basis of measuring bulk stocks.
Depreciation and amortisation charges
were reduced from £92,988 to £82,138.
Sales overall were down 12.2 p.c., but
in the first four months of the current
year were up 19 p.c.
Directors describe current outlook as
one of recovery. Shareholders should ask
about the present profitability of the
company when they attend the annual
meeting on December 23.
Geo. Fielder’s Struggle
A subject of consistent takeover talk
in past years Geo. Fielder and Co.
Ltd continues its independent way.
From the 1958-59 trading trough,
Fielder has since been struggling to earn
a respectable return on capital.
In the latest period to September 30,
however, profit eased to £98,677 after
tax of £36,737 and depreciation of
£150,916. Earning rate slipped from
11.0 to 9.2 p.c.
The comparative figure for the previ-
ous year’s profit, according to directors,
was £117,874, ignoring the abnormal
income of £32,649 which arose from
a change in trading arrangements when
costs carried in previous years by a sub-
sidiary were considered not applicable
to 1961-62.
The ss. shares are hanging around
ss. 9d. where the yield on the unchanged
8 p.c. dividend is 7.0 p.c. The 8 p.c.
notes, which convert on May 31, 1965,
sell for 21s. 6d. to return 7.4 p.c.
Rescue for Hornibrook
f|\> the rescue of Brisbane based Horni-
brook Ltd comes Wood Hall (Aus-
tralia) Pty Ltd, subsidiary of the London
complex Wood Hall Trust Ltd.
An unusual offer has been made
whereby Wood Hall will pay 2s. 6d. per
£ 1 share to existing holders in respect of
half their shares, as option to take up
the shares by January 31, 1966 on pay-
ment of a further 17s. 6d. If the options


“That was
Auckland..
and yet it
sounded like
a local call”
k k
\
Of course! . . . because all Telephone calls to New Zealand
now travel via COMPAC, the new Commonwealth Pacific Cable
which extends to New Zealand, Fiji, Britain, Europe and
North America.
Regardless of whether your call is to London or Los Angeles
the clarity is equivalent to that of a local call.
If your business demands a large volume of overseas contact,
check the advantages of installing Telex or Leased services.
It costs less than you think to ’phone Overseas —a 3
minute call to New Zealand is only 37/6 (minimum rate).
THE OVERSEAS TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (AUSTRALIA)
Australian Partner in the British Commonwealth Telecommunications System.
O.T.C. HOUSE, 12 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY. 2 0544
OTI6A
are not exercised shareholders retain the
2s. 6d.
Wood Hall wants no more than a
half-interest in the paid capital of
£700,000 in £1 ordinary shares.
Hornibrook ran into liquidity prob-
lems in 1962-63 because so many of its
large contracts are not yet at the profit-
earning stage. A loss of £138,061 was
reported, compared with the previous re-
duced profit of £61,694.
Current contracts include construction
of the roof of the Sydney Opera House,
Port Adelaide wheat silos and the Kan-
garoo Creek road, and the last part of
the Mt Isa railway rehabilitation.
Wood Hall has been attentive to the
Hornibrook group for some time, as it
recently bought the subsidiary M. R.
Hornibrook (NSW) Pty Ltd for
£187,000 and bought the Enfield prop-
erty of another subsidiary M. R. Horni-
brook (Pty). A capital profit of £161,215
resulted from these sales.
Vesta Goes Flat
"I/’esta Ltd’s shareholders’ funds were
further depleted by £299,063 in the
year to June 30. Of this, £130,654
drained away in a trading loss, £46,967
in a stock write-down and £121,442 in
revaluation and sale of fixed assets.
In the last four years the company,
formerly known as Vesta Battery Co.
Ltd, has lost over £3 million in trading.
In October it was reported that sales
for the first quarter were well below
budget, because Vesta’s supplier of
batteries had had production problems
and was able to supply only one-quarter
of Vesta’s requirements.
Inability to sell the Waterloo property
(VG £140,000) at auction on November
5 was another cause for gloom.
The trustee for the £175,000 8 p.c
registered unsecured notes, Bank of NSW
Nominees, has called upon the company
to remedy its breach of the Trust Deed
by December 12. Presumably if this can-
not be done, the trustees’ next step is
to put in a Receiver.
The deed allows total liabilities not
exceeding one-and-a-half times share-
holders’ funds. As at June 30, the balance
sheet indicates an excess of some
£270,000.
Net tangible asset backing for the 10s.
shares was 4s. 2d., based on 1962-63
accounts. The shares lately sold at 2s. 3d.
Smoke Signals
T>estoration of the 10 p.c. dividend
rate, which was allowed to drop to
8 and 9i p.c. in 1961 and 1962, has
been confirmed by British Tobacco Co.
with the payment of a final 5 p.c.
Present price of 31s. 6d. still returns
an interesting 6.3 p.c., and although the
best price this year it still falls short of
the minimum levels of 1959 and 1960.
It’s not yet time for shareholders to
weaken.
The parent profit has been reported
4.7 p.c. higher than its 1962 counter-
part for the year to October 31. In-
vestors will probably have to wait until
mid-February for consolidated results.
Indeterminate Losses
HPhe high cost of changing plans was
illustrated by the decision of Clarke
Bros Holdings Ltd not to proceed with
a move to Balmain.
Clarke Bros, furniture maker, bought
this waterfront property of 8* acres plus
equipment from D. Hardy and Sons Ltd,
timber merchants, in August 1962 for a
reported £333,000.
Difficulties of converting the property
to useful furniture production induced
directors to sell the property. The loss
on realisation could be about £35,000,
the chairman said in his annual review
for 1962-63.
The chairman makes separate reference
to the annual drain on funds of £40,000,
being interest on purchase money, rates,


&
W||i|
ROYAL EXCHANGE ASSURANCE
(Incorporated in England)
Assets exceed £200,000,000
The Royal Exchange Assurance Group of Offices provides a
world-wide insurance service backed by experience over almost two
and a half centuries.
The following are the associated companies operating in
Australia.
• ATLAS ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• AUSTRALIAN & EASTERN INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria)
• THE STATE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• BRITISH EQUITABLE ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in England)
• THE PACIFIC INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in New South Wales)
Branches in all States
Head Office for Australia—
Kindersley House,
Bligh/O'Connell Streets,
Sydney.
Frank H. Egerton
Manager for Australia
SPECIALIZED
ANSETT FREIGHT
EXPRESS
GETS YOUR GOODS THERE
ON TIME —EVERY TIME
You can time your business operations, inter-
state or local, by the regularity of Ansett
Freight Express pick-up and deliveries.
Whatever the consignment, hosiery to heavy
machinery, bulk loads or single packages
THERE’S A SERVICE TO SUIT YOUR NEEDS
For further particulars phone!
Melbourne 68 0541 * Sydney 67 0533 ‘ Adelaide 45 533 7
Canberra 94091 • Brisbane 471481 . Perth 244926
90i9N Tasmania —Devonport 2 2659
land tax, insurance and maintenance
relating to this property.
The guesses are, therefore, hazardous
as to when the company will resume
dividend payments, although directors
“believe” steps taken have reduced overall
losses to a point where the company is
now trading profitably.
The company made a loss of £61,160
in the last year to June 30, after pro-
viding £31,090 for depreciation and
£4lB for tax. Directors said the Queens-
land and New Britain subsidiaries were
profitable, Sydney only being responsible
for the loss. __
No dividend was paid for the year
although the rate for the three preceding
years was 12i p.c.
Making Pots
T>ottery maker R. Fowler Ltd showed
-*• a higher net profit for the year to
September 30, 1963, but tax provision
was lower.
Latest profit was £90,765 after
£82,650 tax, whereas the year before
profit of £80,982 was exceeded by the
tax provision of £92,046.
Earning rate was 14.3 p.c. and the
dividend was restored to 10 p.c. after
previous payments of 9 p.c. in 1961-62
and a lowly 7i p.c. in the troubled days
of 1960-61.
Transfer of £20,160 to revaluation
reserve, being surplus on revaluation of
a freehold property, suggests Mr Ray-
mont Moore and his fellow directors are
gearing the company for later bonuses
when trade is good.
All the economic factors are favor-
able for the coming year. The shares,
therefore, are probably not overvalued at
15s. where the yield is 3.3 p.c.
Cheap Borrowing
Tn tune with other borrowers, Esanda
-*■ Ltd, wholly-owned subsidiary of the
English Scottish and Australian Bank
Ltd, has lowered its interest rates on
the latest debenture and note issue.
Current rates of up to 6 p.c. for
debentures and 6£ p.c. for unsecured
notes are the lowest ever offered by the
company.
Record for C.I.G.
Commonwealth Industrial Gases
2os. shares moved up to 91s. 6d.
on news of a profit record in the year
to September 28.
Profit increased more than sufficient
to hold the earning rate on the capital
issued to take over Pacific Oxygen Ltd.
Actual profit was £1,406,978 after
slightly lower depreciation of £1,068,117
and rather higher tax provision of


BENEFICIAL
FINANCE CORPORATION LIMITED
Tr /o
PER ANNUM FOR
7 YEARS
REGISTERED FIRST
MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
7 % p.a. 5 years
6i%p.a. 3 years
5j% p.a. 12 months
other rates and terms available
PAID UP CAPITAL £1,032,000
Trustees for Debenture Holders
Elder's Trustee and
Executor Company Ltd.
Applications for Debentures will
proceed only on the application
form attached to and referred to in
a printed copy of the Prospectus
which is obtainable from:
• Any member of the Stock
Exchange
• National Bank branches
• The Underwriting Brokers
Gavin F. Gardner & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange
of Adelaide Ltd.
Corrie & Co.
Members of the Brisbane Stock
Exchange
Wallace H. Smith & Co.
Members of The Stock Exchange
of Melbourne
Mullens & Co.
Members of the Sydney Stock
Exchange
>
C/)
o
BENEFICIAL
*
OR DIRECT FROM
BENEFICIAL FINANCE
CORPORATION LIMITED
(inc in S.A.)
Adelaide • Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane
o> Mm a/ftswldes..,
f
LDB
FINE OLD BRIAR
PIPES
LONDON MADE
SELECTED AND SEASONED FOR
COOL, SWEET SMOKING
AND LONG SERVICE
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS %
& DEPARTMENT STORES %
TRADE ENQUIRIES: S. HOFFNUNG & CO. LTD
£995,670. Profit in 1961-62 was
£1,287,049.
Earning rate firmed to 27.6 p.c. com-
pared with the steady 11 p.c. dividend.
The controlling interest held by Brit-
ish Oxygen reduces the availability of
the shares, which anyway are highly re-
garded by institutions.
Wynyard Now Profitable
IIfYNYARD Holdings Ltd, owner of the
new M'enzies Hotel in Sydney and
the adjacent Wynyard House office block
and shopping plaza, reports that it is now
trading profitably.
A loss of £ 11,065 was incurred in
the year to June 30, mainly due to the
fact that all expenses applicable to the
building of Wynyard House were a
charge against income while income
from lettings lagged behind estimates,
directors said.
Directors now advise that 95 p.c. of
the office block is let, and since the
hotel opened on October 17 all public
rooms have been well patronised and
room occupancy has exceeded 80 p.c.
many nights in the early weeks.
The ss. shares meantime linger 9d.
or so below par.
Merchant’s New Issue
T ohn Cordner, general merchants and
importers with operations in Victoria,
South Australia and NSW, is making a
one-for-eight issue of ss. shares at 2s. 6d.
premium to raise £56,268. The new
shares, to rank for the final dividend for
the current year which ends on March
31, next, will be offered to shareholders
and holders of convertible notes.
Last year the company lifted profits
by 47 p.c. to a new record of £46,375
which gave 18.7 p.c. earnings to cover
the 10 p.c. dividend also paid in each
of the two previous years, having been
reduced from 121 p.c. paid in 1959-60.
The interim report in July spoke of an
upward trend in sales and the erection
of a new factory at Kensington, which
doubtless the new issue is meant to assist
financing. The ss. shares yield 5.1 p.c.
at the current market around 9s. 9d.
No Cause For Moaning
Ane of the big industrial groups which
admits to having surplus capacity
and is still blaming the Government’s
economic strictures in 1960 is Metal
Manufactures Ltd, whose biggest share-
holder has become British Insulated
Callender's Cables following its purchase
of Mount Lyell’s interest in the company
last year.
However, there doesn’t seem to be
much to moan about because Metal
Manufactures has just reported a rise
in net profit from £754,312 to £1,115,432
for the year to July 31 last. Indeed a


BRADFORD
COTTON MILLS LIMITED
Head Office: "Bradmill House", Cnr. Missenden & Parramatta Roads, Camperdown,
N.S.W.
Speech of Sir Robert Webster
C.M.G., C.B.E., M.C. (Chairman), to
Stockholders at the Thirty-Sixth
Annual Meeting of Bradford Cot-
ton Mills Limited held on Friday,
29 th November, 1963, at 12 noon.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In the course of my address to the
Stockholders at the last Annual Meeting
I commented about the greatly improved
position of the Company as compared
with the previous corresponding period
and said that if sales and profits for the
first three months of 1962 could be main-
tained for the next nine months we would
have a. very satisfactory year. I went on
to say, however, that I had not sufficient
confidence in the position to express the
belief that there was every indication that
this would happen. I mentioned that
there were a few weak spots showing up
in the distance.
This proved to be a fairly sound
appreciation of the position. The weak
spots continued to develop with most un-
satisfactory results for the second half
of the year.
From the low employment trough of
June, 1961, following the credit squeeze,
we had by June, 1962, made a substantial
recovery having put back to wqrk ap-
proximately 1,000 employees.
At the date of the last Annual Meeting
we had just about reached the peak of
production and employment following the
fall away at the time of the credit
squeeze. From that date onwards business
again deteriorated and it was not until
March, 1963, that it was checked and an
upturn in orders, production and sales
commenced to show up in our records.
These conditions have continued to
improve steadily until we have now
reached a stage when most of our major
units are back on to three shift working,
with very definite indications of still
further improvements in the months im-
mediately ahead. Competition, however,
is very keen and the selling prices over a
wide range of our products are far from
satisfactory with profit margins fine or
non-existent.
I am pleased to say that the emergency
duties, though limited in their application
ana' defective in many respects from a
protective point of view, had an immedi-
ate effect on the operations of the man-
made fibre section of our industry which
has been operating over the whole of the
period under review for at least three
full shifts.
MODERNIZATION OF SPINNING
PLANT
Extensive modernization of spinning
mills, both in Victoria and N.S.W., was
completed in the early part of the year
p,nd the benefit of the reduced costs ancS
increased productivity in these mills has
proved the expenditure to have been well
worth while.
FINE SPINNING MILL
With the exception of some ancillary
equipment the erection of the fine spin-
ning mill was completed and production
there has gradually been built up over
the period. The bringing into operation
of a mill of this size is slow and not by
any means a restful occupation. Few
of the work force, except the top super-
visory staff, have been previously em-
ployed in a textile mill of any description
and none of them has had any experience
of this type of spinning. Labour has to be
selected and trained for the particular
class of work in the mill for which the
aptitude tests show they are most fitted.
In the early stages of the gathering to-
gether of a work force the labour turn-
over is higher than normal and this adds
considerably to the cost of bringing a
plant into production.
There were unusually heavy stocks of
yarn of the type produced by this mill
in Australia when the protective duties
were imposed and orders have accumu-
lated only at a pace necessary to replace
the use of the imported yarns. It is
interesting to know that our selling
price, which should be reasonably satis-
factory when the mill reaches full pro-
duction, is less than was being paid by
the Australian users for imported yarn
at the time when it first became known
that we were interested in the fine spin-
ning business.
Our decision to enter this field of pro-
duction resulted in reduced prices for the
imported yarn long before any plant
arrived in Australia. This process of lower-
ing prices has continued to this date.
The productive capacity of the plant is
proving to be in excess of the estimate
given us by the makers. What we now
need is sufficient orders to bring the
plant into full production.
LANA KNIT
This unit producing double knit fabric
has been operating satisfactorily. Ad-
ditional plant was installed during the
year.
BENDIGO MILL
It is some time since the full equipment
at. the Bendigo Mill has been fully utilised
owing to the difficulties experienced in
obtaining regular supplies of rayon fila-
ment yarn for processing into tyre cord.
This section of the plant is now almost
entirely concentrating on processing
nylon tyre cord and its equipment is fully
occupied working round the clock. Our
productive capacity is being increased.
TARIFF PROTECTION
I dealt with the question of tariff pro-
tection and the problems as they affect
the textile industry in my Address last
year and do not propose to go over the
same grounds again except to repeat that
our inability to compete with overseas
competitors is, in a large measure, due to
the fact that the duties do not give the
protection which both the Tariff Board
and the Government intended we should
have owing to the loopholes which per-
mit the importation of goods which can
be used as substitutes for the same end
use as the fabrics which we are making.
Such things as making a cloth i oz.
heavier or i oz. lighter than the protected
fabrics has reduced very seriously the
protection on sheetings, with an adverse
effect on production and profit. The im-
portation of goods from Czechoslovakia
in substantial quantities also slightly
varied in construction has affected an-
other field in which we are operating.
I have made mention previously of the
difficulties which exist in giving protec-
tion to goods coming from Communist or
totalitarian controlled countries where
selling prices may have no relation to
cost.
Tariff problems in textiles are not
peculiar to Australia. They exist in all
countries. Practically every other big
textile manufacturing country has dealt
with the problem by simply stopping the
importations by quota limitations or other
means available.
Those who oppose the protection of the
Australian industry are constantly saying
that we have to import goods if we wish
to be in the export trade and that the
under-developed and cheaper producing
countries must be helped. Everybody
appreciates that this is so. On the other
hand, all countries protect their in-
dustries to ensure that they will not be
destroyed by excessive imports and to
ensure that their nationals will not be-
come unemployed.
In Australia the textile industry is
specially important to the National wel-
fare. More than half of the people em-
ployed are females and many of the mills
are located in country areas where little
alternative employment is available.
There is one aspect of the matter to
which I feel I should at least make a
passing reference and that is the great
value of the Cotton Texile industry from
a defence point of view. Cotton growing
is now being undertaken in Australia
under conditions which indicate that
there is every likelihood that it will be
successful. The Commonwealth Govern-
ment has taken upon itself the responsi-
bility for encouraging this at quite a con-
siderable cost to the community and no
doubt the disturbed international position
has had some influence on this decision,
as it is very important that the industry
should be self contained. There would be
no point in encouraging the cotton grow-
ing industry unless the manufacturing
section of the textile industry is main-
tained and expanded.
So far as Australia is concerned the
textile industry makes a very good contri-
bution and does much more than its
share in taking importations from under-
developed countries and those countries
which produce very much cheaper than
the Western world.
Under comparative conditions there is
no reason whatever why the Australian
cotton textile industry should not be able
to hold its own with overseas competitors
from the point of view of equipment,
work loads and technical skills. Such
technical knowledge as we do not our-
selves possess is available to us from our
overseas associates.
I will never believe that every country
in the world, respective of its population,
can justify the development of a sub-
stantial textile industry except Australia.
We know the disadvantages of a smaller
population and the problems arising from
the necessity to produce a wide range of
goods with a relatively small population,
but this applies also to other countries.
It is essential, however, that we should
have a larger share of the market than
15%, in the styles and range of goods
which we now produce.
(Continued on next page)


smile seems to be more appropriate as
the big companies who control it (apart
from BICC’s 45.61 p.c. share, Broken
Hill South has 25.52, North Broken Hill
20.60 and EZ Industries 2.8 p.c.) have
had their dividend lifted from H to 10
p.c. with earnings cover up from 10.12
to 14.17 p.c.
What is more, directors see an all
round improvement in the group’s opera-
tions. More capacity is being brought
into use in response to the gradual re-
covery in residential building and this
could accelerate as a result of the new
stimulants afoot for house building.
Equally, demand has been stimulated by
more active city building and factory
installations. Thirdly export business has
improved and is expected to do even
better from the promotion programme
in train.
Hooker Fin. Borrows Again
TTooker Finance Co. Ltd has come
back into the market for loan funds
with the issue of a prospectus for
£250,000 debenture stock.
Rates of interest are from 4 p.c. for
three months to 8 p.c. per annum for
five or ten years.
Directors say that since the opening
of the new financial year, demand for
real estate finance has been strong.
Meanwhile the ss. shares struggle to
hold par, although earning rate for the
last two terms was 11.4 p.c., and the
10s. 7 p.c. notes, which convert half on
December 31, 1965, and the rest three
years later, are about 2s. below par.
Landlord and Tenant
A rather cross shareholder at the
meeting of Southern Cross Proper-
ties Ltd, which had to June 30 last
accumulated losses of £402,601 or
about a fifth of the paid ordinary capital,
suggested to the chairman, old Victorian
Treasury chief, Sir Arthur Smithers, that
the dice were too heavily loaded in favor
of the tenant, International Hotels Cor-
poration, which is entitled to 25 p.c. of
the gross operating profit. He suggested
the landlord, Southern Cross Properties
Ltd. was on the thin end of the wedge.
Sir Arthur, not at all put out by this
anachronism which The Bulletin drew
attention to before the hotel opened in
August last year, agreed that the com-
pany’s rent was not sufficient for its
purposes. But the real trouble was that,
in a bad year all round for residential
hotels in Melbourne last year, the South-
ern Cross’ occupancy rate was barely
50 p.c. whereas, as the prospectus stated,
75 p.c. would have produced a profit.
In these circumstances it might take an-
other three years before things were put
right, in Sir Arthur’s view.
John Vicars Troubled
chairman’s statement at the annual
A meeting that “trading had changed
in a very serious way since June 30”
is gloomy news indeed for John Vicars
shareholders.
Sales and production have fallen and
the work force has been cut.
John Vicars, Sydney woollen goods
maker, owns 49 p.c. of Sydney Woollen
Mills Ltd and 50 p.c. of Bulli Spinners
Pty Ltd. Their position is not as promis-
ing as it was at this time last year, the
John Vicars chairman said.
Additional substantial expansion is
possible without the introduction of any
technical problems and such expansion
would certainly improve the economic
aspect of our production which is seriously
affected by our inability to work mills
continuously. Stopping and starting in-
dustrial units is a most costly business
and it is the biggest handicap our industry
has to face.
Countries with comparable and even
smaller populations than Australia are
manufacturing the major part of their
requirements of textiles. Ireland and Nor-
way with populations less than Australia
manufacture 46% and 48% respectively of
their cotton textile requirements. All
countries regard the textile industry as a
basic necessity for their economy and it
appears that the only Western country
which has no cotton textile industry is
Iceland.
At the present time there is a tariff
inquiry in progress dealing with the whole
of the cotton textile industry. Like many
other Tariff Board Inquiries this has not
been undertaken at the instigation of the
industry. Many people and many news-
papers appear to be under the belief that
every inquiry into textiles is the result of
an application for additional duties by the
industry itself. On many occasions they
are the results of pressure from overseas
competitors with a view to getting the
current duties reduced. On other occasions
they are reviews by the Tariff Board as
the result of recommendations made fol-
lowing previous investigations and recom-
mendations for protective duties.
The textile industry seems to be the
only Australian industry subject to these
continual investigations which are both
costly and disturbing to morale.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
In spite of the deterioration which took
place in the trading position between
October and June, the profits before tax
for the year increased substantially over
those of the previous twelve months,
being £565,109 as against £402,192. Even
with this increase, however, the profits
were far from satisfactory.
As will be seen from the graph in the
published statements the turnover value of
sales is increasing but in reading this it
has to be appreciated that the new units
which have been brought into production
and which are not yet profit making are
partly responsible for this upward trend.
As I have already stated, over the last
few months all 'major sections of our
industry are showing increased sales.
The net cost of the plant installed
during the year was £618,126 after making
adjustments as between the additional
plant and obsolete plant which has been
scrapped.
New plant installed and the very sub-
stantial expenditure on modernizing older
plant ensure that we do not suffer as
compared with our overseas competitors
in this respect.
STOCKS
The value of stocks and stores are
higher by approximately £470,000 than
they were last year. The new spinning
mill and increased productivity in the
older mills have made it necessary to hold
larger stocks of raw cotton and stores of
all kinds. Work in progress and finished
goods also are higher than last year for
the same reason. Stocks have been com-
pletely and carefully valued.
Like all other sections of the textile in-
dustry it has been difficult to keep the
trade debtors down to figures which might
be regarded as normal and satisfactory.
In spite of the increase in turnover, how-
ever, debtors are lower than they were
in the corresponding period last year.
B>ank overdraft is higher, as are also
trade creditors, but there is no lag in our
payments.
As shown in the statement, deprecia-
tion written off amounted to £529,154 as
compared with £474,587 for the previous
year.
The net book value of the existing plant
is £6,018,237, after writing off total de-
preciation to this year of £5,319,360 which,
having regard to the condition of the
plant and its age, is considered to be a
satisfactory figure. It is not considered
the residual value of the plant is by any
means overstated, having regard to its
future life and likely obsolescence.
The financial statements deal quite
clearly with other items and the figures
do not seem to call for any further com-
ment, though I will be glad to answer any
questions which Stockholders might care
to ask.
IS THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
ARCHAIC?
A recent newspaper referred to textile
equipment as being archaic. I assume this
referred to textile machinery as a whole
and not to Australian equipment. In any
case, however, it is difficult to understand
why this term should be used. The textile
machinery now in use has been developed
out of all recognition as compared with
the equipment used prior to or during the
last war. The development of the shuttle-
less loom, the modern spinning mill, the
automatic winders and the refinement of
dyeing and finishing machinery are the
results of years of research and the ex-
penditure of millions upon millions of
pounds and the automatic machinery
now operating in textile mills and the
mechanisation which goes with it, show
as much progress over the years as
machinery used in other manufacturing
units. It is anything but archaic.
THE ORGANISATION
The organisation has now been changed
to cover three main basic functions,
marketing, manufacturing and finance,
throughout the company as a whole, with
particular attention being given to the
centralisation of the control of market-
ing for all of the company’s products
throughout Australia.
During the year Mr. Walter Scott of
W. D. Scott & Co. Pty. Limited joined the
Board of Directors. His wide experience
as a Management Consultant and in the
many other organisations with which he
has worked from time to time will add
to the strength of the Board of the com-
pany.
The executives and staff of the company
have given efficient and loyal service to
the company during a difficult and trying
period and the Board expresses its
appreciation for their valuable work and
co-operation.
R. J. WEBSTER
CHAIRMAN
BRADFORD COTTON MILLS LIMITED
8182


the
sparkle
of a
thousand
bubbles
the magic
of a radiant
scotch
the perfection of
a product of Scotland . . .
. of her soil, her rivers,
her very atmosphere.
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Sugar Leader’s Much Improved
Growth Prospects
CSR good value at the price
By ROGER RANDERSON
/''SR has surmounted the “problems of
great magnitude with which it has
been confronted in recent times”, and is
now moving into a more profitable phase
of expansion, which should bring greater
rewards for shareholders.
No Australian investment portfolio is
balanced or complete without a holding
in our fourth largest public company
(measured by capital), which “Fortune”
magazine now includes among the world’s
first 100 companies outside the United
States.
The share, of £1 par value, has already
moved up from this year’s low point of
565. to 765. 6d. At this price the current
10 p.c. dividend offers the low yield of
<£2 12s. a year from each £lOO in-
vested.
Nevertheless, it is still below the peak
price of 925. 3d. touched during 1961.
And the market is allowing for the fact
that the higher 5 p.c. interim paid last
week probably points to a dividend in-
crease in the current year, while it senses
the prospect of further capital issues con-
taining a bonus element in the future.
Earnings yield is fair enough at 5.3 p.c.
Nor does it seem excessive to pay 18.9
times last year’s earnings for a share,
the growth prospects of which are en-
hanced by the proposed expansion of
the Queensland sugar industry.
Such is the massive accumulated
strength of The Colonial Sugar Refining
Company Ltd that few investors fully
appreciated the magnitude of the prob-
lems the company faced in preserving
its large investment in the Crown Colony
of Fiji during recent years.
This was the spur to large, diversified
investments at home, through the deve-
lopment of factories to produce basic
chemicals and building materials.
Just when increasing returns should
have been showing from this diversi-
fication, the recession which followed the
national readjustments of November,
1960, took severe toll of these alterna-
tive sources of earnings.
It was, therefore, most gratifying to
learn from the directors this year that
“harmony and stability” had been re-
stored to the industry in Fiji, with its out-
put of raw sugar rising by 105,000 tons
(or 73 p.c.) to 248,000 tons.
This compares with last year’s in-
crease of 16 p.c. in production from the
company’s mills in Australia.
A story of patience, skill and under-
standing lies behind the transformation
of the Fijian position, brought about by
improvement in relations with 13,000
cane farmers and the company’s em-
ployees.
CSR is recruiting and training local
people of all races for most sections of
its Fiji business, and bringing increasing
numbers of them to Australia for fur-
ther studies and practical experience.
Not only is this an important inter-
national exercise at the “crossroads of the
Pacific”, but it gives the company assur-
ance to proceed with considerable capital
expenditure to increase the capacity of
its Fiji mills.
Last year's report brought the further
welcome news that substantially better
financial results were being derived from
a fairly evenly distributed increase of
10 p.c. in sales of building materials.
Improvement in Australian business
activity, however, had not been sufficient
to bring satisfactory profits from the
sale of industrial chemicals.
Blue asbestos mining at Wittenoom
in Western Australia became unprofit-
able for the first time in seven years
as the result of an earth tremor (which
caused an underground subsidence),
poorer ore assays and reduced world
prices.
The 1962-63 accounts reflected some,
but by no means all, of the great increase
in world free market prices that is,


for sugar exported which was not the
subject of long-term agreements.
Consolidated net profit jumped by
£1,377,138 (or 44 p.c.) to £4,506,817 for
the year ended March 31. This was after
providing £4,302,809 for replacement of
assets and other provisions (up about
£438,000) and £3,453,040 for income
tax (up £1,207,154).
Earnings on average capital employed,
which had been as low as 12.4 p.c. in
the 1961 year and were 14.8 p.c. in the
1962 year, thus showed further marked
improvement to 20.5 p.c.
Dividends have already moved up as
follows:
Interim % Final %
1961 41 41
1962 41 5
1963 41 51
1964 5 ?
It will be noted that the company held
back £2,310,826 of last year’s earnings
after payment of dividends, which to-
gether with replacement and other pro-
visions left a retained cash flow of
£6,613,635.
Since the last balance sheet, the re-
mainder of subscriptions to the one-for-
seven issue at 10s. premium has been
received, raising capital to £24,190,348
and share premium reserve to
£3,550,364.
However, the liquid cash position was
reduced by repayment of £3 million of
5 p.c. debentures on September 30.
This is a factor to consider in relation
to the prospect of further cash issues,
which may be needed to increase capa-
city of CSR’s mills in Queensland besides
Fiji.
Less than four months remain to the
end of the 1963-64 year, and my guess
is that results to be shown will be even
better than they were last year.
There are several reasons why I expect
this.
• Restrictions on the production of
raw sugar in Australia were suspended in
1963, and all the cane grown will be
harvested and crushed.
• More of the benefit from high
world sugar prices will be seen in the
current year’s accounts than appeared
in the past year.
• Rising domestic demand, especially
from the home-building industry, will
have brought much better profits from the
building materials division, if not also
from industrial chemicals.
Many warnings have properly been
given against expecting present extremely
high world sugar prices on free markets
to continue indefinitely. Nevertheless,
world sugar prices can fall a long way
before they are less than the current Aus-
tralian domestic price.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT SUMMARIES (£’000)
Year to March 31 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 29,713 30,329 (+ 616) 38,722 (+ 8393)
Less current liabilities 24,333 22,693 (- 1640) 27,484 (+ 4791)
Working capital 5380 7636 (+ 2256) 11,238 (+.3602)
Land, offices, etc 7105 8218 (+ 1113) 8807 (+ 589)
Factories, plant, etc 70,021 72,216 (+2195) 75,638 (+ 3422)
Investments 3639 4898 (+ 1259) 5801 (+ 903)
Patents, mineral rights, etc 190 185 (- 5) 174 (- 11)
86,335 93,153 (+ 6818) 101,658 (+ 8505)
Represented by:
Provisions
(a) Replacement 15,651 18,754 (+ 3103) 22,405 (+ 3651)
(b) Exchange 1161 1161 — 1161 —
(c) Sundry n.a. 2,608 — 3085 (+ 477)
Debentures 7750 7750 — 6116 (- 1634)
Other loans 60 60 — 60 —
Minority interests 3107 3172 (+ 65) 3350 (+ 178)
Ordinary capital 21,166 21,166 — 23,863 (+2697)
Reserves 37,440 38,482 (+ 1042) 41,618 (+ 3136)
86,335 93,153 (+ 6818) 101,658 (+ 8505)
Put aside for:
(a) Depreciation, etc 3711 3865 4113
(b) Income tax 2086 2246 3453
(c) Other — — 190
Stated profit 2618 3130 4507
Dividends 1903 2011 2196
Retained earnings 715 1119 231 1
Profit to average capital used .... 12.4% 14.8% 20.5%
Year’s high price 92/3 62/8 —
Year’s low price .... 56/6 46/3 56/-
Dividend rate 9% 9i% 10% *
Last sale, 6/12/63 — — 76/6
Dividend yield — — £2/12/0%
Earnings yield — — 5.3%
Price/earnings ratio — —• 18.8
*Interim for 1963-64 at higher rate of 5 p.c.
The Queensland Sugar Inquiry, ad-
vised by CSR, does not seem to have
given way to undue optimism in allow-
ing for a rise in local production from
1,802,000 tons to 2,500,000 tons over
the next eight years.
With the suspension of the Inter-
national Sugar Agreement, CSR has been
active in finding new markets, of which
Japan, the United States and even Korea
are notable.
World consumption will go on in-
creasing as population grows, and
potential future demands from the Com-
munist bloc cannot be ignored.
Australia’s exports of sugar, which
exceeded one million tons for the first
time last year, could rise to 1,800,000
tons by 1971 and it is a vital national
interest to preserve this important earner
of foreign exchange.
If local costs are kept within bounds
—by moderation in wage increases,
besides additions to productivity and
mechanisation the future price hazard
will be lessened.
It is true that the British Sugar Agree-
ment is the sheet-anchor for the local
industry and that it would be to our long-
term advantage to see the International
Agreement again operative if we had
previously qualified for increased quotas.
Some optimism is not unjustified that
the world free market price will not
slump to its previous low point of £stg2o
per ton c.i.f. UK which was seen at the
beginning of 1962.
Political ferment in the tropical coun-
tries and rising costs of producing beet
sugar abroad have to be considered in
relation to local efficient and ordered
methods of production and marketing.
Maybe CSR is leading the way in a
sugar “gamble”, but it is a gamble, which,
with ordinary prudence, should pay off
for the company’s shareholders.
Hat Trick for United
HThe third bonus in as many years was
A dispensed by United Holdings Ltd
on December 3—a one-for-eight issue.
Paid capital was thereby enlarged to
<£572,929.
The main subsidiary, Producers and
Citizens’ Co-operative Assurance Co.
Ltd, wrote 35 p.c. more business in the
year to August 31, and the fire and
general insurance subsidiary, P. and C.
Insurance and Investment Ltd, also had
an excellent year.
Group profit rose 17 p.c. to £79,043
which was equal to 15.6 p.c. on average
capital.
The 10s. shares obviously have faith-
ful holders and market followers, for the
current market of 455. (listed in the
insurance section) shows a yield of 2.2
p.c. which is equal to that of the insur-
ance giants.


THE SOUTH BRITISH INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Held at the Head Office of the Company on 28th November, 1963
Address to Shareholders by the Chairman Mr. KENNETH B. MYERS
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Before proceeding to the business of the
meeting there are two matters to which I
wish to refer regarding the composition of
your Board.
The first of these relates to the appoint-
ment in January last of Mr. J. W. Dunlop
as one of your Directors. Mr. Dunlop is so
well known as to need no introduction
from me but in addition to other important
Directorships he holds, he is Chairman of
our subsidiary, The United Insurance Com-
pany Limited. By inviting him to join the
Board of the parent Company, my col-
leagues and I were conscious of the benefit
which would accrue to the Group not only
from the greater liaison between the Boards
of its two most important components, but
also from Mr. Dunlop’s wide and ex-
perienced knowledge of Australia where
such a high proportion of our business is
situated.
In contrast to what I have just said, it
is by no means easy for me to say that
Mr. J. F. Ewen appears before you as one
of your Directors for the last time today
having attained the retiring age stipulated
in our Articles of Association. Mr. Ewen
has ably and loyally served your Company
for over 23 years, during the last seven of
which he has been Deputy Chairman and
on more than one occasion has acted as
Chairman during my absence overseas.
While regretting the departure of a col-
league for whom all of us have the highest
regard, I welcome this opportunity publicly
to" acknowledge the valuable services he
has rendered and I am sure I am speaking
on your behalf in extending to him all good
wishes for the future.
REVENUE ACCOUNTS
I assume that as usual you will allow me
to take the accounts as read. You will
know that 1962 was a very lean year for all
insurers writing world-wide accounts while
the evidence available to date suggests that
1963 offers little prospect of improvement.
Your Company’s financial year encompasses
the closing and opening months of both
those years, and against that background,
Group underwriting profit at £527,087,
although a reduction of some £178,000 on
the previous year, must, in view of under-
writers’ experience generally, be considered
very satisfactory.
Overall premium income advanced by
close on £900,000 to a figure in excess of
£14,200,000 and reflects the positive steps
which have been taken to develop our
business. This expansion has occurred in
both the Fire & Accident Departments,
there having been a slight recession in
Marine Department revenue without detri-
ment, however, to the overall balance of
the portfolio.
On the other side of the ledger, depart-
mental appropriations for unexpired risks
increased by some £458,000 and the
aggregate provision under this head remains
at the same percentage of Group premium
income as last year. In total, losses rose
appreciably by nearly £600,000 to have a
depressing effect on the underwriting result
but expenses, inclusive of taxation, in-
creased by only a comparatively nominal
figure. While the taxation element is
naturally lower because of the reduced
underwriting result, it is very satisfactory
to record a drop in the ratio which manage-
ment expenses bear to premium income.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
Consolidated income from investments
at £907,674 net of tax exceeded the
previous year’s figure by over £50,000 and
after allowance for depreciation and out-
side shareholders’ interests, net profit of the
Group was £1,282,487. Of that amount, a
larger share was again retained in sub-
sidiaries in accordance with the policy
enunciated two years ago of assisting them
to build up their reserves and thereby
improve their standing in the countries in
which they operate. There are already
indications that this policy will bear fruit.
DIVIDEND
Following payment of an interim divi-
dend of 9d. per share last April, your
Directors recommend for your approval a
final dividend of 1/- to make a total dis-
tribution for the year of l/9d. per share.
BALANCE SHEET
Turning now to the Consolidated Balance
Sheet, you will have noticed the appreciable
increase in the item “Cash in Banks and at
Call and Short-dated Investments”. This
increase is due to the necessity for liquid
funds partly to meet known losses awaiting
settlement but more particularly to meet
commitments under building contracts,
notably the United Company’s new Head
Office building in Sydney which is nearing
completion. You will also notice that the
General Reserve of the parent company
has been strengthened by a transfer of
£200.000 from Profit and Loss Account and
at £4,450.000 very nearly equals the issued
share capital.
TRADING REVIEW
I have already referred to the unfavour-
able experience during recent years of
insurers writing global accounts and as a
Group operating on a similar basis we can-
not expect immunity from the influences
which have contributed to this state of
affairs. The prime cause of our reduced
underwriting profit was the increase in
losses by a figure disproportionately high
in relation to the expansion of premium
income.
With the diversity of risks written within
the Accident Department some fluctuation
in the level of losses is to be expected, and
while Motor insurance remains a difficult
and worrying component, there is also
cause for concern at the rising tendency in
the loss ratio for Workmen’s Compensa-
tion business. These two classes constitute
the bulk of our Accident portfolio and in
the sense that they are to some extent a
social service we do not expect high returns
and insurance companies’ operations in
these fields are conducted at marginal levels.
Any deterioration in the claims experience,
therefore, necessarily has a noticeable
impact on the result of the department as
a whole.
Apropos of Workmen’s Compensation
and Compulsory Third Party Motor In-
surance you will be interested to know that
we have been obliged with other insurers to
accept liability under legislation enacted in
some States in Australia for unsatisfied
claims against insurance organisations
which have failed but for which, however,
we do not receive one penny of premium.
Provision for the Group's share of liability
imposed by this legislation has been in-
cluded in the year's accounts.
I have referred previously to the keenly
competitive conditions attendant upon the
conduct of Marine insurance. Far from
there being any sign of abatement, compe-
tition has tended to intensify with a con-
sequent depression of rates and demands
for wider terms of cover. In contending
with these difficulties it has been necessary
to shed a number of accounts which were
proving unprofitable and the exercise of this
discretion has assisted our Marine Depart-
ment to emerge with credit from what has
been a very exacting year. We are very
proud of our Marine account which is
written mostly by our overseas branches
and the high standard of service they pro-
vide, coupled with prompt and fair claim
settlements, has generated a tremendous
amount of goodwill and assisted them hand-
somely with their other activities.
Fire insurance has always been the field
which we have looked upon for the greatest
stability and, although that department has
maintained its position as the largest con-
tributor to underwriting profit, yet here too
there has been a deterioration in the result.
Although there has been no relaxation in our
policy of selective acceptance, losses none
the less increased by a figure exceeding the
increase in premium income and the ratio
of losses to earned premium rose by nearly
three points. While the Group was involved
in the usual number of serious fires as for
example the disastrous sugar terminal fire
at Townsville in which the United Company
was the leading insurer, it is not to them
but rather to the noticeably higher incidence
of losses of moderate proportions that the
decline is attributable. Through our organ-
isation in the United Kingdom we have also
had to absorb our share of both the par-
ticularly adverse fire experience in that
country and the exceptional number of
weather claims resulting from the severe
conditions in Europe last winter, while
through the structure of reinsurance ex-
changed internationally we have had to
carry our proportion of the unfavorable
results of many other insurers.
In sum, therefore, the decline in our
underwriting result is not attributable to
specific causes to which corrective measures
can speedily be applied. Rather is it due
to the creeping erosion of profit margins
which has beset the industry as a whole
during recent years.
Geographically, our operations have been
well maintained but there is still need to


keep a close watch on our affairs in newly
independent countries. One more territory
will shortly be closed to us through the
nationalisation of general insurance in
Ceylon as from Ist January, 1964. In
consequence we shall lose what has been
for very many years a modest but none the
less remunerative account.
During the year, the General Manager
visited our London Branch where some re-
organisation has taken place, and also most
of our Branch Managers in Africa, India,
Pakistan and the Far East. In spite of the
changes taking place, all are optimistic as
to the Company’s future in the various
territories they control. Nearer to home, I
need hardly tell you that a close and con-
stant liaison is maintained with the Group's
interests in Australia.
INVESTMENTS
The return from the Company’s invest-
ments represents an increasing proportion
of its disposable income and the trends in
this field are of importance to shareholders.
Last year’s weak commodity prices fol-
lowed by the failure of Britain’s efforts to
enter the Common Market restricted pro-
ductive development in most of the terri-
tories where our interests lie. This resulted
in a high level of internal liquidity with
heavy demand for Government and similar
stocks, the prices of which rose, driving
down the general level of interest rates,
and improving the demand for ordinary
shares.
Political and climatic factors have since
strengthened the position of commodities
and with a continuance of the growth of
business optimism that has been evident in
recent months it can be expected that the
excess liquidity will be absorbed in due
course, whereupon interest rates could rise
again. In the meantime, although share
prices are at a high level, they still offer
a higher yield than was obtainable two
years ago. However, commercial confidence
is essential to the maintenance of a stable
investment climate, and with current good
prices for wool, meat, metals and other
commodities vigilance will need to be
exercised to maintain a balance between
the control of inflationary tendencies that
may appear, and the introduction of unduly
severe restraints. Either policy can be
equally damaging to confidence, and hence
to both our economic wellbeing and our
own investment portfolio.
In the meantime the efforts of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund to improve the
facilities for financing international trade
and to stabilise currency values, are an
encouraging factor, and when the policies
of the newly-to-be-elected governments in
Britain, Australia and New Zealand emerge
more clearly, it is possible that we may
find we are entering a new era of prosperity.
The emergence of new nations, the rise of
their material standards, and the ever-grow-
ing developments of technology are the
ingredients; good planning of the manage-
ment of these resources, and co-operative
political implementation are the techniques
required to produce the results for which
we hope.
The tendency towards the introduction
of statutory insurance deposits in some
countries continues, while the complexities
of exchange control regulations necessitate
the careful deployment of funds to meet
■iosses as and where they arise.
The various factors I have mentioned
require the constant vigilance of your
Board in ensuring that your Company’s
resources are invested in the most secure
and profitable avenues consistent with the
requirements of its insurance operations.
THE FUTURE
Within the field of general insurance, the
rising incidence and cost of losses with the
consequent whittling away of profit have
been in evidence for some time, though the
impact has been greater in Europe and
North America than in the principal terri-
tories in which our Group operates. To
some extent the industry must accept a
measure of responsibility for this decline
in its fortunes but it is proper to add that
there are other basic causes which have con-
tributed to a major degree.
To instance but a few examples, the post-
war years have seen a great advantage in
technology giving rise to new industries,
new processes, new materials and new con-
cepts of construction. Insurers have not
shirked their responsibilities in providing
protection for these new developments but
lack of time in which to gain sufficient
experience of the risks they involve has
resulted in losses from causes and of a
magnitude not foreseen at the time the
policies were issued. We have also seen
the destructive forces of nature at work with
a frequency not previously recorded while
in the modern age it almost appears as if
Society is prepared to accept the toll of
death, injury and destruction on the roads.
In contrast to the rising trend of losses,
premium rates have undoubtedly declined
with the exception of a few classes, such as
motor where increases have barely kept
abreast of inflation. Insurance is long term
in its application, however, as it naturally
takes time for averages to emerge, but it
now seems likely that the time is at hand
when some hardening of the industry’s
attitude is to be expected. Support for this
observation is to be found in the decision
of what are known as the “Tariff” com-
panies to increase fire rates in the United
Kingdom and it seems like!v that other
sections of the market will copy their
example.
As an insurance cotrmanv. our business
is to sell protection which in itself implies
security and ability to absorb the hardest
knocks. Your Directors accordingly believe
it is in the interests of shareholders and
policyholders alike that the Group’s Re-
serves should be built up in step with the
expansion of premium income. It has always
been the policy of this Company to main-
tain reserves for unexpised risks and out-
standing losses at realistic figures but it is
from the cumulative effect of the regular
transfer to Reserves of a proportion of
profits that it has derived its growth and its
strength.
In the past this has been achieved by
following the broad principle of aligning
dividends to investment earnings only,
leaving underwriting profit available for
transfer to reserves. Lest this should have
created the impression that these sources
of income are quite distinct from each
other, it is as well to explain that this is
not the case since a large proportion of
interest earnings is derived from the invest-
ment of premiums paid by policyholders.
Until relatively recently, underwriting
profits exceeded investment income but
latterly the reverse has applied and so far
as can be foreseen may continue. My pur-
pose in mentioning this matter is that while
it will remain the policy of vour Directors
to recommend dividend distributions which
will ensure an adequate and fair return to
shareholders, these recommendations are
more likely in future to be formulated in
relation to overall profit and necessity to
strengthen reserves rather than to one par-
ticular source of income alone.
PROPERTIES
Last year 1 mentioned that work had
commenced on the erection of a new air-
conditioned building in Adelaide which has
since been completed. At the opening
ceremony last month your Board was re-
presented by Mr. Calder Mackay who has
reported in enthusiastic terms of its
functional efficiency in accommodating the
staffs of both the South British and United
branch offices and its pleasing appearance
as a worthy addition to the architecture of
Adelaide.
Renovations to Sydney office have also
been completed with outstanding success
while in this country our new office in
Tauranga was occupied last February and
work is proceeding on new buildings at
Masterton and Lower Hutt.
The completion of these projects and of
the United’s new building in Sydney will
bring the end of our building programme
in sight, by which time the majority of our
branches in Australia and New Zealand
will be permanently accommodated in
modern premises with up-to-date amenities
and equipment.
STAFF
The efficiency of any organisation is no
greater than the efficiency of its staff. In
this respect your Company is more than
ordinarily well served and to the difficulties
of a demanding and exacting year our staff
throughout the world have responded in a
commendable manner.
In these circumstances your Board takes
the view that the staff’s efforts merit some
form of tangible recognition in addition to
the usual subsidy to the Staff Provident
Fund and in anticipation of your support
for this view, provision has been made in
the accounts for payment of a staff bonus
to which you are invited to signify approval.
After 46 years of service Mr. A. L.
Dillon retired from the Management of
Brisbane branch to be succeeded by Mr.
E. C. O’Halloran, previously Manager at
Wollongong, that position being filled by
transfer of Mr. T. A. Norrie from Head
Office.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION
At the Extraordinary General Meeting
held on the sth March, 1963, new Articles
of Association were approved including
new Article 39 which empowers the
Directors to decline to register transfers
without assigning any reason. At that meet-
ing I made particular reference to this
Article and the powers it conferred, and
stated that whilst the New Zealand Stock
Exchange and the London Stock Exchange
had approved its use the Australian
Associated Stock Exchanges had advised us
they would withhold their ruling until the
matter had been decided at their meeting
the following week. We were subsequently
informed by them that as the new Article
was in conflict with the principle of free-
dom of transfer it could not be approved.
Later, following reference to the London
Stock Exchange by the Sydney Stock Ex-
change, London found it necessary to with-
draw the approval they had already granted
and we were requested to revert to the old
Article by the date of this meeting.
Arising out of discussions I was able to
have recently both in Sydney and in Lon-
don, I am pleased to ne able to inform you
that the Australian Associated Stock Ex-
changes and the London Stock Exchange
have agreed to allow a further 12 months
for the matter to be considered within which
period it is expected a satisfactory solution
will be found.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Spring Maker Sags
llThile other automotive component
" makers had a markedly better year
in 1962-63, the highly regarded Hender-
son’s Industries Ltd contradicted the
general trend to report a profit fall from
£244,262 to £225,137.
Earning rate is now 22.7 p.c. on
capital increased by a two-for-17 bonus.
Tax provision, however, was £16,360
higher at £167,901, and the depreciation
charged was £15,089 higher at £66,928.
Profit was actually helped along by a
tax-free dividend from accumulated
profits of subsidiary companies.
There has been little real variation in
profits in the last four years, but the
company has dispensed three bonuses-
two one-for-four issues before the latest
one.
The business was founded by Mr J. K.
Henderson in 1892, to make railway
and locomotive springs in Melbourne.
As the automobile industry developed
Henderson’s moved into automobile
springs.
The company became public with the
public issue at par of 150,400 20s. shares,
or 30 p.c. of paid capital. Previously all
shareholders had been members of the
Henderson family.
Today there are plants in three States
making laminated and coil springs,
booster springs and valve springs for
cars and trucks, spring and flat washers,
axles, wheel wrenches and tyre levers,
caravan and trailer axle assemblies and
fittings, forgings, plough shares, horse-
shoes, shock-absorbers, tension and com-
pression springs, spring base and book
head beds, Riddell inner spring mattresses
(at Mount Macedon), and No-Sag
springs, for the automotive and furniture
trades, manufactured under licence from
the UK.
The No-Sag Spring Co. Pty Ltd is
located in Geelong, next door to the
Ford plant. The factory was built in
1955 and extended twice, to treble the
area of the original factory.
The main factory is in Alfred Street,
North Melbourne, the Sydney factory at
Alexandria, and another in Adelaide. The
parent holds 44.4 p.c. of the shares in
the New Zealand company, Federal
Spring Ltd.
Without much explanation from
directors as to the direction of the com-
pany’s trading, shareholders and ob-
servers are rather at a loss. What may
be the most significant pointers are the
33 p.c. decline in debtors’ accounts, and
the 30 p.c. increase in stocks carried.
At the annual meeting in 1962 the
chairman said competition was keener
and profit margins further reduced, but
the company was meeting this com-
petition successfully.
The company as usual paid 10 p.c.
for 1962-63, but a special tax-free bonus
dividend of 3i p.c. was added to the
interim 5 p.c. This was paid out of
profits earned before June 1950. The
dividend announcement was made in
March, when directors reported that sales
and profits for the first half were higher
than for the previous corresponding
period.
The annual report for the full year
does not really bear this out, and a fuller
report would be welcome.
Present price of 65s. 3d., compared
with this year’s peak of 78s., reflects the
market's disappointment. On the basic
dividend of 10 p.c. the yield is 3.1 p.c.,
and earnings yield 7.0 p.c. No considered
judgment can be made on the company
as an investment.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 761 1143 1132 1145 1184
Less current liabilities 199 472 366 297 357
Working capital. 562 676 766 848 827
Investments 30 42 42 41 42
Fixed assets 737 1318 1431 1464 1614
Intangibles 85 . 33 34 34 34
1414 2069 2273 2387 2517
Loan capital 140 129 193 190 225
Ordinary capital 500 709 887 887 991
Reserves 774 1231 1193 1310 1301
1414 2069 2273 2387 2517
Depreciation 33 52 48 52 67
Taxation 109 168 168 152 168
Net profit 167 240 222 244 225
Dividends 60 80 89 89 99
Surplus 107 160 133 155 126
Earning rate 33.3 33.8 25.0 27.6 22.7
Dividend rate 10 10 10 10 10
Dividend yield (a) 3.7 3.8 3.1 2.9 —
Price/earnings ratio (a) 8.1 7.7 12.8 19.2 —
High price (b) 59/6 62/6 66/- 73/- 78/-
Low price (b) 45/- 51/- 49/6 61/- 67/3
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1963 to October 31.
CEMAC ASSOCIATED LTD
Moving to a Zenith
and adaptability may be the
keys to the success of Cemac Associ-
ated Ltd, veneer, plywood and timber
merchant.
While other suppliers of building
materials struggled against the economic
tide, Cemac profits moved forward
strongly even though sales fell off in
1961-62 and have not yet quite recovered
the heights of 1960-61.
The annual report for the latest term
to June 30, said: “The past year called
for maximum flexibility in the resources
of the group to meet changing market
conditions, with accent on the servicing
of industry. Continuous research and
development of specialised products and
technical services enabled us to meet the
exacting demands of Australian business
management in their drive for maximum
efficiency. The ability to anticipate
market trends has contributed much to
the stability of the company and is re-
flected in the profits earned during the
year.”
Turnover of the last three years has
been £3,291,470, £2,831,735, and lately
£3,203,796, while profits for those years
were £80,177, £96,883, and £107,286.
In the 1961-62 year the company
achieved the formidable task of earning
20 p.c. more in the face of a 14 p.c.
sales reduction. Then management said:
“Forward planning has enabled us to
accept reduced turnover on certain low
margin lines, and we have concentrated
on the development of specialty products
which we consider will be an inherent
part of our future development. In the
past we have restricted our expansion to
those markets in which we are
experienced . . .”
Anyway, there is no doubt that these
policies have been vindicated. The in-
evitable conclusion is that the company
is very capably managed.
Earning rate is now a solid 27.2 p.c.,
more than twice covering the usual 12±
p.c. dividend.
Directors said the various activities of
the group all contributed to the extra
volume of business in the year under
review.
When Cemac went public in 1957
after sale of 80,000 ss. stock units at
ss. 2id., the company was a merchandis-


£[3c
FOR ALL FINANCE
ALSO
FACTORING-LEASING
AUSTRALIAN GUARANTEE CORPORATION LIMITED
OFFICES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA 4 ,
A 3
ing business handling plywoods and
veneers for domestic and commercial
building, and for the furniture trade.
Directors then believed that the Aus-
tralian plywood industry was by world
standards underdeveloped.
The progress of the company in its
seven public years has been achieved by
management’s exploitation of profitable
markets which were seen to be within
the company’s scope,
The group now imports and exports
veneers, has a veneer and plywood mill
at Wauchope (NSW), makes plywood,
veneer and solid core panels at Rose-
bery (NSW), has a joinery works and
shopfitting business at Kingsgrove, as-
sembles and makes office and factory
equipment in Victoria, makes and dis-
tributes veneers in Cairns (Qld), has a
marine showroom in Sydney, and designs
prefabricated modular partitions for use
in subdividing large buildings.
Since 1961-62 the group has made
aluminium windows under licence from
FEAL of Italy, marketed Omnia light-
weight structural precast concrete flooring
systems under licence from Rhein Bau
G.m.b. H. of Germany, and developed
the use of PVC Permastrip markings for
zebra pedestrian crossings.
In the latest year the company
arranged the extension of the Omnia
precast concrete flooring operations to
Melbourne and Brisbane. Additional out-
lets were established for Cemac products
at Chatswood (Sydney) and Blackburn
(Melbourne), and one at Brookvale
(Sydney) will open in the new year.
The chairman (Mr B. H. Smith)
advised shareholders at the recent annual
meeting that substantial contracts had
been won in Sydney and Melbourne for
partitioning and prefabricated ceilings,
which should enable group operations
to be maintained at a satisfactory level.
Closing stock of £496,617 was con-
siderably higher than the opening amount
of £375,901, as were debtors’ accounts,
£523,498 compared with £431,515 a
year earlier. This would reflect the
acquisition of Armstrong Bros (In-
dustries) Pty Ltd during the year, as
well as the greater activity of all mem-
bers of the group.
Since listing, shareholders have pro-
vided the means for and participated in
the company’s growth, through a one-
for-four par issue in 1958 and a one-for-
five bonus in November, 1960. Clients
of a Sydney broker got a bargain in
November, 1960, when they took ad-
vantage of a placement of 220,000 ss.
shares at 11s. 9d., when the market was
15s. 6d.
These days the ss. shares are traded
around 17s. to yield 3.6 p.c. in income
and 7.9 p.c. on earnings. The way this
company is heading, and the market
generally is moving, the shares have not
yet reached their zenith. They were
up to 17s. 9d. earlier in the year.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 402 815 949 835 1048
Less current liabilities 260 645 711 433 466
Working capital 142 170 238 402 582
Investments 5 6 18 16 16
Fixed assets 178 389 482 512 594
Intangibles 2 37 76 72 173
327 602 814 1002 1365
Minority interests — 1 6 — —
Loan capital 57 101 144 284 496
Ordinary capital 166 250 356 358 395
Reserves 104 250 308 360 474
327 602 814 1002 1365
Sales 1674 2206 3291 2832 3204
Depreciation 17 34 38 38 42
Taxation 31 67 76 74 78
Net profit 46 73 80 97 107
Dividend 21 31 44 46 49
Surplus 25 42 36 51 58
Earning rate 27.5 29.3 22.6 27.1 27.2
Dividend rale 12J 12£ 12£ 12J 12J
Dividend yield (a) 4.2 5.3 4.8 4.3 3.8
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 10.5 8.0 11.6 10.7 11.9
High price (b) 16/6 19/— 13/6 15/- 17/9
Low price (b) 11/6 11/9 10/- 13/- 14/8
% of profit after
tax to turnover 2.7 3.3 2.4 3.4 3.3
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year; 1963 year to November 30.
NATIONAL CONSOLIDATED LTD
A Stock To Hang On To
■VTational Consolidated Ltd, with its
trading results for the year to June
30, 1963, joined the ranks of companies
with after-tax profit exceeding £1 million.
Profit was £1,032,671 after tax of
£691,178 and depreciation of £201,184.
Earning rate accelerated from 32.5 to
38.1 p.c. Moreover, the earning rate on
shareholders’ funds increased from 13.7
to 15.6 p.c., despite the high profits
retention.
The 21 p.c. increase in group profit
was attained without benefit of any com-
pany acquisitions during the year.
A good year was fully expected by the
stock market, for statistics showed motor
vehicle sales were booming.
The company began as National
Radiators Pty Ltd in 1937 in Melbourne
making radiators for original equipment
and replacements for cars, trucks and
tractors.
It broke into the big time when the
Sydney business of F. Muller Pty Ltd
was acquired in 1958. This gave the
group 90 p.c. of the automotive radiator
market. The Muller group now confines
itself to air-conditioning and commercial
refrigeration components.
The company’s name was changed to
its present style in 1959. In June of that
year, Bearing Service Co. Ltd, a highly
successful distributor of ball and roller
bearings, was taken over. This subsidiary


distributes tapered roller bearings made
by Australian Timken Pty Ltd, subsidiary
of Timken Roller Bearing Co. of USA.
A. Flavell Ltd, maker and distributor
of oil seals, was taken over in 1961, and
the group closed down the Sydney
factory to concentrate the oil seal busi-
ness in Melbourne.
The impact of Government economic
restrictions generally and increases in
sales tax on motor vehicles late in 1960
was such as to determine National Con-
solidated on a policy of diversification.
It therefore bought Eyelets Pty Ltd
specialising in small metal pressings, the
RMS glass merchant and shopfitting
group (which later bought certain plant
and stock from T. S. Gill and Son Ltd,
which was in the same field), and
Murfett Holdings Ltd.
Murfett makes greeting cards, boxed
stationery and gift wrapping. Directors
said 1962-63 results were a little dis-
appointing.
Despite these varied interests, by far
the major part of the business is devoted
to supplying the motor industry. The
group finds the original equipment field
much more competitive and therefore
less profitable and is intensifying efforts
in the replacement field.
The upsurge in demand for car heaters
and demisters is a healthy trend for
National, particularly as motor com-
panies are moving towards general in-
stallation of these as initial equipment.
Capital of the group increased only
marginally in 1962-63 as a result of
a share issue to former shareholders of
Murfett Holdings Ltd.
Dividend of 20 p.c. was paid for the
sixth successive year. Revenue reserves
gained £250,000 from profits retention.
Directors describe the liquid position as
extremely strong. Working capital rose
from £2.7 to £3.3 million without ex-
ternal contribution.
Apart from issues to acquire busi-
nesses, capital has been increased by a
one-for-three par issue in 1949, a 35-
for-100 issue at 50 p.c. premium in 1951,
a one-for-four bonus in June, 1956, and
a one-for-two bonus in June, 1959.
Another bonus distribution is only a
matter of time.
The market generally thinks likewise
in placing the 5s. shares at around
32s. 9d. where the yield is 3.1 p.c. This
is roughly the highest the shares have
been since 1959-60. Those who already
hold these shares should not readily sell
them, but prospective buyers may hes : -
tate at these heights.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1535 4234 4608 5198 5805
Less current liabilities 672 1566 1725 2462 2535
Working capital 863 2668 2883 2736 3270
Investments 186 254 263 256 259
Deferred assets — 44 45 98 39
Fixed assets 904 -1947 2450 3198 3269
1953 4913 5641 6288 6837
Deferred liabilities — — — 56 75
Minority interests — — — 14 —
Preference capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ordinary capital 1050 2200 2383 2694 2702
Reserves 853 2663 3208 3474 4010
1953 4913 5641 6288 6837
Sales 3669 8179 9265 9920 12404
Depreciation 61 108 135 178 201
Taxation 237 580 565 518 691
Net profit 375 817 845 853 1033
Net profit for ords. 372 814 842 850 1030
Dividend 180 440 477 524 540
Surplus 192 374 365 326 490
Earning rate 41.4 37.0 35.3 32.5 38.1
Dividend rate 20 20 20 20 20
Dividend yield (a) 4.0 3.7 3.8 3.8 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 12.2 14.5 14.9 16.4 —
High pride (b) 23/2* 39/9 37/6 29/- 30/-
Low price (b) 14/- 23/3 25/6 24/3 24/2
(a) End of November, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
J. GADSDEN AUSTRALIA LIMITED
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
Gentlemen,
Today we consider the Directors’
Report and Annual Accounts of
the company for the year ended
30th June, 1963.
I wish to make the following com-
ments concerning the year’s opera-
tions.
TRADING PROFIT
Profit of the group has shown a
reduction compared with 1962 due
to the following factors.
BAD DEBTS
Included in the total amount of
bad debts is a figure of £127,000
for two companies Foster Clark
(S.A.) Ltd and Great Western Pro-
cessed Foods Pty Ltd, both of which
are subsidiaries of the old estab-
lished and internationally known
Foster Clark Group whose head-
quarters are in England.
Foster Clark (S.A.) Ltd operated
in South Australia and Great West-
ern Processed Foods Pty Ltd in
Western Australia. Both of these
companies received financial sup-
port from the governments of those
States who guaranteed their bank
accounts. In addition the banks
concerned held a floating charge
over the whole of the assets of the
two companies.
For various reasons government
support was suddenly withdrawn
and receivers were appointed at the
instigation and on behalf of the
banks concerned leaving no funds
available for unsecured creditors.
Suppliers to these companies were
induced to grant credit because of
the confidence expressed in them
by the governments concerned and
the favourable reports from over-
seas where the parent group was so
highly regarded.
The annual requirements of a
cannery are confined to a relatively
short packing season and the sales
now written off as bad debts were
supplied over a short period of time.
OTHER FACTORS
There was a lessening in the
demand for cans for fruit, meat and
paint.
There appeared to be some
reluctance to can fruit possibly
because of the fear of creating an
over-supplied market, while meat
was not packed due to the continu-
ance of the sale of canning type
meat as boneless beef to America.
The paint trade was affected by
the abnormally wet conditions pre-
vailing in Sydney.
STOCKS
The reduced demand for certain
lines and provision for increased
requirements in others resulted in
higher stocks at June 30th with a
consequent increase in bank over-
draft. The stock situation is now
correcting itself and will continue
to do so.
CURRENT CONDITIONS
While the current year opened
quietly, sales for the first four
months are slightly higher than
those for the same period last year.
Seasonal prospects appear to be
better than last year and we are
hopeful that conditions will con-
tinue to favour us.
AUSTRALIAN PACKAGING
INDUSTRIES PTY. LTD.
Our company holds 50 per cent
of the shares in the above company
which is therefore not a wholly
owned subsidiary and its trading
figures are not consolidated with
those of our group.
Certain press publicity has been
given to the fact that Australian
Packaging Industries Pty Ltd had
incurred a loss to June 30, 1962.
This was in fact contributed to
by substantial establishment ex-
penses. I am pleased to report
that for the year ended June 30,
1963, and since, the company has
been operating profitably.
LATE W. G. FORSYTH
It is with regret that I record
the passing of my Co-Director, the
late W. G. Forsyth, whose wise
counsel and balanced judgment
were of inestimable' value to the
company.
STAFF
I express on your behalf thanks
tp my fellow Directors and the Staff
for their work and co-operation
during the year.
N. C. GADSDEN
Chairman.
29th November, 1963


■ianai
! 4
•' ~ --v , v ...
PLACE: SYDNEY
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
PLACE: MELBOURNE
TIME: 6.30 MONDAY
New network link covers 2 A of
Australian viewing audience
GTV-9 and TCN-9 combine to bring Sydney and
Melbourne viewers interstate programmes . . .
LIVE AS THEY HAPPEN!
It’s an exciting new era in Australian television
provided by the coaxial cable link between these
two cities.
Over 1 million television homes throughout N.S.W.
and Victoria will receive regular daily telecasts
from interstate.
It's another first from Television City.
9


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(.Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761
(4 lines)
P.O. BOX
No. miw
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH:
3 Denham Street Phone 6059
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Krygcr,
J. D. Wolfensohn
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243, 20243.
Branches at
150 Queen Street. Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane
LANCE GRAHAM & CO.
LANCE GRAHAM
Member nt the Sydney Stock Exchange
56 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY
Telephone: 28-5721
Telegrams; Lagram, Sydney
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Ansett to the Fore Now
ThtE first day of my financial year
started off with a bang. For this,
we must thank Sir Robert and his now
merry followers.
Last week I said the market should
become a speculator’s dream both for
shares on the market and also those
shares about to make their debut.
Apparently I am not alone in this view.
Rumor has it that one prominent
politician thinks T. C. Whittle is the
thing of the moment.
A share that might even turn out
better —and it is available to everyone—
is Ansett. If Labor had won the election,
Ansett’s prospects would have looked
very bleak. On the other hand, the
return of the Liberal Party puts Ansett
right to the fore.
Often bandied around the place is the
growth of communications in Australia.
For the past year, Ansett claims that its
80 planes flew more than 25i million
miles, and that its 225 motor coaches
travelled all but 10 million miles.
Tourism plays an important part in the
main business and to complete this
service, 19 hotels and motels are oper-
ated.
Despite apparent ups and downs,
profits have shown an unbroken rise
since 1957 and always given a good
cover to the 10 p.c. dividend. With the
franchise given under the Civil Aviation
Agreement Act for about 50 p.c. of
Australia’s total aviation industry until
1977, this profit and dividend record
should be at least maintained.
But more important to the shares is
the boost that the wholly-owned third
Melbourne television station will give
to the status of the company. At this
moment it is by far the cheapest tele-
vision share on the market. It looked so
good that my order for 1000 shares went
in first thing on Monday morning.
Buying into one television show made
me look at television shares in general.
Most of them have swung through a 100
p.c. price range at least once in the
last year, and this is the right climate
for a repeat performance. It defies my
reasoning, but I am prepared to go
along with a small parcel of 500
Country Television shares at 12s. It is
a neat little company and one capable
of making good profits now that it is
properly established. Furthermore, as
the shares are fully paid, there is no
problem with calls.
A much larger purchase early in the
week was the 200 William Adams notes.
These notes are due for conversion in
April, 1965. Early in the year I had
bought into the shares just prior to the
62/63 result and sold out just after.
With almost a 200 p.c. profit rise, it was
one of the most impressive recoveries
of any company in a year of impressive
recoveries.
Then in October, the chairman talked
of another very substantial rise in profits
for this year. Such a statement made
sense as William Adams should be doing
well on all major fronts —steel merchan-
dising, the merchandising of engineering
requirements, and also the Caterpillar
agency held in Victoria and Tasmania.
Because the income difference at the
most should be 3s., I picked the notes at
49s. 6d. instead of the shares at 56s.
The chairman was most considerate
by delaying the announcement of the
very good interim report until two days
after my purchase. Profits rose by 32
p.c. in the first six months and dividend
rate was established at 12} p.c.
Selling came fairly easy this week
when CSR published its interim report.
The overall impression is one of caution,
yet within the report there are several
optimistic statements. By publishing
the report in all sundry papers, Dr
Vernon gave everyone the opportunity
of reading the report.
Other sales were the 400 Anderson
Meat at an average price of 18s. and
the 200 Associated Freney at 9s. 6d.
Apparently nothing of excitement hap-
pened at the Anderson Meat meeting so
my order went on immediately. As for
Associated Freney it’s just frizzled out.
A few pence profit on Anderson Meat
and a £5 loss with Associated Freney
was the result of these efforts.
To keep the books fairly square, I
also sold 1000 W.J. rights on the last
day of trading. No complaints about
the profit of £31. The other rights in
the portfolio are working out very well.
Transactions for the week were:
SOLD
200 CSR, 76/6 £765
400 Anderson Meat, 18/- £353
1000 W.J. rights, 5/11 £285
200 Associated Freney, 9/6 £92
BOUGHT
200 William Adams notes, 49/6 £595
1000 Aiisett, 7/7 £391
500 Country Television, 12/- £307
1000 W.J. application, 13/- £650
It took exactly one week to fall back
into debit. A final balance of £358 is
now showing. More pressing to my
broker is the Tasman Dry Cleaning scrip
that I will have to cover next week.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
2000 Hanimex 23/5/62 9/6 14/3
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 24/—
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 7/6
500 Elders GM 12/9/63 22/- 25/6
400 ISAS 24/9/63 18/- 19/6
400 Gibson & Howes 2/10/63 57/- 67/—
400 BH Sth ctg. 15/10/63 11/6 14/6
400 Larke 17/10/63 11/- 12/-
500 Holyman Woods 23/10/63 9/6 9/3
2000 Mid Eastern 24/10/63 2/6 2/4
2000 ODE 29/10/63 5/6 5/11
1000 Mobile Equip. 30/10/63 8/4 9/—
400 Tableland Tin 5/11/63 20/- 23/-
1000 Steamship, rts 11/11/63 4/3 5/9
400 Malleys . 12/11/63 27/3 28/9
1000 Tasman (short) 14/11/63 lOd. 9d.
200 Tutt Bryant £1
notes 22/11/63 29/3 29/3
1000 W.J. new 30/10/63 18/- 19/-
JQ5 W. Adams notes 2/12/63 49/6 49/6
1000 Ansett 2/12/63 7/7 8/—
500 Country Television 3/12/63 12/— 12/-


NOW
GIFT-PACKED 1
FOR CHRISTMAS
IF
I KA
Hi
HI
BELLS
TO' y
D|5t >UER5 SCOTLAND
BELLS
the Celebration Scotch
Arthur Bell & Sons Ltd.,
Distillers, Perth, Scotland.
An Independent House
RWB.62N
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
No More Wheat to Sell!
Russia and China Exhaust our Surpluses
Thirst with butter and now with wheat,
Australia, which a year ago was
wringing its hands over the threat of
Britain’s economic betrayal at Brussels,
has turned surplus into shortage.
Confirmation of this came with the
Australian Wheat Board’s recent an-
nouncement that a further sale of 41
million bushels of wheat, worth more
than <£3o million, to Red China meant
that Australia had exhausted not only
what held but the entire
quota for export from the coming
harvest.
Making the announcement, the chair-
man of the board, Mr J. V. Moroney,
said overseas demand for Australian
wheat was so strong that the board
could sell more than it had in stock.
The contract that brought the board’s
inventories to this state followed the
sale of 64 million bushels of wheat to
Russia and its satellites in September
and other recent Russian purchases of
flour that brought back into production
some Australian mills that had literally
ground to a halt.
Since October, the board has sold 67
million bushels overseas, and sales for
home consumption and export during
the 1962-63 selling season total 282
million bushels.
In the past, the story of Australian
./heat has been a smaller version of one
that has existed in many producing
countries, reaching its zenith in the
United States, where wheat equal to a
year's production is stored at a cost of
a million dollars a day, much of it in
the holds of pensioned-off wartime cargo
ships moored around the coastline. In
Australia, harvest time usually brings
from officials of railways and grain
elevators a spate of warnings about the
need for promptness, fair play, co-opera-
tion and other virtues in people deliver-
ing and trucking wheat.
Over the next few weeks, ships berth-
ing at Australian ports will be yawning
for grain and in the wheat-growing States
every available rail truck will be linked
up into long sausage-strings that will
roll day and night.
The frenzy will be at its peak in Vic-
toria. New South Wales has two out-
lets, Sydney and Newcastle, to cope with
the flow, and inland storages still have
stocks on which export orders could
draw before the harvest got going in
earnest.
But in Victoria, 65,000 tons of wheat
must be funnelled through the one sea-
board terminal of Geelong, 45 miles
from Melbourne. And because the
floors of the State’s granaries have been
swept clean to make up shipments for
abroad, it will all have to come direct
from country centres.
Bulk depots that normally come into
their own at this time of the year, re-
sounding to the whine of trucks and the
clatter of their own machinery, will re-
main silent and shunned, gathering dust
while the wheat flows past them to the
seaboard.
For the first time in 24 years since
bulk handling was introduced, the Vic-
torian Grain Elevators Board has told
the Railways Department that no wheat
this season can be off-loaded from rail
trucks into the two giant mass storages
that swell out of the flat Wimmera plains
at Murtoa and Dunolly. Because rail
trucks will be committed to long hauls
of two or three days to the seaboard
instead of the short shuttles from silo to
sub-terminal with half-day and one-day
turn-rounds, the railways will not be
able to carry wheat from country
elevators on the same scale as in the
past. Some NSW farmers who normally
channel their wheat through the Vic-
torian system will have to let it pile up


m
‘/X-^WvV.v
v c" r
A
SgSC
<Bs
m
mm
mM
f < <, > |
li4liiiMiilili£
For you . . .
only the best
ASAHI t
Here's the camera that is the ultimate choice
of discriminating professional and enthusiastic
amateur photographers all over the world; the
camera that brings you picture perfection and
personal prestige!
Asahi PENTAX introduces you to a new world
of photographic delight! A wide choice of
incomparable Takumar lenses and a full range
of accessories puts you in command of every
photographic situation.
Asahi PENTAX SV with f/1.8 Takumar
Lens and E.R. case, £9O/0/0.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A. with Auto.
Super Takumar j/2 Lens and E.R. caiS,
£75/0/0.
Ask to see Asahi PENTAX at YOUR photo
dealer.
C. 957
for a time on their farms or put it into
bags for delivery.
The Victorian Grain Elevators Board
has worked it out that the railways will
have to supply 28,675 trucks to do the
job, and old engines that have been in
mothballs for months will come back
on to the rails.
The Victorian Department of Agricul-
ture estimates that the harvest in that
State will not be less than 65 million
bushels and could be near last year’s
record of 67.9 million, from a total
area of about three million acres. NSW
is expecting 102 million bushels —seven
million less than last season’s record —
from about 5,170,000 acres.
Victoria’s average yield should be
about the same as last year’s: 21.7
bushels an acre. If NSW’s expectations
are realised, the average there will be
about 20.6 bushels an acre.
Interest in Australian wheat is greater
than ever before, largely because of the
part - failure of crops in the northern
hemisphere. Among the sufferers is Red
China, which has bought more than 260
million bushels of wheat, worth about
<£2oo million, from Australia in the
past three years and is now regarded as
one of our permanent long-term
markets.
Establishing the Chinese market is a
triumph for the Australian Wheat Board,
which pioneered this trade with the un-
known against a chorus of opposition
ranging from those who thought the
Chinese would never pay up to those
who feared the loss of the United States
as an ally.
For three years, Red China has been
paying its instalments on the dot, and
sometimes ahead of time, and been tak-
ing out regular options on future crops.
The pattern has been set and the critics
are silent.
Good customers as they have become,
the Chinese are sticklers for quality.
This year, having achieved respectabil-
ity as a trader, Red China has inserted
a sheaf of new clauses in the contract
under which her Australian purchases
are made.
The chairman of the Victorian Grain
Elevators Board (Mr H. Glowrey) said
in Melbourne recently that if the industry
were to meet the conditions being ex-
acted by the Chinese, growers would
have to be fastidious in harvesting their
grain.
One of the things to which the Chin-
ese are most averse in wheat is the pre-
sence of black spot. Growers letting
wheat go into the pool with this form
of impurity could involve the industry
in heavy penalties, for the Chinese are
known to be awaiting the slightest chance
to demand compensation for breaches of
the conditions they have set.
The demand which, from China and
other sources, has engulfed an entire
harvest while it was still on the stalks
comes as a boon to the industry so soon
after the quota of export wheat eligible
for guaranteed payment under the
Stabilisation Scheme was increased from
100 million to 150 million bushels. It
also vindicates the school of thought
that believes the industry’s future lies
in expansion rather than restriction.
Until recent years, the restrictionists,
who included the late chairman of the
Australian Wheat Board, Sir John Teas-
dale, found plenty of blackness with
which to underline their misgivings. The
world was full of gluts. European coun-
tries recovering from war were filling
their own larders and spilling into others.
Countries that most wanted wheat
couldn’t pay for it, while wheat con-
sumption in nations that were improv-
ing their spending power was declining
as they upgraded their diets from bread
to meat.
The spectacular movements in world
wheat always seemed to involve “hard”
wheats from Canada or the United
States rather than the “soft” ones that
tended to give Australian producers an
inferiority complex.
A couple of years ago a grower-
member of the Australian Wheat Board,
Mr Cliff Everett, declared himself in
favor of expansion of wheat production
on the grounds that nature and the
law of averages would always see to it
that there were enough calamities on
the face of the earth to take care of
Australia’s disposal problems. He was
accused by some of being callous and
irresponsible.
In the brighter picture that recent
trends have produced his words have
barely kept pace with events, despite
the fact that Australian wheat average
has almost doubled in five years.
Canada’s hard wheats are as much in
demand as ever; indeed, the Canadian
Trade Minister (Mr Sharp) said recently
that Canada had a market for every
bushel it could load on to ships. But
Australian soft wheats have never en-
joyed such popularity as today. The
Chinese like them for noodles, but even
the conventional appetites of the British
give them an importance.
A British buyer recently visiting Aus-
tralia urged the industry not to try to
alter the quality and softness of its
wheats too much because they had made
a place for themselves in the United
Kingdom for manufacturing biscuits —a
market that is good for as long as Eng-
lishmen keep taking tea.
Row Direction and
Cereal Yields
Usual way to sow cereals is “round
and round” a paddock, but in some
North American experiments it has been
found that north-south rows have given
better yields than east-west rows.
Experiments over three years at Wer-
ribee, Dookie and Walpeup, however,
have shown little difference between
north-south and east-west sowings, so
Victoria will stick to the “round-and-
round” method.


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill
Sydney
Master to teach Chemistry to Matriculation
standard required to commence duties in
the first term, 1964. For full particulars
apply The Principal.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: BRYAN GILLMORE. late of Kingsgrove
N.S.W. TAKE NOTICE that VALERIE PAT-
RICIA GILLMORE has filed a petition for
divorce No. 4142 of 1963 on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or be-
fore the 23rd day of January, 1964, and obtain
a copy of the petition and notice of petition
without charge from GREGG & MILNE,
Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: PETER WILLIAM OWEN, TAKE NOT-
ICE that MARGARET FLORENCE OWEN has
filed a Petition (No. 3168 of 1963) for Divorce
on the ground of separation notwithstanding
the facts and circumstances set out in the
Discretion Statement filed. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the
Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Build-
ing, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or before
the 20th day of January, 1964, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
PHILIP N ROACH, 160 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: RUDOLF WERNER PARLAU, late of
Broken Hill, cook and labourer. TAKE
NOTICE that KATHARINA ELISABETH
PARLAU has filed a Petition No. 4133 of 1963
for Divorce on the ground of desertion not
withstanding the facts and circumstances set
out in the Discretion Statement filed. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before the 20th day of January, 1964, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from Messrs. BUCKWORTH AND BUCK-
WORTH, Solicitors, 229 Argent Street, Broken
Hill. C. A H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: COLIN JAMES NILSSON. TAKE NOTICE
that MURIEL IRENE NILSSON (formerly
MURIEL IRENE CHEADLE) has filed a
Petition No. 3762 of 1963 for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. If you wish to defend
you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Supreme Court, Mint Building, Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
twentieth day of January, 1964, and obtain a
copy of the Petition without charge from
HAROLD C. WESTALL, Solicitor, of 382 a
Pacific Highway, Crows Nest. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Legal Notices
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court
of South Australia dated the 15th day of
May 1959 and made in the matter of the
Estate of SORENA VANDA CHRISTINA
CHAMBERS formerly of Semaphore in the
State of South Australia but late of Parkside
in the said State Married Woman deceased
whereby the following enquiry was directed,
namely, an enquiry as to who were the next
of kin of the said deceased at the date of
her death and which of them became
beneficially entitled to a one equal third part
of her residuary estate. NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be next
of kin of the said deceased and entitled under
the said enquiry and all persons claiming to
be issue or legal personal representatives of
any person who has since died and who Is
claimed to have been the next of kin of the
said deceased are to send by post prepaid to
Mr. J. H. Melville of South Australian In-
surance Building, 26 Currie Street, Adelaide
in the said State within 60 days after the
publication of this advertisement their full
Christian and surnames, addresses, descrip-
tions, and full particulars of their claims in
witing together with supporting evidence
AND IN DEFAULT thereof they will be
peremptorilv excluded from the benefit of
the said Order. DATED the 21st day of
October. 1963. L. T. OLSSON, Deputy
Master of the Supreme Court.
NOTE: The said Sorena Vanda Christina
Chambers deceased died on 15th October,
1950. She was survived by her husband
ROBERT RICHARD CHAMBERS formerly of
8 Young Stieet. Queenstown in the said State
Fitter who subsequently died on 4th July,
1957. The deceased and her aforesaid husband
had no children. The father and mother of
the deceased both predeceased her. The father
was FREDERICK SMITH, who adopted the
name Smith in lieu of his previous name
Sorensen. He was born in Denmark and died
at Parkside in the said State at some time
before 1925. The mother was CHRISTINA
WANDA HENRIETTA SMITH (formerly
Mengler) who was born at Tanunda in the said
State and died at Ethelton in the said State
in the year 1925. The father and mother were
married once only and the deceased was their
onlv child The deceased’s mother is thought
to have had four brothers and thr°e sisters
all of whom and the parents of whom pre-
deceased the deceased.
The known names of the lastmentioned
brothers and sisters and of their children
living at the death of the deceased were
follows:
1. CARL MENGLER, who died having had
five children namely:
(a) Gustav Mengler,
(b) Hermann Mengler (address unknown),
(c) Bertha Mengler (address unknown),
(d) Ida Mengler (address unknown),
(e) Pearl Mengler (address unknown).
2. ROBERT MENGLER, who died having
had four children namely:
(a) Christian Mengler,
(b) Johannes (John) Mengler,
(c) Edward Julius Mengler,
(d) Carl Mengler.
3. ERNEST MENGLER, who died having had
three children namely:
(a) Ernest Mengler,
(b) Mrs. Vanda Alsop,
(c) Mrs. Edna Marschall.
4. GEORGINE FARRELL (formerly Mengler)
who died having had two children
namely:
(a) Mrs. Georgine Neidorfer,
(b) Mrs. Wanda Shipton.
5. WANDA ROSEVEAR (formerly Mengler)
who died having had two children
namely:
(a) Richard Rosevear (address unknown),
(b) Mrs. Hilda Harris (or Mrs. Hilda
Boden) (address unknown).
6. HENRIETTA COCKS (formerly Mengler)
who died without having had any child-
ren who survived the testatrix. So far as
known the deceased’s nearest next of kin
at the time of her death are such of her
abovementioned cousins in the maternal
line and such of her cousins in the pater-
nal line (if any) as survived her. The
deceased died intestate as to a one third
share of her residuary estate and left
property in South Australia.
Oldest Devon Stud
to be Sold
FROM A LAUNCESTON CORRESPONDENT
oldest Devon stud in Australia will
be dispersed when H. Roy Trethewie
sells Whisloca's young sires and more
than 1000 breeding cows on March 11.
The stud has been a family concern since
1843, when Roy Trethewie's Cornish
great-grandfather set it up in Tasmania
with Devons from Truro, in Cornwall.
Devons were among the first cattle
imported to Tasmania in 1803. By 1840
they had spread across Bass Strait to
Victoria, SA and WA. But Trethewie's
was the first pure-bred stud.
The founder’s son in 1871 imported
50 heifers and a famous English bull,
Lord Forester. One of his progenv,
Whisloca Conqueror, took 16 first prizes
at royal and national shows and the
championship in Sydney.
Roy Trethewie took over control of
the stud in 1910. Then, he says, “the
type of Devon required was more for
bullock teams than for beef. We bred
them for strength and good feet.”
In 1922 Mr Trethewie bought the
Sydney Royal Show champion from
Havilah Stud, Mudgee. He has since
bought seven bulls and seven cows from
the same bloodlines, and two heifers
from the UK.
Mr Trethewie, who has judged in
Britain, believes that some of his breed-
ing cows are superior to anything in the
British studs. He hopes that at least one
of his best cows will be bought by a
British breeder.
Among his stud's products is Whisloca
Jenny 86th, winner of championships at
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide Royal
Shows for Mr A. A. Laidlaw, of Ararat
(Vic.). Whisloca Midas 75th, which
weighed 10001 b. as a yearling and was
1962 junior and grand champion at
Launceston National and Hobart Royal
shows, was sold for a record 1025 gns.
to Table Top Stud, Albury.
“We hope that the Whisloca cattle
will be absorbed into Australia’s foremost
beef studs in which closely related sires
will complement the quality and sub-
stance we have tried to infuse into the
Devon breed,” Mr Trethewie said.
Hay or Silage as the
Better Fodder?
over three years at
Hamilton (Vic.) Pastoral Research
Station have shown that hay has given
consistently better live weight gains than
an equivalent silage ration when fed to
sheep as a sole ration. In some of the
tests cattle have been included, and again
hay has given the better results.
The hay and silage used in the experi-
ments were made from identical pas-
ture material cut at the same time. The
quality of the hay has generally been
excellent and the chemist has reported
favorably on the silage on the basis of
his laboratory tests. So there may be
something about good hay that makes it
a better feed than silage.


YOU OWE IT TO YOURSELF AND TO OTHERS SO WHY NOT BUY . . .
A CHRISTMAS
DDCCCMT
mum i
T lESAYEAR
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4088, G.P.0., Sydney,
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface
Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
*N.Z Subscription to Box 965, Welling-
ton.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Con-
solidated Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Con-
solidated Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK
36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? j~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money
order for months subscrip
tion to THE BULLETIN.
*New Zealand readers may have their
copies air freighted (£4 4s. N.Z. for
52 issues, £2 12s. for 26 issues) or by
surface mail (£3 7s. N.Z. for 52 issues,
£2 2s. for 26 issues).
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 775
ACROSS
I—Auctioned tor absorption ot knowledge etc. (9)
6—Noble man to graduate on following the drink
counter. (5)
9—Auctioned secretly when under an admonitory
finger. (9)
10— Leg ring in oblivion. (5)
11— Insect disappearing from Antigua backed an old-
world form of 25-across. (6)
12— Faithful dog with current aversions. (7)
15—What makes a precious stone beef about New York.
(4)
16— A square hewn stone used in
building. (6)
17— Booking republicanised some
barracking. (3)
19— Station score. (3)
20— I’m loud enough for an ob-
ject of worship. (6)
21— He urges everything across
the English Channel. (4)
23—Road topping bringing one
parent to heel before morn-
ing. (7)
25—Dismissal by Karenin? (6)
28— Thump money (Ezra). (5)
29 Silver pot is broken to induce
excessive fission. (9)
30— Grain is certainly so out of
sorts. (5)
31— One’s spurs are sufficient for
such a bandage. (9)
DOWN
I—Esmond critique needs no-
thing to anger a bureau. (10)
2.—What makes you warmer be-
fore you must get some
affirmative one for a South
American. (9)
3 French city as seen about
some countenance. (6)
4 One on a small island home
of Celtic Christianity. (4)
5 Colin Duo is disturbed when
staying long in the nest after
hatching. (10)
6 Sphere joined by a desicca-
ted branch of poetry. (8)
7 That is following a grower
of wool fibre. (5)
8— Unapproved corner. (4)
13—Mouthless as the love-apple
on you and me. (10)
14—Bridge alternative suggested by
one who builds by arrange-
ment. (10)
17— The dark measures potatoes.
(9)
18— Bone having Jolson very
thirsty for blue jokes. (8)
22—Ruffle all the French with
the French. (6)
24—Divert morning custom. (5)
26 What means work for any
composer in the soup. (4)
27 Budgies, pups, white mice in
fits of ill-temper. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 774


i
i
W:
ONYX
Al rfiß SHAVE
to noN
l CNTH jUUC
U?W *»•♦*( • : t'A*}*
■' 2 '^T' :
WSSt~-~
-r y /
ONYX
MEN’S
COLOGNE
A _ •
‘i :<? .
■
Spl* .
ONYX
HAiKORESSK*<
>NYX
: ’«s SHAVE
LO’ftON
NEW FROM LONDON AND PARIS, LENTHERIC’S RANGE OF SINGULARLY MASCULINE TOILETRIES
Carefully understated. Subtle. Low-keyed, wholly
masculine. This is Onyx, Lentheric’s new range of
men’s toiletries, for every man, from careful to carefree.
Shown are the nine ways to make a man feel wonderful.
after shave lotion, 14/6; pre-shave lotion, 14/6; cologne, 15/-;
hair dressing, 12/6; talcum, 10/6; deodorant, 10/6; lather shave
cream, 10/6; bath soap (2), 15/-; shave bowl, 18/9 (refill 10/6).
Plus handsome gift and travelling packs, from 19/6. As yet
you’ll find Onyx only in larger stores and leading pharmacies.
Good heavens, we almost forgot—shampoo, too, 9/6.
LONDON AND PARIS
LN.IS r-PC


v **o
uz
o
1
«►
pp
pink for girls
If she says "very nice" when offered wine she may merely be
being polite. If she says "gorgeous", "delightful’', “heavenly"
chances are it’s Romalo Pink Champagne. A gay, scintillating
wine for joyous times . . . for parties, weddings and ever-so-special
dinners for two.
All over the World sophisticates celebrate with Pink Champagne.
Australia’s finest is Romalo
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors S. WYNN & CO PTY. LTD. Distributors: Swift & Moore Pty. Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane
Australian Wines Ltd., Adelaide.
Ferrall, o’Byrne Pty. Ltd., Launceston.
Importers Pty. Ltd., Hobart.
E. Benson & Co., Perth.
