

The Bulletin
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia $1
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL AND OPINION - EST. 1880
Arnett’s
Transport
Empire


wm
y
wm
-
; V' ■
mm
NCYAR.DS £
v y
n
::
:
sp % V
, SELECTED \
OQTTU SQ \
v-,L/\Kb i j
r~' Sll U NOE MAN II? /
-A SYDNEY, /
A I '■ V *«,*. ,< Si/A «»V / /
s,~. '*>», .£j
SNESSUaw^a
**T COMteKM /
m e*w.«wfc jf j
mme w ss»*«*
tag*
UCTEO VI
HOCK.'
't/'0 .‘■.* c* '•' ’ jV^ :
CONTENTS i PT, 6FU OZ>
CAWARRA
A noble wine for a noble roast! Cawarra Claret, the most
popular red table wine in Australia, was selected exclusively
by the French Olympic Team on their visit to Melbourne.
When you choose white wine order Cawarra Riesling,
dry, delicate and delightful in every way.
4nck
mavis
AUSTRAj^A’S^GRR^FS7^RT7FWTMungDc


National Notebook
September 3, 1939
T'here were some odd scenes in the
streets of Sydney that mild Sep-
tember night, 24 years ago this week.
On the first of the month Nazi planes
had savagely bombed Warsaw. Two days
later Great Britain and France declared
war on Germany, and Prime Minister
Menzies announced that Australia would
join them.
“It is my melancholy duty,” he said
in a national broadcast, “to inform you
officially that, in consequence of the
persistence by Germany in her invasion
of Poland, Great Britain has declared
war on her, and that as a result Aus-
tralia is also at war ... we are, as a
great family of nations, involved in a
struggle we must win. There never was
any doubt where Britain stood, and there
stand the people of the entire British
world.”
People poured into the streets. At
King’s Cross hundreds mobbed news-
paper sellers; one news-
boy was knocked over
and trampled in the rush.
As copies of the special
editions sold out, buyers
were paying up to 2s.—
newspapers cost lid.
then.
An angry patriot threw a brick through
the window of a William Street delica-
tessen belonging to Herr J. Frerck, a
Nazi. And in the Domain that afternoon
a large crowd hissed the eminent
Leftist, Mrs Pankhurst Walsh, when she
declared that Britain should not fight in
Europe.
“It’s just like the outbreak of the
last war,” said a weeping Mrs S. Childs
of Newtown, mother of a naval sailor.
“We were sitting comfortably in front
of the fire saying there surely couldn’t
be another war when we heard the
broadcast ordering Bob back to his ship.”
The next day the “Daily Telegraph”
presciently warned that there had been
forecasts of a short war, and that it
would be over in three months . . . “these
things were said when the last war began
. . . we should make up our minds that
it may be a long struggle.”
And the “Sydney Morning Herald”
said: “No more today than in 1914 is
Britain ready to buy exemption from
attack with dishonor . . . she has left
nothing undone to save the peace of the
world; she will spare nothing to en-
compass the destruction of the cruel and
arrogant regime which has wantonly
plunged it into war.”
The Retail Traders’ Association of
NSW published a full-page advertisement
beseeching its members to Stand Firm,
and not to put off employees until the
situation became clearer.
Dark news had come in the world
of sport, too. In New York the Davis
Cup challenge round had opened with
the singles defeat of both John Brom-
wich and Adrian Quist by Bobbie Riggs
and Frankie Parker. But our boys
rallied and won the succeeding singles
and the doubles; the cup lost in 1920 had
been regained not to be contested
again for many years.
Some found comfort, too, in the
knowledge that Balmain had just de-
feated South Sydney, 33-4, to become
Rugby League premiers for 1939.
Melbourne, perhaps bearing in mind
the Sabbath proprieties, reacted in a
graver manner. In fact, the only un-
seemly incident was the invasion of the
front office of the august “Age” in
Collins Street by a noisy mob clamoring
for the special edition which was being
issued. Extra staff was put on to deal
with them.
Crowds in the streets
were swollen by startled
worshippers emerging
from the evening services
in city churches, where
they had been praying
for peace. At Flinders
Street railway station, where the news-
boys concentrated to catch the suburban
homegoing crowd, about 4000 people
lingered “under the clocks” to discuss
the situation. Many missed their last
trains.
Said the “Age,” again presciently:
“The die is cast. What may be the
greatest mass tragedy in world history
has commenced ... a titanic struggle
for democracy and human liberty has
begun.”
No Hymns of Hate
Tn Brisbane the German Club prud-
ently closed its doors to all but
members and cancelled all its social
functions. The State Government called
a meeting of leading citizens to discuss
plans for protecting the population in
the event of air raids.
Said the “Courier”: “We do not enter
this contest with cheering or flag waving
or the singing of hymns of hate, but with
a stern resolve to preserve and deserve
our own freedom by regaining freedom
for others.”
And a “Courier” reporter conducted
a survey to find what women were
thinking:
A cafe waitress: “People still have to
NEW DEAL FOR THE RAAF Pag 6
With a limited budget . . .
Ansett and his Transport Empire 13
Bob Sanders an Exception to
the Rule 18
The Low-down on Shorthand .. 21
Soccer —Going Nowhere Fast 24
The Four Treaties that Humiliated
China 27
Evolution of a Civic Egg 29
Putting Bureaucrats in Their Place 31
“Trust” Operas: The Triumph of
Figaro 36
Dwight Macdonald Master of
Snobcult 40
Foreign Aid Embarrassment 43
Alternatives to Housing Finance 48
A Record Land Purchase 61
•
CARTOON 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
OUT AND ABOUT 13
SPORT 24
OVERSEAS 27
AROUND MELROURNE ... 29
FORUM 31
LETTERS 34
REVIEWS 36
POETRY 39
RED PAGE 40
RUSINESS AND FINANCE . 61
MAN ON THE LAND 61
CROSSWORD 62
Editorial Officer 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971,
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666, Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4360


eat, and if I can keep my clients cheerful
I feel I’ll be doing my bit.”
Wool shop salesgirl: “Women are
beginning to ply their knitting needles
already.”
A charity worker: “I’m such a timid
person that I can’t even bear fireworks,
but I’m determined to be courageous and
keep in good spirits.”
Businesswoman: “Thank heavens we
are here in Australia and free from air
raids and bombing.”
Salesgirl: “It’s all terribly depressing.”
In Adelaide, according to the “Adver-
tiser,” the news was “received with the
utmost calm . . . everywhere in the city
there was an air of quiet reserve.”
Hobart and Launceston were calm, too;
the Hobart “Mercury” resignedly de-
clared: “Nothing remains but to gird our
loins and bend our will to the heavy
task before us.”
Worried crowds gathered in the streets
of Perth, and the “West Australian”
introduced an emotional touch in its
report: “Meals were forgotten as families
clustered about their radios. Sensing that
something had profoundly moved its
little world, one tiny tot left her bed and
snuggled into her mother’s arms.”
Kalgoorlie took things more seriously.
An indignant mob hurled tomatoes,
apples and rotten eggs at a Mr A. Stagg,
a Communist organiser, when he
criticised Mr Chamberlain.
Instant Anger
‘ HThe word fluoride has become the
A symbol for Instant Anger,” Perth
columnist Kirwan Ward wrote last
month, summing up the Great Austra-
lian controversy in an instant phrase.
From west to south to north the pros
and cons of fluoridation are being hurled
like thunderbolts to demoralise the op-
position.
The Tasmanian Anti-Fluoridation As-
sociation claims in its advertising that
F is “the Commo’s destructive weapon,”
with a fearsome illustration to drive
home the point. Queensland is to have
legislation to make F possible, if not
necessarily probable.
In Sydney the Metropolitan Water
Board registered a 7-4 vote against F,
although most of its members had been
instructed by the suburban councils they
represented to vote for it. An American
guest en route to the Australian Dental
Association’s annual conference declared
Canadian tests had proven that anti-
F’s were psychopaths.
Perth’s Sunday newspaper decided to
let readers air their views on the ques-
tion. Some were ribald. One remarked,
“As the bulk of water is applied to
gardens, what effect will F have on
the teeth of the various chewing insects
now eating up our greens with gusto?”
But when the ADA met at Lismore
last week, none of these sidelights im-
pressed the NSW Minister for Health,
Mr Sheahan, who pledged his support
for F, condemned the Sydney Water
Board, and told the dentists they had
led in the first real attempt at preven-
tive medicine in Australia.
The Association’s guest, Dr Markley
of Denver, glanced at the local coun-
cil’s decision to defer the F question
pending further investigation, and won-
dered what Lismore could discover that
the world’s scientists had overlooked.
The Cover
TTawk-faced Reg Ansett was snapped
getting out of his own helicopter—
in which he travels to and from work —
by a staff photographer. See “Ansett’s
Transport Empire,” page 13.
Sidney Nolan color portfolios are still
available, although our stocks of the Aus-
tralian Impressionists are nearly finished.
Reprints of each portfolio cost Is. 3d.
each posted, or Is. at The Bulletin
office.
MR ASK\M 7 MR BOLTE , MR CAL WELL
MR WHlTLAM , SlR GARFIELD AMO
sir Robert have all refused /
State A\o for Private Schools/
X think it's time we went
OVER THEIR HEADG/


PLAIN ENGLISH
Malaysia-At Last?
ffTIERE is at least one valuable
lesson to be learned from the
political fireworks that have ac-
companied the launching of Malay-
sia the days are gone when
Asian countries could be ignored
where their close interests are in-
volved. Much of the disruptive
and dangerous tactics employed by
Indonesia and the Philippines over
Malaysia might have been avoided,
or at least mitigated, if the United
Kingdom had bothered to discuss
with either of those countries the
formation of Malaysia or even if it
had encouraged Malaya to do so.
Even a casual glance at the map
of South-East Asia would immedr-
ately show how the whole proposal
of Malaysia involving the Borneo
Territories was of real and signifi-
cant importance to Indonesia
especially with its memories of
the rebellion years when the
separatists were receiving foreign
aid. For the British to have
thought Malaysia could be formed
without consultation with Indonesia,
without some regard for Indonesian
pride, suspicion and nationalism,
was an act of singular political
stupidity for which we have paid
a high price and yet may pay a
higher.
Indonesia has played a long,
tough game over Malaysia’s in-
ception and has had pretty good
mileage out of some now tiresomely
familiar tricks. It has tried threats,
sabotage, indirect aggression, while
a final attempt to use the UN as a
means of delay has failed. It now
has a fortnight in which to prove
that it will, in pursuit of the spirit
of the Manila Agreement, which it
largely engineered, accept the new
country as an Asian neighbor. In
short, whether Indonesia stops ter-
rorist tactics across the border or
not will make clear to its neighbors,
to the Afro-Asian countries to
whose leadership it aspires, and
to the world whether anything sign-
ed by the Government of Indonesia
is worth the paper it is written on.
Much of the bombast which ac-
companied earlier Indonesian dec-
larations of hostility to Malaysia can
be safely discounted, such as its
implacable opposition to military
bases in the area. On this score,
what can Indonesia do except ful-
minate against foreign bases
while luxuriating in the secur-
ity of the Singapore and Manila
bases which Djakarta knows are
directed against a common enemy
Red China. (Although it is al-
ready apparent that in the future
Indonesia will try and influence,
if not control, the use of the bases
through Maphilindo which is going
to be dominated by Indonesia.)
Similarly, Indonesian tactics over U
Thant’s team in the Borneo
Territories have failed miserab-
ly. Malaysia will now come into
being with the undoubted bles-
sing of the United Nations which
no amount of Indonesian rationalis-
ing about the absence of accredited
observers will be able to alter. Nor
is Indonesia’s failing economy likely
to receive the necessary injections
of US aid, which it now literally
needs for survival as a viable state,
unless it can show some respect for
the rights of neighbors.
But, having said all that, it would
be sheer folly to forget that Indo-
nesia (or even the Philippines, which
we have customarily and contemp-
tuously dismissed as an Asian out-
post of the US) is now a potent
power factor in the area in which
we live whose national aspirations
and sensibilities we cannot ignore.
TfidERE are unpleasant shocks and
upsets ahead in our relations
with Indonesia and we would be
wise to prepare ourselves for them
and for the fact that we are simply
not going to get things on our own
terms. The West New Guinea fiasco
proved that. Malaysia has proved it
again. Whether we like it or not
Indonesia will prove hostile and in-
transigent over what it conceives to
be, however irrationally in our view,
colonialist issues. Whether we like
it or not we see to our north a
nation of 100,000,000 people in the
grip of a new-found nationalism,
some of the more unpleasant effects
of which we cannot hope to escape.
Graver dangers lie at home, how-
ever, with the pseudo-realists who
see Australian-Indonesian relations
in simple terms of appeasement and
strength and who believe that any
attempt to understand the complex-
ities and motivations of Indonesian
nationalism is a sign of weakness.
“Tertiary” Factory
IN the same week that the NSW
Government announced plans to
establish a third university in Syd-
ney, another professor announced
he had resigned from the University
of NSW because of the University’s
excessive bureaucracy, the State
Government’s interference in Uni-
versity affairs, and inadequate faci-
lities.
The burden of the professor’s
song is not new, and in some res-
pects it may be exaggerated. Cer-
tainly, over the years, the University
has been subjected to as many un-
justified criticisms as justified ones.
But the University itself has been
largely responsible for its bad name:
it set out to be a “new type” of
institution specialising in the
mass production of graduates,
with cheerful contempt for the more
civilised traditions of older uni-
versities, and it permitted control
of academic policy by the Govern-
ment and the University bureau-
cracy—not only in matters like the
notorious Ward case but often in
small details. In some respects it
has lived down its early reputation;
in others it has not, as the recent
publicity shows. There are some
mistakes that are never lived
down.
The lesson of all this is plain.
If the third university is to get
off to a good start, it must, like
Monash in Melbourne or Bedford
Park in Adelaide, be modelled on
the older universities. It must start
with a respected Vice-Chancellor
and a nucleus of genuine academic
staff. Unfortunately, one fears the
worst: the new university is to begin
as an evening college—suggesting
that another “tertiary” factory is
being planned.


THIS AUSTRALIA
DEFENCE—I
New Deal For
the Air Force
But still “billy and incomplete”
BY A SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
DAVID FAIRBAIRN
“Country gentleman”
Royal Australian Air Force has
A done well out of the new defence
programme announced by the Prime Min-
ister on 22nd May. Over the full five
years, it is true, the Army will get the
largest increase in expenditure, but in
the short run the winner is the Air Force.
The estimated expenditure for the De-
partment of Air in 1963-64 shows a rise
of <£l3 million over 1962-63. Meanwhile
the Army gets £lO million extra, and
the poor little Navy only £5 million.
Some people are inclined to attribute
the success of the Air Force in collecting
the money to the personalities concerned.
It has been suggested, for example, that
the Department of Defence has a bias
towards that Service; Mr Edwin William
(Ted) Hicks, the Secretary of the De-
partment, was in the RAAF during the
war, and so was Mr Richard (Dick)
Kingsland who has just left the Depart-
ment in order to become Secretary to
the Department of the Interior. On the
other hand, the Defence Minister, Mr
Athol Townley, is said to be air-minded
because he was briefly in the Navy, so
the argument does not add up to much.
When one looks at the other Ministers
it adds up to even less.
David Fairbairn, the Minister for Air,
was an airman all through the war, and
so was Senator John Gorton, the Min-
ister for the Navy. But Mr John Cramer
(who is some fifteen years older than
they) was apparently not involved in
either world struggle. The paradox is that
Mr Cramer, whom no one could call a
ball of fire, and Mr Fairbairn, the
country gentleman, handsome, slow and
thoroughly nice, have succeeded best;
whereas Senator Gorton, who gives an
impression of boundless ambition and
vigour, has literally not done half as well.
The personal theory of defence policy
is no doubt unfair in its implications
of bias and lack of objective thinking.
Some people, however, can prepare and
present a case better than others, and
are more adept at dropping an accept-
able word over a drink or at some casual
meeting. In this connection one must
recognise the powerful influence of Air
Marshal Sir Frederick Scherger. Air Mar-
shal Scherger was Chief of the Air
Staff from 1957 to 1961 and was then
appointed Chairman of the Chiefs of
Staff Committee.
Now, therefore, he is above any Ser-
vice attachment, but he would be in-
human if his long experience in the
RAAF (though he started in the Army)
did not influence his thinking. It is cer-
tain that among the top brass of the
Services his is the voice that commands
most attention, and this not merely be-
cause of his position—nor even because
of his skill in advocacy. He is a very en-
gaging personality whose normal expres-
sion is a happy beam, breaking out at the
slightest provocation into a merry laugh.
This goes down extremely well in a cer-
tain quarter. The Chief of the Air Staff,
Air Marshal Sir Valston Hancock, is by
contrast a very serious man.
the decisions arrived at by
" the RAAF and the Department of Air
are the right ones is quite another matter.
Stripped to its essentials, the role of the
RAAF is threefold: First, defence of its
own bases; secondly, reconnaissance and
bombing; and thirdly, transport of fight-
ing men and material.
For the defence of its own bases and
of Australian cities, the RAAF has
chosen the French Dassault Mirage 111
jet fighter, replacing the Avon Sabre.
Was that the best choice? For inter-
cepting an enemy bomber, a ground-to-
air guided missile, such as the “Blood-
hound”, would have been more effec-
tive. This is launched from a fixed pad,
which, however, can be taken up and
moved somewhere else when its where-
abouts are too well known —as an air-
strip cannot. On the other hand fighter
planes can be used in altogether different
theatres as guided missiles cannot.
Their radius of action, depending on
the heights at which they have to fly, is
about 300 nautical miles. They could
expect to provide air cover for convoys,
but the Navy does not feel happy about
this.
As for the second function, recon-
naissance and bombing, a very important
decision is now being made. Air Marshal
Sir Valston Hancock and his team re-
cently returned from France, Bri-
tain and the United States, in search
of a bomber to replace the old Canberra.
They were choosing between the French
Mirage IV, the British TSR 2, the
American TFX and McDonell Phan-
tom. On paper, and it is literally on
paper, the best choice would seem to
be the British TSR 2, which gives pro-
mise of being a wonderful reconnais-
sance bomber.
Reconnaissance is of the first im-
portance, in that it reveals troop con-
centrations and movements, and thus
would give a country like Australia, which
lacks the capacity to defend itself, time
to call on the aid of its allies. And for
this reconnaissance role, the TSR 2 is
specially adapted. It is capable of con-
tour flying that is, hiding from the
enemy’s radar by flying low behind any
hills or other eminences that present
themselves. Other planes can fly low,
of course, but at such altitudes it is
extremely difficult for the pilot to find
his way and read the maps. The TSR 2
has a special device, details of which
are secret, which guides it on to the
target. It could deliver bombs conven-
tional or thermo-nuclear. (Australia has
no wish to be a thermo-nuclear Power,
but in Air Force circles it is considered
that the new bomber should be capable
of carrying a borrowed bomb.)
It could also land in rough country—
a very important factor since it costs time
and about £5 million to build an airstrip;
and its range will be great enough to
operate without refuelling in the air for
the purposes for which Australia is likely
to need it.
The trouble about the TSR 2 is that
it has never yet flown. It is still on
the drawing board, and so, at an even
earlier stage, is its American counter-
part and rival, the TFX. There is nothing
unusual in buying a plane off the draw-
ing board; but delivery could not begin
until 1967, and meanwhile Australia
would have nothing but the old Can-
berras, whose range of only about 800
miles (one way) make them incapable of
attacking well, let us say Djakarta.
It is tempting, therefore, to buy one of
the planes that are available now the
Mirage bomber (which would have the
advantage that some of its parts are in-


terchangeable with the Mirage fighter
already ordered) or the American Phan-
tom.
These aircraft would be cheaper, in
themselves, but would require tankers to
refuel in mid-air, if they were to have a
useful range.
Neither of these aircraft, however, is
the latest thing.
This is a familiar dilemma. Having
let the defence forces become threadbare,
the choice is between buying something,
no matter what, to clothe one’s nakedness,
or waiting in that embarrassing condition
until the new season’s fashions are in
the shops.
The third basic function of an air
force is the transport of men and mater-
ials. When trouble flares up the fire ex-
tinguisher must be applied immediately
(as it was, for example, in Kuwait). Any
delay, even of hours, can mean a huge
increase in the amount of extinguisher
that has to be used. Nowadays in Aus-
tralia we hear a great deal of talk about
“mobile” defence forces, which consist
of two regular battle groups, and a third
is now to be formed. But the degree of
their mobility depends on the means of
transporting them, and the number of
troops now at the ready greatly exceeds
the means of quickly getting them to any-
where where they can be of use. If troops
were suddenly needed somewhere in, say,
Borneo, they could be taken there in com-
mercial aircraft, but these would have to
land at an airport which might be hund-
reds of miles from the scene of the
trouble. Some of their equipment could
follow in Hercules Cl3o transport air-
craft, but there are only 12 of these.
The rest of the arms and equipment
would have to go by sea, always sup-
posing there were a friendly quay at
which to disembark them. If the troops
and their equipment reached the scene
of operations they would find, if this
happened far enough in the future, the
RAAF there with the 24 Bell Iroquois
helicopters and 18 Caribou Mark I air-
craft that they have been persuaded to
order so as to convey troops hither
and thither within the theatre of war.
With a small budget it is necessary to
concentrate purchases in order to pro-
duce the most effective result. The Aus-
tralian picture is bitty and incomplete,
even with the extra effort that is now
being made. But how can it be other-
wise when expenditure is so limited?
DEFENCE—II
Malaysia: Another
Labor Split?
"Charley ” Oliver's Tivist
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
CLYDE CAMERON
“Item 8"
XTow that the Menzies Government has
agreed to enter into defence commit-
ments with Malaysia similar in type to,
but possibly larger in content than the
commitments it had with Malaya, the
Labor Party may have another internal
fight over defence policy. Labor’s Right
wing is undoubtedly in favor of keeping
troops in the Malaysia area and of assist-
ing Malaysia as a barrier to Com-
munist expansion in the area. But, putting
all Labor’s official decisions together, in-
cluding those at Hobart in 1955 as well as
those in Canberra and Perth this year,
the position is hopelessly confused.
The Right wing showed its attitude
fairly clearly at the recent Perth ALP
Conference when Mr C. T. (“Charley”)
Oliver, NSW ALP President and an Aus-
tralian Workers’ Union stalwart, managed
to get through a Right-wing resolution on
the issue whether Australian troops
should be stationed abroad or withdrawn
and reserved for metropolitan defence.
Oliver’s motion was: “Labor does not
believe that Australian forces should be
committed overseas except subject to a
clear and public treaty which gives Aus-
tralia an effective voice in the common
decisions of the treaty powers”. On the
face of it, if you overlook its being
phrased in negative instead of positive
terms, the motion ties the Left wing down
to opposing the stationing of Australian
troops in Malaysia only if the Menzies
Government stations them there under
terms other than those contained in a
“clear and public treaty.”
But that is only the face of the re-
solution. Once you get behind the words
and into the background and the cir-
cumstances in which the motion was en-
dorsed, its meaning and import become
much more puzzling.
The ALP official records make it clear
that neither Oliver nor Conference in-
tended the motion to apply to Malaya.
Refer back, for example, to the Official
Report of the Canberra March Con-
ference before the Perth Conference,
where the following appears on page 7:
“C. R. Cameron [Clyde Cameron, Left-
wing MHR for Hindmarsh in South
Australia] desired that the following
question to Oliver and the latter’s reply
be recorded in the minutes [indicating the
importance the Left wing attached to the
question and reply]: He asked, did Mr
Oliver, in explaining the meaning of the
reference to Labor’s policy on troops in
Malaya as set out in the Majority Report
(made by the ALP Standing Committee
on Foreign Affairs) mean that the com-
mittee had rejected Item Eight of the
Hobart Declaration? Mr Oliver replied
no, it did not. The item then stood.”
This Item Eight of the Hobart De-
claration states baldly and unequivocably:
“Labor policy is to oppose the use of
armed forces in Malaya.''’
When Mr F. E. (“Joe”) Chamberlain,
acting Federal Secretary of the ALP,
first released the ALP policy decisions
in Perth on defence, they contained no
mention of the position of Australian
forces in Malaya. When he was ques-
tioned about whether the decisions in-
volved Australian forces in Malaya,
Chamberlain told Pressmen: “Work it
out for yourselves.” On the working out
it was obvious that the original decision
made at the Hobart Conference in 1955
against Australian troops being kept in
Malaya still stood.
This is also seen in records of the
second session of the Special Federal
Conference held at the Hotel Kingston,
Canberra, on Monday, March 18, 1963,
and on the following days—the confer-
ence which decided Labor’s attitude to-
wards the proposed United States Radio
Communications Centre at Exmouth
Gulf. Oliver’s motion (which was the
one he got through the Perth Confer-
ence) was taken as authorising the pre-
sence, under certain circumstances, of
Australian troops in Malaya. But the
records reveal an extraordinary happen-
ing which makes nonsense of this in-
terpretation. 7'he record reads: “C. R.
Cameron moved an amendment: Labor
policy is to oppose the use of armed
forces in Malaya which, we believe, will
gravely injure Australian relations with
our Asian neighbors while in no way
contributing to the prevention of ag-
gression. C. T. Oliver accepted the amend-
ment.”
Oliver s motion, with the Cameron
addendum, was negated with an 18/
all vote. It was later carried by the Perth
Conference, minus Cameron’s addendum,
but in view of those extracts from the
official ALP record, can it be said that
Oliver's motion means that troops can


be kept in Malaya under certain con-
ditions, or does it mean (as on that
record it seems to mean) that Oliver’s
motion does nothing about changing the
Hobart declaration that Labor policy is
against the use of armed forces in
Malaya?
Here is material for another split.
LABOR
When You Become
Redundant
The Automation Age
FROM RICHARD HALL IN SYDNEY
MR JUSTICE RICHARDS
Cautious
Tn Sydney last week Mr Justice Rich-
ards, of the State Industrial Com-
mission, added his voice, in a Report
on a five-year inquiry into automation,
to the relative few in Australia who have
questioned the medieval apprenticeship
which still prevails in Australia despite
industrial and technological revolutions.
With a fine caution (“the most I can
do in the present inquiry is to draw your
attention, Sir, to the considered opinion
of the Department of Technical Educa-
tions”, etc.) Mr Justice Richards spoke
of the need for a review of the whole
apprenticeship system,
Department of Technical Educa-
t'on in its submission was more specific
‘ ha " the Jud S e - 11 * anted / Permanent
set up to collect mformat.on on
technological changes and labor dis-
placement and to consider re-training
programmes. It saw little chance of the
State Industrial Commission itself being
able to carry out the needed review of
the apprenticeship system.
Caution characterised Mr Justice Rich-
ards’ Report (he had the powers of a
Royal Commissioner, but it was not a
Royal Commission). There were no start-
ling conclusions in its 778 pages, which
was tabled last week in the Legislative
Council. It was so long that the Govern-
ment has not printed copies but pre-
pared instead a 61-page precis.
Only on two matters did the Judge
make positive recommendations. He sug-
gested that an amendment should be
inserted in the Industrial Arbitration Act
giving employees having one year’s ser-
vice the right to three months’ notice if
they are to be rendered redundant
through mechanisation. Implementation
of that recommendation can be regarded
as almost certain.
His second recommendation was that
in the coal industry a Mechanisation
Compensation Fund should be set up
to assist workers who became redundant.
Such a fund should be financed by a
levy and would provide for reasonable
removal expenses to another town.
On the negative side the Report re-
jected union submissions for reduction
in working hours, increased annual and
long-service leave to compensate for
automation. It also was against nationali-
sation of the coal industry. The Judge
commented that evidence tendered in
favor of reduction in hours was “prac-
tically non-existent.” It was easy to draw
from the Report the inference that many
unions’ submissions (with the exception
of the one from the Clerks’ Union) had
been badly prepared and poorly re-
searched. Indeed unions in the motor
and oil refining industries had not both-
ered to make submissions or give evi-
dence at all.. ~ -
This inference, and the tardiness of
the Report, strike at the utility of some
of its conclusions. Mr Justice Richards
had been commissioned in October, 1958.
The Report said that the observation on
the coal industry concerned various fields
at July, 1959. Evidence for the clerical
occupations closed in April, 1960; for the
building industry and electric power
during 1961.
The fact that the observations on the
coal industry were based on 1959 makes
the proposal for a compensation fund
too late to affect hundreds of displaced
miners. In the clerical industry the fact
that the extensive developments of the
last few years with the rise of com-
puter and associated punch card sys-
tems are not fully considered is a
defect in the Report.
If, however, the Report was not up
to the boast of some NSW Government
members as the world’s first full in-
quiry into automation, it was still a start-
ing point for a subject that should be a
major public issue.
THE DRUNKARD
ffij%uUetCci
80 Years Ago: September 8, 1883
YI/e saw a man on Saturday night
** who would be an ornament to
any gallows. It was in the bar-room
of a George-street hotel. He was the
centre of a group of red-nosed sots,
who were judging by the admiring
ejaculations with which they received
a story he was telling drinking at
his expense. He had just finished a
song as we came in, and was in the
very full swing of reckless drunken-
ness. Just then a woman came to the
door of the bar-room. She had on a
faded black bonnet and an old grey
shawl, but her appearance was still de-
cent. She called to this man, who ap-
peared to be her husband. He turned
round, cursed her, and told her if she
didn’t go he would give her in charge
of the police. Then she left, and all the
boon companions laughed. A minute or
two after, the fine fellow staggered up
to the door, and opening it, ordered
his wife to come in. She came in, and
then he introduced her to the crowd
of greasy sots. The poor little woman
sat down patiently and waited till it
should be her husband’s pleasure to
come home. This is the reward which
years of love reap at the hands of a
drunkard. If any young woman who
reads this is keeping company with a
young man who drinks, she now
knows what fate is in store for her.
Poison is more expeditious,
Two Victorian Chinese, taking a
X W alk south of the Murray, saw
a bridge and dawdled across it into
New South Wales. They are now em-
ployed on a twelve months’ job at
pebble-fracturing, just to impress upon
them that, wherever the Union Jack
flies, men are free to come and go.
Let us give one more illustration of the
superiority of Australian legislation,
A Victorian Chinese lost his way in
the bush, and crossed the Murray in
his endeavours to find it. The inevi-
table “bobby” ever present when
a half-drowned Chinaman has to be
“run in”, ever absent when a larrikin
is jumping on his mother was
waiting for him. He also got twelve
months for endeavouring to save his
life by crawling up the wrong side
of the river.


\
&
(D c CaUum , s
522,
Scots (II hisky
D it.Hcu a „ d Hi e , l( je d n SCUhl'l
MC 4b.65
the harmony
of an age old
Scottish blend
the
perfection of
a product of Scotland ... of lu-r soil,
her rivers, her very atmosphere.
9021 N
Te ANSETT
FREIGHT EXPRESS
OVERNIGHT
ROCHET SERVICE
LEAVES FOR
ADELAIDE • MELBOURNE
SYDNEY • BRISBANE
Telephone calls to our “pick-up” sections will be
promptly attended to by radio controlled vans which
pick up and deliver in all capital cities.
For full details and competitive rates phone:
MELBOURNE 68 0541 SYDNEY 67 0533
ADELAIDE 45 5337 BRISBANE 47 1481
EDUCATION
Schools Fit
For Louts
FROM A PERTH CORRESPONDENT
multi-storeyed high schools reach-
ing for the sky all over Perth’s
suburbs are a source of great joy to
politicians and town planners, but not
apparently to school teachers. When the
Teachers’ Union met in Perth during the
current school holidays, recent mutter-
ings among teachers about the unwieldy
size of the new comprehensive High
Schools erupted into an attack on Edu-
cation Department policy on school size.
Mr J. Stokes, a senior teacher at the
new Churchlands High School, led the
attack by claiming that in schools of
more than 1000 students the impersonal
atmosphere weakened discipline and
lowered the tone of the school. They also
gave louts and hoydens a chance to get
away with misdeeds.
It was impossible to keep a check on
the small anti-social element in the big
schools, and headmasters could only
know the best and worst children. Under
these conditions, children felt themselves
in an impersonal organisation. Parents,
too, were unhappy with the atmosphere
of these schools.
Mr Stokes claimed that more than a
third of all high school classes contained
more than 40 children, and this situation
had been deteriorating. It was not good
enough to accept a maximum school
size of 1500 students, and to reduce this
as class sizes were reduced. More re-
gional high schools should be built to
feed into the upper years of five-year
high schools so that the maximum size
would need to be only 1000.
Other teachers did not support Mr
Stokes’ criticism mainly because they
felt it would reflect on their promotion,
but the conference resolved to seek an
interview with Education Minister Lewis
on school and class sizes.
In a statement which aimed at re-
butting the Teachers’ Union criticism,
the Deputy-Director of Education, Mr
H. W. Dettman, virtually admitted that
it was well founded. He said that 14 high
schools in the metropolitan area and two
in the country contained more than 1000
students. The department aimed at a
maximum of 30 students a class in high
schools throughout the state. If this was
achieved, the enrolment in the majority
of high schools would be reduced to
about 1000 and in a few schools would
be about 1200.
The Union also criticised the lack of


qualifications of many senior mistresses
at country junior high schools, and
sought a deputation with Acting-Premier
Crawford Nalder about country teachers’
housing. Mr Nalder refused this request,
saying that Cabinet already had a Union
report on the question before it and that
this would be considered further when
Premier David Brand returned from his
overseas trip.
The overall impression gained from
the conference decisions and the Depart-
mental and Government replies to them
was that the Department was huffy but
unbowed before criticism from its own
teachers.
COMMUNISTS
Ted Hill Prepares
For a Come-back
Dinner with Mao Tse-lung
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
LAURIE AARONS
Implicated?
As inevitably as night follows day, the
Political Committee of the Austra-
lian Communist Party has expelled for-
mer Victorian Secretary, pro-Peking Ted
Hill, along with his principal lieutenant,
ex-Central Committee member Mrs Flo
Russell. And there, on August 22, ac-
cording to Communist strategy, the mat-
ter should have ended with Hill going
into party mythology as a horrible ex-
ample to others disinclined to toe the
line in this case the pro-Moscow line.
But Hill, as was widely surmised on
the occasion of his recent trip to Peking,
was little concerned with any action the
CP would take, and went ahead with his
plans to swing the party away from its
Moscow allegiance and back into the
Peking fold.
He returned from Peking armed with
several weapons. Propaganda would be
supplied in the form of pamphlets and
documents printed in Peking. Import
agencies for Chinese goods would be a
source of funds. A national organiser
was placed at Hill’s disposal by the Chi-
nese newsagency Hsin Hua, employing
as its representative the Melbourne jour-
nalist Duncan Clarke.
Clarke, a protege of Hill’s for many
years and member of the Victorian State
Committee of the Communist Party, is
an organiser and propagandist of proven
ability, having learned his trade on the
old Sydney “Telegraph” and the Mel-
bourne “Herald,” before joining the
Communist “Guardian” 16 years ago.
In 1960 he paid a lengthy visit to both
China and the Soviet Union. His duties
for Hsin Hua will necessitate him travel-
ling widely, thus placing him in an ideal
position to contact pro-Peking support-
ers throughout Australia.
Hill has been quick to realise that even
strong support in his home state of Vic-
toria is not enough to carry through his
plans. His strength in Victoria is esti-
mated by the Communist Party itself to
number between 250 and 350, a very
active 20 per cent of the Victorian ap-
paratus. Approximately 80 of this num-
ber have already resigned while the rest,
doubtless following the dictate of Mao
Tse-tung in his “Struggle Within and
Without,” are sitting pat. Hill also has
a base in the Victorian trade unions,
notably the Tramways, the Painters and
the Builders’ Laborers. The establish-
ment of a further base is appearing in the
Melbourne branch of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation where popular
Communist V.O. Ted Bull, heir ap-
parent to Secretary C. Young, has re-
signed from the CP in favor of Peking.
It is Hill’s lack of knowledge of whom
his supporters are in the other States
that prevents the immediate formation of
a national cohesive opposition to the
Aarons-led CP. It is through Duncan
Clarke he hopes to obtain this know-
ledge. Amongst others who should prove
to be- of help will be Sydney wharfie
Syd Clare, ex-editor of the WWF Com-
munist job sheet “Wharfie” and ex-em-
ployee of “Tribune” who has recently
returned from a week's visit to Mel-
bourne, where presumably he co-ordin-
ated plans and ideas with Clarke and
Hill. Leading Tasmanian Communist,
W. Honeychurch, is high on Clarke’s
list of those to be visited, as is also
Nancy Wills, leading light of the Bris-
bane section of the Australia-China
Friendship Society, and her seaman hus-
band Geoff Wills. Both the Wills have
spent some time in China in recent years.
Bill Byrd, ex-Secretary of the Victorian
Branch of the Seamen’s Union and now
domiciled in Brisbane, will also be ap-
proached.
In one of his rare public statements
Hill told a recent (August 20) gathering
at the Trades Hall in Melbourne that
he “did not intend to organise a new
party —it would be beyond me.” But
he had little doubt that the Australian
workers themselves would find it neces-
sary to form a new party “to uphold the
views of scientific socialism.” This really
meant that Hill saw himself as playing
advisor to the organiser of a new party
a fine distinction. But now that he
has been expelled he may no longer find
the task “beyond him.”
He would certainly be at a point of
international liaison for a new party.
The pro-Chinese New Zealand Com-
munist Party is in touch with Hill and
representatives of the Indonesian CP
were in China for the first week of
Hill’s visit there during which Mao Tse-
tung gave a banquet in Hill’s honor. Two
of the Chinese who saw Hill off were
Chao I-min, alternate member of the
Central Committee CCP and of its
Propaganda Department, and Pen Chen,
who was co-leader of the recent Chi-
nese delegation to the ideological discus-
sion in Moscow. These two also kept
close attendance on the Indonesian and
New Zealand visitors, all of which could
add up to the fact that the Chinese are
aiming at the formation of a sort of Co-
mintern on the old Soviet lines. They al-
ready have Albania, New Zealand and
most South-East Asian countries in the
bag and there are substantial groupings
in European countries their Italian
strength is estimated at 20,000. The
strength of the Indonesian party and
most of its leaders are also behind China.
Attempts are being made, with some suc-
cess, to woo the Japanese CP which has
up to now pursued a middle course.
Hill would fit into this scheme as a
top-line theoretician and Australia’s fore-
most Stalinist. Evidence of the fact that
China has turned a stony face on the
official Australian CP is its refusal to
grant visas to the followers of Moscow
in Australia. Amongst those refused
were Queensland CP Secretary Ted
Bacon and W. Brown (heir to Dixon’s
position) who were to attempt some sort
of rapprochement. A transit visa was
refused a leading “peace activist,” and
a suspect Australia-China Friendship
Society visitor was also refused entry.
Hill claims to have brought back from
China tape recordings of certain
conversations held between Sharkey,
Dixon and the Chinese leaders, including
Mao Tse-tung, which prove that the Aus-
tralians were foremost amongst the fol-
lowers of Peking. But this, following on
Sharkey’s series of failures culminating
in his lamentable “Four Corners” inter-
view, will only make more certain
Sharkey’s inevitable resignation at the
National Congress in June, 1964.
Hill needs material implicating the
Aarons brothers and it is quite likely
that is just what he will have. He will


PUBLICATIONS AVAILABLE
of the Australian Institute of
Political Science
Post Free
National Economic Planning (1934) 3/3
Educating a Democracy (1936) 3/3
The Housing Problem (1947) 2/3
A White Australia (1947) 3/3
Taxation Policy (1953) 5/3
New States for Australia (1955) 13/-
Australia's Transport Crisis (1956) 4/3
New Guinea and Australia (1958) 26/6
Australia 1970 and Beyond (1960) 16/3
Asia and Australia (1961) 9/4
Economic Growth in Australia (1962) 17/10
Forces in Australian Politics (1963) 17/10
ORDER FORM
Australian Institute of Political Science,
Rural Bank Building,
34-33 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
PLEASE SUPPLY
NAME
ADDRESS
SEND CASH WITH ORDER PLEASE!
certainly play on the Australian CP’s and
his own previous revolutionary charac-
ter. The Aarons brothers are taking steps
to counter this in advance by running
intensive near - compulsory schools
through the period July to December,
1963. The course is based on Lenin’s
“Left Wing Communism” and is aimed
at exposing the bankruptcy of Peking's
policies.
But they will need to hurry as Hill
has a surprising number of individual
supporters, of whose existence he is as
yet unaware but whom Duncan Clarke’s
proposed activities will assuredly bring
into the open.
WOOL
“Hamilton is Ashamed”
But still wants “orderly marketing”
before promotion
FROM J. C. HORSFALL IN MELBOURNE
SIR W. GUNN
Wrong tactics
A man suspected of throwing eggs and
flour at Sir William Gunn during
his explosive wool promotion meeting in
Hamilton in late July will face a Police
charge next week (September 12). But
contrary to what was until recently
thought possible, the case is expected to
pass off quietly without a trace of rebel
propaganda for a reserve price market-
ing scheme. In fact, as the Secretary of
the Hamilton Pastoral and Agricultural
Society, Mr R. I. King, confided to me
last week: "Hamilton is ashamed” of the
whole affair and wants desperately to
play it down. In his view, if Sir William
Gunn had devoted the first half of his
address to marketing and the second to
promotion rather than the other way
round the whole meeting would probably
have been quiet and orderly.
This is obviously what Sir William
should do when he returns to face wool-
growers in the high-cost Western Dis-
trict at a second meeting in Hamilton in
October. For as far as I could gauge
opinion after talking for four days to
many woolgrowers in the area, very few
are actually white-hot against either the
principle or the amount of the proposed
additional wool levy. Naturally enough
and this applies particularly to the
smaller growers most affected by the
total promotion levy of 565. a bale
they are unlikely to pay up cheerfully,
but opposition down there could be ef-
fectively silenced if only the Wool Board
could come up with its promised market-
ing scheme without delay.
The fact of the matter from the indi-
vidual woolgrower’s viewpoint, as gen-
erally expressed to me, is that while de-
velopment of the overall market for
wool on the quality theme is considered
as essential to the welfare of the indi-
vidual grower as to the whole industry,
a floor price system would (as it has done
in New Zealand and South Africa) rule
out the present wide fluctuations in
prices received by individual Australian
growers which hurts their own pock-
ets directly and bears on the stability of
their pastoral operations. (They have, it
seems, few qualms about losing some of
their independence as a result of a Gov-
ernment-supported reserve price scheme
or direct Government subsidies for wool
promotion.)
The main champion of “Reserve Price
before Promotion” in the Western Dis-
trict is the Victorian Wheat and Wool-
growers' Association. According to its
Vice-President, Mr F. W. Howell, also
a Wool Board member: “It is undoubt-
edly true that the Hamilton outburst was
due to a deep-seated frustration that
as growers we have been unable as yet
to achieve even a degree of orderly mar-
keting. In the Western District this frus-
tration has been greatly intensified by
hopes that were falsely buoyed up by a
quite unrealistic approach to a reserve
price plan. A great many members have
joined the Association and branches have
been formed, with the impression that
a reserve price scheme would soon be
achieved and would resolve all financial
worries of wool growing.
“Growers there were originally being
told that a reserve price could be based
on cost of production—but it was not ex-
plained that buyers are not remotely in-
terested in growers’ costs, and that unless
raw wool prices could be lifted by pro-
motion (or subsidised) above ever-rising
costs the scheme would completely col-
lapse.
“Then growers were told a reserve
price could be set at 86 pence which
was at a later date reduced to 74 pence
but they, were not told that such a
price could not possibly be obtained un-
less promotion was far in excess of the
plan now being recommended by the
Wool Board and as such it would
still be a most risky and perhaps impos-
sible venture.
“Adding to the confusion, Mr L. A,
Simpson very commendably campaigned
for a reserve price and set his price at
54 pence. This was a more realistic ap-
proach, as such a price could be sup-
ported if adequately promoted, and
would give growers some protection from
a slump, but growers were not told that
this sort of scheme could not give them
the maximum price to which they are
entitled and which is what the Wool
Board aims to achieve.”
The Wheat and Woolgrowers’ Associa-
tion chiefs say that by getting his pro-
motion money in first, Sir William Gunn
would be squeezing out any funds to
set up a reserve price scheme and that
“anti-marketing forces were to blame for
the episode at Hamilton because of the
long frustration and delay on mar-
keting.”
Some people in the Wannon Federal
electorate are predicting an uncertain
future for the present member, Malcolm
Fraser, unless there is a breakthrough
soon on wool marketing. “We are going
to get orderly marketing by hook or by
crook, even if some members of Parlia-
ment have to be defeated,” is their line.


*"X7
The Building doesn’t exist
that can’t be
AIR CONDITIONED
with
s|c Multi-storey, single storey, huge warehouse, office block or modest premises • • •
no matter what yov f problem—Chrysler Airtemp has an answer to it— and
economically too! Compare the comfort and convenience of working or
shopping where sticky humidity, excess heat and germ-laden dust are banned
forever! Compare the pepped-up productivity of employees when they FEEL
better, THINK better, WORK better, even LOOK better in an atmosphere
of clean, healthful comfort. Compare, too, Chrysler"s wide range of
air and water cooled equipment designed to provide the finest quality air
conditioning, dependable performance, long life and trouble free operation.
Compare the advantages of protection from dirt and wear less cleaning,
less redecorating and less business equipment maintenance.
More Businesses do more Business with Chrysler Airtemp
*— your Airtemp Distributor will show you why.
Q'LD.: Dunn Air Condition-
ing Pty. Ltd , 620 Stanlev
St., Woolloongabba. Phono
4 2941.
N.S.W.: Strataflo Pty. Ltd.,
Cnr Parramatta Rd. & Barr
, St., Camperdown. Phone
51 6645.
A.C.T.: A.C.T. Engineering
Co Pty. Ltd., 14 Yallourn
St., Fyshwick. Phone 9 0081
VIC.: Dunn Air Conditioning
Pty. Ltd., 291 Moray St., S.
Melbourne. Phone 69 7114
S.A.: Chrysler (Australia)
Limited Airtemp Division,
Finsbury. Phone 45 3661.
W.A.: Noyes Bros. Pty. Ltd.,
657 Murray St., Perth. Phone
23 2214.
CMSB


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
196 1
»{s( ’■
:■ ' B
ODBURY estate
*ttte burgundy
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
s cool, enhances
I the enjoyment
H of cheese, sea-
| food, veal and
poultry.
if
65
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
Ansett and his
Transport Empire
A long way from the days of a two-seater Porterfield
By J. C. KAYE
■Reginald Myles Ansett, at 44, is
chairman and managing director of
Ansett Transport Industries, the greatest
transport empire in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, and owns 3 per cent of it.
His enterprise has assorted assets of
nearly £36 million, makes £1 million
profit after tax, and employs 7000 people.
In aviation it is Ansett-ANA, Victorian
Air Coach Services, Airlines of New
South Wales, Ansett Plying Boat Ser-
vices, Airlines of South Australia, Ansett-
Mandated Airlines in New Guinea, and
49 per cent of Airlines of New Zealand,
plus 15 per cent of Cathay, based on
Hong Kong.
ATI has just taken over control of
Macßobertson-Miller (known popularly
as “Mickey Mouse”), the teetotal airline
in Western Australia. It has bought out
the holding of the Macßobertson sweet
people in Melbourne, and some of the
Miller holding.
Ansett in aviation means 90 planes,
from prop-jet Electras to Cessnas, and
about 250 pilots.
Ansett himself, as I write, is in the
USA over the purchase of pure-jet Boe-
ing 727's to put into service here in
1965, planes which show that £1 mil-
lion goes nowhere these days. He is
also looking at possible twin-engined
helicopters, for use between Proserpine
and Hayman Island. Ansett-ANA already
has six single-engined machines.
Then there are about 20 hotels, motels
and holiday resorts throughout eastern
Australia, including Hayman Is. on the
Reef, Karumba Lodge on the Gulf of
Carpentaria,. and four holiday spots in
and around Alice Springs. All these
have grown from the first Ansett hotel,
Wrest Point, Hobart, bought in 1946.
Apart from airport buses and so on,
the road passenger services run nearly
200 coaches, cars and other vehicles,
and the road freight services have about
450 owner or sub-contractor-owned
trailers, vans and so on.
The biggest single ATI shareholder (6
per cent of ordinary capital, is W. R.
Carpenter Holdings Ltd, of Sydney,
which used to own Mandated.
The Ansett domain includes a manu-
facturing and trading group, making
coaches, instruments, plane seats, name-
plates and much else.
There are just on 29,000 shareholders,
and 30,000 other investors through con-
vertible notes and redeemable cash.
The biggest holding is in Victoria, fol-
lowed by NSW and Queensland, with the
other States smaller. There are some 300
NZ investors, and 250 overseas. The
overseas holding, mainly in the USA, is
about 0.6 of the total investment.
ATl's airline operations earn 62 per
cent of the group’s total revenue of about
£3O million a year.
To this widespread industry, the
Broadcasting Control Board has just
added the licence for Channel 0, Mel-
bourne’s third commercial TV station.
Channel 0 will be run by Austarama, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of ATI, and is
scheduled to begin operations from Bur-
wood, an eastern outer suburb, in the first
half of next year. Ex-Test captain Bill
Woodfull is one director.)
The man who has created all this is
a complex personality, puzzling even to
many of his closest associates, and hold-
ing an equivocal place in the public mind
in Australia.
Ansett, called “Reg” by those who
claim to know him w’ell, and “R.M.” by
those who do, is a lean figure, with a lean,
long-jawed face under dark hair. The
face would be more handsome if it were
not so expressionless for a great deal of
the time. Beneath this mask, which is
natural to him and unforced, he has con-
trol of his emotions, so that no one
knows, at a look, whether Ansett is jubi-
lant or furious.
Ansett dresses well, in conservative
styles, except that he goes for bright ties
at times. He likes a drink, and smokes
one brand only, Luckies.
He is a happy family man, and keeps
his home life so private that even some
executives in his office aren’t too sure
about his most general family details
that he has a grown son by a first mar-


For every transport requirement
Mercedes-Benz, the world's oldest automotive
manufacturers, now offer a complete range of
passenger cars, commercial vehicles and engines
for marine and industrial purposes. They are
available from dealers throughout Australia.
ME RCEDC S-B
ENZ
k
479/545
B
ilk CM
►
MERCEDES-BENZ (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD., MELBOURNE.
riage, for example, and that, in his con-
tented second marriage, he and his wife
Joan have three young daughters.
Ansett adores his family, and has been
known to put off an urgent visit to
America because one of the girls has
been sick with an ordinary childish
complaint.
is fine, white-walled home at Mt
liza, on the bay 25 miles out of Mel-
bourne, is set in 113 acres of land where
Ansett used to concentrate on horse
commefcialk Tk m^nffrn^hpr
c y. It to and from here that
he commutes each day in an Ansett-
t p " z'pz sztz
rarra7' t ,h e edgrf t a ow P „ addOCk *
~,, ,
hen weather holds the chopper
down, and for connection between the
heliport and his city office, Ansett uses
his chauffeur-driven Cadillac. The heli-
copter causes most heads to rise in Mel-
bourne as it flies over, and is a good
promotional idea as well as cheap (2s.
3d. a mile) travel for a busy and wealthy
rnan -
The white home near the beach at Mt
Eliza has been much in the news lately,
as Judge Frederico, of the Victorian
Supreme Court, has been holding an in-
quiry into what went over the con-
struction of a reservoir by the State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission.
When the Commission gave Ansett
notice in 1956 that it intended to use 13
acres of the farm for a reservoir, Ansett,
very angry, sprang into action with all
his resources. He didn’t want it, and he
wasn’t going to have it. Finally he made
a de al w ith the Commission that it would
build the dam outside his property. He
bad to pay £28.000 of his own money
towards t h e extra cost
Jud § e Frederic o has stated firmly that
there . question of Ansett having
, , , 4 . 1 1 f navmg
\ c u z~ 7
°"'
it r ~ .
e ox a ®
dana W0 “ Id have been an eyesore and
* hat he had been determined to get rid
ot it, at any cost.
He said again what he has said before
that “impossible” is not in his dictionary.
He believes there is a way around, over,
under or through every obstacle.
He admitted that he had not thought
about what a change in site would mean
in inconvenience to other people. He
apologised for having failed to “project
his thinking” that far.
Reporters at the inquiry have told me
that Ansett spoke more openly and im-
pressively than any other witness.
Another aspect of Ansett was empha-
sised when the Premier, Mr Bolte, gave
evidence.
Ansett is a great racing man, president
of the Port Phillip Racing Association,
and owner of successful horses, mainly
hurdlers. Bolte is also a racing fan.
But Bolte told the judge that he had
never been in Ansett’s home or Ansett
in h i s .
Ansett is not heavil y social, not the
cocktail type. His close associates in-
MacDonald an pvecntivp
tTo'J™ 7 77'™' 7'
land once ran a School of Business Ad-
ministration at “Manyung,” Mt Eliza,
This i§ nQW an Ansett Hotel
Ansett - s Qther jnterestS; besjdes rad
are workjng Qn f often on a
tractor, photography, yachting, bird
shooting at King Is. in’ Bass Strait’ where
t bj s j s a i oca i S p o rt. and, of course TV
pj e wou i d st jn pke to fly planes’, but
his insurance cover of £1 million for-
bids it.
He doesn’t travel out of Melbourne
as much as one might expect, but is a
fairly familiar figure in Ansett-ANA
planes, and sometimes on TAA. He


made one recent dash to Canberra by
diverting an Ansett-ANA prop-jet Elec-
tra flight from its direct Melbourne-
Sydney route. The plane was 10 minutes
late to Sydney.
A visitor chickened out
A nsett’s office is on the sixth floor of
the ATI glasshouse building in
Swanston Street, opposite the City Baths.
It is not ostentatious for a tycoon. Models
of planes and road vehicles are part of
the sparse decoration.
He has a name as an administrator
who hates inefficiency, and keeps costs to
the bone. But there is no sign that he
is mean in spirit.
Not long ago, an outside visitor was in
Ansett’s office, when Ansett broke off to
answer the phone. An ATI executive
explained, in an audible voice, that he
was guilty of a blue that might cost
Ansett considerable money.
Ansett, with a quick grin, showed no
dismay.
“OK,” he said. “You made it. You
fix it.”
Ansett, like all his main administra-
tive personnel, has on his desk a special
Accountant’s Calendar, which is ar-
ranged to make each week, month and
year end on a Saturday a year of four
13 week periods numbered from A 1 to
D 52.
In 1958, after ATI had taken over
Butler Air Transport of NSW in a sour
battle, Ansett had on his hands Eliza-
bethan aircraft he planned to sell.
A representative of BEA, who were
still owed about £400,000 on the
machines, came to Ansett with a propo-
sition. Instead of selling, he said, why
not buy more and reorganise on new
lines with the Elizabethans?
Ansett pulled a coin from his pocket,
after a minute, and answered: “I tell
you what. We’ll toss. If you win I do
what you want. If I win, you buy back
the aircraft.”
The visitor chickened out.
Ansett was born at Inglewood, Vic-
toria, to a small knitting manufacturer,
of Methodist leanings. He went to State
school and to Swinburne Technical
School in Melbourne until he was 14.
At 19 he was out in the Northern Ter-
ritory, swinging an axe with a government
survey party. Flying got him early. He
took out a pilot’s licence in Victoria be-
fore he was 21. As the depression
closed in he thought of emigrating to
South Africa.
But he bought a second-hand Stude-
baker for £5O. one of those lovely old
machines with the heavy wheels and the
celluloid curtains, and in 1931 went into
business with 10/- to spare.
He began a regular transport run be-
tween the Victorian Western District
towns of Hamilton and Ballarat. He
had a lot of time to think, as he bumped
over the 180 miles each way.
A sepia photograph shows him as a
slender figure in a belted overcoat, lean-
ing on the Studebaker with one foot on
the running board, and the deserted
space of a Hamilton street behind him.
By 1935 he had 12 cars and a garage
and owned a Gipsy Moth. With it he
won the Brisbane-Adelaide Centenary
Air Race, £5OO and the Goodyear
Trophy.
But the Victorian Government was
worrying about the effect of road ser-
vices on the bankrupt railways.
The Victorian Attorney - General,
Robert Gordon Menzies, brought down a
Bill which set up transport control, and
threatened to choke men like Ansett.
Ansett has hated “socialism” ever since.
There’s a taxi driver in Melbourne who
remembers being with drivers at a Hamil-
ton cafe one night when Ansett declared
bitterly: “The only way to beat them is
to take to the air.”
He flew to Sydney with Colin Mac-
Donald and bought a Fokker Universal
from a pilot with Kingsmith Air Services,
Harry Purvis, who had used it for barn-
storming. The price was <£l,ooo. When
Ansett mailed the £l,OOO cheque from
Melbourne later, Purvis sent it back and
asked for the interstate exchange to be
added. Purvis was the toughest charac-
ter Ansett had met to that time.
The Fokker, taking six passengers,
capable of 80 m.p.h., inaugurated Ansett
Airways services between Hamilton and
Melbourne on February 17, 1936. And
that’s how the combined air-land trans-
port empire of Ansett began.
Many incidents in his career since
then show his character, his tackling of
obstacles, and his search for barriers to
crack through.
To beat up support from Western Dis-
trict people he flew an old two-seater
Porterfield about, landing on cowpad-
docks. The machine is still in use, re-
engined, by a grazier on the Darling
Downs of Queensland.
He nearly foundered when Ansett Air-
ways Ltd, formed in 1937 as a public
company, bought three Electras for
£60,000 from the USA and didn’t have
the cash to pay for them.
The nervous banks wouldn’t help, even
pending a call-up of shareholders’ capi-
tal. The Electras waited at the docks.
Ansett had to go cap in hand to the
Customs Minister, T. W. (later Sir
Thomas) White and beg relief from
£14,000 owing in Customs duty and
taxes on foreign-made planes. Tommy
obliged.
Ansett still needed £50,000. He got
it from certain backers only by handing
over large chunks of his personal share-
holding to them. But he survived.
In 1938, Australian National Airways,
which had been formed by the shipping
companies in 1932, and had already
bought up four small lines, made a grab
for Ansett. ANA offered Bs. lOd. a
share, 4d. above the market price.
Most of the board wanted to sell. An-
sett swung them over except for the
chairman, kept shareholder support and
held ANA off. In 1957, he bought ANA
out for £3,300,000 paying £1 mil-
lion down.
Post-war affluence
air side of Ansett struggled till the
war, despite the development of in-
terstate operations. In the war, the com-
pany got rich maintenance, charter and
manufacturing contracts. It gave up all
air routes except Melbourne-Hamilton
and flew for the United States supply
services. It also helped to evacuate
bombed Broome and Darwin.
Emerging from the war, Ansett had
the money to expand land business,
hotels, tourism and freight-cartage, but
ANSETT’S FINANCES
ftXED assets of the Ansett group at
June, 1962, totalled £26.6m., of
which £15.5m. was represented by air-
craft, £3.9 m. in vehicles and plant,
and £7.2m. in freehold and leasehold.
Current assets, including £4.5m. in
stocks, stores and work in progress,
totalled £B.sm.
The group owed £25.5m., of which
£ 12.2 m. were current liabilities and
£13.3m. were long term liabilities.
The public has subscribed heavily to
the enterprise. In addition to the
current £7.3m. ordinary capital and
£522,250 pref. capital, the company
had issued at June, 7 962, £7.5m. 7
p.c. unsecured notes, convertible to
ordinary shares in June, 1966, plus
£7.Bm. in redeemable cash deposits
and £5.4m. in secured loans of more
than 72 months' duration.
This excludes loans and cash de-
posits of £7.2 m. (payable within 72
months) listed under current lia-
bilities.
The group has negotiated additional
loans since publication of its last
balance sheet. In August Mr Ansett
announced he had arranged a seven-
year £4.4m. loan from the Bank of
America to help pay for two Boeing
72 7s.
The company raised £500,000 in
loans last April from two life assur-
ance companies to finance some hotel
rebuilding and in May raised ordinary
capital by £l .2m. to £7.3m. with a
one-for-six par issue.
Recent long term deposit rates (five
or 10 years) were 8\ p.c., but the
rate prior to May, 7962, was 9 p.c.
The company's net consolidated pro-
fit of just over £lm. in each of the
past two years has been helped by
tiny tax provisions of £9,220 and
£11,351 (because of accumulated tax
losses of subsidiaries).


every day
more
motorists
call for
CASTROL
by name!
m
S
I
m
CASTR£|
AUSTRALIA’S MOST DEMANDED MOTOR OIL
Call where you see the bottle stand out front at better garages
CASTROL SUPERGRADE MOTOR OILS
CASTROLITE
CASTROL XL
CASTROL XXL
CKM.97


ANA had taken over all major air routes.
Ansett planned new routes, gouged
licences from the Dept of Civil Aviation,
and, aided by a small Federal subsidy,
went back into aviation, fighting hard.
He couldn't get the dollars to buy new
DC3’s to match ANA aircraft, so
switched his attack and got approval for
three machines from the US Liquidation
Commission in Manila.
In 1946, the Labor Government, frus-
trated from nationalising the airways,
formed TAA. Ansett found himself the
smallest of the three top national opera-
tors.
His tactic again was to pare costs to
the bone, and to attack.
He launched a cheap-fares policy
which paid off well. The peak of this
air-fare war was reached in 1956, when
Ansett machines were flying people be-
tween Sydney and Melbourne, in some
services, cheaper than the first-class rail
fare.
Public Image Harmed
A nsett’s hunch was that if he could
keep up the pressure, he might force a
crisis among the giants. The ANA
crack-up of 1957 proved he was right.
When he took over ANA a lot of
people there hated his guts. He won
most of them over, and some of his top
ATI men have come from ANA desks.
In getting ANA and the ANA sub-
sidiary, Bungana, Ansett bought a row
which has done his public image consider-
able harm ever since. Up to that time he
was the little man fighting the giants.
Then, in the public eye, he became a new
giant crushing Butler Air Transport,
another “little” line.
Butler Air Transport Ltd, with former
NSW Governor Sir John Northcott as
chairman at the finish, was founded in
1934, and with a subsidiary, Queensland
Airlines, covered a wide area in NSW,
Victoria, SA and Queensland.
ANA fostered Butler so long as the
junior line kept off the interstate routes.
But Butler bought two jet-prop Viscounts,
despite a warning by DCA that it would
not be allowed to use them intra-State.
Unable to shift the DCA on this, Butler
began to use the planes between Sydney
and Melbourne.
ANA could not suppress this. It did
not have a big enough holding to con-
trol Butler which did not allow one vote
to each share, but had a sliding scale
which diminished ANA’s influence. But-
ler also issued 100,000 £1 shares to em-
ployees. These were issued at Is. with
quarterly calls of Id., but carried the
same rights as fully paid £ 1 shares.
ANA was still in litigation over this
when it sold out. ATI took over the
battle for control, to kick Butler off inter-
state services. In this Ansett was sup-
ported by the Federal Government
which had been implementing a Two
Airlines policy with ANA and TAA since
1952, under the Civil Aviation Agree-
ment Act.
The most spectacular part of the Ansett
attack was to fly hundreds of sup-
porters from Melbourne to carry the vote
at meetings in the Butler hangar at Mas-
cot. The sight of Ansett moving his troops’
hands, up and down, according to his
signalled orders, has yet to be matched
in high finance tragi-comedy.
In the wash-up of this complicated
struggle, ATI got control, paying double
market price to Butler shareholders,
C. A. Butler himself took a top job with
ATI but then left, with compensation.
Ansett refers to the Butler struggle as
“the sternest of my life”. He knows that
he came out of it badly in the public eye,
but can’t see what else could have been
done, in view of his purchase of ANA,
the Federal Government’s policy, and his
own need to “protect his flank” against
Butler as an interstate operator.
As one of the Big Two operators, An-
sett has been, with TAA, inside the
framework of the Civil Aviation Agree-
ment Act, now extended to 1977.
The Act rationalises the competition
between the two lines, provides for equal
shares of mail contracts and of bookings
for government personnel, and arranges
financial guarantees for the purchase of
aircraft.
Ansett has declared repeatedly that he
is happy with the Act, despite his con-
tention that TAA should be handed over
to private industry.
The 1961-1962 report of ATI says that
Act “gives the company an Australia-
wide aviation franchise of about 50 p.c.
of the industry revenue, which totals ap-
proximately £36 million per annum.”
It also says the agreement gives eco-
nomic stability assuring “reasonable pro-
fits” to at least 1977.
Nevertheless, the Ansett attack has
gone on, involving at times abusive
statements and counter-statements be-
tween Ansett, Opposition Leader Calwell,
the Australian Airlines Commission, and
others.
Ansett fought hard and successfully
for dollars to buy the new Electra prop-
jet. He complains that he is still getting
only 25 p.c. of Government passenger
business a business worth £ 1 million
a year to the industry. He complains
that TAA has an unfair advantage in
insurance, in financing superannuation,
and in getting fresh capital.
TAA people call Ansett “greedy”. He
says he wants only a “fair share”.
At the moment he has on his hands a
fight with the Heffron government over
East-West Airlines of NSW. In 1960 he
sought to get control by an amalgamation
of East-West Airlines and his own Air-
lines of NSW. The ATI offer in cash
and shares was rejected. Heffron has
counter-attacked by ordering Ansett to
hand part of his NSW routes to East-
West. The matter is still before the
High Court.
On current figures, there is little to
choose between ATI and TAA in
the aviation business. ATI has 60 p.c. of
the freight and half the mails under the
agreement. The richest part of the avia-
tion business, of course, is in the eastern
trunk routes. Here TAA more than
holds its own. TAA is djsturbed by
ATl’s Macßobertson-Miller move in the
West, where TAA has no feeder routes.
Channel 0 has caused other criticism.
The way Ansett moved into TV showed
his methods at their most efficient.
Deciding to “be in it”, he set up a
committee under executive director R. R.
Walker, and told them to get cracking.
The committee men, like Ansett him-
self, knew no more about TV than how
to switch on a set and phone for the re-
pair man.
But people began to dash to all cor-
ners of the world.
Ansett and his men decided to by-pass
any great culture play but to promise
a new deal, with at least 55 p.c. Austra-
lian programmes.
Before the application went to the
board, plans were complete for a film
studio, as well as for the essential appara-
tus of broadcasting studios, transmitters,
a tower on the Dandenong Ranges.
“Looking for a Challenge”
Tn his own evidence, Ansett was true
A to form. He said he wanted to be in
TV for the struggle it presented to him.
“I have spent my life building up ATI,”
he said. “I am looking for anything
interesting that presents a challenge.”
Mr. Ashkanasy, QC, counsel for ano-
ther applicant, suggested to Ansett that
ATI wanted TV investment to shore up
its empire and “stave off ultimate and
inevitable disintegration.”
This suggestion arises from the fact
that no shares will be issued in Austarama
as such. It will be a package deal, with
all money going into ATI.
Handing Ansett the licence, the board
said ATl’s application had shown a sound
grasp of the financial, administrative and
technical programme aspects, and spoke
of its “competent, assured presentation”.
As an application, few can disagree;
it was miles ahead of the other five
efforts.
Ansett has dreams of an even bigger
future. He made a £2 million offer a
year or so ago for Tasman Empire Air-
ways. He wants to extend to South-East
Asia, and even to Europe.
But what makes Ansett run is still a
mystery.


OUT AND ABOUT
An Agreeable Exception
to the Rule
1. Bob Sanders but still in the ABC mould
By CHARLES HIGHAM
After seven years, we are pretty well
aware of the ABC Television face:
equine, relentlessly cheerful, the
eyes playfully innocent and the teeth
sparkling and even. Together wtth the
visage goes a voice calculated to go
straight to the heart of every pro-British
b . . . , r. J
mum: a kind of ersatz Portland Place
„ .. , . f
Oxford, with the tailored vowels of the
VT cu r , s , ,
North Shore or Toorak creme cle la
v • r
creme. Effortless charm and an air of
addressing a schoolgirls’ picnic on Empire
Day are part of the picture. Behind the
smooth facade, there’s the knowledge—
sometimes uneasily present, sometimes
pushed out of the way for convenience’s
sake that one mustn’t “go too far,”
that controversial subjects must be
treated with fairy fingers, that close ex-
plorations of, say, South-East Asian
affairs are too near the knuckle for the
“viewership”. The combination of Tatler-
ish face and repressive reality in the
ABC has been talked about a good deal
lately, although w'e await the full account
of one of those who couldn’t stand being
charmingly equine any longer, and
cleared out.
Bob Sanders has a] - been an
agreeaMe exception t 0 the ru , e> even
, h h hs sti „ unJeniab , flts into the
ABC mould. Hor one thin g, he hasn't a
, c . , , , , f , ,
horse face: its round, chubby, and cheer-
,,., . . „
ful in an agreeably genuine way. For
, , f ~ , .
another, he has actually been known to
/ .
get angry on camera (one instance was
b . . . , . ,
™ hen L h f interviewed a member of the
South African Embassy staff after the
Sharpeville affair) and has at times
needled his interviewees with an almost
Freeman-like sharpness. Although much
of his programme is marginal, consisting
°f talks with people of the beekeeper-
cum - flea - circus - proprietor variety, he
does at times pounce in with someone
very much at the centre of current local
interest. “People,” the first of all the
ABN local programmes, and the longest
running (it’s still going, and there hasn’t
been a break in seven years), with a
viewer rating each week of 250,000 in
South Wales and ACT, isn’t by any
jheans the old ladies’ Home Chat it
Could so easily be. And, as Sanders him-
self hopes, with the competition from
TCN and ATN later in the year (both
are said to be mounting BBC-type news-
cum-interview telemagazines) the budget
and scope of “People” may well be ex-
tended to admit him to the South-East
Asian scene.
I met Sanders in his rather poky ABC
office: he'd just arrived from golf, and
wore a floppy beige pullover and an
open-necked, bright green sports shirt.
His manner was as casual as his attire
and yet the practised interviewer’s eyes,
now that the tables were turned, were
perpetually watchful (they sharpened
perceptibly when I started to make
notes). He’s much less awkward off than
he is on camera: the method he has of
being rather breathlessly eager, then
gradually tightening up for the clinch
question, has always been watchable, and
he's no less careful away from the studio.
Swiftly, he sketched in his background:
born at Ardrossan, SA, in 1928, he work-
ed on the Broken Hill “Truth” the
“Adelaide News” and then as an ABC re-
porter before working in various capaci-
ties for the organisation in Perth,. Mel-
bourne, Brisbane and finally Sydney.
“Mungo McCallum was the first to think
up the ‘People’ idea,” he said.' “It .was
1956 and we were all tossing ideas for
programmes round the office. We were all
incredibly naive then, we knew little or
nothing about the new medium, and we
were simply casting around.
“Michael Charlton compered the first
‘People’, and didn’t do another we
thought he was terrible! Then Mungo and
some others had a go at it, and 1 did
some.
“After that, I drifted away for a while.
I was getting on for 30 and 1 was healthy.
I decided to live by my wits and my
talent for a while. It was a bit worrying
after a few weeks, I wasn't doing as well
as I thought, and when I looked at my
income over a monthly period it wasn’t
so good.
“I did some radio, ‘Canberra Re-
port’, for a time, went to Asia
for two and a half months, and
freelanced as a journalist. After I got
back from Japan I don't know
whether you know the feeling, you’ve
been to a new place and suddenly you
want to withdraw from everything. I
went into a kind of retirement with-
drew quite a bit and wrote some short
stories.
“They were published in America, in
‘Short Story’ Magazine. The agent Curtis
Brown placed them for me. No, I haven’t
tried a novel yet. Then I came back to
the ABC on a special contract in 1960
I’m still a freelance and gradually de-


veloped ‘People’, though it’s roughly the
same now as it’s always been.”
Sanders said he had instituted the idea
of cartoons before (and illustrating) each
speaker so as to make the linking
smoother. He had speeded the pro-
gramme up, using more interviews, a
looser, freer type of format, a less stiff
presentation. Interviewees are screened
first to see if they’re suitable, and usually
come to him either through spies he
has a modest network of them or
through letters they themselves write.
There’s no set form, and the average is
four or five people per session. One of
the tricks is to get rid of an interviewee
smoothly if, on camera, they suddenly
become boring or diffuse.
Had any particular interviews remain-
ed in Bob Sanders’ memory? He clapped
his hand to his brow trying hard to sort
out a sea of something like 600 faces.
“Well, there was Tilly Devine,” he said.
“And then two Cockney boys I inter-
viewed recently in London for ‘Four
Corners’. I had some film to spare and I
grabbed them and took them into the
courtyard of the ABC building. I talked
to them about their homes, living in Eng-
land and how they liked it, whether they
got enough to eat they were very
small for their age and something
caught in the cameras I think it was
their complete sincerity, they had noth-
ing to hide.
“O ne t^iem sa ‘d> ’ ave t 0 ta lk
proper to work in a horfice. Dad’s
a bargee.’ I had them standing on a
small garden table, so they were looking
up at me slightly in the camera. It
touched the maternal instinct in lots of
women here—those pinched little faces
—people offered to sponsor them here—
but unfortunately I hadn’t kept their
names, just gave them 10 bob and let
them go.”
For Bob Sanders, sympathetic yet
shrewdly aware of his audience, the epi-
sode stuck out from all those talks with
people like Elizabeth Taylor, Harold Wil-
son, John Mills, Menzies. The fact that
he understands what Television can do
(and the ABC can tolerate) has stood him
in good stead, and his inoffensive manner
has certainly helped, too. Perhaps when
local competition steps up, he can use to
new ends his influence and viewer ratings,
his almost ABC (and mercifully non-
horsy) charm and his undoubted (though
often deliberately concealed) intelligence.
Perhaps he can get out into South-East
Asia, interviewing people on the spot at
crucial moments (the recent Manila con-
ference was a sadly missed opportunity).
Perhaps . . . but Perhaps, like Money, is
a word engraved on a good many ABC
men's hearts.
A Demand for Breathless
Enthusiasm
2. Corinne Kerby -sole survivor among women comperes
By BATMAN
IT is nigh on seven years since the start
of television in Australia. Somehow it
seems a frightfully long seven years.
So many shots have been fired, so many
have perished on and behind the screen.
In Melbourne, among the big names,
only three have survived from the very
beginning Graham Kennedy, Eric
Pearce and Corinne Kerby. And Cor-
inne, Australia-wide, is the only survivor
of the women compeles. One can say
with complete accuracy that she is the
First Lady of the ABC.
For this reason your correspondent
went to see her at her house in Adam-
son Street, Brighton. She was a trifle
shocked: “I didn’t realise it was so long.
It sounds as if you have come to inter-
view the oldest inhabitant.”
Well, let’s look at the oldest inhabi-
tant. She has done very well indeed.
Such matters are never, never discussed
out in the open but it would be safe to
say that she ranks third in the Victorian
salary list, after the manager and the
assistant manager. Maybe Gerald Lyons
was gaining fast with a spirited dash on
the rails, but that’s all over now. Soon
Gerald will move to Sydney.
Now in her late thirties the oldest in-
habitant has worn very well. She has in-
telligence and charm, she’s as pretty as
she was when she first started, and if
ever there was a calorie battle she has
won it triumphantly. She has the type of
blonde, pure good looks that were just
made for television.
Criticisms? Yes, it’s inevitable that
there should be a few. Some say she’s
too good to be true. If ever you read a
strange comic strip called “The Heart of
Juliet Jones,” then you will understand.
The male viewers get the idea that they
would feel better if one day she uttered
a good round oath.
Then there are those who think that
she doesn’t talk enough and those who
think that she talks too much. A Sydney
critic once wrote: “She can talk. Oh
God, how she can talk.” And this is
true. She does have a habit of interrupt-
ing herself so that she doesn’t com-
plete a sentence. Or on the other hand
she can surround a point, then steadily
close in on it from several directions.
Occasionally I have found that after
listening to Corinne on TV for three or
four minutes I can’t remember a word
she said. But I must confess that is
something which happens to me fre-
quently when the speaker is as pretty
as Corinne. Then it must be admitted
she can handle a variety show with great
skill and she’s an extremely capable in-
terviewer. She’s not the oldest inhabitant
for nothing.
For the benefit of those who don’t
read the TV magazines she was born
in Melbourne. She went to University
High School and towards the end of
the war she was in the WAAFS. Later
she took a job with Tally-Ho Boys’
Home. She had one unsuccessful mar-
riage to Colin Kerby and in 1958 she
married the ABC producer Oscar Whit-
bread. The TV papers at the time des-
cribed it as “a romance under flood-
light.” They now have two children.
Adam almost four and Katy two.
The story of her debut in television
is interesting. She said: “I had been in
the ABC news room for 21 years. I was
bored and fed up: The job wasn't very
interesting so 1 resigned. I had already
applied for a job radio announcing.
"People seem to die and move on
very slowly in the ABC. One day I
came back to see if there was any news
about the radio job. They said no, but
would I like an audition for TV? It
was funny but that didn’t make much
impression on me at the time. I wasn’t
over-interested, but I did have the
audition.
“Then the incredible thing happened.
Almost the next day they called up to
say the job was mine. I must have been
at the head of a very short queue.”
Corinne explained that she knew
nothing about television. She had seen
it only a couple of times in England and
then she wasn’t very impressed. Now,
with only three weeks to go, she was to
appear on the opening night with the
ABC news reader John Royle.
“We were both terrified,” she said.
“For three weeks I sat in front of the
mirror talking over my lines to myself.
Yes, there was the terrible moment on
the first night when they pointed the
finger at me and I had to start talking.
I was shaking. Then John and I didn’t
know what to say to each other. We
didn’t have the courage to ad lib. We
kept saying things like: ‘What do you
think, John?’ and ‘Don’t you agree,
Corinne?’
“Yes, that’s right, almost like two


S: :
mm
m*
••••••\
csr Vinyl flex
FLOOR AND WALL TILES
So beautiful... so easy to maintain
So beautiful . . . because the rich colours are
moulded through to last for years. Choose from
30 beautiful, modern colours. So easy to maintain
. . . because the satin-smooth, durable surface resists
wear and scuffing . . . stays clean longer.
Simple, easy-to-follow laying instructions are
packed with your tiles. Select your design by using
the free CSR Pattern Planning Service. Vinyl/lex
Tiles are made in Australia.
ifw lidU
m
V 1.102
BUILDING
MATERIALS
SOLD BY DEPARTMENTAL AND HARDWARE STORES EVERYWHERE
cricket commentators. But the night
went quite smoothly in the end.”
No longer does Miss Kerby have
bouts of nervousness or fear. She is
completely relaxed. Indeed between
compering sessions she has a hobby of
making lampshades. She has made 14
of them.
Yet several weeks ago the unexpected
did happen. “All the week I had been
talking about the man Gerald Lyons
was to interview on ‘People.’ There was
a programme change and this man
wasn’t to come on after all.
“When the moment came to talk I
couldn’t remember his name. That is, I
had to tell the viewers about a person
they weren’t going to see, whose name
I couldn’t remember. It was dreadful.
I became completely confused.”
As for criticisms of talking too much
she has this to say: “In the early days
I used to talk for periods up to four
minutes, but we don’t do that any more.
“My announcements are timed to the
exact second. If I go over even by five
seconds they’re in trouble. You see, they
start film running five seconds before
I stop talking and they have to keep
going. So if I overtalk by five or 10
seconds that's five or 10 seconds out
of ‘The Hungry Ones’ or whatever
comes next and the poor viewer just
has to imagine what has been cut out.”
Corinne is in great demand every-
where. Every week there is something.
She has opened cat shows and flower
shows no end. She has made appearances
for the spastics, the blind, the deaf and
dumb. To get Corinne is always a
major coup.
She has appeared on Graham Ken-
nedy’s In Melbourne Tonight and three
times she was a guest on Channel
Seven’s Daly at Night. The big dream
always was to get pure Corinne to read
a commercial, but you will be pleased
to hear that she stood firm.
Then there was the exchange between
the Sydney first lady and the Melbourne
first lady. For a fortnight Tanya Hales-
worth came to Melbourne and Corinne
Kerby came to Sydney.
We noticed the difference at once.
Tanya gave us the information straight
between the eyes, so to speak. There
was a blunt no-nonsense approach. The
males found her worth looking at any
time. The females felt, perhaps, that she
could have been a little warmer.
Corinne and her husband Oscar Whit-
bread live at 1 Adamson Street,
Brighton, which is surrounded by a
seven-foot high wall.
The house is only just large enough
to hold all the antiques and treasures.
“Oscar and I were both crazy about
antiques. We used to go out every pay
day and buy something. In the end we
had to get married so that we could
have somewhere to put all our fur-
niture.”
And there are some most unusual
items. For example, out in the paved
courtyard there is the top piece of a
St Kilda Road lamp with plants inside.
Market price for these with second-hand
dealers is £lO. Said Corinne: “I saw
one in an antique shop at Malvern. It
was all painted gold and you’ll never
believe the price—£50.”
There are pieces of cast iron, an old
church lectern, an Italian marble chess
set, a Turkish screen, lustres, an antique
silver tea service, lithographs, a por-
trait of Corinne by Max Middleton and
some extremely well-chosen antique
pieces in walnut.
The book shelves are stacked with
books on Greek history. Last year she
completed her matriculation by doing
Italian, Greek history, and English.
“This year,” she said, “I am doing
just one university subject fine arts.
Next year I will do Italian. Perhaps I
could even do a few announcements in
Italian—that would be fun. But if I keep
at it, eventually I should work my way
towards an arts degree.
“Yes, the exams aren’t far off, but
I find odd moments to study. I find the
best thing is to get up at 5 o’clock and
work before the children are awake.
“But Oscar and I do have one am-
bition, and that’s to live on a Greek
island for a year.
“Could I be disappointed? Oh, I hope
not. I’ve read so much about it. In
Greece I’d expect to see Socrates around
every corner.”


NEWS from
MODEL 33
ELECTROSTATIC COPIER
JUST FUCK IT ON ...
FEED ORIGINAL...
COPIES STACK ...
• Dry copias.
• No cleaning.
• 100% dust-free.
• Continuous operation.
• Easy to operate just flick a switch.
• No paper to handle just feed original
• Document activated synchro feed.
■ 3
• Originals and copies returned separately sequentially stacked.
• Low cost copying,
• Copies anything the eye can see 8 copies per minute.
MACDOUGALLS LIMITED
SYDNEY 29-1151 • MELBOURNE 32-4161 9 ADELAIDE 8-6361
BRISBANE 2-9498 • A.C.T. 4-8160
Escapists only j
RELAX... UNWIND...
COME ABOARD A
HALVORSEN
CRUISER
(25-36
Footers)
k
£ieZjgu&
\f
%sm
Take the wheel. Forget the daily grind. Make up a crew and head sunwards, funwards,
along Sydney’s beautiful waterways. Cowan, Hawkesbury, fashionable Pittwater. No
formalities like licences or boating experience. Just long, lazy days to soak up sun-
shine, fish or beachcomb. Luxury Halvorsen Cruisers are fully equipped. 6" foam
mattresses, modern kitchen with gas cooking, hot showers, separate toilet. Rock the
budget? Never. Reasonable, actually. And a holiday you’ll long remember.
Send this coupon now for full details
Halvorsen Boats, Bobbin Head.
P.O. Box 33, Turramurra. Sydney. 44-1227.
Telegrams: “Cruisers” Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
STATE
NO BOATING LICENCE REQUIRED
Hire a
HAL
SEN
Cruiser
1H.141.52
Low-Down
on Shorthand
The first 150 years
A section of the original Penny
Plate explaining Pitman's shorthand
written by inventor himself in 1840.
By MASSEY STANLEY
It was appropriate that the Commer-
cial Education Society of Australia
the other night should celebrate the
150th anniversary of the birth of Sir
Isaac Pitman, for he contributed much
to education besides inventing the system
of shorthand associated with his name.
Some of what he did contribute was
rather odd-ball; for instance, he also
invented a system of “simplified” spel-
ling that looks like plain bad spelling.
One of his lifelong disciples in this as
in his system of shorthand was his elder
brother, Jacob, who migrated to Aus-
tralia in 1837 and, after propagating
both revelations here over the next half-
century, was buried at Rookwood under
a tombstone inscribed in the revised
orthography all of it, by the way,
in longhand.
Jacob and Isaac Pitman were sons
of Samuel Pitman, a master weaver of
Wiltshire who belonged to the Church
of England but married a Baptist. With
an ecumenical spirit in advance of the
times the boys spent their Sunday after-
noons teaching alternatively at the Sun-
day schools of the Establishment and of
their mother’s conventicle.
While doing this they came under the
influence of Swedenborg and joined “the
New Church,” of which Jacob was to
be the Australian founder first in
Adelaide, then in Sydney and Mel-
bourne. Both were innovators. Though
Isaac (a professional teacher) may not


J
.
WORKING
FOR YOU!
87.8% of ALL Victorian TV homes are reached by GLV-10/GTV-9 Melbourne, Australia’s
first relay, with one “special rate” buy.
Strength in coverage and strength.in personalities make GLV-10/GTV-9 the greatest
selling team in Australian Television. Here’s what you get, when you buy them ... Buy
GLV-10 alone, and you buy the key to Victoria’s richest country area—the £55,000,000
Latrobe Valtey market-containing 32.9% of all the licensed TV sets in rural Victoria.
You buy, also, the strongest team of selling personalities in Country TV . . . Malcolm
Searle, Don Ewart, Johnny Chester and Cheryl Thomas.
Johnny Chester
n *
Don Ewart
o
1
Cheryl Thomas
a*
wmm
.'-• •'
mm
'test**
i - :>•"
<9
m
mm
;
Malcolm Searle
Buy the GLV-10/GTV-9 Relay and you
reach at once 87.8% of all the licensed TV
homes in Victoria . . . 454,494 sets—plus
these nationally famous TV personalities—
Graham Kennedy, Bert Newton, Noel
Ferrier, Tony Charlton, Kevin Sanders and
Professor Browne. No other TV buy gives
you this tremendous dominance in cover-
age; this unique combination of strong
local and national personalities. Ask your
local GLV-10 or GTV-9 representative for
the full story.
Graham Kennedy
Bert Newton
£1
m
Kevin Sanders
Noel Ferrier
Tony Charlton
Professor Browne
Melbourne Representatives:
Victorian Country Telecasters Pty. Ltd.,
99 Queen Street, C.l. Telephone 67-7372
Ask for Colin Fraser or Hugh Lyon.
Sydney: J. M. Sturrock Pty. Ltd.,
47 King Street. Telephone 29-6069
Ask for Jim Sturrock or John Sutton.
Adelaide: Keith Coles Media,
95 Currie Street. Telephone 51-4926
Ask for Keith Coles.
m
GIPPSLAND
VICTORIA
GI4


GIFTS TO BRITAIN
SAVE MONEY, POST AND TAX
Food, wines and hundreds of fine gifts.
Swiff delivery. Send stamp now.
FREE CATALOGUE
Box 32, Elizabeth, South Australia
have been the first systematic adult edu-
cator in England, that honor in Aus-
tralia undoubtedly belongs to Jacob, de-
scribed variously as a carpenter, an
architect and a piano-tuner. It is virtually
certain that Isaac started the world’s
first correspondence course, which he
introduced for his system of “Phono-
graphy, or Writing by Sound, being also
a New & Natural System of Short
Hand,” almost simultaneously with
penny postage.
It is for the shorthand system which
he invented at the age of 24 that Sir
Isaac Pitman is best known to posterity,
and Australia had a lot to do with its
dissemination. To commemorate this the
society itself now past its first half-
century had the menu and toast-list
in shorthand. “I don’t suppose this will
give you chaps any trouble,” said the
secretary, Mr Allan Owens, in handing
copies to a couple of journalists. “Sorry,
mate we don’t do shorthand!” said
one.
For the reputation of my craft I
found myself wishing they had said that
they used a different system. That would
be better understood by Mr Owens than
the idea that journalists can manage
without shorthand. His own society con-
ducts examinations in systems other
than Pitman, and throughout the world
writers of one system have no prejudice
against rival systems.
Court reporters can get licences what-
ever system they employ, but in this
country most of them use Pitman. Their
notebooks are court documents which
can be and often are produced in
evidence. Speed and accuracy are the
essentials, and while a court reporter
isn’t merely a stenographer there is a lot
of controversy on how strictly verbatim
the record should be in some circum-
stances.
Mr Seymour Bieber, Special Referee
of the New York Supreme Court, says
in a recent issue of “The Transcript”
(organ of the New York State Shorthand
Reporters’ Association) that “no judge,
lawyer, litigant, witness or layman could
reasonably or properly expect the court
reporter to be a robot—to sit back and
silently and knowingly permit an exhibit,
for example, to be referred to by the
wrong number or letter”. Nevertheless
Mr Bieber is all for a verbatim record,
and one that even reproduces interrupted
sentences. Most reporters don’t agree.
Generally, their view is that a record left
“as is” makes it appear that the reporter
doesn’t know enough to recognise and
correct a simple mistake of English.
Whatever the rights or wrongs of its
application to court reporting, editing
capacity as well as accuracy and adequate
speed is a basic requirement for Hansard
reporters, and provided they prove them-
selves in all three they can use cuneiform
script or the “notae” of ancient Rome
for all the examiners care.
It is the same in Canberra or
in the State Parliaments. Almost
all the men in Canberra use Pitman’s
Shorthand. But Mr Leo O’Donnell, the
just-retired chief of the Commonwealth
Parliamentary Reporting Branch to
give it the full name used Gregg
Shorthand. Mr Kelly Healy, one of the
top reporters, uses Paragon, and is per-
fecting some improvements to the system
which he is on the point of presenting
to the world.
Tape recorders as an official record
are out. You have only to listen to an
unedited direct broadcast of Parliament
to know that a purely stenographic
record could mean disaster to most
speakers. Theoretically a machine system
known as stenotypy could be used. In
America, where it is extensively em-
ployed in legislatures and courts, steno-
typists have just won both first and
second places in the New York State
speed championship. Looking like a
sawn-off typewriter, the stenotype is prac-
tically noiseless.
Pitman has the edge on most systems
in British Commonwealth countries (ex-
cept, surprisingly, in New Zealand,
where Gregg is widespread) and the
family concern of Sir Isaac Pitman and
Sons Ltd has representatives who work
hard to maintain that ascendancy. It is
represented here by Mr Dudley Phillips,
who was in the RAF with the current
head of the family, Sir James Pitman
grandson of Isaac, and MP for Bath,
which early became the hub of the Pit-
man empire. Besides promoting their
shorthand system they are publishers,
mainly of textbooks and scientific
manuals in a variety of languages.
From the first, Australia has had a
prominence in the Pitman saga that
shows signs of being perpetuated. Thanks
to the assiduous and many-sided Jacob,
the Pitman’s system of shorthand was
being taught in Adelaide by 1848, years
before it had been heard of in any
country outside England. Jacob con-
ducted classes twice a week on
Tuesdays for “females who must be
accompanied by chaperones”, and on
Thursdays for males. Jacob was born
in 1810 (like Isaac, in Trowbridge, Wilt-
shire) and died in Sydney on March 12,
1890. The tombstone at Rookwood
records that he “Introduist Fonetik Short
hand and woz the ferst Minister in theez
Koloniz ov the Doktrinz ov the Sekond
or Niu Kristian Church which acknolejez
the Lord Jesus Christ in Hiz Divein
Hiumaniti az the Kreater ov the Yunivers,
the Redeemer and Rejenerater ov Men
God over aui, blesed for ever.”
are an estimated 1000 descen-
dants or other kinsfolk of Jacob and
Isaac Pitman in Australia today. Sir
James Pitman, who has carried on a
family tradition by inventing a new
alphabet (he was also an Oxford Blue
and Rugby International), has a son
Peter —his heir in the business—who
married Jenny Holmes of Melbourne,
daughter of the proprietor of a nursery
for shorthand, etc., known as the
Holmes Commercial College.
Only that religion predominated in
the interests of Jacob and Isaac (or at
any rate of Isaac) Pitman’s shorthand
might never have evolved. Originally
Isaac had not thought of a new system.
As part of his endeavors in adult edu-
cation, he wanted to publish a cheap
textbook on the Taylor system of short-
hand, invented in the previous century
like the Gurney system (the one used by
Charles Dickens and still being used in
Australia today). .
The publisher he saw was Samuel
Bagster, a specialist in Bibles and prayer
books, for whose “Comprehensive
Bible” the devout Isaac had verified no
fewer than half-a-million scriptural refer-
ences. Bagster said that such a book was
outside his line of business, that there
was not much point in reprinting an
existing system, but that he would be
glad to print for Pitman if he came
through with a system of his own.
In a remarkably short time Isaac did
present Bagster with a new system
one that stands out to this day for its
original, scientific classification of speech
sounds and was from the first adaptable
to any language. The only two copies of
the resulting “Stenographic Sound-
Hand” (price 4d.) in Australia are both
in Melbourne, one at the Public Library
and the other at Pitman House. This
was the edition from which Jacob first
expounded the system to the chaperoned
females of Adelaide.


SPORT
Soccer—Going Nowhere Fast
The Problems of Imported Nationalisms
By DISCUS
In Sydney a number of Soccer officials
are trying to discover why the code
has been drawing smaller attendances
lately. It is quite an advance for anyone
in Soccer to admit it has lost ground.
To proceed to wonder why is the best
thing the code has managed in years.
About a decade ago a friend of mine
was sent to report a Melbourne Soccer
match for a radio news service. He
found a small war of the nations in pro-
gress, and said so, and was told that it
was preferable to play down that side
and make more of migrant interest in
weekend sport.
This woolly reluctance to admit there
is anything wrong in imported national
rivalries has not helped Soccer. How-
ever high partisan feelings run at Rugby
League or Australian League matches,
including grand finals, you do not find
1000 people staging a roaring “stay out”
demonstration outside a ground because
a disciplinary committee has suspended
one of their favorite players. South Mel-
bourne-Hellas “supporters” did that a
few weeks ago.
In Sydney a Pan Hellenic-Yugal
match nearly broke up when the Yuga-
lite side of the crowd disputed a goal.
A linesman was stoned, the referee
missed collecting a bottle by inches, and
a Pan Hellenic player had his cheek
opened. The demonstration continued
until Yugal scored a goal. Real sport.
If Soccer wants the support of the
Australian public it will have to find
ways of curbing this kind of nationalistic
fervor, even at the expense of losing
some of its national followings, renaming
the clubs for a start. If Soccer wants
good support for matches against tour-
ing sides from Europe, South America
and Asia, it will only get it from sup-
porters who want to see “Australia” play
the visitors. And that does not mean
one “Australia” in Sydney, an entirely
different one in Melbourne, and so on.
Where else in the Soccer world do
clubs named Azzuri, Pan Hellenic,
Hakoah and the rest flourish to such an
extent, if at all? Where else is Soccer’s
potential being so dissipated by imported
rather than home-grown nationalism?
For the sake of financial support from
gentlemen who want to be big men in
their national communities, and of the
national social clubs behind the teams,
the code is going nowhere fast, with
the traditional sound and fury signifying
nothing.
★ ★ ★
Tn about one year’s time the Australian
A team will leave for the Tokyo
Olympiad, with X number of competi-
tors and Y number of officials, at a
cost to the public of £Z. These de-
lightfully vague scraps of administrative
algebra were tossed forth from the re-
cent Australian Olympic Federation
meeting in Melbourne, as though this
country had never before sent a team
abroad.
Altogether, it’s planned that some-
where between 190 and 220 persons will
go in what is loosely described as the
“team.” But 150 competitors and 50
officials, or 50 competitors and 150 offi-
cials who knows? If the AOF has
any idea, it remains a secret not to be
divulged to the public which might con-
sider it important to know whether a
contribution is going towards a trip for
a competitor or a redundant official.
During the next 12 months there will
be an appeal for £.107,600 on a basis
of 190 people, although 220 would cost
another £ll,OOO, if the AOF estimate
of £540 a head for the 12-day Olympiad
proves enough. And that estimate in-
cludes £2BO for air fares, £l2O for
accommodation, £5O for outfitting, £l5
for pocket-money, £4O freight charges
for equipment, and “unforeseen expenses
including managerial costs, £35.”
I wonder just what that means, in a
statement from the amateur sports’ top
officials who managed to lose about
£BOOO of the accumulated funds last
year on an Olympic Cavalcade in Mel-
bourne, and a risky investment in a com-
pany that duly crashed? Was it an ad-
mission of poor faith in their ability to
plan the team’s finances accurately, or a
vote of confidence in the elected team
manager, Mr Len Curnow of Mel-
bourne, and his assistant, Mr J. Patch-
ing, also of Melbourne?
So much for the money. After send-
ing a team of about 200 to Rome to
win a handful of medals and not much
respect, the Australian Olympic Fed-
eration might be expected to tell us
something about policy in selecting the
team next July, before asking us to dip
into our pockets.
Rome was not home, but the Pacific
is. In Tokyo our team’s performances
and behavior will not be anonymous.
They will be noted by our neighbors.
I don’t suggest we should be political
in our approach to Games selection. I
just feel that it will not be good enough
to proceed as usual, selecting the best
performers we have, regardless of age
or promise, with the usual domination
by track and field and swimming squads,
few of whom will have Buckley’s chance.
If we want medals, perhaps we should
consider Rome and the kind of showing
we would have made without those un-
expected equestrian medals. Perhaps we
should measure the track, field and
swimming performances here against
those elsewhere noting, for instance,
that in world swimming Australia is
now almost out of the record book
and wonder whether the team should be
strengthened with more representatives
of the less considered sports, where the
best is on the day, and not a foregone
conclusion. Cycling, canoeing and yacht-
ing are instances.
If we want something more than
medals, perhaps we should select the top
people in each sport, weed out the
second-raters whose ages and perform-
ances suggest they will never improve,
and send the improving and promising
young, even those still below the horizon
of prowess, as well as a good, representa-
tive variety of performers from the less
popular sports. It is not mandatory that
any nation has to send any particular
size or kind of team. Some just send
their wrestlers, some their weight-lifters,
some their runners. Some send a small,


w/m
m
m
mm
■ , ' <
I i
f ■
4
. *
*<&s&■<
■
:
■
mm
IS
FINEST
CAMERA
OF ALL!
amazing
ASAHIPENIAX
perfection
A 35 mm. Asahi PENTAX negative
enlarged over 4000 times to 35 sq. (t.
Another triumph for Asahi PEIS TAX 1
SUPERB NEW
ASAHI PENTAX MODELS
Asahi PENTAX SV with built in self timer
and automatic resetting film counter. Auto-
matic Super Takumar FI.B lens and E.R.
case £9O.
Asahi PENTAX S.I.A with automatic re-
setting film counter. Automatic Super
Takumar F 2 lens and E.R. case £75.
Full range of Auto-Takumar Lenses
18 mm. to 1000 mm.
from your photo dealer
C334/1
THE FEDERAL MUTUAL
INSURANCE COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.
FIFTY (50) YEARS
OF SERVICE
1912 1 96 2
FIRE, MARINE, ACCIDENT, PUBLIC
RISK, WORKERS' COMPENSATION &
MOTOR VEHICLE
20 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
r I P
ALFRED S WHITE (Chairman),
D. G. PETTIGREW (Managing Director),
E. G. CONEN, T. K. MAGNEY,
A. G. PARKER, DOUGLAS WADLEY,
B. J. LANE (Manager).
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
Phone: 27-7401
mixed team, representing as many sports
as possible, with the original Olympic
ideals in view.
To my addled mind there is some-
thing queer about a nation of 11 mil-
lion people which sends teams of 200
about one-sixth of America and Rus-
sia’s combined strength in the rather
pitiful delusion that it is a major sport-
ing power in track and field. And it’s
either that or, once every four years,
the amateur sports wangle free trips for
the boys and girls from us, in retalia-
tion for our neglect in the years between.
With these thoughts, I now send my
first £ 1 to the Australian Olympic
Federation, with the memorandum that
I would like to know much more about
its approach to selections before any
more will be forthcoming. In particular,
I would like an assurance that no ear-
marked Olympic funds will be used to
send other than vitally necessary offi-
cials, or competitors for the Buckley’s
Award but not the Olympic Games.
★ ★ -k
HThe end of the football season always
saddens me, but for an unusual reason.
It marks the withdrawal until Easter of
the nation’s only professional jester
among sports writers, Lou Richards.
After the week’s grunts and groans from
the sports pages, Lou’s wild way with
the English language and his heretic’s
disregard for the heroes are refreshing.
“Frankly, the only way I like eggs
is on a plate,” Lou wrote recently in
Saturday’s “Sun.” “But I’m prepared to
take over Sir William Gunn’s lecture
tour if Geelong beats Essendon today.
If the Wool Board really wants to make
a quid it should put a 10s. levy on every
goal the Bombers kick and, boy,
wouldn’t those squatters be happy!”
GeeiOiig duly beat Essendon. The next
week, Lou predicted that “Eighteen
‘bandits,’ all dressed in red and black
outfits, are set to pull off the Great
Game Robbery at the MCG today.”
He was voting for Essendon to beat
Melbourne. It didn’t.
Going for Essendon to beat Carlton,
Lou called the match the Battle of the
Budget. “To the Dons, a win will have
greater value than a shipload of tax-
exempt horseshoe nails . . . but the Blues
couldn’t do a Mr Holt on Essendon
they won’t budge-it.” Essendon lost its
third successive match.
This year’s prose and selections are
not vintage Lou. He and his present
collaborator, Barrie Bretland, go for the
timely quote, while in other years with
Alan Trengove there were classic simi-
les and metaphors. Perhaps his tele-
vision compering has blunted the Rich-
ards style, although sometimes it’s
pointed enough. Giving Collingwood a
snow-conditions report, he added, “A
side that’s on the skids as regularly as
you would have a lot more fun at Mt
Buller than at home against St Kilda.”
And he was right, too.
Of Richmond’s team Lou wrote,
“There’s no doubt about it, it’s a team
that can really sink to the occasion.”
And of Fitzroy, “I’ve been trying to
work out all the year just what Fitzroy
is a hockey team, a basketball side,
or what?” Carlton is “the Alaska of the
League,” and Collingwood again, “The
name rings a bell, but so help me, the
form is not strong enough to wring out
a wet footy sock.”
It’s short of Ring Lardner or Red
Smith, but I sometimes dream of a Lou
Richards let loose on other sports, such
as cricket.
"I thought you said Touche."


AND
HE COULD
HAVE BEEN
A MILLIONAIRE
Once he was going places fast, old Bill—rocketing
up towards the big time. What happened? Well,
Bill got to feeling he was good, so good he needn’t
concern himself with the details of changing tech-
niques. (For instance, Bill didn’t have the gen on
the industrial papers his firm used on the production
line.) Unfortunately, industry doesn’t run on
“guess”. Too many mistakes costing too much
money—and someone else sits behind the door
marked “Managing Director”. Pity! Because none
of Bill’s mistakes need have happened. Take indus-
trial papers, now. Bill could have found out which
grades were best for what job, simply by ringing
Shoalhaven. Shoalhaven Advisory Centres
throughout Australia are staffed by friendly people
who are ready, willing and able to put you in the
picture about paper. If you’ve a paper problem,
large or small, call your Shoalhaven Advisory
Centre now. We’ll gladly advise . . . and supply
samples of Shoalhaven papers and boards. To keep
pace with consistently accelerating demand, the
Wiggins Teape Shoalhaven Mill is in the process
of trebling its capacity. A £7 million expansion
Shoalhaven’s act of faith in Australia’s golden future.
When you’re choosing industrial papers specify
Shoalhaven for constant quality, constant supply.
SHOALHAVEN PAPER
The extensive Shoalharen range includes various grades
Of industrial papers Filter, Abrasive Base, Plastic Base,
Plan Printing, Packaging, Chart, Socking Base and Mould-
resistant papers; special paper for use in the manufacture
of Stainless Steel and tailor-made papers for many
industrial processes.
mm
WTS.IOX
WIGGINS TEAPE SHOALHAVEN PTY. LTD.
For advica on any paper
problem Just ring .
SHOALHAVEN
ADVISORY
CENTRE
*


OVERSEAS
The Four Treaties that
Humiliated China
The festering Sino-Soviet border dispute
By BRIAN CROZIER
The ideological side of the Sino-Soviet
dispute has tended to obscure the
underlying clash of interests be-
tween the two great powers of the Com-
munist world. A fundamental aspect of
this clash, of which more will certainly
be heard during the next phase of the dis-
pute, concerns the contested frontiers be-
tween the Soviet Union and the Chinese
People’s Republic.
It is, of course, China that is contest-
ing these frontiers, and though she is do-
ing so on nationalist grounds, she is pre-
senting her arguments in ideological
terms, to support the general Chinese con-
tention that the Soviet Union, under Mr
Khrushchev's guidance, is pursuing an
imperialist policy in contradiction with
orthodox Leninist principles.
Article 55 of the Common Programme
adopted by the Central Committee of the
Chinese Communist Party in September,
1949, just before the proclamation of the
People's Republic, laid down that the Re-
public would “examine the treaties and
agreements concluded between the
Kuomintang and foreign governments,
and recognise, abrogate, revise or re-
negotiate them.” One of these was the
Treaty of 1924 between China and the
Soviet Government, which was intended
to implement the Soviet declaration of
1919 proclaiming that the Tsarist treaties
“enslaving the people of the East and
principally the people of China” were
henceforth null and void. In fact, how-
ever, the 1924 Treaty did not specifically
annul the Tsarist treaties; it merely pro-
posed a conference which, as far as is
known, was never held. The Tsarist
treaties thus remained in force.
Of all the “unequal” treaties forced on
the Chinese Empire in the most humilia-
ting phase of its history, these were, as
George Orwell might have put it, the
most unequal. There were four of them.
Under the Treaty of Aigun (1858), the
Chinese surrendered to the Russians
185,000 square miles on the Pacific coast.
The Treaty of Peking (1860) was even
more damaging from China’s point of
view; under it the Russians gained a
further large area in the Pacific region,
including the site of Vladivostok, and
nearly 350,000 square miles of Chinese
Turkestan.
The relatively unimportant Treaty of
Tientsin concluded in June, 1858, merely
confirmed frontier adjustments made a
month earlier in the Treaty of Aigun. In
1881, however, the Treaty of Hi (also
known as the Treaty of St Petersburg)
returned to Chinese rule most of the large
area of Turkestan which had been
occupied by the Russians during the
Moslem rebellion of 1864 to 1877.
These treaties were all specifically
mentioned by the Peking “People’s
Daily” of March 8 last as among the
“unequal treaties” that would have to be
revised. The same article listed Tsarist
Russia as among twelve countries which
had “carried out unbridled aggression
against China”.
What the “People’s Daily” article left
unstated was the fact that Lenin’s Bol-
shevik Government, in the early days of
the Revolution, re-established Russian
authority over the Asian empire of the
Tsars. Independent governments had been
set up in Azerbaijan and Georgia, and
farther east in Khiva and Bokhara, in
the confusion that followed the defeat of
the Russian armies in 1917. But by 1921
the Bolsheviks had overthrown them all
and supplanted them by governments
controlled from Moscow. Within the next
three years, taking advantage of anti-
Chinese sentiment among the Mongols of
Outer Mongolia, the Bolsheviks set up a
pliable government there that of the
Mongolian People's Republic, which in
the past year or two has asserted a cer-
tain measure of independence.
It is significant that it was not until
this year that the Chinese Communists
raised the issue of the Tsarist treaties.
Mao Tse-tung, the victorious leader of
China’s revolution, had written that
China would “lean to one side” that
of “peace and democracy, headed by the
Soviet Union”; and, in 1950, the new
People’s Republic entered into a military
alliance with the USSR. Having unified
the sprawling territory of China more
successfully than any of her Emperors,
Mao set about restoring the boundaries
of the Chinese Empire. The longest
frontier of all, however, that with
Russia, was left for the future: in the
early years of the People’s Republic,
China needed, and received, Soviet help.
Tibet was overrun, and during the past
few years border agreements have been
systematically negotiated with Burma,
Nepal, Pakistan and Mongolia. India,
with more at stake than China’s other
neighbors, was attacked and overrun,
to the extent of China's own claims, in
the autumn of 1962. Powers that were
capable of repulsing the Chinese military
machine were, however, left alone. One
was the United States, which the Chinese
considered to be “in occupation” of
China’s province of Formosa; the other
was the Soviet Union. (Hong Kong, use-
ful to China in commercial and other
ways, was also left alone.)
As the ideological dispute between
Peking and Moscow has developed dur-
ing the past few years, however, there
have been signs of tension scarcely
noticed at the time at sensitive points
along the 6,000-mile Sino-Soviet frontier.
At various times during 1960, for in-
stance, there were certainly armed clashes
along the Far Eastern common border.


' ......
m
Mmx
•so* i
m>.. m
X
Mi
am
■x* -m.
I
m
>
mm
■
Far-seeing manufacturers
are looking to
SOUTH AFRICA
at
r.
“Side-tripping” to South Africa, on your way to (or
from) Europe/U.K., is a very logical thing to do. Firstly,
it enables you to investigate personally today’s excel-
lent export opportunities in South Africa and her
northern neighbours. Secondly, it offers wondrous
sight-seeing opportunities (such as Kruger National
Park)—a welcome break from the beaten tracks of
traditional routes. And finally, it costs as little as
£15.10.0* in extra air fares, including S.A.A.’s Boeing
Stratojet service between London and Jo’burg.
Your travel agent has full details.
S./4.A., in association with Qantas, operates twice -
fortnightly services between Australia and U.K. via
South Africa and Europe.
*Economy class from Melbourne, Adelaide or Hobart.
Slightly more from other Australian capitals.
The
SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE _ _
route to U.K./EUROPE
0
SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
In association with Qantas, 8.0.A.C., C.A.A. and E.A.A. saabb/zs.nat
In May of that year, the Chinese Press
reported the strengthening ot boidei de-
fences on the Pamir Plateau, between
Sinkiang and Soviet Tadzhikistan; and on
May 28, a high-ranking Soviet Far East
Border Guard official, Boris A. Ivanov,
said it was important that the Border
Guard should not relax its vigilance.
In July, the Soviet periodical “Prob-
lems of History” carried an article justi-
fying the rectification of the Amur River
region in Russia's favor in the nine-
teenth century. In September, a Russian
broadcast praised Soviet Far East Border
Guards for arresting “violators” of the
border, and in November, Admiral Fokin,
Commander of the Soviet Pacific Fleet,
called for vigilance by Border Guards, in
an Order of the Day during the "October”
Revolution celebrations in Moscow.
More recently, disturbances in China’s
minority borderlands have given the Rus-
sians a useful chance to gain information
about Chinese activities. In the past, the
Soviet authorities had always rigorously
denied refuge to rebels from minority
areas, presumably for fear that disaffec-
tion might spread to the Soviet side. A
new situation, however, was created by
the Sino-Soviet dispute and by specific
developments in Sinkiang (formerly
Chinese Turkestan).
After 1954, when the Russians con-
tracted out of the joint Sino-Soviet com-
panics exploiting Sinkiang oil, Soviet
na.ionals were gradually withdrawn from
the province. From 1958 onward, Soviet
f r ontier guards have been allowing refu-
gees from Sinkiang in, together with their
herds, and resettling them. It must be
presumed that this new policy was initiat-
ed to fill a gap in Soviet intelligence. This
gap became more acute last September,
when the Chinese closed down the Soviet
consulates in Sinkiang and Manchuria. It
is a fair assumption that China’s “Far
West", which includes desert regions, is
being used for testing under China’s
nuclear programme, from which, as
Peking Radio revealed on August 14, the
Russians dissociated themselves in 1959.
These circumstances help to explain re-
ports that the Soviet authorities provided
some assistance for anti-Chinese Sinkiang
rebels in the widespread disturbances in
that province last summer and autumn.
It is now beyond doubt that the Chinese
are exploiting the Soviet presence in Asia
to demonstrate that the Russians are still
imperialists.
T>riefly stated, the Chinese argument
is that the Russians, being in Asia
by right of conquest, have no title to
representation in the Afro-Asian move-
ment. It will be remembered that China,
but not Russia, participated in the original
Bandung Conference of Afro - Asian
governments in 1955; the Russians, how-
ever, are represented on the Afro-Asian
People’s Solidarity Movement, with head-
quarters in Cairo. In April, the Chinese
delegates successfully argued that the
Russians should be excluded from the
Afro-Asian journalists’ conference in
Djakarta on the ground that they were
not Asians. Behind the scenes, the
Chinese argued that the Asian peoples
of the USSR (including the Asian re-
publics of Uzbekistan and Tadzhikistan,
which often send delegates to Afro-Asian
conferences) were not independent, no
matter what the Soviet Constitution
might say about their theoretical equality
with, say, the RSFSR (Russia proper).
More recently, there has been strong
evidence that the Chinese are trying to
set up a string of Afro-Asian organisa-
tions from which the Russians would be
excluded. In May, June and July, for
instance, the Chinese invited African and
Asian trade unionists to Peking where
their guests subscribed to a Chinese pro-
ject for an Afro-Asian conference to be
held later in the year in Djakarta. The
point about this conference is that the
Chinese propose it should be held “in
the spirit of Bandung'’ that is, with-
out Soviet participation. The Sino-Soviet
border dispute has thus become a major
weapon in Peking’s attempt to influence
the underdeveloped world.


Around Melbourne
EVOLUTION OF A CIVIC EGG
IVfE have just been through the
throes of municipal elections.
There are new faces everywhere, new
bits of chain dangling, new pieces of
ermine. Of course, the most important
election was that of our Lord Mayor.
Now, we elect our Lord Mayors in
a most curious way. Actually, elect
is far too strong a word. You could
almost say that it is a process of
evolution, like the production of an
egg. The citizens of Melbourne do
not get a say, the ratepayers do not
get a say. The chief argument in
favor of the system —Melbourne has
done things this way ever since it was
incorporated as a town.
Let me explain what happens. The
Melbourne City Council is an
extremely fine club, the best. The
Civic Group—plenty of solid mer-
chandise backing in Collins and
Bourke Streets — has all the power.
It meets on the Sunday night after
the council elections. Normally it is
a most gentlemanly arrangement.
The mayoral job comes up almost by
turn. There’s seniority, there’s the
understanding as to who has the
support, who has the money, that
sort of thing. There’s no need for the
untidiness of an election. The Civic
Group candidate is thus nominated,
and he becomes the Lord Mayor.
Hey wait a minute, you’re say-
ing. There must be more to it than
that. There should be, but out of the
33 councillors the Civic Group has
22. So after the Civic Group nomi-
nates, nobody else bothers. They
haven't the votes in the chamber. So,
on the Monday morning, the Civic
gentleman is formally announced as
the new Lord Mayor. The egg is
evolved, fast as you bat your eyelid.
The job carries with it a £12,000-
a-year entertainment allowance, a
limousine and another intangible
thing—stick with it for two terms and
you are sure to get a knighthood. Yet,
unlike other mayors, the Lord Mayor
of Melbourne has no special powers.
He is merely the titular head of the
City Council, and he has no authority
beyond the duties involved in the
chairmanship of the Council.
Two years ago Cr Maurice Nathan,
now Sir Maurice, went through the
evolution process, and this time the
untidy thing happened. He was the
senior Civic man available, but he was
opposed in the Civic Room by Cr
Leo Curtis.
In one corner was Maurice Nathan,
of St George’s Road, SE2, who made
his fortune through Paterson’s Stores.
In the other corner was Leo Curtis,
of Heyington Place, SE2, who made
his fortune through Bradman’s Stores.
The old hands thought this was some-
thing that never should have hap-
pened. It was Nathan’s turn, so to
speak. Curtis lost his support at the
last moment and Nathan won the
Civic nomination.
Sir Maurice made a damned good
Lord Mayor, lively, aggressive, a
capacity for getting things done; and
he gave a bit of personality to the
job. He was a generous spender.
So far as giving the job a bit of
style, two things happened during his
reign. The Council bought for its
mayor a superb, huge, two-ton black
Daimler, worth £6OOO separate
heating front and back, glass par-
tition (button - operated), air - con-
ditioning, 110 mph, two real cigar
lighters in the back seat —the lot.
T>efore this the mayoral robes were
** frightfully tatty, and many a sub-
urban mayor was outshining the Lord
Mayor. So the Council ordered a new
set from Ede Ravenscroft Ltd, tailors
and robemakers, of Chancery Lane,
London. They have been handling
Royal warrants these past 273 years,
and when Melbourne newspapermen
called on them for a story the answer
was: “We are very conservative people
and we really want no publicity at
all.” Anyway, Ede Ravenscroft Ltd
produced some gorgeous robes that
were the spitting image of the robes
worn by the Lord Mayor of London
and the Speaker of the House of
Commons. They were made of black
silk satin with hand-made gold orna-
ments. The price: £770.
As I said, Sir Maurice did a good
job, and I am sure he would have
liked to continue for another term,
but the process of evolution is inevit-
able. He knew he wouldn’t get the
support on that fatal Sunday night.
It was Leo Curtis’s turn.
Weeks beforehand the newspapers
announced, as a matter of fact, that
Cr Curtis would be the next Lord
Mayor. And he was. In the correct
style, he was unopposed in the Civic
Room, and he was unopposed in the
Council. The egg was evolved.
Dressed in those £770 black and gold
robes, he became the new Lord
Mayor.
VI/hat else happened? Famous Fitz-
roy, Australia’s most populous
suburb, gained a Lady Mayor, for
Heaven’s sake, for the first time. She is
Cr Florence Peel, and it is darned
awkward because her husband, Les
Peel, is also a Councillor and an ex-
Mayor of Fitzroy. Take formal
occasions. How does one address
him? Fitzroy is an intensely masculine
suburb. You can’t call him the
Mayoress.
The tragedy of the elections was
the defeat of Cr “Ma” Dailey, a
former Mayor of Kew. Mrs Marie
Dailey (75, we make it by shrewd
calculation) is one of Melbourne’s
genuine characters. She is the owner
of M. Dailey and Co. Pty Ltd, a
three-acre lot in North Melbourne,
and a magnificent junkyard. Ma
Dailey starts work there at eight
o'clock every morning, and you will
always find her among an amazing
collection of old metal sewing
machines, coppers, bath screens, coils
of wire, telephones, stoves, wheels,
boxes.
Mr Dailey was a job carpenter. He
died of pneumonia before the First
World War, so she had to set to with
only £l3 to her name. She was
shrewd. She noticed that tools and
bits of ironware always sold more
quickly at auction sales than furniture,
so Marie Dailey eventually worked
her way into the junkyard business.
Now she must be, very nearly, a
millionairess.
At the Kew elections she was
defeated by just a handful of votes.
At the declaration of the polls they
gave her three cheers and sang “For
She’s a Jolly Good Fellow.”
BATMAN


i
a
m
II
Ge on
Tbfyvckyt'/MafouaJd
makes
call
a
i -S
■
..
yi.
V
C: ;
< v ,:
■M
t
Geon vinyl resins are used by Olympic Cables
in manufacture of coaxial and telephone cables
to specifications of the P.M.G.
Sheathing based on Geon vinyl resin is used in the coaxial communication cables already
laid from Bunbury to Perth, the same type cable that soon can make inter-city telecasts
possible. Here is resistance to weathering and heat, electrical and mechanical
protection in a single homogeneous covering. In manifold electrical installations, Geon
means no more humidity or ageing problems, no more corrosion, provides brightly-
coloured Identification coding. In industry, Geon Improves products or evolves new
ones. Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. Ltd.
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 Qr 2. Kalamazoo House, 182*186 Blues Point Road,
North Sydney, N.S.W, Telephone 92-6319. GEON Agencies In W.A., S.A. and Q'ld. - Harrisons & Crosfleld (ANZ) Ltd.
MSS2SA


FORUM
Putting Bureaucrats
in their Place
The need for an Omsbudsman , especially in Brisbane
By TOM TRUMAN
fTMIE first report of the New Zealand Parliamentary Commissioner for
Investigations, a British adaptation of the Scandinavian Omsbuds-
man, has brought up for discussion whether Australia needs a “Grievance
Man” (or men) to act on behalf of citizens aggrieved by seemingly unjust
acts of governments. The Victorian Liberal Party Conference has carried
a resolution supporting the idea. The Queensland Branch of the Liberal
Party has set up a committee to investigate it (there is strong support
from leading citizens in Brisbane) and the recent Federal Conference
of the Labor Party showed itself worried about decisions of the security
and immigration authorities affecting individual liberties.
The New Zealand Commissioner is re-
ported to have dealt with 100 com-
plaints against administrative decisions
and found that twenty-six were justified.
Most of these were put right straight-
away by consultation with the depart-
ments concerned. The rest will be re-
ported with recommendations to the
Prime Minister and Parliament.
The institution of Omsbudsman (the
word means simply “attorney”) has
existed in Sweden for 150 years. It was
copied by Denmark in 1956 and found
highly satisfactory by both the public
and civil servants who resisted its intro-
duction at first. Norway and New Zea-
land enacted legislation to follow suit in
1961.
In British countries people are coming
to see that in the vast complex welfare
state with the tremendous increase of
intervention in the lives and affairs
of ordinary citizens by central and local
governments, the traditional British
devices for protecting the liberty of the
individual are now inadequate. This is
the finding of Justice, the British sec-
tion of the International Commission of
Jurists.
The courts of law are very valuable
where it is a question of the legality of
official acts. Even here the courts tend
to be too expensive, slow and uncertain
for all except the really big issues or
the really big pockets. In most cases,
however, it is not a question of legality
for in modern times officials act under
very wide powers conferred by Parlia-
ment and this is necessarily so. It be-
comes, then, a matter of the harsh or
slovenly use of discretionary powers and
the obstinacy officialdom sometimes
shows in refusing to reverse a bad deci-
sion.
The aggrieved individual can, of
course, appeal to higher authority within
the department, even to the Minister,
himself. In some cases this will work,
especially where there. has been a mis-
understanding. Public servants are at
least as conscientious and fair-minded as
other sections of the community. So are
Ministers, and in addition must protect
the good name of their governments if
only not to antagonise the voters. But
there are too many known cases, like the
celebrated Crichel Down case in Britain,
where, in the words of the Royal Com-
missioner, Sir Andrew Clark, there was
evident “a passionate love of secrecy
by minor officials” towards the public,
and even a suggestion from a senior offi-
cial that interested members of the
public should be deliberately misled.
The weaknesses of appeal to a higher
departmental authority is that the com-
plaint comes up against all the loyalties
of members of an in-group to one an-
other, their fears of dangerous precedents,
and the Minister’s feeling that he must
support his subordinates, both because
of his constitutional responsibility for his
department and because the morale and
goodwill of his advisers is an important
consideration in getting from them that
service on which his own success depends.
It has been shown again and again
that in any dispute with a department
the cards are stacked against the citizen
and in favor of the public servants.
What of members of Parliament? This
traditional avenue for ventilation of
grievances is of diminishing effectiveness
because of the increasing domination of
Parliament by the Executive through
strong party discipline and the great
volume of government business taking up
all the time of Parliament. If the mem-
ber's representations to a department fail
he can still ask a question in Parliament
and if it is a most important matter and
he is very lucky he may raise the issue
in an Adjournment Debate. Obviously
these devices are too cumbersome for
most grievances and, what is of more
importance, they are not very effective.
A single back-bencher is no match for a
determined Minister with all the resources
of the department at his back, and in the
nature of things the other members of
Parliament are in no position to judge
from lack of information as between the
allegations of the aggrieved citizen’s re-
presentative and the suave reply of the
defending Minister.
There remains the public Press, and it
should not be discounted as a means of
protecting the liberty of the individual.
Editors do strain the criterion of “news-
worthiness” to give publicity to cases
where they can be convinced that some
individual or minority is being oppressed
by officialdom. However, they are reluc-
tant to undertake campaigns and tend to
give only spasmodic attention to such
cases unless they are promoted by some-
one with a flare for publicity which is
unusual.
My own experience has been con-
fined to the local government level and
that mainly in relation to the Brisbane
City Council. This authority controls the
whole Brisbane area some 375 square
miles and deals with the whole range of
services pertaining to the City, including
’electricity, transport, water and
sewerage as well as the usual local gov-
ernment functions. The Council was given
extremely wide powers and over the
years the administration seems to have
been corrupted by them. It is the habit of
the Council in deciding on building new
roads, re-aligning streets and creating
parks to “freeze” properties, including
ratepayers’ homes, for many years (in
one case for seventeen years) forbidding
any improvements. Home-owners have
even been refused permission to erect a
front fence. Repairs other than painting
have been forbidden in another case.
Under these conditions properties de-
teriorate; some under threat of complete
resumption are unsaleable, tying up capi-
tal and destroying the inmates’ freedom
to move or dispose of their property;
others under partial resumption threats
if sold fetch a good deal less than unfet-


ORB
uiate pur water supply ... with a
LYSAGHT
FLAT PLATE GALVANIZED STEEL WATER TANK
::
9*.
'•**&*#%*Ws&sfa&
•••,,,
m
mm
o>>:
m
fi
ySs>.
■'w.*x
*»
sss
:•
I?*
■
:W
8»
.
:/■ :•-
\
- •- - ‘ !»*»»— "
pwMP -Wm.
To make the most of your water supply, install a Lysaght
Flat Plate Water Tank. Strong, rigid and durable, it becomes
an intermediate storage unit between river, well or bore and
your stock troughs. You can then distribute water to any
point on your property from ONE central source. It could
pay for itself in a single season!
An important feature is the sealing compound supplied in
strip form. No mess . . . just unroll on to joint faces.
Successfully tested to withstand many times the pressure
developed in tank.
Each tank supplied prefabricated from heavy gauge, heavily
galvanized steel . . . ready for immediate assembly by unskilled
labour. Post coupon now.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
Offices in Sydney, Newcastle, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
EVERYTHING YOU NEED FOR EASY ASSEMBLY
Standard fittings include internal wind bracing; 3"
sludge outlet complete with 9' length of pipe and
plug; overflow unit; 3" outlet fitting; sealing com-
pounds; all bolts, nuts, washers, etc.
Complete step-by-step instructions supplied with each
tank.
Diameter: 19' 6". Height: 5' 10%". 22 gauge steel
floor available as an optional extra.
PRICES F.O.R. NEWCASTLE
10,000 Gallon Water Tank £l2O
22 Gauge Steel Floor (optional) £59
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) LIMITED 1
Please send me details of the Lysaght 10,000 Gallon
Flat Plate Water Tank.
NAME
NAME OF PROPERTY
ROUTE OR R.M.B. No
DISTRICT STATE
TlOacc


wm
i ■«
TO AUSTRALIA
10,790 MILES
i .
mm
**
.sr'.,
», *
V>.
Wm
,-, >. ,
? f
j&V-'"'"
. «
•S ■ \
*S3
\v>-*
f
*s»
IM&a
VS
u
£
\\
m
A
IN PARIS
It’s chic to choose White Horse.
The Seine to Sydney,
there’s no mistaking White Horse,
its mellowness gives it away.
WHITE
HORSE
SCOTCH WHISKY
pcoft
SnSTIItE
u live^
DJ Tke Old Blerxd
N° 3132905 Scotch Whisky
- of the
I (ellar
Origirva.l Recipe
1746
A LL that arc desirous 10 pass from
EDINBURGH to LONDON, or any
other place on their road, let (hrm
'Pi'fto the WHITE HORSE CELLAR
• EDINBURGH, at which place they may be
*ei»rd m a STAGE COACH even Monday
id Friday, which performs the whole journev
' eight days (if God Dermits i and sets forth
Allowing each
14 pounds
iund.
above. C» pence per pou
WHITE HORSE DISTILLERS LTD.,
t * ,ullfl OisDllsry Island of Islay and Glenlivet Distm
r iwano or ijiey and oieniivet unmet.
WHOUY OISTIILED AND MATURED IN SCOIUM
NET IPIKT 6 FLUID OUNCES
TAKE THE LEAD WITH SCOTCH DEMAND WHITE HORSE
tered properties. There is no appeal pro-
cedure against these arbitrary penalties
Inflicted on innocent ratepayers. Indeed,
the victims are forced to continue paying
rates on property the Council has virtu-
ally seized without paying for. These
cases are mounting as the New Town
Plan goes into operation.
Another questionable practice of the
Council is, in cases of citizens seeking
approval to subdivide properties, to de-
mand large slices of these properties as
a price for permission and sometimes
even to demand financial contributions
to road-widening projects. Fortunately,
there is an appeal to a State Government
tribunal the Subdivisional Appeal
Court. However, this process is not cheap,
costing with counsel's fees anything from
£l2O to £3OO. It has been calculated that
the Council loses upwards of 80 per cent
of such appeals and settles many cases
on the eve of their appearance in Court,
leading to the reasonable assumption that
it uses the cost in time and money to
deter appeals and to get compliance with
its extortionate demands.
The Omsbudsman or Parliamentary
Commissioner for Investigations seems
a good answer to such problems. He can
provide swift, informal and economical
redress of grievances. Being responsible
not to the Executive but directly to
Parliament and with the independent
status and power of an Auditor-General
he is able to be impartial and to get the
confidence of both the public .and the
officers of the administration. His work
consists mostly of sifting the genuine
grievances from the imagined, of diplo-
macy and tact in bringing the parties to
agree to a just solution, of unravelling
tangled misunderstandings, and in mak-
ing recommendations of improved ad-
ministrative procedures. Only as a last
resort does he have to ask for disciplin-
ary action against an official.
The job he does is of benefit not only to
the citizens but to the public servants as
well. He gets off their backs the chronic
complainers and the inveterate trouble-
makers and, what is more important, he
restores public confidence in the fairness
of administrative procedures. By his very
existence he deters the kind of arbitrary
action for which the Brisbane City Coun-
cil has become notorious and which
occurred in Britain.
An objection of great weight is that
the institution of a “grievance man”
might further detract from the represen-
tative function of Members of Parlia-
ment, already more responsible to their
parties than to their constituents. MP’s
should themselves decide whether they
would be glad to yield to the Omsbuds-
man the heavy burden of their constitu-
ents’ grievances or whether they are pre-
pared to set up a Standing Committee
on Grievances which shall devote itself
full-time to that job.


letters
to the
editor
THE BUDGET
Sir,
“Plain English” on the Budget
(24/8/63) contained one piece of argu-
ment which is plain nonsense. This is
the old-fashioned notion that Treasury
bill finance is necessarily “inflationary”.
Since the 1930 s most economists "have
been agreed that inflation is a result of
total community spending being exces-
sive in relation to the capacity of the
economy to produce goods and services.
Some economists hold that inflation is
partly attributable to excessive wage and
profit increases pushing costs and prices
up.
The way in which the Government’s
Budget is financed has nothing directly
to do with either of these processes.
Increased Government spending . not
matched by increased tax revenues will
have a multiplied expansionary effect on
the level of activity in the economy.
Whether the expansionary effect is “in-
flationary” or not will depend not on
how the deficit is financed but on
whether the higher level of activity is
excessive in relation to the resources of
the economy, resources of idle man-
power and equipment. The method of
financing the deficit will, it is true, affect
the size of the stimulus given by the
Government sector; to the extent that
loan raisings are used the Government
will be reducing the supply of money
available to others and forcing interest
rates up, thereby tending to curb private
spending. The use of Treasury bill
finance instructions to the Reserve
Bank to create new money for the
Government —avoids this tightening of
the money markets; the total effect of
increased Government spending is there-
fore likely to be greater to the extent
that it is financed by this method. It
will, however, only be inflationary if it
results in a total rate of spending,
private and public, which strains labor
and capital resources.
The assertion that deficit financing is
inherently inflationary is a hangover
from the sloppy thinking which allowed
the tragedy of the Great Depression.
PETER SAMUEL
Faculty of Economics and Politics,
Monash University.
Clayton (Vic.).
NCC AND DLP
Sir,
Mr Lanigan (17/8/63) attempts to
answer questions put to him in The
Bulletin on July 27, and his answers
are wrong in every case. Mr Santa-
maria is elected by democratic vote.
The fact that the results of the election
do not make the newspapers ao proof
that he is not. As for Mr Lanigan’s
attempt to show the dictatorial methods
of the NCC, the facts about the expulsion
of Messrs L. Mahony and K. Walsh
from the DLP are: (1) For some months
after the 1959 Victorian DLP con-
ference these two gentlemen attacked
the DLP in the Press. (2) They were
warned repeatedly, and finally charged
with breaches of the rules which
naturally prohibit public attacks on the
party by members of the party. (3) They
admitted before the disputes committee
of the DLP that they were the authors
of the Press attacks, and refused to give
an assurance to abide by the rules if
given another chance. (4) They were
told that they had every right to push
their point of view INSIDE the party.
So they were not expelled for the reason
alleged by Mr Lanigan.
To cite Mr Alford’s letter to the
“Waterside” as an example of the ex-
cesses of the NCC just because Mr
Lanigan chooses to describe him as
“Santamaria-supported” seems to me to
be scraping the bottom of the barrel.
Again, the facts are: (1) At the time
of Jim Healy’s death the results of the
ballot had not been declared. (2) As the
alternative candidate, Mr Alford was
entitled to claim the secretaryship, pend-
ing a new election for that position.
(3) When nominations were eventually
called, Mr Alford voluntarily withdrew
his candidature so as noi to split the
Right-wing vote. (4) As a result of this
altruism Mr C. Fitzgibbon, an ALP
candidate, won the election. Why did
Mr Lanigan not tell the whole story?
Certainly I read the mail, but I read it
more carefully than Mr Lanigan, ap-
parently, because Mr Santamaria has
admitted that in the “Bombay Examiner”
articles there was “one important error
of principle”. He has published his
correction in the very edition of the
“Advocate” quoted by Mr Lanigan, and
in Twentieth Century (Winter 1960,
page 361). Why does Mr Lanigan in-
sinuate that Mr Santamaria holds this
opinion today? Practically every critic
of Mr Santamaria employs the- same
tactics.
It is not ethically wrong to use a
Catholic TV programme, or a Catholic
newspaper, to support one political
party, if in the opinion of those re-
sponsible such a party is the only reliable
anti-Communist party.
The facts about Mr Cochrane’s inter-
vention in the ARU elections are as
follows: In the 1961 elections for the
various divisions within the ARU Mr
Cochrane’s team did not contest the
elections in any division. In the 1963
elections they contested only those
divisions where DLP men stood as In-
dustrial Group candidates, viz., Officers
and Traffic divisions. As a direct result
of Cochrane’s intervention and his 4.14
per cent of the total vote, unity-ticket
men gained two seats where before they
had none in the Officers’ division. In
the Traffic division Cochrane’s team
gained 7.7 per cent of the vote, all at
the expense of the Industrial Group,
thus allowing the unity-ticket mob to
gain six seats and so control this division.
In 1961 the Industrial Group got 51.15
per cent of the vote; the unity-ticket
crowd 47.85 per cent. In 1963 unity-
ticket people got 47.1 per cent, the In-
dustrial Group 45.2 per cent, and the
egregious Mr Cochrane’s team 7.7 per
cent. Does Mr Lanigan still think that
Mr Cochrane was maligned?
Finally, the NCC came into existence
to do two things: to smash Communism
in the unions and in politics and to try
to develop a Christian democracy in
which there would be a respect for God
and the things of God, a regard for
persons, for their dignity and freedom.
These are its aims and no other.
Thomas Moore
Gooloogong (NSW).
Sir,
After reading the article by Alan Reid
(17/8/63) and the letter by V. P. Lani-
gan in the same issue, it would appear
there are two distinct Santamarias —one
real, the other imaginary. Alan Reid
takes an objective view and describes a
Santamaria who has the strange notion
that the ALP should stick to its rules.
Reid argues that if the ALP was to
abide by its rules there would be no
grounds for Santamaria to keep remind-
ing the public that unity tickets are a
fact.
V. P. Lanigan, however, apparently
takes a more subjective view. The Santa-
maria he describes seems to be a cross
between Socrates, Napoleon, Svengali
and Jack the Ripper. This superman
seems able to outwit the best brains in
the ALP and can throw it out of office
when and wherever he likes. All Labor’s
troubles can be traced to this Australian
Rasputin. Lanigan appears to be stone
blind to the machinations of the Com-
munist Party; he doesn’t even mention
it, so much is he taken up with this
chimera he calls Santamaria.
N. Mundie
East Perth (WA).
(This correspondence is now closed.
—Ed.)
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS
Sir,
In clearing away some of the miscon-
ceptions which surround the manage-
ment consulting profession, your “Man-
aging the Manager” (17/8/63) has per-
formed a valuable service. It is un-
fortunate, however, that some of the
opinions quoted did not share your usual
standards of accuracy and objectivity.
Specifically, the article quoted “a local
consultant’s opinion” that only two local
firms (which were named) could meet


■
«6
2 :ss :: *w*:f
i C i tcm lit
($4At/ ViJioJLy
mL:
to CElsa'xivxes
■■■■■■——wwimi 1 1 II
Yes, school teachers all over Australia know Cesarine is the
only answer to this sum. Cesarine is best for all school uniforms,
children look smart, fresh and crisp all day long and when
they feel so good and look so good they work better. And
mothers know Easycare Cesarine is special!/ good for school
uniforms wears longer, washes easily, q./ickly, never fades
or shrinks, is in all school colours. Insist on Cesarine
it’s famous for school wear.
CAESAR FABRICS LTD.—Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Launceston
SERVING AUSTRALIA UNIFORM’Y
CPB32
the requirements for membership of the
British Management Consultants’ As*
sociation. These were stated to be that
the firm should have been operating as
consultants for a minimum of five years;
that the head of the firm should have
been in the profession for a minimum
of ten years; and that the firm should
have at least five consultants on the
staff, and not less than 80 per cent of
the consulting staff should be graduates.
May we draw your attention to the
fact that Beckingsale & Company meets
all these requirements. Every member
of the consulting staff is a graduate of
the University of Melbourne, but this
does not imply that our policy is to limit
our consulting staff to graduates. It so
happens that the men we have found
best equipped, by virtue of their charac-
ter, intelligence, judgment and ex-
perience, to serve our clients com-
petently, are so qualified.
G. BECKINGSALE, A. I. BUNBURY
H. Eisen (partners,
Beckingsale & Company)
Melbourne {Vic.).
“END OF THE CCC”
Sir,
I consider that your correspondent in
the article headed “The End of the
CCC” (17/8/63) has done the Council
less than justice in that he has made no
reference to its very real achievements.
Apart from preparing the County
Scheme itself in three short years, a
scheme which has been widely acclaimed
both here and overseas as a magnificent
conception, the Council has many worth-
while achievements to its credit since the
scheme was given Parliamentary
approval in June, 1951.
The Green Belt, notwithstanding the
considerable encroachment on it, has
kept in check uneconomic and unaesthe-
tic urban expansion. The Council has
spent approximately £3i million on ac-
quiring vacant land needed for parks
and recreation purposes and for new
country roads or expressways and this
has been transferred free of cost to the
local councils or the Department of Main
Roads respectively: the Council has also
acquired and is still in the process of ac-
quiring a number of buildings of historic
interest.
in regard to compensation, the Coun-
cil, with the object of clarifying the
somewhat obscure legislation, has offered
to pay costs of owners who appealed to
the courts in cases likely to establish
important points of law in this con-
nection.
Whilst breaking new ground with the
procedure introduced for the detailed
planning of former Green Belt areas, the
Council was also responsible for the in-
troduction of the principle that devel-
opers should bear the cost of providing
water and sewerage in addition to roads
and footpaths.
The Council has devised a code for
controlling multi-storey development
around the foreshores of Sydney Har-
bor, formulated recommendations for
matters such as the siting of service
stations and the lay-out of caravan parks.
has put forward proposals for the re-
siting of the City Markets.
In the field of traffic co-ordination, the
Council has been active through a body
which makes recommendations designed
to ensure the most effective use of
existing traffic arteries in the Sydney
metropolitan area. In the sphere of devel-
opment control, the County Council has
always exercised its powers on the basis
of what is best for the benefit of the
community as a whole.
In exercising its functions as a metro-
politan planning authority, the Council
has always been hampered by a lack of
power and a shortage of funds. Its
resolute adherence to the interest of the
County as a whole has often resulted
in a clash with local interests but it has
always endeavored to live up to its
proud motto “Be just and fear not."
This, as the current trend of events
clearly demonstrates, is not the best way
to earn popularity,
S. PETERS
Chairman* Cumberland
County Council
Sydney {NSW).


REVIEWS
MUSIC
The Triumph of Figaro
"The Trust” Operas
By VAL VALLIS
Preview Opera Season. Elizabethan
Theatre Trust. Her Majesty’s
Theatre. Brisbane.
HThe chief excitement of the new season
A of Trust Operas, premiered briefly
in Brisbane (four operas in ten days!),
was not so much the excellence of Eliza-
beth Fretwell, Cynthia Johnston,
Valda Bagnall and others, the imagina-
tive Haag and Beinl productions, or the
new “Boheme” sets, but it arose from
something more lasting the realisa-
tion that an operatic team has been
formed, each singer knowing the ex-
tent to which he could lean on, or sup-
port in good turn, his fellow artists; a
team in the sense that Sadler’s Wells or
Munich understands it, where perform-
ances with “lesser” names are usually
more delightful and more musicianly
than many a Covent Garden hotch-
potch of stars, where varying and vying
styles distract from the sense of the
opera as a whole.
The present Australian company is
committed to singing in English (wisely
so, at least in the comedies, at this
stage) and does it superbly. At times
it is Australian English, which is as it
should be. Time after time in the great-
est work in the present season (“The
Marriage of Figaro”) there was a sense
of genuine interplay between characters
that gave the audience a sense of rare
delight, almost as though it was intrud-
ing upon the private daily and nocturnal
goings-on in the Almaviva household.
This Figaro, Susanna and Countess, one
felt, had schemed together before our
intrusion, and would again to cope with
an erring husband. Because of this sense
of company, as well as the intelligent
production of Stephan Beinl, and the
authoritative, yet never unyielding con-
ducting of Professor Loibner, this
“Figaro” was far better than many an
overseas one I have seen. In this favor-
able set of conditions, the singers gave
some outstanding performances. One
does not think immediately of Fretwell,
the Violetta, Senta and Ariadne of Sad-
ler’s Wells, as a Mozartian, yet her
Countess was far more human, lovable,
and simply a better sung one than many
of the more famous interpreters of the
role are currently offering. If one were
to venture in to “star” forecasting, let
me name at once Cynthia Johnston and
Ronald Maconaghie. Johnston’s Susanna
is without a trace of Zerlina’s shrewish-
ness, and she is not afraid to sacrifice
momentarily her good looks in the inter-
est of good singing. A lovable Susanna
whose “Deh Vieni non tardar” was as
it should be, both a part of her mas-
querade assignment with the Count, and,
more significantly, an expression of her
love for Figaro. And of the eight or
nine Susannas I have seen, Seefried in-
cluded, none bettered Miss Johnston in
the assumption of the Countess’s dis-
guise in Act IV. She did not rely on
cloaks and headgear but her tone and
peremptory delivery were an inspired
imitation of Fretwell’s style. One won-
dered, too, if Maconaghie has seen
Erich Kunz as Figaro, for here was the
same nimbleness of wit, voice and
movement.
Tn “La Boheme” one missed the Cafe
Momus and Mimi's plane tree in Act
111. When one is fortunate to have a
Mimi who is as slender and lovely as
Valda Bagnall and could conceivably
hide behind the tree, why substitute an
1870 semi-trailer? Of course, there are
sopranos who would be grateful. A sur-
prise, this Mimi. Miss Bagnall’s voice
has warmed and darkened over the last
couple of years. It is hard to believe
this is the pert Zerlina of the first
“Trust” season so few years ago.
The “Faust,” alas, is a disaster, but
not even Covent Garden can hope to
get four out of four new productions
right. Something may be salvaged from
this presentation by the time it makes
the greater southern capitals, but it
seems to me misconceived and lacking
in direction. “Faust” (like “Meister-
singer”) is by virtue of its central theme
anchored historically, more or less; and
the present production with a dreary
unit set, refurbished for each act, simply
will not give the progression from study
to cellar, street to cottage, church to
prison in sufficient variety. In the first
act, the contrast between the static set
and the kaleidoscopic jumble of lantern
slides at least offered the audience some
alternative to the indifferent singing of
Faust and Mephistopheles. Luckily, in
succeeding acts, either the invention of
the producer or the slide-changer grew
weary and by the final act we were
left thankfully with a mere shaft of light.
From the front of the “circle” only two-
thirds of these pictures were visible, and
the vision of Marguerite appeared as a
decapitated Modigliani not at all
likely to tempt an old man to sell his
soul in hot pursuit of its charms.
As Marguerite, Mary O’Brien dis-
played beautiful tone and good soprano
line, but she should not be afraid to
sing more positively; there was some-
thing of the musical-comedy approach
to her role, and this is as unbecoming
to Marguerite as was her hair style.
FILMS
Soldier-Priest
Thou Shalt Not Kill. Director, Claude
Autant-Lara.
Autant-Lara’s film “Non Uc-
cidere” (“Thou Shalt Not Kill”)
recently at the Sydney Palace and due
for Melbourne. later was shown at
Venice in August of 1961. At the close
of the festival Suzanne Flon won the
best actress award. Then silence. Now
in August of 1963 the film has been
released in Australia. The tepid Hoyts-
Columbia ads reveal none of its con-
troversial past and miss its point entirely
(a call to Hoyts reveals that no hint of
any controversy was included in the pub-
licity material sent from Paris with the
film).
Originally planned to star Gerard
Philippe, the film lost him and its finan-
cial backing when it was learned to
what extent the French authorities were
opposed to its production. Neither
France nor Germany nor Italy would
permit this film to be shot within their
borders. Autant-Lara, whose earlier films
(“Devil in the Flesh,” “Game of Love,”
“The Red and the Black” and “Love is
My Profession”) amply demonstrate his
skill as a commercial film director, per-
sisted, and with Yugoslavian studios,
equipment and actors was able to com-
plete the film. When the Yugoslav au-
thorities saw the finished film they
promptly banned it. It was banned from
public exhibition in Italy and France.
It is unlikely that it will ever be shown
there, for the French and Italian authori-


HERE’S ONE
FOR THE ROAD
that means _
• longer engine life, livelier performance
• a smoother, quieter engine
• more than your money back in m.p.g.
ROCOL MQLYSPEED 18/6 at your Service Station.
RM23.22
RoC£
-5®
ties have perceived what the incompetent
Australian censors have not, that the
mythology of the film is essentially more
subversive of the existing social order
than, say, 10,000 Peace Marchers.
Two men are contrasted. One is a
German priest who accepted a soldier’s
duties in World War II and near its end
obeyed an order from a superior to
shoot a civilian. The second is a French-
man who refuses (1949) to serve in the
French Army, taking a Christian con-
scientious objector’s position. Both men
are arrested, to be tried by a French
military court, the German on a charge
of committing an act contrary to the
rules of war, the Frenchman on a charge
of disobeying an order to put on the
army uniform. From the beginning it is
stressed that both men are Catholics and
the moral forces generated by this con-
flict are such that one anticipates seeing
the entire moral structure of the Church
in ruins by the end of the film. This
destruction is barely avoided. What is
left standing is a shabby fagade.
The German’s defence is simple: as
a priest and a man he suffers for having
killed a civilian, but as a soldier he
obeyed orders. Which emphasises the
natural tendency of the court to view
the objector’s position as simply one of
refusal to obey orders. In actual trials of
objectors in America the judge almost in-
variably refused to permit the objector
more than a few words in his own de-
fence. Here the Frenchman is given a
chance and makes the most of it. He
establishes in swift, concise statements
relevant connections between World War
11, the nuclear arms race, the Church and
the manifest devolution of morals since
World War II whose obvious outward
signs are increased juvenile violence. His
position is sound. One military member
of the jury says that he would himself
refuse to serve if war came again.
The film makes point after telling
point. What does one say to the returned
soldier who lost an arm and demands to
hear that this sacrifice was of use? That
it was an arm wasted. What does one
say when the soldier pleas that he had
no option, he was ordered to kill? That
he had a choice, to disobey orders. The
judge asks whether the defendant is a
member of any political party, thinking
that surely here is a Communist or worse.
The reply is that “Parties don't forbid
killing your kind.”
It has been said, usually in connection
with films like “All Quiet On The West-
ern Front”, that any good war film is an
anti-war film. But it is not so. Such films
often have a pornographic effect (pity
is aroused) and their images remain in
us as incitements. “Non Uccidere”
avoids in the main this mistake and
presents us with alternatives and a crea-
tive mythology. It is altogether an as-
tounding film.
The manager reports that it had the
smallest attendance of any film shown
at the Sydney Palace in several years.
GLADNEY OAKLEY
ART
Friendship
Donald Friend. Johnstone Gallery.
Brisbane.
IYonald Friend displays a discrimina-
ting knack for limiting himself to
the means best suited to his ends.
As an example compare the main
oil, “Yulgilbar Castle” and any one of
the line watercolor studies of native
stockmen. The oil is a dreamlike image
of the castle's past glory. Mr Friend
achieves this by setting the castle well
back amongst varied lines and blocks of
color which denote the local trees, hills
and river. Square off any portion of the
painting and a pleasing abstract paint-
ing would result. It is important to note
that these colors on first glance seem
rather high-keyed whereas in fact there
are only a few yellow highlights woven
with utmost care in a wide range of
muted blue, green and russet tones. The
portrait studies on the other hand are
worked with thin lines filled in and/or
accentuated by colors. To establish such
immediate and yet sustained contact
with the viewer, Mr Friend almost in-
variably makes these figures large and
places them on the picture plane. Once
again the color is limited the blue
and brown combination being perhaps
the most successful.
The most interesting group for a
serious student of Donald Friend is the
series of oils and watercolor interiors.
These are intellectually conceived stud-
ies in composition worked in terms of
color. The relationships of large walls,
door jambs and glimpses of the distant
Temple, afforded the artist a golden op-
portunity to sort the actual surrounds
into varied designs composed of colored
shapes or areas and lesser, rather intri-
cate patterns. Mr Friend lends these
physical objects semi-philosophical per-
sonalities, thus revealing his own
thoughts or impressions. Hence the
dining-room wall with its elegant frieze
and “I love you” scribbles is a com-
pressed Yulgilbar saga.
Mr Friend’s same skills are obvious in
his group of predella panels which high-
light events at Yulgilbar or parody Sid-
ney Nolan's Ned Kelly. But to a mediae-
valist these are also most comprehensive
essays on the common denominators of
“Sienese-Byzantine” painting. Duccio
would feel comfortable with these
panels. However, he proceeds one step
further and also incorporates the laws
of Victorian photography. The result is
true to both and utterly delicious. One
sees “The Explorers” and their small-
headed hobby horses heroically posed
as in a melodrama among red Byzan-
tine rocks and set against a gold-leaf
backdrop. Many of these panels express
satirical wit Jessica’s red book is
entitled “Karl Marx" and prissy Mrs
Ned Kelly resolutely asks “Two lumps,
Edward.”
In all these types of painting, Mr
Friend exercises control not only in a
variety of technical skills but over choice.
Only techniques suited for each painting
are used and no one element in any
picture is given precedence over the
others. Because of this talent Mr Friend
conveys to his viewers his respect for
Yulgilbar.
NANCY UNDERHILL
TELEVISION
Medicos
Ben Casey. Channel 7, Sydney.
Dr. Finlay’s Casebook. Channel 2,
Sydney.
Jj’JvERYONE has a doctor series these days,
and it’s time for an Australian ver-
sion. A friend of mine is already work-
ing on a pilot script suited to our limited
facilities and resources, and it promises to
be different if nothing else, in direct con-
trast with the hysterics presented as nor-
mal procedure in American stitcheries.
Our doctor series opens somewhere in
Central Australia. The only props are
unlimited earth and sky. The good doc-


tor, Nulla Nulla, sits in the middle of it
near a bunch of spears held together by
a real snake. He wears the expression of
a disillusioned saint. His first patient
appears, a tall man dragging one leg,
holding his stomach, and frothing at the
mouth.
Nulla Nulla points to the snake. The
patient pats it. It bites him. Nulla Nulla
nods, and the patient exits. Now he has
something to take his mind off his other
troubles. If he lives to consult again,
Nulla Nulla will have had time to think
of a more drastic remedy.
I feel that television viewers all over
the world will prefer this beautifully
simple story to the frantic sagas of “Ben
Casey”, “Dr Kildare”, “The Eleventh
Hour”, “The Human Jungle”, and “The
Nurses”. It is not safe to declare that
any episode in all of these series marks
their apogee, but a recent hour of Ben
Casey housed a batch of weirdos whose
attitudes and dialogue were enough to
make the dogs howl, not to mention their
masters.
The episode opened with a former
baseball hero and heiress-hounder calling
his girl in Baltimore, and being over-
heard by a child prodigy aged 11 bound
for Washington to appeal her father’s
case before the Supreme Court, but too
young to travel on a bus unaccompanied.
So she stowed away in the fellow’s Mer-
cedes, which ran into a truck, and the
next face we saw was Ben Casey’s. Un-
daunted, the small girl lectured Ben for
some minutes on the rights of the indi-
vidual and habeas corpus. Ben’s script
called for him to say something about
“a fine show of erudition”, and his
struggle with a word of more than one
syllable was the only highlight of the
show.
They found her father, who was drink-
ing because he’d been dismissed as a
security risk. His daughter said that
even the beasts of the jungle fight for
their basic rights, and Ben said she hurt
in a way and a place he couldn’t reach,
and some other doctor said they’d run an
angiogram, whatever that is, and Ben
said intercranial pressure could be build-
ing up, and the heiress-man lectured Dad,
and Ben lectured Dad, who decided to
fight for his basic human rights . . . and
oh, who cares?
In contrast, English television has pro-
duced “Dr Linlay’s Casebook”, and if
you can become used to the Scottish
havering and the dim scenes, this episodic
but continuous series, based on A. J.
Cronin’s work, is quiet, underplayed, and
honest, filled with character studies based
on the simple fact that people are weird
and wonderful enough, without any
scriptwriter needing to make them mania-
cal to prove there’s drama in life.
Until the Nulla Nulla series is pro-
duced, Casebook wins my vote as the
only doctor show worth viewing more
than once or twice.
FRANK ROBERTS
THEATRE
Dangling Man
Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma’s Hung
You In The Closet and I’m Feelin’
So Sad. Arthur Kopit. Independent
Theatre. Sydney.
The Playboy of the Western World.
J. M. Synge. Old Tote Theatre.
Sydney.
Jf you've been keeping up with the
reviews and talk about this new
play at the Independent, hereinafter re-
ferred to as “Oh Dad,” you’ll have no-
ticed that some few of Sydney’s theatre
folk have been ducking their responsibili-
ties on this admittedly outrageous work,
and that even producer Peter Summerton
has admitted he doesn’t quite know what
it means.
Now this is all puzzling, simply be-
cause the play is so darned simple. This
critic will run out on a limb and say
happily that the exuberant young Mr
Kopit has written one giant and fine
send-up of almost all the current styles
of modern play-writing, and most of the
modes and manners of production and
acting too if the particular actors and
producer care to push it.
Tennessee Williams comes in for a
major swipe, which is fair enough, since
he is quite big enough to take it. “Oh
Dad's” plot if that is the word we’re
after is, in fact, some sort of night-
marish synthesis of the best and worst
of “Cat On A Hot Tin Roof”, “Suddenly
Last Summer”, and “Night of the
Iguana”.
There is a monstrous wealthy mother
who is killing her nearly-adult son with
the kindnesses of coin, stamp and book
collections but no tit or jottle of sex.
Mamma and the lad hole up in a lux-
ury suite in Havana. Mamma has her
Venus fly-traps (but of course!) and
such plants they are. I mean, big healthy
Venus fly-traps, man, that reach out for
you and growl. Mamma also has her
piranha flesh-eating fish from whose
baby-bath home she lifts a cat skeleton.
When the bell-boy tells her it was an
alley cat and not a choice Siamese, as
Madame had ordered, she practically
throws the skeleton in his face.
Mamma also has a fancy coffin (shades
of M. Durrenmatt’s “The Visit”) in
which Dad, stuffed by a top taxidermist,
travels with his loved ones. Mamma, as
the title says, hangs Dad in the closet.
“Life is like that,” she says later. “Life
is a husband hanging in the closet. One
glimpse of him when you get up in the
morning and your day’s shot to hell.”
While Mamma is using up most of the
services of twenty or so dancing bell-
boys, Sonny is skipping around in white
shorts hugging himself with joy as his
various priceless collections arrive.
Then a real collector’s item, a nymphet
called Rosalie, calls. Son Jonathan has
been watching her sports through his
telescope and, to teach him how sordid
sex can be, Mamma invites her in. Her
nubility and her frank bosom do some-
thing to Jonathan, though not enough.
Not yet.
Then Mamma, whose hobby is measur-
ing large yachts with a flexible rule, sees
what she estimates to be a 187 foot
long yacht lying in the harbor. She loses
no time (in between her night hobby of
prowling along the beaches kicking sand
in the faces of coupling couples) in ac-
quiring Commodore Roseabove, the
yacht’s owner. Boy, does the Commodore
go through the hoops!
Enter, with this scene, a delicious spoof
of M. Anouilh, particularly ‘‘Waltz of the
Toreadors.” You will in fact find this
evening a tremendous exercise in settling
just whom is being sent-up at any given
time. It’s not only an intellectual treat,
it is tremendous fun and will probably
have you bursting into strange fits of
laughter long after you’ve left the prettily
re-decorated Independent.
It would be unfair to reveal the
ending, except to say that any boy whose
seduction is interrupted by a stuffed Dad
deserves your sympathy, and attention.
Though Mr Summerton's direction
flagged, I thought, in the long final scene,
and he hasn't quite realised the true enor-
mity of the seduction, he has given you
enough for any three average evenings
out. Lyndall Barbour in the incredible
main role of Madame Rosepettle and Mr
Reginald Livermore as Jonathan are
magnificent, while Peter Williams as the
Commodore and Andonia Katsaros as
Rosalie do nothing to let them down.
Michelle’s setting, as mostly with her
work, positively helps the whole enter-
prise into the correct style and imagin-
ation. I can recommend the evening
whole-heartedly as a genuine bust.
The admirable Old Tote company has
ended its first season with a careful
production of Synge’s “Playboy.” This
is the second local production in two
years and Sydney has taken Synge's fast,
lively mockery to its heart on each oc-
casion.
In the key role of Pegeen Mike, the
publican’s daughter who falls for the
Playboy, Miss Wendy Blacklock strove
hard against a notable bit of miscasting.
(Pegeen should be as Synge wanted her,
fine and wild and big.)
On the other hand, Mr Don Pascoe, as
the Playboy, was excellent.
KEVON KEMP


POETRY
Ocean Beach
By this sea-wall we sat and spoke a while.
Years ago the night. You may recall
Yellow electric light on sandy concrete;
The squat and shadowy clubhouse crouching there,
A small tame sphinx, unquestionably real.
Beneath us, in absurd shorts and blazers,
Five or six youths drilling jerkily;
Sincerity and the clean scent of their efforts
Reaching out to us from the blackness, distracting
Our blind sea gaze to the close, dark beach;
To the shadows ardently stamping on the sands.
Then, without reason, to have felt the weight
Of loss in finding; lowering there, that shade
Within the shades, embodied as the earth.
How cold and dank the night air on our faces
Watching with eyelids heavy, salt on our lips,
While love, a tired warden, paced that crypt
Among the dull sarcophagi of stars.
Now only sea smell, sand smell, resin of pine;
Moistening the breeze, a drift of spray.
Turning aside, passing, memory is quelled.
It needed ashes redolent of autumn
To charm that bitterly enduring sea;
Even ichor of spring's green fracture;
Something to soothe, to heal something hurt.
Impossible to loiter, the past well lost;
The place stupidly haunted, the grief a ghost.
B. BEAVER
Golgotha
Three shot eagles sprawled across the road
Between two empty farmhouses. I slowed,
Steered between hills and rows of quills, halted.
Quiet eyes glared while the sky exulted,
High, empty.
No traffic had passed during the night. The might of
the three
Stiffened on the rubble under straggled mallee
Beauty for ant, snake and lizard. Reversed
Leaves, silent, saluted: thick frost
A jewelled pall.
Criminals or gods, despots to the death, at the
reckoning.
I deposited them, ignominious rags of feathers amid
crackling
Leaves and weed skeletons by the roadside
Ten foot span, stiff as a board
At the place of a skull.
Small, unseen creatures scurried. A jay
Beat away in panic. A screech of galahs, gray
And pink sickled by. Solitary chuckle of a magpie.
But earth’s blown sandhills stirred in a sigh
For her brood of basilisks.
ROLAND PINKESS
Judas Iscariot
What matter now, though bribes are seldom good?
Integrity may need no measurer,
But eyes declared they never understood
Men from Judaea. So I was treasurer.
They understood when thirty pieces came
And if you call it weakness I'll not plead.
I’ll be a pantomime, strap all the blame
Upon my back because it is your need
To blame and cast a goat across a desert:
The animal is all that dies in heat.
I’m such a bag of nothing I'll not be hurt,
Except by what 1 know, and that’s not sweet.
Perhaps I’m meant to prove a man destroys
Himself in privacy because of trust.
I use the rope a murderer employs.
I understand my days were mostly just
So do not think my life all villainy:
Regard me as yourself, as tightening proof
That you have done the same. Know sympathy,
And know that you are twitching from this roof.
R. A. SIMPSON
The Pilgrims
It wasn’t a coincidence.
Remember, we had taken our idyll
To those black rocks, like an offering
To some broad-minded ancient god,
At the end of the land, above the sea
And the centuries of turmoil.
Was it humility? Or was it a challenge?
Or simply the masochistic urge
To enlarge the futility of an heroic moment
By slapping it against a background of eternity?
The wind was rough and pure of all earthly stains,
And the spray brought to our lips
The salt of forbidden tears.
Clouds were running in your eyes
As your hand lingered over my face ...
The hand of a blind
Engraving a dream
On its fingertips.
MICHAEL TATAR
What is Particular
(For G. 8.)
What is particular about flowers is
their self-giving.
Today I was watching
several primulas I have got to know
reasonably well since plucking them yesterday
to put in a beer-glass for the switchboard operator,
who as luck would have it happens to be
a girl of no mean sensibility
both blue-eyed and brunette,
and with a particularly pleasant manner of walking.
This evening I noticed with surprise
the primulas were still at it,
seemingly intent on being flowers even in such reduced
circumstances as a ten-ounce “schooner”.
Already you can see
the petals have a sort of knowing look,
the colours crumpling gently as though flowing,
like sleepy thoughts,
from the inevitable harassment of the particular
back into the singing central fire
whose heat warms our imaginations
transfiguring brunette and primula.
BRUCE


RED PAGE
Master of Snobcult
Dwight Macdonald's misanthropy
By CHARLES HIGHAM
Against the American Grain. Dwight
Macdonald. Gollancz. 425. 3d.
American pundit Dwight Mac-
donald has always reminded me of
the arch-snob Elliott Templeton in
Somerset Maugham’s novel, “The
Razor’s Edge.” Templeton abhorred the
United States (his native country), re-
garded his sister Louisa as “hopelessly
American.” sported crowns on his un-
derwear and claimed direct descent in
the female line from a mythical Count
de Loria. He regarded the Middle West
as beyond the bounds of civilised so-
ciety, bought his linen at Sulka’s of Paris,
and boasted to the amused narrator that
he had, on one occasion, had two ex-
Kings to lunch (“two”)! Yet to men-
tion Elliott Templeton in the same breath
as Dwight Macdonald would no doubt
cause the latter an unbearable twinge.
For Elliott's creator, Maugham, would
represent “Midcult,” that form of cul-
ture which lies at the edge of “Mass-
cult” and disseminates notions to the
public at large through the middlebrow
media: lending library-cum-Book Club
novels, magazines like “The Saturday
Review”, books like Hemingway’s and
Marquand’s, and semi-popular TV and
radio programmes. In essays in “The
New' Yorker,” “Esquire,” and “The Par-
tisan Review” Macdonald has for years
now been telling us that the public must
be left to its own trivial amusements,
while the intelligentsia must, in
America, assume the role of an aristo-
cracy, presumably with himself as its
despot.
“Against the American Grain” would
have delighted Elliott Templeton’s heart.
It is an anti-American work: almost
nothing on that side of the Atlantic save
Mr Macdonald himself meets w'ith his
unqualified approval. The book con-
tains the inference that, since we are
presently engaged in reading his pages,
we are to consider ourselves superior to
most of what he is denouncing. Whether
the reader finds the sensation comfort-
able or uncomfortable will depend to a
great extent on the degree of his own
snobbery.
If the degree of it reaches Mr Mac-
|ipnald’s own, one can presumably
BUify for membership of the Dw'ight
society. The membership is
|l|||Kind the entry fee simply the ex-
Bl conviction that seven-eighths of
all published matter is beneath con-
tempt, and that the rise of the masses
has been the major disaster of the last
few decades. Anyone who strives to
reach, or succeeds in reaching, a mass
audience is not to be taken seriously.
The whole of the best-seller lists, and
all the popular magazines, can at once
be dismissed out of hand (with the ex-
ception, of course, of those publications
which happen to provide Mr Macdonald
with rent money). The list of those form-
ing the society’s committee is tiny but
glittering: Mary McCarthy, William
Shawn (“The New Yorker”), Philip
Rahv and William Phillips (“The Par-
tisan Review”) and Arnold Gingrich
(“Esquire”) with two deceased members
who still exercise some influence from
beyond the grave: The novelist and film
critic James Agee and James Joyce.
Since all but the first of those living is
an editor supplying the public with ex-
amples of Mr Macdonald’s writings, and
since Mary McCarthy is to judge
by a recent correspondence in “The New
Statesman” his most formidable de-
fendant, the cosiness of the board meet-
ings may well be imagined.
/Cliques to denounce Babbittry have
been traditional in America for much
of the present century, but few voices
have been more shrilly raised than
Dwight Macdonald’s against the whole
of contemporary culture in that coun-
try. He begins here by savaging “The
New York Times” magazine and book
supplement. tears through “Life,”
“Time,” “Newsweek,” James Gould
Cozzens, O. Henry, Edna Ferber, James
Michener, Robert Ruark, “Reader’s Di-
gest.” the Revised Version of the Bible
and even the Merriam-Webster Diction-
ary. As the circulation of a given maga-
zine soars or an author's sales climb, so
Macdonald's estimate of them drops.
Since the masses represent a monster he
scorns, anyone supplying them w'ith
reading matter must of necessity be de-
spised. It is disagreeable to see him bend-
ing over backwards to excuse “The New
Yorker” and “Esquire” (both high cir-
culation magazines publishing his views)
from these querulous strictures.
And what w'ould the W'orld be, with
Dwight Macdonald as international
commissar of culture (his evident dream)
and intellectuals in a kind of graded
series of classes attending to his every
behest? One conjures up a vision of
news-stalls and bookshops stripped al-
most bare, devoid of all those colored
pop magazines; from the radios of the
West would vanish the voices of all save
the intelligentsia and perhaps (to keep
’em quiet by slinging ’em hash) the
twist and surfbeat singers; gone from
the levels in between would be, say, Doris
Day, Lena Horne, Ray Charles, Frank
Sinatra, and (for such is the extent of
this snobbery) Ella Fitzgerald, Sarah
Vaughan and Duke Ellington as well.
The shelves of bookshops would sud-
denly be deprived of Daphne Du
Maurier, Auchinloss, O’Hara, Marquand
and Cronin; record shops would pre-
sumably go out of business altogether;
Television would consist of discussions
of Stockhausen or Esthonian myth-
sources, while advertisements would as-
sume the subtleties of a work by Jack-
son Pollock.
Reduced to its essentials, “Against
the American Grain” is simply an at-
tack on egalitarianism: the places in
which it is found most openly (in South-
ern California, say, or Australia) would
provoke his loudest scorn: in fact he
said not so long ago that Los Angeles is
as remote from civilisation as the moon,
(this presumably puts us here roughly in
the position of Pluto). For him, as he
explicitly says in these pages, the French
Revolution was a major disaster; his
attitude to it is roughly that often at-
tributed to Marie Antoinette a
shocked dismay at its bad taste and the
fact that it happened at all. Apart from
this distaste-in-a-hooped-skirt approach
to history there is in the book the con-
stant irritation that for all his sound
and fury Dwight Macdonald is addres-
sing an audience of less than one per
cent of the population of America, and
that the only way he can even reach this
tiny handful is by writing for the Mid-
cult magazines (it's also true that he is
scarcely known in Europe or the Com-
monwealth). He is, in fact, the most
pitiful of beings: A Bohemian in a grey
flannel suit. His true vocation was to
have starved in a London garret and to
have harangued audiences at Hyde Park
Corner (London is. he virtually con-
fesses, his spiritual home). But he has
compromised: he has, because he is an
American, had to toe certain social lines
in order to kick the resistant ball of
American democracy around the field.
He is, in fact, supported by the very
thing he hates most: the middlebrow
audience. And he has now, most ironi-
cally of all, been published in Britain by
Victor Gollancz, an accomplished pur-
veyor of what Macdonald would call
Midcult in that country, and the man
who started Colin Wilson (another of
Macdonald's pet hates) on his career
in the world of letters.


HENRY LAWSON
THE GREY DREAMER
by Denton Prout
The triumphs and tragedies in the life of this great literary
genius. A vivid picture of early 20th century Australia.
Illustrated 45 s>
Available from all booksellers
Published by RIGBY LIMITED
Innocence
The Stubborn Season. Paul Smith.
Heinemann. 265.
The Bender. Paul Scott. Seeker and
Warburg. 225. 6d.
JTlhe choice of an “innocent” as hero
A or heroine has certain advantages
and poses certain problems for the novel-
ist: it affords scope to the lyrical im-
agination but makes it harder to say
something worthwhile about the world,
putting a blur of childlikeness upon place
and time. It makes it easy to be sympa-
thetic and satirical but difficult to handle
ideas and events. The innocent as a
touchstone is a favorite device (and often
not much more than that) of the con-
temporary novelist; in other days he or
she would have been the central charac-
ter in a long short story or a novella.
Barbara Sherman is a Dublin slum
child, aged 13, taken from the back-
ground Paul Smith strikingly portrayed
in “The Countrywoman.” Kevin, her
father, has disappeared into England
following his desertion by Lily, his wife.
She is a tragic nymphomaniac who dies
after he leaves. Barbara is brought up
by her Granny Pullard, an earthy, up-
right, strong woman whom she loses
before the book opens. She is threatened
by a priest with being put into a home
and decides to find Kevin. Armed only
with a few pathetic possessions, of which
she is soon robbed, she sets out on her
long search. In Liverpool she falls in
briefly with a motley collection of people
centred around Rose, a woman who may
or may not have been a whore, is raped
or nearly raped by a Jamaican, and
meets a young American in a leather
jacket, Jack Selby, a lost boy and vet-
eran of Korea, a stock character at first
glance.
With Selby she has a curious and
important experience. On the point of
taking her in a field on the road to Lon-
don, he does not do so at the last mo-
ment, and the next morning Barbara
surprises him in the arms of a handsome
farm boy. In London she makes contact
again with the Liverpool people, finds
others, and goes to work in Soho for
Dino Guardone and his wife, Catharina.
Some try to help, others to corrupt or
destroy her, but Dino and Jack Selby
love her.. Dino kills Catharina, who is
vicious to the core; Selby eventually
offers to marry her but does not really
want marriage, and, after having lost
him once, Barbara finally discovers her
father whose flight from himself and
from her dead mother we have observed
in short chapters, interspersed through
the story. Her and Kevin Sherman’s need
for each other, strenuously unacknow-
ledged on his part, moves through the
plot like a subtle thread, standing, per-
haps, for the indestructible good in a
universe of suffering and death.
The first half of the book seems to
me to fail almost completely. It has most
of the weaknesses of this kind of novel:
A jazzed-up atmosphere to make up for
true depth and detail, sex as the only
substitute for relevant experience and,
worst of all, endless dialogue passages
which bore rather than impress with
their hectic vitalism. Only the child her-
self seems to have any convincing life,
all the rest merely have “character.” The
poetic under-feeling is padded out, over-
worked and fattened up by the same
conventional unconventionality, the same
intentional individualism that so many
English critics pretend to mistake for
genius. It is partly saved, in this case,
by an obviously genuine inventiveness.
Tf you can imagine an ailing O’Casey,
writing after reading a lot of Kerouac
and Patrick White, you'll get an idea
of the mixture. But Paul Smith, after
all, is himself, and an undoubted artist.
More than most, he really understands
women, as a writer may understand
them, and he has something to tell us
once he begins to tell. Which he does
a little more than half way through, with
quite astonishing results, compared to
what went before. After an encounter
with a sadistic detective, Barbara’s quest
ceases to be a fantasy and grow's into
something we can know. The conflicts
become real, Barbara and, through her,
some of the many people who brush
against her life achieve full meaning
and, near the end, we realise that sym-
bolism and actuality need not move on
entirely different planes. At that stage
the oppressive feeling of deja vu lifts:
we are profoundly moved by human
predicament and human resource and,
if tempted to make comparisons at all,
think of Dickens and of a Little Nell
created again with the insights of the
20th Century. It is indeed an improbable
transformation that takes place before
our eyes, proof that a strong talent can
be its own worst enemy as well as its
own best friend.
By contrast, “The Bender” is all of
one piece. The most modern of novel-
ists, Paul Scott in this story, aptly called
“Pictures from an Exhibition of Middle
Class Portraits,” goes a long way be-
yond the anger of English young men;
in fact their anger (or despair, or ennui )
is already organically a part of his raw
material, a stimulus, among others, to
his irony. Irony would seem to be the
strongest emotion British writers can
now reach for; not much of a gift to
the reader, and symptomatic of the mal-
aise of literature, but generative of bril-
liant little tours de force like this.
George Spruce is a London gentle-
man of the Sixties, encumbered by a
small, unearned income, impotent and
divorced. Even when driven to the edge
of suicide by a world and a family that
makes poor gentlemen hate themselves
for poor fools, he retains the dignity of a
detachment not devoid of love. He has
two brothers, one a rising kitchen-sink
playwright and the other a businessman
who does not quite know what to do
with his moral scruples. The latter, Tim,
has a daughter, Gillian, got in the family
way by an apprentice plumber. There
are many splendidly drawn characters in
this tale Anina Macßride from Isling-
ton’s Nehruville, Lady Butterfield, whose
closest confidante is her tape-recorder,
and Wallingford, the partner whom Tim
is going to ditch but young Gillian
is a gem: touching in her doomed desire
to meet an environment that has become
too predictable on its own, rather cruel,
terms. The language is crisp but not
brittle, the situations all too plausible,
the happy ending barely jars: a kind of
“Anglo-Saxon Attitudes” on a minor but
most accomplished scale.
DAVID MARTIN
Intolerance
A Gap in the Wall. Gabrielle Estivals.
Collins. 225. 6d.
Into Exile. Ronald Segal. Cape.
41s. 6d.
of these books, the first a novel,
the second an autobiography, is
concerned with intolerance between
races and cultures. One might argue that
Gabrielle Estivals’ novel about an Al-
gerian Moslem girl leads up to Ronald
Segal’s account of his fight against
racialism and apartheid in South Africa,
one exemplifying conflict mainly based
on religion, the other hatred mainly
arising from color prejudice.
Intolerance and mistrust leading to
violence between families, tribes, re-
ligious groups and races are as old as


social and religious apprehensions in
man. Their origins could be argued in
totemism, through religions owing ad-
herence to fragmented deities, into the
great organised religions of antiquity,
continuing through and past early Chris-
tianity and the emergence of Islam to
the present day. Parallels can be seen
on the American continent, in India,
China and elsewhere. But racial hatred
based almost entirely, or predominantly,
upon skin color is of comparatively
modern origin. This is the brand of
hatred and misunderstanding which
seems to be taking the place of the un-
reasoning and unreasonable religious
conflicts of the past, almost as if hu-
manity by its very nature requires irri-
tants like these to function.
A Gap in the Wall” (excellently
translated from the French by Frances
Partridge) is noteworthy in several ways.
The story and argument are so absorb-
ing that one might easily overlook its
structural cleverness. Mme Estivals never
halts her account to explain sociological
or religious forms as they apply to the
Arab family of Bensaidi who are cen-
tral to the tale. Yet at the end of the
book one has gained an astonishing in-
sight into and some understanding of a
complete society, its history, customs,
present organisation and diverse hopes
for the future.
The author lives in Algeria and is an
experienced teacher in the sort of school
where her heroine, Zoubeida, attended
classes. Si Ibrahim Bensaidi allowed his
daughter to attend a French lycee; he
was a man who genuinely wished to
be progressive even if in a wavering
and confused way. However, the behind-
walls pattern of his family life remained
conventionally Moslem. In time he ac-
quiesced in the prejudice of his half-
baked sort and bowed to the tremendous
pull of tradition. Zoubeida as soon as
she reached physical maturity was with-
drawn from school, veiled and confined
to the house and expected to conform
to age-old Islamic family and marriage
patterns. Zoubeida then essayed a pathe-
tic and doomed revolt which precipitated
violence, horror and cruelty.
From this central theme Mme Esti-
vals traces paths leading into Algerian
alleys and modern housing estates; to a
horrible lunatic asylum and to Paris;
and to the Bensaidi family farm in a
most diverse exploration of present-day
Arabian life, thought and family organi-
sation. Apparently there is nothing
atypical about the prosperous, partly
Westernised Bensaidis whose semi-
peasant country kinsmen give a daughter
in marriage to a quite medieval group
though this family in turn owns its
rebel against ancient rules. Even minor
characters are drawn well and in depth.
It is a rich book and a timely one. The
complexity of the problems posed makes
one again realise how remarkable Ata-
turk’s reforms were.
Given time and education, solutions
may be found for the problems of wo-
men and dependent people in Moslem
countries (leads have been given by
Turkey, Pakistan and other countries).
But how South Africa’s problems can
ever be resolved in ways consistent with
human dignity becomes more difficult
to imagine with every book or article
about that country.
“Into Exile” is a well-constructed
book. Political events both historical and
recent are clearly presented. Segal, like
Mme Estivals, has a rare ability to keep
sight of many threads at once. In 1958
he abandoned a promising academic
career which had led him to an Ameri-
can university and returned to South
Africa where he established an interna-
tional magazine to combat racialism,
“Africa South”. Not surprisingly, in 1960
after the Sharpeville shootings he was
forced to leave the country. He managed
to escape via Bechuanaland with Indian
Government documents (he is now editor
of Penguin’s African Library). “Into
Exile” is an authoritative book Segal
knows the important liberal figures black
and white, who have so vainly tried to
stem the Afrikaaner rot but it is also
a document worth reading because spiri-
tually its author is so completely a child
of his time. He has abandoned the forms
of his religion while retaining with pride
(even perhaps stridency) its spirit and
“sense”, and may yet come to rank with
some of the greater secular crusaders of
this century.
NANCY KESSING
Southerlies
Speaking the Language Like a Native.
Aubrey Menen. Hamish Hamilton.
265.
Bikini Beach. Geoffrey Bocca. W. H.
Allen. 245.
A ÜBREY Menen’s “Speaking the Lan-
guage Like a Native” could be de-
scribed as required reading for all those
considering a visit to Italy or having
more than a superficial interest in that
country. Aubrey Menen is one of those
solitary bachelors who has fallen in love
with Europe sufficiently to make it his
home. They seem to abound, with the
southern Mediterranean as their chosen
habitat. In Greece, Robert Liddell has
been waspishly complaining about the
country for years to his own profit
and convenience, because he steadfastly
refuses to move elsewhere. Peter Mayne
is another Grecophile, while the list of
those who have chosen Italy is longer
and more impressive, ranging from Nor-
man Douglas to Max Beerbohm.
Menen believes that to be in love one
must recognise the defects of one’s
inamorata and turn them into credits.
Adopting the stance of the wry foreigner,
he does this most edifyingly: we learn
that one can never hope to speak Italian
like the native and the native would hate
to have us do so anyway. We are also
given insight to a decaying “historical
city” whose residents loathe the place
while tourists flock in; to the hustling
new businessmen of Milan; and the
Capri the tourists see in comparison with
the Capreses’ native island.
Ever since the British upper crust
“discovered” a sunbaked sprawl of fish-
ing villages along the southern Mediter-
ranean coast of France the Riviera has
been a popular playground. In “Bikini
Beach,” Riviera resident Geoffrey Bocca
gives us a racy rundown on the strip,
confining himself to the area ranging
from St Tropez to Menton.
Subtitled “The wicked Riviera as it
was and is,” the book tells us that young
girls and boys often share flats at St
Tropez, crooks and vice kings abound
in Nice and Juan les Pins is a noisome
harridan. We are told what delicacies
to find where and who is, was and is
likely to be who along the Cote d'Azur.
I haven’t been Rivierawards since be-
fore World War 11, so I’m probably a
poor judge of the authenticity of much
of Mr Bocca’s observations. I do know,
however, that Napoleon landed at Golfe
Juan and not Cannes, as given here, and
that Charlie Chaplin had a hand in de-
veloping the popularity of Juan. Neither
Golfe nor Charlie get a guernsey in
Mr B’s torrent of place and name
droppings.
Reverently on the side of the upper
classes, Bocca deplores the campers and
hitchhikers who create “a source of dirt,
degeneracy and crime.” These failings
are presumed to be quite all right when
emanating from millionaires and he
launches into gleeful details.
Places like Antibes hardly get a men-
tion, St Paul is spoken of only as the
site of the now fashionable Colombe
d’Or, while its beauty as one of Europe’s
few remaining walled villages is not
spoken of. Nice, which to many is simply
transplanted Brighton, brings enthusi-
astic raves and the renaissance of Monte
Carlo is discussed in detail.
As Mr Bocca paints it, the Riviera
doesn’t appear to have changed much
since my day. Then, as presumably now,
the rich whooped it up in a social whirl
and dropped a few hundred francs
among the locals before disappearing on
yachts or safaris of cars for other pleas-
ure spots. Then, as now, the genuine
aficionado can give a tolerant shrug and
turn his attention to the blue sea, the
pine-woods and the superlatively beauti-
ful hills.
CHARLES SRIBER


BUSINESS AND FINANCE
Foreign Aid Embarrassment
The US-backed South Vietnam Government embarrassed
Washington at a time when President Kennedy was
trying to push through a 4525 million dollar Foreign
Aid Bill. The Foreign Affairs Committee trimmed the foreign
aid proposal to 4100 million dollars and the House of Repre-
sentatives lopped another 585 million dollars from it.
Red-faced, Mr Kennedy called this a short-sighted and
irresponsible move and asked the Senate to restore the cuts.
Even with some compromise in the Senate, it appears that
many countries which rely on US aid will find their
economic situation less buoyant in 1963-64. There is a
nagging irritation in America about the value received for its
handouts. The situation has been aggravated by a growing
balance of payments deficit
which shows a gap of four billion
dollars for the seven months to
July, 1963.
During the June quarter the
deficit rose by almost two bil-
lion dollars at an annual rate of
5.3 billion dollars, which was
much worse than expected.
Efforts by the Administration to
stem this flow have been unsuc-
cessful and this has prompted a
mood for further restrictions.
The US Government recently
achieved some saving in mili-
tary aid by cutting down on the
number of servicemen stationed
abroad, switching defence buy-
ing to American producers and
encouraging the purchase of US
military equipment by other
countries. But commitments for
economic aid keep growing
Although the Administration has
done everything possible to “tie” foreign aid to US purchases,
it is not always possible to do this. A big slice of aid goes to
African countries, which tend to buy in Europe.
T'he world liquidity problem encourages many foreign coun-
tries to seek loans in Amerca, thus stimulating the capital
outflow. There are long-term advantages to America when
the loans are repaid, but at this stage the Administration is
asking European countries to make a greater effort to borrow
locally.
Dollars sunk into flagging economies add to the balance of
payments drain. Inflation-ridden Brazil, for example, was
granted 398 million dollars earlier this year in what was
termed a “rescue” deal. But this would provide only a third
of the estimated amount which Brazil would need over three
years to meet its external obligations. The US provided 70
million dollars worth of food and surplus equipment under
the deal. But Brazil still was forced to negotiate overseas for
further credits, including Soviet aid.
To close the balance of payments gap, the US Administra-
tion plans to put a 15 p.c. tax on US portfolio investment in
overseas securities and seeks to encourage the establishment
of US enterprises in foreign countries. It also will press hard
for increased exports and hopes to gain some advantages from
the “Kennedy Round” which aims at a general lowering of
tariffs.
Tf exports can grow, the American economy can achieve a
faster rate of expansion. By contrast, the fast pace of Euro-
pean expansion is expected to slow appreciably, with profit rates
pruned by rising wages in response to shortages of skilled
labor. The Brookings Institution prepared a research report for
IFK’s Council of Economic Advisers last January and pre-
dieted large deficits until 1965
with a balance or a surplus
achieved by 1968. This assumes
that the US will grow at a
rate of 4.8 p.c. a year with
prices rising by only 1.5 p.c.
annually.
It also assumes an OEC
growth target for Europe of 4.2
p.c. annually and European price
rises of almost 3 p.c. annually,
thus suggesting an improvement
in America’s competitive posi-
tion. The Brookings Institution
report indicated that this assump-
tion of growth, on which it was
asked to base its report, might be
too optimistic and that the
European countries might be
prepared to restrict their growth
to hold price rises down to 1.7
p.c. a year. In that event, and
after shaving the US growth rate
slightly, the US would still face a
600 million dollar deficit in 1968.
Australian Stocks
in the US
A lthough the 15 per cent tax on US overseas portfolio
investment announced on July 15 has not been enacted
yet, it has already caused purchases of overseas securities by
US residents to dry up. If this doesn’t so far seem to have
impaired the strength of Australian share markets, it is bound
to limit the scope for price increases in the case of some
erstwhile Australian favorites in America such as BHP. In
fact, it would seem to have operated as a substantial brake on
BHP over the last month or more when, with the rest of the
market advancing gaily, that stock has been dragging its feet.
In the new circumstances it will be interesting to see whether


any Australian stocks manage to achieve premiums in the
United States over their prices in this country. This would
come about as a result of transactions between US residents,
a US holder of BHP, for instance, being able to sell his stock
to another US resident without the latter having to pay the tax.
Conceivably such transactions could force the US price of
BHP up to 15 per cent (or a little higher to allow for arbitrage
costs) above the Australian price. Once the differential
exceeded this, it would pay people in the US to buy the stock
here and pay the 15 per cent tax. Already small premiums
have been created in the US on one or two South African
gold shares.
New Twist to Overseas
Share Investment
Federal Treasurer (Mr Holt) has left not the slightest
doubt on the rights of Australians to make share invest-
ments in other countries. They haven’t any.
InTiis recent letter to Sydney Stock Exchange Mr Holt set
out the situation with exemplary clarity. “I confirm that it
is the Government’s policy not to authorise transfers of funds
by Australian residents to engage in portfolio-type investment
overseas,” he wrote.
With the current debate on Australian participation in
foreign-controlled companies in view, an equally important
corollary follows; “Permission would not normally be given for
overseas companies to place shares in Australia for subscription
by Australian residents.”
The over-riding attitude establishing these restrictions is, of
course, determined by the balance of payments. In addition
the Government wishes to channel all available local capital
into Australia’s development.
Mr Holt also speedily forestalled any hope of one possible
technique by foreign-inspired takeovers. “It has, as you know,
been suggested in various quarters that investment by Australian
residents in overseas parent companies would be a reasonable
substitute for direct Australian participation in the ownership
of their local subsidiaries,” he relates.
Pat comes the riposte: “However, such investment could
not be regarded in any recognisable way as Australian partici-
pation in the ownership of the local enterprises. For instance,
the domicile in Australia of what would presumably be com-
paratively small shareholdings in vast world-wide organisations
. . . would obviously give the Australian shareholders no real
participation in the profits of the respective Australian subsi-
diaries, and no influence on their operation.”
The old National Dairy (USA)-Kraft Holdings takeover
constituted an exception to the rule-book and investors will
not have much difficulty in working out the implications for
the present Plessey (UK)-Ducon negotiations.
Probably Australians wouldn't want to indulge in much direct
overseas investment anyhow. But the reverse process grows
more and more important, however portfolio capital inflow is
finally deployed.
Mr Holt’s letter in no way obviates the necessity of examin-
ing every ramification of overseas investment in Australia.
Capital Inflow Worries
Japan, Too
Japan Committee for Economic Development (Kezai
Doyukai), which will partner the Australian committee
(CEDA) in its research on South-East Asian trade and aid, has
just published a report on the Japanese international payments
position.
Pre-Budget discussions and a projected reorganisation of
shipping called the report into being. In recent months Japan
has won a slirnly favorable balance of trade only by means of
capital inflow.
Doyukai assumes that the deficit on invisibles may be a
problem for many years ahead. It indicates the risks of per-
petual dependence on foreign capital.
The committee argues for a priority system in exports; mea-
sures to stabilise commodity prices; and continued development
of the internal domestic structure. A further report is to deal
specifically with the foreign capital situation.
World Production of
Industrial Fibres
rpHE 13th annual review of production, trade and consump-
tion relating to wool, cotton, silk, flax, jute, sisal and
other hemps, mohair, coir, kapok, rayon and other man-made
fibres, compiled in the intelligence branch of the Common-
wealth Economic Committee, has been published under the
title “Industrial Fibres.” Once again, the review contains a
wealth of statistics and much new and valuable information.
World production of the chief industrial fibres rose by some
6 p.c. to a new peak of nearly 46,000 m. lb. In 1961-62,
both natural and man-made fibres gaining in much the same
proportion.
Overall world output of industrial fibres seems likely to
show only a small rise in 1962-63, though quite marked gains
are expected in cotton and man-made fibres.
In terms of weight, cotton proved easily the most important
fibre, accounting for half the total world output in 1961-62.
Natural fibres made up 83 p.c. of the total, and man-made
fibres only 17 p.c., or 7770 m. lb.
UK Gets Backwash of
Europe’s Boom
A i.though Britain has not succeeded in joining the Common
Market, its overseas trade is enjoying the backwash of
the more rapid rate of industrial expansion in Europe. In
June its exports to the Common Market were running at
£A435 million more than the average for 1960, as against an
increase of only £AI2S million in its annual rate of imports
from the Community. (UK exports to Australia for the 11
months to May last year were down to £A3OI million from
£A32O million in the same period of 1960-61 though substan-
tially higher than the poor £A244 million in the same months
1961-62).
The “Investors’ Chronicle” thinks that this may be rather
too good to last. For one thing it says that manufacturers in
Britain have been letting their stocks run down virtually with-
out interruption since the middle of 1961 and, though it
doesn't expect a “rip-roaring” 1960 type boom to develop
out of Mr Maudling’s boost to the economy this year, Britain's
exports must pay for some stockbuilding soon as well as higher
current consumption if Neddy’s growth target is to be achieved.
Then there has been some downward revision in the growth
rates of some of the Common Market countries for the cur-
rent year, making the real GNP rate for the whole Community
4.1 p.c. as against 4.5 p.c. predicted. Industrial production in
the EEC is now expected to increase a little less rather than
somewhat more than 5 p.c. as first predicted, while the gross
investment rate has been scaled down from 4.5 to 3.5 p.c.
The severe winter and the strikes in France and Italy earlier
this year have induced the EEC Commission to make a
slight revision of its envisaged growth rates for 1963. They
have scaled down the real GNP rate from 4.5 p.c. to 4.1 p.c.
and gross investment from 4.5 p.c. to 3.5 p.c.


in
i
«>ltfc¥lllWlllfl
PAID-UP CAPITAL £7,000,000.
Custom Credit
Unsecured Notes
6 YEARS
AND OVER
5 YEARS 6|%
4 YEARS 6j%
2 YEARS 5j%
12 MONTHS’ NOTICE 5%
9 MONTHS’ NOTICE 4|%
6 MONTHS’ NOTICE 4|%
3 MONTHS’ NOTICE 4|%
Interest is paid in equal quarterly instalments on the last days
of June, September, December and March.
DIRECTORS:
L. W. COPPLESON (CHAIRMAN),
G. T. HARTIGAN, R. E. ASH,
C. S. GITTOES.
TRUSTEE for the note-
holders: PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (LTD.)
This is not a Prospectus. A
copy of the Prospectus cover-
ing this issue of Custom
Credit Notes has been lodged
with the Registrar of
Companies, Sydney.
Applications for Custom Credit Notes will proceed only on one
of the forms of application attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus, which is now available from:
ALL MEMBERS OF THE STOCK EXCHANGE
ALL BRANCHES OF THE NATIONAL BANK
AND CUSTOM CREDIT.
100 NEW SOUTH HEAD ROAD, EDGECLIFF, SYDNEY
Secretary-General: KEITH LOVE. Telephone: 32 0111
CCN.93.IN
Automation Needs
Wide Co-operation
study of Mr Justice Richards’
778-page report on automation
should call out a great deal more co-
operation between employer and em-
ployee interests than it has on the
strength of brief newspaper summaries.
Such co-operation is the essence of
harmonising any profound technological
change to the Australian economy.
Surely all parties can understand that
for reasons of capital cost alone, mechan-
isation and automation do not arrive
suddenly. The time lapse to transform
a whole industrial complex must be con-
siderable. A saving opportunity is
granted to discuss the problems of re-
dundancy, rehabilitation and retraining
without acrimony.
Immediate implementation of a 35-
hour week and longer leave in the present
mixed state of industry would seem un-
justified.
This Mr. Justice Richards recognised
by stating: “A general inquiry into stand-
ard hours would involve the examination
and consideration of many subjects, of
which the effect of mechanisation and
other technological changes is only one,
although an important one.”
With a clear eye on the long-term
future mechanisation and automation
have to be distinguished. Mechanisation,
though it may produce unemployment,
normally gives a workman better tools
but still demands roughly traditional
skills.
Automation brings in a completely new
type of “tool”. It includes computer and
taped control of entire processes and
transforms the balance of a labor force.
Something of this may be seen in the
American chemical industry where, over
10 years, supervisors, engineers, office-
workers and so on rose by more than
100 p.c. while the number of workmen
declined by 4 p.c.
Mechanisation has led to the unemploy-
ment in the NSW coal industry mentioned
by Mr. Justice Richards and his sugges-
tion for a mechanisation compensation
fund.
When it comes to the more radical
prospects suggested by automated pro-
cesses, Mr. Justice Richards finds a grave
lack in the means available for the re-
adjustment and retraining of clerks and
tradesmen.
One of the most vital recommendations
of the report supports a profound trans-
formation of the apprenticeship system.
For the future this section is obviously
just as important as the well-agitated
questions of higher wages, fringe benefits
and shorter hours.


The Case Against a Restrictive
Trade Bill
No. 6 -Demonstrable Fruits of Free Enterprise
By ROGER RANDERSON
Sir G. Barwick
Why so much fuss lately about so-
called “restrictive practices”
when they are merely adjustable
brakes to steady the surging output from
Australian private enterprises brakes
which must be available if private
persons are to have confidence to venture
enormous sums of capital, and without
which supplies of goods for consumers
would no longer increase at their present
rapid rate?
An illusion accounts for the static
text-book pictures which have impressed
the Attorney-General.
It is like concluding that a vehicle is
stationary by looking at a still from a
film, which, uncoiling and projected on
screen, shows that, in reality, the vehicle
is moving forward very fast.
A similar misleading impression is
given by observing at a point of time
fragments of an ever-changing, pro-
gressive, productive process, the achieve-
ments of which are obvious over periods
of time.
The abundant fruits from private
persons risking their capital for gain to
satisfy the expected, and not always
realised, demands of consumers obviously
require time to appear.
We have seen motor cars, during the
term of office of the Menzies Govern-
ment, become so plentiful and so much
cheaper in relation to average money
earnings that they have moved from the
luxury class almost to that of conventional
necessities. Unlike the situation 14 years
ago, most families now possess a car,
many more than one and cars are
now even becoming standard equipment
for “teenagers”.
This is one of countless instances that
could be mentioned.
Sir Garfield Barwick, however, is
virtually contradicting the fact that such
undoubted economic progress has
occurred, and is continuing to take place.
What he sees in the history of the
post-war period (as set out on pages 8
and 9 of his recent address at Melbourne
University) is only a trend of “restric-
tive practices,” which is still continuing,
with a “snow-balling or chain-reaction
effect”.
When to this is added his opinion that
“restrictive practices and a sluggish
economy go together”, it is difficult to
avoid the foregoing inference as to the
drift of his contentions.
Such an incorrect interpretation may
please the Labor Opposition, and delight
certain other people whose thinking is
still colored by the false Marxian
doctrine that free enterprise must
eventually commit suicide.
But these views cannot be agreeable
to other members of the Federal Cabinet,
or to the numerous supporters of the
Australian Liberal Party, who by now
are bemused by the Attorney-General’s
persistent personal campaign.
The Federal Treasurer claims that the
economy is expanding rapidly, with
bright prospects for further expansion
far into the future. I believe that Mr
Holt is perfectly sincere and correct
about this.
Tn these circumstances, should not the
Attorney-General have to show that
so-called “restrictive practices” are de-
clining, if he is to be consistent with the
thesis he has adopted?
Competition—as it really exists and is
felt by all businesses, large and small—
has been, and is continuing to be, the
spur to private productive achievements.
This is compatible with the fact that
arrangements are made and varied by
many businesses, partly to steady their
prices. Costing and merchandising would
be almost impossible without pricing and
orderly marketing plans. The installation
of capital would become a hazardous
process without such arrangements to
enable its cost to be recouped.
Do critics who refer in a derogatory
way to the “price-fix” want to see prices
for similar products (there are few
identical products when form, time,
place and quantity are combined in
different proportions and degrees) bob-
bing up and down each day? It is the
last thing consumers would want. On
the other hand, these critics are in no
position to state what other intervals of
time should elapse between price varia-
tions.
Wage increases must obviously be re-
flected in prices. When they occur over
large sections of industry as the result
of official decrees unpredictable and
vastly upsetting as in 1959 pro-
ducers and trader's must obviously keep
in touch for the purpose of adjusting
their prices more or less in line with
each other.
Trade associations have many useful
functions to fulfil besides this. It is odd
that the Attorney-General should un-
critically adopt the contention that the
existence of so many trade associations
roughly guessed as between 500 and
600 —is a “measuring rod” of restric-
tiveness instead of competition among
many groups. Why are trade unions not
similarly listed; and are they to meet
with no competition at all?
If the proposed scheme were really
concerned to assist consumers, it would
not place under-cutting of prices in a
worse category of crime than level
prices.
Let us here face the facts honestly.
Political pressure is being exerted by a
group of grocers who object to the
lowering of their profit-margins by com-
petition which is benefiting consumers.
I am not alone in warning this and
similar groups that they would almost
certainly be the chief victims of a
scheme that would reintroduce price
control. An economist who supports the
Attorney-General considers that it is a
“vain hope” for the grocers to expect
protection from the lowering of retail
margins by more efficient groups of
stores, actively competing with each
other.
Consumers have a vast range of choice
in a free society. They get their “colored
panties” if and when they want them
even if Russian women have to go with-
out them. Without warning, too, our
consumers can reject them, can switch
their patronage from some providers to
others, and even at times show “buyers’
resistance” that reduces sales generally.
A similar whip-hand is held by public
authorities if they do not like the price
of level tenders. Some authorities, as
the Attorney-General shows, have sought
supplies or tenders abroad. The Attornev-
General completely overlooks the fact
that there are many competitive aspects
of tenders, apart from price.


Since John Macarthur’s day “pies”
have been said to be holding back wool
prices except, of course, when they are
at peak levels. Sellers, however, are
free to withhold their lots or to ship
them to other market places round the
world. The system of auctions is not
perfect, but it gives wool-growers true
market prices over periods of time.
If “collusive” does not have its strict
legal connotation, then it is a loose and
inflammatory way to use language to
apply this word to level tenders and level
bids, including “pies”.
Other forms of competition are
actively present even when level prices
are maintained, whether by agreement
or otherwise. They include: the offering
of better quality, better packaging, faster
deliveries or deliveries at more con-
venient times or places, earlier times for
completion of constructional contracts,
or greater capacity to carry such jobs
through to completion, better after-sales
service, and more extended or cheaper
credit terms.
Such aspects of competition, apart
from price, do not readily conform to
the abstractions of theoretical models,
.which is why the Attorney-General has
been induced to ignore them.
T>ut now we come to the most effective
forms of competition that are com-
pelling private businesses to give Aus-
tralian consumers what they want, where
and when they want it, and at prices
they can afford to pay.
Such forms of competition (which are
the most distinguishing feature of a free
system of enterprise) give the up and
coming businesses decisive advantages in
cost and quality over their rivals, and
they are as active here as they have ever
been in free societies everywhere and at
all times.
They include the competition that
comes with:
• new products
• new technologies
• new sources of supply
• new kinds of business organisa-
tion.
Competition in these forms, as was
explained long ago by a prince of
economists, does not strike only at the
margin of profit or the level of output
of existing firms, but it strikes “at their
foundations and their very lives”.
This innovating kind of competition
is much more beneficial to consumers
than price and quality competition
so much so that it is like a bombard-
ment compared with forcing a door, to
use his analogy.
In quite recent years we have seen
diets improve with the arrival of more
easily prepared and appetising foodstuffs,
buses have displaced trams, and cars to
some extent both, plastic containers find
cans have challenged beer bottles,
aluminium and asbestos have come fd
vie with steel and timber, chemicals
have invaded many fields, oil has largely
displaced coal and coal-mining has been
modernised, great new deposits of iron
ore, copper and bauxite have been opened
up, motels and clubs have begun to
challenge hotels, chains of stores, com-
peting with each other, have revolution-
ised merchandising, while hire-purchase
concerns have become almost as import-
ant as banks.
Such innovations, apparent to all eyes,
are among the important reasons why
businesses in order to survive have had
to keep their prices down and their
quality up even though large increases
in wage costs have been working against
them all the time.
All businesses are kept up to the
mark by the fact that the least enter-
prising and efficient fall by the wayside;
or are absorbed by more progressive
concerns (in many instances receiving,
however, generous terms of compensa-
tion). When men are bidding for high
stakes—such as greater status and in-
come than employees the failure of a
few to make the grade should not give
rise to so much maudlin nonsense.
Amid the incessant bombardment of
technical progress, therefore, so-called
“restrictive practices” gain time and
space for businesses to start and expand,
and generally they “steady the ship,”
helping thus to maintain continuous high
employment.
As my unfailing fount of wisdom on
these economic matters the late Pro-
fessor Joseph A. Schumpeter aptly
wrote, price policies that seem “pre-
datory” and restrictions on outlets,
sources of supply and entry into old (but
not new) fields are “incidents, often un-
avoidable incidents, of a long-run process
of expansion which they protect rather
than impede.”
"Out what about “monopoly” and
“monopolisation”? I can hear this
being howled from some quarters.
First, let us understand that the most
exclusive monopolies arise from the
granting of franchises by Governments.
These were the kind to which Sir Edward
Coke and his bonny band of common
lawyers objected most strenuously when
fighting for personal liberty in England’s
bloodless revolution of 1688.
The law common to all citizens,
despite many present misunderstandings,
certainly has refused to enforce agree-
ments in restraint of trade, when this
could be proved, but it has never pro-
hibited them. It has never interfered
with monopolies, oligopolies or monop-
sonies, in the sense in which economists
Use these forbidding terms, not always
&s carefully as they should.
SMgld Sellers of any commodity are
rarely ever found, and they can never
remain alone in their fields indefinitely.
Every man who produces a new
product or service for the first time is a
monopolist, in the sense of a single
seller. He determines his early prices
without much distraction from com-
petitors, and so has a “market ad-
vantage” at the beginning. He would be
“monopolising”, according to the pro-
posed legislation.
The Attorney-General would allow
patents a specified exception from his
scheme. Then what logical reason can
there be for businesses without patents,
or poorly protected ones, not being
allowed to make trade arrangements
having similar effects to protect new
products and methods?
High profits? Certainly, because great
risks are taken with all innovations, and
high profits are necessary to ensure that
capital invested for the purpose can be
recouped quickly.
Such high profits, however, are
powerful magnets to attract competitors
into the new fields required by a pro-
gressive society. Competition in time
brings these exceptional profits down to
lower levels. If exceptional profits were
never allowed, many businesses would
cease to produce for long periods, as
they do at present, without profits or
while incurring losses.
Tn recent years a new company has come
to the fore to supply consumers
with a new kind of cigarette. It has
made substantial inroads into the sup-
posed “monopoly” of a much older and
larger company. And the shares of the
newcomer have displaced those of the
older company as the leading stock in
their field on the Stock Exchange.
Where is the so-called “brewery
monopoly” today, when beer producers
have to find their outlets in clubs and
motels, besides their own hotels?
All this is instructive. It reveals the
transient dominance of large concerns,
if they fail to hold off the challenges of
competition from new things and new
methods.
The leading stocks of one decade on
the Stock Exchange are never the
in the succeeding decade, which reflects
the situation of competitive change
which gave rise to the old adage of
“back to shirt-sleeves in three genera-
tions”.
A few great companies go on from
strength to strength for decades, but
they can never do this if thev behave
as monopolists are supposed to do. Such
continued dominance depends on keep-
(Continued on page 49)


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Alternatives in Housing Finance
Are Bank Loans the Best Method to Defeat Backlog?
Although the Government’s decision
allowing the savings banks to in-
crease from 30 to 35 p.c. the pro-
portion of depositors’ funds they
can put into housing loans has rightly
been generally applauded as a step
which will broaden the flow of savings
going into housing, it is a moot point
whether this is the best method of mak-
ing the maximum impression on the
backlog in housing.
It can be argued, for instance, that
the extra proportion of their deposits
that can now be diverted by the banks
into their own direct housing loans could
be used more effectively if canalised as
before into Government loans, provided,
of course, they were used to increase the
funds made available to the State hous-
ing authorities by the Federal Govern-
ment. (State housing authorities are to
get £49.8 million from the Federal Gov-
ernment under the Commonwealth and
States Housing agreement this year. This
is only £1.2 million more than last
year and actually £.6 million less than
that in the previous year. In addition
the Federal Government is spending
£35 million, or £2+ million less than
last year, on War Service Homes.)
The strength of the case for con-
centrating more on Government housing
lies in the very much easier terms avail-
able to home seekers from State housing
authorities than from savings banks.
F|3he importance of this cannot be over-
stressed. “The major problem facing
potential home owners is not so much
the absence of land and houses, but the
absence of easy terms on which to pur-
chase,” says Dr R. T. Appleyard in his
recent study of Low Cost Housing and
the Migrant Population, published by
the Committee for Economic Develop-
ment of Australia.
“Unless the conditions are eased,” he
says, “the current backlog will not be
quickly overtaken and newly married
couples and the immigrant families who
reach Australia will also be required to
wait several years before they acquire
houses.”
Dr Appleyard’s excellent study is
concerned primarily with migrants. In
pin-pointing some of the difficulties fac-
ing them in their quest for housing he
acknowledges that generally they also
apply to the overall housing problem,
which he sees as threatening to become
even more acute as the Australian post-
war “baby boom” comes of age in the
mid-1960s and enters the employment
and housing markets.
Cutting through the complicated fin-
ance facets of the problem, the basic one
can be stated simply as being the inade-
quacy of personal savings of individuals
in relation to the minimum original costs
they must incur to secure a house.
This is not precisely how Dr Apple-
yard states it, but his analysis of the
main problems facing both migrants and
other home seekers can best be con-
sidered in those terms.
the lower a home seeker’s
savings the more he is thrown back on
the facilities offered for acquiring homes
by the various State housing authorities,
though in that field, where the bulk of
home seekers necessarily have to con-
fine their searching, you immediately
come up against two big snags. One is
the waiting list of 72,000 applicants for
Government houses; the other the rigid
limits on the supply of finance available
to the authorities who, having got their
overall loan allocations for works and
housing from the Loan Council, have
then to decide how much will be used
for public works (for which their de-
mands are very heavy) and how much
for housing. As often as not housing
tends to get what is left over after public
works are satisfied.
Terms both for house rental and for
purchase offered by State Government
Housing Authorities are the lowest on
the market simply because they do not
operate to make profits and they borrow
their money from the Commonwealth
Government at one p.c. per annum
less than the current long-term bond
rate. That is, at 4| p.c. between
July 1961 and February 1962, 4 p.c.
to May last and 3i p.c. since
then. In addition the lands on which
the Commissions usually erect their
houses have not been bought in the
open market.
In New South Wales there is no pre-
scribed limit on the maximum loan avail-
able to a borrower, who is usually re-
quired to outlay a minimum deposit on
a Commission house and repay the re-
sidual over a period of 45 years at 4f
p.c. per annum (reducible). In Vic-
toria, borrowers on Commission houses
may obtain loans of up to £5OOO for
a deposit of £lOO and repay the re-
mainder over 45 years at 4+ p.c.
Fairly similar terms are available in
other States. Clearly, these terms are
suited to the financial circumstances of
migrant and other needful homeseekers,
but to get them entails a long wait.
To clarify the state of the govern-
ment-rented housing market for many
migrant families now arriving in Aus-
tralia, Dr Appleyard recently arranged
for representatives in each State to find
out from the respective Commissions
how long the last family to be allo-
cated a three-bedroom rented house in
the metropolitan area had waited from
the time of submitting the application
form. The representatives reported wait-
ing periods of four to five years in NevC
South Wales and South Australia, three
years in Victoria, 2i years in Western
Australia and 12 to 18 months in Queens-
land. This illustrated very well the high
demand for housing from this cheap
source.
Compare the easy terms of house
rental and purchase offered by the State
Housing Commissions with those offered
by the savings and trading banks, who
are currently lending about two-thirds
of the Australian total of house loans.
(As Dr Appleyard points out, unlike the
State Housing Commissions, the savings
and trading banks seldom function as
lender and builder, but make loans avail-
able to approved borrowers who usually
make their own arrangements with a
builder to erect the house.)
TVie terms offered by the banks are, in
fact, much more onerous, as Apple-
yard goes to some length to illustrate.
To start with, banks require at least a
fully-paid block of land as equity even
if a client plans to build the cheapest
house available on the market. If he
wishes to build a house of better quality
he will need at least half the difference
between the bank's maximum loan and
the cost of the house.
Some banks allow borrowers of “good
standing” to obtain second mortgages
from other sources, but they must be
satisfied that the client will be able to
meet the total weekly repayments on
both mortgages. This is a fairly import-
ant consideration, because non-bank
financial institutions usually make short-
term loans (up to 15 years) at high
rates of interest (7 p.c. to 11 p.c.
non-reducing). If clients plan to
purchase a previously occupied (second-
hand) dwelling, most banks require a
cash deposit representing 60 p.c.
of their valuation and usually insist on
a maximum repayment period of 10
years at 51 p.c.
Unskilled and semi-skilled workers
would find the repayments difficult to
meet, particularly if they were the only
earners in a large family. They would
find it almost impossible to save the
deposit (land and cash) on an income
of <£2o-25 a week within four or five
years as well as purchase furniture for
the dwelling.


CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act ot
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
Oil
PER ANN U M
5 TO 10 YEARS
8% P.A. 4 YEARS
7 2 % P.A. 3 YEARS
7i% P.A. 2 YEARS
6i% P.A. 1 YEAR
Also available: REGISTERED RE-
DEEMABLE UNSECURED DEPOSIT
NOTES. Rates from 6% p.a. for 6
months to B}% p.a. for 4 to 10 yrs.
Full details of these issues will be
found in the Company’s Prospectus
which is available at
The principal office of the
Bank of New South Wales
in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth,
Hobart, Canberra and Newcastle.
any Member of the Stock Exchange,
or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation
Limited.
Application may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE
CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
’Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE • WAGGA • MELBOURNE
BRISBANE m ADELAIDE
CCI66/I/AB
CUP AND POST COUPON
Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd.
Cambridge House, 249 George Street, Sydney.
Please send me without obligation a copy of
the Prospectus with application form.
NAME
ADDRESS.
TB 7, 9
ing abreast of new developments, and
meeting the ever changing requirements
of consumers as to price, quality and
service.
Even a great concern like BHP, which
is even more closely identified with Aus-
tralia’s growth than General Motors is
with America’s, meets competition in
export markets and from imported steels.
But the real challenge to its present
superiority is coming from substitute
materials such as aluminium.
It remains only to show that the pro-
posed legislation is alien to the liberal
tradition, and to personal liberty, which
is secured largely by the decentralisation
of productive activities in private hands.
[A final article in this series will
appear next week.]
Richmond Oil Strike
Speculators Caught Flat-footed
oil strike at Richmond Downs,
nine miles south-east of Roma,
Queensland, on August 23, caught plenty
of speculators flat-footed in the market.
Many were still wearing bandages on
wounds inflicted at Sunnybank last
December when reports of drill stem
tests were not supported by production
flows.
The Sunnybank “strike” prompted
wild statements on another commercial
field and there was even talk about a
pipeline.
Mr Eric Avery, chairman of the
Associated Oilfields group, called for
caution when reporting the Richmond
No. 1 strike, which is about 100 miles
north-west of Moonie.
Despite Mr Avery’s warning, the
market in Associated Oil shares almost
doubled when trading opened on the
Stock Exchange and remained buoyant
while awaiting details of the production
test, which finally came out at 300
barrels a day on a half-inch choke.
It is ridiculous to put too much faith
in drill stem tests, especially on the
scant details announced after the strike.
And, even after a production flow, there
are many other problems to overcome
before a field can be called commercial.
There were several factors which may
have helped to boost prices for AA Oil
and other shares in the “Associated”
group. Cores taken from the top part
of the oil-bearing interval could have
indicated encouraging signs of per-
meability.
Tight sand formations at Sunnybank
restricted the oil flow, so any improved
porosity at Richmond could stimulate
hopes of a production flow.
Other influences on the Associated Oil
market were the stale option writers
who didn't own enough shares to cover
all the call options they had written.
With prices languishing in the past six
months there was no incentive to buy too
many oil shares which kept falling in
value.
News of an oil strike altered the
pattern drastically and there was plenty
of panic buying to cover a “short”
position.
When the market rose above 305.,
however, market operators began to ask
if Richmond (in terms of AA Oil shares)
was worth two-thirds of Moonie at this
stage of its development.
Only sustained exploration and testing
could answer that question. And the
market had second thoughts after the
initial production test flow.
IT S A GASSER
T atest storey to be added to the
Bitumen and Oil corporate structure
may be Gas Supply Co. Ltd.
That is, if the current bid of three
Boral ss. shares for each Gas Supply
20s. ordinary share overcomes Gas Supply
directors’ initial reluctance.
Boral has added superphosphate fer-
tiliser and road surfacing products to its
basic business through takeovers this
year of Mt Lyell Investments Ltd and
BHP By-Products.
The Gas Supply Co., which services
provincial cities and country towns in
Victoria, NSW and Queensland, ap-
parently attracted Boral’s attention as a
potential captive market for Hebburn
coal, and also because of its agreements
with Shell and Amoco.
Boral’s bid coincided with Gas
Supply’s announcement of a 14 p.c.
increase in profit to £198,196 (earning
rate of 9.3 p.c.) and a one-for-five par
issue.
Gas Supply also announced agree-
ment for an exclusive selling franchise
for all liquefied petroleum gas to be
produced by Amoco’s planned refinery
in Brisbane. Bulk terminals for this gas
are to be built in Brisbane and Towns-
ville.
Between now and January 20 when
the bid for Gas Supply expires, genuine
long-term investors should find many
opportunities to purchase a cheap stake
in the Boral complex.


• •
In the national interest .
“The savings banks are to-day the largest institutional
lenders for housing purposes. They have in recent times
increased very greatly their rate of housing loan approvals.
The aggregate rate of such approvals by all savings banks
has lately been around £100,000,000 per annum. This is
almost double the rates of 1960-61 and 1961-62. This
increase in lending exemplifies the co-operation the Govern-
ment has had from the savings banks concerned in its
objective of increasing the amount of finance available for
housing. On behalf of the Government, I wish to
acknowledge the value of the contribution they are making.’*
FEDERAL TREASURER'S BUDGET SPEECH , 13TH AUGUST 1963
The Wales Savings Bank is
lending a higher proportion
of its deposits for housing
than is any other
nationally operating
savings bank
the
WALES
SAVINGS BANK
The bank that cares about people
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES SAVINGS BANK LIMITED
\o*


INVEST
NOW
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
Q
)/
/O
10
20
years
7i%
7 years
7%
5 and 6
years
6 \°/o
3 years
Applications must be lodged
on the form attached to the
prospectus.
£1,000,000
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE NOTES
6 °Jo
12 months
5%
6 months
4%
3 months
Applications must be made
on the form attached to the
prospectus and the acknow-
ledgment will be a Registered
Redeemable Unsecured Note.
HOW TO INVEST
Obtain a prospectus from and
lodge applications at: —
• Any Stockbroker.
• The National Bank of
Australasia .Limited.
• Any office of Burns Philp
Trust Co. Ltd.
• Any store or office of
Waltons Limited.
• Waltons Credit Corpora-
tion Limited, Park and
George Streets, Sydney.
Phone 61-9273.
?
CREDIT CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated in The Australian Capital
Territory. c AS 2318 b
INVESTMENT SECTION
The Bitter-Sweet of CRA
A Taste of Overseas Ownership
RIOTINTO OF AUSTRALIA’S
thriving interim report came to
hand right in the middle of the contro-
versy on overseas ownership. Only 10
p.c. of the shares are held locally.
The English controlling parent, Rio
Tinto-Zinc Corporation, has some 38.2
p.c. by value of its assets in Australia,
including what are probably its most
hopeful prospects Barrier mines,
Comalco aluminium and even the
Hamersley (WA) iron ore deposits. The
great Mary Kathleen uranium develop-
ment faces close-down in October.
Last year’s group earnings received
rather less than their due proportion
from the Australian assets. That situa-
tion seems likely to be on the mend in
1963.
Invigorated especially by higher mine
production at Broken Hill and better
metal prices, both sales and profits of
CRA improved during the June half-
year. The colliery subsidiaries alone
met any real trading difficulties, though
Comalco had to restrict output as a
result of power lacks.
Whatever increased returns find a way
overseas does not of course detract from
the mineral giant’s enormous contribu-
tion to Australia’s growth. And the
coming years will certainly see demands
for much more capital to exploit the
country’s natural resources.
Mr Staniforth Ricketson turned briefly
to this among the multitude of topics
covered in his address to Sherbourne In-
vestments’ shareholders. “Steps should
be taken to ensure the retention to Aus-
tralian investors of a substantial portion
of the ordinary share capital employed,”
he suggested.
He admitted that “the employment of
capital for mining operations is based
on the expectation that sufficient profit
will be gained to recoup the capital out-
lay within a reasonably short period. To
recompense the overseas shareholders,
therefore, the remittance of substantial
dividends will be necessary to amortise
the original investment and to provide
a satisfactory amount of profit before the
exhaustion of the mineral deposits which
are being extracted.”
Citing Ampol’s Queensland refinery,
however, Mr Ricketson felt no doubt of
Australia’s capacity to secure domestic
capital in support of large ventures,
retaining “for Australians the rewards
which may be expected to flow”.
Larke’s Sweet Song
rFHE markets moved smartly to repair
their recent stickiness on motor
industrialist and product engineer Larke
Consolidated Industries. On a pre-
liminary profit statement the ss. shares
went from 9s. 7d. to 11s. after the
former price had been the best so far
in 1963.
Directors’ first account of trading to
June 30 was a model of adequate detail
and an attractive story they had to tell.
Group profit leapt by £146,011 to
£303,594, bringing earning rate up from
14.6 to 28.1 p.c. Sales reached
£10,446,491, against the previous year’s
£8,007,457.
With that behind them directors were
not hesitant in adding a 2i p.c. bonus
to the 10 p.c. basic dividend, marking
“the 29th successive year of a dividend
rate of not less than 10 p.c. on capital.”
The company enters the current year
in good shape. All subsidiaries traded
more profitably throughout 1962-63
except Willcastle Pty, Victorian Fiat dis-
tributor, which suffered a £9178 estab-
lishment loss. Significantly earnings
during the June half-year improved on
the December period, while the board
also feels results for 1963-64 “should
be favorable.”
Investors can reckon not only on the
continuing effects of reorganisation. “The
company seeks the purchase of an
additional enterprise to operate within
the group with the same individuality
and independence as the existing Larke
Consolidated companies.”
Banking Benison
Otill another bank joins the premium
issue queue and the procession is
probably not finished yet. The trading
banks are clearly swinging into a vigor-
ous and growth-rich period, which began
with the Federal Government’s 1962
liberalisation and continues under the spur
of lively competition.
Latest in line, the English Scottish and
Australian, makes its issue of 20s. stg.
shares on a two-for-five basis with the
premium 14s. stg. a share. Australian
shareholders will pay 425. 6d.
Under the influence of the issue, ES


& A shares jumped ss. 6d. to 625, 6d.,
where they yield 2.9 p.c., lowest of the
bank stocks. Some of the rise doubtless
came from a 38 p.c. profit advance (most
coming from banking activities as dis-
tinct from the hire-purchase subsidiary)
and directors’ expectation of holding the
9 p.c. dividend on higher capital
ES & A's issue followed closely on
those by the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia and the Australia and New Zealand
Bank. Directors bear witness to develop-
ments which “put on the banks the re-
sponsibility of extending and increasing
their services to meet the growing
demands of their customers.”
Despite low yields, expansion and
mechanisation programmes make bank
shares once again a necessity in all bal-
anced portfolios.
Some idea of the changed investment
climate can be suggested by contrasting
average dividend yield of the Australian
trading banks at the end of 1961, 5.5
p.c., with prevailing yields: Adelaide 3.4
p.c.; Commercial of Sydney 3.7 p.c.;
Commercial of Australia 3.2 p.c.;
National fully paid 3.8 p.c.; NSW 3.3 p.c.
The “Wales” looks well and truly in
the investment firing-line with next
month's share split, a possible dividend
lift and perhaps more capital demands.
More Fluff for Carpets
A N erstwhile favorite, Carpet Manu-
facturers, may deserve more in-
vestment interest as housing gathers pace.
Some of the Budget and savings bank
encouragements should take the com-
pany a further step towards recovery.
Two years of profit decline were
arrested in the year to June, group earn-
ings going up by £21,439 to £101,084.
That represents only 9.1 p.c. on capital,
but directors felt confident enough to
bring dividend from 6 to 8 p.c.
There's a long distance to 1959-60’s
£207,794 profit and the briefly held 124
p.c. dividend rate. As well as local con-
ditions, imports were still giving con-
cern in October last. The full report
should be watched for comment on this
particular aspect.
The 20s. shares added 6d. to touch
265. 6d. on the preliminary statement.
Top levels have been 275. this year and
295. in 1962.
Slow but Sure
ly/fAURi Brothers and Thomson Ltd
continued its tortoise-like progress
with a 5.9 p.c. lift in profit to £592,778
for the year to June 30.
Dividend was nudged up from 10 to
104 p.c., and one can predict with a
fair degree of certainty that this year
it will be 1 1 p.c., and a bonus in 1964
will occasion a dividend cut and then
gradual restoration.
At least Mauri history has been writ-
ten thrice in this manner since the war.
And the current proposal to double
nominal capital to £lO million will ac-
commodate another bonus.
Although the management is not re-
nowned for its communiques, the 1962-
63 annual report should make worth-
while reading, and fully justify the
18s. 9d. being asked currently for the
ss. shares.
Finance for Motelier
jfTAviNG resisted a takeover from Cam-
bridge Credit Corporation in mid-
-1962, directors of Consolidated Motels
have been at pains to justify their stand
for independence.
Interim report in February, 1963, was
of profits up by one-third. That was not
how the cards fell in August, however.
Final profit for the year was only 4.3
p.c. higher at £20,476, and the steady
8 p.c. dividend takes £IB,OOO.
The company has partly solved its
liquidity problems by arranging a 20-
year 74 p.c. mortgage loan with a life
office, for £IBO,OOO. Existing share and
debenture holders will be asked to sub-
scribe £75,000 in 84 p.c. debentures.
These issues replace £159,000 of de-
bentures which mature in September.
Earnings have again fallen far short
of prospectus estimates of 15.1 p.c., so
the ss. shares still linger about 6d. below
par.
Bad News Expected
Ane or more investors felt sufficiently
gloomy about Carrier Air Con-
ditioning's immediate future to take out
a 2 months put on 2000 shares recently.
Exercise price was 7s. Id. and the
cost of the option was Bd.
Last year Carrier checked in with
trading results in the first week of Sep-
tember.
If the news is bad this year (a divi-
dend is unlikely), it may not be an-
nounced so promptly.
Tyree Succeeds
Preliminary results from Tyree In-
dustries Ltd confirmed The Bul-
letin’s trust in recommending the ss.
shares last December when they cost
18s.
Profit advanced 17 p.c. to £89,951,
giving a highly satisfactory earning rate
of 38.3 p.c.
Tyree has entered into an auxiliary
agreement with le Materiel Electrique
Schneider-Westinghouse to handle cer-
tain of their products on Australasian
markets.
Other progress is evident in the
securing of 4 acres of extra land and
the proposed erection of a new building.
A private placement of 100,000 ss.
shares at a substantial premium (the
shares are now 225. 9d.) will take care
of the finance.
In concluding their statement to
shareholders, directors made a plea to
Australian electrical authorities to pur-
chase transformers locally rather than
overseas.
Companies of Parts
Tf Repco Ltd can turn in a rattling
good result for 1962-63, what about
National Consolidated Ltd?
After marking time for the two
financial years 1959-60 and 1960-61,
Repco’s profit accelerated from £1.2
million to £1.4 million, and for the
latest year £l.B million.
Dividend was up-graded from 10 p.c.
to 111 p.c. and now 15 p.c.
Repco shares have pulled up from a
low of 15s. 2d. this year to the present
price of 20s. 6d. to yield 3.7 p.c.
National Consolidated shares have
ranged between narrower limits from
265. 9d. to the present peak of 31s. or
thereabouts. The company usually checks
in with trading results in late Sep-
tember, and these could well show that
the market is currently under-estimating
the stock.
Other makers of automotive parts
which enjoyed similar conditions for the
first half of the year and are yet to
report for the full year are Hendersons
Industries, Flexdrive and GUD. These
stocks are quoted exclusively in Mel-
bourne.
Paper Profits
Tnvestors should not lose sight of the
fact that the doubling of profit by
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills was
from the very low level of £544,628.
Net result of £1,262,530 was still a
long way short of the £1.5 million peak
in 1959.
The partial recovery was aided by in-
creased tariff protection.
The Cruel Sea
A delaide Steamship's ss. shares look
unlikely to be overmuch disturbed
by preliminary disclosures of higher
profit in the year to June and the
marginal dividend lift. Prices hover
close to 75., which is certainly their best
during 1963, but below 1962’s Bs. sd.
Not so many rabbits can be pulled
out of this particular secretive hat as
seemed possible a few years ago. Latest
earnings, up by £87,331 to £387,606,
still represent an earning rate of only 8.3
p.c. On the strength of this, dividend


. . . I’m not a
financial wizard!
In fact my knowledge off business
matters is rather limited . . . that’s
why I appointed Perpetual Trustee to
look after my affairs.
It’s really a wonderful service . . .
they collect the income from my
investments and send me a cheque
regularly. There’s no worry about
book-keeping or making out taxation
returns, either . . . Perpetual relieves
me of all those difficult details and
their experts are always available to
advise me on any problems which
arise. It’s good to know your affairs
are in such capable hands!
Acting on behalf of people who
prefer not to be burdened with the
many responsibilities of financial
management is just another service of
Perpetual . . . Australia’s largest
trustee company.
Perhaps Perpetual can be of assis-
tance to you. Call and discuss your
problems with a senior officer who
will be glad to offer expert advice and
assist you in any way possible . . .
there’s no charge for this service.
Ask Perpetual today for your free
copy of a new information booklet
outlining the Company’s services.
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
33-39 Hunter Street, Sydney. Telephone 2 0377
Offices at Newcastle, Wollongong,
Orange and Tamworth
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (CANBERRA) LTD.
M.L.C. BUILDING, PETRIE STREET, CANBERRA, A.C.T.
PUT YOUR TRUST IN PERPETUAL ”
m
m
i
M 0
4&M
m
went up from 6i to 7 p.c., talcing
£325,519.
The full report will be made avail-
able in mid-September. Shareholders
may then hear a little more about the
merger discussions with Mcllwraith Mc-
Eacharn, initiated in March and subse-
quently closeted with silence.
Directors’ interim statement in Febru-
ary mentioned an expected earning
stimulus from the trailership Trcubridge.
An intriguing note was added by “a
small increase” in results from inter-
state vessels.
Non-Tranquillised Shareholders
"T|rug Houses of Australia’s shock
17 profit fall hit the markets hard. The
20s. shares have lost 6s. 6d. to reach 695.
Prices this year have mostly remained
close to a top 755. 9d., not very far
from 1962’s best at 775.
Directors have themselves to blame
for such a decided lapse. Shareholders
got no explanation at all for a net earn-
ings decline of £102,214 to £971,428, the
first retreat in seven years. Retention of
an 11£ p.c. dividend paid since 1959 was
insufficient compensation when hard
information seemed necessary.
Full accounts, available in about a
month, are to declare the mystery, made
all the worse by a favorable interim
report. The preliminary statement shows
provisions, including sundry, down
markedly. Both trading and investment
income appear to have been affected.
Drug’s near-leader standing does not
look greatly in peril, though some share-
holders may not be willing to wait on
directors’ pleasure.
Zevenboom’s Bloom
/Yne of the steepest dividend increases—
from 8 to 10 p.c. given this re-
porting season comes from Zevenboom
Holdings Ltd, Victorian brush merchant
and manufacturer. It did this despite only
a marginal increase from £41,201 to
£41,968 in profit for the year to June
30, 1963. It is suspected that the sale of
a freehold property, albeit at a loss, has
something to do with the more generous
handout by the directors, as they say this
sale will relieve the company of certain
fixed changes to the benefit of future
profits.
Brambles Firmer
THhe partial recovery in Brambles’ pro-
fit for the latest term to June 30
stiffened demand for the ss. shares,
which had been pining at below 16s.
Retention of the usual 20 p.c. divi-
dend rate has meant a particularly high
pay-out ratio these last two years.
Latest earning rate of 23.8 p.c. gives
a moderate earnings yield of 7.2 p.c.,
compared with the generous income
yield of 6.1 p.c.
Efficiency Phis
Equipment of Australia
Ltd earned a higher net profit from
lower sales in the first half of the year
ended June 30, and its obvious efficiency
was roundly praised.
Final results are now to hand, reveal-
ing a 7 p.c. lift in profit to a record
£205,342. But directors have not so fat
indicated how the year’s turnover coifi-
pared with its predecessor.
CORRECTION
A- V. Jennings Industries, The
Bulletin’s “One To Buy” of
August 24, dosed its furniture depart-
ment, a section of the “complete home
plan,” in 1961. At June 30, 1962, share
premium reserve contained £215,625
and not £462,966.


b j | 5
#5
•Jf
■ftSWfc
s s
" # *'' x v>iU-
tv-r
|j| 1
L
J.<
I ?
1
l
• r
p ; j ’•'•—*
11 i
I i
i t
■ ; •:
5
y ’
U
P ~Tf —-•'•*:——»■
jLej
i
•ns
„$s
- * • -K*/|
\
■—'i
X l'JT\r’ i *
E
rV
“*“*^B*23*^
•CCi»
’»•»
i
I
L
u
ssaes
1
Has your office
joined the revolution ?
-Right now there’s a revolution going on in offices
all over the world. Administration, like so many other
fields, is fast taking advantage of new techniques
made possible through technical developments and
creative thinking and planning.
In the process tried and true methods of the past
are being replaced by new, better and more economical
ones. Fresh possibilities for quicker and easier ways
of doing many jobs are continually being opened up.
Methods of handling paperwork for instance have
come a long way in the last few years.
Through world wide 3M research the range of Thermo-
Fax machines can now do far more for you than
ever before. Not only do they copy quicker and better
on a wide selection of white and coloured papers
but they make possible a variety of time and money-
saving office systems that ensure greater efficiency.
Thermo-Fax brand copying machines have always
set the pace in the business communications field.
They can show you the way to join the office
revolution and keep up with modern trends.
3M representatives are always ready to discuss
creative ways of handling your paperwork.
■Bnmn TRADEMARK HHI
Thermo-Fax
BRAND
COPYING AND SYSTEMS PRODUCTS
FOR BETTER BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS
ANVdLUDD BH
tuE
2 WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY 2-0930 ■ 17-23 QUEENSBRIDGE STREET, SOUTH MELBOURNE, 5.C.4 61-3841 ■ 9 NORTH TERRACE, ADELAIDE
LA 5971-6 ■ 178 BARRY PARADE, BRISBANE 5-4131 ■ 238 LORD STREET, PERTH 28-4651 ■ 182 ELIZABETH STREET, HOBART 3-1620.
msa 3190 a.


COMPETITION
SILENCED
*§* «$► <®§t» A «§»
this speaker
0:1
«£
*S
r, l~
jflO
EDIS
m
WM
Mb
m
You know what made the gramophone of 1905 just a squeaky noise today?
One thing, competition!
The manufacturer who does not improve his product or service to the public
to keep ahead of his competitors, fails. Competition is the driving force that is
the spur to progress.
In Australia there are many banks, each in competition for your business, with the
result that Australia has a banking service equal to the best in the world.
Every Australian benefits from Competition between Banks
t. ■ if
FREE ENTERPRISE BANKS
THE NATIONAL • THE WALES • THE C.B.A. • THE C.B.C. • THE ADELAIDE • THE E.S. &A. • THE A.N.Z.
U3O3D
ONE TO BUY
Remarkable
Printers’ Devil
TPhe Melbourne - situated printing
machine supplier Aldus Ltd has
just come to light with an outstanding
£163,000 profit for the year ended June
30. Directors have added a 2 p.c. bonus
to the 12 p.c. dividend held since the
company joined the public lists in 1958.
These two performances cap a suc-
cession of fine results. Most remarkably,
the profit fetches up earning rate on
ordinary capital to a hefty 32.9 p.c. If
that infers a relatively cautious dividend
policy over the years, it also suggests a
well-based capacity for expansion, which
now gives every sign of continuing.
Earning rate actually touched 35.3
p.c., on considerably smaller capital, in
1959. It’s been healthy enough in later
years as may be seen: 1960, 29.7 p.c.;
1961, 25.7 p.c.; 1962, 22.5 p.c.
Shareholders have gained the benefits
of growth in the shape of regular issues:
3-for-10 at par late in 1958; 3-for-20 at
a premium in June, 1960; and again on
the same basis in February, 1962. The
present surge may fairly soon need more
capital.
A greener field still could be an
ultimate bonus, for in total reserves
£346,477 at June 30, 1962 (against
ordinary capital £464,528) stood share
premiums £95,920. Fixed assets, too,
look conservatively valued.
Naturally with past, present and future
possibilities the 10s. shares are quite
firmly held and change at high levels.
The last sale price at 365. means a divi-
dend yield of 3.3 p.c.
But the shares are worth seeking in
Melbourne and Sydney, even if they are
most infrequently available in Sydne*
It may give a slightly false impression
to concentrate upon the group’s printing
machinery operations, though as holding
company for the widely known Seligson
and Clare these draw most attention.
However, the manufacturing sub-
sidiary, Ronai Engineering, concerned
with woodworking and other machinery,
has for instance achieved eminent export
success, in 1961-62 becoming eligible for
complete remission of payroll tax under
Federal Government incentives. An-
other offshoot, Herbert Osborne Pty,
supplies machine and small tools to
engineers. As well Aldus owns a large
.holding in Monotype Corporation of
Australia Pty.
The latest complete accounts will not
be available until November. They
should plainly display the ground of re-
peated progress.


ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger,
J. D. Wolfensohn.
Members o 1 the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft, R. V.
Betts, D. A. Livingstone.
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: 25-5711, 25-6011. Telex 5243
Branches at
150 Queen Street, Melbourne.
359-369 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Cables and Telegrams:
Orderley: Sydney, Melbourne and
Brisbane.
A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVITT, A. C. DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F. CORMIE,
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members of Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHARE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Life Building,
297 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO”
Phone: 31-2761 P.O. BOX
(4 lines) No. 1887 W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6089. .
SECURITY ANALYSIS
Long View on Swan Brewery
A long with the banks, insurance com-
panies and finance companies, the
brewery companies have become the
glamor stocks of 1963. A quick glance
at the share list will show that, with the
exclusion of Tooheys and R. W. Miller,
all the companies shown on the Sydney
list have yields of just about 3 p.c. While
this yield is rather higher than that
available from the insurance companies,
it is somewhat lower than the yields gene-
rally available from the trading banks’
ordinary shares. Clearly, then, the in-
vestor in brewery shares is expecting that
the dividend payout will grow at a rather
greater rate than that of the banks but
perhaps at a slightly lesser rate than that
of the insurance companies. In any
event, he must be expecting that the divi-
dend from the brewery stocks will grow
at a rate greater than 4 p.c. per annum
compound in perpetuity, otherwise he
would be inclined to accept the long-term
debentures which are available today,
showing a certain return of 7 p.c. pef
annum.
The shares in Swan Brewery are
interesting because of the dramatic in-
crease which has occurred in their price
over the last two years. In July 1961,
Tooth’s shares were selling around 60s.
and have therefore shown a 50 p.c. in-
crease in this two-year period while Swan
Brewery shares were selling at around
13s. and have shown a 100 p.c. increase
in price over this period. While part of
the increase has been due to an increase
in the dividend rate from 123 to 15 p.c.,
it is noticeable that today the dividend
yield is 2.9 p.c. even after the recent in-
crease in the dividend rate. In July, 1961,
the shares were selling to show an im-
mediate dividend yield of 4.8 p.c., and
there is little doubt that they were under-
priced at this level.
The recent history of profitability of
the company certainly gives the impres-
sion of quite rapid growth. Over the last
five years the trend of earnings as a
percentage of ordinary capital and oper-
ating income as a percentage of total
capital have both shown strong upward
trends:—
Year to end March 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Earnings p c.
ord capital 8.9 10.2 13.7 16.8 18.1
Operating income p.c.
total capital 13.0 14.3 18.1 19.6 22.6
The trends exhibited by these two
ratios leave little doubt that the total
operation of brewing and leasing of hotels
has shown a marked growth potential
under efficient management. The poten-
tial which exists in Western Australia,
which is the main area of the group's
activities, would suggest that the com-
pany will certainly not lack customers
for its products. It remains, however, to
decide whether the last five years’ growth
rates can be extended indefinitely into
the future.
this stage, it is as well to examine
the increase in earnings which would
be necessary if the rate of increase in
dividends over the last three years is to
be continued. The dividend rate has been
increased from 10 to 15 p.c. and a l-for-7
bonus issue has been made as well. This
has meant that dividend payout has in-
creased by nearly 73 p.c. or at an average
annual compound rate of about 20 p.c.
If this rate is to continue for the next
five years only, then the dividend payout
would increase to about £1.5 million by
the 1967-68 year.
Strangely enough, this is not impossible
on the basis of past performance since
the dividend payout has increased by
nearly 100 p.c. over four years and
earnings have increased by over 100 p.c.
in a period of five years. Nevertheless, one
cannot help noticing some similarity be-
tween the period from 1960 to 1963 and
the period from 1952 to 1956 so far as
the Swan Brewery Co. Limited is con-
cerned. From 1952 until 1956, the divi-
dend rate increased from 7i to 10 p.c.
although a l-for-3 cash issue was made
during this period. But for the following
five years the dividend remained at 10
p.c. and there was little or no improve-
ment in the earning rate during this
period.
If one takes the longer view, and looks
at the growth in dividend income from
3952 until 1963, it becomes apparent
that the average annual compound rate of
increase over the whole period has been
around 7i p.c. per annum.
long history of all the brewery com-
panies, including the Swan Brewery
Co., suggests that they should be stable
profit earners in the long-term future. In
the case of the Swan Brewery, dividends
have been paid in every year over the
last forty-four years at least, and the
actual payout in amount has increased
from £32,000 approximately to £611,000
very nearly. Investors then clearly have
reason to believe that this favourable
record is likely to be continued into the
foreseeable future. If they are expecting
the 20 p.c. growth rate in dividend income
to continue for five years and thereafter
to drop to 3 p.c. per annum in perpetuity,
the current price would show an effective
yield of about 8 p.c. If they are expecting
the rate of growth of the last twelve years
to be continued over say the next ten
years, thereafter reducing to 3 p.c. in
perpetuity, then the current price would
seem to be rather high if they are aim-
ing at an 8 p.c. yield overall. The maxi-
mum price to be paid in the event of
the latter expectation would seem to be
about 20s. 6d.
The only worthwhile conclusion one
can come to is that the shares are cer-
tainly fully priced at 26s. but would ap-
pear to be reasonable buying at 20s
Nevertheless, it must be admitted that
even this latter price is more than 10
p.c. greater than the price which was
suggested two years ago for the same
stock.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT STATEMENT
SUMMARIES (£'000)
Year to end March 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current Assets 1070 1145 1092 1051 1238
Current liabilities 1691 1264 1196 1181 1527
Net working
capital (a) (621) (119) (104) (130) (289)
Fixed assets 7548 7239 7101 7529 7869
Investments 76 180 599 805 904
Represented by:
Loan Capital 26 18 8 — —
Minority Interests 25 20 22 3 —
Preference Capital 50 50 50 50 50
Ordinary Capital 3423 3423 3466 3968 4082
Reserves 3479 3789 4050 4183 4352
7003 7300 7596 8204 8484
Depreciation 260 281 353 399 418
Taxation 366 411 584 560 632
Minority Interests 112 1 —
Preference Dividend 3 3 3 3 3
Earnings 353 403 547 672 740
Ord. Dividend 342 342 433 495 611
Surplus / 11 61 114 174 129
Earnings % ord.
capital (a) 8.9 10.2 13.7 16.8 18.1
Ordinary
Dividend % (a) 8.7 8.7 10.9 12.5 15.0
Dividend yield % (b) 4.9 4.1 4.4 3.2 2.9
Earnings Yield % (b) 5.0 4.8 4.8 4.3 3.5
(a) adjusted for bonus issue.
(b) based on last sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
Sunshine After Rain
O wans Ltd, Sydney-based builders’
hardware retailer, appeared well on
the way to reversing the downward pro-
fit trend of the past two years until the
advent of the wet weather in the first
half of this year.
As a result, earnings for the 12 months
which ended on May 31 showed their
third successive decline, but with the
coming of better weather allied to the
release of additional home-building funds
by the savings banks, the current outlook
should be greatly improved.
The company began operations in
1900 and by the beginning of World
War II had highly successful branch
stores at Hurstville and Parramatta.
Stock Exchange listing was obtained in
1935 with an issued capital of £lOO,OOO
in 20s. ordinary shares and £25,000 in
6 p.c. preference shares.
Two additional branches have been
added to the chain, one at Wollongong
and the other at Chatswood, giving the
group a fairly comprehensive cover for
the Sydney metropolitan area.
Benefits for shareholders have been
fairly frequent, with seven cash issues
since 1948 three at a premium and
one bonus issue (one-for-two in 1951)
lifting paid up ordinary capital at last
balance date to £805,055.
Profit history has been good with grad-
ually increased earnings from £7145 in
1935, the year of listing, to a record
£136,850 in the boom year of 1960.
Earnings had always shown a good cover-
age to the dividend requirement. But fol-
lowing the credit squeeze and the slow-
ing down of home building, profit slipped
in the two following years to £109,124
in 1961 and £100,746 in 1962.
The decline in earning rate was match-
ed by a reduction in dividends, from 124
p.c. in 1960, to 10 p.c. in 1961 and 9
p.c. the following year.
In the latest year profit showed an-
other decline to £86,900, equal to
10.6 p.c. on capital due almost entire-
ly to the bad weather. Still, dividend was
held at 9 p.c. with a final 5 p.c. Business
is now recovering and the Federal
Budget will further stimulate home build-
ing.
The latest accounts show that stock
is up from £742,890 to £775,811 while
trade debtors are down from £480,987
to £433,135. Realisation of £lOO,OOO
in short-term deposits held at May 31,
1962, is reflected in a reduction in trade
creditors from £268,803 to £209,145
and conversion of an overdraft of
£15,298 to a credit bank balance of
£31,805.
A substantial hidden reserve exists
in land and buildings which appear in the
latest accounts at “deemed valuation, May
31, 1962, and additions at cost” at
£432,024.
The May ’62 valuation of £431,297
is the same figure as appeared in the
1961-62 accounts at 1951 valuation with
additions at cost less depreciation.
Reserves total £516,842 and include
£77,371 of a capital nature. Net assets
backing on book values of each 20s.
ordinary share is 36s. lOd.
The shares are currently selling around
28s. 3d. to show a dividend yield of
6.4 p.c. and an earnings yield of 7.5
p.c. They appear a good long-term pros-
pect at these levels.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 1207 1300 1307 1348 1259
Less current liabilities 515 568 442 477 412
Working caoital 692 732 865 871 847
Fixed assets 441 449 452 498 500
1133 1181 1317 1369 1347
Represented by:
Ord. capital 705 705 780 805 805
Pref. caoital 25 25 25 25 25
Capital reserves 52 52 77 77 77
Other reserves 351 399 435 462 440
1133 1181 1317 136 1347
Depreciation 11 11 10 10 10
Taxation 64 85 68 59 51
Net profit 105 137 109 101 87
Profits for ords 104 135 107 99 85
Ord. div. 70 88 71 72 72
Surplus 34 47 36 27 13
Dividend p.c. 10 12£ 10 9 9
Earnings p.c. 15.0 19.2 15.1 12.5 106
. Dividend yield 5.2 5 1 5.2 6.3 6.4
High price ' 46/- 53/- 41/6 36/- 30/3
Low price 32/6 41/- 31/- 27/6 27/6
BENNETT AND FISHER LTD
Wool Prices Big Factor
"Investors might be pardoned for
wondering if any special significance
can be attached to the rounding off by
Bennett and Fisher Ltd of general reserve
to £1 million.
Directors produced from past pro-
visions £lOO,OOO for general reserve,
£63,000 for long service leave and staff
superannuation, £13,420 for the direc-
tors’ superannuation fund (the subject
of some discussion a year ago) and
£188,570 for doubtful debts and
seasonal and stock fluctuations.
A company with paid capital of £1.5
million (£300,000 in preference shares)
which can write £365,000 back into the
accounts in one year deserves closer
attention.
Bennett and Fisher was established in
Adelaide in 1919. It acts as livestock
salesmen, wool and produce brokers
through branches in 32 South Aus-
tralian towns, and in Broken Hill and
Alice Springs. Its board consists of
members of the Adelaide “establish-
ment” including the legendary Walter
Kidman.
Earnings are, of course, tied very
much to the seasons. The year just
ended on June 30 was more profitable
than its predecessor. Splendid autumn
rains relieved the earlier dry con-
ditions. Higher merchandise earnings
and the high prices ruling for livestock
and wool accounted for the better profit
of £176,656.
A finance subsidiary was formed dur-
ing the year to assist in financing the
company’s increased business.
Issued ordinary capital was enlarged
on June 30, 1963, to £1.2 million by
the conversion to shares of £300,000 in
7£ p.c. notes, which had been issued in
June, 1960, in the ratio of one-for-two.
Otherwise shareholders have had only


a one-for-one par ordinary share issue
(in June, 1956) by way of capital benefit.
Rights of preference shareholders
were varied in May, 1956, and holders
of “A” and “B” preference shares no
longer participate in any bonus issue.
Directors said at the time that they did
not intend to make a bonus issue “at
present.”
From disclosed profits and the annual
taxation provisions there is no evidence
of permanent growth. The company is
undoubtedly strong in assets, but these
would probably be no more productive
in other hands.
Shareholders can probably look for-
ward to rather higher profits in the
current year, if the wool market holds
present levels. The market price for
the shares should respond accordingly.
The present price of around 51s. for
the 20s. ordinary shares returns a very
well covered 5.9 p.c. on capital out-
layed, and although this is higher than
the price usually ruling at this time of
the year, it is not excessive for a stock
of this quality.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
June 30 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current assets 2294 2536 2386 2206 2767
Less current
liabilities 1365 1291 1240 1551 1723
Working capital 929 1245 1146 655 1039
Investments not shown separately 91 90
Fixed assets 826 853 1013 1452 1533
1755 2098 2159 2198 2662
Loan capital — 300 300 300 300
Pref. capital 300 300 300 300 300
Ordinary capital 600 600 600 600 900
Reserves 855 898 959 998 1162
1755 2098 2159 2198 2662
Taxation 104 95 130 90 115
Depreciation — — — 42 46
Net profit 177 156 173 151 177
Net profit for
ords. 154 133 150 128 154
Dividends 90 90 90 90 90
Surplus 64 43 60 38 64
Earning rate 25.9 22.3 25.1 21.4 25.7
Dividend rate 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 6.3 6.3 6.6 6.3
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 9.2 10.6 9.1 11.0
High price (b) 48/9 61/3 49/2 54/-
Low price (b) 36/5 35/6 40/- 44/10
(a) End of August, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
DOMINION BREWERIES LTD
Handsome Yields From Beer
A lthough still yielding only 3 p.C;,
shares in Dominion Breweries Ltd,
Auckland, are more attractively priced at
the current 16s. 6d. (NZ) than they have
been for some time. This offers a good
opportunity to buy into one of New
Zealand's top growth stocks.
After the shares had reached a peak
of 17s. lOd. earlier this year, the com-
pany last month announced a slight drop
in earnings by £18,600 to £443,337.
There were special reasons for this de-
cline, while, moreover, profit seems un-
derstated considering the tax provision
of £474,045. Nevertheless, the market
has marked this leading stock down more
than is warranted by its very strong posi-
tion.
Founded in 1930, New Zealand’s
second largest brewery concern has an
almost unrivalled history for bonus and
cash issues. Most of the cash issues have
been made at stiff premiums, repaid to
shareholders by way of bonus issues. As
a result, 100 £1 shares bought 25 years
ago for £lB6 would now have grown
into 1764 ss. shares, worth £1455, with-
out an additional penny having been put
up in cash. Income would have grown in
the same period from £8 10s. to £44 10s.
There is no reason why this growth
should not continue, albeit at somewhat
slower tempo. The company has always
shown great reluctance to use bank
credit, probably because of the dislike of
its managing director, Sir Henry Kelliher,
of present monetary systems. Term bor-
rowings are also small a mere
£711,000 secured by land and buildings
valued at £3.5 million, but probably
worth at least double that amount.
At least a dozen hotels are to be added
to the present chain of over 30, plant
is to be expanded, and a beer canning
venture will come into operation next
year, so that the company might within
a couple of years go to the market again.
As reserves once again nearly equal capi-
tal, a bonus issue is also a distinct pos-
sibility for the near future.
This year's halt in the strongly upward
trend of profits was caused by increased
costs of maintenance and renovations,
mostly non-recurrent. For this reason, it
can be expected that earnings in the cur-
rent year will restore earning rates.
Meantime, the renovations, which in
some cases looked more like rebuilding,
have given the company a number of
up-to-date hotels, including the well-
known De Brett and the Royal Inter-
national, claimed to be New Zealand's
top hotel and opened this month. Both
are in Auckland.
Dominion Breweries achieved interna-
tional fame by the invention, in 1955, of
a continuous brewing process by Mr
Morton Coutts, the company’s chief
brewer and a member of the board. This
brewing process, which enables consider-
able savings, was snapped up by New
Zealand Breweries and was also sold to
Canadian Breweries, the largest brew-
ing group in the world. Other countries
have also acquired the rights on a royalty
basis or may soon do so.
The company has not disclosed its
earnings from this source, which should
have great scope for the future. But the
balance of £69,000 in its Canadian bank
account gives an indication.
Another interest which could prove
profitable is the holding of 30,000 of the
500,000 shares in McWilliams Industries,
large wine-maker in which McWilliams
Wines Pty Ltd, of Sydney, is the largest
shareholder with 175,000 shares.
Sales of bottled beer now exceed one
million bottles a week and turnover
should be boosted next year when the
company will install a canning line in
its Auckland brewery. However, the
canning venture, although offering prom-
ise for the future, is not yet seen as a
major one.
Earning yield, at 5.6 p.c., is not high.
But it has never been in recent years and
yet shareholders have reaped plenty of
benefits. An improvement seems assured.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£NZ'000)
March 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Working Caoital 371 63 224 413 307
Net fixed assets 2192 2668 2638 3387 3949
Investments 109 109 236 604 381
Goodwill 15 15 15 26 —
2687 2855 3113 4430 4637
Pref. capital* 40 40 40 40 40
Ord. capital 1240 1560 1560 2360 2360
Reserves 1407 1255 1513 2030 2237
2637 2855 3113 4430 4637
Depreciation 160 160 184 206 237
Taxation 254 321 447 502 474
Net profit 220 288 398 462 443
Dividend 159 160 160 212 240
Surplus 61 128 238 250 203
Earned av. cap.j 18.2 18.0 24.9 21.5 18.5
Earned av. funds f 8.5 10.4 13.3 12.2 9 8
Div. rate $ 10 + b2| 10 10 10 10
Div. yield av. price 3.1 2.4 2.7 3.1 2.9
Earn, yld av. price 4.6 4.3 6.7 6.6 5.4
High price 22/6 24/3 22/- 17/9 17/10
Low price 17/1 13/1 15/1 14/9 16/6
* Fully participating, f Ordinary plus preference.
% Ord. and preference.
US Firms Seek
Agents Here
Marketing Services, North
Glendale Avenue, Glendale, Cali-
fornia, is interested in marketing in Aus-
tralia a machine for heat sealing
urethane, polyester and polyether foam.
The machine is used for embossing
bathroom mats, etc., and also for the
manufacture of urethane foam pillows
and cushions, at a very high rate of
production.
US Industries, Inc, Park Avenue, New
York, wants an Australian distributor to
handle its industrial automation equip-
ment for production lines. Essentially
these include feeder bowls and automatic
transfer devices.
Brochures describing these products
are available for perusal at the US Con-
sulate-General.


MERCANTILE
CREDITS LTD.
£500,000 NEW ISSUE
Registered First Mortgage Debenture Stock
LONG-TERM INCOME
8% pa -
-10 years
7iJo
7 years
7i% '•••
5 years
65%
2 years
SHORT-TERM INCOME
9 Z
12 months
41% -
6 months
4i% pa -
-3 months
Interest is payable every 3 months
TRUSTEE FOR DEBENTURE HOLDERS: The M.L.C. Nominees
Limited.
DIRECTORS OF MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.: D. C. Cameron
(Chairman), M. D. Thompson (Managing), D. F. P.
Roth, J. T. Reid, H. W. Hattersley.
Applications accepted only on application form attached
to and referred to in a printed copy of the prospectus.
Obtain prospectus from any member of a recognised Stock
Exchange in Australia, any branch of Australia and New
Zealand Bank Ltd., or any office of
MERCANTILE CREDITS LTD.
HEAD OFFICE .... 10-14 UNDERWOOD STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES: Vic. 118 Queen Street, Melbourne
Qld 301 Ann Street, Brisbane
S.A 329 King William Street, Adelaide
W.A. 115 St. George's Terrace, Perth
A.C.T 33 Ainslie Avenue, Canberra City
•MSSaa
m ®
a 3q
;odb
HI Q] riH;□ g b
Head Office, Sydney.
Company activities
throughout the
Commonwealth
include hire
purchase, leasing,
general finance.
222/63C
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Flutter Over
Power Costs
Sir,
There need be no “flutter over power
costs” (Bulletin, July 27) if the hard
facts of the matter are examined with
proper understanding. A straight com-
parison of quoted average costs per unit
of output of a new thermal power station,
such as Hazelwood, and of a hydro-
electric power development, such as the
Mersey-Forth in Tasmania, is quite
invalid without many other factors being
taken into account.
The Hazelwood figure of .49 pence
per unit is based on 1958 cost levels.
The increase in cost since 1958 will add
to the figure of .49d. Also this figure does
not include the very considerable ac-
cumulation of interest during construc-
tion. The Mersey-Forth figure of .52
pence is based on 1963 cost levels, and
it includes all costs.
The Hazelwood figure is based on a
very high load factor of operation, and
it does not take into account the effect
upon other generating plant in the Vic-
torian system which will be relegated to
peak load service; the “.49 pence” is not
a realistic assessment of the market price
of the output from Hazelwood. The
Mersey-Forth figure of .52 pence is re-
lated to the actual load factor of opera-
tion, and the base load energy can be
priced at less than this figure, the peak
load energy at rather more.
The Hazelwood figure, based as it is
on high load factor of operation, will be
valid only in the first years of the
station’s life, and as the load factor
tends to decline with the age of the plant,
so the average cost per unit will increase.
The life of a thermal station is usually
taken as 25 to 30 years. In a hydro
development, load factor of operation
remains fairly steady throughout its life,
which may be 50 to 60 years.
Coal fuel, maintenance and labor
charges constitute a large proportion of
the annual costs of a thermal power
station and they will inevitably rise as
wages increase. Hydro station operation
requires no costly fuels and very little
labor, and so is much less sensitive to
wage variations.
The above are some of the more im-
portant factors which affect comparisons
of the cost of output from different
power stations. So far as any consumer
is concerned, the true average cost of
electrical energy from the Hazelwood or
any other thermal station will be con-
siderably more than the quoted .49
pence. The quoted .52 pence of the Mer-
sey-Forth figure is realistic, and it means


THE SCOTS COLLEGE
Bellevue Hill
Sydney
There will be several vacancies for teach-
ers of both senior and junior forms in
1964. Subjects required will be:
ENGLISH
GEOGRAPHY
FRENCH
MATHEMATICS
SCIENCE
Ability to take part in extra-curricular acti-
vities will be a recommendation.
Enquiries should be addressed to the Acting
Principal.
SCOTCH COLLEGE
TORRENS PARK
MITCHAM, S.A.
Required for 1964 a Master to take
charge of the
CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT
and the top Chemistry teaching.
Excellent new laboratories
built last year—36 Leaving Honours
students this year.
Young graduate preferred to fill
this important post. Accommodation
possible for a bachelor.
Details of salary, etc., available
from the HEADMASTER.
BARKER COLLEGE
Hornsby, N.S.W.
MATHEMATICS MASTER
From January, 1964, a vacancy arises for
a master to teach mathematics to Leav-
ing Certificate Honours. Applicotions, with
two references, should be forwarded in
writing to the Headmaster.
Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MERVYN JOHN CUPPITT, late of
Auburn. TAKE NOTICE that MAVIS ROSE
JEAN CUPPITT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 469 of 1963 on the grounds of
desertion and/or separation. If you wish to
defend you may file an Answer in the Divorce
Registry, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, by the 7th day of October, 1963, and
obtain a copy of the Petition and Notice of
Petition without charge from GREGG &
MILNE, Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
TO: EDWARD MEINKE, late of 18 Penkivil
Street. Bondi and 92 Ramsgate Avenue, North
Bondi. TAKE NOTICE that JAMES JOHN
HENNIGAN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3189 of 1961 on the ground of your
adultery with SHIRLEY ANN HENNIGAN. If
you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court. Mac-
quarie Street, Sydney, on or before the
Thirtieth day of September, 1963, and obtain
a copy of the Petition without charge from
WALL ABBOTT & WHITE with MARK
MURRAY, Solicitors, of 187-191 Macquarie
Street, Sydney.—C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
TO: STEFAN (also known as IST VAN) MATE.
TAKE NOTICE that THERESA (also known
as THERESIA) MATE has filed a Petition No.
1343 of 1963 for Divorce on the ground of
desertion. If you wish to defend you may file
an Answer in the Divorce Registry, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before 7th October, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MES-
DAMES DEGOTARDI & CHALMERS, Solicitors,
of 77 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
Missing Persons
ESTATE LATE FRANK CANACOTT
Any person who may have knowledge of
ESCA FRANK LINDEN CANACOTT, daughter
of the abovenamed deceased, are requested
to communicate with the undersigned.
NOTE: The daughter of the deceased was
last known to be resident at No. 5 Percival
Road, Stanmore.
BEVINS & HOUEN,
Solicitors,
79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
BW 8881.
in fact that high load factor energy will
be produced at appreciably less than this
figure.
A mis-statement in your article re-
quires correction. It is quite incorrect
that the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Com-
mission “has offered big discounts in
under-the-counter deals with bulk power
consumers.” The prices negotiated in all
new bulk power contracts for many years
past have been related to the actual
costs of supply, and they are subject to
variation on account of cost fluctuations
by quarterly adjustments.
Finally, if large thermal power
stations based on low cost open cast
coal are reputed to produce electricity
at rates competitive with energy from
hydro sources, why is it that all of the
world's great aluminium companies have
searched the world in order to build their
production plants in locations endowed
with water power resources? The reason
for the establishment of the Alcoa plant
in Victoria is a question that may be
asked within that State.
THE HYDRO-ELECTRIC COMMISSION
(R. M. H. Garvie, Assistant
to the Commissioner).
Hobart (Tas.).
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Seeking the Good Oil
npHE brokers must have been pleased to
see interest return to the oil market
with the oil strike south of Roma. Oil
stock turnover was beginning to sag to
depressingly low levels.
The strike by the Associated Group
certainly took the market by surprise.
And apparently it was just as great a
surprise to the drilling contractors who,
so it is said, had no idea they were
about to strike oil and had to close off
the well for safety reasons.
In spite of guarded optimism by the
chairman (who is probably still a little
red-faced over his early pronouncements
about the Sunnybank strike) AAO shares
shot up from about 15s. to 28s. I wasn’t
game to buy at these prices, but when
they came down to 235. 9d. in response
to what the market thought was an un-
favorable report on Thursday, I tried to
get a one-month call option but under-
writers were as scarce as hens’ teeth.
It’s unfortunate the market is becom-
ing so sophisticated. Twelve months ago
an oil strike would have produced a
considerable rise in the whole market
and given me an opportunity to sell the
holdings in Woodside and Petroleum
Investments at more favorable prices
than now prevailing. In spite of my
reluctance to lose I sold with losses of
£l2l and £5O respectively.
Not being dismayed by my lack of
success in the oil exploration investment,
I bought 200 AOG with the proceeds.
I can’t help feeling optimistic about the
prospects of AOG. The Surat Basin
(area of the Cabawin, Moonie, Sunny-
bank and Richmond strikes) looks to be
a definite oil province. With the vast
amount of drilling by both the Associated
Group and Union Oil in the last 12
months, some definite clues about further
oil location must be emerging.
What is of particular interest is the
seven wells Union is going to drill before
Christmas in the immediate proximity
of the Moonie field. I’ll be very sur-
prised if they don’t come up with some-
thing to shift those shares well above the
current price of 445., and besides any
oil that flows from the Associated Group
leases will undoubtedly go through the
Moonie pipeline.
The week’s operations were:
SOLD
1000 Petroleum Investments, 4/9 .. £229
1000 Woodside ctg., 2/6 £l2l
£350
BOUGHT
200 AOG, 44/- £447
This has increased the debit in my
account to £320, so it looks like some
drastic selling will be needed next week.
The portfolio now is:
Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 11/2
500 Courtaulds 14/1/63 16/1 19/9
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 15/3
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 12/9
200 Carpet Manu. 23/5/63 23/- 26/3
3000 Salamander 26/6/63 2/3 2/10
1000 Waltons new 3/7/63 15/9 18/7
400 Pioneer Concrete' 3/7/63 13/9 16/6
400 United Telecasters 3/7/63 5/-
500 Mt Isa 16/7/63 33/6 35/9
400 Ducon 24/7/63 31/6 31/
1000 Plastic Coatings,
new 24/7/63 7/- 9/-
400 Paynter & Dixon 31/7/63 18/6 21/6
200 Hunter, Douglas 7/8/63 33/- 35/
1000 Vesta 8/8/63 3/3 3/5
1000 Aeron 14/8/63 7/9 8/9
400 Keith Harris 15/8/63 30/- 31/-
100 Pye Industries 21/8/63 74/- 83/3
600 Clyde Industries 22/8/63 11/- 11/11
200 AOG 29/8/63 44/- 44/-


Legal Notices
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: FRANK WILLIAM HANAFIN, late of
North Bondi. Take Notice that JEANETTE
ROBIN HANAFIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1818 of 1963 in the Supreme Court
of New South Wales on the grounds of
desertion and failure to pay maintenance.
If you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
7th day of October, 1963, and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from MESSRS.
S. T. HODGE & CO., Solicitors, 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: ANDREAS HERZ, late of Edgecliff. TAKE
NOTICE that IRENE HERZ has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2766 of 1963 on the ground
of desertion. If you wish to defend you may
file an Answer in the Divorce Registry. Sup-
reme Court, Mint Building, Macquarie Street,
Sydney, on or before the 19th of October,
1963, and obtain a copy of the Petition with-
out charge from BULL SON SCHMIDT <&
BERG, Solicitors, of 34 Martin Place, Sydney.
C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: KENNETH ROSS GALLAGHER and
ELIZABETH GALLAGHER, formerly of Rozelle.
TAKE NOTICE that EVELLYN ISOBEL
GALLAGHER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1817 of 1963 on the ground that
KENNETH ROSS GALLAGHER has committed
adultery with ELIZABETH GALLAGHER and
on the ground of desertion. If you or cither
of you wish to defend you may file an Answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, by the
7th October, 1963, and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from MESSRS. S. T.
HODGE & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney. C. A. H. HARMS, Registrar.
THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Record Land Purchase
One Man Buys 17,500 Acres for Nearly £400,000
A talking-point that has kept many
a bar buzzing in Victoria’s West
Wimmera for the past few weeks is the
record price paid by wheat-grower Harry
Bourchier for a 17,500-acre property
called “Mortat” a few miles west of
Goroke.
The exact price has not been dis-
closed. The company that sold “Mortat,”
Squatting Investment Co. Ltd, declined
in Melbourne last week to give the figure,
although a spokesman conceded that it
would ultimately appear in the firm’s
balance sheet. The agents who handled
the deal were piqued because a Horsham
correspondent gave Melbourne papers
£400,000 as the price; but he did not
say it was far out. Bourchier himself
admits that the sum is between £350,000
and £400,000, adding: “Everyone around
here knows what land is worth. It is
only a matter of arithmetic.”
In the bars, the arithmetic went on.
The deal, believed to be the biggest land
purchase ever made in Australia by an
individual, is not the first time Harry
Bourchier’s name has been linked with
high figures. In 1960 he grew a wheat
crop on land near Murtoa, and it set a
new Australian yield record of 78.8
bushels an acre. Last year he grew 3500
acres of wheat—more than any one man
in Victoria before—and this year he was
planning to grow 5000 acres if the
weather let him get the seed in. When
he occupies “Mortat” next year he may
grow as much as 8000 acres a season.
T>ourchier’s family, tracing back gene-
rations to French ancestry overlaid
by more immediate Scottish forebears,
has fluctuated in its fortunes, and 13
years ago he himself had no more, as he
says, “than any man in the street”. He
scratched up the deposit for a 4500-acre
property at Lake Karnak. 12 miles south
of Goroke, and if his first wheat crop
had failed he would have lost the
property along with all he had put into
it. The gamble came off and within a
few years he owned it outright.
At the same time he was casting his
eyes beyond Lake Karnak and it was
not long before he had acquired land
at Coromby, and later at Natimuk and
Skipton. These properties are being sold
to concentrate on “Mortat”. This con-
solidation will enable Bourchier to
lower costs by growing more wheat with
the same amount of equipment.
Cost-cutting is at the core of this
man’s farming philosophy. When he
grew the champion wheat crop in 1960
he was as pleased as anyone would be
at setting a new Australian record, but
more important to him than what the
crop yielded was how much it cost to
grow. He knows that the best crop can
be a poor one if too much money is put
into it.
One way in which he keeps costs
down is to work wheat land no more
than is necessary to kill weeds. This
agrees with his belief in disturbing the
soil as little as possible.
Tt is fitting that a man who has got so
much from the land has not been
stingy to it in return. He likes to see
fertility building up, and says: “When it
rises, costs fall.” Apart from the higher
yields it brings, an abundance of fertility
enables the same result to be achieved
with fewer workings. It also enables
weeds to be reduced to proportions where
they can be controlled by grazing rather
than by expensive machines.
Bourchier has been quoted as saying
he would not borrow a penny to buy con-
sumer goods, but would plunge to the hilt
on something that earns. This combina-
tion of thrift and dash is the source of
his success. He thinks many farmers fail
to distinguish between what earns and
what doesn't. He avoids having machines
that work for only a small part of the
year and stay idle the rest. If he had
too much work for one tractor but not
quite enough for two, he would co-
operate with a neighbor to get the extra
mechanisation without over-capitalising.
He thinks there is no reason why a
young man cannot break into farming
today if he is willing to save and “have
a bash,” play tennis instead of golf, work
hard and spend freely on business and
sparingly on fun.
A few years ago Harry Bourchier was
the first in his district to hitch up two
tractors and two scarifiers in tandem so
that the one driver could work both
units.
He has borrowed a lot of money to
get “Mortat,” and is again at the mercy
of the kind of season that could have
nipped his Lake Karnak venture in the
bud, but to him the alternative is stagna-
tion. Nor does the comparison between
his own expansion and the increasing
problems of world wheat daunt him.
“All sorts of things might happen to
wheat,” he says, “but there’s no sense
in waiting for them.”
In spending his money on things that
will make it grow, Bourchier has
accepted personal austerities that might
seem at odds with his latest coup, but
occupation of “Mortat” next March will
bring relief. The house that he, his wife
and seven children have been living in
at Lake Karnak is a modest wooden
dwelling slumbering within a thin curtain
of gums. There is much family excite-
ment at the prospect of moving into the
two-storey “Mortat” mansion, on which,
it is rumored, some £17,000 was spent
not long ago on renovations.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4083, G.P.0., Sydney.
NAME
ADDRESS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, NEW YORK 36, N.Y,
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick \/ whichever is appropriate:
Is this a new subscription? |~j or
A renewal subscription?
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order for
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
LLETIN
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLETIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a senes
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects. So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
lie
ulletin
A magazine of facts and ideas est. 1334
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS —2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 761
ACROSS
I—Business very mindful of devotions in large supply.
s—Fruit seed offered with haberdashery. (7)
8— Operate some parent Japanese and you behind the
clock. (10)
9 Keys located in one of the Hebrides. (4)
11— Become informed about direction given to a Shake-
spearean king. (5)
12— Whoever is childless during Reno month. (3-6)
14—Pressed in when batting with a lair boy. (8)
16—Snatch forty winks with the young. (6)
19— It’s hard to get on with such
a figure by itself. (6)
20— What makes a factor in calcu-
lating circles ram bee-farms?
(8)
22 Scattering spare lids badly.
(9)
23 What makes a villain go back
in the French street. (5)
24 A creature in love. (4)
26 Muggins swines the axe?
15, 5)
27 Cure ban on noisy pianism?
(7)
28— Writer turned back and cuts
into relations. (7)
DOWN
1— Flora making the ship of the
desert sail up. (9)
2 These V.l.P.’s criticise New
Year percussion. (11)
3 Alternative to a writer is a
British war artist. (5)
4 Travelling companion of
Cook and Banks like this
person who comes ashore. (8)
5 Plain to see some parent
habitation of canvas. (6)
6 Cause tedium. (3)
7 Queen Elizabeth (not King
Edward) can be seen through.
(5)
10 —As iron is processed by the
girl in ‘The Barber of Seville.”
(6)
13—Passing the tender passion in
close conspiracy. (4-2-5)
15—Red sun is obscured being up
in arms. (6)
17— Owns that the sheriff’s search
parties go to the fatherless
passes. (9)
18— American churchman is wiz-
ard? (8)
21— As tea is first served to
1,000 in a famous Australian
girls’ school. (6)
22 A place for seating a terrible
fellow with coppers. (5)
23 One type of trotter is upset
by a tyre renovation. (5)
25—The Spanish seen during sun-
up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 760


m§
I
m
pip
t ■■s
~1
a*
a
$
Princeton
s,
*
0
«b
FILTER
S
$5
§
■ •
after action
o satisfaction
Rich blended tobaccos toasted to bring full, satisfying American
flavor. That’s Princeton! So, after action, get satisfaction from Princeton
filter —the honest-to-goodness taste of real toasted tobacco.
the only filter cigarette with
real American toasted flavor
MADE FOR THE RIGGIO TOBACCO CORPORATION OF NEW YORK LTD.


1 I
Or
9 1963
RA
**?=*»■£*
W
**aH
.
,*
=
? -
■•.. • «t
%
w
ss
SB®
-
n
MS:
*3®
'
W-....
m
w
-
a&
■ - ■
wi
A.
II
im
< ****Sa*» J
IK
“ 11 ■ .*.
. .
hi
si * » &
Vista of Fulfilmen t...
What pictures flash across the mirror of your mind as
you dine to the sophisticated accompaniment of a
Coonawarra Estate Claret? Do you think, for an
instant, of serried rows of well-laden vines where life
begins for this distinguished wine? Do you spare a
thought for the shadowy depths of the Coonawarra
Estate Cellars in which four entire vintages slowly
attain maturity? To the initiated, each of these vistas
is vital. It is an assurance that the claret which graces.
your table in restaurant, hotel or home
have all the bouquet, colour and distinction of
wine labelled “Coonawarra Estate” The rc
mended vintages are:
COONAWARRA ESTATE CLARET
1959 Vintage
COONAWARRA ESTATE CABERNEI
1957 Vintage
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. PTY. LTD., WINE-GROWERS, 348 ST. KILDA ROAD, MELBOU
