

The Bulletin
MAY 25, 1963
Australia 2/-, New Zealand 2/-, Malaysia
AN AUSTRALIAN JOURNAL OF COMMENT AND OPINION -EST.IBBQ
DICKERSON
PORTRAIT OF
AN ARTIST
AT HOME WITH THE ATTLEES


? i f
m
W
-
-
’* ■ ■“
•. •
; - ,-■. ... .-■■ . : i":J-. |:; ; K
■ \ ■ f: .
v ■ .' ■ ;
W
m
H'-v,;
Wm
m
■
; .
4: :
m
m
\y
ms
r? ••«...
***
S?
%
Hi
,'SS
r-Wit-# I
mem
1 '
.
: 4
i iHi
:>< 4; ..
Geon vinyl resins are used in the manufacture of upholstery and wall coverings, as specified by
Moulded Products (A’asia) Ltd.
rides the Southern Aurora
This is first class travel to remain that way for years to come
. . . upholstery and wall covering of Geon vinyl used on the Southern Aurora.
Here are materials as modern as the train itself . . . tough and easy to
clean, water proof and stain proof. Upholstery and wall coverings
such as these are further examples of Geon’s versatility. In every
industry, Geon improves products or evolves new ones.
Have you a product we can help improve or develop?
B. F. Goodrich-C.S.R. Chemicals Pty. LtdJ
Kororoit Creek Road, Altona, Melbourne. Telephone 65-8221 or 2.
Kalamazoo House, 182-186 Blues Point Road, North Sydney, N.S.W. Telephone 92-6319.
GEON Agencies in W.A., S.A., and Q'ld. Harrisons & Crosfield (A.N.Z.) LIMITED
I V
MS 634


National Notebook
Down The Drain
rpHE Bolte Government’s move to allow
drinking in licensed cafes until mid-
night was doomed even before the bill
reached Parliament. Some of his own
supporters indicated they would use their
right to a “free” vote to oppose the
change, and both the Country and Labor
Parties announced they would oppose
it en bloc. Labor’s reason for doing so
was that the bill favored a certain sec-
tion of the community—those who could
afford to dine out at night.
Labor members who assume that only
the affluent can afford to dine in
licensed cafes obviously know little about
the many cafes, particularly in some of
Melbourne’s inner suburbs like Carlton,
where liquor and meals can be had at
quite reasonable prices. Their attitude
is based on the outmoded assumption
that workers only drink beer and only
drink it in pubs. In any event, the Bolte
bill would have made beer
available in cafes which
previously only served
wine.
The Labor attitude is all
the more strange in view
of the exotic 10-ingre-
dient cocktail recipe pub-
lished in the latest issue of the ALP
paper, “Fact”. Called Batita cocktail, the
recipe is as follows:
“Six jiggers of rum or brandy, 1 cup
grapefruit juice, 1 cup pineapple juice,
1 ripe banana cut into small pieces, 1
teaspoon almond extract, 1 tablespoon
honey, 1 teaspoon grenadine, 1 table-
j spoon lemon juice, 1 tablespoon fresh
or dried coconut, 1 cup finely cracked
ice.
“Place the rum, grapefruit and pine-
apple juice, banana, grenadine, lemon
juice, honey, coconut, almond extract
and cracked ice in an electric blender.
Decorate with a maraschino cherry or
a fresh mint leaf. If blender is not avail-
able, mix in a shaker for at least five
minutes.”
That’s it, but maybe it should be
i named after “Uncle” Doug (“Make Mine
! Marchants”) Elliott.
Seymour in Hamburg
; A lan Seymour’s play, “The One Day
j of the Year,” will open a season at
the Junge Theatre, Hamburg, on June
20. The director of the theatre says he
chose the play because he felt that the
way in which Seymour portrays the gen-
eral Australian attitude to Anzac Day
is similar to the Germans’ response to
the holiday commemorating the East
j German uprising of June 17, 1953.
“In the last few years,” the director of
the theatre told an Australian recently
in Hamburg, “June 17, which should be
the day for Germans to remember re-
unification, has become just another day
for a Roman holiday. The whole thing
has become vulgarised.”
The theatre, which is one of the
“little” professional theatres of Hamburg
and which seats 337, intended to put on
“The One Day of the Year” for Anzac
Day but one of the cast met with an
accident, delaying the first night.
Rehabilitation
September we intimated that all
was not well with St Kilda Road. We
explained that every young Melburnian
learned at his mother’s knee that the fin-
est thoroughfare in the world was St
Kilda Road; that the second finest was
Collins Street and the third finest was
Alexandra Avenue. Alas, since then St
Kilda Road has received further humilia-
tions. Learned critics have
pointed out that St Kilda
Road is no longer even
in the running. Royal
Parade, the gracious ex-
tension to Elizabeth Street,
leaves its diseased, stunted
trees for dead. Look at
Royal Parade. It is just as wide. The
black trunks of its 80-year-old elms are
uniformly stalwart, their foliage arches
up in majestic beauty. Nor does it have
the ghastly Disneyland modern archi-
tecture of its southern rival.
St Kilda Road reached its nadir last
December when 208 trees were heavily
pruned. The reason for this was to make
the route safe for the Royal Tour. It
would have been disastrous had any
limbs from the ailing poplars fallen on
the Royal limbs, so to speak. The pro-
blem always has been the fear of harm-
ing a single leaf of the head of any
poplar. Always there has been a public
outcry.
However, St Kilda Road has been
neglected for another and much stronger
reason. It is controlled by three councils
—the Melbourne City Council, St. Kilda
City Council and South Melbourne City
Council. Well, why on earth didn’t they
give the road to just one single author-
ity, you say. Oh, you naive, foolish fel-
low. Think of the rates they would be
giving away. Others suggested why not
let the Board of Works control just the
road itself.
The Councils wouldn’t agree to that,
why, they couldn’t even get together
on the types of trees to be planted. The
divisions over Berlin and Kashmir were
easy compared to the divisions over St
Kilda Road. Now at last we appear
Page
FORD v e GENERAL MOfQRS . h
The buttle for markets
«
The Base: Labor’s Weak Case .... 7
Obscene New Guinea Art? 8
Ned Kelly’s Bones 11
The Several Faces of Bob Dickerson 12
Afternoon Tea with the Attlees .. 15
Crossing the Blue Mountains: The
Blaxland Myth 17
Hong Kong’s Post Office Tells a
Story 22
Australians in Red China: A
Factual Survey 29
Teaching Science Badly?—Messel’s
Book 36
Woolgrowing: Storm Over a Sub-
sidy 40
More Money Circulating 41
Apprenticeship Becalmed 44
*
TANNER 4
PLAIN ENGLISH 5
THIS AUSTRALIA 6
80 YEARS AGO 6
AROUND MELBOURNE .... 11
OUT AND ABOUT 15
OVERSEAS 22
FORUM 29
LETTERS 32
REVIEWS 33
FEIFFER 35
RED PAGE 3G
MAN ON THE LAND 40
WORLD OF BUSINESS .... 41
CROSSWORD 53
Editorial Office: 252 George Street, Sydney.
Box 2521. Phone 27 5971.
Advertising: 168 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Box 4088. Phone 2 0666 Ext. 380.
Vol. 85
No. 4345


to have a solution. You might call it
a tripartite agreement. The three councils
have formed a St Kilda Road Rehabili-
tation Committee. There are those who
feel that rehabilitation is an ugly word
which sounds as if the Committee were
formed to cure alcoholics. A better PR
phrase might have been the St Kilda
Road Aggrandisement Authority. Anyway
this Committee with representative from
the three councils plans to spend up to
£125,000, plant 250 trees, reshape the
plantations and return the road to its
former glory.
If that happens St Kilda Road will
outshine even the Paris end of Collins
Street. You never know, even the French
might start talking about the Melbourne
end of the Champs Elysees.
A Film Grand Prix
the first time since the institution
■*- of Australian film awards in 1958, the
Australian Film Institute has awarded its
Grand Prix. The film they have waited
for is Dusan Marek’s “Adam and Eve”,
a highly original experiment in anima-
tion which would hold its own in any
class. It has already been shown in Mel-
bourne, and was enthusiastically review-
ed a few weeks ago in The Bulletin.
Filmgoers will get another chance to see
it at the Melbourne Film Festival early
in June, along with other award winners,
including Gil Brearley’s “The Land That
Waited” and F. Jones’ “Dancing Or-
pheus”, both of which took Gold Awards.
Thirty-six-year-old Dusan Marek was
born in Czechoslovakia and came to Aus-
tralia in 1953 after five years in New
Guinea. He lives in Adelaide, where he
divides his time between making films,
painting and working in an art gallery.
As might be imagined, he does not make
a living out of experimental film-making,
but he is man of unusual resourcefulness
and, fortunately for the future of Aus-
tralian films, uncompromising in his
standards.
In his experimental films he works with
cut-outs, which he manipulates with ex-
traordinary skill. Obviously his technique
is splendidly adapted to whimsical, child-
like themes, and he has used it to il-
lustrate several delightful nursery rhymes.
But the remarkable feature of his work
is the strength and feeling he can infuse
into his animated figures and symbols.
With its imaginative sound track and
hypnotic lines and shapes, “Adam and
Eve” is, for all its brevity and unfamiliar-
ity, very moving.
Having waited for five years to make
its major award, after passing over an
average of over 50 films a year, the
Australian Film Institute has good cause
to be pleased with its insistence on stan-
dards. There is a lot of talk these days
about finance for Australian films, and
still too little about quality.
The Film Institute, of course, is in-
terested in both, but its influence on
standards is unique and, as the executive
secretary, Erwin Rado, pointed out, for
the first time the Institute feels it is
getting somewhere. The number of
entries has increased from 30 in 1958
to 122 this year, and the judges believe
that this year’s entries “reveal consider-
able talent which, given the opportunity,
could earn Australia an international re-
putation.”
The problem of course is still with
us: Who will give the opportunity? There
are welcome signs that those who already
finance documentary and commercial
films are prepared to accept the stand-
ards of the Institute, which is independ-
ent and broadly based. The next step
which the Institute would like to make
would be the establishment of a film-
making school, something on the lines
of the highly successful Polish School.
They are satisfied that the talent exists.
The opportunity must soon come.
Church School Questions
HPhe 80 delegates to the annual confer-
A ence of the Tasmanian Federation
of Parents and Friends of Catholic
Schools were not surprised at the subject
of their Archbishop’s address to them,
but they were a little startled by his
presentation. Instead of listening to a
firm statement, on the necessity and
justice of State aid for church schools,
they received a series of questions.
Queensland-born Dr Guilford Young,
a bishop at 31, was auxiliary to Arch-
bishop Eris O’Brien in Canberra-Goul-
burn when he became Archbishop of
Hobart in 1955, and he brought his
crusade with him. Almost thinking aloud,
Dr Young asked the delegates whether
"For the use of nuclear weapons
there must be consultation at the
highest level!


it might not be a good idea to close
some parish schools so that teaching-
nuns could instruct in State schools. If
this were done, might it not be possible
for the parishes to help to pay promising
students’ fees at strategically placed
boarding schools?
Should the Church’s primary schools
be closed and its secondary school system
extended, so that the limited teaching
and financial resources could be con-
centrated in one avenue of education?
Would central Catholic schools for boys
and girls, at least at matriculation level,
be a good idea? This system is being
developed by the Tasmanian Govern-
ment, in association with district high
schools taking pupils at intermediate
levels. Might not the Church, he asked,
adopt the district secondary school con-
cept?
These questions, he said, would be a
challenge to federation members. Almost
as an afterthought, he added: “I would
give affirmative answers to most of my
questions.”
This Week’s Cover
This week’s cover is of artist Bob
Dickerson at work in his studio at
Newport, Sydney.
We apologise to sculptor Mr. Lenton
Parr, of Melbourne. Last week, describ-
ing his work, which is in front of Myers’
shop at Gladstone, we gave his name as
Lenton Pass. This was one of those
occasional ticker-tape mishaps.
Tanner
—l've just said my prayers."
PLAIN ENGLISH
THE REFORM OF NSW
INURING the NSW State election just over one year ago, the Liberal
Party presented itself, plausibly enough, as a party of reform against
the conservative Labor Government. Without excessive concern for all
its traditional policies or some of its traditional supporters, it stood, for
example, for legalising SP betting, housing loans of up to 95 per
cent, increases in superannuation benefits for retired public servants,
free school transport for every school child, a ministry of decentralisation.
Its programme was certainly more radical than Labor’s initial one,
and a common comment was that the Liberals had taken over the old
Labor policies, leaving Labor to look like a relic of the UAP.
But, as it happened, Labor immediately stole these Liberal policies
or some variants of them, thereby both getting equal credit for them
and undercutting any Liberal hopes of attacking Labor policies as
demagogic or inflationary. (The same technique may well have been
used if State Liberals, like the Country Party and the Federal Liberals,
had adopted a policy of State aid to independent schools.) The voters
then chose what they imagined to be the best of both worlds a radical
Liberal programme administered by a conservative Labor Government.
The moral of the story, however, is not that the Liberals should
abandon a policy of reform; the real point is that it is not enough to be
radical at election times only. The Liberals must concentrate on
building a reforming image day in day out between elections until it
becomes meaningful, credible and persuasive.
The trouble is that in the year since the defeat in the last election
we have heard too little of new plans for the reform of NSW. It is as
if some Liberals, disillusioned in reform as an election winner, and know-
ing they cannot compete with Labor for conservatism, have given up
the ghost. Too often Liberal spokesmen are content to follow the news,
commenting as things happen, instead of making news with new and
radical policies. Where, for example, are the active policy committees
and reform committees investigating all relevant branches of administra-
tion and law?
If the Liberals are to be persuasive reformers, now is the time to
be active, not two years hence when another election is on.
RACIALISM
TN recent weeks in places as far apart and culturally different as
Indonesia, South Africa and the United States rioting has again
emphasised that racialism remains the world’s most explosive and
divisive force. Race relations throughout the world seem to be
deteriorating. While all countries condemn racialism nearly all of them
condone it and use it as a political weapon. The problems of the cold
war certainly allow us to adopt curious attitudes. The riots in West
Java against the Chinese - which may have been government inspired
have a curiously reassuring tone to many Asian countries and to
Austialia as evidence that anv real accord between Djakarta and Peking
is impossible If similar anti-Chinese riots were to break out in
Malaya where the Chinese form a substantial minority of the population
they could be gloomily viewed as a death knell to the hopes of
launching Malaysia. Paul Robeson’s recent reported condemnation of
Soviet persecution of racial minorities within its borders does more
than merely confirm a known fact. It points inescapably to the fact
that racial persecution must be condemned wherever it is found
whether in the east or the west


THIS AUSTRALIA
THE MOTOR WAR
Ford v. General
Motors
Fighting on the race tracks
ROBERT McNAMARA
Ruled with computers
By BOADICEA
The brief announcement by the Com-
monwealth Statistician late in April
that Ford had gained a larger share
of the Australian new car and station
wagon market in the first two months of
1963 must have brought a cheer from
the embattled Ford bosses back in Dear-
born, Michigan. Years ago the Ford was
synonymous with the motor car. The
Model T was everywhere and in Austra-
lia it won special respect for its longevity
and adaptability.
Back home in the States, Ford sales
set the pace and in one glorious year,
1921, held more than 60 per cent of the
market. Even General Motors have never
equalled this figure, yet. But GM's
growth has outrun Ford and last year
GM was responsible for over 52 per cent
of the cars sold in the States. Some idea of
Ford’s decline can be had from the fact
that in 1962 GM’s golden Chevrolet
division alone took 30 per cent of the
American market while the whole of
Ford’s sales totalled 26 per cent.
Ford’s troubles have been put down
to a variety of reasons ranging from
Ford's ex-boss Robert McNamara now
US Defence Secretary who ruled Ford
with computers and, as one critic said,
expected “the consumer to react ration-
ally rather than emotionally,” to a lack
of sparkle in design.
Now Ford has unfurled its battle flags
and brazenly broken the industry’s long-
standing agreement banning entry into
motor racing and boosting selling ads
with claims of more and more horsepower
and speed. Ford considered that GM have
for long reaped the benefits of racing
results achieved by private owners back-
ed by big GM dealers and they intend
to fight GM cars on the tracks under the
fierce light of good and bad publicity.
GM on the other hand have hardened
their policy against motor racing and
have rapped their Pontiac and Chevrolet
divisions for participation, perhaps secure
with their many victories and their fast-
selling pseudo-sports models, and con-
sider it safer off rather than on the track
in the face of an all-out Ford attack.
This racing-to-improve-the-breed pol-
icy of Ford's is as old as the industry.
Peugeot did it in pre-World War I years,
MG shone between the wars, a Daimler-
Benz rose from the rubble of Stuttgart
to dominate in the mid-19505. Whether
Ford can ever achieve the publicity that
Daimler-Benz was rightly awarded on the
world's race tracks and subsequently put
to gainful commercial use is doubtful.
Already the English and Italians have
several laps’ lead and while their success-
es are won by small, often far from sub-
stantial, firms their countries’ prestige is
at stake and the automobile industries of
England and Italy guard this jealously.
Behind them again are the real giants of
the game, the oil companies.
Tn Australia Ford had it pretty much
A its own way in years gone by. The
übiquitous Ford was the people’s car
and familiarity brought a degree of
contempt with it. “Just a Ford” was a
common reply by a man who had bought
a new Ford. And strangely, while
Ho'den has become the motoring com-
mon denominator in Australia, Ford
can’t shake off that old tag of “Just a
Ford.”
As GM grew in Australia with its
' r o!den sales so Ford's problems increas-
ed. Ford's selling system and dealer net-
work appear less efficient than GM's
Ford's expansion was hit by crippling
strikes and the quality of their new cars
suffered in turn. In marked contrast to
BMC who were struggling for survival
and ruthlessly pruned their models with
gratifying results, Ford's models continue
to multiply.
Ford could well prune off some dead-
wood and settle for building one good
six-cylinder car suitable for Australia
in every way. They have the makings
in the Falcon.
Ford’s gain in the Australian market
so far this year is almost directly in pro-
portion to GM’s loss, a minor loss cer-
tainly but one that sticks in the Cor-
poration’s throat. By lagging behind in
horsepower, particularly in the automatic
Holdens, GM has given credence to
Ford’s extravagant claims of perform-
ance over its “main competitor”. To back
FREETHINKERS
J&ulletin
80 Years Ago: May 26, 1883
The Sabbath-breaking controversy is
bursting out afresh. We hardly
know, when it comes to the point,
which side is the more bigoted. We
are, of course, speaking of the extrem-
ists of both parties. According to
one lot, you must not whistle on a
Sunday, or look at a picture, or read
a profane book, or in fact do any-
thing but pray and pay—pay especi-
ally. According to the other, you can
shoot your grandmother on that day,
as long as you put money into some-
body’s pocket. “Don’t be gulled out
of your small change by the clergy,”
says the Freethinker, “but come and
pay it to hear me!” Of the two, by
thunder, we think we had just as
soon be deceived in the old fashion by
the former, as undeceived into a new
deception by the latter. For, look
you, it has been our experience to
find out that most men become Free-
thinkers before they can think at all.
And if Freethinking were the estab-
lished religion or irreligion tomorrow,
we should have in a week’s time just
as expensive, and perhaps a more use-
less, hierarchy than we have now.
So far as we can gather, our efforts
to produce a first-rate and unpre-
cedently attractive 6d. paper have met
with even more appreciation than we
had hoped. Last week, after doubling
our price, we printed our usual
number —no more, no less. The
entire issue was sold out by two
o’clock the same afternoon, and since
then telegrams and letters have show-
ered in from country and inter-
colonial agents, vainly demanding
additional supplies.


these claims Fc"d Australia has embark-
ed on an extensive motor sport pro-
gramme in Victoria and have had many
successes.
Until recently Holdens won the
majority of touring car races throughout
Australia to the calm satisfaction of GM.
Now expensive Jaguars rule the tracks
and the Holdens are being hard pushed to
keep the flocks of little BMC Minis at
bay. But, worse, the latest threat comes
from the new li-litre four-door Cortina
by Ford which, when fully developed by
Lotus for Ford, could take over the roost
from Jaguar on all but the high-speed
circuits.
But what must be worrying both
Ford and Chrysler is how will GM’s
more powerful Holden affect their sales?
For it is not good enough to have a
powerful engine and little else to back it
up. At present Ford has the engine but
lacks the sturdy body, decisive steering
and good brakes to go with it.
GM in contrast have a well-made
body of better than average finish,
the steering and braking are good but
the faithful light six engine is running
out of breath. That they have several
engines to choose from is obvious and
it is fairly general knowledge that their
new engine plant, when completed, will
be the most modern in the Corporation
which could fairly be said to mean the
world. That the Australian branch of
the Corporation is intensely proud of
its Australian car is well known and this
pride bucks at the thought of using a
ready-made engine of which there are
many available throughout GM’s divi-
sions. The best bet seems to be a modi-
fied detuned version of the 120 bhp
Chewy II six-cylinder engine built at
Fishermen’s Bend.
There is logic in getting the car right
first and then increasing the horsepower.
GM’s transmission can cope and only
the braking system would require atten-
tion to tame the added power. Meanwhile
Ford and Chrysler are consolidating, Ford
partly on the race tracks and Chrysler on
enlarging their production line, for both
know they have a limited time before GM
joins them in the power race. Ford have
many advantages; apart from a styling
which is due for even better things next
year, they have captured a large slice of
the younger generation with their accent
on speed. To hold them as they grow
older will be the real test.
DEFENCE
Labor’s Weak Case
Against the Base
Not doing their homework
H. MACMILLAN
Without consultation
FROM ALAN REID IN CANBERRA
-tl**
the official
version fed out
after last week’s
meeting of the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party and on the later ampli-
fication by the Opposition leader, Mr
Calwell, in the House of Representatives
Labor is not opposed to the establish-
ment of the United States radio com-
munications centre at Exmouth Gulf in
Western Australia. It is merely opposed
to the conditions fixed by the Menzies
Government. The Labor charges are:
• That the Menzies Government is
permitting the United States to operate
the centre instead of, as Labor wants, the
centre being operated jointly by the
United States and Australia.
• That the agreement for the sta-
tion did not make it abundantly clear
that involvement of Australia in war
was a question for Australia alone to
decide at all times, and that under no
circumstances and under no agreement
should Australia become automatically
involved in war.
Labor’s first charge undoubtedly had
an impact upon Parliament. Labor’s dis-
cussion of it focused on the point that
the President of the United States, unless
there was joint operation and control,
would be in a position to transmit an
instruction to nuclear-armed and powered
submarines operating in the Pacific and
Indian Oceans to release their lethal car-
goes. In cases where the United States
had similar agreements with other coun-
tries, including the United Kingdom, the
United States agreed to prior consultation
and agreement before using the facilities
made available to them by an ally.
This was undoubtedly a most impres-
sive argument. If the United States made
such agreements with other countries,
obviously the necessity for the President
having the authority to release nuclear
weapons without prior consultation with
the country whose facilities the United
States was using was not nearly as pres-
sing as the Menzies Government spokes-
men were suggesting. Why should Aus-
tralia not get similar treatment from the
United States?
It was a most persuasive viewpoint.
But it seems to be inaccurately based —•
although I could not obtain the full
terms of the agreement the United King-
dom has with the United States on
nuclear arms and their use (apparently
they have never been released in their
entirety).
Mr Malcolm Fraser (Lib., Vic.), who
has been doing some research, produced
a House of Commons Hansard for
November 8, 1960. This Hansard
suggests that, far from putting the Presi-
dent under an obligation for prior con-
sultation, the British Government has
said it does not wish to insist upon prior
consultation.
Discussing the understanding the Bri-
tish Government has with the United
States about the use of missiles from
Polaris submarines which have a base in
the United Kingdom, the British Prime
Minister, Mr Macmillan, is quoted by
Hansard as saying: “We can be satisfied
that the United States Government will
not use these missiles anywhere in the
world without the fullest possible previous
consultation with us and our allies. I use
the words ‘fullest possible’ consultation
because consultation might obviously be
impossible in circumstances of a sudden
surprise attack upon the West. We would
indeed not wish to insist on prior con-
sultation in such circumstances, because
it is the absolute certainty of retaliation
which deters aggression.”
Whether that disposes finally of the
nature of the agreement between the
United Kingdom and the United States
remains to be seen. But superficially it
seems to suggest that Labor has been mis-
informed on what it has made one of its
basic arguments.
The second Labor argument that
under no agreement should Australia be-
come automatically involved in war
seems rather like locking the stable door
years after the horse has bolted. As
Prime Minister Menzies pointed out in
one of the most temperate speeches
has made in years, Article IV of the
security treaty between Australia, New
Zealand and the United States, signed in
September, 1951, (ANZUS) states:
“Each party (that is, Australia, New
Zealand and the United States) recog-
nises that an armed attack in the Pacific
on any of the parties would be
dangerous to its own peace and safety,
and declares that it would act to meet the
common danger in accordance with its
constitutional processes.”
Article V states: “For the purpose of


Article IV an armed attack on any of
the parties is deemed to include an armed
attack on the metropolitan territory of
any of the parties or on the island terri-
tories under its jurisdiction in the Pacific,
or on its armed forces, public vessels or
aircraft in the Pacific.”
If this is not an agreement to get
involved automatically in war if one of
the parties gets involved in hostilities in
the Pacific (one of the main areas with
which the Exmouth Gulf centre will
be dealing) words nowadays do not
mean what they seem to mean when
1 went to school.
In my view the Left wing has done far
better than the Right wing of the Labor
Party in the present dispute. The Left
wing has manoeuvred the Right into a
position that logically is almost unten-
able and, amusingly, is now leaving the
Right wing to explain away the absurd-
ities in the Labor position.
LAW
Obscene New Guinea
Art?
Sir Herbert Head in Court
FROM A SYDNEY CORRESPONDENT
SIR HERBERT READ
“Like a gargoyle”
Tn contrast to the eerie cases being heard
last week in other courtrooms at
Liverpool Street Central Court, in Syd-
ney the Bogle-Chandler inquest, for
example, or the charging of a man for
the “mutilation” murders the case in
the Summons Court seemed a slice of
very ordinary life, even if the witnesses
included Sir Herbert Read, a professor
of anthropology (Professor R. Geddes),
an art gallery director (Mr Hal Missing-
ham, and a psychiatrist (Dr J Ellard), and
more than a dozen French, German and
English tomes on South Pacific art. It
was the charge against Dr Bernard Lake
of having an obscene statue for sale in
the window of his shop M. Arts.
The case began in March w'hen a
Mr T. K. Tully, a woolbuyer in a city
office, went for a hair-cut to a barber's
shop near M. Arts. Tully, a short,
tight-lipped sad-eyed man from Bexley,
stated that he heard the statue being dis-
cussed. “Did you get on that next
door?” someone asked. “The man who
built that contraption ought to be in Cal-
lan Park,” someone else said. So Mr Tully
went to look at the statue and then rang
the Vice Squad. He considered himself,
he said in Court, “an ordinary citizen of
NSW.” He claimed no knowledge of
Melanesian art.
In due course Constable L. L. Taylor
went to the shop and placed a deposit
on the statue, thereby establishing it was
for sale as required by the Obscene
and Indecent Publications Act. Shortly
afterwards two detectives seized it as ob-
scene within the meaning of the Act.
The carving comes from the Sepik
River, New Guinea. It is of a bird-faced
man squatting on his haunches, and the
police allege that what joins the head and
lower body is a male genital. Their case
is that it is obscene; that it is not a work
of art; and that even if it had artistic
merit, its exhibition in the shop window
for all to see, including the young and
impressionable, nullified any defence on
the grounds of such merit.
Prof. Geddes told Mr J. D. Holmes,
QC, for the defence, that the carving
was typical of the Sepik River culture
and was probably a gable ornament for
a men's club. He denied the carving ob-
viously represented a genital; it might be
a flute. He admitted to Sergeant R.
Turner the Bar has obviously lost an
aggressive dramatic barrister in this
Police Prosecutor that he had never
seen a carving identical with this one.
Mr Hall Missingham, director of the
Art Gallery of NSW, insisted the carving
had some artistic merit. When Sergeant
Turner asked him: “Don’t you think any-
one with a tomahawk could carve that
out of a piece of soft wood?” he said
people often imagine they have artistic
abilities which in fact they lack. When
Magistrate A. Bott remarked: “I would
be ashamed to show a carving of this
quality”, Mr Missingham said Mr Bott
must be quite an artist.
Sir Herbert Read also claimed the
statue had merit and compared it to the
gargoyles on European cathedrals. “Could
it arouse a religious emotion?” asked
Sergeant Turner.
“Possibly. It depends on the religion”.
“Couldn’t anyone in a backyard at
Strawberry Hills carve as well as that?”
“No.”
“Have you ever seen an identical work
of art?”
“No two works of art are identical.”
“An identical representation?”
“No.”
Other witnesses included Dr Ellard,
psychiatrist, who said that anyone who
saw in the carving a sexual significance
was very ready to see such a significance;
Mr J. A. Tuckson, deputy director of the
NSW Art Gallery, who also said the
carving was not obscene and could have
some religious significance; and Mr John
Dabron, art teacher, who saw no objec-
tion to showing the carving to children.
Mr A. Bott, SM, reserved his judg-
ment.
EXAMINATIONS
The Grant Case
Trying to do an Ansett
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
Qhifting sites for reservoirs is evident-
ly easier than moving dates for ex-
aminations in Victoria. On the one hand
you have the “big” man, Mr Reg Ansett,
past master in the art of arranging any-
thing from huge Government loans for
aircraft to television licences, reaching
for the phone to top brass in the water
supply commission to rid his Mt. Eliza
property of a proposed reservoir and
happy to wave his files in proof of his
integrity at any public inquiry.
On the other hand you have Mr Grant,
a self-confessed “small” man without top
metallic connections, vainly trying to per-
suade Melbourne University to change
the examination times for two of his
son's best matriculation subjects which
happen to clash. Mr Grant also has a
file and, justifiably hopeful of public
ventilation of his case, he waved it at us
on the day after Mr Clark gave Mr An-
sett's deal with the water commission a
public airing in the State Parliament last
week.
It appears that Mr Grant's seventeen-
year-old son, a pupil at St Patrick’s Col-
lege, East Melbourne, is studying a par-
ticularly catholic selection of subjects
for this year’s matric. and finds the ex-
aminations for his three best subjects,
Latin, mathematics and music (theory) are
set down for the same time. This, says
Mr Grant and by a frontal approach


HOW TO USE
PUTS AND CALLS
Sensible Speculation
Speculative opportunities for pro-
fits with LIMITED risk, through
knowledgeable use of PUT and
CALL Share Options, are numer-
ous and available daily. You have
but to scan a newspaper's stock
market page and note the price
changes in many of even the
highest quality stocks to verify
the regular occurrences of such
opportunities.
Write, phone or post coupon today
for further details.
To MONTGOMERY, HUGHES & CO.
PTY. LTD.,
324 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Phone: 26-1024.
Please send further information to:
Name
Address
he got the Vice-Chancellor of the Univer-
sity to agree with him prejudices his
son’s chances of winning a Common-
wealth scholarship, worth, say, a round
£l,OOO, big chips to him though not per-
haps to Mr Ansett.
However, after protracted correspon-
dence with the University authorities and
even with the Vice-Chancellor’s support,
the best Mr Grant has been able to
squeeze from the Registrar so far is to
get his son sittings for two of the sub-
jects. This, of course, is not good
enough, though he admits it might be ad-
ministratively inconvenient for the Uni-
versity to make an exception by provid-
ing special facilities for his son to sit for
the third subject and also that the time
table is fixed eighteen months ahead of
matriculation examinations.
Nonetheless, standing on the sound
point of principle that examination facil-
ities should be given for all subjects,
Mr Grant is not letting the matter rest
there. Elis next move is to see what the
Vice-Chancellor of Monash University,
who is also on the Council of Melbourne
University, can do for him. Failing that
he has a “big” man up his sleeve for a
possible nod to the biggest man of all
at Melbourne University, the Chancellor,
in fact to do an Ansett. Only as a last
resort is he thinking of writing to “The
Age”!
EDUCATION
The End of the Teaching Profession?
Dropping The Standard
FROM A MELBOURNE CORRESPONDENT
For some time there have been hints
that the Victorian Education Depart-
ment would like to elevate its Secon-
dary Teachers’ College into a degree-
conferring institution of university status.
The Victorian Secondary Teachers’ As-
sociation recently stated that negotia-
tions with this aim were now in pro-
gress, and that there had “never been a
more serious threat to the teaching pro-
fession than this proposal”.
The Association went on to charge
that “the College aims ultimately to train
all secondary teachers without any re-
course whatever to the universities. If
this ever comes about, teaching can be
written off as a profession.”
In its journal it published an interview
with the College’s Principal, Mr D. M.
McDonnell, in which he said that the
University of Melbourne had set up a
committee to investigate the granting of
recognition to College courses. Mr Mc-
Donnell added that he was particularly
pleased that the initiative in this had
come from the University and not from
the Education Department.
This admission by Mr McDonnell, and
the vigorous attack on the aspirations he
holds for his college, have brought into
full light of day a crucial issue in Vic-
torian education. Both the Secondary
Teachers’ Association and the Victorian
Teachers’ Union stand four-square on
the principle that the correct training
for high-school teachers is a university
degree, followed by some teacher train-
ing, such as a Diploma of Education.
At present less than half of Victorian
high-school teachers have these qualifica-
tions, with the proportion of those who
do constantly falling.
It was the failure of the Education
Department to recruit, train and hold
teachers with these qualifications which
led the Secondary Teachers’ College to
blossom into the formidable empire it
has become. It was founded in 1950,
when it had 346 students and a staff of
four; but by 1960 it had 2233 students
and a staff of 57.
In its early years the teaching func-
tions of the College were confined to pro-
viding tutorial help in a number of uni-
versity subjects for students who were
bonded to work as teachers upon gradua-
tion. According to Mr McDonnell, by
1955 it was realised that fairly large
numbers of these students were failing to
finish their courses in minimum time, in
spite of the tutorial coaching from the
College. As a result, the Trained Secon-
dary Teachers’ Certificate course was set
up to absorb these students who had not
made the grade at the university.
As Mr McDonnell once stated, the
course was designed for “students who
have qualified for matriculation but who
may have difficulty in meeting university
requirements.” This admission, however,
did not prevent him from arguing a case
in the “Australian Journal of Education”
last year for giving degree status to a
four-year course under the control of the
College. “Courses now being taught,” he
claimed, “are of university degree, scope
and standard.”
Faced with the problem of recruiting
teacher material which cannot meet uni-
versity degree standards, the Education
Department seems resolved to move the
degree level down to them.
The scope of the STC as it exists has
brought about a situation in which Vic-
toria is one of the few places in the non-
Communist world where the employing
authority for teachers is also the train-
ing authority. Moreover, within the
Education Department, strong emphasis
is being placed on the STC courses.
Students have been told that headmasters
prefer STC teachers to those with uni-
versity degrees.
Students under bond to the Education
Department who fail university subjects
are under strong pressure to switch ovet
to the STC course at one time they
were allowed to repeat their failed sub-
jects.
Soon the special committee set up by
the Victorian Government to inquire into
the State’s educational problems will
make its report. Few would be sur-
prised if it recommended degree-con-
ferring status for the STC.
For the two teachers’ unions campaign-
ing against this, there is also a problem;
both are trying to maintain traditional
standards of training for teachers in a
period when more and more of their own
members lack these qualifications. Obvi-
ously this often calls for considerable
tact.


MODBURY ESTATE
WHITE BURGUNDY
J 96 !
life
oKi;: ,
■
IMRE
llilml
■
pim^
FOOburY estaP
Nith BURGUN^
**■ '■ 1A y.
This full, rich, white
wine has been pres-
sed from selected
Semilion grapes
grown on the gently
contoured vineyard
slopes of Modbury
Estate which nestles
in the Adelaide
foot-hills. The ap-
pealing fragrance
and flavour of
this wine, served
cool, enhances
the enjoyment
of cheese, sea-
food, veal and
poultry.
hS
Sole and Exclusive Purveyors:
S. WYNN & CO. P/L., MELBOURNE
ME2
COMMUNISTS
The Reds Catch Up
with Playford
Finding the right man for the job
HAL ALEXANDER
Experienced
FROM A SOUTH AUSTRALIAN
CORRESPONEDENT
Gommunist Party plans have always
placed South Australia well behind
NSW, Victoria and Queensland. It has
been a relatively quiet place where future
party leaders have been blooded and
others put out to grass, resting until they
were needed elsewhere.
But with an unexpected suddenness
South Australia has now emerged as a
growing industrial base, with a higher
rate of growth in industry and popula-
tion than any other State.
According to Marx and Lenin, this all
means a further impoverishment of the
population and a huge increase in the
number of downtrodden proletarians,
which add up to the basis for a mass
Communist Party. So South Australia
now looms large in Communist thoughts
in Sydney and it has been decided to
make an all-out offensive to build the
Party there.
But the trouble has been, in the Sec-
retariat's view, that no South Australian
party member was capable of leading
and directing such an operation. Eddie
Robertson had been transferred to
Sydney just before his death, while John
Sendy was sent to Victoria to help rout
Ted Hill and his pro-Chinese followers.
Elliott Johnson, once in high favor but
no longer considered a safe bet, is said
to spend more time on his law practice
than on his party chores. Besides, he
has the China taint, and the party has
already had enough trouble with lawyers
sympathetic towards China. C. McCaf-
fery is likewise suspect. I. Buchanan,
South Australian Secretary of the Sea-
men’s Union, is too inclined to a blunt-
ness verging on contempt for the political
wing of the party to be considered. Peter
Symon and Jim Mitchell would need
more experience.
So from a not too plentiful reserve
of cadres considered both capable and
pro-Russian enough to do the job, the
ultimate choice was Hal Alexander. Aged
36 and an electrician by trade, Alexander
is the completely humorless, dogmatic
Communist. Devoted to J. Hughes (which
fact may have helped in his choice) he
has known nothing but the party.
As a leading member of the Eureka
Youth League he was banished to an out-
of-the-way organising job on the NSW
South Coast in a particularly humiliating
fashion during the internal struggles in
the EYL in the late ’forties and early
’fifties. He survived this to return to
Sydney, where he worked in industry
and on the Sydney District Committee
of the party.
He was soon taken back by the party
as a full-time organiser among the trade
unions, with special responsibilities in
youth work. He had his year’s indoctrina-
lion in Red China, and inclined towards
Mao’s ideology. But when Sharkey and
Aarons cracked the whip he quickly
jumped back into line.
Thus Alexander has all the qualities
now required by the Secretariat lor pro-
motion: experience in youth work (once
again high on the party’s priority list),
trade union organisation, and peace work.
He holds unswerving allegiance to the
Secretariat. Added to this he has the
advantage of a wife as trustworthy as
he is.
Whether or not Hal Alexander is en-
trusted with the South Australian State
Secretaryship immediately does not mat-
ter. He will be the real leader, whoever
is Secretary. South Australia can expect
an upsurge in those industrial and cul-
tural fields which are open to Com-
munist Party influence.
The Shop-lifters
A modern Machiavelli
11/ t ho was the modern Machiavelli who
lured a respected middle-aged woman,
well known for her church and charity
work, into a burst of shop-lifting? In
Oakleigh Court, Melbourne, last week,
Mrs Phoebe Margaret Simpson, 49, ad-
mitted taking goods from shops at the
Chadstone shopping centre but pleaded
not guilty to charges of shop-lifting on
the grounds that she believed she was
taking part in a competition.
Through her counsel, Mr John Phil-
lips, Mrs Simpson told the Court of
receiving a letter which purported to
come from a Mr V. Upson. Mrs Simp-
son knew a man of this name who was
employed in Myers’ city store. The sig-
nature was in fact a forgery.
Under the terms of the competition,
the letter said: “You are required to
steal several articles, say up to five
pounds, from any one of these stores.
Our security police have been alerted and
you will be apprehended, but under
police protection and charged with the
’offence.’ . . You must try to put your-
self in the place of a shop-lifter, en-
deavor to get out of your trouble by using
false name and addresses or anything
you can think of to gain your release.”
The letter went on to say that
Mrs Simpson would then be required
to write an account of her experience
in the “most graphic manner.” The best
six articles would be published under
noms-de-plume, each writer receiving
£lOO prize money. The best of the lot
would get £5OO.
A police witness told the Court that
four other letters similar to the one
received by Mrs Simpson had been
brought to the attention of police.
The charges were dismissed.


Around Melbourne
WHERE THEY SCRAMBLED FOR NED KELLY'S BONES
A s the tourist bus passes the top
end of Russell Street the driver
takes his microphone and says:
“There’s the Eight Hours monument
and there’s the Melbourne Gaol,
where they hanged Ned Kelly.” You
lean out of your bus window and
look keenly for a gibbet, or at the
very least another respectful monu-
ment to Mr Edward Kelly himself.
However, there is one point that
all devotees of Mr Kelly should un-
derstand. The Melbourne Gaol and
this last tourist attraction may not
be there much longer. The plans are
out to demolish and rebuild the old
City Watchhouse, and when that goes
it is inevitable the last section of the
gaol will go, too.
The frightful old limestone building
opened for business in 1845. All the
equipment was there; a triangle for
corporal punishment, a gallows
mounted way up on the high walls,
just fine foi public executions. Yes,
right near the, site of that Eight Hours
monument three bushrangers and
three aborigines were hanged in pub-
lic.
But no matter how much you talk
of other things, Ned Kelly is the
story of the Melbourne Gaol. After
the execution in 1880 his body was
buried in the Labor Yard, just as 27
others of his kind were buried after
him. In 1929 the old bluestone north
wall was being demolished and work-
men were excavating with a steam
shovel. The students from the Work-
ing Man’s College nearby had been
dwelling on this. They knew Ned
Kelly’s grave was there. So wLen the
shovel dug up a coffin near a stone
v marked “E.K.”, they dropped their
lunches and ran forward in a scramble
for the bones.
Archbishop Mannix protested. “The
Argus” described it as a disgraceful
scene. The Premier ordered an in-
quiry. Eventually most of the bones
were returned, and they were re-
interred at the back of D Division in
Pentridge.
When the major portion of the
goal was being demolished in 19v7
much the same thing happened. A
steam shovel turned up some bones
from a grave marked E.K. 11-11-
1880. Once again students from the
colleges nearby grabbed the souvenirs,
and this time most of the bones never
came back. It seemed that an awful
lot of Ned Kellys were buried down
there. Later there was even a gentle-
man from Elsternwick who claimed
that he manned the famous steam
shovel of 1929. He offered Ned
Kelly’s skull for sale. Price: £lOO.
All this was gruesome, but the
gaol and Kelly were rarely out of
the news. Now just one section re-
mains. It is an awful old building,
next to the garage and over the road
from police headquarters. The police
park their motor bikes there. The
roof leaks as if there were no roof
at all. It’s the home for a thousand
dirty pigeons
Except for a brief period during
the war, it hasn’t been used since
1934. It is cold, hard limestone, and
the cornerstones weigh nearly a ton.
There are more than 100 cells ar-
ranged in three tiers, with steel cat-
walks outside. The cells on the first
tier are the size of a broom cupboard.
The real silk department is the third
tier. Those cells are the size of three
broom cupboards. The police con-
stables used to keep a dummy model
covered with a sheet in one of these
cells, and in those wet stone sur-
roundings it looked pretty good. Then
they would bring round their girl-
friends and introduce Ned Kelly.
There was no better way to scare
the hell out of a girl-friend.
If you walk right down to the west
end and climb up a narrow steel
stairway, you come to two cells, set
a trifle apart, one on the right and
one on the left. The one on the
right is where Ned Kelly spent his
last moments It’s even a little fancier
than the others. No flagstones; it has
a wooden floor, otherwise it’s equally
dark and miserable. The cell opposite
was occupied by Elijah Upjohn, the
thief who hanged him for a £5 fee.
Well, if you like you can take the
13 paces out of cell D, stand on the
wooden platform where Ned stood,
look up into the skylight where he
looked, now alive with pigeons and
leaky with the rain. Maybe, too, you
can repeat his last words, “Such is
life”. The actual hanging machinery,
plus the beam overhead, has long
since gone to Pentridge, but you can
get the atmosphere and see all the
cells where the other prisoners roared
as Upjohn pulled the lever.
Not many of the public get in to
see all this, and it is soon to go.
So far the National Trust has made
no bid, nor has Mr. Davidson tried
to take it over for the ABC, but it
is the sort of thing out of which
the Tower of London has been making
a fortune for centuries.
T'he City Watchhouse next door is
A much younger, but only slightly
more comfortable. It first appears in
the plans of the Public Works De-
partment under the date June 25,
1902. Your pioneer visited the place
(in a purely editorial capacity) last
week. It has that dreadful musty smell
so distinctive of such places. There
are 16 cells, only two of them heated.
There are no beds. The prisoners sleep
on blankets on the stone floor. The
walls are green and scored with such
phrases as “all coppers are s”.
“This is the police brothel," etc. There
are wet cells and dry cells. The wet
cells are specially designed for easy
hosing down. While I was there I
met an old lag called Laurie. He was
wearing a filthy overcoat. One ser-
geant said his convictions for metho
drinking filled four typewritten pages.
Laurie was very articulate. “Lm
giving this place away. Going back
to Sydney. There they don’t ask you
what you drink they just fine
you £5. In Melbourne they get you
under the Poisons Act. They produce
the bottle, saying there was so
much Coca-Cola, so much methylated
spirit. You haven't a hope. It’s a
£25 fine or six months. They’re alto-
gether too hot in Melbourne.”
Where do you live, Laurie? “I
come from Manly.” Born there? “Oh,
no. I came out from Warwickshire
to Australia.” Where did you go to
school in Warwickshire? Unsmiling
and looking me straight in the eye
Laurie said: “I went to Rugby School.”
BATMAN


The Several Faces
J of Dickerson
A hard-working painter, not quite sure of his goal...
By PATRICIA ROLFE
Tms is Bob Dickerson at 11 in the
morning of a clear autumn day at
his house in the bush of Newport
plateau, high above the Pacific.
It is only one of half a dozen Bob
Dickersons. This is not Mr Robert
Dickerson, the Sydney artist, smudged
into respectability by daily newspaper
photographic reproduction, in a blue
business suit at an art show opening. Or
Dickerson, the touchstone to art for
young couples who hang his canvases
in their suburban bungalows, so that
hollow-cheeked, sad-eyed people stare
down at well-fed, well-adjusted people.
It is not Dicko in play-suit of shorts,
athletic singlet and plastic thongs, storm-
ing out of the Windsor Castle at Pad-
dington and jumping into his ute for a
perilous 25-mile drive home. This is not
good old Bob, being gently propped up
against the wall of the Newcastle by
friends, who silently steal away, leaving
him to solve the riddle of the universe
alone.
This is only one Dickerson, and, as
he says: “I can say one thing today and
mean it. Then tomorrow I’ll say some-
thing else and mean it, too.” And, of
course, one retains the right to believe
what Dickerson says today and not what
he said yesterday.
Dickerson, never a group man, with
brief stops elsewhere w'ent from Annan-
dale to King’s Cross to Newport, eschew-
ing Paddington. On this autumn morn-
ing nothing disturbs the scene except a
yellow grub of a road-grader, steadily
churning another scar across the hillside
below in preparation for yet another plan-
ned development. The developers have
now exposed the houses below. This is
Sydney’s exurbia, the Peninsular, Dicker-
son owners’ country, but Dickerson him-
self does not belong. He hates the en-
croachment of houses, but lets the bush
swallow up the careful garden which the
previous owners planted, and lets the
red-back spiders have the fish-pond.
But even from Newport plateau noth-
ing is clear, except the view. Dickerson
is working hard, but he is not sure
towards what goal. He is still or once
more half-decided to go overseas,
when he can get together £l5OO.
His first thought was New York,
largely on the strength of being one of
seven Australian painters represented in
the Sao Paulo biennale this year. How-
ever, a certain lack of logic in going to
North America because you are being
shown in South has presented itself. He
also thinks of Spain, of Goyas and cheap
living. However, the Goyas and the
really cheap living are several hundred
miles apart. So he might go back to
North Queensland, where he lived and
worked last year.
Dickerson’s career as an artist in many
ways follows the progress of the art boom
in Sydney in the past decade. Athough
there is no reason why he should take
any responsibility for its ridiculous
aspects, nor should it be implied that he
was any more affected by its sillinesses
and dishonesties than any other painter.
But Dickerson seems at once more vul-
nerable and more resilient than most. He
went in deeper, but came out quicker.
Somewhere in the ’fifties art became
much more widely fashionable in Syd-
ney, and the city’s insatiably socially-
minded, wanting to take up art, also had
to take up artists, who proved a pretty
dull lot. But there was Dickerson, ready-
made as a personality, an ex-boxer with
muscles to prove it. There were the stories
of early struggles to become a full-time
painter, of how he stacked his canvases
against the walls of his Annandale cot-
tage to keep out cold and rain, of his
wife, Innes, bicycling to work as a dress-
maker while Dickerson stayed home to
paint. These stories were passed from
friends to friends, from newspaper to
newspaper.
A figurative painter of masterly pro-
portions, Dickerson handled abstract
ideas as gamely as he handled paint. He
talked about art, beauty, love and life
as readily as most people talk about
nothing at all. No art party was complete
without Dickerson exchanging blows or
ideas.
Dickerson arrived on the crest of a
wave. How far did it take him?
Dickerson's schedule at the moment
is a busy one. He has this year already
shown in Sydney and Melbourne He will
have exhibitions at the Bonython gallery,
Adelaide, in August, and at the Skinner
gallery, Perth, before the end of the
year, and has a show' booked at a Lon-
don gallery later in the year. He says
he sold more than £lOOO w'orth of paint-
ings in Sydney.
But the critics lately haven’t been very
kind. The Sydney “Sunday Mirror” critic,
Robert Hughes, never one to mince
words when he can mince a fellow-


Announcing a rare
Pot Still Brandy, aged in
true Limousin Oak.
Soft, delicate, very smooth.
Drawn from wood
in limited quantities.
PIEMFO3LF)£
POT STILL
BRANDY
artist in the same dish, wrote at Christ-
mas that he found Dickerson’s “Padding-
ton infants as creepily sentimental as
Bubbles.” A couple of months later
Hughes took another look at the Pad-
dington children (it wasn’t Paddington,
Dickerson explains, it was Annandale),
noting that they had got “sweeter and
more Bambi-like; the drawing more
naturalistic and less incongraphic.” Dick-
erson's “violently schematic tonal struc-
ture,” Hughes found, “lost its clarity,
and the color became sweeter, invaded
by tentative mists of pink, green and
powder-blue.” According to Hughes,
Dickerson's Rubinstein prize entries for
1962 showed this “diffusion at its sickly
worst.”
If Dickerson has some artistic prob-
lems at the moment, he would not feel
that they have come out of adverse
criticism.
“I haven’t read the critics for seven
years,” he says. “I stopped reading them
when they stopped calling me a genius.”
However, although he does not read
them, he has definite views on them
“Critics here are biased,” he says. “They
all have their own line to push.” Accord-
ing to report, Dickerson has another,
more direct way of answering criticism,
and it is hard to think of a Sydney critic
who could go one round against him.
Dickerson denies, too, that he is in
a “new period.”
“I haven't changed since 1 began
painting,” he says, “people said that in
my recent work the landscape was over-
whelming the people. The simple truth
is that my earlier paintings were in the
cities, the later ones in Queensland. In
the cities the people are big, but in
Queensland they are dwarfed by the land-
scape. It's as simple as that.”
Although he would not be delighted
to be called Grandpa Moses, Dickerson
does not worry about being called a
primitive. “It was a bit of a compliment
in a way,” he says now. “But there was a
lot of nonsense talked and written about
the sorts of painting I did. I painted
racecourse touts only once.
“And there was a lot of rubbish talked
about my painting, my own loneliness and
misery. Just because I painted single
figures it didn’t mean that I was lonely.”
Is he happier now? “What is happiness,”
Dickerson asks gloomily.
One of the things which seems to have
caused Dickerson the most fret in the past
few years has been his perfectly logical,
but fruitless, attempts to rationalise the
selling of his work. Perhaps because he
has worked in factories, where you get
paid at the end of the week, and get time
and a half or double time for overtime,
the idea of working for six months, then
handing the results of those months to
a gallery, then waiting for an exhibition,
and perhaps months after that for pay-
ment to be made final, seemed to him
preposterous.
Art dealer Rudy Komon contracted
to buy Dickerson’s output for a set
period, and this seemed to have worked
fairly well for a time. But Dickerson only
painfully has learnt the economic facts
of the artistic life.
He remains more than ordinarily
resentful of people who expect him to
paint to order something most artists
learn to shrug off. “I’ve even been asked
to paint the Harbor Bridge because some-
one wanted a painting of it,” he says
angrily. “And I remember someone say-
ing ‘I have a friend who has a secretary.
Paint her in a bikini, Bob, and I’ll sell
it for you.’ ”
But nowadays the resentment does not
flare quite so quickly, and Dickerson has
periods of positive benignity. Sometimes
it seems as if the old Dicko in tattered
shorts and athletic singlet is vanishing
altogether.
And there have been other changes.
He is divorced and there is a new family,
which includes a baby who, although
strong and cheerful, looks a perfect
Dickerson painting baby, proving that life
does imitate art.
The constant through the years as a
painter has been work. This is essential
to him practically “it is no use just
telling someone you are a painter. You
have to have something to prove it”
and personally “as long as I am paint-
ing I am all right. It is sheer hard work,
but once I could say to myself ‘I can do
it’ that would be the finish.”
Dickerson has the added advantage that
he has no aversion to going back to
factory work, or any work which will
earn him enough to carry him over the
next painting spell. This gives him an
advantage over most painters, who view
physical work, apart from painting, with
distaste and alarm.
Although Dickerson’s fortunes and
reputation have fluctuated, his talent has
not been called into question; critics only
wonder and worry about the use he is
making of it. He is a man with few
enemies. If only he can be saved from
his friends.


m
■
v-':
r-;
•' : : >
mm
i. y.
•■t-:
m
% "'i ', f N ' y j 2 '•• yf><? ■' *
Wmlm ...
fill
pp|fe||| ii
-V :
.a?,'"..' // s» ;," :
J , * ■
:>*v*
aftS
Mi
• • : --
*
'■ j: i
- . ■
, i; s.£,
■» i---m- ,
Ml
.
.
•,
■ • . .v. . . ».
■: 1
•"rl
. .
'* -
> • y% areg
‘ ‘v'-'SSs#- I -H' \
' Slf 4"
iwWtawawiiMi
: jii::: fKS
1 < vssP , ■,< ', '■ l •
... . *i.s£; .* i. - >
•■; ■- .' •'- ' •
„ f**s*’'**• ‘ i * ( ~ H
§P •:
f i - „
~ . : ...
• .
•••■..
'
tv:y§P>im
VW7BBB
One, two, three, overdrive!
Lots of cars cruise at about 50.
Any faster and they get hot. They eat up
petrol, and the engine takes a beating.
(Count the cars along the roadside, any hot
day, letting off steam and cooling down.)
This doesn't happen in a Volkswagen,
and one reason is the top gear.
Volkswagen’s top gear is the same as the
extra gear you find in some expensive cars.
It’s an overdrive.
At speed, the average car engine is going
faster than the transmission it drives. In
a VW, overdrive makes the engine go slower
than the transmission. So the VW is really
taking it easy no matter how fast it goes
oKhow slowly. And because the engine’s
always relaxed, so are you you drive
without worrying about straining the car.
And because the engine doesn’t strain,
VW’s clock remarkably high mileages.
Nor can the engine overheat. Or freeze. It’s
air-cooled, and air doesn’t boil, like water.
Nor can the radiator break down. VW
doesn’t have one.
What Volkswagen does have, most makers
would give millions to get.
Wonderful reliability.
VWI2OO Sedan from £849
tax paid. VWISOO
£1199 tax paid.
(Prices for State capital cities.)
©


OUT AND ABOUT
Afternoon Tea With
The Attlees
“No you don’t, Clem ...” “Yes I do, Vi!”
By BARRY JONES
Great Missenden, Bucks, is about
35 miles west of London. Lady
Attlee suggested on the ’phone
that we come out by train and offered
to pick us up from the station, but after
a few anxious moments recollecting
mean stories about her driving in
“Time” Magazine we decided to hire
our own car.
The Attlees have lived in this village
since the Labor Government was de-
feated in 1951 but they had recently
moved to a new house —a two-storey
“cottage” of eight small rooms, modern
in the rustic English sense, and set on
sloping lawns about 140 feet square.
Their new Austin station wagon, as yet
unmarked, stood in the drive.
Lady Attlee came out to the lawn to
greet us, but the old man was forbidden
to leave the front door. He had only
come home a few days earlier after a
severe abdominal operation (suspected
cancer) and we were only the second
visitors allowed. Opposite the front door
was a characterless presentation portrait
by Sir Oswald Birley showing him as
Prime Minister standing in his Oxford
doctoral robes. Beneath was his col-
lapsible bath chair, one of a multitude
of labor saving devices which, even if
you had not seen the occupants, im-
mediately suggested that old people lived
in the house. Lady Attlee is proud of
her gadgets and of how well she copes
without domestic help.
On the mantelpiece in the small sitting
room, above the gas fire, was an eight-
inch bronze medallion bearing his profile
and commemorating his record of
twenty years in the Labor Party leader-
ship. All the other observable trophies
were unexciting parochial awards such as
local “freedoms”. The whole atmosphere
was snugly middle class.
A bay window overlooked fields be-
hind the house and the four of us sat in
big, soft, Morris chintz-covered arm-
chairs, flanked by a standard lamp,
shining silverware on a trolley, and some
large Persian pots. An autographed
photograph of King George VI sat on
bookshelves packed with leatherbound
presentation copies of all Churchill’s
more recent books, Truman’s and Slim’s
memoirs, Jane Austen’s novels, several
books about Stalin and Churchill, a great
deal of poetry in small limp volumes,
and his own books.
A fuse had blown a few minutes be-
fore we arrived and neither of the
Attlees could fix it. I volunteered but was
so excited at renewing my brief associ-
ation with Lord Attlee that my hands
trembled too much to be able to unscrew
the Wire. Rosemary masterfully com-
pleted the job, then began sawing
through the excess wire with the silver
bread knife. “Don’t use the silver”, the
old man glared. He took the knife away
and shuffled out to the kitchen and re-
turned with a battered tool box.
Lord Attlee looked frail and had been
much enfeebled by illness. But he was
alert and obviously interested in all that
was said —especially in unfamiliar de-
tails of Australian politics such as anec-
dotes about the Lang and Evatt troubles.
Proverbially taciturn, he usually spoke
with long pauses between sentences,
giving the impression at each pause that
he had nothing more to say. But if we
waited, more came. Often he took so
long to begin his answers that Lady
Attlee would begin to reply for him be-
fore he was wound up enough to speak.
Although it was clear from other things
that he said that their ideas did not
always coincide, he never contradicted
replies she made for him.
He had been forbidden to smoke and
obviously missed his pipe as a conver-
sational accessory. He said that he re-
membered Dr Evatt introducing us in
Canberra in September, 1954 —at a time
when we were negotiating for him to
speak at the Melbourne University
ALP Club. I mentioned that I had been
at the memorial service for our mutual
friend Jimmie Hudson, a Quaker, paci-
fist, and temperance worker, who had
been a Labor MP for many years. He
had died of cancer a few days earlier,
at the age of eighty.
“We disagreed on almost every major
issue of our time —within the framework
of socialism. But he was a wonderful
man, and my friend for fifty years.”
Lady Attlee began serving tea, a
beverage I abominate, but seeing no
sign of coffee equipment and fearful that
Nescafe was the only alternative, I de-
cided to be both brave and courteous,
and sucked down two cups.
Lord Attlee insisted on getting up to
hand the cups to Rosemary and me. This
was rather unnerving because he seems
to have a defective sense of balance and
the saucers dangled from his fingers at
a dangerous angle as if the weight of
the cups had exhausted him. I had pre-
pared a list of questions for him.
Could Stalin and Roosevelt have made
a deal to settle East-West differences for
the foreseeable future and thus avert the
Cold War? “No. F.D.R. was completely
deluded. It could never have worked.
Uncle Joe sucked him in absolutely.
He thought that he had a unique under-
standing of European problems which
the men on the spot lacked. Roosevelt
said, ‘We two are the big boys—you
little boys had better keep out of it.’
His hatred of imperialism was so great
that he could never take Churchill seri-


ously as a Soviet critic. Harry Truman
was much more realistic. A real fighter.”
What impression did he have of Roose-
velt’s personality? “Completely enigma-
tic.” Silence. And then . . . “Vanity was a
dominating feature with him. He thought
he could personally resolve all outstand-
ing differences between the big powers.
He could never have done it. Things
would have been no different if he had
lived another ten years.” Did he agree
with the comment that Ernie Bevin used
to treat Stalin as if he was the secre-
tary of a breakaway union? He laughed
and looked for the forbidden pipe.
Why do intellectuals so often fail in
politics? “Fellers like Crossman, Hore
Belisha, Eden, all lacked judgment.
Judgment's the X quality. These fellers
can’t evaluate.” How do leaders of the
British Labor Party deal with union
officials who are preoccupied with eco-
nomic issues and lack interest in poli-
tical theory? “They educate ’em.” Silence
for 60 seconds. “A trade union without
a theoretical backgound is merely a con-
spiracy to defraud the public. The In-
dependent Labor Party and the Workers’
Educational Association Tawney’s
crowd provided a head to the trade
union body because, in general, trade
unionists seem to know nil about
politics.”
Would the fact that nations with im-
mature political institutions, like Mali
and Chad, made up the majority in the
General Assembly wreck the UN? “No.
Politicians know that since the monster
powers won’t negotiate directly there
is no alternative to UN even though it
lacks experienced leadership. But UN
will only do good work on technical
matters like FAO and WHO.”
“Not a bad poet, either!”
117'ill the manipulation of the mass
media weaken the effectiveness of de-
mocracy in the way Aldous Huxley has
predicted? “Yes, especially television.
Can’t stand it. Terrible stuff. Rarely
watch it. Mind you, I like doing it my-
self. Great fun. Did you see that series
I did with Francis Williams? Every one
said it was jolly good.” I said we had
seen and enjoyed it in Australia.
Who had influenced his thinking as a
socialist politician most strongly? Marx?
Morris? Owen? (Long silence). Did he
have any heroes? “I don’t believe in
heroes —but the nearest thing to a hero
in my life was William Morris, because
of his protest against the ugliness and
philistinism of 19th Century industri-
alism which was life and soul destroying.
He put ethics and aesthetics into soci-
alism —as well as economics. Not a
bad poet either.”
Had he read much Marx? “No, I’ve
never read any Marx. I’ve read a good
deal about him of course. I’ve never re-
gretted the lack. Dogmatic sort of feller.
In fact I can’t claim any particular
theoretical knowledge about socialism.
You don’t worry too much about theory
when you're in power. You look for the
people’s needs and you just try to carry
’em out.”
“You can forget theory. But I must
admit that ethics brought me to soci-
alism. No, Robert Owen didn’t influence
me either. Silly chap in many ways.”
What were the major errors or omis-
sions of the Attlee Government? “I don’t
think there were any. We just did what
we could —as fast as the parliamentary
machine would let us. By the end of our
six years we were physically exhausted
—and Bevin and Cripps were dead. But
you don’t worry or lose sleep about what
you can’t do.”
Few British politicians show much
interest in culture. While Britain has
only eleven State-subsidized orchestras
West Germany has 64! Does this suggest
that British public life is philistine?
“That’s true. I can’t think of many poli-
ticians who were concerned with cul-
ture. Churchill was interested in art and
literature —but nothing modern. He did
nothing to help the arts and didn’t like
music. Eden likes Persian literature. Of
course, I love music and art myself.”
“No you don't, Clem”, said Lady Attlee.
“Oh, yes I do, Vi.”
“You only like novels and poetry.
I’ve never seen you take any interest in
music or painting.”
Why did he oppose Britain’s entry to
the Common Market? “For Common-
wealth reasons. It would tie Britain to
three important but potentially politi-
cally unstable states —France, Italy and
West Germany. It is very doubtful if it
would benefit our industrial market—and
it would certainly destroy domestic
agriculture. It will almost certainly de-
stroy the Commonwealth —and I de-
plore that. Once Europe dominated the
world—but power has been devolving
away towards America, Asia, and
Africa —and this is a good thing. I don’t
like to see too great a concentration of
political and economic power back in
Europe.”
Is there really an alternative to British
entry? “Not with the present government.
They have let us run down. Macmillan
is so extraordinarily inept that he has
never faced Britain’s necessity to im-
prove production methods. But this has
been a speculators’ government a
bingo government in fact.”
Did he regret accepting a peerage?
Lady Attlee chipped in with “Of course
he doesn’t. Being in the Lords is some-
thing for him to do. It would have been
a dreadful break for him to retire com-
pletely after 33 years in the Commons.”
Vigorous nods from Clem. “Besides,”
he said, “it’s the only place in London
where you can park a car.” Why has
the “New Statesman” always been so vin-
dictive about the Attlee Government?
“No idea. Funny chaps there.”
“Menzies? Lord Birkett was better”
TTad he read Lord Dalton’s last volume
of autobiography, “High Tide and
After”, which minimised Attlee’s import-
ance in the Government and maximised
his own? “No. I don’t care much about
what he wrote because his diaries are
mostly wishful thinking. He only record-
ed the things that he thought really should
have happened. All the same he was a
very good chap and I liked him very
much. But you could say of him what
H. G. Wells said of the Webbs—that his
hands were calloused by wirepulling. The
story, which he repeated, that George
VI asked me to appoint Bevin as Foreign
Secretary instead of himself is a lie.”
Was he impressed by Commonwealth
statesmen? “I thought old Chif was a
really great man. Nothing ruffled him.
After a few sucks on his pipe he could
deal with any tough problem at a con-
ference. He had a gift for penetrating
analysis. The most remarkable in some
ways was Peter Fraser of New Zealand.
He had a wonderful memory for detail.
He was born here, you know, and joined
the ILP as a young man. Every time
he came here he would ask ‘Do you
remember old so-and-so?’ and he would
reel off details about some one I knew
well in the old days but he had only
read about.”
How did he rate R. G. Menzies? Lady
Attlee interrupted “We like him very
much, don’t we, Clem? He has always
been very kind to us. And he’s such a
beautiful after-dinner speaker at func-
tions like the Lord Mayor of London’s
dinners.”
“That's right, Vi, but Lord Birkett
was better.”
Had he a clear impression of Khrush-
chev? “I don’t care for him. Noisy chap.
But he wants to leave a record of peace
behind him.”
Would he rather be dead than red?
“Of course, wouldn’t you, Clem?” “It
all depends on the circumstances, Vi. It
would depend on how much room to
manoeuvre there was, and if there was a
reasonable possibility of future change.
But I think this wave of enthusiasm for
fall-out shelters in the United States is
madness. Or commercialism. Or both. I
liked that book Nevil Shute wrote about
nuclear war ‘On the Beach’. Fine book.
Enjoyed the film too. But on the whole I
am optimistic about the future because I
believe in the idealism of the race.”


WORLD-WIDE
Radiator R 1
100% British Made
warmth
where you
want it...
Completely portable and self-
contained, the Tilley Radiator
brings radiant warmth to
every corner of the house.
Entirely safe; burns for 12
hours on only pints of
ordinary kerosene.
For economical warmth whenever
and wherever it's needed, you can
put your trust in TILLEY.
Obtainable from all good Hardware Stores. In case of difficulty
write for name of your nearest Stockist to:
m
MANUFACTURERS REPRESENTATIVEt
Ti H. BENTLEY PTY. LTD.
12 Sullivan Street,
MOORABBIN, 5.20,
Victoria, Australia.
• * * A good coffee that
won’t keep you awake at night —that's
CAFFEIN-
FREE
COFFEE
Enjoy the delicious flavour of HAG coffee,
either instant, ground or beans. HAG coffee
does not upset your heart, nerves or digestion.
a
H'H'M
decaffeina^
llynstant Coffp?
W
GOOD COFFEE AND A GOOD NIGHT'S SLEEP
Crossing the
Blue Mountains
The Blaxland myth
By M. H. ELLIS
In the age of Governor Macquarie,
25 years after the first settlement on
Australian soil had been established
on Sydney Cove, the barrier of the Blue
Mountains was breached and the vast
interior of Australia became available
for inspection. The 150th anniversary
of the breaching falls this month.
Earlier, attempts had been made to
cross both the Blue Mountains and the
Hawkesbury Ranges. They had failed.
Private attempts mostly had been made
by Irish convicts convinced that the fair
land of China lay just beyond the hills.
Their skeletons were their monuments.
Official attempts had ended for the
time being in the period of Governor
King, after a long series of assaults on
the ranges.
Some of those who essayed the passage
of the forbidding ranges were giants in
size and strength as well as in spirit.
Bass, more than six feet tall, had climbed
over the Kurrajong Range and come
back afterwards weighing much less but
remembering illimitable vistas of im-
penetrable ranges seen from the topmost
teeth of bare sierras. And finally George
Caley, more than as tall as Bass and
stouter, a giant indeed in physique who
was one of Sir Joseph Banks’s collectors
of botanical novelties, retreated in De-
cember, 1804, from his fourth attempt to
conquer the mountains. He had been for
three weeks engaged in an exercise which
he described as “like climbing over the
roofs of houses in England.”
Governor King, after viewing his ex-
perience, wrote that “few possessed of
the bodily strength and enthusiastic mind
which Caley does to encounter such
researches,” yet “he did not recover for
some time after his return.” Caley later
pronounced the Blue Mountains “impass-
able” to a House of Commons Commit-
tee.
So the mountains slept, dreaming on
the Western horizon, certified as uncon-
querable and not worth vanquishing un-
til the eye of Governor Macquarie light-
ed on them.
They did not inspire him with the feel-
ings of awe and terror which they produc-
ed in the minds of his naval predecessors.
He had lived his life with mountains.
“Very early after his arrival in the
colony,” he declared, he had “formed a
resolution of encouraging the attempt to
find a passage to the Western country.”


He wasted no time. Soon after his return
from Van Diemen’s Land which he had
crossed from South to North, the settlers
of NSW, including Gregory Blaxland and
William Charles Wentworth, in January,
1812, presented him with an address of
welcome home in which they mentioned
his “proffers of patronage to every ef-
fort to surmount those obstacles so long
considered to retard further discovery.”
Less than a month later, Lieutenant
William Lawson, lately of the 102nd Re-
giment, wrote in his daily journal:
MAY 11: Mr Blaxland, Mr Wentworth and
myself with four men and four horses
laden with provisions, etc., took our de-
parture on Tuesday, May the 11th., 1813.
Crossed the Nepean River at Chapman’s
Farm, Emu Island, at four o’clock and
proceeded s.w. two miles. Encamped at 5
o’clock at the foot of the first ride of hills.
They were the first explorers to use
horses on the mountains, a main factor
in their success.
Next morning they climbed upwards
towards Lapstone, guided by a kangaroo
shooter named James Byrnes whom they
did not mention at the time, but who
later was paid £lO for his pains.
It was ten days before the “Sydney
Gazette” deigned to mention their de-
parture, attributing it to a time a week
later than actuality and announcing that
they had requisites for a six weeks’ jour-
ney.
Blaxland’s three versions
nPHE three men whose names have be-
come famous for a success, which
was notable mainly because it was the
first rather than the greatest of Austra-
lian land exploring feats, were two Eng-
lishmen and one Australian born. Blax-
land was a Kentish farmer who had been
in the colony seven years. His farm was
down on South Creek. He had proved
himself a “pleasant facetious travelling
companion to Macquarie when he had
visited the Nepean River at the end of
1810, but the Governor, as he listened to
his claims for land and cattle based on
very flimsy pretexts, had ceased to think
him either pleasant or facetious. His
hackles rose whenever he took quill to
write about him. He has been accepted
by posterity as the originator and leader
of the band.
He made no claim to leadership until
more than three years after the event and
then not publicly. But he has been ac-
cepted as leader on the basis of his as-
sertions in three versions, the last made
public in a letter published in 1823 in-
cluding what purported to be his diary
of the journey, allegedly compiled as the
expedition proceeded, but differing in
verbiage from an earlier one. The
original is not extant.
He wrote three versions of the project.
In the first, November, 1816, he declared
that he had made two previous attempts
to cross the Blue Mountains, one “by
water by His Excellency the Governor in
person, whom I accompanied. We
ascended the river Hawkesbury or Nepean
from about Emu Island, to the mouth of
the Warragomby or Great Western River
where it emerges from the mountains.”
In fact, that had not been an attempt to
cross the mountains but a pleasant day’s
river picnic to look at the “new river”
which George Evans had discovered
flowing into the Nepean. They even took
Mrs Macquarie with them among a
large party and they returned, as planned,
in the afternoon very pleased at having
penetrated up the Warragomby two miles
further than Evans had gone.
Blaxland’s second alleged expedition
did not seem even to have reached the
eastern face of the mountains. But now
he asserted he had determined to organise
a third:
On inquiry, I found a person who had
been accustomed to hunt the kangaroo on
the Mountains, in the direction I wished
to go, who undertook to take the horses to
the top of the first ridge. Soon after, I
mentioned this circumstance to His Excel-
lency the Governor, who thought it reason-
able and expressed the wish that I should
'make the attempt.
And then, it appeared, “having made
every requisite preparation, I applied to
the two gentlemen who accompanied me,
to join in the expedition, and was fortu-
nate in obtaining their consent . . . To
these gentlemen I have to express my
thanks for their company, and to acknow-
ledge that without their assistance, I
should have had but little chance of suc-
cess.”
This would seem pretty definitive if it
were not for his second version. In this
he had stated that he “had called on him
(the Governor) a few days before I set
out. I could not see him but was invited
to dinner. I did not mention the subject
to him nor did he mention it himself
which I expected he would have done.
When I took leave, I informed him we
intended setting out immediately. He
wished us success but there was a re-
servedness in his manner I could not ac-
count for . . . When I returned, I called
on the Governor, and informed him of
our success. He did not doubt my state-
ment, but appeared dissatisfied, since I
have reason to suppose that he neither
expected nor wished us to succeed. That
must remain in doubt.”
This seems inconsistent with the pub-
lished statement —which was perhaps
printed by an enthusiastic relation in
England without his consent —that Mac-
quarie had “expressed the wish that I
should make the attempt.”
Lawson as leader?
\ ll that can be said is that if one had
been asked to choose Blaxland as
a leader, either on his qualifications or
his record, one would have regarded his
claims with doubt. He was much more
improbable as the planner of the ex-
pedition than William Lawson. Or even
Wentworth. The latter was 23 years old,
another six-footer, the only colonial
among them. Tawny-headed he was
restless, adventurous and bubbling over
with vitality; a youngster who had rid-
den his father’s horse, Gig, to victory at
the Hyde Park Races in 1810 and who,
on his 21st birthday, had been appointed
Provost Marshal by Macquarie. His fath-
er had a farm fronting the mountains. He
was probably the official representative in
a party which was travelling beyond the
Nepean River into territory barred with-
out benefit of passport from the Govern-
or himself to all but John Macarthur, his
family and servants. He made no claim
to leadership.
For Lawson, however, a claim was
made. In 1827 in Wentworth’s paper
“The Australian,” an intelligent Scottish
traveller wrote of his journey to Bathurst
and incidentally set out to describe the
beginnings of the plan for the celebrated
mountains crossing. It had originated,
he said; in London, in 1811, where
Lawson, whose cattle had increased
beyond the capacity of his farms, had
frequently discussed the matter with
Caley and determined to set out on his
return to New South Wales to find a
passage across the mountains. For this
purpose, the writer said, he “secured an
agreeable companion in Mr William
Wentworth, and a persevering assistant
in Mr Gregory Blaxland.”
By “keeping the ridge or greatest
elevation of the transverse mountains,”
Mr Lawson foresaw that he should meet
with the fewest difficulties; that the
timber and underwood would be there
thinnest, and that a long continuous flat
or tableland would offer much smaller
impediments than descending into the
hollows, and then ascending the hills
successively.” All this smacked of
experience as a surveyor which Lawson
had.
So this is a much more plausible
theory about the genesis and proceedings
of the expedition than Blaxland’s. Ad-
vanced publicly and in the Colony and
in Wentworth’s paper, nobody contra-
dicted it. And when there is added the
fact that Lawson produced in his own
handwriting, a log which looks as if it
had been written up from day to day
in detail during the journey, giving
traverses. He was mentioned first in
the list of explorers by the official
“Gazette” and he was the only man in
the. party who took advantage of the dis-


■■
1®
• ■ : ' : -V, •> -: ■.:
. B |
s§«Ss» sSSs • \ «*•< '
: - -
■!>■''.<.■■■■ ■ - • - '■ -
: : ;: " ■•'■'> . '■ ■ ■■■■■■: i..'/:- 1 -;--:--: v ■ ■
ii
hHs
■
mm®
i: ■
>5 ' l
S'':-
:■
11
■ ;■> ■: . :. -
Mmi
HH
B M
V r~*
.V -*•
K.
.
V
,u
M
sn wm* : "
1 liM||lp Wmw
\ #&'t k tH
.
_ J
vl/
o x 7
0;
H
i:
f
II
\
■:
m
• •••
■"!
j*sT - ‘
:V>" "
- ;
; " ■ :
■■ -V
II
the spell of Lufthansa
You don’t have to spell Lufthansa to
enjoy the German international way of
flying.
A ’phone call to your travel agent will
hook you a Lufthansa flight to most
overseas places that interest Australian
businessmen.
Actually, experienced travellers will tell
you that Lufthansa provides its own
spell.
Hearty Bavarian beer from the keg and
Westphalian ham with black bread if
you are gastronomically inclined.
Flight crews that speak your language,
know your way of life.
Boeing 7208’s and 707 Intercontinentals
that whisper the miles away.
A world service that spans Europe,
Asia. Africa, North and South America.
But comfort and convenience are only
part of the Lufthansa spell.
There’s German thoroughness and
attention to detail.
There’s the knowledge that Lufthansa
is one of the world's most experienced
airlines, was pioneering world routes as
early as 1926, has made 160,000 flights
in the last eight years alone.
Lufthansa does not fly to Australia yet
but you can join a Lufthansa flight as
close as Bangkok, Hong Kong, or Sari
Francisco and name your destination.
Don’t spell it.
Just say ‘'Lufthansa” to your travel
agent.
YOUR TRAVEL AGENT OR TAA HAS FULL DETAILS
LUFTHANSA
GERMAN AIRLINES
LA117398


Famous Companies— ROLLS ROYCE
• MARCONI • VICKERS ® DUNLOP
• PYE • JAGUAR • GENERAL
ELECTRIC • PERKINS • LEYLAND
• DE HAVILLAND, to name a few —
officially recommend Rocol products
—and the same research and technical
efficiency has gone into producing
:: : W
: ¥ >
mrspm
FOR EN
GEAR &
AXLE <
• m
g&n
nOcol
nOPnJ
That’s why
MILLIONS
OF WISE MOTORISTS
throughout the world insist on Rocol Moly-
SPEED—because ROCOL is the original and
best Moly suspension—and still costs less.
18'6
is all it costs to keep your car in “just
run-in” condition with ROCOL Moly-
SPEED —the scientific oil reinforcement
that has revolutionised motoring.
ONE grade only. The 10 oz. Can does engine, gearbox and differential.
Remember ROCOL MoIySPEED is the
only brand to contain 15,000,000,000,000
filter-passing particles of Molybdenum Di-
sulphide in every 10 oz. Can perfectly
suspended in premium oil designed for
addition to engine, gearbox and differential.
RM14.T04
0
■
adds £ff£ to your engine
coveries, or had indulged previously in
real exploration or who continued to
explore with ability and enthusiasm. His
claims are very strong.
Lawson had come to New South
Wales in 1800 at 26 years old, having
bought a commission in the New South
Wales Corps. He had served in the
Corps as commandant of troops at Nor-
folk Island for several years. He had
been sent next to Newcastle where he
was the first man to explore beyond the
mouth of the Hunter River Valley, con-
firming the existence of rich pastoral
country there. He had established his
reputation as a cattleman and a bush-
man.
He was something out of a pioneering
novel, the son of officers’ mess on both
sides. He had the itchy foot of the
roving British Army officer of the
eighteenth century and by 1813, at 40,
he was already something of a legend in
NSW. With his thick form, his horse-
men’s gait, his riding boots, his stout
cane he might have been invented in the
character of a Regency squire by Surtees
or “Nimrod.” When horses were few
he had walked the double journey
between Prospect and Sydney in a day
without turning a hair. Many a back
knew the impact of his stick. He droved
his own cattle.
His family life was like that of an
Irish squire. The chatelaine of his
Veteran Hall was the sparkling little
gypsy girl known far and wide as
“Tamborine Sal.” She was the toast of
the young bloods of the countryside.
Colonel Munday wrote of Lawson a
generation later, when he had capitalised
the opening up of the West and was a
rich cattle baron with 150,000 acres of
land, 90.000 cattle and 15,000 sheep,
that he was “proper stuff for one of
the pioneers of a new rough age”; one
who, as he moved among his grain and
pastures and vineyard supervising his 40
employees at Veteran Hall, was known
to all, even in that age when toughness
was pre-requisite to success on the land,
as “Old Ironbark.”
Possibly there was no leader of the
Blue Mountains party in the ordinary
sense. But the natural and experienced
leader was undoubtedly Lawson. And
the enterprise, if it was not the child of
Macquarie’s brain, as inferred by his
only references to it, sounds more likely
to have initiated with Lawson than with
Blaxland.
His is the only surviving original
record of the journey which looks as if
it were written by a captain of the ship.
His is soberly definitive of what the
party had discovered when, at the end
a journey of about 45 miles from the
tjjepean and five miles beyond Cox’s
River, they turned for home on May


TOP
ACCOMMODATION FOR
EXECUTIVES . . .
A
A
T.
T
%
W
iov^'
FIRST IN SYDNEY; FIRST FOR
CHARACTER, CONVENIENCE,
COMFORT.
• Just 3 miles from the heart of the city, 2
miles from Mascot Aerodrome.
• 3 Executive Suites, 1 Director's Suite and
32 standard and family suites.
• Individually controlled air conditioning. You
can open your window if you wish.
• 24-hour room and meal service.
• Laundry and valet service.
• Licensed restaurant.
• Private bathroom in every suite.
• Telephone, television, refrigerator and radio
in every room.
• Golf courses, beaches and other sporting
facilities. All within a few minutes of the
Travel Terminal. Overlooking Randwick Race-
course.
TRAVEL TERMINAL
2A Alison Road, RANDWICK. 39 7071
Telegrams: “TRAVTERM” RANDWICK
Service to the guest—our most important feature
1C8.43
31, “our shoes worn and provisions
nearly expended.”
He opined that they had discovered
lands which would be a great acquisition
to the colony—which was true since they
had reached the well-watered Hartley
Vale and Vale of Clwdd. He declared
that there would be no difficulty in build-
ing a good road to it, and that it would
be a safe refuge in the event of invasion
since only a few men would be needed
to defend the passes against a large
force. He added: “I have every reason
to believe that the same ridge of moun-
tains we have travelled on will lead some
distance into the interior of the country
and, also, that a communication can be
easily found from this to the head of the
Coal (Hunter) River where, to my
knowledge, is a large extent of grazing
country and it having water carriage
from thence to Port Jackson, which
will be a great consideration.”
Time proved him accurate in every
detail. It also proved the falsity of
Blaxland’s summary written obviously
after the existence of the Bathurst Plains
was made known by George Evans
whom Macquarie sent out the following
November to verify the story of the
“dauntless three,” as Henry Kendall
called them.
Blaxland declared that they “had
descried all round, forest or grassland
sufficient in extent to support the stock
of the colony for the next thirty years,”
which was in strong contrast to the
suggestions inherent in Lawson’s and
explicit in young Wentworth’s account
of the results of the journey: “before
it can be determined whether in this
excursion we have actually passed the
Mountains, it will be necessary to
ascertain whether the western boundary
of the forest land which we discovered
is similar to the eastern. But admitting
we have not traversed the mountains,
we have at all events proved that they
are traversible and that, too, by cattle,
a circumstance which by those who
were allowed to possess some local
knowledge has been hitherto deemed
impossible.”
Evans, proceeding 85 miles beyond
their limit point, proved that they had
not even crossed the highest part of
the range with the highest peaks He dis-
covered the Campbell River and the
Macquarie River and ranged on with
ease over the country to near Eugowra,
thus proving extent of the plains.
It was only on receiving Evans’s re-
port that Macquarie officially acknow-
ledged and rewarded the services of
Blaxland, Lawson and Wentworth. He
granted them 1000 acres of land each in
situations of their own choosing. And
here again was the contrast in their
behaviors.
Reviving the Forgotten Three
VIfENTWORTH took one of the last re-
maining blocks available east of the
Nepean. Blaxland chose 1000 acres
south of Botany Bay, some of it so poor
that an enterprising dingo could not
have made a living on it. This in spite
of the fact that he later stated his pur-
pose in organising the expedition to have
been to find urgently needed country to
pasture his cattle. In 1819 he complained
to Commissioner Bigge, despite this
choice of lands, that “every hope I
cherished of advantage that was likely to
arise to my family from the circum-
stances was blasted and distroyed (sic)
other Men and other families were
allowed to make their fortunes from our
exertions, nothing was left for me but
patience and submission to my for-
tunes.”
Lawson had no such complaint. He
and William Cox were the two great
pastoral pioneers of the West. While
Cox formed great stations for his sons
and took out the first boat ahead of
Oxley to ride the waters of the Lachlan,
and the first merinos, Lawson discovered
the coal seams which yielded so many
million tons out of the Clwdd Valley.
He claimed to have found the first copper
and silver in the West. In 1820, he
proved his presumption that a way could
be found from the near West to the
Hunter River by riding up through the
site of Mudgee himself into the confines
of the Hunter River Valley. He founded
pioneer stations, Talbragar and Havilah.
He and the Coxes pioneered the great
pastoral properties of the Mudgee and
Coolah regions.
Their own era took little note of the
accomplishment of the “dauntless three.”
When Old Ironbark died in 1850, his
name was not even mentioned in the
Press. When Gregory Blaxland, im-
poverished to the point of despair, com-
mitted suicide on a hot Christmastide at
the Vineyard in 1853, the papers men-
tioned him only as a “very old colonist.”
Nothing was said of their work as
explorers. The Blaxlands revived his
memory in the early 1860 s.
It was the death of Wentworth in
1872 that finally revived the memory
of the travellers, though Dr John Dun-
more Lang did not mention their names
in his 1873 edition of his “History of
New South Wales.” The Blaxlands
rushed to re-assert their claims against
an inference which now was born that
Wentworth had been the leader.
With the Blue Mountains coming into
fashion in the 1870 s as a tourist district
and playground for the elite, estate
developers rushed to capitalise history.
The Railways Department put the seal on
the fame of the three by naming railway
stations after them. From then onwards
they were an acknowledged part of Aus-
tralian history, in the very forefront of
the stage.


OVERSEAS
1. Hong Kong’s Post Office
Tells a Story
To the mainland - 5 million pounds of food parcels
From HEDLEY RHODES in Hong Kong
The Hong Kong Government last
year sought to cope with a strange
and sudden influx of tens of thous-
ands of refugees fleeing from Commun-
ist China. Today, the conditions which
caused the 1962 month-long exodus still
exist —but there is little likelihood of it
happening again, at least not in the im-
mediate future.
British-directed land and sea patrols
along the border are keeping the flow of
refugees down to a trickle, lower prob-
ably than at any time since the People’s
Republic established itself in Peking.
And, on the Chinese side of the border,
military patrols are now reportedly at
a record strength.
For the Hong Kong Government, it
is a question of protecting the population
already here. There are not enough
housing or employment opportunities.
The critical water shortage, with the
ration recently cut to three hours daily,
is also an important factor. On the
Chinese side, it is a problem of con-
trolling a population which is hungry
today and worried about tomorrow.
It is true that the Communists have
increased food production, noticeably
by concentrating almost all efforts on
agriculture at the expense of commerce
and industry. They have even increased
food exports but this is to get badly
needed foreign exchange, and not be-
cause of any surplus.
Hong Kong’s post-office statistics
show the other side of the picture. Local
Chinese residents—responding to pleas
from relatives on the mainland—mailed
more than 5 million pounds of food to
China in the first quarter of 1963. Read-
ing between the lines of Canton news-
papers smuggled into Hong Kong sheds
more light. An article in the “Southern
Daily” praises the work brigades of one
county because 80 per cent of them
produced enough food to last themselves
until the next harvest.
Since this feat warranted special Press
attention, 80 per cent is apparently a
high figure. The remaining 20 per cent
in this county, presumably, is facing
serious shortages as well as the larger
groups in the less successful counties.
Other topics reported in the Canton
Press cover a wide range of problems:
absenteeism, improper supervision by
cadres, inadequate care of farm animals,
inefficient storage of seed grain, in-
sufficient medical care, rudeness by
personnel dealing with the public, and
hooliganism.
Two major meetings held in Canton
reflect the growing concern of official-
dom. One was a meeting of the Young
Communist League of China, the other a
Canton Militiamen’s Conference. These
two groups from the area where last
year’s exodus stemmed were exhorted
to tighten up discipline, practise
economy, and increase production.
Editorials in the newspapers call for
more indoctrination and self-criticism.
But political formulas are incapable
of remedying South China’s biggest
problem this season drought. The
recent winter has been the driest on
record. Though Chinese statistics are
not available, the Royal Observatory in
Hong Kong reports that only 2.67 inches
of rain fell between November 1 last
year and April 30 this year.
In March, Peking was broadcasting
confidently that peasants in Kwangtung
would be able to beat the drought by
using water stored up before the winter’s
dry season. Communist radio broadcasts
reported that 70 per cent of the
province’s acreage had been sown. Since
then there has been a noticeable silence.
Recent visitors to the mainland tell of
gigantic efforts to dig new canals and
wells in a frantic effort to get the land
under production. Losses already have
been great, and even a normal if belated
rainy season will not make up the
difference.
2. Brain-Washing
India’s Jawans
The Chinese Try Korea Tactics
From BALROM TANDOIS
in New Delhi
In releasing more than 3000 Indian
prisoners-of-war captured during
last autumn’s campaign, the Chin-
ese have also set a problem for the
Indian Army high command.
Physically, the prisoners are not in
bad shape after six months of captivity
and the rigors of the Tibetan climate.
Most of them walked across the passes
on the MacMahon Line escorted by Red
Cross parties sent from New Delhi. But
as successive batches come in (three
parties have been released in recent
weeks), Indian officers at the reception


BY APPOINTMENT
TO HER MAJESTY
QUEEN ELIZABETH II
SCOTCH WHISKY DISTILLERS
WM. SANDERSON & SON LT(S.
Connoisseurs will understand our pride-
This is
Centenary Year for
VAT 69
One hundred years have set Time’s
honoured seal of distinction to this excellent Scotch
Whisky and, in so doing, has truly justified the discrimination of
those who nominated the fine old whisky from
the vat numbered 69 as the perfect blend.
More than a Scotch } a tradition for 100 years now
NZL 6 10.4 c


' . * - -y".
. . '
: • ’: •'
mwmmmtmmmmmMm
mm :
> jSM
s
fm
4Wm
cie
'
3$ '
i
•-.■-•■-
, U |
mm '< ' ' ' ?m
: : :
BSaagg
I
"Revolutionary”is the word for UNICHROME spray-on vinyl
Here it is —a revolutionary new decorative vinyl finish you can
apply by spray, which looks, feels and wears like the highest quality
embossed vinyl film. Now made right here in Australia, Unichrome
865 Coatings have all the built-in vinyl virtues: they won’t stain,
fade, chip or scuff. Easily applied to metal, hardboard or fibre-
glass by standard spray-gun, they
mantle even intricate forms with a
rich, warm finish, satin smooth or
textured. “Revolutionary” is the word.
unichrome
% 1


Unichrome 865
has sales 'appeal,
gives superior
performance, provides processing
economies and has applications in a
wide range of secondary industries.
Metal furniture, architectural panels
and partitions, office equipment,
household appliances and television
cabinets are just a few of its many
applications. The close-up pictures
here suggest the variety of textures
that can be obtained which include
two-tone and multi-colour effects.
Our colour service will match
samples and formulate any special
colour plain or metallic
you require. Unichrome sprayed-on
vinyl adds a quality look to your
product, and pays off handsomely in
these ways:
Your designers are free to change
colours at will ... to adopt novel
textured effects ... to reproduce
in finest detail any underlying metal
pattern. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your production benefits when
the finish is applied after fabrication
or assembly. No more raw, un-
finished edges ... no expensive
losses in pre-coated cut-offs ... no
stockpile of pre-finished material to
inhibit quick changes in colours and
styling as the market demands . . .
fewer rejects because of ease in re-
finishing. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
Your dealers welcome the reduc-
tion of costly returns, mark-downs
and write-offs due to finish damaged
in transport or showroom demon-
stration. ‘Revolutionary’ is the word.
For full details about Unichrome 865,
contact United Chromium (Australia)
Pty. Ltd. at Mandemar Avenue,
Homebush, N.S.W. Telephone Mr. R.
Bartels at 76-0511. Or put in a call
to one of these United Chromium
branch managers:
VICTORIA
Mr. B. Barnett, Melbourne. 69-3263
QUEENSLAND
Mr. B. Kiernan, Brisbane. 5-4091
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Mr. D. Bruce, Adelaide.
71-7240
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Mr. G. Parsons, Perth. 21-4937
NEW ZEALAND
Mr. A. Nisbet, Auckland.
594-221
UC3
«SK
mm.
r
mm
i ??P*
1;;; j
psssss
mm
■
mHMsewi^mH^
IMS;
MULTI-COLOUR
MOTTLE
wMMmiM
wm
mwmm®
> T
spx&biss
w 1
lis
m
is
- !• •; .'■:;
camps are detecting signs of mental con-
flict.
The Indians were not unprepared for
these symptoms. Some Indian officers
who served with the neutral repatriation
commission and the Indian ambulance
unit in Korea had knowledge of Chinese
brain-washing techniques. Others have
studied the subject.
Jt would seem, however, that the
Chinese have not pursued the same
methods used with varying degrees of
success in Korea. The chief aim of the
Chinese has not been to win adherents
to the Communist ideology, but rather
to break the fighting spirit of the Indian
soldiers. The Chinese appear to have
concentrated on the jawan’s (private
soldier) innate simplicity and his loyalty
to his superiors. Only partly educated,
and drawn from remote villages, the
average jawan is indifferent to ideology
and even more incapable of understand-
ing political argument.
But the very simplicity that renders
him invulnerable to political propaganda
also makes him susceptible to subtler
attacks on his loyalties. This weakness
was exploited. The methods used appear
to have varied and are still the subject
of study. A popular technique at all
camps appears to have been to underline
the under-privileged position of the
jawan in relation to his officers. The
disparity between the treatment afforded
to rankers in the two armies—Chinese
and Indian —was emphasised.
First hinted at in conversations, the
Chinese pressed it home by example.
Officers and men guarding the Indians
were models of informality. Often
Chinese officers sat down to share a
meal, a joke, or cigarette with their
subordinates as the Indians looked on.
The prisoners were frequently taken
on tours of the Chinese quarters where,
again, officers and rankers mixed with-
out distinction. The talks and tours
were followed by film shows of the
achievements of the People's Liberation
Army. All of this was novel to the
jawan, who is accustomed by tradition
and training to strictly obey his superiors
and also to maintain a respectful dis-
tance.
The Chinese clearly worked on the
principle of driving a wedge between
Indian officers and men so that the
jawan’s unquestioning obedience and


loyalty to his superiors would be broken,
and that indiscipline and disaffection
might spread. Chinese commanders
must have been reflecting that despite
the excellence of their tactics, they
suffered eight to ten times the number of
Indian casualties.
Defaulters in
the UN
U Thant’s Warning
The United Nations Secretary-General,
U Thant, has privately warned
member Governments that he may be
forced to resign unless a solution is
found for the UN’s current financial
crisis.
Senior UN secretariat officials regard
the crisis as the worst threat to the
organisation since it was founded 17
years ago.
The crisis will be discussed at a special
session of the UN Assembly which
opens in New York on Tuesday. It was
also one of the main topics of the talks
between U Thant and British Ministers
in London on Friday night.
Unless defaulting member nations
pay their dues to the UN special funds
as well as the general budget, there will
be no money left by midsummer to pay
for UN peace-keeping operations in the
Congo and the Middle East.
Of the $112,000,000 owed to the
UN $12,000,000 is for the regular
budget, $27,000,000 for the UNEF
in the Middle East and $73,000,000 for
the Congo.
Forty-three countries are in arrears
on the regular budget, 20 of them for
1961 as well as 1962. Article 19 of
the Charter provides that member States
in arrears for more than two years may
lose their vote in the General Assem-
bly. Nine countries —Argentina, Bolivia,
Cuba, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Paraguay and the United Arab
Republic —are now liable to this sanc-
tion.
But the real problem is not the regular
budget—which is more than 90 per cent
paid up—but the special funds for
UNEF and the Congo to which many
countries, including the Soviet bloc and
France, have refused to contribute for
either political or economic reasons.
The list of 54 defaulters to UNEF is
headed by the Soviet Union, owing
$14,000,000, and Nationalist China,
$4,000,000.
The Soviet Union ($32,000,000) also
heads the list of 68 countries who have
not paid their share of the Congo
operations, followed by France owing
$14,000,000.
Frol Romanovich Kozlov
Mr K.’s late , cool , bored No. 2
By EDWARD CRANKSHAW
PT'he death of Frol Romanovich Kozlov,
at 55, means that we shall never
know what sort of a man he really was.
His very swift rise to fame and high
position marked a passage of exceptional
obscurity in the larger mystery of high-
level Kremlin politics. It will now never
be elucidated.
Born in 1908 near Ryazan in the
heartland of European Russia, he went
to work at 15 in a textile mill; and,
having passed through the Komsomol,
joined the Party in 1926, nine years
after the Revolution.
He was thus prominent among those
whose whole conscious life was lived in
post-Revolutionary Russia. In 1936 he
qualified as a metallurgical engineer and
combined an impressive engineering
career with Party work. But it was not
until 1944 that he was brought to
Moscow to work as a full-time Party
functionary in the Central Committee
apparatus. After that he never looked
back, except for one brief period of
qualified disgrace.
ITe first hit the public eye in 1953.
Then, as Second Secretary of the
Leningrad regional party committee, he
published a violent article demanding
greater vigilance against spies and sabo-
teurs. This was at the time of the
“doctors’ plot,” just before Stalin’s death,
when the Soviet Union was hanging on
the brink of a great purge which threat-
ened to sweep away many of Stalin’s
closest colleagues. Since Kozlov had first
been sent to Leningrad in 1949, immedi-
ately after the death of Zhdanov, and
since during the Leningrad affair (Malen-
kov’s purge of the Zhdancvites) he was
rising steadily, it was reasonable to
assume that Kozlov was a Malenkov
protege.
But soon there were second thoughts.
After Stalin’s death and the exposure of
the “doctors’ plot” as a vicious fabrica-
tion, he was heavily downgraded, at a
time when Malenkov was at his peak.
Then, in November, 1954, as Malen-
kov’s power was declining, Kozlov was
suddenly promoted to the key job of the
Leningrad Party organisation at a meet-
ing presided over by Mr Khrushchev
himself. From then on, Kozlov advanced
rapidly hand-in-hand with Khrushchev,
who, four years ago, casually remarked
that he was his successor designate.
A ll that is certain is that at one of the
most difficult and dangerous periods
of Soviet post-war history, Kozlov stood
at the heart of an intrigue which has
never been unravelled and which was
murky even by Soviet standards. He
kept his head and he advanced his own
position.
Good looking in a heavy way and
comparatively well turned out, Kozlov
did nothing, except advance behind the
scenes to the second position in the land,
to show what sort of a man he was. In
none of his public pronouncements did
he ever show the least flicker of
originality or positive personality. Those
who met him (and he travelled widely
in recent years) found him colorless and
negative. While supporting the Party
he never brought to it any impression of
personal commitment. Presumably he
owed his high position to the qualities
which made him head of a mill in the
Urals in his thirties and turned him into
a valuable organiser of arms production
during the war. Whether he had it in
him to be anything but a first-class ad-
ministrator with a cool eye for intrigue,
a bored Number Two, we shall now
never know.


Facts abo
for domest'
SEND FOB
THE FACTS ON
oil
space
heating
BRIEFLY . . .
Modern oil heating is eminently
suitable for houses, flats, motels
. . . schools and halls . . . shops . . .
swimming pools ... in fact all new
or existing- buildings where general
warmth is required.
• Easy to install
• Extremely efficient
• Maintenance-free
• Clean, safe and healthy
For full information . . . All the facts
you are likely to need on Oil Fuels for
domestic and industrial heating have
been condensed into handy book-form. Types
and specifications of heaters, fuel cost
comparisons, installation methods, etc.,
FREE, and available to Architects and
Building Trade only.
Mail this coupon to Caltex
Oil (Australia) Pty. Ltd. in
nearest capital city, endorsed
for attention: Heating Oil
Sales Department.
NAME
ADDRESS....,
CA7 74


WHEN YOU USE POWER, GOODYEAR MAKES WHAT YOU
mm
m
m
r
if
i
m
mm
wi
: \y
Goodyear
makes ligkt
of lie airy loads
When you choose industrial rubber products durability
is of prime importance. Illustrated are seven striking
examples of the lasting qualities of Goodyear products.
But that is only part of the story. The
choice of a Goodyear product may
begin with many other aspects of its
use: extreme temperature conditions;
the need to withstand prolonged ex-
posure to weather; an unusual use
calling for a special design.
Goodyear meets such demands with
unrivalled world-wide experience in
industrial rubber. It comes to you
through the G.T.M. (Goodyear Tech-
nical Man). He is trained to give you
immediate, expert advice on any pro-
blem, and he is as near as your tele-
phone. When you need the answer to
a question about rubber, call him, or
write to the Goodyear branch in your
State.
1
Specified
INDUSTRIAL, PRODUCTS
More industry relies on Goodyear Industrial
Products than on any other kind
good/Vear
This Goodyear V-belt delivers up to
100 horsepower, maintaining the
water supply of a W.A. town—-
frequently under heatwave condi-
tions. It’s a job calling for the
utmost reliability—the sort of job
Goodyear is chosen for.
Hoisting a ton of rock every minute
is a tough job, but it’s a job handled
with ease by a Goodyear Bucket
Elevator belt at this Queensland
crushing plant.
Goodyear air hose solved the prob-
lem for one of. Australia’s largest
cement producers who wanted a hose
that could stand rugged handling
and still deliver 100% performance.
Impact after impact but never a
sign of loading dock damage. Good-
year rubber fendering protects
vehicles, too, in this 200 feet loading
dock.
ft# * 4
mm.
Frequent replacement of rope mat
fenders was a costly problem until
this herbour tug was fitted with
tough, abrasion-resistant, resilient
Goodyear rubber fenders.
*
Australia's greatest sugar lift at
Mackay, Queensland, is handled by
Goodyear conveyor belts. They stand
up to the assault of 650 tons an
hour.
C 2640


FORUM
Australians in Red China
A factual survey, without comment
By HERBERT PASSIN
A ustralia stands in much the same relation to Communist China as
the United States and Canada : it is an Anglo-Saxon country taking a
central part in the main political and military alliances of the Western
World, and it does not officially recognise the Communist regime. For
a long time after the establishment of the new regime, the Government
was reluctant to grant permission to Australians to go to the mainland.
However, its position is by no means inflexible the restriction on travel
was eventually eased and the scale of contact is considerably larger
even than Canada’s.
There seem to be several reasons for
Australia’s larger showing than Canada’s
and the United States’. The first is that
the “China issue” is deeply embedded in
Australia’s internal politics. The Aus-
tralian Labor Party (ALP) has, particu-
larly since the splitting away of strong
anti-Communist (mainly Catholic) ele-
ments into the Democratic Labor Party
(DLP) in 1955, made recognition a
prominent part of its policy against the
Government, which holds to a non-
recognition policy. Moreover, the Aus-
tralian Communist Party (ACP), much
stronger than its counterparts in Canada
and the United States, is a noticeable
force in the political, trade union, and
university life of the country, and it
exerts a considerable influence on public
opinion. The forces politically favorable
to the mainland regime are therefore
much more organised and articulate with
strong advocates in all strata of the na-
tional life. More diffuse, and yet effective,
is the feeling of many Australians that
the country, in spite of its being predo-
minantly “white” and “European”, must
face the facts of its geographical position
and either become more stringently a part
of the “new Asia” or at least come to
closer terms with it.
The Chinese, for their part, have
taken an ambiguous attitude towards this
question. Although, from some points of
view, Australia can be regarded as a
small “Asian” or at least certainly
“Pacific” nation, its “Oriental exclu-
sion” policy and its minor colonial role
in New Guinea and some of the Pacific
islands bring it under the same suspicions
as the Euro - American powers. In
November, 1949, at the Conference of
Asian and Australian Trade Unions, it
seems that a high-level decision regarding
the division of labor between Moscow and
Peking assigned Australia (and New
Zealand) to the Chinese sphere, a deci-
sion that applied to subordinate organi-
sations, such as the World Federation of
Trade Unions (WFTU), also. Accord-
ingly, Ernest Thornton, a leading Aus-
tralian Communist, who had been
Federal Secretary of the Ironworkers’
Union from some time in the 1930 s until
1949, was assigned to work in the Far
Eastern Liaison Bureau of the WFTU
being established in Peking. After a brief
trip back to Australia, he took up his
duties there at some point during
1951-52.
THIS survey is part of a just pub-
lished book, “China’s Cultural
Diplomacy”, prepared for “The China
Quarterly”. Herbert Passin is Profes-
sor of Sociology at Columbia Univer-
sity, New York.
In the same way, many other Aus-
tralian Communists have taken part in
important international Communist acti-
vities under Peking’s direction. Wilfred
Burchett, for example, who, with Alan
Winnington, has become famous as a cor-
respondent on the Communist side, in
Korea and other places in the Far East,
bases himself on Peking, where from
time to time, among his other duties, he
serves as an adviser to the Chinese
Foreign Ministry. Communist journalists,
usually representing the Australian Com-
munist newspaper, Tribune, have gone in
a steady stream to Hanoi, where, it is
believed, they perform certain liaison
functions with Peking.
The contact between Australian and
Chinese Communist leaders and Party
workers is so continuous that it is safe
to say that by 1960 virtually every full-
time Party functionary, and many non-
full-time functionaries as well had been
to China at least once. This relationship
began as early as 1949, when Elliott V.
Elliott, Federal Secretary of the Aus-
tralian Seamen’s Union and member of
the Central Committee of the Australian
Communist Party, went to Hong Kong
with the intention of proceeding onwards
to Peking to make contact with the
Chinese Communist Party. For reasons
that are unclear, Elliott did not at that
time go beyond Hong Hong.
One important aspect of this relation-
ship is the training of Australian Com-
munists in China. Australian cadres,
usually of middle or lower rank, are
sent periodically to China for training in
a special school located in the environs
of Peking. The first such group, about a
dozen or so, was sent in 1951 to spend
a four-year period. The operation was
conducted with extreme secrecy. Not even
close relatives were allowed to know
where they were going. The group went
to Peking by a roundabout route, per-
haps partly to circumvent government
passport regulations, via Europe, Prague
and Moscow. Later groups, now that
government controls are less strict, have
gone by the direct route through Hong
Kong.
Since then, several other batches have
gone. The second, also numbering about
a dozen, went after the first returned
home in 1955, although this one spent
only about 18 months, returning in 1957.
Subsequent groups have gone for
shorter periods and are reported to have
been of “lower quality”, that is, drawn
from the lower ranks of the Australian
Party hierarchy, people of lesser “poli-
tical reliability”, etc.
But the Australian Communist move-
ment, no less than others, has been be-
devilled by the division between “pro-
Chinese” and “pro-Russian” elements
and between the “orthodox” and the
“revisionists”, and these divisions have
reflected themselves in relations with
China. The Australia-China Society
(ACS), now under the chairmanship of
Prof. C. P. Fitzgerald of the Australian
National University, is the principal
holding company for formal relations
between the two countries. The Society
was started just before the Korean War,
in 1949-1950.
However, according to qualified ob-
servers, in spite of the initial public suc-
cess of the Society, there was evident
from the start a certain luke-warmness
on the part of the Australian Communist
Party. The Party did not want it to rival
the work for Soviet friendship; despite
the ACP’s growing links with China, it
was clearly Party policy that Russia was
Socialist fatherland No. 1, and China
only No. 2. Moreover, two branches
(New South Wales and Victoria) of the
ACS were becoming gathering places for


Communists who were somewhat disap-
pointed with Russia and who looked on
the Chinese Revolution as a new current
revitalising the world revolutionary
movement. When Khrushchev’s “secret”
speech and the Hungarian Revolution
split the Communist movement, it turned
out that many of the Communists in the
ACS were strongly “revisionist”. During
the period of “revisionist” control, 1956-
57, the Society attempted to hold some
meetings allowing objective appraisal of
Chinese developments in contrast to its
earlier insistence on one-sided propagan-
dists accounts. On one occasion, some
“revisionist” members published their
findings in the Press on allegations of
“slave labor” in China; their verdict
was that it did in fact exist. However
by 1957, the official Party regained con-
trol, both through packing the member-
ship with safe partisans and through
expelling or removing the “revisionist”
leaders from office.
Until their removal from office in
1957, the “revisionist” element often en-
deavored to assure a fair-cross-section
of Australian views in the composition
of official delegations. This policy was
successful enough to ensure that the 1956
Student Delegation included known anti-
communists and was able to publish a
serious, objective report of its observa-
tions. The composition of other delega-
tions, such as the 1956 Cultural Delega-
tion (led by Prof. Fitzgerald), and the
1957 Women’s Delegation, led by Myra
Roper, principal of Melbourne University
Women’s College, was equally broad-
based in outlook.
Scholarly Exchange
HThe first important scholarly contact
between the two countries, apart
from Lord Lindsay’s 1954 visit with the
Attlee Mission, was in 1956. Two cul-
tural delegations, one from New Zealand
and one from Australia, spent May and
June in Communist China. The Austra-
lian group, which was formed largely
under the guidance of Prof. Fitzgerald,
included artists, writers and scholars. In
addition to Prof. Fitzgerald, another
Sinologist, A. R. Davis, now Professor
of Oriental Studies at the University of
Sydney, took part. The other scholars
were: Dr Leonard Cox, MD (who in
1957 also led a Medical Delegation),
leading neurologist; A. R. Penfold,
chemist, and former Director of the
Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences,
Sydney; and P. H. Partridge, Professor
of Social Philosophy, Australian National
University. Another member of the Dele-
gation, A. D. Lindsay, the Honorary
Secretary of the New South Wales
Branch of the ACS, was himself also a
forestry officer.
The members felt that they were given
an exceptionally fair opportunity to see
what they wanted and to pursue their
own lines of interest. In the words of
Prof. Partridge: “. . . if it was their
purpose to influence us, they went about
the business with a subtlety and restraint
that I would not have expected in a
Communist country. None of us was pre-
vented from doing what he wanted to do,
and it was possible for each of us to
move about the country according to our
interests. Among the eleven of us, we had
a wide range of interest, and altogether
we dipped into many different aspects of
Chinese life.” Prof. Geddes, who went
with the New Zealand delegation, re-
ceived the most unique opportunity: to
resurvey the village originally studied by
Fei Hsiao-t’ung in 1936, K’aihsienkung.
Prof. Davis was able to purchase 1,500
volumes of Chinese classical literature.
Individual Visits
rpms first contact was followed, over the
next few years, by a number of
smaller groups or even individual visits,
usually at the invitation of particular
institutions in China. In April, 1957, for
example, Dr Leonard Cox, who had been
a member of the first Fitzgerald delega-
tion, led a medical group for a five-week
trip. All of the participants were leading
specialists and teacher-examiners in Aus-
tralian medical institutions.
The leader of the 1957 Women’s Dele-
gation to China, sponsored by the ACS,
was also an academic person, Myra
Roper, principal of Melbourne Univer-
sity Women’s College.
Student exchanges have not been
very extensive, although a few ex-
change visits between Chinese and Aus-
tralian student organisations have taken
place. No Australian students, so far as
is known, have attended Chinese schools
(nor have any Chinese attended Austra-
lian schools). In September 1955, the
Australian delegation to the Fifth World
Festival of Youth stopped off in China
on its way home at the invitation of
Chinese youth organisations. In 1957,
an eight-member Australian Students’
Delegation, led by Tim McDonald,
then of the University of Melbourne,
went to China. In addition to the usual
travelling and sight-seeing, the delegation
held serious discussions with the Chinese
about Australian participation in Asian,
or Afro-Asian, events, although without
receiving satisfaction. The Delegation was
well-balanced and level-headed and re-
turned to write a sensible report, and
several members later took part in public
discussions where critical observations
were freely expressed.
The 1956 Cultural Delegation, which
included the first important group of Aus-
tralian academics, brought along a
number of artists (Elaine Haxton,
Douglas Annand, Charles Bush, and
sculptor G. F. Lev/ers) and fellow-
travelling writer Alan Marshall. How-
ever, already in 1955 there'had been a
few tentative feelers for the opening of
better cultural relations with Australia.
The July issue of I Wen (World Litera-
ture) featured five Australian short
stories, four by the late 19th-century and
early 20th-century writer Henry Lawson,
and one by Katharine S. Pritchard, de-
scribed as the “71 -year-old contemporary
woman writer and active worker for
peace.” Then in August 1955, the
ACS sponsored the showing of a Com-
munist film in Australian cities. In late
1956 and early 1957, the Chinese Classi-
cal Theatre toured Australia under
commercial auspices with great success,
and in return an Australian theatrical
group toured China in 1957. But the
1958 Cultural Delegation, which spent
seven weeks in China during the sum-
mer, was perhaps the most successful.
Led by John Rodgers, the group went at
the invitation of the Chinese People's
Association for Cultural Relations with
Foreign Countries for a seven-week tour
that included performances in many
Chinese cities. Several members of the
group, including pianist Nancy Weir and
conductor Sir Bernard Heinze, remained
on after the tour was over. (Other
members were Laud Martyn, ballet
dancer; Thomas White, first clarinetist
of the Victorian Symphony Orchestra;
Heather Macrae, ballerina, seventeen
years old; Graham Smith, painter; Glen
Balford, folksinger; and Nancy Ellis,
aboriginal soprano.)
In the same year, the Chinese Opera
toured Australia and New Zealand. An
Australian Cultural Delegation, led by
Robert Scholium, made a tour in 1960.
Private trips have also been made by
a number of individuals. In 1953, Dr.
Clive Sandy, a dentist, and Mrs Elizabeth
Vassilieff were invited for a visit to China.
Both Dr Sandy and Mrs Vassilieff had
originally been designated as delegates
to the Asian and Pacific Peace Congress
held in Peking in September, 1952. How-
ever, they were refused passports by the
Australian Government, and the follow-
ing year they were named as delegates to
the Peace Congress in Vienna. Both went
to Vienna via Peking and Moscow, as
guests of the Chinese and the USSR
Peace Committees. Dr Sandy subse-
quently became Chairman of the Mel-
bourne Branch of the ACS, and was re-
invited to China for National Day 1960.
Mrs Vassilieff returned to write a
volume on her travels, Feking-Moscow
Letters (1953),—and to take occasional
part in public discussions about China.
In 1956 and 1957, Miss Dymphna


Cusack, a poetess, spent 18 months in
China for personal reasons. David John
Morris, an engineer, had publicly ac-
cused some Australian universities of
conspiring with the Australian security
intelligence organisation to prevent his
appointment to a post at Melbourne
University. While the case was being
taken up by the University Staff Associ-
ation, he took a job in China, w'here he
presumably still lives. Colin Graham
Scrimgeour, the “Uncle Scrim” of the
New Zealand radio, went to China in the
year 1959-1960 as an adviser on tele-
vision.
One of the most consequential of the
personal visits was that of the chain-
store magnate Mr Kenneth Myer, in
December, 1958. As a result of his visit
Mr Myer has taken keen interest in
promoting Oriental Studies at Melbourne
University.
Businessmen have been fairly frequent
visitors, and there have been several
trade delegations back and forth. Also a
fair number of Australian journalists
have been able to go for varying periods.
Apart from Burchett and other Com-
munist journalists, who number too many
to be listed in detail, a few examples
may me mentioned The “Melbourne
Herald” has managed to keep a corres-
pondent in Peking from time to time, in-
cluding Reg Leonard in 1956, and then
later, Frederick Nossal In 1957, Francis
James, editor of “The Anglican”, accom-
panied the Anglican Church Mission to
China. Peter Russo, however, a sym-
pathetic journalist and Australian cor-
respondent for several British newspap-
ers, seems to have been refused entry.
Church Delegations
A part from the Catholics and Jews in
Australia, leading elements of most of
the main religious groups figure promin-
ently in relations with China. The Uni-
tarians, led by the Rev. Victor James,
who is active in the ACS and has been
to China to attend the 1952 Asian and
Pacific Peace Congress, are perhaps the
most sympathetic. But Methodists, too,
take an active part in associated activities
—relations with China, peace movement,
etc., and inside the Presbyterian Church
there is a strong pro-China group under
the leadership of Rev Alfred M. Dickie,
an officer of the World Peace Council.
Churchmen were already active in the
very earliest phases of contact with
China. In 1952, several Australian
church people took part in the prepara-
tions for the Asian and Pacific Peace
Congress held in Peking in September of
that year. The leader of the preparatory
delegation was Dr John Burton, former
secretary of the Australian Department
of External Affairs (and former Aus-
tralian Minister to Colombo), but he had
along with him Miss Ada Bromham;
leader of the Women’s Christian Tem-
perance Union, and the Rev. G. van
Eerde, a Methodist minister and a well-
known Sydney social worker. When the
delegates for the Congress itself were
selected, the Federal Government an-
nounced that they would not be given
passports. One group of delegates there-
upon dramatically tried to leave the
country illegally, but failed. The Rev
Victor James, of the Melbourne Unitar-
ian Church, however, w'as in possession
of a United Kingdom passport and could
not legally be stopped from going. An-
other able to join the delegation was the
Rev. Canon Maynard, of the Melbourne
Anglican Church. With the Rev. E. E.
Collocott, Methodist minister of Sydney,
the clerical members of the delegation
numbered three out of the six.
The first important official church dele-
gation was that of the Anglican Church
in November, 1956. Invited by the Rev
C. T. Chen of the Chinese House of
Bishops, an eight-member group, under
the leadership of Archbishop H. W. K.
Mowll, of Sydney, Primate of Australia,
toured China for seven weeks. The group
returned on the whole quite favourably
impressed, although the editor of “The
Anglican”, who had accompanied the
group, was considerably less whole-
hearted.
Following this, a Non-Conformist
Churchmen’s Delegation was set up to
go to China in 1959, with leading officers
of the Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists,
and the Church of Christ. This group
was, if anything, even more favourable
than the Anglican Delegation. I am told
that the omission of a Unitarian from the
delegation is significant: the Unitarians
are considered so infiltrated by the Com-
munists that they are not included in
“clean” delegations.
Political Visits
A ustralian Communist Party leaders
are frequently in China on one pre-
text or another, whether in an individual
capacity or to attend the more strictly
bloc activities, like Party conventions,
national celebrations, international or-
ganisation meetings, etc. For some time
now, almost every year sees a formal
ACP delegation to China.
The Australian Labor Party, particu-
larly since the split-off of the more anti-
Communist (and to some extent,
Catholic) elements into the Democratic
Labor Party, has been strongly com-
mitted to a friendly policy towards
China: increased trade, diplomatic recog-
nition, more contacts and exchanges.
But it was not until May 1957 that the
ALP sent an official delegation. The
delegation, under the leadership of Leslie
Haylen, MP, numbered four ALP parlia-
mentarians. On their return the Delega-
tion was full of unqualified praise for
the regime, reiterated in newspaper ar-
ticles, in Parliament, at businessmen’s
luncheons, etc. They proposed: (1) the
strengthening of Sino-Australian friend-
ship; (2) unrestricted trade with China;
(3) diplomatic recognition of the main-
land regime and its admission to the UN.
(See Haylen's book, Chinese Journey:
The Republic Revisited, and also Richard
Walker's blistering review of it, “Austra-
lians in Wonderland,” Quadrant, Autumn
1960. Walker's fundamental criticism is
that Haylen, while pretending to give an
eye-witness account, really lifts much of
his material, almost verbatim, from of-
ficial propaganda publications, such as
China Reconstructs and China in Tran-
sition.)
Individual visits of leading Labor
Party people, both from New Zealand
and Australia, have been fairly continu-
ous. Even in 1955, for example, we read
of the one-month visit of Warren W.
Freer, New Zealand Labor MP, and
his wife. In January-February, 1960,
G. L. Tilley, former MP of Victoria,
Australia, visited China for 1 1 days. (Ac-
cording to Hongkong newspapers, who
interviewed him on his arrival from Can-
ton, Mr. Tilley expressed the view that
the Chinese commune system was “a
most unacceptable thing to Western
countries.”)
In August 1960, MP Thomas Uren, a
leading ALP member (and former boxing
champion), stopped off in China on his
way back from the Anti-H Bomb Con-
ference in Tokyo.
But the relations of the ALP to China
cannot be separated from those of the
trade unions, particularly the section
under ALP control, the Australian Coun-
cil of Trade Unions (ACTU). The ear-
liest trade union contacts, as already
mentioned, were through the Communist
union leader, Ernest Thornton, and the
WFTU Secretariat in Peking. At the very
time the official ALP was sending its
delegation, the ACTU also sent a high-
level delegation under the leadership of
Albert Monk, its President, and perhaps
Australia’s leading Labor leader. The
delegates spent the period April to July
1957 in China and were thus able to at-
tend the May Day celebrations in Peking,
as guests of the All-China Federation of


Trade Unions. Monk and his fellow-
delegates also returned lavish in their
praise of China, but they had some dif-
ficulty with fellow trade unionists, par-
ticularly in rival unions.
Again, in December 1957-January
1958, Jim Kenny, Vice-President of the
ACTU and Secretary of the Sydney
Trades Hall Council, the ruling trade
union body in New South Wales, went to
China with his wife to attend the Con-
gress of the All-China Federation of
Trade Unions. His favourable witness,
after a month’s trip as a guest of the
Chinese trade unions, was all the more
valuable for his being a Catholic. Mr
Kenny even went to Mass in Hankow
and was quite satisfied with the state of
religion in China.
Since the first Monk delegation,
ACTU May Day and National Day (Oc-
tober 1) delegations have become a re-
gular custom. In 1958, a delegation led
by F. E. Chamberlain, Federal President
of the ALP, spent a month in China, re-
turning home in June. Mr Chamberlain
was, if anything, even more enthusiastic
about China. He could find nothing
wrong. “There must be an angry Chinese
man or woman, but as yet I have not
seen one,” he wrote. He found that there
was absolutely no poverty, no oppres-
sion, and complete political and religious
freedom in China.
In September, 1958, a delegation of
trade unionists, led by George Neilly,
Secretary-General of the Australian
Miners’ Federation, arrived for a tour of
China at the invitation of the Chinese
Coal Miners’ Union.
For May Day, 1959, a five-member
delegation spent three and a half weeks
in China. For the first time in this series
of ACTU delegations two of the five
delegates were acknowledged members
of the Australian Communist Party, J.
Dawson and H. Field. This was also a
very enthusiastic delegation, although
Delegate Charles Lynch demurred slight-
ly-
For May Day 1960, another five-mem-
ber delegation was sent, this one also
containing an acknowledged Communist
Party member, G. Seelaf, an influential
unionist, Vice-Secretary of the Meat In-
dustry Employees’ Union. William Clif-
ford Loftus, Assistant Secretary of the
New South Wales Branch of the Austra-
lian Hotel Workers’ Union, arrived in
China on September 9, 1960, for a tour
and to attend the National Day celebra-
tions in Peking.
More recently, on January 5, 1961,
George Atkins, General Secretary of the
Australian Blacksmiths’ Union, went to
China at the invitation of the First En-
gineering Workers’ Union of China.
LETTERS TO THE
EDITOR
JUSTICE FOR THE NORTH
Sir,
The Bulletin is to be congratulated
for taking a sophisticated view of North
Queensland. So few Southerners do. The
notion widely held in the sophisticated
South, that every second person you
meet in the North is a crocodile, dies
hard.
Mr Roberts’ piece (11/5/63) is one of
the few I’ve read on the North which
manages to cover a lot of ground without
mentioning crocs. He does justice to the
North. The un-typical scene in the ac-
companying sketch was the only jarring
note. A sleek craft with twin outboards
parked under the gumtrees would have
been more to the point. But that is by
the way. What matters is that Mr
Roberts properly emphasises the positive
aspects of Northern development.
Townsville is growing even faster than
Mr Roberts says: present population
53,000, not merely “over 40,000”.
Townsville, like other cities of the North
coast, offers life affluent-society-style
without the disadvantages. The family
can drive to a beach in five minutes and
have a great, shady tree to picnic under
and a quarter-mile of clean sand all to
itself. The freedom from transistors,
sand-throwers and rock ’n’ roll full-blast
from the surf club is bliss to this ex-
Sydneyite.
Sugar, tobacco, timber, dairying and
cattle are undoubtedly the basis of North
Queensland’s economy. Fishing, espec-
ially prawning and crayfishing in the
Gulf and in the Strait, has great poten-
tial. A fortune awaits the first man to
persuade northern lobsters to go into a
pot. The Japanese, but not so far the
Australians, are fishing and researching
our far northern seas. Pearl-farming is
another possibility that offers huge re-
turns for those Australians who are pre-
pared to question the carefully-spread
Japanese gospel that only Japanese can
master the art of pearl-culture.
But what the North needs most is
people. What brings people is jobs. And
what creates jobs is not primary industry
but industrial development. The basis
for industrial development of the North
is its vast mineral lodes. So far Austra-
lian policy has been to dig the stuff up
and cart it away, leaving ghost towns and
quarries and a blank future. A far-seeing
nation would now be reconsidering this
policy. It would make a long-range plan
to use this mineral wealth to industrialise
and settle the North, aiming at having,
say, 25 p.c. of Australia’s population
north of Capricorn by the year 2000, and
of achieving a balanced economy instead
of the present imbalance, with our in-
dustry concentrated in the congested and
highly vulnerable Melbourne-Sydney-
Newcastle axis.
LARRY FOLEY
News Officer,
People the North Committee
Townsville ( Qld ).
POP ART
Sir,
An example of intellectual dishonesty
is apparent in John Henshaw’s review of
the Young Painters’ exhibition in Sydney
(4/5/63). Firstly he states that the pop
art fad has been going for years in the
US and Europe. And then says that with
only a handful of exponents here it looks
as though we are really lagging.
The inference is that this pop art fad
is really nothing new. Yet if anything
which looked something like pop art had
developed in Australia a decade ago
and probably there was something of
this nature in any case, for I recall seeing
a very early Nolan, painted like a comic-
strip in the six panes of a window sash
I can only guess that Mr Henshaw
would then have been at a loss to find
for it a suitably established overseas pre-
cedent. And then he would not have
been able to imply it was a fashion bor-
rowed from overseas.
R. CROTHALL
Sydney (NSW).
THE ALP CONFERENCE
Sir,
Alan Reid is always interesting, but
preoccupation with the Communist
menace has played havoc with both his
facts and his logic In his recent article
on the Federal Conference of the ALP
(11/5/63) he:
(a) States that “quite a deal of re-
sponsibility for the formulation of policy
on defence, as well as foreign affairs, has
now been handed over by the Federal
Parliamentary Labor Party to the ALP
machine” (my emphasis). When did this
interesting handover take place? As a
one-time member of the ALP, Mr Reid
must know that this has been the situa-
tion for many years, and must realise
that it is provided for in the Party’s con-
stitution. One can quarrel with the Labor
view qf intra-party democracy, but the
inference that the parliamentary party
has recently been weakened in some way
is jus! not true.
(b) Compares the predictions of Con-
ference voting made by “Mr Calwell’s
cohorts” with those of “the group
around” Messrs Haylen and Uren. Ac-
cording to Mr Reid, the delightfully
vague (and surely very numerous?) co-
horts predicted a thirty-to-six win for


Mr Calwell,. and thereby convicted them-
self of incompetence. If they did make
such a prediction, they were certainly in-
competent. Mr Reid himself has assured
us all that at least two State delegations
were in the Communists’ pockets and
others definitely suspect. Or were they
pulling his leg?
(c) Concludes that the “considerable
accuracy of the Haylen-Uren group’s
predictions proved that they knew more
than the Calwell cohorts. He then goes
on to admit that “something happened
for which they had not calculated” and
that they got the result wrong. What
sort of crazy reasoning is this? One side
gets it wrong and shows its incom-
petence. The other gets it wrong and
proves how diabolically clever and well-
informed it was!
PETER WESTERWAY
Manly (NSW).
DECIMAL COINAGE
Sir,
The decision of the Government to
introduce decimal coinage is a good move
and will be generally welcomed. But
the value of the coins suggested (1 cent
to equal 1.2 d.) will be a stumbling block
to the success of the scheme.
For instance, if a person is entitled to
10s. for services rendered he will receive
a new note valued at 100 cents. If he
buys an article valued at 10s. he can
tender his new note (not yet named) in
payment, and he will neither gain nor
lose; but if he buys a postage stamp (5d.)
he will either pay 4 cents which will be
too low (4.8 d.) or 5 cents (6d.) which will
be too high. He will be able to get 20
stamps for his new note in place of 24
for a 10s. note, or a rise of 20 p.c.
The coins that have been suggested
are: 1 cent, equal to 1.2 pence; 5 cents,
6d.; 10 cents, 12d.; 100 cents, 10s.
Now, if the cent were valued at one
penny instead of 1.2 d, then 100 cents
would be 100 pence, or Bs. 4d. The coins
at present in use would retain their
value, and could be withdrawn from cir-
culation as the new coins became avail-
able.
Adding and similar machines would
not need to be altered, as they could
work in £ s. d. and the total result
quickly changed into decimal currency
terms.
J. H. LILBURNE
Perenfori (WA).
THE V FORCE
Sir,
I did lvot write “when the US Air
Force was ‘bombed up’ ready to go” in
my letter of 11/5/63. I wrote “when
the V Force was ‘bombed up’ ready to
go”, using the name commonly given in
the Press to describe the British atomic
bomber force.
W. MOORE
Brisbane ( Qld ).
REVIEWS
THEATRE
Failed Heroes From “Ole Miss”
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof. Tennessee
Williams. Emerald Hill Theatre.
Melbourne.
"Orick drinks and refuses to sleep with
his wife Maggie. Her nerves are
strung taut, and she keeps exploding like
the crackers her nieces and nephews are
letting off in the garden. Brick is de-
tached, remote, seems indifferent. He
has turned away from life in disgust,
and is devoting himself to the bottle.
For most of two long, tense acts, first
Maggie and then Big Daddy, his father,
try to drag Brick back from his nirvana
and make him face the truth that he
is trying so doggedly to avoid. From
what is Brick trying to escape? This is
revealed gradually, for Tennessee Wil-
liams is a master of dramatic tension.
Brick and his friend Skipper were star
football players at the University of Mis-
sissippi. They became professional foot-
ballers and toured the country together.
Brick married Maggie, who soon be-
came jealous of Skipper and accused
him of a homosexual love for Brick. To
disprove this Skippei tried to make love
to Maggie. Later he telephoned Brick
and confessed both what he had done
and that he thought Maggie’s accusation
was true. Brick hung up on him and
not long afterwards Skipper, abandoned
by his disgusted friend, died of drink
and drugs.
The “wholesome”, normal, manly,
clean-living young men, the gods of the
football field, could not face the shatter-
ing of their illusions. Skipper’s death,
Brick’s alcoholism, Maggie’s childless-
ness, followed because the values of the
football field were inadequate to the
complexities of life.
But, although he presents these pro-
blems so powerfully, Tennessee Williams
does not face up to them fully, and so
he cannot escape the charge of sensa-
tionalism. At the end of the play things
seem to be in the same position as they
were at the beginning except that Maggie
has had the bright idea of blackmailing
Brick into bed with her by locking up
the liquor. This hardly seems a desirable
solution. It is a re-affirmation of the
values that the play is supposed to be
criticising.
Because Maggie’s sexual desires are
norma], because the desire to have a
child is a socially accepted aim in a wife,
we are expected to admire her unscrupu-
lous use of power.
Wal Cherry’s production is beautifully
controlled and completely faithful to the
play. Dawn Klingberg, who plays
Maggie, is able to sustain the burden
of Act 1, which is almost a monologue,
with ease and spirit. Terry Donovan,
who plays Brick, manages well the tran-
sitions from controlled stillness to goad-
ed fury. Considering that Stewart Weller
is not ideally cast as Big Daddy, simply
because he is not the right shape and
size, he gives a remarkably convincing
performance.
MADELEINE ARMSTRONG
Drama Or
Comedy?
But a Wife is Different. Pauline Bal-
linger. Brisbane Arts Theatre.
A ll praise for the new policy of the
Brisbane Arts Theatre, which pro-
mises regular presentation of Australian
plays. If the standard of performance is
as smooth as in this one it should pre-
sent an invaluable opportunity both for
the playwright to make contact with
the audience and for the audience to
learn the joys of talent-spotting new
dramatists.
“But a Wife is Different” was given an
intelligently selected cast. As a play it
has promising qualities, notably in dia-
logue, which is only occasionally awk-
ward but which often catches and illu-
minates Australian idioms. The trouble
is that the author has material for two
plays, of quite different types; one, a
drama or tragedy; the other, light com-
edy.
The first mistake was in making Bert’s
wife, Buddy, a mental case, and a very
singular sort of one. She is now, follow-
ing a car smash, a sort of zombie, can
only repeat words spoken to her, or do
a few simple tricks. Is such a person
credible? It seemed very contrived here.
Bert is in love with Vikki, a girl he
has engaged to look after his much


younger wife. The play begins, then,
with much tension. We see the lovers
under mounting strain. Will we at last
be shown the ultimate test on the ordin-
ary Australian Bloke, and will he force
through his inarticulateness to a memor-
able baring of soul? For a while it
promises it.
All the more disappointing therefore
that the play swerves away at this point
to a different sort of thing altogether.
Enter Mr Mitchell, the boss. And we
find ourselves watching an exuberant
satire on the Junior Executive. Mitchell
is the sort who wants to know the
private as well as the public life of his
employees. His experiences at this house-
hold cure him of undue curiosity. There
are some very funny and some very witty
moments.
But what happened to Bert’s Big
Problem? All dissipated; happy ending
guaranteed before Act 2 ends. Act 3 is
quite superfluous, “last-reel” stuff. What
a pity Mrs Ballinger did not make a
whole play around Mitchell; or one
around Bert. As it was, the promising
First Act was thrown away, and the
Second and Third Acts were only made
awkward with the introduction of Bert’s
terrible inertia, particularly as Happy
Ending was waving to us already from
the wings. Most of the audience cer-
tainly preferred the second part. Myself,
I rather mourned the loss of the first.
THOMAS W. SHAPCOTT
Brightness Is All
Do You Mind? Revue. Phillip Theatre.
Sydney.
J"|nce upon a time a new revue at the
Phillip Theatre was one of Sydney’s
shining events. The love affair lasted for
quite some time until the forced
change of buildings brought about some
cooling off in relations.
The goodwill for the theatre remain-
ed strong, for Sydney’s a strange city
it gives favors grudgingly, but once
given they are not taken back lightly.
Mr Orr tried several tacks, but ironi-
cally his only really successful one ap-
pears to have been his latest to step
down and allow someone else to produce
a show.
Mr James Fishburn, made available by
“The Firm”, has brought deftness, quick-
ness, and a sure sense of the right length
for the material back into the game —-
qualities that Mr Orr also displayed fully,
and will, we are sure, display again.
So the news is good for Phillip fans.
In “Do You Mind?” they have pretty
much the sort of revue they will like im-
mensely. Maybe it does shed a fraction
of bite in favor of the easy laugh and
slick presentation, but there remains
quite a mass of very funny material. Pos-
sibly I had a sensitivity to bad Australian
plays from having had so many foisted
on me for comment one way and an-
other, but I found the long send-up of
the “All-Australian Musical” irresistibly
funny, and Miss Diana Perryman’s no-
tion of some sort of Brewarrina Mammy
Yokum one of the funniest bits seen for
quite a time.
Mr Gordon Chater came through with
some of his best work even though
his Gilsullivan patter song “The very
model of a modern Governor-General”
would have been more of a hit had
Mr Chater had something approaching
the vocal expertise and speed of the G.
and S. singer. Miss Robina Beard and
Miss Judi Farr shone out in the cast.
KEVON KEMP
MUSIC
Bluebeard in English
Bluebeard’s Castle. Sydney Subscrip-
tion Concert.
Tudging from the numbers of empty
** seats at the “Blue” subscription con-
certs in Sydney the programming of a
concert version of Bartok’s 52-year-old
spera, “Bluebeard’s Castle”, frightened,
or repelled, many subscribers.
The fact that Bluebeard’s Castle was
receiving its first public performance
m Australia did not necessarily mean
that the work was unknown to most of
the audience, for it has been recorded.
However, those who knew either the
Fischer-Dieskau version, sung in German,
or the complete work sung in its original
Hungarian would have been disappointed
in the singing in the Sydney performance,
and especially in the baritone, Alan
Light. Mr Light sang with unusual indif-
ference and inflexibility, and his voice
lacked the depth and sympathy needed
to convey to the listener Bluebeard’s
essential tragedy and the dark loneliness
of spirit in which he is left because of
Judith’s insatiability.
Lauris Elms has a vibrant and beauti-
ful contralto, and her shortcomings lay
rather in her failure to penetrate into
the mysterious mood of a work where
an old fairytale has been used symboli-
cally to explore both the beauty and the
horror of the conflict between Man and
Woman.
The orchestra gave out some wonder-
ful sounds, particularly in the wind sec-
tion, and the conductor, John Hopkins,
interpreted the music with both sensitiv-
ity and dramatic strength.
Now, the only Hungarian words I
know are “bluebeard” and “castle”, but
I still think it was a musical mistake to
sing this opera in English; English has
not the same “color” as Hungarian and,
to my ear, changing the language of a
work is equivalent to changing a major
part of the instrumentation from, say',
strings to brass or to woodwinds.
I advise anyone who wants to discover
the musical beauties of this romantic
work from Bartok's younger days—a
mixture of French impressionism and
Mitteleuropa soulfulness and Freudian
implications to digest the annotations
and text in the concert programme, then
to beg, borrow or steal a recording of the
Hungarian original.
MARGARET CLARKE
FILMS
Local Growth
Embryo 3. Compiled by Adrian
Rawlins. Union Theatre. Sydney.
fJ’His programme of recent Australian
films was interesting partly because it
would not have been possible to compile
it even two or three years ago, when
there were very few films being made of
other than strictly routine interest. These
films, while they included no master-
pieces, displayed considerable and varied
talents, and an obvious interest in film
as a medium of expression.
The most striking film was Dusan
Marek’s abstract “Adam and Eve”.
Marek’s symbolism was obscure, but his
visual and aural abstractions were stun-
ning. He owes nothing to UPA. Norman
McLaren or (thank God) Disney. The
kaleidoscopic imagery contained ele-
ments of surrealism, pop art, animated
paper cut-outs and even a streaky, blurred
effect which seems to have been achieved
by threading the camera wrongly.
John Heyer’s documentary “The Fore-
runner” succeeds in holding the atten-
tion for half an hour with only sound
effects and music. Some of Heyer’s
scenes were a little forced (the farmer
poetically leaving his land during the
drought), but his style in his two major
films (the other was “Back of Beyond”)
has influenced younger Australian film-
makers. In contrast to “The Forerun-


ner”, Rod Johnson’s “Gateway to a City”
lacks Heyer’s noticeably personal ap-
proach, but has a professional finish
rarely seen in documentaries. Effectively
photographed in color, by Johnson, it
concerns the Rocks redevelopment
scheme, and was made, ironically, for a
company which didn’t get the contract.
Giorgio Mangiamelle’s “Ninety Nine
Per Cent” is one _of a few recent low-
budget features. A story of a small
Italian migrant who needs a wife to take
care of his school-age son and arranges
for one through a friendship agency, it
is told with little sense of pace and with
caricatured, unacceptable characters.
BRUCE BERESFORD
ART
Savagery and
Subtlety
Gareth Sansom. Robin Wallace-
Crabbe. Argus Gallery. Melbourne.
T>utting two shows together in the
same gallery usually leads to some
comparison, however tenuous. In the
case of these two young painters—San-
som is holding his second one-man
exhibition and Wallace-Crabbe his first
—one is struck by the ease with which
they move between image and non-
objective painting within the same idiom.
Wallace-Crabbe uses solid circular
shapes to construct human figures, land-
scapes or abstract composition; Sansom
dashes his paint down savagely, some-
times to produce grotesque human fig-
ures, sometimes, seemingly, for the hell
of it.
There is, in fact, something hellish
about all Sansom’s works. His surfaces
are scrofulous, his colors either violent,
sombre or pallid, his images monstrous.
To some extent this horror reflects an
exuberant sense of the dramatic. He
can paint successfully on a massive scale,
and he exploits his materials deliberately
to shock. But it is also a bold and
painterly comment on life, or at least
on the extremes of life, where men topple
easily over the edge of insanity.
Robin Wallace-Crabbe is a most care-
ful, workmanlike painter, who con-
trives many subtle - and finely balanced
formal effects. I find him an uncom-
fortable colorist, which makes a lot of
his painting hard to get at, but his in-
telligent use of simple, repeated shapes
to evoke a wide range of ideas is im-
pressive. Mostly he seems still to be
feeling his way, but if he persists with
his rational, constructive methods he
should develop a pliant and expressive
style.
BILL HANNAN
Feiffer
mm, MARCH 1: g&A(J
LAST EVCm& m 60W&
TO THEATRE. SAW SMA6H,
SATIRICAL RE m. STRIPPEP
BARE ALL Mtf UU610H6,-
PRETEMSIOWS, MPOCmtt.
LEFT THEATRE CRTItO6.
TERRIOW RWNty
really.
moo emm so 6o\o&
10 MIGHT CLUB. SAU) SMASH,
SATIRICAL COHEPIAfJ. ■
STOPPEP BARG Ail M
pum praams, vemom,
lUCONS6TEWCIES. TAFT
MIGHT CUTS WAFPIM6.
SUITE AMUSIfJS,
RFAUP. '
sth66Eßec> me aw cßiev
<XIF TO iIEEP WIU6
wmpaper. me emu
ymeicM, cartoon .
PTSIPREP BARE All W
WWAUZAfIOtte,
RosTmes seif Pin
mmTfoi cartoon, •
realw.
FAIBTEP PEAP Ami
hme earw
THIS A-M- amp
m OFF TO
AWAMSIS.
m Mm
ABDUf M
WPATHtK.
one
(JEEPS
e%k?€.


THE RED PAGE
Teaching Science Badly?
Messel's Metaphysics
By J. B. THORNTON
(Professor of Philosophy, University of New South Wales)
The publishers of this work*, the
Nuclear Research Foundation
within the University of Sydney,
have acted prudently and sagaciously in
issuing first, and in relatively small
numbers, what they describe as. a
pilot edition. Every science teacher in
New South Wales has received a copy
and is invited to suggest amendments
within the present scope and style of
the book. One cannot but admire the
resourcefulness of Professor Messel and
his colleagues in making financial ar-
rangements on a scale so handsome as to
provide, among other things, for this
extensive scrutiny of a draft of the work.
A cynic might say that a work as
large as this, as heterogeneous as this,
worked on by so many, and done in so
short a time, is bound to stand more in
need of correction than published text-
books, matured in their authors’ minds,
usually do. But that would be unfair. A
new syllabus had been introduced: a
syllabus which, vastly better than those
it had replaced, is nevertheless bound to
tax the teachers who must teach it. They
do urgently need the help that this book
will give them; the publishers and authors
are certainly entitled to say to those
teachers, “We've done this quickly, a
team of us; we know it has imperfec-
tions; in any case here it is for you to
check.”
There would be more substance in a
complaint that none but minor amend-
ments can now be made. Schools can't,
of course, be compelled to use it; but
they will be under pretty strong pressure
to adopt a book that has the credentials
that this one has. For that reason, and
because no competitor for it is in sight
(and none likely to be), it would be a
serious matter if there were major faults
in it faults that can’t be remedied by
the present machinery. It is therefore
important (and perhaps already planned)
that a second edition will be published
within, at most, two years.
The sagacity of the pilot edition man-
oeuvre will be felt most keenly by any-
one who, like myself now, is invited to
review the work in its present form. This,
after all, is not what will finally be on
sale; to indulge now in any public
parading of errors would be grossly un-
fair. It is true that Professor Messel’s ex-
uberant claims for the book, as they have
been reported in the daily press, run to
extravagances that provoke scepticism
and seem to invite public scrutiny now.
But his exuberance is understandable
this is an imposing achievement—and
in any case he still holds a trump card.
An important reason for telling us now
that the book is something to be proud
of is precisely this fact that the Foun-
dation has arranged for the further im-
provement of v hat “every science
teacher in New South Wales'' is now (or
can now be) working to perfect.
But granted that this is an interim
edition, the critic can at least claim that
his is an interim appraisal. He too will
be entitled to another round, with no
holds barred.
Within its 58 chapters the book pre-
sents material taken from astronomy,
botany, chemistry, geology, physics, and
zoology. The material is, therefore, ex-
ceedingly diversified; it is a major merit
of the book and of the syllabust around
which it is written that they reflect as
much as they do of the richness and
variety of the facts with which “science”
deals. Contrast this wealth with the piti-
fully meagre factual penury of the old
Elementary Science syllabus, and you
cannot but agree that there has been an
immense gain.
It is, accordingly, unfortunate that the
book also follows the syllabus in taking
a timid view of the variety and diversity
of the material presented. In both, that
variety is sought to be minimised by a
constant striving after what is called
“integration”,
“Integration” is, like many other
-*• catch-cries in education, a pretty
flabby notion; it means many things to
many people. But common to all of its
meanings is a view that is primarily
philosophical; and it turns out here too
that a particular philosophical view is
being adopted. That view, which shows
through in the book, is explicitly laid
down in the preamble to the syllabus:
the course, it is declared, “should be
presented so as to stress the unity of
nature and the convergence of science”.
And this is about as reasonable as it
would be to insist, of a history of Aus-
tralian politics, that it may treat only
of the Liberal party.
What should be stressed is that
"nature” is variously and diversely uni-
fied: it is not a chaos, but neither is it
a single unity. And if science is to mirror
nature (and shouldn't it, even in the
classroom?), it must do equal justice to
order and to diversity. It must display
the loose ends as well as the neatly tied
bows. Similarly, science does not forever
"converge''; the progress of science does
not consist always in reaching agreement
where disagreement has hitherto pre-
vailed. Reappraisal, questioning, calling
to account even seeking to disprove
are permanent and characteristic fea-
tures of scientific inquiry, and are indeed
its chief differentia.
To the extent (and it is considerable)
that the book reflects this much of the
unity-mongering of the preamble to
the syllabus, it is undermining the
pluralism that could be the great
glory of a course that breaks through
the conventional subject boundaries.
In the search for integration, honest-
to-goodness facts aren't allowed to
speak for themselves; they must be
introduced and sponsored by principles.
Explanation counts for more than de-
scription; the upshot is that, all too often,
facts are cursorily and inadequately
sketched, and principles are dogmatically
laid down. All too often, “this is be-
cause” crops up where "perhaps this is
a case of” would be more in keeping
with the spirit of science.
But there is more metaphysics to come.
The syllabus preamble, still in pursuit of
“integration”, insists that "teaching
should stress the recognition or appli-
cation of concepts common to several
disciplines”, and goes on to lay it down
that there are chiefly two concepts com-
mon to the disciplines treated in the
book. The first is what are called “par-
ticle theories of matter”; second is “the
*Science for High School Pupils: An inte-
grated four-year course in physics,
chemistry, biology and geology based on
and covering the New South Wales Edu-
cation Department’s science syllabus to
the School Certificate. Prepared under
the guidance of the NSW Director-Gene-
ral of Education, Dr H. S. Wyndham . . .
and with the co-operation of the Depart-
ment of Education by the Nuclear Re-
search Foundation School Certificate In-
tegrated Science Textbook Group of
Authors and Editors under the Chair-
manship of Professor H. Messel . . .
Published by the Nuclear Research
Foundation within the University of
Sydney. Sydney, 1963. Pilot Edition.
t Wrongly described in the title of the
book as a syllabus of the New South
Wales Education Department. The
syllabus is prepared and issued on behalf
of and under the authority of the Second-
ary Schools Board. We would be close to
armed revolt in this State if the control
of all secondary education were handed
over to the Department of Education.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
O’SULLIVAN
PTYLTD
& %>s wn
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson Ferguson & Co.
Frinters, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
And at Sydney, London, New York
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET
PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL & COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTVPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS :: PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS & OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL”, BRISBANE
SELF-ENGINE
RECONDITIONING
WHILE-U-DRIVE
REFLATES WORN upper cylds, main bearings,
diffs, gears. SAVES Rebore. ENDS Piston slap,
rattles, oil, petrol waste. RESTORES new com-
pression power, top speed, zip. SAVES, Adds
L.S.D. to resale value. GUARANTEED up to
25,000 miles. No results —no pay. Harmless
finest engine. SIMPLE: Add Re-Nu expanding
liquid Nu-Metai to oil, petrol or plug holes.
4. 6, 8 cylds, 60/-, 70/-, 80/-. Testimonials,
engineers' reports, free advice available. Open
Sat. morn.
RE-NU CO. Distributors required. (Estab. 1932)
58 SWANN ST., OPP. RICHMOND STN., VIC.
JB 1755
I enclose £ for Super Nu-Metal.
Name
Address BUL.
WRITERS' AND PHOTOGRAPHERS'
MARKETING GUIDE (1962-3 ed.)
Aust., N.Z. and Oversea Markets for all classes
of MSS and photos. Also publishers, literary
agents, etc.
Complete detailed data, 15/- (post lid.)
Most booksellers, or direct from
AUSTRALIAN WRITERS'
PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
Bex 28, P. 0., Collins St., Melbourne.
hypothesis that science is basically the
study of the manifestations of energy”—
at first proposed as a postulate about
science, but soon restated as a view about
reality: “Observation and experience of
the physical world indicate that we have
our being in a moving ocean of energy”.
In the interests of integration, we’ve gone
back to the metaphysics of Thales.
. There are, in the book, several out-
comes of this metaphysical dictum: first,
that in chapter after chapter particles and
energy are dragged in and (especially
energy) are talked about beyond all rea-
son; second, that the constant obligation
to deploy these concepts reinforces the
obvious predilections of some of the
authors for giving reasons, and fortifies
them in laying out explanations at the
expense of descriptions. Examples of the
consequent rationalism abound; the chap-
ter on Weather will serve as a typical
case. It consists chiefly of declarations
about what the weather and its changes
are “due to”, with precious little about
how we find it to be. And a third con-
sequence is that the very notions relied
upon for integration and the furnishing
of explanations come to be inescapably
mysterious. A notion such as “energy”
comes to have only if, in
dealing at length and in detail with
facts, we find it forcing itself upon us
as we look further and further into some
of the quantitative features of the trans-
actions between physical objects. To pre-
tend that it bears its meaning in itself,
and is available for introductions, is to
ensure that it will be a mystery and will
be dogmatically presented.
It is true that the concepts of physics
are of greater generality than those of
chemistry and of geology and of the
biological sciences; no one can deny
that in this sense physics is central
to the sciences. But it does not follow,
and it is not true, that chemistry and
geology and biology can be reduced to
physics: these others are still autonomous
fields, employing not only the concepts
of physics but also their own specific
concepts that cannot be reduced to, and
cannot be elucidated by, the more gene-
ral concepts of physics. And indeed it
is further true that physics, just because
it is more general, must accommodate it-
self to the findings of the more special
sciences, and it is precisely for this
reason that their autonomy must be in-
sisted on.
These, then, are some of the ways in
which the search for integration has led
some of the authors into misrepresenta-
tions of science and has led them into,
or confirmed them in, assertorial, dog-
matic, deductive and meagrely verbal
modes of exposition. It is, to be sure, no
easy matter to find, when one teaches
science, a proper balance between the
portrayal of diversity and the elucida-
tion of unities; between descriptions and
explanations. It is no easy matter to work
out the best times for the move from
the many to the one and back again.
Not the least of the difficulties resides
in this fact, that most pupils want ex-
planations and reasons (however circular
and verbal they may be) and are unhappy
to be confronted with naked facts. They
prefer facts clothed in reasons (so that
soon all they see are the reasons); they
would agree, if they understood it, with
Rutherford’s scornful dictum “Science
consists of physics and bug-hunting”. But
a balance that does justice to the particu-
larising as well as to the generalising that
go on in science can be worked out; and
if one 'takes the trouble, and the time,
it is possible to have all but the most
tender-minded of pupils (to use William
James’s phrase) come to appreciate the
robustness of facts as much as the en-
ticements of theories.
It is a pleasure to record, even in this
pilot review, that one group of chapters
those on chemistry achieves this
balance extraordinarily well; one hopes
that the many teachers now looking at
the book will notice what’s been well
done, and will demand improvements in
the rest.
It remains to add, even at this stage,
that Chapter 3, on elementary astron-
omy, is a disgrace to the publishers and
to the committee of editors and authors.
It should be rewritten entirely, or the
topic deleted from the edition about to
be published.
He was a Camera
A Great Historian
By EK DEM
The Eyes of Damien Parer. Frank
Legg. Rigby. 355.
"VTo Australian associated with World
War II can share the special niche
occupied by Damien Parer; no man was
so much a man of destiny. From 1940
till the sad day of his death on Peleliu it
might have been said of him that he had
seen more of the Australian side of the
war on a broad scale, knew more about
it than any other man. Other people
reported it brilliantly or filmed it bril-
liantly, but none of them covered the


same wide geographical field or had the
same faculty for finding himself not only
in the front line, but in the very front
of the front line. No fighting soldier ran
more risks, or was shot at more often
as an open and unarmed target. And yet
nobody involved was so confident that
he would survive, until the very last
when he seemed just as sure that he
would soon become a sacrifice. He was
fearless and unconcerned and certain in
his faith in the hereafter.
Damien was a Spaniard, containing an
alloy of Irish. He was a Spaniard in
nature, courage, habit, temperament,
religious outlook and appearance. No-
body who encountered that eager, obser-
vant personality could ever forget it: the
lithe darkness, the flashing, and the mind
as vivid and graphic and recording, and
a genius for selecting and expressing the
heart of any violent situation.
Towards the end he formed a close
friendship with his fellow CaAflic, Jack
Brennan, of The Bulletin, who was a
man of similar habits to himself and with
the same habit of being in the very front
of every action —or, in front of the
front if he could get there and the
same habits of religious devotion. They
lived very closely together on their last
assignment which began at Honolulu on
their way to cover the Peleliu landing.
And they lived together all the way to
the islands sharing similar experience,
each of them hearing on the same night
that he was to become fathers, though
Parer was only a few months married
and Brennan some years and with a
family. They went into action, Brennan
with the right hand of two spearhead
tanks, Parer with the left hand one,
agreeing to meet afterwards, but Damien
was not there for the meeting.
He died at the height of his fame. Pie
was 32 years old. His career had divided
itself into three parts first there was
a civilian one with Charles Chauvel's
camera crew on the films “Heritage,”
“Forty Thousand Plorsemen” and some
short films of his own. The next phase
was with the Second AIF from the be-
ginning, his first film being “Life at Sea”
made in the Empress of Japan in which
he went aboard in the first convoy.
This period, beside a lot of incidental
photography, produced five films of
the training of Australian troops in
Palestine. The next began with the as-
sault on Bardia seen from HMS Lady-
bird, a crazy little vessel which shook like
a colander in an uncertain hand every
time her tw'o six - inch guns fired, but
without preventing Parer from getting
some magnificent shots. From January,
1941, right through the fantastic per-
mutations and combinations of the
heroic desert campaign from Bardia in
January, 1941, to the relief of Tobruk in
December and the culminating coic of
the RAAF’s battle for Egypt, he pro-
duced 22 historic pictures, some made
in conjunction with Frank Hurley.
These form a remarkable record, but
were only a pipe-opener to the next year
of work, even though they included his
Greek campaign from landing to evacua-
tion, seen from points nearest to the
enemy all the time after the advance
started, his exclusive coverage of the
Syrian campaign in four priceless, historic
series and the product of four trips by
destroyer into beleaguered Tobruk, in
August-September (made with Hurley).
The first three picture series of 1942
were still of the African fighting. But the
rest of the major nine made that year
were all of the New Guinea campaign,
with the exception of the one produced
by his excursion to cover the operations
of Veale's lost force in Timor, unique in
itself.
Nothing in the history of war photo-
graphy compares with his reports of
the fighting in New Guinea in 1942, or
in depicting courage, endurance, devo-
tion to duty. They are superb reflections
of his perceptive capacity and artistic
skill. His pictorial record of events from
the “Return of the Seventh Division” to
the Academy Award picture of the “Ko-
koda Trail” is something immortal. He en-
graved the feats of the Kanga Force, the
39th Battalion, the Moresby-Lakekamu-
Wau supply route, the jungle warfare of
the Kokoda front indelibly into Australian
history in all their dramatic and tragic
facets the struggle, the squalor, the
mud, the hardship, the boldness and the
suffering of the newly wounded in the
forefront of the attacks. The next year
ended the second phase of his war-time
career. Though it was not productive of
so much, he rose to his topmost height
in his pictures of the Battle of the Bis-
marck Sea seen from “the front of the
grandstand' 5 in a Beaufighter over the
shoulder of Torchy Uren, and his “As-
sault on Salamaua”.
The third and last phase began in
August, 1943, when he felt that he had
reached the parting of the ways with
the bureaucrats of the Information
Department from whom he had experi-
enced nothing but frustration since his
return to the Pacific. There was a good
deal of behind-the-scenes envy of his per-
formance and of official irritation with
his exercise of initiative in disobedience
to orders —• one instance was respon-
sible for his Kokoda Trail picture. So
when he was ordered to go off to Broome
(W.A.), where somebdy or other anti-
cipated an entirely improbable Japanese
landing, he broke with the Department.
After he had completed the Salamaua
Assault film he resigned and joined his
English friend Ted Genock, who was news
editor of Paramount, at a net salary eight
times that which he was being paid by
Australia, stipulating that his primary
duty should be the filming of Australian
operations. And so he progressed through
the blood of the Tarawa landing to
Arawe and Cape Gloucester, the Admiral-
ties, Hollandia and the legendary invasion
of Guam with the United States Marines.
Finally to his death on Peleliu where he
himself passed into legend. He was never
quite at home away from the Australian
Diggers.
Parer was a great cinematographer and
war historian in every sense of the word.
An impetuous bundle of Iberian energy,
he was probably the greatest frontline
observer of battle in Australia's Second
World War; and a methodical one to
boot, since his technical documentation
of his films was meticulous, detailed and
informative both technically and histori-
cally.
Though Frank Legg’s book is magni-
ficent within its compass it is a pity that
some steps are not taken for a more
copious memorial volume which would
include the “dope sheets” of all his
pictures of note.
It seems strange that, though his work
was recognised with awards and medals
by the Americans, his own country did
nothing to honor him. If ever a man-at-
war deserved a George Cross for self-
less gallantry in the interest of the na-
tional morale, Damien Parer did. But
he made the mistake of not loving
bureaucrats.
For Bank Robbers
Capricornia. Xavier Herbert. Such is
Life. Tom Collins. Sirius Books.
16s. each, pocketbook; 255. bound.
Six Voices. Edited by Chris Wallace-
Crabbe. Angus & Robertson. 9s. 6d.
A ll the platitudes have been said about
Such is Life and Capricornia. They
have now entered the purgatory of the
critical specialists, and may God have
mercy on their souls. It only remains
to congratulate the public on having such
A 1 copperbottomed masterpieces, books
which are the test of the critic and not
vice-versa, offered to them in good for-
mat and at reasonable prices. There is
reassurance, in these comparable edi-
tions, in seeing how much shorter “Such
is Life” is than “Capricornia”. Men of
goodwill who have spent half their lives


BOOKHUNTER
Dept. 'D' Box 2671, G.P.O. Sydney
A Service for readers. That difficult to obtain
volume, let us find it for you—fiction, text book,
biography, history, etc. Moderate fee only if
successful.
nerving themselves to read “Such is Life”
(as I did until a few years back) may take
courage from this thought.
Similar things may be said of Mr
Wallace-Crabbe’s selections from the
poems of Kenneth Slessor, R. D. Fitz-
gerald, A. D. Hope, Douglas Stewart,
Judith Wright and James McAuley. This
100-page clear-type book seems to be
aimed at “senior students”. And stu-
dents leaving school to rob banks, write
advertising copy or deal in real estate in
a Sydney that is growing more and more
like a beautiful weevil-riddled wedding
cake may, by having studied “Five
Bells”, “The Wind at your Door”, “Man
Friday”, “The Silkworms” and “The
Harp and the King”, become reconciled
to living in it.
Think of it, these poems say; every
one of those weevils has a soul!
RONALD McCUAIG
In the Attic
Plumes and Arrows. Colin Simpson.
Angus and Robertson. 455.
4OO-page omnibus contains Colin
Simpson’s two previous books about
New Guinea, “Adam with Arrows” and
“Adam in Plumes” and parts of “Islands
of Men” (now all out of print).
Handsomely printed and bound, illus-
trated by many maps and line drawings
and 119 photographs (37 in splendid
color, and subsidised by Sir Edward
Hallstrom), it is cheap enough to be
bought by schools, whose pupils will
find it an exciting introduction to the
forgotten land of the Australian Com-
monwealth, and by casual readers.
The book shows its age in the earlier
part where the statistics are very much
out of date and the style reads like Frank
Clune, but Simpson stops the folksiness
about 150 pages in, and his stories about
the adventures of the Leahy Brothers
(Dan and Mick), Jim Taylor (“The last
emperor of the middle kingdom”), lan
Downs, Father William Ross, and several
resident anthropologists are splendid.
He describes the beauty and vitality of
the country and its people admirably, but
the book is, and only sets out to be,
touristic. Readers who are stimulated to
find out more about New Guinea may
well find themselves reading “Plumes and
Arrows” over and over again, at least
until someone writes a better book.
BARRY O. JONES
Double Oh
On Her Majesty’s Secret Service. lan
Fleming. Cape. 20s.
“Tames Bond was in a strange house,
** creeping noiselessly down the car-
peted second-floor hallway. His rubber-
soled shoes made no sound and in any
case an elephant would hardly have made
an impression on the luxuriant pile of
the carpet. Beard Watson’s, he guessed.
He grinned knowingly and his eyes took
in the cedar wall tables, the Parkerknoll
chairs scattered in a nest around the
landing of a curving staircase, an enorm-
ous Dickerson with staring eyes hanging
from the end wall and an arresting Olsen
abstract hanging beside one of the three
recessed doors opening off the hallway.
All very chichi, he thought. The place
stank with money.
Suddenly his eyes narrowed to slits.
A warning bell sounded in his brain. This
was it. He brushed back the comma of
hair that brushed over his eyes and
which, together with his mouth, made
women think he looked cruel, if attrac-
tive. The second door from the end
window she had said. He silently turned
the handle. The door swung silently back
on bevelled hinges of a curious design
which he happened to know were made
only in Eaux-de-Bains. For a moment
memories flooded him and then, with a
cat-like leap, he was inside, his right hand
cupped for the chopping, killing blow
that a certain karate teacher in a certain
very discreet establishment in S.W. 1 had
taught him and other double oh agents
in the service. Inside the room all was
quiet and his hand fell. His mind re-
gistered the casual disorder of chairs,
bedside tables, a heap of clothes, a pair
of Cottontail briefs and a Maidenform
bra hung over the back of the chair. He
moved stealthily towards the bed, just
managing to avoid upsetting a vanity
table on which he noticed a jar of Stai-
sweet, a container of Three Flower talc
powder, a Coty lipstick (Pink Poodle, he
wondered?), a Helena Rubinstein face
powder and a bottle of Revlon eyeliner.
Beneath the Laconia blankets on the bed
a figure stirred. It was a woman, but was
it her?
“Bond’s mind raced back to their acci-
dental meeting the day before at the pub
at Windigidgibee. He had spent the
morning bicycling arduously up the val-
ley road from Collawong, rejoicing in the
physical effort of his aching calves and
straining back, looking forward to a
couple of decent meat pies washed down
by a bottle of ice-cold Barossa Pearl. He
had reached the pub and brought his
Malvern Star to a halt in a sliding, showy
Christiana and gone inside. He had seen
her immediately. She was disturbingly
beautiful and they were soon in conver-
sation. She was American, red - headed
with deep violet eyes. As he lit her ciga-
rette a Viscount, he noticed approv-
ingly she cupped the flame from his
Ronson butane lighter with cool, pre-
cise hands and, in answer to his inevitable
query, had answered, ‘Fanny like in
gaslight. Fanny A. Bounding.’ There
was about her hands, as in the smell of
her gorgeous coppery hair, the implica-
tion of something half remembered.
‘Come to me tomorrow night’, she had
said with a childlike simplicity that he
found irresistible and had there and then
given him an expensive address in Vau-
cluse. He wondered while they ex-
changed small talk, at the air of imper-
meable innocence that surrounded her.
It reminded him of an ad that he had
once seen and could no longer remember.
But he knew, and he knew that she knew
that he knew, that what they proposed
was right and proper ... for them. They
had parted soon after.
And here he was, in a strange bed-
room, in a strange house. He shuddered
comically to think what M would say if
he knew. M, who didn’t approve of this
sort of thing at all. He moved closer to
the bed and the smell of her hair came
to him. Vaseline Medicated Shampoo. It
was her all right. His heart pounding, he
switched on the bed lamp. ‘Surprise!’
She looked at him mockingly over the
short, ugly, blue muzzle of a Breslau-
Moldini. Her mouth was twisted into an
ugly sneer. ‘l’m going to kill you, Janies,’
she said evenly: Bitch, he thought im-
personally. His mouth set in a hard,
cruel line; he stared at her hands. They
were still lovely and there was still some-
thing about them that was elusive. ‘Can
I smoke?’ he asked. She nodded and he
lit a Midway. Think! He must think. His
life depended on it.
He thought of all the times in his life
he had enacted scenes similar to this
one and of all the times he would enact
them again. He thought of M, of Le
Chiffre, of Dr No and Pussy Galore. His
mind raced like an IBM card index,
sorting memories, shuffling impressions,
tabulating conclusions. She was ob-
viously a SMERSH operative, trained to
kill, ruthless. And her hands. What was
it about her hands? The answer when it
came was so obvious it almost made
him laugh. Swerl. Of course, he might
have known. His mind raced on . .
Same old Bond.
PETER HASTINGS


THE MAN
ON THE LAND
Storm Over a Subsidy
mere words “wool subsidy” are
enough to raise a storm of poli-
tical and economic protest in Australia.
Yet an influential section of the Aus-
tralian woolgrowing industry is at pres-
ent hinting to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment that it should introduce what
amounts to a disguised wool subsidy.
Of course the Commonwealth aid pro-
posed would not be called a wool sub-
sidy. This latest and possibly most subtle
of a long series of tentative proposals
follows warnings that woolgrowers will
have to pay a bigger wool promotion levy
to finance the five-year world promotion
plan now being advocated by the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat.
The present levy is a flat 10s. a bale.
An additional 2s. a bale voluntary levy
for wool research is matched by a 4s.
a bale Commonwealth Government con-
tribution. There is no Government con-
tribution to wool promotion, however.
/Yne of the present suggestions is that
” the Government should aid wool-
growers by taking over the whole of the
responsibility for financing wool research
This would cost the Australian tax-
payers about £500,000 a year and would
enable the growers to add a correspond-
ing amount to their promotion funds
This scheme has the additional ad-
vantage from the growers’ viewpoint
- that it leaves wool promotion solely
in grower hands (growers having a clear
majority on the new Wool Board) and
avoids giving the Government a greater
voice in wool industry affairs.
The move would be justified by point-
ing out that part of the promotion funds
contributed to the now-defunct Austra-
lian Wool Bureau were used in product-
development and industry liaison work
tasks which could be loosely described
as “research,” rather than promotion.
The industry also hopes the Govern-
ment will re-introduce a subsidy on
superphosphate before the next general
election.
The Labor Party has promised a £3
a ton subsidy if it attains the Treasury
Benches, but even a £2 cut in the price
of super would be a boon to wool-
growers.
Some of the smaller growers in West-
ern Victoria, who are most vocal in these
moves for Government support, say they
could boost production by 50 p.c. if
they could get cheaper super.
They point out that this is exactly
what the managing director of the In-
ternational Wool Secretariat, Mr Bill
Vines, is urging increased production
of quality wool.
Calls for a Government subsidy —or
something of the kind disguised under
another name are certain to become
more frequent when the new Wool Board
chairman, Sir William Gunn, reveals the
size of .he levy needed to finance the new
five-year IWS scheme.
Talk of a 455. a bale levy has badly
frightened some growers • especially
as Mr Vines has long been rumored to
have £3 a bale (or £l5 million on the
Australian clip) as the ultimate Aus-
tralian contribution to wool promotion.
But those on the inside are now tip-
ping that the amount sought initially,
at least is likely to be in the vicinity
of 15s. a bale.
This 50 p.c. increase, lifting wool-
growers’ promotion contributions to more
than £3f million a year, would probably
win the grudging approval of the Aus-
tralian Wool Industry Conference, the
new “Parliament” of the industry
This is in spite of the fact that the
policy of the Australian Wool and Meat
Producers’ Federation (whose members
form half of the Conference) is op-
posed to any further levy increase until
an orderly marketing plan for wool is
introduced.
HThe other half of the Conference, com-
A prised of Australian Woolgrowers’
and Graziers’ Council representatives, is
expected to support any reasonable levy
rise.
And enough defections are likely from
the Federation ranks to guarantee the
Conference’s approval of a levy in the
15s. range.
In point ot fact, however, the new
levy will not be calculated on a per bale
basis. It will be stated as a percentage
of a grower’s net wool cheque.
Most sections of the industry agreed to
this change some time ago. It is ob-
viously a much fairer system. At present
growers of both crossbred and superfine
wool pay a flat 10s. a bale levy where
one man gets only £5O a bale for his
wool, the other gets £lOO.
The change to a percentage levy would
have the effect of disguising a levy in-
crease. A levy of 1 p.c. does not sound
much not nearly as much as 15s. a
bale.
And the addition of a decimal frac-
tion, or even another 1 p.c. at a later
date, would not appear so unreasonable.
With Mr Vines and Sir William Gunn
both indicating comparatively openly
that they think a change in the marketing
system necessary, Federation growers are
much more inclined to look favorably
on these men’s plans for promotion.
Out many of the Federation’s leaders—
who represent the small woolgrowers
of the Commonwealth are also pain-
fully aware that any new marketing
scheme, whether it is a reserve price
plan or an acquisition scheme, will have
to be financed primarily by the growers
themselves.
They have long envisaged a levy of at
least 5 p.c. on every grower, perhaps
over a three to five year period, to
finance the marketing plan.
Now they realise that a woolgrower
paying an increased levy for promotion
is unlikely to be sympathetic to yet an-
other levy for marketing.
Thus a referendum of growers on a
new marketing scheme could fail es-
pecially now that higher wool prices
have taken the pressure off the marketing
reform question.
The Federation is thus caught between
two allied but potentially incompatible
courses. Because it views marketing as
more important than promotion it is ex-
pected to maintain, at least officially, its
opposition to a levy rise.
Menace Goes West
Skeleton weed, arch-enemy of the
wheatgrower, has caused great con-
cern to farmers in the many wheat-
growing areas of NSW, Queensland,
Victoria and SA, and seems now to be
on its way to WA. It has been found
growing by the Eyre Highway near
Ceduna and on a property near Streaky
Bay, in the south-west of SA.
As a result of these discoveries, Dr T.
Dunne, WA Director of Agriculture, is
taking strict precautions to keep the
western State free of the menace. He
urges farmers to avoid buying seed wheat
from areas where skeleton weed is
known to exist, and in any case to have
the seed inspected by department officers.


THE
WORLD OF BUSINESS
More Money Circulating
Bank loans jumped to £1,082m. in April up £34m. on
March. Advances are now equal to 55 p.c. of deposits
against 53.6 p.c. in April, 1962.
Everyone says hooray about the increase. But the funds
were in the pipeline all the time and, as the banks themselves
will assert, it sometimes takes a long time after the initial
approval of an overdraft for the money to circulate.
March is a month when company tax payments usually are
fairly heavy. Many companies, as a result, are forced to lean
heavily on the banks (if permitted). The reduction in interest
rates also’ must have influenced some borrowers to be less
niggardly about using some of their unused overdraft.
Having started the ball rolling, perhaps it will continue.
Perchance the banks may be forced to tighten up in a few
months.
Trading Bank Movements, Yearto April
BOWING TO MR HOLT
100 YEARS FROM NOW
Tf the 30-20 legislation is retained indefinitely, the Common-
• wealth Treasurer 100 years from now probably will bow
gravely to a picture of Mr Holt as he enters his office each
morning.
Latest figures of the rising trend in life assurance premiums
and superannuation premiums are a reminder that the invest-
ible assets which qualify for the 30-20 ratio will compound each
year, including interest paid on Government securities. In the
eight months of the current financial year to February, fife
offices received £24.4m. in superannuation premiums.
Selected assets of life offices which qualified for the 30-_0
stipulation in 1962 totalled £ 106.4 m. Because 30 p.c. of
this was required to be invested in Government securities,
including 20 p.c. in Commonwealth loans, it would appear
that an even larger amount will be earmarked this year.
Last year's figures suggest that at least £21.3m. was
required to be placed in Commonwealth loans. The actual
amount invested was much higher, because some life offices
tend to invest substantially more than the 20 p.c. minimum in
Commonwealth loans.
Assets of life offices at the end of last year show £283.4m.
invested in Government loans and £123.3m. in semi-
Government securities. This represents an increase of £23.45m.
in Government loans and £ 10.2 m. in semi-Government loans.
Such built-in support for the bond market must grow as
the assets of the life offices increase. Private superannuation
funds also are expanding rapidly and contributing their share of
the 30-20 persuader.
If the population continues to expand steadily, the com-
pound growth of the 30-20 funds could be a powerful instru-
ment of forced saving and remove many problems in loan
raising.
EXPORT ACTION NEEDS
A REVOLUTION
A ustralian exporters’ attitude and behavior towards the
** vastly promising Malaysian market came in for a severe
drubbing in Sydney last week. The outspoken critic was Mr
Wade-Ferrell, out here to lecture for the Institute of Manage-
ment and to stir up business interest generally.
Mr Wade-Ferrell manages an English-owned marketing group,
Young and Associates, in Malaya. Himself born in Australia,
he confesses to a measure of patriotic shame as well as
to commercial distaste at so many tremendous opportunities
being botched or missed.
Speaking to The Bulletin, Mr Wade-Ferrell said he felt
inclined to exempt from his diatribe a few of our largest
manufacturers and also the efficient metal trades export group.
He didn’t spare much else.
There is apparently an over-riding need for exports to get
much closer to their Asian markets, to banish the “glorified
tourism” of high-level executives and certain trade missioners.
It might help these kind of triflers to realise that a con-
siderable amount of the basic market research needed can,
and should, first be commissioned in Malaya itself from
consultants profoundly in touch with economic and social
factors.
A small outlay of about £AI3O is able to secure a pre-
liminary market appreciation for any given product. From
such a beginning intense local knowledge must be developed.
Mr Wade-Ferrell recited and confirmed the usual failings


which have been brought before export get-togethers for years
.—poor packaging, feeble and inaccurate translation, too light
a weight of advertising.
It is not pleasant to hear tales of goods being displayed at
fairs without attendants having been provided with price lists
or payment terms. It is a shock to feel that so much ostensible
effort is not bringing many exporters closer to their market.
Are the right, questions being asked?
The Japanese, as elsewhere, are cultivating the Malaysian
market with evident success. Despite a hangover of wartime
prejudices, their image makes remarkably good progress.
Like most authorities connected with Australian exporting,
Mr Wade-Ferrell is full of praise for the Department of Trade.
But he’s thoroughly sure, also, that most private businesses
must wake up before it gets too late.
WHY NOT MORE DETAILS
OF JAPANESE TREATY?
"Presumably the Minister for Trade, as part of the necessary
background in his crucial overseas talks, carries with
him the details of the new Australia-Japan trade agreement.
As much as the difficult pattern is now emerging from London,
the agreement must surely become one of the lifelines of this
country's commercial future.
Looking at our developing stake throughout the Asian area,
many of our other and specifically European trading arrange-
ments will need to be accommodated to the terms of the
Japanese treaty.
So far Mr McEwen and his officials have kept the Aus-
tralian public almost entirely in the dark about these terms.
It is understood that negotiations have been concluded. The
treaty itself is in process of compilation.
It apparently removes from the old 1957 agreement any
possibility of applying the notorious Article 35 of GATf to
Japan, which now is admitted to be an equal trading partner
benefiting from most-favored-nation treatment.
Under Australia’s regular tariff provisions, and without quota
restrictions, Japan can thereby send us more machinery,
chemicals, textiles, and so on. Japan likewise, and with similar
tariff safeguard, will admit more Australian commodities
dairy products, processed food, jams and suchlike.
With the removal of formal discriminatory restrictions, the
treaty obviously must incorporate safeguard clauses, permitting
quick consultation and voluntary protective action by both
parties. Australian industry awaits an exact knowledge of the
nature of these safeguards.
Japan has scrupulously observed the consultative and anti-
dumping provisions of the old agreement. Her mature status
in world trade sees Article 35 and similar prohibitions as a
distinct slight. The same status leads to faithful obedience of
less-odious provisions.
Even so stubborn and self-protective a nation as France
has wiped Article 35 from its recently concluded six-year
trade treaty with Japan. Suspension safeguards and all, “con-
trolled liberalisation becomes the motto of each side.”
That spirit doubtless may fertilise expanding Australian-
Japanese relationships. In its light we should ponder some
remarks made by Professor Kiyoshi Kojima, of Hitotsubashi
University, Tokyo. The professor visited Australia in March.
“It is Japan’s desire,” he said, “that she shall become an
equal partner in the free world economy, contributing her
efforts to world prosperity and sharing the responsibility of
assisting the economic progress of the developing countries.
In order to do that, Japan should be much closer to the
Western advanced countries in her economic capability, income
level, ways of living and ways of thinking.”
Professor Kojima made quite plain his belief that mutual
trade liberalisation and tariff reductions are essential to benefit
economic development in Japan, and Australia as well. Timing,
naturally, becomes very important.
But looking ahead, he saw the possibility of Australia and
New Zealand establishing specialised large-scale industries
aimed to export to larger markets in the Pacific Basin.
“In my opinion, Japan may be able to help the process of
industrialisation in Australia and New Zealand, by co-opera-
tion through joint ventures and other means,” Professor
Kojima said.
It is becoming more and more urgent to learn what founda-
tions the Government is establishing eventually to allow such
long-term programmes.
THE QUALITY OF STOCK
EXCHANGE MEMBERSHIP
A ustralian Stock Exchanges do not hesitate to chasten their
members. Mr A. B. Mellor, chairman of the Stock Ex-
change of Melbourne, said recently that the Stock Exchanges
were club-like in their restriction upon membership and the
conduct of their activities.
The speedy and efficient conduct of a securities market
rested to a considerable extent on the fact that persons dealing
in the market did so on the basis of complete trust in each
other; that brokers must be confident of the credit standing of
their colleagues, not only in their own market but also in inter-
state and even overseas markets. This necessitated stringent
examination and control of entry to membership.
Evidence of an unblemished record of honesty and integrity,
together with adequate capital assets, was required, he said,
and for an incoming member of an Exchange the investigation
was “probably more searching than in any other walk of life.”
That may be over-stating the breadth of the rule run over
prospective members, but at any rate they have to be prepared
to pay up if they break the rules.
“It may surprise you to learn that in recent years individual
fines of up to £2,250 have been imposed by committees of
Exchanges against members for rule breaches, and, in one case,
of suspension for non-professional conduct,” Mr Mellor added.
VALUE OF SHARE
TURNOVER INTRODUCED
IY/|elbourne Stock Exchange is providing an additional
service to investors now by publishing the value of turn-
over figures. Previously it reported only the number of shares
traded.
It is an interesting thought that, in a normal day’s trading,
half a million pounds changes hands, or an average of around
£2|m. a week. If you calculate buying brokerage and stamp
duty at 6d. on each £ 1 of turnover, the handling charge is
£62,500 per week, or £3,125,000 per annum on a 50-weeks’
basis.
This excludes bonds, debentures and underwriting, of course.
But sticking purely to the analysis of share turnover, the
seller also must pay a handling charge as well as the buyer.
He pays less stamp duty. So a £6m. handling charge per
annum on share trading from one Exchange probably is con-
servative.
Add to this the handling charges of the various share
registries and it can be seen that share trading becomes a
costly handling operation. Any methods used to streamline
those costs undoubtedly are appreciated by shareholders. Com-
panies, certainly, would be overjoyed if some simple, inexpen-
sive method of share transfer was invented.


■*
■ij ■ • /•>& - . S -.Sr" 1 -» ' Itv.: ‘ • -
YOUR
COMPANY CARS!
SAVE
ADMINISTRATION
KAYS FULLY SERVICED AUTO LEASE
• Eliminates the necessity of tying up valuable working capital.
• Eliminates company transport administration.
• Enables accurate budgeting with no detailed accounting.
• Offers free replacement transport in case of accidents or breakdown.
• Eliminates all contingencies arising out of company ownership.
Let Kays show you the economics and numerous benefits to be derived
through AUTO LEASE.
r AYS
LEASING CORP.
PTY. LTD.
A UNIT OF KAY CORPORATION LIMITED
MELBOURNE
(HEAD OFFICE)
18-30 MT. ALEXANDER RD.
33 0431
SYDNEY
106 WILLIAM ST. 31 6621
BRISBANE
40 TANK ST. 2 5837
ADELAIDE
17 TAVISTOCK ST. 8 6486
LAUNCESTON
100 GEORGE ST. 2 4894
KL/R
DEVELOPMENT BANK
CRIES ITS WARES
Remembering the political and bank-
ing storm which broke about its
birth in 1959, the Commonwealth
Development Bank has since maintained
a decent public reticence on activities
and policies. The successive annual re-
ports are models of uncontentious dis-
cretion.
In consequence the tripartite Common-
wealth Banking Corporation attracts most
attention through the trading and sav-
ings sections. Something of a mystery still
attaches to the development function.
A good deal of that mystery was
valuably dispelled last week by the
General Manager (Mr B. B. Callaghan)
in an address to a University of NSW
school on sheep and wool improvement.
Obviously Mr Callaghan chiefly con-
cerned himself with explaining the Devel-
opment Bank’s virtues in the rural sector,
yet most of the principles he touched on
applied to industrial financing as well.
Changing circumstances in Australia
over the last 10 years or so raised new
problems in both industrial and rural
fields, especially in that vaguish area
“development”. An additional lending
institution was called for, “notwithstand-
ing the substantial contribution to
development which conventional lending
institutions have made and are continu-
ing to make.”
In particular the farmer can no longer
obtain all financial requirements from a
trading bank or pastoral house. “Many a
primary producer seeking finance for
pasture improvement is not able to pre-
sent, from the point of view of security
and ability to pay, as attractive a proposal
to his banker as did the settler of yester-
year who only required assistance for
straightforward work such as clearing,
fencing and provision of water.”
The development bank remains sup-
plementary in so far as “finance may be
provided only where the finance would
not otherwise be available on reasonable
and suitable terms and conditions. It
was not intended to assume responsibility
for financing all development.”
But its basic purpose allows it to adopt
a criterion of prospects of success rather
than the value of security in assessing a
loan. “This does not mean that security
is disregarded,” Mr Callaghan quickly
added.
“No fixed margins are set, the bank
examines each request for finance in-
dividually and bases its decision on the
general merits of the proposal including,
in particular, its assessment of the
applicant’s prospects,” he explained.
A flexible approach to types of security
means that an applicant’s arrangement
with his existing banker or other financier
is not disturbed. The bank often lends
against a second or third mortgage.
Throughout, developmental features
are emphasised, both in industry and
farming. Finance provided must be di-
rected towards lifting production and
stimulating productivity.
The bank’s current interest rate for
loans stands at 6 p.c. a year, though
the rate may be varied during a loan’s
currency.
Equipment finance on hire-purchase
terms is limited to the acquisition of pro-
ducer goods. About 75 p.c. by numbers
of this type of financing has been trans-
acted in country districts.
To date the bank has provided assis-
tance exceeding £9om. more than
half on a short-term basis for equipment
(industrial and rural). The greater part
of loan disbursement has gone directly
to primary industry.
Mr Callaghan prefaced his examina-
tion of the development bank with a
detailed account of the cost/price
squeeze as it affects woolgrowers. His
full address is to be published in the
University of NSW journal “Wool
Technology and Sheep Breeding”.
BP AIMING TO
TAKE THE LEAD
with 131,500 barrels a day crude
oil distillation capacity has now
more of the Australian total of 411,500
barrels a day than any other State. But,
when BP Australia’s new 35,000 b/d
refinery at Crib Point, on Western Port,
is completed in two years, Victoria will
then have 149.3 b/d capacity which
would give it the lead. It would then
have 33 p.c. of the total Australian
capacity of 456.8 b/d compared with
NSW 29 p.c., WA 19 p.c., Queensland
10 p.c. and SA 9 p.c.
By the same token the new BP refin-
ery will give that group the biggest crude
oil distillation capacity in this country,
taking its total to 122,000 b/d. Adding
present planned capacity of other groups,
their capacity by mid-1965 will be
Mobil/Esso (Altona and Adelaide)
96,300 b/d, Caltex (Kurnell) 90,000 b/d,
Shell (Geelong and Clyde) 81,500 b/d,
Bitumen and Oil (Matraville and Hamil-
ton) 22,000 b/d, Ampol (Brisbane)
30,000 b/d and Amoco (Bulwer Island,
Q.) 15,000 b/d. The new refineries of
Ampol and Amoco are, like the Crib
Point refinery, expected to be on stream
by mid-1965.


ECONOMICS ANONYMOUS
Becalmed State of Apprenticeship
HThe Victorian Employers’ Federation
has grown in stature in recent years
by taking the lead in the promotion of
many sound industrial causes. It isn’t
surprising, therefore, that it was solidly
behind Apprenticeship Week in Mel-
bourne. Moreover, with healthy candour
it has been pointing the bone at its own
members for their somewhat negative
attitude towards what it calls “the be-
calmed state of apprenticeship”.
“It is abundantly clear,” the VEF says
in its latest service letter, “that, on the
figures, apprenticeship fails to receive the
wholehearted support it deserves from
employers generally. Many are adopting
a shortsighted policy both from the
national interest and their own future
requirements for skilled workers.”
Certainly, few employers of skilled
workers will need to be reminded that
even with the present socially uncom-
fortable general level of unemployment
there is at present a shortage of skilled
workers in many key industries. This
shortage threatens to prescribe limits to
increases in industrial activity, particu-
larly in the metal trades which have to
shoulder the physical work involved in a
basically essential lift in gross fixed in-
vestment.
HThe VEF rightly points to this as a
chronic and national problem. “There
is evidence to suggest that shortages of
skilled labor were present even at the
height of the 1961 recession,” it says.
“These shortages still persist in many
trades, emphasising that the need for
training has become more acute than
ever.”
It then points to some of the obstacles
encountered by the good intentioned
efforts of the Department of Labor and
National Service in recent months to
force a break-through on this front.
The apprenticeship system, it says, has
largely failed to advance with the general
increase in educational standards. The
necessity for a five-year training period
is now most suspect. (Fortunately, recent
moves by employers and unions in the
metal trades resulting in a shortening of
the indenture period offer the prospect
that other trades will follow suit.)
There is room, the VEF suggests, for
streamlining apprenticeship courses. “In
practically every trade, specialisation has
become one of the outstanding features
of industrial development; the craftsman
engaged in making an entire product is
virtually unknown in modern industry,
yet apprenticeship still adheres to detailed
training in all aspects of a trade.”
The VEF also considers that too much
importance is given to on-site training
of apprentices by trained workers,
whereas a greater emphasis on technical
courses under trained teachers would
produce better and quicker results.
Further, it says that while it must be
admitted Australians readily accept the
benefits which increasing industrialisation
have brought to their living standards,
there is too much snobbery still about
the careers of children. “Greater num-
bers of parents refuse to face the reality
that a trained industrial worker using
his skill in the manufacturing field has
every right to consider himself as the
equal of a white collar worker; that he
is at least equally useful to the commun-
ity and probably more useful.”
VEF wants more teeth put into the
A apprenticeship system and is in-
viting its members to give up old atti-
tudes such as waiting on the sidelines
to pick up men after they have been
trained by their competitors. (It doesn’t
say this sort of attitude is predominant
among employers.)
This is also the planned object of the
Federal Government, but there are some
dissenters from it, such as Mr S. Mur-
ray-Smith who told the “Economics of
Education” forum that he would like
to see the apprenticeship system scrapped
altogether. (Mr Murray-Smith is Nuffield
Research Scholar in the History of Tech-
nical Education at Melbourne Univer-
sity.)
Murray-Smith’s point is that too much
time is wasted in apprenticeships, not to
speak of the “heartbreaking” problems
involved in part-time technical education
and the fears private employers have
of getting their fingers burned in bad
times. In his view the system could be
effectively carried on only by the ap-
prenticing of all trainees to the Govern-
ment to ensure regular opportunities. He
thinks the Federal Government should
take over all technical education, as it
did in the last war.
But this is far from the intention of
the present Government which, like the
unions, is suspicious of Government-
controlled apprenticeship, even if admit-
ting by its recent activity on this front
that internal training of skilled workers
needs stepping up to supplement the drive
to get more skilled workers through
immigration. This policy has yielded very
fruitful results since the war but it would
be short-sighted to rely on it.
The Minister of Labor, Mr. W.
McMahon, has recently given an outline
in The Australian Quarterly of the
Government’s actions in recent years to
improve the apprenticeship system. He
says the Government has not found it
easy to get appropriate agreement on
remedy for the present impasse
because apprenticeship is essentially a
matter for the States; and trade unions,
employers, State apprenticeship and
technical education authorities have been
hard to convince of the need for reform.
The Government in fact has been ham-
mering away at the problem since 1950
when it appointed the Commonwealth-
State Apprenticeship Committee of
Enquiry. When it first reported in 1954
this committee found little fault with the
existing system. Government considera-
tion of its report resulted in the es-
tablishment of a further committee
which, says Mr McMahon, began a
dispassionate study. Its assembly and
examination of new data paved the
way for moves in several States and
ultimately to last year’s national con-
ferences convened by the Ministry of
Labor.
rPHESE conferences which were attended
representatives of national employer
organisations, trade unions, State Labor
Departments and technical education
authorities reached agreement on many
points. The most notable was that in
future young men of 17 to 20 in the
AEU, ASE and ETU with higher educa-
tional qualifications should be apprentic-
ed under the four-year provisions of
the Federal Metal Trades Award and be
granted credits of six or 12 months de-
pending on their qualifications and ex-
perience. Participants in the scheme were
to be given 20 weeks’ full-time training in
their first year of apprenticeship. Late in
December the Federal Metal Trades
Award was amended to this effect.
This move to shorten and expedite
the training of skilled workers was fol-
lowed in February by moves to step up
training of apprentices in the electrical
and engineering trades by the provision
of financial assistance of young people
in country areas. These provided for:
• Special payments to employers in
South Australia, Queensland and Tas-
mania to cover the cost of additional


CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Incorporated under the Companies Act of
New South Wales on Bth March, 1950.
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE
STOCK
8 kl
PE R ANNUM
TO 10 YEARS
also available
REGISTERED
REDEEMABLE
UNSECURED
DEPOSIT NOTES
Rates from 6% p.a. for
6 months to B \% p.a. for
4 to 10 years.
Full defoils of these issues will be found in the Company's
Prospectus which is available at all branches of the
Company's Bankers, the Bank of New South Wales,
any Member of the Stock Exchange, or any office of
Cambridge Credit Corporation Limited
Applications may be made only on the forms attached
to the Prospectus.
CAMBRIDGE CREDIT
CORPORATION LIMITED
Cambridge House, 249 George St., Sydney. Phone: 27-8621
SYDNEY • NEWCASTLE 9 WAGGA 9 MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE
CC 162/A3
employers’ time during the early stages
of apprenticeship.
• A maximum living-away allowance
of £2/12/6 a week for Cv intry youths
to cover a concentrated period of college
training in the early stages of appren-
ticeship.
• Payment of £3 a w'eek to employ-
ers in country districts who engage ap-
prentices in excess of their normal 1958-
62 intake.
As a further incentive to training in
country areas, the Government decided
that w ? here it is necessary to provide
training, supplementing that which can
be given by an apprentice's master, the
Department of Labor and National Ser-
vice would try to make arrangements
with other employers in a position to
provide the training.
Mr McMahon makes it clear that the
Ministry of Labor has gone a long way
towards establishing the right climate
between the Government and the in-
terested parties to end the present be-
calmment, though, as he admits, the
process has been slow “after all the
apprenticeship method is ancient and
habits tend to outlive the circumstances
that bred them; if the apprenticeship
system is on trial there is also an anxiety
to make it work.”
The table below illustrates the declin-
ing proportion of youths in Australia
taking apprenticeships:
RECORDED APPRENTICESHIP INTAKE
(2)
Estimated
No. of 15
(1) year old
Recorded males in (3)
No. of New Population at (1) as
Apprentice- June of pre- a %
Yeai ships (a) vious years (2)
1950 13,039 53,519 25.9
1951 13,627 54,544 25.0
1952 15,560 57,020 27.3
1953 16,927 60,529 28.0
1954 16,927 61,570 27.5
1955 18,261 63,225 28.9
1956 19,415 64,550 30.1
1957 18,457 68,030 27.1
1958 19,041 74,808 25.5
1959 18,167 73,419 24.7
1960 20,650 83,276 24.8
1961 22,026 87,528 25.2
1962 21,194 90,079 23.5
Wool Futures Trading
Gathers Pace
HThe Sydney Greasy Wool Futures Ex-
change has written its 100,000 th
contract. This achievement came on the
eve of the Exchange’s third birthday.
The growth rate is well in line with that
of older overseas institutions.
Beginning operations on May 11,
1960, the Exchange traded 30,143 con-
tracts in the first year. The second year
produced 32,008 trades and the third
37,849.
The Sydney market is now seeing in-
creasing use by growers, who are grad-
ually realising the benefits of price pro-
tection. For some time after its founda-
tion, grower reluctance to use “hedging ’
facilities was quite apparent.


RECORD
BONUSES
RECEIVED
BY
MLG
POLICYHOLDERS
Higher earnings from investments, reduced mortality, economy in
management have all resulted in another outstanding year for The
M.L.C. A record amount of £18,400,000 was allotted as new bonus
- more than £2J million above last year. New Business was again
a record with total sums assured of over £117,000,000 excluding
Term Assurance. The total business in force now exceeds
£875,000,000 sums assured and bonus, with a premium income of
more than £27,500,000.
k
THE MUTUAL LIFE AND CITIZENS* ASSURANCE
COMPANY LIMITED and for Are and
general Insurance THE MX.C. FIRE AND
GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY PTY. LTD*
“CROESUS”
Sinister View On UK
Trade Policy
PThiE return of a Labor Government in
A Britain inside a year probably is
better than an even money bet. So it
seems a bit hasty to be saying, as a con-
temporary did last week, that dear-food
policies are on their way in there.
One of the reasons given for this view
was the present Government’s decision to
let a certain annual quantity of Danish
butter into the country on all fours with
the Australian and New Zealand product
to accommodate a fellow EFTA country.
Such a decision, it was thought, had to
be considered in the light of the pressure
for reductions in Britain’s agricultural
subsidies.
Whatever commercial policies have
been in the mind of the present British
Government since the setback to its
Common Market hopes last year, every-
body with even a nodding acquaintance
with Mr Harold Wilson or his party
knows that cheap food for the British
masses is a fundamental plank in his
platform.
The probability that, if Britain joined
the Six, this would mean dearer food
in British shops was one of the main
reasons for Labor resistance to it. One
can take it, then, if Labor becomes the
next Government in Britain any trend
in present commercial policies to in-
crease the price of food in Britain is
likely to be reversed.
But is the trend that way? The deci-
sion to admit a quantity of Danish but-
ter free of duty means that a greater
quantity of cheaper butter now will be
available in Britain. Moreover, is the
decision so sinister? It seems more likely
that it was inevitable anyway if Britain
was to stay a member of EFTA.
As a matter of fact, though the Mac-
millan Government was apparently pre-
pared to throw the whole system of
Commonwealth preferences to the wolves
in the interest of expanding exports of
manufactures to Western European
countries, it must be remembered that
his insistence (particularly after the Com-
monwealth’s remonstrances in London
late last year) that entry of Common-
wealth primary produce into an enlarged
Common Market should be secured, con-
tributed much to the ultimate breakdown
in negotiations. And it was clear that, as
Mr McEwen had been insisting all along,
the only way to achieve this was by pre-
ference tariff quotas.
It is hard to go along with those who
say that the decision to extend the quota
control over Britain’s butter imports
“must be taken as evidence of a most
sinister trend in British commercial policy
and one which holds the gravest dangers
for Australia.” That is putting things far
too strongly.
Further, on the matter of reducing the
level of protection (deficiency payments
and the like) afforded British agricul-
ture. Surely this is something we have
everything to gain by and have in fact
been urging consistently over the years
(though perhaps not as strongly as NZ
which is more afflicted by British agri-
cultural subsidies than we are).
For, in the ultimate analysis, a reduc-
tion in subsidies would mean some con-
traction in Britain’s agricultural output
and pro tanto open up more of the
British market for the lower-cost pro-
ducers of primary products in the Com-
monwealth.
It would be expected, even at the
price of losing some of the farmers’ vote
in Britain, that this would be the line
taken by a Labor Government mainly for
the reason that the high subsidy policy
means food in Britain is dearer than
necessary. The idea has also many sup-
porters in the Conservative Party in
Britain for the same reason.
To interpret any present pressure to
get subsidies reduced as merely a means
of paving the way for a possible British
link-up with the Six seems to be taking
an altogether too narrow a view of the
matter.


Great Advance in Company Awards
fFHE Australian Institute of Manage-
A ment’s annual report award has not
only conferred esteem on prize-winning
companies but has also exercised a most
salutary influence on the presentation of
accounts.
It is hard to realise that the com-
petition is now 12 years old, though it
is very easy to notice and applaud the
improvements which have been effected
during this period. If the sceptic
whispers that reports are now larger and
more ornate, he can easily be silenced
by the fact that they contain a wealth
more of information infinitely better dis-
played.
Actually the winning publicly-listed
company for 1962, Marcus Clark and
Company, sets out the year's activities
and comments thereon relatively plainly,
yet in no way scants detail.
As befits its rather more dramatic
field, the best non-listed organisation, the
Australian National Airlines Commission
(TAA) allows itself greater pictorial
scope, but again the meat is there.
For the first year both listed and non-
listed “best awards” have been made.
Incidentally airways seem to possess an
edge for prizes. Ansett, a previous
winner, this time collects a listed
“special,” while Qantas features in the
non-listed “specials.”
However, many basic industrial enter-
prises also caught the judges’ eyes;
among the “specials” Bradford Cotton,
Concrete Industries, Lend Lease and
National Consolidated; among the
“merits” Ampol, Australian Paper Manu-
facturers, Felt and Textiles, ICIANZ,
Commonwealth Industrial Gases and
Mount Isa.
The adjudicators, through the mouth
of Mr E. S. Owens, were justly able
to note that “their comments each year
are given effect to in the following year.”
In particular they commend the early
placing of the notice of meeting.
An old sore of previous years, stock
valuation, is gradually being cleaned up.
More companies are giving a clear
description of their method of valuation
and including notes referring to special
provisions. The old bugbear of “cost or
less than cost,” which Mr Owens bluntly
castigates as meaningless, is disappearing.
It is equally interesting to learn that
all award-winning reports are well ahead
of statutory minimum requirements,
“which is as it should be.” Companies
are still wrestling with an ideal way to
present combined parent and consoli-
dated statements. “It is recommended
that considerable thought be given to this
in relation to the 1963 reports,” Mr
Owen adjures.
One other triumph has been the freer
disclosure of turnover, which many
critics thought should have been made
compulsory under the new Companies
Acts. Mr Owen is quite emphatic:
“Today every company in the award-
winning list includes turnover. . . .
Unless a company can achieve the marks
allocated for a free disclosure of turn-
over, it has little chance of being in the
award-winning list.”
j|/|ARCUS Clark's success in the balance
sheet award must have been assisted
by the company’s publication of sales
figures and a comprehensive analysis of
results designed to inform stockholders.
Many Australian public companies still
remain reticent about publishing sales
figures “in case it gives information to
competitors.”
The company also published a neat
“Contents” guide, fitted economically in
the margin alongside the “Notice of
Meeting.” Clear and non-extravagant
presentation has always been stressed in
the AIM award.
Perhaps the most interesting section of
its balance sheet was its statement of
“Source and Use of Funds.”
Marcus Clark has published sales fig-
ures previously and a glance at its pre-
vious balance sheet in 1961 shows a
similar format. But the directors’ report
in 1962 was much more comprehensive,
including a clear breakdown of income
yet to mature in Marcus Clark Accept-
ance Ltd. A summary of plans for
1962-63 also was included.
The streamlining undertaken by
Marcus Clark in its cost reduction and
mechanisation programme involved the
appointment of a systems and procedures
specialist.
So it must be gratifying to the Board,
after a vigorous face-lift at Railway
Square, plus active expansion and im-
provement of its various other stores in
NSW and Adelaide (Miller Anderson),
to receive some public recognition of its
efforts.
Profit recovery from 14.6 p.c. to 20.5
p.c. is vital. But a balance sheet award
is a proud seal of achievement.
HPaa’s report is notable because it is
A ostensibly presented by statute to
the Minister for Civil Aviation. But that
requirement has not meant a neglect of
public relations, since it abounds in
statistical, graphical and pictorial illustra-
tion.
Mr Owens, speaking generally, drew
attention to the effective use of what he
called a highlights page. Here TAA
excelled itself, as may be seen by the
exceedingly well-chosen “Facts At A
Glance” (which is printed on page 49)
The formal profit and loss and
appropriation accounts appear before
the balance sheet. All receive par-
ticularly clear narrative explanations,
especially the movement in funds and
the statement of assets and liabilities.
Less sophisticated readers will also
appreciate the full descriptions of flying
operations, traffic and sales, and legis-
lative changes.


Australia s finest hotel ...
1
lii
■« »
t*-"*
-51
*?
'v*7*g*®
«C«Ls
> -X:" :
..J..
m
imm
«“<■ «** § BTO P y
AMoRgK
8888
>xw,
■X X
A
VV
S
V
m ;^ie
CHEVRON SYDNEY
MACLEAY STREET, POTTS POINT
Now being
OFFERED
Tenders closing 12 noon on 31st July, 1963, are
invited for the purchase of CHEVRON SYDNEY Hotel.
CHEVRON SYDNEY offers an opportunity for sound and profitable investment and growth potential in a hotel with
proven high occupancy and average daily room rate.
CHEVRON SYDNEY equals the standards of the finest
hotels in the world, and incorporates every modem
facility for quiet relaxation, efficient service and superb
entertainment.
CHEVRON SYDNEY has 232 spacious, tastefully
furnished bedrooms, suites and penthouses, each
with uninterrupted panoramas of Sydney’s beautiful
harbour.
Gracious ballrooms, banquet halls and dining rooms
provide the ultimate in accommodation for both
private and public functions.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT: Plans to bring the capacity
of the hotel to 600 bedrooms are available on
application.
Full information and illustrated brochure are available on application to the principal agents for the Receivers of
Chevron Sydney Limitea (Receiver Appointed).
B. O. SMITH & SON
27 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Telephone 25-52^1
Or direct to the Receiver’s interstate representatives: Messrs. F. Y. Rattray, Browne & Co., 24 Jeffcott Street,
Melbourne, Victoria (Telephone 30-2249) • Messrs. G. S. Hutton & Macfariane, 400 Queen Street, Brisbane,
Queensland (Telephone B 1533) • Messrs. Eric A. Gibson & Co., 33 Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia (Telephone
8 5088) • Messrs. Hendry, Rae & Court, 125 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia (Telephone 21-9031).


rr
JgpvW 7IM IT* °
2ft
5®
• • •
A happier choice for every occasion
Aneoves WINE
Fine wine adds pleasure to living . . . and you’ll
find no happier choice than Angove’s Wine of mature
perfection. Angove’s FINO DRY SHERRY, superbly
dry and appetising, is an excellent introduction to the
distinctive range of Angove’s TABLE WINES . . . each
the result of care and skill in wine making, combined
with the rich soil and sunshine of South Australia’s
glorious Murray Valley.
You will enjoy Angove’s Wine
APERITIF, TABLE AND DESSERT WINE OF HIGHEST
QUALITY: SHERRY, VERMOUTH, BURGUNDY, CLARET,
HOCK, RIESLING, SAUTERNES. PORT, MUSCAT,
and ST. AGNES BRANDY of course!
ANGOVE’S LTD., RENMARK, S.A.
WINE MAKERS & DISTILLERS
Ralph Symoriels’ Loss
JY educed sales and a fire in the glue
factory last November (it also des-
troyed the plastics division) gave Ralph
Symonds Ltd, plywood manufacturer,
factory designer and builder, a loss of
£4OOO for the six months to December.
Sales since December have shown no
improvement and the company also is
finding that some of its surplus real
estate is becoming too costly to main-
tain.
On the face of it, however, the profit
setback is not as gloomy as the market
appeared to think when it knocked the
ss. shares to 3s. 6d. If directors are
right in their forecast that the position
should improve progressively, prices be-
low 3s. 6d. could represent recovery
value.
York’s Wider Range
Motors (Holding) Ltd. is get-
ting plenty of strings to its bow and
is now NSW" distributor for the new 1
Japanese vehicles, the Toyota Tiara
saloon, station waggon and utility.
When BMC took over direct distribu-
tion of its vehicles in country areas of
Queensland, it was expected that York
Motors would suffer a sharp decline in
vehicle sales after it lost the franchise.
But York claims this loss was offset
when it gained the Mercedes-Benz fran-
chise in NSW, which commenced on
January 1, 1962.
In fact, York backed this up with
figures and claimed a 42 per cent in-
crease in group turnover for the year.
Of course, the general upsurge in motor
vehicle sales in 1962 would be largely
responsible.
The company is confident that the
automatic versions of the Wolseley and
Austin Freeway (BMC’s 6-cylinder ans-
wer to Holden and Ford) will be popular
in 1963. And, of course, the ever-popu-
lar Morris 850 and the Major Elite
should keep things rolling in NSW.
New models of Rolls Royce and Bent-
ley should not be dismissed lightly,
either. There were 21 new Rolls Royce
sedans registered in Australia last year
and the recent new model is said to be
getting a good reception.
It will be interesting to see how the
Toyota range goes. These Japanese de-
signed vehicles are being assembled in
Melbourne by Australian Motor Indus-
tries Ltd.
New models have been released by
Studebaker and Peugeot, so York Motors
has plenty of models available for selec-
tion. In Queensland, its subsidiary is
concentrating or Fiat motor vehicles,
Perkins engines and the Holden light
tractor.
No one believes the motor industry
will be anything but competitive this
year, but York Motors should have a
good year. The first four months of its
current financial year are better than the
corresponding four months of 1962.
The 2s. 6d. shares, at around 9s. 6d.,
provide a yield of around 6.5 p.c., which
compares favorably with other distribu-
tors.
Smoke Signals
Tust apportionment of Australia’s ciga-
** rette consumption among contending
marketers will again be a delicate prob-
lem this year. Philip Morris (Aust.),
which in February claimed a 7 p.c. share,
has just announced still expanding sales
for its leading brands.
The first nine months of the current
year also saw earnings more than 45 p.c.
above the full 1961-62 year.
Investors have been dragging share
prices back lately. At 365., on an in-
dicated 9 p.c. dividend, the 20s. shares
yield 5 p.c.
Balance Sheet Awards
MARCUS CLARK HIGHLIGHTS
CONSOLIDATED FIGURES (£'000)
1960 1961 1962
Sales £6748 £8326 £BOl9
Net profit before tax £254 £266 £349
Provision for tax £lOl £lO6 £l4l
Net profit after tax £152 £159 £2OB
Dividends paid to
stockholders £92 £99 £ll2
% of net profit to
average ord cap. 15.3% 14.6% 20.5%
% of net profit to
total funds 4.0% 4.1% 4.6%
Total funds £3830 £3850 £4558
Net tangible assets
value of:
£1 first pi ef. unit £ll/4/8 £ll/5/7 £l3/10/6
£1 sec. pref. unit £lO/6/2 £lO/7/1 £l2/12/3
10/- ord. stock
unit £2/5/8 £2/5/10 £2/5/11
Total tangible assets £6674 £7503 £9756
Current assets £3517 £4274 £5500
Current liabilities .... £1414 £1527 £2047
Working capital £2102 £2746 £3453
Current ratio 2.5 to 1 2.8 to 1 2.7 to 1
Market price of ord.
unit:
High 17/9 16/9 18/9
Low 10/9 11/9 12/6
No. of stockholders .. 3481 3444 3803
No. of employees .. 1723 1676 1735
TAA. FACTS AT A GLANCE
1960/61 1961/62
Passengers carried 1,106,191 1,147,360
Passenger-miles flown .... 548,069,261 551,677,857
Passenger load factor .... 63.9% 64.7%
Air cargo carried (lbs) .. 43,566,232 41,857,460
Mail carried (lbs) 5,577,860 6,681,319
Total revenue cargo
ton-miles flown 12,754,899 12,389,592
Capacity ton-miles
provided 104,559,391 100,881,296
Capacity ton-miles utilised 66,597,643 66,458,581
Flying hours (block to
block) 98,166 100,479
Revenue load factor 63.7% 65.9%
Total revenue £17,093,011 £17,184,344
Revenue return per
ton-mile carried 61.6 d. 62.1 d.
Total expenses £16,709,567 £16,721,011
Total expense per
revenue ton-mile 60.2 d. 60.4 d.
Net profit £383,444 £463,333
% net operating profit to
average capital (Treas-
ury advances) 5.6% 6.2%
Total payroll £6,062,292 £6,200,279
No. of employees at
30/6/62 4,848 4,665
Average annual salary
per employee (exclud-
ing Papuan and New
Guinea indigenous em-
ployees) £1,373 £1,403


W 9»
H&I
*■
FINANCIER
Registered First Mortgage
Debenture Stock
!
liilll
mam
:W,
ii!|ii
.
®¥ag:*sSSsi:
■■
%
PER ANNUM FOR 6 & 10 YEARS
ISSUE OF
£1,000,000
Trustee for Deben-
ture Stock Holders:
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
6% .... 2 YEARS
6*% .. 3 YEARS
7% ....4 YEARS
7i% .. 5 YEARS
APPLICATION AND PROSPECTUS
Applications will proceed only on one ot
the forms of application referred to in
and attached to a printed copy of the
Prospectus Prospectus may be obtained
from:
# All Branches ot the Bank ot New
South Wales in New South Wales.
Australian Capital Territory. Victoria
Queensland
• Any member ot a recognised Stock
Exchange, or
DEPOSIT & INVESTMENT
CO. LTD.
Head Office:
74 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
and Branches
Telephone BW 4521
Underwriting Brokers
RALPH W KING & YUILL
(Members ot the Sydney Stock Exchange)
20-22 O'Connell Street, Sydney
84 William Street, Melbourne
340 Queen Street, Brisbane
Brokers for Victoria:
CLARKE & CO.
450 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
(Members of the Stock Exchange of
Melbourne)
Brokers for Queensland!
CHARLES ELLIOTT & SON
356 Queen Street, Brisbane
(Members of the Brisbane Stock Exchange)
Brokers In Australian Capital Territory!
T. J. THOMPSON & SONS
C.B.C. Chambers, Petrie Street, City,
Canberra
(Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange)
Gordon & Gotch Handout
IPhe bonus of one-for-five from Gordon
& Gotch emphasises once again that
the wholesale stationer and bookseller
business is hard to repress.
It wasn’t so long ago in 1962 that
Gordon & Gotch shares were languish-
ing around 15s. Now, in response to
better profits and a bonus, the price is
up around 275.
Latest bonus is the second in nine
years and will lift ordinary capital by
£285,405. Meanwhile, ordinary divid-
end is raised to 20 p.c., the rate which
prevailed in 1958-59 and 1959-60 before
the sails were trimmed in the economic
storm to 161 p.c.
Directors must be confident of current
trading if they propose a higher dividend
and a bonus at the same time.
Gippsland’s Government
Cement has at last suc-
ceeded in its attempts to get a
Victorian Government representative to
sit on the board. He is Mr H. L. Simp-
son, who recently retired as chairman
of the Rural Finance and Settlement
Commission.
The harsh effect of freight costs, road
taxes and permit fees ate heavily into past
earnings, despite an excellent sales
record. Closer relations with the Govern-
ment, together with recently obtained
assistance as a decentralised industry,
may soon show benefits.
Dividend was omitted for the De-
cember half-year and the market has
kept the ss. shares at around 3s. 6d. Re-
covery will be soon on the cards.
MLC Supports the Govt.
A peep at the MLC’s investment policy
in recent years confirms the general
impression that life offices are pouring
extra millions into Government loans.
Figures for 1962 show that more than
half the increase in MLC’s funds went
into Government and semi-Government
securities. But, expressed as a percent-
age breakdown of total investments, only
33.38 p.c. of its assets are invested in
Government securities compared with
39.4 p.c. in 1957. The MLC in 1961
had only 31.08 p.c. of its assets in Gov-
ernment securities.
When the 30-20 legislation came into
force, there were some who were caught
short. Others already had maintained
a high proportion of their funds in Gov-
ernment securities, so there was no panic
to bridge the gap. AMP was one which
was not embarrassed.
The MLC evidently had an above-
average investment in Commonwealth
securities but the increase in assets in
1962 was heavily weighted in favor of
Government loans.
Percentage-wise, its rate of investment
was reduced in the various categories like
building loans, mortgages, company
notes, freeholds, etc. But significant
increases were recorded in Government
securities and shares. In fact, a total of
£l2m. went into Government securities
of all types.
Retail Reiicencc
11/lark Foy’s is yet another example of
a preliminary report which should
have contained a few more statements
of fact to support the bare and still
rather dismal figures for the year to
February 28. Shareholders will certainly
expect a comprehensive report. Until
they have that, the only general com-
ment directors allow them to meditate
on is: ‘'There was some falling away in
anticipated trade over the final quarter
of the year.”
In the 2i months since, has anything
happened to make directors happy
enough again to call on reserves to keep
intact the 12+ p.c. dividend paid since
1960? The veil remains drawn. Cer-
tainly the latest results show earnings up
by £42,158 to £60,996, to make earn-
ing rate 8.2 p.c. After preference re-
quirements, the ordinary dividend is thus
only two-thirds covered.
Quenched Flames
Fighting Equipment directors
have grasped an unpleasant nettle
bravely. Three months ahead of due
time, breaking tradition as they put it,
they let shareholders know the dim
prospects for a 1962-63 dividend.
Weather, wharf disruption and delayed
shipping, and cut profit margins have all
wrought havoc on a most lively com-
pany. When even Wormald found the
going tough in this field, a lot of the
disappointment must have been antici-
pated.
Shareholders got a few thrills last No-
vember, when takeover approaches sent
the ss. shares up around Bs. Prices have
slumped below par lately and presum-
ably will require confirmation of direc-
tors’ belief of a brighter 1963-64 before
they pick up.


AUSTRALIAN EQUITY
CORPORATION LTD
(Formerly MOTOR CREDITS LIMITED)
£250,000 issue Fully Subscribed
OVER SUBSCRIPTIONS
still being accepted
REGISTERED
FIRST MORTGAGE
DEBENTURE STOCK
8
%
P.A.
5-10 YEARS
REGISTERED
UNSECURED
NOTES
8
%
1 P.A.
2 5 YEARS
(Also shorter term currencies)
Applications will proceed only on the form referred to and enclosed in the
prospectus which can be obtained from:
£ Australian Equity Corporation Ltd,
365 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne. Telephone: 67 7701.
123 Ryrie Street, Geelong. 9 3597.
Branches at: Sydney, Perth, Adelaide, Brisbane,
g Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce Insurance Co. Ltd.
• Any Branch of the Bank of N.S.W. in Victoria and other States.
• Any Branch Australia and New Zealand Bank Limited in Victoria only.
A Members of any recognised stock exchange in Australia.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE: J. B. WERE & SON
3611
OIL SEARCH
No Solace from Sir Maurice
Shareholders in Interstate Oil Ltd
waited in vain for the recent annual
meeting in Melbourne to see whether
the chairman, Sir Maurice Mawby, would
indicate an early resumption of drilling
in the western district of Victoria by
Frome-Broken Hill in which Interstate
(like BP and Mobil) has a one-third
interest.
His remarks on the prospects for new
drilling later this year looked awfully
like suggesting that the company was
disillusioned by the results of drilling
based on previous seismic work in the
area. The drilling of six wells on sites
indicated by seismic survey produced
gas of varying pressures in three of the
holes. The other three were dry, includ-
ing two (Eumeralla No. 1 and Pretty
Hill No. 1) drilled last year north-west
of Port Fairy.
Sir Maurice now says that Frome pro-
poses to conduct further drilling in 1963
only provided encouraging prospects are
developed from the current seismic work.
It would seem that no suitable targets
have been thrown up from surveys con-
ducted so far this year.
The paucity of information given at
the meeting on the western Victoria
area for which such high hopes were
entertained in 1959 was in marked con-
trast to Sir Maurice’s run down of the
doings of the Associated Group, in which
Interstate holds a 15 p.c. interest. Indeed,
this could also be said of the recent
annual report.
It could be, therefore, that Interstate
favors its chances more in Queensland
with the Associated Group than in Vic-
toria with Frome, which so far has spent
£1,629,000 net on oil search there. How-
ever, it still seems possible that Frome
will follow up earlier suggestions that
offshore drilling along the Victoria coast
might pay off.
The company has completed a marine
seismic survey covering a 15-mile-wide
strip of water extending from Cape
Schank to the SA border. The informa-
tion, says Sir Maurice, is now being
processed in Louisiana (US) to assist
Frome geophysicists in their interpreta-
tion of the results. Nothing helpful is
expected to be heard from the US on
this for several months.
In contrast to Frome’s crawl, Sir
Maurice pointed to the Associated
Group’s “very active programme of seis-
mic work and drilling,” four additional
wells having been completed recently
and two more being in progress.
Interstate has so far put up £375,381
as its contribution to Associated’s activ-
ities. Its overall expenditure on oil search
is now about £1,550,000, leaving it with
£950,000 unspent funds as at December
31 last. This is enough to meet its
obligations “as they are presently known”
for at least a further two years.
Sir Maurice could not add anything
to the information known on Associa-
ted’s oil finds in Queensland. But he
summed up the position nicely by saying
that the group's drilling of Sunnybank
No. 1 and No. 2 “has proved the exis-
tence of a very thick section containing
high grade oil but lacking any reasonable
reservoirs.” (The Associated Group says
that the possibility of encountering clean-
er sands with better permeability cannot
be disregarded, and it is hoped that the
drilling of further wells in the vicinity
of Sunnybank might produce better re-
servoirs.)
He also drew attention to the latest
strike of gas in Bony Creek No. 2 well
where a flow rate of 3i million cubic
feet a day was obtained from a drill stem
test recently. This is twice the rate of
flow from the original drill stem test at
Bony Creek No. 1 which is now fully
equipped as a gas producer.
Electronic data
processing study
l|/fR R. M. Hadley, manager of the
electronics division of The National
Cash Register Co., has gone to America
to study electronic data processing in-
stallations and developments, particularly
“on-line” and “real-time” applications in
the banking and commercial fields.
In commercial electronic data process
“on-line” or “real-time” processing im-
plies the processing of a transaction at
the time it appears. T hus in a Savings
Bank, as a teller handles a customer’s
deposit or withdrawal at the window,
it is simultaneously posted to his ledger
record by a computer connected “on-
line.”
The branch at which the customer
makes the transaction may be miles
away from the central computer system.
Similar airline ticketing and reserva-
tions may be operated “on-line” from
branch airline offices or agencies
through enquiry - ticketing equipment
electronically connected to a centrally
located computer.


f
M'
For my money
if's a* • •
NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK
ACCOUNT
EARN
3%
INTEREST
UP TO £3OOO
Open a National Bank Savings
Bank account today . . . and
make every pay day a put away
day.
THE NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS BANK LTD.
A WHOLLY OWNED SUBSIDIARY OF
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
e634/«/?a
More Aclivity in Oils
HThere was a bit more interest in the
oil market last week following a
few encouraging gas shows. Option buy-
ers were a little more active and calls
were sought on a few of the low-priced
shares.
AOG also moved up smartly, not only
because its No. 16 well spudded in but
because the joint Mid-Eastern Amoseas
well at Bohena encountered oil and gas
traces in fractures of conglomerates at
around the 4300 ft level.
The Bohena well is near Narrabri
(NSW). It is described as a stratigraphic
well and is not being drilled on a known
structure.
Because it was encountered in a non-
porous and impermeable conglomerate,
the find was reported as “interesting but
not significant.”
It helped to create a talking point,
however, because the Bohena well is part
of the southern extension of the Surat
Basin, where Union-Kern is drilling
around Moonie.
SPECULATOR’S DIARY
Two Cases of Shorting
Mow that just about everyone from the
' newspapers to the brokers and the
general public have said their piece about
Amalgamated Chemicals, I’ve taken it as
my prerogative to close the discussion.
As in any issue, there were some for and
some against.
What is obviously of concern is the
principle of shareholders not being made
aware of the existence of agreements. In
fact, except for the astuteness and deter-
mination of one solitary shareholder at
the annual general meeting, these par-
ticular service agreements and the terms
of termination may never have become
known.
Service agreements in many cases are
quite just. A frank disclosure, without
pressure, by other companies in such a
position will do much to remove feelings
of distaste. It all comes back to the fact
that I should have shorted Amalgamated
Chemicals.
Shorting now in this strong market
may be foolhardy. But I have toyed with
the idea of shorting Ampol ever since the
3-for-8 deferred issue was announced in
February. The issue opens on June 1. As
an Australian, this action may seem
sacrilege.
Being practical it means another
31,250,000 shares around. Also as a de-
ferred share, it very much suits the com-
pany but not the share market.
What will be intriguing is the con-
flicting calculations that will come up for
the value of the rights and the shares ex
the rights. If one bases the calculation
on the old shares at 10s., then by the
normal method the rights have a value
of about Is. Converting back, one finds
the old shares worth only 95.! The loss
of Is. per share in the calculation has
been caused by the dividend difference.
Let’s hope enough people calculate it in
this manner. I shorted 800 at 9s. lOd.
I am not the only one who regards
some shares as “good” selling as opposed
to “good” buying. One of my more recent
purchases, LNC, got a write down in a
company survey last week by a once
prominent investment force.
A great advocate of “growth”, they
were quick to point out the dramatic loss
in earning power in the past three years.
Yet, no mention was made of the very
strong recovery in profits in the current
year confirmed by LNC in a report
issued in the last month. Judging this
company on a price/earnings ratio based
on last year’s depressed profit is a little
unfair. The benefits of the capital re-
construction in October, 1963, were also
skipped over.
Once again the only logical conclusion
is that the past record has forced the
share price to such a low level. Surely,
then, with the bright future, this is the
time to buy. I augmented my present
holding by another 1000 at 3s. 6d.
My only sale for the week was the
400 Waugh and Josephson at 13s. 9d. It
represented a profit of £44 for two weeks
holding.
The week ends on a happy note. In
particular, it is gratifying to see these
consistent call options for both William
Adams and Hanimex in the daily papers.
Transactions for this week were:
SOLD
800 Ampol 9/10 £385
400 Waugh & Josephson 13/9 £270
BOUGHT
1000 LNC ctg. 3/6 £lB4
Helped by that shorting, my account
has a credit of £3BB.
My portfolio now is:
M t Kl , Cost Cur-
No. of Name of Date Per rent
Shares Company Bought Share Price
1500 Hanimex 23/5/62 6/9 9/2
1000 Courtaulds 0p.(14/-) 14/1/63 2/1
400 Fairymead 21/1/63 41/- 51/
600 David Jones notes 21/1/63 17/3 19/6
3000 Hooker 64 options 23/1/63 ]/- lid
2000 Alliance 1/2/63 1/1 Bd'
1000 Petroleum Inv. 1/2/63 5/4 4/6
200 Philip Morris 14/2/63 34/6 36/-
400 Bennett & Wood 20/2/63 14/3 16/-
600 A. V. Jennings 28/2/63 9/10 9/9
1000 Woodside ctg. 14/3/63 4/8 2/11
2000 Gen. Ind. op.(8/9) 20/3/63 lid.
1000 Aust. Factors, Vic. 27/3/63 8/6 9/3
500 Amagraze 8/4/63 7/6 8/-
1000 AN I 18/4/63 4/1 4/3
2000 Felt rts. 24/4/63 3/3 3/2
3000 LNC ctg. 1/5/63 3/2 3/6
200 P. Adams 9/5/63 42/3 45/-
1000 Functional 7/5/63 8/3 9/3
800 Ampol (short) 15/5/63 9/10 9/9
Letter to the Editor
WOOL v. SYNTHETICS
Sir,
Re your article (Man on the Land
page, 11/5/63) headed “Critical Era for
Wool'’, this is an able exposition of the
position and I congratulate you cn it.
It has been evident for a long time that
we are up against it in the disposal of
our clip at profitable prices. Costs are
more likely to rise in Australia than to
fall, while synthetics seem sure to force
down prices of all fibres. Not only are
synthetics getting cheaper but better.
This was only to be expected.
How will all this affect the Australian
economy? I have my own ideas, but
would like to hear yours. Another article
dealing with this would, I am sure, be
appreciated by many people.
RAWDON C. HOPKINS
Carcoar {NSW).


SECURITY ANALYSIS
Minster’s Remarkable Record
Oince the end of 1960, the ordinary
los. shares in Minster Ltd have been
as high as 80s. 6d. and as low as 565. 6d.,
but the low figure occurred in the early
months of 1961 and the shares quickly
rose.
Looking at the first four months of
this year, it is rather interesting to see
that although there was a fairly marked
advance during January (from 70s. 6a. to
765.) the market has tended to drift
downwards until the current low of 695.
has been reached.
At this price the dividend yield is still
only 2.9 p.c. but the dividend of 2s. per
10s. share is covered more than twice.
In other words, the earnings yield is just
under 5.9 p.c.
It could well be that investors are won-
dering whether the shares have not been
over-valued in the past, so some exam-
ination seems desirable.
There can be little doubt that since
listing, Minster has been the classical
example of a growth stock. The in-
creases in dividends and earnings do not
require any theoretical adjustments as the
only issues made to shareholders have
been bonus issues.
The three-for-four issue in August,
1956, and the one-for-two-issue in March,
1960, have resulted in an original holding
of 1,000 shares increasing to 2,625
shares, while the dividend income from
this holding would have increased from
£75 per annum to £262/10/0 or by 250
p.c. In terms of the market value of the
shares the increase would have been
725 p.c.
During this period, earnings have kept
pace with the dividend increases. Al-
though there was naturally a drop in the
1960-61 year, the figure for that year
was still well in excess of the 1958-59
year and the 1961-62 year showed an
increase of 8 p.c. on 1960-61.
/TYrdinary shareholders’ equity in the
company (even after eliminating the
asset revaluation, in 1960) has increased
by over 300 p.c. since listing.
All these factors indicate a true growth
stock. This is all the more remarkable
when it is considered that the company’s
main product is carpet. Other companies
operating in this field have an indifferent
record over the same period and textile
companies generally are not regarded
as having growth potential.
On formation in December, 1952,
Minster acquired Westminster Carpets
Pty Ltd, which was formed in Novem-
ber, 1946, and Whitehead Chemical Com-
pany (Aust.) Pty Ltd, which was formed
in December, 1948. The latter company
commenced production of rubber dis-
persions in March, 1950, mainly to supply
Westminster Carpets but also other
sources. This company has become a
specialist in the application of corrosion
and abrasion resistant rubber products
in the mining, chemical and general en-
gineering industries.
In February, 1954, The Rayon (A’sia)
Processing Co. Pty Ltd (now merged
with the subsidiary, Whitehead Distribu-
tors Pty Ltd) became a subsidiary when
sufficient additional shares were acquired
to give Minster a 55 p.c. holding.
Two years later, Sydney Cotton Mills
Ltd was acquired and the assets with the
exception of the freehold were sold to
Davies Coop. As a result of this trans-
action, Minster acquired 150,000 Davies
Coop shares, but it seems that these were
sold during the 1957-58 year, almost
certainly above their acquisition cost of
10s. per share.
Although the company’s policy over
the years cannot be stated firmly because
the published reports to shareholders
have always been very brief, it would
seem that each new venture has been
developed carefully from an existing
operation.
T>ubber dispersions were originally for
** use on the Westminster carpets and
they have been developed for other uses.
In 1959 Gamma Sterilization Pty Ltd was
formed to sterilize the goat hair used in
the carpets, and this activity has also
been extended. E. R. Lovell Pty Ltd, a
manufacturer of surgical sutures, was
acquired in 1960-61, presumably with
the view to extending the operations of
the sterilising company.
Another venture which is now only in
the initial production stage and which
is not yet profitable is The Rubber
Regenerating Co. Pty Ltd. This com-
pany has recently become a subsidiary
of Westminster Carpet Pty Ltd, but
Clyde Industries Ltd and The Rubber
Regenerating Co. Ltd of England are also
shareholders. This appears to be a sub-
stantial operation as the ordinary capital
of the company would seem to be in
excess of £1 million.
The latest development is in associa-
tion with Thomas Witter and Co. Ltd, of
England, to produce a felt-based lino-
leum substitute. Minster has a 49 p.c.
interest (to Thomas Witter’s 51 p.c.) in
Balatum (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
It remains only to try to make some
assessment of likely trends in the future.
In doing this, it is necessary to make
some arbitrary guesses at the capital
which has been employed in the manu-
facturing operations over the last six
years, as it is apparent from the large
item of “Cash on hand, at bank and on
short term deposit,” that from 1958 until
1960 the company held funds in excess
of its needs for its manufacturing and
distributing operations.
ITV) arrive at the figures below showing
A the percentage of operating income to
total capital we have eliminated “Income
from Investments” from operating in-
come, and “Cash, etc.” and “Invest-
ments” from total capital.
Year to
June 30 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
37.8 50.6 75.6 84.1 57.1 53.0
As the figures are so high in absolute
terms, and bearing in mind the boom
years of 1959 and 1960 with the reces-
sion years of 1961 and 1962, not too
much notice need be taken of the decline
in the last two years. Nevertheless, it is
difficult to believe that the remarkable
growth rates of the last nine years can
be repeated in the next decade.
However, the company has quite sub-
stantial investments that have yet to con-
tribute to earnings. Further, the com-
pany has fairly clearly indicated its de-
sire to pass on profits to shareholders.
Dividend cover is high and the company
could raise its dividend payout by suffi-
cient to show an effective return of
around 8 p.c. even if earnings only in-
crease at the rate of 3 p.c. per annum
from now on.
Generally the past record has been
so good that, despite the low immediate
yield, an investment at current prices
should pay off handsomely in the long
term.
SUMMARIES OF BALANCE SHEETS AND PROFIT
STATEMENTS (£'000)
Year to June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 710 1224 1750 1893 1747
Current liabilities 432 756 808 1349 1117
Working capital 278 468 942 544 630
Fixed assets 1157 1291 1301 1849 1987
Investments — — — 150 260
Total capital 1435 1759 2243 2543 2377
Represented by:
Ordinary capital 1079 1079 1619 1640 1640
Reserves 356 680 624 903 1237
Investment income 10 6 3 7
Operating income 609 966 1377 1186 1316
Earnings 346 538 718 614 663
Dividends 162 216 270 328 328
Surplus 184 322 448 286 335
Adjusted earnings
% (a) 21.4 33.2 44.4 37.4 40.4
Adjusted dividend
% (a) 10.0 13.3 16.7 20.0 20.0
Dividend yield % (b) 5.0 3.0 3.0 3.3 2.7
Price/earnings
ratio (b) 9.4 13.1 14.9 15.9 18.0
(a) for bonus issues.
(b) based on last sale in month accounts presented.


BEHIND THE BALANCE SHEETS
The Expansion of
“Woolies”
Tt is interesting to note in the directors’
report accompanying the 1962-63
accounts of Woolworths Ltd that the
variety stores —referred to as the back-
bone of the company achieved im-
proved results. Grafting of food and
clothing to the traditional business has
thus added to variety sales.
Directors said the company’s own
brands, such as “St Mark”, had been a
significant factor in the increase in public
support. The group even has its own
meat processing plants in NSW and
Queensland.
“Benefits from our earlier expansion
policy are now being reflected in the in-
crease in the earning rate,” said directors.
All subsidiaries and all divisions improv-
ed their profits, and sales and profit since
balance date continue this trend.
Besides carrying some clothing in its
variety stores, Woolworths has specialist
fashion stores, the Chic Salon and Rock-
mans chains, plus seven Ashleys stores
acquired during 1962 from Buckinghams
Ltd.
The Rockmans chain now totals 104
stores, and is expected to provide an in-
creasing and satisfactory contribution to
group profits after modernisation and
adaptation.
The Woolworths empire now numbers
more than 770 stores, including 73 units
added in 1962-63. At least 52 more will
be opened this year, and a number of
existing stores will be enlarged.
The Chic Salon was taken over on
l, 1962, and therefore con-
tributed to group profit for the whole of
the year under review.
Future development will be concerned
with the opening of a greater number
of supermarkets with parking. In this,
Woolworths will be competing with the
regional stores of the emporiums, Myers
and David Jones.
The company’s main warehouse at
Silverwater (NSW),"covering 770,000 sq.
ft., is now complete. Electronic data pro-
cessing is assisting in stock control.
The chairman pointed out in his recent
address to shareholders that whereas in
January 1961 stock was about £3 million
higher than average, stock since then had
increased only 3 p.c. while group turn-
over had risen 50 p.c.
Net profit for the year to January 31
rose 23 p.c. from £1,917,971 to
£2,365,834, after deducting £105,000
for outside shareholders, £897,856 (1962
£623,299) for depreciation and amorti-
sation, and providing £1,462,559
(£1,014,748) for tax.
Provision for development received
£75,000 from trading profits and
£136,382 profits from the sale of capital
assets.
Development expenditure for the
year was £217,540, leaving a balance of
£1,607,063, which is included in de-
ferred liabilities and provisions in the
table below.
Share premium reserve was augmented
by £1,342,583 to £5,927,860 during the
year through various takeovers and an
issue at a premium to staff.
The principle of leasing back properties
which have been sold to institutions and
individuals is being followed. This frees
tremendous amounts of capital which
have been tied up in freeholds, but despite
this action the value of freehold and
leasehold properties rose by £4 million
over the year.
This policy looks prudent in view also
of the increases in rates and land taxes
over recent years.
Although earnings cover on dividends
has often been thin, the 12 p.c. dividend
rate now looks safe for the immediate
future.
Shareholders participated in a one-for-
five par issue in January last, a one-for-
five convertible notes issue in 1960-61,
and three par issues back to 1954. Cash
issues may not be so frequent in future,
but earnings related to capital should now
improve and hasten the day for a bonus.
Although the growth as an investment
has flattened out since the entry to food
in 1958, the period of heavy capital ex-
penditure seems to be more or less over,
and shareholders can look forward to
gradual appreciation in their holdings.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARY (£'000)
January 31 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current asset? 7909 9375 15803 16238 17203
Less current
liabilities 6586 5738 11736 13322 13659
Working capital 1323 3637 4067 2916 3544
Investments 1751 1825 1793 1796 2049
Fixed assets 16558 17439 28230 35278 42429
Intangibles 667 667 — — —
20299 23568 34090 39990 48022
Deferred liabilities
and provisions 1035 1028 1604 1613 2255
Loan capital 1735 4734 12301 13437 14548
Minority
interests 1747 1747 1750 1750 1750
Capital in
advance — — — — 3264
Pref. capital 275 275 275 275 275
Ord. capital 9609 9703 11405 13452 14692
Reserves 5898 6031 6755 9463 11238
20299 23568 34090 39990 48022
Depreciation and
amortisation 478 554 583 623 898
Taxation 753 899 1044 1015 1463
Net profit 1159 1432 1811 1918 2366
Net profit for
ordinaries 1137 1410 1789 1896 2344
Dividend 1146 1153 1287 1541 1760
Surplus -9 257 502 355 584
Earning rate 12.0 14.7 16.4 14 8 16.1
Dividend rate 12 12 12 12 12
Dividend
yield (a) 3.2 3.5 4.6 4.0 —
Price/earnings
ratio (a) 14.5 21.7 16.7 22 2 —
High Price (b) 20/1 i 21/3 19/- 16N01 17/10 1 .
Low price (b) 17/6 16/44 13/6 13/7 13/3
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
(b) Previous calendar year.
RVB ENGINEERING PROD. LTD
Shareholders Well Treated
Shareholders of Victorian-based RVB
Engineering Products Ltd have had
no cause to complain of lack of benefits
in the company’s 12 years of public
status.
Since flotation in 1951 the company
has made two cash issues (one at a
premium) and four bonus issues, the
last one recently announced.
The original business was begun in
1935 by Mr R. V. Butler to manufacture
all types of horns for motor vehicles,
garage equipment and warning signals
for industrial equipment.
The company made an issue of
120,000 ss. shares at 9s. plus charges
in February, 1951, to qualify for Stock
Exchange listing. Paid-up capital was
£70,000 in 240,000 ordinary shares and
10,000 20s. 8 p.c. preference shares.
Cash issues were made in 1952 (one
for eight at 4s. premium) and 1955 (one
for four at par). Bonus issues were in
1953 (one for 10), 1955 (15 for 100),
and 1957 (three for 10). The latest issue
is on a one-for-four basis.
This will lift paid-up ordinary capital


A. L. NEVITT, DRAPER & CO.
A. L. NEVIT1, A C DRAPER,
N. W. C. DRAPER, R. F FORM IE
G. H. STEPHENS
(Members ol Brisbane Stock Exchange)
STOCK AND SHAKE BROKERS
Ground Floor,
The National Mutual Fife Building
297 Queen Street. Brisbane.
Telegraphic Address: “NEVITTCO"
Phone: 31-2761 P.O BOX
(4 linesl No 1887W
TOWNSVILLE BRANCH,
2 Denham Street. Phone: 6(189.
ORD, MINNETT & PARTNERS
C. A. Ord, J. A. M. Minnett, M. A. Gleeson-
White, lan McFarlane, G. T. Kryger
Members of the Sydney Stock Exchange
L. L. de Groen, S. R. Ravenscroft,
R. V. Betts
Non-Member Partners
13-15 O’CONNELL ST., SYDNEY
Tel. 25 5711, 25 6011. Telex 5243
Branches at:
150 Queen St., Melbourne
359-369 Queen St., Brisbane
Cables & Telegrams:
‘Orderley’ Sydney. Melbourne & Brisbane
from £143,000 to £178,750. Preference
capital is still £lO,OOO.
The latest bonus is made from a re-
serve created by a recent revaluation of
assets which had appeared in the books
at 1956 valuation with additions at cost.
Directors expect to have no difficulty
in maintaining the current 20 p.c. divi-
dend rate on the higher capital. This is
the equivalent of 25 p.c. on current capi-
tal. For the past six years the payout
was 15 p.c. but interim for the current
year is 10 p.c.
However this payout has been
adequately covered for the past four
years. Profit in 1961-62 was £47,984,
equal to 32.8 p.c. on capital, despite a
decline from the record £56,268 earned
in 1959-60.
However, the current year could see
this record broken. Sales in the half-year
to December were 68 p.c. above those of
the previous corresponding period, due
partly to the recovery in the automotive
business, and the improvement is expected
to continue into the current year. Result
for the year will also benefit from a
substantial increase in exports to New
Zealand and South Africa. Considerable
business is also being conducted with
Asian countries.
The 1961-62 accounts showed the
company to be in a highly liquid state
Stocks at £70,286 were £18,133 lower
than at the same time a year earlier,
while trade debtors at £64,662 were up
£17,648. Cash on hand and deposit at
£88,594 is almost sufficient to meet all
current liabilities of £90,625.
The reserves position is particularly
strong. Reserves and surplus profits total
£233,525, giving a substantial backing to
the ordinary capital. Capital reserves
make up only £2,559 of this figure. Sub-
ject to intangibles of £25,000 (including
goodwill of £20,000) net assets backing
of each 5s. ordinary share is 12s. 3d.
Even after the bonus assets backing at
9s. lOd. is still almost twice par.
The shares are currently selling around
28s. to show a yield of 4.5 p.c. on the
indicated after-bonus dividend rate and
an earnings yield of 4.7 p.c. on the same
basis. Although the current price is the
best for more than five years the shares
still appear worth locking away.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
June 30 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962
Current assets 151 167 208 205 230
Less current
liabilities 69 72 100 84 91
Working capital 82 95 108 121 139
Fixed as-sets 165 175 197 215 222
Intangibles 25 25 25 25 25
272 295 330 361 386
Represented by:
Pref. capital 10 10 10 10 10
Ord. capital 143 143 143 143 143
Capital reserves 2 2 2 2 2
Other reserves 117 140 175 206 231
272 295 330 361 386
Depreciation 8 10 9 10 13
Taxation 21 27 42 34 35
Net profit 31 43 56 51 48
Dividends 22 22 22 22 22
Surplus 9 21 34 29 26
Earning rate p.c. 20.9 29.4 38.8 35.0 32.8
Dividend p.c. 15 15 15 15 15
Dividend yield (a) 6.5 5.6 3.4 5.0 3.6
High price (b) 12/- 15/6 23/3 20/1 23/6
Low price (b) 9/9 10/- 15/— 14/6 13/-
(a) End of September, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
YATES SEEDS LTD
Handsome Profit Record
\/ ates Seeds Ltd has been able to
* maintain a handsome profit record
since flotation in 1951, culminating last
vear in a bonus issue
Although its listing history is com-
paratively brief, it traces back to 1887.
Spread of capital necessary for Stock
Exchange listing was satisfied by an
issue of 35,000 20s. shares at 225. fid.
Paid-up capital remained at £258,015
until last year’s bonus.
The company operates from ware-
houses in New South Wales, Queensland
and Victoria, principally in the growing,
packaging and marketing of seeds,
both wholesale and retail. In 1958 the
company began marketing a range of
garden chemicals.
Up till recently, earnings were often
affected losses ar,slng from i he
perishable nature of garden seeds, But
these losses have been eliminated by
new techniques of special dry storage
wh.ch greatly increase the life of seeds
The effect is seen in results for the past
two years.
Profit for 1961-62 was a record
<£67,608, equal to 26.2 p.c. on capital
and giving a substantial cover to the 12*
p.c. dividend rate. Last year it fell
slightly to £61,154 due principally to
higher expenses associated with moving
operations in both Sydney and Mel-
bourne.
Nevertheless, earning rate was still an
attractive 19.7 p.c., enabling payment of
the 121 p.c. dividend for the third
successive year.
These figures were on capital in-
creased to £309,618 by a one-for-five
bonus which came from a revaluation
of shares in a subsidiary.
Although the current year’s results
will depend finally on the uncertainties
of the weather, the outlook is good and
the result may be somewhere about the
figure reached in the past two years.
The latest accounts show that the
company could need some infusion of
funds in the near future.
Stocks showed a substantial rise from


£267,781 to £345,374, but this was
due to “some exceptional circumstances”
and they will be reduced during the
current year.
Most of the increase was financed by
bank accommodation which at February
28 stood at £216,638 — £151,970
more than a year earlier. But this will
be largely corrected when the company
receives £70,000 still owing on the sale
of a property.
Reflecting the move to new premises,
fixed assets are up from £375,212 to
£434,374.
Reserves give a strong backing to the
paid-up capital. At balance date revenue
reserves and surplus profit totalled
£246,275. Share premium reserve (the
only capital reserve) stood at £4375.
As the company has eliminated intangible
items from its books, net assets back-
ing of each 20s. share is 36s. 2d.
Last sale of the 20s. shares was at
56s. to show a dividend yield of 4.5 p.c.
and an earnings yield of 7 p.c. At this
figure they appear to be fully priced.
But if the price falls much below 50s.
the shares could be considered a good
lock-away proposition.
ACCOUNTS SUMMARIES (£'000)
February 28 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963
Current asset: 410 412 385 492 540
Less current
liabilities 236 217 219 331 47|
Working capital 174 195 166 161 69
Fixed assets 257 250 295 375 434
Investments 1 1 I 1 70
432 446 462 537 573
Represented by:
Capital 258 258 253 258 310
Capital reserves 4 4 4 56 4
Other reserves 170 184 200 223 246
Loan fund? — — — ]3
432 446 462 537 573
Depreciation 18 16 14 19 22
Taxation 18 20 30 45 41
Profit 38 39 49 68 61
Dividends 26 26 32 32 39
Surplus 12 13 17 36 22
Earning rate p.c. 14.6 15.2 18.9 26.2 19.7
Dividend rate p.c. 10 10 12J 12J
Dividend yield (a) 5.7 5.2 7.3 4 4 4 5
H : gh price (b) 40/- 39/9 40/6 57/- 56/-
Low price (b) 34/- 32/- 32/- 41/- 51/-
(a) End of April, month accounts presented.
(b) Calendar year.
New Export G.-M.
lyfß M. G.. Barker has been appointed
general manager of the Export Di-
vision of the Peters (Vic.) group of
companies.
Mr Barker was leader of a recent
Australian trade delegation to West
Africa, and has made several overseas
business visits. He was formerly general
manager of International Canners Pty
Ltd.
ONE TO BUY
Potent Years for Mount Isa
Tt has almost become commonplace
that Mount Isa Mines Ltd exerts a
particular attraction on top investors,
who are unworried about high share costs
and clearly convinced of the company’s
capacity for growth and continuous capi-
tal benefits.
There are cogent reasons why the
stock should also find a place in smaller
portfolios.
That case may seem hard to establish
when the ss. shares sell at 1963 peak
levels arouncL7os. to yield an apparently
beggarly 1.9 p.c. Even at this price,
though, both pure investment prospects
and conditions in the world metal
markets combine to press Mount Isa’s
claims.
To concentrate for a moment upon the
small man, The Bulletin can begin by
drawing certain conclusions from the
letters submitted to its advisory service.
Many of these show, especially among
investors who began their operations in
1959 and 1960, an undue and unsafe
preponderance of what must be called
lighter stocks the readily available and
popular issues of boom years.
Not all have been able quickly to
fulfil early promises. Portfolios which
such stocks have too heavily entered
need stiffening by conventional leader
types, which furnish assured returns and
bring further rewards derived from their
special place in the Australian economy.
And these leader types must be brought
into smallish portfolios before the im-
proving economy and perceptibly rising
sharemarkets interact to push prices
beyond the average pocket.
There is a special situation put for the
careful small investor. But his bigger and
more affluent brother as well will now be
realising that Mount Isa constitutes one
of the finest long-term investments avail-
able. Its appeal, therefore, is general and
watchful eyes are fastening upon prices.
A moderate advance has recently
started and may be expected to continue.
For a combination of features is surely
uniting to make 1962-63 a very good year
for earnings at least.
The previous financial year had seen
profits dragged back by a disastrous
eight-weeks’ strike and far from healthy
international prices for lead and zinc.
Output throughout the whole of the
current year has kept moving strongly.
Copper prices have remained stable,
silver has repeatedly touched records,
while lead and zinc make modest and
well-held advances.
As far as the two lattef metals are con-
cerned, not even the maximum production
programme of the Barrier mines is ex-
pected to disturb the world supply-de-
mand balance. Mount Isa, of course, pos-
sesses the peculiar good fortune that its
copper and lead-silver-zinc ore bodies
do not occur mixed with each other.
Flexible working of the various metals
thus permits every advantage to be taken
of prevailing price conditions. The last
few months’ output figures suggest that
this year's profit will be considerably in-
fluenced by better lead-zinc-silver op-
portunities.
Indeed, there could be no drastically
adverse changes in the world metal mar-
ket for some little time. So the chairman
(Mr G. R. Fisher) should have no imme-
diate necessity again to refer to “the con-
tinued decline of lead and zinc prices,
which has been a noteworthy feature in
recent years.”
All this, naturally, must lift net profits
considerably above 1961-62’s £3,395,000
and perhaps return them above 1960-6 l’s
£5,914,000. Earning rates for 1960 and
1961 were 62.7 and 64.8 p.c. respectively,
but the fall to 37.8 p.c. last year did not
imperil the 25 p.c. dividend paid since
1959.
There is scarcely space here to touch
upon Mount Isa’s vast expansion designs,
which, beginning in 1956, will lead to a
daily ore output of 14,400 tons by 1965.
Smelter and refinery extension, power, an
ore mill and a new shaft are all embraced
in the plans.
From the investment point of view,
what has drawn most attention is a
settled policy of financing this progress
from retained earnings.
More than £3O million has gone into
the programme already, yet reserves and
surplus profits at June 30 last still stood
at a sizeable £32 million.
Investors are growing hungry for the
inevitable bonus issue, or, optimistically,
bonus issues. A previous bonus, at one-
for-three, took place in May, 1960.
Another move to elevate paid capital
and thereby lessen criticism directed at
the remarkable disclosed earning may
certainly be attempted fairly soon. The
years 1964 to 1967 appear potent with
benefits for shareholders.
The mine's reserves give not the slight-
est reason for concern. Mr Fisher speaks
of a life of at least 50 years at increased
rates of production. Tax and depreciation
provisions provide evidence of conserva-
tive attitudes.
Investors can expect share prices soon
to climb towards last year’s top 765. 6d.
They won’t have the luxury of delaying
their decisions too long.


Position Vacant
ASSISTANT MASTER to teach Mathematics
to Higher School Certificate level, required
for September, 1963. Accommodation for
single or married man available.
Applicants write to HEADMASTER, CAN-
BERRA GRAMMAR SCHOOL, CANBERRA,
stating qualifications, experience and giving
names and addresses of two referees.
PROPERTY FOR SALE
STRATHFIELD-HOMEBUSH. Magnificent
two storey texture brick, ten years old, suit-
able two units, comprising 6 bedrooms, recep-
tion rooms, 2 bathrooms, shower recess, 3
toilets. Perfect condition. Ample storage.
Land 50’ 10” x 107’ 6”.
85’ 4” x 177’ 7”.
Elevated, cor. position. V.G. £17,500.
Price £18,500 includes exclusive appointments.
T. M. O’BRIEN
Agt. Flem. UM 6882
INSTRUCTORS
The Outward Bound School is engaging
additional Patrol Instructors for their forth-
coming Courses.
Education qualifications must be of a stand-
ard to lead discussion groups and background
experience for guiding youth.
Applicants must have preference and
experience in some outdoor activities such as
bush-walking, canoeing, rock-climbing, or
sailing, with zeal for youth leadership, and be
in the age bracket 21-35 years.
The positions are residential at our Hawkes-
bury River School.
Apply in writing with fullest details
OUTWARD BOUND SCHOOL
Fisherman’s Point,
Via Brooklyn., NSW
Legal Notices
“MATRIMONIAL CAUSES ACT, 1959”
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF QUEENSLAND
Mat. Pet. No. 196 of 1963
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION
BETWEEN: VIOLET CONGDON, Petitioner;
AND: FREDERICK EDWARD CONGDON,
Respondent.
TO: FREDERICK EDWARD CONGDON whose
present whereabouts are unknown. TAKE
NOTICE that VIOLET CONGDON of 221
Sandgate Road, Albion, Brisbane, in the State
of Queensland, has commenced in this Court
an action against you for dissolution of
marriage by Matrimonial Petition No. 196 of
1963, on the ground of desertion. If you wish
to defend this action, you must file an answer
in the Registry of the Supreme Court of
Queensland at Brisbane within thirty days
from the date of publication hereof. You may
obtain, without charge, a copy of the Petition
and Notice of Petition from MESSRS. FRASER
THOMPSON & CO., of 259 Queen Street, Bris-
bane, in the State of Queensland, Solicitors
for the Petitioner. (L.S.) E. P. LARACY,
Second Deputy Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: MICHAEL JAMES MOLONEY, formerly
of 64 Moore Street, Liverpool, New South
Wales. TAKE NOTICE that BETTY JOYCE
MOLONEY has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 4189 of 1962 on the ground of desertion.
If you wish to defend you may file an answer
in the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street,- Sydney, on or
before 12th July, 1963. You may obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
mcintosh, Adrian & fellows, solicitors,
of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
IN DIVORCE
TO: WILLIAM HENRY ROLL AN, formerly of
12 Marinea Street, Arncliffe, New South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that SHIRLEY PATRICIA
ROLLAN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
1080 of 1963 on the ground of desertion. If
you wish to defend you may file an answer in
the Divorce Registry, Supreme Court, Mint
Building, Macquarie Street, Sydney, on or
before 24th June, 1963. You may obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
McINTOSH, ADRIAN & FELLOWS, Solicitors,
of 27 Hunter Street, Sydney. C. A. H.
HARMS, Registrar.
TO: ALBERT HENRY CARL YON, formerly of
503 High Street, East Kew, but whose present
address is not known. TAKE NOTICE that
your wife BERYL MAVIS CARLYON has
instituted proceedings against you in the
Supreme Court of Victoria in suit No. 1490
of 1961 for a dissolution of her marriage to
you on the ground of desertion and separa-
tion and also seeking orders with respect to
custody maintenance for the children of the
marriage and costs. AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that unless you file an Answer in
the office of the Registrar, Supreme Court,
Melbourne, on or before the 25th day of June,
1963, the case may proceed in your absence.
J. COLIN STEDMAN & CAMERON, 339 Collins
Street, Melbourne. Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Zest Lacking in Spending
Tt was pretty clear from the failure of
A retail sales (excluding motors and
petrol) to rise by more than one p.c. in
December that spending Australia-wide
had lost most of the impetus noticeable
from the series of seven out of eight sub-
stantial monthly rises following the Gov-
ernment’s spending stimulants announced
in February last year.
Sales lifts of 4.5 and 3.6 p.c. in Janu-
ary and February this year could have
been deceptive. For, like December’s, the
comparisons were with months prior to
the stimulants. Now the impression that
retail sales are flagging is supported by
the March figures, which show an in-
crease of only 1 h p.c. over March, 1962.
(In some parts of the Commonwealth
there could well have been a decline
because in Victoria alone there was an
increase of 3.6 p.c. according to the
Retail Traders’ Association there.)
This increase is less than might have
been expected to follow from population
increases, without counting in anything
from rises in income per head flowing
from more bouyant economic activity.
On the other hand, even discounting
the high proportion of motor vehicles
bought by businesses as distinct from
private owners, the record number (for
that month) of motor vehicles registered
in March suggests that high spending in
that direction and on petrol could have
been to the detriment of spending on
other retail items.
At any rate, so far as can be gauged
by the latest instalment credit figures,
details of which relate to February, pur-
chases of motor vehicles are largely re-
sponsible for the lift in new hire-purchase
financing by non-retail finance businesses.
There were £lB.O million in February
last year and £22.1 million in the same
month this year.
Between these two months new H.P.
business in motor vehicles rose from
£13.6 million to £17.1 million. In new
plant machinery the figure rose from
£1.5 to £2.0 million, and in household
and personal goods only from £2.9 to
£3.0 million.
Admittedly these figures do not include
instalment credit given by retail busi-
nesses, for which statistics take
matters up only to December last.
However, it would be surprising
in the light of the small li p.c. rise in
retail sales for Australia in March if
retail businesses have continued to in-
crease their instalment credit outstandings
at the rate achieved during the last nine
months of 1962 when they rose from
£207.5 to £215.8 million.
(This compares with a rise from £371.3
to £401.8 million in outstandings of non-
retail finance companies, which carry
practically all the H.P. on motor cars.)
Incidentally it is interesting that,
against a long upward secular trend, the
proportion of instalment credit outstand-
ings carried by retail businesses started
to fall after June 31 last when it reached
a peak of 36.5 p.c. of total instalment
credit. While this is largely attributable
to the more rapid increase in the financ-
ing of motor vehicles, it also reflects a
sluggishness of sales outside this field.
But whether you look at the figures for
retail sales, or for instalment credit in
its various guises and stables, there is
no gainsaying the fact that after showing
such promise last year spending has be-
come sluggish. This throws wide open
the question of why the impetus to spend-
ing given by Government stimulants last
year failed to be supplemented in a more
vigorous fashion by retail buying on in-
stalment credit.
Further, what scope is there now for
bringing instalment credit more to the
fore as a booster to retail sales at a time
when, like retail sales themselves, it
seems to have become bogged down?
(H.P. outstandings of non-retail finance
companies in March, according to pro-
visional figures, were at the same level
£404 million —as the previous month.)
SA Housing Scheme
During the nine months to March 31,
1963, the South Australian Housing
Trust completed 2124 houses (including
flats), bringing the total to 48,699 since
it began in 1937.
Rents received last year amounted to
£3,858,114.
The Trust now has 2246 new houses
and flats under construction.


People are talking
about the new
Subscription Department,
The Bulletin,
Box 4083, G.P.0., Sydney
NAME
ADDRESS.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
Australia and Overseas (By Surface Mail)
12 months £4 4 0
6 months £2 12 0
N.Z. Subscriptions to Box 965, Wellington.
U.K. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
107 Fleet Street, LONDON.
U.S. Subscriptions to Australian Consolidated
Press Limited,
229 West 43rd Street, N'EW YORK 36, N.Y.
Airmail Rates on application.
Please tick y/ whichever Is appropriafei
Is this a new subscription? J~J or
A renewal subscription? □
Please find enclosed my cheque/money order toi
months subscription to THE BULLETIN.
Perhaps this is the first issue of THE BULLETIN you
have read. But whether you are a new reader or an
old one why don't you make sure of YOUR copy of
THE BULLETIN by ordering it each week? More
and more people are buying the "new look"
BULLETIN for its features, its overseas and local news,
its columnists like Boadicea, Discus, Cellarmaster, its
reviews of films, books, music and theatre. If you
want to keep abreast of news and significant events
in Australia and abroad THE BULLITIN is a must. In
addition THE BULLETIN will feature this year a series
of four-page full color features on Australian art and
other subjects So why not fill in the form at left and
be sure of your copy each week?
Tlie
Bulletin
A magazine of facts and Ideas est. 1880.
ON SALE WEDNESDAYS 2/-
"The Bulletin" Crossword No. 746
ACROSS
I—Gear ladies only surname. (8)
s—Have supper, and confesses. (4, 2)
9—A boy in haberdashery suggests knights of chivalry.
(8)
10 —Comfort the sun with the highest honour like this
fabric. (6)
12— An irregular work of Kipling’s is ingenuous. (4)
13— Fur of donkeys is liable to tax. (10)
16—A bird which is no more a boy defended like an
old-time castle fortress. 16)
17—Mother meeting me and a
gospeller, a member of the
Egyptian ruling class. (8)
19— French film comedian (“Mon-
sieur Hulot”) seen in the
midday system of signs and
symbols. (8)
20— Bird spoilt by Jolson during
the wedding feast. (6)
22 Fish taken by one cleric who
is a fellow member of the
board? (2-8)
23 This makes not very much
liquid fall. (4)
26 —The last listener to inspire
affection. (6)
28— Honourable love given to the
kind of smarty who breaks up
every party where grass skirts
are fancied. (8)
29 — Rake with fire from planes in
the faster formation. (6)
30— Hardened phone communica-
tion employed at last. (8)
DOWN
1— Poultry not bare-headed. (5)
2 Frivolously gadded about to
cause vexation to two boys.
(11)
3 They’re not even some theo-
logian in bone. (4)
4 Hemingway is way below the
eagle. (6)
6 A slow horse, (anagram)
(4, 6)
7 Just the drink for seafarers.
(3)
8— Portion offered before the
repast, bit by bit. (9)
11—It boasts the lone star taxes
are amended. (5)
14— It’s a mistake to kiss (a shot-
gun wedding might indicate
it). (11)
15— The ball-and-chain is a frac-
tion superior. (6, 4)
16— They pinch the Roy Rene
names. (9)
18—He helps to train one non-
train method of transport. (5)
21—Business man with a ring
around the sun. (6)
24 Ezra suggests the proper place
for many a stray quid. (5)
25 Parrot election. (4)
27—Red upset the German. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 745


for girls
who haven’t
a thing to wear.
AUSTRALIA
CAN
MAKE IT
£156,000,000 worth of fashion
garments a year! The Aus-
tralian Clothing Industry caters
for the changing whims and fancies
of fashion at least twice a year.
It is a major challenge to the
skill and ingenuity of Australian
designers. Every season they meet
the challenge with colourful and
spectacular ranges. So much so,
that, today, Australian fashion is
in demand in many different coun-
tries of the world. The Australian
Clothing Industry employs more
than 70,000 people and pays a wages
bill of more than £46 million.
Indirectly it employs many more in
primary and tertiary industries.
Next time you go shopping —look
for quality and fashion in the Aus-
tralian-made garment. When you
buy Australian you
make jobs for other
Australians. What
they buy benefits you.
The wise Australian buys Australian
Inserted by:—
The Associated Chambers of Manufactures of Australia


OF
\s v
60
\s
&RLW
v
-A
2 3 MAY W 63
2
O
x \
> b'
*
v<
\I
✓
EXTRAS
20
SUP'
A D
.£A^
».> ■
HT
R I G
Carlyle EXTRAS the distinctive American
blend cigarette with so many extras
EXTRA FLAVOR: Carlyle Extras give you that extra mellow
flavor of fine costly tobaccos blended to taste so good.
EXTRA FRESHNESS: Carlyle Extras are the genuine American
blend made right here in Australia for unimpaired full freshness
EXTRA SIZE: Carlyle Extras are 18% bigger make regular
American size look small. Enjoy extra smoking pleasure in Carlyle Extras size.
Only Carlyle could . . .
taste so good it’s blended
rsL7
<y
«
\
with jus! »- < i
a touch
nf Turkish
World Copyright
MANUFACTURED FOR THE AMERiCAiM CIGARETTE COMPANY (OVERSEAS) PTY. LTD.
CE.113.10.6
